-- 
Fed Focusing on Inflation Expectations With Policy Unchanged

-- B y   C a r o l i n e   S a l a s   a n d   S c o t t   L a n m a n
-- 
2011-05-22T23:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-22/fed-focusing-increasingly-on-inflation-expectations-with-policy-unchanged.html
The cue for the  Federal Reserve  to
start withdrawing its record monetary stimulus may be a measure
of its own credibility: inflation expectations.  Expectations for annual consumer-price gains have jumped by
43 percent to 2.10 percentage points since the central bank
began its second round of asset purchases in November, as
measured by the breakeven rate for five-year Treasury Inflation
Protected Securities. The measure is close to levels before the
recession -- when the central bank’s benchmark interest rate was
5.25 percent, compared with about zero today.  “It’s highly likely that some movement in inflation
expectations will be the first signal that they need to take
action,” said J. Alfred Broaddus, 71, former president of the
Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond, whose career dates back to the
inflation surge of the 1970s. “The Fed is right to be watching
this very, very closely.”  Central bankers are starting to debate how and when to
tighten policy after buying $2.3 trillion of assets to bring the
economy out of the recession. William C. Dudley, president of
the  Federal Reserve Bank of New York , says the Fed still has a
“considerable way to go” to reduce unemployment from 9 percent,
while other policy makers, including the Philadelphia Fed’s
 Charles Plosser  and  Richard Fisher  of  Dallas , say waiting too
long to tighten risks igniting inflation.  “This is one of those really critical turning points in
monetary policy where it’s pretty clear the next move is toward
tightness, and the whole question is timing,” Broaddus said.  Buying TIPS  Sean Simko , who oversees $8 billion in fixed-income assets
at SEI Investments Co. in Oaks,  Pennsylvania , said he’s buying
Treasury Inflation Protected Securities because higher commodity
prices are stoking inflation. Five-year breakeven rates reached
2.47 percentage points on April 29, their highest level in
almost three years.  “The TIPS market represents a fair assessment of
inflationary pressures,” Simko said. Breakeven rates are the
yield difference between TIPS and comparable maturity Treasuries
and are a measure of the outlook for consumer prices over the
life of the securities.  Dudley, in a May 19 speech in New Paltz, New York, said the
central bank is falling short of its goals because unemployment
is too high and inflation is likely to ease. While measures of
the public’s view of inflation “remain stable,” Dudley said,
“it is critical that we ensure that inflation expectations do
not become unmoored.”  Bernanke Press Conference  Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke , in his first press conference
April 27, indicated that the central bank won’t remove stimulus
immediately after ending $600 billion in bond purchases in June.
At the same time, he highlighted inflation expectations as a
reason the Fed might tighten credit.  “If inflation persists or if inflation expectations begin
to move, then there’s no substitute for action,” Bernanke, 57,
said following a meeting of the  Federal Open Market Committee .
“We would have to respond.”  Policy makers watch expectations because they can fuel
actual inflation. Businesses may raise prices in anticipation of
higher production costs, while consumers can demand higher wages
to keep up with the price of goods. Unless restrained by central
banks, the two processes together can accelerate inflation.  “It is much harder to keep inflation in check if people
begin to raise their expectations of inflation,” Dudley said in
his May 19 speech.  Inflation is a “mindset,” and consumers build their
expectations into their behavior, said  Ward McCarthy , chief
financial economist at Jefferies & Co. in  New York . While
breakeven rates are within the Fed’s target range, “they’re
right on the frontier. There’s not a lot of breathing room.”  ‘Important Force’  Inflation expectations, especially long-run projections,
“are an important force in inflation dynamics,” according to a
2008 research paper from the Federal Reserve Bank of  Kansas City 
by Todd E. Clark, who’s now a vice president at the Cleveland
Fed, and Troy Davig, now a senior economist at  Barclays Capital 
in New York. “Even small movements in long-run expectations can
represent a persistent source of pressure on inflation,” they
wrote.  The authors cite as evidence several studies showing a link.
The Fed’s own computer model of the  U.S. economy  uses long-run
expectations, as measured by surveys of professional economists,
as a “key determinant of inflation behavior,” Clark and Davig
said.  The central bank aims for an inflation rate of about 1.7
percent to 2 percent, based on last month’s long-run economic
projections of Fed governors and regional presidents.  Jeans, Hamburgers  Prices in March rose 1.8 percent from a year earlier,
accelerating for a fourth straight month to the fastest pace
since May 2010, as companies from San Francisco-based jeans
supplier Levi Strauss & Co. to Oak Brook, Illinois-based fast-
food chain  McDonald’s Corp. (MCD)  announced price increases to make up
for rising prices of cotton, wheat and other raw materials.  Excluding food and fuel, prices rose 0.9 percent in March
from a year earlier, near a five-decade low of 0.7 percent. Fed
officials prefer the so-called “core” measure because food and
fuel costs are more volatile.  Inflation, including all items, has averaged 2.1 percent a
year over the past 10 years, and the same rate over the prior
decade. It was 4.8 percent during the 1980s and 6.7 percent in
the 70s, based on the Commerce Department’s personal consumption
expenditures price index.  St. Louis Fed President  James Bullard  said May 18 that
central bankers are “determined” to avoid a repeat of the
1970s inflation.  Paul Volcker , who took over as chairman in 1979,
kept the federal funds rate on overnight loans among banks above
8 percent for more than five years, pushing it as high as 20
percent.  Forecasters Erred  During that decade, “forecasters consistently
underpredicted the future level of inflation, seeing
considerably more disinflation from a particular policy stance
than in fact occurred,” former Fed Vice Chairman  Donald Kohn 
said in a 2007 speech. Fed staff economists and bond investors
both made such mistakes, Kohn said.  “I lived through that whole thing, and it was awful,”
said Broaddus, who joined the Richmond Fed in 1970 and ran it
from 1993 to 2004. Even though there hasn’t been an incident of
similar magnitude since then, policy makers “know that can
happen,” he said. It’s “always out there as the lesson of what
can happen if the Fed begins to lose focus on its main job of
focusing on  price stability .”  Now Fed officials often speak of the credibility they
regained from Volcker’s inflation victory and how careful they
must be not to let it slip away.  Business Cycle  “This is the point in the business cycle when the risk of
losing a bit of credibility and risk of losing ground on
inflation is highest,” Jeffrey Lacker, the current president of
the Richmond Fed, told reporters May 10.  The market-based measure of inflation five to 10 years out
“is a proxy on their credibility completely,” Davig said.
“Any kind of financial market movement that would indicate the
market’s lack of belief in the Fed’s ability to execute a smooth
exit strategy -- the Fed’s completely fearful of that.”  The five-year breakeven measure has dropped 0.37 percentage
points since the end of April, even as the total  Consumer Price
Index  rose 3.2 percent last month from a year earlier. A measure
of inflation five to 10 years out has fluctuated this year in a
range of 2.77 percent to 3.14 percent.  Five-year breakevens traded in a range of 2.08 percent to
2.91 percent from 2004 through July 2007, just before concerns
over the value of housing debt sent banks’ borrowing costs
surging. The five-to-10-year index traded from 2.34 percent to
3.31 percent.  ‘Timely Manner’  A minority of Fed officials are concerned that the Fed’s
record balance sheet risks igniting dangerous price increases. A
failure to exit “in a timely manner could have serious
consequences for inflation and economic stability in the
future,” Philadelphia’s Plosser said in a March speech.  “Should it prove necessary to counter inflationary
pressures, I will be among the first to advocate the unwinding
of some of the stimulus we have provided,” Fisher said May 4.  Any interest-rate increase may still be far off, as the
threat of rising expectations receded this month, giving the Fed
breathing room. “You’ve got global uncertainties, some of which
are abating, commodity prices moving off their peaks and oil
prices drifting down, so I think that’s helpful,” Bullard said
in an interview May 18.  ‘Transitory’ Inflation  While the FOMC reiterated its view in the April 27
statement that the boost to inflation from higher commodity
prices will be “transitory,” Fed officials must be careful not
to assume both food- and energy-price increases will dissipate
and have little persistent effects on inflation, Davig said in
an interview.  “Food prices have a tendency, when they go up, to be more
persistent, and we do see that spillover from higher food prices
into longer-term measures of inflation,” he said.  The attention the Fed pays to inflation expectations means
investors, whether they agree with the central bank or not on
the measures’ importance, must pay attention themselves.  “The Fed absolutely does believe that inflation
expectations matter,” said Steve Lear, who helps oversee $130
billion as deputy chief investment officer at J.P. Morgan Asset
Management in New York. “Needless to say, we care because the
Fed cares.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Caroline Salas in New York at 
 csalas1@bloomberg.net ;
Scott Lanman in Washington at 
 slanman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  