-- 
Fischer May Raise Israel’s Benchmark Rate as Economy Expands

-- B y   A l i s a   O d e n h e i m e r
-- 
2011-05-22T21:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-22/fischer-may-raise-israel-s-benchmark-rate-as-economy-expands.html
Bank of Israel  Governor  Stanley Fischer  may raise the benchmark lending rate for a fourth time
this year as the economy expands and the inflation rate remains
above the government’s target.  Fischer will increase the rate by a quarter percentage
point to 3.25 percent, according to 11 of the 20 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg. Nine said he will leave the rate
unchanged. The central bank in  Jerusalem  will announce its
decision today at 5:30 p.m. local time.  “I think he will raise rates because growth figures have
been very strong,” Alex Zabezhinsky, chief economist at Tel
Aviv-based DS Securities & Investments Ltd. said in a telephone
interview. He added that “it could go either way” because
“inflation expectations have calmed down relatively and
inflation in the past two months has been lower than expected.”  Fischer has been gradually raising the benchmark rate from
a record low of 0.5 percent in August 2009, picking up the pace
in the first three months of this year after growth surged to
7.6 percent in the fourth quarter. He left the rate unchanged
last month after increasing it by a total of 1 percentage point
in the previous three decisions.  The overall pressure is for higher rates, with the only
question being the timing of each increase, said David Petitcolin, an emerging markets analyst at Royal Bank of
Scotland Plc. The shekel has weakened by about 3 percent since
the beginning of May, which might help moderate the effect of an
increase on exporters’ ability to compete and make this an
opportune time for an increase, he said.  Exports make up about half of  Israel ’s gross domestic
product. In the past 12 months, the shekel has strengthened by
close to 9 percent.  Inflation Slowing  While inflation slowed to 4 percent in April from 4.3
percent in March, it is still above the upper limit of the
government’s 1 to 3 percent target for a fourth month. Housing
prices, which have risen 14 percent in 12 months, remain “a
problem,” Petitcolin said.  Forecasters predicting that Fischer will leave the rate
unchanged for a second month, including Modi Shafrir, chief
economist at Tel Aviv-based I.L.S. Brokers Ltd., point to the
slower inflation in April. This, along with the drop in
commodity prices and inflation expectations for the U.S. have
reduced inflation expectations for Israel, Shafrir said.  Inflation expectations derived from the  capital market  for
three years ahead declined to 2.5 percent in April from 2.7
percent in March, the Bank of Israel said on May 18.  Rising global uncertainty due to weaker-than-expected U.S.
economic figures, concern over debt arrangements for Greece and
 Portugal ,  Japan ’s earthquake, and rising oil prices due to
unrest in Arab oil producing states, also support a rate-hold
decision, Shafrir said.  The TA-25 benchmark index has risen by about 14 percent in
the same period, led by Avner Oil Exploration-L.P. and Delek
Drilling-L.P., partners in gas fields off the country’s coast.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alisa Odenheimer in Jerusalem at 
 aodenheimer@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 