-- 
Foxconn Will Face Limited Impact After Fire at Chengdu Plant, Analysts Say

-- B y   C h i n m e i   S u n g
-- 
2011-05-23T00:18:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-22/foxconn-faces-limited-impact-from-chengdu-fire-analysts-say.html
Foxconn Technology Group, maker of
 Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPhones and iPads, should have limited impact from
an explosion at the Chengdu plant in southwest China’s Sichuan
province, as the base isn’t a main site, analysts said.  Foxconn makes most of the iPhones and iPads at its base in
Shenzhen,  Guangdong province , Vincent Chen, head of Greater
China technology research at Yuanta Securities Co., and
Macquarie Group Ltd. analyst Daniel Chang said by phone from
Taipei on May 21.  “The Chengdu plant is primarily for computer assembly and
the iPad assembly is being pilot run,” Chen said. “Foxconn is
a very professional manufacturer and is very experienced in
making adjustment in times of crisis, and the impact should be
very minimal.”  Terry Gou, chairman of Taiwan-based Foxconn, has been
shifting production to  Chengdu  and other interior cities in
China such as Wuhan and Chongqing, where labor is about a third
cheaper than in the country’s south. The electronics maker has
raised wages for workers in Shenzhen after a spate of employee
suicides last year.  Three people were killed and 15 injured in the blast that
occurred at about 7 p.m. local time on May 20. Of the injured,
six were treated at a local hospital and released, the company
said in an e-mail. The fire triggered by the blast was later
extinguished,  Edmund Ding , a company spokesman, said by phone.
He declined to say what products the factory makes or estimate
any financial loss related to the accident. Initial findings
show the accident was caused by an explosion of combustible dust
within a duct at the facility, the statement said.  Opened in October  The $2 billion laptop plant where the explosion took place
opened in October, Xinhua reported May 20.  Hon Hai Precision Industry Co., the flagship of the Foxconn
Group, fell 1 percent to NT$103 at the close of May 20 in Taipei
trading before the incident. Apple Inc. dropped 1.6 percent in
 New York  on May 20.  The affected plant makes Apple’s iPad 2 tablet computers,
the Economic Observer said on its website on May 20, citing
unidentified company workers. Gou flew to Chengdu, the Beijing-
based newspaper said, citing unidentified company employees.  Production has been suspended at the site of the explosion
until the completion of an investigation, Foxconn said in an e-
mailed statement May 21.  The stoppage shouldn’t cause any production disruption,
Macquarie’s Chang said, as iPads and iPhones are mostly made in
Shenzhen.  “We are working closely with Foxconn at this point to
understand what caused this terrible event,” Steve Dowling, a
spokesman for Cupertino, California-based Apple, said in a phone
interview. “We are deeply saddened by the tragedy.”  Dowling declined to comment on any possible supply
disruptions, referring questions to Foxconn.  Police in Chengdu said they concluded preliminarily that
the explosion, in a polishing workshop, wasn’t intentionally
caused,  China  News Service said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chinmei Sung in Taipei at 
 csung4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  