-- 
French Open Champion Schiavone Strives to Regain Rhythm at Roland Garros

-- B y   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 
2011-05-22T23:28:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-22/french-open-champion-schiavone-strives-to-regain-rhythm-at-roland-garros.html
Francesca Schiavone may be getting
into rhythm just in time to defend her  French Open  tennis title.  The Italian, who beat  Australia ’s Samantha Stosur in last
year’s final, will play  Melanie Oudin  of the U.S. in the first
round at Roland Garros today. Schiavone, who was seeded 17th
last year, has beaten Oudin two of the three times they’ve met.  This season, the now fifth-seeded Schiavone has been trying
to rediscover the clay-court form that made her the first
Italian to win a Grand Slam title. Schiavone lost her opening
round in Stuttgart, made the third round in Madrid and lost in
the quarterfinals in Rome to Stosur.  “I haven’t played a lot on clay and I’ve lost many
matches, so I couldn’t really feel the rhythm to say ‘OK, this
is good,’” Schiavone said in an interview in Rome a week before
the start of  Roland Garros . “So I’m working a lot on the
practice court.”  Her practice sessions in Rome paid off. Schiavone made the
semifinals in Brussels three days ago, where she lost to world
No. 1  Caroline Wozniacki  of Denmark.  Still, the Italian right-hander says it will be difficult
to defend the trophy in Paris. She won Roland Garros a week
before her 30th birthday, making her the oldest female player to
take her first major since 30-year-old Briton Ann Jones won the
1969  Wimbledon  trophy.  “It will be very, very tough,” Schiavone said. “But I
know that I have the quality, and that’s a good step and a way
to start. At the same time, you have to win seven matches. It’s
really long.”  Djokovic Follows  Australian Open champion Novak Djokovic follows Schiavone’s
match on the main Court Philippe Chatrier today against Thiemo
de Bakker of the Netherlands. The second-ranked Djokovic,
unbeaten this season, may take the No. 1 ranking from five-time
champion  Rafael Nadal  of  Spain  if he makes the final. Men’s
Grand Slam record holder Roger Federer, who won the title in
2009, meets Spain’s  Feliciano Lopez .  Last year’s victory in Paris made Schiavone a household
name in  Italy . She received a congratulatory phone call from
Italian president Giorgio Napolitano immediately after beating
Stosur, while a party at her parents’ home in the village of
Passirano near Milan drew 1,000 fans. She also signed deals with
 Swatch Group AG (UHR) ’s Longines watch brand and  Enervit SpA (ENV) , Italy’s
biggest maker of sports drinks and energy bars. All her matches
in Rome were sold out this year.  Schiavone even stopped traffic during the Rome tournament,
which is staged at the Foro Italico, close to the Olympic
stadium where soccer clubs AS Roma and Lazio play.  Football First  “Football here is the first sport,” Schiavone said. “But
the Roma fans on their way to the stadium were stopping and
saying to me ‘Can we have a picture?’ or they were
congratulating me. That’s really fantastic.”  Schiavone started this season by setting another record.  At the Australian Open, she reached the last eight by
beating former French Open and  U.S. Open  champion Svetlana Kuznetsova in the longest women’s match at a major. Schiavone
overcame the Russian in 4 hours, 44 minutes, and saved six match
points. The third set alone lasted three hours.  Although Schiavone lost in the Melbourne quarterfinals to
Wozniacki, she said the experience had made her mentally
stronger.  With 13-time Grand Slam champion Serena Williams absent in
Paris as she recovers from a blood clot, and her elder sister
Venus also injured, the women’s tournament is “very open,”
Schiavone said.  Bookmakers agree.  Azarenka Favored  Schiavone is rated a 20-1 chance at U.K. bookmaker William
Hill Plc, meaning a successful $1 bet would return $20 plus the
original stake.  Victoria Azarenka , 21, the No. 4 from Belarus is
the title favorite at 5-1, followed by the 20-year-old Wozniacki
at 11-2. Both players have yet to win a major.  Former Wimbledon winner and  Rome  champion Maria Sharapova
is at 13-2 to win the only Grand Slam trophy that has eluded
her. Wimbledon semifinalist Petra Kvitova of the  Czech Republic 
is a 10-1 chance ahead of U.S. Open and Australian Open champion
Kim Clijsters, Stosur and Wimbledon and U.S. Open finalist Vera Zvonareva of  Russia , who are all rated at 12-1.  “The young players are strong physically,” said the
defending champion. “They don’t care about anything, they are
really tough.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Rossingh in London at 
 drossingh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  