-- 
Further Evidence Sex Shouldn’t Be Mixed With Power: Albert Hunt

-- B y   A l b e r t   R .   H u n t
-- 
2011-05-22T15:01:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-22/further-proof-sex-shouldn-t-be-mixed-with-power-commentary-by-albert-hunt.html
To death and taxes can be added
another certainty: the nexus of power, politics and sex.  Over the last week, the head of the  International Monetary
Fund ,  Dominique Strauss-Kahn , sat in jail for allegedly sexually
assaulting a maid in a New York hotel; the former governor of
 California ,  Arnold Schwarzenegger , acknowledged fathering a
child with a former member of his household staff.  It seems there never is a time in America when politicians’
sexual trespasses aren’t in focus. Strauss-Kahn -- who is
charged with attempted rape -- may be in a class of his own, and
his case is illustrative of nothing. If the charges are true, he
either is a criminal or a thug.  Still, the transgressions of people in public life offer a
fascinating and evolving saga. Many more examples come to light
today, with a more aggressive and diffuse media.  Over the last five years, sexual scandals have forced the
resignation of four members of the  House of Representatives  and
ruined the careers of a former vice-presidential nominee and
presidential candidate, two governors of New York and two U.S.
senators, and made a joke of a third. Other examples abound on
the state and local levels.  There’s no reliable data on whether political figures are
more prone to sexual indiscretions, though there seems to be a
high probability that those in powerful positions, political or
otherwise, are.  Frank Farley , a psychologist at  Temple
University  in Philadelphia, has a label for this trait, saying
many politicos suffer from “Type T personalities,” as in
“thrill-seeking.” He says a common feature of many public and
political figures is “risk-taking” that lends itself to
personal carelessness.  Rockefeller’s Divorce  Even a cursory look at the record suggests that while
Americans aren’t as permissive as Europeans, they are more
tolerant than they were a generation or two ago. Divorce used to
be tantamount to a disqualifier for higher office; in 1968, it
proved fatal to Nelson Rockefeller’s attempt to win the
Republican presidential nomination. By 1980, with Ronald Reagan’s election, it became irrelevant.  Outside of  San Francisco , few gays or lesbians dared come
out of the closet.  Barney Frank , the Democratic congressman from
 Massachusetts , had been in public life for almost two decades
before he revealed his sexual orientation in 1987. Today, there
are four openly gay or lesbian members of Congress and many more
in offices across the country.  Hypocrisy, Criminal Acts  Despite the greater media spotlight on personal
indiscretions, the issue seems to really burn only when it’s
flagrant and contemporary, or involves hypocrisy or a criminal
act.  “People recognize politicians are flawed, and voters often
like nothing better than to forgive you for your trespasses,”
says Tom Fiedler, dean of Boston University’s School of
Communications and a onetime reporter who uncovered former
Colorado Senator Gary Hart’s infidelities almost a quarter-
century ago, one of the first major national stories about a
politician’s personal life. “What voters will not forgive is
hypocrisy.”  Thus, former  New York  Governor  Eliot Spitzer  had to resign
in disgrace after his dealings with prostitutes were exposed. In
his earlier career as a prosecutor, he had crusaded against
illicit activities.  Today, former House Speaker Newt Gingrich’s presidential
campaign is weighed down by his divorces and adulterous affairs,
not just because of the seamy circumstances but because he is a
self-styled values warrior.  Evolving Morality  By contrast, in the 2000 Republican presidential primary
and 2008 general election, voters were unfazed by the
acknowledgement by Senator  John McCain  of  Arizona  that he had
been unfaithful during his first marriage. In 1992, few if any
Americans thought  Bill Clinton  was a puritan when they elected
him president. There were more important issues.  When the first revelations of Clinton’s dalliances with a
White House intern were disclosed, most Americans were turned
off by the particulars. When Republicans tried to make this
lapse a capital offense through an impeachment, the tide shifted
dramatically. Clinton left office a popular president.  For much of contemporary U.S. politics the media practiced
a “west of the Potomac” standard, meaning a politician’s
private life was off limits. That changed with the Hart case and
the initial Clinton revelations.  This trend accelerated with the proliferation of cable news,
blogs and other sources of news. Even mere rumors of personal
transgressions now are circulated.  Forced to Resign  That echo chamber turns lethal in cases like that of
 Nevada ’s disgraced former Republican senator,  John Ensign , a
self-styled moralistic, religious conservative, who had an
affair with a staff member and then tried to buy the silence of
the woman and her husband, who happened to be the senator’s
deputy chief of staff. If Ensign hadn’t resigned from the Senate
this month he probably would have been expelled; he potentially
still faces criminal charges.  Secular politicians also get caught in acts of blatant
duplicity.  John Edwards , the 2004 Democratic vice-presidential
candidate, posed as a sympathetic and supportive husband to his
cancer-stricken wife, even as he was having an affair with a
campaign worker that resulted in a child.  The hypocrisy trap, however, most affects politicians of
the religious right. They often condemn the morals of others,
wrapping themselves in righteousness. When caught, the public
reaction usually is harsh. (An inexplicable exception was the
Louisiana Republican Senator David Vitter, who after being
caught frequenting a house of prostitution was re-elected easily
last year.)  Obama and Trump  Nevertheless, some self-styled religious leaders of this
movement pay more attention to politics than to faith. A glaring
recent example: Reverend Franklin Graham, son of the fabled
evangelist Billy Graham, who in a television interview on ABC’s
“This Week,” praised  Donald Trump  while questioning whether
President Barack Obama is a Christian.  Never mind that Trump is a thrice-married casino kingpin,
usually the kind of stuff that draws the opprobrium of
conservative clergy; Obama, whatever his politics, is a devoted
father and husband. Isn’t that the kind of behavior the Franklin
Grahams are supposed to admire?  ( Albert R. Hunt  is the executive editor for  Washington  at
Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Albert R. Hunt in Washington at 
 ahunt1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Max Berley in Washington at  