-- 
Gates Cautions Against U.S. Temptation to Slash Defense Spending

-- B y   V i o l a   G i e n g e r
-- 
2011-05-22T14:43:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-22/gates-cautions-against-u-s-temptation-to-slash-defense-spending.html
U.S. Defense Secretary  Robert Gates 
cautioned against pulling away from the world and slashing
defense spending now that Osama bin Laden is dead and the war in
Iraq is winding down.  “Make no mistake, the ultimate guarantee against the
success of aggressors, dictators, and terrorists in the 21st
century, as in the 20th, is hard power -- the size, strength,
and global reach of the United States military,” Gates said.
“Beyond the current wars, our military credibility, commitment,
and presence are required to sustain alliances, to protect trade
routes and energy supplies, and to deter would-be adversaries.”  Gates made the remarks in a commencement address prepared
for delivery today at the University of  Notre Dame  near  South
Bend ,  Indiana , where he received an honorary degree. Gates will
retire from his Pentagon post after the Senate approves his
successor.  President Barack Obama has nominated Leon Panetta,
currently CIA director, as the next defense secretary.  Gates warned graduates of a litany of potential future
risks.  The national debt “could develop into a deep crisis for
our nation,” he said. “At the same time, we face a complex and
unpredictable international security environment that includes a
major war in  Afghanistan , winding up the war in Iraq, revolution
throughout the Middle East, new rising powers, nuclear
proliferation in Iran and Korea, the continued threat of
terrorism, and more.”  Foreign Aid  The comments highlight Gates’s advocacy of a strong
military along with increased funding of the State Department
and foreign aid to help sustain peace in postwar zones such as
 Iraq . Members of Congress are looking for budget cuts and
President Barack Obama aims to pare military spending by $400
billion over 12 years to rein in the government’s deficit.  Gates had proposed $78 billion in spending cuts over the
next five years and hoped to forestall deeper cuts. In his
speech, he expressed concern over the nation’s economic health.  “At some point fiscal insolvency at home translates into
strategic insolvency abroad,” he said.  Gates reiterated his call for careful trimming of defense
spending by culling the bureaucracy, reviewing personnel costs
and “reexamining missions and capabilities to separate the
desirable or optional from the essential.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Viola Gienger in  Washington  at 
 vgienger@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva in Washington at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  