-- 
Gingrich Says He’s Nearly ‘Debt Free’ in Discussing Jewelry Bill

-- B y   M i c h a e l   R i l e y
-- 
2011-05-22T18:06:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-22/gingrich-says-he-s-nearly-debt-free-in-discussing-jewelry-bill.html
Republican presidential candidate
Newt Gingrich said he and his wife were virtually “debt free”
and that a bill of up to $500,000 with the jeweler Tiffany & Co.
had been paid off long before it attracted attention earlier
this month.  “I’m a guy running for president who pays all my bills,”
Gingrich said today on the CBS program “Face the Nation.” He
called the interest-free  credit line  at Tiffany’s “a normal way
of doing business.”  The credit line was listed as a liability of between
$250,001 and $500,000 on financial disclosure forms filed in
2006 and 2007 by his wife, Callista Gingrich, when she worked as
a committee staff member on  Capitol Hill . The financial
obligation was reported last week  by Politico .  Asked about it by “Face the Nation" host Bob Schieffer, in
light of Gingrich’s criticism of the federal government as a
profligate spender, the former U.S. House speaker from  Georgia 
said he has been financially successful since leaving Congress
and that what he does with his personal wealth is his ‘‘private
business.’’  Gingrich said that his household finances match his
political philosophy that government should live within its
means. He declined to specify any Tiffany purchases he may have
made.  ‘Done Well’  ‘‘As a private citizen who has done well, I am allowed to
pick and choose what I prefer doing,’’ Gingrich also said. He
said he didn’t find the size of the credit line unusual.  The appearance was Gingrich’s second on a Sunday talk show
since declaring his candidacy for president on May 11. Last week
on NBC’s ‘‘Meet the Press,” Gingrich referred to a proposal to
privatize Medicare offered by House Budget Committee Chairman
 Paul Ryan , a Wisconsin Republican, as “radical change” and a
form of “social engineering.”  The comments drew criticism from other Republicans and
Gingrich later called Ryan to apologize.  Gingrich continued to recast his original comments today as
misunderstood. “I probably used unfortunate language about
social engineering, but my point was really a larger one; that
neither party should impose on the American people something
that they are deeply opposed to,” he said  Republicans should explain Ryan’s proposal, which includes
replacing Medicare with government-subsidized private insurance,
and then modify it based on discussions with voters, Gingrich
said.  He also said he and Ryan “are on the same side in the
conversation to modify Medicare.”  Schieffer asked Gingrich about statements he made in the
past supporting a health insurance mandate for individuals,
which is the core element of the Democrat-sponsored health-care
overhaul enacted last year over Republican opposition.  “People can go back and pick up a sentence here and
there” from his past speeches, said Gingrich. He said that he
isn’t in favor of an individual insurance mandate. “I’m not
going to get involved in a ‘gotcha game,’” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Riley in  Washington  at 
 michaelriley@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story: 