-- 
Iceland Volcano Eruption Abates, Ash Plume Dwindles

-- B y   O m a r   R .   V a l d i m a r s s o n
-- 
2011-05-22T21:44:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-22/iceland-volcano-shuts-island-s-airspace.html
A volcanic eruption under  Europe ’s
largest glacier, Vatnajokull, is abating after it forced
Iceland’s main international airport to close, the second such
disruption in 13 months to the island nation’s air traffic.  “It’s likely that the eruption is dwindling,” Magnus Tumi Gudmundsson, a geologist at the Institute of Earth Sciences with
the  University of Iceland , told national broadcaster RUV. “What
we’ve seen is that it has slowed. It went down to being similar
as the eruption in 2004 and in Eyjafjallajokull last year.”  The height of ash plume has diminished to 11 kilometers
(6.8 miles) from 20 kilometers, according to a statement from
the  Icelandic Meteorological Office . Meteorologists used a new
weather radar system to monitor the development.  An eruption at Eyjafjallajokull on April 14, 2010, closed
European airspace for six days, grounding 100,000 flights at a
cost of $1.7 billion, according to an estimate then by the
 International Air Transport Association . Iceland, with about
320,000 inhabitants, is one of the world’s most volcanically and
geologically active countries and eruptions are frequent.  Yesterday’s blow-up began at about 6 p.m., about 220
kilometers southeast of Reykjavik at the Grimsvotn chamber,
which lies under Vatnajokull. The volcano sent ash into the air,
causing delays today of some Scandinavian trans-Atlantic
flights. The volcano is the most active in Iceland and its
latest venting ended in 2004. Grimsvotn and Eyjafjallajokull are
about 150 kilometers apart.  Predictability Issue  It’s impossible to say for sure when the eruption will come
to a complete stop, said Gudmundsson. Previous eruptions by
Grimsvotn have usually lasted a few days with limited or no
impact on international air traffic, he said.  Iceland’s  Keflavik International Airport  was shut down this
morning amid fears that the ashes might damage  jet engines . The
halt has grounded airplanes.  Icelandair Group hf (ICEAIR)  said on its
website it will cancel all European flights tomorrow morning,
affecting 6,000 passengers.  Ash fall covered small towns on Iceland’s southeast cost
immediately following the eruption on yesterday. Around 6 p.m.
today a dark cloud of ash reached Reykjavik, prompting city
officials to  warn people  with asthma or other breathing
disorders from venturing outside.  Yesterday’s eruption hasn’t had an impact on the U.K.’s
airspace and no routes or airports have been closed, said Aarti
Parajia, a spokeswoman for  National Air Traffic Services Ltd. ,
in a telephone interview.  Eurocontrol, which oversees flight paths in the region,
said in an e-mailed statement there was no impact on European or
trans-Atlantic flights.  “The airspace over Iceland is closed, so you have to fly
around it,” Mikkel Thrane, a spokesman for Scandinavian airline
 SAS Group , said in a telephone interview. “There have been no
cancellations.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Omar R. Valdimarsson in Reykjavik 
 valdimarsson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at   tbrogger@bloomberg.net  