-- 
Microsoft Guru Myhrvold Cooks Burger, Sonic Fries in $625 Book

-- B y   R i c h a r d   V i n e s
-- 
2011-05-22T23:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-22/microsoft-tech-guru-cooks-ultimate-burger-ultrasonic-fries-in-625-book.html
“ Modernist Cuisine ” is six volumes
long, runs 2,400 pages and weighs more than 18 kilograms (40
pounds). The cover price is $625 and it’s sold out on  Amazon ,
where outside suppliers ask as much as $1,875.  The 6,000-copy print run was snapped up, and then the
Seattle-based authors lost touch with the printers after the
tsunami in  Japan . Another 25,000 copies are now on the way from
 China . Some buyers have waited months for the book.  “If you love food and are curious about it, the
photographs make this the ultimate food coffee-table book or, if
your flat is small, the coffee table,” author Nathan Myhrvold
says, and roars with laughter over lunch at Hibiscus in  London .  Myhrvold wrote the work with two colleagues and the help of
a 20-strong team at his cooking laboratory in  Seattle . He was
the first chief technology officer at  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) , remaining
an adviser to  Bill Gates  after leaving. Myhrvold combines a
sharp intellect with a sense of mischief that leads to further
mirth when I say most people can’t afford $625.  “You work for Bloomberg, right?” he says, and chortles at
the thought that many people in the world of finance might be
short of a dollar or two.  Myhrvold, 51, is chief executive officer and co-founder of
 Intellectual Ventures , which creates and invests in inventions.
He holds degrees in mathematics, geophysics and space physics
from UCLA, and PhDs in mathematical economics and theoretical
physics from  Princeton University , the “Modernist Cuisine”
 website  says. In post-doctoral work at  Cambridge University , he
worked on quantum theories of gravity with Stephen Hawking.  Blumenthal Veterans  (Both his collaborators, Chris Young and Maxime Bilet, have
spent time at the Fat Duck, chef  Heston Blumenthal ’s restaurant
in Bray, west of London.)  Myhrvold says “Modernist Cuisine” seeks to explain and
promote contemporary techniques that have revolutionized
cooking. Yet don’t people prefer the simple pleasures of a
beautiful piece of ham and a glass of wine to the processed
dishes of chefs such as Ferran Adria and Blumenthal?  “No,” he says bluntly, and then laughs again. “You like
a simple piece of ham? Guess what? There’s no animal called ham.
And this isn’t grape juice we’re drinking, thank god. Even in
simple foods, we take for granted enormous amounts of skill and
processing. Done properly, technique only enhances ingredients.  “Any dish, no matter how humble its origins, can be
perfected. A hamburger is no less worthy than langoustine. If
food is poetry, comfort food is a nursery rhyme.”  Mushroom Ketchup  Oh yes? So how would he make a hamburger with fries?  The answer to that question takes several minutes. When
baking the bun, he incorporates a protein called L-Cysteine to
make it soft. He makes his own cheese slices (using Comte and
Emmental) with an emulsifying salt so they melt perfectly. The
meat (short rib and hanger steak) is ground with the grain
aligned in long strands. The mayonnaise is a beef-suet
mousseline, the ketchup prepared with mushrooms; the lettuce is
infused with liquid smoke and the tomato is compressed.  He cooks the burger sous-vide -- meaning in a bag, in a
water bath -- only he leaves the bag unsealed. When the burger
is medium rare, he plunges it into liquid nitrogen for 30
seconds, freezing the outside, then drops it in a deep fryer.  “Our fries are even better than Heston’s,” he says. “We
steam them first, then we put them into an ultrasonic bath,
which is used to clean watch parts, jewelry and dentures. The
ultrasonic waves beat the hell out of the outside and make it
rough. Then when we fry it, it’s impossibly crispy.”  Myhrvold is chuckling with pleasure and I’m feeling lost.
Am I ever going to learn anything from him that comes in handy
when cooking at home? Then he gives me a tip on preparing eggs
and I’m hooked.  “If I cooked eggs for you, you’d never go back,” he says.
“If you’re making a three-egg omelet or three-egg scrambled
eggs, throw one egg white away. So you make two whole eggs and
one yolk. Throwing the white away makes such a difference in the
texture, it’s just much better. It’s yellower. It’s more
flavorful. It’s not as rubbery. It’s like night and day.”  “Modernist Cuisine: The Art and Science of Cooking” by
 Nathan Myhrvold , Chris Young and Maxime Bilet. $625 cover price
in the U.S., 395 pounds in the U.K.  (Richard Vines is the chief food critic for Muse, the arts
and leisure section of Bloomberg News. Opinions expressed are
his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Richard Vines in London at 
 rvines@bloomberg.net  or  http://twitter.com/Richardvines .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 