-- 
Daniels Won’t Seek Republican Presidential Nomination, Citing His Family

-- B y   J o h n   M c C o r m i c k   a n d   L i s a   L e r e r
-- 
2011-05-22T17:10:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-22/indiana-republican-governor-mitch-daniels-says-he-won-t-run-for-president.html
Potential options for Republicans
seeking to unseat President  Barack Obama  in 2012 narrowed as
Indiana Governor Mitch Daniels, a favorite of his party’s
establishment, said he wouldn’t seek the nomination.  Daniels, 62, whose deficit-fighting credentials and folksy
manner caused some Republican officials to tout his prospects
for national appeal, informed his inner circle of his decision
late yesterday.  “I was able to resolve every competing interest but one,
but that, the interest and wishes of my family, is the most
important consideration of all,” the two-term governor wrote in
a statement e-mailed to supporters early today.  Daniels became the fourth high-profile Republican to decide
to forego a presidential candidacy, leaving party’s nomination
contest still in flux less than nine months before the first
balloting is set to begin.  Former Minnesota Governor  Tim Pawlenty  and former Utah
Governor Jon Huntsman Jr. -- two of the likely candidates who
potentially benefit from the absence of Daniels in the race --
issued statements today praising him, with an eye to absorbing
some of his supporters.  ‘Intellectual Powerhouse’  Pawlenty said that while Daniels “may not be running, he
is an intellectual powerhouse and will continue to play a
leading role in the party’s politics and the nation’s policies.  Pawlenty also said “Mitch and I agree that America’s out-
of-control national debt is a threat to our nation’s future, and
that the next president must restore fiscal responsibility in
 Washington .”  Pawlenty is scheduled to formally announce the start of his
presidential campaign at an event tomorrow in  Iowa , where the
caucuses that will kick off the Republican race are scheduled
for Feb. 6.  Huntsman said Daniels “will be missed in this presidential
debate, but his message about the most immediate threat facing
our nation -- the massive debt -- will not go unheard.’”  Huntsman returned last month from  China  after resigning as
the U.S. ambassador there and has been gearing up for an
expected presidential race. He is wrapping up a five-day swing
through  New Hampshire , the state that traditionally holds the
nation’s first presidential primary.  Former Governor Mitt Romney of  Massachusetts  also is moving
toward a presidential run and Daniels would have vied for many
of the same voters as him.  Other Announcements  The announcement from Daniels follows similar decisions to
stay on the sidelines by former Arkansas Governor Mike Huckabee,
real estate magnate Donald Trump, and Mississippi Governor Haley Barbour.  “If I have disappointed you, I will always be sorry,”
wrote Daniels, who was a budget director for President  George W. Bush . “I only hope that you will accept my sincerity in the
judgment I reached.”  He encouraged supporters to “stay in touch” on ways “an
obscure Midwestern governor might make a constructive
contribution to the rebuilding of our economy and our
republic.”  As a presidential candidate, Daniels would have faced
questions about statements he has made that have drawn the ire
of opponents of abortion rights and other issues that motivate
social conservatives. In a 2010 interview, he  told  the Weekly
Standard that the next president “would have to call a truce on
the so-called social issues until the economic crisis is
resolved.”  Low Poll Support  National polls  of Republican-leaning voters showed Daniels
barely registering as a presidential candidate, typically
receiving 3 or fewer percentage points of support.  Still, his record as a governor on fiscal issues attracted
the attention of other leading Republican officials.  On his first day as governor in 2005, Daniels issued an
executive order abolishing collective bargaining for state
workers, and he focused on pushing for efficiencies in
government operations.  His moves included the 2006 lease to private contractors of
the  Indiana  Toll Road for $3.85 billion, the largest such
transportation transaction nationwide. The road stretches across
the length of northern Indiana.  Daniels’ victory in Indiana’s 2004 gubernatorial race was
his first bid for elected office. While he headed Bush’s Office
of Management and Budget, the president nicknamed him “the
Blade” for his budget-cutting prowess. He also served as a
senior adviser to President  Ronald Reagan  and as a chief of
staff to Senator Richard Lugar, an Indiana Republican.  In 2008, Daniels won re-election with 58 percent of the
vote, even as Obama carried Indiana on his way to winning the
presidency. Obama was the first Democratic presidential
candidate to win the state since then-President  Lyndon Johnson 
in 1964.  Business Background  Daniels, a  Pennsylvania  native, has also worked as the
chief executive officer of the Hudson Institute and as a senior
executive of Indianapolis-based  Eli Lilly & Co. (LLY) , whose  products 
include the antidepressant Prozac.  He earned a bachelor’s degree from the Woodrow Wilson
School of Public and International Affairs at  Princeton
University  in 1971 and his law degree from  Georgetown University 
in 1979. He and his wife, Cheri, have four daughters.  The couple divorced in 1994, and Daniels’ wife moved to
 California  and remarried. After that marriage ended, she
returned to Indiana and the couple remarried in 1997.  ‘Loss for Republicans’  Indiana Democrats issued a statement today saying Daniels’
decision “is a loss for Republicans,” and that “Daniels would
have brought a serious tone to a GOP field that’s thus far been
characterized by silliness and distraction.”  Among well-known Republicans, former U.S. House Speaker
Newt Gingrich of Georgia and U.S. Representative Ron Paul of
 Texas  have both formally announced their candidacies. Romney,
who has led in some early polls, has filed paperwork with the
Federal Election Commission to raise money for a potential bid,
as has former U.S. Senator Rick Santorum of Pennsylvania.  Other potential candidates include former Alaska Governor
Sarah Palin and Representative  Michele Bachmann  of  Minnesota ,
both favorites of the Tea Party movement.  Herman Cain, the former chairman and chief executive
officer of Godfather’s Pizza Inc., and former New Mexico
Governor Gary Johnson also have declared their candidacies. And
former Louisiana Governor Buddy Roemer, a Democrat-turned-
Republican, has formed an exploratory committee.  -- Editors: Don Frederick, Ann Hughey.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John McCormick in Washington at 
 jmccormick16@bloomberg.net ;
Lisa Lerer in Washington at 
 llerer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mark Silva  in Washington at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net . 