-- 
Italy Warning From S&P May Fan Contagion as Greece Dodges Restructuring

-- B y   L o r e n z o   T o t a r o   a n d   J a m e s   H e r t l i n g
-- 
2011-05-23T10:01:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-22/italy-warning-from-s-p-may-fan-contagion-as-greece-presses-cuts.html
Greek Prime Minister  George Papandreou ’s Cabinet is set to endorse additional deficit cuts
and asset sales, fending off speculation that the country is
headed to a restructuring.  The cost to insure Greek debt against default rose to a
record and the yield on its 10-year bonds increased to a euro-
era high after  Standard & Poor’s  said May 20 it may cut Italy’s
credit rating. That warning came hours after  Fitch Ratings  cut
Greece three grades.  “Greece risks a sovereign default and finance ministers
have expressed strong doubts about the sluggish progress,”
French Finance Minister  Christine Lagarde  said in a May 20
interview with  Austria ’s  Der Standard .  More than a year after European policy makers approved a
750 billion-euro ($1.1 trillion) bailout blueprint to stem the
sovereign crisis, bond yields in debt-laden peripheral countries
are at record highs and officials are floating plans to extend
Greek repayments. Hours before the S&P warning about  Italy ,
Fitch Ratings cut Greece three levels and said it would consider
an extension of maturities as a default.  “In isolation this is not a major event, and under normal
circumstances I would not expect it to have a significant impact
upon the market,”  Gary Jenkins , head of fixed-income at
Evolution Securities Ltd. in London, said about S&P’s warning on
Italy. “However, these are not normal times.”  The euro touched a record low against the Swiss franc today
and fell to the lowest in a week against the dollar as concern
over  Europe ’s sovereign-debt crisis deepened. The euro slipped
to 1.2349 francs before trading at 1.2394 as of 7:45 a.m. in
 London  from 1.2425 last week. Europe’s shared currency dropped
to $1.4050 from $1.4161 on May 20.  Greek Yields  Greek 10-year yields jumped 19 basis points to 16.76
percent as of 9:23 a.m. in London while yields on two-year notes
climbed 12 basis points to 25.58 percent. Italian 10-year yields
rose six basis points to 4.84 percent.  The cost of insuring government and corporate debt rose in
Europe, according to traders of credit-default swaps. Contracts
on Greece soared 29 basis points to a record 1,373, Ireland
jumped 14 to 655 and  Portugal  rose 9 to 649, while Italy
increased 14 to 174 and  Spain  climbed 13 to 275, prices from
data provider CMA showed today.  In  Athens , Papandreou is chairing a Cabinet meeting today
to discuss his fifth austerity package since getting a 110
billion-euro rescue from the European Union and the
 International Monetary Fund .  Asset Sales  The government is looking for ways to speed up plans to
sell 50 billion euros of assets, the equivalent of almost 25
percent of gross domestic product. The meeting comes as a team
of IMF and EU inspectors prepare to return to Athens this week
to complete their review of  Greece ’s progress in meeting the
bailout terms.  Luxembourg’s  Jean-Claude Juncker , who leads the group of
euro-area finance ministers, endorsed an independent
privatization agency to help sell off some of the Greek
government’s assets, German magazine Spiegel said, citing an
interview with Juncker.  Italy had its credit-rating outlook lowered to negative
from stable by S&P, which cited the nation’s slowing economic
growth and “diminished” prospects for reducing government
debt, according to a statement on May 20. S&P affirmed Italy’s
A+ long-term rating, the fifth-highest, and its top-ranked A-1+
short-term rating. The rating company last cut the nation’s
credit rating in 2006.  “With regard to the economy, the government has initiated
and will intensify its reforms; with regard to the budget, a
phase of measures are in advanced preparation in order to
balance the budget by 2014,” the Treasury said May 21 in an e-
mailed  statement  from  Rome . It also said the measures will be
submitted to the Parliament for approval by July.  Deficit  Italy’s budget deficit was 4.6 percent of GDP last year,
lower than that of  France  and less than half of Greece’s
shortfall. Its debt reached almost 120 percent of GDP, twice the
European Union limit, and fallout from the region’s sovereign
crisis is making it more costly to finance new borrowing. The
extra yield that investors demand to hold Italian 10-year bonds
over German bunds rose 13 basis points to 185, the highest in
more than four months.  Italian economic growth was 0.1 percent in the first
quarter, less than economists had forecast, as gains in exports
failed to offset weak domestic demand. GDP in the euro region’s
third-biggest economy won’t return to its pre-recession level
for at least another two years, and the nation needs to raise
productivity, the Organization for Economic Cooperation and
Development said in a report this month.  Future Developments  “Rating agencies don’t just look at what’s going on today,
they also look at possible future developments, that’s the issue
here,” said Nicola Borri, who teaches economics at Rome’s  Luiss
University . “How will Italy keep its commitments with no
growth? Structural reforms are needed but no government, left or
right, in the past 10 years has managed to undertake them. This
is what S&P is worried about.”  S&P also warned that the “increased fragility” of Prime
Minister  Silvio Berlusconi ’s ruling coalition could undermine
implementation of fiscal measures needed to trim the debt.
Berlusconi has been weakened by defections of key allies and
corruption allegations, and a setback in regional elections this
month is further straining the unity of his government.  The Italian Treasury “absolutely” ruled out the risk of
political gridlock and said Italy will keep all its economic
commitments. It also pointed out in an e-mailed statement that
S&P’s views are very different from those expressed by the IMF,
the OECD and the European Commission.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lorenzo Totaro at 
 ltotaro@bloomberg.net ;
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  