-- 
Japan, China, South Korea Agree on Nuclear Safety

-- B y   S a c h i k o   S a k a m a k i   a n d   T a k a s h i   H i r o k a w a
-- 
2011-05-22T15:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-22/japan-china-south-korea-agree-on-nuclear-safety.html
Japan , China and  South Korea  agreed
to improve cooperation on ensuring safe atomic power as well as
boost economic ties two months after Japan’s record earthquake
and tsunami triggered the worst nuclear disaster in 25 years.  Prime Minister  Naoto Kan  promised “maximum transparency” to
Chinese Premier  Wen Jiabao  and South Korean President  Lee Myung Bak  in sharing information on the crisis at the Fukushima Dai-
Ichi atomic power plant, according to a statement yesterday. The
three men visited Fukushima to assess the impact from the quake
and tsunami that left more than 24,000 people dead or missing.  “Rebuilding Japan’s disaster-stricken area and economic
recovery is not just about the welfare of the Japanese people,”
Wen said yesterday at a joint press conference in Tokyo. “It is
also about economic and trade relations between our three
countries, as well as about global economic growth. We’ll make
maximum efforts with all good will to support Japan’s recovery.”  China , Japan and South Korea will seek to begin
negotiations on a free-trade agreement next year and conclude
talks on an investment accord this year, Wen said. The three
countries also agreed to accelerate a joint study on a trade
pact by the end of this year, a year ahead of schedule.  Kan, Wen and Lee visited with Fukushima evacuees and ate
locally grown cherries on May 21. China and South Korea
restricted imports of some Japanese produce on radiation
concerns, threatening to exacerbate an export slump in the
world’s third-largest economy after the earthquake disrupted
supply chains.  China will gradually relax its import restrictions “once
safety is secured,” Wen said.  ‘Effectively Demonstrated’  “I appreciate the two leaders visiting the disaster-
stricken areas to encourage the victims, and they effectively
demonstrated that Japanese food is safe,” Kan said.  Japan exported 481 billion yen ($5.9 billion) of food last
year, accounting for 0.7 percent of total exports, government
figures show.  China is Japan’s largest trade partner, followed by the
U.S., and South Korea is third. China surpassed Japan last year
as the world’s second-largest economy after the U.S. The three
Asian economies make up about 20 percent of the global economy.  The three countries also agreed to push for resumption of
six-nation talks aimed at persuading  North Korea  to abandon its
nuclear weapons programs, which last convened in 2008. North
Korea dismissed a May 9 invitation by Lee for  Kim Jong Il  to
attend an international summit on nuclear security provided his
regime pledges to give up its nuclear weapons.  “Concrete Actions”  Wen, whose country is North Korea’s biggest ally and
trading partner, said it’s important to promote dialogue on the
issue.  “We expressed our concerns on North Korea’s uranium
enrichment program,” Kan said. “We’ve agreed to coordinate to
get North Korea to take concrete actions.”  Kan and Wen earlier met and agreed to improve bilateral
ties, a Japanese Foreign Ministry official told reporters,
speaking on condition of anonymity in line with ministry policy.  Relations between  Asia ’s two biggest economies were
damaged by a collision last September between a Chinese fishing
boat and Japanese Coast Guard vessels near islands in the  East
China Sea  claimed by both sides. China dispatched a relief team
after the earthquake and has donated goods for relief.  China curbed its exports to Japan of rare earth minerals,
used in hybrid cars,  wind turbines  and guided missiles,
following the dispute. Shipments of the elements improved late
last year and Kan asked Wen to hold down prices, the ministry
official said. Wen told Kan that China, which controls more than
90 percent of the market, will maintain its exports in line with
World Trade Organization rules, the official said.  Kan also told Wen he would like to visit China this year,
the official said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sachiko Sakamaki in  Tokyo  at 
 Ssakamaki1@bloomberg.net ;
Takashi Hirokawa in Tokyo at 
 thirokawa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg in  Hong Kong  at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  