-- 
Disney’s ‘Pirates’ Is Top Film With Sales of $90.2 Million

-- B y   M i c h a e l   W h i t e   a n d   D a n   H a r t
-- 
2011-05-23T22:57:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-22/johnny-depp-s-pirates-is-weekend-s-top-movie-with-sales-of-90-1-million.html
“Pirates of the Caribbean: On
Stranger Tides” collected $90.2 million in weekend sales at
U.S. and Canadian theaters, giving the summer box-office a
needed boost with the year’s biggest debut.  “Bridesmaids,” from  Comcast Corp. ’s Universal Pictures,
remained in second place with $20.9 million in receipts,
researcher  Hollywood.com Box-Office  said today in an e-mailed
statement.  Outside the U.S., “On Stranger Tides” took in $260.4
million in sales for  Walt Disney Co. , the biggest international
opening ever. Domestic sales were at the low end of forecasts
that ranged from $90 million to $110 million. Sales this coming
weekend may get another boost when DreamWorks Animation SKG
Inc.’s “Kung Fu Panda 2” and “The Hangover 2” from Paramount
Pictures reach theaters.  “Next weekend is going to be a huge catalyst for the
summer,”  Jeff Bock , a box-office analyst with Exhibitor
Relations, said in an interview. “‘Kung Fu Panda 2’ and ‘The
Hangover 2’ could both pull in $100 million.”  Films opening in June, including “Super 8” and “The
Green Lantern,” may help the studios and exhibitors make up
their year-over-year deficit in sales and attendance.  Disney said the latest “Pirates of the Caribbean” film,
the first in the series to be shown in 3-D, also had the fifth-
biggest domestic opening in the studio’s history.  Novelty of 3-D?  The movie may generate sales of $850 million to $900
million globally, driven by international markets, Bock said.  Higher prices for 3-D showings of “Pirates,” at 40
percent or more than 2-D tickets in some areas of the U.S., may
have hurt the film’s attendance, according to  Rich Greenfield , a
New York-based analyst with BTIG LLC.  With a proliferation of 3-D films this year, some
moviegoers also may no longer see the technology as a novelty,
Greenfield wrote in a note. Non-Imax 3-D sales accounted for 54
percent of revenue for “Shrek Forever After” in May of last
year. It accounted for 38 percent for “On Stranger Tides” on
more 3-D screens, Greenfield wrote on his company’s Web site.  In “On Stranger Tides,”  Johnny Depp ’s Captain Jack
Sparrow is enlisted in a search for the Fountain of Youth.
 Penelope Cruz  co-stars as Angelica, a pirate determined to save
the soul of Blackbeard from damnation.  Geoffrey Rush  returns as
Sparrow’s rival, Barbossa, and Ian McShane plays Blackbeard.  Will Turner and Elizabeth Swann, two major characters
played by  Orlando Bloom  and  Keira Knightley  in the previous
films, don’t appear in the new movie.  ‘Bridesmaids’  “Bridesmaids,” produced by  Judd Apatow , stars  Kristen
Wiig  as the maid of honor who must cope with financial woes and
personality conflicts among members of the bridal party. The
movie has had sales of $59.3 million in two weeks.  “The word-of-mouth is just incredible,” Bock said. “I
don’t think anyone saw this coming.”  The superhero saga “Thor” came in third place in its
third weekend with sales of $15.5 million.  In “Thor,” the arrogant, hammer-wielding god of Norse
mythology is banished by his father Odin to Earth to live among
humans. He learns to accept the responsibility that comes with
his great power when evil forces invade Earth.  Chris Hemsworth stars as Thor and  Anthony Hopkins  plays
Odin.  Natalie Portman  co-stars as Thor’s human love interest.
Paramount is distributing the movie for Marvel, which was
acquired by Burbank, California-based Disney last year.  ‘Fast Five’  “Fast Five,” Universal’s fifth installment in the series
about street racers, was fourth with $10.6 million in receipts.
The movie has taken in $186.2 million in four weeks in cinemas.  “Priest,” starring  Paul Bettany  as a clergyman/warrior
who battles an army of vampires, was fifth with $4.8 million for
distributor  Sony Corp . Karl Urban and Maggie Q co-star.  “Rio,” the animated film from News Corp.’s Twentieth
Century Fox, had sales of $4.7 million in sixth place. The film
features the voices of  Anne Hathaway  and  Jesse Eisenberg  and
tells the story of a domesticated macaw who travels to Rio de
Janeiro from Minnesota to find a mate. The movie has earned
$131.7 million in six weeks.  Revenue for the top 12 films rose 11 percent this past
weekend to $158.7 million from a year ago, Hollywood.com said.
Year to date, sales are down 12 percent to $3.65 billion, with
attendance falling 13 percent.  The amounts below are based on actual ticket sales for May
20 to May 22.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michael White in Los Angeles at 
 mwhite8@bloomberg.net ;
Dan Hart in Washington at 
 dahart@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  