-- 
Kapoor’s Red Belly, Hadid’s UFO Amuse in Paris Shows: Review

-- B y   J o r g   v o n   U t h m a n n
-- 
2011-05-22T23:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-22/kapoor-s-red-belly-hadid-s-ufo-amuse-in-paris-exhibits-jorg-von-uthmann.html
Tired of life? Ready to crawl back
into the womb? Paris may have the answer to your wish.  Anish Kapoor, the Indian-born U.K. sculptor, has created a
giant walk-in balloon whose reddish interior suggests a human
belly. Looking at it from the outside, you notice that the
inflatable structure consists of not one but three spheres
resembling the clubs symbol in a deck of cards.  Kapoor’s work is the fourth installment of a series,
grandly called  “Monumenta,”  in which artists are invited to
use the vast space beneath the glass-and-steel dome of the Grand
Palais for a solo exhibition.  The series started in 2007 with a landscape of leaning
towers and art-filled cubes by  Anselm Kiefer  of  Germany . In
2008, U.S. sculptor Richard Serra presented an ascetic row of
tall steel sheets. Last year, an installation with old clothes
by the French artist Christian Boltanski suggested an
extermination camp.  Kapoor’s 100-meter-long, 17.35-meter-high creation is the
biggest so far. Even if you find the work simplistic, it’s still
a technical achievement.  Stitched together out of an ultra-light, ultra-resistant
material, the three balloons are kept under constant pressure to
prevent them from imploding. Hidden ventilators make sure that
the visitor gets enough fresh air to breathe.  Kapoor has named his sculpture “Leviathan,” after the
biblical monster. In the eponymous 1651 treatise by Thomas Hobbes, the English philosopher, Leviathan is a metaphor for the
absolute power of the state, which he defends.  Kapoor doesn’t agree. He has dedicated his work to Ai Weiwei, the Chinese artist who was detained by the police on
April 3 and is being held in custody at an unknown location
without having been officially charged with any offense.  “Leviathan” is on view at the Grand Palais in Paris
through June 23. The main sponsors include JTI France, LVMH Moet
Hennessy Louis Vuitton SA, Banque Neuflize OBC SA and Boston
Consulting Group Inc. Information:  http://www.monumenta.com .  Flying Saucer  As it happens, another walk-in sculpture has re-emerged in
Paris after a premature demise due to lack of funds. “Mobile
Art,” an enormous white shell that some people have compared
with a flying saucer, was designed in 2008 by the Iraq-born U.K.
architect  Zaha Hadid , the first female recipient of the  Pritzker
Prize .  The futuristic  pavilion  was supposed to travel throughout
the world as a showcase for Chanel SA, the French fashion house.
It did dock in  Hong Kong  and  New York ’s Central Park, then money
ran out. The shell was unceremoniously dismantled, and the 413
plastic panels were stored away in a Paris suburb.  Daring Hadid  It has been resuscitated by the  Institut du Monde Arabe  in
whose courtyard it now stands, displaying, instead of dresses,
handbags and perfumes, maquettes and images of Hadid’s daring
projects.  Although many of her projects have never been built, the
show offers fascinating glimpses into the fertile imagination of
an architect who often preferred extravagant dreams to practical
considerations.  The IMA was designed by another Pritzker Prize winner, Jean Nouvel. Asked how he felt about the intruder in his courtyard,
an assistant was quoted by the daily Le Monde as saying: “We
could have vetoed it. As long as it doesn’t stay forever, it’s
welcome.”  In November, “Mobile Art” will move to Roubaix in
northern  France  as an outlet of the IMA for temporary
exhibitions. The show is sponsored by Fayat SA. Information:
 http://www.imarabe.org  or +33-1-4051-3838.  (Jorg von Uthmann is a critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Jorg von Uthmann in Paris at  uthmann@wanadoo.fr .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 