-- 
New French Open Balls by Babolat Bring Complaints From Novak Djokovic

-- B y   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 
2011-05-22T18:33:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-22/new-french-open-balls-by-babolat-bring-complaints-from-novak-djokovic.html
Australian Open champion Novak Djokovic and Britain’s  Andy Murray  are among players complaining
about new tennis balls, made by Babolat, being used at this
year’s event at Roland Garros in Paris.  Djokovic said the balls supplied by the French company are
harder to handle because they bounce higher on the clay courts
in Paris and move faster through the air than last year’s Dunlop
balls, which were also used in warm-ups this year. Murray says
the changes make it hard on players’ wrists and other joints.
 Babolat  says its balls meet standards set by the French tennis
federation.  “Babolat developed the balls to meet the precise
requirements provided,” Annie Coghill, a spokeswoman for
Babolat, said in an e-mail today. “They are the ones who
determine the specs of the balls. Babolat is not aware of the
2010 ball specs, only those specs provided to us by the FFT
for developing this year’s tournament ball.”  The organizers of the season’s second Grand Slam, which
started today, blamed the weather for the players’ concerns. All
laboratory tests found the balls are similar to ones used in
previous years. What’s different is that it hasn’t rained in
Paris for two months, tournament official Christophe Hayaux du
Tilly said in an e-mail.  “The courts are dry and therefore there’s more speed,” he
said. “That’s why, even if the balls’ specs are similar to last
year, the sensation could be quite different.”  ‘Very Fast’  Djokovic told a news conference shortly before the start of
the event that the new balls are “very, very fast, so it’s
really difficult to control. Maybe it’s going to favor the
servers and the big hitters.”  David Ferrer  of  Spain , who advanced to the second round
today by beating Finland’s Jarkko Nieminen, 6-3, 6-3, 6-1, told
a news conference that the balls “have been designed,
engineered for fast court players with a very good serve.”  Babolat has done “intense testing,” on the balls, “and
the final product was approved by the FFT,” Coghill said.  Jelena Jankovic, who beat Ukraine’s Alona Bondarenko 6-3,
6-1 today, said the ball seems lighter, and “flies a little bit
more.”  “It tends to take off and really move around. That’s the
biggest difference actually,” she said. “You just have to get
used to it. It’s different to the other balls which are a little
bit heavier and stick to the racquet a little bit more.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Rossingh at  Roland Garros  through the London sports
desk at   drossingh@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Elser at   celser@bloomberg.net  