-- 
Kim Jong Il Visits China in Bid to Revive North Korea’s Shrinking Economy

-- B y   B o m i   L i m
-- 
2011-05-23T03:10:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-22/north-korea-s-leader-kim-jong-il-travels-to-china-for-economic-guidance.html
North Korean leader  Kim Jong Il  was
invited to China to learn about the country’s economic
restructuring and use that knowledge to revive his own nation’s
shrinking economy, Premier Wen Jiabao said.  Wen made the comments during a meeting with South Korea’s
President  Lee Myung Bak  in  Tokyo , where the two leaders held a
summit with  Japan ’s Prime Minister Naoto Kan, Lee’s office said
in a statement on its website. Kim arrived in Yangzhou in the
eastern Chinese province of Jiangsu yesterday on the third day
of his trip, Seoul-based Yonhap News reported.  Kim’s third trip to his main ally and benefactor in the
past year may be aimed at extracting more aid and trade to shore
up an economy beset by international sanctions aimed at halting
the regime’s nuclear-weapons program, crop failures and
livestock disease.  China ’s gross domestic product jumped 14-fold
in the three decades since it began experiments with market-
oriented reforms, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  "Kim’s visit will accelerate China’s investment in North
Korea, which it desperately needs," said Cho Bong Hyun, a
research fellow at the Seoul-based IBK Economic Research
Institute. "China will keep pushing North Korea on the nuclear
issue even as it pursues economic cooperation as it wouldn’t
want to be blamed for making global disarmament efforts
ineffective."  North Korea’s trade with China jumped 30 percent last year
even after the  United Nations  stepped up sanctions following its
second nuclear test in May 2009, according to China’s  commerce
ministry .  Food Survey  The trip by the 69-year-old Kim comes as a U.S. delegation
arrives in North Korea tomorrow to survey the country’s food
shortages. Kim last visited China in August, a month before his
youngest son, Kim Jong Un, was appointed to a second-highest
military post within the ruling Workers’ Party of Korea. The
August trip was the elder Kim’s second to China in 2010.  China is also host of the six-party talks on North Korea’s
nuclear weapons program. The forum, also involving Japan,  South
Korea ,  Russia  and the U.S., last convened in December 2008.  The U.S. and South Korea should "respect and support"
China’s efforts to defuse regional tensions by communicating
with North Korea, which "suffers from isolation and poverty
thanks to international sanctions," China’s state-run Global
Times said May 21 in an  editorial . "It is fortunate that there
still remains an effective communication channel between China
and North Korea," it said.  First Visit  Ambassador Robert King, the U.S. special envoy for North
Korean human rights, will be in North Korea until May 28 to
assess food needs, State Department spokesman Mark Toner said in
 Washington  on May 20. King will also raise human-rights concerns
with North Korean officials, Toner said.  Jon Brause, a U.S. international aid official, and King
will examine the work of the UN World Food Program, which
launched an emergency aid effort last month for an estimated 3.5
million North Koreans. North  Korea  has relied on outside
handouts since the mid-1990s, when an estimated 2 million people
died from famine.  North Korea has agreed to give the team the access
required, Toner said. The last U.S. food assistance program to
North Korea was abruptly suspended in March 2009, he said.  Former President Jimmy Carter last month accused the U.S.
and South Korea of a “human rights violation” for refusing aid
to North Korea. Carter visited North Korea in April to try to
revive stalled nuclear talks.  North Korea’s economy shrank 0.9 percent in 2009 when the
United Nations stepped up sanctions that curbed trade and
international aid, according to the Bank of Korea in  Seoul .  South Korea has shunned dialogue with the North, demanding
that the government in Pyongyang apologize for torpedoing a
South Korean warship in March 2010 and shelling an island in
November.  North Korea  denies any role in the sinking of the
warship and claimed it fired artillery to protect its territory.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bomi Lim in Seoul at 
 blim30@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg in  Hong Kong  at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  