-- 
Obama Says He Would Be Willing to Raid Pakistan Again to Protect the U.S.

-- B y   S i m o n   K e n n e d y
-- 
2011-05-22T10:48:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-22/obama-says-he-would-be-willing-to-raid-pakistan-to-protect-u-s-.html
President  Barack Obama  said the U.S.
would be willing to stage another raid in  Pakistan  to protect
itself against a terrorist threat and that he hoped the killing
of  Osama bin Laden  would result in “more effective”
cooperation with the country.  “Our job is to secure the  United States ,” Obama told the
BBC TV’s Andrew Marr Show in an interview recorded on May 19 and
broadcast today. “We are very respectful of the sovereignty of
Pakistan. But we cannot allow someone who is actively planning
to kill our people.”  Obama’s decision not to inform Pakistan about the May 2
raid against bin Laden has strained ties between the countries.
Pakistan’s military has been criticized by politicians, media
and the public for failing to detect either bin Laden or the
U.S. commando force that killed him as he hid in Abbottabad, 48
kilometers (30 miles) from capital city Islamabad.  Obama said while bin Laden likely required some
“external” support, the U.S. has killed more terrorists on
Pakistani soil than anywhere else and that would not have been
possible without the assistance of the local authorities.  “But there’s more work to do,” he said. “My expectation
is that over the coming months, this can be a wake-up call where
we start seeing a more effective cooperative relationship.”  Obama, who is visiting the U.K. this week, said also that
peace in  Afghanistan  would “ultimately” require talks with the
Taliban and that the Middle East crisis would need to end with
two states “side by side.”  “There are going to need to be swaps to accommodate the
interests of both sides,” Obama said, citing Hamas recognizing
 Israel ’s right to exist as one example.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simon Kennedy in London at 
 skennedy4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  