-- 
Honduras’s President Signs Accord Allowing Zelaya’s Return

-- B y   B l a k e   S c h m i d t
-- 
2011-05-22T22:01:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-22/honduras-s-president-signs-accord-allowing-zelaya-s-return-1-.html
Honduran President Porfirio Lobo
signed an accord today that will allow for the return of
ousted ex-president Manuel Zelaya from exile and open the way
for the nation to rejoin the  Organization of American States .  Lobo and Zelaya signed the agreement today in Cartagena,
 Colombia , with Colombian President  Juan Manuel Santos  and
Venezuelan Foreign Minister Nicolas Maduro as witnesses,
according to images on Telesur.  “This accord will restore my right, and the right of my
ministers, to return to my country with our freedom,” Zelaya
said on Telesur.  The agreement, which was brokered with the help of
Santos and Venezuelan President  Hugo Chavez , also opens the
way for Zelaya to hold a plebiscite on reforming the
country’s basic laws and guarantees that Zelaya supporters
can return safely to Honduras and form a party to participate
in elections.  Honduras was voted out of the OAS after Zelaya, 58, was
ousted in a 2009 coup. Santos said  Honduras  could be voted
back into the OAS as soon as June 5, when the regional body
will hold a general assembly in San Salvador.  A Honduran court dropped the last remaining charges
against Zelaya on May 2, opening the way for the ousted
leader’s return from exile in the Dominican Republic. Zelaya has
said he plans to return as soon as next week.  Honduran soldiers sent Zelaya on a plane to  Costa Rica 
in June 2009 after the Honduran Supreme Court ruled that
Zelaya’s push to rewrite the constitution was illegal.  Chavez, who couldn’t make the signing of the agreement
because of a leg injury, said on state television today that
Zelaya has told him he plans to “continue to fight” for a
constituent assembly.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Blake Schmidt in Bogota at 
 bschmidt16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  