-- 
Moroccan Authorities Punish Attempted Pro-Democracy Protests

-- B y   A i d a   A l a m i
-- 
2011-05-22T19:52:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-22/moroccan-authorities-punish-attempted-pro-democracy-protests.html
Moroccan police suppressed pro-
democracy demonstrators calling for faster democratic change
with attempted marches on Sunday.  Echoing demands that have spread from North Africa to
 Yemen , Moroccans who took to the streets today in two of the
country’s biggest cities were met with responses similar to
those encountered by protesters around the Middle East.  In the capital Rabat, marchers were surrounded by riot
police who charged them with batons, barred all exit routes and
arrested civilians while forcing the crowd to disperse.  “The government is going back to its old habits: forbidding
peaceful demonstrations, brutalizing and arresting young
protesters,” said Omar Balafrej, a demonstrator who spoke while
hiding from security forces along with dozens of others.  Demonstrations occurred also in Casablanca, according to a
person who witnessed the events and asked not to be identified
out of concern for his safety, with some demanding the
dissolution of the government and greater involvement in
rewriting the constitution.  Following popular unrest around the Middle East that has
toppled governments in Egypt and  Tunisia ,  Morocco ’s King
Mohammed VI said in March he would introduce more liberties.
Demonstrations had begun there Feb. 20, aimed at reducing the
king’s power, curbing corruption and ending police brutality.  In a March 9 address, the king said he intended to make
“progress in democracy.” He vowed more religious freedom, more
transparent justice and a prime minister representing an elected
party. He appointed a commission to review the constitution by
June and promised a subsequent referendum.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aidi Alami at  aalami2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Riad Hamade at   rhamade@bloomberg.net  