-- 
Suspect in Assault on San Francisco Giants’ Fan Is Booked After Arrest

-- B y   D e x   M c L u s k e y
-- 
2011-05-23T05:00:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-22/los-angeles-police-hold-suspect-in-beating-of-san-francisco-giants-fan.html
A suspect in the March 31 assault on
a San Francisco Giants fan at Dodger Stadium has been taken into
custody by  Los Angeles  police.  Giovanni Ramirez, 31, of Los Angeles was booked for assault
with a deadly weapon and is being held on $1 million bail, the
Los Angeles Police Department said last night. He’s believed to
be the “main aggressor” in the attack that left Bryan Stow,
42, in a medically induced coma with a fractured skull and brain
damage, LAPD Chief of Police Charlie Beck said at an earlier
news conference.  Detectives got a tip last week from a “law-enforcement
source” that accelerated the investigation, the LAPD said in an
e-mailed statement. The suspect was taken into custody yesterday
morning after police executed two search warrants at an
apartment building and a home in the Rampart area of Los
Angeles, police said.  Several other people were detained for questioning and
“evidence was seized”, police said, without being specific.  The Giants said the arrest was “welcome news.”  “We commend the Los Angeles Police Department for their
hard work and we are confident that they will continue to
dedicate themselves until all of those responsible for this
senseless act of violence have been brought to justice,” the
Major League Baseball team said in a statement.  Stow was leaving Dodger Stadium with several friends
following  San Francisco ’s 2-1 loss to Los Angeles when the two
suspects, who were both wearing Dodgers attire, began taunting
Stow and his friends, who wore Giants gear.  Stow was hit from behind as he walked away and fell to the
ground, where the suspects kicked him, police said. The suspects
also hit Stow’s friends when they attempted to intervene. The
suspects were last seen being driven from the stadium by a woman
in a light or white four-door sedan.  “Both the woman and the second suspect involved in the
attack on Stow are still at large,” police said in the
statement. “Detectives are asking the public to continue to
provide any information that could lead to their arrest.”  Stow was transferred from Los Angeles County-USC Medical
Center to San Francisco General Hospital, where he remains in a
critical condition, doctors said last week.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dex McLuskey in Dallas at 
 dmcluskey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  