-- 
Belka Sees End to Polish Price ‘Hysteria’ After Surprise May Rate Increase

-- B y   A g n e s   L o v a s z   a n d   N a r i m a n   G i z i t d i n o v
-- 
2011-05-23T11:59:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-22/polish-price-hysteria-to-end-after-may-rate-raise-belka-says.html
Polish inflation will peak within two
months after a surprise interest rate increase in May eased
price pressure, central bank Governor Marek Belka said.  “We are really very close to the peak” of consumer-price
growth, Belka said in an interview in the Kazakh capital Astana
on May 21. Following the rate increase “we are observing a
certain attenuation of inflationary expectations. The hysteria
is over.”  Wage growth is accelerating in  Poland , the European Union’s
largest eastern member, which escaped a recession during the
credit crisis. The central bank raised borrowing costs three
times since January as policy makers across the globe struggle
to curb inflation.  The central bank unexpectedly raised its benchmark seven-
day rate by a quarter-point to 4.25 percent on May 11. Policy
makers sought to pre-empt pressure on prices as  consumer
spending  is picking up and the inflation rate advanced to a 2
1/2-year high of 4.5 percent last month.  The increase probably changed the perception of how fast
prices are going to rise and will “moderate” economic growth
in Poland, Belka said. The decision “quickened” the monetary-
tightening schedule without altering the final scale of planned
raises, Belka said after the rate meeting.  The Monetary Policy Council adopted an “action scenario”
that “called for two to four rate increases, each by a quarter-
point, through the end of the year,”  Adam Glapinski  , a member
of the rate panel, said on April 17.  ‘No New Trajectory’  “This acceleration of interest rate hikes was not to be
interpreted that we are on a new trajectory of interest rates,”
Belka said on May 21. “It’s simply that we want to implement
our strategy faster.”  Investors in the  derivatives market  have reduced
expectations for higher rates in Poland since the rate decision,
betting on two more increases by the end of the year. The spread
between six-month forward-rate agreements and the three-month
Warsaw interbank offered rate fell to 55 basis points from 66
basis points on May 11.  Rising food and oil prices are spurring inflation around
the world. East European countries including Hungary and  Russia 
have raised  interest rates  to slow inflation. The Czech central
bank this month said it may raise rates sooner than forecast
after policy makers rejected a motion to increase the benchmark
to 1 percent from a record-low 0.75 percent.  ‘Close to Goal’  Poland’s inflation rate, which has exceeded the bank’s 2.5
percent target for seven months, may drop “close” to the goal
late next year, Belka said. Imported inflation is also eroding
the purchasing power of consumers, he said.  NG2 SA, Poland’s largest shoe retailer, expects demand to
grow this year, erasing a first-quarter loss, Deputy Chief
Executive Officer Piotr Nowjalis told reporters on May 10.  Core inflation , which strips out volatile food and fuel
prices from the  consumer price index , increased to an annual 2.1
percent in April from 2 percent the month before.  The zloty has gained 1.1 percent against the euro this
year, the fourth-best performance among 31 major currencies
tracked by Bloomberg, helping the central bank combat price
increases by making imported goods cheaper. The bank doesn’t aim
to influence the  exchange rate , Belka said.  ‘Powerful’ Channel  “The appreciation channel is quite powerful and influences
current inflation faster than the usual interest rate-channel,
but we are doubtful that we can steer this process,” he said.
“We don’t manipulate the currency. There is a certain
appreciation potential, but we are not in the business of
predicting exchange rate. We don’t have a target in our monetary
policy to strengthen the zloty.”  Poland’s currency declined 0.6 percent to 3.9468 against
the euro as of 1:12 p.m. in Warsaw, as  Europe ’s debt crisis hurt
emerging markets.  When the government decided to convert the euros it
receives from the EU to modernize the economy in  currency
markets , investors were mistaken to assume the step would limit
the scope of future interest rate increases, Belka said.  “It was immediately interpreted that this is instead of
interest rate moves,” he said. “Completely wrong. We have
never said this.”  While government efforts to limit public spending may help
combat inflation, Belka said he has “some doubts” Poland will
be able to narrow the  budget deficit  to 2.9 percent of gross
domestic product as planned next year.  The central bank took the government’s pledge “seriously”
that it will implement “additional measures if necessary” to
cap expenditures, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Agnes Lovasz in London at 
 alovasz@bloomberg.net ;
Nariman Gizitdinov in Astana at 
 ngizitdinov@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  