-- 
Poulter Denies Donald No. 1 Ranking With Win in Golf’s Match Play Final

-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 
2011-05-22T17:24:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-22/poulter-denies-donald-no-1-ranking-with-win-in-golf-s-match-play-final.html
Ian Poulter  defeated Luke Donald in
the final of the Volvo World Match Play Championship, denying
his fellow Englishman the top spot in the  Official World Golf
Ranking .  Poulter trailed three times before winning by two holes
with one to play, or 2-and-1, at Finca Cortesin Golf Club in
Costa del Sol,  Spain . Poulter also won the World Golf
Championships match play event in 2010 in  Arizona .  “It’s pretty special,” Poulter told  Sky Sports . “I
didn’t play my best today. I think I managed to hole some putts
at the right time and in this game you have to hole putts to
win.”  Second-ranked Donald, who won the WGC match play title in
February, would have taken over from  Lee Westwood  as the world
No. 1 with a victory. Donald beat No. 3  Martin Kaymer  of Germany
5-and-3 in this morning’s semifinals and Poulter ousted Westwood
in yesterday’s round of 16.  “It was disappointing,” Donald told Sky Sports. “I
wouldn’t mind losing if I had played well, but I didn’t play
well. That will leave a sour taste in my mouth.”  Poulter fell behind after a bogey on the second hole and
pulled level with a birdie at No. 4. He got another birdie at
the next to go in front only to see Donald win the sixth with a
25-foot birdie putt.  Donald went back in front at the eighth after Poulter hit
his tee shot into bushes and fell down a bank trying to hack his
way out before conceding the hole.  Poulter pulled even at the ninth and after Donald won the
10th, his opponent again drew level with a birdie on the par-3
12th.  Lead for Good  Poulter took the lead for good with a birdie at the 14th
hole and went 2 up after another birdie at No. 16. He sealed the
win with a seven-foot putt at the 17th.  Poulter, who dedicated the win to his son Luke, who’s
celebrating his seventh birthday today, earned 800,000 euros
($1.2 million) for his first victory since the Hong Kong Open in
November.  “It’s a nice boost,” said Poulter, who was ranked 22nd in
the world entering the tournament. “There’s been a lot of
questions asked over the first five months of the year.”  Donald, who remains second to Westwood in the ranking,
received 430,000 euros.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in  London  at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 