-- 
Reliance Fuel Exports Rise 25% on Gasoline, Jet-Fuel Shipments

-- B y   P r a t i s h   N a r a y a n a n
-- 
2011-05-22T21:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-22/reliance-fuel-exports-rise-25-on-gasoline-jet-fuel-shipments.html
Fuel exports by  Reliance Industries
Ltd. (RIL) , India’s largest publicly traded company, climbed 25
percent in the first half of May from a month earlier as it
shipped more gasoline to the U.S. and demand for jet fuel grew.  The Mumbai-based company, which operates the world’s
largest refining complex, sold at least 1 million metric tons of
fuel products overseas from its Jamnagar facility from 800,000
tons in the first 15 days of April, according to ship-tracking
data compiled by Bloomberg and vessel fixtures from  Clarkson
Research  Services Ltd.  Reliance, controlled by billionaire  Mukesh Ambani , is
aiming to increase exports while state-owned rivals such as
Indian Oil Corp. and Bharat Petroleum Corp. sell more fuel
domestically at government-capped prices. Demand for gasoline in
the U.S., the world’s biggest economy, peaks during the summer
driving season, which lasts from the Memorial Day weekend in
late May to the Labor Day holiday in early September.  Manoj Warrier, a spokesman for Reliance in Mumbai, didn’t
respond to an e-mail seeking comment. All figures from Clarkson
are for single-voyage bookings and exclude long-term charters.
Shipbrokers aren’t obliged to report charters so the scope of
data capture can vary from month to month.  Gasoline Shipments  Reliance exported at least 555,000 tons of gasoline from
Jamnagar in western  India  during the first half of this month,
according to transmissions captured by AISLive on Bloomberg and
data from Clarkson Research, a unit of the world’s biggest
shipbroker.  At least 41 percent of the month’s gasoline shipments went
to the U.S., while other destinations included Europe, Africa
and Singapore. Gasoline consumption rises when Americans take to
the roads for summer vacations. Consumption tends to peak after
 Independence Day  on July 4.  The Qi Lin Zuo was hired by New York-based Hess Corp. to
transport 65,000 tons of gasoline to the U.S. from the port of
Sikka near Jamnagar, the Clarkson data show. The vessel sailed
from near Sikka in early May and was last tracked in the
 Mediterranean Sea  headed to New York, according to ship
transmissions captured by Bloomberg.  Reliance’s shipments of jet fuel jumped 120 percent to at
least 125,000 tons in the first 15 days of this month, the data
show. Jet-fuel stockpiles fell to the lowest in more than two
years in Europe’s Amsterdam-Rotterdam-Antwerp oil-trading hub
before the start of the peak summer travel season, according to
PJK International BV.  Supplies of the  aviation fuel  in independent storage
declined 37,000 tons, or 7 percent, to 491,000 tons, in the week
to May 19, the Oosterhout, Netherlands-based researcher said.
That’s the lowest since Oct. 16, 2008.  New Century  The New Century sailed from near Sikka this month, carrying
65,000 tons of jet fuel to  Europe , the data show. The vessel was
last tracked near the  Suez Canal  headed to  Le Havre  in France,
according to ship transmissions captured by Bloomberg.  Reliance’s gasoil, or diesel, shipments were little changed
at 160,000 tons during the period. Most of the diesel cargoes
went to Africa, the data show. The company also shipped at least
130,000 tons of naphtha to Japan, up from 35,000 tons.  Reliance runs two refineries in the western Indian state of
Gujarat, which are capable of processing heavier grades of
crude. They have a combined processing capacity of 1.24 million
barrels a day, and account for about 1.6 percent of global
refining capacity, according to the company’s  website .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Pratish Narayanan in Mumbai at 
 pnarayanan9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  