-- 
Russia’s RTS-Index Futures Advance After Oil, Commodities Gain

-- B y   H a l i a   P a v l i v a
-- 
2011-05-22T20:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-22/russia-s-rts-index-futures-advance-after-oil-commodities-gain.html
Russia ’s RTS stock-index futures
gained, signaling stocks may rebound from a six-month low in
Moscow, as oil and metals, the country’s major exports, rose.  Futures on the dollar-denominated index expiring in June
advanced 0.2 percent on May 20. Contracts on OAO Rosneft, the
country’s biggest oil producer, rose 0.5 percent while those on
OAO Lukoil, the second-largest, added 0.4 percent. Futures on
OAO Gazprom, the world’s top gas producer, climbed 0.1 percent.  “The strength in commodities still forms the basis of any
inflows” into Russian assets, Yan Gloukhovski, a trader at
Alforma Capital Markets, the New York branch of Russia’s Alfa
Bank, said in a telephone interview. “As easy money is being
scaled back, the outlook for commodities is no longer certain.”  Crude oil for June delivery rose 1.1 percent to settle at
$99.49 a barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange . Oil gained
after the  American Petroleum Institute  reported that fuel
consumption increased in April as economic growth bolstered
demand for diesel by truckers. Prices have risen 42 percent in
the past year.  The Thomson Reuters/Jefferies CRB Index of 19 raw materials
rose 0.7 percent. For the week, the index gained 0.9 percent,
its second weekly advance. Russia is the world’s largest energy
exporter and produces metals including gold, silver, copper,
nickel, palladium and aluminum. Oil and natural gas account for
a quarter of the economic output.  Equity Fund Outflows  Russia-focused equity funds saw their biggest weekly
outflows since 2006 as risk appetite weakened and investors
withdrew from emerging markets, mutual fund tracking company
EPFR Global said. Russia funds lost $353 million in the week to
May 18, compared with $71 million the week before, according to
Cambridge, Massachusetts-based EPFR.  The Market Vectors Russia ETF, a U.S.-traded fund that
holds Russian shares, fell 2.1 percent on May 20. Lukoil’s
American depositary receipts fell 1.8 percent. Gazprom’s ADRs
fell 3.9 percent. OAO GMK Norilsk Nickel’s ADRs dropped 3.2
percent.  The Micex Index of 30 stocks slipped 1.6 percent to
1,603.97 at the close in Moscow on May 20. The gauge has fallen
1.7 percent since May 13, its fourth straight weekly decline.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Halia Pavliva in New York at 
 hpavliva@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net ;
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  