-- 
Saleh Declines to Sign Power Transfer; Egyptians Resume Call for Protests

-- B y   D o n n a   A b u - N a s r   a n d   S i l l a   B r u s h
-- 
2011-05-22T21:24:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-22/saleh-declines-to-sign-power-transfer-egyptians-resume-call-for-protests.html
Yemen’s President Ali Abdullah Saleh
declined to sign an accord yesterday requiring him to give up
power within 30 days, the third time Gulf-led transition efforts
have failed to ease unrest in the country.  In a sign of the deep divisions that threaten to split the
Arab world’s poorest nation, Yemenis marked the 21st anniversary
of the country’s unification yesterday with rallies for and
against the president.  “Leave, leave,” chanted tens of thousands of anti-
government protesters in cities and villages across the country,
including the capital Sana’a. Pro-Saleh demonstrators blocked
main roads in the capital and the entrance to the United Arab
Emirates Embassy, where U.S. and Arab diplomats were gathered.  “We came here to close the road to express our objection
to the agreement and to the president’s signing of the
agreement,” said Shadi al-Badani, 27, a medical student.  President  Barack Obama ’s administration is seeking to
encourage pro-democracy movements inspired by those that ousted
longtime leaders in Tunisia and  Egypt  as part of the so-called
Arab Spring to create broader, regional changes. Obama sought
last week to start a new  peace process  between  Israel  and the
Palestinians.  Military Helicopters  Yemeni military helicopters landed at the UAE embassy in
the evening and ferried the diplomats out to the presidential
palace, the  Associated Press  reported.  Saleh said in a televised speech yesterday that he will
only sign the accord, brokered by the Gulf Cooperation Council,
when the opposition agrees to ratify it at the presidential
palace. He said the six-member opposition Joint Meeting Parties
would be responsible for the bloodshed that would result if the
country were to descend into civil war.  Saleh said, in a phone call with Saudi and Bahraini kings,
the Kuwaiti emir and Oman’s sultan, that the insistence of the
opposition parties “to sign the deal in closed rooms confirms
the bad intentions they have in dealing with this agreement,”
according to the state-run Saba news agency.  Later in  Riyadh  the Gulf Cooperation Council, after a
meeting of the foreign ministers, said in a statement to
reporters that it will suspend its effort to solve the Yemeni
crisis.  Saleh “needs to follow through with his commitment to
transfer power,” U.S. Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  said
in a statement posted on the website of the U.S. Embassy in
Sana’a.  Yemeni Negotiations  The two parties have been close to ratifying the agreement
several times since it was first presented last month. The first
signing ceremony was supposed to take place in the Saudi capital
Riyadh on May 1; a second signing ceremony was planned for May
18. Last minute hurdles upended both efforts.  “I will not believe there’s a deal until Saleh has done
what he has been asked to do,” Charles Dunbar, former U.S.
ambassador to Yemen and professor at  Boston University , said in
a telephone interview yesterday. “This is kind of the way
Yemenis do business. Generally speaking, there’s a lot of
negotiations and eventually they get to some kind of a deal.”  In  Syria , more than 60 civilians have been killed since May
20 in clashes between pro-democracy protestors and government
security forces. A total of 863 civilians and 140 security
forces have been killed in about two months of clashes in Syria,
according to the Syrian Observatory for Human Rights.  Obama in a May 19 speech urged an end to the crackdowns on
protesters and told Syrian President Bashar al-Assad to lead a
peaceful transition to democracy or “get out of the way.”  Egyptian Rage  Egyptian pro-democracy groups are calling for a second
round of “rage” protests on May 27 because of a lack of
political progress and perceived failure to prosecute members of
former President  Hosni Mubarak ’s regime.  The protests are proposed by several groups including Six
of April Youth, which helped organize the first of a series of
protests on Jan. 25 that led to Mubarak’s departure in February.
Demonstrators will demand speedy trials for members of the
former regime, the dissolution of municipal councils and
establishment of a 50-member committee to advise Egypt’s ruling
military council, Mohamed Adel, spokesman for the group, said.  Egypt is disintegrating socially and its economy “is
busted,” said  Mohamed ElBaradei , the former director of the
 International Atomic Energy Agency  and possible candidate for
the Egyptian presidency, said on CNN’s “Fareed Zakaria GPS.”  Qaddafi Opposition  In  Libya , European Union foreign policy chief,  Catherine Ashton , expressed support for opponents of  Muammar Qaddafi  and
his four-decade rule of the country. “I’m here today to explain
and to be clear about not only the short-term support of the EU
but the breadth and depth of our support,” Ashton told
reporters during a visit to the rebel stronghold city of
Benghazi in the east of the country.  Three months of fighting have left rebels mostly in control
of the east, while NATO has led an air campaign against forces
loyal to Qaddafi.  In Morocco, police yesterday cracked down on pro-democracy
demonstrators trying to stage marches in cities across the
country to seek a change in government. Demonstrators in Rabat,
Casablanca and Tangier followed a pledge by King Mohammed VI to
make “progress in democracy.” He vowed to increase
transparency in the judicial system, allow for more freedom of
religion and have a prime minister from an elected party.  Demonstrations in  Morocco  began Feb. 20, aiming to reduce
Mohammed’s power, curb corruption and end police brutality.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Donna Abu-Nasr in Dubai at 
 dabunasr@bloomberg.net ;
Silla Brush in  Washington  at 
 sbrush@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story: 