-- 
Saudi Police Detain Female Activist for Driving Car in Al-Khobar

-- B y   G l e n   C a r e y   a n d   M o u r a d   H a r o u t u n i a n
-- 
2011-05-22T13:48:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-22/saudi-police-detain-female-activist-for-driving-car-in-al-khobar.html
Saudi Arabian traffic and religious
police detained a female activist for driving a car in al-Khobar
in the kingdom’s  Eastern Province  on the Persian Gulf, according
to an activist.  Manal al-Sharif, 32, was detained for six hours yesterday
then released, Ibrahim al-Mugaiteeb, president of the Human
Rights First Society, based in al-Khobar, said in a phone
interview today.  In  Saudi Arabia , which enforces the Wahhabi version of
Sunni Islam, women aren’t allowed to have a Saudi driver’s
permit. They can’t travel or get an education without male
approval or mix with unrelated men in public places and aren’t
permitted to vote in municipal elections scheduled on Sept. 29.  Al-Sharif and other women are organizing a campaign on
Facebook and Twitter urging Saudi women with international
driver’s licenses to get into cars starting on June 17. Manal
posted a  video on Youtube.com  of herself driving on May 19 in
al-Khobar. More than half a million people have viewed the
video.  “They are challenging conservative religious men,” said
Al-Mugaiteeb. “This isn’t about the government.”  In the video, she explains that she learnt how to drive in
the U.S. state of  New Hampshire  when she was 30. She bought a
car and hired a male driver for 1,500 riyal ($400) a month. “He
used to harass me,” she said. “We are humiliated sometimes
because we can’t find a taxi to take us to work.”  The last time a group of women publicly defied the driving
ban was on Nov. 6, 1990, when U.S. troops had massed in Saudi
Arabia to prepare for a war that would expel  Iraq  from  Kuwait .
The Saudi women were spurred by images of female U.S. soldiers
driving in the desert and stories of Kuwaiti women driving their
children to safety.  -- Editors: Andrew J. Barden, Digby Lidstone.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Glen Carey in Dubai at 
 gcarey8@bloomberg.net ;
Mourad Haroutunian in  Riyadh  at 
 mharoutunian@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 