-- 
Spyker-Pangda Deal May Fail on Chinese Policy to Consolidate Auto Industry

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-05-23T15:42:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-22/spyker-pangda-deal-may-fail-on-china-auto-policy.html
Spyker Cars NV (SPYKR) , the Dutch owner of
cash-strapped  Saab Automobile , will have difficulty overcoming
Chinese policy aimed at industry consolidation as the carmaker
seeks a tie-up with Pangda Automobile Trade Co., analysts said.  Spyker’s second attempt in less than a month to establish a
partnership for Saab in China may run counter to government
strategy that includes slashing the number of vehicle
manufacturers by 90 percent, said analysts including Zhang Xin
at Guotai Junan Securities Co. in Beijing.  “There is almost no chance for the government to approve
Pangda’s purchase of Spyker’s stake, let alone their plan to set
up a new joint venture in China,” Zhang said by phone. “The
deal doesn’t fit in the government’s plan for consolidation.”  Pangda, a car dealer that raised 6.3 billion yuan ($969
million) last month in an initial public offering in  Shanghai ,
agreed on May 16 to pay 65 million euros ($91 million) for a 24
percent stake in Spyker and create carmaking and distribution
ventures. The partners announced the accord less than a week
after the collapse of Zeewolde-based Spyker’s nine-day-old
agreement with Beijing-based Hawtai Motor Group.  Spyker is seeking investors to help rescue Trollhaettan,
Sweden-based Saab, which suspended production in late March when
suppliers withheld parts because of unpaid bills. The automakers
also are offering a stake to Russian banker  Vladimir Antonov , a
former Spyker chairman who was ousted when  General Motors Co. (GM) 
sold Saab to Spyker last year.  Saab Car Purchase  Pangda paid a 30 million-euro advance on Saab cars that it
will import and sell in  China  later this year. It plans a local
production venture with Saab and another company starting in
2013. Saab and Tangshan, China-based Pangda would each own half
of the separate dealership venture.  The Chinese company, the country’s largest car dealership
by market capitalization, remains “convinced that we will be
able to get all the necessary documentation and approvals to
successfully complete the transactions,” Pangda said today in a
joint statement with Spyker. Pangda had said on May 16 that
there were “major uncertainties as to whether the plan will be
implemented” amid regulatory questions.  Pangda fell 2 percent to 34.22 yuan at the 3 p.m. close of
Shanghai trading, valuing the company at 35.9 billion yuan. The
stock has declined by the second-biggest margin, after Henan
Tong-Da Cable Co., among Chinese companies that have held IPOs
in the past three months. Spyker rose 0.9 percent to 3.43 euros
at the 5:30 p.m. market close in Amsterdam, narrowing the
stock’s decline this year to 1.1 percent.  Industry Target  China has been trying since 2009 to reduce its  auto
industry  to 10 companies holding 90 percent of the market from
about 100 manufacturers currently. Regulators blocked Sichuan
Tengzhong Heavy Industrial Machinery Co.’s 2010 purchase of GM’s
now-defunct Hummer sport-utility vehicle unit, partly because of
a policy focus on making more fuel-efficient cars.  Pangda and Saab executives said their main aim with the
agreement is to offer Chinese sales outlets for the Swedish
brand. The manufacturing venture is intended “mostly to ensure
the constant supply of these cars,” Wang Yin, Pangda’s board
secretary, said in a phone interview. Government approval
“really depends on the actual project. I believe the government
will look at individual projects on a case-by-case basis.”  Distribution ‘Foremost’  The agreement “is first and foremost about distribution,”
and any concern that the carmaking portion contradicts
industrial policy “misses the point,” Spyker Chief Executive
Officer Victor Muller said in a phone interview on May 19. “No
one knows who the manufacturing party will be. Maybe it’ll be
one of the top three carmakers.”  Pangda needs to persuade at least three government agencies
-- the  National Development and Reform Commission , the  Ministry
of Commerce , and the State Administration of Foreign Exchange --
that it can profit from the deal and contribute to state policy
of making the car industry more competitive.  Local Commerce Ministry branches must clear overseas
investments of less than $100 million, with higher amounts
requiring national-level approval. The development commission
reviews projects for compliance with economic policy. The  State
Administration of Foreign Exchange  regulates currency aspects of
Chinese companies’ investments abroad.  Pangda said today that “initial procedure discussions”
with the National Development and Reform Commission “were done
in good spirit, and all parties have a good understanding of the
process going forward.”  Spokesmen for the commission, the Commerce Ministry and the
foreign-exchange administration said they couldn’t immediately
comment.  Hawtai Snag  Spyker, which is changing its name to Swedish Automobile NV
following the Saab takeover, blamed the Hawtai agreement’s
breakdown on the Chinese partner being unable “to obtain all
the necessary consents.” Hawtai cited “commercial and economic
realities” for the collapse.  “The car industry needs strong quality carmakers making
good-quality cars with the right price,” said Scott Laprise, an
analyst with CLSA Asia Pacific in Beijing. “We don’t need more
brands. A lot of the small carmakers know they are in trouble
because consolidation is going to happen. To survive, they need
to do things like to acquire other brands because their brands
are not good enough or the technology is not good enough.”  European Approvals  Pangda’s Spyker stake also requires the approval of
 Sweden ’s government and national debt office, the European
Investment bank and GM. The EIB, the European Union’s lending
arm, is Saab’s biggest creditor with a loan guaranteed by
Sweden.  The debt office has yet to receive any application on
Pangda’s proposal, said Daniel Barr, the official handling
Saab’s case. A decision may take three or four weeks after a
filing, Barr said.  Swift decisions by regulators will be key for Spyker, said
Martin Crum, analyst at Amsterdams Effectenkantoor BV.  “It’s clear they need a lot of cash and they need it as
soon as possible,” Crum said by telephone. “But I don’t rule
out the possibility that Muller will come up with a third
alternative if this deal doesn’t go through.”  In addition to the cars it has on order with Saab, Pangda
has an option to buy another 15 million euros of vehicles. Saab
aims to restart production on May 27, Muller said.  Importing and selling Saab’s cars “doesn’t come with any
particular risks” as the companies don’t need state approval,
 Guotai Junan ’s Zhang said.  --Tian Ying in Beijing, Ola Kinnander in  Stockholm  and Liza Lin
in Shanghai. Editors: Tom Lavell,  Chad Thomas .  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Tian Ying in Beijing at +86-10-6649-7571 or
 ytian@bloomberg.net ;
Ola Kinnander in Stockholm at +46-8-610-0714 or
 okinnander@bloomberg.net ;
Liza Lin in Shanghai at +86-21-6104-3047 or
 llin15@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Kae Inoue at   kinoue@bloomberg.net ;
Chad Thomas at   cthomas16@bloomberg.net . 