-- 
Strauss-Kahn Lawyer Calls Hotel Sex-Assault Charges Untrue

-- B y   H e l e n e   F o u q u e t ,   S a i j e l   K i s h a n   a n d   K a r e n   F r e i f e l d
-- 
2011-05-23T20:46:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-22/strauss-kahn-lawyer-says-assault-accusations-will-be-proven-false-at-trial.html
A lawyer for  Dominique Strauss-Kahn ,
the former International Monetary Fund chief, said the first
findings of his investigation show accusations by a hotel maid
that Strauss-Kahn tried to rape her are false.  Benjamin Brafman, the lawyer, said he’s “confident”
Strauss-Kahn will be acquitted after a trial. Brafman spoke in
an interview with France’s national TF1 television from  Israel ,
where he was staying for personal reasons, according to the
French broadcaster.  “From what I have seen already in the file, I am
confident,” said Brafman, whose comments in English were
translated into French for broadcast yesterday. “If he can have
a fair trial, at the end of the hearings he will be acquitted.
From the investigations we have carried out, I believe the
accusations will prove false.”  Strauss-Kahn, 62, is charged in state court in  New York 
with the sexual assault and attempted rape of a hotel
housekeeper in Manhattan on May 14. Strauss-Kahn, who resigned
as IMF managing director on May 18, was released from the Rikers
Island jail complex on May 20 after posting $1 million to the
court as part of his bail agreement. He also posted a $5 million
bond as a guarantee that he will appear for trial.  ‘Personal Nightmare’  In a letter forwarded to IMF staff by Acting Managing
Director  John Lipsky , Strauss-Kahn said that he is “confident
that the truth will come out and I will be exonerated.”  “In the meantime, I cannot accept that the fund -- and you
dear colleagues -- should in any way have to share my own
personal nightmare. So, I had to go,” Strauss-Kahn wrote in the
e-mail, a copy of which was obtained by Bloomberg News.  Manhattan  Assistant District Attorney John “Artie”
McConnell said in court May 19 that the victim had provided an
“unwavering” account of violent sexual assault. He said her
account was corroborated by findings in a hospital examination
and that preliminary results indicate forensic evidence from the
hotel room also may be found.  A grand jury also has heard evidence in the case and voted
there was reasonable cause to support the charges in an
indictment. “While the investigation still is in its early
stages, the proof against him is substantial,” McConnell said.
“It is continuing to grow every day.”  The former French finance minister is staying temporarily
at a building in  Lower Manhattan  that includes residential
units. Police in front of the building at 71 Broadway confirmed
that it was where Strauss-Kahn was confined. Under court order,
he isn’t allowed to leave the building except for a medical
emergency.  Broadway Building  Strauss-Kahn’s current neighborhood comprises the southern
tip of Manhattan. It contains  City Hall ,  Wall Street  and the
site where the World Trade Center stood before it was destroyed
in the Sept. 11, 2001, terrorist attacks. The area is also home
to police headquarters and state and federal courthouses.  The 71 Broadway building, across from  Trinity Church  and
previously the headquarters of U.S. Steel Corp., has access to
the subway in its basement, a small gym and a club room on the
upper floors. A police officer stood guard yesterday on the
entrance steps under scaffolding.  Strauss-Kahn is staying on the ninth floor, where the
hallways are lined with beige wallpaper and green carpet. A
guard in a brown suit sat in a chair in front of a stairwell
across from his apartment door.  Not the Waldorf  “While the building management is great here, the
apartments here are not luxurious by any means,” said Robert
Lynde, a tenant at the building who runs his own wine business.
“The apartments here are pretty standard. It’s not like you’re
staying at the Waldorf. There are more luxurious places in the
neighborhood to stay.”  Lynde, 42, who moved to the building in October, said he
found out May 21, while getting a cup of coffee from a ground-
floor shop, that Strauss-Kahn was staying there. Lynde said he
received an e-mail later that morning from the building’s
management saying Strauss-Kahn was at the building as a guest of
a lessee. According to the e-mail, Strauss-Kahn was expected to
be at the building until early this week.  Television cameras and reporters from U.S. and French media
were camped across the street from the building, while tourists
took photos.  The apartment where Strauss-Kahn originally planned to stay
didn’t work out because of the overwhelming media presence at
the Upper East Side building, said defense attorney William Taylor, who likened the situation to the throng of reporters
that surrounded  Bernard Madoff  after he was arrested in a  Ponzi
scheme .  Madoff ‘Circus’  “It was a Madoff kind of circus,” Taylor said. “The
building made it known they didn’t want” Strauss-Kahn.  New York state  Supreme Court  Justice Michael Obus said
Strauss-Kahn, after he moves to more permanent housing, will be
able to make arrangements to leave under an escort and with
notice for court appearances, meetings with attorneys and
religious observances.  In the indictment filed May 19, Strauss-Kahn is charged
with criminal sex acts, attempted rape, sexual abuse, unlawful
imprisonment and forcible touching. While he has denied the
accusations, he hasn’t entered a formal plea to any of the
charges. He’s scheduled to be arraigned June 6.  At the Sofitel hotel in Midtown Manhattan, he allegedly
closed the door of the room to keep the woman from leaving,
grabbed her breasts and tried to pull down her pantyhose,
according to court papers. He also forced her to perform oral
sex, prosecutors said. The maid escaped and later picked
Strauss-Kahn out of a lineup, police said.  Coverage Criticized  French women’s groups last week criticized what they say is
the lack of attention the hotel maid was getting from
politicians and the country’s media. They said the torrent of
reaction all but ignored the woman because of a so-called code
of silence when it comes to the alleged victims of powerful men
such as Strauss-Kahn.  “The maid is invisible and the IMF chief gets the
support,” Clementine Autain, who was raped at the age of 23 and
co-founded Paris-based feminist group Mix-Cite, wrote on her
blog.  More than half of French people think that Strauss-Kahn is
the victim of a conspiracy, according to a CSA telephone opinion
poll conducted on May 16.  “People in  France  must know my client is in good spirits
and that he wants to defend himself vigorously and that he is
very well-advised by his lawyers who are determined to prove his
innocence and restore his honor,” Brafman said in the
television interview.  The case is People v. Strauss-Kahn, 2526/11, Supreme Court
of the State of New York, New York County (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Helene Fouquet in Paris at 
 hfouquet1@bloomberg.net ;
Saijel Kishan in New York at 
 skishan@bloomberg.net ;
Karen Freifeld in New York at 
 kfreifeld@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  