-- 
U.S. Debt Limit Increase Agreement May Take Until August, Ryan Tells NBC

-- B y   S i l l a   B r u s h   a n d   M i k e   R i l e y
-- 
2011-05-22T17:14:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-22/u-s-debt-limit-increase-agreement-may-take-until-august-ryan-tells-nbc.html
A congressional agreement to increase
the U.S. debt limit and reduce federal spending may take until
August, the Republican chairman of the U.S. House Budget
Committee said.  “I think there will be a deal. It will probably take a
while,” Representative  Paul Ryan , a Wisconsin Republican, said
on NBC’s “Meet the Press” program. “We have to August.”  The U.S. Treasury Department has said Congress must raise
the $14.3 trillion debt ceiling by Aug. 2 to avoid the
government defaulting on its loans.  “Nobody wants default to happen, but at the same time we
don’t want to rubber stamp just a debt-limit increase that shows
we’re not getting our situation under control,” Ryan said.  Ryan defended a Republican budget plan that would cut
spending by more than $6 trillion over a decade and privatize
Medicare. The proposal would replace the traditional Medicare
health-care system for the elderly with subsidies to buy private
insurance starting with people who turn 65 in 2022.  “You cannot deal with this debt crisis unless you’re
serious about entitlement reform,” Ryan said.  The plan passed the  House of Representatives  on April 15 on
a 235-193 vote.  Gingrich Remark  Former House Speaker  Newt Gingrich  of  Georgia , running for
the Republican presidential nomination, said last week on the
NBC “Meet the Press” program that Ryan’s Medicare plan
represented “radical change,” a remark he then apologized for
after receiving criticism within his party.  “His quote was deeply inaccurate,” Ryan said today of
Gingrich’s comment. Ryan also said his proposal “is as sensible
and gradual as it gets.”  Gingrich said today that he used “unfortunate language”
in characterizing the budget plan, and that he would have voted
for it as part of a process to overhaul Medicare.  “My point was really a larger one that neither party
should impose on the American people something that they are
deeply opposed to,” Gingrich said on the CBS “Face the
Nation” program.  Senate Minority Leader  Mitch McConnell , a Kentucky
Republican, said today he won’t vote to raise the debt ceiling
without a plan in place to curb the cost of Medicare and
Medicaid, the health-care program for the poor.  Act Now  “We gotta act and we gotta act now,” McConnell said on
the “Fox News Sunday” program. “The time to do it is in
connection with the debt ceiling.”  McConnell gave few details on what he believed an agreement
on the debt-limit issue that cuts spending should look like.
It’s unlikely to be any several plans being considered in the
Senate or Ryan’s proposal, he said.  Instead, McConnell said, a final plan will have to emerge
from current deficit discussions among lawmakers and President
Barack Obama’s administration that are being led by Vice
President  Joe Biden .  “None of these budgets are going to become law,”
McConnell said. “The real action is down at the White House.”  The Obama administration is trying to eliminate Bush-era
tax cuts for wealthy families and is seeking an additional $1
trillion in tax revenues from high-income families. House
Speaker  John Boehner , an Ohio Republican, has said tax increases
should be off the table.  Negotiations  Biden is negotiating with a bipartisan group of lawmakers,
while a separate group in the Senate is seeking a budget
compromise. That group, known as the “Gang of Six,” was
reduced to five after Senator  Tom Coburn , an Oklahoma
Republican, left the talks last week, citing an impasse over
cuts to entitlement programs.  An agreement eventually will hinge on the coalescence of a
swath of lawmakers from both parties, and not on negotiations by
smaller groups of lawmakers, Senator  Dick Durbin , an Illinois
Democrat and Gang of Six member, said on CNN’s “State of the
Union.”  “This is ultimately going to be a debate on the floor of
some of the most important economic issues of our time,” Durbin
said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Silla Brush in  Washington  at 
 sbrush@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Riley in Washington
at   michaelriley@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at   msilva34@bloomberg.net  