-- 
Obama Urges Israel to Make “Hard Choices” to Achieve Peace Accord

-- B y   M i k e   D o r n i n g
-- 
2011-05-23T16:58:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-22/u-s-commitment-to-israel-is-ironclad-obama-says.html
President  Barack Obama  challenged the
Israeli government to make “hard choices” to pursue peace with
Palestinians and said the upheaval in the Middle East creates a
new urgency for negotiations.  “Delay will undermine  Israel ’s security and the peace that
the Israeli people deserve,” Obama said in an address yesterday
in Washington to the nation’s largest pro-Israel lobby, the
American Israel Public Affairs Committee.  Obama offered assurances of an “ironclad” U.S. commitment
to Israel’s security as he repeated that the template for an
agreement between Israel and the Palestinians should use the
1967 borders as a starting point in peace talks. He said that
doesn’t mean that the borders will be the same as existed before
the Six-Day War.  “This basic framework for negotiations has long been the
basis for discussions among the parties, including previous U.S.
administrations,” Obama said. “It allows the parties
themselves to account for the changes that have taken place over
the last 44 years, including the new demographic realities on
the ground and the needs of both sides.”  Obama’s proposal, originally made in a speech at the State
Department on May 19, marked the first time a U.S. president has
explicitly backed using the 1967 boundaries as the starting
point for talks that would have Israel cede control of some land
to Palestinians in return for peace and security. He also called
for Palestinian territory to be demilitarized. The president
proposed no specific steps to restart peace talks.  Netanyahu Reaction  Last week’s speech stirred criticism from Israeli Prime
Minister Benjamin Netanyahu and some Republicans in the U.S. At
a May 20 White House meeting with Obama at his side, Netanyahu
said boundaries based on the 1967 lines would be
“indefensible.”  The Israeli leader responded to Obama’s Aipac address with
a text message to reporters expressing his “appreciation” for
the president’s remarks.  “I share the president’s desire to promote peace and I
appreciate his efforts both in the past and currently to reach
that goal,” Netanyahu said in the message. “I am determined to
work together with President Obama in order to find ways to
renew peace negotiations. Peace is essential for us all.”  ‘Move Forward’  Israeli Defense Minister  Ehud Barak  said in a statement e-
mailed today that Obama’s Aipac speech “is a way to put behind
us most of the disagreements that we had, to resolve those that
remain, and to move forward.”  Netanyahu met with Vice President  Joe Biden  this morning
and is scheduled to speak to Aipac today. The Israeli prime
minister’s office announced the meeting with Biden without
comment.  Obama’s mention of the 1967 borders stirred a few boos from
the audience at the Aipac conference, though he was applauded
throughout his speech and the address ended with a standing
ovation.  Obama said a deal along 1967 lines, which has been the
basis for off-and-on talks for 20 years, needs to include land
exchanges to allow Israel to retain major settlement blocs in
return for granting offsetting land to Palestinians.  The 1967 lines define the boundaries of the  West Bank ,  Gaza
Strip , east  Jerusalem  and  Golan Heights , which were all captured
in the war that year from Jordan, Egypt and Syria.  In the 44 years since, Israel has built settlements in all
the territories, whose population has grown to more than 500,000
and obscured many of the boundaries between what was sovereign
Israel before and after the June 1967 war. The Arab population
of the West Bank is about 2.5 million.  Urging Progress  Israel evacuated all its settlements from Gaza in 2005. The
borders there are demarcated by a security fence and the sea.  The president said the current situation in the Middle East
“does not allow for procrastination.”  He said Israel confronts a growing Palestinian population
on Israeli-held territory, “impatience” in international
capitals and expectations from newly empowered Arab populations
for a peace process that is “credible.”  Arab uprisings this year have swept away autocrats in Egypt
and  Tunisia  while regimes in Yemen, Libya and  Syria  teeter.
Governments elsewhere in the region are offering new attention
to calls for reform and popular sentiments.  “A just and lasting peace can no longer be forged with one
or two Arab leaders,” Obama said. “Going forward, millions of
Arab citizens have to see that peace is possible for that peace
to be sustained.”  ‘Some Controversy’  The president told Aipac that he wasn’t surprised that his
remarks “generated some controversy over the past few days.”
He said his position has been “misrepresented.”  “What I did on Thursday was to say publicly what has long
been acknowledged privately,” Obama said. “I have done so
because we cannot afford to wait another decade, or another two
decades, or another three decades, to achieve peace.”  In explaining his reasoning for pressing the issue now, he
departed from his text to invoke the names of two of his
political advisers, both of whom are Jewish:  David Axelrod ,
Obama’s top political strategist, and Chicago Mayor  Rahm Emanuel , who was his first White House chief of staff.  “I know very well that the easy thing to do, particularly
for a president preparing for re-election, is to avoid any
controversy,” Obama said. “I don’t need Rahm to tell me that.
Don’t need Axelrod to tell me that.”  He said he made his proposal because “real friends talk
openly and honestly with one another.”  ‘Hard Choices’  Obama added that it is the “right and responsibility” of
the Israeli government “to make the hard choices that are
necessary to protect a Jewish and democratic state for which so
many generations have sacrificed.”  Obama said “an enormous obstacle to peace” is the recent
agreement between the Palestinian factions Fatah and Hamas. The
U.S. and Israel regard the militant group Hamas as a terrorist
organization. “No country can be expected to negotiate with a
terrorist organization sworn to its destruction,” he said.  Saeb Erakat, the Palestinian chief negotiator, said
reconciliation between Fatah and Hamas “is not an obstacle in
the path of the  peace process .”  Erakat said in a phone interview that the agreement between
the two factions is “unchangeable.”  He said that Obama’s elaboration to Aipac of the proposal
for establishing a state within the 1967 lines with mutually
agreed upon land swaps was critical to resolving the conflict
with Israel.  ‘Waste of Time’  “If Netanyahu does not accept this vision, then talking
about the peace process is nothing but a waste of time,” Erakat
said.  Several Republicans, including some who are potential
opponents for Obama in the 2012 presidential race, seized on the
president’s position to portray Obama as insufficiently
dedicated to Israel’s security.  “Everybody knows that the ‘67 lines are just not
tenable,’’ Senate Republican leader  Mitch McConnell  of  Kentucky 
said on the ‘‘Fox News Sunday’’ program. ‘‘The U.S. ought not be
trying to push Israel into a deal that’s not good for Israel.’’  Former House Speaker  Newt Gingrich , who is seeking the
Republican presidential nomination, said on CBS’s ‘‘Face the
Nation’’ that Obama’s call to start talks with the 1967 borders
‘‘is a disaster’’ and using those lines would be ‘‘an act of
suicide for Israel.’’  Republican Views  Speaking to the Aipac conference after Obama, House
Majority Leader Eric Cantor, a Virginia Republican, said a
Palestinian and Arab ‘‘culture infused with resentment and
hatred’’ is ‘‘the root of the conflict between Israel and the
Palestinians.’’  ‘‘It is not about the ‘67 lines’’ said Cantor, the highest-
ranking Jewish member of Congress.  Early during the 2008 campaign, polls showed Obama
performed poorly with Jewish voters following controversy about
sermons his former pastor delivered that included what Obama
denounced as ‘‘anti-Israel’’ statements. By election day, Obama
recovered, receiving 78 percent of the Jewish vote, more than
the 74 percent received by 2004 Democratic presidential
candidate  John Kerry , according to exit polls.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mike Dorning in  Washington  D.C. at 
 mdorning@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at   msilva34@bloomberg.net  