-- 
Hungary Economic Confidence Drops to Lowest in Year, GKI Says

-- B y   Z o l t a n   S i m o n
-- 
2011-05-22T22:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-22/hungary-economic-confidence-drops-to-lowest-in-year-gki-says.html
Hungary’s economic-sentiment index
dropped to a one-year low in May as confidence in industries
whose exports pulled the country out of recession unexpectedly
plunged, research institute GKI said.  The index fell to minus 13.2, the lowest since May 2010,
from minus 9.1 in the previous month, Budapest-based GKI said in
an e-mailed statement today. The business confidence index
dropped to minus 4.3 from 0.6 in April while the consumer
confidence index fell to minus 38.5 from minus 36.8 the previous
month.  Industrial output growth slowed in March, the last month
for which data has been published, signaling an uneven recovery
from the 2009 recession. Hungary is looking to the euro region,
which buys 60 percent of the products it makes and assembles
including Audi cars and Nokia phones, to boost growth.  "The industrial confidence index had an extraordinary
plunge," GKI said. "Expectations for industry significantly
worsened after two years of almost unabated improvement."  The deteriorating outlook affects all areas of industry and
reflects growing pessimism about production and orders,
including exports, GKI said. Construction remained the "most
pessimistic" area of the economy, while the confidence index for
retail and service companies improved marginally, the institute
said.  Hungary’s economy grew at the fastest annual pace in four
years in the first quarter as rising exports to  Germany  fueled a
recovery from the worst recession in 18 years. Gross domestic
product expanded 2.4 percent on the year between January and
March, the most since the first three months of 2007.  Industrial production advanced a workday-adjusted 9.2
percent in March from a year earlier after growing 14.6 percent
in February. March output fell 3.6 percent from February.  The GKI indexes are calculated based on a balance of
positive and negative answers to questions about the outlook for
the economy.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zoltan Simon in Budapest at 
 zsimon@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  