-- 
Unseeded Maryland Ousts Syracuse, Duke Beats Notre Dame in NCAA Lacrosse

-- B y   D e x   M c L u s k e y
-- 
2011-05-23T04:08:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-22/unseeded-maryland-ousts-syracuse-duke-beats-notre-dame-in-ncaa-lacrosse.html
The  University of Maryland  ousted top
seed  Syracuse University  from college lacrosse’s national men’s
tournament to set up a semifinal meeting against Atlantic Coast
Conference rival  Duke University .  Maryland  beat Syracuse 6-5 in overtime yesterday at
Gillette Stadium in Foxborough,  Massachusetts . Defending
champion Duke followed with a 7-5 win over Notre Dame University
at the same venue in the National Collegiate Athletic
Association tournament.  Maryland downed Duke 11-9 in the ACC championship game on
April 24 to secure a fourth conference title and first since
2005. The Terrapins (12-4) weren’t among the eight seeded
schools in the 16-team NCAA tournament field and knocked off the
University of  North Carolina  in the opening round before beating
11-time national champion Syracuse.  The NCAA semifinals are scheduled for May 28 at Baltimore’s
M&T Bank Stadium, followed by the title game two days later.  Seventh seed  Virginia  (11-5) will meet sixth-ranked Denver
(15-2) in the first semifinal.  Syracuse led Maryland 2-0 before conceding four unanswered
goals. Jovan Miller scored for the Orange with 65 seconds
remaining to make it 5-5 and force overtime. Grant Catalino then
won it for the Terps with 32 seconds remaining in the extra
period.  Maryland has lost five times in the NCAA championship game
since it claimed the last of its three national titles in 1975.
Yesterday’s victory avenged an 11-6 defeat to Syracuse at the
same stage of the 2009 tournament, which the Orange went on to
win for a record 11th time.  The Terrapins ended Syracuse’s run of 25 straight
quarterfinal victories in the tournament going back to 1983.  Duke and  Notre Dame  began the fourth quarter yesterday tied
at 4-4. Jordan Wolf, Tucker Virtue and Robert Rotanz then scored
for Duke before Westy Hopkins got Notre Dame’s only score of the
quarter with 16 seconds to play.  The fifth-ranked Blue Devils won their lone NCAA men’s
lacrosse title last year with a 6-5 overtime win against the
 Fighting Irish , who were seeded fourth this year. It was Notre
Dame’s only visit to the NCAA final and Duke’s third.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dex McLuskey in Dallas  at
 dmcluskey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net . 