-- 
Uranium to Recover as China’s Nuclear Plans Offset Fukushima

-- B y   M o m i n g   Z h o u ,   D i n a k a r   S e t h u r a m a n   a n d   L a r s   P a u l s s o n
-- 
2011-05-23T17:46:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-22/uranium-recovery-seen-as-atomic-plans-from-china-to-india-offset-fukushima.html
The biggest drop in prices of uranium
in two years may be ending as  China  and India plan atomic power
developments that will more than double global production even
after  Japan ’s nuclear disaster.  The radioactive metal has slumped 8.9 percent this year,
the most since 2009, after tumbling as much as 27 percent as
governments reviewed nuclear plants following the Japanese
crisis in March, according to prices from MF Global Holdings
Inc. China and India will lead a 46 percent increase in
consumption by the world’s five biggest atomic-power developers
by 2020, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Soaring energy demand from the world’s fastest-growing
economies is buoying uranium and prospects of miners from  Cameco
Corp. (CCO)  to Paladin Energy Inc. even after radiation leaks from
Japan’s 40-year-old Fukushima Dai-Ichi plant sparked the worst
nuclear disaster since Chernobyl in 1986. China’s Nuclear Energy
Association said May 12 it will boost atomic capacity as much as
eight times by 2020. A day later, India’s Atomic Energy
Commission said it will increase production 13-fold by 2030.  “The question is whether what happened in Japan with
older-generation reactors justifies not building newer, safer
reactors, and to me the answer is no,” Spencer Abraham, a
former U.S. energy secretary who is now non-executive chairman
of  Areva SA (CEI) , the largest nuclear-equipment producer, said in a
May 17 telephone interview from  Washington . “China recognizes
they can’t satisfy the growth in electricity demand in a single
dimension and they really need a diverse group of sources.”  Expanding Capacity  A gigawatt, enough to power about 1 million U.S. homes,
requires 200 tons of uranium a year at full operating rates,
according to the World Nuclear Association. China, India and
South Korea expect to use 262 gigawatts by 2030, more than what
the U.S., Japan,  Germany  and  France  produce  together , according
to Bloomberg data.  Nuclear energy was being held out by nations from the U.S.
to France and the U.K. as a potential solution to challenges
posed by rising oil prices, which reached a record $147 a barrel
in July 2008. Unlike fossil fuels, atomic power produces
virtually no greenhouse gas emissions, as governments around the
world try to cut down on pollution.  Those considerations became secondary after the Japanese
disaster showed construction flaws at the Fukushima plant. Tokyo
Electric Power Co., the operator of the plant, posted a full-
year loss of 1.25 trillion yen ($15 billion) on May 20.  Power Needs  None of that reduces the power requirements of the world’s
fastest-growing economies.  China’s economy  will probably expand
9.5 percent this year, according to the median of 11 forecasts
compiled by Bloomberg.  India ’s gross domestic product may grow
as much as 8.5 percent in the current fiscal year, Chakravarthy Rangarajan, chairman of the Prime Minister’s Economic Advisory
Council, said on May 3.  “Fukushima has made us pause and rethink some of our
projects,” Xu Yuming, vice secretary general of the Nuclear
Energy Association, said in a May 12 interview in Beijing. “Of
course, the overall plan won’t be changed. China faces power
shortages and we need to change our energy mix. To resolve these
issues, we must develop nuclear.”  Even if Japan develops half of its proposed 19 gigawatts of
nuclear power this decade, the country, together with China,
India,  Russia  and  South Korea , will add a combined 160 gigawatts
by 2020, according to Bloomberg data based on figures from the
 World Nuclear Association , Sanford C. Bernstein & Co., the
Federation of Electric Power Companies of Japan and South
Korea’s economy ministry.  South Korea  South Korea may almost double its nuclear-fired capacity to
about 36 gigawatts by 2024, accounting for 48.5 percent of the
nation’s power generation up from 31.4 percent today, according
to the Ministry of Knowledge Economy. The country may add 10
reactors by 2020 totaling 12.8 gigawatts.  That will require an extra 32,000 metric tons of uranium a
year, according to calculations based on data from the World
Nuclear Association. Global use will be about 69,000 tons in
2011.  Uranium, which trades outside organized exchanges directly
between buyers and sellers, fell as low as $49.99 per pound of
U308, the tradable form of the metal, in the three trading days
after the March 11 earthquake as Germany and Japan announced
reviews of nuclear plants. It traded at $56.25 today, according
to prices tracked by MF Global.  ‘Still an Option’  The metal may rise as high as $65 a pound this year and
advance to $75 in 2012, Fletcher Newton, a vice president at
 Uranium One Inc. (UUU) , a Vancouver-based mining company, said in a
May 13 interview. Morgan Stanley forecast it will climb to $64
in 2011 and $65 in 2012.  “Whether we like it or not, nuclear is still an option
that’s reliable, low cost and emission free,” said Amir Adnani,
chief executive officer of Corpus Christi, Texas-based  Uranium
Energy Corp. (UEC) , a mining and processing company that is
stockpiling the metal in anticipation of higher prices in the
second half of the year. “In the next 20 years, the world’s
nuclear capacity is going to double.”  A revival in demand may lead to a recovery in stocks of
Saskatoon, Saskatchewan-based Cameco, a co-owner of the world’s
largest uranium mine, to Subiaco, Australia-based Paladin,
according to analysts.  Cameco, Paladin  Shares of Cameco may rise to C$37.40 in the next 12 months,
said Raymond Goldie, an analyst at Salman Partners Inc. in
Toronto whose recommendations on the 13 companies he covers
returned 33 percent. The shares closed at C$26.36 on the Toronto
Stock Exchange on May 20, down 35 percent this year.  Paladin may climb to A$3.50 in the coming year, after
dropping 34 percent this year, according to Martin Stulpner, a
Perth, Australia-based analyst at Macquarie Group Ltd. It fell
2.5 percent to A$3.15 today on the Australian Stock Exchange.  Uranium prices still aren’t high enough to make it
sufficiently profitable to extract, Rio Tinto Uranium Ltd.
Managing Director Clark Beyer said at a conference in Beijing on
May 13. The metal is at least $10 below the level required to
encourage companies to increase production, he said.  Price gains may be held in check as Germany and Japan
assess development plans.  German Halt  Germany, which relies on atomic energy for 23 percent of
its supplies, may phase out plants as early as 2022, Georg
Nuesslein, a lawmaker for Bavaria’s Christian Social Union
party, said in a phone interview on May 4.  Chancellor Angela Merkel  ordered a halt to the country’s seven oldest reactors on
March 15, removing more than 25 percent of its 20,700 megawatts
of capacity, equivalent to the power needed to supply almost 21
million U.S. households.  Siemens AG (SIE) , which had planned to become the market leader
in atomic power along with Russia’s Rosatom Corp., has decided
to abandon its nuclear plans after the Fukushima accident
damaged market potential, Handelsblatt reported, citing
unidentified people close to the company.  Japan, the third-biggest nuclear-power producer after the
U.S. and France, is reconsidering plans to increase the share of
atomic energy to 50 percent from 30 percent, Prime Minister
Naoto Kan said on May 10. About 13 gigawatts of capacity is
currently closed in Japan due to the earthquake, according to
Societe Generale SA. No decision has been made on whether to
restart the plants.  China Safety Review  “Unless we see a supply shock, it’s difficult to see a
situation where we’ll see a dramatic increase in the uranium
price, and that’s really the only catalyst that would bring
investors back rapidly into the uranium space,” Edward Sterck,
a London-based analyst at Bank of Montreal, said in a May 19
telephone interview. The metal will be little changed at $60 a
pound this year and in 2012, he said.  Macquarie Group Ltd. said the metal will average $60 a
pound this year, 17 percent less than previously forecast. The
bank reduced its 2012 estimate by 20 percent to $56, its 2013
forecast by 31 percent to $45 and its 2014 estimate by 7.7
percent to $60, according to a report dated today.  “The Fukushima disaster has resulted in lower uranium
demand from Japan and Germany in the short and long term,” the
Sydney-based bank said. “Our global uranium supply and demand
balance has moved from small surplus to large surplus between
now and 2017.”  Electricity Use  Global electricity consumption will rise 75 percent to
35,300 terawatt-hours by 2035 from 2008’s 20,183 terawatt-hours,
according to the  International Energy Agency .  China’s safety review of its atomic  power plants  will have
little impact on expansion, according to Xu at the Nuclear
Energy Association.  India’s capacity will increase to 60 gigawatts by 2030 from
4.8 gigawatts, according to the country’s  Planning Commission .
South Korea aims to generate 60 percent of its energy from
atomic plants by 2030, compared with about 35 percent now,
Deputy Minister for Energy and Resource Policy Kim Junggwan said
in an interview in  Kuwait  on April 18.  “Countries seek diversified sources of energy and security
of supply at a time when energy demand is growing rapidly and is
essential to an improved standard of living,” Cameco, part
owner of McArthur River mine in  Canada , the world’s largest
deposit of high-grade uranium, said in a filing on May 6.  The U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission on April 21 renewed
the operating licenses for the  Palo Verde Nuclear  Generating
Station in  Arizona , the country’s biggest atomic plant, for an
additional 20 years. The U.S., which produces about 27 percent
of the world’s nuclear power, had said it will scrutinize
license renewals for utilities following the Japanese crisis.  “The right solution is to go forward and build safer, new-
generation reactors,” Abraham said. “It will help diversify
the fuel mix and contribute to energy independence. Overtime,
cooler heads will prevail.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Moming Zhou in New York at 
 mzhou29@bloomberg.net ;
Dinakar Sethuraman in Singapore at 
 dinakar@bloomberg.net ;
Lars Paulsson in London at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  