-- 
Won Less Volatile for Pimco as ‘Easy’ Carry Trades Luring HSBC to Yuan

-- B y   Y u m i   T e s o ,   D a v i d   Y o n g   a n d   L i l i a n   K a r u n u n g a n
-- 
2011-05-23T10:23:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-22/won-less-volatile-for-pimco-as-easy-trade-lures-hsbc-to-yuan.html
The world’s largest investors are
piling into Asian currencies as central banks raise  interest
rates  and intervene to limit swings in their exchange rates.  Pacific Investment Management Co., JPMorgan Chase & Co. and
Threadneedle Asset Management Ltd. say they are buying assets in
the region as yields climb and volatility declines. Traders
reduced expectations for fluctuations in China’s yuan, the Thai
baht, South Korea’s won and the Indian rupee more than for any
other currencies this year.  Policy makers are setting the stage for investor profits as
they seek to strike a balance between raising rates to curb
inflation and preventing currency gains from hurting exports.
The rupee may deliver a total return of 7.3 percent for the rest
of the year, while the Malaysian ringgit and the won will gain
6.9 percent and 6.7 percent, respectively, placing them among
the top five performers in the world, Bloomberg surveys of
strategists show.  “Central banks tend to have very specific mandates and the
overriding concern is inflation, so one of the knock-on effects
might be these easy carry trades,” said Jim Veneau, Hong Kong-
based director of fixed income at HSBC Global Asset Management,
who helps oversee $23 billion of Asian fixed-income assets and
favors the yuan, won, ringgit and Indonesian rupiah. “There
hasn’t been a lot of currency volatility in  Asia  relative to
other major currencies for the past year or so.”  Borrowing Dollars  Investors who borrowed dollars to buy the higher-yielding
rupiah in so-called carry trades would have made a 15 percent
return over the past year, 13 percent for the won and 12 percent
for the rupee. While the Australian dollar performed better with
33 percent and the Brazilian real with 26 percent, the risks of
exchange-rate swings wiping out profits is greater.  One-month implied volatility on the yuan, a measure of
exchange-rate fluctuations used to price options, dropped to
2.03 percent on May 23 from 3.80 percent on Dec. 31 and for the
baht it slid to 3.01 percent from 5.05 percent, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. The won’s measure declined from
13.90 percent to 11.36 percent during the period, compared with
12.95 percent for the Australian dollar and 12.03 percent for
the real.  Concern that  Greece  will default on its debt, worsening
 Europe ’s deficit crisis, may deter investors from buying higher-
yielding assets Commerzbank AG wrote in a report on May 16.
Germany’s second-biggest bank recommended selling all Asian
currencies apart from the yuan, the region’s most stable
currency.  ‘No Free Lunch’  Jim Rogers, the Singapore-based chairman of Rogers Holdings,
said the “safest” investment these days is the yuan. It has to
go up “a lot” in the next few years, he said in a conference
in Singapore today. There will be “more and more currency
turmoil in the next few years” because all the creditors are in
Asia and all the debtors are in the West, Rogers said.  “There is still no free lunch” as risks to the global
economy persist, said Yianos Kontopoulos, chief investment
officer in Athens at EFG Eurobank Ergasias SA, Greece’s second-
largest banking group, and a former head of currency research at
Merrill Lynch & Co. “Europe still has to manage sovereign
issues and  China  probably won’t allow enough currency
appreciation to significantly fix global imbalances.”  Emerging-market bond funds saw net inflows for an eighth
week in a row, even as money flowed out of developing-nation
equities last week, mutual fund tracking company EPFR Global
said in a May 20 report. Funds investing in debt of developing
nations have attracted $7.9 billion so far this year, EPFR said.  ‘Better Environment’  Intervention means Asia’s currency fluctuations will be
moderate, providing protection from potential depreciation, said
 Minoru Shioiri , chief manager of foreign-exchange trading at
Mitsubishi UFJ Morgan Stanley Securities Co. in  Tokyo . That
provides a “better environment” to profit from yield
differentials as the  Federal Reserve  keeps interest rates near
zero to support job creation, he said.  Central bank data show foreign-exchange reserves of Asia’s
10 biggest economies climbed $900 billion in the past year,
bolstering the financial strength of the region.  India ,
 Indonesia , Taiwan,  Korea ,  Malaysia , the  Philippines , Singapore
and  Thailand  probably purchased $36 billion of foreign
currencies in April alone, as their reserves surged by a record
$67 billion, according to a May 17 report by Credit Agricole SA.  ‘Declining Volatility’  “Intervention to limit appreciation may be a contributing
factor to declining volatility,” said Lupin Rahman, a Newport
Beach-based emerging-market fund manager at Pimco, which manages
$1.28 trillion, including the world’s largest bond fund.
“Historically, emerging-market central banks haven’t been very
successful, given that currency appreciations are more often
than not driven by the positive long-term story.”  Pimco wrote in a report on its web site this month its
funds are buying Singapore dollars and won.  Korean authorities will smooth “extreme volatility” in
the won, Finance Minister Yoon Jeung Hyun said this month. The
Bank of Thailand’s growing reserves show “it is obvious that we
intervened in the market,” Deputy Governor Atchana Waiquamdee
said in an interview in Bangkok on April 22. The Philippines has
“scope for intervention to avoid sharp fluctuations,” central
bank Governor Amando Tetangco said on April 29.  Asian nations have among the strongest cases in the world
for currency investment because of the region’s “low volatility
and strong balance of payments,” said  Nick Chamie , global head
of emerging markets at  RBC Capital Markets  in Toronto.  Standard
& Poor’s  said on April 8 it may raise Indonesia’s credit rating
to investment grade from BB+.  Interest-Rate Rises  “Having sufficient foreign-exchange reserves is good as it
contributes to the strengthening of a country’s external
position,” said London-based Didier Lambert, who manages $14.7
billion of emerging-market debt at JPMorgan Chase & Co. and
favors currencies in Asia and Latin America.  China, India,  South Korea , Indonesia, Thailand, Taiwan,
Malaysia and the Philippines raised interest rates this year to
tame accelerating inflation. Consumer prices climbed 5.3 percent
in April in China, exceeding this year’s 4 percent ceiling for a
fourth month. Chinese Premier Wen Jiabao said last month that
policy tools including the exchange rate would be used to
“eliminate the monetary basis for inflation.”  “Some of these central banks are now accepting of a
gradual move higher in these currencies as an inflation fighting
tool,” said Matthew Cobon, who manages 1.2 billion pounds ($2
billion) of emerging-market currency funds in  London  at
Threadneedle. Cobon added the ringgit to his basket of Asian
currencies last month.  The rupee’s three-month deposit rate was 9.97 percentage
points more than the similar dollar rate on April 1, the biggest
premium in at least eight years. The gap in yield between
China’s 10-year yuan note and the benchmark U.S. Treasury hit a
five-month high of 75 basis points today.  Stronger Currencies  A stronger currency helps reduce imported inflation as
commodities such as oil are generally priced in dollars. The
rupiah reached its strongest level since 2004 earlier this month,
while the ringgit and the Taiwan dollar touched 13-year highs.
China’s yuan reached 6.4892 per dollar on April 29, the
strongest level since 1993. Its carry trade return was 2.7
percent in the past year, lagging the 11.2 percent for the
Taiwan dollar, 11.3 percent for the ringgit, 8.6 percent for the
Philippine peso and 6.7 percent for the baht.  “There are countries who are more tolerant of currency
appreciation than others,” said  Edwin Gutierrez , a fund manager
who helps oversee about $6 billion of emerging-market debt at
Aberdeen Asset Management Plc in London and favors the ringgit,
the peso, the won and the rupiah. “Both Indonesia and Korea are
using the currency as a means to obviate the full magnitude of
rate hikes that they would have otherwise implemented.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Yumi Teso in Bangkok at 
 yteso1@bloomberg.net ;
David Yong in Singapore at 
 dyong@bloomberg.net ;
Lilian Karunungan in Singapore at 
 lkarunungan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  