-- 
Yankees Snap Six-Game Home Losing Streak With 7-3 Victory Over the Mets

-- B y   N a n c y   K e r c h e v a l
-- 
2011-05-22T07:04:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-22/yankees-snap-6-game-home-losing-streak-with-7-3-win-over-mets.html
Mark Teixeira  and Russell Martin each
hit two-run homers as the  New York Yankees  defeated the New York
Mets 7-3 to tie their Major League Baseball interleague series
at one game each.  Curtis Granderson  and  Alex Rodriguez  also homered in the
sixth inning to help the Yankees snap a season-high six-game
home losing streak, while Teixeira drove home  Derek Jeter  on a
sacrifice fly in the eighth.  “We’ve been good and bad. Overall if you look at the
numbers, league-wise we’re OK,” Rodriguez told reporters. “But
I think there’s a lot of room for improvement. It’s important
for us to think small ball. To also score runs on base hits,
singles and doubles.”  Teixeira has hit a home run in each of the past three games,
the second time this season he has had a three-game home run
streak. Jeter got his 326th career stolen base, tying Rickey Henderson for the most in franchise history.  The Mets took a 2-1 lead in the first inning when  Jason Bay 
hit a sacrifice fly to allow  Jose Reyes  to score and Justin Turner hit a one-run single.  Carlos Beltran  drove in Reyes in
fifth for the Mets third run.  Chris Capuano (3-5) gave up six hits and six runs,
including the four homers in 5 1/3 innings. A.J. Burnett (5-3)
went 6 1/3 innings for the Yankees, allowing six hits and three
runs. He noted the difference between the hitter-friendly Yankee
Stadium and more spacious Citi Field.  “I think that’s the frustrating part for me: I didn’t give
up a lot of hits, just big ones,” Capuano said. “I think maybe
we are a little more spoiled at Citi. I think we really know how
good we have it there as pitchers.”  In the National League, it was Milwaukee 3, Colorado 2.  In interleague games played at American League stadiums, it
was Toronto 7, Houston 5; the Chicago White Sox 9, the Los
Angeles Dodgers 2; St. Louis 3, Kansas City 0; Baltimore 8,
Washington 3; Cleveland 2, Cincinnati 1; the Chicago Cubs 9, Red
Sox 6; and Atlanta 5, Los Angeles Angels (12 innings).  In interleague games played at National League stadiums, it
was Philadelphia 2, Texas 0; San Francisco 3, Oakland 0; Florida
5, Tampa Bay 3; Pittsburgh 6, Detroit 2; Seattle 4, San Diego 0;
and Arizona 9, Minnesota 6.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nancy Kercheval in Washington at 
 nkercheval@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  