-- 
Zapatero’s Socialists Routed as People’s Party Takes 38% of Vote in Spain

-- B y   E m m a   R o s s - T h o m a s
-- 
2011-05-22T21:04:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-22/zapatero-s-socialists-routed-as-people-s-party-takes-37-of-vote-in-spain.html
Spain ’s Socialists suffered their
worst electoral defeat in more than 30 years as voters punished
Prime Minister Jose Luis Rodriguez Zapatero’s party for soaring
unemployment and spending cuts that aimed to shield the country
from  Europe ’s debt crisis.  With 91 percent of votes counted, the opposition  People’s
Party  won 38 percent of the vote in municipal elections,
compared with 28 percent for the ruling Socialists, the Interior
 Ministry  said. The Socialists lost control of Barcelona, the
country’s second-biggest city, for the first time since 1979.
Regional election results weren’t yet available.  “Tonight will not be a good night for the Socialist
party,” Elena Valenciano, the spokeswoman of the party’s
electoral board told reporters in televised comments after polls
closed at 8 p.m. in  Madrid .  The transfer of power in the regions threatens to revive
concerns over Spain’s budget deficit as newly elected officials
may reveal weaker finances than their predecessors reported. The
defeat, capping a week of street protests, may further weaken
Zapatero as he seeks to convince investors he can tame the euro-
region’s third-largest budget shortfall and avoid following
Greece, Portugal and Ireland in accepting a bailout.  Zapatero, who leads a minority government, has said he
won’t seek a third term in general elections next year and the
Socialists’ succession battle is due to start this week.  Catalan Example  After elections in Catalonia last year, the new government
said the deficit would be 60 percent wider than previously
forecast, undermining confidence in regional governments that
together have 115 billion euros of debt.  New administrations in the regions, which control health
and education spending and hire half of all public workers, will
also have to implement spending cuts postponed during the
campaign period, said Angel Laborda, chief economist at Madrid-
based Funcas, the savings-bank foundation.  Standard & Poor’s  cut
Catalonia’s credit rating on May 19, because of its swelling
debt and deficit, and said it may reduce the grade further.  Maria Dolores de Cospedal, the PP’s candidate in Castilla-
La Mancha, had pledged an “audit” of the region, which she
said was “practically bankrupt.”  Spain’s 8,000 municipal governments, which are also
suffering from a revenue slump caused by the collapse of
property prices, owe 33 billion euros in unpaid bills, according
to the Platform Against Late Payment, a pressure group.  Borrowing Costs  Concerns about regional finances have helped swell Spain’s
borrowing costs, as the gap between Spanish and German 10-year
bond yields widened to 243 basis points on May 20, the highest
in more than five months, from 218 a week earlier.  Newly elected officials may also seek to address some of
the demands of the protests against spending cuts, corruption
and an unemployment rate of 21 percent, the euro-region’s
highest. Carme Chacon, cited in polls as a candidate to succeed
Zapatero, said on May 18 that some of the demonstrators’
proposals were “reasonable.”  Young protesters pitched tents on May 15 in Madrid’s Puerta
del Sol and have been there ever since, defying a ban on
demonstrations the day before elections that Spanish police
didn’t enforce. They are calling for changes to the electoral
system to reduce the dominance of the two main parties and stop
politicians facing corruption charges from running for office.  Make-Shift Camp  The protests, which have spread to other Spanish cities and
have been supported by people of all ages, call for voters to be
able to choose lawmakers directly rather than for party lists.
The movement will continue demonstrating “at least” through
May 29, it said today in a statement.  The emergence of the make-shift camp in Sol has been
spurred by the use of  Twitter , mirroring tactics employed in
protests in Tunisia and  Egypt . The camp, fueled by generators
and a solar panel, is divided into areas that include a medical
tent, a children’s area and a legal department, while a map of
the zone shows three food stalls, stocked by donations.  “No work, no house, no future, no fear,” read one of the
posters at the square, one of Madrid’s most famous landmarks.  The Socialist government has angered voters with the
deepest budget cuts in three decades and measures to help banks,
while 45 percent of young people are out of work. Turning its
back on traditional allies in its efforts to stem contagion from
the sovereign-debt crisis, the government has cut wages, axed
benefits and overhauled labor and pension rules.  Spain, home to a third of the euro region’s unemployed, has
committed 11 billion euros from the state’s bank bailout fund to
lenders struggling from the collapse of the debt-fueled property
boom. Savings banks need another 14 billion euros to meet new
 capital requirements , and lenders that can’t raise capital
privately will tap the fund again.  To contact the reporter on this story: Emma Ross-Thomas in
Madrid at   erossthomas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story: Craig Stirling
at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  