-- 
Zapatero’s Socialists Routed in Spanish Backlash Over Austerity Measures

-- B y   E m m a   R o s s - T h o m a s
-- 
2011-05-23T14:26:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-22/zapatero-suffers-election-setback-as-spanish-anger-over-austerity-rises.html
Spanish Prime Minister Jose Luis Rodriguez Zapatero’s Socialist party had its worst electoral
setback in more than 30 years, prompting a shift in regional
power that risks swelling the public deficit.  Spanish bonds fell after results showed the opposition
 People’s Party  won 38 percent of the vote in municipal elections
yesterday, compared with 28 percent for the ruling Socialists.
The Socialists lost control of Barcelona for the first time
since 1979 and ceded Seville, leaving the party in opposition in
the nation’s four biggest cities. The central region of
Castilla-La Mancha, held by the Socialists for three decades,
fell to the PP, as did the Balearic Islands.  The transfer of power in the regions may spark doubts over
Spain’s ability to contain its  budget deficit . Spanish bonds
declined amid concern newly elected officials may reveal weaker
finances than their predecessors reported. The defeat, capping a
week of street protests, may further weaken Zapatero as he cuts
the euro-region’s third-largest shortfall to avoid following
Greece, Portugal and Ireland in needing a bailout.  “The government is really in a Catch-22 situation,”
Fernando Fernandez, a professor at IE business school in  Madrid 
and a former IMF economist, said in an interview on Bloomberg
Television’s “The Pulse” today. “There’s nothing it can do to
win more political support without really hurting its image in
the markets and creating significant damage to the economy.”  Spanish bonds fell after the results, pushing the extra
yield over comparable German debt to as much as 261 basis
points, the most in four months, from 243 basis points on May
20. That compares with a euro-era record of 298 basis points
reached in November.  Catalan Example  After elections in Catalonia last year, the new government
said the deficit would be 60 percent wider than previously
forecast, undermining confidence in regions that together have
115 billion euros ($163 billion) of debt.  “They’re going to arrive and realize there’s no money,”
said Ismael Crespo, a political scientist at the Ortega-Maranon
Foundation in Madrid. “Many of the regions have problems not
only to meet the deficit target, but to meet basic services,
which until now have been hidden because of the elections.”  Maria Dolores de Cospedal, elected last night as president
of Castilla-La Mancha, has pledged an “audit” of the region,
which she said is “practically bankrupt.” Its deficit was 6.5
percent of output last year, the highest in  Spain , compared with
a target for all the regions of 2.4 percent that narrows to 1.3
percent for 2011.  More Measures?  “We would expect some fiscal slippage for 2011 by the
regions and municipalities,” said Antonio Garcia Pascual, chief
southern European economist at  Barclays Capital  in  London .
“Some regions and municipalities may choose to put forward
additional fiscal measures while others may present revised,
i.e. more realistic, fiscal-deficit targets.”  Spain’s 8,000 municipal governments, which are also
suffering from a revenue slump caused by the collapse of
property prices, owe 33 billion euros in unpaid bills, according
to the Platform Against Late Payment, a pressure group.  Zapatero, who leads a minority government, has said he
won’t seek a third term in general elections next year and his
party said today that the process of primary elections to choose
a successor will start on May 28.  Last night, Zapatero said he aimed to govern until March
even as the PP called for early elections. Extremadura’s
Socialist President Guillermo Fernandez Vara -- who may be able
to remain in power in a coalition with the United Left party --
said Zapatero should consider an early vote, newswire Efe cited
him as saying.  “He has no interest in calling elections right now because
he will get crushed,” said Antonio Barroso, an analyst at
Eurasia Group. “He needs time to show the reforms are working
and the economy is recovering to give his party a chance.”  Mounting Unemployment  Newly elected officials may also seek to address some of
the demands of the protests against cuts, bank bailouts and an
unemployment rate of 21 percent. Defense Minister Carme Chacon,
cited in polls along with Deputy Prime Minister Alfredo Perez Rubalcaba as a candidate to succeed Zapatero, said on May 18
that some of their proposals were “reasonable.”  Young demonstrators pitched tents on May 15 in Madrid’s
Puerta del Sol and have been there ever since. They are calling
for changes to the electoral system to reduce the dominance of
the two main parties and stop politicians facing corruption
charges from running for office.  The protests, which have spread to other Spanish cities and
have been supported by people of all ages, call for voters to be
able to choose lawmakers directly rather than for party lists.
The movement said yesterday it will continue demonstrating “at
least” through May 29.  Twitter Protests  The emergence of the makeshift camp in Sol was spurred by
the use of  Twitter , mirroring tactics that were employed in
protests in Tunisia and  Egypt . The camp, powered by generators,
a solar panel and open Wi-Fi, is divided into areas that include
a medical tent, a children’s area and a legal department.  “No work, no house, no future, no fear,” reads one of the
posters at the square, one of Madrid’s most famous landmarks.  The Socialist government has angered voters with the
deepest budget cuts in three decades and measures to help banks,
while 45 percent of young people are out of work. Turning its
back on traditional allies in its efforts to stem contagion from
the sovereign-debt crisis, the government has pared wages, axed
benefits and revamped labor and pension rules.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Emma Ross-Thomas in Madrid at 
 erossthomas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  