-- 
Zapatero’s Socialist Party Likely to Be Routed in Spain Regional Elections

-- B y   E m m a   R o s s - T h o m a s
-- 
2011-05-22T11:48:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-22/zapatero-s-socialist-party-likely-to-be-routed-in-spain-regional-elections.html
Spanish Prime Minister Jose Luis Rodriguez Zapatero’s Socialists may be headed for defeat in
regional elections as youth protests against bank bailouts,
unemployment and corruption continued for an eighth day.  Thirteen regions accounting for 60 percent of the economy
and 8,000 municipalities are holding elections today, with polls
showing the Socialists set to lose in most states. An estimated
10,000 people protested in  Madrid ’s Puerta del Sol square last
night, including 1,000 who spent the night there, defying a ban
on demonstrations the day before elections that Spanish police
didn’t enforce.  The emergence of the makeshift camp in the square has been
fueled by the use of  Twitter , mirroring similar tactics employed
in Tunisia and  Egypt , with demonstrators calling for changes to
Spain’s electoral system to make it more representative and less
corrupt. The Socialist government has angered voters with the
deepest budget cuts in three decades and measures to help banks
at a time when 45 percent of young people are out of work.  “The police don’t dare break it up,” said Dante Scherma,
a 23-year-old student who is a spokesman for the demonstrators.  Protesters pitched tents in Puerta del Sol on May 15 and
have demonstrated there since. They are calling for changes to
the 30-year-old electoral system to reduce the dominance of the
two main parties and stop politicians facing corruption charges
from running for office. Demonstrators oppose spending cuts and
 Europe ’s highest youth unemployment rate, which the
 International Monetary Fund  has said raises the “specter of a
lost generation,” and want to be able to vote for lawmakers
directly rather than for party lists.  ‘No Work’  The protest is set to continue after today’s elections,
with more demonstrations scheduled for May 28, according to
posters in the square today.  “No work, no house, no future, no fear,” read one of the
posters at the square, one of Madrid’s most famous landmarks.  The camp is divided into areas that include a medical camp
and a legal department while supporters hold assemblies to vote
on objectives to be adopted. They are using generators to run
computers and a solar panel so that people can charge mobile
telephones while a map of the zone shows three food stalls,
stocked by donations. They’ve banned alcohol at the site, where
there is also a children’s tent and a library.  Some protesters say the revolts in North Africa helped fuel
the movement in  Spain . A sign reading “revolution” in large
Arabic letters is in the square.  “It’s been an inspiration, that united we are strong,”
Scherma said today in Sol.  May Lose Barcelona  Zapatero’s Socialists will suffer defeats today in most
regions, including their traditional stronghold of Castilla-La
Mancha, and may lose the city of Barcelona for the first time in
three decades, according to a May 5 poll by the Center for
Sociological Research. The main opposition  People’s Party  may
win Castilla-La Mancha and the Balearic Islands while holding
onto Madrid and  Valencia , the polls showed.  Support for the Socialists has flagged as Zapatero turned
his back on traditional allies to push through wage cuts and
changes to labor and pension rules to fight the sovereign-debt
crisis and 21 percent jobless rate.  The state’s bank bailout fund has committed 11 billion
euros ($15.6 billion) to banks struggling from the collapse of
the debt-fueled property boom and savings banks need another 14
billion euros to meet new  capital requirements . While the
government wants them to raise that privately, the fund will act
as a backstop if they can’t.  Zapatero, who plans to stand down ahead of the general
election next year, has expressed sympathy for the protesters.
Defense Minister Carme Chacon, a possible contender in the
leadership race, said on May 18 that she was “listening” to
the movement and some of its objectives are “not only
reasonable but possible.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Emma Ross-Thomas in Madrid at 
 erossthomas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  