-- H&R Tops Hostile Bid for Primaris With Friendly Deal
-- B y   K a t i a   D m i t r i e v a   a n d   D a v i d   S c a n l a n
-- 2013-01-17T14:56:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-17/h-r-tops-hostile-bid-for-primaris-with-friendly-takeover-deal.html
H&R Real Estate Investment Trust (HR-U) 
said it trumped a hostile bid for  Primaris Retail Real Estate
Investment Trust (PMZ-U)  with a friendly deal that would create the
largest REIT in  Canada  based on enterprise value.  H&R offered about C$27.33 in cash and stock for Primaris,
the Canadian shopping mall owner that was the target of an
unsolicited C$26 cash offer last month from an investor group
led by KingSett Capital Inc.  The offer is worth about C$2.68 billion ($2.72 billion)
based on H&R’s share price, or about C$4.2 billion including
debt, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Primaris
shareholders can choose to receive C$28 a share in cash, up to
C$700 million, or 1.13 of a stapled unit of Toronto-based H&R,
according to a statement yesterday.  “This will undoubtedly lead to increased traffic and sales
within the Primaris portfolio and ultimately result in an
increase in value to our combined unitholders,” said Tom
Hofstedter, chief executive officer of H&R, in the statement.  The proposed takeover would be the largest ever for a
Canadian REIT, according to Bloomberg data. Primaris owns 33
properties in 26 markets, including the Burlington Mall,
Oakville Place and Place d’Orleans in Ontario, the company’s
website shows.  The deal needs approval from two-thirds of Primaris
shareholders and at least 50.1 percent from H&R holders, with
the vote scheduled for a meeting in March.  Bank Advisers  Canaccord Genuity and Evercore Partners advised the
independent committee set up by Primaris in the wake of a
hostile bid by KingSett Capital. McCarthy Tetrault LLP was legal
counsel to the committee and to Primaris.  Louise Kozier, spokesman for Kingsett Capital, declined to
comment in an e-mail.  The takeover would yield savings of C$10 million over two
years and deleverage H&R’s balance sheet, the company said.
Primaris would boost shareholder payouts by 20 percent. H&R is
entitled to a break fee of C$106.6 million if Primaris accepts a
superior hostile bid.  Ken Avalos, an analyst at  Raymond James , downgraded
Primaris shares to underperform, the equivalent of a sell, from
outperform.  “We don’t see a high probability of a higher offer from
either KingSett or another player,” Avalos said in a note.  Toronto-based Primaris fell eight cents to C$26.43 at 9:42
a.m. in Toronto, while H&R, which operates office, retail and
industrial properties in the Toronto area, fell 3.4 percent to
C$22.94, the most since March 19.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Scanlan in Toronto at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  