-- ‘Resting’ HFT, Greek Ships Tax, Volcker Rule: Compliance
-- B y   C a r l a   M a i n
-- 2013-01-17T13:31:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-17/-resting-hft-greek-ships-tax-volcker-rule-compliance.html
Restrictions on the minimum time
orders must be held in German equity markets would do little to
increase safety, the nation’s exchanges said as lawmakers
debated proposed legislation.  Lawmakers were set to hold a public meeting at 2 p.m.
yesterday in Berlin to discuss curbs on high-frequency trading,
with remedies up for debate including one that orders must be
kept in the market for at least half a second before they are
canceled. HFT has come under increased regulatory scrutiny in
Europe and the U.S. after the so-called flash crash in May 2010,
when the Dow Jones Industrial Average briefly lost almost 1,000
points.  The proposed measures include the use of circuit breakers
to halt trading in affected stocks during periods of high
volatility. An excessive usage fee may be introduced to impose
financial penalties on firms that bombard an exchange or trading
platform with orders, which can move prices to the detriment of
other market participants.  Deutsche Boerse, the operator of the Frankfurt exchange, is
in favor of most of the proposals because “it brings more
transparency to the markets,” according to  Frank Herkenhoff , a
spokesman for the company.  The German measures will be in addition to proposed EU
regulation of the industry. Restrictions on HFT are needed to
make markets safer, according to Dorothea Schaefer, research
director financial markets at the German Institute for Economic
Research in Berlin.  Incumbent exchanges in Europe, such as Deutsche Boerse and
 London Stock Exchange Group Plc (LSE) , have come under increasing
competitive pressure from alternative trading platforms which
have sought to attract technologically advanced, high-speed
trading firms.  Compliance Policy  Greece Taxes Foreign-Flagged Ships for First Time Amid Crisis  Greece will tax merchant ships managed by companies based
in the country and sailing under foreign flags for the first
time ever as the nation’s debt crisis spurs the government to
raise revenue.  Amendments to a bill passed by lawmakers at the weekend
imposed a so-called tonnage tax on the vessels, the Ministry of
Finance in Athens said yesterday by e-mail. The government aims
to raise 80 million euros ($106 million) this year and 60
million euros in 2014 from the levy, the state-run Athens News
Agency reported Jan. 9.  Greek shipowners control the largest portion of the world
merchant fleet. The state is targeting an estimated 762 owners,
who pay no tax on international earnings brought into the
country under rules incorporated in the constitution since 1967.
Lobbying by owners barred the imposition of any further taxes,
Theodore Veniamis, president of the Union of Greek Shipowners,
said by e-mail Jan. 14.  The e-mail didn’t show when the tax would take effect. The
measure “imposes the levy for the first time,” the ministry
said. The tax applies only to tonnage of foreign-flagged
vessels, rather than their earnings, Veniamis said.  Ships controlled by Greek companies and flagged elsewhere
came to 3,848 totaling 153.1 million gross tons as of March
2011, according to figures on the Hellenic Chamber of Shipping
 website . That compared with 2,014 vessels totaling 43.4 million
tons sailing under Greece’s flag as of the end of the year. The
data were the latest available.  Greek shipowners remitted more than $175 billion in untaxed
earnings in 10 years until 2011, according to Bank of Greece
figures cited in the union’s annual report.  U.S. SEC to Offer Money-Market Overhaul Soon, Commissioner Says  A second effort to overhaul rules governing the $2.6
trillion money-fund industry will be offered by the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission before the end of March, said
SEC Commissioner Daniel M. Gallagher.  Regulators have been working to overhaul rules governing
the money-fund industry since the September 2008 collapse of the
$62.5 billion Reserve Primary Fund. A proposal supported by
former SEC Chairman  Mary Schapiro  to force money funds to choose
between a floating share value or a combination of capital
buffers and withdrawal restrictions was dropped in August after
failing to win support from a majority of commissioners.  No date has been set for a new proposal to reform money
funds, SEC spokesman  John Nester  said yesterday. Under the
direction of SEC Chairman Elisse Walter, the SEC staff is
discussing reform options with commissioners, he said.  In November, the Financial Stability Oversight Council, a
group formed by the Dodd-Frank Act to address systemic financial
risks, urged the commission to try again.  The effort appeared to be advancing in December after
Democratic Commissioner  Luis Aguilar , who opposed the earlier
proposal, said a study issued by SEC staff indicated that money-
fund rules adopted in 2010 were insufficient. He said he’ll
reconsider all the ideas presented before, including abandoning
the industry’s traditional $1 share price.  Gallagher said in September that he would probably support
a fluctuating share price. He said yesterday that the commission
was studying the tax and accounting impacts of such a change,
which could create gains and losses for investors.  He also said the commission would confer with the Treasury
Department and  Internal Revenue Service  to address concerns
about the impact on investors.  Courts  Citgo to Settle With New Hampshire in Gas Additive Lawsuit  Citgo Petroleum Corp. reached an agreement with  New
Hampshire  to be dismissed from an $816 million trial over
groundwater contamination while a settlement is completed, as a
witness testified that 2 percent of the state’s private wells
are polluted with hazardous levels of the chemical MTBE.  The agreement to sever was made public in a court filing
dated Jan. 15 and signed by New Hampshire Assistant Attorney
General Mary E. Maloney and Nate Eimer, a lawyer for Citgo.  Under the agreement, the parties have until Feb. 15 to
complete an accord before Citgo is reinstated to the case,
unless they agree to an extension. Earlier in the day yesterday,
a person familiar with the matter said Citgo and New Hampshire
reached a deal over claims the  oil company  polluted the state’s
water with the gasoline additive MTBE. The person asked not to
be identified because the matter is private. Citgo’s lawyers
didn’t appear in court yesterday as the trial resumed.  A settlement would leave  ExxonMobil Corp. (XOM)  as the last
defendant in the state’s lawsuit alleging  oil companies  knew the
chemical would contaminate groundwater. A trial of the case
began Jan. 14.  New Hampshire Superior Court Judge Peter Fauver approved
the motion yesterday to sever Citgo from the case.  A settlement would leave ExxonMobil Corp. as the last
defendant in the state’s lawsuit alleging oil companies knew the
chemical would contaminate groundwater. New Hampshire’s suit is
one of scores of cases involving MTBE, or methyl tertiary butyl
ether, filed since 2000 against refiners, fuel distributors and
chemical makers.  The New Hampshire attorney general’s office declined to
comment on specific terms of any proposed settlement.  Fernando
Garay , a spokesman for Citgo, declined to comment on the matter.  Asked about a possible settlement of its case, ExxonMobil
spokeswoman Claire Hassett said, “Nothing has happened that
would change our approach to this litigation.”  The case is State of New Hampshire v. Hess Corp., 03-
C-0550, New Hampshire Superior Court, Merrimack County
(Concord).  For more, click here.  BofA Case Against MBIA Backed by Payment Denial, Bank Says  Bank of America Corp. ’s claims against  MBIA Inc. (MBI)  over the
bond insurer’s 2009 restructuring are supported by an insurance
regulator’s refusal to let MBIA make an interest payment, a
lawyer for the bank said.  The decision by New York’s Department of Financial
Services, disclosed Jan. 15 by MBIA, backs claims from
Charlotte, North Carolina-based Bank of America and Paris-based
 Societe Generale SA (GLE)  in litigation against the insurer, a lawyer
for the banks said in a letter to state Justice Barbara Kapnick
yesterday. The banks claim assets were improperly transferred
out of MBIA Insurance, harming policyholders.  The regulator’s decision to reject an interest payment on
notes “confirms that MBIA Insurance cannot meet its financial
obligations without the $5 billion improperly siphoned from MBIA
Insurance,” the lawyer, Robert Giuffra, wrote.  Kapnick last year presided over a trial at which the banks
sought to reverse the state’s approval of MBIA’s restructuring.
The judge in December said she was “getting there” on making a
decision in the case. A separate lawsuit is also pending.  Kevin Brown , a spokesman for Armonk, New York-based MBIA,
didn’t immediately respond to an e-mail seeking comment on the
letter.  The cases are ABN Amro Bank v. Dinallo, 601846-2009, and
ABN Amro Bank v. MBIA, 601475-2009, New York State Supreme
Court, New York County (Manhattan).  Poker ‘Don’ Sentenced to 7 Years in $1.2 Billion U.K. Fraud Case  Greek businessman Achilleas Kallakis, known as “The Don”
on the international poker circuit, was sentenced to seven years
in jail by a U.K. judge after being found guilty of defrauding
lenders to pay for trophy property, planes, a yacht in Monaco
and luxury cars.  Kallakis, 44, and co-conspirator Alexander M. Williams,
also 44, defrauded banks to borrow 740 million pounds ($1.18
billion) and acquire 16 properties, the U.K. Serious Fraud
Office said yesterday in a statement. The purchases included an
office building on London’s St. James’s Square that Kallakis
planned to convert into a home until permission was denied by
the local council.  The two men conspired from 2003 through 2008 to defraud
lender  Allied Irish Banks Plc (ALBK) , the SFO said. They also borrowed
from the Bank of Scotland, now part of  Lloyds Banking Group Plc. (LLOY) 
The men had pleaded not guilty, the SFO said.  Lawyers for Kallakis at Corker Binning and for Williams at
Lewis Nedas & Co. in London didn’t immediately return calls
seeking comment on the conviction.  Ex-Legal & General Trader Pleads Guilty for Insider Trades  Paul Milsom, the former Legal & General equities trader,
pleaded guilty to one count of passing inside information to an
independent stockbroker, giving the U.K. finance regulator its
first conviction in its highest-profile  insider trading  case.  Graeme Shelley, the independent broker who previously
worked at Novum Securities Ltd., was charged with 28 counts of
insider trading for share transactions from October 2008 to
March 2010 in companies including broadcaster ITV Plc, according
to the U.K. Financial Services Authority, which is prosecuting
the case. The lone charge against Milsom includes 28 instances
of leaking insider tips.  Shelley didn’t enter a plea and both men were released on
unconditional bail at a London court hearing Jan. 15. The
regulator charged five other individuals last year as part of
the investigation into the front-running of block trades, known
as Operation Tabernula, Latin for little tavern.  The FSA arrested seven people and raided 16 addresses in
London and southeast England in March 2010 as part of the probe.
Milsom was arrested in February last year. The first five
defendants who have been charged haven’t entered pleas.  Legal & General “assisted the FSA” following Milsom’s
arrest, the company said in an e-mailed statement. Milsom “had
been suspended since his arrest, and now that he has pleaded
guilty, will be subject to our disciplinary procedures.”  He wasn’t in control of any client funds, the firm said.  Milsom’s case was transferred to a higher criminal court.
Shelley is scheduled for a second appearance at Westminster
Magistrates Court on Feb. 27.  S&P Can Be Sued in Germany Over Ratings, Handelsblatt Says  Germany’s top civil court ruled that  Standard & Poor’s  can
be sued by German investors in their home country over ratings
claims related to Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc., Handelsblatt
reported, citing a lawyer for the plaintiff.  The case was brought by a pensioner who lost 30,000 euros
with Lehman certificates.  Doris Keicher, a spokeswoman for S&P in Frankfurt, didn’t
immediately return a call from  Bloomberg News  seeking comment.  The pensioner sued S&P in Frankfurt.  Rating companies have come under fire for their alleged
failure to foresee the financial crisis and for granting top
rankings to mortgage bonds. In the wake of the euro crisis,
governments are discussing new rules and alternatives for rating
the creditworthiness of issuers.  Interviews  ‘No End in Sight’ to Volcker Rule Process, SEC Commissioner Says  The effort to complete the Volcker rule has “no end in
sight” because the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission has
taken a secondary role in the process, SEC Commissioner Daniel
M. Gallagher said yesterday.  The SEC has played “second fiddle” to banking regulators
trying to complete the rule despite the agency’s expertise in
regulating trading and hedging practices, Gallagher said in a
speech in Washington. The rule would ban banks from trading with
their own funds.  The Republican commissioner’s comments show conflicts among
regulators trying to implement the rule, mandated by the 2010
Dodd-Frank Act. The SEC is evenly divided with two Democrats and
two Republicans. The Republican commissioners have called for
the rule to be re-proposed.  Regulators “could be focusing on other matters rather than
spinning their wheels with no end in sight,” Gallagher told the
U.S. Chamber of Commerce’s  Center  for Capital Market
Competitiveness.  Comings and Goings  Juncker, Dijsselbloem to Meet Tomorrow Before Eurogroup Decision  Luxembourg’s Jean-Claude Juncker will meet with Dutch
Finance Minister Jeroen Dijsselbloem three days before euro-area
finance ministers are due to designate a successor to Juncker as
head of the so-called eurogroup.  Juncker, who is stepping down from the euro-area post by
the end of January, said last month that he has “reasons to
believe” the Dutchman could be his successor at the eurogroup.
Juncker, 58, has led meetings of the euro finance ministers
since 2005.  The new eurogroup chief is due to be named at the next
meeting of euro finance ministers on Jan. 21 in Brussels.  Dijsselbloem, who has headed the Dutch Finance Ministry
since November, will meet with Juncker and his finance minister,
Luc Frieden, tomorrow in Luxembourg. Dijsselbloem met with other
euro-area finance chiefs this month, including those of France,
Italy and Belgium, and was scheduled to meet Spain’s Luis de
Guindos today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carla Main in  New Jersey  at 
 cmain2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  