-- AB Foods’ Primark Plans to Open Trial Stores in France This Year
-- B y   S a r a h   S h a n n o n   a n d   M a t t h e w   B o y l e
-- 2013-01-17T11:25:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-17/ab-foods-primark-plans-to-open-trial-stores-in-france-this-year.html
Primark, the U.K. discount fashion
chain owned by  Associated British Foods Plc (ABF) , plans to open its
first stores in France this year as it pushes across Europe.  “We will open some toward the end of the fiscal year, and
see how they go,” AB Foods Finance Director John Bason said in
an interview. The trial stores could be in busy high-street
locations across Paris, he said, placing them in competition
with rivals including  Hennes & Mauritz AB. (HMB)   Primark will face a stalling French economy and a jobless
total at a 15-year high. The retailer is backing its low prices,
smart fashions and stores with in-store video screens displaying
the latest collections to gain market share. In addition to H&M,
the chain will be competing against Fast Retailing Co. Ltd’s
Uniqlo chain, New Look Group Ltd.’s Mim brand, Marks & Spencer
Group Plc, French brand Tati and C&A Group stores.  Primark, which today posted a 25 percent gain in first-
quarter revenue, opened its first two stores in  Austria  last
year and also added its first outlet in Berlin. The retailer’s
store in Saarbruecken,  Germany , on the French border, draws
shoppers from  France , Bason said in an interview last year.  French gross domestic product rose 0.1 percent, half the
pace estimated on Nov. 15, statistics institute Insee in Paris
said last month. Jobless claims rose for a 19th straight month
in November to 3.13 million, the highest since January 1998.  Primark first ventured away from home in 2006 with a store
in  Madrid . It now has more than 30 Spanish outlets and is also
present in Portugal, the Netherlands, Germany, Belgium, and
Austria. The U.K. is its biggest market with 161 outlets.  Founded as Penneys in Dublin in 1969, Primark boosted
sales by 15 percent to 3.5 billion pounds ($5.6 billion) in the
12 months ended Sept. 15. The chain accounted for 29 percent of
revenue at London-based AB Foods in the year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Shannon in  London  at 
 sshannon4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Boyle in London at 
 mboyle20@bloomberg.net  