-- AB Foods Hails ‘Outstanding’ Primark as Chain’s Sales Jump
-- B y   M a t t h e w   B o y l e
-- 2013-01-17T09:15:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-17/ab-foods-first-quarter-revenue-rises-on-primark-sugar-sales.html
Associated British Foods Plc (ABF)  said an
“outstanding” performance from the Primark budget-clothing
chain drove business ahead of its expectations in the financial
year to date, boosting the shares the most in 18 months.  Primark revenue surged 25 percent from a year earlier in
the 16 weeks ended Jan. 5, the London-based company said today
in a statement. A 12 percent increase in the sugar unit’s sales
also exceeded group revenue growth of 10 percent.  Primark opened 14 new stores during the period, including
its first two in  Austria , while the chain’s operating profit
margins widened as cotton prices fell. Sales growth was fueled
by the retailer’s U.K. stores, with British shoppers having been
more willing to spend on affordable apparel over the holiday
than they were in 2011, Finance Director John Bason said in an
interview. Popular items included holiday sweaters and all-in-
one jumpsuits, also known as “onesies,” he said.  Primark’s sales were “stunning” and “well ahead of
expectations,” Panmure Gordon analyst  Graham Jones  said in a
note. Sales in Primark stores open at least a year rose 9
percent, Jones said, above his earlier estimate of 5 percent.  AB Foods rose as much as 4.8 percent to 1,630 pence in
London trading, the steepest intraday gain since July 14. The
shares traded at 1,627 pence at 9:01 a.m., the highest price
since at least January 1986. They were among the five biggest
gains today in the U.K. benchmark FTSE 100 Index.  ‘Extremely Confident’  Bason said he was “extremely confident” that Primark’s
performance this year will offset declining profits in sugar.  “Disposable incomes got squeezed in 2011, but there was
not a squeeze towards the end of 2012,” the executive said.
“We have got the fashions right and more and more people are
recognizing that. Onesies were blowing the lights out.”  Sales at the sugar unit, the biggest contributor to  profit ,
were boosted by “marginally” higher prices in the U.K.  Sugar earnings will fall this year because of lower output,
higher beet costs and a weaker euro, the company said. Nomura
analyst Guillaume Delmas estimated the unit’s profit may drop 12
percent to 451 million pounds ($722 million) in a Jan 14 report.  AB Foods forecast U.K. sugar production of 1.1 million tons
this year, below 2012’s 1.3 million, when growers benefited from
favorable weather and record yields. The world’s second-largest
sugar maker controls  Illovo Sugar Ltd. (ILV) , the largest maker of the
commodity in  Africa , and makes cane and beet sugar in  China .  Heavy Rains  The Spanish sugar crop will be reduced this year as heavy
rains delayed planting, the company said. Illovo’s profits will
rise this year because of improved sugar cane yields.  Sugar cane production in the south of China should
increase, while beet sugar production in the northeast of China
will be in line with last year. Chinese sugar prices “have gone
quite low and remain low,” Bason said.  The executive said he was “more confident” about
increasing full-year profit than he was in November, when the
company said it would see “some progress” in earnings in 2013,
weighted toward the first half of the year.  AB Foods, which also makes Twinings tea and the Ovaltine
malt drink, said revenue was unchanged at its grocery unit, the
biggest contributor to sales.  Sales at the ingredients unit were also unchanged, and
revenue at the agriculture division rose 3 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Boyle in London at 
 mboyle20@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  