-- Abe Currency Policy Stokes Gaffe Risk as Amari Roils Yen
-- B y   T o r u   F u j i o k a
-- 2013-01-17T10:23:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-17/abe-currency-policy-stokes-verbal-gaffe-risk-as-amari-roils-yen.html
Japan ’s newly installed government
saw one danger of verbal intervention in the foreign-exchange
market this week, with a Cabinet member’s remarks interpreted as
indicating a shift in stance that he later disowned.  Economy Minister Akira Amari today told reporters in Tokyo
that the yen is still correcting from excessive appreciation,
two days after flagging the danger of the exchange rate getting
too weak. His Jan. 15 remarks stoked a two-day gain in the yen.
Today, comments by Amari snapped the rise, with the currency
down 0.9 percent at 89.15 per dollar at 7:06 p.m. in Tokyo.  The Abe administration’s determination to end deflation
through coordinated action with the central bank has driven a
4.4 percent slide in the yen since it took office Dec. 26. A
cheaper yen aids the competitiveness of exporters from  Panasonic
Corp. (6752)  to  Nissan Motor Co. (7201)  that have labored under years of
exchange-rate strength that saw the currency reach a postwar
high in 2011.  “This is what I feared,” said Takahiro Sekido, a
strategist at Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ Ltd and a former  Bank
of Japan (8301)  official. “Abe has put correcting a strong yen at the
center of his agenda -- that prompts various ministers to talk
about the currency, bringing volatility to the market.”  Further risk of official comments roiling the currency may
come next week, when the Bank of Japan meets and is forecast to
adopt an inflation target and reach a policy agreement with the
government.  More Coming  “We are going to see more show of slips of the tongue from
Japanese ministers as the market keeps a close eye on economic
policies especially monetary measures,” Sekido said.
“Investors should be mindful.”  While Finance Minister Taro Aso was renowned for verbal
gaffes prior to taking office, and runs the ministry charged
with overseeing exchange-rate policy, it’s been the economy
chief who has moved the yen this week.  “The media didn’t report my full remarks and that caused a
reaction in the markets,” Amari said today. He said two days
ago that the yen is correcting to a level in line with economic
fundamentals, and that excessive weakness would drive up import
prices, having “harmful effects on people’s livelihoods.”  On Jan. 14, Amari said the currency had come “to a pretty
good level”, Kyodo news reported. Speaking on a television
program, he said a yen weaker than 100 to the dollar would raise
the price of imports and weigh on people’s livelihoods.  The yen advanced 1.2 percent over the past two days after
Amari’s remarks.  Aso has so far escaped having to clarify his remarks. His
past verbal blunders include saying that he wanted Japan to be a
country where “rich Jews” would want to live, and that mothers
need to be disciplined more than their children.  Meantime, Prime Minister Shinzo Abe corrected himself on
Dec. 20 after making comments that could be interpreted as
indicating he had advance knowledge of the central bank’s policy
decision that day.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Toru Fujioka in  Tokyo  at 
 tfujioka1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  