-- Vivendi’s Maroc Telecom Stake Draws Interest From Etisalat
-- B y   S h a j i   M a t h e w   a n d   M a r i e   M a w a d
-- 2013-01-17T15:32:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-17/abu-dhabi-s-etisalat-interested-in-vivendi-s-53-maroc-stake.html
Emirates Telecommunications Corp. (ETISALAT) ,
the  Middle East ’s second-biggest phone company by market value,
said it’s interested in buying  Vivendi SA (VIV) ’s $6 billion stake in
Maroc Telecom as it seeks to expand in  Africa .  Also known as Etisalat, the Abu Dhabi-based company
submitted a preliminary expression of interest for Paris-based
Vivendi’s 53 percent stake,  according to a statement  to the
local stock market today. Others have also expressed interest in
the shares, the company said.  Vivendi Chairman Jean-Rene Fourtou is considering
divestments and restructuring to overhaul the company’s business
to refocus on media and content distribution. Etisalat in 2011
ended talks to buy a majority stake in  Kuwait ’s Zain for about
$12 billion, citing political unrest and disagreement among
shareholders.  Etisalat joins companies including  KT Corp. (030200) ,  South Korea ’s
second-largest mobile-phone carrier, in expressing interest in
the Moroccan carrier. Qatar Telecom QSC Chief Strategy Officer
Jeremy Sell said in October the company was looking “very
closely” at  Morocco . Maroc Telecom has a market value of about
$11.2 billion.  A Vivendi representative declined to comment on Etisalat’s
statement.  Maroc Telecom, based in Rabat, is  30 percent  owned by the
Moroccan government, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Vivendi hired  Lazard Ltd. (LAZ)  and  Credit Agricole SA (ACA)  to explore a
sale of Maroc Telecom, people familiar with the matter have
said. Vivendi has also hired Rothschild and Deutsche Bank AG to
study strategic options for its Brazilian phone operator GVT,
two people familiar with the matter said in August.  Vivendi’s shares climbed 0.3 percent to 16.59 euros at 4:26
p.m. in Paris. Maroc Telecom added 3.4 percent, and Etisalat
slipped 0.3 percent in local trading.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Shaji Mathew in Dubai at 
 shajimathew@bloomberg.net ;
Marie Mawad in Paris at 
 mmawad1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  