-- Africa Renewable Energy Push ‘Not Working’ Due to Risks
-- B y   A n t h o n y   D i P a o l a
-- 2013-01-17T12:37:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-17/africa-renewable-energy-push-not-working-due-to-risks.html
Africa  is lagging the rest of the
world in obtaining funds for renewable energy projects because
development banks aren’t assuming enough of the political risk
of working there, United Nations officials said.  Investors need more guarantees that their projects won’t
suffer losses from political or legal changes in Africa’s
poorest nations, said Mohamed El-Ashry, a senior fellow at the
United Nations Foundation. International institutions should
shoulder more of those risks, said Achim Steiner, executive
director of the UN Environment Program.  “Funding for renewable energy in parts of Africa is not
working,” Steiner said at the World Future Energy Summit in Abu
Dhabi. “Public private partnerships are not working because of
too much risk on the private investors.”  The comments at the conference this week show why African
nations are struggling to attract investors for projects that
would meet UN goals for supplying electricity to poor
communities while limiting fossil-fuel emissions.  Africa had about $4.3 billion of the $268.7 billion
invested worldwide in renewable energy last year, according to
data from Bloomberg New Energy Finance.  The continent had about 36 projects, all except eight of
which were in South Africa, with  Kenya , Nigeria,  Ethiopia  and
Zimbabwe accounting for the rest.  China  by contrast lured $67.7
billion in investment and the U.S. $44.2 billion.  The UN is pushing countries and companies to provide energy
to the roughly 1 billion people who don’t have access to
constant and safe electricity and water by 2030. In sub-Saharan
Africa, many villages not connected to electrical power grids
could be powered with wind and solar because they’re far enough
from the national electric grid that renewables are competivie,
according to participants at the conference that ends today.  Investors need “top line” guarantees, said Paul Kloppenborg, chief executive of Amsterdam-based Global Cleantech
Fund. Providing insurance for investors against government or
regulatory changes wouldn’t guarantee profit, Kloppenborg said
in an interview. Instead, it would add the confidence needed for
investors to embark on projects that would then turn a profit
depending on the operator’s efficiency, he said.  Multilateral agencies investing along with private
companies in renewable energy projects in developing countries
can improve the chances of securing financing, El-Ashry said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anthony DiPaola in Dubai at 
 adipaola@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  