-- Agarwal Bid Said to Be Delayed by Lawmaker Vote: Corporate India
-- B y   R a j e s h   K u m a r   S i n g h   a n d   A b h i s h e k   S h a n k e r
-- 2013-01-18T11:37:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-17/agarwal-bid-said-to-be-delayed-by-lawmaker-vote-corporate-india.html
Billionaire  Anil Agarwal ’s plan to
buy  India’s stakes  in units of his Vedanta Group may falter as
the government insists on parliament’s approval for the deal,
according to three people familiar with the decision.  The law ministry ruled that lawmakers have to agree to the
sale, a process that could stretch indefinitely, said the people,
who asked not to be identified, citing confidentiality terms.
Vedanta, which raised its offer for the government’s 29.5
percent stake in Hindustan Zinc Ltd. and 49 percent in Bharat
Aluminium Co. by 20 percent to $3.93 billion in August, was
betting on a cabinet decision, a swifter method, they said.  The stakes would give Vedanta complete access to almost
 $3.5 billion  of cash, besides lead, zinc and bauxite mines.
Agarwal, who expected to conclude the deal last year, needs the
funds to expand mining operations at  India ’s biggest zinc
producer, develop group company  Sesa Goa Ltd. (SESA) ’s  iron ore  project
in Liberia and purchase coal mines to fuel his power plants and
turn around the aluminum business.  “The ability and liberty to better deploy Hindustan Zinc’s
cash will be a big positive for valuations,” said Deven Choksey,
managing director at K.R. Choksey Shares & Securities Pvt. in
Mumbai. “Government involvement has brought in operational
inefficiency and deprived Vedanta of growth freedom.”  Senjam Raj Sekhar, spokesman at parent  Vedanta Resources
Plc (VED) , didn’t answer a call to his mobile or reply to an e-mail.  Vedanta unit  Sterlite Industries India Ltd. (STLT) , India’s
biggest copper producer, owns 64.9 percent of Hindustan Zinc and
51 percent of Bharat Aluminium. Sterlite fell 2 percent to
113.60 rupees at the close in Mumbai. Hindustan Zinc declined
1.6 percent to 129.85 rupees, while Sesa Goa dropped 1.3 percent
to 187.15 rupees. The key Sensitive Index rose 0.4 percent.  Impede Plans  Delaying the sale would also impede the government’s plan
to raise 300 billion rupees ($5.5 billion) through asset
dilution and cut the  budget deficit . Still, retaining the stake
fetches regular dividend payments, one of the persons said.  Parliamentary approvals can take as long as a decade
because the sessions are often disrupted by opposition protests.
The Coal Mines Nationalisation Amendment Bill, an attempt to
open up the nation’s coal mining sector, has been awaiting
parliamentary approval since 2001. Parliament sessions are held
three times a year, while the cabinet usually meets once a week.  Companies such as Hindustan Zinc and Bharat Aluminium,
which were formed through an act of parliament, can be
privatized only by approval from lawmakers, said the people,
citing a Supreme Court judgment that rejected a government plan
to privatize oil refiners  Hindustan Petroleum Corp. (HPCL)  and Bharat
Petroleum Corp. in 2003.  Merger Strategy  Agarwal plans to combine his companies, except Konkola
Copper Mines Plc in Zambia, into a single entity, to reorganize
debt and increase operational synergies. The plan is part of a
strategy to build a resources group, straddling oil, iron ore,
copper, aluminum, lead and zinc.  Should he succeed in buying the government’s stake,
Hindustan Zinc and oil explorer  Cairn India Ltd. (CAIR)  may contribute
about 65 percent of the earnings before interest, taxes,
depreciation, and amortization of the combined company Sesa-
Sterlite, B&K Securities analysts Pritam Lala and Parin Tanna
wrote in a  Nov. 30 note .  Hindustan Zinc, based in the western city of Udaipur in
Rajasthan state, produces more than 1 million metric tons of
zinc and lead a year. New Delhi-based  Bharat Aluminum  owns
bauxite mines in the central state of Chhattisgarh that produce
about 2 million tons a year. The two companies also produce a
combined 1.3 gigawatts of electricity.  Zinc, Silver  Hindustan Zinc (HZ)  reported its  biggest profit  in at least
seven years in the year ended March 31 after revenue from zinc
and lead gained 7.5 percent and sales of silver, a by-product of
zinc and lead, more than doubled. The company increased refined
silver output by 35 percent in the last fiscal year, according
to its website. Price of the precious metal gained 48 percent in
the period from a year earlier, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Full-year profit  at Hindustan Zinc, set to report third-
quarter earnings today, will increase 12 percent, according to
the median of 44 analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg. The
company’s zinc and lead mines in Rajasthan will start commercial
production in parent Vedanta Resources said in an Oct. 9
statement.  Vedanta, traditionally a mining company, last year
purchased the Indian unit of  Cairn Energy Plc (CNE)  for $8.67 billion
in a deal that provides access to the nation’s biggest onshore
oilfield. The group suffered a setback as unit Vedanta Aluminium
Ltd. shut its alumina refinery in Odisha state on Dec. 4 after
failing to secure bauxite supplies, Chief Operating Officer
 Mukesh Kumar  said that day. The company deferred expansion of
its smelting capacity to 2.6 million tons, pending approval to
mine bauxite in the eastern state.  The government in August 2010 rejected Vedanta’s plan to
source bauxite from the nearby Niyamgiri hills because of
concern it would affect the tribes and wildlife in the area.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rajesh Kumar Singh in  New Delhi  at 
 rsingh133@bloomberg.net ;
Abhishek Shanker in Mumbai at 
 ashanker1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Iain Wilson at 
 iwilson2@bloomberg.net  