-- Ahold U.S. Sales Gain After Shoppers Stocked Up for Sandy
-- B y   J u l i e   C r u z
-- 2013-01-17T08:35:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-17/ahold-fourth-quarter-revenue-rises-on-u-s-netherlands-sales.html
Royal Ahold NV (AH) , the Dutch owner of
the Stop & Shop chain, reported stronger U.S. sales than some
analysts anticipated as American shoppers stocked up with
provisions ahead of superstorm Sandy in October.  So-called identical sales in the country gained 1.4
percent, excluding gasoline, in the fourth quarter, Amsterdam-
based Ahold said today. That beat a Jefferies estimate for 1
percent growth and Exane’s estimate for a 1.3 percent gain.  “The U.S. is clearly better than expected,”  Richard Withagen , an analyst at SNS Securities in Amsterdam, said by
phone. The performance was tempered by weaker growth in the
Netherlands, where Ahold gets about 47 percent of revenue.  Americans focused on buying necessities such as food in
October, the month that Sandy slammed the East Coast, according
to the Commerce Department. The storm had a “positive sales
impact,” according to Ahold, which also runs Giant stores.  “Our strong performance was partly driven by the
exceptional efforts of our teams during  Hurricane Sandy , which
enabled our stores to remain open,” Ahold said.  The shares fell 0.6 percent to 10.44 euros at 9:15 a.m. in
Amsterdam, trimming their 12-month gain to 2.5 percent.  Identical sales in the Netherlands rose 0.2 percent in the
fourth quarter, after climbing 2.5 percent in the previous three
months, the owner of the Albert Heijn chain said. That was less
than the 1.3 percent increase estimated by Jefferies and the 1.6
percent growth anticipated by Exane.  Jumbo Stores  Dutch sales growth was held back by the performance of its
drugstore business, said SNS’s Withagen.  Chief Executive Officer  Dick Boer  has expanded Ahold by
buying online retailer Bol.com, adding C1000 and Jumbo stores in
the Netherlands and acquiring Genuardi shops in the U.S. The
executive said in November 2011 that a minimum of 50
supermarkets will open in  Belgium  in the next five years, while
the company aims to triple online sales to 1.5 billion euros ($2
billion) and open at least 150  convenience stores  in  Europe .  Total fourth-quarter sales rose 7.5 percent from a year
earlier to 7.8 billion euros. That compared with the 7.86
billion-euro average estimate of five analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg News. The Dutch unit reported sales growth of 7.7
percent, while revenue at U.S. stores gained 4.3 percent.
Revenue in Europe, excluding the Netherlands, fell 2.2 percent.  The 15 Genuardi stores acquired in 2012 “performed in line
with expectations,” the company said. The retailer doubled the
number of pick-up points for online grocery orders and now has
eight in the U.S., it said. Ahold also opened its first three
pick-up points for online shopping in the Netherlands, it said.  Total sales for all of 2012 gained 8.5 percent to 32.8
billion euros, compared with the 32.9 billion-euro average
estimate of 27 analysts surveyed by  Bloomberg News .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julie Cruz in Frankfurt at 
 jcruz6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  