-- Thai Baht Advances for Ninth Day on Fund Inflows; Bonds Steady
-- B y   Y u m i   T e s o
-- 2013-01-17T02:06:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-17/thai-baht-advances-for-ninth-day-on-fund-inflows-bonds-steady.html
Thailand’s baht rose for a ninth
day, the longest winning streak since 2008, as near-zero
benchmark  interest rates  in the U.S. and  Japan  spurred demand
for higher-yielding assets.  The currency climbed to a 17-month high and the central
bank said this week recent gains were being driven by capital
inflows into the region. Global funds purchased $2.3 billion
more of Thailand’s sovereign debt than they sold this month
through yesterday and poured a net $274 million into local
equities, stock exchange and Thai Bond Market Association data
show. The nation’s 10-year debt yields 3.7 percent, compared
with 1.83 percent in the U.S. and 0.75 percent in Japan.  “There’s a pretty strong momentum on the baht with a good
amount of fund inflows,” said Kozo Hasegawa, a foreign-exchange
trader at Sumitomo Mitsui Banking Corp. in Bangkok. “Compared
with developed nations, Thai yields are still higher and
investors can also aim to profit from the currency gains.”  The baht climbed 0.3 percent to 29.75 per dollar as of 9:44
a.m. in Bangkok and touched 29.72, the strongest level since
August 2011, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. One-month
implied volatility, a measure of expected moves in exchange
rates used to price options, dropped five basis points, or 0.05
percentage point, to 4.25 percent.  The Bank of  Thailand  isn’t concerned by the baht’s strength
as it stems from risk-on sentiment and moves have been in line
with regional currencies, Governor Prasarn Trairatvorakul said
Jan. 14. The baht has appreciated 6.9 percent versus the
greenback in the past 12 months,  Asia ’s third-best performance.
 South Korea ’s won climbed 8.1 percent and the  Philippine peso 
advanced 7.4 percent.  OCBC, HSBC  Investors should simultaneously buy the baht and sell the
 Singapore dollar  given fund inflows into Thailand, Oversea-
Chinese Banking Corp Ltd., the top forecaster of Asian
currencies based on data compiled by Bloomberg, said this week.
HSBC Holdings Plc also recommended clients use the  Singapore 
dollar as a funding currency in Asia and purchase the baht in a
report on Jan. 15, citing the current-account surplus.  Thailand,  Southeast Asia ’s second-largest economy, reported
a  current-account  excess of $392 million for November, compared
with a deficit of $199 million the previous month, official data
show. Singapore’s five-year bonds yield 0.31 percent, lower than
Thailand’s 3.27 percent.  “The baht may remain underpinned by investor inflows,
particularly given the nascent improvement in Thailand’s
current-account balance and the central bank’s relative comfort
with the currency’s recent rise,” Emmanuel Ng, a Singapore-
based strategist at OCBC, said.  Capital inflows totaling several billion baht been recorded
in Thailand’s bond market this week, mostly in short-term
securities, Niwat Kanjanaphoomin, President of the Thai Bond
Market Association, told reporters yesterday.  The yield on the 3.125 percent government bonds due
December 2015 was little changed today at 2.94 percent, data
compiled by Bloomberg show. The benchmark three-year  yield 
climbed as high as 3.50 percent in 2012.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yumi Teso in Bangkok at 
 yteso1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  