-- Thai Comedian Gets Two-Year Prison Sentence for King Insult
-- B y   D a n i e l   T e n   K a t e   a n d   A n u c h i t   N g u y e n
-- 2013-01-17T08:24:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-17/thai-government-adviser-jailed-for-two-years-for-insulting-king.html
A Thai court today sentenced a
government adviser, who helped lead protests in 2010 against
former Prime Minister  Abhisit Vejjajiva , to two years in prison
for insulting the royal family.  Yossawaris Chuklom, a comedian who goes by the name Jeng
Dokjik, received the sentence for comments made in a speech to
protesters that implied King Bhumibol Adulyadej influenced
Abhisit’s decision not to dissolve the parliament, according to
a court statement. The court said it freed him on bail while he
appeals the sentence because he showed no intention to flee.  “His statement falsely accused the king of political
interference and opposing the defendant and his group,” the
court said. “His statement that his speech didn’t mean he was
referring to the king is groundless.”  Prime Minister Yingluck Shinawatra, who replaced Abhisit in
2011 after her party won a parliamentary majority, appointed
Yossawaris in November as a ministerial adviser. Yossawaris
helped lead protests by the  Red Shirts , a group calling for an
election that was backed by former Prime Minister  Thaksin Shinawatra , Yingluck’s brother.  Yossawaris joins at least seven others detained in  Thailand 
under the lese-majeste law, which mandates jail sentences as
long as 15 years for defaming, insulting or threatening the
king, queen, heir apparent or regent. The  United Nations  has
criticized the law for curbing free speech as calls grow within
Thailand to amend the statute.  ‘Revered Worship’  Bhumibol, 85, assumed the throne in 1946 and serves as head
of state. Thailand’s Constitution says the king “shall be
enthroned in a position of revered worship and shall not be
violated.”  Yossawaris told Red Shirt protesters that Abhisit refused
to dissolve parliament in 2010 on the orders of an unidentified
person with more power than both him and Privy Council President
Prem Tinsulanonda, the king’s top adviser, according to the
court. The speech apparently made people believe that Yossawaris
was referring to the king, the court said.  More than 90 people died in the 2010 protests, which
spanned 10 weeks and ended with a military crackdown. Abhisit,
now the opposition leader after his party lost an election the
following year, faces murder charges for his role in the
dispersal.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Daniel Ten Kate in Bangkok at 
 dtenkate@bloomberg.net ;
Anuchit Nguyen in Bangkok at 
 anguyen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  