-- Costa Rica Fights Currency Gain as Thailand Talks Baht Weaker
-- B y   Y u m i   T e s o   a n d   A d a m   W i l l i a m s
-- 2013-01-17T17:46:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-17/thailand-talks-baht-lower-as-russia-warns-of-currency-war-1-.html
Costa Rica and  Thailand  joined a
growing chorus of developing nations expressing alarm at the
appreciation of their currencies as increased monetary easing in
the U.S. and Japan spurs demand for higher-yielding assets.  Costa Rica plans to reduce interest rates to discourage
capital inflows after the colon reached the strongest in almost
five years. Thailand’s baht retreated from a 17-month high today
after Finance Minister Kittiratt Na-Ranong said the exchange
rate is “not at a good level” and exporters will face
difficulties should it strengthen further. Currencies in
Colombia, Poland and  Romania  reached their strongest levels this
month since at least February 2012.  The Federal Reserve expanded its monthly asset purchases
beginning Jan. 1, boosting the supply of U.S. currency, and
Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe is seeking “bold” monetary
easing to end deflation.  Russia ’s central bank warned yesterday
the world is on the brink of a fresh “currency war,” while
policy makers in South  Korea  and the  Philippines  said this week
they may restrict capital inflows. Colombia’s finance chief
called on his central bank to step up dollar purchases and the
Czech Republic threatened intervention to weaken the koruna.  “With risk appetite among investors growing this year and
plenty of liquidity supplied by developed nations, appreciation
pressure on the emerging-market currencies is unavoidable,”
said  Koji Fukaya , a former chief foreign-exchange strategist at
Credit Suisse Group AG in  Tokyo  who now runs his own research
firm, Office Fukaya. “Monetary authorities are probably not
trying to guide weaker currencies, but the problem for them is
the pace of their appreciation.”  Romania, Russia  The Asia Dollar Index, which tracks Asia’s 10 most-used
currencies excluding the yen, has risen 0.5 percent this year
and the  Bloomberg-JPMorgan Latin America Currency Index is  up
0.9 percent. Romania’s leu climbed 4 percent,  Mexico ’s peso 2.1
percent and the baht 2.7 percent, leading gains among 25
emerging-market currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  The colon is up 2.2 percent this year. It was little
changed today at 497.29 per dollar as of 12:01 p.m. in New York.
Costa Rica will lower interest rates as part of a series of
measures to stem the currency’s gains, Finance Minister Edgar
Ayala told reporters in San Jose. The interest rate on cash
deposits at banks will be lowered to 8.5 percent from 9.2
percent at the start of the year.  President Laura Chinchilla said Jan. 15 that “speculative
capital inflows are real and massive weapons of mass
destruction” against the Central American economy. The central
bank has bought more than $150 million this year to stem gains.  Pacific Investment Management Co.’s  Bill Gross , the manager
of the world’s biggest bond fund, said yesterday that Mexico’s
peso and  Brazil ’s real are better buys for investors than high-
yield debt.  Mexico, Brazil  “Mexican Peso ‘yields’ 4.5%; Brazilian Real ‘yields’
7.25%,” Gross said in comments posted on Pimco’s Twitter
account.  “Better use of cash than high yield bonds.”  Romanian central bank Deputy Governor Cristian Popa said
yesterday the currency is “not distant from fair value,” while
Russia’s central bank has already intervened this year to stem
gains in the ruble. Colombia’s peso strengthened 1.7 percent in
the past month and Finance Minister Mauricio Cardenas said Jan.
15 he saw no reason for such gains and would like the central
bank to boost dollar purchases after it bought a record $4.8
billion in 2012.  The yen weakened 1.3 percent today as Japanese Economy
Minister Akira Amari said the yen is still in the process of
correcting from excessive gains. The currency touched 89.67 on
Jan. 14, the weakest level since June 2010.  Asian Banks  The baht gained 0.1 percent from yesterday at 29.79 per
dollar, having risen as much as 0.3 percent before Kittiratt’s
comments. Bank of Thailand Governor Prasarn Trairatvorakul said
today that capital inflows into short-term securities were
driving the currency higher, adding that the central bank is
“closely watching” the situation and has measures to deal with
the issue if needed.  Taiwan ’s central bank has intervened to weaken its dollar
on most days in the past nine months, according to traders who
asked not to be identified.  “There is normally a degree of intervention in the case of
Asian central banks,” said  Sacha Tihanyi , senior currency
strategist at Scotiabank in Hong Kong. “There is currently a
desire to not interfere too much with fundamental forces, though
speculative forces will be more of a concern.”  South Korea’s won and the Philippine peso led Asian gains
in 2012, prompting policy makers in the two nations to clamp
down on the use of currency forwards in the fourth quarter. The
currencies advanced 8.3 percent and 6.9 percent, respectively,
before appreciating further this month.  Philippines  South Korea’s Vice Finance Minister Shin Je Yoon said
yesterday the nation is studying measures to reduce volatility
in capital flows and called for next month’s meeting of finance
ministers from the Group of 20 nations in Moscow to focus on the
adverse effects of monetary easing in the U.S.,  Europe  and
 Japan .  The Philippine peso has gained 0.9 percent this year and
reached 40.55 per dollar on Jan. 14, its strongest level since
March 2008. Central bank Governor Amando Tetangco said the
following day that the monetary authority intervened to restrain
the currency and is focused on limiting speculative inflows that
could lead to asset-price bubbles.  The won is forecast to gain 3.3 percent this year versus
the dollar and the Philippine peso 3.9 percent, based on the
median estimates among analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  Benchmark Rates  “Korea and the Philippines are the Asian front of the
coming currency war,” Tim Condon, the Singapore-based head of
Asian research at ING Groep NV, wrote in a report today. “It’s
going to get bloody. We consider policy interest rates in both
countries, 2.75 percent in Korea and 3.5 percent in the
Philippines, too high given the consensus view that their
currencies are a one-way bet.”  Those benchmark interest rates compare with a maximum 0.25
percent in the U.S., 0.1 percent in Japan and 0.75 percent in
the euro area. South Korea’s two-year bond yield of 2.73 percent
compares with 0.25 percent on Treasuries and 0.07 percent on
Japanese notes. Similar-maturity debt yields 6.1 percent in
Russia and 5.62 percent in  Chile , according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Chilean Finance Minister Felipe Larrain said on Jan. 8 the
government shared exporters’ concern about the appreciation of
the nation’s peso, which strengthened 8.4 percent versus the
dollar in 2012 and has gained a further 1.2 percent this year.  Chile´s government is carefully monitoring the peso´s
appreciation and is helping to contain the exchange rate through
an austere fiscal policy, President Sebastian Pinera told
reporters in Santiago today. The central bank is autonomous and
can intervene in the currency market if it wants, he said.  Hungary’s forint strengthened 0.8 percent against the euro
today, trimming its decline in the past month to 1.6 percent.
The country’s minister in charge of aid talks with the
International Monetary Fund,  Mihaly Varga , said the currency
should be stabilized in a stronger range, Budapest-based HirTV
reported.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yumi Teso in Bangkok at 
 yteso1@bloomberg.net ;
Adam Williams in San Jose, Costa Rica at 
 awilliams111@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  