-- Taiwan Dollar Strengthens on China Growth Optimism; Bonds Steady
-- B y   D a v i d   Y o n g
-- 2013-01-17T08:36:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-17/taiwan-dollar-forwards-advance-on-china-outlook-bonds-steady.html
Taiwan’s dollar gained on
speculation an economic rebound in  China  will boost demand for
the island’s goods.  Government bonds  were little changed.  China, Taiwan’s biggest overseas market, may report
tomorrow gross domestic product rose an annualized 7.8 percent
in the three months through December, ending a seven-quarter
slowdown, according to the median estimate in a Bloomberg
survey. Analysts predict Taiwan’s export orders increased for a
fourth month in December, a separate survey shows before data
due Jan. 21.  “Taiwan stands to benefit most from the recovery in China
and given the current momentum, there’s room for the currency to
appreciate,” said Jackit Wong, a regional economist in  Hong
Kong  at Natixis Asia Ltd. “The central bank may want to control
the pace and keep the  exchange rate  stable.”  The local currency rose 0.1 percent to NT$29.085 per
dollar, according to Taipei Forex Inc. It earlier rallied as
much as 0.5 percent to NT$28.95. One-month non-deliverable
forwards were steady at NT$28.94, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Export orders rose 9.11 percent in December from a year
earlier, according to the median forecast in the survey,
following an 11.1 percent gain in November. Other reports in the
past month showed factory output and manufacturing expanded.  “The improvement in data reflects Taiwan’s close
connection with China and forms a favorable environment for the
 Taiwan dollar ,” according to a research note yesterday from
HSBC Holdings Plc.  One-month implied volatility in the Taiwan dollar, a gauge
of expected moves in the exchange rate used to price options,
dropped to 3 percent from 3.16 percent, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  The yield on the 1.125 percent government bonds due
September 2022 was at 1.157 percent versus 1.162 percent
yesterday, according to Gretai Securities Market. The  overnight
interbank lending  rate was steady at 0.386 percent, a weighted
average compiled by the Taiwan Interbank Money Center shows.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Yong in Singapore at 
 dyong@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  