-- Malawians Protest Against Soaring Costs, Slump in Kwacha
-- B y   F r a n k   J o m o
-- 2013-01-17T10:31:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-17/malawians-protest-against-soaring-costs-slump-in-kwacha.html
Malawians began nationwide protests
today, condemning President Joyce Banda and the  International
Monetary Fund  after a  currency devaluation  pushed inflation to
33 percent.  More than a thousand protesters marched in the center of
Blantyre, the commercial hub, watched by police officials. They
delivered a petition to District Commissioner Charles Makanga
calling on Banda to reverse the currency changes, reduce her
spending on travel and raise wages.  “This is the beginning,” John Kapito,  executive director 
for the Consumer Association of  Malawi , which is leading the
protests, told demonstrators in Blantyre. “We are giving the
government 21 days. If they don’t address our concerns, we will
camp at the president’s official residence.”  Banda, 62, devalued the kwacha by a third against the
dollar a month after taking office in April and deregulated fuel
prices. That was in line with recommendations from the IMF to
allow the resumption of donor aid. Gasoline costs have climbed
69 percent since May, while the central bank raised its
benchmark  interest rate  by 4 percentage points to a six-year
high of 25 percent last month.  The kwacha has slumped 27 percent against the dollar since
the devaluation. It dropped 1.5 percent to 350 a dollar by 12:11
p.m. in Lilongwe.  Police Clashes  Marchers sang songs accusing Banda of selling the country
to the IMF. The fund’s Managing Director  Christine Lagarde , who
congratulated Banda for her economic reforms during a visit to
Malawi last month, isn’t welcome in the country, they sang.  “The reforms are taking time to register positive results
and this is frustrating many Malawians,” Billy Banda, executive
director of human rights group Malawi Watch, said in a phone
interview yesterday. He isn’t related to the president. “The
euphoria people had after she took over government has waned.”  Demonstrations also took place in the capital, Lilongwe,
and Mzuzu in the north. Police monitored the crowds to prevent a
repeat of clashes that occurred during protests in July 2011,
when 22 people died.  Malawi is Africa’s biggest exporter of burley tobacco, a
low-grade variety of the crop, and Limbe Leaf Tobacco Co., a
unit of the U.S.-based  Universal Corp. (UVV) ,  Alliance One
International Inc. (AOI)  and  Japan Tobacco Inc. (2914)  are among buyers in
the country. About half of the population of 15 million live on
less than $1 a day, according to the IMF, while the government
relies on donor funds to finance 40 percent of its budget.  “When I was young, my dad could afford bread, now he can’t
afford a piece of cassava,” Ireen Phiri, an 18-year-old
student, said in an interview at the march in Blantyre. “I see
our welfare deteriorating every day.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Frank Jomo in Blantyre at 
 fjomo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  