-- AMR Wins U.S. Court Approval for $1.5 Billion Financing
-- B y   D a v i d   M c L a u g h l i n
-- 2013-01-18T18:11:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-17/amr-wins-u-s-court-approval-for-1-5-billion-financing.html
AMR Corp. (AAMRQ) , the American Airlines
parent restructuring in bankruptcy, won court approval for $1.5
billion in aircraft financing, defeating bondholder opposition
to a plan to repay debt.  U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Sean Lane in Manhattan approved
American’s request for the financing in a decision filed
yesterday, overruling an objection from a noteholder trustee
that said the company owes a premium called a make-whole amount
when it refinances.  “The noteholders here are entitled to receive full
repayment of principal and accrued interest without a make-whole
amount, which is exactly what they bargained for in these
circumstances,” Lane said.  AMR, which filed for bankruptcy in 2011, sought court
approval in October for the financing to take advantage of lower
 interest rates , saying it may save more than $200 million in
interest expense. The airline said it would use proceeds to
repay about $1.3 billion in debt backed by aircraft under three
series of notes.  The proposal was opposed by trustee U.S. Bancorp, which
sued the  Fort Worth , Texas-based airline in  bankruptcy court . It
said AMR was required to pay the make-whole amount under the
terms of existing notes.  Michael Burke, an attorney for U.S. Bancorp, didn’t respond
to a phone message or e-mail seeking comment.  Borrower Disincentive  Make-whole provisions, under which investors receive a
premium if the securities are redeemed early, are included in
credit agreements to create a disincentive for borrowers to call
bonds before their scheduled maturity. Lenders would rather keep
the current high-coupon debt than have to reinvest the cash into
lower-yielding notes.  Vicki Bryan, an analyst at Gimme Credit LLC, said in a
phone interview that she was concerned about the decision
because AMR was “attacking” a fundamental provision that
protects investors in the high-yield credit market.  “This fundamentally weakens again even more what investors
can expect in protection in high-yield debt,” she said.  The 13 percent secured notes fell 3.7 cents on the dollar
to 103.3 cents today, according to Trace, the bond-price
reporting system of the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority.
The 8.625 percent pass-through certificates dropped 4.5 cents to
103.75, and the 10.375 percent pass-through certificates fell
4.5 cents to 103.5.  AMR Spokesman  “We are pleased with Judge Lane’s decision and that he
agreed with our position,” AMR spokesman  Sean Collins  said in a
statement.  Lane rejected the trustee’s arguments in his decision.
American’s bankruptcy filing triggered an automatic acceleration
of the amounts due under the notes without the make-whole
payment, the judge said.  “In the case of a voluntary redemption, a make-whole
amount is due, but if payment is made due to acceleration, it is
not,” Lane wrote.  The case is in re AMR Corp., 11-15463,  U.S. Bankruptcy
Court , Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 David McLaughlin  in New York at 
 dmclaughlin9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  