-- AMR’s American to Unveil Changes to 45-Year-Old Livery
-- B y   M a r y   S c h l a n g e n s t e i n
-- 2013-01-17T21:23:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-17/amr-s-american-to-unveil-changes-to-45-year-old-livery.html
American Airlines  unveiled the first
change in its aircraft livery in more than 40 years as it nears
a decision on merging with  US Airways Group Inc. (LCC)  or leaving
bankruptcy on its own.  AMR Corp. (AAMRQ) ’s American has kept creditors informed of its
progress on the alterations, and wanted to debut the new design
as it prepares to emerge from court protection. Chief Executive
Officer  Tom Horton  said he telephoned Doug Parker, his US
Airways counterpart, about the new look last night.  American decided to unveil the  new design , which drops its
polished-metal fuselage and double-A logo, today so it could be
used on the inaugural flight of its new  Boeing Co. (BA)  777-300ERs on
Jan. 31, Horton said. Creditors have been debating the merits of
a combined company versus a stand-alone for months, and a
decision should come within weeks, Horton said on Jan. 3.  “The time was now,” he said today in an interview. “It
would have been ideal to answer the other question first, but it
just wasn’t in the cards. Our first and foremost mission is to
do what’s best for the customers.”  The new styling puts silver mica paint on the aircraft
fuselage in place of the polished aluminum, a change
necessitated by the order of Boeing 787s, which are made of
composite material that can’t be polished. While the airline
won’t get its first 787 until late 2014, it will receive 59 new
aircraft this year and wanted them all to have the same look.  Horton said the airline still plans to complete purchases
of the 787, which was grounded this week by the U.S.  Federal
Aviation Administration  after incidents involving its lithium-
ion batteries.  Merger-Compatible  Merging with  US Airways  wouldn’t require changing the new
livery, which includes American’s name on the fuselage, Horton
said in a news conference afterward at Dallas-Fort Worth
International Airport. The suitor has previously said it would
keep the American name and its Fort Worth headquarters.  “The work speaks for itself,” he said. “It’s a very
powerful image for the new American, whether we merge or not.”  The change is intended to demonstrate American is ready to
leave the past and “embrace new things going forward,” said
Jay Sorensen, president of Ideaworks consulting firm in
Shorewood,  Wisconsin , and a former airline marketing executive.  “They are trying to say, we are strong enough to be
independent or, if we merge, we should be the king,” said Allen Adamson, managing director of the  New York  office of branding
firm Landor Associates, which has worked with airlines on livery
redesigns. “Part of it is to say, ‘we’re back, we’re good,
we’re ready to go and we can compete.’ ”  ‘Cosmetic Changes’  US Airways began pursuing a deal months after American
sought  bankruptcy protection  on Nov. 29, 2011. A combination of
American, the third-biggest U.S. carrier, and No. 5 US Airways
would pass  United Continental Holdings Inc. (UAL)  as the world’s
largest airline, based on passenger traffic.  “We applaud our friends at American as the new brand
elements and livery mark the culmination of a significant amount
of work and coordination, and clearly those efforts have
produced a compelling result,” US Airways said in an e-mailed
statement.  American’s pilots union, which joined other labor groups at
the carrier last April in supporting a combination, said the
airline needs more than “cosmetic changes” to be competitive.  “A new paint job is fine, but it does not fix American’s
network deficiencies and toxic culture, so we continue our
steadfast support of a merger with US Airways and not doubling
down on the network strategy that brought us into bankruptcy,”
said Dennis Tajer, an Allied Pilots Association spokesman.  Repainting Fleet  American’s livery, the oldest among major U.S. carriers,
was adopted in 1967 when Horton was in second grade. Its double-
A and eagle logo goes back to the 1930s. The company wanted a
new look to match updated interiors on its planes and new
international routes as it completes its restructuring.  Work on a branding change began in July 2011, when the
company ordered 460 new planes from Boeing and Airbus SAS that
begin arriving this year. A final selection was made in December
of that year. American’s new planes will come painted in the
updated livery, and the airline will repaint older aircraft that
remain in its fleet.  The repainting and the extension of the new logo and livery
to American’s airport locations, website, ticketing kiosks and
other properties will take three to five years, Horton said.
American’s regional carrier, American Eagle, also will have
planes repainted in the new design.  Silver Bird  Gone is the red and blue double-A that American emblazoned
on the tails of its planes, replaced by horizontal red, white
and blue stripes that resemble a flag. Fuselage stripes of the
same colors also were dropped in the new design.  FutureBrand  North America , part of New York-based
McCann Worldgroup, created the airline’s new logo and livery.  The carrier’s silver fuselage, which earned the planes the
name of Silver Bird, was the component of the old livery most
customers wanted retained, said Virasb Vahidi, American’s chief
commercial officer. It also kept a stylized eagle and half of a
letter A in the logo, he said.  The existing bare-metal skin, which dates to the era of
propeller-driven airliners, has been called a fuel-saver by the
U.S. carrier because an unpainted plane weighs less. With
modern, more fuel-efficient engines and lighter aircraft, the
increased fuel burn from paint will be negligible, said Rob
Friedman, American’s vice president for marketing.  “Stories in the media lead me to believe it’s a foregone
conclusion these two airlines are going to merge,” Sorensen
said, referring to American and US Airways. “Yet there are
things I see this airline doing that tell me that’s not the
case, that they want to remain independent and are going to
remain independent. It’s confusing.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mary Schlangenstein in Dallas at 
 maryc.s@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  