-- Manchester United, Arsenal Move Into Fourth Round of F.A. Cup
-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 2013-01-17T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-17/manchester-united-arsenal-move-into-fourth-round-of-f-a-cup.html
Manchester United  and Arsenal won
replays 1-0 to advance to the fourth round of English soccer’s
F.A. Cup.  Wayne Rooney ’s goal on his return from a five-match injury
layoff lifted United past West Ham last night, while  Jack Wilshere  scored in Arsenal’s victory over Swansea.  United will play Premier League rival Fulham in the next
round of  England ’s top club competition, while Arsenal faces
Brighton of the second-tier Championship as it seeks its first
trophy since 2005.  “We know what the F.A. Cup means in England,” Wilshere
said in an interview with ESPN. “It’s a great competition and
we wanted to be in the next round, but we’ve got a tough game
away at Brighton.”  Both United and Arsenal were forced to replays after 2-2
away draws in their third-round matchups this month.  “I’m pleased,” United midfielder  Ryan Giggs  told ITV.
“It’s the F.A. Cup and anything can happen. We have to give
credit to West Ham, they were tough to play against.”  United scored after nine minutes at Old Trafford as  Javier Hernandez  got behind the West Ham defense on the left and sent a
pass toward the far post to Rooney, who slid and put the ball
into the open net.  United’s Nani had a shot cleared off the line by West Ham’s
Daniel Potts and Alexander Buttner hit the post as the host
looked to increase its lead before halftime.  Penalty Appeals  West Ham had an appeal for a penalty kick for handball
against Rafael da Silva turned down by referee Phil Dowd early
in the second half and  Matt Taylor  sent a shot over the
crossbar.  United were then awarded a penalty kick in the 79th minute
after Jordan Spence handled Giggs’s cross. Rooney blasted his
kick well over the crossbar.  West Ham manager  Sam Allardyce  was furious his team wasn’t
awarded a penalty kick, while United was.  “There’s no doubt about the difference between Rafael’s
handball and Jordan Spence’s,” he told ITV. “Spence plays for
West Ham and the away team, while Rafael plays for the home team
at Old Trafford. You see it time and time again at Old
Trafford.”  At the Emirates Stadium in north  London , Swansea had the
best chance of a scoreless first half as Kyle Bartley hit the
crossbar with a header.  Arsenal dominated after the break. Swansea twice cleared
the ball off the goal line, Swans goalkeeper Michel Vorm made
several saves and Bacary Sagna hit the post with a cross that
Theo Walcott missed.  The Gunners broke through in the 86th minute as Wilshere
took a pass from Olivier Giroud and fired a left-footed shot
from the edge of the area past Vorm.  “It was unbelievable that we couldn’t score but we got it
in the end,” Arsenal manager  Arsene Wenger  said. “We
persevered and we were rewarded.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in London at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 