-- Manufacturing in the Philadelphia Area Unexpectedly Shrinks
-- B y   L o r r a i n e   W o e l l e r t
-- 2013-01-17T15:36:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-17/manufacturing-in-the-philadelphia-region-unexpectedly-shrinks.html
Manufacturing in the Philadelphia
region unexpectedly contracted in January, an indication
companies are becoming more concerned about across-the-board
U.S. government spending cuts that could slow growth.  The Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia’s general economic
 index  dropped to minus 5.8 from 4.6 in December. Readings lower
than zero signal contraction in the area covering eastern
Pennsylvania, southern New Jersey and  Delaware . The  median 
forecast of 58 economists surveyed by Bloomberg was 5.6.
Estimates ranged from minus 3 to 10.  The report follows New York Fed data released earlier this
week showing factory activity shrank for a sixth straight month
and raises the risk manufacturing, once a pillar of the
recovery, will again weaken in early 2013. Looming changes in
federal spending and stagnant prices give companies little
reason to expand inventories, which may hurt manufacturers.  “Manufacturing is going to be touch-and-go over the next
few months until we get some fiscal clarity,” said Ryan Sweet,
a senior economist at Moody’s Analytics Inc. in West Chester,
 Pennsylvania , the only economist to project the  index would
turn negative. The New York and Philadelphia surveys are “a
sign that the fiscal deal struck on new year’s was a good first
step, but it didn’t reduce the uncertainty.”  Other reports today showed  housing starts  surged more than
forecast in December, fewer Americans than projected  applied  for
jobless benefits last week and Americans’  economic outlook 
deteriorated in January to a three-month low as paychecks began
reflecting higher taxes.  Shares Climb  Stocks climbed the better-than-projected housing and
jobless claims data. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index rose 0.4
percent to 1,479.05 at 10:33 a.m. in New York.  The Philadelphia Fed’s new orders measure dropped to minus
4.3 from 4.9 the prior month while the shipments gauge declined
to 0.4 from 14.7. The inventory index improved to minus 6.5 from
minus 7.8.  The employment index decreased to minus 5.2 from minus 0.2.  The index of prices paid dropped to 14.7 from 23.5 the
prior month, while a gauge of prices received decreased to minus
1.1 from 12.4.  The report runs counter to data yesterday that showed
manufacturing improved at the national level in December.
Industrial production, which measures output at factories, mines
and utilities,  climbed  in December for a second month, rising
0.3 percent after a 1 percent November gain, the Federal Reserve
reported.  December Production  Factory output alone advanced 0.8 percent after increasing
1.3 percent in November, in part reflecting a rebound from
superstorm Sandy which slammed the East Coast in late October.  Economists monitor the Fed’s regional surveys for clues
about the Institute for Supply Management national figures on
manufacturing. The next ISM  report  is due Feb. 1. Manufacturing
makes up about 12 percent of the economy.  The automobile industry remains a source of growth. Cars
and light trucks sold at a 15.3 million annual  pace  in December
after a 15.5 million rate in November, the best two months since
early 2008, according to Ward’s Automotive Group.  The average age of the U.S. fleet is 11 years, a record
high, and borrowing costs are low, said James Lentz, president
and chief executive officer of  Toyota (TM)  Motor Sales USA Inc. in
Torrance,  California .  Auto Demand  “We expect growth, especially in hybrids, in small trucks
and in the retail sales business, which has us poised for
another good year,” Lentz said at a Jan. 16 conference. Younger
buyers are returning to the market and there is pent-up demand.  “All of this is good news for the auto industry, and
that’s why at Toyota we’re so optimistic about 2013, but it’s
still cautious optimism, because we all know, too well, that
anything can upset a forecast, from exchange rates to strength
or weaknesses in global economies, even Mother Nature with
earthquakes, tsunamis, tornadoes and hurricanes,” Lentz said.
“‘We’re energized and we’re looking forward to another good
year.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lorraine Woellert in Washington at 
 lwoellert@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  