-- Apple Says Appeals Court Hobbles Its Fight With Samsung
-- B y   S u s a n   D e c k e r
-- 2013-01-18T05:43:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-17/apple-says-appeals-court-hobbles-its-fight-with-samsung.html
Apple Inc. (AAPL)  says a U.S. appeals court
hobbled its efforts to protect patented designs and features
against copying by Samsung Electronics Co., its biggest
competitor for smartphones and tablet computers.  The iPhone maker has asked the full complement of judges at
the  U.S. Court of Appeals  for the Federal Circuit to review, at
the same time, two appeals seeking to block sales of Samsung
products that Apple says violate its patents. Panels of three
judges typically hear appeals first, with the entire court
sometimes stepping in when broad legal issues must be settled.  “The two cases would present an ideal vehicle for
eliminating the uncertainty regarding when a patentee can
prevent a competitor from trespassing on its patented
innovations,” Apple told the court in a filing Jan. 16.  Apple, which claims that Samsung “slavishly” copied the
iPhone and iPad tablet computer, claims a Federal Circuit ruling
is hindering its efforts to get court orders that would force
Samsung to change its products or remove certain models from the
market. Samsung denies copying Apple’s devices.  The companies, which together make about half of the
smartphones sold worldwide, are fighting over patents as part of
a global battle for market share.  A three-judge Federal Circuit panel said in October that
Samsung could continue selling its newest Galaxy Nexus
smartphone while battling patent-infringement claims by Apple.
To obtain an order, called an injunction, that would block
sales, Apple must show that the patented search feature under
dispute drives consumer demand for the product, the panel said.  Blocking Sales  Based on that standard, a trial judge in December rejected
Apple’s effort to halt sales of other Samsung products during
the continuing legal fight over a $1 billion infringement
verdict against Samsung.  Apple had already asked the full Federal Circuit to
reconsider the three-judge panel’s October ruling. On Jan. 16,
Apple urged the full court, which specializes in  patent law , to
review the trial judge’s December decision at the same time
without first having the case heard by a panel of three judges.  By refusing to halt sales of Samsung products that were at
the center of the $1 billion verdict, U.S. District Judge Lucy Koh “made it essentially impossible for a patentee to halt a
direct competitor’s deliberate and successful copying of the
patentee’s innovative designs and features for use in competing
products,” Apple wrote.  “Although individual features in complex products may be
generally important, they will almost never drive consumer
demand by themselves, at least not provably,” Apple said.
“Consumers buy complex technological products for a whole host
of reasons, often with no one reason determining the customer’s
decision.”  Consumer Demand  In a Jan. 11 filing in the Galaxy Nexus case, Samsung said
the appeals court ruling in October, requiring a link between
the patented feature and consumer demand, is “an inherent,
well-established” part of the legal analysis used to determine
whether a patent owner would be harmed if an infringing product
stays on the market.  Otherwise, it “would permit patent holders to remove
complex products from the marketplace based on a single, minor
feature that had not been linked to consumer demand,” Suwon,
South Korea-based Samsung said in the filing.  The October ruling over Samsung’s Galaxy Nexus concerned
whether to halt sales while a different patent-infringement case
is pending. The more recent trial court decision involves the
legal standard that should be applied after a jury has issued an
infringement finding.  Jury Verdict  Apple argued that, even if the Federal Circuit requires a
link to consumer demand during pre-trial proceedings, that
standard shouldn’t apply once a jury or judge finds that the
patent is infringed. Patents grant owners the right to exclude
others from using their inventions.  “Although the jury awarded Apple a significant damages
verdict, the district court correctly found that Samsung’s
deliberate and wide-ranging infringement had harmed Apple’s
standing in the marketplace in ways that money cannot repair,”
Apple said. “The denial of a permanent injunction allows
Samsung to continue its attempts to attract Apple’s customers
through deliberate copying, with a damages award being merely a
cost of doing business.”  The case is Apple Inc. v.  Samsung Electronics Co. (005930) , 13-1129,
U.S. Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit ( Washington ). The
case is Apple Inc. v. Samsung Electronics Co. Ltd., 11-cv-01846,
U.S. District Court, Northern District of  California  ( San Jose ).  The Galaxy Nexus case is Apple Inc. v. Samsung Electronics
Co., 12-1507, U.S. Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit
(Washington). The lower court case is Apple Inc. v. Samsung
Electronics Co., 12-630, U.S. District Court for the District of
California (San Jose).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Susan Decker in Washington at 
 sdecker1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  