-- Army Told to Pick Combat-Vehicle Contractor Next Year
-- B y   T o n y   C a p a c c i o
-- 2013-01-17T22:18:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-17/army-told-to-pick-combat-vehicle-contractor-next-year.html
The Army must choose a single
contractor next year to complete development and build the
service’s Ground Combat Vehicle, a potential $32 billion
program, according to the Pentagon’s top weapons buyer.  BAE Systems Plc (BA/)  and  General Dynamics Corp. (GD)  have been
competing to produce the tank-like replacement for the Bradley
Fighting Vehicle. Previous plans called for both companies to
continue development work beyond 2014, after which one would
probably have been selected for the production phase.  “The combination of fiscal pressures and the need for
additional development time led” to the change of plans,
Defense Undersecretary for Acquisition Frank Kendall wrote in a
directive issued today. The revision will save as much as $4
billion through 2018, according to a Jan. 9 memo Kendall sent to
Deputy Defense Secretary  Ashton Carter .  The Army plans to buy 1,904 of the combat vehicles,
according to a Government Accountability Office report. The
Pentagon estimates they will cost as much as $17 million apiece,
according to the  Congressional Research Service .  In his “acquisition decision memo” today, Kendall also
directed a six-month extension to the current 24-month
“technology demonstration” phase that began in late 2011.  The extension provides for testing of competing
technologies through the use of prototypes. That’s a tenet of
Kendall’s new “Better Buying Power 2.0” initiative.  ‘Fiscal Pressures’  After that, Kendall said, the Army will select a contractor
to conduct the next phase, called “engineering and
manufacturing” development, and then produce the vehicle.  The Army had planned to keep both London-based BAE and
Falls Church, Virginia-based General Dynamics through the
engineering and manufacturing phase and select a contractor
later for production.  Army spokesman Matthew Bourke said in an e-mail that the
next phase “was built so that any industry team,” not only BAE
and General Dynamics, “can submit a proposal, and we encourage
them to so.”  Kendall directed that the process to choose among the
competitors begin with release of a request for proposals
between Oct. 1 and Dec. 31.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony Capaccio in Washington at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  