-- Harry Winston Says Ekati Stakeholder Launchs Legal Suit
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   D o n v i l l e
-- 2013-01-17T21:26:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-17/harry-winston-says-ekati-stakeholder-launchs-legal-suit.html
Harry Winston  Diamond Corp. said a
minority stakeholder of the Ekati diamond mine sued to block the
company’s proposed acquisition of  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP) ’s 80 percent
share of the Canadian operation.  C. Fipke Holdings Ltd. alleged in an action in Ontario
Superior Court of Justice that offers made by BHP to Fipke
didn’t comply with Fipke’s rights under joint-venture agreements
for Ekati, Toronto-based Harry Winston said yesterday in a
statement. The suit also names Harry Winston, Stewart Blusson,
who is another minority owner, and Blusson-controlled  Archon (ACS) 
Minerals Ltd., according to the statement.  “If Chuck Fipke wants to buy Ekati, he wants to see the
same deal that Harry Winston received from BHP,”  John Hughes ,
an analyst at Desjardins Securities Inc. in Toronto, said
yesterday by telephone. “According to Fipke, what he received
does not comply with his rights.”  Harry Winston said Nov. 13 it had agreed to pay about $500
million for Melbourne-based BHP’s interests in the diamond mine
as well as gem-marketing operations. Minority shareholders held
pre-emptive rights to purchase BHP’s stake in the mine within 60
days in the event of a sale, BHP said in a separate statement on
Nov. 13.  Fipke and Blusson discovered the Ekati deposit in the
 Northwest Territories  in 1991.  ‘Vigorously Defend’  Blusson declined to comment about the substance of the
legal action when contacted yesterday by phone. Fipke didn’t
return a call seeking comment.  Harry Winston and BHP believe that the claim by C. Fipke,
known as Fipco, “is entirely without merit, and intend to
vigorously defend the action in order to proceed with the
purchase and sale of the Ekati mine,” Harry Winston said in the
statement.  Harry Winston  fell  2.2 percent to C$14.34 at the close in
Toronto yesterday, while Vancouver-based Archon dropped 15
percent to 71 cents.  As part of the suit, Fipco claims that Harry Winston’s
debt-financing arrangements for its acquisition of BHP’s
interests interfered with Fipco’s ability to arrange its own
financing, Harry Winston said in the statement.  “We believe that we have complied with our obligations
under the Right of First Refusal provision and will work to
resolve the dispute as soon as practical to ensure the sale
process can be completed,”  Ruban Yogarajah , a BHP spokesman,
said yesterday by e-mail.  Jewelry Unit  Earlier this week Harry Winston said it agreed to sell its
luxury-jewelry unit to  Swatch Group AG (UHR)  for $1 billion,
increasing the company’s reliance on diamond mining and helping
it finance the bid for BHP’s stake in Ekati.  The sale to Swatch will enable Harry Winston to complete
the Ekati acquisition “debt free,” Harry Winston Chief
Executive Officer Robert Gannicott, 65, said Jan. 14 in a phone
interview.  Gannicott also said his company is interested in buying the
60 percent stake of the Diavik diamond mine it doesn’t already
own from Rio Tinto Group.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Donville in Vancouver at 
 cjdonville@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net ;
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  