-- Arsenal to Make Move for West Ham’s Diame: Roundup
-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 2013-01-17T11:00:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-17/arsenal-to-make-move-for-west-ham-s-diame-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of soccer
stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable Internet links.  Liverpool Ignored  Liverpool’s attempts to re-sign attacker Tom Ince have been
put on hold because his current club Blackpool have stopped
taking calls from the Reds, the  Daily Mirror  reported.  Manager  Brendan Rodgers  had believed the 7 million-pound
($11.2 million) move to bring back the former Liverpool youth
player was a done deal but Blackpool Chairman Karl Oyston is
“playing hardball,” the Mirror said.  The deal that took the winger to the Seasiders included a
sell-on clause that reduces the amount Liverpool would need to
pay to re-sign him, the Mirror added.  48 Hours  Manchester United  will make an official bid for Crystal
Palace forward Wilfried Zaha in the next 48 hours, the  Daily
Mail reported .  United is confident it can get the 20-year-old for as
little as 6 million pounds, well below Palace’s original 20
million-pound valuation, according to the newspaper.  “He’s one of the players we are looking at, but it is far
from done,” United’s Chief Executive Officer David Gill told
Sky Sports News yesterday.  “Even if we did do something with Wilfried, that would be
for the summer,” he said.  Sandro Out  Tottenham midfielder Sandro may miss the remainder of the
season because of a knee injury, according to  the Sun .  Coach Andre Villas-Boas had said he thought Sandro would be
fit to play against Manchester United in three days after the
Brazilian twisted his knee in the team’s 0-0 draw at Queens Park
Rangers on Jan. 12.  Scans and an exploratory operation have shown the injury is
worse than first thought, the Sun said.  New Vidic?  Manchester United is scouting Benfica’s Ezequiel Garay as a
possible long-term replacement for aging center-backs Nemanja Vidic and  Rio Ferdinand , the  Daily Mail  reported.  Manager  Alex Ferguson  sent officials to watch the Argentine
in last weekend’s game against Porto after scouting him at two
other games this season, the newspaper said.  Benfica, which leads the Portuguese championship by three
points, may be forced to sell the 26-year-old because it can’t
continue to pay his salary, the Mail said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tariq Panja in London at 
 tpanja@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  