-- ASML Sales Forecast Trails Estimates After Orders Drop
-- B y   C o r n e l i u s   R a h n   a n d   F r e d   P a l s
-- 2013-01-17T16:52:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-17/asml-projects-sales-trailing-estimates-as-orders-drop.html
ASML Holding NV (ASML) ,  Europe ’s largest
semiconductor-equipment supplier, predicted 2013 sales that
trail analysts’ estimates after quarterly orders declined by
20 percent.  Sales, which slid 16 percent to 4.73 billion euros ($6.3
billion) in 2012, will probably be little changed this year, the
Veldhoven, Netherlands-based company said today, citing an
expected weak first half. Analysts  projected  that revenue would
rise to 5.2 billion euros, the average of 28 estimates compiled
by Bloomberg.  Chipmakers have curbed orders as personal-computer sales
fall, prompting a shift to production for handheld devices such
as mobile phones and tablet computers. ASML  agreed  to sell
stakes last year for a total of 3.85 billion euros to clients
including Samsung Electronics Co.,  Intel Corp. (INTC)  and Taiwan
Semiconductor Manufacturing Co. to speed development of costly
techniques to make smaller, more powerful chips.  ASML declined to the lowest intraday price in Amsterdam
trading since Nov. 26 before surging as Taiwan Semiconductor,
the world’s largest contract manufacturer of chips, issued a
forecast on using the smaller chips. Hsinchu-based TSMC
projected today that it would make more 20-nanometer chips by
2015 than its current production of 28-nanometer nodes.  Chip Demand  ASML rose 7.4 percent to 51.49 euros as Bank of America
Merrill Lynch raised its recommendation to buy, saying the
Taiwanese company’s plans will boost demand for ASML hardware.
KLA-Tencor Corp., Lam Research Corp. and Cymer Inc., suppliers
for the semiconductor industry, also rose after the forecast.
TSMC also reported today that profit gained 32 percent in the
fourth quarter on demand for new mobile devices from Apple Inc.,
Samsung and  HTC Corp. (2498)   ASML gained 48 percent last year, making it the  fourth-best 
performer in the 17-company Euro Stoxx Technology Index. Santa
Clara, California-based competitor  Applied Materials Inc. (AMAT) 
advanced 6.8 percent in the period.  Fourth-quarter orders, which exclude machines using new
technology called extreme ultraviolet lithography, or EUV, fell
from the previous three months to 667 million euros, ASML said.
That missed analyst estimates of 850 million euros at Liberum
Capital Ltd. and 892 million euros at UBS AG.  “A disappointing outlook, flat sales for this year are
worse than we expected,” said Philip Scholte, an analyst at
Rabobank International in the Dutch city of Utrecht.  PC Shipments  This week, research firm Gartner Inc. said global PC
shipments dropped 4.9 percent in the fourth quarter from a year
earlier to 90.4 million units as consumers switch to tablets and
smartphones.  There is no indication that the market for tablets and
smartphones will slow this year, ASML Chief Financial Officer
Peter Wennink said in an interview today. The market for 20-
nanometer nodes will be driven by demand for phones capable of
using fast 4G networks, he said.  Under an investment program begun in July, ASML will
accelerate development of EUV technology. In October, it agreed
to buy  Cymer Inc. (CYMI)  for 1.95 billion euros to gain additional
technology for that purpose.  Funds from selling the stakes, which total 23 percent,
should help ASML step up the transition to a new chipmaking
standard that relies on 450-millimeter disks of silicon,
compared with the current 300-millimeter standard, a shift that
will enable manufacturers to produce more chips faster.  EUV Orders  ASML is in talks with four customers about selling EUV
systems in 2014, and expects to receive orders of eight to 12
machines “over the next couple of months,” CFO Wennink said in
a video message shared by the company. A pledge to start
shipping tools enabling 69 wafers an hour has “a lot more
solidity than it had a couple of months ago,” he said.  Global sales of devices such as personal computers,
tablets, mobile phones and printers may grow 6.3 percent this
year to $666 billion, Gartner said Jan. 3. The research firm had
earlier predicted growth of 7.9 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cornelius Rahn in Berlin at 
 crahn2@bloomberg.net ;
Fred Pals in Amsterdam at 
 fpals@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  