-- Massachusetts Governor Seeks Wage Tax Boost, Sale Tax Cut
-- B y   T e d   B u n k e r
-- 2013-01-17T02:00:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-17/massachusetts-governor-seeks-wage-tax-boost-sale-tax-cut.html
Governor  Deval Patrick  asked
Massachusetts lawmakers to raise the income-tax rate for the
first time in two decades and cut the sales levy, saying the
changes would make the system fairer while helping to pay for $2
billion in education and transportation initiatives.  The current flat rate of 5.25 percent on wages should climb
to 6.25 percent, Patrick, 56, said yesterday in a televised
speech to lawmakers in Boston. At the same time, the Democrat
asked for a cut in the 6.25 percent sales tax to 4.5 percent.  “From good jobs to good schools to good communities,
creating opportunity is at the center of our best work,”
Patrick said. He said the changes would be used to help pay for
his proposals to expand education and improve transportation
systems needed for economic development.  Patrick is following a path taken by Democratic governors
 Jerry Brown  in  California  and  Martin O’Malley  in  Maryland , who
sought and won tax increases last year. In November, voters in
the Golden State backed a temporary boost in the top income levy
to 13.3 percent, while in Annapolis, lawmakers passed O’Malley’s
5.75 percent top rate in May, up from 5.5 percent.  “If we want to accelerate growth and expand opportunity
throughout the  commonwealth , we have to invest more,” Patrick
said. “Opportunity requires growth. And growth requires
investment.”  New Revenue  “Meeting those needs demands new revenue,” Patrick said.  Under his proposal, the governor would also double the
personal exemption for taxpayers and eliminate some itemized
deductions, to make the system fairer, according to his prepared
text. He didn’t say which deductions would be eliminated.  The last increase in the state income-tax rate occurred in
1991, when it rose to 6.25 percent from 5.95 percent, according
to the Massachusetts Taxpayers Foundation in Boston. It began to
fall in 2000, with the most recent reduction coming last year,
to 5.25 percent from 5.3 percent in 2011.  Patrick would channel all sales-tax revenue into a new
public works fund, to be used for transit systems, roads and
school buildings. The governor engineered a 25 percent jump in
the  state sales tax , to 6.25 cents on the dollar from 5 cents,
in 2009, his first year in office.  Rebounding Economy  Following a slight decline in 2009, when the nation was
mired in the longest recession since World War II, the state’s
economy  expanded  8.6 percent by 2011, data compiled by Bloomberg
show. After peaking at 8.7 percent following the slump, the
Massachusetts jobless rate  stands  at 6.6 percent, more than 2
percentage points lower than the national average.  In a Jan. 14 speech on transportation issues, Patrick said
the $1 billion revenue increase he seeks would provide
additional funding for current operations and pay for mass-
transit expansion and road construction. He said the work would
support economic growth and job creation.  Patrick called for boosting education spending by $550
million in fiscal 2014, which begins in July, and by almost $1
billion annually over the next four years, in a Jan. 15 speech
at a  Boston  school. He said the funds would be used to expand
programs from preschool to college, to help keep the state
competitive as a place for businesses to locate and grow.  “The economy is not like the weather; it is not some
natural force that is beyond our control, something where we
have to wait for others to predict or explain,” Patrick told
lawmakers yesterday. “What we choose to do, and not to do,
shapes our future.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ted Bunker in Boston at 
 tbunker1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for the story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net . 