-- Aston Martin Seeks Development Partner to Build Engines
-- B y   T o m m a s o   E b h a r d t   a n d   D o r o t h e e   T s c h a m p a
-- 2013-01-17T11:02:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-17/aston-martin-seeks-development-partner-to-build-engines.html
Aston Martin , the British maker of
 sports cars  featured in  James Bond movies , is in talks with
potential partners to jointly develop high-end engines and
electronic parts to strengthen its sports-car lineup.  Aston Martin is holding discussions with  Daimler AG (DAI)  and
other manufacturers, and aims to reach an agreement within the
next two months, Investindustrial Chairman  Andrea Bonomi , whose
company recently bought a stake in the British manufacturer,
told reporters in Milan today.  Aston Martin intends to invest 500 million pounds ($800
million) over the next four years to develop the brand, Bonomi
said at an event on the future of the Italian auto industry.  Aston Martin is the sole global luxury-car brand that
doesn’t belong to a larger manufacturing group making it harder
for the Gaydon, Warwick-based company to cover development
costs. Investindustrial, a European private equity fund based in
London, agreed last month to acquire a 37.5 percent holding for
190 million euros ($254 million) in a capital increase.  The deal gave Aston Martin, which is celebrating its
centenary this year, much needed cash to compete with  Volkswagen
AG (VOW) ’s Bentley and  Fiat SpA (F) ’s Ferrari and Maserati.  “We don’t comment on any speculation,” Silke Walters, a
Daimler spokeswoman, said by phone today when asked about a
possible cooperation.  Investment Dar Co. remains the major shareholder in Aston
Martin, which the Kuwaiti sovereign wealth fund bought with a
group of investors from  Ford Motor Co. (F)  in 2007 for 503 million
pounds.  Investindustrial has a track record of turning around high-
end vehicle manufacturers, selling Italian motorcycle maker
Ducati to VW’s Audi last year. Investindustrial plans to remain
an Aston Martin shareholder for at least 10 years to rebuild the
brand, Bonomi said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tommaso Ebhardt in Milan at 
 tebhardt@bloomberg.net ;
Dorothee Tschampa in Frankfurt at 
 dtschampa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  