-- Aston Martin $280,000 Vanquish Battles for Beauty Prize
-- B y   J a s o n   H .   H a r p e r
-- 2013-01-17T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-17/aston-martin-280-000-vanquish-battles-for-beauty-prize.html
A sound approaches. At first it’s a
high-pitched keen, then it gets closer and you can hear the
lower reverberations, the snarl of the thing. Something wicked
this way comes.  A group of onlookers stand on pit row, waiting to see the
brand new sports car from Aston Martin make its virgin circuit
on the New Orleans racetrack NOLA Motorsports Park. When it
appears, bright orange paint job glowing in the sunlight, it’s
moving fast.  The coupe makes a hard turn, slinging around a tight
circular corner, then whooshes by. This is the Vanquish,
$282,100 worth of exotic English machinery.  As soon as the car glides into pit lane I jam on my helmet
and hustle inside. I’m very curious to see how the new top-of-
the-line Aston handles out here. I’ve had a DB9 and 12-cylinder
Vantage on the racetrack, and neither felt exactly at home.  Off-the-lot Aston Martins are most likely to be found
slipstreaming through the Alps or perhaps squiring A-listers
around the Hollywood Hills.  Supercar Rivals  The Gaydon, U.K.-based company simply doesn’t have the
developmental dollars to keep up with the Joneses of the
supercar world -- that is, the Ferraris and McLarens.  The very
expensive Vanquish takes four seconds to reach 60 miles per
hour, which is positively bovine in this rarefied set.  Yet, to my mind, the zero-to-60 disparity is mostly
irrelevant. Aston Martins are pitter-patter, be-still-my-
beating-heart beautiful.  The elegant roadsters, grand-touring coupes and lithe four-
door unmistakably arise from the same DNA. Every time I pilot an
Aston, I feel a little more charming, a bit more sophisticated
-- and richer. Definitely richer.  The Vanquish has done away with Aston’s previous top-of-
the-line grand touring car, the DBS. The short-lived Virage
model has also disappeared.  I loved the lines of the DBS. I’ve spent hours simply
admiring the angles as the light changes throughout the day. The
Vanquish is less feminine, the lines leaner, the musculature
wirier.  Costly Options  Yet the details on the Vanquish are fabulous. You can
quickly add to the base $280,000 price by selecting special
paint and rims, exposed carbon-fiber details and sumptuous
leathers.  To illustrate those bank account-deflating options, the
company brought a selection of Vanquishes to the track. One with
mean black rims; another with an exposed carbon-fiber roof and
door handles. And another outfitted with an outrageous red
leather interior. Body paint colors include that fun satin
orange, a rather odd blue and the obligatory white.  The cabin wraps around you pleasingly. The leather and
stitching are dazzling. You can get diamond patterns, welts and
other assorted designs, making up to a million stitches. That
number, says the company, is not hyperbole.  Fortunately the seats are actually nice to sit in. The
front ones, anyhow. There’s a space in the rear with available
“seats,” best suited for your briefcase.  Improved Navigation  The Vanquish also gets a new navigation and infotainment
system, which is half good news. The previous system was utterly
untenable. This new one has a smarter interface, but the
graphics and general usability are only nominally better.  There’s a stab of sound as the 6.0-liter V-12 fires up, a
tremor through the aluminum and carbon-fiber frame. The
naturally-breathing engine puts out 565 horsepower and 457
pound-feet of torque.  No manual transmission is offered. Paddles mounted on the
steering column control the six forward gears, though the
paddles themselves aren’t long enough. You can’t really get to
them when the steering wheel is turned.  The steering itself is still a rack-and-pinion hydraulic
system. Old school and perfect. I imagine that the engineers
spent a tediously long time calibrating the tactile feel. It’s
direct, with good feedback. A finely tuned instrument.  In fact, that goes for the whole car.  Superb Handling  The Vanquish is surprisingly race-worthy, pushing out of
corners with a wiggle of the rear. The torque of the V-12 seems
to be right where you want it, always.  This coupe is a showcase of the glories of a well-balanced
rear-wheel-drive car. One without turbos or too many intervening
digital systems. This is the type of ride that enthusiasts have
enjoyed since the birth of sports cars.  Aston also gifted it with carbon ceramic brakes, which pull
it down from triple-digit speeds with surety.  The suspension includes an active damping system, with
modes for touring, sport and the track. While in track mode, the
car barely leans, even under aggressive cornering.  The ride is awfully firm even in touring mode, however, and
there’s not a lot of give in the 20-inch  Pirelli (PC)  tires. Great
elements on the track, not so great on the bumps and cracks on
many American roads.  Nonetheless, most of the select car lovers who can afford
the darn thing will happily live with that rather uncompromising
character. Aston Martin was not playing around when it created
the latest Vanquish. It is a wicked, pretty thing.  The 2014 Aston Martin Vanquish at a Glance  Engine: 6.0-liter V-12 with 565 horsepower and 457 pound-  feet of torque.  Transmission: Six-speed automated manual.  Speed: 0 to 60 mph in four seconds.  Gas mileage per gallon: 13 city, 19 highway.  Price as tested: $300,000.  Best features: Beautiful exterior and interior details;  drives like an old-school sports car.  Worst feature: Infotainment system is still lousy.  Target buyer: The car collector with an open garage spot  next to his Ferrari and McLaren.  (Jason H. Harper writes about autos for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of  Bloomberg News . The opinions expressed are
his own.)  Muse highlights include  Rich Jaroslovsky  on  tech  and Lance
Esplund on  art .  To contact the writer of this column:
Jason H. Harper at  Jason@JasonHharper.com  or follow on
Twitter @JasonHarperSpin.  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in  New York  at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 