-- Attanasio Bets on KKR in Move to Preferred From Junk
-- B y   D a v i d   H o l l e y
-- 2013-01-17T20:59:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-17/attanasio-buying-preferred-shares-for-first-time-as-yields-drop.html
Mark Attanasio ’s Crescent Capital
Group LP, known for investing in junk debt, is for the first
time buying preferred shares at companies such as  KKR Financial
Holdings LLC (KFN)  and Goldman Sachs Group Inc. in a search for higher
yields.  Crescent, an $11 billion money management firm, bought into
7.375 percent preferred equity shares, the equivalent of BB-
rated debt, that KKR offered Jan. 10, he said in an interview.
He also purchased 5.95 percent stock that Goldman Sachs first
issued Oct. 24.  “We’re looking for ways we can get above-market yield,”
Attanasio said about investing in preferred equities. “Macro
economic factors are very positive for equities.”  The move comes as corporate speculative-grade rated debt
yields 6.5 percent, the lowest rate ever, according to the  Bank
of America (BAC)  Merrill Lynch U.S. High Yield Master II index.
Equities are more attractive than bonds rated CCC because yield
on the debt does not provide enough compensation for the default
risk, Attanasio, who owns Major League Baseball’s Milwaukee
Brewers, told  Erik Schatzker  on Bloomberg Television’s “Market
Makers.”  More investors are beginning to turn to stocks after
withdrawing $375 billion from equity mutual funds since the
financial crisis began in 2007, according to data compiled by
EPFR Global. About $3.1 billion flowed into the funds during the
week ended Jan. 9, the most since the Cambridge, Massachusetts-
based research firm began tracking the industry in 2000.  Allied World Assurance Company Holdings AG (AWH) , the insurer and
reinsurer started by firms including American International
Group Inc., agreed earlier this month to take a minority stake
in Crescent Capital and invest $500 million in the asset
manager’s funds. The Zug, Switzerland-based insurer will invest
in assets including mezzanine debt, collateralized loans and
high-yield bonds.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Holley in  New York  at 
 dholley8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  