-- Aussie Yields Post Biggest Gain in 2 Weeks on China GDP
-- B y   K r i s t i n e   A q u i n o
-- 2013-01-18T06:03:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-17/aussie-dollar-set-for-third-weekly-gain-before-china-gdp.html
Australia ’s bonds fell, pushing the
benchmark 10-year yield up by the most in two weeks, after data
showed economic growth in China exceeded economist estimates,
supporting export prospects.  The rate on the three-year note also posted its biggest
one-day advance in two weeks amid gains in Chinese industrial
production and retail sales, boosting bets the  Reserve Bank  of
Australia will keep borrowing costs unchanged when officials
meet next month.  New Zealand ’s currency, known as the kiwi,
weakened following a report that showed an unexpected drop in
the nation’s  consumer prices .  “All signs point to a modest pickup in Chinese growth
towards the end of the year,” said  Michael Turner , a fixed-
income strategist in Sydney at Royal Bank of  Canada . “It
probably suggests the RBA will be comfortably on hold to
February, if not March, which should keep the upward bias to
yields in the near-term.”  Australia’s  10-year yield  rose 12 basis points, or 0.12
percentage point, to 3.41 percent at 5:01 p.m. in Sydney, the
biggest advance since Jan. 2. The rate on three-year securities
climbed 10 basis points to 2.81 percent, also the largest
increase since Jan. 2.  The Australian dollar fell 0.2 percent to $1.0522 and was
little changed at 94.76 yen. Its New Zealand counterpart dropped
0.1 percent to 83.57 U.S. cents and rose 0.1 percent to 75.26
yen.  Chinese Growth  Gross domestic product  in  China , Australia’s biggest
trading partner and New Zealand’s second-largest export
destination, rose 7.9 percent in the fourth quarter from a year
earlier, according to a report today by the National Bureau of
Statistics. That compared with the 7.8 percent median estimate
in a Bloomberg News survey and a 7.4 percent gain in the
previous period.  Industrial output in December rose a more-than-expected
10.3 percent from the prior year, while retail sales climbed
15.2 percent.  Interest-rate swaps  data compiled by Bloomberg show traders
see a 55 percent chance RBA Governor  Glenn Stevens  will keep
borrowing costs unchanged at 3 percent by the bank’s Feb. 5 rate
decision. That’s up from 43 percent odds a month ago. There’s an
86 percent probability the cash rate will fall to a record 2.75
percent or lower by the July 2 meeting, according to the
figures.  Bear Fodder  “The probability for a rate cut in February has been
reduced, but markets are still comfortably priced for more than
one easing in the coming months,” said  Sean Callow , a senior
currency strategist at  Westpac Banking Corp. (WBC)  in Sydney. “There
is still plenty of fodder for the Aussie dollar bears to focus
on.”  Australia’s statistics bureau will probably say on Jan. 23
that  consumer prices  in the South Pacific nation rose 0.4
percent in the three months through December, according to the
median forecast of economists surveyed by Bloomberg. That would
be the slowest pace since the first quarter of 2012 and compares
with a 1.4 percent advance in the previous period.  The so-called Aussie slid versus most of its 16 major
counterparts today and is headed for a 0.1 percent weekly
decline against its U.S. peer. New Zealand’s currency has lost
0.1 percent versus the greenback since Jan. 11.  Statistics New Zealand  said today  consumer prices declined 
0.2 percent in the three months through December after rising
0.3 percent in the previous quarter. The central bank expected a
0.1 percent advance, as did economists according to a Bloomberg
survey.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kristine Aquino in Singapore at 
 kaquino1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  