-- Australia Posts Worst Back-to-Back Job Growth Since ’97: Economy
-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 2013-01-17T03:36:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-17/australian-employers-unexpectedly-cut-jobs-lifting-unemployment.html
Australia’s unemployment  rate  rose
as the nation posted its worst back-to-back years of job growth
since the 1997 Asian financial crisis, throwing up an obstacle
in Prime Minister  Julia Gillard ’s re-election bid this year.  Payrolls advanced 148,300 last year after a  49,800 gain  in
2011 for a two-year increase that was the weakest since
1996-1997, government data compiled by Bloomberg show.
Unemployment rose to 5.4 percent last month as the number of
workers fell by 5,500 and may keep climbing after the economy
slowed in the second half of 2012.  Rising joblessness compounds the challenge to Gillard,
Australia’s first female leader, who trails in opinion polls.
She has credited the government’s economic stewardship for the
 Reserve Bank  of Australia’s decision to lower the benchmark
 interest rate  to a half-century low in a nation where about 90
percent of homeowners have adjustable  mortgage rates .  “We’re looking at slower employment growth on the path
ahead unless we see some sort of near-term traction from the
rate cuts in terms of incentivizing spending, but we’re yet to
see that,” said David de Garis, a senior economist at National
Australia Bank Ltd. in Melbourne, who predicts unemployment
could rise as high as 5.75 percent by mid-year.  The Australian dollar declined after the data, buying
$1.0499 at 2:32 p.m. in Sydney compared with $1.0567 before the
release. The yield on 10-year government debt was 3.31 percent
compared with 3.36 yesterday.  Opposition Reaction  Gillard’s opponent, Liberal-National coalition leader  Tony Abbott , seized on today’s data, citing it as further evidence of
poor economic management after Treasurer  Wayne Swan  said last
month the government was unlikely to meet its budget surplus
pledge for this fiscal year.  “A government which can’t get its own spending under
control can’t deliver the kind of strong economic management
that is necessary if we’re to have strong jobs growth,” Abbott
told reporters in Sydney today.  Even so, the December decline in employment was the first
drop in four months after employers added 40,400 jobs in the
September-to-November period.  “Employers aren’t keen to hire unless they have to, given
the global uncertainties,” said  Savanth Sebastian , an economist
in Sydney at a unit of  Commonwealth Bank of Australia . “But
while jobs are being lost in some industries, clearly they are
being created in other industries.”  Commodity Prices  Gillard’s government has been boosted by a rebound in the
commodity prices that drive Australia’s economy. The price of
 iron ore  has surged from a three-year low of $86.70 in September
as China rolls out infrastructure projects.  Increased confidence provided by a rebound in iron ore
prices is reflected in the decision by  Fortescue Metals Group
Ltd. (FMG)  to resume work on its Kings deposit in the Pilbara region
in the north of Western Australia state.  Gillard’s ruling  Labor party  narrowed the gap against the
opposition coalition in the first opinion poll of 2013. Labor
rose 3 percentage points to 49 percent on a two-party preferred
basis, with the coalition falling 3 points to 51 percent,
according to a Newspoll survey published Jan. 15 in the
Australian newspaper.  Today’s jobs report showed the number of full-time jobs
declined by 13,800 in December, and part-time employment rose by
8,300. Australia’s participation rate, a measure of the  labor
force  in proportion to the population, held at 65.1 percent in
December, it showed.  The MSCI Asia Pacific  Index (MXAP)  of equities climbed 0.2 percent
as of 11:45 a.m. in Tokyo.  Europe’s Economy  Elsewhere in Asia today, a report showed Singapore’s
exports fell in December from a year earlier, and Sri Lanka’s
central bank left its benchmark borrowing cost unchanged.  In Europe, the Netherlands will release unemployment data
and Switzlerland reports producer prices for December.  In the U.S., the number of building permits issued in
December probably rose 0.5 percent to a 905,000 annual rate,
economists predicted before government data today. Permits are a
proxy for future construction. A separate report may show fewer
Americans filed applications for  unemployment benefits  last
week, a survey of economists showed.  The Australian dollar has risen about 9 percent since June
1 last year, hurting industries including tourism and
manufacturing.  Building-materials company  Boral Ltd. (BLD)  announced this week
it will cut about 700 jobs in Australia to save about A$90
million ($95 million) annually.  BlueScope Steel Ltd. (BSL) ,
Australia’s largest steelmaker, said this week it will cut
production and jobs at its Western Port facility near Melbourne
to lower costs amid weaker demand.  Chinese Demand  Resource investment to meet Chinese demand and foreign
investment funds seeking a haven spurred gains in the local
currency, which has stayed above parity with the U.S. currency
for more than six months, its longest stretch above that
threshold on record.  The RBA lowered the cash rate to 3 percent on Dec. 4,
matching the level reached from April-October 2009 that was the
lowest since 1960. Traders are pricing in a 42 percent chance
the central bank will reduce the overnight cash rate target by a
quarter percentage point Feb. 5 to a record-low 2.75 percent,
swaps data compiled by Bloomberg show.  China’s economy  is set to exit a seven-quarter slowdown as
the government rolls out infrastructure projects and limited
inflation lets officials hold off from tightening monetary
policy.  The National Bureau of Statistics will report tomorrow that
China’s gross domestic product expanded 7.8 percent in the
fourth quarter from a year earlier, according to the median
estimate of 53 economists surveyed by  Bloomberg News . That’s up
from a three-year low of 7.4 percent in the previous period.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  