-- Automakers Strain Suppliers With 50% Surge in U.S. Intros
-- B y   J e f f   G r e e n   a n d   M a r k   C l o t h i e r
-- 2013-01-17T10:46:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-17/automakers-strain-suppliers-with-50-surge-in-u-s-intros.html
Automakers plan to introduce 61 new
or redesigned models in the U.S. this year, 50 percent more than
any year since 2006. While the resurgence gives consumers more
choices, suppliers could be hard-pressed to keep up.  “As the demand continues to heat up, we are potentially
looking at some areas of the market that could be running short
in terms of supply,” and delay the introduction of new models,
said  Jeff Schuster , senior vice president of forecasting at
Troy, Michigan-based LMC. “That really is where the risk is.
The buyer who wants to come in, they want a vehicle now.”  Auto parts suppliers cut thousands of workers and closed
factories during the industry’s collapse, and the survivors are
stretched after three years of at least 10 percent U.S. vehicle-
sales increases. Scarred by the recession, many are cautious
about adding engineering or manufacturing capacity. Adding to
the pressure, new models introductions may rise to 74 next year,
compared with 40 in a typical year, Schuster said.  “I get a sense that a number of companies have panicked a
little a bit, and they’re pushing product into the marketplace
just a little bit too early,” said Dennis DesRosier, president
of DesRosiers Automotive Consultants in Richmond Hill, Ontario.
Since accelerating production can lead to defects, he called
this month’s  Detroit auto show  the “riskiest” he has seen.  Many of the best-selling models of the 2013-14 product wave
were featured at the auto show this week.  General Motors Co. (GM) 
displayed new versions of its Chevy Silverado and GMC Sierra
pickups, which go on sale in the second quarter.  Toyota Motor
Corp. (7203)  showed a concept design for its next Corolla and Honda’s
Acura revealed its new MDX sport-utility vehicle.  More Coming  Late next year,  Ford Motor Co. (F)  will begin selling a new
version of its iconic F-Series, the top-selling U.S. vehicle
line for 31 years, and it teased pickup buyers this week with a
brawny, fuel-efficient concept truck. The Dearborn, Michigan-
based automaker is ramping up production of the Lincoln MKZ
midsize sedan, its turnaround car for the luxury brand.  Automakers are racing to brighten stale showrooms with new
models to attract the growing number of vehicle shoppers. Any
delay in the release of a new model, quality defect or shortage
of options can harm sales and give an advantage to competitors.  Chrysler Group LLC Chief Executive Officer  Sergio Marchionne  said this week the company erred in introducing the
Dodge Dart with only a manual transmission that was unpopular
with U.S. drivers. Ford had four recalls on its redesigned
Escape SUV and two on its new 2013 Fusion sedan last year.  ‘Quality Slips’  Automakers will remain under pressure to keep their
products fresh because new models “age very, very quickly” and
then they must rely on expensive incentives to keep sales going,
Jeremy Anywl, vice chairman of Edmunds.com, said in an interview
at the  Detroit  auto show. So even though it’s risky, the car
companies have to keep pushing, he said.  “I think there’s definitely going to be problems,” he
said. “The big thing to see is with quality. Where car company
suppliers are really pushing to maintain the volume, sometimes
quality slips. We’ve seen that happen.”  The ripple effects of downturn and recovery on the supply
base have created challenges throughout the industry, including
Ford, CEO  Alan Mulally  told reporters this week after discussing
recalls of the Escape SUV.  Suppliers “really had to restructure,” he told reporters
after a speech at the Automotive News World Congress in Detroit.
“So the issues that we’re seeing are mainly associated with
them just being able to go back up and come back up.”  Growing Demand  U.S. auto sales may climb this year to 15.1 million, the
average of 18 estimates in a Bloomberg survey of analysts, from
14.5 million in 2012. The industry is benefiting from consumers
replacing cars and trucks that are, on average, the oldest ever
on U.S. roads. The gain would be the fourth in a row since the
2009 U.S. government rescue of GM and Chrysler.  The U.S. auto industry will produce roughly the same number
of vehicles as in 2007 with nearly 100,000 fewer employees,
according to the Original Equipment Supplier Association, a
trade group for parts makers. That includes the roughly 100,000
jobs auto suppliers have added in the U.S. since 2009.  More suppliers this year anticipate manufacturing capacity
constraints, overtime pay for production workers and shortages
of skilled labor, according to a survey of parts makers by the
OESA released this week. Supply constraints will probably be
concentrated in materials, engine components, electronics and
capital equipment, respondents said.  Select Shortages  U.S. auto suppliers are using 82 percent of their
production capacity, according to a November OESA study.  For some parts, including those that require casting and
forging, capacity utilization may exceed 90 percent, said Jeoff
Burris, founder of Advanced Purchasing Dynamics Inc., a
Plymouth, Michigan-based consulting firm that works with auto
suppliers to improve purchasing.  “It’s commodity by commodity where you’re running into the
issues,” Burris said in a telephone interview. “Some foundries
have been taken off line and dismantled and some still haven’t
been able to get back up to peak capacity. That’s creating
issues.”  Demand for auto parts is keeping suppliers busy and driving
up stock prices.  Delphi Automotive Plc (DLPH)  forecast it will top last
year’s $24 billion in future business, with new contracts from
companies such as  Volkswagen AG (VOW)  and Bayerische Motoren Werke AG.
The Troy, Michigan-based company’s stock gained 78 percent last
year and on Jan. 2 reached a post-bankruptcy high.  Factory Jobs  BorgWarner Inc. (BWA) ’s $2.3 billion backlog from 2013 through
2015 helped the  Auburn Hills , Michigan-based maker of
turbochargers rise 19 percent over the past six months. That’s
more than double the 8.8 percent gain of the Standard & Poor’s
500 Index.  Job-creating investments also follow.  Denso Corp. (6902) , the
Kariya, Japan-based partsmaker 23 percent owned by Toyota, said
this week it plans to invest $750 million in the U.S. over the
next four years to meet demand for parts such as auto-climate
systems and radiators, adding more than 1,200 jobs in  Michigan ,
 Tennessee ,  Iowa ,  North Carolina  and  California . Denso reached a
four-year high this week.  The concern about lack of capacity is in stark contrast to
the situation a decade ago, when overcapacity was the main
problem for the industry, said Dave Andrea, a senior vice
president with the OESA trade group.  Painful Memories  “There are fresh memories of 2008 and 2009,” he said.
“People are going to be very cautious of how they ramp up
capacity.”  The industry will be able to handle whatever volume is
required, Andrea said. The issue is how expensive it becomes if
there are delays that require expedited freight costs or
shortages make some options not available, he said.  “We have fewer suppliers, we have less management talent,
less engineering talent inside those suppliers, so it makes it
that much more difficult to do even the same number of
launches,” said Kimberly Rodriguez, a principal at  KPMG ’s auto-
consulting business in Detroit. “That speed creates its own
problems, backs things up, particularly if the suppliers can’t
deliver.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jeff Green  in Southfield, Michigan at 
 jgreen16@bloomberg.net ;
Mark Clothier in Detroit at 
 mclothier@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  