-- Lawmakers Demand Health Data From Energy Drink Companies
-- B y   D r e w   A r m s t r o n g
-- 2013-01-17T21:09:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-17/lawmakers-demand-health-data-from-energy-drink-companies.html
Three Democratic U.S. lawmakers sent
 letters  to 14 energy drink makers, including  Monster Beverage
Corp. (MNST) , Living Essentials LLC and Red Bull GmbH demanding
information about the drinks and potential health problems.  The lawmakers want to know whether the companies consider
the drinks food products or energy supplements. They also asked
in the  letters  dated today how much caffeine and other
stimulants are in the products, and whether the companies have
conducted studies about the health effects of their products.  “Energy drink companies need to be clear with consumers
about what they think their product is, what it contains, and
what it can do,” Representative Ed Markey of  Massachusetts , who
sent the letters with Senator Richard Blumenthal of  Connecticut 
and Senator Dick Durbin of  Illinois , said in a statement.  U.S. regulators including the Food and Drug Administration
have been investigating the drinks after they were linked to
deaths and hospitalizations. The agency is looking into whether
the drinks can cause harm when consumed in excess or by young
people or those with pre-existing heart conditions.  Shares of Corona, California-based Monster  fell  1.4 percent
to $49.84 at the close in New York.  Based on the review, the agency may move to regulate the
product’s use or labeling. The FDA said it will also look into
whether the drinks’ ingredients in addition to caffeine are
safe. The agency said it hadn’t seen concerns with two main
additives, taurine and guarana.  Monster drinks have been linked to five deaths, while 5-
Hour Energy products, made by Living Essentials LLC, have each
been associated with 13 in adverse event  reports  submitted to
the FDA in a period from Jan. 1, 2004, to Oct. 23, 2012.
Rockstar Inc. and Red Bull energy drinks haven’t been connected
to any deaths. All four brands were cited in relation to side
effects such as increased heart rate and abdominal pain.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Drew Armstrong in New York at 
 darmstrong17@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net  