-- Mayors Seek to Prevent Changes to U.S. Muni-Bond Tax Break
-- B y   W i l l i a m   S e l w a y
-- 2013-01-17T18:01:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-17/mayors-seek-to-prevent-elimination-of-u-s-muni-bond-tax-break.html
U.S. mayors urged President  Barack Obama  and Congress not to curb tax breaks given to investors in
the $3.7 trillion municipal-bond market, saying it would
increase borrowing costs and hurt the economy.  Obama has proposed limiting the value of the tax-exemption
given to top-earners. At the beginning of their annual meeting
in Washington, the nation’s mayors said they will fight any
changes to the tax-treatment of their securities, which could
lead investors to demand higher yields.  “It is one of our top priorities,” Philadelphia Mayor
Michael Nutter, a Democrat, told reporters today at a news
conference. “We need the municipal-bond market to be strong. We
need to make sure it’s accessible to as many people as
possible.”  State and city officials, and investors, have expressed
concern that the pressure in  Washington  to raise revenue could
lead Congress to target the century-old tax break. Local
officials rely on the municipal-bond market to raise money for
public works projects, such as schools, roads and water systems.  Obama has previously proposed capping the value of  tax
deductions , including interest from state and local government
bonds, for families earning more than $250,000 a year. The
proposal hasn’t advanced in Congress and wasn’t part of an
agreement passed by Congress that prevented tax increases and
spending cuts from kicking in at the start of the year.  Market Drop  The municipal market’s value may drop by $200 billion under
Obama’s 28 percent deduction cap for top earners,  George Friedlander , a Citigroup Inc. senior municipal strategist, said
last month. The bank estimated that investors would demand at
least a 0.6 percentage point increase in tax-exempt yields to
make up for reduced effective earnings.  Mesa,  Arizona , Mayor  Scott Smith , a Republican, said
Congress may target the municipal-securities tax break as it
tries to curb the federal  budget deficit . Congress faces
deadlines in the next few months over spending cuts, the debt
ceiling and the annual budget.  The mayors will fight to protect the tax-exemption, which
holds down the cost of public projects that spur local
economies, he said.  “It doesn’t create jobs if you’re limiting infrastructure
projects,” Smith said.  “This is our life blood. It’s not one
of the sexiest issues, but it’s one we will continue to
hammer.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
William Selway in Washington at 
 wselway@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  