-- Bank Islam Malaysia Suspends Chief Economist for Policy Breach
-- B y   C h o n g   P o o i   K o o n
-- 2013-01-17T05:56:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-17/bank-islam-malaysia-suspends-chief-economist-for-policy-breach.html
Bank Islam Malaysia Bhd. , the
country’s oldest Shariah-compliant lender, said it suspended
chief economist Azrul Azwar Ahmad Tajudin for allegedly
breaching the bank’s internal policies.  Azrul, a member of opposition leader  Anwar Ibrahim ’s
People’s Justice Party, predicted Prime Minister Najib Razak
would narrowly lose Malaysia’s upcoming general election at a
forum in  Singapore  last week, the  Straits Times  reported Jan. 11.
In a separate article yesterday, the newspaper cited the
economist as saying he was called in by the bank’s management on
Jan. 14 to discuss his election prediction.  “The nature of the breaches would be established upon the
completion of our investigations,” Bank Islam said in an e-
mailed statement yesterday. “While we reiterate that Azrul’s
political views and his comments should not be associated with
the bank, we would like to stress that the suspension is not
related to his voicing his personal political views.”  Azrul didn’t immediately respond to three mobile phone
calls and text messages from  Bloomberg News  seeking comment
today. The alleged policy breaches weren’t specified by Bank
Islam, part of Kuala Lumpur-listed  BIMB Holdings Bhd. (BIMB) , in the
statement.  The prime minister must dissolve parliament by April 28 for
polls. Azrul forecast that the National Front could win as few
as 97 of the 222 parliamentary seats in the poll, according to
the Straits Times report.  Najib’s National Front coalition is seeking to hold on to
power after ruling Malaysia since independence in 1957. In
the last election in 2008, the governing parties lost the two-
thirds majority in Parliament they had held for four decades.
Anwar’s opposition alliance currently controls four out of the
country’s 13 states, including Selangor and Penang.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chong Pooi Koon in Kuala Lumpur at 
 pchong17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Barry Porter in  Kuala Lumpur  at 
 bporter10@bloomberg.net  