-- Barclays Is Sued in Germany Over Kiener’s K1 Fund Ponzi-Scheme
-- B y   K a r i n   M a t u s s e k
-- 2013-01-17T16:23:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-17/barclays-is-sued-in-germany-over-kiener-s-k1-fund-ponzi-scheme.html
Barclays (BARC)  Plc was sued in Germany by
investors who lost money in the 345-million euro ($460 million)
Ponzi-scheme fraud by Helmut Kiener’s K1 hedge fund.  About 150 suits over so-called X1 and K1 certificates were
filed at courts in Frankfurt and Munich, Klaus Nieding, a lawyer
for the plaintiffs, said in an e-mailed statement today. When
issuing certificates on the underlying Kiener indexes, Barclays
failed to properly review the K1 products, said Andreas Tilp,
another lawyer working on the cases.  K1 Group founder Helmut Kiener was convicted in 2011 of
defrauding investors and sentenced to 10 years and eight months
in prison after confessing to using new investors’ money to make
up for losses in the wake of the financial crisis. Barclays and
 BNP Paribas (BNP)  SA lost a combined 223 million euros and private
investors lost about 122 million euros, German prosecutors said
at the time.  “Barclays in a big way distributed so called X1-
certificates by Kiener,” Nieding said. “We estimate the total
volume of certificates with Kiener products issued by Barclays
at 300 to 400 million euros.”  Germany’s Manager Magazin reported the suits earlier today.  Jon Laycock, a spokesman for London-based Barclays said the
claims in the lawsuits are “wholly without merit.”  “The German courts have found in Barclays’ favor in all
decisions to date with a recognition that Barclays is also a
victim of the Kiener fraud,” Laycock said in an e-mailed
statement.  K1’s funds are being liquidated in the British Virgin
Islands. Kiener’s personal assets were placed in insolvency
proceedings in  Germany . X1 Fund Allocation GmbH, a Hamburg-based
K1 company, was put under administration in 2009. Barclays
issued notes in 2005 and 2007 with X1 Fund Allocation as the
investment manager.  The Frankfurt court was asked to bundle the suits under a
procedure that allows handling them as a single case. An
additional 220 claims were started in an out-of-court mediation
procedure, said Nieding. Those cases could eventually be added
to the pending suits, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karin Matussek in Berlin at 
 kmatussek@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@Bloomberg.net . 