-- Barclays CEO Jenkins Tells Workers to Follow New Rules or Leave
-- B y   H o w a r d   M u s t o e
-- 2013-01-17T10:59:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-17/barclays-ceo-jenkins-tells-workers-to-follow-new-rules-or-leave.html
Barclays Plc (BARC)  Chief Executive Officer
 Antony Jenkins  told employees he expects them to stick to his
new rules on ethics or quit as he seeks to steer the bank from
scandals that forced out his predecessor.  In a letter to employees today, Jenkins said senior bankers
will be judged against the new values starting this summer and
all staff within the next year. The letter was seen by Bloomberg
and confirmed by officials at the U.K.’s second-largest bank by
assets.  “There might be some who don’t feel they can fully buy in
to an approach which so squarely links performance to the
upholding of our values,” Jenkins, 51, wrote. “My message to
those people is simple: Barclays is not the place for you.”  Jenkins, named CEO in August, will present his plan for
Barclays next month, including a review of which parts of the
company will be sold or shrunk as it seeks to boost
profitability and overhaul its culture. London-based Barclays
was fined 290 million pounds ($465 million) in June by U.S. and
U.K. regulators for manipulating the London interbank offered
rate, leading to the departure of former CEO  Robert Diamond .  Saying that he “can’t pretend that 2013 will be an easy
year,” Jenkins told his 139,000 employees the bank must think
more about its customers and about longer-term success.  “We must never again be in a position of rewarding people
for making the bank money in a way which is unethical or
inconsistent with our values,” Jenkins said.  The letter follows one in September in which he said
performance would be measured against the firm’s values as well
as financial performance.  “Over a period of almost 20 years, banking became too
aggressive, too focused on the short term, too disconnected from
the needs of our customers and clients, and wider society,”
Jenkins wrote in today’s letter. “We were not immune at
Barclays from these mistakes.”  Sky News  reported the memo earlier today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Howard Mustoe in London at 
 hmustoe@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  