-- BayernLB Said to Work With SocGen to Sell LBLUX Division
-- B y   N i c h o l a s   C o m f o r t   a n d   A a r o n   K i r c h f e l d
-- 2013-01-17T23:01:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-17/bayernlb-said-to-work-with-socgen-to-sell-lblux-division.html
Bayerische Landesbank  hired  Societe
Generale SA (GLE)  to pursue a sale of its Banque LBLUX corporate and
private banking unit in Luxembourg, three people with knowledge
of the matter said.  LBLUX has 300 million euros to 400 million euros ($534
million) in equity and may fetch about that much in a sale, said
two of the people, who asked not to be identified because the
matter is private. Banks and private-equity firms have been
invited to express interest next month, one of the people said.  BayernLB is selling businesses to shrink by about half
compared with 2008 levels under conditions set by European Union
regulators for a taxpayer-funded bailout. The European
Commission said in July that the lender must also repay 5
billion euros in state aid and avoid acquisitions and dividends.  LBLUX reduced its balance sheet to less than 6 billion
euros at the end of last year from 12 billion euros in 2008,
said the people. The unit has  wealth management  and corporate
banking operations and offers treasury and securities services,
according to information on its  website .  Matthias Luecke, a spokesman for Munich-based BayernLB,
declined to comment on the matter.  BayernLB started the sale of its GBW AG real estate unit in
October to help satisfy an order by the EU and to take advantage
of rising demand for German property assets. The lender has
selected a short list of bidders for the second round and GBW’s
32,000 homes in Bavaria may fetch more than 1 billion euros,
said one of the people.  The bank sold its DKB Immobilien AG real estate unit to
Hamburg-based  TAG Immobilien AG (TEG)  for 160 million euros last year.  BayernLB, majority-owned by the German state of Bavaria,
received 10 billion euros in capital and a 4.8 billion-euro risk
shield from the state’s government, as well as 15 billion euros
in guarantees from  Germany ’s bank-rescue fund, to save it from a
collapse in 2008.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nicholas Comfort in Frankfurt at 
 ncomfort1@bloomberg.net ;
Aaron Kirchfeld in London at 
 akirchfeld@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net ;
Jacqueline Simmons at 
 jackiem@bloomberg.net  