-- BBVA Eliminates 24 Banking Jobs in New York, Transfers 40
-- B y   M a n u e l   B a i g o r r i   a n d   V e r o n i c a   N a v a r r o   E s p i n o s a
-- 2013-01-18T12:56:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-17/bbva-eliminates-24-banking-jobs-in-new-york-transfers-40.html
Banco Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria SA (BBVA) ,
Spain’s second-biggest bank, has eliminated 24 banking jobs from
its New York office and has offered to transfer 40 others to
Houston as it reduces its workforce in the U.S.  BBVA, as the Spanish lender based in Bilbao is known, is
cutting its investment banking workforce in New York, a
spokeswoman for the bank said yesterday, asking not to be named
in line with company policy. The bankers let go included members
of its mergers and acquisitions team, said four other people,
who asked not to be named as they were not authorized to speak
to the media.  The job cuts follow the recent departure of Sandy Salgado,
former head of corporate and investment banking in New York,
according to two of the people. BBVA, which had almost 300
bankers in that division in the city at the end of last year,
has now split Salgado’s role, naming Juan Pablo Jimeno as head
of global markets USA, and David Powell as head of global
clients, one of the people said.  BBVA joins banks around the world that are reducing their
workforce. The Spanish bank saw its credit rating  downgraded 
three times last year by Standard & Poor’s from A+ to BBB-, one
step above junk, causing the bank to lose business, two of the
people said.  Earnings Decline  Activity at BBVA’s corporate and investment banking
division has been declining as lending fell 13 percent in the
first nine months of last year from the same period of 2011 and
customer funds dropped 26 percent. Revenue for the unit from the
U.S. fell 10 percent in the period, the lender said.  BBVA has also seen an earnings decline as it increases bad-
loan charges to comply with government orders to recognize
losses stemming from the property market crash. The lender is
scheduled to report fourth-quarter results on Feb. 1.  Bad loans, as a proportion of total lending at Spanish
banks, jumped to a record 11.4 percent in November, a sign of
the challenges still facing the country’s banks even as their
shares and bonds rally.  Nine major global banks --  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) ,  Barclays Plc (BARC) ,
 JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ,  Bank of America ,  Citigroup Inc. (C) ,  UBS AG (UBSN) ,
 Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN) ,  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and  Morgan
Stanley (MS)  -- announced more than 30,000 job cuts in the first nine
months of last year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  In December 2011, BBVA announced 150 job cuts at its
wholesale banking division as it trimmed staffing in line with
reduced business levels.  BBVA  shares  rose 0.2 percent to 7.79 euros at 1:36 p.m. in
 Madrid  today, valuing the bank at 42.5 billion euros.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Manuel Baigorri in Madrid at 
 mbaigorri@bloomberg.net ;
Veronica Navarro Espinosa in New York at 
 vespinosa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  