-- Billionaire Koch Seeks Dismissal of Imprisonment Lawsuit
-- B y   K a r e n   G u l l o
-- 2013-01-17T05:10:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-17/billionaire-koch-seeks-dismissal-of-imprisonment-lawsuit.html
Billionaire William Koch asked a
judge to dismiss a former employee’s lawsuit alleging he was
held captive, saying the man is “disgruntled” over his
“corporate wrongdoing” and was “free at all times to leave.”  Kirby Martensen, a former Oxbow Carbon & Minerals Inc.
senior vice president, claimed in a lawsuit filed in federal
court in San Francisco in October that he was held captive for
almost two days by Koch after because of misgivings about a plan
to avoid U.S. taxes on $200 million in profit. Martensen said in
his complaint that he was detained as part of an attempt to
intimidate him.  Martensen doesn’t allege that he confined by physical force
or describe being held against his will, and he doesn’t assert
facts that the people he said imprisoned him were Koch’s agents,
Koch’s lawyer said in yesterday’s filing.  “Rather, the allegations make clear that Martensen is a
disgruntled former employee of the Oxbow companies who may have
been embarrassed and upset that his corporate wrongdoing was
discovered, but who was free at all times to leave,” according
to the filing.  Martensen alleged in his lawsuit that he was falsely
imprisoned by Koch’s agents and interrogated at a remote
 Colorado  estate.  Koch, who  Bloomberg Billionaires Index  estimates is worth
$3.7 billion, is the brother of conservative Tea Party funders
 David Koch  and  Charles Koch .  John Scott, Martensen’s attorney, declined to comment on
the filing.  Bear Ranch  Martensen, promoted last year to senior vice president,
said he was lured to the billionaire’s Bear Ranch near Aspen in
March on false pretenses and questioned about anonymous
allegations of wrongdoing made against him tied to a kickback
scheme. The company sued him over the claims in Florida state
court on March 22, while he was allegedly being held against his
will in Colorado.  “In the spring of 2011, Oxbow initiated a yearlong
investigation culminating in the dismissal of several executives
and a civil complaint being filed last March,” Oxbow said in a
statement on its website. “Martensen states in a lawsuit that
we investigated him for participating in a wide-ranging scheme
to defraud, accepting bribes and diverting business from our
company. He is right. We absolutely investigated Martensen.”  In the Oxbow lawsuit filed in Palm Beach County, the
company alleged Martensen breached his duty to the firm.  “In or before March 2009,” Martensen and other former
executives of Oxbow units participated in a “wide-ranging
scheme to systematically misappropriate revenues and business
opportunities” from the company, Oxbow said.  Martensen accepted illegal bribes, kickbacks and other
payments from Oxbow competitors and “secretly shared in the
payments, revenues and profits derived by plaintiffs’
competitors,” Oxbow alleged in the complaint.  The case is Martensen v. Koch. 12-05257, U.S. District
Court, Northern District of  California  (San Francisco).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karen Gullo in San Francisco at 
 kgullo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  