-- Biogen Plans Food Waste-to-Power Plants on Rising Landfill Tax
-- B y   L o u i s e   D o w n i n g
-- 2013-01-17T13:42:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-17/biogen-plans-food-waste-to-power-plants-on-rising-landfill-tax.html
Biogen Ltd., a U.K. developer of
plants that generate electricity from  food waste , plans to start
building four to five facilities this year as rising landfill
taxes increases the costs of burying waste underground.  The company already has the funding in place to build the
projects, Richard Barker, chief executive officer of
Bedfordshire-based Biogen, said today by e-mail. It plans to
raise about 30 million pounds ($48 million) to implement
projects through 2014 and beyond, he said, and some of this
funding is already in place.  Supermarkets and businesses are being encouraged to send
their food waste to anaerobic digestion facilities such as those
offered by Biogen by a  landfill tax  that makes it increasingly
expensive to bury waste. It was introduced in April at 64 pounds
a ton and is set to increase by 8 pounds a year. The tax will
help drive expansion of the U.K.’s waste-to-energy industry,
Barker said.  Biogen plans in March to start building a 2.5-megawatt
project in Hertfordshire that will generate enough electricity
for about 4,000 homes. It also plans to start work on a plant in
Denbighshire and is the preferred bidder for a plant in South
Wales. Biogen is already building a facility in North Wales. By
2014 its total food waste processing capacity will have doubled
to about 200,000 tons-a-year, the CEO said.  The U.K.’s Department of Energy and Climate Change
estimates bioenergy plants using wood chip and food and
agricultural waste to produce heat and power may meet 8 percent
to 11 percent of the country’s primary energy demand within
eight years.  Increased Competition  Interest in Biogen’s facilities comes from across the whole
food waste supply chain, from manufacturers through to
supermarkets and the hospitality industry, said Barker. This
year will probably see increased competition from new companies
and merger and acquisition opportunities, he said. Biogen will
focus on the U.K. market.  Kier Group Plc, a U.K. construction company, in August
bought half of Biogen for 24.4 million pounds. Biogen remains
“open minded” about taking on new strategic investors in the
future, Barker said. It’s already in discussions with potential
partners for future projects.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Louise Downing in London at 
 ldowning4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  