-- BofA Says Repaying Buffett May Wait Until 8% Preferreds Redeemed
-- B y   H u g h   S o n   a n d   N o a h   B u h a y a r
-- 2013-01-17T18:53:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-17/bofa-says-repaying-buffett-may-wait-until-8-preferreds-redeemed.html
Bank of America Corp. , the second-
largest U.S. lender, said repaying  Warren Buffett ’s $5 billion
investment may wait until the company redeems preferred stock
held by other investors getting a higher dividend.  “We’ve got over $5 billion of straight preferred stock
that’s got coupons between 8 and 9 percent,” compared with the
6 percent paid to Buffett’s  Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A) , Chief
Financial Officer  Bruce Thompson  told reporters today in a
conference call. “From an expensive-capital perspective, that’s
the real expensive piece.”  Buffett announced the injection in August 2011, after the
 Charlotte , North Carolina-based lender’s stock fell more than 45
percent in eight months on concern that housing-related losses
would drain capital. Bank of America stock more than doubled in
2012, the  best performance  in the  Dow Jones Industrial Average ,
as Chief Executive Officer  Brian T. Moynihan  targeted cost cuts
and  sold assets  to boost capital.  The lender’s Tier 1 common capital ratio reached 9.25
percent as of Dec. 31 under the newest international standards,
up from about 8 percent six months earlier. Long-term debt fell
to  $276 billion  from $372 billion a year earlier.  “We obviously continue to look at ways to shape the
balance sheet,” Thompson said today. “It’s interesting that
people always ask about the Berkshire preferred that’s got a 6
percent coupon.”  Bank of America is paying Omaha, Nebraska-based Berkshire
$300 million a year. Under the accord, Moynihan agreed to pay a
5 percent premium, or $5.25 billion, to redeem the shares.  Buffett’s View  “Their condition has improved so significantly, and
 interest rates  are so low, that they have the chance to do a
number of things in that respect,” Buffett said in an interview
this month. “I may like to keep it, but if it makes sense for
them to call it, they’re going to call it.”  The lender a year ago sold $2.25 billion of 5.7 percent
bonds due in January 2022, data compiled by Bloomberg show. The
debt has rallied to 119 cents on the dollar as of yesterday to
yield 3.3 percent, according to Trace, the bond-price reporting
system of the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority.  The 2011 deal also gave Buffett 10-year warrants to buy 700
million of the bank’s shares at $7.14 apiece. The lender closed
at $11.78 yesterday. Exercising those options at that price
would generate more than $3 billion in profit.  Buffett has used Berkshire’s  cash hoard  to make investments
in firms seeking to bolster their reputations and balance sheets
when traditional credit markets tighten. His firm bought $5
billion of preferred shares in  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and $3
billion in General Electric Co. in the depths of the 2008 credit
crisis, earning a 10 percent coupon and getting warrants.  Goldman Sachs and GE have redeemed the preferred shares.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Hugh Son in  New York  at 
 hson1@bloomberg.net ;
Noah Buhayar in New York at 
 nbuhayar@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net ;
David Scheer at   dscheer@bloomberg.net  