-- BofA Joins Citigroup Share Slump as CEOs Grapple With Costs
-- B y   H u g h   S o n   a n d   D o n a l   G r i f f i n
-- 2013-01-17T21:30:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-17/bofa-joins-citigroup-share-decline-as-ceos-grapple-with-costs.html
Bank of America Corp.  and  Citigroup
Inc. (C)  posted two of the three  biggest declines  in the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index after results fell short of those at
rivals as managers had to focus on cutting costs.  Bank of America, the second-largest  U.S. bank  by assets,
fell 4.2 percent to $11.28 at 4:15 p.m. in  New York  after
fourth-quarter net income slumped 63 percent to $732 million.
No. 3 Citigroup dropped 2.9 percent after profit of $1.2 billion
 missed estimates  as litigation costs rose. JPMorgan Chase and
Co., the largest U.S. bank, and No. 4  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC)  each
announced quarterly profit this month of more than $5 billion.  Brian T. Moynihan , the chief executive officer of
Charlotte, North Carolina-based Bank of America, is grappling
with costs from mortgages originated before he took over three
years ago.  Michael Corbat , who became Citigroup CEO in October,
is incurring expenses to resolve litigation and pulling back
from some  emerging markets . Each CEO is cutting jobs.  “Both organizations are, for lack of a better word,
somewhat lost,” said Joshua Siegel, founder of StoneCastle
Partners, a New York-based firm $5.1 billion in assets under
management that invests in banks. The lenders “have been
spending a significant amount of time dealing with the problems
of the past rather than aggressively marketing the
organizations.”  Quarterly dividends at both companies have been stuck at 1
cent a share as the banks work to build capital and sell riskier
assets to meet regulatory standards. The firms had to slash
payouts during the financial crisis to conserve capital and must
await regulatory approval to raise them.  Wells Fargo  Wells Fargo and New York-based JPMorgan both exceeded
analysts’ estimates, fueled by revenue tied mortgages. San
Francisco-based Wells Fargo pays a  dividend  of 22 cents a share.
The lender slipped 0.3 percent. New York-based JPMorgan, which
has a payout of 30 cents, dropped 1 percent.  Bank of America’s net interest income fell to  $10.6 billion 
from $11 billion in the fourth quarter of 2011. First-mortgage
production was little changed at  $21.5 billion .  “Progress has been made with divestitures and cost cuts,”
Citigroup analysts led by  Keith Horowitz  said today in a note on
Bank of America. “However, the focus is shifting to earnings
power and we believe it will take time for some of the earnings
drivers to materialize.”  Moynihan has spent his first three years cleaning up after
his predecessor’s takeover of Countrywide Financial Corp. and
Merrill Lynch & Co.,  divesting  more than $60 billion of assets
in the process. The bank announced an $11.7 billion deal to end
disputes with  Fannie Mae  on bad home loans this month and joined
an $8.5 billion industry accord to compensate for abusive
foreclosures.  Pulling Back  Corbat last month announced plans for the New York-based
bank to eliminate about 11,000 employees and pull back from
 nations  including Paraguay, Romania and  Turkey .  Citigroup’s earnings adjusted for one-time items including
restructuring costs and a mortgage settlement were about 76
cents a share. Twenty-one analysts surveyed by Bloomberg
estimated 96 cents on average.  Legal costs at the Citicorp division, which contains the
consumer-banking and trading units, more than  tripled  to $735
million, the bank said. While some of the increase was related
to a federal foreclosure settlement, Chief Financial Officer
 John Gerspach  told journalists that most was related to “a
variety of issues” at the U.S. consumer bank.  Citigroup’s revenue from trading fixed-income products
increased 58 percent excluding accounting adjustments to $2.71
billion from a year earlier. That was less than the $3.12
billion predicted by  David Trone , an analyst at JMP Securities
LLC in New York.  Fourth-quarter results showed “lackluster fundamentals,”
Trone said in a note to clients. “Even after taking out
negative items, Citi struggled to deliver much profit.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Hugh Son in New York at 
 hson1@bloomberg.net ;
Donal Griffin in New York at 
 dgriffin10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net ;
 Rick Green  at 
 rgreen18@bloomberg.net  