-- Brazil Swap Rates Rise as Bank Cites Inflation; Real Strengthens
-- B y   G a b r i e l l e   C o p p o l a   a n d   P a t r i c i a   L a r a
-- 2013-01-17T14:19:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-17/brazil-swap-rates-rise-as-bank-cites-inflation-real-advances.html
Brazil ’s swap rates climbed to a
one-week high after the central bank signaled no plans to cut
borrowing costs as inflation hovers above policy makers’ target.  Swap rates on the contract due in January 2015 rose two
basis points, or 0.02 percentage point, to 7.78 percent at 12:14
p.m. in  Sao Paulo , the highest on a closing basis since Jan. 8.
The real appreciated 0.1 percent to 2.0398 per  U.S. dollar .  The central bank left the target lending  rate  at a record
low 7.25 percent yesterday after reducing it 5.25 percentage
points through October. The balance of risks for inflation
worsened in the short term as the domestic recovery was “less
intense” than expected, the policy committee, said in its
statement.  “The central bank is attuned to the risks,”  Luciano Rostagno , the chief strategist at Banco WestLB do Brasil SA in
Sao Paulo, said in a phone interview. “If inflation continues
deteriorating, they could begin to prepare for a rate
increase.”  Prices in Brazil’s biggest city rose 0.96 percent in the
month through the first half of January, the Foundation
Economics Research Institute in Sao Paulo said today. That
exceeded the 0.91 percent median estimate of 22 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg.  Inflation in December exceeded economists’ estimates for
the sixth straight month and ended 2012 at 5.84 percent, higher
than the bank’s 4.5 percent target for the third straight year.  Swap contracts maturing in July 2014 or later rose while
earlier contracts fell, a reflection of the central bank’s
concern with stimulating growth, said Joao Junior, a fixed-
income trader at ICAP do Brasil CTVM in Sao Paulo.  Inflation Watch  “The central bank showed it’s watching inflation, but at
the same time it said economic activity is weaker than
expected,” Junior said in a telephone interview. “They want to
say that they’re not going to cut again, but they’re also not
going to hike to contain inflation expectations.”  Policy makers forecast the world’s biggest emerging market
after China expanded 1 percent in 2012 or about half the pace of
the U.S and  Japan , according to Bloomberg surveys.  Tombini ended the steepest rate-cutting cycle among Group
of 20 nations in November after a jump in food prices fanned
inflation.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gabrielle Coppola in Sao Paulo at 
 gcoppola@bloomberg.net ;
Patricia Lara in Sao Paulo at 
 plara6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  