-- Brooklyn Home Prices Jump Most Since ’06 as Supply Drops
-- B y   O s h r a t   C a r m i e l
-- 2013-01-17T20:56:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-17/brooklyn-home-prices-jump-most-since-06-as-supply-drops.html
Home prices in  Brooklyn , New York’s
most populous borough, had the biggest gain in six years as
buyers competed for a dwindling number of properties for sale.  The median price of condominiums, co-ops and one- to three-
family homes that changed hands in the fourth quarter was
$512,500, up 13 percent from a year earlier, appraiser  Miller
Samuel Inc.  and brokerage  Douglas Elliman Real Estate  said today
in a report. The inventory of listed homes tumbled 21 percent to
4,685, the lowest since Miller Samuel began tracking the data in
2008, said Jonathan Miller, the New York-based firm’s president.  “People who have been patiently waiting on the sidelines
are having trouble finding something,”  Michael Guerra , a
managing director at Douglas Elliman who oversees Brooklyn sales
for the brokerage, said in an interview. “There’s not much new
development, and in the resale section of the market, there are
just fewer people who are moving.”  Owners are in no rush to list their properties for sale in
a market where prices have changed relatively little in three
years, Miller said. Those who bought during the market peak and
saw their values plunge in the  crash  may not have built up
enough equity to sell and trade up to something bigger, he said.  “I don’t want to list and be officially on the market
until I’ve identified the property I’d like to buy,” Guerra
said of his clients’ thinking. “But I don’t have a lot of
property to look at, therefore I’m going to wait.”  No Urgency  Sellers are also reasoning that buyer demand will last as
long as borrowing costs are low, according to Miller. With the
average rate for a  30-year fixed  loan hitting a record 3.31
percent in November and the Federal Reserve pledging to keep
rates down through 2015, owners see no urgency to attract buyers
now, he said.  Inventory is also scarce in  Manhattan , where the number of
homes for sale dropped to the lowest in at least 12 years,
Miller Samuel and Douglas Elliman said on Jan. 3.  The year-over-year price jump in Brooklyn was the biggest
since the third quarter of 2006, Miller said. The median sale
price reached a peak of $540,000 a year later.  Home purchases in the borough totaled 1,445 in the fourth
quarter, down 7.3 percent from a year earlier, according to
Miller Samuel and Douglas Elliman.  Properties spent an average of 136 days on the market in
the quarter, about the same as a year earlier. The absorption
rate, or the amount of time it would take to sell all the listed
properties at the current pace of deals, was 9.7 months, down
from 11.4 months in the fourth quarter of 2011.  Seller Discounts  The listing discount, or the amount that sellers agreed to
whittle from their last asking price to strike a deal, fell to
1.5 percent from 3.7 percent a year earlier.  “When the spread tightens it means you have lack of
inventory, and you’re not seeing sellers overprice,” Miller
said.  “The concern would be that as we see inventory continue to
fall, the pent-up demand from lack of supply” will spur owners
to set unrealistically high prices, he said. “At least at this
point, sellers are maintaining their sanity.”  Luxury sales, the top 10 percent of all transactions by
price, declined 7.7 percent from a year earlier to 144. The
median price of those deals jumped 17 percent to $1.4 million,
Miller Samuel and Douglas Elliman said.  In Queens, the city’s second-most populous borough, the
median sale price in the fourth quarter climbed 14 percent from
a year earlier to $390,000, the firms said. The number of deals
dropped 4.4 percent to 1,914, and the inventory of homes for
sale was little changed at 8,683.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Oshrat Carmiel in New York at 
 ocarmiel1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  