-- Butterfly at 10-Month High as RBA Fuels Australia Growth
-- B y   W e s   G o o d m a n   a n d   K r i s t i n e   A q u i n o
-- 2013-01-17T01:55:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-17/butterfly-at-10-month-high-as-rba-fuels-australia-growth.html
Australian bond investors are
betting the central bank can spur economic growth without losing
control of inflation, pushing five-year yields to the highest
level relative to short- and long-term bonds in 10 months.  The so-called  butterfly  spread derived by measuring
differences between the two-, five- and 10-year rates was a
negative 29 basis points yesterday, the highest since March, and
up from last year’s low of negative 64 basis points in
September.  Germany  is showing a similar pattern, with the spread
rising since Dec. 31 by the most in four months.  Daiwa SB Investments Ltd. is favoring shorter-term bonds
most sensitive to the  Reserve Bank  of  Australia ’s  interest rate ,
as the swap market shows an 83 percent chance of a cut by June
30. Diam Co. recommends longer-dated debt as consumer prices
hold in the central bank’s target band of 2 percent to 3
percent. Mitsubishi UFJ Asset Management Co. disagrees, saying
the higher five-year yields are now attractive.  “There is some value in the very short end and the longer
end of the market, but I’m bearish overall,” said Kei Katayama,
who buys non-yen debt in  Tokyo  for Daiwa SB, which manages the
equivalent of $55.8 billion and is a unit of  Japan ’s second-
largest brokerage. “The economy is healthier than other major
developed countries.” Daiwa SB favors two- to three-year
securities, he said.  Yields Climb  Australian five-year  yields  climbed to 3.01 percent on Jan.
11, the highest close since May. The bonds  offered  2.23
percentage points more than same-maturity Treasuries on Jan. 14,
also an eight-month high.  Government debt has handed investors losses of 0.3 percent
in Australia, 1.2 percent in Germany and 0.3 percent in the U.S.
this year, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch indexes.  RBA Governor  Glenn Stevens  reduced the target for overnight
lending to 3 percent on Dec. 4, matching a half-century low. The
inflation outlook amid a softer job market afforded policy
makers scope to lower borrowing costs, the bank said in the
 minutes  of its decision.  Australia’s  economy  expanded 3.1 percent in the third
quarter from a year earlier, versus 1.8 percent worldwide,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. At the same time,
 China , the biggest buyer of Australia’s iron ore and coal
exports, is stabilizing.  Resources Demand  China’s economic growth quickened to 7.8 percent in the
fourth quarter from 7.4 percent in the third, based on a
Bloomberg News survey of economists before the government
reports the figure tomorrow. It would be the first increase
since the last three months of 2010.  Iron ore  prices at Tianjin rallied to $158.50 per metric
ton last week, the highest in 15 months.  Non-mining parts of the Australian economy are showing
signs of weakness, keeping the chance of another rate cut alive.  Employers cut 5,500 jobs in December and the jobless rate
rose, a government report today showed, versus the median
estimate for a 4,000 increase in a  Bloomberg News  survey of 27
economists.  The Australian dollar fell 0.2 percent to $1.0552 as of
12:25 p.m. in Sydney. It is up 1.5 percent against the U.S.
currency this month, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Diam Co. prefers Australian debt due in 10 years or longer
to capture higher yields, while betting that consumer prices
will be held in check.  “Inflation will be very stable for the time being,” said
Hideya Kubo, a senior  money manager  for the company in Tokyo,
helping oversee the equivalent of $117 billion at the unit of
Dai-ichi Life Insurance Co., Japan’s second-biggest life
insurer.  Breakeven Rates  The  difference  between yields on 10-year notes and same-
maturity inflation linked-notes, a gauge of trader expectations
for consumer prices over the life of the debt, was 2.70
percentage points. The average over the past three years is 2.71
percentage points.  For Hideo Shimomura at Mitsubishi UFJ, the rise in five-
year yields has made them more appealing.  “I like five years,” said Shimomura, who helps oversee
the equivalent of $68 billion at the unit of Japan’s largest
publicly traded bank. “Looking at the butterfly spread, they’re
quite attractive.” Shimomura said he’s considering switching
some money from 10-year debt into five-year securities.  Germany’s  butterfly spread  climbed to negative 45 basis
points on Jan. 10 from negative 73 basis points Dec. 31.
European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  this month
expressed optimism that the 17-nation euro economy will return
to health, helping send bond yields higher.  ECB Benchmark  The ECB cut its main interest rate to a record low of 0.75
percent last year, anchoring short-term rates. Of 39 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg News, 17 predict the ECB will reduce its
key lending rate to 0.5 percent by mid-year.  Yields show traders expect 1.69 percent inflation in
Germany for the next decade, helping maintain demand for long-
term bonds.  The opposite is happening in Japan. The  butterfly spread 
measuring three-, five- and 30-year yields fell to negative 179
basis points this month, a record low based on Bloomberg data
that began in 2006.  The  Bank of Japan (8301)  has reduced its interest rate to zero,
limiting demand for shorter securities as there’s no more room
to cut. Prime Minister Shinzo Abe is pushing the central bank to
double its inflation goal to 2 percent, curtailing appetite for
long bonds.  In Australia, five-year notes are “fragile,” said
Chungkeun Oh, who invests in the nation’s bonds for  Industrial
Bank of Korea (024110) , South  Korea ’s largest lender to small- and
medium-sized companies.  “I’m bearish on the market,” Oh said. “Typically when
yields rise, the hump rises faster than the short end or long
end” along the spectrum of maturities, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Wes Goodman in Singapore at 
 wgoodman@bloomberg.net ;
Kristine Aquino in Singapore at 
 kaquino1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  