-- Cameron’s EU Speech Puts U.K. Economy at Risk, Cable Says
-- B y   R o b e r t   H u t t o n
-- 2013-01-17T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-17/cameron-s-eu-speech-puts-u-k-economy-at-risk-cable-says.html
Business Secretary Vince Cable will
say Prime Minister David Cameron would put the U.K. economy at
risk if he raises the prospect of a British exit from the
European Union.  Cable, a Liberal Democrat member of Cameron’s Conservative-
led coalition, will say in a speech today that while there’s a
case for a referendum on the EU, announcing it years in advance
will create uncertainty and discourage businesses from
investing. At the same time,  Douglas Alexander , foreign affairs
spokesman for the Labour opposition, will say Cameron’s hand has
been forced by his own lawmakers.  Cameron will tomorrow give a speech in the Netherlands in
which he’ll call for the U.K. to get powers back from the EU.
He’s signaled he wants to put any renegotiation of Britain’s
membership to a popular vote after the 2015 general election, a
process critics warn could lead to Britain leaving the 27-nation
bloc altogether.  “This is a terrible time to have the diversion and
uncertainty which a buildup to a referendum would entail,”
Cable will say in a speech in central  England , according to his
office. “At a time of extreme fragility in business confidence,
such uncertainty would add to the sense of unresolved crisis.”  Cable’s words echo Liberal Democrat leader and deputy prime
Minister  Nick Clegg , who said Jan. 15 that talk of Britain
quitting the EU could have a “chilling effect” on the economy.  The business secretary will also question the premise of
Tory calls for a renegotiation of membership. “The euroskeptic
calculation is that British permission is necessary for closer
integration and that this permission can be traded for the
negotiating objectives,” he’ll say. “That seems to me a
dangerous gamble to make. There are many in Europe, notably in
France, who would be happy to see the back of the U.K.”  Alexander, too, will say that talk of a referendum now will
damage business confidence.  “The real tragedy of tomorrow’s speech is that  David
Cameron ’s party won’t let him address the undoubted need for
change in the EU in a sensible way,” Alexander will say. “For
many in his party, getting David Cameron to commit now to an in-
out referendum is not about securing consent. It is about
securing exit.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Hutton in London at 
 rhutton1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  