-- Cameron Says He’ll Send Daughter to State-Run School
-- B y   K i t t y   D o n a l d s o n
-- 2013-01-18T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-17/cameron-says-he-ll-send-daughter-to-state-run-school.html
Prime Minister  David Cameron , once a
pupil at Britain’s most famous fee-paying school for boys, said
he will send his eldest daughter Nancy to a state-run high
school, citing improvements in London’s educational record.  The premier, who was educated at  Eton College , which counts
 Prince William , second in line to the throne and 18 other
British prime ministers among its alumni, is under political
pressure not to appear elitist as he cuts public services to
tackle the nation’s budget deficit.  “In London there’s a real improvement taking place,”
Cameron was cited as telling  The House magazine , which is
distributed to lawmakers. “There’s a big culture change in our
schools and that’s taking place in  London .”  Nancy, now age 9, will switch to high school when she’s 11.
Last summer she made headlines when Cameron revealed he
mistakenly left her in a pub by herself when he and his wife
Samantha left in separate cars, each assuming she was with the
other.  “There was no finger-wagging afterwards and Nancy has
promised not to brief against me -- she actually used that term,
she is learning fast,” Cameron was quoted as telling the Mail
on Sunday tabloid on June 23.  In class-conscious Britain, the decision whether to send
children to a fee-paying school is politically charged. Former
Prime Minister  Tony Blair  was criticized by some lawmakers when
he was in office for sending his three eldest children to a
state-funded school that selected applicants for entry.  ‘Posh Boys’  One of Cameron’s own lawmakers, Nadine Dorries, called
Cameron and Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne , who was
also privately educated, “arrogant posh boys who don’t know the
price of milk.”  “The House” magazine also cited the prime minister as
saying he will consider looking at what welfare payments
migrants from other EU countries should be entitled to.  “It’s worth looking at the current rules and regulations,
what other countries do, what could we do,” Cameron said. “We
should just be generally impatient and enthusiastic for getting
the relationship right, and there may be some things you can do
under existing rules that that other countries do we could have
a proper good look at.”  Cameron also promised to promote more women in government.
He ruled out the leader of the U.K. Independence Party appearing
in televised debates in the run-up to the 2015 elections and
revealed his talents for home improvement, putting together Ikea
furniture in a “very successful” fashion and pulling down a
shed.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kitty Donaldson in London at 
 kdonaldson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  