-- Cameron Warns of More ‘Bad News’ in Algeria, Cancels EU Speech
-- B y   R o b e r t   H u t t o n   a n d   G o n z a l o   V i n a
-- 2013-01-17T20:16:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-17/cameron-warns-of-more-bad-news-in-algeria-cancels-eu-speech.html
U.K. Prime Minister  David Cameron 
canceled a speech on the European Union scheduled for tomorrow
and said the country should prepare for more bad news in the
Algeria hostage crisis.  One British citizen has already been confirmed dead after
an al-Qaeda-linked group attacked and occupied a natural-gas
complex operated by BP Plc, Statoil ASA of  Norway  and Algeria’s
Sonatrach in the southern desert. Algerian security forces freed
some foreigners as they fought the terrorists, causing an
undetermined number of casualties, the state-run Algerian Press
Service reported.  As many as half of the hostages were freed, according to
the report, which didn’t provide a casualty toll. American,
Norwegian, British and Malaysian nationals were among the
hostages, who are numbered at 41 by the attackers and around 20
by the Algerian government.  “It is a fluid situation, it is ongoing, it is very
uncertain, so I don’t want to say any more than that now,”
Cameron said in broadcast comments today. “But I think that we
should be prepared for the possibility of further bad news, very
difficult news, in this extremely difficult situation.”  Algeria  failed to inform the U.K. before starting the
military operation, Cameron’s spokesman, Jean-Christophe Gray,
said earlier. Cameron had asked his Algerian counterpart,
Abdelmalek Sellal, to tell him before any action was taken.  Emergency Talks  Cameron had been due to make a speech on Britain’s future
relationship with the EU in Amsterdam tomorrow, setting out how
he planned to renegotiate powers and under what circumstances he
would hold a referendum. No new date for the address has been
announced.  The prime minister said officials from the COBRA emergency
committee were working to build a picture of what was happening
in Algeria and keep the families of the hostages informed about
a “potentially very bad situation.”  Mauritania’s private ANI news agency earlier reported that
35 hostages and 15 abductors were killed in an aerial raid,
citing an unidentified spokesman for the group.  The militant group, calling itself the “Signatories by
Blood,” demanded that  France  end its military attacks in  Mali ,
according to ANI.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Robert Hutton in London at 
 rhutton1@bloomberg.net ;
Gonzalo Vina in Amsterdam or  gvina@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  