-- Cameron Seen Highlighting Work, Finance in Looser EU Ties
-- B y   K i t t y   D o n a l d s o n   a n d   R o b e r t   H u t t o n
-- 2013-01-17T11:35:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-17/cameron-seen-highlighting-work-finance-in-looser-eu-ties.html
Prime Minister David Cameron,
seeking to give his vision of a looser U.K. relationship with
the European Union in a speech tomorrow, may place bringing home
decision-making on finance, the courts and labor at the heart of
his pitch.  Clues to the premier’s thinking were given yesterday by a
group of Conservative lawmakers in a  manifesto  backed by Foreign
Secretary William Hague. The Fresh Start group, who number more
than 100 Tories, said the prime minister must renegotiate the
terms of Britain’s affiliation to the 27-nation bloc. Fellow EU
leaders see little room for such a move.  Unlike some of their Tory colleagues, the Fresh Start group
doesn’t argue for British withdrawal from the EU. Instead, it
seeks to fight threats to financial services, as well as
repatriating powers on social and employment law, such as
working hours. It also seeks a U.K. opt-out from EU policing and
criminal justice rules to prevent European courts overturning
British judges’ decisions.  “It won’t be a shopping list, it can’t be; no sensible
politician would start with one,” Sheila Lawlor, director of
the  Politeia research institute  in London, said in a telephone
interview. “You have to flag up the problems, illustrate them.
It will be left quite open because there is a great deal of
unpicking to be done.”  Tories Trail  Cameron’s Tories are trailing the Labour opposition in
opinion polls as parties start positioning themselves for the
2015 general election, beset by a struggling economy and the
biggest spending cuts since World War II. There are growing
splits between the Conservatives and their Liberal Democrat
coalition partners over issues including tax and welfare as well
as the EU.  While the premier has not yet set out in details what he
will tell his audience in the Netherlands, he has ruled out an
“in-out” referendum for the British people on EU membership.
He has said only that he wants to reclaim unspecified powers
from the bloc and put the result to a plebiscite after the 2015
election, with the government arguing to stay in.  He dismissed as a “false choice” yesterday calls for an
early vote on leaving the 27-nation bloc, a move that won’t
satisfy the hard core of euroskeptics who are calling for one.  Two Votes  Two Tory lawmakers, Bill Cash and Bernard Jenkin, published
a pamphlet today calling for an immediate referendum seeking a
mandate to renegotiate membership, with the results of those
talks to be put to a second plebiscite.  “It’s such an important issue, it’s hardly surprising
there are many different views about how we should proceed,”
Jenkin told reporters in  London . Of the EU, he said, “we want
to get out of their hair.”  Cameron’s coalition partners and political opponents united
to condemn the premier’s plans as vague, divisive for his party
and bad for British business.  Deputy Prime Minister Nick Clegg, the Liberal Democrat
leader, repeated his opposition to a British exit from the EU.  “I don’t think you serve the British national interest or
protect the 3 million jobs that are dependent on our place in
 Europe  if you somehow suggest we are heading to the exit door,”
Clegg said during his weekly phone-in on LBC radio today.  ‘Additional Uncertainty’  Liberal Democrat Vince Cable, who serves as business
secretary in Cameron’s government, will say in a speech tonight
that “reopening the whole question of British membership
creates additional uncertainty at a time when there is already
fragile economic confidence in the wake of the financial
crisis,” according to his office.  “Imagine an investor thinking now: Should I be investing
in Britain, or  Germany , or  Denmark  or a whole range of other
countries?” Labour leader Ed Miliband told the  BBC ’s “Today”
radio program. “If we put up a sign around Britain saying, ‘we
might be out of Europe within five years,’ I don’t think that’s
going to be good for our country.”  Miliband said Cameron “has been dragged by a neuralgic
Conservative Party towards the position he’s taking tomorrow.”  “There are so many tensions, divisions and differences
within the Conservative Party that Fresh Start’s announcement
fires a starting gun on what will be a bidding war within the
Conservative Party to raise the bar higher for Britain staying
within the EU,” Labour’s foreign-affairs spokesman, Douglas Alexander, said in an interview. “Many Conservatives talk about
a referendum, not because they want consent, but because they
want an exit.”  ‘Regain Control’  The Fresh Start group “does not go nearly far enough for
many euroskeptics, both inside and outside the Conservative
Party,” Tory lawmaker John Redwood wrote on  his blog  yesterday.
“It was Conservative Party policy in opposition to repatriate
our fishing grounds. It has long been U.K. policy to undertake
substantial change to the Common Agricultural Policy to make it
cheaper for food buyers. Many wish to see the U.K. regain
control over its own energy policy and much else besides.”  EU President Herman Van Rompuy said today that he’s
awaiting Cameron’s speech “to find out exactly what he is
calling for” in terms of Britain’s relationship with the bloc.  “If something is called for, we will have to agree among
all 27 member states,” Van Rompuy said at an event in Brussels.  Cameron will therefore walk a delicate line tomorrow,
pitting being a cooperative European against the concerns from
his own party. Some Conservatives are worried that if the
premier isn’t robust enough in his euroskepticism, they will
lose votes to the  U.K. Independence Party , which campaigns for
an exit from the EU and is represented in the European
Parliament, though not in Britain’s House of Commons.  UKIP Support  A  poll by Ipsos Mori  yesterday showed the highest level of
support -- 9 percent -- the pollsters have recorded for UKIP,
ahead of the Liberal Democrats at 8 percent. Ipsos MORI
interviewed 1,015 adults by telephone Jan. 12-14 and didn’t
specify a margin of error.  Cameron “is constrained by domestic concerns and also by
some of this being dependent on other countries coming to the EU
table to negotiate,” Stephen Booth, research director at the
 Open Europe  policy forum in London, said in a telephone
interview. “Part of that is going to be the euro-zone
timetable” as the 17 countries that share the single currency
take further steps to resolve their debt crisis.  Cameron has indicated that any referendum is dependent on
him winning a majority at the 2015 election. Still, Andrea Leadsom, the Tory lawmaker who heads Fresh Start, argued
yesterday that the U.K. has an opportunity to negotiate new
powers right now, with the implied threat of impeding talks
between euro-area nations on resolving their debt difficulties
if they don’t accede to British demands.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kitty Donaldson in London at 
 kdonaldson1@bloomberg.net ;
Robert Hutton in London at 
 rhutton1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  