-- Canada November International Securities Transactions (Text)
-- B y   I l a n   K o l e t
-- 2013-01-17T13:30:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-17/canada-november-international-securities-transactions-text-.html
The following is the text of
Canada’s international transactions report for November
released by  Statistics Canada .  Canadian investment in foreign securities strengthened to
$7.8 billion in November, nearly all in US instruments.
Meanwhile, foreign investment in Canadian securities slowed to
$5.6 billion, mainly federal government debt instruments.
Nevertheless, the average monthly foreign investment in Canadian
securities still stands well above that of Canadian investment
in foreign securities since 2009.  Canadians add US government bonds to their holdings  Acquisitions of foreign debt securities by Canadian
investors expanded to $6.2 billion in November. This was the
highest investment since March 2007 and the third consecutive
monthly acquisition.  Activity in November was led by a $5.7 billion record
purchase of US government bonds, mostly short-term instruments.
This resulted in a net acquisition of US government bonds
between January and November 2012, compared with a net
divestment for the same period in 2011 when acquisitions were
focused on equities.  The Canadian dollar traded above par against the US dollar
for a fourth straight month in November, while the long-term
interest rate differentials between  Canada  and  United States 
remained relatively stable.  Canadian investment in foreign equities focuses on US stocks  Canadian investors added $1.6 billion of foreign equities
to their portfolios in November, all in US shares. Acquisitions
were led by demand from pension funds and followed a reduction
in holdings of US equities in October. US stock prices edged up
0.3% in November, following a 2.0% decline in October.  Foreign investment in the Canadian debt market slows  Non-residents purchased $5.6 billion of Canadian debt
securities in November, the lowest amount since July. Foreign
investment in the Canadian money market was $3.8 billion, led by
federal Treasury bills. There were also some acquisitions of
private corporate paper.  Foreign investment in Canadian bonds fell to $1.7 billion
in November from $15.5 billion in October. Foreign acquisitions
of federal bonds slowed for a second month to $2.0 billion,
again focusing on short-term bonds. Foreign purchases of
corporate bonds were reduced to $2.9 billion, split between
federal government enterprise and private corporate bonds.
Investments in Canadian bonds were further moderated by a $3.2
billion reduction in foreign holdings of provincial  government
bonds , mainly because of retirements of US dollar bonds.  Cross-border investment in Canadian shares down for a second
straight month  Foreign investment in Canadian equities slowed for a second
month, amounting to an inflow of $38 million in November.
Canadian share prices declined for the first time since May. On
a year-to-date basis, foreign acquisitions of Canadian equities
on the secondary market have been reduced considerably, from
$15.8 billion in 2011 to $2.2 billion in 2012.  Note to readers  The data series on international transactions in securities
cover portfolio transactions in equity and investment fund
shares, bonds and money market instruments for both Canadian and
foreign issues.  Equity and investment fund shares include common and
preferred equities as well as units/shares of investment funds.  Debt securities include bonds and money market instruments.  Bonds have an original term to maturity of more than one
year.  Money market instruments have an original term to maturity
of one year or less.  Government of Canada paper includes treasury bills and US-
dollar Canada bills.  All values in this release are net transactions unless
otherwise stated.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ilan Kolet in Ottawa at   ikolet@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Marco Babic at   mbabic@bloomberg.net  