-- Canadian Dollar Gains as U.S. Economic Data Boosts Risk Appetite
-- B y   T a y l o r   T e p p e r   a n d   J o h n   D e t r i x h e
-- 2013-01-17T22:06:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-17/canadian-dollar-declines-as-traders-await-china-growth-report.html
The Canadian dollar rose from an
almost two-week low against its U.S. counterpart as government
data bolstered growth prospects for the world’s largest economy,
the nation’s biggest trading partner.  The loonie, as the currency is nicknamed, gained as U.S.
housing starts climbed 12.1 percent last month, exceeding all
forecasts in a Bloomberg survey of economists, and weekly
jobless claims were lower than projected. A report showed
foreign purchases of Canadian securities slowed in November,
with the fifth straight net acquisition blunted by a decline in
demand for bonds.  “The data out of  North America  is somewhat stronger, which
is helping the loonie,”  Dean Popplewell , head analyst in
Toronto at the online currency-trading firm Oanda Corp., said by
phone from Toronto. “Now that the euro has eased, and North
America is stronger, the Canadian dollar has found some
traction.”  The Canadian dollar was little changed at 98.58 cents per
 U.S. dollar  at 5:03 p.m. in Toronto. It earlier touched the
weakest level since Jan. 7. One loonie buys $1.0144.  Futures on crude oil, the nation’s largest export, rose 1
percent to $95.20 a barrel in New York. The Standard & Poor’s
500 Index added 0.6 percent.  China Watch  The loonie declined earlier today with so-called commodity
currencies, including the Australian dollar, as traders await
figures that may show gross domestic product in China expanded
7.8 percent in the fourth quarter from a year earlier, according
to the median estimate of economists surveyed by  Bloomberg News .
China is the world’s biggest energy consumer.  “The upcoming risk is China’s GDP that we will get in
tonight’s market,”  Camilla Sutton , head of currency strategy at
 Bank of Nova Scotia (BNS) , said by phone from Toronto. “The market is
looking for improvement over Q3. As long as that does occur,
then it’s likely positive for currencies like Canada or
Australia.”  Benchmark 10-year Canadian government bonds fell, with the
yield rising six basis points, or 0.06 percentage point, to 1.95
percent. The price of the 2.75 percent note maturing in June
2022 declined 53 cents to C$106.82.  Foreign purchases of Canadian securities totaled C$5.62
billion ($5.7 billion) in November following October’s revised
buying of C$12.7 billion,  Statistics Canada  said today in
Ottawa. Canadians more than doubled their net buying of
international securities in November to C$7.81 billion from
C$3.36 billion, led by C$6.23 billion of foreign bonds.  Money Flows  The loonie may lose “medium-term support” as a result of
Canadians increasing their international holdings more than
foreign investors increased their Canadian holdings,  Citigroup
Inc. (C)  in a note to its clients.  Prime Minister  Stephen Harper ’s government will examine a
broad pool of candidates to replace  Mark Carney  as Bank of
Canada Governor, and won’t let a tight time frame deter it from
looking beyond internal candidates such as Senior Deputy
Governor Tiff Macklem, according to a person with knowledge of
the process.  The central bank has kept its policy interest rate at 1
percent since September 2010, the longest pause since the 1950s,
and has said since April that borrowing costs may rise.  Trading in overnight index swaps show a 17.2 percent chance
of the Bank of Canada raising  interest rates  at its May 29
meeting, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The loonie has fallen 1.3 percent during the past six
months versus nine developed-nation peers tracked by Bloomberg
Correlation-Weighted Indexes. The euro has gained 5.5 percent
while the greenback has dropped 4 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Taylor Tepper in  New York  at 
 ttepper2@bloomberg.net ;
John Detrixhe in New York at 
 jdetrixhe1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  