-- Canada Said to Include External Candidates in Bank Search
-- B y   G r e g   Q u i n n   a n d   A n d r e w   M a y e d a
-- 2013-01-17T14:59:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-17/canada-said-to-include-external-candidates-in-bank-search.html
Stephen Harper ’s government will
examine a broad pool of candidates to replace  Mark Carney  as
 Bank of Canada  Governor, and won’t let a tight timeframe deter
it from looking beyond internal candidates such as Senior Deputy
Governor Tiff Macklem, according to a person with knowledge of
the process.  Finance Minister  Jim Flaherty  issued  a statement  yesterday
saying he will be directly involved in the selection of Carney’s
replacement before his June 1 departure. A second person with
knowledge of the process said the comments were meant to
emphasize the government’s role in choosing a new Bank of Canada
chief. Both people declined to be identified because the process
is private.  The government should be “looking for a personality type
and a set of intellectual skills that are not necessarily
identified with a particular career path,” said Brian Lee Crowley, who runs the Macdonald-Laurier Institute, an Ottawa-
based independent research organization, and who helped lead a
private policy forum attended by Flaherty. Carney “has probably
changed to some extent people’s assumptions about what’s
desirable.”  The 12 outside directors on the bank’s board started the
job search earlier this month, placing an  advertisement  in
newspapers. The directors “will then recommend a roster of
qualified candidates to the Minister for him to interview,”
Flaherty said in the statement. While Macklem, 51, has been the
unanimous choice of economists and analysts asked about the
appointment, the previous two selections passed over the senior
deputies who had been seen as favorites.  ‘Past Precedents’  “You can’t rule out the two past precedents that have been
set, to bypass the second-in-charge,” said  Derek Holt , vice-
president of economics at  Bank of Nova Scotia (BNS)  in Toronto. “If
they truly wished continuity, Tiff Macklem is the odds-on
favorite.”  Whoever takes over when Carney leaves to head the  Bank of
England  must guide the world’s 11th largest economy through a
sluggish expansion threatened by weak exports and record
consumer debts. Carney and Macklem have kept the bank’s  policy
interest rate  at 1 percent since September 2010, the longest
pause since the 1950s, and have said since April that borrowing
costs may rise.  Seven-year Term  The job has a seven-year renewable term and the salary
range for last year was C$431,800 ($438,000) to C$507,900. The
advertisement called for “unquestioned technical competence”
in monetary policy, and the last three governors have had a
doctorate in economics. It also says the position requires “a
highly developed understanding of the financial sector,” as
well as “exceptional communications skills” and ability in
both English and French.  Flaherty’s public statement may be “inappropriate,” said
 John McCallum , Liberal Party lawmaker and former Royal Bank of
Canada chief economist.  “It seems to reduce the independence of the Bank of
Canada,” McCallum said by telephone. “There is supposed to be
a certain balance” between the board and government, he said.  Macklem will face competition from a pool of candidates
that may include former Deputy Governor Jean Boivin, Bank of
 Montreal  Vice Chairman Kevin Lynch, Chris Ragan of  McGill
University  in Montreal and Andrew Spence of the Ontario
Municipal Employees Retirement System, say economists who have
advised the government and central bank.  Bernanke Collaborator  Boivin, 40, would be the first francophone bank chief in
the bilingual country if selected. During his time at the bank,
he oversaw experiments on how Canadians would react to different
inflation targets. Boivin’s resume is enhanced by past research
with  Ben S. Bernanke  before he became Chairman of the U.S.
Federal Reserve. Boivin’s current posting as associate deputy
finance minister follows a path taken by Macklem and Carney.  Boivin declined to say Jan. 15 whether he was interested in
the position.  Ragan, 50, has experience in Ottawa as a special adviser to
Flaherty at the finance department and held a similar post at
the central bank under former governor  David Dodge . “The Bank
is a wonderful institution,” Ragan, co-author of Canada’s most
widely used economics textbook, said by telephone. “The
position of governor is obviously very important and I would be
honored to be considered.”  Pension Fund  Spence, who began his career as an economist at the U.K.
Treasury, is managing director of a portfolio strategy group at
the Toronto-based OMERS pension fund, as well as former global
head of research for rates and foreign exchange at the
investment-banking unit of Toronto-Dominion Bank and also held a
term as special adviser to the central bank.  Asked to comment, Spence, 52, said in an e-mail, “clearly
it would be an honor to be considered, and I would have to think
about it.”  Lynch, who turns 62 this month, was named Canada’s chief
 civil-service  adviser by Harper in March 2006. He was deputy
minister in the industry and finance departments for a decade
starting in 1995, experience similar to Dodge, and was also
Canada’s representative at the  International Monetary Fund . He
holds a doctorate in economics from  McMaster University  in
Hamilton, Ontario. Bank of Montreal’s media department didn’t
immediately return calls seeking comment.  Other Candidates  Other candidates suggested in interviews were Don Drummond,
a former  Toronto-Dominion Bank (TD)  chief economist and former
associate deputy finance minister, and Stephen Poloz, chief
executive at  Export Development Canada . Drummond said in a
November interview he isn’t interested in the job and EDC
spokesman Phil Taylor said by e-mail yesterday that Poloz won’t
comment on the job competition.  Flaherty said Dec. 5 he has “a lot of respect” for
Macklem, who was silent about his job prospects in  a lecture 
last week.  Macklem, a Montreal native, was hired by the central bank
as an economist in 1984, later getting a doctorate in economics
from Western University in  London , Ontario. He first joined the
rate-setting panel in December 2004 and has been senior deputy
since July 2010. Macklem also leads a policy committee at the
Carney-led Financial Stability Board, the Basel, Switzerland-
based body charged by the Group of 20 nations with strengthening
global financial rules.  Canada  must pick the candidate that can handle all of
aspects of the job, said Paul Boothe, a former Group of Seven
deputy at Canada’s finance department who now teaches at Western
University’s business school.  “It’s pretty hard if you haven’t had experience in
government and real work on the policy side,” he said. “You
don’t want a great orthopedic surgeon doing your brain
surgery.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Greg Quinn in Ottawa  at 
 gquinn1@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Mayeda in Ottawa  at 
 amayeda@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net ;
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  