-- Capital One Misses Estimates on Increase in Reserves
-- B y   D a k i n   C a m p b e l l
-- 2013-01-17T21:53:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-17/capital-one-misses-estimates-on-increase-in-reserves.html
Capital One Financial Corp. (COF) , the
lender that gets more than half of its revenue from credit
cards, posted a fourth-quarter profit that missed analysts’
estimates as it set aside more reserves to cover loan losses.  Net income advanced to $843 million, or $1.41 a share, from
$407 million, or 88 cents, a year earlier, the McLean, Virginia-
based company said today in a statement. That fell short of the
$1.59 average estimate of 21 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. The
company’s revenue outlook missed analyst estimates and shares
fell as much as 6.6 percent in after-hours trading.  Chief Executive Officer Richard Fairbank, 62, spent more
than $28 billion on acquisitions since 2005, including the
purchase last year of HSBC Holdings Plc’s U.S. card business.
Capital One also bought ING Groep N.V.’s online U.S. bank, which
helped boost  deposits  by more than $80 billion.  The acquisitions “are impacting credit reserving,” Jason Arnold, an analyst at RBC Capital Markets, said in a phone
interview before results were announced. “I wouldn’t be
surprised to see a modest increase in the credit reserves in the
year ahead.”  Capital One fell to $57.37 at 4:52 p.m. in New York
following the announcement. It closed at $61.59 in regular
trading. It has gained 6.3 percent this year, outpacing the 4.6
percent gain for the 24-company  KBW Bank Index. (BKX)   Revenue Projection  The company said quarterly revenue in 2013 would be about
the same as the fourth quarter’s $5.62 billion, missing the
$5.76 billion first-quarter 2013 estimate of 12 analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg.  “A modest decline in earning assets will be offset by a
steady to slightly higher net interest margin,” the lender
said.  Capital One set aside $1.15 billion for loan losses in the
fourth quarter, an increase of $290 million from a year earlier
and $137 million over the third quarter.  Capital One may raise its quarterly  dividend  from 5 cents a
share to 18 cents, and repurchase $500 million in stock this
year, KBW Inc. analysts led by Fred Cannon estimated in a Jan.
13 note. The company must get approval for its capital plan from
the Federal Reserve, which subjects the largest banks to annual
stress tests. Fairbank told investors last month to expect a
“meaningful” dividend.  Capital One credit-card loans at least 30 days overdue, a
signal of future write-offs, averaged 3.66 percent during the
final three months of last year, the highest among the six-
biggest U.S. issuers, company filings show.  Hurricane Sandy  Capital One may face losses tied to  Hurricane Sandy , which
struck the U.S. in October. About $20 billion of Capital One’s
consumer loans and $16.6 billion of its commercial loans are
outstanding in New York, New Jersey and  Connecticut , three
states hit by the storm, according to a Nov. 8 filing.  “Historically, insurance proceeds and government support
that follow natural disasters have significantly mitigated”
losses, Jason Goldberg, a New York-based analyst at Barclays
Plc, wrote in a Jan. 9 note. “It is too early to estimate the
potential financial impact.”  Capital One will rebrand ING Direct USA as “Capital One
360” in February, replacing ING’s orange-ball logo with a
design incorporating the new name, according to a December e-
mail to customers.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dakin Campbell in San Francisco at 
 dcampbell27@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  