-- Cargill to Idle Texas Beef Plant as Cattle Supply Cut
-- B y   S h r u t i   D a t e   S i n g h
-- 2013-01-17T20:53:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-17/cargill-to-idle-texas-beef-plant-as-cattle-supply-cut.html
Cargill Inc., the largest U.S. beef
processor, will idle a  Texas  processing plant after the size of
the cattle herd fell to a 60-year low and drought increased feed
costs. Cattle futures dropped.  The Plainview plant will stop operations at the close of
business on Feb. 1 to reduce the strain on the company’s beef
business, John Keating, president of Cargill Beef, said today in
a  statement . The plant employs 2,000 people and those affected
by the closing will get help finding jobs elsewhere,
Minneapolis-based Cargill said in the statement.  “Given the overcapacity that exists with four major beef
plants in the Texas Panhandle and a dwindling supply of cattle
in the region, idling Plainview will allow Cargill to operate
its other beef plants in Texas,  Colorado  and  Kansas  more
consistently on a five-day-per-week basis,” Keating said.  The U.S. beef-packing industry has 10 percent to 15 percent
excess capacity, with the highest level in the southern plains
where Plainview is located, said David Nelson, an agricultural
global strategist for Rabobank International in Chicago. Herd
liquidation intensified in that region during the 2011 drought,
he said in a telephone interview today.  While the U.S. in the last year has been hit by the worst
drought since the 1930s, Texas is among states that have
suffered from dryness and lack of rain since 2011. Drought
conditions are expected to persist through the Great Plains and
spread across most of Texas, according to a three-month U.S.
outlook by the Climate Protection Center.  ‘Rationalize Capacity’  “The industry does need to rationalize capacity to match
up to lower cattle supply,” Nelson said. Idling the Plainview
plant will help Cargill “alleviate that situation,” he said.  Cattle futures for April delivery fell by the 3-cent
exchange limit to $1.297 a pound earlier today on the  Chicago 
Mercantile Exchange, while feeder-cattle futures for March
settlement declined by the 3-cent exchange limit as well.  Cargill’s remaining beef processing plants in Texas, Kansas
and Colorado will receive cattle destined for Plainview,
according to the statement. Cargill beef facilities in
 California ,  Wisconsin ,  Pennsylvania  and  Nebraska  and two plants
in  Canada  are unaffected.  Cargill doesn’t plan to sell the Planview plant, Mike
Martin, a spokesman for the closely held company, said in a
telephone interview today. He declined to comment on how long
the plant will be idled.  Tyson Rises  “We don’t think there will be a reversal in the national
cattle herd for a number of years,” he said.  Idling of the Plainview plant may be positive for  Tyson
Foods Inc. (TSN) , said Tim Ramey, a Lake Oswego, Oregon-based analyst
for D.A. Davidson & Co. who has a buy rating on the shares.
Cargill is the largest U.S. beef processor followed by Tyson,
according to Tyson’s 2011 Factbook.  Tyson rose 3.9 percent to $21.26 at 3:20 p.m. in New York.
The shares gained as much as 4.8 percent earlier, the biggest
intraday gain since Nov. 19.  In November, Tyson said the number of cattle that are
available for slaughter may decline 2 to 3 percent in the year
ahead. While it expects adequate supplies for its plants, there
may be periods of imbalance and its beef-segment profit may be
below its “normalized range” of 2.5 percent to 4.5 percent,
the company forecast on Nov. 19.  Gary Mickelson, a spokesman for Springdale, Arkansas-based
Tyson, declined to immediately comment in a phone interview.  “The southern plains have been the hardest hit by drought
and cattle availability,” Ramey said in a telephone interview
today. “It probably has a positive impact on industry margins
given less competition for cattle.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shruti Date Singh in Chicago at 
 ssingh28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  