-- Carrefour Says France Improving as Quarterly Sales Rise
-- B y   A n d r e w   R o b e r t s
-- 2013-01-17T12:37:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-17/carrefour-says-france-improving-as-quarterly-sales-rise.html
Carrefour SA (CA) , France’s biggest
retailer, rose to a 17-month high as a strategy of holding down
food prices attracted customers and helped ease sales declines
at its largest stores for a second consecutive quarter.  Revenue at hypermarkets in France open at least a year fell
2 percent in the fourth quarter, an improvement from declines of
3.3 percent and 5.7 percent the previous periods, as food sales
rose for the first time in more than two years, Carrefour said
today in a statement. The figures exclude gasoline.  Chief Executive Officer Georges Plassat, seeking to counter
a stalling French economy and recessions elsewhere in Europe,
has pledged since taking his post in April to maintain low
prices on food and reducing the number of promotions. Gross
domestic product in  France  rose 0.1 percent in the third
quarter, half the rate calculated earlier by the government, and
the economy probably shrank 0.3 percent in the fourth, according
to analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  “Despite the market fears, Carrefour delivered a good
performance in France,” John Kershaw, an analyst at BNP Paribas
in  London , said today in a report to clients, citing better-
than-expected hypermarket sales. Plassat’s strategy “to improve
price perception and simplify the offer clearly is getting
traction and, we think, full-year French profits could also be
better than expected.”  Year’s Gain  Carrefour jumped as much as 8.5 percent to 20.96 euros, the
highest intraday price since Aug. 1, 2011, and was trading up
8.4 percent at 1:34 p.m. in Paris. The  stock  has risen 23
percent in the past 12 months, valuing the retailer at 14.9
billion euros ($19.9 billion).  While it’s too early to say whether Carrefour has “turned
the corner in France,” the quarterly progression in domestic
performance provided “some encouraging signs that our
commercial and pricing strategy is bearing fruit,” Chief
Financial Officer Pierre-Jean Sivignon said today on a
conference call.  Competitor  Casino Guichard-Perrachon SA (CO)  said on Jan. 15
that household consumption was “soft” in the fourth quarter in
France, where the company reported declining revenue in the
period.  Fourth-quarter group revenue rose 0.8 percent from a year
earlier to 22.9 billion euros, boosted by a gain of 4.8 percent
in Latin America, Boulogne-Billancourt, France-based Carrefour
said. Total French sales increased 0.6 percent, it said.  Maintaining Forecast  Global fourth-quarter same-store sales, excluding currency
shifts and gasoline, rose 0.4 percent. Carrefour kept its
recurring operating-income forecast, saying it’s “comfortable”
with the consensus estimate of 2.07 billion euros.  Sales at Carrefour outlets of all types open a year or more
in France fell 0.8 percent in the fourth quarter, versus a 1.5
percent decline in the three months through September.
Hypermarkets accounted for 57 percent of revenue from France,
with supermarkets generating 32 percent and convenience stores
and other formats providing 10 percent, according to Carrefour.
Food accounts for more than 80 percent of Carrefour revenue
excluding gasoline, Sivignon said.  In the rest of  Europe , same-store sales fell 3.9 percent,
excluding currency movements and gasoline, led by declines in
Italy and Spain. Government austerity measures continued to
affect consumption in Spain, while Italy was affected by a more
intense competitive and promotional environment, Carrefour said.
Latin American sales on that basis jumped 11 percent following
Carrefour’s acquisition of the Eki chain in  Argentina  in June.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Roberts in Paris at 
 aroberts36@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  