-- Cathay Says December Premium Cabin Sales Lower Than Expected
-- B y   J a s m i n e   W a n g
-- 2013-01-17T10:11:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-17/cathay-says-premium-cabin-sales-weaker-than-expected-in-december.html
Cathay Pacific Airways Ltd. (293) ,  Asia ’s
biggest international carrier, said premium cabin sales fell
short of its expectations in December, as the region’s slowing
economic growth and job cuts by banks damp demand.  “The overall performance in the premium cabins was weaker
than expected,” James Tong, a general manager at the  airline ,
said in a stock exchange  filing  today. “Passenger demand held
up in the economy cabin.”  The airline this month introduced a  promotional offer  in
Hong Kong, where it’s based, for business and premium economy
class passengers. Cathay seeks to boost sales as worldwide job
cuts planned by banks including Morgan Stanley and  Citigroup
Inc. (C)  damp travel demand.  Cathay and unit Dragonair carried 2.52 million passengers
last month, 2.5 percent more from a year earlier, helped by the
year-end travel rush.  Load factor , or the percentage of seats
filled by paying customers, improved to 80.7 percent after it
cut frequencies on some North American and European routes and
introduced smaller planes, Tong said.  The carrier didn’t provide a breakdown for economy and
premium passengers.  Cathay fell 0.7 percent to close at HK$14.92 in  Hong Kong 
trading. The  stock  rose 6.8 percent last year,  lagging  behind
the 23 percent advance of the benchmark  Hang Seng Index . The
carrier released the statement during the midday trading break.  Cargo tonnage increased 3.4 percent in December from a year
earlier, gaining for the fourth straight month, Cathay said.  The airline and Dragonair are reducing hot meals on some
short-haul routes to save costs, the  South China Morning Post 
reported today, without disclosing how it got the information.
Dragonair has replaced hot meals with sandwiches for flights to
Taiwan and Manila, the paper said. Cathay is already serving
sandwiches on Taiwan flights.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jasmine Wang in Hong Kong at 
 Jwang513@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anand Krishnamoorthy at 
 anandk@bloomberg.net  