-- CBS Turning Billboard-Ad Business Into a REIT
-- B y   E d m u n d   L e e   a n d   A n d y   F i x m e r
-- 2013-01-17T22:11:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-17/cbs-turning-billboard-ad-business-into-a-reit.html
CBS Corp. (CBS)  shares surged the most in
more than a year after the company said it will convert its
outdoor advertising unit into a real estate investment trust and
seek a buyer for the European and Asian parts of that business.  The owner of the most-watched U.S. television network
gained 7.9 percent to $40.95 at the close in  New York , the
biggest jump since August 2011. If completed, the actions may be
worth $3 a share to CBS investors, said  Michael Morris , an
analyst at Davenport & Co.  Real estate investment trusts, or REITs, have become a
popular tool for companies to lower taxes and improve returns
for investors. REITs don’t pay federal income taxes, with the
understanding that they distribute at least 90 percent of
taxable earnings to shareholders as dividends. CBS could split
off the REIT as a separate stock to shareholders.  The moves “will unlock the tremendous value of these
unique quality assets,” Chief Executive Officer Leslie Moonves
said yesterday in a statement.  The conversion could be finished in the 2014 tax year, New
York-based CBS said. The European and Asian businesses will be
classified as discontinued operations as of Dec. 31, 2012.  To qualify as a REIT, a company has to invest at least 75
percent of its assets in real estate and obtain 75 percent of
its gross income from rents or interest on mortgages from
financing property, according to the National Association of
Real Estate Investment Trusts, a Washington-based trade group.  Made Sense  “We studied this asset, and it’s a real estate business,”
CBS Chief Financial Officer Joseph Ianniello said yesterday in
an interview. “The REIT alternative started to make sense in
2012 as we studied it more.”  CBS’s outdoor business generated $1.38 billion in sales in
the first nine months of last year, or 13 percent of the parent
company’s revenue. Operating income more than doubled to $82
million in the period from $35 million a year earlier.  The company will seek approval for the conversion from the
 Internal Revenue Service  this quarter. If the request is
granted, the business would be converted in 2014, CBS said.  The European and Asian outdoor business could be sold in
pieces, Ianniello said. That may draw more potential buyers.  Morris values those businesses at about $400 million.  “There are a number of potential moves from here,” said
Morris, who  recommends  CBS shares. “The announcement is an
initial step.”  JCDecaux SA (DEC) , the world’s largest outdoor advertising
company, could be a buyer for some assets, according to  Paul Sweeney , senior media analyst with Bloomberg Industries. The
company, based in Neuilly-Sur-Seine, near Paris, has been
looking for deals to increase sluggish sales growth.  “This is a great move for CBS,” Sweeney said. “Outdoor
advertising is an excellent free cash flow business.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Edmund Lee in New York at 
 elee310@bloomberg.net ;
Andy Fixmer in  Los Angeles  at 
 afixmer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  