-- Chile Keeps 5% Rate as Inflation Slowdown Defies GDP Growth
-- B y   R a n d a l l   W o o d s
-- 2013-01-17T21:18:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-17/chile-keeps-5-key-rate-as-inflation-slowdown-defies-gdp-growth.html
Chilean policy makers kept borrowing
costs on hold today for the 12th consecutive month after faster-
than-expected economic growth didn’t stop the inflation rate
falling to the lowest level in Latin America.  The monetary policy board, led by bank President Rodrigo Vergara, held the benchmark interest rate at 5 percent, as
forecast by all 18 analysts  surveyed by Bloomberg . Policy makers
last changed the rate in January 2012 with a quarter-point
reduction that surprised economists.  The second-highest borrowing costs among major rate-setting
banks in Latin America have helped contain consumer prices while
allowing Chile’s economy to climb at a faster pace than all save
one of its regional peers. Policy makers will be reluctant to
change rates unless inflation quickens faster than expected,
economist  Rodrigo Aravena  said.  “It’s very, very unlikely that we’ll see a move in the
rate between now and March,” Aravena, chief economist at
Banchile Inversiones, said by phone from Santiago yesterday.
“From that point on, if there’s a change it would be an
increase driven principally by local factors.”  Two-year interest rate swaps, which reflect traders’ views
of average borrowing costs, rose seven basis points, or 0.07
percentage point, to 5.23 percent yesterday from a month
earlier. That indicates traders expect the key rate to rise a
quarter-point to 5.25 percent by July, according to calculations
by Banco de Chile.  Outpacing Peers  The world’s top copper miner has the highest key interest
rate among major rate-setting Latin American banks behind
 Brazil , which has cut borrowing costs to 7.25 percent from 12.5
percent in July 2011. Colombia’s central bank also reduced rates
in its past two meetings to boost economic growth, while  Peru 
and  Mexico  have kept them unchanged.  “Future changes in the monetary policy rate will depend on
the implications of domestic and external macroeconomic
conditions on the inflationary outlook,” the central bank said
in a statement accompanying today’s decision.  Chile  is on track to post the fastest economic growth among
major South American economies for 2012 and 2013 behind Peru,
expanding an estimated 5.5 percent in 2012 and 4.8 percent this
year, according to the United Nations economic unit for Latin
America and the Caribbean.  Economic Growth  In November, Chile posted its quickest growth in 11 months,
increasing 1.3 percent from the month before on gains in the
service, mining and retail industries, according to central bank
data. Growth on an annual basis slowed to 5.5 percent in
November from 6.7 percent in October.  “Domestically, recent data for activity and demand have
evolved in line with expectations,” the central bank said in
today’s statement. “The labor market remains tight.”  Unemployment fell to 6.2 percent in the three months
through November, surprising economists who expected the rate to
remain unchanged at 6.6 percent, while wages grew an annual 6.5
percent that month, more than four times faster than inflation.
Retail sales surged 10.7 percent over the same period, out-
pacing the manufacturing index that grew 0.8 percent.  “The economy is running at rates that are higher than its
potential,” Alfredo Coutino, Latin America director at Moody’s
Analytics, said by phone Jan. 11 from West Chester,
 Pennsylvania . “As pressures on domestic demand accumulate,
inflation will start a trend of acceleration probably around May
or June of this year and that is going to force the central bank
to start hiking the interest rate.”  Slowing Down  For now,  inflation  continues to slow, dropping from 4.4
percent at the end of 2011 to 1.5 percent last month. Colombia
at 2.44 percent had the second-lowest inflation rate among major
Latin American countries last year.  And while inflation will double within a year to 3 percent,
it won’t exceed the central bank target range of 2 percent to 4
percent, according to the median estimate of 56 traders and
investors surveyed by the central bank on Jan. 8.  The Chilean peso has appreciated 3.7 percent against the
dollar in the past six months, driving down the cost of imports
as it helps to keep inflation rates low, Felipe Jaque, an
economist at BBVA Research in Santiago, said by phone. Raising
rates further may put more pressure on the peso to appreciate.  Chile’s government is concerned a stronger exchange rate is
hurting exporters whose costs are in pesos, Finance Minister
Felipe Larrain told reporters in Santiago Jan. 15. The
government last week met with policy makers to discuss the peso
gains, he said without giving details of talks.  “The peso supports the idea of not raising interest
rates,” Jaque said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Randall Woods in Santiago at 
 rwoods13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net  