-- Chilean Peso Advances as Global Growth Outlook Boosts Copper
-- B y   S e b a s t i a n   B o y d
-- 2013-01-17T14:59:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-17/chilean-peso-advances-as-global-growth-outlook-boosts-copper.html
Chile ’s peso advanced toward a
three-month high as copper, the nation’s main export, gained on
speculation growth will accelerate in the U.S. and China.  The peso appreciated 0.3 percent to 473.55 per  U.S. dollar 
at 11:42 a.m. in Santiago after rallying on Jan. 10 to 470.95,
the strongest level since Sept. 26. Copper for March delivery
increased 1.2 percent in  New York  today  “China and the U.S. are recovering substantially,” said
Alejandro Araya, a trader at Banco Santander Chile in Santiago.
“Commodities are rising fast. The Chilean peso still has an
advantage over the U.S. dollar.”  The recent gain in the peso is in line with other regional
currencies, and the exchange rate adjusted for inflation was
little changed in December from November, central bank
economists said in a report yesterday. The government is closely
monitoring the currency’s appreciation, President Sebastian
Pinera told reporters in Santiago today.  International investors  in the peso forwards market cut
their short peso position to the lowest since September 2011 on
Jan. 15, according to central bank data published today.  The peso rose as U.S.  housing starts  climbed 12.1 percent
in December to the highest since 2008 in a sign residential real
estate is boosting the economic expansion.  China ’s gross
domestic product increased 7.8 percent in the fourth quarter
after 7.4 percent growth in the prior period, according to the
median forecast of 53 economists before a report tomorrow.  China and the U.S. are the biggest consumers of copper,
which is used in the construction of new homes, while Chile is
the biggest exporter.  “Copper is up,” said Ronald Volpi, the head of spot
currency trading at EuroAmerica Corredores de Bolsa SA in
Santiago. “Everything’s pretty.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sebastian Boyd in Santiago at 
 sboyd9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  