-- Chinese Choosing Prada Over Louvre Boost Luxury Shares
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-01-21T09:12:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-17/chinese-choosing-prada-over-louvre-boost-luxury-shares.html
(Corrects title of Prada executive in 18th paragraph in
story originally published Jan. 18.)  Move aside  Mona Lisa . More Chinese
visitors are headed to Paris and they are picking luxury stores
such as  Galeries Lafayette  over visits to the Louvre.  Europe will be among the top destinations for the 94
million mainland Chinese who are expected to travel abroad by
2015, according to McKinsey & Co. Their tour-group itineraries
are showing day-long trips to luxury outlets -- squeezing short
visits to the Eiffel Tower and Louvre museum in between.  By turning their holidays into lengthy shopping excursions,
the Chinese are propping up European sales and aiding the
outlook for brands from  Prada SpA (1913)  to  PPR SA (PP) ’s Gucci, even as the
euro area faces a second year of economic contraction. Close to
a third of Chinese luxury buyers will shop in Europe in 2013,
McKinsey estimates, up from a fifth last year.  “Consumption is happening more and more outside than
within  China ,” said Erwan Rambourg, HSBC Holdings Plc’s head of
consumer and retail research in  Hong Kong . “It’s cooler to say
you bought a Vuitton handbag in Paris than in China.”  At Harrods department store in  London ’s upscale
Knightsbridge district last summer a sign welcoming Chinese
visitors was prominently displayed at the entrance, and some
employees milled about wearing badges that asked “Can I help
you?” in Chinese. London-based  Burberry Group (BRBY)  Plc has doubled
the number of Mandarin-speaking staff in Europe in the past 12
months, Chief Financial Officer Stacey Cartwright said Jan. 15.  ‘Love Story’  “We have a love story between us and the Chinese,” said
Desiree Bollier, chief executive officer of Value Retail, which
has nine Chic Outlet “shopping village” outlets in Europe
selling brands from  Dolce & Gabbana  to  Jimmy Choo .  That’s hardly surprising when Chinese visitors to Europe,
Hong Kong or  Singapore  spent 11,000 euros ($14,700) on shopping
per trip, according to a survey published last year by Global
Blue, the world’s biggest operator of tax-refund points for
tourists. Chinese buyers now account for 25 percent of global
luxury spending, from 10 percent three years ago, according to a
September HSBC Global Research report.  Value Retail opened its center in  Madrid  two hours early to
cater to a group of 1,500 Chinese tourists, and added faster
choices such as pasta and salads in its restaurants after
noticing that mainland visitors don’t want meals eating up
shopping time. Now, the company is decorating for next month’s
Lunar New Year holiday.  Helping drive the overseas purchases are China’s import
taxes on luxury items and added rebates on European taxes
available to non-residents. The cost of 20 luxury items in
China, including bags and watches, was 72 percent higher than in
 France  and 45 percent higher than in Hong Kong, according to a
2011  survey  by the  Ministry of Commerce .  Grand Tour  Chinese from richer cities are also picking  Europe  and the
U.S. over nearby Hong Kong as they seek out new experiences,
according to UBS Securities.  “If you travel to Hong Kong three times a year and you’ve
done that for the past three years, you probably feel your next
trip should be somewhere else,” said UBS analyst Spencer Leung.  Less affluent shoppers, who prefer smaller items such as
belts and small handbags, are filling Hong Kong’s void, he said.
Almost three million  Chinese visitors  a month arrived in the
city of seven million people, government data show.  Madding Crowd  “There are too many tourists shopping in Hong Kong these
days,” said Summer Xia, a 35-year-old finance executive from
Zhejiang province on China’s eastern coast who travels at least
once a year to Europe or the U.S. to shop. “I can save up to 40
percent on some luxury items.”  Xia said she spends as much as 300,000  yuan  ($48,200) a
trip, and past purchases have included Harry Winston diamond
jewelry and an 80,000 yuan red Hermes Birkin bag.  Chinese visitors like her will contribute about a third of
luxury sales in Western Europe this year,  Credit Suisse (CSGN)  Group AG
forecasts. That is helping to insulate the industry from a
second year of economic contraction in the Euro area, forecast
by the  World Bank  at 0.1 percent.  Milan-based Prada’s sales rose more than 40 percent in
Europe in the first nine months of last year, double the pace of
the company’s Far East and Greater China regions.  Louis Vuitton (MC) 
sales rose 9 percent in Europe between January and September,
outstripping  Asia ’s 5 percent.  Prada’s Hong Kong-listed shares surged 53 percent in the
past six months. In Paris, LVMH Moet Hennessy Louis Vuitton SA
gained 20 percent; PPR jumped 43 percent.  Chinese tourists’ shift toward Europe, which started early
last year, is “quite an established trend at the moment,”
Prada Chief Financial Officer Donatello Galli said on a Dec. 6
earnings call.  Pricing Power  Success for the luxury industry in Europe does create its
own problems, not least of which is the prospect of stores in
China becoming “empty showrooms,” HSBC’s Rambourg said.  To narrow the gap with China,  Louis Vuitton  raised prices 8
percent on Oct. 1 in Europe. Put them up too much and brands
risk alienating local shoppers, Rambourg said.  “You don’t want to appear to be a brand that only sells to
Chinese or only to Brazilians or Indonesians in 15 years time,”
he said. “The idea is to be global and present some interest to
all different nationalities. That’s where you get your pricing
power.”  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Liza Lin in Shanghai at 
 llin15@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anjali Cordeiro at 
 acordeiro2@bloomberg.net  