-- China Stocks Fall for Second Day; Financial Shares Lead Retreat
-- B y   W e i y i   L i m
-- 2013-01-17T02:10:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-17/china-stock-index-futures-rise-icbc-may-lead-gains-for-lenders.html
China’s stocks  fell for a second
day, dragging the benchmark index down to the lowest level in
almost a week.  Citic Securities Co. led declines for financial shares
after industry data showed brokerage profits slumped 16 percent
last year. North Navigation Control Technology Co. dropped the
most in three months after gaining 64 percent during an eight-
day rally on speculation increased demand will boost earnings.
Sichuan Changhong Electric Co. slid after cancelling a plan to
buy a stake in Guohong Communication Digital Group Co.  The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  dropped 0.5 percent to
2,297.86 at 9:38 a.m. local time, while the  CSI 300 Index (SHSZ300)  lost
0.5 percent to 2,564.64. The  Shanghai  index fell yesterday on
concerns shares are overbought after rallying 18 percent from an
almost four-year low on Dec. 3 amid speculation economic growth
is picking up. Data on gross domestic product and industrial
output are scheduled to be released tomorrow.  “Investors are just finding excuses to take some profits
after the gauge rose for a while,” said  Zhang Gang , a
strategist at Central  China  Securities Holdings Co. in Shanghai.
“It won’t fall too much, there’s just some fluctuations around
2,300. We need new factors to drive the gauge higher. For
instance, if the data tomorrow are better-than-estimated, it
would boost the market.”  The Shanghai measure traded at 12.8 times reported earnings
yesterday, the highest since May, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Average trading volumes in the Shanghai index were 37
percent higher than the 30-day average yesterday. Thirty-day
 volatility  was at 21.4, compared with last year’s average of
17.1.  Tomorrow’s Data  The  Hang Seng China Enterprises Index (HSCEI)  of Chinese companies
traded in Hong Kong added 0.3 percent today. The  Bloomberg
China-US 55 Index (CH55BN) , the measure of the most-traded U.S.-listed
Chinese companies, lost 0.6 percent in New York.  China’s economy is set to exit a seven-quarter slowdown as
the government rolls out infrastructure projects and limited
inflation allows officials hold off from tightening monetary
policy.  The National Bureau of Statistics will report tomorrow that
gross domestic product expanded 7.8 percent in the fourth
quarter from a year earlier, according to the median estimate of
53 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News. That’s up from a
three-year low of 7.4 percent in the previous period.  Factory output probably rose 10.2 percent in December from
a year earlier, up from 10.1 percent in November, while retail
sales advanced 15.1 percent after a 14.9 percent gain the prior
month, according to median analyst estimates.  Bank Loans  With new loans for the four biggest Chinese banks about 270
billion  yuan  ($43.4 billion) in the first two weeks of January,
total new loans for the month may rise to as much as 1.35
trillion yuan, up 83 percent from last year, Barclays Plc said.  Overall monetary conditions remain very accommodative,
Barclays analysts May Yan, Sean Hung and Mimi Kong said in a
report dated yesterday. Barclays named ICBC, Bank of China Ltd.
and Bank of Communications Co. as top Chinese bank picks.  Foreign institutional investors have stabilised China’s
stock market, Sina.com reported, citing Guo Shuqing, chairman of
the China Securities Regulatory Commission. Guo cited reforming
IPO markets, reducing administrative approvals and improving
delistings in the Shanghai Securities News, without elaborating.  Chinese regulators are accelerating approvals for overseas
firms to buy the country’s securities at a record pace as local
investors abandon equities. The State Administration of Foreign
Exchange awarded $15.8 billion of quotas for qualified foreign
institutional investors to trade stocks and bonds in 2012,
according to regulatory data compiled by Bloomberg. That’s more
than the previous five years combined.  -- Editors: Allen Wan, Darren Boey  To contact the reporter on this story:
Weiyi Lim in Singapore at 
 wlim26@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at   dboey@bloomberg.net  