-- Christie Slams NRA Over ‘Reprehensible’ Obama Girls Clip
-- B y   T e r r e n c e   D o p p   a n d   E l i s e   Y o u n g
-- 2013-01-18T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-17/christie-forms-new-jersey-panel-to-study-violence-control.html
Governor Chris Christie, the New
Jersey Republican dubbed “The Boss” by Time magazine, took aim
at the National Rifle Association for a video featuring
President  Barack Obama ’s children, who have armed guards.  “Are the president’s kids more important than yours?” a
narrator asks in the 35-second clip posted on the NRA’s website
Jan. 15. It calls Obama a hypocrite because his two daughters
have security officers while he was skeptical of the value of
armed guards in the nation’s schools as he pitched gun controls.  “To try and make a political point out of that is
reprehensible,” Christie, 50, said yesterday at a news briefing
in Trenton, where he announced a task force to study violence.
“I think it’s awful to bring public figures’ children into the
political debate -- they don’t deserve to be there.”  The governor said his own sons and daughters receive state
police protection and that public officials’ family members must
accept such security details. The governor, who has a wife and
four children, said the NRA should stick to the policy debate
over regulating firearms.  “For any of us who are public figures, you see that kind
of ad and you just cringe because this was not appropriate,”
Christie told reporters. “They’ve got real issues to debate on
this topic. Get to the real issues. Don’t be dragging people’s
children into this. It’s just wrong.”  Panel’s Role  NRA representatives Andrew Arulanandam and Scott Bach
didn’t respond to telephone messages and e-mails left at the
group’s Fairfax, Virginia, headquarters, seeking comment on
Christie’s remarks.  The first-term governor, who is seeking re-election in
November, said that he formed a state task force on violence
control that will study New Jersey’s firearms laws as well as
the roles played by drugs, mental health and school safety. The
panel will give him a report in 60 days, Christie said. Emotion
and “empty rhetoric” shouldn’t guide the gun debate, he said.  “Bad people will do bad things no matter how hard we try
to stop it,” said Christie, a former federal prosecutor. “This
is not a time to grandstand and it’s not a time for politics.”  Christie had said as both a U.S. attorney and a candidate
for governor that he supported New Jersey’s assault-weapons ban.
Since the Dec. 14 slaying of 20 children and six adults at a
Newtown, Connecticut, elementary school, he has said he would be
willing to discuss stricter gun controls as part of a more
comprehensive package that deals with mental health, substance
abuse and violence in video games.  Broader Issues  “It’s not good for us to have a conversation about just
one thing,” Christie said in response to a question this week 
at a town-hall meeting in Manahawkin. “We need to talk about
what we can do as a society. If it’s just about gun control, 
then I’m not going to be a part of it.”  Obama announced proposals aimed at reducing gun violence
Jan. 16, including universal background checks for firearms
buyers and a sales ban on assault weapons and high-capacity
ammunition magazines, such as those used in the Newtown slayings
and the July 20 shootings at an Aurora, Colorado, movie theater
that left 12 dead and 58 wounded.  New York was the first state to act on growing calls for
tighter limits on weapons since Newtown. Lawmakers this week
passed Democratic Governor Andrew Cuomo’s bill to toughen gun
controls and make it easier to keep firearms from the mentally
ill.  Proposals Pending  In New Jersey, Democrats who control the legislature have
introduced measures that would ban firearm magazines that hold
more than five rounds of ammunition and require anyone applying
for a handgun permit to pass a mental-health screening.  Christie said he is being more deliberative in his approach
than Cuomo. The governor wouldn’t say whether he backed tougher
federal limits or New York’s clampdown on ammunition capacity.  The governor said he wasn’t worried about pressure from the
NRA, or from such gun-control advocates as former U.S.
Representative Gabby Giffords of  Arizona  or the group formed by
James Brady, the Reagan administration press secretary wounded
in an assassination attempt.  Time, which featured Christie on the cover of its Jan. 21
issue, said “he’s not afraid of picking fights with Republicans
or making allies of Democrats.” The story said the governor has
a “full-bore political style.”  Christie said he was resisting hurrying the violence
panel’s work, and that only “simpletons” believe that
addressing the issue is an easy task.  The governor said he’s against putting armed guards at
schools, while he could be persuaded if the panel says that the
tactic may improve safety. He said he also has concerns about
requiring therapists to report patients they think are dangerous
-- an element of the new law in New York.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Terrence Dopp in Trenton, New Jersey, at 
 tdopp@bloomberg.net ;
Elise Young in Trenton at 
 eyoung30@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  