-- ExxonMobil Case Jury Told MTBE Hard to Detect in Water
-- B y   S a r a h   E a r l e   a n d   D o n   J e f f r e y
-- 2013-01-31T22:16:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-17/citgo-to-settle-new-hampshire-gas-additive-lawsuit.html
A gasoline additive that
contaminated  New Hampshire ’s drinking water was hard to detect,
even at high concentrations, a former state engineer told jurors
who will decide ExxonMobil Corp.’s liability for the chemical.  Fred McGarry, who retired from the New Hampshire  Department
of Environmental Services , testified for the state in Concord
today that residents didn’t complain about contaminated
wellwater because the additive methyl tertiary butyl ether, or
MTBE, often eluded detection by taste or smell.  “One of the concerns with regard to MTBE is that if it
starts at a very low concentration and gradually builds up, you
don’t really notice it that much,” McGarry said. “You become
acclimated to it.”  New Hampshire may seek more than $200 million from
ExxonMobil, the last defendant on trial in the $816 million
lawsuit filed in 2003. The trial began Jan. 14. This is one of
scores of cases involving MTBE filed in the U.S. since 2000
against refiners, fuel distributors and chemical makers.  ExxonMobil, based in Irving,  Texas , has argued that it was
complying with federal regulations that pre-empt state law when
it put MTBE into gasoline. The chemical was added to make
gasoline burn more thoroughly and thus reduce air pollution, as
required under the 1990  Clean Air Act .  Kent Colburn, another former New Hampshire environmental
services official, testified Jan. 28 that the state wouldn’t
have participated in a federal clean-air program called
Reformulated Gasoline, or RFG, if Exxon had warned it about the
additive’s risks.  MTBE’s Risks  ExxonMobil said the state was aware of MTBE’s risks when it
joined the RFG program in 1991 because there had been studies of
the additive for several years. New Hampshire re-entered the
clean-air program in 1997. By 1999, it was trying to get out.  Cross-examining McGarry today, James Quinn, an ExxonMobil
lawyer, referred to a state-commissioned study showing that
levels of MTBE would decrease significantly in a relatively
short time. New Hampshire said that levels of MTBE above 13
parts per billion make water unfit to drink. The additive was
banned in the state as of January 2007.  “Their conclusion was that, within six years of the ban,
wells with concentration levels as high as 10,000 parts per
billion would be down below 13 parts per billion, isn’t that
right?” Quinn asked.  Contrary Results  “That’s what it says,” McGarry replied. “But we’re
certainly getting results that are contrary to that statement.”  New Hampshire has said MTBE leaked from gas stations,
vehicle junkyards and underground  storage tanks . The state has
said that about 40,000 wells are contaminated with MTBE and
about 5,590 are at levels determined to be unfit for drinking.
  MTBE, which is highly soluble in water and can be carried
great distances from where it leaked, is a “toxic chemical that
does not belong in the state’s drinking water,” Jessica Grant,
an attorney for New Hampshire, said in opening remarks to the
jury.  The number of contaminated wells is a factor in determining
monetary damages if ExxonMobil is found liable. The state is
also seeking damages based on market share of gasoline sales in
New Hampshire during the period covered by the lawsuit.  ExxonMobil’s share was about 30 percent, the state said.
Based on an estimated cost of $816 million to test, monitor and
clean up the groundwater, New Hampshire could be seeking about
$245 million from the company.  Citgo Dismissal  On Jan. 15, New Hampshire Superior Court Judge Peter Fauver
agreed to dismiss the other defendant in the trial, Citgo
Petroleum Corp., while the company and the state work to
complete a settlement. Citgo is the Houston-based unit of
 Petroleos de Venezuela SA , the country’s state-owned oil
company.  Citgo’s market share ranged from 3.1 percent to 8.7
percent, New Hampshire said. Based on those figures, the state
could be seeking $25 million to $71 million from Citgo. If an
accord isn’t reached by Feb. 15 and no extension is approved,
Citgo would be reinstated to the trial.  Besides ExxonMobil and Citgo, New Hampshire also sued Shell
Oil Co., Sunoco Inc.,  ConocoPhillips (COP) , Irving Oil Ltd., Vitol SA
and Hess Corp. All settled before the trial began. Shell and
Sunoco agreed to pay New Hampshire $35 million in a settlement
announced in November.  New Hampshire has received more than $100 million in
settlements from defendants so far, according to court papers.  MTBE lawsuits have also been consolidated in federal court
in  New York  for pretrial evidence-gathering and motions. In
2009, a federal jury ordered ExxonMobil to pay  New York City 
$104.7 million after finding it liable for polluting wells in
the city. ExxonMobil has appealed.  New Hampshire’s lawyers said this week they hoped to
conclude their case by Feb. 21. ExxonMobil would then begin
presenting its case.  The case is New Hampshire v.  Hess Corp. (HES) , 03-C-0550, New
Hampshire Superior Court, Merrimack County (Concord).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sarah Earle in Concord, New Hampshire,
at   sarah_earle@comcast.net ;
Don Jeffrey in New York at 
 djeffrey1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  