-- Citic Trust Doesn’t Get Payment From Steelmaker in Trust Product
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-01-17T08:01:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-17/citic-trust-doesn-t-get-payment-from-steelmaker-in-trust-product.html
 Citic Trust Co., a unit of China’s
biggest state-owned investment company, said a steel company
didn’t make loan payments that would have been used to pay
investors in a trust product.  Yichang Three Gorges Quantong Coated and Galvanized Plate
Co.  failed to pay 119 million  yuan  ($19 million) in principle
and interest payments due Jan. 14 to a trust-product account,
Citic Trust said in a statement posted to its website Jan. 15.
The steel company last month made a 74.6 million yuan payment a
 day after  the Dec. 20 deadline.  Yichang, which has suffered from declining  steel  prices,
raised 1.33 billion yuan in January 2012 through a trust product
sold by Citic Trust and used the money to buy raw materials. A
local-government company in the city of Yichang in the central
province of Hubei is considering buying equity in the company,
the Economic Observer reported Jan. 14.  Trusts, which target people with at least 1 million yuan to
invest, have grown to account for more than a quarter of  China ’s
estimated $3.35 trillion in lending outside the banking system,
according to an Oct. 16 UBS AG report. More loosely regulated
than banks because they don’t hold deposits, trusts have lured
investors with promises of high  returns , and invest in
everything from metals to real estate, as well as make loans.  Citic Group Corp., parent of the trust company, was
established to support former leader Deng Xiaoping’s market
reforms in 1979 by Rong Yiren, who later went on to become a
vice president of China. Its businesses now span banking to real
estate and oil exploration, with the group reporting directly to
China’s cabinet.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Henry Sanderson in Beijing at 
 hsanderson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shelley Smith at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  