-- HCL Tech Surges to Record as Profit Beats Forecast: Mumbai Mover
-- B y   S a n t a n u   C h a k r a b o r t y
-- 2013-01-17T06:06:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-17/hcl-tech-surges-to-record-as-profit-beats-forecast-mumbai-mover.html
  HCL Technologies Ltd. (HCLT) , the Indian
software developer founded by billionaire Shiv Nadar, surged to
a record after reporting profit that beat analysts forecasts.  The company’s  shares  surged 4.9 percent to 706.7 rupees at
11:09 a.m. in Mumbai, heading for the highest close since their
debut in 2000.  Net income  soared 69 percent to a record 9.64
billion rupees ($176 million) in the quarter ended December,
surpassing the 8.26-billion rupee median  estimate  of seven
analysts compiled by Bloomberg News.  Revival of demand in the U.S., HCL’s biggest market, and
 Europe  helped it report an unprecedented revenue in the third
quarter, the company said in a statement. A majority of the 12
multi-million dollar contracts won in the quarter came from the
two regions, according to the statement. HCL shares trade at 15
times estimated earnings, compared with a multiple of 19 times
for  Tata Consultancy Services Ltd. (TCS)  and 17.2 times for  Infosys
Ltd. (INFO) ,  India ’s biggest software exporters.  HCL’s “valuations are a shade below its peers so there is
headroom for the stock to increase a further 10 to 12 percent by
June,” Deven Choksey, managing director at K.R. Choksey Shares
& Securities Pvt. in Mumbai, said by phone today. “HCL is
moving to a higher earnings growth trajectory on the back of
better pricing models and strength of its core business.”  Tata Consultancy on Jan. 14 reported a 23 percent jump in
earnings to 35.5 billion rupees, exceeding analyst estimates.
Infosys surged a record 17 percent on Jan. 11 after it raised
its full-year sales forecast.  HCL’s sales increased 20 percent to 6.27 billion rupees in
the December quarter from a year ago, the company said. Profit
margin before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization
widened to 23.8 percent, the data show.  Separately, HCL promoted Anant Gupta to the position of
president and chief executive officer. Gupta replaces Vineet Nayar, who will continue as vice chairman and joint managing
director until July, and as vice chairman thereafter.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Santanu Chakraborty in Mumbai at 
 schakrabor11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  