-- Clearwire Investors Join Push for Higher Bid
-- B y   S c o t t   M o r i t z   a n d   A l e x   S h e r m a n
-- 2013-01-18T21:25:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-17/clearwire-investor-taran-seeks-higher-bid.html
More  Clearwire Corp. (CLWR)  shareholders
have joined the chorus of investors asking  Sprint Nextel Corp. (S) 
to raise its bid for the wireless-network operator after a
counteroffer from  Dish Network Corp. (DISH)   Glenview Capital Management, which owns about 28 million
Class A shares, plans to reject Sprint’s current offer,
according to a person with direct knowledge of the situation.
Taran Asset Management, another Clearwire investor, will file a
complaint with the Federal Communications Commission, arguing
that Clearwire is worth more than Sprint’s bid, said Chris Gleason, a principal at the New York-based firm.  “Sprint has the ability to get the deal done if they
increase their offer,” Gleason, whose firm owns 3 million
shares of Clearwire, said in an interview. “To pretend they
don’t have to raise their bid is silly.”  Sprint, which already owns just over 50 percent of
Bellevue, Washington-based Clearwire, is attempting to buy the
rest of the shares for $2.97 apiece. After Clearwire’s board
agreed to the terms last month, Dish moved in with a $3.30-a-
share offer. Sprint has argued that its bid is superior because
it’s simpler and carries fewer conditions.  Even so, Sprint will need to increase the bid to persuade
Clearwire investors to walk away from Dish’s offer, said the
person familiar with Glenview’s thinking, who asked not to be
named because the firm’s decision isn’t public.  Spectrum Value  The shareholders are the latest investors to join the
rallying cry for a higher bid. Crest Financial Ltd., a Houston-
based firm, asked the FCC to block the deal because it
undervalues Clearwire’s spectrum -- the airwaves that let mobile
devices connect to wireless networks. New York-based Mount
Kellett Capital Management LP, meanwhile, sent a letter this
week to Clearwire’s board asking them to consider Dish’s offer.  Mount Kellett has said it holds 53.2 million shares, or
about 3.6 percent of the outstanding stock. Crest Financial owns
45.8 million shares, according to a Nov. 6 letter. There are 691
million Class A shares outstanding.  Clearwire rose 1 percent to $3.17 at the close in  New York .
The current price signals that investors expect a bid to go
higher than Sprint’s $2.97 offer. Sprint rose 0.4 percent to
$5.65.  “Sprint controls the show, and they could eliminate Dish’s
involvement if they picked off some investors,” said Walt Piecyk, an analyst at BTIG LLC in New York. “But that would
involve increasing their bid.”  Dish’s Strategy  Dish, the second-largest U.S. satellite-television
provider, is making the bid as part of an expansion into mobile-
phone service. Its proposal would require Clearwire shareholders
to sell at least 25 percent of the stock and wouldn’t be
dependent on Sprint’s participation, though it’s subject to
conditions that may require Sprint’s approval.  Sprint, the third-largest U.S. wireless carrier, has said
the matter is in the hands of the Clearwire special committee,
which has accepted Sprint’s offer.  “We believe our offer is superior to Dish’s,” said  Bill White , a spokesman for  Overland Park , Kansas-based Sprint.
“Dish has made a highly conditional proposal, so it’s not even
possible to make a counteroffer to that.”  Dish, founded by billionaire  Charlie Ergen , asked
regulators yesterday to pause their review of a separate
transaction --  Softbank Corp. (9984) ’s $20 billion investment in
Sprint.  Wait and See?  Sprint’s acquisition strategy depends on the cash infusion,
and the Clearwire takeover is conditional on the deal with
Tokyo-based Softbank going through. Dish, based in Englewood,
 Colorado , said the FCC should wait until the Clearwire situation
evolves before acting.  Clearwire has made no decision on reconsidering Sprint’s
offer, according to a statement last week. Clearwire said it
plans to talk to Dish and will keep its options open by not
drawing on financing offered by Sprint.  Sprint agreed to acquire 100 percent of its network partner
Clearwire in December, two months after its deal with Softbank.
The joint venture had struggled to build a nationwide wireless
network over the past four years, leading to billions in losses
for Clearwire.  Sprint plans to take over Clearwire’s spectrum and use it
to enhance its own network. Sprint Chief Executive Officer  Dan Hesse  said last month that the deal was “critical” to
turnaround efforts at the carrier.  Clearwire’s airwaves would be a prized possession for
Sprint and Softbank, especially since it matches the spectrum
Softbank already owns in  Japan , Piecyk said. If Sprint does
nothing, the company’s Clearwire takeover may not win a
shareholder vote, he said.  “If Sprint loses, they hurt their chances to buy
Clearwire, and it opens up the door for Ergen to grab a big
chunk of spectrum,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Scott Moritz in New York at 
 smoritz6@bloomberg.net ;
Alex Sherman in New York at 
 asherman6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  