-- Clifford Chance Hires Poddar for Antitrust in Australia
-- B y   J o e   S c h n e i d e r
-- 2013-01-17T13:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-17/clifford-chance-hires-poddar-for-antitrust-in-australia.html
Dave Poddar, an antitrust lawyer who
advised Emirates on a proposed joint venture with Qantas Airways
Ltd., has joined  Clifford Chance  LLP, the U.K.’s highest
grossing law firm, in its Sydney office.  Clifford Chance is boosting its workforce in the Asia-
Pacific region, where its revenue rose 28 percent in the year
ended April 30, helped by offices in Sydney and Perth added in
2011 and a new alliance in  Singapore  last year. Poddar joined
Jan. 7, according to a statement today from the firm.  “Adding dedicated antitrust expertise has been a priority
since our establishment in Australia,” Peter Charlton, Clifford
Chance’s Asia Pacific managing partner, said in a statement
today. “When overseas clients invest in Australia, or local
companies acquire or expand domestically, antitrust issues are
very likely to arise.”  The value of mergers and acquisitions in  Australia  slumped
41 percent to $86 billion last year from 2011 and compared with
$148.8 billion in 2010, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
The slowdown over the past two years doesn’t mean there’s a lack
of work for competition lawyers, with companies planning six to
12 months in advance, Poddar said in a phone interview.  Concentration in Australian industries from news media to
retail mean tie ups and acquisitions face regulatory scrutiny,
he said.  “For competition lawyers giving strategic advice, there is
plenty of work,” Poddar said.  Poddar, worked at Mallesons Stephen Jaques for 22 years,
then in 2011 joined  Allen & Overy , which he left last year. He
declined to discuss his departure from Allen & Overy.  The Australian Competition and Consumer Commission last
month issued a preliminary ruling proposing to allow Qantas and
Emirates to cooperate on passenger and freight operations.
Emirates will gain access to Qantas’s Australian and New Zealand
network while Qantas will be able to sell tickets to 60 new one-
stop destinations in Europe, the  Middle East  and  Africa .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joe Schneider in Sydney at 
 jschneider5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Wong at 
 dwong19@bloomberg.net  