-- Clinton to Testify on Benghazi Before Senate Next Week
-- B y   D a v i d   L e r m a n
-- 2013-01-17T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-17/clinton-to-testify-on-benghazi-before-senate-next-week.html
Secretary of State Hillary Clinton
will testify before a Senate panel next week about the deadly
attack on a U.S. diplomatic mission in Libya, a day before
lawmakers consider the nomination of her successor.  Clinton will make her appearance on Jan. 23, the Senate
Foreign Relations Committee said in an announcement on its
website yesterday. The panel will hold a hearing Jan. 24 on the
nomination of Massachusetts Democratic Senator John Kerry,
President  Barack Obama ’s choice as the next secretary of state.  Republican lawmakers have said it’s important to hear from
Clinton directly on Benghazi before she leaves office, and her
testimony may help clear the way for Kerry’s confirmation by the
Senate. The secretary also is scheduled to appear Jan. 23 before
the House Foreign Affairs Committee, where she will answer
lawmakers’ questions about the Sept. 11 attack.  Republicans have called on Clinton to explain the security
shortcomings in Benghazi. Four Americans, including Ambassador
Chris Stevens, died at the compound, where security was
“grossly inadequate,” according to an independent review panel
appointed by Clinton.  The review panel found the State Department “demonstrated
a lack of proactive leadership and management ability,” though
the criticism was directed at officials below Clinton’s level.  Clinton, in a letter to Congress last month, said she
accepted “every one” of the review board’s recommendations and
vowed to correct the department’s failures. She said the State
Department has begun working to hire additional diplomatic
security for U.S. missions and is working with the Pentagon to
dispatch hundreds of additional Marine Corps security guards to
U.S. embassies and other facilities.  Election Flashpoint  The Benghazi attack was a flashpoint in the presidential
election, and Republicans have criticized the officials, such as
U.S. Ambassador to the United Nations Susan Rice, for their
early accounts of the circumstances.  Clinton’s congressional testimony has been delayed by
health issues that prompted her monthlong absence from work.  Clinton, 65, was released from New York-Presbyterian
Hospital on Jan. 2 after treatment for a blood clot discovered
between her skull and brain during a check-up before her planned
return last month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Lerman in Washington at 
 dlerman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  