-- Cocoa Butter Stabilizes in Europe as Grinders Boost Processing
-- B y   I s i s   A l m e i d a
-- 2013-01-17T09:34:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-17/cocoa-butter-stabilizes-in-europe-as-grinders-boost-processing.html
The price of cocoa butter, which
gained 65 percent last year, stabilized in  Europe  in the past
two weeks as bean processors began boosting output after a
slowdown last year, according to three traders who have direct
knowledge of the sales.  The cost of cocoa butter relative to the price of beans, or
the so-called butter ratio, was 2.05 to 2.1 times the cocoa
futures on the NYSE Liffe exchange, said the traders, who asked
not to be identified because they aren’t authorized to speak to
the media. The ratio was 2 to 2.1 on Jan. 4.  Cocoa butter rallied last year as grinders slowed bean
processing after a drop in the price of by-product cocoa powder
reduced their profitability. The butter ratio was 2 on Dec. 28,
2012, up from 1.21 on Dec. 30, 2011, according to data from
KnowledgeCharts, a unit of research company  Commodities Risk
Analysis  in Bethlehem,  Pennsylvania .  Delfi Cocoa (Europe) GmbH is increasing processing at its
Hamburg plant after a six-month slowdown, Karel Menu, the
company’s managing director, said on Jan. 7. Cargill Inc. has
started to increase grindings after cut backs last year, Jos de Loor, president of the cocoa and chocolate unit, said Nov. 21.  Cocoa bean processing in Europe fell 6.2 percent in the
fourth quarter, the Brussels-based European Cocoa Association
said this week. That compared with a 16 percent decline in the
previous three-month period and an 18 percent drop from April to
June, ECA data showed.  When cocoa beans are ground, about 80 percent is turned
into cocoa liquor, which is then processed into powder and
butter, according to  Barry Callebaut AG (BARN) , which supplies
chocolate to  Nestle SA. (NESN)  Grinders’ profitability is determined by
the prices of powder and butter divided by that of beans, giving
the so-called combined ratio.  Cocoa for March delivery rose 0.4 percent to 1,461 pounds
($2,340) a ton on NYSE Liffe.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Isis Almeida in London at 
 Ialmeida3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 Ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net . 