-- Common Euro Bonds Aren’t Ruled Out Forever, Dijsselbloem Says
-- B y   C o r i n a   R u h e
-- 2013-01-17T16:36:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-17/common-euro-bonds-aren-t-ruled-out-forever-dijsselbloem-says.html
Common euro-area bonds haven’t been
ruled out for good, said Dutch Finance Minister Jeroen Dijsselbloem, who may succeed  Jean-Claude Juncker  next week as
head of the group of euro-area finance chiefs.  “We’re not excluding this to eternity,” Dijsselbloem told
Dutch lawmakers today in The Hague. The Dutch government could
only support euro bonds as one of the final touches on a
bolstered economic and monetary union, he said. “We’re really
talking about the distant future.”  The prospect of common euro-area debt issuance fell off the
European agenda indefinitely last year under pressure from
Germany as  Chancellor Angela Merkel , an opponent of joint bonds,
prepared for an election later this year. In their place,
European Union President  Herman Van Rompuy  proposed the
exploration of a “common but limited” euro budget after 2014.  Dijsselbloem said he’ll present himself as a candidate for
the Eurogroup job tomorrow in a meeting with Juncker, who has
held the post for eight years. When finance ministers meet on
Jan. 21 in Brussels, Dijsselbloem said he’ll provide his view on
the group’s “agenda and functioning,” not his vision for the
future of the euro.  Juncker, the prime minister of Luxembourg, said on Dec. 19
that he had “reason to believe” the Dutchman could be his
successor as Eurogroup chief.  ‘Burden-Sharing With Russia’  French Finance Minister  Pierre Moscovici  raised concerns
about the process used to find the new Eurogroup head. He
criticized Dijsselbloem for not having outlined his vision for
economic and financial policies, and said a decision wouldn’t be
made until February,  Frankfurter Allgemeine Zeitung  reported
today.  In his remarks to the Dutch parliament, Dijsselbloem said
the Eurogroup is studying “various ways of bailing in”
investors in a rescue plan for Cyprus. He also held out the
prospect of Russian involvement.  “There could definitely be burden-sharing with  Russia ,”
he said, adding that talks have been held on rolling over
Russia’s 2.5 billion-euro ($3.3 billion) loan to Cyprus made in
2011.  “Russia is committed,” he said. “It’s conceivable they
could participate in a solution for Cyprus.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Corina Ruhe in  The Hague  at  cruhe@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Ludden at   jludden@bloomberg.net  