-- Corbett Gives U.K. Firm 20-Year Pennsylvania Lottery Deal
-- B y   R o m y   V a r g h e s e
-- 2013-01-17T18:11:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-17/corbett-gives-u-k-firm-20-year-pennsylvania-lottery-deal.html
Pennsylvania  Governor Tom Corbett
handed the management of the state’s $3.48 billion lottery to
the company that runs Britain’s National Lottery.  Disregarding criticism from Democratic lawmakers and a
union representing lottery workers, Corbett awarded the 20-year
contract yesterday to Camelot Global Services PA LLC, which is
part of U.K.-based Camelot Group Plc. The attorney general’s
office received the contract yesterday and will have 30 days to
review it, Eric Shirk, a spokesman for the governor, said by e-
mail.  “We’ve come up with a win-win scenario where we combine
one of the nation’s best lotteries with one of the best private-
sector lottery industry experts in the world to grow and protect
Lottery profits for decades to come,” Corbett, a first-term
Republican, said in a statement today.  Dennis Fisher, a spokesman for Democratic Attorney General
Kathleen Kane, said in an e-mail that the office will review the
contract for “form and legality.”  Pennsylvania is the third state, after Illinois and
 Indiana , to turn its lottery over to private operators. Corbett
is also trying to sell the state’s wholesale and retail liquor
business.  Sole Bidder  Camelot, operator of the National Lottery in the U.K., a
consultant to  California ’s game and the sole bidder in
Pennsylvania in November, said it will  guarantee  $34 billion in
profits over 20 years.  The arrangement provides $50 million in the next fiscal
year, Corbett said. If the manager doesn’t achieve the annual
profit guarantee from lottery sales, it will draw on a $150
million fund to make up the shortfall to the state, Revenue
Secretary Dan Meuser said at a senate hearing on Jan. 14.  Camelot’s contract would be extended to a maximum of 30
years if it hits incentive benchmarks, he told the senators.  Pennsylvania’s sales in the past fiscal year set a record
for the lottery, which was created in 1971. Profits, which
totaled $1.06 billion, go to services for elderly residents,
such as low-cost drugs, transit and senior centers.  Over 60  Turning over management will ensure that funding remains
secure as the population grows, Corbett said. By 2030, almost a
quarter of the state’s population will be over 60, according to
his office.  Camelot’s commitment will provide $3 billion to $4.5
billion more than projections under state management, Corbett
said.  The proposal has been criticized by Democrats and by the
American Federation of State, County and Municipal Employees,
which represents most of the lottery’s 230 employees. The union,
seven Democratic legislators and four lottery employees on Dec.
17 sued the governor in Commonwealth Court, saying he can’t turn
over the management of the lottery without legislative approval.  “People have serious concerns regarding the transferring
of a thriving state asset that generated millions of dollars for
senior programs last year to a foreign private firm accountable
only to profiteers with little oversight,” Representative Mike Sturla, a Lancaster County Democrat, said yesterday in a
statement.  Treasurer Rob McCord, a Democrat, said in a  letter  Jan. 9
to Meuser that he may block payments to Camelot if the firm’s
proposed expansion of games, such as video-gaming terminals,
isn’t authorized under state law.  The lawsuit is American Federation of State County and
Municipal Employees Council 13 v. Commonwealth of Pennsylvania,
706 MD 2012, Commonwealth Court of Pennsylvania (Harrisburg).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Romy Varghese in Philadelphia at 
 rvarghese8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  