-- Costa Rica to Reduce Interest Rates to Stem Currency Surge
-- B y   A d a m   W i l l i a m s
-- 2013-01-17T21:37:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-17/costa-rica-to-reduce-interest-rates-to-limit-capital-inflows.html
Costa Rica  will lower interest rates
as part of a series of measures to reduce capital inflows that
have made the country’s currency the best performing in Latin
America this month.  The coupon on 10-year local bonds sold by the central bank
will fall to 8.5 percent from 9 percent, Finance Minister Edgar Ayala told reporters in San Jose today. The  interest rate  on
deposits fell to 8.9 percent today from 9.2 percent at the start
of the year and will continue to decline, Ayala said. Further
measures will be announced by the central bank, he said.  “Capital inflows enter Costa Rica because we have an
exchange rate system where the currency is basically guaranteed
to be stable,” Ayala said. “If Costa Rica pays interest rates
of 10 percent, as we did in December, and rates abroad are
around 2 percent, there is an enormous return that investors can
take advantage of.”  President Laura Chinchilla said Jan. 15 that “speculative
capital inflows are real and massive weapons of mass
destruction” against the Central American economy. The central
bank has bought more than $150 million this year to defend the
currency and Chinchilla vowed to seek legislation as early as
next week that lets the government raise deposit requirements on
inflows and taxes on outflows.  Regional Leader  Costa Rica’s colon has gained 2.2 percent so far this year
through yesterday, the most among  Latin America  economies
tracked by Bloomberg. The currency was little changed at 497.29
per dollar today.  A stronger currency hurts exporters by making their goods
more expensive abroad. The central bank lets the colon’s value
fluctuate daily within a “crawling band” system that allows
for movement between a fixed ceiling and floor. The band on Jan.
15 ranged from 491 colones to 502 colones, according to the
central bank.  “Speculative capital inflows can go out of the country as
quickly as they came in, which can lead to a lot of undesirable
consequences in local capital and money markets,” said Carl Ross, managing director of investments at brokerage Oppenheimer
& Co. in Atlanta, in a Jan. 16 phone interview. The proposals
“may lead some investors to try to rush in before the rules
change and it might lead some to leave before the rules
change,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Williams in  San Jose , Costa Rica at 
 awilliams111@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net  