-- CSN Slumps on Concern ThyssenKrupp Buy Would Erode Cash
-- B y   J u a n   P a b l o   S p i n e t t o
-- 2013-01-17T20:50:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-17/csn-slumps-on-thyssenkrupp-s-plants-bid-speculation-rio-mover.html
Cia. Siderurgica Nacional SA (SID) ,
Brazil’s third-largest steelmaker, fell to a three-week low on
concern the company will overpay for  ThyssenKrupp AG (TKA) ’s steel
plants in the Americas at a time of slowing demand.  CSN slid 3.7 percent to 11.98 reais at the close of trading
in Sao Paulo, the lowest since Dec. 28. Trading volume was more
than double its three-month daily average. The benchmark Bovespa
index gained 0.7 percent.  Sao Paulo-based CSN presented a $3.8 billion offer for
ThyssenKrupp’s steel plant in Alabama and Rio de Janeiro and is
the main candidate to purchase the assets together with
 ArcelorMittal (MT) , Dow Jones reported, citing unidentified sources.
Investors are concerned that CSN is entering into a bidding war,
Marcelo Varejao, an analyst at brokerage Socopa Corretora, said
by phone from  Sao Paulo  today.  “Short-term investors see this as negative because there
will be a cash disbursement and probably an increase in
investments needed,” he said. “This is a bad moment for the
steel industry and seems more appropriate to preserve cash.”  A CSN press official in Sao Paulo declined to comment on
the report. ThyssenKrupp spokesman Stefan Ettwig said in an e-
mailed statement that the company declined to comment.  An acquisition of ThyssenKrupp’s assets under terms
reported by Dow Jones would by negative for CSN by pushing up
debt and weighing on earnings before items, Deutsche Bank AG
analysts Rodrigo Barros and Leandro Cappa wrote today in a note
to clients.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Juan Pablo Spinetto in  Rio de Janeiro  at 
 jspinetto@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net ;
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  