-- Deadly Hawaii Fireworks Blast Tied to Contractors by U.S.
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   I v o r y
-- 2013-01-17T19:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-17/deadly-hawaii-fireworks-blast-tied-to-contractors-by-u-s-.html
Two federal contractors share the
blame for a 2011 fireworks explosion in  Hawaii  that killed five
workers, according to a draft report by a U.S. safety agency.  VSE Corp. (VSEC) , hired by the Treasury Department to store seized
property, awarded a subcontract to Donaldson Enterprises Inc. to
handle the confiscated fireworks, according to the U.S. Chemical
Safety and Hazard Investigation Board.  Donaldson had no experience disposing of fireworks, and it
was hired partly because it submitted the lowest bid, according
to the report obtained in advance of its release today. The
independent agency recommended that the government close a
regulatory gap and demand that contractors have strong safety
records and the necessary experience.  “We’d like to see this sort of scrutiny applied to all
contracts, because there are a lot of different hazardous
activities that occur, not just fireworks disposal,” Daniel
Horowitz, managing director of the safety board, said in a phone
interview. “These safeguards are necessary.”  VSE’s “insufficient” contractor selection and the lack of
oversight allowed Donaldson “to introduce significant hazards
to its fireworks disposal process without those hazards being
adequately identified or effectively controlled,” the report
said.  VSE and Donaldson officials didn’t immediately respond to
phone calls or e-mails seeking comment on the board’s findings.  Bunker Explosion  Federal law enforcement agents from 2007 to 2010 seized the
Chinese fireworks in Honolulu. While they were labeled as
consumer fireworks, they had the physical characteristics of
more dangerous commercial-grade pyrotechnics.  Donaldson , which specializes in handling unexploded weapons
such as grenades or land mines, had leased the bunker-like
structure where the fireworks were stored, according to the
report.  The five victims of the April 8, 2011, explosion were
employees of Waipahu, Hawaii-based Donaldson. They were taking
apart fireworks tubes on a loading dock near the structure on
the island of  Oahu , the board said.  Donaldson had developed a disposal method that involved
disassembling the fireworks and gathering their explosive
components, including black powder and aerial shells, in
cardboard boxes, according to the report.  Its process created a larger explosive hazard than the
original fireworks represented, the board said.  When it began to rain, the workers moved all the materials
inside the facility, the agency said.  One Exit  The board didn’t say what caused the blast. It said it
might have been due to a spark from a metal cart, friction from
a rolling office chair or static electricity from plastic
garbage bags. Any of them might have ignited loose black powder.  The fire developed near the only exit, preventing the
workers inside the structure from escaping. Another employee was
injured.  VSE, based in Alexandria,  Virginia , was in charge of the
work under a Treasury contract. The company won $369 million in
federal awards in fiscal 2011.  The board suggested that the government strengthen federal
acquisition regulations to mandate a review of a prospective
contractor’s safety record, employee training and experience.  It also made safety recommendations to the Treasury
Department, the Environmental Protection Agency and the Justice
Department.  The agency’s investigation found that the National Fire
Protection Association, a trade group that works to prevent
fire-related hazards and advocates for public safety, had no
industry standards on the safe disposal of fireworks.  The board recommended that the group develop standards. A
spokesman for the association didn’t immediately respond to an
e-mail seeking comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Ivory in Washington at 
 divory@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Stoughton at 
 sstoughton@bloomberg.net  