-- Default Alarm Rings as Trust Loans Jump Sevenfold: China Credit
-- B y   A n d r e a   W o n g   a n d   K y o u n g w h a   K i m
-- 2013-01-17T03:55:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-17/default-alarm-rings-as-trust-loans-jump-sevenfold-china-credit.html
A seven-fold jump in last month’s
lending by  China ’s trust companies is setting off alarm bells
for regulators to guard against the risk of default.  So-called trust  loans  rose 679 percent to 264 billion  yuan 
($42 billion) from a year earlier, central bank data showed on
Jan. 15. That accounted for 16 percent of  aggregate financing ,
which includes bond and stock sales. The amount of loans in
China due to mature within 12 months  doubled  in four years to
24.8 trillion yuan, equivalent to more than half of gross
domestic product in 2011, and the People’s Bank of China has set
itself a new goal of limiting risks in the financial system.  “Short-term financing instruments such as trust loans have
been rising really quickly,” said Zhang Zhiwei, chief China
economist at Nomura Holdings Inc. in  Hong Kong . “Quite a number
of companies resort to trust loans when they face financing
troubles. A breakdown in this financing chain will eventually
lead to a default on debt this year.”  The growth in trust loans that are typically extended to
higher-risk companies such as property developers or local-
government investment vehicles pose a threat to banks selling
wealth-management products that include such assets should
insolvencies ripple through the economy, the  International
Monetary Fund  said in October. Beijing-based  Huaxia Bank Co. (600015) 
said last month that it will negotiate repayment with investors
who lost money following the default of a trust savings product.  Fitch Warning  The People’s Bank of China announced on Dec. 28 its new
policy objective of controlling risks and said it will seek
“stable and appropriate” growth in loans, stocks and bond
sales. The China Banking Regulatory Commission said on Jan. 14
that banks are banned from selling wealth-management products
without authorization, and should stop offering private-equity-
related products or misleading customers into buying such
investments.  Fitch Ratings  warned last month that this “more mobile,
expensive and short-term” funding base may create repayment
risks and present challenges to profitability and asset-
liability management for lenders.  Chinese banks have been relying on wealth-management
products, which offer higher returns than benchmark deposit
rates, to dissuade households from moving their savings
elsewhere over the past few years. The outstanding amount of
such investments may have climbed to 13 trillion yuan on Dec.
31, from 8.5 trillion yuan a year earlier, according to Fitch.  ‘Time Bomb’  “Their underlying assets can be quite dodgy,” said
Weisheng He, a strategist at Citigroup Inc. in  Shanghai . “A lot
of dodgy borrowers use high  interest rates  to lure
unsophisticated investors. At this stage, the risk is
controllable but if they continue to grow in size without strict
regulation, it could be a time bomb.”  The trusts typically offer better rates of return than
banks, pooling deposits from businesses and households to invest
in real estate, stocks, bonds, commodities or other assets. They
oversaw 5.3 trillion yuan at the end of June, up 90 percent in
just two years and on course to exceed the size of China’s
insurance industry, the IMF said.  At least eight trust products set up by Chinese lenders
faced default risks last year, including Huaxia Bank’s 160
million yuan trust product that defaulted in November, according
to China International Capital Corp., one of the nation’s
biggest investment banks. There are some 60 to 70  trust
companies  in China, according to Christine Kuo, a Hong Kong-
based banking analyst at Moody’s Investors Service.  “The instances similar to Huaxia Bank could probably pop
out every now and then,” Kuo said. “The improving economy
certainly would help but not every company will survive. Some
companies will no doubt face troubles, though we are not seeing
systemic risk from China.”  Quickening Growth  Signs of a pickup in the world’s second-biggest economy are
building, supporting asset values and helping borrowers pay
loans. The value of home sales rose 18 percent in November from
October and industrial production and retail sales both
increased at the fastest clip since March, official data show.
 Service industries  grew the most in four months in December,
while aggregate financing surged 28 percent from a year earlier.  GDP probably expanded 7.8 percent in the October-December
period, after a third-quarter gain of 7.4 percent that was the
smallest in three years, according to the median estimate of
economists surveyed by Bloomberg before a government report
tomorrow.  Funding Stress  “The focus of my concern currently is that economic
activity in China is being funded more and more with short-term
financing, which is a change from the recent past,” said Colin
Bell, vice president of  emerging markets  for Auerbach Grayson
Co. in  New York . A jump in such loans “could certainly become a
problem in the future as it appears to reflect some amount of
stress in the funding structure of large Chinese banks.”  Citic Trust Co., a unit of the nation’s biggest state-owned
investment company, said on Dec. 21 that it missed a payment to
investors in one of its wealth-management products after a steel
company failed to pay interest on a loan.  The likelihood of China’s first bond default is higher in
2013 than it was last year, according to an annual report by
China Central Depository & Clearing Co. published Jan. 6 on
Chinabond.com.cn, the government bond clearing house website.
There is pressure on yields to climb and bonds issued by small-
and medium-sized companies accounted for 9.1 trillion yuan of
the 26 trillion yuan of outstanding debt at the end of 2012, it
said.  Default Risk  Harbin Huijiabei Foods Co., a company that sold a joint
bond with three other companies in 2010, said that it would not
be able to deposit its payable principal and interest to a
reserve account on time, according to a statement posted Dec. 20
on Chinabond. The payment was due Dec. 30 and the bond, rated
AA+ by Dagong Global Credit Ratings, yielded 80 percent on Jan.
15 compared with 8.5 percent a year ago and 18 percent on Dec.
28, Chinabond prices show.  Five-year credit-default swaps protecting China’s sovereign
debt against non-payment rose two basis points yesterday to a
two-month high of 68 in New York, according to data provider
CMA, which is owned by McGraw-Hill Cos. and compiles prices
quoted by dealers in the privately negotiated market. The yuan
was little changed at 6.2173 per dollar in Shanghai today, after
touching a 19-year high of 6.2124 on Jan. 14.  ‘Ponzi Scheme’  Some of the wealth-management products sold by Chinese
banks are “fundamentally a Ponzi scheme,” wrote Xiao Gang,
chairman of Bank of China Ltd., the nation’s fourth-largest
lender by assets, in a China Daily commentary in October.  Andrew
Colquhoun , the Hong Kong-based head of Fitch’s Asia-Pacific
sovereign ratings unit, said in a teleconference on Jan. 8 that
China’s shadow banking system is a “concern” as anecdotal
evidence is building the nation has a debt problem.  Lending by trust companies surged 645 percent last year to
1.29 trillion yuan, PBOC data show. The share of non-bank
finance in aggregate credit has surged to about 45 percent this
year, from 30 percent in 2008, according to central bank data.  “The trust-loan sector is an area we are keeping on close
watch,” said Kuo at Moody’s. “For those companies that are
using short-term loans to finance long-term projects, there will
be liquidity issues once there’s a sudden stop of supply.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrea Wong in Taipei at 
 awong268@bloomberg.net ;
Kyoungwha Kim in Singapore at 
 kkim19@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  