-- Serena Williams, Federer, Murray Advance at Hot Australian Open
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s   a n d   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 2013-01-17T14:47:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-17/defending-champ-azarenka-races-into-australian-open-third-round.html
Serena Williams  overcame another
mishap to join top-seeded Victoria Azarenka in the third round
of the Australian Open on the hottest day so far at the Grand
Slam tennis tournament.  Roger Federer  and  Andy Murray  also won
in straight sets.  Williams, the No. 3 seed from the U.S., followed Azarenka’s
win yesterday on Rod Laver Arena with a 6-2, 6-0 victory over
Garbine Muguruza of  Spain , finishing off with a 207 kilometer-
per-hour (129 mile-per-hour) ace, the  fastest serve  in the
women’s draw.  After rolling her ankle in the first round, the 15-time
Grand Slam champion hit herself in the mouth with her racket in
the sixth game while chasing down a ball on the baseline. She
recovered to take the first set and, following an 18-minute game
to open the second, closed out the win in 75 minutes.  “One day I twist my ankle, today I hit myself in the
face,” Williams, 31, said in a televised courtside interview.
“Who knows what’s next? I’m hoping to just hit some winners on
Saturday.”  Williams, the bookmakers’ favorite to win her sixth
Australian Open, extended her winning streak to 18 matches as
she seeks a third straight major title. She said her right ankle
felt better following ice and massage treatment.  “I didn’t feel anything today,” Williams, who plays Ayumi Morita of  Japan  tomorrow, said in a news conference. “Obviously
when you go out to play you’re heavy on adrenaline and you’re
really pumped up. Usually I feel injuries after the match, but
so far, so good.”  Heat to Ease  After temperatures yesterday in Melbourne reached 39
degrees Celsius (102 Fahrenheit), today’s forecast calls for a
high of 29 degrees as defending men’s champion Novak Djokovic of
Serbia meets Czech Radek Stepanek and women’s No. 2  Maria Sharapova  of Russia takes on seven-time major winner  Venus Williams  of the U.S. in third-round matches. No. 4 seeds
Agnieszka Radwanska of  Poland  and  David Ferrer  of Spain are also
in action.  Defending champion Azarenka of Belarus beat 94th-ranked
Eleni Daniilidou of Greece 6-1, 6-0 to open play yesterday. The
23-year-old Azarenka, who won her first major title 12 months
ago, said she was getting her rhythm and focus back after her
preparations were disrupted by a toe injury caused by a
pedicure.  “I felt really good,” Azarenka, who next plays American
Jamie Hampton, told reporters. “I was focused. It was
definitely something that I stepped up from my first match. I
was in the zone trying to execute all of my shots.”  Robson Marathon  Britain’s Laura Robson upset No. 8 Petra Kvitova, the 2011
Wimbledon champion from the Czech Republic, 2-6, 6-3, 11-9 in a
three-hour match that ended about 12:30 a.m. The 18-year-old
next takes on 29th-seeded Sloane Stephens of the U.S.  No. 16 Roberta Vinci of Italy won in straight sets, as did
10th-seeded  Caroline Wozniacki  of Denmark, No. 14 Maria Kirilenko from Russia and No. 20 Yanina Wickmayer of Belgium.  Kimiko Date-Krumm, 42, didn’t fade in the high temperatures
in moving on with a 6-2, 7-5 win against Israel’s Shahar Peer.
The victory made her the oldest woman to reach the third round
of a Grand Slam since Renee Richards at the 1979  U.S. Open .  Murray, who secured his first major in New York last year,
beat Portugal’s Joao Sousa 6-2, 6-2, 6-4.  ‘Tough Conditions’  He next faces Lithuanian qualifier Ricardas Berankis, who
defeated No. 25 seed Florian Mayer of  Germany . Murray, who
prepared for the Australian summer by training in Miami and
tuned up for Melbourne by defending his Brisbane International
title, said he was glad to finish the match in three sets.  “There were very few long rallies,” Murray, 25, told
reporters. “So it worked out well for me because it was really,
really tough conditions.”  Federer opened evening play on Rod Laver Arena with a 6-3,
6-4, 6-4 win against Russia’s Nikolay Davydenko, setting up a
third-round matchup with  Bernard Tomic , the only Australian
remaining in either singles draw.  Tomic, who won his first ATP World Tour title in Sydney
last weekend and beat top-ranked Novak Djokovic at the Hopman
Cup team event in Perth earlier this month, beat German
qualifier Daniel Brands.  “I’m ready,” Tomic said of his match against 17-time
Grand Slam champion Federer. “I do have the belief now. It’s
possible. I showed that in Perth, that you can beat these
players. Now I’m going to try to beat him.”  No. 7 Jo-Wilfried Tsonga, ninth-seeded  Richard Gasquet  and
 Gilles Simon , the No. 14 seed, were among five Frenchman to
advance. Sixth-seeded Juan Martin del Potro of Argentina and No.
12 Marin Cilic of Croatia also won.  Milos Raonic of  Canada , the No. 13 seed, set up a third-
round matchup with 17th-seeded Philipp Kohlschreiber of Germany
after both won in straight sets.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dan Baynes at  Melbourne  Park at  dbaynes@bloomberg.net ;
Bob Bensch in London at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  