-- Denmark Newspaper Bomb Plotter Gets 14-Year Sentence
-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 2013-01-17T23:18:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-17/denmark-newspaper-bomb-plotter-gets-14-year-sentence.html
A Pakistani-born Canadian was
sentenced to 14 years in prison for helping plan an attack on a
Danish newspaper that published cartoons of the prophet
Muhammad.  Tahawwur Rana, 52, was sentenced today by U.S. District
Judge Harry D. Leinenweber in Chicago federal court, where a
jury convicted him in June 2011.  The jury found that Rana knowingly let his immigration-
services business be used by co-conspirator David Coleman
Headley as a cover for a mission to scout the Copenhagen
newspaper Morgenavisen  Jyllands-Posten . One cartoon showed the
prophet Muhammad with a bomb in his turban. The attack never
happened.  “What Judge Leinenweber did today was finish what the jury
started,” defense attorney Charles Swift told reporters after
the hearing. Co-counsel Patrick Blegen said the verdict will be
appealed and that he and Swift will discuss whether to challenge
the sentence, too.  Blegen said he and Swift didn’t speak with their client
after the sentencing before meeting with the press in the
courthouse lobby. Rana has been in U.S. custody since his
conviction.  Other Verdicts  Rana was also found guilty of aiding a Pakistani group the
U.S. had designated as a terrorist organization. He was
acquitted of helping plotters of the November 2008 Mumbai
attacks that killed about 160 people over three days, including
six Americans.  Headley, 52, was arrested by federal agents at  Chicago ’s
O’Hare international Airport in October 2009 and pleaded guilty
to 12 criminal counts, confessing his involvement in both plots.
He agreed to cooperate with investigators and was the lead
witness against Rana.  Headley is scheduled to be sentenced on Jan. 24.  Prosecutors asked that Rana get consecutive 15-year prison
sentences for each conviction, for a total of 30 years.  Blegen and Swift asked for a lesser sanction, citing their
client’s limited involvement with the newspaper plot and his
failing health.  Rana in Court  Thin, bespectacled and gray-bearded, Rana attended today’s
proceedings wearing an orange federal prison-issue uniform,
white socks and blue slip-on shoes. Invited by the judge to
address the court, he declined to do so.  At today’s hearing, Leinenweber rejected prosecutors’
requests for longer sentences than federal guidelines call for
and capped Rana’s punishment at 14 years.  “This serious prison sentence should go a long way toward
convincing would-be terrorists that they can’t hide behind the
scenes, lend support to the violent aims of terrorist
organizations, and escape detection and punishment,” Gary S. Shapiro, the acting U.S. attorney in Chicago, said in a
statement after the hearing.  “Just as vigorously as we pursue terrorists and their
organizations, we will also pursue those who facilitate their
violent plots from a safe distance,” Shapiro said.  ‘Horrific Scale’  The goal of the conspiracy Rana helped support “was murder
on a grand, horrific scale,” the government said in court
papers.  Rana’s lawyers argued that the plot against the paper
wasn’t carried out and no one was hurt. They said their client
recently had a heart attack.  The conviction for providing material support to Lashkar e
Tayyiba, a militant group agitating for the separation of the
predominantly Muslim state of  Jammu and Kashmir  from  India , was
not tied to any specific deaths, his lawyers said.  They portrayed their client at the trial as an honest
businessman who had been continually deceived by his friend.  No Terrorist  “Rana is quite simply not a ‘terrorist,’ not a ‘jihadist’
and has not imposed on his family or friends the particular
brand of hatred that Headley spread, or attempted to spread, to
all of those around him,” Rana’s lawyers said in court papers.  Headley, the U.S.-born son of a Pakistani father and an
American mother, testified that he had known Rana since the two
attended a Pakistani military academy as teenagers. He called
Rana his “best friend in the world.”  The newspaper plot called for a fight to the death with
Danish authorities during which Jyllands-Posten staff members
were to be shot and beheaded, their severed heads then thrown
from office windows, Headley said.  Headley testified that he had carried out assignments for
an agent of  Pakistan ’s Inter-Services Intelligence Agency
identified only as “Major Iqbal” and another man, al-Qaeda
ally Ilyas Kashmiri, who Blegen said in court today suggested
the idea of severing heads.  One Killed  Kashmiri, while charged in the case, was never apprehended
and was reported killed in a U.S. missile attack in June 2011.  “Rana has not tried to infect his family or anyone else
with this kind of hatred that Headley tried to spread,” Blegen
told the judge. “He’s not the kind of person who needs to be
put in jail until he dies.”  Assistant U.S. Attorney Daniel Collins disagreed, asking
Leinenweber to impose a long term.  “He’s never accepted responsibility,” the prosecutor
said.  Before pronouncing the sentence, the judge cited letters
received on Rana’s behalf and said the defendant was evidently
an intelligent person capable of providing assistance “in a
good way” to many people.  The judge said it was difficult to understand how a such a
person can “get sucked into a dastardly plot.”  The Islamic faith forbids depictions of Muhammad. Artist
Kurt Westergaard’s 2005 caricatures touched off violent protests
in Muslim communities around the world.  The case is U.S. v. Kashmiri, 09-cr-00830, U.S. District
Court, Northern District of  Illinois  (Chicago).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Harris in Chicago
at   aharris16@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  