-- Deutsche Telekom Said to Weigh Scout Classifieds Unit Sale
-- B y   A a r o n   K i r c h f e l d ,   C o r n e l i u s   R a h n   a n d   M a t t h e w   C a m p b e l l
-- 2013-01-17T18:46:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-17/deutsche-telekom-is-said-to-weigh-sale-of-scout-classifieds-unit.html
Deutsche Telekom AG (DTE) , Germany’s
biggest phone company, is considering a sale this year of its
digital classifieds business that may fetch 1.5 billion euros
($2 billion), according to people familiar with the matter.  Deutsche Telekom intends to hire banks as early as this
quarter to prepare for a sale or initial public offering of
Scout24 Holding GmbH, said two of the people, who asked not to
be identified because the discussions are private. The business
may attract media companies  Axel Springer AG (SPR)  and Bertelsmann SE
as well as buyout firms, they said. Deutsche Telekom may also
look for a partner for Scout24, one of the people said.  A disposal adds to options for Bonn-based Deutsche Telekom,
which last month said it was exploring an IPO to help fund
expansion of the unit it bought in 2004. Scout24 has 13 million
monthly users and operates in 22 countries, according to its
 website .  “A direct sale may make sense because the IPO market
hasn’t been too hot recently and Scout could attract wide
interest,” said Wolfgang Specht, an analyst at Bankhaus Lampe
KG in Bielefeld,  Germany . “It will be a multi-stage process and
in the end it’s about maximizing the value of the asset.”  Axel Springer rose 2.7 percent 33.25 euros in  Frankfurt  for
its biggest increase in six months. Deutsche Telekom added 0.7
percent to 9.02 euros.  ‘More Cash’  Andreas Fuchs, a Deutsche Telekom spokesman, declined to
comment, as did Axel Springer spokeswoman Edda Fels and
Bertelsmann spokesman Christian Steinhof.  Europe ’s phone companies are looking to offload Internet
and content businesses as they seek to raise money for building
high-speed mobile networks.  Telefonica SA (TEF)  of Spain last year
sold its stake in online travel agency Rumbo, while  Telecom
Italia SpA (TIT)  is divesting its television assets in  Italy .  “Should I now put more cash into Scout, or should we
consider that Scout might be, you know, a self-funding
business?” Deutsche Telekom Chief Financial Officer Timotheus Hoettges, who is set to replace Rene Obermann as chief executive
officer next year,  told investors  on Dec. 7. “We might even
consider, at real enough prices, an IPO for our Scout entity,
which has nicely developed with double-digit growth over the
past.”  Axel Springer, Europe’s biggest newspaper publisher,
acquired French property-listing website Seloger.com in 2011 to
add revenue from digital businesses and reduce the company’s
dependence on print assets. Real estate, jobs and automobile
classifieds are among more popular websites as readers
increasingly get their information from the Internet, eroding a
traditional source of revenue for newspaper groups.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Aaron Kirchfeld in London at 
 akirchfeld@bloomberg.net ;
Cornelius Rahn in Berlin at 
 crahn2@bloomberg.net ;
Matthew Campbell in London at 
 mcampbell39@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net ;
Jacqueline Simmons at 
 jackiem@bloomberg.net  