-- Dish Network Asks FCC to Pause Sprint-Softbank Review
-- B y   T o d d   S h i e l d s   a n d   A l e x   S h e r m a n
-- 2013-01-17T21:27:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-17/dish-network-asks-fcc-to-pause-sprint-softbank-merger-review.html
Dish Network Corp. (DISH)  asked U.S.
regulators to pause their consideration of  Softbank Corp. (9984) ’s
proposed $20 billion purchase of  Sprint Nextel Corp. (S)  as the
satellite-television provider pursues Sprint partner  Clearwire
Corp. (CLWR)   Tokyo-based Softbank’s bid for Sprint is “unripe for
consideration” because maneuvering continues surrounding Dish’s
counteroffer for Clearwire, Dish said in  a filing  at the Federal
Communications Commission that was posted on the agency’s
website today. Dish offered $3.30 a share for wireless operator
Clearwire, which agreed to be bought out by Sprint for $2.97 a
share.  While it has made no decision to reconsider Sprint’s offer,
Clearwire said it plans to talk to Dish, which is led by
Chairman  Charlie Ergen , and will keep its options open by not
drawing on financing offered by Sprint. Third-largest U.S.
wireless carrier Sprint owns slightly more than half of
Clearwire and has said it won’t let Ergen’s bid succeed.  The FCC has asked for comments on Softbank’s bid for Sprint
by Jan. 28. Consideration should be stopped until “the
resolution of significant unresolved contingencies” in Sprint’s
offer to acquire all of Clearwire, Englewood, Colorado-based
Dish said in its filing.  ‘Negotiation Tactic’  “This is a negotiating tactic for Ergen,” Amy Yong, an
analyst at Macquarie Securities in New York, said in an
interview. Ergen wants to force Sprint into talks on sharing
airwaves, Yong said.  Ergen has said he wants to add spectrum -- the airwaves
that let mobile devices operate -- to compete with  AT&T Inc. (T)  and
Verizon Wireless in the mobile-phone business. Last month, the
FCC approved Dish’s plan to operate wireless devices on airwaves
formerly devoted mainly to satellite services.  Clearwire, based in Bellevue, Washington, was unchanged at
$3.14 at the close of trading in New York on the Nasdaq Stock
Market.  Dish gained 40 cents, or 1.1 percent, to $37.75, and Sprint
climbed 10 cents, or 1.8 percent, to $5.63.  John Taylor , a spokesman for Overland Park, Kansas-based
Sprint, declined to comment, as did Justin Cole, a spokesman for
the FCC.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Todd Shields in Washington at 
 tshields3@bloomberg.net  or
Alex Sherman in New York at 
 asherman6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  