-- Doctors Weigh Risks of Metal Hips as FDA Tightens Reviews
-- B y   A n n a   E d n e y
-- 2013-01-17T16:09:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-17/doctors-weigh-risks-of-metal-hips-as-fda-tightens-reviews.html
Metal hip implants, the subject of
thousands of consumer lawsuits, will have to navigate a longer
U.S. review process and should only be offered to patients after
safer options are considered, government regulators said.  The proposed tightening of regulations by the  Food and Drug
Administration  would apply to metal-on-metal hip implants, which
have a higher danger of causing tissue damage and complications
than similar devices made from different material. Makers of
all-metal, total-hip replacement products will now have to file
approval applications for the strictest level of agency device
review, the FDA said today in a  statement  on its website.  The hips are now being cleared through a less strenuous
evaluation reserved for less risky devices, the agency said. The
DePuy unit of  New Brunswick , New Jersey-based  Johnson & Johnson (JNJ) 
recalled 93,000 metal-on-metal hip devices in 2010 after more
than 12 percent failed within five years. J&J faces more than
10,000 lawsuits related to the recalled hips in federal and
state courts.  Metal particles in such hips can wear off the device and
may cause bone and soft tissue damage, and some of the metal can
enter patients’ bloodstream, the agency said. In May 2011, the
FDA asked hip implant makers, such as J&J and Warsaw, Indiana-
based  Zimmer Holdings Inc. (ZMH) , to conduct post-market studies.  The FDA doesn’t have enough data to specify the amount of
metal ions present in blood that would produce an adverse effect
though patients who think their hip isn’t functioning properly
should be considered for metal ion testing. Adverse events
related to the ion levels include skin rash, visual impairments,
depression, kidney impairment and thyroid dysfunction, the
agency said.  The regulator recommended patients receive radiographs at
least every two years even if they aren’t experiencing any
symptoms that would indicate the device is breaking down.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anna Edney in Washington at 
 aedney@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  