-- Donor Feces Cure Recurrent Diarrheal Infection, Study Shows
-- B y   S i m e o n   B e n n e t t
-- 2013-01-17T11:28:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-17/donor-feces-cure-recurrent-diarrheal-infection-study-shows.html
An infusion of feces through the
nose beat the standard antibiotic as a treatment for a recurrent
diarrhea-causing infection that kills about 14,000 Americans a
year, a study showed.  In a trial among 43 people with recurrent diarrhea caused
by a persistent bug called Clostridium difficile, 81 percent of
those who received an infusion of feces from a healthy donor
after treatment with vancomycin were cured, compared with only
31 percent of those treated with the drug alone, researchers
from the University of Amsterdam  wrote  in an article published
yesterday by the New England Journal of Medicine. The study was
stopped early because the treatment was clearly working.  The results validate an approach called fecal microbiota
transplantation, or FMT, pioneered in 1958 by doctors in Denver,
and provides an alternative for the approximately one-in-four
patients whose infection isn’t cleared by initial antibiotic
treatment. C. difficile is the most common cause of hospital-
acquired infectious diarrhea in the U.S. and costs about $1
billion a year to treat, according to the Centers for Disease
Control and Prevention.  “Only patients with the most recalcitrant cases of C.
difficile infection are likely to undergo FMT, usually out of
desperation after multiple treatment approaches have failed,”
 Ciaran Kelly , a professor of medicine at Harvard Medical School,
wrote in an editorial accompanying the study. The use of feces
may be eliminated by the use of cultured bacteria that make the
recipient resistant to C. difficile, Kelly said.  Restoring Bacteria  The procedure probably works by restoring normal gut
bacteria, the researchers, led by Els van Nood, wrote in the
study, which was funded by the Netherlands Organization for
Health Research and Development and the Netherlands Organization
for Scientific Research.  Vancomycin is sold as Vancocin by  ViroPharma Inc. (VPHM)  Vancocin
accounted for $289 million in sales in 2011, more than half of
Exton, Pennsylvania-based ViroPharma’s revenue.  A federal judge last week dismissed the company’s lawsuit
against the U.S. Food and Drug Administration over generic forms
of the antibiotic developed by  Akorn Inc. (AKRX)  and  Watson
Pharmaceuticals Inc. (WPI)   Optimer Pharmaceuticals Inc. (OPTR) ’s Dificid, approved for sale
in the U.S. in May 2011, was the first drug cleared for the
infection in 25 years.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simeon Bennett in Geneva at 
 sbennett9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  