-- Dual-Track Foreclosures Limited Under U.S. Consumer Bureau Rules
-- B y   C a r t e r   D o u g h e r t y
-- 2013-01-17T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-17/dual-track-foreclosures-limited-under-u-s-consumer-bureau-rules.html
Mortgage servicers will face greater
limits on their ability to foreclose on a borrower while
simultaneously negotiating a loan modification under new rules
issued by the U.S. Consumer Financial Protection Bureau.  The rules, some of which are required under the 2010 Dodd-
Frank law that created the agency, go further than the bureau’s
initial proposal in limiting the practice, known as dual-
tracking. They will apply to major banks including  Wells Fargo &
Co. (WFC)  and  Bank of America Corp.  as well as non-bank servicers
including  Ocwen Financial Corp. (OCN)   “For many borrowers, dealing with mortgage servicers has
meant unwelcome surprises and constantly getting the
runaround,” Richard Cordray, the agency’s director, said in an
e-mailed statement. Cordray is scheduled to explain the new
policy at a field hearing in Atlanta today.  Attorneys general from 49 states concluded a $25 billion
settlement with major bank servicers last year that aimed to end
abusive servicing practices around foreclosures. That agreement,
which included only Wells Fargo, Bank of America, JPMorgan Chase
& Co.,  Citigroup Inc. (C)  and Ally Financial Inc., didn’t apply to
all loans they serviced.  The CFPB’s rule against simultaneous foreclosures and
modifications is a turnaround from the bureau’s initial
proposal, issued Aug. 10, which didn’t directly address dual-
tracking, according to a senior CFPB official who briefed
reporters in advance of the release and asked not to be named.  Americans for Financial Reform, an umbrella group of
consumer groups, civil rights organizations and labor unions,
asked the agency to scrap the proposal, in part over the dual-
tracking issue.  Not Prohibited  The final rules stop short of prohibiting dual-tracking.
Instead, they limit lenders’ ability to drive the foreclosure
process forward without giving borrowers a chance to complete
every step of a loan modification, according to the senior CFPB
official.  To create time to work with the servicer, a company cannot
initiate a foreclosure until 120 days after a borrower falls
delinquent. Nor can they start a foreclosure if a borrower has a
pending application for a loan modification. Servicers must also
give borrowers written notice of alternatives to foreclosure and
examples of those options.  In some circumstances, a borrower could face foreclosure
despite seeking a loan modification. For example, if a borrower
sought a modification after the 120-day delinquency period, the
foreclosure process could still go forward.  The rule contains exemptions for small servicers that
handle 5,000 or fewer mortgage loans. These companies are mostly
community banks and credit unions, according to the e-mailed
statement.  ‘No Runarounds’  Other rules finalized by the CFPB are designed to fulfill
Cordray’s pledge to ensure that borrowers face “no surprises
and no runarounds.”  To avoid unwelcome surprises, the CFPB is requiring clear
monthly mortgage statements and warnings before interest rates
adjust. Another rule requires them to warn consumers in advance
if they end up taking out insurance on the borrower’s home.  In an effort to improve customer service, the rule requires
servicers to credit a consumer’s account on the date payment is
received and respond promptly to requests for payoff balances or
to correct errors.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carter Dougherty in Washington at 
 cdougherty6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story: Maura Reynolds
at   mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  