-- Dubai Shares Jump to 2010 High as Recovery Spurs Profit Optimism
-- B y   Z a h r a   H a n k i r
-- 2013-01-17T12:19:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-17/dubai-shares-jump-to-2010-high-as-recovery-spurs-profit-optimism.html
Dubai stocks rose to the highest
level in more than two years as the emirates’ biggest companies
prepare to report full-year earnings that investors expect will
improve amid an economic recovery.  Dubai Financial Market PJSC, (DFM)  the only publicly traded Gulf
Arab stock market, surged 6 percent.  Emaar Properties PJSC, (EMAAR)  the
developer of the world’s tallest skyscraper, rose to a one-week
high. The benchmark  DFM General Index (DFMGI)  jumped 1.9 percent to
close at 1,774.92, the highest level since November 2010 and
taking this week’s gain to 1.1 percent. About  392 million shares 
were traded today, more than double the 12-month daily average.  Dubai’s economy is recovering after a property market crash
that started in 2008 sent  home prices  tumbling more than 65
percent. The economy expanded 5 percent in 2012, the fastest
pace since 2007, according to government forecasts. The emirate,
which was on the verge of a default in 2009, witnessed a pickup
in tourism, with hotel and restaurant industries growing 16
percent in the first half, government data show.  “Expectations for year-end results are positive and the
stocks are pricing in these expectations” amid the emirate’s
economic recovery, said Nabil Rantisi, managing director of
brokerage at Abu Dhabi-based Menacorp.  Higher Profit  Emaar, which has the  heaviest weighting  on Dubai’s index,
may post a 15  percent increase  in 2012 net income, according to
the average estimate of 11 analysts compiled by Bloomberg. The
developer, due to announce results Feb. 14, is considering
spinning off its malls unit and would list the business on the
stock exchange when market conditions are favorable, two people
familiar with the matter said this week. The shares rose 1.2
percent to 4.13 dirhams, the highest level since Jan. 10.  Dubai Financial Market, which relies in part on trading
volume for revenue,  will probably return to profit  in 2012 after
a loss of 6.9 million dirhams ($1.9 million) the year earlier,
the median estimate of three analysts on Bloomberg shows. The
shares surged to 1.23 dirhams, the highest since April 3.
 Emirates NBD PJSC (EMIRATES) , the  United Arab Emirates ’ largest bank by
assets, gained for a second day after its Islamic unit said it
may more than double profit this year.  The DFM General Index’s 14-day  relative strength index  rose
to 79 today. A reading above 70 indicates to some analysts that
a security or index is poised to decline. The measure was the
Gulf Cooperation Council’s best-performer last year with a gain
of 20 percent.  “The economic revival in Dubai has become a reality, and
more investors are ready to allocate money as risk appetite is
back, especially as the news flow is extremely positive,” said
Sebastien Henin, who helps oversee $100 million at The National
Investor in  Abu Dhabi . “From a technical point of view, we’re
reaching resistance. If we break through that, we expect the
rally to continue.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zahra Hankir in Dubai at 
 zhankir@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alaa Shahine at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net  