-- The Worst Debt-Crisis Solution a Country Ever Concocted
-- B y   C a r l   W e n n e r l i n d
-- 2013-01-17T18:40:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-17/the-worst-debt-crisis-solution-a-country-ever-concocted-echoes.html
As the U.S. government lurches from
crisis to crisis in resolving its long-term debt problems,
Congress has debated a number of bad ideas, from indiscriminate
spending cuts to minting a $1 trillion platinum coin. Plenty of
countries have taken even less honorable roads to resolution,
from devaluing their currency to outright default.  But arguably no country can match either the ingenuity or
despicableness of the British when they tackled their own fiscal
woes in the early 1700s. Faced with a ballooning national debt,
English policy makers combined a complex debt-for-equity swap
with promotion of the trans-Atlantic slave trade.  England  pioneered the modern system of finance in the
1690s, by creating the Bank of England, developing a generally
circulating credit currency, establishing sophisticated stock
and bond markets, and introducing a long-term public debt
secured by earmarked future tax receipts.  This system enabled England to prevail in a 20-year
military conflict against a more populous, resource-rich and
battle-weary France. But by 1710, England’s national debt had
grown out of control and the new system of finance was stretched
to its limit.  Much like today, the ruling party’s ability to survive in
office depended on its capacity to come up with a restructuring
plan that would satisfy the bond market. The key was to restore
investor confidence in the likelihood that the debt would be
adequately serviced and eventually paid off.  Slave Trade  Recognizing that mere palliatives wouldn’t suffice, the
Tory minister Robert Harley started the South Sea Co. in the
spring of 1711. The new company was given the right to create a
capital stock of 10 million pounds, which it would issue to the
public in return for the deeply discounted unsecured government
bonds in circulation. To make this public-for-private, debt-for-
equity swap attractive to bondholders, Harley committed future
tax receipts to pay interest on the debt the company absorbed.
More importantly, he awarded the company England’s monopoly
rights to provide Spain’s American colonies with African slaves
-- a contract obtained as a spoil of victory in the war against
 France .  Harley hoped that investors’ dreams of great profits from
the Atlantic slave trade would entice them to give up their
bonds and accept stock in the South Sea Co.  Credit, as is often forgotten, is nothing more than belief,
confidence and imagination. If enough people believe that a
certain amount of value will be generated in the future or in a
distant place, that value can be used today, either for
consumption, investment or debt restructuring. It is this
capacity to transfer value through time and space that gives
credit an appearance of magic. It is also this capacity, of
course, that makes credit precarious and subject to
manipulation, well-intentioned and otherwise.  Harley’s Tories and the Whig opposition clearly recognized
that for the South Sea scheme to work a favorable perception of
the slave trade was necessary. To move public opinion in the
right direction, each side employed a series of authors to write
propaganda journalism. While the Whig writers sought to
undermine confidence in the scheme, Harley’s side hired
scribblers, including the novelists Daniel Defoe and Jonathan Swift, who extolled the plan’s virtues and promises.  Propagandistic Projections  Defoe jubilantly wrote that “Mr. Harley’s Proposal, of
providing effectually for the payment of the Publick Debts of
the Nation, and of Establishing a Trade to the South-Sea of
America, hath fill’d the Hearts of all good Subjects with Joy.”
Swift added that Harley’s innovation, if properly managed, could
become “the greatest Restoration and Establishment of the
Kingdom’s Credit.”      Unsurprisingly, the two didn’t emphasize
that England’s credit would now be dependent on the death and
suffering of African captives. And their propagandistic
projections succeeded in making the future profits of the trans-
Atlantic slave trade seem almost limitless, which contributed to
the success of the South Sea Co. in restoring confidence in the
nation’s financial system.  By 1715, government bonds were once again trading at par
and the Exchequer was able to borrow at favorable rates.
Slavery, which now seems incompatible with finance, was in fact
central to its survival at a formative moment of modern
capitalism.  ( Carl Wennerlind  is an associate professor of history at
Barnard College, Columbia University. He recently published
“Casualties of Credit: The English Financial Revolution, 1620-
1720.” The opinions expressed are his own.)  Read more Echoes columns  online .  To contact the writer of this post: Carl Wennerlind at
 cwennerl@barnard.edu   To contact the editor responsible for this post: Timothy Lavin
at   tlavin1@bloomberg.net  