-- Ebay, Craigslist to Block Scalped Obama Inaugural Tickets
-- B y   E r i c   E n g l e m a n
-- 2013-01-17T17:41:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-17/ebay-craigslist-to-block-scalped-obama-inaugural-tickets.html
EBay Inc. (EBAY)  and Craigslist have
pledged to stop the sale of scalped tickets to President  Barack Obama ’s inauguration after a push from  New York  Democratic
Senator  Charles Schumer .  Tickets for the Jan. 21 inaugural ceremonies, which are
meant to be free and are marked with the phrase “Not for
Sale,” were being offered online, in some cases for thousands
of dollars, according to a news release today from the joint
congressional committee overseeing the inauguration.  Schumer, the committee’s chairman, had asked EBay and
Craigslist to block the sales.  “This year’s presidential inaugural ceremonies are not for
sale,” Schumer said in a statement. “EBay and Craigslist are
doing the right thing in stopping the sale of scalped tickets to
one of our nation’s most sacred events.”  EBay, operator of the world’s largest online marketplace,
will enforce a policy prohibiting the ticket listings on its
site. The company’s StubHub ticket unit already bans the
practice.  “The tickets that were up for sale for President Obama’s
inauguration have been removed from EBay,” Amanda Christine
Miller, a company spokeswoman, said in an e-mail. The listings
violate the company’s ticket policy, she said.  Employees of Craigslist, which hosts online classified ads,
will monitor the site and remove ticket listings, according to
the inaugural committee release.  Officials at Craigslist didn’t immediately respond to a
request for comment.  Capitol Ceremony  The tickets permit access to areas closest to the west
front of the U.S. Capitol, where Obama will be sworn in, said
Matt House, a spokesman for the congressional inaugural
committee. A total of 250,000 are being distributed to the Obama
administration, Congress and the  Supreme Court , with most going
to members of Congress who can give them to constituents, he
said.  The public can view the inauguration from other spots
without a ticket.  An estimated 1.8 million people watched Obama take the oath
of office in 2009. Officials predict the crowd this year may be
less than half that.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eric Engleman in Washington at 
 eengleman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  