-- EBay Sales Beat Estimates as Donahoe Pushes Mobile Sales
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   K u c e r a
-- 2013-01-17T21:52:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-17/ebay-sales-beat-estimates-as-donahoe-pushes-mobile-sales.html
EBay Inc. (EBAY) , operator of the world’s
largest online marketplace, surged to an eight-year high after
fourth-quarter revenue topped analysts’ estimates, helped by
record holiday sales on the Web and mobile devices.  EBay rose 2.4 percent to $54.17 today in New York, the
highest since Jan. 5, 2005. The company has soared 77 percent in
the  past year , compared with a 15 percent increase for the
Standard and Poor’s 500 Index in the same period. Sales climbed
18 percent to $3.99 billion, EBay said yesterday in a statement,
exceeding the average estimate compiled by Bloomberg.  The results suggest Chief Executive Officer John Donahoe is
sustaining a turnaround effort that began in March 2008, when he
succeeded Meg Whitman. The company has been pushing to generate
more revenue from consumers shopping on tablets and smartphones,
and from retailers that use EBay to sell their merchandise. That
has resulted in 14 straight quarters of sales growth, and a 75
percent rally in the shares since Donahoe took the helm.  “The legacy marketplaces business -- it’s kind of carried
into mobile,” said Bill Smead, who helps oversee 340,378 EBay
shares as chief investment officer of Seattle-based Smead
Capital Management Inc. “You get involved with bidding or
selling something on EBay, and it’s nice to carry around the
device where you’re doing that with you.”  On Cyber Monday in November, at the beginning of last
year’s holiday shopping season, transactions on EBay’s mobile
applications more than doubled from the year before, while
PayPal mobile-payment volume almost  tripled.  San Jose,
California-based EBay charges a fee for each item sold, and for
each PayPal transaction.  PayPal, Marketplaces  PayPal’s sales rose 24 percent to $1.54 billion, and active
accounts increased 15 percent to 123 million. Revenue in the
marketplaces division rose 16 percent to $2.05 billion, while
the value of U.S. sales on EBay, excluding cars, trucks and
other vehicles, rose 19 percent.  “U.S. sales volume not coming from EBay Motors is the
metric everyone focuses on,”  Gil Luria , an analyst at Wedbush
Securities Inc., said in an interview. “It’s the best
indication of the health of the core business in the U.S.”  Net income in the fourth quarter fell to $751 million, or
57 cents a share, from $1.98 billion, or $1.51 a share, a year
earlier, when EBay sold the remainder of its stake in  Skype  to
Microsoft. Profit before certain items was 70 cents a share,
matching projections.  Mobile Users  Donahoe said he’s continuing his efforts to make sure users
are buying on smartphones and tablets as well as EBay’s website.
Mobile users tend to complete purchases more often than those
browsing on desktop computers, and mobile garners a quarter of
new customers, drawing a younger demographic to the site, he
said. EBay’s acquisition of credit-card scanning company Card.io
 last year  will further that goal, because the technology makes
it easier for new users to sign up, he said.  “Picture by the end of this year, you download the EBay or
PayPal mobile app, you take a picture of your driver’s license,
and you take a picture of your credit card, and that’s
registering,” Donahoe said in an interview.  EBay’s mobile payment volume reached $13 billion last year,
while PayPal’s total was $14 billion -- exceeding EBay’s own
projections of $10 billion for each.  First-quarter revenue will be $3.65 billion to $3.75
billion, EBay said, compared with an average analyst projection
of $3.8 billion. The company forecast profit, excluding some
items, of 60 cents to 62 cents a share, versus a 64-cent
estimate. EBay’s mobile payment volume will exceed $20 billion
in 2013, as will PayPal’s, the company said.  After cutting about 3 percent of its workforce in October,
PayPal hired three new vice presidents this week -- Arnold Goldberg from Box.net, Koby Avital from  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  and Ryan
Granard from  DreamWorks Animation SKG Inc. (DWA)   To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Kucera in San Francisco at 
 dkucera6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  