-- ECB Monthly Bulletin Editorial for January (Text)
-- B y   M a r k   E v a n s
-- 2013-01-17T09:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-17/ecb-monthly-bulletin-editorial-for-january-text-.html
The following is the text
of the European Central Bank’s January monthly bulletin:  Based on its regular economic and monetary analyses, the
Governing Council decided at its meeting on 10 January to keep
the key ECB interest rates unchanged. HICP inflation rates have
declined over recent months, as anticipated, and are expected to
fall below 2% this year. Over the policy-relevant horizon,
inflationary pressures should remain contained. The underlying
pace of monetary expansion continues to be subdued. Inflation
expectations for the euro area remain firmly anchored in line
with the Governing Council’s aim of maintaining inflation rates
below, but close to, 2% over the medium term. The economic
weakness in the euro area is expected to extend into 2013. In
particular, necessary balance sheet adjustments in financial and
non-financial sectors and persistent uncertainty will continue
to weigh on economic activity. Later in 2013 economic activity
should gradually recover. In particular, the accommodative
monetary policy stance, together with significantly improved
financial market confidence and reduced fragmentation, should
work its way through to the economy, and global demand should
strengthen. In order to sustain confidence, it is essential for
governments to reduce further both fiscal and structural
imbalances and to proceed with financial sector restructuring.  With regard to the economic analysis, following a contraction of
0.2%, quarter on quarter, in the second quarter of 2012, euro
area real GDP declined by 0.1% in the third quarter. Available
statistics and survey indicators continue to signal further
weakness in activity, which is expected to extend into this
year, reflecting the adverse impact on domestic expenditure of
weak consumer and investor sentiment and subdued foreign demand.
However, more recently several conjunctural indicators have
broadly stabilised, albeit at low levels, and financial market
confidence has improved significantly. Later in 2013 a gradual
recovery should start, as the accommodative monetary policy
stance, the significant improvement in financial market
confidence and reduced fragmentation work their way through to
private domestic expenditure, and a strengthening of foreign
demand should support export growth.  The risks surrounding the economic outlook for the euro area
remain on the downside. They are mainly related to slow
implementation of structural reforms in the euro area,
geopolitical issues and imbalances in major industrialised
countries. These factors have the potential to dampen sentiment
for longer than currently assumed and delay further the recovery
of private investment, employment and consumption.  According to Eurostat’s flash estimate, euro area annual HICP
inflation was 2.2% in December 2012, unchanged from November and
down from 2.5% in October and 2.6% in August and September. On
the basis of current futures prices for oil, inflation rates are
expected to decline further to below 2% this year. Over the
policy-relevant horizon, in an environment of weak economic
activity in the euro area and well-anchored long-term inflation
expectations, underlying price pressures should remain
contained.  Risks to the outlook for price developments are seen as broadly
balanced over the medium term, with downside risks stemming from
weaker economic activity and upside risks relating to higher
administered prices and indirect taxes, as well as higher  oil
prices .  Turning to the monetary analysis, the underlying pace of
monetary expansion continues to be subdued. The annual growth
rate of M3 remained broadly unchanged at 3.8% in November 2012,
after 3.9% in October. M3 growth continued to be driven by a
preference for liquid assets, as M1 growth increased further to
6.7% in November, from 6.5% in October, reflecting inflows into
overnight deposits from households and non-financial
corporations. Following the ECB’s non-standard monetary policy
measures and action by other policy-makers, a broadly based
strengthening in the deposit base of MFIs in a number of
stressed countries was observed. This allowed several MFIs to
reduce further their reliance on Eurosystem funding and helped
to reduce segmentation in financial markets. M3 growth was also
supported by an inflow of capital into the euro area, as
reflected in the strong increase in the net external asset
position of MFIs.  There has been little change in credit growth, which remained
weak in November. The annual rate of decline in loans to the
private sector (adjusted for loan sales and securitisation)
remained at -0.5% in November. This development reflects further
net redemptions in loans to non-financial corporations. Net
redemptions, however, were less pronounced than in previous
months, amounting to €4 billion in November, after €7 billion in
October and €21 billion in September. The annual rate of decline
in loans to non-financial corporations was -1.4% in November,
after -1.5% in October. The annual growth in MFI lending to
households also remained broadly unchanged at 0.7% in November.
To a large extent, subdued loan dynamics reflect the current
stage of the business cycle, heightened credit risk and the
ongoing adjustment in the balance sheets of households and
enterprises.  In order to ensure adequate transmission of monetary policy to
the financing conditions in euro area countries, it is essential
to continue strengthening the resilience of banks where needed.
The soundness of banks’ balance sheets will be a key factor in
facilitating both an appropriate provision of credit to the
economy and the normalisation of all funding channels. Decisive
steps for establishing an integrated financial framework will
help to accomplish this objective. The future single supervisory
mechanism (SSM) is one of the main building blocks. It is a
crucial move towards re-integrating the banking system.  To sum up, the economic analysis indicates that price
developments should remain in line with  price stability  over the
medium term. A cross-check with the signals from the monetary
analysis confirms this picture.  Other economic policy areas will need to make further
contributions to ensure a firm stabilisation of financial
markets and an improvement in the outlook for growth. Further
structural reforms should be rapidly implemented to make the
euro area a more flexible, dynamic and competitive economy. In
particular, product market reforms to increase competition and
competitiveness are essential, accompanied by measures to
improve the functioning of labour markets. Such reforms will
boost the euro area’s growth potential and employment and
improve the adjustment capacities of the euro area countries.
They will also add further momentum to the progress being made
with regard to unit labour costs and current account imbalances.
As regards fiscal policies, the recent significant decline in
sovereign bond yields should be bolstered by further progress in
fiscal consolidation in line with the commitments under the
Stability and Growth Pact.  This issue of the Monthly Bulletin contains two articles. The
first article analyses the usefulness of survey-based confidence
indicators for monitoring and predicting economic developments
in the euro area. Particular attention is given to developments
in such indicators since the start of the global financial
crisis in 2007. The second article examines trends in intra-euro
area trade over the last decade and looks at its role in the
build-up and subsequent unwinding of current account imbalances
in the euro area.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Mark Evans  in London at   mevans8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Marco Babic at   mbabic@bloomberg.net  