-- ECB Says Italy Politics Led to Outflows as Elections Looms
-- B y   L o r e n z o   T o t a r o
-- 2013-01-17T13:41:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-17/ecb-says-italy-politics-led-to-outflows-as-elections-looms.html
The  European Central Bank  said that
political uncertainty led to a deterioration of  market sentiment 
toward  Italy  in December as polls signal that the country may
face the risk of a hung parliament after elections next month.  “Increased political uncertainty in Italy led to some
flight-to-safety flows,” the Frankfurt-based ECB said in its
monthly bulletin published today. At the same time, “between
the end of November 2012 and 9 January 2013, yields on AAA-rated
long-term euro area government bonds remained close to their
historic lows.”  On Dec. 10 Italian government bonds slumped, pushing 10-
year  yields  up by the most since August, after Prime Minister
 Mario Monti  said he would resign after his predecessor  Silvio Berlusconi  withdrew his party’s support to the government. Monti
resigned on Dec. 21 after the parliament approved the budget
law, paving the way for early elections. Monti is heading a
centrist coalition in the campaign while acting as a caretaker
premier.  Polls ahead of the Feb. 24-25 ballot suggest that the
coalition headed by the Democratic Party will win a majority in
the Chamber of Deputies, while falling short in the Senate. Such
an outcome could require it to reach out to Monti’s bloc for the
needed support to govern.  The premier’s presence in the election campaign and the
possibility that he’ll have some influence over the next
government has helped Italian bonds recover from the post-
resignation slump.  The country’s 10-year yields fell 3 basis points today, or
0.02 percentage point, to 4.15 percent at 2:30 p.m. in  Rome .
That is down 67 basis points from the 4.82 percent close the day
after Monti resigned.  Public support for the group led by the  Democratic Party ’s
head Pierluigi Bersani slipped to 37.4 percent from 40.3 percent
in December, according to a Jan. 14 poll by the EMG institute.
The bloc led by Berlusconi rose to 27.9 percent from 25.3
percent, while Monti and his allies gained to 14.8 percent from
9.9 percent a month ago.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lorenzo Totaro in Rome at 
 ltotaro@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling@bloomberg.net . 