-- EDF Sees 1 Billion-Euro Cost Cuts, Keeps French Reactor Schedule
-- B y   T a r a   P a t e l
-- 2013-01-17T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-17/edf-to-cut-eu1-billion-costs-while-pledging-french-epr-on-track.html
Electricite de  France  SA will cut 1
billion euros ($1.3 billion) of costs while sticking to a plan
to produce power from a new atomic reactor in Normandy in 2016.  “All parts” of the utility will contribute to cost
reductions, Herve Machenaud, EDF’s head of production and
engineering, said yesterday at a press briefing in Flamanville,
Normandy, where the development of a new-generation atomic
reactor has been plagued by delays and budget overruns. “EDF is
confronted with financial constraints.”  The chances that EDF will have to further revise the 8.5
billion-euro price estimate of the reactor or the building
schedule are “infinitesimally small,” he said.  The cost of building the EPR has escalated following
changes to its engineering and design, as well as changes made
in the wake of  Japan ’s Fukushima nuclear disaster. The utility
also blamed the need to lower operating costs, which will be set
out next month, on a French law that forces EDF to sell atomic
output to competitors in the home market, where it is still
dominant.  “Because we are obliged to sell electricity for less than
we can produce it, we have to lower costs,” Machenaud said.
“Jobs and recruitment won’t be affected.”  A successful startup in 2016, delayed from 2012, could be
crucial to furthering France’s nuclear expansion abroad as the
plant showcases the most recent reactor technology. Setbacks in
construction and safety regulations have raised concerns that
EDF could struggle to build similar EPRs in Britain as proposed.
It’s also developing two in  China  at Taishan with partner CGNPC.  Basic Design  The relationship between the French utility and CGNPC could
deepen, Machenaud said yesterday. EDF has an agreement with the
Chinese power company for a “basic design” of a 1,000 megawatt
nuclear reactor and is moving to add more details to the project
that could produce the “safest and cheapest” model on the
market, he said.  Separately, CGNPC is also interested in joining EDF to
develop new nuclear reactors in the U.K., according to
Machenaud. He declined to comment on whether EDF’s current
partner  Centrica Plc (CNA)  plans to pull out from the projects.  State-owned EDF, which began building the 1,650-megawatt
reactor at Flamanville in December 2007 for an initial estimate
of 3.3 billion euros, has revised cost projections every year
since 2010. In July 2011, the utility added 1 billion euros to
bring the figure to about 6 billion euros. EDF last month raised
the estimated cost of development to 8.5 billion euros.  The Chinese EPRs will cost less than the one in Normandy,
Machenaud said without giving a figure. Even building a second
EPR at Flamanville could be done for 25 percent less and between
18 months and two years less time.  The domed roof of the reactor building at the most-advanced
EPR at Taishan is already in place, marking a “significant
step” that hasn’t been reached at Flamanville, Machenaud said.  Nevertheless, producing electricity from that unit
according to the “official” target date of 2014 will be
“extremely ambitious,” he said. The second one is scheduled to
start up a year later.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tara Patel in Paris at 
 tpatel2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  