-- Egyptian Bonds Retreat After Moody’s Considers Credit Downgrade
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S t i l w e l l
-- 2013-01-17T19:00:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-17/egyptian-bonds-retreat-after-moody-s-considers-credit-downgrade.html
Egyptian bonds sank after Moody’s
Investors Service placed the country’s credit rating on review
for downgrade, citing political tensions and growing uncertainty
about financial aid from the  International Monetary Fund .  Yields on Egypt’s 5.75 percent bonds due April 2020 climbed
5 basis points to 5.58 percent at 1:14 pm in New York, the
biggest increase this year. The Egyptian pound weakened to a
record level before the announcement, falling 0.3 percent to
6.6005 per dollar today.  Moody’s placed Egypt’s B2 government bond under review,
citing unsettled political conditions even after a transition to
civilian rule, concern about securing IMF support and  capital
controls  imposed by the central bank, according to the
statement. Qatar will increase its assistance to Egypt by buying
$2.5 billion of  government bonds  to help shore up its economy,
the North African nation’s Finance Minister El-Morsi Hegazi said
yesterday in Cairo.  “It’s not just the political uncertainty that’s caused
this, but there’s also potential risk on the external accounts
side given that the IMF deal, at the moment, is off the table,”
Anthony Simond, who helps manage $11 billion in emerging-market
debt at Aberdeen Asset Management Plc in  London , said by phone
today. “Investors are concerned because at the moment Egypt is
living month to month off of donor loans, the latest one coming
from Qatar, and that’s just not sustainable.”  Resume Talks  Egypt’s country ceilings, which were not affected by the
review, would probably be lowered if Moody’s were to downgrade
the bond rating, it said.  Egypt expects the IMF to send a technical team to Cairo
within three weeks to resume talks on a $4.8 billion loan,
presidential spokesman Yasser Ali said Jan. 8. The government
delayed the agreement last month after President Mohamed Mursi
suspended tax increases linked to the program amid political
tensions. Egypt’s foreign reserves have plunged almost 60
percent to $15 billion since the 2011 uprising that ousted  Hosni
Mubarak .  Standard & Poor’s  cut on Dec. 24 Egypt’s long-term credit
rating by one level to B-, the same junk level as  Greece .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Stilwell in New York at 
 vstilwell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net  