-- Egypt Pound Falls as BofA Says Too Early to Gauge Its Stability
-- B y   A l a a   S h a h i n e
-- 2013-01-17T13:34:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-17/egypt-pound-falls-as-bofa-says-too-early-to-gauge-its-stability.html
The Egyptian pound weakened to a
record after the nation’s third dollar auction this week as Bank
of America Merrill Lynch said it may be too early to determine
when the  exchange rate  will stabilize.  The pound depreciated 0.3 percent to 6.6028 a dollar after
banks bought $72.9 million at a central bank foreign-exchange
auction, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The pound has
weakened 6.3 percent since the central bank started the dollar
sales on Dec. 30. The auctions limit the amount of dollars each
bank can buy daily in order to conserve foreign reserves.  The government needs to reach a loan agreement with the
 International Monetary Fund  before parliamentary elections if it
wants to curb speculation that the pound will depreciate
further, Jean-Michel Saliba, London-based economist at BofA
Merrill Lynch, said by phone after today’s auction. “It’s too
early to say when will the exchange rate stabilize,” he said.
The government hasn’t yet set a date for the vote.  The currency won’t weaken beyond about 6.7 pounds a dollar
this quarter before stabilizing, Hisham Ramez, who is set to
take over as central bank governor next month, forecast one day
before his nomination last week, according to three people on
his Jan. 9 call with investors and analysts. “We will get to
the stage of stabilization in the exchange rate soon,” Ramez
told Al Arabiya satellite channel in comments aired yesterday.  Egypt  expects the IMF to send a technical team to Cairo
within three weeks to resume talks on a $4.8 billion loan,
presidential spokesman Yasser Ali said Jan. 8. The government
delayed the agreement last month after President Mohamed Mursi
suspended tax increases linked to the program. Egypt’s foreign
reserves have plunged almost 60 percent to $15 billion since the
2011 uprising that ousted  Hosni Mubarak .  The yield on the government’s 5.75 percent dollar bonds due
April 2020 rose two basis points, or 0.02 percentage point, to
5.55 percent at 2:54 p.m. in Cairo, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alaa Shahine in Dubai at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alaa Shahine at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net  