-- Emerging Stocks Rise From Week Low on Earnings; Asia Stocks Fall
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S t i l w e l l   a n d   M a r i a   L e v i t o v
-- 2013-01-17T22:04:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-17/emerging-stocks-fall-for-third-day-china-shares-drop-before-gdp.html
Emerging-market stocks rebounded
from the lowest level in a week on prospects of improved
earnings for companies  Koc Holding AS (KCHOL) ,  Dubai Financial Market
PJSC (DFM)  and OAO Gazprom. Asian shares retreated.  Koc, Turkey’s biggest industrial group, climbed to a record
as Dubai Financial led the benchmark  DFM General Index (DFMGI)  to a two-
year high. Gazprom, the world’s biggest natural-gas producer,
drove gains in Russia’s Micex index. Brazil’s Bovespa rose to a
two-week high as the central bank signaled borrowing costs would
remain at a record low. Shares fell in  Shanghai (SHCOMP)  for a second day
ahead of  China ’s fourth-quarter growth figures.  The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index (MXEF)  rose 0.2 percent to
1,073.15 in  New York . Koc said it targeted a 6 percent profit
increase while investors expected the emirates’ biggest
companies to report improved full-year earnings as the region’s
economy recovers from a property market crash that started in
2008. Gazprom said profit doubled in the third quarter. Data
released today in the U.S. showed signs of an improved labor and
housing market.  “Some of the earnings recently have been absolutely
fantastic,” Gavin Redknap, an emerging-markets strategist at
Nikko Asset Management, said by phone from  London . “If we’re in
a situation where monetary policy is relatively loose across the
globe and economic data is improving, that’s clearly good for
equity markets.”  Five-Year Low  The  iShares MSCI Emerging Markets Index  exchange-traded
fund, the ETF tracking developing-nation shares, gained 0.6
percent to 44.68, the highest level in a week. The  Chicago Board
Options Exchange Emerging Markets ETF Volatility Index (VXEEM) , a
measure of options prices on the fund and expectations of price
swings, dropped 1.4 percent to 17.  Initial jobless claims in the U.S. fell more than forecast
last week to the lowest level in five years, Labor Department
figures showed today, signaling further improvement in the
nation’s labor market. December housing starts unexpectedly
jumped to a four-year high, the Commerce Department reported.  “Improvement in the underlying data in the U.S. helps
revive the country, which remains the driver of the global
economy along with China,” Redknap said.  The 21 nations in MSCI’s developing-nations gauge send
about 17 percent of their exports to the U.S. and 26 percent to
the European Union on average, data compiled by the World Trade
Organization show.  Rapid Appreciation  The  Thai baht  climbed to the highest level since Aug. 2011
against the dollar after Finance Minister Kittiratt Na-Ranong
said the  exchange rate  is “not at a good level” and exporters
will face difficulties should it strengthen further.  Thailand 
joined a growing chorus of developing nations expressing alarm
at the rapid appreciation of their currencies as increased
monetary easing in the U.S. and  Japan  spurs demand for higher-
yielding assets.  The Bloomberg-JPMorgan Asia Dollar Index is headed for a
record eighth monthly gain while currencies in Colombia, Poland
and Romania gained at least 0.5 percent against the dollar.  The  Bovespa (IBOV)  climbed 0.7 percent to the highest level since
Jan. 4 after the central bank board kept the benchmark  interest
rate  at 7.25 percent for a second straight meeting yesterday,
even as inflation exceeded economists’ estimates for the sixth
straight month in December. In the statement accompanying the
unanimous decision, policy makers reiterated that the best
strategy is to keep monetary policy conditions unchanged for a
“prolonged period.”  Online retailer  B2W Cia. Global do Varejo  rose 6.2 percent
to a two-week high as companies that sell in the domestic market
jumped. Meatpacker Marfrig Alimentos SA climbed 7.1 percent, the
biggest advance in five months, to lead gainers in  Sao Paulo .  ’Amazingly Light’  “The monetary policies across the globe are super
accommodating and positioning in equities remains amazingly
light,” Joseph Dayan, head of markets at BCS brokerage in
London, said by e-mail. “Investors are moving up the risk
ladder.”  Emerging-market equities have the “most upside” potential
among asset classes, with the developing-nations gauge set to
rise as much as 28 percent this year, HSBC Holdings Plc
estimated in a report dated Jan. 15.  The  MSCI Emerging Markets Europe, Middle East and Africa
Index  advanced 0.8 percent in New York, the most in two weeks.  Russia’s Micex Index climbed 0.6 percent during the day,
with OAO Aeroflot gaining 3.1 percent.  Turkey ’s ISE National 100
Index added 0.9 percent, rising for a fifth day, and the lira
gained to the strongest level versus the dollar since February
as investors speculated that Moody’s Investors Service will
upgrade the country’s credit rating.  Best Momentum  “Turkey has a fantastic period,” Maarten-Jan Bakkum, an
emerging-market strategist at ING Investment Management in The
Hague, said by e-mail. “Fundamentals remain good while flows
are still strong and return momentum the best in the world.”  Hungary’s  BUX Index (BUX)  surged 1.7 percent for the highest
close since Feb. 8, and the forint strengthened 1 percent
against the euro, the most since Nov. 19. Hungary’s minister in
charge of aid talks with the  International Monetary Fund ,  Mihaly
Varga , said the currency should be stabilized in a stronger
range, Budapest-based HirTV reported.  India’s benchmark stock index rose 0.7 percent after the
government allowed  oil companies  to increase diesel prices as it
seeks to reduce the fiscal deficit.  The  Shanghai  Composite Index slid 1.1 percent after
valuations reached the highest level since May earlier this
week. The  Hang Seng China Enterprises Index (HSCEI)  dropped 0.4 percent.
China will probably report tomorrow that the economy expanded
7.8 percent in the fourth quarter from a year earlier, up from a
three-year low of 7.4 percent, according to a Bloomberg
economist survey.  The  Bloomberg China-US Equity Index (CH55BN)  of the most-traded
Chinese shares in the U.S. added 0.1 percent to 101, led by
Internet software developer Qihoo 360 Technology Co.  ‘More Earnings’  “Investors want to see more earnings and economic data
before taking any more equity holdings,” Chakrit Puechpan, the
head of domestic equities at MFC Asset Management Pcl, which
oversees about $8 billion, said by phone from Bangkok. “China’s
recovery is already priced in.”  Taiwan’s Taiex Index lost 1.1 percent, the most since Nov.
13. Vietnam’s  VN Index (VNINDEX)  declined 1.8 percent from an eight-month
high.  The MSCI  Emerging Markets /Utilities Index climbed 0.7
percent, the best performance among the 10 industry groups in
the broader index, followed by consumer staple companies. A
 gauge  of technology companies decreased 0.5 percent, as  Samsung
Electronics Co. (005930)  fell to its lowest price in a month.  Gazprom, MegaFon  Gazprom rose 0.8 percent in Moscow. Net income climbed to
305 billion rubles ($10.1 billion) from 152 billion rubles a
year earlier, the energy company said today on its website. That
compared with an average estimate of 291 billion rubles from 10
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. Revenue reached 1.12 trillion
rubles.  OAO MegaFon, a Russian mobile operator, jumped 3.5 percent
to a record close in Moscow. MegaFon’s depositary receipts added
3.5 percent to $26.3 in London. Citigroup put MegaFon on its
CEEMEA Focus List after Dalibor Vavruska, a London-based
analyst, started coverage of the stock with a buy rating and
price estimate of $28.50 per depositary receipt.  Koc jumped 3 percent in Istanbul to the highest close since
at least 1995. The company is also targeting 6 percent growth in
2013 consolidated sales.  Samsung Drops  Samsung Electronics, the world’s largest maker of mobile
phones and TVs, fell 1.5 percent to its lowest close since Dec.
21. Reports of Apple Inc.’s lower-than-expected iPhone 5 sales
have raised concerns about the smartphone market, said Lee Seung
Woo, analyst at IBK Securities Co.  The developing-nations measure has added 1.7 percent this
year, trailing a 3.6 percent increase by the MSCI World Index.
The emerging-markets index trades for 10.9 times estimated
profit, compared with the MSCI World’s multiple of 13.4, data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  The extra yield investors demand to own emerging-market
debt over U.S. Treasuries fell five basis points, or 0.05
percentage point, to 261 basis points, according to JPMorgan
Chase & Co.’s EMBI Global Index.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Victoria Stilwell in New York at 
 vstilwell1@bloomberg.net ;
Maria Levitov in London at 
 mlevitov@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  