-- EOG’s Leadership Change Fuels Deal Talk: Real M&A
-- B y   T a r a   L a c h a p e l l e   a n d   E d w a r d   K l u m p
-- 2013-01-17T21:08:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-17/eog-s-leadership-change-fuels-deal-talk-real-m-a.html
EOG Resources Inc. (EOG) , the U.S. crude
oil producer that’s  rallied more  than any peer in the past six
months, offers the biggest energy companies the chance to expand
in one of the world’s fastest-growing markets.  Even after surging 32 percent since July, EOG trades at a
below-average multiple of enterprise value to both production
and profit, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. With Chief
Executive Officer Mark Papa retiring in June, a takeover of the
$34 billion company is more possible, Royal Bank of  Canada  said.  EOG has  exceeded  analysts’ earnings projections for eight
straight quarters, and in November forecast 2012 production
growth of 10.6 percent, almost double the rate it estimated in
February. The company has some of the best acreage in North
America’s two top shale formations, the Bakken and Eagle Ford,
according to Miller Tabak & Co., which said  Chevron Corp. (CVX)  is the
most likely suitor given that its  cash  equals 63 percent of
Houston-based EOG’s market capitalization. Stewart Capital
Advisors LLC said  Statoil ASA (STL)  also has the leeway to do a deal.  “It’s certainly an attractive target from the perspective
of a super-high-quality asset base in all the right plays in the
U.S.,”  Leo Mariani , an Austin, Texas-based analyst at RBC, said
in a telephone interview. With EOG’s CEO leaving this year, “it
does increase the possibility” of a deal.  Industry Transformation  K Leonard, an EOG spokeswoman, declined to comment, citing
company policy not to respond to takeover speculation. Gareth Johnstone, a spokesman for  San Ramon , California-based Chevron,
also declined to comment. An e-mail sent to Stavanger, Norway-
based Statoil’s Jannik Lindbaek Jr. wasn’t returned.  EOG is among U.S. producers that transformed the American
energy market during the past decade with hydraulic fracturing,
which uses injections of water, chemicals and sand to extract
oil and gas. The company shifted its focus away from gas and
toward the more profitable business of onshore shale-oil
production, tapping acreage in  Texas ’s  Eagle Ford  and North
Dakota’s Bakken formations.  EOG has risen  more  in the past six months than any other in
the 17-company Standard & Poor’s 500  Oil & Gas Exploration &
Production (4O1)  Index. The  shares , which closed at $126.03 today
after rallying 0.5 percent, climbed to a 4 1/2-year high of
$126.10 on Jan. 10.  Low Valuation  Even following its rally, EOG’s  valuation  is relatively
low. Its enterprise value of $39 billion, the fourth-highest in
the index, is 82 times daily production, expressed in millions
of barrels of oil equivalent, data compiled by Bloomberg show.
That compares with the median of about 92 among energy explorers
and producers worldwide trading for more than $10 billion. EOG
fetches 6.7 times earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation
and amortization, below the median of about 7.6.  “EOG’s not necessarily expensive at this point, even after
the outperformance,”  Cameron Horwitz , a Houston-based analyst
for U.S. Capital Advisors LLC, said in a phone interview. “It’s
hard to find another company out there that has that
concentrated of a position in the core of these top-tier
resource plays. From that perspective, EOG is attractive from an
investment opportunity standpoint, whether that means to invest
in the equity or whether that means for a potential M&A
suitor.”  EOG’s focus on U.S. oil production comes as that market
booms. The nation’s crude output has  climbed  to 7.04 million
barrels a day, the highest rate since 1993, according to data
compiled by the U.S. Energy Information Administration.  Production Forecast  The company’s performance improved as 2012 progressed, with
EOG boosting its forecast for annual production three times.  EOG is seeking to increase the amount of oil it recovers
from its discoveries. In the Eagle Ford, EOG said its estimated
potential reserves are the equivalent of 1.6 billion barrels of
oil. That means the company expects to recover only an estimated
6 percent of the possible oil in place -- leaving upside as new
techniques are developed to extract resources.  “There’s a lot of drilling still to be done,” Charles Meade, a New Orleans-based analyst for Johnson Rice & Co., said
in a phone interview. “EOG’s proven that not only do they have
good acreage, but they have institutional knowledge and
execution ability. If a major really wanted to get into an oil
shale play in a big way, they’d need both of those.”  EOG isn’t going to sell itself cheaply, Miller Tabak’s Adam Michael said. The Houston-based analyst projects EOG won’t turn
over ownership for less than $160 a share, or 27 percent more
than today’s close.  Deal Premiums  Past targets in the oil industry have been taken out for 25
percent to 40 percent premiums, said Johnson Rice’s Meade. That
implies paying as much as $176 a share for EOG, which he said
still leaves the buyer room for further upside if it can speed
up the development of more drilling sites. That would value a
deal at $53 billion, including net debt.  EOG’s size is an obstacle to a takeover, said  Timothy Parker , Baltimore-based manager of T. Rowe Price Group Inc.’s
$4.4 billion  New Era Fund (PRNEX) , which invests in natural-resource
stocks including EOG. The “mixed success” of  Exxon Mobil
Corp. (XOM) ’s $35 billion purchase of XTO Energy Inc. three years ago
may dissuade others from striking such large deals, Parker said.  “Only a few companies can afford EOG,” he said in a phone
interview. “Other majors look at the XTO deal and say, ‘not in
a million years. I can’t make that work.’ Plus, EOG’s not
terribly cheap, so to pay a premium on top of that, it starts to
get pretty fancy.”  Chevron, Statoil  Chevron and Statoil are two of the oil industry’s so-called
supermajors that have the financial wherewithal for an EOG
acquisition, according to Stewart Capital’s Helena Derr.  “You are limited to the majors,” Derr, who helps oversee
$1.1 billion as a  fund manager  and energy analyst, said in a
phone interview from  Indiana ,  Pennsylvania . “Statoil and
Chevron are probably the most likely just due to the size.”  Chevron’s $21.6 billion of cash and equivalents -- an all-
time high -- is almost two-thirds of EOG’s market value, data
compiled by Bloomberg show. It also exceeds the cash stockpiles
at larger rivals Exxon and  Royal Dutch Shell Plc. (RDSA)   “There aren’t a lot of companies that can swallow EOG,”
said  Miller Tabak ’s Michael. “Chevron jumps out because their
balance sheet gives them the ability to take on something as
large as EOG.”  Stalling Growth  Chevron, the second-largest U.S. oil company, already
produces in the  Gulf of Mexico  and Canada’s Athabasca oil sands.
Its growth has stalled, with analysts projecting  revenue rose 
2.2 percent in 2012, down from the 25 percent increase in 2011,
estimates compiled by Bloomberg show. Chevron hasn’t made a
sizable purchase since 2011, when it bought Atlas Energy Inc.
for more than $4 billion.  Statoil, Norway’s biggest energy producer, had 84.5 billion
kroner ($15.2 billion) of  cash  and equivalents at the end of
September, data compiled by Bloomberg show. The company bought
Brigham Exploration Co. in 2011 for $4.5 billion, its largest
purchase since 2006, to expand in unconventional U.S. assets
because of declining North Sea production.  The deal gave Statoil about 375,000 net acres in the
Williston Basin, where the Bakken formation is located. Despite
the added production, Statoil’s sales may decline 8.6 percent
this year before increasing 2.5 percent in 2014, analysts’
estimates show.  For such large companies, acquisitions can be the fastest
way to recharge growth, said Johnson Rice’s Meade. While it may
be “surprising,” it’s possible that one could seek as large of
a target as EOG, he said.  “Majors are looking for growth, and they’ve got to be
looking at companies like EOG,” Meade said. “We’re not used to
looking at these large-cap E&Ps as growth companies, but that’s
what they are right now.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tara Lachapelle in  New York  at 
 tlachapelle@bloomberg.net ;
Edward Klump in Houston at 
 eklump@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Sarah Rabil at 
 srabil@bloomberg.net ;
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  