-- Herbalife Preliminary Profit Tops Estimates
-- B y   J a m e s   C a l l a n   a n d   D u a n e   D .   S t a n f o r d
-- 2013-01-17T21:49:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-17/herbalife-preliminary-profit-tops-estimates.html
Herbalife Ltd. (HLF) , the nutrition
company that hedge-fund manager  Bill Ackman  has called a pyramid
scheme, posted preliminary fourth-quarter profit that topped
analysts’ estimates and said it would resume buying back shares.  Profit in the quarter was $1.02 to $1.05, the Cayman
Islands-based company said today in a statement. Analysts
projected $1.01, the average of seven  estimates  compiled by
Bloomberg. Herbalife said Jan. 10 it was likely to “meet or
exceed” an October forecast of as much as $1.01 a share.  Herbalife shares have rebounded this year as it fights
accusations from Ackman, founder of New York hedge fund  Pershing
Square  Capital Management LP, that it uses inflated pricing,
misleading sales information and a complicated incentive
structure to hide a pyramid scheme. The company last week held
an investor meeting to defend its direct-selling model and said
Ackman had grossly mischaracterized its business.  The stock pulled back today,  falling  3.4 percent to $43.52
at the close in New York. The shares have gained 32 percent this
year.  The earnings didn’t significantly beat estimates and
investors may have expected the company to announce a so-called
Dutch Auction instead of resuming its previously announced
buyback program, said  Tim Ramey , an analyst with D.A. Davidson &
Co based in  Lake Oswego ,  Oregon .  In an equities Dutch Auction, the lowest price necessary to
sell an entire offering becomes the price at which it is sold.
The stock price is gradually lowered until it meets a responsive
bid. For corporate repurchases, a range of prices is set by a
company within which shareholders are invited to tender their
shares for a specific period of time.  Short Sellers  The Dutch Auction would have effectively blocked holders
from lending shares to short sellers, Ramey said in a telephone
interview.  Ackman said last month that Pershing Square is short more
than 20 million shares, which was about 97 percent of the 20.7
million short interest shares outstanding at the time.  Herbalife said full-year profit rose to about $4.02 to
$4.05 a share from $3.30 a year earlier. Analysts on average
projected $4.03.  On Jan. 14, Herbalife rose 10 percent to the highest price
since before Ackman said he had taken a short position in the
shares, amid anticipation that the company would announce stock
repurchases this week. Through yesterday, the stock had gained
37 percent this year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
James Callan in  New York  at 
 jcallan2@bloomberg.net ;
Duane D. Stanford in Atlanta at 
 dstanford2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  