-- Erie Billionaire Hagen Revealed as Car Premiums Surge
-- B y   B r e n d a n   C o f f e y
-- 2013-01-17T16:46:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-17/erie-billionaire-hagen-revealed-as-car-premiums-surge.html
Susan Hirt Hagen, the daughter of
Henry Orth Hirt, one of the pioneers of the car insurance
industry, has been a billionaire for years -- and has never
appeared on an international wealth ranking.  Hagen has a net worth of $1.7 billion, according to the
 Bloomberg Billionaires Index . Shares of Erie, Pennsylvania-based
insurer  Erie Indemnity Co. (ERIE) , the third-largest auto insurer in
 Pennsylvania , have doubled in the past three years. The 76-year-
old controls the majority of the company’s voting stock and 35
percent of its common shares.  “Erie is not a traditionally structured insurance
company,” Jonathan Adams, a senior insurance analyst with
Bloomberg Industries in Princeton,  New Jersey , said by phone.
“It has very little exposure to underwriting risk. You have to
hand it to the family; it’s a very clever approach.”  Surging U.S. auto sales resulted in a 6.1 percent jump in
auto insurance prices in December, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Newer cars generate higher premiums, adding momentum
to efforts by auto insurers in recent months to boost insurance
prices more than 5 percent, according to Bloomberg Industries.
That is boosting shares of U.S. property and casualty insurers,
which have gained almost 6 percent the past month, almost double
the advance by the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.  Hagen’s stake in Erie is valued at $1.4 billion. She has
also collected about $400 million in dividends since 1991.  Leah Knapp, an Erie Indemnity spokesman, said Hagen
declined to comment on her net worth.  Family Partnership  According to the company’s 2012 proxy statement filed with
the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, Hagen controls 16.8
million non-voting Class A shares and 1,339 voting Class B
shares. The shares are held in her name, by her husband, Erie
Chairman Thomas B. Hagen, and in a family partnership and a
trust she is the beneficiary of.  Each Class B share is convertible into 2,400 Class A
shares. Erie closed at $69.63 yesterday, up 11.9 percent from
their 23-month low of $62.22 in October.  H.O. Hirt co-founded Erie Exchange in 1925. The company was
one of the first in the U.S. to offer auto insurance, selling
premiums for $34 in its first year. He expanded in the following
decades to offer fire insurance, inland marine insurance and
life insurance.  Erie sold shares in an initial public offering in 1990.
Today, it operates in 11 states and is the 12th-largest auto
insurer in the U.S. by direct premiums written, according to the
company’s  website .  Sibling Rivalry  To keep the business in family hands, Hirt created two
trusts that gave his descendants control of Erie’s voting
shares, stipulating that his descendants must maintain
controlling interest in the voting class or convert all the
shares at once to common stock.  Hagen, who joined Erie’s board as its first female member
in 1980, and her brother, Frank William Hirt, each became a
beneficiary of one of the trusts, as well as trustees for both
entities, when Hirt died in 1982.  Relations between Hagen and her brother were sometimes
frayed. In 1999, Hirt, then the company’s chief executive
officer, led a board action to reduce the amount of directors by
one and to nominate all directors except her for the seats.  When Hagen sued, Hirt accused her of breaching her
fiduciary duty as a Hirt family trustee and tried to prevent her
from ever nominating board members in the future, according to a
2001  SEC filing  that incorporated a judgment by the Common Pleas
Court of Erie County, Pennsylvania, Orphan’s Court division,
which deals with trust cases. President Judge William R.
Cunningham ruled in Hagen’s favor.  Increased Control  Hirt “is seemingly blinded by his animosity towards his
sister or his loyalty to present management and/or the Board,”
Cunningham wrote in his 2000 decision.  Hagen increased her control of the company in 2006, when
her family’s limited partnership purchased 6 percent of voting
shares that had been owned by one of Erie’s first non-family
employees. She graduated with dual degrees in psychology and
English from Wittenberg University, a liberal arts college in
Springfield,  Ohio .  She has become the school’s biggest donor. Last year, she
donated $6 million to endow the university’s Center for Civic
and Urban Engagement. It was the largest cash gift ever given to
the university from a living individual.  “Service is a cornerstone of my life,” she said at the
time of the gift, according to a statement on the school’s
website.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brendan Coffey in Boston at 
 bcoffey10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Matthew G. Miller at 
 mmiller144@bloomberg.net  