-- Eritrea Slams Group’s Report of Forced Labor at Nevsun Mine
-- B y   W i l l i a m   D a v i s o n   a n d   B e a l f a n   H a y l e
-- 2013-01-17T11:42:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-17/eritrea-rejects-rights-group-claim-of-forced-labor-at-gold-mine.html
Eritrea’s government rejected as
“cheap shots and lies” a report by  Human Rights Watch  that
said forced labor was used to construct a gold mine it owns with
Canada’s  Nevsun Resources Ltd. (NSU)   Segen Construction Co., a sub-contractor owned by the
ruling People’s Front for Democracy and Justice that worked on
the project, used conscripts during the building of the Bisha
Mine from 2009 to 2011, the New York-based advocacy group said
in a report released Jan. 15. “Conscripts are regularly
subjected to torture and other serious abuses,” it said.  HRW’s report is a “distortion” of Eritrea’s national-
service program, said Girma Asmerom, the nation’s ambassador to
the  African Union . “They call it forced labor,” he said in an
interview yesterday in  Ethiopia ’s capital,  Addis Ababa . “That
shows deliberate ignorance.”  Eritrea, which became independent from Ethiopia in 1993
after a 30-year war, is “one of the most closed and repressive
countries in the world,” according to HRW. Former rebel leader
President Isaias Afewerki’s government has banned private media
and the Horn of Africa country hasn’t held national elections
since independence.  Mining companies in Eritrea risk involvement in “gross
human-rights abuses” unless they take strong preventative
measures, HRW said. One former Segen conscript out of two
interviewed said he was imprisoned for four months after he
ignored the refusal of a request to attend a grandparent’s
funeral, it said.  ‘Not Allowed’  Segen may have used conscripts in early 2009 when Nevsun
didn’t check whether sub-contractors’ workers had been released
from national service, the Vancouver-based company said in a
statement e-mailed on Jan. 11.  “The use of conscripted labor at the Bisha site is not
allowed,” it said. The company “acted quickly” to start
checks and to obtain a written assurance from Segen that no
conscripts would work at the mine, it said.  The Bisha mine produced $614 million of gold in 2011,
according to Nevsun. Since early 2011, Nevsun has paid the
Eritrean government $400 million, the company said.  Segen Managing Director Tesfay Goitom and Eritrean Mines
Minister Tesfai Ghebreselassie declined to comment when
contacted by phone.  All 18-year-old Eritreans do national service, which is
designed to protect the nation’s security and sovereignty,
encourage ethnic harmony and assist economic development, Girma
said. Participants have been “permanently mobilized” since a
two-year war broke out with Ethiopia in 1998, he said.  Mining Growth  Chalice Gold Mines Ltd. (CHN) , an Australian explorer for the
metal, sold its Zara Project in Eritrea to China SFECO, a unit
of Shanghai Construction Co., last year before construction
started, Chief Executive Officer Doug Jones said.  “Chalice has not and does not use state-run firms in its
activities in Eritrea,” he said in a Jan. 11 e-mailed response
to questions.  South Boulder Mines Ltd. (STB) , based in Perth, has had no
exposure to the national-service program at its Colluli potash
project, which is at a “feasibility” stage, Managing Director
Lorry Hughes said in a Jan. 11 e-mail. It plans to produce $500
million a year of the fertilizer ingredient from 2016, it said
in April.  The state-owned Eritrean National Mining Co. owns 40
percent of Bisha, which is about 150 kilometers (124 miles) west
of the capital, Asmara. Mining-led growth in Eritrea is expected
to slow to 3.4 percent this year from 7.5 percent in 2012,
according to the  International Monetary Fund .  To contact the reporters on this story:
 William Davison  in Addis Ababa at 
 wdavison3@bloomberg.net ;
Bealfan Hayle in Khartoum via Nairobi at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Richardson  at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net  