-- Merkel CDU in Lower Saxony Cliffhanger Vote as FDP Slumps
-- B y   B r i a n   P a r k i n   a n d   R a i n e r   B u e r g i n
-- 2013-01-18T10:11:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-17/merkel-s-cdu-in-lower-saxony-cliffhanger-vote-as-fdp-ally-slumps.html
Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s Christian
Democrats face a  Lower Saxony  state vote highlighting challenges
she’ll face in a re-election bid in September amid collapsing
support for her Free Democratic Party ally.  Merkel’s CDU leads the opposition Social Democrats in Lower
Saxony, home to Volkswagen AG, in  opinion polls . Yet her FDP
coalition partner is at or below the 5 percent threshold needed
to win seats and may be ejected from the chamber. This could put
the CDU behind a combined SPD, Greens alliance. Elections will
be held on Jan. 20. Both Merkel’s government and Lower Saxony’s
coalition are Christian Democratic-FDP alliances.  “The minute the FDP don’t get into parliament in Lower
Saxony it’s an issue for Merkel; it would hold up a mirror to
the fragile outlook for her own coalition in Berlin,” said
 Carsten Brzeski , senior economist at ING Belgium SA, in an
interview. “It’s a cliffhanger in the state and beyond.”  Three years into managing the euro debt crisis, Merkel’s
national CDU is getting the best poll scores since she became
chancellor in 2005. The FDP’s battle for survival could derail
the re-election of Merkel, 58, for a third term through 2017.
The pro-business FDP has plunged to 3 percent in national polls
after winning 14.6 percent in the last general election in 2009.  Apart from casting a shadow over Merkel’s re-election bid,
defeat for the CDU in Lower Saxony would create a so-called
constructive majority for the SPD and Greens in the upper house
of parliament in Berlin, the Bundesrat, allowing them to
initiate legislation to challenge government policy.  ‘Wrong Man’  “The FDP has done everything wrong that they could do
wrong,” Peter Matuschek, chief political analyst at the Forsa
polling institute, said in an interview. “Their leaders made
very unfortunate impressions:  Guido Westerwelle  was the wrong
man as foreign minister. The FDP has to stop trying to be a big
tent party. They need to focus on people in small- and medium-
sized industry who are their core voters.”  Lower Saxony CDU Premier David McAllister, 42, son of a
Scottish father and German mother, is campaigning on a record of
cutting state spending. Rallies open with his  campaign  song that
blends rap music and a bagpipe melody. Scots are famed for
financial prudence, he tells potential supporters.  ‘Merkel’s Mac’  “I’m happy to be Merkel’s Mac,” he said in a campaign
rally speech in Osnabrueck on Jan. 16.  The latest Lower Saxony poll shows a dead heat between the
ruling CDU-FDP and opposition SPD-Greens. McAllister’s CDU
scored 41 percent in the Jan. 14-16 GMS survey for SAT.1
television, with the FDP at 5 percent. That’s the same as the
combined SPD score of 33 percent and 13 percent for the Greens.  The SPD candidate, Hanover Mayor  Stephan Weil , 54, says he
favors a coalition with the Greens rather than a grand coalition
with the CDU, as in neighboring Saxony-Anhalt state.  Weil criticizes the CDU’s record on developing the state’s
 North Sea  offshore wind power that’s integral to Merkel’s plan
to shift 80 percent of German electricty need to renewables by
2050. Developers of sea-to-shore grids in the state have
struggled to gain investors amid discord over financial
liability linked to the projects.  “I fear an existential crisis of the young offshore
industry if investors aren’t provided with security,” Weil said
in a Jan. 8 interview in Hanover, the state’s capital.  Mittelstand Dominated  Lower Saxony, Germany’s second-biggest state by territory,
is dominated by small- and medium-sized Mittelstand companies
and farming. VW,  Europe ’s biggest carmaker, tiremaker
Continental AG, tourism company TUI AG and steelmaker Salzgitter
AG are the exception. VW employs about 86,000 people in the
state and Salzgitter 23,500. Unemployment in Lower Saxony was at
6.4 percent in December compared with 6.9 percent nationally.  The state shows no postwar dominance by any single party.
One constant is the support of state premiers for VW, on whose
supervisory boards they sit as guardians of a 20 percent public
stake in the carmaker.  Backers of Volkswagen’s global competition strategy include
former SPD Chancellor  Gerhard Schroeder , the state’s premier
from 1990 to 1998, dubbed the “auto chancellor” by German
newspapers. VW, reported a 14 percent drop in European sales in
December.  McAllister hasn’t interfered in the way VW does business.
Supervisory board chairman Ferdinand Piech “has never had it
easier to push through his interests” at the company since the
McAllister became premier in 2010, said a  Frankfurter Allgemeine
Zeitung  newspaper editorial on Jan. 16.  Weil said he wouldn’t sell the state’s stake in VW if he
becomes premier.  “VW follows a very smart company strategy with diversified
products,” Weil said.  Lower Saxony polls close at 6 p.m. on Jan. 20 at which time
exit polls will be released on  Germany ’s  ZDF  and  ARD  television.
Results based on projections from partially counted ballots will
be available from about 6:15 p.m. on both broadcasters with the
preliminary official final result due around midnight.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brian Parkin in Berlin at 
 bparkin@bloomberg.net ;
Rainer Buergin in Berlin at 
 rbuergin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  