-- Tesco Apologizes for Horse DNA in Burgers Amid Media Backlash
-- B y   S a r a h   S h a n n o n
-- 2013-01-17T10:19:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-17/tesco-apologizes-for-horse-dna-in-burgers-amid-media-backlash.html
Tesco Plc (TSCO) , the U.K.’s largest
supermarket chain, apologized to customers amid a media backlash
over the discovery of horse DNA in frozen beef burgers.  “We and our supplier have let you down and we apologize,”
Cheshunt, England-based Tesco said in a  statement . “We will
find out exactly what happened and, when we do, we’ll come back
and tell you. And we will work harder than ever with all our
suppliers to make sure this never happens again.”  Tesco Chief Executive Officer Philip Clarke wrote on the
supermarket chain’s blog last night that he was “angry” with
suppliers and took out full-page advertisements in British and
Irish newspapers today including The Sun, Metro, the Irish
Independent and Irish Times explaining the “serious problem”
and Tesco’s response to it.  About 37 percent of beef burger products examined in a
broad survey by Ireland’s food safety authority tested positive
for horse DNA, while 85 percent showed pig DNA. Tesco was among
retailers that sold the products alongside Aldi, Lidl, Iceland
Foods Ltd. and Dublin-based Dunnes Stores. The beef doesn’t pose
any public health concerns, the agency said.  The affected Tesco products -- the Everyday Value frozen
beef burger, a frozen quarter-pound burger from the company’s
mid-tier range and a branded line called Flamehouse Frozen
Chargrilled Quarter Pounders -- were supplied by Silvercrest
Foods, a unit of ABP Food Group. Tesco has removed all 26 frozen
burger products supplied by Silvercrest from its stores.  ‘Prompt Actions’  Clarke said on the blog that he expects suppliers to
“deliver to a standard, and to meet basic food traceability
rules.” Still, the executive said “you won’t find us hiding
behind our suppliers” and promised to reveal what happened.  Tesco’s “prompt actions” mean its U.K. sales may not be
badly affected, according to Clive Black, an analyst at Shore
Capital. “The contamination is not exclusive to the retailer
and prompt actions have been taken to reassure customers,
outlined in national advertisements today,” he said in a note.  The Food Safety Authority of Ireland said Ireland’s Liffey
Meats and Dalepak Hambleton in the U.K. also supplied beef
products containing horse DNA to supermarkets.  Silvercrest and Dalepak said they had never purchased or
traded in equine products and have started an investigation into
European suppliers who they suspect are the source. Liffey also
said it withdrew all products identified by tests.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Shannon in  London  at 
 sshannon4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at   cperri@bloomberg.net  