-- Tethys Venture Expects Nod for North Sea-Size Deposit by March
-- B y   A i b i n g   G u o
-- 2013-01-17T06:54:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-17/tethys-venture-expects-nod-for-north-sea-size-deposit-by-march.html
Tethys Petroleum Ltd. (TPL)  expects
Tajikistan to approve its venture with  Total SA (FP)  and China
National Petroleum Corp. this quarter, speeding up exploration
in an area that may hold more oil and gas than the  North Sea .  A group of executives from the three companies is holding
talks with Tajikistan government officials, David Robson,
executive chairman and president of London-based Tethys, said
today in an interview in Hong Kong. With the funding and
expertise of the partners, the pace of exploration will be
accelerated, he said.  “I talked to Tajikistan’s president last week and he’s
very supportive of the project,” Robson said. “The deal will
put Tajikistan onto  Asia ’s energy map. It’s very unlikely we
won’t get approval.”  The Bokhtar contract area, covering 35,000 square
kilometers (13,500 square miles) at the eastern end of the Amu
Darya Basin, may hold an estimated 27.5 billion barrels of oil
equivalent, Tethys said in June. The deal will allow  China 
National Petroleum to secure supplies for fueling growth in the
world’s second-largest economy and provide Tethys and Total
access to the biggest energy market globally.  Total,  Europe ’s third-biggest oil company, and China
National Oil and Gas Exploration and Development Corp., a unit
of state-owned CNPC, will each hold a third of the Bokhtar
project. The new partners will pay about $60 million to Tethys
to refund almost two-thirds of costs already incurred and will
carry some of the project’s future spending.  Tethys shares fell 0.4 percent to 34.875 pence in  London 
yesterday. Total gained 0.4 percent to 39.895 euros in Paris.  China Link  Tethys has drilled four wells in the Bokhtar block since
acquiring the exploration rights in 2008 and all wells have
discovered hydrocarbons, Robson said. The project is located
near the Turkmenistan-China natural gas pipeline, built and
operated by CNPC, China’s biggest energy producer.  Natural gas output from Tajikistan could be connected to
the main pipeline and sent to China, Robson said. Tethys and its
partners have also talked about building a pipeline directly
though the nation’s mountainous east to China’s Xinjiang region,
which would cut transmission distance by more than two-thirds.  “It really depends on how much gas we can get from the
project,” Robson said.  Tajikistan’s reserves could meet China’s natural gas
consumption for 25 years, according to an outside estimation,
Robson said, without providing details.  Rival Bids  Tethys and CNPC made rival bids for  Afghanistan ’s first
oilfield auction in Aug. 2011. CNPC won after agreeing to pay a
15 percent royalty and build a refinery.  The Afghanistan oilfields at the  Amu Darya basin  are
located in the same geological zone that extends well into
Turkmenistan and Uzbekistan. Although CNPC’s Afghanistan
oilfields are only divided by a river from the Bokhtar
development, Tethys has no plan to get involved in the CNPC
project.  The concessions and royalty “are too high” in the
Afghanistan project, Robson said. “I don’t think our
shareholders would allow us to do things like that.”  Tethys owns other oil and gas projects in Central Asia’s
 Kazakhstan  and Uzbekistan. The company is open to diluting
stakes in those projects, although Tethys has no immediate need
to raise money, Robson said.  “We’ll talk and we’ll listen, but we don’t have to rush
for anything at this stage,” he said.  The cash brought in by Total and CNPC should be enough for
oil and gas exploration in Tajikistan for the next two to three
years, he said.  Tethys lost $16.6 million in the first nine months of 2012
because of high administrative and operation costs, the company
said in a  statement  on Nov. 14. Average oil production from its
biggest commercial oilfield, Doris field in Kazakhstan, was
2,234 barrels a day, according to the statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aibing Guo in  Hong Kong  at 
 aguo10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  