-- EU Must Cut ‘Damaging’ Transport-Biofuel Use, Lobbies Say
-- B y   E w a   K r u k o w s k a
-- 2013-01-17T08:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-17/eu-must-cut-use-of-damaging-biofuels-in-transport-lobbies-say.html
The European Union should modify its
rules to ensure nations meet their greenhouse-gas reduction
goals while using less “damaging” crop-based biofuels in
transport, four environmental groups said.  The EU could cut carbon dioxide from transport energy use
by 205 million tons in 2020 through measures including improved
efficiency of vehicles, shifting to rail from road, and a cap on
the use of unsustainable biofuels, according to a report by
environmental research institute CE Delft. The study was
commissioned and published today by lobbies Greenpeace,
Transport & Environment, the European Environmental Bureau and
BirdLife  Europe .  “This report shows just how wrongheaded current EU policy
is and how transport can become cleaner without using harmful
biofuels,” Greenpeace EU forest policy director Sebastien Risso
said in an e-mailed statement. “The easiest and most secure way
to minimize the climate impacts of road and rail transport is to
reduce energy use and accelerate the electrification of our
transport system.”  The strategy outlined in the report would allow the EU to
cut emissions by more than the about 60 million tons of carbon
dioxide projected under the bloc’s draft rules last year,
according to the lobbies. It would let governments meet their
targets without competition of crop-based biofuels with food and
reduce incentives for damaging technologies, the green groups
said.  Renewable Sources  The European Commission, the bloc’s regulatory arm in
Brussels, proposed last year that first-generation biofuels made
from crops such as sugar, starch or vegetable oils provide 5
percent of the EU target for transport fuel. The current EU
requirement that at least 10 percent of energy for road and rail
transport in 2020 come from renewable sources in all member
nations risks causing side-effects that undermine the battle
against global warming, environmental groups have said.  The draft legislation needs approval by EU national
governments and the  European Parliament  to enter into force.
Biofuels including ethanol and biodiesel are the main renewable
energy for transport and offer the prospect of reducing the use
of fossil fuels blamed for  climate change .  Biofuels, mainly first-generation, accounted for about 4.7
percent of EU transport fuel consumption in 2010, according to
the commission.  The four environmental lobbies urged governments and the
Parliament to amend the commission’s proposal and focus on the
solutions in the CE Delft report to reach their climate and
energy policy goals. The EU should require immediate accounting
of emissions linked to indirect land-use change, or ILUC, they
said today.  “The proper accounting of the full carbon footprint of
biofuels, including emissions from ILUC, is the first step
towards more sustainable alternative fuels,” Transport &
Environment fuels program manager Nusa Urbancic said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ewa Krukowska in Brussels at 
 ekrukowska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at   lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  