-- European Debt Costs to Fall as Defaults Rise, IACPM Survey Says
-- B y   C h r i s t i n e   I d z e l i s
-- 2013-01-17T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-17/european-debt-costs-to-fall-as-defaults-rise-iacpm-survey-says.html
High-yield debt will become cheaper
in Europe in the next three months even as the outlook for
corporate defaults in the region remains “sharply negative,”
according to the International Association of Credit Portfolio
Managers.  About 47 percent of IACPM members expect yield spreads on
European speculative-grade debt will narrow, according to a
survey conducted by the organization at the beginning of the
year. Its 88  members  include banks, insurance companies and
money managers in 17 countries.  While sentiment relating to credit spreads in Europe was
positive for the first time since June 2011, lenders remain
concerned about the region’s three-year-old debt crisis, the
survey shows. The 12-month outlook for European corporate
defaults, though improved, remained the most negative of all
areas of the world.  “There are still a lot of underlying problems that are
still unsolved,” Som-lok Leung, the New York-based executive
director of the IACPM, said in a telephone interview. “There
are still some people who think that things will get worse.”  The survey shows that 18 percent see spreads on European
high-yield debt widening in the next three months, while 35
percent say borrowing costs will be unchanged.  The global speculative-grade default rate will climb to 3
percent by the end of this year, from 2.6 percent at the end of
December, remaining below the 4.8 percent average since 1983,
according to Moody’s Investors Service.  European Defaults  “While European spreads are at a five-year low, we
nevertheless expect a slight increase in defaults going
forward,” said Albert Metz, a managing director of credit
policy research at Moody’s, in a Jan. 9 statement from the
ratings firm.  Europe ’s default rate will rise to 3.3 percent by the end
of this year, from 1.8 percent at the end of 2012, according to
Moody’s. The company estimates that speculative-grade defaults
in the U.S. will decline to 3 percent, from 3.2 percent at the
end of December.  “The outlook for the U.S. is considerably more positive
than it is for Europe but few are predicting a robust economic
recovery,” the IACPM said.  A majority, or 57 percent, of its members see spreads
narrowing on high-yield debt in North America in the next three
months, the survey shows.  The rate on U.S. high-yield bonds was 495 basis points more
than comparable Treasuries as of yesterday, while European junk-
bond margins averaged 497 basis points on Jan. 15, Bank of
America Merrill Lynch indexes show. A basis point is 0.01
percentage point.  Leveraged Loans  The cost of U.S. leveraged loans sold to non-bank lenders
averaged 4.52 percentage points more than lending benchmarks at
the end of last year, the lowest since 4.25 percentage points in
September, according to Standard & Poor’s Capital IQ Leveraged
Commentary & Data.  Leveraged-loans are a type of high-yield, or junk, debt
rated below Baa3 by Moody’s and less than BBB-by S&P.  The spread on European loans with a single B rating
averaged 4.91 percentage points in the second half of last year,
down from 5.33 percentage points for loans sold to non-bank
lenders in first six months of 2012, data from S&P Capital IQ
LCD show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christine Idzelis in  New York  at 
 cidzelis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Faris Khan at 
 fkhan33@bloomberg.net  