-- Ex-BP Vice President’s Trial Over Spill Reset for Sept. 23
-- B y   A l l e n   J o h n s o n   J r .   a n d   P h i l   M i l f o r d
-- 2013-01-17T19:46:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-17/ex-bp-vice-president-s-trial-over-spill-reset-for-sept-23-1-.html
The trial of a former  BP Plc (BP/)  senior
vice president charged with obstructing federal investigations
into the cause of the 2010 Gulf of Mexico oil spill has been
reset for Sept. 23.  David Rainey of Houston, who was vice president of
exploration for the Gulf of Mexico and the company’s second-
highest official during its response to the worst offshore oil
spill in U.S. history, had been scheduled to go to trial Jan.
28.  U.S. District Judge Kurt Engelhardt in New Orleans
postponed the Rainey trial today following a status conference
with defense attorneys and federal prosecutors, according to a
court clerk.  The blowout and explosion on the Deepwater Horizon drilling
rig killed 11 workers and started millions of barrels of crude
leaking into the Gulf. It also set off hundreds of lawsuits
against London-based BP, its partners and contractors on the
project.  As BP’s deputy incident commander to the oil spill
response, Rainey worked on joint efforts with federal agencies
to stanch the broken Macondo well, located off the  Louisiana 
coast. He also worked on BP efforts to estimate the amount of
oil leaking from the well.  Falsifying Estimates  Two counts of the indictment accuse him of obstructing a
U.S. House of Representatives subcommittee investigation by
falsifying oil spill flow-rate estimates and lying to federal
investigators.  If convicted, he faces as many as five years in prison on
each count.  Since his indictment by a grand jury was announced Nov. 15,
BP and Transocean Ltd. have pleaded guilty to criminal charges
over the spill.  BP agreed to plead guilty to 14 criminal counts, including
11 for felony manslaughter related to the 11 deaths that
occurred when the Deepwater Horizon drilling rig exploded and
sank. The company also pleaded guilty to one misdemeanor count
under the Clean Water Act, one misdemeanor count under the
Migratory Bird Treaty Act, and one felony count of obstruction
of Congress.  Transocean, the Vernier, Switzerland-based owner and
operator of the rig, pleaded guilty to one misdemeanor violation
of the U.S. Clean Water Act.  Two BP well-site managers were charged with involuntary
manslaughter and Rainey were charged with obstruction and false
statements.  The criminal case is U.S. v. Rainey, 12-cr-291, U.S.
District Court, Eastern District of Louisiana (New Orleans).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Phil Milford in Wilmington at 
 pmilford@bloomberg.net ;
Allen Johnson Jr. in New Orleans at
 allenmct@gmail.com   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  