-- Herdez to Buy Majority Grupo Nutrisa Stake for $159 Million
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   J .   L e v i n
-- 2013-01-18T00:01:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-17/mexico-s-herdez-to-buy-majority-nutrisa-stake-for-159-million.html
Grupo Herdez SAB (HERDEZ*) , Mexico’s biggest
producer of canned foods, agreed to pay 2 billion pesos ($159
million) for a 67 percent stake in Grupo Nutrisa SAB to expand
into frozen yogurt.  The Mexico City-based company will buy the stake in
Nutrisa, which sells its yogurt in specialty stores and mall
food courts, for 91 pesos per share, a 12 percent  premium  to
yesterday’s closing price, according to a filing today. The
offer values the transaction at 2 billion pesos, investor
relations official Andrea Amozurrutia said in a phone interview.  Herdez fell 2 percent to 39.99 pesos in Mexico City at the
close of trading. Nutrisa, also based in Mexico City, rose 4.3
percent to 84.50 pesos.  Consumer-driven businesses have been expanding in Mexico,
 Latin America ’s second-biggest economy. Third-quarter revenue at
Herdez jumped 22 percent from a year earlier. In December, fast-
food restaurant operator  Alsea SAB (ALSEA*)  said it agreed to acquire
exclusive operating control of the Burger King brand in the
country to take advantage of a growing consumer base.  Herdez intends to add further to its stake in Nutrisa, with
a goal of owning all the shares, according to the filing to the
nation’s stock exchange. The deal is subject to regulatory
approval, the company said.  Nutrisa’s sales of 1.12 billion pesos in the 12 months
through September equaled 10 percent of Herdez’s revenue.
Nutrisa’s earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization were about 9 percent of Herdez’s, according to the
bourse filing.  ‘New Category’  “This is a totally new category for us,” Herdez’s
Amozurrutia said today by phone. “This is a growth opportunity
for Grupo Herdez to participate in a new category and a new
channel” of distribution.  Herdez evaluated a “list of targets” before making the
offer to Nutrisa, she said. Herdez carried out the transaction
directly with the target without working with investment
bankers, according to Amozurrutia.  Grupo Financiero Ve Por Mas SA said the purchase will have
an “immediate” impact on the Herdez’s performance as it uses
its distribution channels to introduce Nutrisa products to new
customers.  “The acquisition of Nutrisa will drive Herdez’s growth
strategy,” Ve Por Mas analyst Jose Maria Flores Barrera wrote
in an e-mailed report today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan J. Levin in  Mexico  City at 
 jlevin20@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  