-- Fed Profits Returned to Treasury Could Disappear, Paper Shows
-- B y   J o s h u a   Z u m b r u n
-- 2013-01-17T21:58:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-17/fed-profits-returned-to-treasury-could-disappear-paper-shows.html
The  Federal Reserve ’s record profits
that have been turned over to the Treasury could evaporate in
coming years as rising interest rates squeeze the income from
the central bank’s balance sheet, according to projections from
the Fed’s staff.  “The projections imply that Federal Reserve remittances to
the Treasury will likely decline for a time, and in some cases
fall to zero,” Fed researchers wrote in a  paper  posted to the
central bank’s website.  Last week, the Fed reported paying a record $88.9 billion
to the Treasury as part of an annual dividend it remits after
covering its own expenses from interest on its nearly $3
trillion balance sheet. The paper, from five economists and
assistants in the central bank’s monetary affairs division,
shows researchers studying the question of what becomes of those
assets once policy and the economy return to normal.  The researchers assume the Fed’s portfolio of assets will
begin declining in 2015, and return to a normal size by early
2018 or 2019. As  interest rates  rise, the value of Fed assets
declines, and the central bank will also pay more on excess
reserves in its accounts.  The researchers looked at the results based on different
interest-rate scenarios.  “With higher interest rates, earnings tend to fall a bit
more and remittances to the Treasury stop for a longer period
than in our baseline projections,” they wrote. “With lower
interest rates earnings are a bit larger and remittances
continue throughout the projection period.”  Fed Minutes  Minutes of the Fed’s Dec. 11-12 meeting showed policy
makers examined how their $85 billion monthly bond purchases,
designed to lower the  unemployment rate  and strengthen the
economy, would change the outlook for the Fed’s own balance
sheet.  The minutes said remittances to Treasury “could be
significantly affected,” and the paper provides new details to
that analysis, with charts showing how interest income, expenses
and capital losses could change.  The paper was written by Seth Carpenter, Jane Ihrig,
Elizabeth Klee, Daniel Quinn and Alexander Boote. Carpenter is
the senior associate director of the Fed’s Division of Monetary
Affairs, according to the Fed’s website.  The central bank has expanded its holdings by purchasing
$2.3 trillion in Treasury debt, mortgage-backed securities and
housing-agency debt to push down longer-term interest rates
after cutting the  benchmark rate  to near zero four years ago.  Earnings from each reserve bank are given to the Treasury
after the Fed covers its operating costs and dividend payments.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joshua Zumbrun in Washington at 
 jzumbrun@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  