-- Fed Begins Adding Reserves to System With Repurchase Agreements
-- B y   L i z   C a p o   M c C o r m i c k
-- 2013-01-17T14:49:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-17/fed-begins-adding-reserves-to-system-with-repurchase-agreements.html
The Federal Reserve Bank of  New York 
said it’s temporarily adding reserves to the banking system with
“small-value”  repurchase agreements  as part of a program to
test the central bank’s operational readiness.  The transactions, part of a series of open-market
operations began in 2009, don’t represent any change in monetary
policy, according to a  statement  yesterday on the New York Fed’s
website. All eligible collateral will be able to be used in the
transactions, which will be conducted with the central bank’s 21
primary dealers.  In June 2012, the  Federal Open Market Committee  authorized
the New York Fed to undertake repos and outright purchases and
sales of securities, in addition to reverse repos, for testing.
The Fed did its first round of repo testing in August 2012.  Prior to that transaction, the Fed hadn’t conducted a repo
since Dec. 30, 2008. Since then, the New York Fed has added six
primary dealers, the firms that act as counterparties to the
central bank.  In repos, the Fed buys  U.S. Treasury , mortgage-backed and
so-called agency debt from dealers for a set period, temporarily
raising the amount of money available in the banking system. At
maturity, the securities are returned to the dealers, and the
cash to the Fed.  The Fed has historically used repos and reverse repos to
help maintain the proper level of money in the banking system to
keep overnight  interest rates  close to the central bank’s
target. The Fed has held its target rate for overnight loans
between banks in a range of zero to 0.25 percent since December
2008.  In a tri-party arrangement, a third party functions as the
agent for the transaction and holds the security as collateral.
JPMorgan Chase & Co. and  Bank of New York Mellon Corp. (BK)  are the
only banks that serve in a trade-clearing capacity in the tri-
party repo market.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Liz Capo McCormick in New York at 
 emccormick7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  