-- Fed’s Fisher Says Some Banks Should Be Restructured
-- B y   A k i   I t o
-- 2013-01-17T21:51:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-17/fed-s-fisher-says-some-banks-should-be-restructured.html
Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas
President  Richard Fisher  said he advocated breaking apart banks
deemed too big to fail in order to “level the playing field”
between smaller and larger financial institutions.  The regional Fed bank is proposing that such financial
firms be restructured into multiple business entities. Only the
commercial banking pieces of the companies would have access to
the safety net of federal  deposit insurance  and the Fed’s
discount window, he said.  “One of the reasons we did this is to level the playing
field” between the smaller and bigger financial institutions,
Fisher said in an interview today at Bloomberg’s office in
 Washington . The drive to fix a system with too-big-to-fail banks
is “gaining momentum, and now that the election has passed, it
has some political gravitas. We’ll see.”  The Dallas Fed released a report today that highlighted the
strengths of smaller community banks that focus on traditional
lending activities, such as mortgages and small-business loans.
The  Independent Community Bankers of America  said in a statement
that it “strongly supports” Fisher’s plan.  U.S. regulators are searching for ways to make the
financial system more resilient after the 2008 credit freeze led
to the worst U.S. recession since the 1930s. Implementing the
Dodd-Frank Act, an overhaul of the banking system that was
signed into law in 2010, is not enough to protect the country’s
financial system, Fisher said.  Speech Yesterday  “We labor under the siren song of Dodd-Frank and the
recent run-up in the pricing of TBTF bank stocks and credit,
indulging in the illusion of hope that this complex legislation
will end too big to fail and right the banking system,” Fisher
said at the  National Press Club  yesterday.  Since 2009 Fisher has been criticizing what he has called
the “pathology” of banks deemed too big to fail.  The Government Accountability Office said this month that
it plans to study how large banks such as  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ,
 Bank of America Corp . and  Citigroup Inc. (C)  benefit from
assumptions that they are too big to fail. The examination will
be undertaken in response to a request from Senators  David Vitter , a Louisiana Republican, and  Sherrod Brown , an Ohio
Democrat, who say the government hasn’t done enough to prevent
future bailouts.  “It’s not just that it doesn’t treat too-big-to-fail,”
Fisher added in his interview today, referring to the Dodd-Frank
banking overhaul. “What it does is it overburdens the
competition.”  Not Protected  Every customer, creditor and counterparty of shadow banking
affiliates should also be required to sign a statement that
acknowledges the fact that these entities are not protected by
the federal government, Fisher said yesterday.  “The next financial crisis could cost more than two years
of economic output, borne by millions of U.S. taxpayers,” he
said.  The district bank president is not a voting member of the
 Federal Open Market Committee  this year and has been one of the
most outspoken critics of additional monetary easing within the
Fed.  Fisher told reporters after his remarks yesterday that the
Fed’s asset purchases haven’t been as effective as he would have
liked in boosting the economy. This is partly because the too-
big-to-fail problem has clogged the transmission mechanism
between Fed stimulus and the economy, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aki Ito in  San Francisco  at 
 aito16@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  