-- Fee-Only Advisers Buy Bigger Share of U.S. Structured Notes
-- B y   K e v i n   D u g a n
-- 2013-01-17T16:36:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-17/fee-only-advisers-buy-bigger-share-of-u-s-structured-notes.html
Registered investment advisers that
charge clients fees instead of taking commissions on products
bought their biggest share of U.S. structured notes last year
since at least 2010.  Banks issued $2.59 billion of notes without distribution
fees in 2012, 6.6 percent of the $39.2 billion total, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg since 2010 of the bonds registered
with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. That compares
with $2.92 billion, or 6.4 percent, in 2011, and $2.52 billion,
or 5.1 percent, in 2010. Notes without distribution fees
indicate that they are intended for fee-only advisers.  Advisers make up a larger percentage of structured note
buyers because they are becoming more comfortable with the
securities and are hunting for ways to boost returns, said
Justin Capetola, managing partner at Blue Bell Private Wealth
Management LLC in Blue Bell,  Pennsylvania .  “You have to do something that hedges yourself a little
bit and maybe gives you a little bump in yield,” he said. The
yield on 10-year Treasury notes averaged 1.79 percent last year
and touched a low of 1.3875 percent on July 24.  Blue Bell Private Wealth Management, which has $278 million
in assets under management, buys structured notes from  JPMorgan
Chase & Co. (JPM) ,  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) ,  Morgan Stanley (MS)  and  Wells
Fargo & Co. (WF) , he said. As a fee-based adviser, it differs from
the broker-dealers who sell most structured securities in the
U.S. because it has a fiduciary duty to its clients and isn’t
paid a commission on products it sells.  Sales to fee-based advisers are “a side of the market
we’ve seen growing quite a bit, specifically on the note side,”
said Deryk Rhodes, vice president of structured product trading
at Incapital LLC in  Boca Raton , Florida, in a Dec. 4 webinar. In
a follow-up interview he said educational efforts have
contributed to the increase.  Reach Out  Smaller RIAs, whose clients tend to be high-net-worth
individuals, are increasingly being courted by issuers because
the assets of their customers are growing, said Xavier Avila,
managing director and head of fixed income and currency
structuring at  Deutsche Bank (DB)  AG in  New York .  The RIAs don’t have as many options as advisers with more
assets, he said. They can choose to buy from a bank’s existing
product line, whereas a larger adviser can order a customized
note to fit a client’s needs, he said.  UBS AG (UBS)  sold $998.2 million of notes to fee-only advisers
last year, the most of any issuer. The Zurich-based bank’s
biggest offering, $946.2 million of one-year notes issued on May
16, was bought by Fisher Asset Management LLC. The securities
yield twice the gains and losses of the Russell 1000 Growth
Index, an index of companies with the fastest earnings growth.  Banks create structured notes by packaging debt with
derivatives to offer customized bets to retail investors while
earning fees and raising money. Derivatives are contracts whose
value is derived from stocks, bonds, commodities and currencies,
or events such as changes in  interest rates  or the weather.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kevin Dugan in New York at 
 kdugan4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  