-- Fisher Opposes QE While Saying Fed Policy Boosts Economy
-- B y   J o s h u a   Z u m b r u n   a n d   A k i   I t o
-- 2013-01-17T22:09:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-17/fisher-opposes-qe-while-saying-fed-policy-boosts-economy.html
Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas
President Richard Fisher said monetary policy is proving more
beneficial to growth while reiterating his opposition to a Fed
decision to increase easing by purchasing more bonds.  “The fact is, there is some traction now in the economy”
from record-low interest rates, Fisher said in an interview
today in  Washington . “We have a 2-plus-2 economy. 2 percent
inflation, a little bit less than that, 2 percent growth,” he
said. The economy is “very different from what the Japanese
have had for quite some time.”  The Federal Open Market Committee has pushed the main
interest rate close to zero and expanded Fed assets to a record
$2.97 trillion to fuel growth and reduce 7.8 percent
unemployment. Policy makers are debating whether to continue
stimulus this year or stop adding to it.  Fisher, one of the most outspoken critics within the Fed of
unprecedented stimulus, said he would have voted against the
FOMC’s decision last month to expand its bond-buying program to
include Treasuries.  “I was one of the people who argued against it,” Fisher
said. He doesn’t vote on policy this year.  Stocks rallied as U.S. housing starts jumped and jobless
claims fell more than forecast, bolstering optimism in the
world’s largest economy. The Standard & Poor’s 500  Index (SPX)  gained
0.6 percent to 1,480.94 in New York. Yields on 10-year
Treasuries rose seven basis points, or 0.07 percentage point, to
1.88 percent.  Weak Employment  The economy picked up across much of the country last
month, boosted by auto and home sales, even as the outlook for
unemployment showed few signs of improvement, the Fed said
yesterday in its Beige Book business survey.  “There’d been some slippage,” Fisher said, adding “the
traction’s beginning.”  Business hoarding of liquidity is still inhibiting the full
impact of Fed stimulus, Fisher said. Those funds are “not
resulting in job creation because the uncertainty stems from
fiscal uncertainty,” he said, referring to a legislative
deadlock over federal taxation and spending.  The FOMC at its Dec. 11-12 meeting linked its policy to
economic indicators for the first time. Officials expect to keep
interest rates near zero as long as the unemployment rate is
above 6.5 percent and inflation is projected to be no more than
2.5 percent, the committee statement said. The FOMC previously
said it anticipated keeping rates low through at least mid-2015.  Fisher said he was pleased with how markets had responded
to the inflation side of the Fed’s statement. In January, policy
makers had issued a statement that their long-run goal on
inflation was 2 percent, and the 2.5 percent threshold on
inflation risked conflating the two goals, he said.  “I was a little concerned,” said Fisher. “My argument
was it would confuse the markets.”  “People were still hanging their hat on the 2 percent
number, which is good,” said Fisher.  Fisher, 63, dissented twice in 2011 against moves to push
down long-term borrowing costs and to keep the benchmark
interest rate near zero for a prolonged period.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joshua Zumbrun in Washington at 
 jzumbrun@bloomberg.net 
Aki Ito in Washington at 
 aito16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  