-- Fissures Among Republicans Risk Blocking Future Budget Deals
-- B y   R o x a n a   T i r o n
-- 2013-01-17T13:33:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-17/fissures-in-republican-party-risk-blocking-future-budget-deals.html
House Speaker John Boehner, facing a
fight over raising the $16.4 trillion U.S. debt ceiling and
funding the federal government in coming weeks, is working first
to forge a more manageable Republican caucus.  Boehner is making moves to control his members. The speaker
removed four Republicans who opposed him on spending issues from
the Budget and Financial Services committees, and a Boehner ally
took control of a group of more than 165 members that aligns
with the anti-tax Tea Party on fiscal issues.  The stakes are high as House Republicans gather today in
Williamsburg, Virginia, for a retreat to plan strategy. Members
are demanding spending cuts from President  Barack Obama  and the
Democratic-led Senate in exchange for a debt-ceiling increase.
Still, Republicans risk being blamed for a government shutdown -
- or should the U.S. default on its debt for the first time.  “It is a very difficult conference to manage,” six-term
Representative Tom Cole, an  Oklahoma  Republican and an ally of
Boehner, said in an interview.  Boehner, from Ohio, leads a reduced majority of 233
members, down from 241 Republicans in the last session of the
435-seat House. Many Republicans are smarting over their
inability to prevent tax-rate increases in a Jan. 1 deal to
avert automatic tax increases and spending cuts.  Rank-and-file members will do much of the talking during
the private getaway, and Boehner will do the listening.  “We’re going to be talking a lot about policy issues, the
kinds of initiatives that we’re going to try and come together
on,” said Representative Trent Franks, an  Arizona  Republican.  Confrontations  Although the  debt limit  has been periodically raised since
its creation in 1917 -- with Congress raising or revising it 79
times, including 49 times under Republican presidents, since
1960 -- Republicans are preparing for confrontations with Obama
and Senate Democrats over spending. That will start with a
debate about raising the debt ceiling next month.  The Treasury Department has said that it expects to run out
of emergency measures to prevent a breach of the current debt
limit between mid-February and early March.  Investors in U.S. Treasury bonds, who most directly bear
the risk of a government default, haven’t shown any alarm.  The last time Congress fought over raising the ceiling,
Obama signed an increase on Aug. 2, 2011, the day the Treasury
Department warned that U.S. borrowing authority would expire.
Standard & Poor’s cut the nation’s credit rating. Still, yields
on 10-year U.S. Treasury notes declined to 2.56 percent on Aug.
5 and have continued to drop. The  yield  rose two basis points,
or 0.02 percentage point, to 1.84 percent at 8:15 a.m. today in
New York.  Political Showdown  Another political showdown may emerge in early March, when
Congress must decide whether to replace $110 billion in
automatic cuts in federal defense and discretionary spending.
The reductions had been set to start this month, until Congress
delayed them in the Jan. 1 tax deal with Obama.  On March 27, a short-term measure that funds government
agencies will lapse, creating a third potential fight.  The House speaker can’t leave decisions about the trio of
issues to his caucus, Cole said.  “I would hope that there is some sort of game plan that
they have in mind because I really think when you are a leader
you have to lead,” Cole said.  Lawmakers also expect Boehner and his chief assistants --
Majority Leader Eric Cantor of  Virginia  and top vote-counter
Kevin McCarthy of  California  -- to show that they are unified
after ending the last lame-duck session at odds.  “As long as Cantor and Boehner are on the same page, I
don’t think there should be a problem,” Representative Mike Simpson, an Idaho Republican, said in an interview.  Leaders Split  In an unusual leadership split, Cantor and McCarthy voted
against the Jan. 1 bipartisan tax plan. Among the House’s 241
Republicans, 151 opposed the measure. The division was notable,
given that the Senate vote adopting the deal was close to
unanimous -- just five of the chamber’s 47 Republicans opposed
it.  “The most important thing for Republican unity is a
unified leadership team,” said Cole. “ If we do not get a
strong lead from there then everything else is impossible.”  Because House Republicans  voted  against the Jan. 1 budget
deal, Boehner had to rely on Democratic support to push it
through. Eighty-five Republicans and 172 Democrats voted for the
measure while 16 Democrats and 151 Republicans opposed it.  That violated an informal House Republican rule dating to
former Speaker Dennis Hastert of  Illinois , who led the House for
eight years starting in 1999. He said he wouldn’t bring
legislation to the floor unless most of the Republican majority
backed it.  Rule Bypassed  Boehner had to bypass that rule again this week when the
House  passed  financial aid for  Hurricane Sandy  victims. Only 49
Republicans joined 192 Democrats in supporting the measure,
while 179 Republicans and one Democrat voted against it.  Boehner has taken several measures to bring members into
line during his second term as speaker.  Republicans Walter Jones of North Carolina and David Schweikert of Arizona were removed from the Financial Services
Committee, while Republicans Justin Amash of  Michigan  and Tim Huelskamp of  Kansas  were removed from the Budget Committee.  All four opposed a 2011 budget bill that ended an impasse
between Republicans and Obama. A Republican leadership aide said
on condition of anonymity last month that the four were removed
because they weren’t regarded as team players.  Amash, Schweikert and Huelskamp were elected in 2010 with
support of the Tea Party. Their reassignments drew a protest
from FreedomWorks, an umbrella group for the Tea Party movement.  Tactics Changing  Boehner has said that he will stop negotiating with Obama
behind closed doors and instead work through public channels,
Cole and Huelskamp said in interviews. Twice, private deficit
talks between Boehner, 63, and Obama, 51, collapsed because of
House Republican resistance to tax increases.  Boehner’s Republicans scuttled a plan he wanted to bring up
for a vote during last month’s budget negotiations. The
speaker’s “Plan B” sought to preserve tax cuts for people
earning less than $1 million a year.  Anti-tax Republicans forced him to cancel the vote, and
Congress wound up enacting a plan that retained the tax cuts for
fewer people -- individuals earning up to $400,000 and married
couples earning up to $450,000.  Some House Republicans taking leadership positions may help
Boehner unify his caucus. Representative Steve Scalise of
 Louisiana  took the reins of the Republican Study Committee, a
group of more than 165 lawmakers that promotes small government
and aligns with the Tea Party on fiscal issues.  Unlike his predecessor, Representative Jim Jordan of  Ohio ,
Scalise is considered a Boehner ally.  Camp Counseling  Representative James Lankford, a second-term member from
Oklahoma, took the House Republicans’ fifth-ranking leadership
position as chairman of the Policy Committee. Lankford is a
member of the conference’s “largest single class,” consisting
of lawmakers elected in 2010, said fellow Oklahoman Cole.  “He’s perfectly suited for the job,” Cole said, because
he “could bring peace among quarreling teenagers” running one
of the largest Christian youth camps before joining Congress.  Still, the speaker faces a difficult task in managing his
caucus, Ron Bonjean, a Republican strategist and former aide to
Hastert, said in an interview.  “This is one of the toughest times for the Republican
majority because of their divisions,” Bonjean said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Roxana Tiron in Washington at 
 rtiron@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  