-- Forint Advances Most in Week as Varga Calls for Stronger Range
-- B y   A n d r a s   G e r g e l y
-- 2013-01-17T15:41:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-17/forint-gains-most-in-3-weeks-as-varga-calls-for-stronger-range.html
The forint gained the most in a week
after the minister in charge of aid talks with the  International
Monetary Fund  said the currency should be stabilized in a
stronger range, according to HirTV.  The forint appreciated as much as 1.1 percent and traded
0.7 percent higher at 293.1 per euro by 4 p.m. in Budapest.
Yields on the government’s bonds due in 2023 fell six basis
points, or 0.06 percentage points, to 6.236 percent.  The currency’s exchange rate should be stable at 275 to 285
per euro and weakening it beyond that rate is “dangerous,”
Minister Mihaly Varga was reported as saying by the commercial
television station. His comments amounted to “verbal
intervention” to support the forint, Zoltan Arokszallasi, an
analyst at Erste Group Bank AG, wrote in a research report
today.  “Today’s forint rally was basically thanks to chief IMF
negotiator  Mihaly Varga ’s comments in the TV interview,”
Arokszallasi wrote.  The forint dropped 2.1 percent in the two days through Jan.
11 after Economy Minister  Gyorgy Matolcsy  wrote in his weekly
column in Heti Valasz newspaper on Jan. 10 that Hungary should
reject “traditional” economic models including policies that
kept the forint strong to fight inflation.  “It’s not surprising that last week’s comments envisioning
a weaker forint from the economy minister had to be followed
sooner or later by government views to help tone it down,” Imre Kerekgyarto and Karoly Bamli, Budapest-based currency traders at
Commerzbank AG, wrote in an e-mail today.  The Swiss franc’s drop against the euro, which helps
Hungarian foreign-currency borrowers, also supported the forint
today, the Commerzbank traders said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andras Gergely in Budapest at 
 agergely@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Wojciech Moskwa at 
 wmoskwa@bloomberg.net  