-- Fox News Re-Signs Karl Rove as Contributor Through 2016 Vote
-- B y   R o b   G o l u m
-- 2013-01-17T21:34:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-17/fox-news-re-signs-karl-rove-as-contributor-through-2016-election.html
Fox News , the most-watched cable
news channel, said it re-signed former presidential adviser Karl Rove to serve as a contributor through the 2016 presidential
election.  Rove, who was deputy chief of staff and senior adviser to
President  George W. Bush , will provide analysis on Fox News and
Fox Business, Roger Ailes, chairman and chief executive officer
of News Corp.’s Fox News Channel, said today in a statement.  “Karl’s detailed knowledge of state and national politics,
as well as fundraising and strategy, makes him an important
player in our ongoing political coverage and we look forward to
him continuing his analysis across all platforms for Fox News
and Fox Business,” Ailes said.  Rove, 62, was a commentator for Fox News on election night
in November when the network’s staffers correctly called Ohio
for President Barack Obama. Rove questioned their call on the
air, saying he didn’t believe it. He argued with the newscasters
while seeking information from the Romney campaign and Ohio’s
secretary of state.  Two political outfits founded with Rove’s help, American
Crossroads and Crossroads Grassroots Policy Strategies, backed
unsuccessful Republican presidential contender  Mitt Romney  with
$127 million on more than 82,000 television spots, according to
Kantar Media’s CMAG, an ad tracker based in New York.  The Center for Responsive Politics estimates the two
Crossroads groups spent about $176 million, making them the top
non-candidate and non-party spender of the election.  News Corp. (NWSA)  gained 1.8 percent to $27.47 at the close in New
York. The Class A shares  rose  43 percent in 2012.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rob Golum in  Los Angeles  at 
 rgolum@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  