-- MFP’s Price Says He Wouldn’t Buy Goldman Sachs Shares
-- B y   I n y o u n g   H w a n g
-- 2013-01-17T14:32:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-17/mfp-s-price-says-he-wouldn-t-buy-goldman-sachs-shares.html
MFP Investors LLC’s  Michael Price 
said he wouldn’t add to his holdings in  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) 
at the current price because the fifth-largest U.S. bank by
assets is trading at fair value.  “I don’t buy it here,” Price, said in a “Bloomberg
Surveillance” television interview with  Tom Keene  and Sara Eisen today. “It’s fair value.” He said, “You buy things when
people are selling and you sell when the sun is shining.”  Price, who made his reputation as a value investor in the
1980s by buying shares of beaten-down lenders, owned a $4.5
million stake in Goldman Sachs, according to a September
regulatory filing. The New York-based firm rallied 4.1 percent
yesterday, the most in 10 months, after reporting  quarterly
profit  that beat analysts’ estimates and full-year revenue grew
for the first time since 2009.  Goldman Sachs shares are trading at about 10 times earnings
and 1 times book value, Price said. The bank reported yesterday
that fourth-quarter earnings more than tripled to $5.60 a share,
surpassing even the highest estimate of 26 analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg.  “They’re the  smartest guys  in the room,” Price said.
“When you’re looking at financials -- banks, brokers, insurance
companies -- who’s going to be smarter than Goldman? And you
don’t want to pay more than one times book and 10 times
earnings. That to me is the center point.”  Dell LBO  While Price doesn’t own shares of  Dell Inc. (DELL) , he said the
chances of a leveraged buyout for the personal-computer maker
are greater than 50 percent. The company is in discussions with
private-equity firms including Silver Lake Management LLC,
 Bloomberg News  reported on Jan. 14.  A tender offer for the company could be about $14 to $15 a
share, Price said. Dell shares have surged 16 percent to $12.61
this week.  “This is the time to do it,” Price said on Dell’s
potential buyout. Hewlett-Packard Co.’s “probably too big to
do. Dell is big, but not too big, to do,” he said.  Price said he owns shares of  Citigroup Inc. (C) , the third-
biggest U.S. bank, and foreign-exchange broker FXCM Inc. He is
also bullish on McGraw-Hill Cos., the educational publisher and
financial services provider that is planning on splitting its
two businesses.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Inyoung Hwang in  New York  at 
 ihwang7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  