-- Fraser & Neave Bidders Face Auction
-- B y   J o y c e   K o h   a n d   J o n a t h a n   B u r g o s
-- 2013-01-18T16:00:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-17/fraser-neave-bidding-rivals-face-deadline-on-offers.html
A four-month battle for  Fraser (FNN)  &
Neave Ltd’s S$13.8 billion ($11.2 billion) empire faces a
weekend deadline that may force bidders to an unprecedented
auction for the property and beverages company.  Thai billionaire  Charoen Sirivadhanabhakdi , who in
September offered S$8.88 a share for control of the  Singapore 
company, is competing with investors led by  Overseas Union
Enterprise Ltd. (OUE) , which on Nov. 15 bid S$9.08. The stock closed
0.8 percent higher at S$9.58 yesterday.  Charoen and OUE have been given until Jan. 20 to show they
are willing to revise their proposals in which case Singapore’s
Securities Industry Council will order an unprecedented auction
of F&N. The 130-year-old conglomerate has businesses ranging
from soft-drinks to apartment buildings across  Southeast Asia .  “It finally forces the hand of the two sides to pay up
more,” said Jason Hughes, head of premium client management at
IG Markets in Singapore. “Most people do expect there to be
further scope to raise the bids since both offers are at the
very low end of valuations.”  An auction process kicks off after the weekend if neither
company has said its offer is final. If one or the other
indicates its proposal is final by Sunday, the deal will be
decided through a shareholder vote. Charoen’s companies have a
34 percent stake in F&N, while OUE has the backing of  Kirin
Holdings Co. (2503) ’s 15 percent holding.  Auction Process  If either group wishes to raise its offer after Jan. 20, it
must submit the bid to the Securities Industry Council. The
rival will have time to respond.  At the end of the auction, the Charoen and OUE groups would
have made their final offers, the regulator said in a statement
this month. “F&N shareholders would then be able to decide
which offer to accept or none at all,” the statement said.  The regulator-directed auction is unprecedented,
Singapore’s daily Business Times has said.  Charoen agreed to buy a 22 percent stake in F&N in July,
setting off a fight for the company’s soft drink and property
assets and prompting the sale of its beer unit to  Heineken NV. (HEIA)   OUE, a Singapore-based property company, has teamed with
Kirin Holdings Co.,  Japan ’s largest drinks maker, in its bid.
OUE would get the company’s property business and Kirin would
take the food and beverage unit.  ‘Upper Hand’  “In this particular case, however, there doesn’t seem to
be a level playing field, which could actually reduce the
efficacy of the auction process,” said Ang Ser-Keng, senior
lecturer of finance at the  Singapore Management University .
“The Thais with their existing shareholding, called a toehold,
has an upper hand. As a bidder with a substantial shareholding,
you can afford to bid more aggressively given you already own
significant number of shares.”  Charoen’s offer values the company at S$12.8 billion, while
OUE’s bid is worth S$13.1 billion.  Singapore’s measures last week to curb speculation in its
housing market may drive  home prices  lower for the first time in
five years, Mizuho Corporate Bank Ltd. and Barclays Plc said.
The government added 5 percentage points to 7 percentage points
more in stamp duties on residential purchases and introduced new
restrictions on down-payments and loans for some buyers.  Offers ‘Fair’  “I don’t think the bids will be as aggressive as it could
have been given the recent property measures announced by the
government,” Hughes said.  Kirin has agreed to tender its 14.8 percent stake in F&N,
OUE has said. The Japanese brewer,  Asia ’s biggest beverage maker
will offer S$2.7 billion for F&N’s food and beverage business if
OUE wins enough support to complete the takeover.  F&N’s board has said an independent adviser has found both
offers “not compelling but fair.” Charoen’s unlisted business,
TCC Group, has a real estate unit, while his  Thai Beverage Pcl (THBEV) 
sells the Chang brand of beer. Charoen, 68, is Thailand’s
richest man and has a net worth of about $9.5 billion, based on
calculations from the  Bloomberg Billionaires Index .  The Thai billionaire was born and raised in Bangkok’s
Chinatown district. He bid for the rights to operate
distilleries during a liberalization of the nation’s liquor
industry, before expanding into beer, alcohol, sugar, and
packaging businesses.  OUE Executive Chairman Stephen Riady is a son of Mochtar Riady, who controls  Indonesia ’s Lippo Group, with businesses
ranging from real estate and financial services to food across
Asia. If successful, it would be the biggest ever acquisition of
a Singapore-based company, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joyce Koh in Singapore at 
 jkoh38@bloomberg.net ;
Jonathan Burgos in Singapore at 
 jburgos4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anjali Cordeiro in  Hong Kong  at 
 acordeiro2@bloomberg.net  