-- Gazprom Quarterly Net Income Doubles on Weak Ruble
-- B y   A n n a   S h i r y a e v s k a y a
-- 2013-01-17T19:11:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-17/gazprom-third-quarter-profit-doubles-on-foreign-exchange-gain.html
OAO Gazprom, the biggest natural-gas
producer, said profit doubled in the third quarter, beating
analyst estimates, as a foreign-exchange gain helped compensate
for soaring costs.  Net income climbed to 305 billion rubles ($10.1 billion)
from 152 billion rubles a year earlier, Moscow-based Gazprom
 said  today on its website. That compared with an average
 estimate  of 291 billion rubles from 10 analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg. Revenue rose 18 percent to 1.12 trillion rubles.  Gazprom,  Russia ’s monopoly gas exporter, battled weakening
European markets last year that forced suppliers to compete to
maintain sales. The company offered discounts to some customers
and raised the weight of spot-market prices in setting rates,
which are mainly linked to oil-price indexes. It raised
investments even as demand faltered, to ensure future production
and transport capacity.  Gazprom shares rose as much as 1.3 percent in Moscow,
before closing up 0.8 percent at 147.51 rubles.  “There isn’t much to be positive about, despite the
positive market reaction,” Ildar Davletshin, a gas analyst at
 Renaissance Capital  in Moscow, said by phone today. “Costs
increased for personnel, transit, oil and gas purchases.”  Gazprom probably overshot its plan for  capital spending  by
$4 billion in 2012 after a “very intensive” fourth quarter
pushed annual expenditure up to $44 billion, Chief Financial
Officer Andrey Kruglov said on a conference call.  ‘Expected Worse’  The majority of the revenue growth came from sales of oil
and refined products rather than gas, Davletshin said. Operating
costs soared 40 percent to 868 billion rubles in the third
quarter.  Revenue may total $150 billion in 2012, and earnings before
interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization are expected in a
range of $54 billion to $55 billion, Kruglov said.  The gas exporter receives most of its revenue in foreign
currency as  Europe  is its most profitable market, accounting for
about half of its total sales of gas, oil, condensate and
refined products. The ruble weakened 9 percent against the
dollar in the quarter compared with a year earlier, increasing
the ruble revenue earned on foreign currency-denominated gas
sales.  Gazprom didn’t recognize retroactive discounts to European
customers in the third quarter, according to a comparison of
nine-month and first-half 2012 data in statements on its
website. Profit was also boosted by a foreign-exchange gain of
78.4 billion rubles in the quarter, compared with a loss of
almost 141.5 billion rubles a year earlier.  Price Reviews  The gas producer expects to be refunded $1 billion in tax
it paid to the Russian government after the retroactive gas
price reviews.  Gazprom this month received requests to renegotiate supply
terms with a number of clients including Wingas and  GDF Suez (GSZ)  SA
after the contracts became eligible for review in 2013, Sergei Chelpanov, deputy chief of Gazprom’s export unit, said on the
call.  “It is normal customer behavior today in an unstable
market,” Chelpanov said, adding that it’s difficult to predict
the outcome of talks.  Gas volumes to Europe dropped 3 percent in the first nine
months, while the average European price rose less than 1
percent to $379 per 1,000 cubic meters compared with the same
period the previous year. Supplies to Russia and the former
 Soviet Union  also fell.  European exports dropped about 8 percent in the full year
to 138 billion cubic meters, Chief Executive Officer Alexey Miller said Jan. 15 in Siberia.  The gas producer had negative free cash flow of 41.2
billion rubles in the third quarter.  Net Debt  Net debt rose to 1.16 trillion rubles at the end of
September from 1.03 trillion rubles at the end of 2011.  “On the European market, all the negativity has been
priced in,” Stanislav Kondratiev, an oil and gas analyst at
UralSib Capital in Moscow, said by phone.  Kruglov said in November the company may opt for a dividend
amounting to 25 percent of earnings under International
Financial Reporting Standards from 2014, instead of the current
system using Russian standards. He reiterated the plan today.  Russia and Ukraine have valid contracts and there are no
grounds to revise prices, a Gazprom official said on the
conference call. Ukraine is ready to join a customs union with
Russia in exchange for cheaper gas from Gazprom, the Kommersant-
Ukraine newspaper said last month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anna Shiryaevskaya in Moscow at 
 ashiryaevska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  