-- Glencore, Xstrata Extend Takeover Deadline to March 15
-- B y   J e s s e   R i s e b o r o u g h   a n d   P a u l   B u r k h a r d t
-- 2013-01-18T15:18:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-17/glencore-said-to-seek-extension-on-xstrata-deadline.html
Glencore International Plc (GLEN) , the
largest publicly traded commodities supplier, and coal producer
 Xstrata Plc (XTA)  agreed to extend the deadline to complete their 22.6
billion-pound ($36 billion) combination to March 15.  Regulatory processes in South Africa and  China  “remain
ongoing” and the U.K.’s takeovers panel has consented to
extending the deadline from Jan. 31, Baar, Switzerland-based
Glencore and Xstrata said in statements today.  Glencore on Nov. 22 won European Union approval for its
takeover of Zug, Switzerland-based Xstrata after offering to end
a zinc-purchase agreement with  Nyrstar (NYR)  NV and sell its stake in
the company. The combination would create the world’s fourth-
biggest mining company.  As a hearing by South Africa’s Competition Tribunal opened
in  Pretoria  today, counsel for state-run power utility Eskom
Holdings SOC Ltd. Rafik Bhana said the company had agreed to
withdraw its intervention in the transaction.  The terms Eskom has agreed to are confidential, a point
criticized by competition regulator deputy commissioner
Tembinkosi Bonakele as “not desirable.”  The agreement between Eskom and the two companies provides
a framework with a key supplier, Hilary Joffe, a spokeswoman for
the utility, told reporters today in Pretoria, without
elaborating. Eskom, which relies on coal to fuel more than 80
percent of its generation, had raised concern it would be unable
to secure supplies at competitive prices.  Export Capacities  The utility already has long-term coal supply agreements
and suppliers for its power stations and the export capacities
of Glencore and Xstrata won’t change with the merger, according
to David Unterhalter, a lawyer for the two companies. “Nothing
about the situation suggests any problem for Eskom that is
merger specific,” he told the tribunal.  South Africa’s National Union of Mineworkers, the second
party due to give evidence at the tribunal, is “satisfied”
with the Glencore-Xstrata deal, NUM representative Lungile
Tyatya told the hearing.  Glencore rose 0.6 percent to 382.25 pence in London trading
at 2:27 p.m., while Xstrata gained 0.8 percent to 1,147 pence.  The final decision on the merger by the competition
tribunal is expected within 10 days, said Nandi Mokoena, a
spokeswoman for the regulator.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jesse Riseborough in London at 
 jriseborough@bloomberg.net ;
Paul Burkhardt in Johannesburg at 
 pburkhardt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  