-- Goldman Says Dragon Founders ‘Scapegoating’ It Over Sale
-- B y   J a n e l l e   L a w r e n c e
-- 2013-01-18T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-17/goldman-says-dragon-founders-scapegoating-it-over-sale.html
A  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  lawyer
argued to jurors that the founders of speech-recognition pioneer
Dragon Systems Inc. are scapegoating the investment bank for
their own mistakes in a $580 million all-stock sale rendered
worthless when the buyer was exposed as a fraud.  In closing arguments yesterday in Boston federal court in a
lawsuit accusing Goldman Sachs of negligence, the attorney said
Dragon co-founder Janet Baker and Chief Financial Officer Ellen
Chamberlain ignored the bank’s advice to hire accountants to
further vet Belgium-based suitor Lernout & Hauspie Speech
Products NV and rushed the deal amid Dragon’s cash-flow problems
in 2000.  “They are making Goldman Sachs into the guarantor of this
transaction when no one suspected fraud,” the bank’s lawyer,
John Donovan Jr., said. “That’s not turning Goldman into a
guarantor. That’s turning Goldman into a scapegoat.”  Donovan blamed Baker, also Dragon’s former chief executive
officer, for negotiating a change from a half-cash/half-stock
deal to an all-stock deal without consulting the banking team.  “Look, if you decide to play investment banker by
yourself, you’re in no position to criticize the investment
banker you hired in the process,” Donovan said.  Lawyers for Dragon argued New York-based Goldman Sachs
committed gross negligence, committed misrepresentation through
key omissions and should have stopped the deal because of
unanswered questions about Lernout & Hauspie’s revenue.  ‘Bottom Line’  “Goldman can dress this up as much as they can, but the
bottom line is these guys didn’t do anything,” Alan Cotler, a
lawyer for Janet Baker and her husband, Jim, told the jury.  Goldman Sachs’s four-man investment team, which included a
22-year-old banker and a 25-year-old, was inexperienced,
unsupervised and unfocused on a small client such as Dragon, he
said.  “They were so busy they didn’t have enough bankers to do
deals,” Cotler said, describing a time of voluminous mergers
and acquisitions. “Dragon was small potatoes and that’s what
they got, small potatoes from Goldman Sachs.”  Dragon paid Goldman Sachs $5 million.  Goldman Sachs intentionally misrepresented that the bank
had an analyst monitoring Lernout & Hauspie’s earnings when it
had stopped covering the company at the end of 1999, Cotler
said. L&H posted a suspicious 1,500 percent increase in Asian
revenue in February 2000.  Suburban Home  He said Janet Baker, who with her husband developed the
technology that started the company in their suburban Boston
home in 1982, and Chamberlain became frustrated with the Goldman
Sachs team for not doing due diligence in the deal.  “This case is not about accounting. Goldman Sachs wants to
use the word accounting a thousand times because they don’t want
you to think about  investment banking ,” Cotler said.  Jurors began hearing the case in December before U.S.
District Judge Patti Saris.  In addition to the Bakers’ claims, the jury is weighing
negligence claims lodged by Paul G. Bamberg and Robert Roth, two
other Dragon founders who held minority shares in the company.  Jurors were scheduled to receive instructions yesterday and
begin deliberations.  “The evidence shows Goldman failed as a professional
team,” said attorney Jack R. Pirozzolo, who represents Bamberg
and Roth.  Donovan, Goldman Sachs’s attorney, repeatedly highlighted a
Feb. 29, 2000, memo from the bank to Dragon advising the company
to hire Arthur Andersen LLP to do comprehensive accounting of
Lernout & Hauspie.  More Diligence  Dragon didn’t tap  Arthur Andersen  for the work and CFO
Chamberlain maintained Goldman Sachs should do more due
diligence, he said. Witnesses for Goldman Sachs testified that
Chamberlain told Dragon’s board due diligence was completed and
they signed the deal.  “Here’s Goldman screaming ‘Do the work!’ and they’re being
sued because they didn’t scream louder?” Donovan said.  Goldman Sachs could have saved Dragon from the disastrous
deal if the bank had an analyst monitoring Lernout & Hauspie in
2000, Dragon’s lawyers argued.  Instead, the bank put Charles Elliott, its London-based
international, European technology research analyst, on a
conference call with Dragon leaders in February, in which he was
bullish on how the deal might affect the technology market.  In a videotaped deposition played for the jury, Elliott
said he didn’t know about the soaring L&H Asian revenue, later
proved a fraud, and would have been suspicious of it if he had.  First Learned  Elliott learned of the revenue for the first time when
Cotler showed him an old newspaper article during a deposition.  Cotler blamed the head of the Goldman Sachs team, Richard
Wayner, for not talking to Elliott about media reports on L&H’s
revenue before the conference call and sending Elliott to do
research.  “Charles Elliott could have prevented this. Rich Wayner
could have prevented this,” Cotler told the jury.  Goldman Sachs’s lawyer argued that Dragon’s leader knew
about the suspicious Asia revenue. The company was in such tough
financial shape that Dragon would have gone forward with the
deal anyway, Donovan said.  Dragon has already collected $70 million in settlements
with other companies involved in the deal. If the jury finds
Goldman negligent and awards damages, $70 million will be
deducted from the total.  The case is Baker v. Goldman Sachs & Co., 09-cv-10053, U.S.
District Court, District of  Massachusetts  (Boston).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Janelle Lawrence in U.S. District Court in Boston at
 jmlawrence@me.com   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  