-- Goldman Names NTT DoCoMo, ANA, Komatsu Among Top Picks
-- B y   A n n a   K i t a n a k a   a n d   T o s h i r o   H a s e g a w a
-- 2013-01-17T04:07:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-17/goldman-names-ntt-docomo-ana-komatsu-among-top-picks.html
Reflationary measures by Japan’s new
government are having a positive effect on the nation’s stock
market, said  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) , which maintained its
bullish outlook on the country.  The investment bank named  NTT DoCoMo Inc. (9437) , All Nippon
Airways Co. and Asahi Glass Co. among stocks with the most
growth potential in 2013, analysts and strategists led by Shin Horie, Kathy Matsui and Mike Warren wrote in a report yesterday.
Nissan Motor Co.,  Komatsu Ltd. (6301)  and  Sumitomo Mitsui Financial
Group Inc. (8316)  were among shares chosen by Goldman Sachs as having
the best prospects for long-term growth.  “While the market appears overbought near-term, we retain
our bullish stance over the medium-term, and believe domestic
and global macro tailwinds will continue to support further
upside in 2013,” the analysts wrote. The ruling  Liberal
Democratic Party  “promised to implement an emergency economic
stimulus package right away and implement seamless economic
policies, and so far it is fulfilling this promise.”  The  Topix Index (TPX)  capped the longest weekly advance since
1989 on Jan. 11 as the new ruling LDP announced a 10.3 trillion
yen ($117 billion) fiscal stimulus package and efforts to drive
down the yen. Japan’s broadest measure of equity performance
rose 24 percent from Nov. 14, when national elections were
announced, through Jan. 11. The yen fell 10 percent against the
dollar in the period.  Accommodative Stance  The brokerage expects the next  Bank of Japan  governor, who
will be appointed in April, to be more “accommodative” with
monetary policy than current chief Masaaki Shirakawa, according
to the report. Prime Minister Shinzo Abe has called for the
nation’s inflation target to be doubled to 2 percent and said on
Jan. 13 that he wants a new BOJ governor who can push through
“bold monetary policy.”  Among stocks that are the most attractive, Goldman Sachs
highlighted  Nissan (7201)  for its “strong commitment to
growth/ emerging markets ” and its strong presence in China.  Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group Inc. (8306)  and Sumitomo Mitsui
Financial Group Inc., Japan’s biggest banks, are also
recommended as they may buy back shares or raise dividends while
seeing steadily loan growth overseas, according to the Goldman
Sachs report.  Growth Projection   While Japan entered a technical recession last month, the
economy may recover through March and remain stable thereafter,
Goldman Sachs analysts wrote. The brokerage raised its estimate
for Japan’s economy to grow by about 2 percent in fiscal year
2013, an increase of 0.7 percentage points, due to the
government’s expansion of public works spending as well as its
economic stimulus package.  Domestic consumer demand is likely to surge through
December 2013 ahead of the consumption tax increase, according
to the report.  Downward earnings revisions by Japanese companies have
troughed, and with an increase in global growth as well as the
prospects of more stimulus ahead in  Japan , the brokerage expects
earnings per share to grow 33 percent this fiscal year and 25
percent in fiscal year 2013. Return on equity for companies on
the Topix may rise to a post-bubble era high of 9.4 percent by
the end of fiscal year 2014, according to Goldman Sachs. The
Topix has fallen about 69 percent from the height of Japan’s
asset bubble in 1989 through yesterday.  Still, stocks on the Topix trade at 18.4 times  estimated
earnings , compared with about 13.3 times for the S&P 500 and
10.9 times for the Stoxx Europe 600.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anna Kitanaka in Tokyo at 
 akitanaka@bloomberg.net ;
Toshiro Hasegawa in Tokyo at 
 thasegawa6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  