-- Growthpoint CEO Considers Options for Fountainhead Takeover
-- B y   K a m l e s h   B h u c k o r y
-- 2013-01-18T15:34:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-17/growthpoint-may-boost-10-4-billion-rand-offer-for-fountainhead.html
Growthpoint Properties Ltd. (GRT)  may
consider increasing its 10.4 billion-rand ($1.2 billion) offer
for  Fountainhead Property Trust (FPT)  after the target company entered
exclusive talks with a rival South African bidder.  Growthpoint, a Johannesburg-based real estate investment
group, made an all-share approach for Fountainhead in October in
what Chief Executive Officer Norbert Sasse said would be the
country’s largest ever property acquisition. Johannesburg-based
 Redefine Properties Ltd. (RDF)  had earlier made an all-share offer
worth about 10 billion rand at current prices and Fountainhead
said last month that after examining both offers it would pursue
a deal with Redefine.  A higher offer “could happen,” Sasse said in an interview
at the company’s offices yesterday. “It’s not something that we
are contemplating right now.” A hostile bid is not “off the
table” either, he added. “We are not walking away from
Fountainhead.”  Fountainhead rose 1 percent to 8.5 rand a share at the
close in Johannesburg, it’s highest level since Jan. 7. About
9.4 million shares were traded, almost five times the three-
month daily average. Redefine advanced 1.7 percent to 9.66 rand,
the highest since Dec. 20. Growthpoint declined less than 0.1
percent to 25.98 rand.  The acquisition of Johannesburg-based Fountainhead would
increase Growthpoint’s exposure to the retail sector, where it
is “underweight,” Sasse said. Fountainhead owns or has stakes
in several shopping malls in  South Africa . The retail and
industrial sectors will “remain fairly solid” in 2013 compared
with the office market, Sasse added.  Final Word  “A higher bid from Growthpoint would obviously please
Fountainhead unit holders but may not be enough to sway the
Financial Services Board, with whom the final word rests as
regulator of collective investment schemes in South Africa,”
Ian Anderson, chief investment officer at the Durban-based
Grindrod Asset Management, said in e-mailed comments. “The deal
will be the largest in the listed property sector and would
significantly increase the market capitalization of the
successful bidder.”  Fountainhead Chief Executive Officer Alex Phakathi didn’t
return three messages left by Bloomberg on his office answering
machine. The company said in a statement last month it was wary
of certain litigation risks surrounding the Growthpoint offer as
well as its demand to carry out due diligence.  Growthpoint, which owns half of the V&A Waterfront
restaurant and shopping complex in  Cape Town , plans to add at
least 1 billion rand of new projects to its existing portfolio
worth 1.6 billion rand, Sasse said. The focus will be on office
blocks along the Gautrain high-speed rail service that links
Johannesburg and  Pretoria  to airports in the Gauteng province.
“We have got the sites,” Sasse said. “We are not going to be
constructing speculatively.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kamlesh Bhuckory in Johannesburg at 
 kbhuckory@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net 
Simon Thiel at 
 sthiel1@bloomberg.net  