-- GS Yuasa May Take Months to Complete Boeing 787 Battery Probe
-- B y   J u l i e   M a s u d a
-- 2013-01-17T03:40:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-17/gs-yuasa-may-take-months-to-complete-boeing-787-battery-probe.html
GS Yuasa Corp. (6674) , the battery supplier
to  Boeing (BA)  Co. 787 planes that are being grounded, said it may
take months to complete its investigation into what caused an
emergency landing of an All Nippon Airways Co. Dreamliner.  The company needs to find out whether the emergency landing
in  Japan  yesterday was caused by an issue with the battery or
the entire electrical system is at fault, its spokesman Hiroharu
Nakano said by phone today. The plane’s electrical system needs
to be dismantled for the full investigation, which may take
months, he said.  Shares of Kyoto, Japan-based GS Yuasa fell as much as 7.5
percent, the most in almost three months, in Tokyo trading
today, as the battery fire on the All Nippon jet triggered
grounding of Dreamliners. The  Federal Aviation Administration 
ordered airlines to prove that  lithium-ion batteries  in the
plane, which went into service in late 2011, “are safe and in
compliance.”  “We’ll first look at the battery, but we have to check if
battery is the only problem or there’s an entire electrical
system issue,” Nakano said. “We need to fully investigate the
system.”  GS Yuasa has sent a team of technical experts to Takamatsu
airport in Japan for investigations, Nakano said.  The stock slid to as low as 297 yen, and changed hands at
305 yen as of 12:25 p.m. in Tokyo trading. The  shares  have
declined 12 percent this year, extending a drop in each of the
past three years.  U.S. Regulators  U.S. regulators yesterday temporarily grounded the 787s
after  All Nippon (9202)  and Japan Airlines Co. grounded the entire
fleet of Dreamliners. Air India Ltd. and Latam Airlines Group
S.A., the Santiago, Chile-based carrier, also said they will
idle the fleet.  The regulators announced Jan. 11 they were conducting a
review of the Dreamliner’s design, manufacturing and assembly in
the wake of a Jan. 7 fire aboard a Japan Airlines 787 in  Boston .  All Nippon pilots on a domestic flight in Japan yesterday
got electrical-fault warnings related to the plane’s lithium-ion
battery, forcing the emergency landing, the carrier said. ANA
and Japan Airlines then parked their 24 Dreamliners.  The battery, used to start a small turbine engine that
provides power when the plane is parked, is designed to not burn
critical wiring or the plane’s structure, Mike Sinnett, the 787
chief project engineer, said in a press briefing last week.  The 787’s lithium-ion batteries are part of the
Dreamliner’s electrical power conversion system, which is
manufactured by  France ’s  Thales SA. (HO)   United Technologies Corp. (UTX) ’s
Aerospace Systems unit supplies the overall system, which uses
1.45 megawatts of electricity, enough to power 400 homes.  Through the end of 2012, Boeing had 848 orders for the 787,
according to the planemaker’s website. There are now 50 planes
in service, which have flown 50,000 hours, Boeing said in a news
release.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julie Masuda in Tokyo at 
 jmasuda@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anand Krishnamoorthy at 
 anandk@bloomberg.net  