-- Gun Ban No Obstacle to Taurus Bid for Freedom: Corporate Brazil
-- B y   C h r i s t i a n a   S c i a u d o n e
-- 2013-01-17T15:15:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-17/gun-ban-no-obstacle-to-taurus-bid-for-freedom-corporate-brazil.html
Brazilian gunmaker  Forjas Taurus SA (FJTA4) 
is emerging as a likely bidder for Freedom Group Inc. as
analysts bet that proposed U.S. gun controls will fail to deter
demand in the world’s largest consumer firearms market.  Taurus, the acquirer of U.S. revolver maker Heritage
Manufacturing Inc. last year, would be a good suitor for all or
part of Freedom Group, according to brokerage Coinvalores and
Wedbush Morgan Securities. Taurus, which said in November that
it’s “analyzing acquisition opportunities” for 2013, declined
to comment on speculation of a bid.  Buying Freedom from Cerberus Capital Management LP has
risks after President  Barack Obama  proposed broad gun-control
measures yesterday in the wake of an elementary-school shooting
spree. While Cerberus is said to be willing to sell at a
discount, Obama’s proposed ban on assault weapons and high-
capacity magazines may curb sales at money-losing Freedom.  “Despite recent tragedies, they still look to the U.S.
market with a lot of optimism,” Bruno Piagentini Caloni, an
analyst at Sao Paulo-based Coinvalores, said in a telephone
interview. “One of its growth strategies is through the
acquisitions of small companies that already have a traditional
presence in  North America .”  Stock Selloff  The market value of the world’s top six publicly traded
gunmakers plunged by $215 million in the week after the Dec. 14
school shooting that killed 20 elementary-school students and
six adult staff members.  The gunman, 20-year-old Adam Lanza, had previously shot his
mother to death at their nearby home. He committed suicide at
the school.  Freedom Group, which made the semi-automatic rifle used in
the shooting, posted a loss in the year through Sept. 30, as
well as in 2011 and 2010.  Peter Duda , a spokesman for Cerberus at  Weber Shandwick , a
public relations firm, did not respond to an e-mailed request
for comment.  The firm said in a December statement that the sale
“allows us to meet our obligations to the investors whose
interests we are entrusted to protect without being drawn into
the national debate” on gun control.  Taurus, the world’s second-largest gunmaker by revenue, has
gained 66 percent in the past year, outpacing a 2.4 percent
increase for Brazil’s benchmark Bovespa index.  Smith & Wesson (SWHC) 
Holding Corp., the largest gunmaker by revenue, rose 92 percent,
while No. 3 maker Sturm Ruger & Co. advanced 33 percent.  In  Sao Paulo  today, Taurus was unchanged at 2.72 reais at
1:11 p.m.  U.S. Firearms  Taurus, based in  Porto Alegre , Brazil, trades at discounts
of  35 percent  and  41 percent  to Smith & Wesson and Sturm Ruger,
respectively.  With 270 million legal weapons in circulation in the U.S.,
the acquisition opportunity would be lucrative, Piagentini said.
The U.S. generated 55 percent of Taurus’s net income of 505
million reais ($248 million) in the first nine months of last
year.  “On the consumer market size, it’s almost the size of all
the markets of the world combined,” said  Rommel Dionisio , an
analyst at Wedbush Morgan Securities in  New York .  Instant background checks for U.S. gun sales surged 24
percent in November, when Obama was re-elected, from the
previous month amid speculation he may seek harsher
restrictions.  The number of checks, used as a gauge of gun purchases, was
39 percent higher in December than the previous month and about
50 percent higher than a year earlier, according to  data from
the U.S. Federal Bureau of Investigation.   Taurus Sales  Sales at Madison, North Carolina-based Freedom in the first
nine months of 2012 rose 20 percent to $677.3 million.  Forjas Taurus posted about $265 million in revenue in the
same period. It has six factories in  Brazil  as well as one in
Miami and currently controls 19 percent of the U.S. market,
Piagentini said. Dionisio places the company among the top 10
handgun manufacturers worldwide.  Taurus, which has a market value of 387.9 million reais
($190 million), is more likely to bid for a piece of Freedom
Group or find a partner to help with the purchase because the
target company is significantly larger in terms of revenue,
Piagentini said.  ‘Motivated Sellers’  “Remington is a larger company than Taurus is but
certainly they are motivated sellers,” Dionisio said.  Cerberus expected to sell at a discount because it couldn’t
wait on the best deal with U.S. lawmakers debating  gun control ,
a person familiar with the firm said when the decision was
announced in December.  A Forjas Taurus spokesman, Vander Correa, declined to
comment.  Freedom Group may fetch $745.7 million to $1.13 billion in
a sale, based on the ratios of enterprise value to Ebitda, or
earnings before interest, taxes depreciation and amortization,
of publicly traded competitors such as Smith & Wesson and  Sturm
Ruger (RGR) , data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Cerberus announced its plans to sell Freedom Group in
December, hours after California Treasurer Bill Lockyer said he
would propose that the state’s public pension funds, the two
largest in the U.S., divest investments in firearm manufacturers
that make guns prohibited under state law.  Tobacco and Oil  Like tobacco and oil companies, Freedom Group won’t have a
hard time finding buyers, said  Charles Elson , director at the
University of  Delaware ’s John L. Weinberg Center for  Corporate
Governance .  “The classic nature of investing is finding something out
of favor and buying it,” Elson said in a telephone interview
from a Philadelphia airport. “It’s risky, but it pays off.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christiana Sciaudone in Sao Paulo at 
 csciaudone@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jessica Brice at   jbrice1@bloomberg.net ;
Ed Dufner at   edufner@bloomberg.net  