-- Iamgold Sees ‘Peak Gold’ Forging $2,500 Price
-- B y   L i e z e l   H i l l
-- 2013-01-17T21:15:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-17/iamgold-sees-peak-gold-forging-2-500-price.html
Iamgold Corp. (IMG) , the gold producer
with mines in  Canada  and  Mali , says the metal will rise to a
record $2,500 an ounce as global output peaks and ore grades
decline.  The industry has exploited its best-quality  gold reserves 
and is being forced to tap lower-grade and higher-cost deposits,
Iamgold Chief Executive Officer Steve Letwin said.  “I really think now we are at Peak Gold,” Letwin, 57,
said in a Jan. 10 interview at his company’s Toronto
headquarters. “Nobody has seen the kind of production profiles
they thought they were going to see.”  Iamgold can prosper in such an environment because it has
available cash, low debt and experience running mines where ore
is less rich, Letwin said. “There will be a transformation here
and our job is to stay lean and mean, keep our balance sheet
strong and stay alive to see the benefits,” he said.  Global gold production in the first nine months of 2012
fell 1 percent from a year earlier to 61.5 million ounces,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The average ore grade
of reserves at 12 large producers including Iamgold fell 51
percent to 0.028 ounce per ton in 2011 from a decade earlier,
the data show.  “One of two things has to happen” for gold miners, Letwin
said. “Either we stop as an industry pursuing it because the
costs keep rising at a faster rate than the price, or the price
of gold has to go up to reflect the cost inflation.”  Low Grades  Declining ore quality and rising mine-development costs
have sent gold-production costs soaring and curbed
profitability. That’s also forced miners to explore and work in
more remote or politically unstable parts of the globe.  Among its global assets, Iamgold owns stakes in two mines
in Mali, where insurgents have seized control of the north.
French troops intervened in the West African nation on Jan. 11
to reverse an advance by the rebels, and European and U.S.
policy makers have expressed concern north Mali may become an
Islamist militant base that would destabilize regional states
from  Nigeria  to  Algeria .  Letwin said his preference is to stay in Mali, and he would
consider buying out the 41 percent of the Sadiola mine
controlled by Johannesburg-based  AngloGold Ashanti Ltd. (ANG) , which
is the mine’s operator. Iamgold also owns 41 percent of Sadiola,
which is 510 kilometers (317 miles) northwest of the capital,
Bamako.  ‘Not Afraid’  “My preference would be to buy it, I’m not afraid of Mali,
even with everything that’s going on there,” Letwin said in the
interview last week. “If the price was right we would look hard
at increasing our interest in Sadiola.”  Alan Fine , an AngloGold spokesman, said he wasn’t able to
immediately comment on Letwin’s statements when reached today by
phone.  Globally, the gold-mining industry has been beset by rising
costs and budget overruns in the past year at companies
including  Barrick Gold Corp. (ABX) , the world’s biggest.  The industry has fallen out of favor with investors.
Iamgold, the sixth-largest producer in Canada, dropped 35
percent in the 12 months through yesterday in  New York , the
fifth-worst performer on the 30-company Philadelphia Stock
Exchange Gold & Silver  Index. (XAU)  The index declined 10 percent in
the five years through yesterday while gold gained 91 percent.  Gold for delivery in February rose 0.5 percent to settle at
$1,690.80 an ounce today in New York. The metal has advanced for
12 consecutive years and traded at a record $1,923.70 in
September 2011.  $2,500 Gold  “I really do believe, unless the demand for gold drops,
you are going to have to see $2,500,” said Letwin, who spent
more than a decade at  Enbridge Inc. (ENB) , Canada’s biggest oil
pipeline operator, before joining Iamgold in 2010. He said he
couldn’t give a timeframe for the rise to $2,500.  Gold production has failed to respond to surging prices and
demand, said Kenneth Hoffman, a Bloomberg Industries analyst in
Skillman,  New Jersey .  “The reason that there is no supply response is that there
is just not the metal out there to find,” Hoffman said.
“Finding good, high-quality  gold mines  that can put out a
significant amount of product is almost impossible.”  The notion of Peak Gold output echoes the Peak Oil theory,
which holds the earth is running out of crude and production
will stop rising before declining. Most gold is used as a store
of wealth and very little is used in electronics and other
industrial applications, said Phil Streible, a commodity broker
at R.J. O’Brien & Associates in  Chicago .  ‘Critical Strength’  “Peak Gold can be misleading as, unlike oil, gold is not
consumed and the amount of gold above the earth increases every
year,” he said yesterday in a telephone interview.  The largest gold miners “need to replace production, and
as much as they find it vulgar they are going to have to go to
lower-grade,” Letwin said.  Iamgold had $896.8 million in  cash  and cash equivalents as
of Sept. 30, the sixth-highest total of any gold producer bigger
than $1 billion, and long-term debt of $638.3 million, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. The average of the 50 biggest
gold miners was net debt of $500 million, according to the
latest filings.  “The thing with Iamgold is their balance sheet is their
critical strength, one, and two, they have an inhouse build
team,” Paolo Lostritto, an analyst at  National Bank of Canada (NA) 
in Toronto, said by phone yesterday. “I don’t think that’s
widely appreciated.” Lostritto rates Iamgold outperform, the
equivalent of buy, and has a C$19 price target.  Iamgold  fell  0.8 percent to C$10.73 at the close in
Toronto.  ‘Poor’ Performance  The shares dropped 19 percent on Nov. 14, the most since
Iamgold started trading in 1996, after third-quarter output
missed estimates and the company cut its 2013 forecast.
Production will be lower this year because of “poor”
performance at Sadiola, and a slow start at the company’s new
Westwood mine in  Quebec , Iamgold said at the time.  “The delay in the production caused us to get a hit out
there and we are making good progress in trying to recover from
that,” Letwin said.  The company, which is also expanding its Essakane mine in
 Burkina Faso  and considering growth options at Rosebel in
 Suriname , expects to declare commercial production at Westwood
at the end of March. Iamgold also owns a niobium mine in Quebec,
where it’s seeking a partner to help fund an expansion to boost
output of the rare metal used in high-strength alloys.  Growth Potential  Iamgold bought Trelawney Mining and Exploration Inc. last
year for about C$585 million ($594 million) to add a project in
northern Ontario. While the Cote Lake mine will be a lower-grade
operation, it will still generate “attractive” returns at
$1,500 an ounce gold, Letwin said. Construction at the mine is
scheduled to start in 2015, he said.  While Iamgold’s balance sheet is “a positive,” one reason
the company doesn’t have a lot of debt is that it’s not building
any new mines until it starts work on Cote Lake, which limits
its output growth potential until then, Michael Scoon, a
Toronto-based analyst at Stifel Financial Corp, said by phone
yesterday.  Iamgold has “set the stage for a reasonable 2013,” Scoon
said. “We’re hoping for a year here where they do deliver on
their quarterly production and financial results and in the
context of strong  gold prices  we think the company should do
quite well.”  Gold equities will probably struggle to rise unless gold
prices increase above $1,850, which could result in a “defined
and material” move upward by the stocks, Letwin said.  “The market is going to be in a tough place for a while,”
Letwin said. “If we trade in this zone of $1,600 to $1,800, I
think the equities are going to be pretty limp for the rest of
the year.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Liezel Hill in Toronto at 
 lhill30@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net ;
Steven Frank at 
 sfrank9@bloomberg.net ;
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  