-- Libya Is Messy. So Was Eastern Europe in 1991.
-- B y   A l i   T a r h o u n i
-- 2013-01-17T23:30:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-17/libya-is-messy-so-was-eastern-europe-in-1991-.html
Two years ago, I was the son of a
broken nation. For almost 40 years, I fought to bring freedom
and basic  human rights  to Libya, only to see the regime of
Muammar Qaddafi gain acceptance into the international community
as the oppression continued. I despaired of ever seeing my
country free.  Fast-forward less than a year, and I found myself racing
down a desert road to Tripoli with a coroner’s report on my lap.
As deputy prime minister of the newly liberated Libya, I was
returning to the capital with confirmation that Qaddafi was  dead 
and Libya’s 42-year nightmare was over.  Our  path  from a brutal autocratic regime to a fledgling
democracy has been swift, but we have a long road ahead of us
and many people outside Libya do not acknowledge or appreciate
just how difficult our challenges are.  It has been just two years since the emergence of the Arab
Spring and the start of Libya’s Feb. 17, 2011, uprising. Too
many in the U.S. and  Europe  have rushed to judge the ultimate
outcome of these revolutions. Grandiose statements that the Arab
Spring has either failed or succeeded are premature and
unhelpful.  Berlin Wall  Before passing judgment on the region, look at the ex-
communist states of central and eastern Europe and their
progress toward post-Soviet democracies. Where were they two
years after the  Berlin Wall fell ? They were at war in
 Yugoslavia , still struggling to overthrow the regime in the
 Soviet Union , and in various states of economic free fall in the
former Warsaw Pact countries. Despite the close ties that many
of these nations enjoyed with western Europe, some of their
economies and governments remain in flux to this day. More than
20 years on, the question of whether that “Eastern Spring” was
an unalloyed success remains unanswered.  There are vital things that our friends in the U.S. and
Europe can provide to help speed us along our path to democracy
and prosperity in Libya. First among them is the understanding
that there will be no overnight solutions.  Libya’s revolution is distinct from those in  Tunisia  and
Egypt in important ways. First, our release from dictatorship
required a protracted and bloody war. Second, in both Tunisia
and  Egypt , the Arab Spring deposed the heads of state, but left
the basic institutions of government intact. In Libya, that
vital state apparatus barely existed under Qaddafi’s regime. For
that reason, the new Libya has far fewer pieces to work with in
building an effective governing structure. Lastly, in both Egypt
and Tunisia, a powerful, patriotic, national army remained to
protect the sovereignty of the state.  Today, Libya still lacks an effective central government,
as well as a strong national army and an internal-security force
to protect its borders and cities. Moreover, the revolution has
left a civilian population that is armed to the teeth and very
reluctant to relinquish its  weapons .  Despite all this, what should surprise and encourage
observers is that most of Libya remains relatively safe for
people to go about their daily lives. Almost all of Libya’s 6.4
million residents are Arabs and  Sunni Muslims . This small,
homogenous population, coupled with Libya’s strong social ties
(largely due to the positive impact of Libya’s tribal
structure), virtually eliminates the possibility of Libya
descending into sectarian conflict.  As a sign of progress, 80 percent of eligible voters stood
in line last year to vote for their local governments and the
national assembly in Tripoli for the first time in more than 40
years.  On Aug. 8 , with tears of joy in my eyes, I had a front-
row seat to witness the peaceful transfer of power from the
National Transitional Council to the newly elected national
assembly, a first for Libya.  Tragic Death  The process of building a politically stable and
economically prosperous  Libya  will be long. Many from outside
Libya have already contributed greatly to our nascent state.
Chief among them was my dear friend Christopher Stevens, the
U.S. ambassador, who worked tirelessly for the cause of a free
and democratic Libya until his  tragic death  in Benghazi last
year.  Chris knew that Libya’s future is one of almost limitless
potential that cannot be fulfilled in a day. Not only does Libya
have vast oil and gas reserves, it also sits on enormous,
untapped deposits of mineral wealth and enjoys one of the
longest, most pristine coastlines on the  Mediterranean Sea . Its
strategic geographical position means that it is uniquely poised
to be an important link between Europe and  Africa .  Capitalizing on these immense resources to grow and
diversify the  Libyan economy  will allow the nation to become a
powerful force for stability and prosperity in North Africa.
Already, the Libyan economy supports 2 million Egyptian workers,
and harnessing new sources of income will enable our economy to
look westward to  Tunisia  and the reservoir of unemployed skilled
labor that it possesses.  But first things first. Achieving security and political
stability is paramount if Libya is to fulfill its economic
potential. On both of these fronts, the U.S and Europe can help
by providing access to their rich experience and technical
skills. To secure Libya, we need to create effective internal
security and border-patrol capabilities as quickly as possible.
Building these forces from scratch would take too much time,
prolonging the residual violence in Libya.  On the political front, Libya is also starting from
scratch. Stable, inclusive democracy is not possible without
robust civil and political institutions that allow all Libyans
to have a voice in the future of their country. Due to Qaddafi’s
ban on any form of political or civic organization, we have
little experience creating -- let alone participating in --these
institutions. Again, the expertise that established democracies
have can spur Libya along the path to a stable and free society.  Libya’s Search  There is a verse in the  Koran  that beautifully captures the
challenges facing Libya today: “Feed them when they are hungry,
and protect them from fear.” At its most basic, this is what
Libya is searching for: peace, security and prosperity.  Libya’s quest is no different from those of its Arab Spring
neighbors or the rest of humanity. We all seek the promise of
safety and food on the table. With hard work, good intentions
and help from our friends, we can realize that promise. The
Libyan people paid a heavy price for their freedom and now hope
to create a stable state that accepts, and contributes to, the
global community at large. That, surely, is a goal worth the
patience of our friends.  (Ali Tarhouni was minister for oil and finance in Libya’s
National Transitional Council and later deputy prime minister
and interim prime minister. The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Ali Tarhouni at  altarhouni@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Marc Champion at   mchampion7@bloomberg.net . 