-- Tim Rallies on Authorization to Resume Infinity Day Calling Plan
-- B y   D e n y s e   G o d o y
-- 2013-01-17T19:18:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-17/tim-rallies-on-authorization-to-resume-infinity-day-calling-plan.html
Tim Participacoes SA (TIMP3) , Brazil’s
second-biggest mobile operator by market share, headed for a
five-month high after regulators cleared a sales promotion that
was suspended last year on concern over service quality.  The Brazilian unit of  Telecom Italia SpA (TIT)  gained 2.9 percent
to 8.54 reais at 5:12 p.m. in  Sao Paulo . A close at that level
would be the highest since Aug. 17. The benchmark Bovespa index
rose 0.6 percent.  Anatel, the telecommunications regulator, authorized Tim to
resume its Infinity Day plan, which offers unlimited calls at a
fixed price between telephones operated by the carrier,
according to a statement in Brazil’s official gazette today.
While the operator’s network still needs improvement, there is
no risk to service delivery, Anatel said.  The decision is “a relief for Tim and should help the
company to improve results this year,” Sandro Fernandes, a
trader at Belo Horizonte-based brokerage Corval, said in a phone
interview. “Investors are still a little cautious because the
regulator can apply another sanction to the carrier if it
understands quality hasn’t advanced.”  Brazilian regulators have increased pressure on
telecommunications providers to improve service and drive down
costs in the world’s second-largest emerging market. Anatel
suspended the Infinity Day promotion in November.  In July, Anatel banned Tim,  Oi SA (OIBR4)  and America Movil SAB,
owner of Claro, from selling new mobile voice and data service
because of network failures. The three companies later resumed
sales after promising to reduce dropped calls and improve
 customer service .  Tim shares declined 11 percent in 2012 while the Bovespa
gained 7.4 percent during the same period.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Denyse Godoy in Sao Paulo at 
 dgodoy2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  