-- IMF Approves 839 Million-Euro Disbursement to Portugal
-- B y   J o a o   L i m a   a n d   S a n d r i n e   R a s t e l l o
-- 2013-01-17T00:16:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-17/imf-approves-839-million-euro-disbursement-to-portugal-1-.html
The  International Monetary Fund 
agreed to disburse 839 million euros ($1.1 billion) to  Portugal 
under a loan with the European Union and said the country needs
a public debate on ways to further reduce its deficit.  “Considerable progress has already been made in fiscal and
external adjustment, and sovereign spreads have narrowed
significantly, which bodes well for the authorities’ strategy of
regaining  market access ,” IMF Deputy Managing Director Nemat Shafik said today in an e-mailed statement. “Nonetheless, the
near-term outlook is uncertain, and sizable medium-term economic
challenges remain.”  Prime Minister  Pedro Passos Coelho  is battling rising
joblessness and a deepening recession as he raises taxes to meet
the terms of a 78 billion-euro international bailout. Portugal
has already been given more time to narrow its deficit after  tax
revenue  missed forecasts and the economy heads for a third year
of contraction in 2013.  Portugal’s borrowing costs fell today as the government
sold a combined 2.5 billion euros of three-, 12- and 18-month
bills in its first auction of 2013.  While the fiscal targets are appropriate if growth doesn’t
falter, the fund recommended a debate ‘on how to best share the
burden of the remaining sizable fiscal adjustment” amid “an
already high tax burden.” It also recommended a broader tax
base.  Enormous Increase  Portuguese Finance Minister Vitor Gaspar on Oct. 3 said the
government will implement an “enormous” increase in taxes on
wages and other income to meet budget deficit targets in 2013.
The government also plans to cut spending by about 4 billion
euros in the two years through 2014.  The  Portuguese government  is studying proposals presented
in an IMF report about spending, Carlos Moedas, secretary of
state to the prime minister, said on Jan. 9.  “In addition to domestic efforts, success will depend
critically on continued external support and successful crisis
policies at the euro area level,” Shafik said. “Support from
the Eurosystem is important to contain credit market
segmentation and improve monetary policy transmission.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joao Lima in Lisbon at 
 jlima1@bloomberg.net 
Sandrine Rastello in Washington at 
 srastello@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Foxwell at 
 sfoxwell@bloomberg.net 
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  