-- IMF’s Lagarde Says ECB May Need Further Monetary Easing
-- B y   S a n d r i n e   R a s t e l l o
-- 2013-01-17T18:45:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-17/imf-s-lagarde-says-ecb-may-need-further-monetary-easing.html
The European Central Bank may need
to cut interest rates further to support growth in the 17-
country euro region, which is making progress in taming its debt
crisis, International Monetary Fund Managing Director Christine Lagarde said.  “We think that a lot has been achieved,” Lagarde said at
a press conference in  Washington  today. “Yet firewalls have not
yet proven operational, progress needs to be made on banking
union and, clearly, continued if not further monetary easing
will be appropriate in order to sustain demand.”  ECB President Mario Draghi last week indicated that the
region was shifting from a financial crisis to an economic-
growth crisis as bond yields from  Greece  to Spain recede from
euro-era highs. The central bank kept its benchmark interest
rate at 0.75 percent in a unanimous decision a month after calls
for a cut from some of its Governing Council.  “We stopped the collapse, we should avoid the relapse and
it’s not time to relax,” Lagarde said of challenges for the new
year. “Removing uncertainty plays a key role in rejuvenating
confidence.”  That includes action in the U.S., where Democrats and
Republicans need to work together in the national interest to
reach an agreement on raising the debt ceiling, as well as on a
plan to reduce debt in the medium term, Lagarde said.  Cyprus Talks  The IMF, which is co-financing bailouts in the euro area
with European nations, is continuing talks over a loan to
Cyprus, Lagarde said. President Demetris Christofias said this
week the delay is due to the government’s differences with the
IMF over Cypriot banks’ capital needs.  “The building blocks of a program have been put
together,” Lagarde said. “It has not yet been concluded
because there are clearly financing issues that need to be
resolved in order for a program to be accepted and for debt to
be sustainable.”  Lagarde, a former French finance minister who took the IMF
helm in July 2011, said competitive currency devaluations are
against the principles of the IMF.  Russia warned yesterday that the world is on the brink of a
fresh currency war as European policy makers joined  Japan  in
bemoaning the impact of rising exchange rates. European
officials from  Luxembourg  to  Norway  have also complained about
the value of their currency.  “I don’t like any war,” Lagarde said. “There are
multiple ways to improve competitiveness other than to use
currency as a tool.”  Japan Package  Japan’s 10.3 trillion yen ($115 billion) stimulus package
is not appropriate if it doesn’t come with a plan to reduce debt
in the medium term, she said.  An inflation target that the  Bank of Japan (8301)  is expected to
adopt is a “good and interesting project” if it is
“associated with clear independence of the central bank,” she
said.  Lagarde also said the IMF board is scheduled to meet Feb. 1
to discuss whether to censure  Argentina  for not sharing accurate
data about inflation and economic growth. Censure has never been
declared and is part of a lengthy procedure that can end in
expulsion from the IMF.  Separately, the IMF is preparing an assessment of the
country’s financial sector, she said. That does not include an
annual assessment of its economic policies, which the country
has refused to do for several years.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sandrine Rastello in Los Cabos at 
 srastello@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  