-- India’s Narendra Modi and the Tale of Two Rapes
-- B y   S h i k h a   D a l m i a
-- 2013-01-17T15:42:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-17/india-s-narendra-modi-and-the-tale-of-two-rapes.html
(Corrects title of chief minister in first paragraph.)  One of the most obscene moments
after the death of the gang-rape victim in  New Delhi  was a tweet
by  Narendra Modi , the chief minister of the Indian state of
Gujarat, offering regret and condolences to the dead woman’s
family.  Modi, who has quelled restive minorities by allowing
attackers to subject women to unspeakable horrors, has done more
than any man to numb his prudish country to sexual violence. Yet
he was elected to a third term last month and is the presumptive
front-runner of the  Bharatiya Janata  Party, the main Hindu
opposition party, for prime minister in next year’s national
elections.  So long as Indians keep rewarding politicos such as Modi,
the country’s collective outrage after the New Delhi case won’t
change the  culture  that makes such atrocities common in  India .  The attack on the 23-year-old physiotherapy student was
 depraved . Five men and a teenager in a private bus are accused
of kidnapping, beating, raping and violating her with an iron
rod -- and then dumping her and her semi-conscious boyfriend on
a highway, where they also allegedly tried to run her over. But
as monstrous as this crime was, consider what happened in
Gujarat in February 2002, a few months after Modi assumed
office.  Organized bands of well-armed Hindus -- some from groups
tied to Modi’s party -- fanned across the state seeking revenge
against Muslims for allegedly burning a train full of Hindu
pilgrims a few weeks earlier. The Hindu rioters systematically
 sought out  and destroyed Muslim homes and businesses, killing
more than 1,000 people.  Extreme Violence  Muslim women were singled out. According to many Indian and
foreign sources, including a Human Rights Watch account and a
 report  by an international research team called “Threatened
Existence: A Feminist Analysis of the Genocide in Gujarat,”
women were stripped, gang-raped, often publicly, and in almost
all cases then burned or hacked to death.  The reason the violence reached such extremes was that the
state police stood back and didn’t intervene to stop the Hindu
attacks and even told victims that it couldn’t protect them. As
if the bloodletting wasn’t horrific enough, Modi subsequently
 dismantled  the shelters constructed by private organizations for
dispossessed Muslims, calling them “child-breeding centers.”  Compared with the New Delhi rape, which has triggered a
protest movement in India calling for the castration and
execution of the suspects, the Gujarat rapes and pogrom elicited
barely a whimper. Many Hindus either deny that the horror even
occurred or, if they accept it, claim it wasn’t as grisly as
news accounts suggest. And if they believe the accounts, they
say Muslims had it coming. Fewer than 100 out of the thousands
accused -- among them only one state minister and one  Bharatiya
Janata Party  leader -- were convicted, and that was a decade
later. Modi himself was  exonerated .  Whatever public disgust there was against him has
dissipated, given the stellar economic growth that Gujarat has
seen on his watch. Business leaders and corporations, from India
and overseas, turn a blind eye to Modi’s role in allowing the
bloodshed, and praise his economic stewardship. His business
backers have already  managed  to get the U.K. government to
reverse its long-standing ban on him and to give him a visa. Now
they are trying to persuade the U.S. government to follow suit.  What accounts for the wide gulf in the Indian public
response to the single crime in New Delhi and the mass crimes in
Gujarat?  On a positive side, attitudes toward women have  evolved 
considerably since the Gujarat atrocity 11 years ago. Indian
women’s aspirations and opportunities have increased, especially
in big cities, and they are demanding that the governing classes
keep pace and create an environment in which they are free to
move around safely.  Changed Attitudes  After the New Delhi attack, any politician or even
religious guru -- no matter how revered -- who suggested that
women need to circumscribe their lives and choices for their own
protection was condemned and lampooned, something scarcely
imaginable when I was growing up in New Delhi (in a Hindu
household) in the 1970s.  But the darker reality is that the young woman’s rape and
murder outraged the country’s Hindu urban middle class because
it was a random and senseless act that could have just as easily
victimized their daughters. Not so with attacks on the Muslim
women in Gujarat. The premeditated and programmatic violence
against them meant that the broader Hindu majority was insulated
from it. If the New Delhi woman’s fate made every Indian feel
 more vulnerable , the attack on the Muslim women made Hindus feel
more secure.  There are other reasons for India’s apathy toward Modi’s
misdeeds. India is a democracy and has its share of human-rights
activists and watchdog groups keeping an eye on government
brutality. Yet the public at large has little appreciation of
the dangers associated with overly muscular government. Indians
complain constantly about government dysfunction and corruption.
Yet they have little compunction about giving draconian powers
to their rulers in the name of security. The upshot, tragically,
is that Indians care less about state-fueled rape than when
perpetrated by individuals.  The scale of the sexual violence in Gujarat was
unprecedented in India. But smaller episodes are a matter of
routine. The Indian army has been  accused  of using  rape  as a
weapon to crush secessionist movements in Kashmir and Manipur.
After one particularly heinous case eight years ago, Manipuri
women stripped naked and stormed the army headquarters with
placards plaintively protesting: “Indian Army Rapes Us.”  Tolerating sexual violence for any purpose erodes the
overall stigma against it, opening a moral space where hoodlums
can run amok. The lack of national outrage against the mass
rapes perpetrated under Modi reduces their true cruelty,
breaking down the psychological walls that would at least
prevent nonsociopaths from going on a rampage. Hindus who turn a
blind eye to the rape of Muslim women can’t ultimately protect
their own.  How India can restore moral boundaries is a difficult
issue, but it certainly won’t be solved by electing Modi to
higher office -- even if he were  Adam Smith  himself. Protesters
shouldn’t just seek justice against the six accused in New
Delhi. Modi, too, has much to atone.  (Shikha Dalmia is a contributor to Bloomberg View and a
Detroit-based senior analyst at Reason Foundation. The opinions
expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Shikha Dalmia in Detroit at  shikhadalmia62@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Katy Roberts at   kroberts29@bloomberg.net . 