-- India’s Ruling Congress Debates Policy Ahead of Key Poll Period
-- B y   B i b h u d a t t a   P r a d h a n
-- 2013-01-17T05:57:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-17/india-s-ruling-congress-debates-policy-ahead-of-key-poll-period.html
India ’s ruling  Congress  party
tomorrow begins a three-day meeting to agree policy priorities
less than 15 months before a general election and with the
government seeking to recover from a stalling economy, cabinet-
level corruption and street protests.  The conclave in Jaipur will review the political and
economic challenges the party faces, Janardan Dwivedi, a
spokesman for Congress, told reporters yesterday. Party
President Sonia Gandhi, her son Rahul, and Prime Minister
Manmohan Singh will be among 350 party leaders who’ll lead
discussions. About 1,000 delegates will endorse a policy
platform Jan. 20.  It will be the first such session since Congress came to
power in 2004 and the third after Gandhi took charge of the
party in 1998. A similar summit in 2003 endorsed a decision to
fight the following year’s election at the head of a pre-
arranged coalition, paving the way for Singh’s two terms.  “This is significant as a section of Congress leaders are
advocating to advance the poll to take place toward the end of
this year along with some state elections,” said Satish Misra,
a political analyst at the Observer Research Foundation in New
Delhi. “The party is in election mood.” The government’s term
expires in May next year.  Congress will also further project 42-year-old Rahul Gandhi
as its future leader, after announcing he will lead campaigning
for the federal election and nine provincial assembly polls
scheduled to take place before then.  Taking on partners in the 10-member governing coalition and
opponents within his party, Singh revived stalled policy
overhauls in September to stem a slowdown in expansion, steps
that helped send stocks to a two-year high this week on bets
that a recovery has begun. The push ended almost two years of
legislative paralysis.  Current Account  While inflation eased to a three-year low of 7.18 percent
in December, it remains the fastest among the biggest  emerging
markets . A record current-account gap is threatening to damp the
rupee, adding to price pressures.  Singh, 80, has opened industries including retail and
aviation to more overseas investment, set up a panel to speed up
infrastructure projects and delayed tax changes that threatened
to deter inflows. The finance ministry predicts India’s $1.8
trillion economy will expand as little as 5.7 percent in the
year to March 31.  As well as repairing Asia’s third-largest economy, Congress
also needs to win back voters angered by a corruption taint that
reached the highest levels of governance, with the arrest and
trial of former telecommunications minister  Andimuthu Raja  in a
phone-license scam. The gang rape and murder of medical student
in New Delhi last month has brought demands for a swift overhaul
of policing and the criminal justice system. Both issues
triggered public demonstrations.  There has been no major survey of probable voter
preferences since Singh’s September reform drive. A poll
published in August by Nielsen Holding NV and India Today
magazine forecast that that a grouping lead by the main
opposition Bharatiya Janata Party would win the most seats in an
election.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bibhudatta Pradhan in New Delhi at 
 bpradhan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Hari Govind at 
 hgovind@bloomberg.net ;
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  