-- India Cuts 800-MHz Airwave Price by 50% to Lure Bids at Auction
-- B y   A b h i j i t   R o y   C h o w d h u r y   a n d   K a r t i k a y   M e h r o t r a
-- 2013-01-17T09:23:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-17/india-cuts-800-mhz-airwave-price-by-50-to-lure-bids-at-auction.html
India  reduced the opening price for
its auction of 800 megahertz spectrum by half to attract bids
after the government got a weak response from wireless operators
in a November auction.  The decision was made at a cabinet meeting today, Manish Tewari, minister for information and broadcasting, told
reporters in  New Delhi .  The band, which is currently used to operate services
provided by  Tata Teleservices Maharashtra Ltd. (TTLS) , AFK Sistema and
 Reliance Communications Ltd. (RCOM) , will be auctioned in March. The
cut falls short of operators’ expectations, Ashok Sud, secretary
general of the Association of Unified Telecom Service Providers
of India, told Bloomberg TV India.  “Our members had been hoping for a 75 percent cut from the
last reserve price, then there may have been some significant
interest from these players,” Sud said. “But to say members
will not at all be interested is too sweeping a statement.”  India is preparing to sell airwaves leftover from its two-
day sale in November to meet Finance Minister Palaniappan Chidambaram’s target of raising 400 billion rupees ($7.3
billion) he needs to cut India’s budget deficit. The government
this month approved a 30 percent reduction in the minimum prices
for the 1800 MHz spectrum which operators did not buy in the
nation’s biggest mobile regions,  Kapil Sibal , minister of
telecommunications, said Jan. 7.  Tata Teleservices surged as much as 6.1 percent after the
announcement, and traded up 2.9 percent to 12.71 rupees as of
2:47 p.m. in Mumbai. Billionaire Anil Ambani’s Reliance
Communications gained as much as 4.3 percent, and traded up 2.7
percent at 83.10 rupees.  Tata Teleservices, Sistema and Reliance Communications use
the 800 MHz spectrum to offer services based on code division
multiple access technology.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Abhijit Roy Chowdhury in New Delhi at 
 achowdhury11@bloomberg.net ;
Kartikay Mehrotra in New Delhi at 
 kmehrotra2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  