-- Indian Bonds Gain as Diesel Policy Change to Help Cut Deficit
-- B y   V .   R a m a k r i s h n a n
-- 2013-01-17T12:11:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-17/india-swap-rates-at-2-week-high-as-rate-cut-speculation-tempered.html
India ’s bonds advanced for the first
time in three days on optimism a government move to allow
refiners to increase diesel prices will help reduce fuel
subsidies and improve public finances.  The yield on the benchmark 10-year debt approached a 30-
month low as Oil Secretary G.C. Chaturvedi said in New Delhi oil
companies have been permitted to adjust prices of diesel over a
period of time. Finance Minister Palaniappan Chidambaram is
seeking to cut spending on subsidies as part of a plan to narrow
the budget  deficit  to 5.3 percent of gross domestic product and
avert a sovereign rating downgrade.  “The government’s move is good for its finances,
especially as market expectations were for a loose fiscal policy
ahead of the election year,” said  Rohit Arora , a fixed-income
strategist at Barclays Plc in  Singapore . “Such news coming
ahead of the budget should allay such market fears and should be
positive for bonds.”  The yield on the 8.15 percent bonds due June 2022 fell four
basis points, or 0.04 percentage point, to 7.84 percent in
Mumbai, according to the central bank’s trading system. The rate
touched 7.80 percent on Jan. 14, the lowest level for a
benchmark 10-year security since July 2010.  Rate Cut  The budget for India’s April-March fiscal year is usually
announced at the end of February. Indian refiners are losing 9.6
rupees (18 cents) on each liter of diesel they sell, according
to oil ministry data.  The yield on the 10-year note has dropped 21 basis points
this year after the government deferred a debt sale scheduled
for this month to February and as inflation eased to a three-
year low, spurring speculation of an interest-rate cut.  The benchmark wholesale-price  index  rose 7.18 percent in
December from a year earlier, the commerce ministry said this
week.  The  Reserve Bank  of India, which last lowered the
repurchase  rate  by 50 basis points to 8 percent in April, will
again reduce the rate by 25 basis points to 7.75 percent at the
Jan. 29 review, 13 of 16 analysts predicted in a Bloomberg
survey this week, while the rest expect a reduction to 7.5
percent.  The one-year swap, a derivative contract used to guard
against fluctuations in funding costs, was at 7.57 percent in
Mumbai, data compiled by Bloomberg show. It was at 7.5750
percent yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
V. Ramakrishnan in Mumbai at 
 rvenkatarama@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  