-- India Partially Frees Diesel Prices to Curb Widest BRIC Deficit
-- B y   U n n i   K r i s h n a n   a n d   R a k t e e m   K a t a k e y
-- 2013-01-17T18:31:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-17/india-partially-frees-diesel-prices-to-curb-widest-bric-deficit.html
India  allowed state oil companies to
raise diesel prices, stepping up efforts to curb fuel subsidies
and tackle the widest budget gap in the largest  emerging markets .
Oil company shares surged and government bond yields fell.  The Cabinet allowed refiners to “increase prices in small
amounts over a period of time,” Oil Secretary G.C. Chaturvedi,
the senior-most bureaucrat in the Ministry of Petroleum and
 Natural Gas , told reporters in New Delhi yesterday. Diesel
tariffs haven’t been completely deregulated, he also said.  “It’s positive for the fiscal deficit,” said Prasanna Ananthasubramanian, an economist at ICICI Securities Primary
Dealership Ltd. in Mumbai. “It will bring more credibility to
the deficit target, even if they increase on a small but
periodic basis.”  The decision adds to an economic-policy overhaul since mid-
September that aims to stem a slowdown in economic growth, avert
a  credit-rating  downgrade and spur investment. Finance Minister
Palaniappan Chidambaram, who presents the budget next month, has
pledged to contain the fiscal deficit at 5.3 percent of gross
domestic product in the year through March 2013.  Indian Oil (IOCL)  Corp. climbed 6.4 percent to 315.90 rupees at
the close in Mumbai, its highest level since October 2011.
Bharat Petroleum Corp. gained 3.7 percent to 396.15 rupees.
Hindustan Petroleum Corp. rose 5.4 percent to 343.90 rupees. The
benchmark BSE India Sensitive Index advanced 0.7 percent.  The yield on the 8.15 percent bonds due June 2022 fell four
basis points, or 0.04 percentage point, to 7.84 percent in
Mumbai, according to the central bank’s trading system. The rate
touched 7.80 percent on Jan. 14, the lowest level for a
benchmark 10-year security since July 2010. India’s rupee
climbed 0.6 percent to 54.39 per dollar.  Inflation Risk  The government didn’t give a timeframe for any price rises.  The move to allow higher tariffs “will be inflationary,
which can’t be avoided,” said Ananthasubramanian, adding
“suppressed inflation” is being brought to the surface.  Inflation, as measured by the wholesale-price index, eased
to a three-year low of 7.18 percent in December while remaining
the fastest in the so-called BRIC group, which also includes
Brazil, Russia and  China . India has the widest BRIC budget gap.  The refiners sell diesel, cooking gas and kerosene at fixed
prices. They are partly compensated by cash payments from the
government and discounts on crude oil by state explorers.
Gasoline is deregulated.  Subsidy Bill  India plans to trim its subsidy bill for food, fuel and
fertilizer to 1.9 trillion rupees ($34.9 billion), or 2 percent
of gross domestic product, this financial year. The state
refiners  lost  738.2 billion rupees from selling diesel below
cost in the nine months ended Dec. 31.  “The quantum of increase is very important because a very
small increase in diesel really will have limited relevance,”
said Shubhada Rao, Mumbai-based chief economist at Yes Bank Ltd.
“One rupee a month will be a good frequency to look at in the
beginning.”  The  budget deficit  was 5.8 percent of GDP in 2011-2012. The
 Finance Ministry  projects  Asia ’s third-largest economy will
expand as little as 5.7 percent in the 12 months to March 31,
which would be the weakest pace in a decade.  Trade and fiscal shortfalls led Standard & Poor’s and Fitch
Ratings to warn last year that they may strip India of its
investment-grade credit rating, which could hurt the country’s
ability to lure funds.  Refiners are losing 9.6 rupees on every liter of diesel
they sell, according to Oil Ministry data. Losses on kerosene
amount to 30.64 rupees a liter and on cooking gas to 490.50
rupees per 14.2 kilogram (31 pound) bottle.  The Cabinet yesterday raised the number of subsidized
cooking-gas cylinders allowed per household to nine from six
annually, Chaturvedi said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Unni Krishnan in  New Delhi  at 
 ukrishnan2@bloomberg.net .
Rakteem Katakey in New Delhi at 
 rkatakey@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net 
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  