-- Indian Oil Gains After Being Allowed to Raise Diesel Prices
-- B y   R a k t e e m   K a t a k e y   a n d   B i b h u d a t t a   P r a d h a n
-- 2013-01-17T09:30:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-17/indian-oil-gains-after-being-allowed-to-raise-diesel-prices.html
Indian Oil Corp. (IOCL) , the nation’s
biggest refiner, was headed for its highest close in more than a
year after the government allowed it to raise diesel prices.  Indian Oil  climbed  as much as 8.5 percent to 322.20 rupees
and traded 7 percent higher as of 2:17 p.m. in Mumbai, heading
for its highest close since October 2011. Smaller rival Bharat
Petroleum Corp. gained 6.7 percent to a record 407.90 rupees,
while Hindustan Petroleum Corp., the third-biggest state
refiner, rose 9.7 percent to 357.75 rupees. The benchmark
 Sensitive Index (SENSEX)  advanced 0.6 percent.  “ Oil companies  have been authorized to raise diesel prices
in small amounts over a period of time,” Oil Secretary G.C. Chaturvedi, the senior-most bureaucrat in the ministry, told
reporters in  New Delhi  today. “It’s still not a deregulated
product.”  Finance Minister Palaniappan Chidambaram is seeking to
reduce spending on fuel subsidies as part of a plan to narrow
the  budget deficit  to a two-year low of 5.1 percent of gross
domestic product and avoid a ratings downgrade. The state
refiners  lost  738.2 billion rupees ($14 billion) from selling
diesel below cost in the nine months ended Dec. 31, making up 59
percent of the total loss on fuel sales.  “This is by far the single biggest endorsement to the
world that India is taking the difficult decisions to restore
growth,” Abhay Laijawala, the Mumbai-based managing director
and head of research at Deutsche Equities  India  Pvt. said.
“This is a big positive from the point of view of the fiscal
deficit for the next year.”  Subsidy Loss  Refiners are losing 9.6 rupees on every liter of diesel
they sell, according to oil ministry data. Losses on kerosene
amount to 30.64 rupees a liter and on cooking gas to 490.50
rupees per 14.2 kilogram (31 pound) bottle. Prices of the fuels
weren’t immediately raised by the government, Oil Minister
Veerappa Moily told reporters in New Delhi.  The cabinet also raised the number of subsidized cooking
gas cylinders allowed per household to nine from six annually,
Chaturvedi said.  Chidambaram said he’s not expecting small diesel price
increases to reduce the country’s fuel subsidy bill, Bloomberg
TV India reported today. He didn’t specify a timeframe.  Higher diesel prices can increase inflation as the fuel in
used in trucks for transportation and by farmers to run pumps.
Inflation in December rose 7.18 percent from a year earlier, the
slowest pace in three years.  “If it’s implemented, this will help the refiners slowly
wipe out the loss on diesel over time,” Alex Mathews, head of
research at  Geojit BNP Paribas Financial Services Ltd. (GBNP) , said by
phone from the south Indian city of Kochi. “The fiscal gap will
also be reduced and that’s a big positive.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rakteem Katakey in New Delhi at 
 rkatakey@bloomberg.net ;
Bibhudatta Pradhan in New Delhi at 
 bpradhan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  