-- Investors Like Brown Fiscal Gain Belying Doubled Defaults
-- B y   J a m e s   N a s h
-- 2013-01-17T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-17/investors-like-brown-fiscal-gain-belying-doubled-defaults.html
California debt, which has
outperformed the $3.7 trillion municipal market for the longest
span in six years, is set for more gains after the state logged
its first  budget surplus  in more than a decade.  Even with two cities in bankruptcy and Standard & Poor’s
lowest credit rating among U.S. states, California is drawing
investors after voters in November passed the first statewide
tax increase since 2004, said  Peter Hayes , who oversees $105
billion of munis at New York-based BlackRock Inc.  Securities of California issuers earned about 9 percent in
2012, compared with about 7 percent for all tax-exempts, S&P
data show. It was the third straight year to beat the market,
the longest streak since 2006. At the same time, the extra yield
investors demand on 10-year debt of the state and its localities
is close to a four-year low, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  “Our overall view on the state is positive, especially
given the passage of the tax increases,” Hayes said in an e-
mail. The added revenue “goes a long way to solving the
structural  budget deficit  they have dealt with the last several
years.”  $6 Billion Plug  Governor  Jerry Brown ’s proposed $97.6 billion general-fund
budget for the fiscal year beginning July 1 uses about $6
billion in revenue from sales and income-tax increases, leaving
the state with a projected $851 million surplus, he said this
month. The world’s ninth-largest economy racked up $213 billion
in combined deficits over the previous 12 years.  Fitch Ratings  last month joined S&P in saying the 74-year-
old Democrat’s tax plan may bolster the most-populous state’s
credit. Both companies grade California A-, six levels below
AAA. Excluding so-called recalibrations, neither has raised the
state since 2006.  Home to  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  and  Google Inc. (GOOG) , California had three
municipalities file for  bankruptcy protection  in 2012: Stockton,
San Bernardino and Mammoth Lakes, which exited the process in
November.  One of Brown’s budget-balancing measures was to take $1.7
billion from local redevelopment agencies in 2011 and close them
last year. The move helped force San Bernardino into bankruptcy
by sapping revenue, city Attorney James Penman said.  Double Dose  The loss of the funds also accounted for a doubling in the
number of  California  issuers added last year to the default
database of Municipal Market Advisors, said Matt Fabian,
managing director of the Concord, Massachusetts-based research
firm.  California accounted for 39 of 205 issuers added to the
database, which includes payment and covenant defaults as well
as issuers drawing on emergency support, according to a Jan. 7
report.  The trend in California defied a 15 percent drop nationally
in 2012, as local finances recovered from the recession that
ended in 2009, Fabian said in an interview. California’s numbers
reflected the loss of redevelopment funding, the report said.  With tax-free yields falling to generational lows in 2012,
investors seeking extra yield didn’t penalize California for the
defaults and bankruptcies. Investors demand about 0.7 percentage
point of extra yield on debt of California and its issuers,
close to a four-year low set in November,  data  compiled by
Bloomberg show.  Pushed Over  The localities under stress are “on the margins of the
market,” said Michael E. Johnson, managing partner in Solana
Beach, California, at Gurtin Fixed Income Management LLC, which
handles $4 billion of munis. “You had to be credit-distressed
to begin with for the loss of redevelopment money to push you
over the edge.”  Local governments shouldn’t have been using the money to
subsidize their general budgets in the first place, said  Tom Dresslar , spokesman for state Treasurer Bill Lockyer. Their
strains shouldn’t diminish investor confidence when California
sells general-obligation bonds in coming months, Dresslar said
by telephone.  “At the state level, we expect enhanced standing in the
market with spreads tightening,” Dresslar said.  The treasurer hasn’t determined the size of the next issue,
he said. In September, California sold about $1.8 billion in
tax-exempt debt, including 30-year maturities at an all-time low
yield of 3.72 percent. The bonds priced at 0.82 percentage point
above top-rated securities, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  In trading yesterday, munis rallied across most maturities,
pushing yields on 10-year benchmarks to a one-month low of 1.69
percent, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Following is a pending sale:  NEW JERSEY ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY plans to issue
$2.2 billion of school construction bonds and notes as soon as
next week, according to Moody’s Investors Service. Proceeds will
go toward refunding debt, which will reduce variable-rate
securities and terminate swap agreements. (Added Jan. 17)  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Nash in  Los Angeles  at 
 jnash24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  