-- Lira Jumps to Highest in 8 Months on Growing Upgrade Speculation
-- B y   S e l c u k   G o k o l u k
-- 2013-01-17T11:41:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-17/lira-jumps-to-highest-in-8-months-on-growing-upgrade-speculation.html
The lira climbed to its strongest
level in more than eight months and bond yields dropped as
traders said speculation was building that  Turkey  will receive a
second investment-grade rating.  The lira gained 0.4 percent to 1.7579 per dollar at 1:32
p.m. in Istanbul, the highest since May 4, bringing its
appreciation this year to 1.5 percent, the second-biggest
advance among 31 major currencies behind the  Mexican peso ,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Yields on benchmark
two-year notes fell four basis points to 5.96 percent, the
lowest since Dec. 19.  Fitch Ratings  upgraded Turkey’s credit rating to BBB- on
Nov. 5, its lowest investment grade, spurring a rally in the
nation’s assets last year. A second upgrade would push Turkey
into investment-grade indexes tracked by fund managers, boosting
the market of buyers for its debt. Moody’s rates Turkey at Ba1,
one level below investment grade. Standard & Poor’s rates the
country two levels below that threshold.  “Rumors are making the rounds that a Moody’s upgrade is
close,”  Emre Balkeser , head of trading at Garanti Securities in
Istanbul, said by telephone today. “There is no other reason
that can explain the rise.”  Moody’s did not immediately respond to a request for
comment made by phone to the company’s offices in  London  today.  The lira’s gain this year builds on last year’s 6 percent
increase. The currency was the world’s worst performer in 2011,
dropping 18 percent as concern mounted over the country’s
current-account deficit, then the world’s second-biggest behind
the U.S. Fitch cited a reduction in the deficit for its upgrade
in November last year. While declining to match the upgrade that
same month, Moody’s said Turkey was the only country in  Europe 
it rated with a positive outlook.  “There are strong expectations in the market that Moody’s
will upgrade Turkey soon and this is causing today’s move,”
Bulent Topbas, a portfolio manager at Strateji Menkul Degerler
AS in Istanbul, said by phone today.  The Treasury in Ankara signed a ratings agreement with
Fitch and Moody’s, the state-run Anatolia news agency reported
on Jan. 11. The agreement replaced the previous deal with
Moody’s and  Standard & Poor’s , which rates Turkey at the lowest
among the three ratings companies at BB, two levels below
investment grade.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Selcuk Gokoluk in Istanbul at 
 sgokoluk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alaa Shahine at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net  