-- Iran’s Cyber Threat Potential Great, U.S. General Says
-- B y   T o n y   C a p a c c i o
-- 2013-01-18T04:35:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-17/iran-s-cyber-threat-potential-great-u-s-general-says.html
Iran ’s developing ability to launch
cyber attacks will make it “a force to be reckoned with,” the
head of the U.S. Air Force Space Command said.  General  William Shelton  said the Iranians are responding to
an attack on the computer operating system that runs the uranium
enrichment facilities in the country’s suspected nuclear-weapons
program.  “It’s clear that the Natanz situation generated a reaction
by them,” Shelton told reporters yesterday.  Iran’s main uranium enrichment site at Natanz was hit in
2010 by the Stuxnet computer virus. Last year U.S. officials
told the New York Times that President Barack Obama had secretly
ordered stepped-up cyber attacks on that country’s nuclear
program.  U.S. intelligence officials and independent analysts such
as Misha Glenny at Columbia University in New York have
criticized the Obama White House for taking credit for the
Stuxnet attack, warning that doing so would come back to haunt
the administration.  Iran has denied responsibility for a spate of cyber attacks
against online banking sites that accelerated in September. U.S.
banks, including  JP Morgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ,  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) ,
 Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC)  and  PNC Financial Services Group Inc. (PNC) , have
said some customers were having difficulty at times accessing
their websites. Former Senator  Joseph Lieberman , a Connecticut
independent, was among those who have said Iran may be at fault.  Iran’s Comment  “Iran respects international law and refrains from
targeting other nations’ economic or financial institutions,”
Iran’s mission to the United Nations said in a Jan. 11
statement, according to the a report on the website of the state
run Press TV news channel.  Shelton said Iran poses a risk because of the “potential
capabilities that they will develop over the years and the
potential threat that will represent” to the U.S.  Now some of the U.S. banks are seeking assistance from a
number of government agencies, including the National Security
Agency, which oversees the government’s defensive and offensive
cyber programs, as well as the Federal Bureau of Investigation,
the Department of  Homeland Security , and the Treasury
Department.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony Capaccio in Washington at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  