-- Iraq Plan to Let BP Develop Oil in Kirkuk Is Illegal, Kurds Say
-- B y   K h a l i d   A l - A n s a r y   a n d   N a y l a   R a z z o u k
-- 2013-01-17T17:12:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-17/iraq-plan-to-let-bp-develop-oil-in-kirkuk-is-illegal-kurds-say.html
The Iraqi central government would
be acting illegally if it proceeds with a plan to allow  BP Plc (BP/) 
to develop the Kirkuk oil fields in the north of the country,
according to the Kurdistan Regional Government.  Federal government policies have prevented the semi-
autonomous region from raising its crude-export capacity to as
much as 500,000 barrels a day, according to a  statement  on the
KRG website. The Kurdish government won’t relinquish its right
to export crude and products and criticized the central
government for describing the process as “smuggling.”  “Iraq’s citizens are simply tired of this sort of language
of threat and intimidation, which in the cynical pursuit of
narrow political agendas serves only to create division and
strife,” it said.  The Kurds and the central government are entangled in a
feud over disputed land and sharing of energy sales revenue. The
KRG halted exports of crude by pipeline last month, with
shipments currently limited to volumes being trucked to  Turkey 
to be processed under a tolling agreement.  The nation’s central government is holding talks with BP to
develop fields in disputed land in the Kirkuk area, Abdul Mahdy Al-Ameedi, director general of the licensing department at the
Oil Ministry in  Baghdad , said in an interview today.  “Had it not been for the federal government’s
obstructionist policies, the Kurdistan Region could now be
exporting 500,000 barrels per day or some $18 billion per
year,” the KRG said. “This is in addition to the wasteful,
costly and environmentally damaging oil ministry policy of gas
flaring which has cost Iraqis an estimated $10 billion in lost
revenue every year since 2003.”  The country holds the world’s fifth-largest crude reserves,
according to BP Plc’s Statistical Review of World Energy. The
nation is the biggest producer, after  Saudi Arabia , in the
Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Khalid Al-Ansary in Baghdad at 
 kalansary@bloomberg.net ;
Nayla Razzouk in Dubai at 
 nrazzouk2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  