-- Italy’s Riva Steel Billionaires May Close Largest Factory
-- B y   K a m b i z   F o r o o h a r   a n d   C h i a r a   R e m o n d i n i
-- 2013-01-18T14:57:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-17/italy-s-riva-steel-billionaires-may-close-largest-factory.html
One of  Europe ’s richest families is
facing potential ruin after being accused of pumping cancer-
inducing toxins into the air and having almost $2 billion in
assets seized by an Italian judge.  Emilio Riva, 86, the chairman of closely held Gruppo Riva
SpA, Italy’s largest steel producer, is accused of causing an
“environmental disaster” at the company’s Ilva steelworks
plant in Taranto, Italy, according to court documents. The
billionaire lost an appeal on Jan. 16 to overturn a house arrest
imposed by the court in July, triggering a union protest at the
plant, which Italian prosecutors closed part of in July.  Prime Minister Mario Monti’s government issued a decree in
December reopening the facility. The prosecutors have appealed
to the country’s Constitutional Court.  The company, which has been paying its 12,000 workers since
production ceased, is now running out of cash, according to a
Riva official who declined to be identified because the
company’s finances are private. It may be forced to close the
plant if it can’t reach an agreement with its labor unions next
week. One of the unions, FIM-CISL, declared an indefinite strike
yesterday.  “They tried to cut corners, bend the rules,” said Ruggero
Ranieri, a professor of economic history at the University of
Padua who specializes in European steel companies. “The family
didn’t build a relationship with the community and there is a
great deal of hostility toward them.”  In December, prosecutors issued a European arrest warrant
for Riva’s oldest son, Fabio, 58, a company vice president,
according to Italian news agency ANSA, which said he has fled
into exile. Another son, Nicola, 54, a company director, is also
facing environmental charges and is under house arrest. The
lawsuits against the family have been opposed by Prime Minister
Mario Monti.  Toxic Air  Giuliana Paoletti, a spokeswoman for the company, said the
Rivas declined to comment for this account.  One of Europe’s wealthiest industrial families, the Rivas
control a $6 billion fortune, according to the  Bloomberg
Billionaires Index . The company, which was founded in 1954 by
Emilio and his younger brother, Adriano, 81, has operations from
 Germany  to North Africa and produced 16 million tons of raw
steel last year. They have never appeared on an international
wealth ranking.  The Riva fortune first came under threat in July, when
Patrizia Todisco, a judge in Taranto, accused the family of not
installing filters and other safety measures that would have
prevented the release of toxins that induced some kinds of
cancer into the air. In court documents, Todisco said the
company had not lived up to earlier promises to clean up its
operations. She shut down the plant.  Counter Offer  Todisco has asked the company to pay 3 billion euros to
clean up the Taranto air. The company, which is fighting the
charges, has made a counter offer to the court for the
environmental clean up, the Riva official said.  The closing of the plant, which supplies a third of the
country’s steel, has set off a conflict in the city of 190,000
between the unions, who are worried about job losses, and the
community groups, who are concerned about public health.  It also ignited a fight between Monti and Italian
prosecutors, who want to keep the plant closed. In December,
Monti’s government passed an emergency decree to allow the plant
to continue working, saying that the plant is of strategic
importance and could cost  Italy  about 8 billion euros. The
courts have seized all steel produced by the plant.  Corruption Investigation  In 2011, Riva reported revenue of $13.4 billion and net
income of $437 million, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
In November, Todisco impounded Riva steel products valued at 1.4
billion euros as part of an investigation into corruption.  She also ordered the arrest of more executives, including
Fabio Riva, for corruption and bribery of officials to water
down environmental reports. Wire-tap evidence cited by the
prosecution claims senior executives tried to bribe officials to
cover up environmental hazards at the plant.  European Union Environment Commissioner Janez Potocnik said
he was monitoring the developments in Taranto, and that he has
not ruled out taking his own legal action against Riva.  “Responsibility to protect the environment and public
health lies first and foremost with national governments,”
Potocnik said in an e-mail on January 18. “The Commission’s
role is to ensure that governments respect EU law, including
environmental law. In doing so, the Commission has to follow a
number of legal procedures, including going to court if
needed.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kambiz Foroohar in  New York  at 
 kforoohar@bloomberg.net ;
Chiara Remondini in Milan at 
 cremondini@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Matthew G. Miller at 
 mmiller144@bloomberg.net  