-- Klaipedos Nafta Fights German Bid to Delay Baltic LNG Link
-- B y   B r y a n   B r a d l e y
-- 2013-01-17T18:17:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-17/lithuania-s-klaipedos-nafta-fights-german-bid-to-delay-lng-link.html
Klaipedos Nafta AB (KNF1L) , Lithuania’s
energy terminal operator, said it would defend a possible
lawsuit by PPS Pipeline Systems GmbH over the award of a
contract to link a natural-gas terminal to the country’s grid.  PPS Pipeline Systems wants a court to annul the tender that
a Lithuanian group won on Dec. 20 with a bid of 138 million
litai ($53 million), Klaipedos Nafta spokeswoman Indre Miliniene
said today in an e-mailed statement. The tender result was
“fair and transparent” and the company will defend it in
court, if necessary, Miliniene said.  Legal action may delay Lithuania’s plans to start operating
a new floating LNG terminal on the Baltic Sea coast in late
2014. Lithuania is seeking to diversify its gas imports in order
to reduce its reliance on  Russia ’s OAO Gazprom. In December,
 Lietuvos Dujos (LDJ1L)  AB, the Lithuanian gas utility controlled by
Gazprom and EON AG, asked the European Union to investigate
whether laws tied to the project violate EU competition law.  “Theoretically, at PPS’s request a court could restrain
Klaipedos Nafta from completing this tender,” Vilius
Bernatonis, the company’s lawyer and a partner at Tark Grunte
Sutkiene, said in an e-mailed response to questions. “That
would be a serious risk for the timing of the whole LNG terminal
project.”  Tender Terms  The disputed tender is to build a 20-kilometer (21.8-mile)
pipeline linking the terminal to Lithuania’s gas distribution
network by Oct. 1, 2014. Two bids were submitted.  Klaipedos Nafta shareholders are scheduled on Jan. 25 to
approve a group including Kauno Dujotiekio Statyba AB and
Siauliu Dujotiekio Statyba UAB, both from  Lithuania , as the
winner of the tender, the company said in a statement to the OMX
Vilnius stock exchange on Dec. 27.  PPS is preparing to file a lawsuit on the basis that tender
lacked transparency and should be held again, Julija Jermakova,
a Lithuanian spokeswoman for the German company, said by phone.
PPS objected to changes in the criteria for evaluating bids
introduced two weeks before the deadline, she said.  Klaipedos Nafta says PPS submitted its bid in full
knowledge of the changes and without complaint. The bidder
protested only after its offer was rejected, according to the
Lithuanian company’s spokeswoman.  Bernatonis said he saw no grounds for PPS to appeal the
tender outcome or for a court to order temporary restraining
measures against the project going ahead.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bryan Bradley in Vilnius at 
 bbradley13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  