-- Mitsui Fudosan to Invest $2.3 Billion in Japan Warehouses
-- B y   K a t s u y o   K u w a k o   a n d   K a t h l e e n   C h u
-- 2013-01-17T05:39:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-17/mitsui-fudosan-to-invest-200-billion-yen-in-japan-warehouses.html
Mitsui Fudosan Co. (8801) , Japan’s biggest
developer by sales, said it plans to invest 200 billion yen
($2.3 billion) in warehouses in the country over five years to
meet rising demand.  The company plans to build four to five storage properties
a year and complete the investment by the year ending March 2018,
according to an e-mailed statement by the Tokyo-based developer.
Mitsui Fudosan is also considering setting up a logistic real
estate investment trust, according to the statement, which
didn’t elaborate on the plan.  Mitsui Fudosan is joining the competition in developing
industrial buildings used for storage, a market that has been
dominated by foreign companies such as  Global Logistic
Properties Ltd. (GLP)  and  Prologis Inc. (PLD)  Japan’s distribution centers
are rebounding from record-high vacancies in 2009 amid demand
for modern storage facilities, according to broker CBRE Group
Inc.  Mitsui Fudosan began building its first storage facility in
Chiba prefecture, east of Tokyo, in December with Global
Logistic, according to the statement. The company is currently
developing six logistic facilities with five in the Tokyo
metropolitan area and one in  Osaka , it said.  Japan is Prologis’s biggest market in Asia, accounting for
10 percent of total assets, according to the company.  Mitsubishi
Estate Co. (8802) , Japan’s biggest developer by market value, last year
announced two warehouse projects with partners in Tokyo Bay and
Kanagawa prefecture.  The vacancy rate for warehouses in the  Tokyo  metropolitan
area fell for four straight quarters to 3.6 percent as of June
30, according to Los Angeles-based CBRE. Industrial spaces
returned 6.4 percent on average for the year ended August, more
than double that for office buildings, according to London-based
Investment Property Databank Ltd.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Katsuyo Kuwako in Tokyo at 
 kkuwako@bloomberg.net ;
Kathleen Chu in Tokyo at 
 kchu2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  