-- Jaguars Hire Gus Bradley, Leaving Cardinals as Lone NFL Vacancy
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2013-01-17T16:27:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-17/jaguars-to-hire-seahawks-assistant-bradley-as-coach-espn-says.html
The  Jacksonville Jaguars  hired
Seattle Seahawks defensive coordinatorGus Bradley to replace
Mike Mularkey, leaving one head coaching vacancy in the  National
Football League .  Bradley, 46, has spent the past four years in Seattle and
this season led a Seahawks’ defense that allowed 15.3 points a
game, the fewest in the NFL.  Bradley becomes the seventh coach hired this offseason and
replaces Mularkey, who was fired on Jan. 10 after going 2-14 in
his only season with the Jaguars. Jacksonville lost 12 of its
final 13 games and hasn’t made the playoffs since 2007.  “It was just a matter of time before Gus Bradley became a
head coach in the NFL and the Jacksonville Jaguars are extremely
fortunate that Gus will be on our sidelines for many years to
come,” Jaguars General Manager Dave Caldwell said in a
statement. “Gus more than met every criteria we insisted on
from our new head coach, and his intangibles and leadership
abilities are exceptional.”  The Jaguars’ hiring leaves the  Arizona  Cardinals as the
only NFL team currently seeking a head coach. Bradley had also
interviewed for the Philadelphia Eagles’ vacancy, which was
filled yesterday by University of Oregon coach Chip Kelly.  Also yesterday, the  Chicago Bears  hired Marc Trestman of
the Canadian Football League’s Montreal Alouettes.  Other NFL coaches hired within the past two weeks include
 Andy Reid  of the Kansas City Chiefs, Doug Marrone of the Buffalo
Bills, Mike McCoy of the San Diego Chargers and Rob Chudzinski
of the Cleveland Browns.  Bradley was a defensive assistant with the Tampa Bay
Buccaneers from 2006-08 before joining the Seahawks. He was also
a collegiate assistant coach at North Dakota State and Fort
Lewis State.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in  New York  at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  