-- JFE Unit’s Boiler Orders to Surge as Biomass Takes Hold in Japan
-- B y   M a s u m i   S u g a   a n d   Y a s u m a s a   S o n g
-- 2013-01-17T00:56:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-17/jfe-unit-s-boiler-orders-to-surge-as-biomass-takes-hold-in-japan.html
JFE Engineering Corp., a Japanese
builder of  power plants  used to process biomass into fuel, said
orders for its boilers will be twice as big as forecast in June
as subsidies encourage companies to invest in clean energy.  For the 12 months ending March 31, the unit of  JFE Holdings
Inc. (5411)  will receive 20 billion yen ($226 million) of orders for
boilers using wood, sewage sludge and garbage to produce power,
compared with a June forecast of 10 billion yen, Managing
Director Masumi Sekiguchi said during an interview in Tokyo. The
unit expects similar orders next year, he said.  “We’ve got so many inquiries that well surpassed our
production capacity,” Sekiguchi said in the Jan. 15 interview.
“We are unable to respond to all of them.”  The surge in orders shows burgeoning interest in biomass as
an alternative source of power following the introduction of a
feed-in tariff program last year that pays renewable-energy
generators above-market rates for their output.  A government task force in September forecast that tapping
Japan’s unused biomass -- including  food waste  and timber
produced by thinning out forests -- could produce enough
electricity to serve 4.6 million households.  JFE Engineering plans to design, construct and operate two
biomass power plants in the western and eastern regions of
Japan, one of which is to start operations in 2015 as part of a
marketing push and as a way to add a stable revenue source by
selling power, the executive said. The company set up a biomass
business department in April.  Biomass Investments  Oji Holdings Corp. (3861) , the world’s biggest user of renewable
energy and Japan’s biggest producer of paper products, and
 Sumitomo Osaka Cement Co. (5232)  are among Japanese companies that plan
to sell clean power in  Japan  as domestic demand for their
mainstay products stagnates. Japan introduced the feed-in tariff
incentive program on July 1 to help cut the reliance on atomic
power after the Fukushima nuclear disaster in March 2011.  JFE Engineering’s boilers are designed to operate using as
much as 80 percent of their fuel source from unused wood and the
rest from other materials such as palm shell, waste plastic and
coal, according to Sekiguchi.  Japan will add 90,000 kilowatts of biomass capacity by the
end of March, bringing the total to 2.19 million kilowatts or
4.3 percent more than the previous year, according to a Dec. 14
estimate by Japan’s trade ministry.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Masumi Suga in  Tokyo  at 
 msuga@bloomberg.net ;
Yasumasa Song in Tokyo at 
 ysong9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  