-- Jamie Dimon Offers Illusion of Transparency
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   W e i l
-- 2013-01-17T23:30:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-17/jpmorgan-s-jamie-dimon-offers-illusion-of-transparency.html
The report that  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) 
released this week about its  London Whale  trading losses has
some amazing omissions. It contains no mention of the Whale’s
actual name, Bruno Iksil, or the names of almost anyone else who
worked in the bank’s London-based  chief investment office , which
generated the $6 billion loss.  The  report  said the names were excluded “in order to
comply with United Kingdom data privacy laws,” which was an
awfully handy excuse. Reading the 129-page report at times
seemed like watching a movie where the characters are screaming
and throwing office supplies at each other, except they are
wearing brown paper bags over their heads and their voices have
been electronically altered so you can’t tell who anybody is.  There are several current and former executives who are
named, including Jamie Dimon, the company’s chairman and chief
executive officer, and Ina Drew, the former head of JPMorgan’s
chief investment office, who left last year. Much blame is cast,
especially on Drew. Fall guys are delivered. Remedies are
unveiled. And sufficient criticism is directed at Dimon (along
with a 50 percent pay cut for 2012) so the report has the veneer
of credibility. But as is usually the case with corporate
investigations, the most interesting stuff is what the company
chose to overlook.  Dimon’s Push  For instance, how did JPMorgan’s chief investment office,
which manages deposits that the bank hasn’t lent, go from being
a conservatively run risk manager to a profit center speculating
on higher-yielding assets such as credit derivatives? The
company’s report, conveniently, said this pivotal question was
outside the inquiry’s scope. It’s worth noting that it was Dimon
who  pushed  for the transformation several years ago, as
Bloomberg News  reported  last spring.  “Although the task force has reviewed certain general
background information on the origin of the synthetic credit
portfolio and its development over time, the task force’s focus
was on the events at the end of 2011 and the first several
months of 2012 when the losses occurred,” the report said.  The head of the task force that produced the report,
Michael Cavanagh, is the co-CEO of JPMorgan’s corporate and
investment bank. So it isn’t as if there was a pretense that
this was some sort of independent review. The company didn’t
disclose the task force’s other members.  The report dodged important disclosure issues. The facts in
the report suggest there were serious shortcomings before 2012
in the internal controls over JPMorgan’s valuation processes.
Some employees manipulated the numbers to make the trading
losses look smaller. And when JPMorgan restated its first-
quarter 2012 results last summer, the company acknowledged it
had a material weakness in its controls as of March 31. Yet the
bank  hasn’t amended  past disclosures to show control weaknesses
in any earlier periods. Why not? This week’s report didn’t
address the question.  Another example: During an April 13 call with analysts,
about a month before JPMorgan began acknowledging the magnitude
of its losses, Douglas Braunstein, JPMorgan’s since-demoted
chief financial officer, said “those positions are fully
transparent to the regulators” and that the bank’s  regulators 
“get the information on those positions on a regular and
recurring basis as part of our normalized reporting.” The
statement wasn’t credible then. There’s no reason to believe he
had any basis for the remark. Yet the task force’s report didn’t
touch it.  The report also included this bizarre disclaimer: “This
report sets out the facts that the task force believes are most
relevant to understanding the causes of the losses. It reflects
the task force’s view of the facts. Others (including regulators
conducting their own investigations) may have a different view
of the facts, or may focus on facts not described in this
report, and may also draw different conclusions regarding the
facts and issues.” In other words, we haven’t been told the
whole story.  Sure, there were colorful anecdotes, like this: “April 10
was the first trading day in  London  after the ‘London Whale’
articles were published. When U.S. markets opened (i.e., towards
the middle of the London trading day), one of the traders
informed another that he was estimating a loss of approximately
$700 million for the day. The latter reported this information
to a more senior team member, who became angry and accused the
third trader of undermining his credibility at JPMorgan.  “At 7:02 p.m. GMT on April 10, the trader with
responsibility for the P&L Predict circulated a P&L Predict
indicating a $5 million loss for the day; according to one of
the traders, the trader who circulated this P&L Predict did so
at the direction of another trader. After a confrontation
between the other two traders, the same trader sent an updated
P&L Predict at 8:30 p.m. GMT the same day, this time showing an
estimated loss of approximately $400 million. He explained to
one of the other traders that the market had improved and that
the $400 million figure was an accurate reflection.”  Mystery Traders    Who were those masked traders? How could JPMorgan employees
be so willing to manipulate their numbers to achieve an outcome
at odds with the facts? And how does a day’s loss go from $5
million to $400 million? Nothing is very clear, which seems to
have been by design.  We may get a full accounting yet. Staff members of the
Senate Permanent Subcommittee on Investigations, led by Democrat
Carl Levin of  Michigan , have been conducting a probe of the
trading losses. The panel could hold hearings and release its
findings, as it did for its investigation of  Goldman Sachs  Group
Inc. in 2010, which produced some of the most informative
financial theater in recent memory. This probably wouldn’t be
necessary if JPMorgan’s report had been thorough, but it wasn’t.  U.K. data-privacy laws wouldn’t apply.  (Jonathan Weil is a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Jonathan Weil in  New York  at 
 jweil6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  