-- JPMorgan Tops Banks for Third Year as Loans Retreat: Commodities
-- B y   M a r i a   K o l e s n i k o v a
-- 2013-01-17T18:14:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-17/jpmorgan-tops-banks-for-third-year-as-loans-retreat-commodities.html
JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  led lending to
commodities companies for a third consecutive year even as
global financing to the industry fell to the lowest since 2010.  The biggest  U.S. bank  by assets arranged $44.1 billion of
loans, giving the New York-based company a 7.8 percent market
share, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Bank of America 
Corp. and  Citigroup Inc. (C)  came next. Three Canadian banks were in
the top 10, from one a year ago, as European lenders retreated.  Loans fell 23 percent to $568 billion last year after
mergers and acquisitions diminished to the lowest annual total
since 2010. Deals accelerated in the fourth quarter to the
highest in five years, including OAO Rosneft’s $55 billion
purchase of oil producer TNK-BP, as economic growth improved.
Stock markets are rising for a third consecutive month after
U.S. lawmakers reached a budget agreement.  “Since there hasn’t been much M&A for the past couple of
years, there is some pent-up demand,” said Thomas Cassin, co-
head of investment-grade finance at JPMorgan in New York.
“Having more clarity around the fiscal cliff, the debt ceiling
and just the direction of the economy in general will bring to
bear a bit more confidence and willingness to go out and look at
the M&A.”  Raw Materials  Commodities stagnated in 2012, with the Standard & Poor’s
GSCI gauge of 24  raw materials  rising 0.3 percent, the least in
five years. The 140-member Bloomberg World Mining  Index (BWMING)  advanced
2.9 percent, lagging behind the 13 percent gain in the MSCI All-
Country World Index of equities. Natural-resource and energy
companies announced $610 billion of mergers and acquisitions,
8.3 percent less than in 2011, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Bank of America, the second-biggest U.S. lender by assets,
arranged $30.8 billion of loans, and New York-based Citigroup
$30.6 billion, giving them both a 5.4 percent market share.
Combined lending by the top three banks fell 36 percent from a
year ago.  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC)  overtook  BNP Paribas SA (BNP)  to take the
fourth slot after buying $9.5 billion of the French bank’s
energy loans in February. The Paris-based lender retreated 10
places in the rankings, as rival  Societe Generale  dropped to
19th from 15th. The figures as of yesterday reflect transactions
involving more than one bank and include credit lines, project
or term loans and trade finance. Wells Fargo’s total was $29.3
billion in loans, for a 5.2 percent share.  Syndicated Loans  “Declines in syndicated loans in the commodity and energy
sector are consistent with trends in the broader market,” said
 Peter Hall , the global head of investment-grade loan syndicates
at Bank of America Merrill Lynch in London. “The next big wave
of refinancing is due in two years, so 2014 and 2015 are going
to be much busier.”  The average interest banks charge for loans to commodity
companies has risen to 325 basis points more than benchmark
lending rates, from 268 basis points in 2011, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  Globally across all industries, banks charged 323.4 basis
points above lending rates compared with 282.3 basis points in
2011. Syndicated loans across industries declined 21 percent to
$2.99 trillion in 2012, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Canadian Banks  RBC Capital Markets , a unit of  Royal Bank of Canada (RY) , led
the advance by Canadian banks last year, taking fifth place with
$28.4 billion of loans, little changed from a year earlier. TD
Securities Inc., part of Toronto Dominion Bank, arranged almost
$19.9 billion for seventh place, and was one of only two in the
top 10 to increase overall lending, along with  Barclays Plc. (BARC) 
 Bank of Nova Scotia (BNS) , based in Toronto, oversaw $16 billion of
loans to take 10th place. Wells Fargo, Barclays, Nova Scotia and
BNP Paribas declined to comment for this story.  “Resource financing will go up this year,” said Burke Smyth, the co-head of Canadian credit origination at TD
Securities in Toronto. “There is nothing to prevent it from
seeing an increase as commodity prices recover a bit, foreign
companies start to look at Canada and the U.S. starts to grow.”  Canadian banks have been ranked as the world’s soundest for
five consecutive years by the Geneva-based  World Economic Forum .
They are also buying more assets, including Bank of Nova
Scotia’s agreement in August to purchase ING Groep NV’s Canadian
unit for C$3.1 billion ($3.15 billion).  The “banks are playing off the strength of their balance
sheets and expertise that we have in metals and mining,” said
 Mark Chandler , the head of Canadian syndicated and leveraged
finance at RBC Capital Markets in Toronto. Canada is home to
 Barrick Gold Corp. (ABX) , the largest gold miner, and Potash Corp. of
Saskatchewan Inc., the biggest fertilizer producer. Commodities
are about half of Canada’s exports, government figures show.  Mergers Data  Natural-resource and energy companies announced $202.8
billion of mergers and acquisitions in the fourth quarter,
accounting for 33 percent of the annual total, data compiled by
Bloomberg show. Rosneft raised $16.8 billion in loans last month
to finance the TNK-BP acquisition, to become the world’s largest
publicly-traded crude-oil producer.  Loans to commodity companies in  North America  declined 24
percent to $317.9 billion while those in Europe,  Middle East  and
Africa tumbled 31 percent to $140.9 billion, data compiled by
Bloomberg show. There was an 8.7 percent drop in the Central
Asia and Pacific Rim region to $92.7 billion.  ‘Key Event’  “A key event in 2012 was the return to stability of
funding to the commodity finance market, even if the overall
financing market volumes are down due to the pullback in metals
prices and slower global economic growth,” said Federico Turegano, the global head of natural resources and energy
finance at Societe Generale in Paris. “The big question for
2013 will be how fast the Asian markets return to purchasing
commodities, particularly China on the metals side.”  China is the biggest consumer of everything from copper to
cotton to coal and it probably returned to faster economic
growth in the final three months of 2012, having slowed for
seven consecutive quarters, the mean of 35 economist estimates
compiled by Bloomberg show. Chinese banks probably will lend
more this year, with a focus on financing the nation’s commodity
cargoes, said Simon Tyler, the head of corporate banking at
China Construction Bank Ltd. in London.  “The Chinese banks are starting to compete more in the
loans space,” he said. “This year there will be much more. We
are expanding from a relatively low base, so we are not going to
be a major player yet but we will be doing a lot more.”  Any return of funding won’t be fully reflected in
syndicated loans, said Turegano of Societe Generale. “A huge
part of the commodity finance business is done on an uncommitted
bilateral basis, therefore undisclosed.”  Higher Prices  Lending may increase this year should commodity costs
rebound. A Bloomberg survey of 131 analysts, traders and
investors last month predicted higher prices across industrial
and precious metals and agriculture.  Brent crude  will trade
above $100 a barrel for a third consecutive year, according to
the median of 30 estimates compiled in December. It traded at
$111.09 a barrel today.  “The world needs commodities,” said David Basra, the head
of debt financing for Europe, the Middle East and Africa at
Citigroup in London. “We have a growing global population, we
have growth in the  emerging markets  and that all puts demand on
natural resources. The requirement for liquidity and funding
remains high.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maria Kolesnikova in London at 
 mkolesnikova@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  