-- Kevin Bacon’s Deadly ‘Following’; Grisly ‘Ripper’: Review
-- B y   G r e g   E v a n s
-- 2013-01-17T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-17/kevin-bacon-s-deadly-following-grisly-ripper-review.html
Didn’t Edgar Allan Poe have enough
misery?  Fox’s “ The Following ” is a witless crime series about a Poe-
obsessed serial killer and the cult that worships him.  Kevin Bacon, in his first (and badly chosen) starring role
on primetime TV, plays Ryan Hardy, a former FBI agent called
back to the game when notorious killer Joe Carroll (James Purefoy, “ Rome ”) escapes from death row.  Carroll, an ex-professor of literature, specializes in Poe,
not to mention the torture-murders of pretty female students.  Created by Kevin Williamson (“ The Vampire Diaries ”), “The
Following” is ugly stuff, a base attempt by network television
to mimic the graphic style of cable series like “ Dexter .”  Unlike cable’s best, though, “The Following” offers no
compelling characters or unexpected quirks. It unfolds in the
rote, mechanical fashion of countless police procedurals.  The belabored Poe references make for tedious lecturing
(“Poe believed that the eyes are our identity, the windows to
our soul,” Hardy drones). Any jolts are provided by an endless
succession of loud noises and high-decibel music cues.  The series’ sole innovation is the killer’s turf: By the end
of the first episode, he’s back in prison, where he orchestrates
copycat murders committed by his devoted, widespread followers.  Pixie Killer  This Charles Manson for the Internet Age even has his very
own Squeaky Fromme in the pixie-like Denise (Valorie Curry).  “The Following” surrounds Bacon’s dour, alcoholic Hardy with
his own acolytes, including an admiring FBI agent (Shawn
Ashmore) and a by-the-book cult specialist (Annie Parisse).  Even the murderer’s beautiful ex-wife (Natalie Zea) is
smitten with Hardy -- and a long-ago affair certainly didn’t sit
well with her serial killer husband.  What they see in Hardy is anyone’s guess.  Bacon plays the character with laconic, gruff-voiced
stoicism that’s meant to suggest a world-weary intimacy with
life’s dark side.  In truth, the actor just seems bored. For good reason.  “The Following” airs Monday, Jan. 21, on Fox at 9 p.m.  New
York  time. Rating: *1/2  ‘Ripper Street’  Compared to “The Following,”  BBC  America’s blood-soaked,
effective “ Ripper Street ” is pure class.  A sort of “CSI: Whitechapel,” the British crime drama is set
in the foggy alleyways and busy brothels of Victorian  London .  Despite the title, Jack the Ripper is nowhere to be found
here. The action takes place two years after his last known
murder.  Still smarting from their failure to capture the madman, the
East End detectives are ever vigilant.  But with crimes like these, who needs Jack?  In the first of eight self-contained episodes, Inspector
Edmund Reid (Matthew Macfadyen) is convinced that the brutal
murder of a young woman is the work of a Jack copycat.  His hunch leads to the city’s creepy porno underground,
where he and his team discover evidence of some newfangled
device that makes pictures move.  The cops’ introduction to motion pictures is a snuff film.  Stone Streets  Clearly “Ripper Street” isn’t above clip-clopping down some
tawdry cobblestone byways. In the second episode, an elderly
toymaker is killed and de-tongued, possibly by one of the child
gangs roaming the district.  Macfadyen is a bit bland, but “Ripper Street” features some
appealing supporting performances.  Particularly good is Adam Rothenberg as Capt. Homer Jackson,
a womanizing ex-Pinkerton detective who joins the Brits after
fleeing America with a secret known only to brothel madame Long
Susan (MyAnna Buring).  Created by Richard Warlow (“ Mistresses ”), “Ripper Street”
has the trendy, oversaturated look of shows like “ The Walking
Dead .” It’s not nearly as compelling, visually or otherwise, as
the BBC’s lushly decadent “ The Crimson Petal and the White .”  Still, there’s some grisly intrigue to be found on ye olde
London streets, Jack or no Jack.  “Ripper Street” airs Saturday, Jan. 19, on BBC America at 9
p.m. New York time. Rating: ***  (Greg Evans is a critic for Muse, the arts and leisure
section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are his own.)  Muse highlights include  Jason Harper  on cars and  Rich
Jaroslovsky  on  tech .  To contact the writer on the story: Greg Evans at
 gregeaevans@yahoo.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 