-- Khazanah Net Assets Jump 24% After IHH Healthcare, Astro IPOs
-- B y   C h o n g   P o o i   K o o n
-- 2013-01-17T12:03:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-17/khazanah-net-assets-jump-24-after-ihh-healthcare-astro-ipos.html
Khazanah Nasional Bhd., Malaysia’s
state investment company, said the value of its holdings rose 24
percent last year after making gains from divesting shares in
companies, including Asia’s biggest hospitals operator.  The net asset value of Khazanah’s investments climbed to
86.9 billion ringgit ($29 billion) at the end of 2012 from 70
billion ringgit a year earlier, the  Kuala Lumpur-based fund  said
in a statement today. It outperformed a 10 percent gain in the
benchmark FTSE Bursa Malaysia KLCI Index, which closed the year
at a record.  Khazanah cut its stake in hospitals operator  IHH Healthcare
Bhd. (IHH)  through a $2 billion initial public offering in Kuala
Lumpur and Singapore in July. The fund also reduced its stake in
Malaysian pay-TV operator  Astro Malaysia Holdings Bhd. (ASTRO)  during a
$1.5 billion share sale in October, and divested national
carmaker Proton Holdings Bhd.  “We believe the portfolio is balanced and well-positioned
to benefit from exposure into the Asia-Pacific growth region,”
Khazanah Managing Director Azman Mokhtar said in the statement.
“The outlook will be steady. It will be harder to scale new
highs when your base gets bigger,” he later told reporters in
Kuala Lumpur.  The fund’s returns outpaced a 13 percent increase in the
 MSCI World Index (MXWO) , the biggest gain since 2009, and a 15 percent
increase in the  MSCI Emerging Markets Index. (MXEF)   Khazanah owns stakes in some of Malaysia’s biggest listed
companies, including electricity producer  Tenaga Nasional Bhd. (TNB) ,
mobile phone company  Axiata Group Bhd. (AXIATA)  and lender  CIMB Group
Holdings Bhd. (CIMB)  which all reported higher quarterly profits last
year. Its holdings in the telecommunications and power sectors
contributed to portfolio growth, according to today’s statement.  CIMB Aviva  The fund said pretax profit fell to 2.1 billion ringgit in
2012 from 5.3 billion ringgit in 2011 and paid a 1 billion-
ringgit dividend to government, according to the statement.  Khazanah and Sun Life Financial Inc. agreed to buy 98
percent of Aviva Plc and CIMB Group Holdings Bhd.’s Malaysian
insurance joint venture for 1.8 billion ringgit, according to a
joint statement in London today.  “This is a very good deal,” Azman said. “We are able to
enter a sector in  Malaysia  and eventually build a footprint into
the region of a very good sector, which is life insurance. This
is a good way to play rising incomes.”  Direct investments by sovereign wealth funds around the
world picked up in the fourth quarter of 2012 from a year
earlier, signaling a rebound after spending dropped to a six-
year low in 2012, according to the Sovereign Wealth Fund
Institute.  Full-year direct spending, which excludes money outsourced
to other funds or asset managers, slumped 36 percent to $57.3
billion, the Las Vegas-based institute said in a statement
yesterday. That’s the lowest since 2006, when direct investments
amounted to $14.8 billion, it said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chong Pooi Koon in  Kuala Lumpur  at 
 pchong17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Barry Porter in Kuala Lumpur at 
 bporter10@bloomberg.net ;
Andreea Papuc in  Hong Kong  at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  