-- Korean Oil Buyers to Halt North Sea Price Slide
-- B y   R u p e r t   R o w l i n g
-- 2013-01-17T07:14:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-17/korean-oil-buyers-to-halt-north-sea-price-slide.html
South Korean tax-free purchases of
 North Sea   Forties crude  are poised to stem the slide in prices
as the supply of Western Europe’s most abundant oil jumps to the
highest level in almost a year.  The flow of oil to the  Asian nation  will keep Forties at a
premium to Dated Brent, the global benchmark grade, for the next
two months, all but three of 10 traders and analysts surveyed
this week by  Bloomberg News  said. The spread has dropped 55
percent since reaching an 11-month high on Jan. 9. Production in
February will climb to 407,143 barrels a day, the most since
March, a loading schedule obtained by Bloomberg News showed.  “It has become harder and harder to bet on the downside of
North Sea grades,”  Olivier Jakob , managing director at Zug,
Switzerland-based Petromatrix GmbH, said Jan. 8 by phone. “As
soon as the market weakens, it opens up the flow to  Korea .”  North Sea crude is being exported at an unprecedented rate
to  South Korea  after the nation signed a free-trade agreement
with the European Union in 2011. Forties is the largest of the
four grades that make up Dated Brent and, as the cheapest,
typically acts as a price guide for producers from  Russia  to
 Saudi Arabia .  Forties loading in 10 to 25 days was 70 cents a barrel more
expensive than Dated Brent yesterday, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. It was at a $1.55 premium on Jan. 9, the most
since March 9, compared with an average of 16 cents last year.  For two of those questioned in the Bloomberg survey, the
effect of exports to Korea will be neutral. A third,  David Wech ,
the managing director at Vienna-based JBC Energy GmbH, said
Forties may trade temporarily below Dated Brent.  Viable Arbitrage  “We expect the arbitrage to South Korea to remain viable
and accordingly it will continue to support Forties,” Wech said
by e-mail Jan. 15. “However, given the higher Forties loading
schedules for January and February, we may see Forties return to
discounts to the Dated Brent Strip in the coming weeks.”  Vitol Group, the world’s largest independent oil trader,
has booked two supertankers this month to ship the crude to
South Korea. The Geneva-based trader chartered the Maran
Capricorn to load 270,000 metric tons on Jan. 20 from Hound
Point in eastern  Scotland  at a cost of $6 million, satellite-
tracking data compiled by IHS, an Englewood, Colorado-based
researcher, show. Last week, Vitol booked the Hanjin  Ras Tanura 
to carry about 275,000 tons on Jan. 25 from the same port at a
cost of $5.95 million, according to Optima Shipbrokers Ltd.
Hound Point is the loading terminal for Forties.  Iran Sanctions  South Korea signed an accord in July 2011 that exempted its
refineries from a 3 percent tax on imports from the EU. At least
28 tankers have been chartered to take North Sea crude to the
Asian nation since last year, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Korean purchases rose to cover cuts in purchases from  Iran 
as the U.S. and EU tightened sanctions aimed at curbing the
Islamic republic’s nuclear program. The Asian country’s imports
 from Iran  fell to 8.36 million barrels in November, 30 percent
less than a year earlier, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Purchases from  the U.K.  climbed to 22.68 million barrels in
the first 10 months of last year, compared with 3.06 million in
all of 2011, the data show. Korea also boosted imports from
 Norway  to 16.79 million barrels over the same period, compared
with 2.1 million in the previous year.  “We can expect Korean demand for North Sea crude to go
unabated as the country continues to diversify its crude sources
away from Iranian crude,”  Harry Tchilinguirian , head of
commodity markets at BNP Paribas SA in London, said Jan. 10.  Buzzard Field  Dated Brent is derived from prices of Brent, Forties,
Oseberg and Ekofisk crudes that are produced in the U.K. and
Norwegian sections of the North Sea. Forties made up 41 percent
of the total last year, data from loading programs for the four
grades show.  Production was disrupted last year following strikes by
Norwegian oil contractors and overrunning maintenance at the
U.K.’s Buzzard oil field. The 200,000 barrel-a-day field, the
biggest contributor to the Forties blend, was shut on Sept. 4
and scheduled to resume in mid-October. It restarted two weeks
later, cutting output to as low as 154,839 barrels a day in
October.  Exports of the  four main grades  will increase to 943,000
barrels a day next month, up from 697,000 barrels a day in
October, according to loading programs, the monthly schedules of
shipments compiled by field operators to allow buyers and
sellers to plan their supply and trading activities.  Production will probably be more stable this year,
according to BNP Paribas.  Fewer Outages  “BFOE crude supply will roughly track production levels of
2012 of around 800,000 barrels a day, for most of the year, and
higher over September and October as we don’t expect a repeat of
the prolonged outages of 2012 during field maintenance for that
period,” Tchilinguirian said.  The output increase may also narrow the spread between the
two Brent contracts nearest to expiry on the ICE Futures
Exchange to about 50 cents a barrel, from more than $1,
according to Commerzbank AG and BNP Paribas.  The difference peaked at $1.28 on Jan. 2, futures data show.
The discount of March to February was 60 cents a barrel at 4 p.m.
yesterday, before the February contract expired.  “While loadings should rise, we do expect these to
materially weaken spreads at the front of the Brent curve,”
Tchilinguirian said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rupert Rowling in  London  at 
 rrowling@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  