-- Kraftwerk Robots Return to Hometown in 3-D Spaceship
-- B y   C a t h e r i n e   H i c k l e y
-- 2013-01-17T02:14:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-17/kraftwerk-robots-return-to-hometown-in-3-d-spaceship.html
The four members of the pioneering
electronic band Kraftwerk stand in a row on stage wearing black
Spiderman-like suits with a white grid pattern, virtually
motionless in front of their consoles, as though navigating a
spaceship rather than performing a gig.  Kraftwerk is playing in its home town of Dusseldorf for the
first time in more than 20 years, in a hall at the  K-20 art
museum . Last night was “The Man-Machine,” one of eight
concerts, each focusing on a different album. The band played a
series in the same format at the Museum of  Modern Art  in  New
York  last year and is performing at  London ’s  Tate Modern  next
month.  Visual fun comes from projections on the screen behind
them. Audience members, equipped with white 3-D specs, gasped
and ducked as a virtual spaceship ploughed toward them during
the track “Spacelab.” In “Metropolis,” stylized, anonymous,
grid-like cityscapes, devoid of people, shift and turn in an
intriguing dance.  Kraftwerk’s popularity has endured; in fact, the band may
even be more valued with hindsight. Tate Modern said its website
was “overwhelmed by the phenomenal number of people attempting
to access it simultaneously” to buy tickets for next month’s
concerts.  Minimalist Style  The tunes and lyrics are simple, the beats repetitive and
the delivery deadpan, yet Kraftwerk’s minimalist style has been
cited by groups like Joy Division and Depeche Mode as an
influence. The band’s early use of synthesizers was quickly
followed by others, and Kraftwerk is often viewed as a precursor
to techno music. Just one founding member is still in the band -
- the singer and songwriter Ralf Huetter.  The 1978 album “Man-Machine” includes Kraftwerk’s U.K.
No. 1 single, “The Model,” and the catchy “Robots.” Several
devotees in the Dusseldorf audience wore the red shirts with
slim black ties that feature on the album cover -- some of them
over substantial middle-aged paunches.  Most of the audience was aged more than 40, which suggests
it is a good week for Dusseldorf baby-sitters. Some audience
members had brought the kids with them, eliminating the need for
anxious text-messaging. Others had traveled from the U.K. for
the concert, perhaps after falling victim to the Tate’s website.  And all were appreciative, even if two hours is a long time
to stand at this age. After performing the “Man-Machine”
tracks, the band ran through some of their other hits, earning
enthusiastic cheers and applause.  Autobahn Idyll  A Volkswagen Beetle with Dusseldorf number-plates, driver
unseen, motors along an almost-empty highway in an animated
projection accompanying “Autobahn.” The song strikes a
nostalgic note as a retro-futuristic tribute to the automobile,
good roads and German postwar industrial success.  “Radioactivity,” warning of the dangers of nuclear power,
sounds as topical as ever, particularly with the addition of
Fukushima (and a caution in Japanese) to a list of incidents
that includes Chernobyl and Harrisburg. “ Tour de France ” pays
homage to cycling, with heavy breathing and footage of old races
(no mention of doping scandals).  The band left the stage one-by-one to “Music Non Stop,”
whose lyrics “synthetic electronic sounds/ industrial rhythms
all around” are a fitting summary of the evening. I was glad of
the groovy 3-D visual effects -- the music alone would not have
been enough to keep me interested.  Rating: ***  Kraftwerk is performing at the Kunstsammlung Nordrhein-
Westfalen in Dusseldorf from Jan. 11 to Jan. 20. The band will
perform at Tate Modern’s Turbine Hall in London from Feb. 6
through Feb. 14. Both concert series are sold out. For more
information, go to  http://www.kunstsammlung.de/  and
 http://www.tate.org.uk  or  http://kraftwerk.com/   An exhibition called “Kraftwerk -- Robots” at the NRW-
Forum museum in Dusseldorf, featuring photographs of the band by
Peter Boettcher, runs through Jan. 30. For more information, go
to  http://www.nrw-forum.de/kraftwerk_roboter   (Catherine Hickley writes for Muse, the arts and leisure
section of  Bloomberg News . The opinions expressed are his own.)  Muse highlights include  Scott Reyburn  on the art market,
 Jason Harper  on cars,  Rich Jaroslovsky  on technology and  Lance
Esplund  on U.S. art.  To contact the writer on the story:
Catherine Hickley in Dusseldorf at  chickley@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 