-- KWG Property Pulls Dollar Bond Sale as Cheung Kong Notes Fall
-- B y   R a c h e l   E v a n s   a n d   T a n y a   A n g e r e r
-- 2013-01-17T08:07:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-17/kwg-property-pulls-dollar-bond-sale-as-cheung-kong-notes-fall.html
KWG Property Holding Ltd. (1813)  pulled an
offering of U.S. dollar-denominated bonds and notes sold by
 Cheung Kong Holdings Ltd. (1)  fell in their first day of trading.
Yield premiums in Asia rose.  KWG Property, the Hong Kong-listed developer whose projects
include the five-star Sheraton Huadu Resort in  Guangzhou , has
“temporarily canceled” a planned sale of perpetual securities
and will monitor the market, said Roger Law, vice president of
finance at the company. Undated debt sold at par yesterday by
Cheung Kong, controlled by Asia’s richest man  Li Ka-shing , fell
as low as 96 cents on the dollar today and was quoted at 97.5 as
of 12:56 p.m. in Hong Kong, BNP Paribas SA prices show.  Companies in Asia outside of  Japan  sold $3 billion of debt
yesterday, the most since May, as emerging-market bond funds
attracted the largest amount of money since the beginning of
2012 in the week to Jan. 9, according to EPFR Global. The
average yield  premium  issuers in the region pay to sell dollar
notes rose 6 basis points to 257 basis points yesterday, the
biggest one-day increase since Nov. 8, JPMorgan Chase & Co.
indexes show.  “The pulling of KWG’s deal suggests investors are starting
to take a closer look at structural considerations,” said Mark Reade, a Hong Kong-based credit desk analyst at Credit Agricole
CIB. “It’s positive for Asian credit markets’ long term
survival.”  Agile Bonds  Agile Property Holdings Ltd. (3383)  issued Asia’s first perpetual
dollar bonds of the year on Jan. 11. Developers Guangzhou R&F
Properties Co. and Yuexiu Property Co. sold dollar bonds
yesterday, with the former raising $400 million via notes due
2020 and Yuexiu selling $850 million of debt in a two-tranche
offering, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Thai Oil Pcl (TOP)  is offering 10-year bonds at a spread of about
210 basis points more than Treasuries and 30-year notes at about
a 225 basis-point premium, a separate person said. This would be
the oil refiner’s first dollar security since 2005, Bloomberg
data show.  KBC Bank NV, a unit of Belgium-based lender  KBC Groep NV (KBC) ,
is also marketing a sale of U.S. currency 10-year subordinated
notes at a yield around the mid-8 percent area, a person
familiar with the matter said today.  KWG Property had planned to sell securities that it could
opt to buy back after 5 1/2 years, a person familiar with the
matter said on Jan. 15. If it didn’t, the coupon was to reset
based on prevailing five-year Treasuries and every five years
after, and increase 25 basis points after 10 1/2 years with a
further 75 basis-point rise after 20 1/2 years, according to the
person.  ‘No Urgency’  “Right now, the company doesn’t have any urgency for the
financing,” KWG’s Law said in a telephone interview today. The
company raised $400 million from a sale of  bonds  in March last
year and has the equivalent of $1.03 billion of bonds and loans
outstanding, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Cheung Kong sold $500 million of perpetual bonds at 5.375
percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The coupon on
Cheung Kong’s bonds will be fixed for life even if the notes,
which can be bought back by the company after five years, aren’t
called, the data show.  Private banks bought 60 percent of the notes, according to
a person familiar with the matter, who asked not to be
identified because the details are private.  Credit Risk  The Markit iTraxx Asia index of 40 investment-grade
borrowers outside Japan decreased two basis points to 109 basis
points as of 8:19 a.m. in Hong Kong, according to Royal Bank of
Scotland Group Plc prices. The measure has declined 4.4 basis
points this year, after sliding 93 in 2012, according to data
provider CMA.  The Markit iTraxx Japan index was trading at 143.5 basis
points as of 4:46 p.m. in  Tokyo , Citigroup Inc. prices show. The
benchmark closed at 142.8 yesterday, according to CMA, which is
owned by McGraw-Hill Cos. and compiles prices quoted by dealers
in the privately negotiated market.  The Markit iTraxx Australia index was little changed at 116
as of 11:20 a.m. in Sydney, according to National Australia Bank
Ltd. prices. The gauge has retreated 11.5 since Dec. 31,
extending a 53 basis-point drop in 2012, CMA data show.  Credit-default swap indexes are benchmarks for insuring
bonds against default and traders use them to speculate on
credit quality. A drop signals improving perceptions of
creditworthiness, while an increase suggests the opposite.  The swap contracts pay the buyer face value in exchange for
the underlying securities if a borrower fails to meet its debt
agreements.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rachel Evans in Hong Kong at 
 revans43@bloomberg.net ;
Tanya Angerer in Singapore at 
 tangerer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shelley Smith at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  