-- N.Z. Consumer Prices Unexpectedly Fall 0.2%; Kiwi Retreats
-- B y   T r a c y   W i t h e r s
-- 2013-01-18T03:59:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-17/n-z-consumer-prices-unexpectedly-fall-0-2-kiwi-retreats.html
New Zealand ’s consumer prices
unexpectedly fell last quarter amid a sluggish economy and
cheaper imports, giving the central bank scope to prolong a
period of record-low  interest rates . The local currency slumped.  Consumer  prices  declined 0.2 percent from the third
quarter, when they rose 0.3 percent,  Statistics New Zealand  said
in Wellington today. The central bank expected a 0.1 percent
rise, as did economists according to the median estimate in a
Bloomberg News survey of 12 analysts. From a year earlier,
prices gained 0.9 percent compared with economists’ prediction
for a 1.2 percent advance.  The central bank last month forecast annual inflation will
rise slowly in the next two years to 2 percent, the midpoint of
its target range.  Reserve Bank  Governor Graeme Wheeler said Dec.
6 he will be monitoring the housing market, where prices are
appreciating, and the reconstruction in earthquake-damaged
Christchurch for signs of emerging inflation.  “Absent the rebuild and perkiness across the housing
market, the case for a lower cash rate would be solid,”  Mark Smith , senior economist at ANZ Bank New Zealand Ltd. in
Wellington, said in an e-mailed note. “However, both present
risks to the medium-term outlook for inflation. The odds remain
tilted toward the next move being up as opposed to down.”  Weaker Kiwi  New Zealand’s dollar bought 83.52 U.S. cents as of 4:10
p.m. in Wellington from 84.17 cents immediately before the
report. Traders were pricing in a 15 percent chance of a rate
reduction by July, according to swaps data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Prices were restrained last year by weak domestic demand
and the New Zealand dollar’s 6.6 percent gain, which made
imports cheaper.  The  Reserve Bank of New Zealand  has kept the official cash
rate at 2.5 percent since March 2011, and 14 of 16 economists
surveyed by  Bloomberg News  predicted no policy change before
June 30.  ASB Bank Ltd. today revised its forecast rate rise to March
2014 from December, saying a pick-up in the economic recovery
has been delayed and the currency will stay stronger for longer.  “Though construction costs in Canterbury are clearly
rising, the acceleration has tapered off,” said ASB Bank senior
economist  Jane Turner . “Importantly, spillover effects to the
rest of the country are absent. That lack of spillover to wider
inflation will give the RBNZ comfort.”  Inflation Target  The central bank on Dec. 6 forecast annual inflation would
pick up gradually in 2013, reaching 1.6 percent by the fourth
quarter and 2 percent by early 2015. Wheeler signed an agreement
with Finance Minister  Bill English  requiring the bank to keep
annual inflation in a 1 percent to 3 percent range, with a focus
on the 2 percent midpoint.  New Zealand’s economy grew 2 percent in the year through
September, slowing from a 2.5 percent pace through June, as the
currency’s gains crimped manufacturing. Still, sluggish growth
may be temporary amid signs of a pick-up in rebuilding of
earthquake-damaged Christchurch and a rise in  consumer
confidence  in the fourth quarter that may revive domestic
demand.  In the fourth quarter, the main influences on inflation
were lower vegetable, furniture, telecommunication services and
fuel prices, while international airfares and package holiday
costs increased, today’s report showed.  Core Prices  Wheeler’s primary focus is on non-tradable inflation, a
core measure of prices not influenced by currency fluctuations
and fuel.  Non-tradable prices increased 0.3 percent from the third
quarter, the statistics agency said. The measure gained 2.5
percent from a year earlier, accelerating from 2.3 percent
through September. The central bank forecast a 2.6 percent pace.  Property maintenance, housing rents and medical fees led
the rise in non-tradable inflation in the quarter, the agency
said. The cost of purchasing a new home, which reflects
construction expenses, also gained. The price of phone and
Internet services declined.  Prices of so-called tradable items fell 0.7 percent from
the third quarter as vegetable, gasoline and dairy prices
declined, the report showed. Furniture and appliance prices fell
as more retailers applied discounts, the agency said.  From a year earlier, tradable prices dropped 1 percent. The
central bank forecast a 0.6 percent annual fall.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tracy Withers in Wellington at 
 twithers@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  