-- Nasdaq Merges Technology, Shareholder Units, Hires CIO
-- B y   [ b n : P R S N = 1 7 2 0 9 5 0 ]   N a n d i n i   S u k u m a r   [ ]
-- 2013-01-17T16:19:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-17/nasdaq-merges-technology-shareholder-units-hires-cio.html
     Jan. 17 (Bloomberg) -- Nasdaq OMX Group Inc. (NDAQ) , the second-
largest U.S. equity market operator, said it’s combining two
technology units that provide advisory services to exchanges and
research on company shareholders.  The New York-based company will merge its market technology
and corporate solutions divisions, with the business led by Anna Ewing, the executive vice president of global technology
solutions, according to an e-mailed statement. Nasdaq OMX named
Bradley Peterson global chief information officer starting Feb.
6. Peterson, who held the position at Charles Schwab, will
report to Ewing who previously held the title.  Nasdaq, trying to expand its business beyond securities
transactions, said the reorganization will help integrate units
it is purchasing from Thomson Reuters Corp. that provide
investor and public relations products. The purchase will boost
 Nasdaq ’s software revenue to more than $500 million, Chief
Executive Officer Robert Greifeld said in an interview today.  “We wanted a proper organizational structure in place,”
he said. “Anna Ewing has taken responsibility for this major
integration effort.”  Market Technology  Nasdaq’s market technology division sells technology and
advisory services to more than 70 markets, clearing
organizations and central securities depositories in more than
50 countries. Corporate solutions provides products and services
for market intelligence to identify, target and communicate with
shareholders.  The computerized infrastructure of American capital markets
has come under increased scrutiny after a series of breakdowns
in the past year, including Nasdaq OMX’s mishandling of Facebook
Inc.’s initial public offering. Bats Global Markets Inc. and
 Knight Capital Group Inc. (KCG)  experienced mishaps.  Nasdaq in December bought a 25 percent stake in The Order
Machine, a Dutch alternative securities-trading system focused
on stocks and equity derivatives. The exchange will operate
TOM’s market and has an eight-year contract to provide trading
technology.  Bloomberg LP, the parent of Bloomberg News, competes with
 Thomson Reuters  in selling financial and legal information and
trading systems.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nandini Sukumar in London at 
 nsukumar@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net ;
Chris Nagi at 
 chrisnagi@bloomberg.net  