-- Natural Gas Jumps to 6-Week High on Above-Forecast Supply Drop
-- B y   N a u r e e n   S .   M a l i k
-- 2013-01-17T20:38:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-17/natural-gas-declines-on-outlook-for-below-average-supply-drop.html
Natural gas futures jumped to the
highest price in almost six weeks after a government report
showed a bigger-than-expected U.S. inventory decline.  Gas rose 1.7 percent after the Energy Information
Administration said  stockpiles  fell 148 billion cubic feet last
week to 3.168 trillion.  Analyst estimates  compiled by Bloomberg
showed a decrease of 139 billion. Supplies were 4.4 percent
below year-earlier levels, the  widest deficit  in 17 months.
Frigid Northeast and Midwest weather may boost demand next week.  “It’s a supportive report,” said  Stephen Schork ,
president of Schork Group Inc., a consulting group in Villanova,
 Pennsylvania . “The current weather and weather forecasts for
key gas-consuming areas for the weeks ahead are supportive of
prices.”  Natural gas for February delivery increased 5.9 cents to
$3.494 per million British thermal units on the  New York
Mercantile Exchange , the highest settlement price since Dec. 7.
Trading volume was 34 percent above the 100-day average at 2:54
p.m. Gas has climbed 40 percent from a year ago.  April $4.50 calls were the most active gas options in
electronic trading. They were 0.1 cent higher at 1 cent on
volume of 6,760 contracts as of 2:53 p.m. Calls accounted for 47
percent of options volume.  Weather Outlook  Forecast models show there will be a “bigger cold
outbreak” sweeping across the Northeastern, mid-Atlantic and
Midwestern states from Jan. 22 through Jan. 26, according to
Commodity Weather Group LLC in Gaithersburg,  Maryland .  The low in  New York City  on Jan. 22 may be 19 degrees
Fahrenheit (minus 7 Celsius), 8 below the usual reading, and
 Chicago  will drop to 13 degrees, 5 below normal, according to
AccuWeather Inc. in  State College , Pennsylvania.  About 50 percent of U.S. households use gas for heating,
EIA data show.  Colder weather will result in bigger inventory declines,
“which is going to eat into the surplus,” said Brad Florer, a
trader at Kottke Associates LLC in Louisville,  Kentucky .  The stockpile decline last week was 7 billion cubic feet a
day larger than weather-based modeling would suggest, mostly
driven by increased demand from power generators favoring this
fuel over coal, Aaron Calder, senior market analyst at Gelber &
Associates in Houston, said in a note to clients today.
Production was cut by 1 billion a day because of well freeze-
offs in the San Juan Basin in  Colorado  and  New Mexico , he said.  The “expansive nature” of this fuel switching implies the
recent gain in gas futures will not entirely eliminate it, he
said in the note.  Stockpile Surplus  A supply  surplus  to the five-year average increased to 11.1
percent during the week ended Jan. 11 from 10.7 percent the
previous week, according to today’s report.  The surplus was down from a six-year high of 61 percent at
the end of March. Record demand from electricity generators
during an unusually hot summer and fuel switching from coal
helped reduce the glut.  The EIA estimates that gas demand from  power plants  will
slump 8.4 percent to average 22.87 Billion cubic feet per day in
2013 from a record 24.97 billion last year, according to the
Jan. 8  Short-Term Energy Outlook .  January typically accounts for 25 percent of heating demand
followed by February at 22.6 percent and December at 20.8
percent, according to Teri Viswanath, director of commodities
strategy at BNP Paribas SA in  New York   ’Infrequent’ Cold  Viswanath cut her outlook for 2013 gas prices by 50 cents
to $3.50 per million Btu from a previous forecast of $4 in
November. The reduction came because of high inventory levels
and “infrequent outbreaks of cold weather” so far this winter,
she said in a Jan. 15 note to clients.  The weather in the lower 48 states was the warmest in
records going back to 1895 and the second-worst for weather
extremes including drought, hurricanes and wildfires, according
to the  National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration .  Gas production  in the contiguous states rose to a record
73.54 billion cubic feet a day in October, up 0.4 percent from a
revised 73.22 billion the previous month, according to the
monthly  EIA-914 report  on Jan. 7.  Output gains have been driven by drilling technologies,
such as hydraulic fracturing, or fracking, that have made it
more economical to extract gas from shale deposits including the
Marcellus in the Northeast.  The boom in oil and natural gas production helped the U.S.
cut its reliance on imported fuel. America met 83 percent of its
energy needs in the first nine months of last year, government
data show. If the trend goes on through 2012, it will be the
highest level of self-sufficiency since 1991.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Naureen S. Malik in New York at 
 Nmalik28@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  