-- NBA Players Should Consider Replacing Billy Hunter, Report Says
-- B y   S c o t t   S o s h n i c k
-- 2013-01-18T05:00:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-17/nba-players-should-consider-replacing-boss-hunter-report-finds.html
National Basketball Association
players should consider replacing  Billy Hunter  as their union
chief after he focused on personal interests ahead of the
organization, New York law firm Paul, Weiss, Rifkind, Wharton &
Garrison said after a nine-month investigation.  Hunter, 70, didn’t do anything illegal, the law firm said.
It said he failed to manage conflicts of interest and hid the
fact that his contract as  executive director  of the National
Basketball Players Association wasn’t properly approved.  “Mr. Hunter’s actions have also called into question his
stewardship of union resources, reflected poor judgment or
raised serious doubts about his interest in policies and
procedures to protect the union’s interests,” Paul, Weiss said
in the report.  The firm said in a statement that it reviewed thousands of
documents, including financial and governance records and e-
mail. It said it also interviewed more than three dozen people,
including union employees, vendors and executive committee
members.  ‘Nothing Criminal’  Hunter, who took over the union in 1996, said in an e-
mailed statement that he was pleased the 229-page  report 
“recognized that I have not engaged in criminal acts nor was I
involved in misappropriation of union funds.”  “Through the benefit of hindsight, as with any executive,
there are always things that could have been done better,”
Hunter said. “But on the major issue, I am pleased that this
report has confirmed what I have always known and said -- I did
nothing illegal.”  A special union committee retained the  law firm  in April to
investigate claims of nepotism, conflicts of interest and
potential misuse of association funds.  Theodore V. Wells Jr., co-chair of the litigation
department at Paul, Weiss who led the investigation, said in a
statement that Hunter wasn’t given an advance copy of the firm’s
findings.  “This has been a truly independent review,” he said.  The report said player representatives and the union’s
executive committee should decide at next month’s All-Star
weekend to reject Hunter’s contract and search for a new
executive director or properly approve a new agreement.  Invalid Contract  The report said Hunter knowingly failed to inform the
executive committee and player representatives that his five-
year, $15 million contract extension in 2010 wasn’t properly
approved.  “Although we cannot guarantee that a court would agree, in
our judgment the union has no obligation to accept Mr. Hunter’s
current contract as valid or enforceable,” the report said.
“We believe that the circumstances of the contract’s formation
and the lack of proper approval cast serious doubt on Mr.
Hunter’s ability to enforce it.”  Hunter said the accord is legitimate.  “It was ratified by the NBPA executive committee and
signed by President  Derek Fisher ,” Hunter said. “I believe the
contract and extensions are valid. I am pleased to discuss with
the player representative board any concerns about my
contract.”  Government Probe  The U.S. Attorney’s Office in  Manhattan  began an
investigation into the union after Fisher asked for independent
reviews of the association’s finances and business practices.  Fisher said in an e-mailed statement yesterday that he was
“looking forward to reviewing today’s report, findings and
recommendations.”  “As there is an ongoing investigation by the government as
well, I hope that this is a chance for us to become an
upstanding, strong organization with the sole purpose of serving
the best interests of current and future players,” Fisher said.  Hunter has a daughter and daughter-in-law on staff at the
New York-based association. Another daughter is special counsel
at a law firm used by the union, and Hunter’s son is a principal
at Prim Capital, a financial planning and investment company
that advises the union on investments and runs its financial
awareness program for players.  The union paid at least $4.8 million to Hunter’s family
members and their professional firms since 2001, according to
public records.  Anti-Nepotism Policy  The report says the union should consider including an
anti-nepotism policy that prohibits the employment of immediate
family members of NBPA employees, directors or officers. Such a
rule would stop the union from continuing to employ Hunter’s
daughter and daughter-in-law. The union also should bar vendors
who employ immediate family members, according to the report.  In addition, the union should consider dropping Prim
Capital, which didn’t cooperate fully with the investigation,
Paul, Weis said in the report.  “Prior to the report’s issuance, the NBPA began
implementation of some of the recommendations suggested,
including a revised hiring policy and a new anti-nepotism
policy,” Hunter said.  Jerome Williams, a former union executive committee member
who is now retired, said via telephone that he doesn’t know
whether Hunter can survive the findings of the report.  “It’ll depend on the relationships with the guys,” he
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Soshnick in  New York  at 
 ssoshnick@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  