-- Nestle Joins KBC in Selling Dollar Bonds as Rio Tinto Tumbles
-- B y   A b i g a i l   M o s e s
-- 2013-01-17T11:22:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-17/nestle-joins-kbc-in-selling-dollar-bonds-as-rio-tinto-tumbles.html
Nestle SA (NESN)  and Belgian lender KBC
Bank NV are selling benchmark-sized bonds in dollars as  Rio
Tinto  Group notes dropped after the miner said it will take a
$14 billion writedown for failed deals.  Nestle’s securities due July 2018 are its first in the U.S.
currency since October when the Vevey, Switzerland-based food
maker issued bonds paying a coupon of 1.25 percent. KBC is
selling 10-year contingent notes designed to be written off if
the bank’s capital falls below a preset level.  Sales of dollar bonds by European borrowers are rising with
companies including Intesa Sanpaolo SpA and Daimler AG raising
$26 billion this month, a 42 percent jump from the total for all
of January last year, data compiled by Bloomberg show. London-
based Rio’s Chief Executive Officer Tom Albanese is leaving
after the writedowns the miner’s aluminum and coal businesses.  “Whilst these are non-cash charges, they are a negative
for the credit as they underline the difficult operating
environment and point to a more challenging cash flow generation
environment,” Aengus McMahon, an analyst at ING Groep NV in
 London , wrote in a note to investors.  Rio’s 2 percent bonds due 2020 fell 0.9 percent, leading
declines in Bank of America Merrill Lynch’s Euro Corporates
Index and pushing the yield on the notes up 13 basis points to
2.08 percent.  Credit-default swaps on Rio rose six basis points to 90,
the highest since Dec. 5, according to Bloomberg data at 10 a.m.
in London. Contracts on Nestle rose two basis points to 31, the
highest since Nov. 29, and KBC was unchanged at 170.  Yankee Issuance  This month’s sales of dollar-denominated bonds by European
issuers compares with $19 billion for all of January last year
and $9.5 billion issued last month.  Ardagh Group SA, the packaging company buying Cie. de
Saint-Gobain SA’s U.S. glass bottle unit, sold $1.6 billion of
high-yield bonds in dollars and euros yesterday.  The cost of insuring against default on European corporate
debt fell. Contracts on the Markit iTraxx Crossover Index of
credit-default swaps on 50 companies with mostly high-yield
credit ratings decreased 4 basis points to 424.  The Markit iTraxx Europe Index of 125 companies with
investment-grade ratings was little changed at 104 basis points.
The Markit iTraxx Financial Index linked to senior debt of 25
banks and insurers decreased one basis point to 132 and the
subordinated index fell two to 216.  A basis point on a credit-default swap protecting 10
million euros ($13 million) of debt from default for five years
is equivalent to 1,000 euros a year. Swaps pay the buyer face
value in exchange for the underlying securities or the cash
equivalent should a borrower fail to adhere to its debt
agreements.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Abigail Moses in London at 
 Amoses5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Armstrong  at 
 Parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  