-- Nigerian December Inflation Slows to 12% as Flood Impact Recedes
-- B y   M a r a m   M a z e n
-- 2013-01-17T08:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-17/nigerian-december-inflation-slows-to-12-as-flood-impact-recedes.html
Nigeria ’s  inflation  rate fell in
December for the first time in three months as the effects of
flooding that damaged agricultural output began to recede.  Inflation in  Africa ’s largest oil producer slowed from 12.3
percent in November, the Abuja-based  National Bureau of
Statistics  said today in an e-mailed report. Prices rose 0.8
percent in the month.  Core inflation , which excludes agricultural products, rose
13.7 percent in December from a year earlier, compared with 13.1
percent in the previous month, the second consecutive month in
which the measure “deviated from the downward trend it
exhibited” since July, the statistics bureau said.  Nigeria’s two biggest rivers, the Niger and the Benue,
overflowed their banks last year, killing 363 people between
July and October, according to the National Emergency Management
Agency. Farming communities along river banks experienced the
worst damage.  Food prices, which account for more than half of the
 consumer price index , rose 10.2 percent in December from a year
earlier, down from 11.6 percent in November, the statistics
bureau said. Prices rose in October and November from the impact
of flooding between July and October, according to the
statistics office.  While the risk of accelerating food inflation has been high
since the floods, other factors for rising prices include
housing, water, electricity and fuel costs, the central bank’s
Monetary Policy Committee said in November. The inflation rate
was expected to rise in December before easing toward 10 percent
in January, Governor Lamido Sanusi said.  The central bank kept its benchmark  interest rate  unchanged
at 12 percent in November to curb inflation and support the
country’s currency, the naira.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maram Mazen in Abuja at 
 mmazen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nasreen Seria at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net  