-- Nordic Papermakers Call for Shredding Sulfur Limits
-- B y   J a n i n a   P f a l z e r
-- 2013-01-17T23:00:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-17/nordic-papermakers-call-for-shredding-sulfur-limits.html
Nordic papermakers accounting for a
fifth of global output are fighting curbs on  sulfur  emissions
from ships in the Baltic Sea that they say will make transport
costs higher than for rivals in regions where limits are lower.  Rules adopted by the  International Maritime Organization 
mean it will become cheaper to ship pulp to Rotterdam from
 Brazil  than northern Sweden, said Jan Johansson, chief executive
officer of  Svenska Cellulosa AB (SCAB) ,  Europe ’s top tissue producer.
SCA runs a fleet of vessels that must also sail via the North
Sea, another area affected by the curbs, to reach end markets.  Directives aimed at stemming air pollution from ships say
the amount of sulfur used in fuel in the two European seas and
waters off North America must be cut to 0.1 percent from 1
percent by Jan. 1, 2015, versus 3.5 percent elsewhere. Sweden
exports 85 percent of its forest products, prompting companies
including  Holmen AB (HOLMB)  to seek a delay in the steps until 2020.  “I just don’t get why we are making a rod for our own
back,” Holmen CEO Magnus Hall said in an interview. “We are
talking competitiveness, welfare and GDP growth prospects.”  A jump in costs would weigh on an industry struggling to
make money as Europe’s debt crisis dents demand.  UPM-Kymmene Oyj (UPM1V) 
of  Finland , the region’s No. 2 papermaker, said yesterday that
writedowns and charges clipped fourth-quarter profit by 1.6
billion euros ($2.1 billion), and Nordic stock performances are
also lagging behind those of competitors in the tropics.  Brazil Surge  SCA has gained 35 percent in the past six months and Holmen
is up 5.8 percent, versus jumps of almost 70 percent at  Fibria
Celulose SA (FIBR3)  of Brazil, the largest pulp producer, and close to
90 percent at  Suzano Papel e Celulose SA , the country’s No. 2.  The  European Union , where the rules were enacted on Dec.
17, says tighter curbs are necessary to improve public health
and protect fragile ecosystems. Ship emissions increase the risk
of conditions such as chronic bronchitis and lung cancer and
cause 50,000 premature deaths a year in Europe, according to a
study by  Denmark ’s Centre for Energy, Environment and Health.  Exporters face a 28 billion-krona ($4.3 billion) increase
in costs in  Sweden  alone, including 13 billion kronor in higher
fuel bills, SCA’s Johansson estimates. Holmen, Europe’s fourth-
largest producer of publication paper, fears an additional 150
million kronor in annual fuel expenses, Hall estimates.  Dedicated Fleet  Foreign trade accounts for half of Sweden’s gross domestic
product, and with only a single road to mainland Europe, the
 Oeresund Bridge  to Denmark, about 90 percent of goods go by sea.  At SCA, half of total volumes are carried in three roll-on
roll-off ships measuring 170 meters (558 feet) long and with a
capacity of 8,200 tons, plus a single container carrier.  Operated by Stockholm-based  SCA’s Transforest  shipping
unit, the vessels load up twice a week in Umeaa and Sundsvall,
north of the capital, and sail to Rotterdam and  London , where
their cargo is disgorged for transfer to ports around the world.
A second route serves  Germany  via the Baltic harbor of Luebeck.  Ships outside the designated areas must cut the sulfur
content of fuel to only 0.5 percent by 2020, the IMO regulations
say. That may hand an advantage to Brazil’s Fibria and Suzano.  Tropical producers are already squeezing European companies
by tapping a longer annual growing season that means eucalyptus
trees can be harvested after eight years, compared with 50 for
pines. Some European papermakers including Helsinki-based  Stora
Enso Oyj (STEAV) , the biggest in the region, and UPM have added mills
and plantations in South America to help counter the threat.  ‘Modest’  International Paper Co. (IP) , the No. 1 U.S. papermaker, has a
far bigger home market than the Nordic producers and does not
operate its own ships. The Memphis, Tennessee-based company
estimates the cost of the sulfur regulations at less than $1
million dollars spread over 3 million export tons.  “While we do not like to see any of our costs rise, the
increase for low-sulfur fuel is relatively modest,”
International Paper spokesman Tom Ryan said in an e-mail. “Our
exports would only be partially affected for the portion of time
that our ocean carrier ships would be on U.S. or EU waters.”  The variation in charges means Nordic companies couldn’t
raise prices to pass higher expenses to customers without losing
market share, leaving cost cutting as the only option at a time
when operations are already being slashed, Johansson said.  SCA said Dec. 19 it would cut two sawmills and 200 posts at
the forest-products unit after announcing 1,500 job cuts at its
hygiene operations the previous month. Net income at the company
fell 72 percent to 356 million kronor in the third quarter while
dropping 27 percent to 249 million kronor at Holmen.  Scrubbers, LPG  Operators can comply with the IMO directive in three ways;
using low-sulfur fuel oil in the restricted zones, fitting ships
with exhaust-gas cleaning systems or “scrubbers,” and
switching to propellants such as liquid natural gas. The first
two steps are more costly, and Baltic ports generally don’t
supply LPG.  Lobbying has so far fallen on deaf ears, according to Hall
and Johansson, with a letter dated June 29 to Swedish Prime
Minister Fredrik Reinfeldt receiving no reply. Another from
Confederation of Swedish Enterprise Chief Urban Baeckstroem in
October was also ignored, his spokesman,  Peter Isling  said.  The letters were forwarded to the  Environment Ministry ,
Reinfeldt’s spokesman  Daniel Valiollahi  said by phone. Erik
Bratthall, a spokesman for Environment Minister Lena Ek, whose
Centre Party describes itself as “green social liberal,”
didn’t respond to e-mails, phone calls or text messages.  Exemption  Sweden could, in collaboration with other EU countries,
apply to the London-based IMO for an exemption from the rules,
 Karolina Boholm , director of transport at the Swedish Forest
Industries Federation, said in an e-mail. This has to be done by
March, and companies can’t apply individually, she said.  IMO spokesman Lee Adamson said the measures it adopts
always originate from countries in whose waters they will apply,
and become law only with the force of national or EU law.  Johansson said a campaign by ministers to scrap a ban on
exports of  snus , a Swedish tobacco powder consumed by placing it
under the lip, is an example how aggressively the government
should handle the IMO regulations.  “When you look at how much Sweden is fighting for snuff
you wish someone would fight like that for us too,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Janina Pfalzer in Stockholm  at 
 jpfalzer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Simon Thiel at   sthiel1@bloomberg.net ;
Benedikt Kammel at   bkammel@bloomberg.net  