-- Norwegian Cruise Line Seeking IPO Value Matching Rivals
-- B y   L e e   S p e a r s
-- 2013-01-17T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-17/norwegian-cruise-line-seeking-ipo-value-matching-rivals.html
Norwegian Cruise Line Holdings Ltd.
is seeking a valuation for its initial public offering that’s in
line with peers even as it carries almost double the debt
relative to earnings as its largest rival.  The company, whose owners include  Apollo Global Management
LLC (APO) , is seeking as much as $424 million in its IPO to pay down
debt,  regulatory filings  show. The midpoint of the price range
would give Norwegian an enterprise value of about $5.97 billion,
or 11 times earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization in the year through September, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. That compares with 10 times Ebitda for
 Royal Caribbean Cruises Ltd. (RCL)  and 12 for Carnival Corp.  Norwegian is tapping the public market to help repay debt
that hasn’t changed much in the five years since its owners
partnered with Apollo to reduce leverage and expand. At the same
time, Norwegian’s share of the cruise market is no larger than
10 percent, compared with as much as 50 percent for  Carnival (CCL)  and
40 percent for Royal Caribbean, according to Morningstar Inc.
This makes it more difficult to compete, according to Jaime Katz, a Morningstar analyst in  Chicago .  “They’re a  smaller player  and obviously not a price setter
in the business, so they’re at the mercy of Royal and Carnival’s
pricing strategy,” Katz said in a telephone interview. Also,
with less capacity than Carnival, and fewer itineraries, it has
less flexibility to respond to changing market conditions or
route popularity in an industry that is vulnerable to economic
cycles and consumer sentiment, she said.  Reducing Debt  Norwegian is selling all of the stock in the IPO,
representing a 12 percent stake, and plans to use the proceeds
to reduce borrowings to $2.6 billion from almost $3 billion,
filings show. A representative for Norwegian didn’t immediately
return a call outside normal business hours seeking comment.  New York-based Apollo and  Fort Worth , Texas-based TPG
Capital together paid $1 billion for half of the cruise line’s
equity in January 2008 to help reduce debt, which at the time
totaled $3.2 billion, filings show. The firms later invested $50
million more, without changing their percentage ownership.  Norwegian’s ratio of total debt to trailing 12-month Ebitda
of $539 million will be about 4.88 after the IPO, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg, compared with 2.66 for Carnival.
Miami-based Norwegian previously filed in October 2010 for a
$250 million IPO, before scrapping the plans in July 2011, the
data show.  Apollo will own about 33 percent of Norwegian after the
IPO, and TPG will own about 11 percent, filings show. Genting
Hong Kong Ltd., which owned the cruise line before the private-
equity firms’ investment, will hold 44 percent after the
offering.  Carnival, Royal  The midpoint of the IPO  price range  would value all of
Norwegian’s outstanding stock at $3.4 billion and Apollo’s and
TPG’s stake at $1.5 billion, representing a 43 percent paper
gain from the investment, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Since January 2008, when Apollo completed its investment in
Norwegian, Carnival and Royal Caribbean, both based in Miami,
have lagged the broader U.S. stock market. Carnival’s share
price has fallen about 13 percent, and Royal Caribbean’s is down
12 percent, while the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index has gained
less than 2 percent.  Norwegian, led by Chief Executive Officer Kevin Sheehan,
operates 11 ships and plans to expand with several more over the
next few years, according to the company’s filings. Norwegian
generated $2.26 billion in revenue in the 12 months through
September. The company operates trips to destinations including
 Europe ,  Alaska , Bermuda and  Hawaii .  Carnival, the biggest cruise operator, with routes in  North
America , Europe,  Asia  and  Australia , has about 100 ships,
according to the company’s  website .  New Ships  By doing its offering now, Norwegian may be trying to take
advantage of a pickup in demand for cruises as it introduces new
ships to its fleet. Yield -- a measure of revenue that takes
into account ship capacity and time spent on cruises -- was
little changed at Norwegian last year, while Carnival and Royal
Caribbean saw decreases of 3 percent to 4 percent, said Steven Wieczynski, an analyst at Stifel Financial Corp.  Yield this year at the larger competitors is expected to
increase 2 percent to 4 percent, and Norwegian will keep pace,
Wieczynski said. Norwegian advertises casual-attire cruises with
flexible dining times to attract a diverse clientele and
increase on-board spending, according to the company’s filing.  ‘Strong Increases’  “They’re seeing very strong increases in demand,”
Wieczynski said. “They’ve done a good job of drawing that
customer on board who has never taken a cruise.”  Still, Norwegian’s size relative to competitors can be a
disadvantage, Morningstar’s Katz said, because larger cruise
lines have more flexibility to react to events that hit demand
for the trips.  “The cruise industry is very cyclical,” Katz said.
Carnival “has more itineraries and ability to redeploy in the
marketplace.”  The shares will be listed on the Nasdaq Stock Market under
the symbol NCLH. UBS AG and Barclays Plc are leading the
offering.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lee Spears in  New York  at 
 lspears3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeffrey McCracken at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net  