-- Notre Dame Says Te'o Fooled Into Believing Online Friend Died
-- B y   N a n c y   K e r c h e v a l
-- 2013-01-17T05:00:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-17/notre-dame-s-te-o-says-was-fooled-about-online-friend-her-death.html
Heisman Trophy finalist Manti Te’o
was fooled into believing a woman he met online and developed a
friendship with had died, the  University of Notre Dame  said.  Te’o was the victim of “what appears to be a hoax in which
someone using the fictitious name Lennay Kekua apparently
ingratiated herself with Manti and then conspired with others to
lead him to believe she had tragically died of leukemia,” the
school said in a statement last night.  Deadspin.com  reported that it could find no record of
Kekua. There was no record of her death with the  Social Security
Administration , and no obituary or funeral announcement, the
website said.  Stanford University , which she was supposed to
have attended, has no record of her registration, it said.  “This is incredibly embarrassing to talk about but, over
an extended period of time, I developed an emotional
relationship with a woman I met online,” Te’o said in a
statement. “To realize that I was the victim of what was
apparently someone’s sick joke and constant lies was, and is,
painful and humiliating.”  Notre Dame  hired an investigative firm after also finding
no evidence the woman was real, Athletic Director Jack Swarbrick
said.  “Nothing about what I have learned has shaken my faith in
Manti Te’o one iota,” Swarbrick said last night during a news
conference.  Kekua supposedly died in September, the same week as Te’o’s
grandmother.  BCS Defeat  The Fighting Irish went undefeated during the season until
the Bowl Championship Series title game on Jan. 7, which they
lost 42-14 to  Alabama .  Te’o in December finished second in voting for the Heisman
Trophy to Texas A&M quarterback Johnny Manziel. He received the
Nagurski Award as college football’s best defensive player and
the Butkus Award as the nation’s top linebacker. Having
graduated, he’s now preparing for the National Football League
draft.  “Fortunately, I have many wonderful things in my life and
I’m looking forward to putting this painful experience behind me
as I focus on preparing for the  NFL draft ,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nancy Kercheval in Washington at 
 nkercheval@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  