-- NYC Schools Lose $450 Million as Teacher-Eval Deal Fails
-- B y   H e n r y   G o l d m a n
-- 2013-01-18T15:16:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-17/nyc-schools-may-lose-450-million-as-evaluation-deadline-looms.html
New York City schools lost $450
million in state and federal aid after a midnight deadline
passed without a deal between Mayor  Michael Bloomberg  and the
teachers union on an evaluation system.  “The city is not going to get the funding, and it’s a
tragedy,” Governor  Andrew Cuomo  said today on WOR Radio in New
York. “They both failed. We needed an agreement, and now the
education system in the city is going to suffer.”  Bloomberg said yesterday the union added a last-minute
demand that the evaluation process expire after two years, which
he said wouldn’t be enough time to dismiss a failing teacher. He
said that whenever the sides were close, the union “moved the
finish line.” Michael Mulgrew, president of the  United
Federation of Teachers , said the mayor “blew up the deal.”  “Despite the involvement of state officials, we could not
put it back together,” Mulgrew said yesterday at a news
briefing at the union’s lower Manhattan headquarters.  At stake was $250 million in state aid and another $200
million in potential grants related to President  Barack Obama ’s
Race to the Top education program. New York City, with the
largest U.S. school system, employs about 75,000 teachers and
educates 1.1 million students on a $19.7 billion annual budget.  Much Blame  “There’s no shortage of blame to go around, and,
unfortunately, the kids are the big losers,” Micah Lasher,
executive director of StudentsFirstNY, an advocacy group, said
in a statement. Children “will lose out because the adults
couldn’t stop fighting and get their acts together,” he said.  Cuomo set the midnight deadline for the state’s 700 school
districts to submit teacher-evaluation plans. About 98 percent
of the systems reached agreements with their teachers, he said.  “There will be no extensions or exceptions,” the 55-year-
old Democrat said yesterday.  The two sides in  New York City  met for the past six weeks
and had agreed on a 2015 expiration date, only to see it form
the basis for the mayor’s rejection, Mulgrew said.  “We had an agreement,” the UFT president said yesterday.
“That ‘sunset provision’ was in there for a very long time.”  Most of the school districts that reached agreements with
teachers accepted one-year expiration dates on their evaluation
plans, said Ernest Logan, president of the Council of
Supervisors and Administrators, which represents principals.  Teacher Ratings  Under state law, 20 percent of the ratings must be based on
students’ improvement on state tests; 20 percent on local
measures; and 60 percent must include classroom and parent
observations, and student surveys.  Both sides in  New York  City had resolved disagreements
about who should weigh teacher performance, and on how low-
scorers should be counseled and trained, Mulgrew said. The city
and the union also differed on the circumstances under which a
poorly performing teacher should be dismissed, he said in an
interview this month.  The negotiations over evaluations took place as municipal
officials also cope with a strike by school bus drivers and
matrons, who escort children from the vehicles. The strike,
which began Jan. 16, affects more than 100,000 public and
parochial students.  The mayor is founder and majority owner of Bloomberg News
parent Bloomberg LP.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Henry Goldman in New York at 
 hgoldman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net . 