-- Lockhart Sees Fed’s Bond Buying Continuing Beyond Mid-2013
-- B y   S t e v e   M a t t h e w s   a n d   C a r o l i n e   S a l a s   G a g e
-- 2013-01-17T20:33:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-17/lockhart-says-he-expects-bond-buying-to-continue-beyond-mid-2013.html
Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta
President Dennis Lockhart said he expects the central bank to
continue buying bonds beyond mid-year to achieve sustained
improvement in the labor market.  “It is probably going to be a struggle to see by mid-
year” enough progress in the jobs outlook to warrant stopping,
Lockhart said, speaking in an interview with Matthew Winkler,
editor-in-chief of Bloomberg News, in New York today at the
Bloomberg Global Markets Summit hosted by  Bloomberg Link .  While the U.S. economy will probably expand by about 2
percent this year, resolution of U.S. fiscal challenges may spur
deferred business spending and fuel better-than-forecast growth,
Lockhart said. He predicted that Congress will agree to raise
the nation’s statutory borrowing limit “because it has to.”  Lockhart backed the Federal Open Market Committee decision
in December to add $45 billion in purchases of Treasury notes
each month to $40 billion in monthly buying of mortgage bonds.
Policy makers have pushed the benchmark interest rate close to
zero and expanded Fed assets to $2.93 trillion to stoke growth
and reduce 7.8 percent unemployment. They are debating whether
to continue stimulus this year or stop adding to it.  Minneapolis Fed President Narayana Kocherlakota said this
week the Fed should ease more to boost hiring, while Boston Fed
President  Eric Rosengren  said bond-buying could be expanded if
necessary. Charles Plosser of Philadelphia and Jeffrey Lacker of
Richmond have voiced doubts about the effectiveness of bond
purchases and warned of inflation risks.  Costs, Efficiency  Lockhart said today the “bond purchasing will need to
continue longer into the year,” and “whether it goes beyond
that” will depend on the costs and efficacy of the program.  The minutes from last month’s meeting show a divide among
FOMC participants on how long the purchases should last.
Participants who provided estimates were “approximately evenly
divided” between those who said it would be appropriate to end
the purchases around mid-2013 and those who said they should
continue beyond that date.  The Atlanta Fed chief said the U.S. is in a “2 percent
world in terms of growth,” with inflation also below the
central bank’s target of 2 percent. FOMC participants expect 2.3
percent to 3 percent growth this year, according to forecasts
released after their Dec. 11-12 meeting.  Economic Growth  “I have not yet seen a strong indication that we need to
adjust that story,” said Lockhart, who doesn’t vote on policy
this year and this week predicted the U.S. economy will expand
from 2 percent to 2.5 percent during 2013. He said he doesn’t
see a source for faster economic growth in 2013.  Stocks rallied as U.S. housing starts jumped and jobless
claims fell more than forecast, bolstering optimism in the
world’s largest economy. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index gained
0.6 percent to 1,482.03 at 1:45 p.m. in New York. Yields on 10-
year Treasuries rose seven basis points, or 0.07 percentage
point, to 1.89 percent.  The economy has the potential to outperform expectations,
depending on how lawmakers resolve U.S. fiscal challenges,
Lockhart said.  Most chief executive officers “are really in neutral
territory, watching very carefully how things evolve,” he said.
“There could very well be an upside scenario in 2013 based on
deferred spending that has built up” that “could be unleashed
by fiscal authorities” reaching agreements.  Fiscal Cliff  Policy makers at their last meeting saw concerns about the
so-called fiscal cliff restraining growth. While a deal was
struck in time to avert some tax increases slated to take effect
Jan. 1, automatic spending cuts were forestalled by two months
and their fate remains unresolved as the U.S. again nears its
statutory borrowing limit.  “At the end of the day, the debt ceiling will be raised --
because it has to,” Lockhart said. “What concerns me,” is
“simply how much of a spectacle does that turn out to be and
does it undermine confidence?”  The economy picked up across much of the country last
month, boosted by auto and home sales, even as the outlook for
unemployment showed few signs of improvement, the Fed said
yesterday in its Beige Book business survey.  “Economic activity has expanded since the previous Beige
Book report, with all 12 districts characterizing the pace of
growth as either modest or moderate,” according to the survey,
which is based on reports from the 12 Fed district banks.  Closely Scrutinize  Chairman Ben S. Bernanke indicated this week he’ll closely
scrutinize the potential costs of asset purchases.  “So far, we think we are getting some effect, it is kind
of early,” Bernanke said on Jan. 14 at the University of
Michigan’s Gerald R. Ford School of Public Policy in Ann Arbor.
“We are going to continue to assess how effective” the program
is “because it is possible that as you move through time and
the situation changes that the impact of these tools could
vary.”  Lockhart, who has never dissented from an  FOMC decision ,
said he sees a “legitimate concern” in the central bank’s
ballooning balance sheet.  “Over a long period of time, you would have to be
concerned” about having too large positions that would affect
markets in those securities, Lockhart said. “That is a long-
term prospect but not something to ignore.”  Greater Challenges  Lockhart said that as the Fed’s balance sheet grows, it
also poses greater challenges for the central bank’s eventual
withdrawal of stimulus.  “I’m very comfortable that when the time comes,” the exit
“can be carried out in an orderly way,” Lockhart said. Still,
“the bigger the balance sheet, the more the unknown factor.”  The Fed last month linked its interest-rate outlook to
economic thresholds, saying borrowing costs will stay low “at
least as long” as joblessness exceeds 6.5 percent and if
inflation isn’t projected to go beyond 2.5 percent one or two
years in the future.  The debt limit has been periodically raised since its
creation in 1917, when Congress and President Woodrow Wilson
authorized the Treasury to issue long-term securities to help
finance entry into World War I. Since 1960, Congress has raised
or revised the limit 79 times, including 49 times under
Republican presidents, according to the Treasury Department,
noting the U.S. never has defaulted on its obligations.  Credit Rating  The last time Congress fought over raising the ceiling,
Obama signed an increase on Aug. 2, 2011, the day that Treasury
warned U.S. borrowing authority would expire. Standard & Poor’s
cut the nation’s credit rating.  Still, U.S. Treasury bond investors -- who most directly
bear the risk of any government default -- haven’t shown alarm
over political fights ultimately resolved in  Washington . Yields
on 10-year U.S. Treasury notes declined to 2.56 percent on Aug.
5, 2011, the day of the S&P downgrade, and continued to fall.  Yields on 10-year Treasuries, a benchmark for everything
from mortgages to corporate borrowing costs, are down from more
than 5 percent in 2007, before the financial crisis of 2008.  Inflation rose 1.5 percent in November from a year earlier,
according to the personal consumption expenditures index,
excluding food and energy. The broader consumer price index
increased 1.7 percent in 2012, according to the Labor
Department.  A former banker, Lockhart spent much of his career at
Citigroup Inc. and Heller Financial Inc. before becoming a
professor at Georgetown University. He has led the Atlanta Fed
since 2007. The Atlanta Fed district includes  Alabama ,  Florida ,
 Georgia , and portions of  Louisiana ,  Mississippi , and  Tennessee .  Housing Weakness  The southeast U.S. has been slow to recover from the
recession that ended in 2009 because of weakness in housing
markets until the past year. Florida posted the nation’s highest
state foreclosure rate in 2012 and Georgia was fourth, according
to RealtyTrac Inc., a mortgage-data firm.  Georgia has led the U.S. in failures of banks since the
fourth quarter of 2007, with 85 collapses, followed by Florida,
according to Trepp LLC, a real estate and banking data provider.  Lockhart’s district is home to the tourism industry in
Orlando and New Orleans, auto manufacturing from Georgia to
Mississippi, and public companies such as Coca-Cola Co., Home
Depot Inc., United Parcel Service Inc. and Delta Air Lines Inc.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Steve Matthews in New York at 
 smatthews@bloomberg.net ;
Caroline Salas Gage in New York at 
 csalas1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  