-- Home Retail Surges on Surprise Boost From Argos: London Mover
-- B y   P e t e r   W o o d i f i e l d
-- 2013-01-17T17:08:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-17/home-retail-surges-on-surprise-boost-from-argos-london-mover.html
Home Retail Group Plc (HOME) , the owner of
U.K. chains Argos and Homebase, rose to the highest price in 17
months after saying that accelerating sales growth at Argos over
the holidays means full-year earnings will beat estimates.  Group underlying pretax profit will be about 10 million
pounds ($16 million) more than the market  consensus  of 73
million pounds and  Home Retail  will have more than 300 million
pounds of cash at the end of its fiscal year, the  Milton Keynes ,
England-based company said in a statement today.  “We have been too harsh in our previous profit
assumptions,”  Philip Dorgan , an analyst at Panmure Gordon & Co.
who has a sell recommendation on the stock, said in a note.
“This is a much better than expected statement.”  The  shares  rose 12 percent, the biggest increase since June
19, to 136.6 pence, extending the gain over the past year to 49
percent. It was the best performer in the FTSE All-Share Index
today.  The average 12-month price target of 18 analysts tracked by
Bloomberg is for the shares to fall to 109.4 pence.  Home Retail will continue to “reinvent Argos as a digital
retail leader” even as  consumer confidence  “remains subdued in
the coming year,” Chief Executive Officer Terry Duddy said in
the statement.  Like-for-like sales at Argos rose 2.7 percent to 1.74
billion pounds in the 18 weeks to Jan. 5, the company said
today, a faster clip than the 1.6 percent growth in the 44 weeks
to that date.  Tablet Computers  “Consumer electronics continued to deliver an improved
sales performance driven by strong growth in tablets,” the
company said. Growth in sales of appliances, toys and electrical
items offset weaker demand for homeware and jewelry, it said.  Homebase, a seller of home improvement and do-it-yourself
materials, had a 3.9 percent drop in like-for-like sales in the
18 weeks, better than the 5.4 percent drop in the first 44 weeks
of the fiscal year.  Home Retail has the fourth-lowest stock  recommendation  on
the FTSE All-Share General Retailers Index, based on analyst
predictions compiled by Bloomberg. Twice as many analysts are
sellers rather than buyers of the stock. Jamie Merriman at
Sanford C. Bernstein reiterated an “underperform” rating today
and said that while Argos may have been helped by the Comet
chain going into administration, Home Retail shares may drop to
84 pence.  Still, the results are unlikely to make much difference to
Argos’s longer-term prospects, said Dorgan, who has a 12-month
price target of 80 pence.  “Argos’s competitors are too big, too nimble and its plans
for change will take too long to implement,” Dorgan said. “ We
believe that Argos will ultimately move into losses, but not as
early as 2014, as we had previously expected.”  Income Squeeze  Home Retail may fall as much as 40 percent this year, more
than any other U.K. retailer, Chris Chaviaras, a retail analyst
at Barclays Plc in  London  with a sell rating and a 12-month
price target of 73 pence, said in a note to clients yesterday.  That’s because the low income customers it targets will
face continuing pressures on disposable income and the retailer
will have to cut prices to compete with Amazon.com as it doesn’t
differentiate on service, he said.  “If you don’t have service you are much better off not to
have stores,” Chaviaras said in a telephone interview.  The volume of Home Retail shares traded was almost six
times the three-month daily average.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Woodifield in Edinburgh  at 
 pwoodifield@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Risser at 
 drisser@bloomberg.net  