-- London Heathrow Resists Rival Hubs as Istanbul Hits Top Tier
-- B y   C h r i s   J a s p e r
-- 2013-01-17T16:41:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-17/london-heathrow-staves-off-rival-hubs-as-istanbul-joins-top-rank.html
London Heathrow  defended its status
as  Europe ’s busiest airport in 2012, a year when growth rates at
major hubs slowed amid the debt crisis and booming cities such
as Istanbul challenged more established centers like  Madrid .  Paris’s  Charles de Gaulle  airport attracted 61.6 million
passengers last year for a 1.1 percent advance, barely more than
capacity-limited Heathrow’s 0.9 percent gain to 69.9 million,
while numbers at third-ranked  Frankfurt  rose 1.9 percent to 57.5
million. Istanbul reaped a 20 percent jump to 44.9 million.  Europe’s traditional hubs are struggling to add travelers
as a sluggish economy hurts demand and rivals in the  Persian
Gulf  grab a growing share of inter-continental transfer traffic.
Daniel Moylan, aviation adviser to London Mayor  Boris Johnson ,
said that Heathrow, like other older airports, isn’t up to the
task and that the U.K. capital needs a new hub able to handle
170 million passengers a year if it’s to compete globally.  “Demand for aviation rises with incomes and there are
countries with huge populations where incomes are rising rapidly
to which we have very, very limited connections,” Moylan said in
a phone interview, adding that the competition between Heathrow
and Paris is like “two bald men fighting over a comb.”  Slowing Growth  The London airport, the main base for  British Airways (IAG) , had
increased its passenger tally 5.4 percent in 2011, with jumps of
4.8 percent at  Charles de Gaulle  and 6.5 percent at Frankfurt.  Takeoffs and landings at Heathrow, owned by the former  BAA
Ltd. (FER)  and constrained by having only two runways, declined 1
percent to 471,000 in 2012, it said Jan. 14, indicating that the
passenger total rose because carriers deployed bigger jets such
as  Airbus SAS (EAD) ’s A380, or that planes flew fuller.  At Charles de Gaulle, chief base for Air France, aircraft
movements fell 3.1 percent to 491,000, owner  Aeroports de Paris 
said in a statement on Jan. 15, still 20,000 more than at
Heathrow. Frankfurt, home to  Deutsche Lufthansa AG (LHA) , had 482,000
flights, a 1 percent decline, Fraport AG said the same day.
Passenger numbers in Frankfurt will probably drop in the first
quarter, the airport operator said yesterday.  Madrid Slump  Among west European hubs, Amsterdam Schiphol, the No. 4,
posted the strongest passenger growth at 2.6 percent, according
to a statement on its website, with the total increasing to 51
million. Movements were also higher, up 0.8 percent to 423,000.  The biggest decline among top airports was at fifth-ranked
Madrid Barajas, with the passenger total tumbling 9 percent to
45.2 million and takeoffs and landings slumping 13 percent.  Madrid, the hub for IAG’s unprofitable Iberia unit, and
Schiphol, home to  Air France (AF)  sister company KLM, ranked almost
neck-and-neck on 49 million passengers in 2011, with the Dutch
airport just 100,000 ahead. The year before that, Barajas had
led, and ranked fourth in Europe.  Spain ’s economic decline meant that its top airport barely
stayed ahead of Istanbul Ataturk, according to figures released
by Paris-based ADP, which holds a 38 percent stake in the
Turkish facility’s owner, TAV Airports.  Traffic in  Turkey  was spurred by additional flights at  Turk
Hava Yollari AO (THYAO) , or  Turkish Airlines , which is emulating
Emirates and other Gulf carriers in building its base into a
global transfer hub. The gains follow a 16 percent increase the
previous year.  The biggest investor in Heathrow Ltd., as BAA is now known,
is Spanish builder Ferrovial SA, which has cut its stake to
about 34 percent following the sale of stock to Qatar Holding
LLC and China Investment Corp.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Jasper in London at 
 cjasper@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  