-- Mongolia’s Erdenes TT Halts Coal Exports to Biggest Buyer China
-- B y   M i c h a e l   K o h n
-- 2013-01-17T06:26:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-17/mongolia-s-erdenes-tt-halts-coal-exports-to-biggest-buyer-china.html
Erdenes Tavan Tolgoi LLC, Mongolia’s
largest-state owned coal company, halted deliveries to  China 
after failing to pay a company that provides logistical support
amid a cash crunch, its chief executive officer said.  Exports to customers including Aluminum Corp. of China Ltd.
stopped on Jan. 11 as Erdenes TT couldn’t pay Altangovi, said
Yaichil Batsuuri, who has led the company since October.
Altangovi provides warehousing services at the border with
China, the biggest buyer of Mongolia’s steelmaking coal.  The halt comes as Erdenes TT seeks a government loan for as
much as $500 million to repay debts and fund infrastructure
construction, Batsuuri said last week. The mining company wants
to raise prices and cut shipments, changing the terms of the
$250 million contract it signed in July 2011 to supply companies
including Chalco, as Aluminum Corp. is known.  “The government made a resolution to make a new agreement
with Chalco,” Batsuuri said in a phone interview from  Ulan
Bator  this week. “We have to amend it,” to change the price
and cut the volume, he said.  Erdenes TT supplies coal to Chalco at $53 a metric ton,
less than the $61 it costs to move it to the Tsagaan Khaad
border station, he said.  Yuan  Li, spokesman of Aluminum Corp. of China, known as
Chinalco, the parent company of Chalco, could not be reached for
comment.  Government Loan  Erdenes TT owes 4 billion tugrik ($2.9 million) to 5
billion tugrik to Altangovi, said Batsuuri. That’s stopped
Altangovi from being able to buy the diesel it needs for
warehousing operations, he said.  Batsuuri said that the government had yet to respond to the
company’s request for a loan.  Erdenes TT is developing part of the Tavan Tolgoi coal
field, Mongolia’s largest. The coal field is located 150 miles
north of the Chinese border in the heart of the Gobi Desert and
more than 70 percent of the field is coking coal.  Mongolia, the largest exporter of coking coal to China,
shipped 16.8 million tons in the first 11 months of 2012,
accounting for more than a third of all coking-coal imports by
China, according to customs data. The monthly average supply in
2011 was 1.7 million tons.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Kohn in Singapore at 
 mkohn5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Liu  at 
 jliu42@bloomberg.net  