-- OPEC Supply Increase Slows as Demand Eases, Oil Movements Says
-- B y   G r a n t   S m i t h
-- 2013-01-17T16:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-17/opec-supply-increase-slows-as-demand-eases-oil-movements-says.html
The Organization of Petroleum
Exporting Countries will curb its increase in shipments this
month as Saudi Arabia reduced production and mild temperatures
check demand, according to tanker tracker Oil Movements.  The group that supplies about 40 percent of the world’s oil
will export 23.64 million barrels a day in the four weeks to
Feb. 2, up 70,000 barrels, or 0.3 percent, from the previous
period, the researcher said today in an e-mailed report. The
figures exclude Angola and Ecuador. Shipments were to gain
210,000 barrels a day in the four weeks to Jan. 26.  “The seasonal upturn in the new year has been extremely
slow, non-existent,”  Roy Mason , the company’s founder, said by
phone from Halifax,  England . “Demand is weak, the weather has
been relatively mild, and the most surprising characteristic is
that sailings to the  Far East  are limp.”  Temperatures in  Frankfurt ,  Germany , Europe’s biggest market
for heating oil, were above the five-year average for most of
December and the first week of January, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  OPEC production dropped to the lowest level in 14 months in
December because of a 4 percent supply cut by Saudi Arabia, data
from the group’s monthly report showed on Jan. 16.  Brent crude 
traded today at about $110 a barrel on the ICE Futures Europe
exchange in London.  Middle East shipments will increase 0.6 percent to 17.35
million barrels a day in the period, compared with 17.25 million
in the four weeks to Jan. 5, according to the report. That
figure includes non-OPEC members Oman and Yemen.  Crude on board tankers will average 471.3 million barrels,
down 1.5 percent on the previous period, the data show. Oil
Movements calculates the volumes by tallying tanker bookings.
Its figures exclude crude held on vessels for storage.  OPEC comprises Algeria, Angola, Ecuador, Iran, Iraq,
Kuwait, Libya, Nigeria, Qatar,  Saudi Arabia , the United Arab
Emirates and Venezuela. The organization is next scheduled to
meet in May.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Grant Smith in London at 
 gsmith52@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss on   sev@bloomberg.net  