-- Orphanides Says ECB Bond-Buy Plan May Delay Government Reforms
-- B y   S t e f a n   R i e c h e r
-- 2013-01-17T16:49:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-17/orphanides-says-ecb-bond-buy-plan-may-delay-government-reforms.html
Former European Central Bank
Governing Council member Athanasios Orphanides said the ECB’s
bond-purchase plan may prompt governments to delay needed
reforms.  The program, dubbed Outright Monetary Transactions, has
“given governments yet another opportunity to postpone
actions,” Orphanides said today at the Bloomberg Global Markets
Summit in  New York . “Inadvertently, the OMT may have delayed the
progress that I would have hoped to see at the end of last
year.”  ECB President  Mario Draghi  has pledged to buy unlimited
amounts of sovereign bonds if needed to shore up confidence in
the euro as long as governments sign up to economic reforms. The
announcement of the plan alone has lowered borrowing costs in
countries like Spain and Italy, reducing pressure on them to
agree to the terms of ECB bond purchases.  Speaking at the same event, Harvard University professor
 Martin Feldstein , long a critic of the euro, said there is still
a chance that some of its 17  member states  will leave the
monetary union.  If Spain and Italy are able to address their economic
problems and return to budget surpluses, it would reduce
concerns about the exit of nations such as  Greece  and Portugal,
he said.  “Then euro-zone 2.0 may have a few people who are
currently in it leaving,” Feldstein said, adding that “while
others have made serious progress,” Greece is still “in
terrible shape.”  U.K. Exit ‘Suicidal’  Orphanides, who sat on the ECB council as the governor of
the central bank of Cyprus until last May, said European
governments “need to realize that the governance of the euro
area needs to be strengthened.”  “Strenghening governance is something we will hopefully
see more of, and that’s the reason why we can be optimistic,”
he said.  Asked about the possibility of the U.K. exiting the
European Union, Orphanides, now a senior lecturer at the  MIT
Sloan School of Management  in Cambridge,  Massachusetts , said
such an event would be catastrophic for  London  and Britain.  “It would be unthinkable that over the long haul London
could remain the financial center of the euro area, and this is
a huge risk to the U.K.,” he said. “The U.K. has benefited
tremendously from the arrangement. Frankly, I think it would be
suicidal for the British economy over the long run if they
exited.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stefan Riecher in Frankfurt at 
 sriecher@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  