-- Pakistan Lawmakers in U.K. Trial Over Deutsche Bank Loans
-- B y   K i t   C h e l l e l
-- 2013-01-17T15:41:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-17/pakistan-lawmakers-in-u-k-trial-on-deutsche-bank-property-loans.html
A  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  unit said a
family of politicians from  Pakistan  defaulted on loans of about
55 million pounds ($88 million), which they used to invest in
multimillion pound London properties.  The Khan family, including former privatization minister
Waqar Ahmed Khan, his father Gulzar Khan and companies they set
up, borrowed money to invest in luxury homes and apartments,
then defaulted on loans, a lawyer for the bank said on the
opening day of a London trial.  When property values collapsed in 2008, the Khans had to
provide more collateral under the terms of the agreement,
Deutsche Bank lawyer Raymond Cox told the court. “They ought to
have made up the shortfall.”  The family’s companies bought apartments at  The
Knightsbridge  development overlooking  London ’s Hyde Park and on
Bishop’s Avenue, which the Sunday Times has called
“Billionaires’ Row” because of its wealthy residents and
mansions.  The family countersued the lender, claiming its private-
wealth team misled them over the loans, and didn’t provide the
further funding it promised to develop the properties for
profit.  “The propriety of the bank’s dealings with the Khan family
will be put under the microscope in court this week,” their
lawyer, Richard Slade, said in a statement.  Deutsche Bank mis-valued the properties to wrongly claim
the Khans breached loan agreements, the family said in court
filings. Slade said their counterclaim was for about 60 million
pounds.  “This is a straightforward case of borrowers taking out a
loan and failing to meet their obligations,” Nick Probert, a
spokesman for the bank, said in an e-mail.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kit Chellel in London at 
 cchellel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  