-- Pakistan’s Stocks Rally Most in a Week Amid Opposition Support
-- B y   K h u r r u m   A n i s
-- 2013-01-17T11:53:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-17/pakistan-s-stocks-rally-most-in-a-week-amid-opposition-support.html
Pakistan’s (KSE100)  stocks rose the most in a
week after opposition parties rejected demands by a cleric that
the nation’s parliament be sacked.  The benchmark Karachi Stock Exchange 100 Index gained 0.7
percent to 16,291.09 at the close of trade in Karachi, the most
since since Jan. 8.  National Bank of Pakistan (NBP) , the country’s
biggest lender by assets, rose 2.1 percent, the steepest gain
since Nov. 30. Engro Corp., Pakistan’s second-biggest business
group, gained 2.2 percent or 85.64 rupees  Opposition parties led by the Pakistan Muslim League-Nawaz
have refused to render support to Tahir-ul-Qadri, a cleric who
has gathered thousands of supporters on the streets in the
capital Islamabad calling for reforms, yesterday. His supporters
had started gathering since last week.  “The announcement by the opposition parties yesterday has
rallied confidence among investors,” Faisal Bilwani, head of
international equity sales at Elixir Securities  Pakistan  Ltd. in
Karachi, said by phone. “The understanding between the
opposition and government is what is causing the rise.”  A team of lawmakers comprising government allies reached
Qadri’s protest camp to negotiate a peaceful settlement with the
cleric after he offered to talk to the government.  The KSE-100 Index tumbled the most in 17 months on Jan. 15
after the Supreme Court ordered the arrest of Prime Minister
Raja Pervez Ashraf amid allegations of graft. The chairman of
the anti-corruption agency told the chief justice today there
isn’t enough evidence to arrest Ashraf and others accused of
graft in awarding power contracts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Khurrum Anis in Karachi at 
 kkhan14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  