-- Pakistan Cleric Calls Off Sit-in After a Voting Accord
-- B y   A u g u s t i n e   A n t h o n y   a n d   H a r i s   A n w a r
-- 2013-01-18T08:32:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-17/pakistan-cleric-calls-off-sit-in-after-a-voting-accord.html
A Muslim cleric who besieged
 Pakistan ’s capital with thousands of protesters ended a four-day
sit-in after agreeing a pact with the government on mostly
symbolic changes to election laws ahead of a May poll.  Muhammad Tahir-ul-Qadri, who heads an Islamic group with 90
branches worldwide, announced the accord yesterday after about
five hours of talks with government officials in his bullet-
proof bunker in Islamabad, a location the scholar had used to
deliver passionate speeches demanding that the government
dissolve the legislature and implement changes he said would
thwart corrupt politicians seeking election.  “I congratulate you that Allah has given you victory,”
Qadri, 61, told his followers, including women and children who
had danced and shouted slogans through heavy rain showers during
the day.  Under the accord, the National Assembly will be dissolved
at a date before the scheduled March 16, while the election
commission will bid to ensure candidates aren’t corrupt and meet
all legal requirements. The government will propose names of two
impartial candidates for the caretaker prime minister to oversee
polls after consulting Qadri’s party.  The deal was “nothing but a face-saver for Qadri” that
insists on the implementation of provisions already part of the
constitution, said Rasul Bakhsh Rais, a professor of political
science at the Lahore University of Management Sciences. At the
same time, it allowed the government to end the protest without
violence, Rais said. “I would term the accord a very civilized
eviction notice.”  Popular Rage  Qadri’s protest after he returned from  Canada  last month
came as President Asif Ali Zardari’s government seeks to become
the first democratically elected administration to complete its
five-year term and transfer power via a ballot. The country has
been ruled for half its history by the military.  While the cleric’s message was aimed at Pakistanis
disillusioned by established political parties that they blame
for corruption and a faltering economy, Qadri’s earlier demand
that the army and judiciary play a role in determining a
caretaker government before the election spurred media
commentary that the military may have encouraged his protest.  What’s clear is that Qadri’s demands appealed to many
Pakistanis, said Islamabad-based political analyst and columnist
Farrukh Saleem. “What we witnessed was people crying out for
change -- change in electoral laws, change in a political
doctrine” that at the moment primarily benefits the elite,
Saleem said.  Fourteen percent of Pakistanis viewed Zardari favorably in
a Pew Research Center  survey  in June, down from 64 percent in
2008. About 87 percent are dissatisfied with the country’s
direction, viewing the economy, crime and corruption as the
biggest problems, it said. The poll had a margin of error of
plus-or-minus 4.2 percentage points.  Under existing law, Zardari’s government will leave office
by the end of March, and a caretaker administration approved by
a majority of parties represented in parliament will oversee
elections within three months. Qadri’s dual citizenship of
Pakistan and Canada would bar him from standing in an election.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Augustine Anthony in Islamabad at 
 aanthony9@bloomberg.net ;
Haris Anwar in Islamabad at 
 hanwar2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  