-- Palm Oil Declines as India Changes Calculation of Import Taxes
-- B y   C h a n y a p o r n   C h a n j a r o e n
-- 2013-01-17T10:34:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-17/palm-oil-drops-as-lower-exports-indian-tax-may-bolster-reserves.html
Palm oil dropped for the first time
in three days as  India  ended a freeze on the taxable value of
cooking oil imports and said it will revise it fortnightly on
the basis of world prices, a move that will push up duties.  The contract for delivery in April, which has the largest
volume, fell 2.1 percent to 2,378 ringgit ($789) a metric ton at
the close on the  Malaysia  Derivatives Exchange after declining
as much as 2.2 percent earlier.  Stockpiles in Malaysia jumped to an all-time high of 2.63
million tons in December, according to the palm oil board.
Exports tumbled 21 percent to 570,510 tons in the first 15 days
of this month, Intertek said Jan. 15. The taxable value of crude
palm oil imports in India has been $447 a ton since 2006, well
below international prices now and the government said the
change will have a “positive impact” on duty collection. The
move may also hurt demand for palm oil.  “That will raise the import costs for palm oil in India,”
Faiyaz Hudani, an analyst at Kotak Commodity Services, said by
phone from Mumbai today. “It will further hurt global demand
for palm oil but the impact will be short-lived” as crude palm
oil is extremely cheap compared with domestic soybean oil, he
said.  The ending of the freeze also applies to soybean oil which
has a taxable value now of $580 a ton, according to the
government. The move comes after Malaysia set the tariff on
crude palm oil exports at zero for a second month in February.  Inventories Expand  Stockpiles in  Indonesia , the biggest producer, may gain to
3.5 million tons in January from 3.25 million tons a month
earlier, according to the median of estimates from two
plantation companies, a refiner and an analyst compiled by
Bloomberg. Shipments may decline 0.6 percent to 1.54 million
tons, while output is stable at 2.5 million tons, the medians of
estimates from the same four respondents and a third plantation
company showed.  Indonesia’s Trade Minister  Gita Wirjawan  said Jan. 11 that
the government is considering a cut in its export tax to compete
with Malaysia and “ideally” the tariff should be zero.  Refined palm oil for delivery in May fell 0.9 percent to
end at 6,712  yuan  ($1,080) a ton on the Dalian Commodity
Exchange. Soybean oil for September rose 0.1 percent to close at
8,676 yuan a ton.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chanyaporn Chanjaroen in Singapore at 
 cchanjaroen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  