-- Palm Oil Stockpiles in Indonesia Seen Rising as Exports Drop
-- B y   Y o g a   R u s m a n a   a n d   E k o   L i s t i y o r i n i
-- 2013-01-17T10:22:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-17/palm-oil-stockpiles-in-indonesia-seen-rising-as-exports-decline.html
Palm oil inventories in  Indonesia 
will probably rise to almost 90 percent of capacity as exports
from the largest grower drop after Malaysia set its tariff at
zero and as China imposed more stringent rules on shipments.  Stockpiles may gain to 3.5 million metric tons in January
from 3.25 million tons in December, according to the median of
estimates from two plantation companies, a refiner and an
analyst compiled by Bloomberg. Shipments may decline 0.6 percent
to 1.54 million tons, while production is seen stable at 2.5
million tons, the medians of estimates from the same four
respondents and a third plantation company showed.  Rising inventories would increase pressure on Indonesia to
cut its export tax to compete with  Malaysia . The second-largest
producer set the tariff on shipments at zero this month to drain
record reserves and the government has said the rate will be
unchanged in February. Indonesia has about 4 million tons of
storage capacity, according to Deputy Trade Minister Bayu Krisnamurthi. It doesn’t publish official data on inventories.  “If the government cuts the export tax, it will definitely
help boost shipments because we’re still in oversupply in the
short term,” Jeffrosenberg Tan, a Jakarta-based analyst at PT
Sinarmas Sekuritas, said yesterday.  Attempts by Indonesian exporters to cut reserves are
hampered by the zero tariff in Malaysia, causing inventories to
stay high at about 3.5 million tons this month, Joko Supriyono,
a director at PT Astra Agro Lestari, said by phone from Jakarta
on Jan. 15. Supriyono is also secretary-general at the
Indonesian Palm Oil Association.  Zero Too  Indonesia’s Trade Minister  Gita Wirjawan  said Jan. 11 that
the government is considering a cut in its export tax and
“ideally” the tariff should be zero too so it can compete with
Malaysia. The palm oil association, known as Gapki, has asked
the government to reduce the tax to avoid losing market share in
countries such as  India  that typically buy more crude oil. The
tax was set at 7.5 percent this month.  Shipments from Indonesia in January would be the lowest
since October, when they reached 1.42 million tons, according to
Gapki figures. Exports of palm and lauric oils surged 39 percent
to 1.98 million tons in November from a month earlier, the
highest level since at least January 2008, which is the earliest
data available from the growers and refiners group.  Palm oil futures have tumbled into a bear market in Kuala
Lumpur as inventories in Indonesia and Malaysia surged because
of low demand amid an economic slowdown in  China  and  Europe .
Prices dropped 23 percent last year. The contract for April
delivery fell 2.1 percent today to 2,378 ringgit ($789) a ton.  China’s tightening of checks on oils imports from Jan. 1
will also affect shipments as cargoes will need more time to
pass customs, said Susanto, head of marketing at Gapki. Imports
of palm by China, the biggest cooking oil user, may drop to
300,000 tons this month, less than half of those in December
because of the new rules, according to the median of estimates
from six traders and researchers in Bloomberg survey this week.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Yoga Rusmana in Jakarta at 
 yrusmana@bloomberg.net ;
Eko Listiyorini in Jakarta at 
 elistiyorini@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  