-- Pemex Board Approves Joint Venture With Mexichem Without Changes
-- B y   C a r l o s   M a n u e l   R o d r i g u e z
-- 2013-01-17T06:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-17/pemex-board-approves-joint-venture-with-mexichem-without-changes.html
Petroleos Mexicanos , the world’s
fourth-largest oil producer, approved a petrochemical joint
venture yesterday with  Mexichem SAB (MEXCHEM*)  that had been postponed
since the agreement was announced in June 2011.  The board of the state-owned company known as Pemex
approved the project without changes, Hector Moreira, a
director, said yesterday in a phone interview from Mexico City.  Mexichem will contribute about 60 percent of the $556
million in assets that the new company owns and will invest
about $200 million in the project. The Latin American chemical
producer has bought more than 15 companies since 2007.  Pemex, based in Mexico City, expects to boost vinyl
chloride production, or VCM, to more than 400,000 tons annually,
which represents an increase of 105 percent from its 12-month
output through November. The deal, which gained antitrust
approval 15 months ago, had waited for Pemex board backing amid
disagreements with union representatives holding five of the
board’s 15 seats.  “The proposal was supported by the union members,” said
Moreira, who is one of four independent directors added to
Pemex’s board in 2009.  The board also ratified appointments of new executives by
Chief Executive Officer Emilio Lozoya, who took over Dec. 1,
Pemex said in a e-mailed  statement .  New Executives  Mario Beauregard, former CFO of OHL  Mexico  SAB and Su
Casita SA, will take over as chief financial officer, and Victor
Diaz was named as chief administration officer.  Mexichem gained as much as 2.4 percent since  Bloomberg News 
reported Jan. 15 that the venture was scheduled for a vote at
yesterday’s meeting. The stock closed at 72.81 pesos in Mexico
City yesterday and has gained 75 percent in the past year.  “This is a watershed event for the chemical and
petrochemical industries in Mexico,” said Enrique Ortega,
Mexichem’s director of strategic planning and investor
relations. The model of the state-owned company working with the
private sector may spark renewed petrochemical investment and
activity, he said yesterday in a telephone interview.  On Sept. 17, then-Pemex CEO,  Juan Jose Suarez Coppel  said
the Mexichem joint venture model will prompt similar projects
for the oil producer with private petrochemical companies.  Mexichem is cutting costs after acquiring suppliers or
merging them to create lower-cost projects. The company paid
about $580 million in May to buy more than 90 percent of Wavin
NV in its largest purchase as it expands overseas to diversify
revenue sources.  Mexichem, based in Tlalnepantla, Mexico, said Nov. 22 that
multiple delays by Pemex prompted the chemical maker to seek
expansion outside Mexico for its VCM production.  Mexichem said Aug. 16 that it was in talks with a unit of
 Occidental Petroleum Corp. (OXY)  to build a $1 billion ethylene
facility to meet the Mexican chemical maker’s goal of having its
own guaranteed supply of polyvinyl chloride.  The chemical producer, controlled by billionaire Antonio del Valle, wants to reduce its dependence on third-party vinyl
chloride producers such as  Dow Chemical Co. (DOW)  VCM is a raw
material used to make plastic pipes.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carlos Manuel Rodriguez in Mexico City at 
 carlosmr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net  