-- Pensions Have Too Much in Bonds to Suit SocGen: Chart of the Day
-- B y   D a v i d   W i l s o n
-- 2013-01-17T05:00:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-17/pensions-have-too-much-in-bonds-to-suit-socgen-chart-of-the-day.html
Pension funds and insurance
companies are at risk of investing too much money in bonds at
the expense of stocks, according to  Albert Edwards , a global
strategist at Societe Generale SA.  The CHART OF THE DAY shows how the mix between debt and
equity has changed for U.S. company funds since 1985, according
to data compiled by the  Federal Reserve . Bonds were 34 percent
of assets as of Sept. 30, up from 20 percent six years earlier.
Stocks fell to 39 percent from 61 percent in the same period.  U.K. pension managers have made a comparable change in
 asset allocation , according to data from UBS Asset Management
that Edwards cited in a report two days ago. Many insurers have
less than 10 percent of assets in stocks, he wrote.  Lower share prices may accelerate the switch into bonds,
the report said, by prompting regulators, consultants and plan
sponsors to push investors toward holdings seen as less risky.
Edwards repeated his stance that stocks are in a  bear market ,
which he calls “The Ice Age,” that may bring the lowest prices
in a generation.  “I am starting to think the move by institutions away from
equities has gone too far,” the London-based strategist wrote.
Managers might eventually get caught in a bond-market decline
tied to central-bank easing and miss out on gains in stocks, he
said.  Edwards wrote that the situation is the opposite of the
late 1990s, when institutions’ focus on stocks made them
vulnerable to the market drop that followed. Equities accounted
for 75 percent of U.K. pension-fund assets in 1999, according to
the UBS  data .  To contact the reporter on this story:
 David Wilson  in New York at 
 dwilson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Nagi at 
 chrisnagi@bloomberg.net  