-- Petrobras Gasoline Price Rise Undecided on Inflation
-- B y   M a r i o   S e r g i o   L i m a
-- 2013-01-18T16:13:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-17/petrobras-gasoline-price-rise-undecided-on-inflation.html
A gasoline-price increase for
 Petroleo Brasileiro SA (PETR4) , the state-controlled oil company
responsible for supplying Brazil’s fuel consumption, is still
undecided as the government weighs the impact on  inflation .  Strong revenue from crude exports and an increase in the
amount of ethanol mixed with gasoline in June will help
compensate Petrobras, as the Rio de Janeiro-based producer is
known, for selling imported gasoline and diesel at a loss,
Energy Minister Edison Lobao said yesterday in an interview.  “We have to take into account the economic needs. The
inflation issue is important,” Lobao said at his office in
Brasilia. “The increase of the ethanol mix in gasoline helps
Petrobras because it will cut pricey gasoline imports.”  Fuel price controls, designed to contain inflation amid
lackluster economic growth, prevent Petrobras from passing on
the cost of imported fuel to consumers. That contributed to the
company’s first quarterly loss in 13 years in the second quarter
and an unexpected profit decline in the third quarter. The
company’s refining unit lost about $9 billion in the first nine
months of 2012 as it sold imported gasoline at below cost.  Finance Minister Guido Mantega said on Dec. 19 that
Petrobras would raise gasoline prices this year. Petrobras
shares rose on Jan. 15 after O Estado de S. Paulo reported that
the government planned to raise gasoline prices seven percent
and diesel prices four percent to five percent next week,
without saying where it obtained the information.  ‘Importing Company’  Petrobras rose 0.2 percent to 19.74 reais at 1:47 p.m. in
Sao Paulo and was the most-traded stock by value in  Brazil ’s
benchmark index. The shares fell 0.7 percent yesterday.  “The problem with Petrobras is that it became, despite
producing and selling oil, an importing company for the
government,” Bernardo Wjuniski, an analyst at Medley Global
Advisers in Sao Paulo, said in a Jan. 15 telephone interview.
“It’s the company that allows the government to have this gap
between local and international prices.”  Petrobras isn’t commenting on gasoline price levels, an
official at Petrobras’s press office, who can’t be named because
of corporate policy, said by phone from Rio.  With supply shocks last year pressuring food prices and
unemployment at historic lows, Brazil’s annual inflation
quickened to 5.84 percent in December. Consumer price increases
have exceeded the central bank’s 4.5 percent target for 28
months.  Brazil will increase the amount of ethanol added to
gasoline to 25 percent from 20 percent in June after the sugar
harvest season, easing demand for gasoline imports, Lobao said.
Gasoline and diesel consumption exceeds Petrobras’s capacity to
produce the fuels, forcing the company to increase imports.  Lobao sees no risk of electricity rationing in the country
as natural gas-fired plants increase output to offset low
hydropower dam levels. Even so, the government can still meet a
goal of reducing power prices by 20 percent this year, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mario Sergio Lima in Brasilia Newsroom at 
 mlima11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net  