-- Philippine Peso Volatility at Decade-Low on Intervention Risk
-- B y   L i l i a n   K a r u n u n g a n
-- 2013-01-17T02:49:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-17/philippine-peso-volatility-at-decade-low-on-intervention-risk.html
A gauge of expected fluctuations in
the Philippine peso dropped to the lowest in a decade after
central bank officials repeated warnings this week that the
authority may take steps to counter appreciation.  The peso reached 40.55 per dollar on Jan. 14, its strongest
level since March 2008, prompting Governor Amando Tetangco to
say the next day the central bank participated in the market to
restrain the currency and is focused on limiting speculative
inflows that could lead to asset-price bubbles. The monetary
authority restricted the use of currency forwards last month and
Deputy Governor Diwa Guinigundo said yesterday more measures
will be considered to address inflows.  “The increased frequency of verbal intervention and
warnings by the central bank are keeping players from betting on
peso appreciation too aggressively,” said Radhika Rao, a
Singapore-based economist at Forecast Pte. “The low peso
volatility is unlikely to be sustained. The peso is still very
much a bullish story.”  One-month implied volatility, a measure of expected moves
in exchange rates used to price options, fell one basis point,
or 0.01 percentage point, to 3.99 percent as of 10:19 a.m. in
 Manila , according to data compiled by Bloomberg. That would be
the lowest closing level since November 2002 and compares with
an average 8.1 percent in the past decade.  Forwards Curbs  The peso traded at 40.618 per dollar, little changed from
40.628 yesterday, data from Tullett Prebon Plc show. Its 7.3
percent advance in the past 12 months trails only the South
Korean won’s 8 percent gain among Asia’s 11 most-used
currencies.  The government will curb fluctuations in the exchange rate
and will consider borrowing dollars onshore to temper the peso’s
rise, President  Benigno Aquino  said yesterday in Cebu.  The central bank imposed limits on banks’ currency-forward
positions in December, a year after it ordered lenders to
provide more cash to cover risks on such contracts. It also
banned foreign funds from its special deposit accounts in July
to slow inflows.  The prospect of investment-grade credit ratings will
attract funds and support the peso,  Thomas Harr ,  Standard
Chartered ’s head of Asia local markets strategy in  Singapore ,
said in an interview last week.  The  Philippines  has the highest so-called junk ratings from
 Fitch Ratings , Moody’s Investors Service and  Standard & Poor’s .
S&P raised its outlook to positive on Dec. 20, hours after the
government enacted higher taxes on tobacco and liquor.  The benchmark three-year bonds declined yesterday. The
yield on the 9.25 percent notes due January 2016 increased one
basis point to 3.85 percent, according to Philippine Dealing &
Exchange Corp.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lilian Karunungan in Singapore at 
 lkarunungan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  