-- Poker ‘Don’ Sentenced to 7 Years in $1.2 Billion Fraud Case
-- B y   J e r e m y   H o d g e s
-- 2013-01-17T18:34:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-17/poker-player-sentenced-to-7-years-in-1-2-billion-u-k-fraud.html
Greek businessman Achilleas
Kallakis, known as “The Don” on the international poker
circuit, was sentenced to seven years in jail by a U.K. judge
after being found guilty of defrauding lenders to pay for trophy
property, planes, a yacht in  Monaco  and luxury cars.  The crime amounted to “fraud on a major scale,” Judge
Andrew Goymer said at a hearing in London today. Kallakis, 44,
and his co-conspirator Alexander M. Williams, also 44, were
convicted yesterday of defrauding banks to borrow 740 million
pounds ($1.2 billion) and acquire 16 properties including an
office building on London’s St. James’s Square.  “Both men took full advantage of the prevailing banking
culture in which corners were cut and checks and applications
were spurious,” Goymer said. Williams was sentenced to five
years in jail.  The two men, operating out of an office in central London’s
Mayfair neighborhood as the Pacific Group of Companies,
conspired from 2003 through 2008 to defraud lender  Allied Irish
Banks Plc (ALBK) , the U.K. Serious Fraud Office said. They borrowed 29
million euros ($38.8 million) more from  Lloyds Banking Group
Plc (LLOY) ’s Bank of Scotland unit to convert a passenger ferry into a
yacht for Kallakis’s use.  The lenders were given a forged guarantee from a Hong Kong
company to get bank loans that exceeded the purchase prices of
the properties. The suspected fraud was reported to the
prosecutors at the SFO by the Hong Kong firm and by Allied
Irish. An investigation began in January 2009 and the men were
later charged with forgery, fraud by false representation, money
laundering, conspiracy to defraud and obtaining a money transfer
by deception.  ‘Beggars Belief’  “The two banks have undoubtedly acted carelessly and
imprudently by failing to make full inquiries before advancing
the money,” despite receiving a warning from lawyers on the
risks of lending money to the men, Goymer said handing down his
sentence today. “It almost beggars belief that senior
management chose to disregard that warning in its rush to
complete the deal at all costs.”  Ian Kitts, a London spokesman for Lloyds, said the case
involved “a sophisticated fraud committed by determined
individuals.”  “The fraud against Bank of  Scotland  was originally
identified by the bank, following its own investigation,” he
said in an e-mailed statement.  Niamh Hennessy, a Dublin-based spokeswoman for AIB,
declined to comment. Lawyers for the men were not available for
comment.  Kallakis and Williams, who was jailed for five years, were
both disqualified from acting as company directors for a total
of six years as part of their punishment, while a hearing on
asset confiscation will be scheduled for later in the year.  “This was an audacious, persistent fraud that enabled
these defendants to lead the lifestyle of the super-rich,”
Ronan Duff, an SFO case manager, said in an e-mailed statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeremy Hodges in  London  at 
 jhodges17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  