-- Poker ‘Don’ Sentenced to 7 Years in $1.2 Billion U.K. Fraud Case
-- B y   J e r e m y   H o d g e s
-- 2013-01-17T12:42:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-17/poker-don-sentenced-to-7-years-in-1-2-billion-u-k-fraud-case.html
Greek businessman Achilleas
Kallakis, known as “The Don” on the international poker
circuit, was sentenced to seven years in jail by a U.K. judge
after being found guilty of defrauding lenders to pay for trophy
property, planes, a yacht in  Monaco  and luxury cars.  Judge Andrew Goymer said the crime amounted to “fraud on a
major scale” as he issued the sentence at a hearing in  London 
today. Kallakis, 44, and his co-conspirator Alexander M.
Williams, also 44, were convicted yesterday of defrauding banks
to borrow 740 million pounds ($1.2 billion) and acquire 16
properties including an office building on London’s St. James’s
Square.  “Both men took full advantage of the prevailing banking
culture in which corners were cut and checks and applications
were spurious,” Goymer said.  The two men, operating out of an office in central London’s
Mayfair neighborhood as the Pacific Group of Companies,
conspired from 2003 through 2008 to defraud lender  Allied Irish
Banks Plc (ALBK) , the U.K. Serious Fraud Office said. They borrowed 29
million euros ($38.8 million) more from the Bank of Scotland Plc
to convert a passenger ferry into a yacht for Kallakis’s use.  The lenders were given a forged guarantee from a Hong Kong
company to get bank loans that exceeded the purchase prices of
the properties. The suspected fraud was reported to the
prosecutors at the SFO by the Hong Kong firm and by  Allied
Irish . An investigation began in January 2009 and the men were
later charged with forgery, fraud by false representation,  money
laundering , conspiracy to defraud and obtaining a money transfer
by deception.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeremy Hodges in London at 
 jhodges17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  