-- Porsche Says Suit by Fired Indian Importer ‘Baseless’
-- B y   S i d d h a r t h   P h i l i p   a n d   S a m   N a g a r a j a n
-- 2013-01-18T12:16:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-17/porsche-says-allegations-by-fired-indian-car-importer-baseless-.html
(Corrects name of the Indian company in story originally
published on Jan. 17.)  Volkswagen (VOW)  AG’s Porsche said
criminal allegations by a former Indian importer that the maker
of the 911 sports car breached contractual obligations by
terminating its services were “baseless.”  A court in the northern Indian state of Rajasthan had
issued a bailable warrant for Porsche Chief Executive Officer
 Matthias Mueller  in November after Precision Cars India Pvt.
filed a complaint alleging cheating, breach of trust and
criminal conspiracy against the German company. Precision, a
distributor of Ducati motorcycles and Ferrari cars, claims
Volkswagen “unfairly” ended its contract.  Indian courts have “upheld Porsche’s termination of the
importer agreement,” the Stuttgart-based unit said today in a
statement. “The filing of criminal proceedings is an
afterthought and just an attempt by the former importer to open
a new -- and in the view of Porsche’s local lawyers inherently
frivolous -- proceeding.”  Porsche is taking steps to have the warrants, which are a
form of summons to answer allegations before the court,
dismissed, the company said.  Precision, which has sold over 1,000 Porsche cars since
becoming a dealer eight years ago, is challenging the end of the
contract after making investments to sell the vehicles in the
South Asian country, Ashish Chordia, a Mumbai-based director at
the company, said today by phone.  “We will pursue these cases under the due process of
law,” he said. “It’s not a joke to get a warrant issued.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Siddharth Philip in Mumbai at 
 sphilip3@bloomberg.net ;
Sam Nagarajan in  New Delhi  at 
 samnagarajan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at   ycho2@bloomberg.net  