-- Portugal to Announce Measures for Returning to Markets
-- B y   H e n r i q u e   A l m e i d a   a n d   J o a o   L i m a
-- 2013-01-17T16:11:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-17/portugal-to-announce-measures-for-returning-to-markets.html
Portugal  will “soon” announce
measures aimed at returning to bond markets after its bailout
two years ago, Prime Minister  Pedro Passos Coelho  said.  “We will seek to issue long-term debt and obtain from our
partners the necessary support that will allow us to return to
the market in a more successful way,” Coelho said today at a
news conference in Paris with French President  Francois Hollande . “The countries that are complying with their programs
and presenting merit in the way the measures are being developed
should be supported in their aim of returning to the market.”  Yields have dropped as Portugal raises taxes to meet the
terms of a 78 billion-euro ($104 billion) aid plan requested
from the European Union and the  International Monetary Fund  in
April 2011. The country aims to regain access to markets by
September, and Coelho has said if “external reasons” make that
impossible, it could count on continued IMF and EU support.  Portugal’s borrowing costs fell yesterday at a sale of a
combined 2.5 billion euros of three-, 12- and 18-month bills in
the first auction of 2013. The debt agency sold 12-month
securities at an average yield of 1.609 percent, the lowest
since April 2010.  Yields peaked a year ago, when  Standard & Poor’s  cut
Portugal’s credit rating to non-investment grade, or junk,
following  Fitch Ratings  and Moody’s Investors Service.  Spread Narrows  The difference in yield that investors demand to hold
Portugal’s 10-year bonds instead of German bunds has narrowed to
4.6 percentage points from 16 percentage points on Jan. 31,
2012. Portugal’s two-year note yield has dropped to 3.48
percent, while 10-year bonds yield 6.21 percent. The cost of the
aid program financing to Portugal is about 3.2 percent, Finance
Minister Vitor Gaspar said on Dec. 18.  The debt agency said on Jan. 11 that net borrowing needs
will be 11.5 billion euros this year, with financing from
issuing treasury bills of about 5 billion euros. Portugal sold
22 billion euros of bills in 2012, though it hasn’t auctioned
bonds since requesting the bailout.  Portugal must meet a 5.8 billion-euro redemption of bonds
maturing in September without relying on the EU-led rescue
program, which extends until the middle of 2014. The debt agency
on Oct. 3 exchanged 3.76 billion euros of securities due in
September 2013 for the same value of notes maturing in October
2015, reducing its 2013 repayment burden.  ECB Support  European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  said on Sept.
6 that debt purchases may be considered for euro-area countries
now under bailout programs, such as Greece, Portugal and
Ireland, when they regain bond- market access . The measure,
called Outright Monetary Transactions, “would not apply to
countries that are under a full-adjustment program until full-
market access will be obtained,” Draghi said on Oct. 4. “The
OMT is not a replacement” for a lack of primary-market access.  Ireland’s National Treasury Management Agency sold about
2.5 billion euros of bonds earlier this month in its first sale
through a banking syndicate in three years.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Henrique Almeida in Lisbon at 
 halmeida5@bloomberg.net ;
Joao Lima in Lisbon at 
 jlima1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Foxwell at 
 sfoxwell@bloomberg.net  