-- Privacy of Donated Genetic Data Pierced by Researchers
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   L o p a t t o
-- 2013-01-17T19:23:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-17/privacy-of-donated-genetic-data-pierced-by-researchers.html
Men who donate DNA to public
databases can readily be identified because their Y chromosomes
can be traced along with their surnames, according to a study
that may raise concerns about privacy in genetic research.  Researchers led by the Whitehead Institute for Biomedical
Research in Cambridge,  Massachusetts , identified 50 people among
male volunteers who had donated genetic data to studies such as
the 1,000 Genomes Project. They checked surnames in genealogy
databases, and narrowed the search by matching surnames with
donors’ ages and state of residence.  The research, published today in the journal  Science ,
demonstrates a novel way to evade privacy controls around
genetic information by focusing on the Y chromosome men inherit
from their father, as well as surnames typically passed down
through the male line. Craig Venter, the biologist who was one
of the first to sequence the human genome as well as a donor to
the project, was the test case, said study author Yaniv Erlich.  “There were thousands of Venters, so we thought, what
happens if we know the age and state of residency of the
individual?” said Ehrlich, a geneticist and  Whitehead Fellow  at
Massachusetts Institute of Technology. The two identifiers were
chosen because they’re allowed under the  Health Insurance
Portability and Accountability Act of 1996  privacy rules. “So
we got two matches, one of which was Craig Venter.”  It may not be possible to do this kind of identification
with every genome, Erlich said. However, for U.S. white men who
are upper and middle class, knowing a surname, age and state
will turn up about 12 people, he said.  “At that point, you can just call all 12 and ask if they
participated,” Ehrlich said.  Privacy Concerns  The findings have some geneticists concerned about privacy
breaches, as well as unintended revelations about ancestry.  If someone knows what study a person is participating in,
they may be able to find out whether the participant has an
illness, said  Leonid Kruglyak , a geneticist at Princeton
University in Princeton, New Jersey. People who believed they
were father and son may discover they aren’t.  “This isn’t an immediate thing, but what if someone wanted
to enable this and designed a piece of software to make it
easy?” Kruglyak said in a telephone interview. “I don’t think
this is something that people sitting at their keyboards at home
would be able to do.”  People who are going to participate in genetic studies
should be informed of the risk that they may be identified, said
 Laura Lyman Rodriguez , the director of the division for policy,
communications, and education at the National Human Genome
Research Institute in Bethesda,  Maryland .  “This risk that this will affect people is low,” said
Rodriguez in a telephone interview. “That doesn’t mean the risk
is zero.”  There’s no federal prohibition against identifying people
against their will, she said. States’ laws vary, and the U.S.
president’s bioethics commission has asked scientists to
consider legislation.  “Informed consent is always important, to talk about the
risks,” Rodriguez said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Lopatto in San Francisco at 
 elopatto@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  