-- Prosecutors Intended Six-Month Sentence for Aaron Swartz
-- B y   D o u g l a s   W o n g
-- 2013-01-17T05:10:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-17/prosecutors-intended-six-month-sentence-for-aaron-swartz.html
U.S. prosecutors handling computer-
fraud charges against an Internet activist who killed himself
last week had intended to recommend a sentence of six months,
U.S. Attorney Carmen Ortiz in  Boston  said.  The career prosecutors handling the case recognized that
Aaron Swartz’s conduct didn’t warrant the severe punishment
authorized by law, Ortiz said yesterday in an e-mailed statement.  Swartz’s family  blames  authorities for engaging in a
campaign of “intimidation and prosecutorial overreach” in
charging Swartz with crimes that carried a potential sentence of
more than 30 years. The case has raised questions about whether
federal anti-hacking legislation is too broad.  “As a parent and a sister, I can only imagine the pain
felt by the family and friends of Aaron Swartz, and I want to
extend my heartfelt sympathy to everyone who knew and loved this
young man,” Ortiz said.  While there are people who feel Swartz’s prosecution was
unwarranted and somehow led to his suicide, Ortiz said the
conduct of the U.S. Attorney’s office was appropriate.  “The career prosecutors handling this matter took on the
difficult task of enforcing a law they had taken an oath to
uphold, and did so reasonably,” she said.  Journals Downloaded  Swartz was indicted in July 2011 for allegedly downloading
more than 4 million documents from JSTOR, a fee-based service
for scientific and literary journals, through a  Massachusetts
Institute of Technology  connection. He was challenging the idea
that access to academic documents should be confined to the
elite, and was scared of the prospect of going to prison,
according to his lawyer,  Elliot Peters , of San Francisco-based
Keker & Van Nest LLP.  Swartz’s defense counsel would have been free to recommend
a sentence of probation, Ortiz said in her statement. She said
prosecutors discussed resolving the case with Swartz’s lawyers.  “At no time did this office ever seek, or ever tell Mr
Swartz’s attorneys that it intended to seek maximum penalties
under the law,” she said.  Swartz, 26, was found dead in his  Brooklyn ,  New York ,
apartment Jan. 11. In the wake of his death, ruled by the New
York Medical Examiner’s Office as a suicide by hanging, he
became a symbol in a debate about whether the Computer Fraud and
Abuse Act, the 1986 law under which he was charged, gives
prosecutors and hacking victims too much leeway in seeking harsh
punishments.  As a teenager, Swartz helped create a technology called
Really Simple Syndication, or RSS, which lets Web users
subscribe to updates. He also co-founded the news and
information site Reddit as well as Demand Progress, a group that
advocated against Internet piracy legislation, according to his
website. He had written on his blog about  battling depression .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Douglas Wong in  Hong Kong  at 
 dwong19@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  