-- PTT Exploration Mulls Bond Sale to Fund Growth: Southeast Asia
-- B y   S u p u n n a b u l   S u w a n n a k i j
-- 2013-01-17T17:00:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-17/ptt-exploration-mulls-bond-sale-to-fund-growth-southeast-asia.html
PTT Exploration & Production Pcl (PTTEP)  may
sell perpetual dollar bonds in the second half to help fund more
than $20 billion of investments in oil and gas projects from
Myanmar to East Africa over five years.  Thailand’s biggest publicly traded explorer has room to
increase borrowing by as much as $1.5 billion before reaching
its limit of having a maximum debt-to-equity ratio of 50 percent,
Chief Executive Officer Tevin Vongvanich said yesterday in an
interview. That would make it the first non-financial Thai
company to sell perpetual bonds.  “We’ll have some healthy exploration budget because we’ll
shift a little bit from major acquisitions to exploration,”
Tevin said in his office in Bangkok. “We’ll be looking at
increasing the exploration budget over the next few years.”  PTTEP raised about $3 billion in December in  Thailand ’s
largest equity offering to finance its purchase of Cove Energy
Plc, which gave it a stake in East African assets. The company
plans to double production to 600,000 barrels of oil equivalent
a day by 2020 with existing projects in  Australia , East Africa,
North America and Southeast Asia. Including acquisitions, it
aims to boost total daily output to 900,000 barrels by 2020.  The bond sale may take place in the second half of this
year to help repay some debt, Tevin said. “The size of
perpetual bond will be considered from the level of the
repayment we have to make this year.”  Asian companies have sold $1.2 billion of dollar-
denominated perpetual debt in 2013, almost half the amount sold
all of last year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Development Focus  The Cove Energy acquisition temporarily boosted borrowings
to 70 percent of equity, which was then reduced to 35 percent
with proceeds from the rights offer, he said.  The explorer, which has 44 oil and gas projects worldwide,
bought 40 percent of Stavanger, Norway-based  Statoil ASA (STL) ’s oil
sands project in  Canada  for $2.28 billion in November 2010, the
biggest acquisition by a Thai company.  PTTEP will now focus on developing its existing assets and
any future acquisitions will be mid-sized assets such as shale
gas and shale oil in the U.S. and Canada, he said.  The company has “healthy” cash flow and can generate
earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization
of about $5 billion a year, which is sufficient to fund the
development of existing projects, Tevin said.  Net income  may climb to a record 66.5 billion baht ($2.23
billion) this year from an estimated 58.9 billion baht in 2012,
according to the average of 28 analyst estimates compiled by
Bloomberg. PTTEP is scheduled to release a five-year investment
budget on Jan. 21 and full-year earnings on Jan. 31.  Major Player  Last year’s Cove Energy acquisition for 1.2 billion pounds
($1.9 billion) made the company a partner in Rovuma Offshore
Area 1 and other petroleum blocks in Mozambique and  Kenya .
 Anadarko Petroleum Corp. (APC)  owns 36.5 percent in Rovuma, while
PTTEP’s unit owns an 8.5 percent stake in the block that
contains between 35 trillion and 65 trillion cubic feet of
recoverable natural gas, according to PTTEP’s website.  Rovuma is expected to start producing liquefied natural gas
as early as 2018 and have an annual output of 10 million tons,
part of which will probably be shipped to Thailand, Tevin said.  “East Africa will be a major player in the next 10 years
for the LNG business,” Tevin said. “To get the foothold in the
initial development of this new region is very exciting for
us.”  Energy Importer  Thailand, a net energy importer, is seeking overseas
resources to meet growing energy demand at home. Thailand
consumes daily almost 2 million barrels of oil equivalent of
primary energy including oil, gas and coal, of which more than
half is imported. Consumption is forecast to rise to 2.4 million
barrels a day in 2020, PTTEP said, citing the energy ministry.  PTTEP’s production growth may climb about 20 percent in the
three-year period until 2014, Tevin said. That will level out in
2015 and 2016, when the company will need to seek additional
production from acquisitions, he said without providing figures.  The company  aims to start oil production from its Montara
project in Australia by the first quarter of this year and from
its project in Algeria next year, he said. Natural gas
production from the M9 offshore project in Myanmar will commence
by the end of this year, Tevin said.  “The expansion plans will continue to drive PTTEP earnings
to new highs every year over the next two-three years,” said
Nalinrat Kittikumpolrat, an analyst at  Asia Plus Securities Pcl (ASP) 
in Bangkok. The broker recommends buying the stock with a fair
value of 195.69 baht at the end of 2013.  PTTEP shares have lost 0.9 percent this year, compared with
a 2.8 percent gain in the 67-member  Bloomberg World Oil & Gas
Index. (BWOILP)  The stock gained 0.6 percent to close at 162.50 baht in
Bangkok yesterday. Thailand’s benchmark SET Index, which is up
2.1 percent this year, rose 0.3 percent yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Supunnabul Suwannakij in Bangkok at 
 ssuwannakij@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tony Jordan at 
 tjordan3@bloomberg.net  