-- Public Cry for Gun Laws Often Ends With Thud in Congress
-- B y   H e i d i   P r z y b y l a   a n d   L i s a   L e r e r
-- 2013-01-17T13:42:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-17/public-cry-for-gun-laws-often-ends-with-thud-in-congress.html
President  Barack Obama  is seeking to
defy both history and congressional reality in calculating that
shifting public opinion will ease passage of the most expansive
gun-control agenda in a generation.  A month after the shooting rampage that killed 20 students
and six educators at a  Connecticut  elementary school, Obama
yesterday challenged Congress to pass legislation to reinstate a
ban on sales of assault weapons, limit high-capacity ammunition
clips, and mandate background checks for all gun buyers.  The $500 million proposal marks the first significant
effort to curb gun violence in two decades. The plan, announced
days before Obama’s inauguration, guarantees a politically
treacherous battle with Congress early in his second term.  “I have no illusions about what we’re up against,” Vice
President  Joe Biden  said at the White House yesterday. Obama had
asked Biden to come up with recommendations following the
shooting at Sandy Hook Elementary in Newtown, Connecticut.  “We need to be able to accomplish in steps what we can,”
said Senator  Richard Blumenthal  of Connecticut, a Democrat who
has dedicated much of his time to the gun issue since the Dec.
14 massacre.  Obama and his allies face intense opposition in Congress to
stiffer gun regulations. The  National Rifle Association , the
largest lobby for gun owners and makers, has vowed to fight new
limits.  ‘Basically Confiscation’  Appearing today on NBC’s “Today” program,  David Keene ,
the NRA’s president, said law-abiding gun owners “have a good
deal to fear” from greater  government regulation .  “They have to fear the establishment of a national
registry,” he said, because such records of firearms owners
would mean “the government could force them to sell those
firearms back to the government” and that’s “basically
confiscation.”  Along with reinstating the assault-weapons ban that expired
in 2004 and limiting ammunition magazines to 10 rounds, Obama
wants Congress to pass legislation that would prohibit the
possession of armor-piercing ammunition and increase criminal
penalties for gun trafficking.  Congress is preoccupied with a trio of fiscal deadlines in
February and March, including the need to raise the nation’s
 borrowing limit , and opposition to tightening gun regulations
runs deep in the Republican-led House. In the Senate, Democrats
lack the 60 votes needed to advance most major legislation.  Executive Actions  In an effort to circumvent congressional opposition, Obama
yesterday signed 23 executive actions, including several
designed to maximize prosecution of gun crimes and improve
access to government data for background checks.  Going beyond those actions, administration officials
acknowledge, will be challenging. “To make a real and lasting
difference, Congress must act,” Obama said yesterday. “And
Congress must act soon.”  Decades of congressional inaction on  gun-control  measures
suggests Obama’s agenda could easily be undercut.  It was an obscure provision over “midnight basketball”
for at-risk youths that almost derailed the 1994 assault weapons
ban, and in 1999, attempts to tighten gun laws following mass
killings at Columbine High School in  Colorado  failed after
stalling for weeks in the U.S. House.  “It’s not likely that Congress in the end will act, but I
think it’s possible that they will act,” said Robert Spitzer,
an author of four books on gun control, including “The Politics
of Gun Control.”  “The door is open, not only because of the degree of
outrage over this shooting. It just shocked people in the way
that past shootings haven’t,” Spitzer said.  No Urgency  House Speaker  John Boehner  was noncommittal about the
president’s proposal, indicating no urgency in moving forward
with gun legislation.  “House committees of jurisdiction will review these
recommendations,” said  Michael Steel , a spokesman for the  Ohio
Republican . “And if the Senate passes a bill, we will also take
a look at that.”  As a response to the Connecticut shootings, House Energy
and Commerce Chairman  Fred Upton , a Michigan Republican, plans
hearings on mental health issues, and Republican lawmakers
including Representative Frank Wolf of Virginia are pressing for
warning labels on violent video games.  No Solution  Other Republicans say new legislation isn’t the solution to
stemming gun violence.  “You can pass whatever law you want, and law-abiding
people will abide by it. It’s not going to deter anyone who
wants to commit a crime,” said Representative Trey Gowdy of
 South Carolina .  In the Senate,  Dianne Feinstein , a California Democrat,
plans to introduce another assault weapons ban, and Judiciary
Committee Chairman  Patrick Leahy , a Vermont Democrat, said
yesterday that he has scheduled a hearing on new proposals for
Jan. 30.  A majority of Americans favor new gun-control measures,
with support for banning high-capacity assault magazines at 65
percent and a prohibition on the sale of military-style weapons
at 58 percent, according to an ABC News/ Washington  Post poll
released Jan. 14.  The shooter in Newtown, Adam Lanza, used a Bushmaster semi-
automatic AR-15 rifle and had ammunition magazines that held 30
rounds. Democrats say the shooting has caused a shift in the
political ground on the issue and created an opening for action.  Bipartisan Support  There is some bipartisan support in Congress for two of
Obama’s recommendations: a background check for all gun
purchases and limits on high-capacity magazines like those used
in many of the mass shootings at schools and universities over
the past decade, according to Democrats, including
Representative Carolyn McCarthy of  New York .  Democrats face a tactical decision on how hard to push the
assault weapons ban. That provision will probably face the
toughest opposition in the House and could endanger passage of
other initiatives.  “We’re not going to get an outright ban” on assault
weapons, said McCarthy, whose husband was murdered in a 1993
mass shooting on the Long Island Rail Road -- violence that
prodded her into a political career.  “So are we going to waste time on heavy lifting, or are we
going to try to work on something we can actually get passed?”
she said. McCarthy is a member of a House panel of Democrats
examining options for gun violence.  Background Check  Democrats say that the background-check proposal has the
best chance of passage among Obama’s major proposals.  “Eventually a bill to strengthen background checks will
pass,” said Representative Mike Thompson, a California Democrat
who is heading the party panel on gun violence. “It’s a great
first step.”  To overcome opposition in Congress to the gun-control
measures, administration officials are seeking to rally popular
support and enlist the help of law enforcement officials,
religious leaders and victims of gun violence.  Over the past several weeks, administration officials have
held 22 meetings with 220 organizations to develop their plans.  Previous Measures  In 1993, President  Bill Clinton  signed the Brady Handgun
Violence Prevention Act, which instituted federal background
checks for firearms purchasers; a year later, he signed the
assault weapons ban. Democrats controlled both chambers of
Congress when the legislation was passed.  Clinton’s efforts on limiting juveniles’ access to guns and
requiring background checks for firearm sales failed in 1999.  “Why did those two succeed and the others not?” said
Chicago Mayor  Rahm Emanuel , a Democrat who served in the U.S.
House and was an adviser to both Clinton and Obama. “The later
legislation wasn’t as laser-focused on criminal access and
prosecution.”  Emanuel, who was speaking at a forum in Washington this
week, advised those in Congress supporting Obama’s proposals to
focus on pushing legislation that has some bipartisan support,
such as the background checks.  “Keep it there, you’ll get the bipartisan majority” to
win passage, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Heidi Przybyla in Washington at 
 hprzybyla@bloomberg.net ;
Lisa Lerer in Washington at 
 llerer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  