-- Qantas Airways Cancels Order for One Boeing Dreamliner
-- B y   D a v i d   F i c k l i n g
-- 2013-01-17T22:53:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-17/qantas-air-said-to-cancel-order-for-one-boeing-dreamliner.html
Qantas Airways Ltd. (QAN)  canceled one of
the 15 orders it has for Boeing Co.’s 787 aircraft and added
eight short-haul planes to its domestic fleet.  The cancellation of the composite-bodied aircraft is the
first since regulators in the U.S. and other nations grounded
the Dreamliner after an emergency landing this week by one of
the planes in  Japan . The decision was taken at the end of last
year, the company said in an e-mailed statement, and had only
now been finalised.  The aircraft, destined for the Sydney-based carrier’s
Jetstar budget arm, may not be needed as it examines how much it
needs to grow capacity on long-haul routes. Qantas on Dec. 20
won initial antitrust clearance for a deal under which it would
collaborate with Emirates on international operations, including
the so-called kangaroo route to  Europe .  “While the plan is for Jetstar’s long-haul network to keep
expanding we are using the flexibility in our agreement with
 Boeing (BA)  to cancel a firm order knowing that we can replace it,”
Alan Joyce, chief executive officer, said in the statement.  Planes from the remaining 14 firm orders are due to start
arriving from July. Qantas, which canceled 35 787-9s for its
main unit in August, retained the 50 purchase options it has for
the Dreamliner.  “Qantas is a long-standing and very valued customer and
we’re committed to working with them on their evolving fleet
needs,” Allison Bone, a Sydney-based spokeswoman for Boeing,
said by phone yesterday.  Domestic Routes  Qantas will lease an additional five Boeing 717 aircraft
and buy three Bombardier Q400, smaller narrow-body planes used
on shorter domestic routes. The Bombardier purchase is valued at
about $98 million, according to a separate release from the
Montreal-based manufacturer.  The order changes won’t affect Qantas’s plans to spend
A$1.8 billion ($1.9 billion) on capital projects this year, the
airline said.  The Dreamliner, Boeing’s most advanced jet ever, is facing
its biggest crisis since entering commercial service in late
2011 as airlines ground the planes amid safety concerns caused
by battery fires.  The  Federal Aviation Administration  ordered airlines to
prove that  lithium-ion batteries  in the 787 “are safe and in
compliance.” The FAA’s decision to ground the planes is the
first such move involving an entire model in 34 years.  India, Chile  The European Aviation Safety Agency said it adopted the FAA
directive. Regulators in Japan,  India  and  Chile  also ordered
787s in their countries grounded after an All Nippon Airways Co.
plane made the emergency landing in Japan Jan. 16 following a
battery-fault warning.  Boeing is set to double production of the 787 over the
coming 12 months to help fill about 800 outstanding orders for
the aircraft, making the year a crucial one for the fuel-
efficient plane, which costs an average of $207 million at  list
prices .  Through the end of 2012, Boeing had 848 orders for the 787,
according to the planemaker’s website. There are now 50 planes
in service, which have flown 50,000 hours, Boeing said.  Qantas scrapped its order for 35 Dreamliners in August
after delivery delays and losses on international routes. The
carrier said at that time it would get $433 million from Boeing,
including more than $300 million compensation for the delays and
a refund of deposits for the canceled order.  The carrier had brought forward by two years the 50 options
for 787-9s so that deliveries would begin in 2016 if they are
exercised.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Fickling in Sydney at 
 dfickling@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anand Krishnamoorthy at 
 anandk@bloomberg.net  