-- Qatar Bank to Complete Talks Over Alternatifbank in March
-- B y   S h a j i   M a t h e w   a n d   A y d a n   E k s i n
-- 2013-01-17T15:55:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-17/qatar-bank-to-complete-talks-over-alternatifbank-in-march.html
Commercial Bank of Qatar  is
continuing talks to acquire 75 percent of  Alternatifbank AS (ALNTF)  and
plans to complete discussions in March, the company said.  Alternatifbank, Turkey’s 17th-largest lender with 7.9
billion liras ($4.5 billion) in assets as of Sept. 30 according
to the Banks’ Association of Turkey, jumped as much as 4.6
percent and rose 2.1 percent to 2.44 liras at 3:41 p.m. in
Istanbul.  Investors from the  Middle East ,  Russia  and  Asia  are
boosting their holdings in Turkey, attracted by rising profit
and growth in loans. Qatar National Bank said last month it may
target stakes in the country’s major lenders. Bank of Tokyo-
Mitsibushi UFJ Ltd. is in the final stages of a license
application, Mukim Oztekin, head of the industry regulator, said
in December. Russia’s OAO Sberbank bought Turkish bank  Denizbank
AS (DENIZ)  from Belgium’s Dexia SA in June for $3.53 billion.  The lender started due diligence work to buy Istanbul-based
Alternatifbank’s stake and “is in a good position, being
Qatar’s second-biggest bank,” Tuncay Ozilhan, chairman of
Anadolu Endustri Holding, said in a Bloomberg interview on Jan.
15.  CBQ announced its planned target date to complete talks in
a statement on the Regulatory News Service today. Alternatifbank
shares have  surged  67 percent since owner Anadolu Endustri
Holding AS announced the start of negotiations to sell a
majority stake to CBQ on Dec. 24. That compares with an 11
percent gain in the main ISE 100 index since the Dec. 21 close.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Shaji Mathew in Dubai at 
 shajimathew@bloomberg.net ;
Aydan Eksin in Istanbul at 
 aeksin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Riad Hamade at 
 rhamade@bloomberg.net  