-- QE2 Ocean Liner to Be Asia-Based Luxury Hotel
-- B y   Z a i n a b   F a t t a h
-- 2013-01-17T10:04:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-17/qe2-ocean-liner-to-be-asia-based-luxury-hotel.html
The Queen Elizabeth 2 , the ocean
liner known as the QE2 that plied the Atlantic for almost 40
years, will be moored in Asia as a 400-room luxury hotel after
plans to keep the ship in Dubai were scrapped.  Drydocks World, a unit of state-owned Dubai World, signed
an agreement with  Oceanic Group Pte Ltd. , a cruise company with
offices in  Singapore ,  Hong Kong  and  Shanghai , to convert the
ship into a five-star hotel, the companies said today.  “The QE2 is not being scrapped, quite the opposite,”
Oceanic Group Managing Director Daniel Chui told reporters in
Dubai today. “We will lavish many, many millions of dollars on
this magnificent ship to restore her the splendor of her glory
days.”  Istithmar World PJSC, a state-owned company based in Dubai,
bought the 963-foot (294-meter) ship from Cunard for $100
million in 2007. It announced plans in July to convert it into a
300-room hotel to be moored in the emirate. The government last
year dissolved the board of Istithmar World and assigned its
management to the board of parent company  Dubai World .  Drydocks Chairman Khamis Buamim said he expects the ship to
become a moored hotel in January 2014 and that it still may
return to Dubai. The companies haven’t decided where to moor the
ship in Asia, he said.  The QE2 made its official maiden voyage from Southampton,
 England , to New York in 1969. The ship, operated by Cunard, had
capacity for more than 1,900 passengers and a crew of more than
1,000, according to a  website  about the vessel.  “As a luxury hotel, the QE2 will take her place alongside
the great heritage hotels of Asia, including the Peninsula Hotel
in Hong Kong, the Peace Hotel in Shanghai, the Grand Hotel in
Taipei and the Rex Hotel in  Ho Chi Minh City ,” Oceanic Group
said on its website.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zainab Fattah in Dubai at 
 zfattah@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Blackman at 
 ablackman@bloomberg.net  