-- Traders Win as Nations Provoke Swings With Protests: Currencies
-- B y   L i z   C a p o   M c C o r m i c k   a n d   Y e   X i e
-- 2013-01-18T13:27:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-17/traders-win-as-nations-provoke-swings-with-protests-currencies.html
The growing chorus of government
officials around the world bemoaning the inflated levels of
their currencies is proving to be a bonanza for traders.  A JPMorgan Chase & Co. index that tracks  volatility 
measures by options in the $4 trillion-a-day foreign-exchange
market has risen almost 2 percentage points from a more than
five-year low in December, led by developed-nation currencies
such as the dollar, yen and euro. At the same time, the Chicago
Board Options Exchange Volatility Index tracking price swings in
 stocks  has fallen.  From  Thailand  to  Russia  and Costa Rica, officials are
expressing alarm over the appreciation of their currencies as
increased monetary easing in the U.S., Japan and other developed
nations spurs demand for high-yielding assets found largely in
emerging markets. Rising volatility creates more opportunity to
profit for traders, who saw foreign-exchange revenue slide last
year as central-bank policies aimed at spurring growth through
low  interest rates  stifled movement between currencies and cut
volumes by $300 billion a day.  “It’s not a one-way bet for the major currencies
anymore,” Doug Borthwick, a managing director and head of
foreign exchange at Chapdelaine FX in  New York , said in a Jan.
16 telephone interview.  Franc, Pound  The Swiss franc fell against the euro today to the weakest
since the central bank imposed a cap on the currency in 2011.
The yen has tumbled 17 percent in the past six months, based on
Bloomberg Correlation Weighted Indexes. The gauges show the
dollar has depreciated 3.7 percent in the same period, while the
pound has weakened 1.9 percent.  Central banks see lower currencies as a way to boost
exports and bolster their economies amid austerity measures,
high unemployment and low business confidence.  The  World Bank  in  Washington  cut its global growth forecast
for this year to 2.4 percent, down from a June forecast of 3
percent. It halved its forecast for Japan, cut the U.S.
projection by 0.5 percentage point and predicted a second year
of contraction in the euro region. It also lowered projections
for emerging markets led by  Brazil ,  India  and  Mexico .  The combination of interest rates at or about record lows
in the U.S.,  Europe  and Japan diminished the allure of the
dollar, euro and yen, the three most-traded currencies. In
addition to  Switzerland , nations such as Brazil established
controls on exchange rates, making it less lucrative to trade
foreign exchange.  ‘Tremendous News’  “The Japanese government has come out and said they want
to weaken their currency while people feel things in Europe are
being rectified,” Chapdelaine FX’s Borthwick said. “For
trading purposes, this is tremendous news.”  Daily trading as measured by CLS Bank, operator of the
largest currency-transaction settlement system, fell 6 percent
to $4.72 trillion in the third quarter from a year earlier.  Foreign-exchange funds overall lost 1.5 percent for the
year through November, according to Parker Global Strategies
LLC, which tracks about 40 programs. Four of the largest U.S.
actively managed currency funds with positive results in 2012
averaged a 3.7 percent return in 2012, compared with a 16
percent gain in the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.  “Volumes of trading went down the toilet last year,”
 Steven Barrow , head of Group of 10 research at Standard Bank
Plc, said in a phone interview from  London  yesterday. “So far
this year, things are far more active. It was hard for managers
to make reasonable returns in major currencies last year.”  Relative Volatility  The Global Currency Program fund at FX Concepts LLC was up
0.4 percent last year through November, the New York-based
firm’s most up-to-date return figures show. That was an
improvement from a 19.4 percent loss in 2011, while below its
annualized return of 6.8 percent since March 2001.  While increasing, volatility is still relatively low. The
JPMorgan Global FX Volatility Index was at 8.84 percent as of
8:21 a.m. in New York, up from last year’s low of 7.05 percent
in December and compared with the average of 10.7 percent since
the beginning of 2000. It reached as high as 27 percent during
the financial crisis in October 2008.  The company’s  developed  markets gauge jumped to 9.15
percent from December’s low of 7.06 percent. The  emerging
markets   index  was 7.07, after declining to 6.8 percent on Jan.
14, it’s lowest since 2007.  ‘Dramatic Differences’  Investors in some emerging-markets currencies, such as the
Hungarian forint, Indonesian rupiah and Turkish lira, may be
underestimating the risk of greater fluctuations as slower
growth may curb foreign capital and weaken exchange rates,
according to Stephen Jen, former head of currency strategy at
Morgan Stanley.  “For some of these currencies, there’s still a lot of
downside,” Jen, the managing partner at hedge fund SLJ Macro
Partners LLP in London, said in a telephone interview on Jan.
16. “As growth slows, people will start to distinguish between
the weaker countries and more robust emerging economies. Then
we’ll see quite dramatic differences in performance.”  Political leaders in emerging markets have repeatedly
complained about strong currencies as a result of loose monetary
policies in the developed world. The world is on the brink of a
fresh “currency war,” a Russian central-bank official said
this week as European policy makers joined Japan in bemoaning
the economic cost of rising exchange rates.  “Japan is weakening the yen and other countries may
follow,” Bank Rossii First Deputy Chairman  Alexei Ulyukayev 
said at a conference on Jan. 16 in Moscow.  Russia Intervention  Russia’s central bank has bought 15.1 billion rubles ($499
million) of foreign currency in the two weeks since Jan. 8 to
stem the ruble’s advance after abstaining from interventions in
December, Bank Rossii data show.  The  Philippines  followed  South Korea  last month in imposing
restrictions on trading non-deliverable currency forwards as the
peso strengthened to the highest level since 2008. The central
bank intervened in the foreign-exchange market and is focused on
containing inflows from speculators, Governor Amando Tetangco
said in a speech in  Manila  on Jan. 15.  Implied volatility on three-month peso options fell to a
record low of 4.53 percent the same day.  Real, Colon  Brazil’s central bank has used currency derivatives to buy
dollars when the real appreciated, and sell them when it fell
and stoked inflation pressure. That has kept the real between 2
and 2.15 per dollar since July and pushed the volatility measure
to a record low of 6.95 percent in November.  Costa Rica plans to reduce interest rates to discourage
capital inflows after the colon reached the strongest in almost
five years. Thailand’s baht retreated from a 17-month high
yesterday after Finance Minister Kittiratt Na-Ranong said the
 exchange rate  is “not at a good level” and exporters will face
difficulties should it strengthen further.  Currency pairs such as “the euro-franc, which had low
volatility last year as it was constrained by central-bank
policy, should see more volatility as there is now a two-way
trade with the franc not just viewed as a safe haven,”  Daragh Maher , a foreign-exchange strategist at HSBC Holdings Plc, said
in a Jan. 16 interview.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Liz Capo McCormick in New York at 
 emccormick7@bloomberg.net ;
Ye Xie in New York at 
 yxie6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net ;
Laura Zelenko at 
 lzelenko@bloomberg.net  