-- Rand Gains Second Day Against Dollar as Labor Protests Ease
-- B y   R o b e r t   B r a n d
-- 2013-01-17T13:48:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-17/rand-gains-second-day-against-dollar-as-labor-protests-ease.html
The rand gained for a second day
after strikes in the platinum mining and agricultural industries
ended, easing investor concern that labor unrest in  South Africa 
will worsen.  The currency appreciated 0.3 percent to 8.7763 a dollar by
3:23 p.m. in Johannesburg. Yields on benchmark 10.5 percent
bonds due December 2026 climbed one basis point, or 0.01
percentage point, to 7.17 percent after rising three basis
points yesterday.  Anglo American Platinum Ltd., the biggest producer of the
precious metal, said employees returned to work today at
operations in Rustenburg and north of Pilanesberg in South
Africa after a strike over plans to idle mines and cut 14,000
jobs. Most striking farmworkers in the Western Cape province
agreed to suspend industrial action for a week to allow further
negotiations on wages, the country’s largest labor group said
yesterday.  “The immediate risk seems to be further industrial action
but there is nothing obvious that could drive negative headlines
today,”  John Cairns , a currency strategist at Rand Merchant
Bank in Johannesburg, said in e-mailed comments. “Rand weakness
may be ending.”  Shooting Star  The rand has weakened 3.6 percent this year after  Fitch
Ratings  cut the nation’s credit rating and on concern the
current-account deficit will widen as the strikes curb exports.  Metals and other minerals accounted for 61 percent of South
Africa’s exports in the first 11 months of 2012, according to
government data. The  trade gap  in the same period was 112.7
billion rand ($13 billion), more than six times bigger than a
year earlier.  The rand also gained after technical indicators suggested
the currency’s depreciation had gone too far, according to Judy Padayachee, a Johannesburg-based analyst at Absa Group Ltd.  The dollar-rand posted a so-called shooting star candletick
pattern yesterday, an sign that it is set for a rebound,
Padayachee wrote in a note e-mailed to clients today.
Candlestick charts show an index or a security’s high, low, open
and close each day. A shooting star formation emerges when
securities that have been rising register an open, daily low,
and close far from the session’s high.  “We believe that the correction we have been looking for
has a strong case,” Padayachee wrote. The rand may advance to
8.67 per dollar “in the near term”, she added.  In technical analysis, investors and analysts study charts
of trading patterns to forecast changes in a security,
commodity, currency or index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Brand in  Cape Town  at 
 rbrand9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vernon Wessels at 
 vwessels@bloomberg.net  