-- RBI Control Seen as 10-Year Yield Matches One-Year: India Credit
-- B y   V .   R a m a k r i s h n a n
-- 2013-01-17T10:09:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-17/rbi-control-seen-as-10-year-yield-matches-one-year-india-credit.html
Bond investors in  India  are growing
more confident the central bank has  inflation  under control,
lowering the 10-year yield to a level that matched one-year
rates for the first time in 13 months.  The government’s 10-year borrowing cost, more sensitive to
price changes than shorter-dated rates, dropped 22 basis points
this month to 7.83 percent on Jan. 15, equaling one-year yields
for the first time since December 2011. In China, notes maturing
in a decade offer 3.62 percent, 79 basis points more than those
due in a year. India’s benchmark price index rose 7.18 percent
in December, the least in three years, a Jan. 14 report showed.  Standard Chartered Plc predicts price gains will decelerate
until the third quarter, giving the  Reserve Bank  of India room
to reduce the 8 percent  repurchase  rate by 100 basis points in
2013 to spur  Asia ’s third-largest economy. Governor Duvvuri
Subbarao said Jan. 15 that price pressures still remain high,
suggesting more efforts aimed at lowering living costs.  “The  bond market  is reflecting the prospect of a continued
cooling of inflation,” R.S. Chauhan, Mumbai-based chief dealer
of fixed-income and currencies at State Bank of Bikaner &
Jaipur, a unit of the nation’s biggest lender, said in an
interview on Jan. 15. “We expect the RBI to start cutting
 interest rates  as early as this month.”  The  premium  investors demand to hold 10-year bonds instead
of one-year securities has shrunk from a 2012 high of 62 basis
points, or 0.62 percentage point, in May. The spread averaged 81
basis points in the last three years.  Interest Rates  The pace of price increases has eased from last year’s peak
of 8.07 percent in September as the central bank held the
region’s highest borrowing costs and the government reduced fuel
prices. Consumer prices rose 5.84 percent last month in  Brazil ,
2.5 percent in China and 6.6 percent in  Russia , according to the
most recent official figures.  Gains in the wholesale-price index will probably slow
toward 7 percent by March, Chakravarthy Rangarajan, chairman of
Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh ’s Economic Advisory Council, said
in an interview on CNBC-TV18 television channel on Jan. 14.  At the last policy review on Dec. 18, Subbarao said policy
makers’ focus needs to shift toward supporting growth from
curbing price gains. The RBI next meets Jan. 29. The economy may
expand as little as 5.7 percent in the year through March, the
least in a decade, according to the finance ministry’s
estimates.  Real Yield  “Easing headline inflation supports the likelihood of the
central bank cutting rates in the January review,” said Aditi Nayar, a senior economist in Gurgaon, near  New Delhi , at ICRA
Ltd., the Indian unit of Moody’s Investors Service.  Slower price gains are boosting inflation-adjusted returns
on Indian bonds. The so-called  real yield  on the 10-year note
has climbed 64 basis points from last year’s low in October to
70 basis points, data compiled by Bloomberg show. Similar gauges
are at 109 basis points in  China  and 162 in  South Korea .  Rupee-denominated debt returned 11.04 percent in the past
year, the best performance after  Indonesia  among Asia’s biggest
local-currency fixed-income markets, HSBC Holdings Plc data
show. The yield on India’s 10-year sovereign  notes  dropped 72
basis points since the end of 2011, data compiled by Bloomberg
show. The securities still offer an  extra  601 basis points over
similar-maturity U.S. Treasuries.  Foreign Investment  International investors have poured $6.5 billion into
local-currency debt since the end of 2011, boosting  holdings  to
a record $33.3 billion on Jan. 3, according to data from the
Securities & Exchange Board of India.  The yield on the benchmark 8.15 percent security due June
2022 fell three basis points to 7.85 percent today, while the
rupee rallied 0.8 percent to 54.27 per dollar, after Subbarao
said price pressures are still high. The RBI considers an
inflation rate between 4 percent and 5 percent as a comfortable
level, Deputy Governor K.C. Chakrabarty said on Nov. 15.  Bonds dropped yesterday “due to profit-taking by
investors, after a sharp rally this week, as rate-cut
expectations were tempered by the governor,” said Vivek Rajpal,
a fixed-income strategist in Mumbai at Nomura Holdings Inc.
“Inflation is still high compared to the central bank’s comfort
zone.”  Bond risk in India fell this year. The cost to insure  State
Bank  of India’s debt, considered a proxy for the sovereign by
some investors, for five years against non-payment using credit-
default swaps fell 21 basis points to 205, according to data
provider CMA, which is owned by McGraw-Hill Cos. and compiles
prices quoted by dealers in the privately negotiated market.  ‘Fiscal Discipline’  The so-called yield curve also flattened as public finances
improve. India deferred to February a debt sale previously
scheduled for the week ended Jan. 4 after an official, who asked
not to be identified, said that the finance ministry had 1.3
trillion rupees ($24 billion) of cash at the start of this
month.  India raised at least $1.1 billion last month selling
shares in iron ore producer NMDC Ltd., aiding a plan to narrow
the budget shortfall to 5.3 percent of gross domestic product by
March. The  finance ministry  plans to borrow a record 5.7
trillion rupees in the year through March, according to budget
estimates.  “The yield compression is happening due to a drop in debt
supply as well as the positive inflation outlook,” Arvind Chari, a senior  fund manager  at Quantum Asset Management Co. in
Mumbai, said in an interview yesterday. “The government seems
to be serious about fiscal discipline and may set an even lower
budget-deficit target for the next fiscal year.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
V. Ramakrishnan in Mumbai at 
 rvenkatarama@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  