-- Ready-Made U.S. Structured Notes Cut Costs, Shrink Deal Sizes
-- B y   K e v i n   D u g a n
-- 2013-01-17T16:38:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-17/ready-made-u-s-structured-notes-cut-costs-shrink-deal-sizes.html
Banks in the U.S. are increasingly
using programs that automate structured-note documents, cutting
costs and making smaller offerings more profitable.  At least seven banks, including  Bank of America Corp. , the
largest U.S. issuer of the securities, are automating offering
prospectuses either through their own lawyers or by contracting
outside firms.  Using software that can create a document in a few hours,
rather than a legal team that might take a few days, can make
smaller structured note offerings less costly. Even as overall
volume dropped, banks sold $1.07 billion of notes in 2012 in the
U.S. that were less than $1 million in size, 6 percent more
sales than the year before in 30 percent more deals, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Automation makes it possible to offer notes that otherwise
wouldn’t break even, said Guy Dempsey, a partner at New York-
based  law firm  Katten Muchin Rosenman LLP and former general
counsel for the Americas at  Barclays Plc. (BARC)  “Notes under a
million dollars pretty much describe that point where the
breakeven doesn’t occur.”  With a computer program, a user can enter certain fields
for a particular type of note, such as the linked asset and the
amount of protection from losses, and a template is filled out
automatically.  That saves on the $2,000 to $7,000 that a bank would pay an
external law firm to write and issue a prospectus, said Mathias
Strasser, chief executive officer of Wall Street Docs Ltd. in
London. His company began offering automated documentation for
structured notes in April 2011. Clients include Bank of America,
 HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA) ,  Citigroup Inc. (C) ,  Bank of Montreal (BMO) ,  JPMorgan
Chase & Co. (JPM)  and Barclays.  EQI Program  Banks have developed their own programs as well. In 2011,
 UBS AG (UBS)  started trading notes using its Equity Investor program,
or EQI, in the U.S. The software lets financial advisers choose
a security’s structure and pick underlying stocks or indexes
from a predetermined list.  In Europe, financial advisers can download an application
that allows them to create UBS notes on their  iPhone .  The bank led in the number of U.S. offerings of less than
$1 million last year, with 2,238 notes, or 87 percent, Bloomberg
data show. These smaller notes made up 13 percent of the Swiss
bank’s U.S. sales last year.  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc is in the “early stages”
of developing an auto-documentation program for structured notes
in the U.S., said  Ed Canaday , a company spokesman. The bank has
been automating documents in London for several years, he said.  2012 Sales  Mark Lane , spokesman for Barclays, Elizabeth Seymour,
spokeswoman for JPMorgan Chase, Juanita Gutierrez, spokeswoman
for HSBC, Megan Stinson, spokeswoman for UBS, Matt Card,
spokesman for Bank of America, and Scott Helfman, spokesman for
Citigroup, declined to comment on document automation. Martha McInnis, spokeswoman for Bank of Montreal, didn’t return
requests for comment.  Last year, banks sold $39.2 billion of structured notes in
the U.S., 14 percent less than 2011, Bloomberg data show.  Banks create structured notes by packaging debt with
derivatives to offer customized bets to retail investors while
earning fees and raising money. Derivatives are contracts whose
value is derived from stocks, bonds, commodities and currencies,
or events such as changes in interest rates or the weather.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kevin Dugan in  New York  at 
 kdugan4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  