-- Remy Cognac Sales Unexpectedly Increase on Asia, U.S. Demand
-- B y   C l e m e n t i n e   F l e t c h e r
-- 2013-01-17T08:23:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-17/remy-cognac-sales-unexpectedly-increase-on-asian-u-s-demand.html
Remy Cointreau SA (RCO) , the maker of Remy
Martin cognac, reported third-quarter sales that beat estimates
after demand for the French spirit increased more than analysts
expected, buoyed by Asia and the U.S.  So-called organic sales rose 0.5 percent, the company said
today in a  statement , compared with the median 0.6 percent
decline estimated by 12 analysts. Sales of the Paris-based
distiller’s Remy Martin cognac increased 1.7 percent, even as
analysts estimated a 2.5 percent decline.  Remy sells a large percentage of its  cognac  in Asia,
particularly more expensive variants of the spirit, where demand
remained “very strong,” even with the Chinese New Year falling
on a later date in 2013 than in 2012, pushing some of those
sales into the fourth quarter, it said. Sales also improved in
Russia, some western European countries and the U.S.  “We see Remy’s third-quarter performance as solid,”
Laetitia Delaye, an analyst at Kepler in Paris, wrote today,
considering last year’s high comparative figures and the
“adverse technical effects” of the timing of Chinese New Year,
which is 18 days later this year than in 2012. Third-quarter
organic sales increased 31 percent last year.  Shares Gain  Remy’s  shares  rose as much as 3.9 percent to 91.83 euros
($122) in Paris trading, the highest price  since  Sept. 7. Its
shares have advanced 38 percent in the last twelve months.  Total cognac shipments fell 3 percent in December, Barclays
Capital said in a note Jan. 15, citing data from the Bureau
National Interprofessionnel du Cognac, with Asian shipments down
15 percent due to the later Chinese New Year. Competitors Pernod
Ricard SA and  LVMH Moet Hennessy Louis Vuitton SA (MC)  also export
the spirit.  Remy said Dec. 18 it had agreed to buy the entire share
capital of Larsen, another cognac maker.  Sales at Remy’s Liqueurs and Spirits unit also increased,
aided by “strong gains” in Cointreau in the U.S. in
particular. Distribution of Scotch whiskies in the country also
showed “remarkable growth” but failed to offset the effect of
weak consumer spending in  Europe  on champagne.  Total revenue for the three months through Dec. 30 was
368.6 million euros, compared with the 359 million-euro median
 estimate . Organic sales increased 7.9 percent in the first nine
months of the year.  Remy, which warned in November that it expected “more
moderate” growth in the second half of its fiscal year,
repeated today it expects to “significantly” increase its
full-year earnings. The company said it will report full-year
sales on April 18.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Clementine Fletcher in  London  
 cfletcher5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  