-- Rheumatoid Arthritis Discoveries Earn Prize for Three Scientists
-- B y   M a k i k o   K i t a m u r a
-- 2013-01-17T12:55:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-17/rheumatoid-arthritis-discoveries-earn-prize-for-three-scientists.html
Discoveries that may lead to
prevention and better treatment of rheumatoid arthritis earned
two Americans and a Swede the  Crafoord Prize  in Polyarthritis,
awarded by the Royal Swedish Academy of Sciences.  Peter K. Gregersen at the Feinstein Institute for Medical
Research in Manhasset, New York; Robert J. Winchester at
Columbia University; and Lars Klareskog of  Stockholm ’s
Karolinska Institute will share the 4 million-kronor ($618,000)
annual prize, the academy said in a  statement  today.  Rheumatoid arthritis is an autoimmune disease in which the
body attacks itself, resulting in swelling and damage in the
joints, which can make tasks such as walking or holding items
painful. The award winners’ research, beginning in the 1980s,
has helped form a genetic explanation for how the most common
and serious form of the disease develops.  “Their focused detective work has resulted in a hypothesis
that the disease arises from the interplay between genetic
inheritance and environmental influences,” the academy said in
the statement. “This increased knowledge about the disease’s
causes hopefully will result in more refined treatments.”  Winchester and Gregersen found that some genes control
generation of proteins called human leukocyte antigen, or HLA,
and some variants of these proteins increase the risk for
rheumatoid arthritis. Klareskog and his colleagues expanded on
this research 20 years later, finding that the risk of
rheumatism, by then known to be linked to smoking, increases
dramatically if smokers carry HLA risk genes.  Lung Origin  The cumulative research yielded a hypothesis that the most
common form of rheumatoid arthritis can start in the lungs.  The condition is treated with anti-inflammatory pills such
as aspirin, or drugs such as Humira that attack the disease
directly by modifying the immune system. Humira is made by
 AbbVie Inc. (ABBV) , split off this month from  Abbott Laboratories (ABT) , and
had $7.9 billion in 2011 sales, according to Abbott.  The Crafoord Prize, begun in 1982, is awarded annually,
rotating among the fields of astronomy and mathematics,
geosciences, biosciences and polyarthritis.  These disciplines complement those for which the Nobel
Prizes are awarded, according to the academy’s website.
Polyarthritis is a term for arthritis that affects multiple
joints.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Makiko Kitamura in London at 
 mkitamura1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  