-- RIM Developers Still Waiting for BB10 Keyboard Prototypes
-- B y   H u g o   M i l l e r
-- 2013-01-17T21:27:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-17/rim-developers-still-waiting-for-bb10-keyboard-prototypes.html
Software developers for  Research In
Motion Ltd. (RIMM) ’s BlackBerry 10 smartphones have yet to get models
with physical keyboards, the latest sign RIM is de-emphasizing
its once-signature feature in favor of touch screens.  RIM will distribute prototypes with physical keyboards
after the new software platform’s official debut on Jan. 30,
said Victoria Berry, a company spokeswoman. Developers were
given touch-screen versions months ago, letting them design
applications for the phones. The pending keyboard prototypes
will be known as  Dev Alpha C  devices, she said.  RIM is concentrating on smooth glass handsets that resemble
 Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPhone 5 or  Samsung Electronics Co. (005930) ’s Galaxy S III,
shifting away from the raised black keypads that inspired the
BlackBerry name. While RIM will sell a BlackBerry 10 model with
a physical keyboard to cater to e-mail traditionalists, Chief
Executive Officer Thorsten Heins has said he expects the touch
version to account for most orders.  RIM is right to prioritize touch-screen models for growth,
though it can’t yet afford to drop keyboard-equipped handsets
altogether, said  Roger Entner , an analyst at Recon Analytics in
Dedham,  Massachusetts .  Stuck With It  “You can’t build a smartphone without a touch screen
anymore,” he said. “But you can’t expect your loyal user base
to stick with you if you take away why they’ve stuck with you.”  The BlackBerry’s name  derives  from the idea that the tiny,
black keys on the device resemble the fruit. Users furiously
pecking away at the keyboards fueled the image of the
“CrackBerry” addict in the years before smartphones began
usurping RIM’s market share.  RIM, based in Waterloo, Ontario, began handing out test
models of the new BlackBerry 10 smartphones to developers last
May. Though RIM stressed then that the prototype would differ
from the final product, the glass slab was designed to give
developers a tool to approximate the surface of the BlackBerry
10 touch-screen model.  Chief Marketing Officer Frank Boulben said in an interview
earlier this month that there are now more than 70,000 apps
available for BlackBerry 10, a sufficient number to make RIM
competitive with more widely adopted platforms offered by Apple
and  Google Inc. (GOOG) , whose Android system is used by Samsung.  Early Versions  Separate software developer kits, known as SDKs, will be
distributed with the Dev Alpha C devices to help programmers
tailor their apps to the smaller screen and different button
controls on the keyboard models, RIM’s Berry said. As with the
touch-screen versions, these prototypes will look different from
the products that go on sale, she said.  BlackBerry fans must wait until the Jan. 30 debut for the
first official glimpse of both the touch and keypad model. To
prepare for the rollout, more than 120 U.S. companies, including
64 members of the Fortune 500, are doing advanced testing of
BlackBerry 10 devices -- thus far solely with touch-screen
models, RIM said.  RIM shares  rose 1.2 percent to $14.91 at the close in  New
York . The stock has more than doubled since late September on
optimism that BlackBerry 10 can reverse declining sales and help
RIM win back market share lost to Apple’s iOS and to Android.
RIM was poised to finish 2012 with a 4.7 percent share of the
global market, compared with almost 90 percent for Apple and
Android combined, research firm IDC said last month.  ‘True Multitasking’  In recent demonstrations to journalists and analysts, RIM
executives have shown  features  they say offer “true
multitasking” that distinguish BlackBerry 10 from rivals,
including the ability to peek at your e-mail or calendar without
leaving the app you’re running. The Hub feature aggregates a
user’s e-mail,  text messages  and social-media alerts in one
place.  RIM has also built features into the virtual keyboard to
persuade skeptics to convert from traditional Qwerty models. It
offers word suggestions above the key the device thinks you’ll
type next, and learns over time where on a given key your finger
strikes to reduce mistyping.  RIM has said that the keyboard models will go on sale after
the touch-screen versions, without specifying how much later.
The fact RIM is close to giving developers those next prototypes
is encouraging, said Recon’s Entner.  “What it means is that they’re very close,” he said. “At
least they’ve got the electronics working.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hugo Miller in Toronto at 
 hugomiller@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  