-- Robert Citron, Jailed for Orange County Failure, Dies at 87
-- B y   L a u r e n c e   A r n o l d
-- 2013-01-17T16:49:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-17/robert-citron-jailed-after-orange-county-bankruptcy-dies-at-87.html
Robert Citron, a former treasurer of
 California ’s Orange County who spent nine months in prison for
his role in what stood for years as the nation’s biggest
municipal bankruptcy, has died. He was 87.  He died yesterday at St. Joseph Hospital in Orange,
California, the  Orange County Register   reported , citing Orange
County Supervisor John Moorlach.  Orange County, the nation’s fifth most-populous county and
home of Walt Disney Co.’s Disneyland, sought protection from
creditors in 1994 after Citron lost about $1.7 billion on
derivative investments. The county emerged from 18 months of
bankruptcy in June 1996.  That stood as the biggest county bankruptcy until 2011,
when Jefferson County, Alabama, filed for protection after costs
spiraled out of control on auction-rate securities and
derivatives related to $3.1 billion of sewer-system debt.  Citron was long praised for the above-market returns --
about 10 percent annually, and 17 percent in 1982 -- that he
earned on county investments. His strategy of borrowing money
short-term to buy longer-maturity derivative securities was
successful in 1992 and 1993 as  interest rates  dropped, and
backfired in 1994 when rates surged.  Astrological Advice  He pleaded guilty to lying about conditions that led to
losses in the county’s investment pool. The legal case revealed,
among other things, that Citron had consulted a $4.50 star chart
prepared by an Indianapolis astrologer to help guide his
strategy for the county’s $20 billion investment pool. Citron
said in court documents that he used the star chart for clues to
upcoming market events -- and that shortly after he ceased using
the charts, his strategy collapsed.  He served about nine months of a one-year sentence in 1997,
spending his time in a work-release program at the sheriff’s
commissary, alphabetizing prisoner requests for deodorant,
envelopes, candy bars and other items. He spent his nights and
most weekends at home.  Fallout from the bankruptcy reached  Wall Street .  Orange County sued Merrill Lynch & Co. for providing
inappropriate investment advice, citing recommendations made to
Citron by former Merrill bond salesman Michael Stamenson. Citron
used money borrowed from Merrill and other firms for his
interest-rate bets.  Financial Repercussions  Merrill, which was acquired in 2008 by  Bank of America
Corp. (BAC) , settled with the county for $400 million in 1998.  Morgan
Stanley (MS)  Dean Witter & Co., now called Morgan Stanley, agreed to
pay $69.6 million. Nomura Securities International Inc., part of
 Nomura Holdings Inc. (8604) ,  Japan ’s biggest broker, agreed to pay
$47.9 million. One year later, a dozen securities firms,
including Smith Barney Inc. and PaineWebber, paid the county
$20.8 million in a settlement.  Citron was born in 1925 in  Los Angeles , a third-generation
Californian, and grew up in Burbank, according to the Los
Angeles Times. He served as the county’s treasurer and tax
collector for 24 years after rising through the ranks of the
treasury department.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Laurence Arnold in Washington at 
 larnold4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Charles W. Stevens at 
 cstevens@bloomberg.net  