-- Rubio and Republicans Can Outfox Obama on Immigration
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2013-01-17T23:30:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-17/rubio-and-republicans-can-outfox-obama-on-immigration.html
Could it be that U.S. Senator Marco Rubio’s moment is also the moment for genuine progress on
immigration reform and not incidentally, for a renewed
 Republican Party ?  This is not an unrealistic thought. With the White House
moving on multiple legislative fronts, including  guns  and
pending battles over the debt ceiling and required spending
cuts, the conservative  rising star  appears to be staking his
claim on immigration reform. To make all this real, though, he
will have to put words into action via legislation.  This is not what happened last time around. In 2012, Rubio,
a Florida Republican and the son of Cuban immigrants, made a
splash when he announced a proposal for a  modified Dream Act  to
enable undocumented immigrant youths to stay in the U.S. But
Rubio struggled to bring his party along, and produced no
legislation. After a couple of months, President  Barack Obama 
announced an executive action to accomplish a similar goal on a
temporary basis. Obama won plaudits from pro-immigration groups
and a commanding majority from Hispanic voters in November.
Rubio’s proposal vanished in the political mists.  The politics are different this time -- or seem to be.
Republican leaders and strategists understand that their party
can’t lose Hispanic and Asian votes by more than 2-to-1, as they
did in the 2012 elections, and expect to govern an increasingly
diverse nation. Immigration reform is, as Rubio says, a “gateway
issue” for Hispanics. Until Republicans pass through that gate
they will be unable to move to higher political ground.  Rubio told the Wall Street Journal in an  interview  last
week that he favors increasing immigration quotas for skilled
workers and supports visas for permanent or seasonal farm
workers. He promised a route to legalization for the 11 million
or so undocumented immigrants already in the U.S.  How or if those immigrants might one day become citizens is
less clear. In what was perhaps a tactical nod to the anti-
immigrant wing of his party, Rubio told Fox News host  Bill O’Reilly  this week that after previously undocumented immigrants
get legal status, they will then have “the opportunity to apply
for the existing legal immigration system.” Given that the
“existing legal immigration system” is not exactly a citizenship
machine, this pathway comes with more than a few hurdles.  The only way for Rubio and Republicans to command this
issue is to put something in writing -- to cross the legislative
threshold.  This comes with real risks to Rubio, especially from the
anti-immigrant wing of his party. But if the senator’s effort
falters again, as his Dream Act did in 2012, and Obama moves
first on immigration reform, Republicans will once again find
themselves on the defensive. And the wing of the party that
conflates total opposition to Obama with conservative principle
will threaten Republicans’ best chance to earn the trust of the
nation’s fastest-growing contingent of voters.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 