-- Russia Said to Near Decision to Charge Ex-Defense Minister
-- B y   H e n r y   M e y e r   a n d   I l y a   A r k h i p o v
-- 2013-01-18T11:01:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-17/russia-said-to-weigh-charges-against-former-defense-minister.html
Russian investigators are said to be
near a decision on whether to charge the country’s ex-defense
minister amid the biggest anti-graft drive of President  Vladimir Putin ’s 12 years in power, according to two officials.  Anatoly Serdyukov has been implicated by people questioned
in an embezzlement inquiry, said a senior law-enforcement
official with knowledge of the matter, who asked not to be
identified because the investigation is in process.  Rather than embezzlement, the former minister will probably
face a lesser charge, such as exceeding his authority, the
person said. The second government official with knowledge of
the matter also said Serdyukov will probably face charges, while
asking not to be identified because the information is
confidential.  Putin in November made Serdyukov the most senior official
ousted over corruption of his rule, sacrificing a member of his
inner circle. Frustration with graft, the worst among major
economies according to  Transparency International , helped fuel
the biggest protests against the Russian leader since he
ascended to the presidency in 1999.  “Opening a case against Serdyukov is almost inevitable as
the” anti-corruption campaign,’’ said  Gleb Pavlovsky , a former
Kremlin adviser who heads the Moscow-based Effective Policy
Foundation “He will be the face of the campaign. If Serdyukov
is jailed, this will be as important as was  Mikhail Khodorkovsky ’s arrest in 2003.”  ‘New Tensions’  The arrest of the former billionaire Yukos Oil Co. owner,
once  Russia ’s richest man, was a signal that the rules of the
game the between Kremlin and oligarchs changed. A jail term for
Serdyukov would be a similar signal for the political elite,
according to Pavlovsky.  “Serdyukov was one of the closest ministers to Putin, he
said. ‘‘This will create new tensions within the elite. Clans
will start fighting to get themselves out of the line of fire.’’  Svetlana Petrenko, a spokeswoman for the Investigative
Committee, which is responsible for filing charges, declined to
comment when contacted by phone. Serdyukov’s lawyer, Genrikh Padva, wasn’t available for comment yesterday because he’s in
the hospital, according to his office.  Serdyukov, a witness in the embezzlement case, has refused
to cooperate with the inquiry, which may lead to a change in his
status, the Investigative Committee said on its website on Jan.
11. Padva said at the time that his client denies any wrongdoing
and criticized the committee’s threat to charge him with the
crime as ‘‘unacceptable.”  $132 Million  Three of Serdukov’s former subordinates have been charged
in connection with an alleged 4 billion-ruble ($132 million)
fraud case involving the sale of property by OAO Oboronservis, a
company supplying goods and services to the military. At least
five more ministry officials face charges over a separate $13
million fraud, according to the Investigative Committee.  The only Cabinet minister to be prosecuted under Putin to
date has been Yevgeny Adamov, the former Russian nuclear-energy
minister who was sentenced in 2008 to 5 1/2 years after the U.S.
accused him of embezzling $9 million of a grant aimed at
increasing security at Russian nuclear facilities. His sentence
was suspended later that year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Henry Meyer in Moscow at 
 hmeyer4@bloomberg.net ;
Ilya Arkhipov in Moscow at 
 iarkhipov@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  