-- Russian Banks Significantly Scaling Back Loans to Firms
-- B y   O l g a   T a n a s   a n d   S c o t t   R o s e
-- 2013-01-17T09:19:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-17/russian-banks-significantly-scaling-back-loans-to-firms.html
Russian lending growth to companies
has slowed “fairly significantly” since September, a stumble
that shouldn’t be attributed to higher rates the central bank
set that month, First Deputy Chairman Alexei Simanovsky said.  Loans to companies excluding the financial industry grew
0.7 percent in December compared with the previous month and
12.7 percent in 2012 on an annual basis, Simanovsky told
reporters in Moscow today. The  slowing economy  may be partly to
blame, he said.  “So far it’s not easy to explain the trend,” Simanovsky
said while attending the Gaidar Forum in the Russian capital.
Companies are blaming excessively high rates, while the banks
counter that they can’t find reliable borrowers.  Russia , the world’s largest energy exporter, is looking for
ways to reignite the economy as growth slows to the weakest pace
since a recovery began in 2010. Bank Rossii unexpectedly raised
 interest rates  in September as inflation breached the 6 percent
upper limit of the central bank’s target range after a poor
harvest fanned price growth.  Lending to companies grew 26 percent in 2011, near the top
of the central bank’s “comfort zone,” Simanovsky said last
year. Policy makers from Bank Rossii and the government sparred
publicly yesterday over whether monetary easing is needed to
spur growth.  The  Micex Index (INDEXCF)  of 50 stocks rose 0.2 percent to 1,517.74
as of 12:09 p.m. in Moscow. OAO Sberbank, the state-run lender
headed by former Economy Minister Herman Gref, climbed 0.5
percent to 100.41 rubles. The lender said yesterday that full-
year profit rose 11 percent, while lending to companies
increased 17 percent under Russian accounting standards.  5% Target  Russia will seek to grow at a stable rate of no less than 5
percent and must modernize companies and diversify the economy
to accomplish that goal, Prime Minister  Dmitry Medvedev  said in
a speech in Moscow yesterday. Gross domestic product expanded
3.5 percent last year after rising 4.3 percent in each of the
previous two years, according to Deputy Economy Minister  Andrei Klepach .  Gref said today that the government doesn’t need to help
the biggest financial institutions. Last year he joined calls by
Andrei Kostin, chief executive officer of Russia’s second-
biggest lender VTB Group, for the central bank to extend longer
loans to banks,  “The new players are the ones who need help,” he said
during a panel discussion at the Gaidar Forum in Moscow. “The
big players don’t need help.”  Loans to households advanced 39.3 percent last year
compared with 2011, while banking sector assets grew 18.9
percent and retail deposits advanced 19.9 percent, Simanovsky
said. According to preliminary data, banks earned more than 1
trillion rubles ($33 billion) last year, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Olga Tanas in Moscow at 
 otanas@bloomberg.net ;
Scott Rose in Moscow at 
 rrose10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  