-- South Africa Farm Strikes May Endanger Wal-Mart Contracts
-- B y   M i k e   C o h e n   a n d   J a c o   V i s s e r
-- 2013-01-18T12:55:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-17/s-africa-farm-strikes-may-risk-wal-mart-edeka-contracts.html
South African farmworkers who have
waged violent strikes since November are winning their battle
for higher minimum wages. The victory may cost thousands their
jobs, as farmers mechanize to guard supply contracts with
clients such as Asda,  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT) ’s U.K. chain.  Three people have died and packing sheds and vineyards have
been torched in strike-related protests in the Western Cape, the
nation’s biggest fruit-producing region. Workers are demanding
the minimum wage be raised to 150 rand ($17) a day from 70 rand.
While the government will legislate new pay standards by April
1, some farmers have already agreed to increases.  South  Africa  exports about 12 billion rand worth of fruit a
year. It accounts for about 11 percent of the world’s table
grape and pear shipments, and is the ninth largest wine
producer, U.S. Department of Agriculture data shows. The farm
strikes coincided with the peak harvesting season, placing the
nation’s reputation as a reliable supplier at stake and raising
the risk of market share being lost to competitors such as
Chile, according to Pretoria-based Agri SA, the main farmers’
organization.  “We have had inquiries from our clients all over the world
about the unrest,” Pieter du Toit, managing director of Du Toit
Group (Pty) Ltd., one of  South Africa ’s largest farming
companies, whose clients include Asda and Edeka Zentrale AG &
Co.,  Germany ’s biggest food retailer, said by phone from Ceres
on Jan. 15. “I think they are spreading their risk to ensure
supply. We will make mechanization a higher priority.”  New Jobs  The number of workers employed on farms has already slumped
about 30 percent to 680,000 over the past decade because of
farmers replacing workers with machines, according to Agri SA.
The government is seeking to reverse the trend and is targeting
969,500 new agriculture jobs in Africa’s largest economy by 2030
to help cut a 25.5 percent  unemployment rate .  Efforts to attract new investment into the industry are
being undermined by the recent unrest, which spread to about 16
rural Western Cape towns and has seen police firing rubber
bullets and stun grenades at stone-throwing groups of
protesters. The violence followed a series of illegal pay
strikes that began at mines in August and contributed to credit-
rating downgrades by Moody’s Investors Service, Standard &
Poor’s and Fitch Ratings.  “It doesn’t look as if the labor disputes are going to go
away any time soon,”  Razia Khan , the London-based head of
Africa economic research at Standard Chartered Plc, said by
phone on Jan. 15. “There has been a steady flow of bad news. No
one seems to have proposed any sustainable solution. It’s very
difficult to paint a bright picture.”  Rising Risk  South Africa’s rand has weakened 3.7 percent against the
dollar since the latest protests started on Jan. 9, the second-
worst performance of 16 major currencies tracked by Bloomberg.
It fell 1.1 percent to 8.9023 a dollar as of 2:50 p.m. in
Johannesburg. The cost of protecting government debt against
non-payment using credit default swaps over five years climbed
14 basis points over the same period to 153, signaling an
deterioration in risk perception, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Farmworkers in most towns returned to work yesterday to
allow for further pay talks and will resume striking on Jan. 23
if no resolution is reached, according to the Congress of South
African Trade Unions, the country’s largest labor grouping.  “It’s clear there are huge levels of profitability in this
industry,” Tony Ehrenreich, the federation’s secretary in the
Western Cape told reporters in Cape Town on Jan. 16. “Where
there has been desire to mechanize, they have already
mechanized. We are not scared of that as a threat.”  Remained Operational  Agriculture makes up about 2.1 percent of South Africa’s
gross domestic product directly and farms produce almost 6.5
percent of the country’s exports, according to government data.
Farms employ about 200,000 full- and part-time workers in the
Western Cape.  “While the strike has undermined labor relations and
dented South Africa’s image, 90 percent of farms have remained
operational,” Anton Rabe, head of Agri SA’s labor committee,
said by phone from Paarl on Jan. 14.  Shoprite Holdings Ltd. (SHP)  and  Pick n Pay Stores Ltd. , South
Africa’s two largest food retailers, said they haven’t
experienced shortages of fruit as a result of the strike. The
Fresh Produce Export Forum hasn’t received reports of contracts
being canceled, Anton Kruger, chief executive officer of the
industry body, said in an e-mailed response to questions on Jan.
16.  Monitoring Situation  “We are closely monitoring the situation and to date, we
have only seen limited issues as a direct result of the protests
in the Western Cape,” Josephine Simmons, a spokeswoman for
Sainsbury Supermarket Ltd., a unit of  J Sainsbury Plc (SBRY)  said in an
e-mailed response to questions yesterday. “We source from South
Africa and  Chile . The main issue we are seeing is shipping
delays.”  Asda didn’t immediately respond to questions left on its
website and Edeka spokesman Rolf Lange didn’t respond to an e-
mail seeking comment yesterday.  Small-scale farmers like Ismail Motala, who grows fruit and
vegetables near the southern town of Wolseley, say a resumption
of the strike next week will put their livelihoods at risk.  “We need to get the fruit off the trees as fast as
possible,” Motala, 43, said as he took a break from supervising
his picking crew and loading crates of pears they collected onto
a truck. “I have a window period of 8 to 11 days. We just hope
the situation stabilizes.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mike Cohen in  Cape Town  at 
 mcohen21@bloomberg.net ;
Jaco Visser in Johannesburg at 
 avisser3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nasreen Seria at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net  