-- Sallie Mae Drops Most in 10 Weeks as Charge-Offs Increase
-- B y   J u l i a   L e i t e
-- 2013-01-17T21:38:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-17/sallie-mae-drops-most-in-seven-weeks-as-charge-offs-increase.html
  SLM Corp. (SLM) , the student lender known
as Sallie Mae, fell the most in more than 10 weeks after
reporting a drop in fourth-quarter profit as charge-offs
increased, offsetting a climb in originations.  Shares of the  Newark , Delaware-based company  declined  2.8
percent at 4:30 p.m. in  New York , the biggest drop since Nov. 7,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The Standard & Poor’s
500 Index advanced 0.6 percent.  Net income decreased to $348 million, or 74 cents per
share, for the three months ended Dec. 31, from $511 million, or
99 cents, in the year-earlier period, Sallie Mae said yesterday
in a statement distributed by  Business Wire . Core earnings,
which exclude items such as the market gains and losses of
derivatives contracts, were $257 million, or 55 cents a share,
the company said. That compared with an average  estimate  of 53
cents by eight analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  The charge-off rate, or the percentage of loans that has
been written off, rose to 4.2 percent from 3.5 percent, the
company said.  The fourth quarter “was a disappointment on the charge-off
side,” Chief Executive Officer Albert Lord said on a conference
call to discuss the results with analysts and investors. The
company expects charge-offs to decline “sharply” from the
level seen in the last quarter, according to an earnings call
presentation document today.  Sallie Mae  made $514 million in education loans in the
fourth quarter, a 12.5 percent increase from the year-ago
period, according to the statement. The lender is forecasting at
least $4 billion of originations in 2013.  Originations are rising as education debt balloons. Rising
higher-education costs have swelled the outstanding amount of
U.S. student loans to $1 trillion. More than one in 10 borrowers
defaulted on their federal loans in the first three years they
are required to make payments, the Education Department said in
a Sept. 28 report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julia Leite in New York at 
 jleite3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  