-- SandRidge Shareholder Vote May Improve Shares, Singh Says
-- B y   M i k e   L e e
-- 2013-01-17T21:20:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-17/sandridge-shareholder-vote-could-improve-stock-price-singh-1-.html
SandRidge Energy Inc.’s value will
rise if shareholders vote to replace the company’s board in a
proxy contest brought by TPG-Axon Capital Management LP, hedge
fund manager  Dinakar Singh  said.  Singh, TPG-Axon’s chief executive officer, and a second
shareholder, Mount Kellett Capital Management LP, also are
demanding the ouster of SandRidge’s founder and CEO Tom Ward and
a sale of the company.  Mount Kellett today sent a letter to the board asking for
an investigation into whether Ward and his family improperly
profited from their ties to the company. Singh’s TPG-Axon is
soliciting shareholder votes to replace SandRidge’s directors.
Voting began yesterday and continues for 60 days.  “Over the next few months, shareholders get to decide
whether they want this board or a new board,” Singh said in an
interview today on Bloomberg Television’s “Market Makers” with
 Erik Schatzker  and  Stephanie Ruhle . Replacing the board
represents “a clear path” to improving shareholder value,
Singh said.  TPG-Axon owned 6.7 percent of SandRidge as of December, and
Mount Kellett owned 4.5 percent as of November, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  SandRidge’s board should hire an outside law firm and
accountants to investigate business transactions between Ward,
his son, Trent Ward, and the company, Mount Kellett said in its
letter. Singh outlined the transactions in his own Dec. 24
letter to the board, which Mount Kellett has reviewed “with
intense concern,” the hedge fund’s Chief Operating Officer
Jonathan Fiorello wrote today.  SEC Disclosures  SandRidge has disclosed that it acquired working interests
in leases from WCT Resources LLC, which is owned by trusts
benefiting Ward’s children, according to filings with the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission. Greg Dewey, a spokesman for
SandRidge, declined in an e-mail to comment beyond those
filings.  In his Dec. 24 letter, Singh said the company has not
disclosed the full extent of Ward and his son’s involvement in
the lease sales and how they profited from the transactions.  Leasing and reselling acreage in areas where SandRidge was
also trying to acquire land or form joint ventures “put WCT in
direct competition with the company and potentially siphoned
value from SandRidge shareholders and into the pockets of the
Ward family,” Fiorello wrote in his letter today.  Shareholder Stakes  Ward owns 5.1 percent of the company. Fairfax Financial
Holding Ltd., whose CEO Prem Watsa has called Ward “one of the
best operators in the business,” owns 6.7 percent.  Riverstone Holdings LLC and The  Carlyle Group LP (CG)  jointly
own the largest stake, about 10.5 percent. The firms haven’t
spoken publicly about the proxy contest.  SandRidge rose 3 percent to $6.99 at the close in New York.
The shares have fallen 14 percent in the past year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mike Lee in Dallas at 
 mlee326@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  