-- SC Global Declines as Bid to Delist Succeeds: Singapore Mover
-- B y   P o o j a   T h a k u r
-- 2013-01-17T09:22:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-17/sc-global-declines-as-bid-to-delist-succeeds-singapore-mover.html
SC Global (SCGD)  Developments Ltd.,
Singapore’s luxury developer, fell after Chief Executive Officer
Simon Cheong raised his stake to 90.36 percent, enabling him to
delist the company.  The shares lost 0.3 percent to S$1.795 at the close of
trading in Singapore. The stock closed below the offer price for
the first time. MYK Holdings Pte, the investment vehicle for
Cheong and his partners, had offered to take SC Global private
for S$1.80 a share on Dec. 5.  The public float outstanding is at 9.64 percent, below the
10 percent threshold to maintain a listing, SC Global said in a
statement to the Singapore stock exchange late yesterday. The
offer has been extended to Jan. 30 to enable the remaining
shareholders to accept the offer. Separately, SC Global’s
second-largest investor,  Wheelock (WP)  & Co., also said yesterday it
has tendered its shares in the offer.  “Wheelock was holding out for a better price,” said
Vikrant Pandey, a Singapore-based analyst at UOB Kay Hian Pte,
which advised investors to sell SC Global shares in the offer.
“After the new government measures, Wheelock would not have
wanted too much variability and uncertainty so it would have
decided to monetize its investment.”  Singapore took additional steps last week to discourage
speculation in real estate, requiring foreigners to pay an
additional 5 percent tax on property purchases and adding levies
on second or third homes for Singaporeans.  Fair, Reasonable  Cheong’s S$745 million ($609 million) buyout offer is
“fair and reasonable,” Prime Partners Corporate Finance Pte,
an independent financial adviser, said on Dec. 26, recommending
shareholders accept the offer, according to a circular sent to
investors.  Traders had been betting the most lucrative takeover offer
in  Singapore  will get even sweeter for the luxury property
developer. Since the offer, Wheelock bought shares above the
deal price.  As a company with foreign shareholders, SC Global faces
fines for failing to sell units within two years of completing
developments. That law is designed to ensure land in Singapore,
an island state with a population of more than 5 million, isn’t
hoarded for speculation.  The stock rose to the highest in almost five years on Dec.
17 after Wheelock said it bought 1.07 million shares at S$1.81,
exceeding Cheong’s offer price. Since then it added more shares
taking its holding in SC Global to 17.9 percent. Wheelock, also
a developer, said it named Goldman Sachs Group Inc. as its
financial adviser in relation to Cheong’s offer.  Wheelock shares climbed 1.1 percent to S$1.93 in Singapore.  Amid fluctuating sales, SC Global reported losses in three
of the four most recent quarters, and  earnings  are expected to
fall  79 percent  in 2012, analysts’ estimates compiled by
Bloomberg show.  When Cheong made the offer, he said that a private company
would have more flexibility if it didn’t have to report results
on a quarterly basis and said that SC Global hasn’t tapped
capital markets in at least six years.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Pooja Thakur in Singapore at 
 pthakur@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tomoko Yamazaki at 
 tyamazaki@bloomberg.net  