-- SEC Purge of Madoff, Goldman Probe Files Upheld by Judge
-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g
-- 2013-01-17T20:21:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-17/sec-purge-of-madoff-goldman-probe-files-upheld-by-judge.html
The U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission doesn’t have to restore purged files on  Bernard Madoff  and  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  that were sought by a
government watchdog group, a federal judge ruled.  Citizens for Responsibility and Ethics in Washington sued
the agency for allegedly violating federal records law by
refusing to recover investigative files that had been destroyed.
The group asked for documents related to the agency’s
preliminary probes under the Freedom of Information Act.  U.S. District Judge James Boasberg in Washington ruled
today that the government was only required to seek recovery of
records that were physically removed from the agency’s custody
rather than those that were done away with.  “The SEC was under no duty to undertake restoration
efforts,” the judge said.  The lawsuit sought records of so-called Matters Under
Investigation, which under a policy dating back to 1998 weren’t
stored as official files of the SEC, according to a Sept. 14,
2011, letter to Congress from then-SEC enforcement director
 Robert Khuzami .  CREW, as the group is known, sued for materials related to
the SEC’s initial probes of Madoff’s Ponzi scheme, Goldman
Sachs’s trades of American International Group Inc. credit-
default swaps in 2009, insider-trading probes of Deutsche Bank
AG, Lehman Brothers and SAC Capital Advisors LP, and
investigations of possible financial fraud at Wells Fargo & Co.
and Bank of America Corp. in 2007 and 2008.  Early Stages  The group, according to the lawsuit, wanted to know why
those probes were closed at an early stage without any action by
the agency.  Darcy Flynn , a 13-year SEC employee, claimed in a letter to
U.S. Senator Charles Grassley, an Iowa Republican, that the
agency destroyed documents related to those investigations.  “The most troubling aspect of the judge’s opinion is his
conclusion that the SEC is under absolutely no obligation to
conduct any recovery efforts,” Anne Weismann, chief counsel of
the group, said. She said the group was considering whether to
appeal.  The group sought recovery of deleted electronic files as
well as any physical documents that may still exist elsewhere in
the agency.  ‘Messy Details’  When the group filed its lawsuit, Weismann said in a
statement that “the public deserves to know all the messy
details about how these investigations were conducted, and why
they were closed at such an early stage without taking any
action against the Bernie Madoffs of the world.”  Under the SEC’s policy on closed preliminary
investigations, the only information it retained was the title
of the matter, its source, general subject matter, the staff
members involved, the date it was opened and closed and other
parties related to the inquiry, according to the complaint.  In light of Grassley’s questions and continuing discussions
with the National Archives and Records Administration, the SEC
halted the policy, requiring all documents created or received
for all enforcement matters to be retained until the agency is
certain that the policies meet federal standards, according to
Khuzami’s letter to Congress.  The case is Citizens for Responsibility and Ethics in
 Washington  v. U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, 11-cv-
01732, U.S. District Court, District of Columbia (Washington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in Washington at 
 tschoenberg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 