-- SEC Requires Structured Notes Value Disclosure, Law Firm Says
-- B y   K e v i n   D u g a n
-- 2013-01-17T16:33:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-17/sec-requires-structured-notes-value-disclosure-law-firm-says.html
The U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission is requiring structured note issuers to disclose the
estimated initial value of the securities, according to a
bulletin from  law firm   Morrison & Foerster LLP .  The SEC’s division of corporation finance provided the
guidance to the banks, the securities law firm wrote in its Jan.
16 Structured Thoughts  newsletter . In a letter posted on the
SEC’s website last April, the regulator asked issuers to boost
disclosures to investors, including estimates of market value
and an explanation of how they set up a secondary market for the
securities.  The value of notes, which should reflect the price of the
bonds and derivatives they contain, will have to be disclosed on
the cover page of the offering prospectus, according to the law
firm.  Kevin Callahan , a spokesman for the SEC, declined to
comment on Morrison & Foerster’s letter.  While structured notes are typically sold at face value,
their initial value may be as much as 10 percent lower, based on
the market price of the options and bonds that make up the
securities. The amount of the difference covers profits,
distribution fees and other costs.  The SEC has been critical of how issuers appraise the
securities, saying in its April  letter  that values they assign
to the notes after a sale can “temporarily exceed the issuer’s
or affiliate’s own estimate of the fair value of the product.”  The Morrison & Foerster report didn’t specify when issuers
must adopt the new rules. Last year,  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) 
and  Bank of America Corp.  began making disclosures on estimated
initial values of their notes in offering documents.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kevin Dugan in  New York  at 
 kdugan4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  