-- Seizure of Evidence at Wine Seller’s Home Ruled Legal
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 2013-01-17T23:35:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-17/seizure-of-evidence-at-wine-seller-s-home-ruled-legal.html
FBI agents’ seizure of evidence at
the home of a  California  man accused of selling more than
$1.3 million in counterfeit vintage wines was legal and can be
used at trial, a judge ruled.  U.S. District Judge Richard Berman in  New York  said today
that the  Federal Bureau of Investigation  agents didn’t violate
Rudy Kurniawan’s constitutional rights against unlawful search
and seizure last year when they gathered the evidence at his
home in Arcadia, California.  Prosecutors said Kurniawan, an Indonesian national, had a
“laboratory for creating counterfeit wine” in his home,
including thousands of printed wine labels for many of the
world’s most expensive wines, such as  Domaine de la Romanee-
Conti  and  Chateau Petrus . Kurniawan was arrested March 8 and
accused of consigning at least 84 counterfeit bottles of
Burgundy to a New York auction house.  Kurniawan’s lawyer had sought to bar the use of evidence
seized by the FBI during the search. The evidence included a
wooden crate labeled “Joseph Drouhin,” a producer of wines
from Burgundy,  France , which FBI Special Agent Oliver Farache
said in a sworn statement was in “plain view” and “just
inside the threshold of the subject residence’s front door.”  ‘Detailed Account’  “The detailed account of Kurniawan’s counterfeiting
activities in the complaint, which already connected his home to
evidence of wine counterfeiting, when combined with just a brief
description of the materials piled up against Kurniawan’s front
door, establish probable cause to uphold the warrant,” Berman
said today.  Michael Proctor, a lawyer for Kurniawan, had sought to
suppress the evidence, alleging that the FBI agents lacked
probable cause to enter the home. Agents said that after they
arrested Kurniawan, they saw wine bottles visible from the front
doorway.  “The suggestion is nonsense,” Proctor said in court
papers. “That he had bottles of wine -- even French wine --
visible from his doorway cannot establish probable cause. He is
a wine dealer and aficionado, and there is nothing unusual or
noteworthy about the presence of cases of wine in his home.”  Berman directed Kurniawan to return to court on Feb. 14 for
a pretrial conference.  Billionaire wine collector  William Koch  sued Kurniawan in
2009 in Los Angeles state court, claiming he had sold him phony
vintages.  The case is U.S. v. Kurniawan, 12-mj-606, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York ( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in New York at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  