-- Serbia Raises Main Rate for Fifth Meeting Amid Inflation
-- B y   G o r d a n a   F i l i p o v i c   a n d   M i s h a   S a v i c
-- 2013-01-17T11:32:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-17/serbia-increases-main-rate-for-fifth-meeting-in-inflation-battle.html
Serbia ’s central bank increased
borrowing costs for a fifth meeting as it battles to slow
Europe’s second-fastest inflation.  The Belgrade-based Narodna Banka Srbije raised the  one-week
repurchase rate  a quarter-point to 11.5 percent, the bank said
today in a statement on its website. Eight of 22 economists in a
Bloomberg  survey  predicted an increase, while 13 expected no
change and one saw a quarter-point cut.  “The monetary-policy reaction is directed at preventing
spillover effects of regulated price increases to other prices
through higher inflationary expectations,” the bank said in an
e-mailed statement. Policy makers also want to ensure that
increased dinar liquidity doesn’t put pressure on prices or the
currency, the bank said.  Serbian rate-setters are running counter to other
authorities in eastern  Europe , where rates are falling to halt
economic slowdowns amid the debt crisis. The central bank is
trying to bring inflation down to its target band of 2.5 percent
to 5.5 percent this year after prices jumped 12.2 percent in
2012, behind only Belarus with 21.8 percent.  Price Pressures  December inflation “showed a renewed acceleration” and
“inflation pressures will remain elevated till the end of the
agricultural season in mid-spring,” analysts at Societe
Generale including Guillaume Salomon said in a note to investors
today.  The National Bank of Serbia began raising its benchmark
rate last June from 9.5 percent, citing elevated inflationary
expectations and higher-than-expected growth in food and
regulated prices. Policy makers expect inflation to peak by the
end of the first quarter before slowing toward the target.  Today’s rate increase was “slightly surprising,” Tim Ash,
chief emerging-markets strategist at Standard Bank Group Ltd. in
 London , said by e-mail. The central bank is “eager to show its
hawkish credentials and improve its credibility.”  Prime Minister Ivica Dacic’s five-month-old coalition
government is seeking to curb price increases and restart growth
after the economy contracted an estimated 2 percent in 2012.
It’s betting on higher exports of Fiat SpA cars produced in
Serbia and more sales of crude oil products abroad.  Inflation has been accelerating since April, when it fell
to a 30-year low of 2.7 percent. Prices have risen even as the
economy fell into its second recession in three years and
consumer demand contracted as wages remained tame and
unemployment expanded.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gordana Filipovic in Belgrade at 
 gfilipovic@bloomberg.net ;
Misha Savic in Belgrade at 
 msavic2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  