-- Sharp Jumps After Report on TV Factory Sale to Lenovo
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-01-17T09:19:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-17/sharp-jumps-after-report-on-tv-factory-sale-to-lenovo.html
Sharp Corp. (6753)  advanced to its highest
in six months in Tokyo trading after the Nikkei newspaper said
the company may sell a TV factory to  Lenovo Group Ltd. (992)  and form
a  China  sales venture with the PC maker.  The Japanese  electronics  company gained 7.3 percent to
close at 338 yen, the stock’s highest since July 11. It  tumbled 
55 percent last year, the biggest decline among members of the
benchmark Nikkei 225 Stock Average.  Sharp is in final talks on selling the Chinese plant and
another in  Malaysia  in separate deals that may raise about 30
billion yen ($339 million), Nikkei reported, without citing
anyone. The company has said it’s seeking to raise funds as it
heads toward a record annual loss because of slumping TV sales.  Osaka , Japan-based Sharp isn’t the source of the
information in the Nikkei report,  Miyuki Nakayama , a
spokeswoman, said by phone today. Raymond Gorman, a spokesman
for Beijing-based Lenovo, declined to comment, saying the PC
maker doesn’t “respond to or speculate upon rumors.” The
world’s second-biggest maker of personal computers fell 1.2
percent to HK$7.65 at the close in Hong Kong trading.  Lenovo may buy a liquid-crystal-display TV plant in Nanjing
from Sharp by year’s end, Nikkei said, without citing anyone.
The companies also may form a China sales venture that could
expand to Southeast Asia and Latin America, according to the
report.  Hsinchu, Taiwan-based  Wistron Corp. (3231)  is in talks about the
possible purchase of the TV plant in Malaysia, Nikkei said.
Joyce Chou, a spokeswoman for Wistron, declined to comment. The
company rose as much as 6.6 percent in Taipei trading.  Lenovo Expansion  Lenovo is interested in expanding through purchases, Chief
Executive Officer  Yang Yuanqing  said in a Jan. 4 interview. The
company bought International Business Machines Corp.’s laptop-
making unit in 2005.  Acquisitions are “a good tool to drive the growth and
building of capability,” Yang said. “We will continue to
leverage this tool, if we can find targets.” He didn’t
elaborate on possible deals.  Lenovo started selling Android-based “smart” TVs in China
in May as it expands beyond its traditional focus on computers.
The company, which so far only offers the TVs in its home
market, has seen “very small volume” in sales, Yang said in
the interview, without supplying details. The company declined
as much as 1.9 percent in Hong Kong trading.  Sharp, which turned to  Qualcomm Inc. (QCOM)  last month for as much
as 9.9 billion yen ($112 million) in new  capital , is selling
 assets  and seeking more ways to boost capital, President Takashi Okuda said earlier this month. The company warned in November
about its ability to survive after hemorrhaging 103 billion yen
in cash from operations in the fiscal first half due to falling
prices of LCD TVs and solar panels.  The company has  forecast  a record net loss of 450 billion
yen for the year ending March 31. The 100-year-old inventor of
mechanical pencils is cutting jobs and payroll to revive profit
after posting a 376 billion-yen loss last fiscal year.  --Mariko Yasu and Edmond Lococo. With assistance from Tim Culpan in Taipei.
Editors: Aaron Clark, Dave McCombs  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mariko Yasu in Tokyo at 
 myasu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  