-- Simor Says Hungary Monetary Stimulus Would Damage Economy
-- B y   Z o l t a n   S i m o n   a n d   E d i t h   B a l a z s
-- 2013-01-18T08:26:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-17/simor-says-hungary-monetary-stimulus-drive-would-damage-economy.html
The Hungarian Cabinet pushing
through a plan to boost growth through monetary stimulus under a
new central bank chief would damage the economy, outgoing Magyar
Nemzeti Bank President Andras Simor said.  The central bank has worked to reduce policy
unpredictability in  Hungary , the single biggest difficulty for
the economy, Simor told reporters in his office in Budapest
yesterday. Using monetary stimulus would also hurt the bank’s
credibility, said Simor, whose six-year term ends on March 3.  Prime Minister  Viktor Orban ’s government is looking to
stimulate an economy going through its second recession in four
years, with elections scheduled for next year. The new central
bank chief should “bravely use unorthodox tools” to provide
monetary stimulus, including  measures used by the  European
Central Bank  and the  Federal Reserve , Economy Minister  Gyorgy Matolcsy , Simor’s most likely successor according to the Index
news website, said last month.  “In an environment where there’s a problem with regulatory
certainty and predictability, it’s very important that the
central bank keeps this position because if central bank actions
turned unpredictable, that would just make the situation
significantly worse for the Hungarian economy,” Simor said.  The forint was the second-best performing currency last
year, rising 8.1 percent against the euro and partially
recouping a 16 percent drop in the second half of 2011. The
currency, which fell to a seven-month low of 298.46 per euro on
Jan. 14, hasn’t been at “extreme levels” for “quite some
time,” Simor said. It traded at 292.5 per euro at 9 a.m. in
Budapest.  Matolcsy Effect  Hungarian assets may weaken if Orban taps Matolcsy to lead
the central bank,  Citigroup Inc. (C) ,  Bank of America  Merrill Lynch
and Capital Economics Ltd. said in reports in the past month.  Monetary-policy control has already slipped from Simor.
Along with his two deputies, he has been outvoted on rate
decisions by non-executive members governing party lawmakers
appointed in 2011. The bank cut the two-week deposit rate to
5.75 percent on Dec. 18, the fifth quarter-point reduction in as
many months to the lowest level in almost two years.  Simor, who has survived government attempts to oust him and
has fought to keep the central bank free of the Cabinet’s
influence, said the monetary easing was unjustified from an
inflation point of view and will probably have little effect on
growth as long as lending is subdued.  ‘More Firmly’  The central bank needs to act “much more firmly” against
inflation, Simor said on Dec. 7. Consumer prices rose 5 percent
last month from a year earlier, the slowest pace in a year. The
central bank has a “credibility problem” when investors
forecast further rate cuts and predict inflation to be faster
than policy makers’ 3 percent target on a two-year horizon,
Simor said yesterday.  Orban has used what his government described as unorthodox
measures to close budget holes and avoid cuts in European Union
funding, contributing to the economic slump. They included the
effective nationalization of private-pension fund assets,
imposing retroactive industry taxes, levying the highest bank
tax in  Europe  and curtailing the power of courts.  The government will need to take additional budget steps to
keep the  budget deficit  within 3 percent of gross domestic
product in 2014, one of the factors the European Commission will
consider when deciding whether to lift the excessive-deficit
procedure against Hungary, Simor said.  ‘Unconventional Tools’  The central bank has used “unconventional tools” in the
past four years, including to improve liquidity in foreign-
exchange markets, to stabilize forint funding of local lenders
and to restore the functions of the government- and mortgage-
bond markets, Simor said yesterday, defending his record against
government criticism that the bank hasn’t done enough to help
growth.  “Our record when using so-called unconventional tools is
excellent, we’ve done more than anybody in the region and we’ve
tried all the tools that are possible to be used for a small,
open emerging-market economy,” Simor said.  The new central bank leadership is “almost certain” to
stop paying interest on commercial banks’ mandatory reserves
held at the central bank and will probably also cut the  interest
rate  on two-week MNB bills, Mihaly Patai, the former head of the
Hungarian Banking Association and chief executive officer of the
local  UniCredit SpA (UCG)  unit said on Dec. 20, according to the
Budapest-based newspaper Vilaggazdasag.  Commercial banks can manage their liquidity using the
central bank’s two-week notes that pay an interest equal to the
 base rate . Cutting the interest rate on this instrument would be
tantamount to “significant” monetary easing, Simor said.  Orban’s Choice  The announcement on the new central bank chief will come
“in due time,” Orban said in an interview on public radio MR1
today, adding that “absolutely no decision” has been made on
Matolcsy replacing Simor. Orban may name his candidate at a
three-day ruling-party retreat that starts Feb. 5, Index said
yesterday, without citing anyone.  “Loyalty to the Orban vision for Hungary, rather than
independence, are probably high up on the list of attributes now
being looked for in potential candidates,” Timothy Ash, head of
emerging-market research at Standard Bank Group Ltd. in  London ,
said in e-mailed comments today.  Gyula Pleschinger, an Economy Ministry state secretary, has
emerged as a potential choice,  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc 
strategists Phoenix Kalen and Demetrios Efstathiou said in an e-
mail yesterday after meeting with government and central bank
officials.  ‘Key Tool’  Rate cuts may remain the “key tool” of monetary easing,
with the main rate dropping to 4 percent, while adopting
quantitative easing via purchases of  government bonds  is
“highly unlikely,’ RBS said.  It would cause ‘‘more harm than benefit’’ to embark on
‘‘general quantitative easing,’’ Simor said, adding that this
has been done by countries where the benchmark rate is close to
zero and where inflation on the monetary-policy horizon is below
target.  ‘‘Well, nothing of this applies to Hungary: inflation isn’t
below the target on the monetary policy horizon, so there’s
really no reason to loosen to start with,” Simor said. “If it
were below target and the central bank wanted to loosen, it
could reduce interest rates. So there’s absolutely no reason to
use quantitative easing as such.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Zoltan Simon in Budapest at 
 zsimon@bloomberg.net ;
Edith Balazs in Budapest at 
 ebalazs1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net ;
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  