-- Simor Says Unconventional Monetary Tools Would Damage Economy
-- B y   E d i t h   B a l a z s   a n d   Z o l t a n   S i m o n
-- 2013-01-17T23:02:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-17/simor-says-unconventional-monetary-tools-would-damage-economy.html
Hungarian central bank President
Andras Simor comments on the risks of  Hungary  implementing
unconventional monetary-policy measures under a new leadership
at the Magyar Nemzeti Bank.  He spoke in an interview in Budapest yesterday.  On unconventional policy measures:  “What we need to emphasize is that the National Bank of
Hungary has used extensive measures to lessen the impact of the
crisis on the Hungarian economy.  ‘‘We’ve used most of the measures that other central banks
have used in the world and we’ve used significantly more than
any comparable country, what I mean is countries in the region
like Slovakia,  Czech Republic ,  Poland ,  Romania .  ‘‘We used measures to create more liquidity in the foreign-
exchange markets, to lessen the volatility of the Hungarian
forint so that foreign-currency lending to corporates primarily
doesn’t dry up. The second area where we used non-conventional
tools was to improve the liquidity of the forint market and to
stabilize forint funding for domestic banks.  ‘‘Thirdly, there were certain markets which didn’t function
well at certain periods, like the government  bond market  and the
mortgage bond market. We’ve intervened in both these markets for
a limited period of time.  ‘‘Our record when using so-called unconventional tools is
excellent, we’ve done more than anybody in the region and we’ve
tried all the tools that are possible to be used for a small,
open, emerging-market economy.  ‘‘We can go on to what we haven’t done or what is not worth
doing in Hungary or in fact causes more harm than benefit. The
first area is general quantitative easing. QE is essentially
done by countries in situations where traditional monetary
policy has run out of its effectiveness. In other words, where
the  base rate  is already zero or near zero and monetary policy
can’t loosen more by traditional interest-rate cuts. At the same
time, monetary policy wants to loosen more because inflation on
the monetary policy horizon is below its target or because the
central bank has other goals, like the Fed has an unemployment
goal.  ‘‘Well, nothing of this applies to Hungary: inflation isn’t
below the target on the monetary policy horizon, so there’s
really no reason to loosen to start with. If it were below
target and the central bank wanted to loosen, it could reduce
interest rates.  ‘‘So there’s absolutely no reason to use QE as such. QE
took a number of forms, buying  government bonds , making long-
term commitments and keeping interest rates low. But these in
the current Hungarian context make no sense at all.  ‘‘I can’t think of any other measures that others  would’ve
used that we haven’t tried. Except maybe buying corporate bonds,
but the simple reason is that there’s no corporate bond market
in Hungary.”  On government comments on central bank:  “I consider” government remarks that the central bank
could have done more for growth “totally baseless. It’s
important to note that even with our normal monetary policy, we
take significant account of what is happening in the real
economy.  ‘‘We aren’t aiming to achieve  price stability  in the short
term, but we want to achieve it in the two-year horizon, which
means we smoothed the effect on the real economy. If we have
inflationary supply shocks, we always act only if we think that
some of these measures have a secondary impact on  price levels .
We don’t want to compensate the primary impact on prices.  ‘‘Forget the unconventional tools; during our normal daily
operation we take a lot of regard of what happens in the real
economy.’’  On inflation data published by the MNB:  ‘‘Our experience going back to many years shows that
underlying inflation trends should be around 1.5 percent to 2
percent for inflation to be realistically at 3 percent.’’  On recent rate cuts:  ‘‘Not to create havoc on foreign-exchange markets is a
necessary but not sufficient criterion of good monetary policy.  ‘‘The most important goal of monetary policy is to achieve
and maintain price stability. Of course, as a by-product you
don’t want to cause a collapse in your currency. But just
because the  currency market  didn’t collapse, that doesn’t mean
that monetary policy has been taking the right steps.  ‘‘It’s important to note that it’s not our fundamentals
that have improved but the world has become a more benign place,
which of course works to our benefit. That’s the reason why we
were able to cut interest rates without a significant weakening
of the forint.  ‘‘From an inflation point of view, I’m convinced that these
rate cuts have not been justified. Longer-term inflation trends
don’t support these rate cuts.”  On central bank credibility:  “If you have inflation, which on a two-year horizon isn’t
on target in analyst forecasts and the gap is significantly
higher than we had ever before during the last 6 years, and at
the same time you have  interest-rate  cut expectations, this
tells me that the central bank has a credibility problem.  ‘‘One of the most important problems of the Hungarian
economy is that the predictability of economic policies and the
regulatory environment is low. There’s a lot of uncertainty
about the regulatory framework that the Hungarian economy is
surrounded with and I think up until now the central bank has
played a very constructive role in lessening this uncertainty by
operating in a reasonably predictable way.  ‘‘In an environment where there’s a problem with regulatory
certainty and predictability, it’s very important that the
central bank keeps this position because if central bank actions
turned unpredictable, that would just make the situation
significantly worse for the Hungarian economy.”  On the impact of rate cuts on growth:  “The question is: will lending increase as a result of
these rate cuts? In the last five months, we haven’t seen any
positive impact of the reduced rates on lending.  ‘‘Our analysis shows is that the main bottleneck of lending
on the retail side is that a lot of people have built up a
significant amount of debt before the crisis, they’ve been hit
by the devaluation of the forint, and they want to reduce their
debt irrespective of what interest rates are. The second
bottleneck for increased borrowing is the uncertainty about the
economic outlook and uncertainty about future real incomes.  ‘‘Investments have been shrinking for some time and our
baseline scenario is that they’ll shrink further this year. The
lack of investment has much more to do with the uncertain
economic outlook rather than the interest-rate environment.  ‘‘Foreign direct investment and foreign-currency corporate
borrowing aren’t growing either and those aren’t constrained by
high domestic interest rates.  ‘‘Obviously, rate cuts should have some impact, but I think
this doesn’t remedy the main bottlenecks that we have in the
credit system.  ‘‘About half of Hungarian household, corporate and
government debt is in foreign currency. Rate cuts, all other
things being equal, weaken the forint. A weaker forint means
higher debt and higher installments for these borrowers. For
foreign-currency debtors, rate cuts mean higher costs, all other
things being equal.  ‘‘In the case of forint debtors, what you have to look at
is whether these rate reductions feed into the existing stock.
On the retail side, because these loans aren’t priced to a
 reference rate , we haven’t seen any proof that they feed into
the existing stock. On the corporate side they do and
consequently they do reduce the cost of servicing existing debt,
similarly to government forint debt.’’  On the forint rate:  ‘‘The central bank has always said that it operates in a
freely floating exchange-rate system, therefore we don’t comment
on individual exchange rate levels. At the same time, we’ve also
said in the past that there’re extreme levels, which might cause
problems for financial stability reasons or extreme volatility,
which might cause problems for economic agents in Hungary.  ‘‘For quite some time, we haven’t seen these extreme levels
and we haven’t seen extreme volatility either.  On the two-week bill facility:  ‘‘I don’t like the level of interest rates in Hungary, I
wish that we could lower it. However, neither our inflation goal
nor the risk assessment of Hungary allow us to reduce it, in my
view.  ‘‘If we limited the amount of liquidity that banks can keep
in our two-week bills, the consequence of that would be that
they would keep that liquidity at the central bank but in other
instruments. For instance, overnight instruments which have a
lower interest rate.  ‘‘Limiting the two-week bill facility therefore would be
equal to a significant loosening of monetary conditions, it
would have the same impact as if we reduced the base rate. I
don’t think reducing the base rate would make sense,
consequently I don’t think limiting the volume in two-week bills
would make sense either.  ‘‘Cutting interest rates, loosening monetary-policy
conditions, with all other things being equal, weakens the
currency.’’  On the biggest problem for the Hungarian economy:  ‘‘I think it’s the uncertain, unpredictable economic
policies and regulatory environment. That’s why a predictable
and transparent central bank has an enormous role to play,
especially these days.’’  On the budget:  ‘‘When we looked at the budget at the end of last year, we
haven’t taken every line in the budget at face value. That’s why
we said that in order to achieve the target, all reserves need
to be frozen. We still think the targets are achievable provided
that all the reserves are frozen and not spent. It will also be
very important to see how the economy will perform.  ‘‘For the excessive-deficit procedure, three things need to
be watched. Whether the deficit targets that have been set are
achieved, that there’s a structural improvement and what is the
outlook for 2014. All three will be taken into consideration by
the when they make their decision. It’s possible’’ that Hungary
will exit the EDP, ‘‘but further measures will be needed to
achieve the deficit target in 2014.’’  To contact the reporters on this story:
Edith Balazs in Budapest at 
 ebalazs1@bloomberg.net ;
Zoltan Simon in Budapest at 
 zsimon@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net ;
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  