-- Slovak Premier, Opposition Clash on Impeachment Attempt
-- B y   R a d o s l a v   T o m e k
-- 2013-01-17T11:30:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-17/slovak-premier-opposition-clash-on-impeachment-attempt.html
The Slovak opposition is seeking to
impeach President Ivan Gasparovic, sparking the biggest clash
with his ally Premier  Robert Fico , who’s struggling to trim the
 budget deficit  amid the euro-erea’s debt crisis.  Opposition lawmakers today in Bratislava, the Slovak
capital, filed a motion calling for a special session, in which
the assembly will vote on whether Gasparovic should stand a
trial for abusing his powers when he refused to appoint a
candidate for attorney general elected by parliament under  Iveta
Radicova , Fico’s predecessor, Jan Figel, the chairman of the
opposition  Christian Democrats , told reporters.  The premier has sided with the president, who won a second
five-year term in a popular vote in 2009, saying the move is
“an attack on the state.” The escalation of tensions between
the one-party government and the opposition comes as the slowing
economy makes it harder for Fico to meet his pledges to insulate
poorer citizens from the crisis.  “Fico is getting nervous,” said Grigorij Meseznikov,
Director of the Institute for Public Affairs, a think tank in
Bratislava. “The economic outlook is cloudy and being in power
is no longer so comfortable for him.”  Parliament’s speaker has to call a special session within
30 days and the impeachment needs to be approved by 90 out of
150 lawmakers to pass it on to the  Constitutional Court , which
has the final say in the matter.  Fico’s Goals  Fico’s administration is striving to cut budget deficit
below the European Union’s limit of 3 percent of gross domestic
product even as slowing economic growth reduces  tax revenue .
Moody’s Investors Service said Jan. 9 the plan is
“challenging” as room to raise additional revenue with tax
increases is limited.  The impeachment attempt, which will probably fail because
of Fico’s parliamentary majority, may boost popular support for
the opposition as it “touches Fico’s weak spot,” Meseznikov
said, referring to the judiciary system.  As many as 67 percent of people don’t trust Slovak courts,
according to a poll conducted by Focus on June 5-11 on a sample
of 1,026 people. No margin of error was given.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Radoslav Tomek in Bratislava at 
 rtomek@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  