-- TSMC Predicts Better-Than-Estimated Sales on Smartphone Chips
-- B y   T i m   C u l p a n
-- 2013-01-17T09:35:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-17/tsmc-profit-jumps-32-as-rising-tablet-sales-boost-chip-demand.html
Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing
Co. (2330) , the world’s largest contract producer of chips, forecast
sales surpassing analysts’ estimates as demand for components
used in phones and tablets continues to outstrip expectations.  First-quarter revenue will be NT$127 billion ($4.4 billion)
to NT$129 billion, the Hsinchu, Taiwan-based company said today.
That compares with the NT$124 billion average of 18 analyst
estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  TSMC’s fourth-quarter  profit  jumped 32 percent as demand
for mobile devices from Apple Inc. and Samsung Electronics Co.
spur semiconductor sales. The chipmaker also intends to boost
 capital spending  to a record $9 billion this year from about
$8.3 billion last year to support the manufacture of products
including new 28 nanometer technology units.  “The growth of 28-nanometer this year will be greater than
the total growth in the company,” Chairman and Chief Executive
Officer  Morris Chang  told investors in Taipei today. TSMC
intends to use 88 percent of spending this year on equipment for
the latest technology, measuring 28 nanometers or less, he said.  One nanometer, equal to one billionth of a meter, measures
the size of connections within a chip. A lower number implies
more advanced technology, allowing semiconductors to be smaller
and more powerful.  Mobile Demand  Sales in the first quarter will benefit from mobile-device
makers accelerating the introduction of new products, Chang
said. Mobile devices will continue to win market share from
traditional  notebook computers , he said.  “We’re in the sweet spot of the smartphone growth curve,
which benefits TSMC,” said Steven Pelayo, a Hong Kong-based
analyst for HSBC Holdings Plc, who rates the  stock  overweight.  Fourth-quarter net income rose to NT$41.6 billion, in line
with the average of 22 analysts’  estimates  compiled by
Bloomberg. Consolidated revenue jumped 25 percent to NT$131
billion, matching the top end of the company’s guidance.  The  chipmaker , whose clients include Broadcom Corp. and
Texas Instruments Inc., was little changed at NT$99.30 at the
close of trading in Taipei before the earnings announcement. It
has risen 31 percent in the past 12 months.  Revenue growth this year will be offset by higher tax rates
in  Taiwan . The effective tax rate in 2013 and 2014 will climb to
about 14 percent from 8.7 percent in 2012, Chief Financial
Officer Lora Ho said.  TSMC expects revenue in the fabless semiconductor industry
will climb 9 percent this year, Chang said today. The made-to-
order foundry industry will climb 7 percent, with TSMC’s own
growth to exceed that figure, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tim Culpan in Taipei at 
 tculpan1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Michael Tighe  at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net . 