-- Smith & Nephew, USPTO, Nike, Dotcom:Intellectual Property
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 2013-01-17T12:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-17/smith-nephew-uspto-nike-dotcom-intellectual-property.html
Smith & Nephew Plc (SN/)  won an appeals
court ruling reinstating an $85 million patent-infringement
verdict against Arthrex Inc. over surgical anchors used in
shoulder surgery.  A trial judge erred in overturning the jury verdict, the
U.S. Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit in  Washington  said
in an  opinion  posted yesterday on its website. The case was
remanded to the trial judge for further proceedings.  The dispute, first filed in 2004, is over devices that are
anchored to a bone to repair tears in the rotator cuff or in the
labrum, a fibrous ring in the shoulder socket. The June 2011
trial was the third in the case, and the jury found that Naples,
Florida-based Arthrex knew that its anchor used steps similar to
those covered by the patent.  “We see no reason to disturb that finding by the jury,”
Circuit Judge Alan Lourie wrote for the 2-1 majority.  Circuit Judge Raymond Clevenger, in dissent, said the
jury’s verdict won by London-based Smith & Nephew was “not
supported by substantial evidence,” so he would have affirmed
the trial judge’s decision in December 2011 to overturn the
verdict.  “The reinstatement of the June 2011 jury award of $85
million for Arthrex’s infringement activities is affirmation of
the innovation coming from Smith & Nephew,” Joe Metzger, a
spokesman for Smith & Nephew, said by telephone. “We will
continue to defend our  intellectual property  rights from
infringement by others.”  Lisa Gardiner, a spokeswoman for Arthrex, didn’t
immediately return a call and an e-mail seeking comment.  The case is Smith & Nephew Inc. v. Arthrex Inc., 2012-1265,
 U.S. Court of Appeals  for the Federal Circuit (Washington). The
lower court case is Smith & Nephew Inc. v. Arthrex Inc., 04cv29,
U.S. District Court, District of Oregon ( Portland ).  USPTO, Smithsonian to Open ‘Innovation Pavilion’ in Washington  The U.S. Patent and Trademark Office, together with the
Smithsonian Institution, have agreed to open an “Innovation
Pavilion” in the 132-year-old Arts and Industries Building on
the National Mall in Washington.  The building, presently closed for renovation, will reopen
in 2014 and will feature exhibitions about American innovation
and educational programs, the patent office said in a  statement 
yesterday.  It will also be the site of recognition ceremonies
highlighting the role patents play in supporting innovation.  The patent office and the Smithsonian will also jointly
offer an Innovation Exposition in June at the patent office
headquarters in Alexandria,  Virginia .  The Arts and Industries Building,  which opened in 1881 , was
the original home of the Smithsonian’s national museum. The
building was  designated  a National Historic Landmark in 1971.  Samsung Galaxy Doesn’t Infringe Apple Design Rights, Court Rules  Samsung Electronics Co.’s “Galaxy” tablets don’t infringe
the design rights for  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPad, a Dutch court ruled,
according to a MacWorld report.  Apple’s registered “Community Design,” an EU intellectual
property right, isn’t infringed by a number of products of the
Korean technology company, the District Court of the Hague
rules, according to MacWorld.  The court also ordered Cupertino, California-based Apple to
pay Samsung’s litigation costs of 137,357 euros ($169,512), and
warned the company it faces fines of as much as 100,000 euros a
day if it tries to get in the way of the Galaxy sales, MacWorld
reported.  The disputed design, registered with the E.U. in 2004,
was also the subject of an unsuccessful Apple suit in the
Netherlands in 2011, according to MacWorld.  For more patent news, click here.  Trademark  Ubisoft Goes After ‘Killing Day’ U.S. Trademark a Second Time  Ubisoft Entertainment SA (UBI) , the French  video-game  company,
filed an application to register “Killing Day” as a trademark,
according to the database of the U.S. Patent and Trademark
Office.  The application, which is for use of the mark with video-
game software, was filed Jan. 4, two weeks after the chief
executive officer of the  National Rifle Association  blamed
violent video games for gun-related school violence, including
the Dec. 14 killing of 20 children and six staff members at a
Connecticut elementary school.  This application is the second the Montreuil, France-based
games company has submitted for a “Killing Day” trademark. An
earlier application, filed in May 2009, was declared abandoned
in June 2012 because several procedural steps in the application
process weren’t followed, according to patent office documents.  According to the  new application , the mark is also to be
used with electronic game software for mobile telephones and
other portable devices.  On Jan. 13 the National Rifle Association released its own
shooting-based video game -- “ NRA: Practice Range ” --available
as a free download for mobile devices through Apple Inc.’s  App
Store .  Nike Awarded ‘Nike.Ru’ Domain Name in Russian Trademark Dispute  Nike Inc. (NKE) , the Eugene, Oregon-based athletic-gear company,
has been awarded the Nike.Ru Internet domain name by the Moscow
Commercial Court, the Russian Legal Information Agency  reported 
yesterday.  The court ruled that Stas Drugalyov, the Russian
businessman who registered the name, hadn’t used it properly,
Rapsi reported.  A lawyer for Nike told the court that the domain name owner
hasn’t owned the trademark, and added that Drugalyov owns more
than 100 other domain names related to well-known brands, Rapsi
reported.  Drugalyov can appeal the ruling within the next 30 days,
according to Rapsi.  Headwaters Becomes BearWaters to Avoid Trademark Battle  Headwaters Brewing Co. of Waynesville,  North Carolina , is
changing its name in the wake of a trademark dispute with a
 Pennsylvania  brewery, the Smoky Mountain News  reported .  Victoria Brewing Co.  of Downingtown, Pennsylvania,
registered “Headwaters” as a trademark in January 2012, and
told the North Carolina brewery that it used the name for its
 Headwaters Pale Ale , according to the Smoky Mountain News.  Kevin Sandefur, one of the three owners of Headwaters, said
that although his company had used the name first, it hadn’t
sought a trademark because it didn’t have the expendable money -
- $2,000 or more -- for the trademark application process, the
newspaper reported.  The company name has been changed to BearWaters, and
Sandefur told the Smoky Mountain News the process of settling
the dispute has been a “great lesson in intellectual property
protection for do-it-yourself and small business guys.”  New British Trademark Aims to Raise Plant IP Rights Awareness  The  British Society of Plant Breeders  and the  Agricultural
Industries Confederation  trade groups will begin using a new
trademark aimed at pointing up the importance of plant-related
IP rights, the U.K.’s Horticulture Week  reported .  The  new Plant Variety Rights mark , which features the
letters “PVR” above the phrase “protecting innovation,” is
to be used by seed companies and plant breeders and will show up
on as variety of media, including seed bags, websites and tags
indicating plant varieties, according to Horticulture Week.  The PVR campaign is part of attempts to emphasize the
importance of plant breeding and quality seed supply,
Horticulture Week reported.  Paul Taylor , chairman of the Agricultural Industries
Confederation Seed Sector, told Horticulture Week the mark will
be used to remind the public of the “research, innovation and
independent evaluation behind each new variety and bag of
purchases seed.”  For more trademark news, click here.  Copyright  Dotcom Set to Unveil Megaupload Successor Amid U.S. Indictment  Kim Dotcom, whose Megaupload.com website accounted for 4
percent of world Internet traffic before being shut down last
year on U.S. copyright infringement charges, plans to unveil a
new, encrypted file-sharing site in  New Zealand  in a snub to
U.S. authorities.  Dotcom has scheduled a news conference on Jan. 20 at his
NZ$30 million ($25 million) rented home in an Auckland suburb,
promising to introduce a way to securely store and transfer
confidential information.  The  U.S. Department of Justice  is seeking Dotcom’s
extradition from New Zealand to face racketeering,  money
laundering  and copyright-infringement charges. Prosecutors say
his Megaupload site generated more than $175 million in criminal
proceeds from the exchange of pirated films, music, book and
software files. Dotcom, who has denied any wrongdoing, faces as
long as 20 years in prison if convicted.  The German-born Dotcom, 38, who changed his name legally
from Kim Schmitz, has suggested in postings on his personal
website that his encryption will ensure the security of files in
cloud storage and prevent governments from seeing any content.  A  screenshot  of the new Mega site shows an encryption
generator, known as a 2048-bit RSA public/private key, that
creates a unique alpha-numeric code used to unlock a file or a
message. According to DigiCert Inc., the Lindon, Utah-based
provider of Internet Security Certificates, cracking a 2048-bit
RSA SSL code using a standard desktop computer would take
500,000 times longer than the age of the universe, which is
about 13 billion years old.  The new site promises to allow users to encrypt and decrypt
data in their Internet browser during uploads and downloads.  “I had a cool dream,” Dotcom wrote on Twitter Jan. 1.
“All nations that are being spied on by the US govt started
using #Mega & I won the Nobel Encryption Prize.”  Neither Dotcom’s bail conditions nor U.S. law precludes him
from engaging in a lawful business, according to his lawyer Ira
Rothken. The court was informed of the new website and no legal
objections were raised, Rothken said.  The extradition hearing in Auckland was postponed last
month from March to August. New Zealand  High Court  Justice Helen
Winkelmann ruled on June 28 that warrants police used to search
Dotcom’s home, ahead of his arrest, were overly broad and
invalid. In December, Winkelmann granted Dotcom permission to
sue New Zealand’s spy agency for intercepting his
communications.  The New Zealand case is Between Kim Dotcom and Attorney
General. CIV2012-404-001928. High Court of New Zealand
(Auckland). The U.S. case is: USA v. Dotcom. 12-cr-00003. U.S.
District Court for the Eastern District of Virginia
(Alexandria).  For more copyright news, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in Oakland,  California , at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 