-- Softbank Sells EAccess Stake to Samsung, Nokia Siemens Units
-- B y   M a r i k o   Y a s u
-- 2013-01-17T07:42:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-17/softbank-to-sell-eaccess-stake-to-companies-including-samsung.html
Softbank Corp. (9984) , Japan’s third-
largest mobile-phone company, will reduce its stake in  eAccess
Ltd.  by offering new shares of the smaller carrier to companies
including a  Samsung Electronics Co. (005930)  subsidiary.  Eleven companies will buy the shares in a transaction
today, Tokyo-based Softbank said in a statement. Softbank’s
voting rights in the company will be reduced to 33.29 percent,
it said.  Softbank, which agreed in October to buy a $20 billion
stake in Sprint Nextel Corp., was considering reducing its stake
in eAccess to one-third after completing a 180 billion-yen ($2
billion) acquisition of the Tokyo-based company on Jan. 1,
Softbank President Masayoshi Son said Oct. 31. Softbank reached
a takeover agreement with eAccess on Oct. 1 and made it wholly
owned Jan. 1.  EAccess needs independence to expand its business, Softbank
said in a statement today. The impact on Softbank’s earnings by
the share offer is negligible, according to the statement.  The transaction is probably aimed at smoothing the
company’s relationship with regulators, Hitoshi Hayakawa, an
analyst at Credit Suisse Group AG in  Tokyo , said by phone today.
The merger of Softbank and eAccess shortly after each company
received new bandwidth was problematic, a member of a Ministry
of Internal Affairs and Communications panel said Oct. 10,
according to ministry’s website.  Nokia Siemens  “It’s a transaction of formality,” Hayakawa said.
“Voting rights are spread into many companies without anyone
having a significant control.”  The eAccess transaction, scheduled to complete by the end
of today, is divided into three steps, according to the
statement. Softbank will transfer all eAccess shares to the
smaller carrier, which will then issue two types of new shares
to Softbank in exchange.  The buyers of the new shares include Orix Corp. and a unit
of Nokia Siemens Networks Oy. The price was undisclosed.  Nam Ki Yung, a spokesman for Suwon, South Korea-based
Samsung Electronics, declined to comment.  Softbank, which agreed to buy eAccess for about triple the
smaller company’s market value, made the acquisition in part to
meet demand for bandwidth from users of Apple Inc.’s iPhone 5,
Son said in October. EAccess’s network for Long-Term Evolution
data transmission can help Softbank maintain service levels as
it signs on more smartphone subscribers that stream video and
surf the Internet.  Sprint Deal  Softbank rose 2.1 percent to close at 2,997 yen in Tokyo
today, before the announcement. Son controls about 20 percent of
the mobile-phone operator, which was the first to offer the
iPhone in  Japan .  Softbank, the fastest-growing Japanese mobile-phone
provider, boosted earnings by more than sevenfold during the
past four years as iPhone soared in popularity. That helped it
close the gap with larger NTT DoCoMo Inc. and KDDI Corp.  Softbank agreed in October to pay $20.1 billion to acquire
about a 70 percent stake in Sprint as the Japanese mobile-phone
operator, faced with a declining local market, seeks growth
overseas.  Handset shipments tumbled 27 percent in Japan during the
past five years. With the Softbank investment, Sprint can fund a
faster expansion of its 4G wireless network, pay down debt or
make more acquisitions meant to challenge bigger competitors
 Verizon Wireless (VZ)  and  AT&T Inc. (T)   To contact the reporter on this story:
Mariko Yasu in Tokyo at 
 myasu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  