-- Solvay Chief Forecasts 2013 to Be ‘Difficult Year’ on Europe
-- B y   F r a n c o i s   d e   B e a u p u y
-- 2013-01-17T14:57:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-17/solvay-chief-forecasts-2013-to-be-difficult-year-on-europe-1-.html
Solvay SA (SOLB)  Chief Executive Officer
Jean-Pierre Clamadieu said 2013 is expected to be a
“difficult” year for the Belgian chemicals maker amid a
slowdown in European markets.  The start of the year has been more lackluster than in
2012, Clamadieu told reporters. Solvay shares, which dipped
about 3 percent on the CEO’s comments,  traded  1.3 percent higher
at 114.2 euros as of 3:44 p.m. in Brussels.  “We’re going to suffer in Europe,” Clamadieu said at a
press briefing in Paris. “We feel this is going to be a
difficult year.”  While Solvay purchased cosmetic-ingredient maker Rhodia for
about $8 billion in 2011, it remains exposed to commodity
plastic PVC that has suffered during a slump in construction.
 BASF SE (BAS)  is among the global chemical companies that have made
cutbacks in operations and jobs to counter a slowdown in
building projects. Europe may show some improvement in 12
months’ time, the Solvay chief said.  Clamadieu said the market for PVC, used in windows and
piping, remains “very difficult.” Soda ash, used in glass
manufacturing, is suffering in southern Europe and Solvay is
considering a reduction in capacity there, according to the CEO,
adding that further details will be announced by June.  Europe accounts for about 40 percent of Solvay’s annual
revenue.  “The good news is that  China  is picking up rather
strongly,” he said.  Solvay’s ambitions in mergers and acquisitions will
probably be restricted to smaller deals, focused on bolstering
consumer-chemical business Novecare and specialty polymers.  Asia 
is a key hunting ground, and there may be opportunities in  Latin
America  and  North America  because of lower energy costs.  “Don’t expect big news in 2013” in terms of
transformative deals, the CEO.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Francois de Beaupuy in Paris at 
 fdebeaupuy@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Thiel at 
 sthiel1@bloomberg.net  