-- Sony Mobile-Phone Business Can Be Profit Driver, Hirai Says
-- B y   M a r i k o   Y a s u
-- 2013-01-17T08:54:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-17/sony-mobile-phone-business-can-be-profit-driver-ceo-hirai-says.html
Sony Corp. (6758) , whose Xperia smartphones
are outsold more than 6-1 by Samsung Electronics Co. models, can
turn its handset business into a profit driver by focusing more
on high-end devices, Chief Executive Officer  Kazuo Hirai  said.  “That’s why we are in this business, and that’s why we
invested heavily in the business,” Hirai, 52, told reporters in
Tokyo today. “I believe we still have a lot of room to grow.”  Sony, struggling to end a streak of four straight full-year
losses, plans to make its mobile-phone business profitable in
the year beginning April 1, it said in August. Water-resistant
phones were among the new products released at the  Consumer
Electronics Show  in  Las Vegas  this month as Sony tries to woo
customers from Samsung, the world’s largest mobile-phone maker,
and  Apple Inc. (AAPL) , the maker of the iPhone.  “It’s going to be hard for Sony to catch up,” said Hideki Yasuda, an analyst at Ace Securities Co. in  Tokyo . “Still, the
market is expected to continue growing, and that will probably
enable Sony to boost sales.”  The Tokyo-based Walkman inventor, which is targeting a 20
billion-yen ($226 million) profit this fiscal year, lost 31
percent of its market value in 2012 amid continued losses at its
TV-making unit, a strong  yen  and a slow global economy.  The  company  rose 5.7 percent to close at 1,024 yen in Tokyo
trading today, the highest since Sept. 19. It’s dropped 21
percent in the past 12 months.  Ericsson Venture  Sony is cutting 10,000 jobs and trying to turn around its
unprofitable TV-making business after posting a record 457
billion-yen net loss in the year ended March 31. The company
bought out its mobile-phone venture with  Sweden ’s  Ericsson AB (ERICB) 
for 1.05 billion euros ($1.4 billion) in February and is
eliminating about 15 percent of the unit’s workforce and moving
its headquarters to Tokyo from Sweden.  “We basically are out of the feature-phone business and in
the Android-based smartphone business,” Hirai said, referring
to the  Google Inc. (GOOG)  operating system. “We are more in toward the
high end of the market as opposed to trying to get into the
commoditized portion.”  The operating loss at Sony’s mobile-phone unit may total
37.7 billion yen this fiscal year and 17.2 billion yen the next,
according to the average of three analyst estimates compiled by
 Bloomberg News  in December.  Sony plans to boost smartphone sales 51 percent to 34
million units in the year ending March 31. The company sold 8.8
million in the quarter ended Sept. 30. In comparison, Suwon,
South Korea-based  Samsung (005930)  sold 56.9 million and Apple 26.9
million, Boston-based Strategy Analytics said in October.  Market Share  The company’s ambition in smartphones may be stymied by
competition from Nokia Oyj,  Research in Motion Ltd. , HTC Corp.
and other phone-makers that are also trying to break Apple and
Samsung’s grip on the market, said Amir Anvarzadeh, a Singapore-
based manager for Asia equity sales at BGC Partners Inc.  “Hirai’s plan to move the unit into profits seems to be a
pipe-dream,” he said. “Competition in high-end smartphones is
only going to get tougher.”  Market share for mobile phones is “volatile,” and Sony
has made inroads in some areas, Hirai said. The company is
second in some markets, he said, without elaboration.  The company is strengthening product development for
smartphones and could earn high margins from the business
segment, said Keita Wakabayashi, an analyst at Mito Securities
Co. in Tokyo.  ‘Show Results’  “Sony just needs to show results,” he said.  Sony’s  credit rating  was cut three levels to BB-, a non-
investment grade, by  Fitch Ratings  in November. Slumping demand
for TVs and weakened economic conditions at home and overseas
will leave the electronics maker struggling to regain
technological leadership, Fitch said at the time.  The electronics maker, which has failed to come up with hit
products to challenge Samsung and Apple, plans to draw on its
skills in video games, cameras and audio players in developing
smartphones and tablet computers, Kunimasa Suzuki, head of
mobile products, said in September.  “We need to have products that wow people, move people
emotionally,” Hirai said today.  Weaker Yen  Hirai said it’s too early to assess the impact of the
recent weakening of the yen against the U.S. dollar and euro. A
stronger euro helps Sony’s business while yen-dollar
fluctuations are neutral to the company, he said.  The CEO said in April he plans to revive Sony’s electronics
businesses by concentrating on the “core businesses” of mobile
devices, games and digital imaging.  Sony raised 150 billion yen by selling five-year
convertible bonds in November, its first offering of similar
securities since 2003. The proceeds of the bonds, with a
conversion price of 957 yen, will be used to fund acquisitions
and expand imaging-sensor facilities, according to the company.  The company remains open to new alliances, Hirai said. In
September, it agreed to invest 50 billion yen for an 11.46
percent stake in  Olympus Corp. (7733) , the world’s biggest maker of
endoscopes. The companies plan to start a joint venture later
this year to develop, make and sell new endoscopes and other
medical devices.  Sony acquired Gaikai Inc., a California-based company with
expertise in transmitting data between cloud servers and users,
in August for about $380 million as it prepares to expand cloud-
based entertainment services.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mariko Yasu in Tokyo at 
 myasu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  