-- Southampton Rallies for 2-2 Tie With Chelsea in Premier League
-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 2013-01-17T00:11:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-17/southampton-rallies-for-2-2-tie-with-chelsea-in-premier-league.html
Southampton used second-half goals
from Rickie Lambert and Jason Puncheon to draw 2-2 with Chelsea
in English soccer’s Premier League and keep the Blues winless at
home in 2013.  Demba Ba and Eden Hazard gave Chelsea a 2-0 halftime lead
last night at  Stamford  Bridge in west  London . Lambert then
scored in the 58th minute and Puncheon followed with a goal with
15 minutes left.  Chelsea, which routed  Aston Villa  8-0 on Dec. 23, has this
month lost to last-place Queens Park Rangers at home in the
Premier League and to Swansea in the League Cup semifinals.  “We can’t be happy when we draw at home,” Chelsea manager
 Rafael Benitez  said on his club’s website. “The next game has
to be totally different. We have to defend as a unit better,
especially when we are winning.”  Southampton remains 15th in the 20-team league with 22
points, three points above the three relegation places at the
bottom of the standings. Chelsea is third with 42 points, two
more than Tottenham.  Ba got the opening goal in the 25th minute for Chelsea,
which beat Southampton 5-1 in the F.A. Cup 12 days ago. It was
the striker’s 14th league goal this season and first since
joining Chelsea from Newcastle on Jan. 4.  The Blues made it 2-0 just before halftime as Hazard scored
off the rebound after a shot from Ramires hit the post.  Lambert scored with a header three minutes after joining
the game as a second-half substitute. The Saints then pulled
even in the 75th minute as Luke Shaw made a run down the left
before crossing for Puncheon, who volleyed a shot past
goalkeeper  Petr Cech .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in London at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 