-- South African Airways Flights to Continue in Event of Strike
-- B y   J a c o   V i s s e r
-- 2013-01-17T13:25:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-17/south-african-union-says-3-300-rail-workers-to-strike-tomorrow.html
South African Airways  SOC Ltd., the
nation’s state-owned carrier, has plans in place to keep flying
should some workers start a strike tomorrow because of a dispute
about union recognition, an airline spokesman said.  About 1,300 employees at South African Airways, also known
as SAA, and 3,300 Passenger Rail Agency of South  Africa  SOC Ltd.
workers were issued strike notices, Chris Nte, secretary-general
for the National Transport Movement union, said by phone from
Johannesburg today. The labor group wants recognition as
majority staff representative in order to gain legal
organizational rights, Nte said.  “SAA has activated contingency plans that are intended to
avoid disruptions to the airline’s operations and avoid causing
inconvenience to customers as a result of the strike,” Tlali Tlali, a spokesman, said in an e-mailed response to questions.  Labor unrest in Africa’s largest economy intensified after
miners downed tools at  Lonmin Plc’s (LON)  Marikana operations on Aug.
10 to demand higher wages. About 47 people died in subsequent
violent clashes between workers and police. Stoppages spread to
platinum, gold, coal and iron-ore mines and truck drivers
started a 2 1/2-week strike on Sept. 24.  SAA received a notice from the National Transport Movement
union that its members intend to strike, Tlali said. The labor
union hasn’t met the threshold of 30 percent, or 1,220 non-
managerial permanent employees, it needs in order to gain
recognition, he said. SAA, sub-Saharan Africa’s biggest airline
by passengers, had more than 11,000 workers on March 31,
according to its annual report.  “They have included managers and contract employees in
their head count,” Tlali said. “Other unions with similar
cases were denied recognition by the airline.”  Representatives from the  rail agency  and the National
Transport Movement will meet today to discuss whether the union
should be recognized, Moffet Mofokeng, a spokesman for the rail
company, said by phone from Johannesburg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jaco Visser in Johannesburg at 
 avisser3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  