-- Spain’s Revoredo Is Billionaire With Cash in Armored Vans
-- B y   T o m   M e t c a l f   a n d   Z o h a i r   S i r a j
-- 2013-01-17T18:22:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-17/spain-s-revoredo-is-billionaire-with-cash-in-armored-vans.html
Helena Revoredo, the widow of the
founder of Prosegur Cia de Seguridad SA, whose 4,200 yellow
armored vans haul more than $400 million a year on three
continents, has become one of Spain’s richest women.  Shares of the Madrid-based company have risen 32 percent in
the last 12 months as its proportion of business from Latin 
America has attracted investors. Revoredo owns half of the 
operation throughholding company Gubel SL,  Prosegur company
filings  show, and has a net worth of at least $2.1 billion, 
according to the  Bloomberg Billionaires Index . She has never 
appeared on an international wealth ranking.  “The reason why Prosegur has done very well is that it’s
heavily geared towards  Latin America ,” said David Greenall,
London-based analyst at  RBC Capital Markets , in a telephone
interview. “On the whole, security companies through 2012
lagged quite considerably and the domestic markets have been
incredibly tough economically.”  Revoredo’s wealth surge comes amid a yearlong recession in
Spain that has pushed unemployment to 25 percent. The country’s
economy is expected to contract by 1.5 percent in 2013,
according to a Bloomberg survey of 26 economists.  Prosegur’s sales increased 9.7 percent to 2.8 billion euros
($3.9 billion) in 2011. More than half of the company’s sales
are generated in  Latin America (PSG) , according to the company’s
annual report.  Spain’s Richest  Spain’s richest woman is Rosalia Mera, who co-founded
 Inditex SA (ITX)  with her former husband,  Amancio Ortega , the world’s
third-richest man. She controls a $5.5 billion fortune,
according to the Bloomberg ranking. The majority of Mera’s
wealth is derived from her five percent stake in Inditex, the
world’s largest clothing retailer and owner of the Zara brand.  Revoredo, whose age could not be confirmed, was born in
Rosario,  Argentina . She married Herberto Gut, who founded
Prosegur in Spain in 1976. The company’s private security
services, including safeguarding cash-in-transit and providing
security guards, proved popular after the fall of the
authoritarian Franco regime in 1975.  In 1987, Prosegur became the first Spanish security company
to sell shares in an initial public offering. Revoredo inherited
Gut’s stake in the company a decade later, when he died in a car
accident. She was named chairman of the company in 2004. Her
son, Christian Gut, was named Chief Executive Officer four years
later.  Banco Popular  Revoredo is also a director at  Banco Popular , Spain’s
sixth-largest lender, and owns a 0.3 percent stake in the
company. The  bank’s share price  dropped 70 percent in 2012,
valuing her stake at $23 million. She has also collected about
$240 million in dividends from Prosegur since 1997, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  Jorge Alvarez-Naveiro, Prosegur’s head of corporate
communications, declined to comment on Revoredo’s net worth
calculation.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tom Metcalf in London at 
 tmetcalf7@bloomberg.net ;
Zohair Siraj in  New York  at 
 zsiraj1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Matthew G. Miller at 
 mmiller144@bloomberg.net  