-- Sri Lanka Confident of Monetary Policy Easing Bias, Cabraal Says
-- B y   A n u s h a   O n d a a t j i e   a n d   R i s h a a d   S a l a m a t
-- 2013-01-17T05:42:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-17/sri-lanka-confident-of-monetary-policy-easing-bias-cabraal-says.html
Sri Lanka’s central bank is
confident the time has come to ease rather than tighten monetary
policy, Governor Ajith Nivard Cabraal said today in a Bloomberg
Television interview after holding key  interest rates  following
a surprise cut in December, the first since 2011.  On monetary policy:  “We think that the rates as it is are appropriate. We do
see inflation moderating, even though there is some possibility
that there could be some kind of a slight hike in the next two
months.  ‘‘But we know that the demand-driven pressures are very
clearly addressed, so therefore we are quite confident that the
time has now come to ease monetary policy than to tighten
monetary policy.  ‘‘So in the next few months we will be watching the
progress carefully to see how the external account is behaving,
which has been doing reasonably well these last six months. That
would give us the opportunity of taking a decision on whether we
need to loosen monetary policy further during the course of the
first half.’’  On inflation versus growth:  ‘‘We believe the inflation-containment goal has been on
track and the time has now come for us to look into the
possibility of giving a little more support to the growth
function, as well.  ‘‘And that is what is prompting us to keep monetary policy
in a kind of a slow-motion reduction, so that we would be
encouraging growth to take place, which we see is being driven
by many supportive factors.  ‘‘So the next few months we believe that since inflation is
pretty much under control and we would be able to see inflation
in the mid-single digit numbers by the end of this year, the
greater focus would have to be for growth, greater focus would
be to maintain stability and to ensure that the industries that
 Sri Lanka  has been promoting, are given the necessary investor
support to take it forward.’’  On the rupee:  ‘‘We did see the rupee taking a steep depreciation in the
first half of last year. But over the last six months, we have
also seen the rupee pulling back and there has been appreciation
of around 6 percent, which tells us that whatever happens in the
next few months, it should be a slower process than what we have
experienced.  ‘‘So we are encouraging the rupee to stay stable and
although the outlook seems to be that there would be mild
pressure for the rupee to appreciate, we would like to see that
being handled or moving in a fairly reasonable and slow pace
rather than to have any volatile movement.  ‘‘We are satisfied where it is because it gives a very good
handle for importers, exporters, lenders as well as borrowers
and we would like to see any movement to be slow rather than
being volatile as we have experienced sometime in the first half
of last year.’’  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anusha Ondaatjie in Colombo at 
 anushao@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  