-- Trauson Jumps by Record After $764 Million Stryker Offer
-- B y   K i m   M c L a u g h l i n   a n d   M i c h e l l e   F a y   C o r t e z
-- 2013-01-18T08:48:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-17/stryker-offers-764-million-for-trauson-to-expand-in-china.html
Trauson Holdings Co. (325)  advanced by a
record 41 percent in Hong Kong trading after  Stryker Corp. (SYK) 
offered $764 million in cash to acquire the Chinese maker of
orthopedic implants.  Trauson  jumped  HK$2.09 to HK$7.25, the most since it
started trading in June 2010. Trading volume was 99 times the
daily average over the three-month period before today.  Orthopedic implant sales in  China  will almost double to
$2.7 billion by 2015, vaulting the country past  Japan  as the
biggest market after the U.S., according to Frost & Sullivan, a
market research company. Profit before taxes at Trauson, the
nation’s largest maker of pelvic reconstruction plates and other
products used in trauma surgery, more than tripled to 182
million  yuan  ($29 million) in the four years through 2011.  “In a highly fragmented Chinese market, Trauson is the
largest distributor of trauma products and the No. 3 distributor
in spine,” Michael Weinstein, an analyst at JPMorgan Chase &
Co. in New York, wrote in a note to clients yesterday. “Trauson
is highly profitable with gross margins in the high 60 percent
range.”  Higher Premium  Kalamazoo, Michigan-based Stryker is offering HK$7.50 per
ordinary Trauson share in cash, 45 percent more than stock’s
price on Jan. 8, when Trauson halted its stock pending an
announcement. Stryker is paying 33 times Changzhou, China-based
Trauson’s 2011 net income, about half the median of six
comparable deals globally in the past six years, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  The proposed acquisition compares with  Medtronic Inc. (MDT) ’s
$816 million purchase of China Kanghui Holdings Inc. last
September, which was at a 22 percent premium to Kanghui’s share
price before the offer was announced.  “The higher premium should be justified as Trauson is
China’s largest orthopedic player, while Kanghui comes in
second,” Jason Siu, a Hong Kong-based analyst at OSK Investment
Bank Bhd., said in a telephone interview.  “Stryker can take advantage of Trauson’s lower production
cost in China, and network of more than 663 distributors
covering 3,840 hospitals in China,” Siu said. He estimates that
Trauson leads China’s orthopedic market with a 5 percent share
of sales in 2011, followed by Kanghui with 4 percent, and a unit
of  Shandong Weigao Group Medical Polymer Co. (1066)  with 3 percent.  Trauson’s Profitability  Trauson made 67 cents  profit  on every dollar of revenue in
the six months through June and gross margins averaged 71
percent since the first half of 2009, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  “The acquisition of Trauson is a critical step toward
broadening our presence in China and developing a value segment
platform for the  emerging markets  through a well-established
brand,” Stryker Chief Executive Officer Kevin A. Lobo said in a
statement.  The two medical device makers have had a relationship under
a manufacturing agreement for instrumentation sets since 2007,
Stryker said.  Stryker rose 2 percent to $60.62 at the close yesterday in
New York. The shares have gained 17 percent in the past year.  Trauson doubled in value last year after tumbling 52
percent in 2011.  Luna Group has agreed to tender 61.7 percent of Trauson’s
shares, Stryker said. The deal is expected to be neutral to
Stryker’s 2013 diluted earnings per share, excluding one-time
acquisition-related charges, and to add to earnings after that,
Stryker said. The transaction is slated to close by the end of
the second quarter.  Barclays Plc’s investment bank served as Stryker’s
financial adviser and Sullivan & Cromwell provided legal advice.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kim McLaughlin in Stockholm  at 
 kmclaughlin6@bloomberg.net ;
Michelle Fay Cortez in Minneapolis at 
 mcortez@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net ;
Jason Gale at 
 j.gale@bloomberg.net  