-- Sun Life, Khazanah to Buy CIMB Aviva for $600 Million
-- B y   B a r r y   P o r t e r   a n d   K e v i n   C r o w l e y
-- 2013-01-17T17:39:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-17/sun-life-khazanah-to-buy-malaysia-s-cimb-aviva-for-600-million.html
Sun Life Financial Inc. (SLF)  and Khazanah
Nasional Bhd. agreed to buy 98 percent of  Aviva Plc (AV/)  and  CIMB
Group Holdings Bhd. (CIMB) ’s Malaysian insurance joint venture for 1.8
billion Malaysian ringgit ($600 million).  Sun Life and Khazanah,  Malaysia ’s state investment fund,
will each buy 49 percent of the firm from London-based Aviva and
CIMB Group, the companies said in a statement today. CIMB Group
will retain a 2 percent share. The price values CIMB-Aviva at
2.4 times its so-called embedded value at the first half of
2012.  “This transaction is perfectly aligned with our strategy
for expanding our footprint in  Asia ,” Kevin Strain, president
of Sun Life Financial Asia, said in the statement.  Malaysia’s insurance industry has been luring international
players keen to expand in an  economy  that has defied the global
slump with gross domestic product expanding by more than 5
percent for the five quarters through September.  AIA Group Ltd. (1299) ,
the third largest Asia-based insurer, agreed to buy  ING Groep
NV (INGA) ’s Malaysian operations and Zurich-based  Ace Ltd. (ACE)  bought
Jerneh Insurance Bhd. in 2010.  Sun Life, Canada’s third-largest insurer, is seeking to
expand in higher-growth markets as it exits some U.S. businesses
such as variable annuities and individual  life insurance .  Latest Step  For Aviva, the sale marks the latest step in a strategy to
shed a third of its 58 businesses as it seeks to replenish
capital that was depleted more than U.K. rivals during the
European sovereign debt crisis. The sale will increase its
economic capital surplus ratio by 2 percentage points to 171
percent of its regulatory requirements.  Aviva was little changed at 368 pence in London trading,
giving the company a market value of 10.8 billion pounds ($17.3
billion).  Khazanah is the  largest shareholder  in Kuala Lumpur-based
CIMB with 29.9 percent of the bank, data compiled by Bloomberg
show. Toronto-based Sun Life and CIMB already operate an
insurance joint venture in  Indonesia  that was started in 2009.  At 2.4 times embedded value, a measure of an insurer’s
future profits, the price is higher than the 1.8 times AIA
agreed to pay for ING’s Malaysian business in October. The sale
was for 1.3 billion euros ($1.7 billion), AIA’s largest
acquisition as a public company.  “We are able to enter a sector in Malaysia and eventually
build a footprint into the region of a very good sector, which
is life insurance,” Azman Mokhtar, Khazanah’s managing
director, told reporters in  Kuala Lumpur . “This is a good way
to play rising incomes.”  Khazanah said the value of its holdings rose 24 percent
last year after selling shares in companies, including Asia’s
biggest hospitals operator  IHH Healthcare Bhd. (IHH)  The net asset
value of its investments climbed to 86.9 billion ringgit at the
end of 2012 from 70 billion ringgit a year earlier, the Kuala
Lumpur-based fund said in a statement today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Barry Porter in Kuala Lumpur at 
 bporter10@bloomberg.net ;
Kevin Crowley in London at 
 kcrowley1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  