-- Super Bowl of Surfing Returns to California on Big Waves
-- B y   J a m e s   N a s h
-- 2013-01-17T05:01:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-17/super-bowl-of-surfing-returns-to-california-on-big-waves.html
The invitation-only professional
surfing contest known as Mavericks is returning to  California 
after a three-year wait for the right weather conditions, on a
 forecast  for storm-churned waves as high as a two-story
building.  Twenty-four surfers are scheduled to compete Jan. 20 off
the Pacific coast near Half Moon Bay, about 30 miles (48
kilometers) south of  San Francisco , organizers  announced 
yesterday.  The competition, held intermittently since 1999, is billed
as the  Super Bowl  of big-wave surfing. Each year during the
contest season, November through March, chosen surfers from
California to  South Africa  wait for notice of the competition,
which can come as little as 24 hours in advance.  “The waves are going to be insane, the weather is going to
be beautiful, and the level of surfing will break new ground,”
Jeff Clark, the contest director, said in a statement on the
event’s website.  The Jan. 20 forecast calls for seven-foot swells at 19-
second intervals, with optimal east winds and wave faces up to
25 feet (8 meters), according to Surfer magazine’s website.  With roots going back to the early 1960s, the event became
a global competition in 1999, according to the Mavericks
Invitational website.  The contest wasn’t held in 2001 because of the lack of
surf, and a lack of sponsors prevented competitions for the next
two years. Poor conditions canceled it again in 2007.  In 2010, the last time the competition was held, 13 people
standing on a seawall were injured when they were swept off by
waves, the  Associated Press  reported at the time. That
sightseeing area has been closed to spectators, according to
Surfer magazine.  Mavericks is famed for producing the biggest surfable waves
in the U.S. outside of Hawaii. The surf break is due to the
presence of a reef, according to a seafloor study by the
 National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration.   To contact the reporters on this story:
James Nash in  Los Angeles  at 
 jnash24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  