-- SurveyMonkey Valued at $1.35 Billion in Financing Round
-- B y   L i s a   R a p a p o r t   a n d   A r i   L e v y
-- 2013-01-17T16:41:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-17/surveymonkey-valued-at-1-35-billion-in-financing-round.html
SurveyMonkey.com LLC , an online
questionnaire service, raised almost $800 million in a round led
by Chief Executive Officer Dave Goldberg and Tiger Global
Management LLC, valuing the company at about $1.35 billion.  Google Inc. (GOOG)  also invested, and  David Lawee , an executive
from the Web-search company, will join SurveyMonkey’s board as
an observer. Lee Fixel, a partner at Tiger Global, will become a
director, the Palo Alto, California-based company said today in
a statement.  In the two-stage recapitalization, early investors sold
about $444 million in equity to a group of new and existing
shareholders in December. SurveyMonkey said it expects to raise
an additional $350 million in debt financing. The proceeds will
be used to buy shares from employees and shareholders and to
retire existing debt.  “This transaction affords us all of the capital benefits
of a public offering without the costs and distractions of an
IPO and the demands of operating as a public company,” Goldberg
said in the statement. Goldberg is the husband of Facebook Inc.
Chief Operating Officer Sheryl Sandberg.  Founded in 1999, SurveyMonkey helps clients, including many
Fortune 500 companies, gauge customer satisfaction, schedule
events and conduct employee performance reviews. SurveyMonkey
has a free product for asking as many as 10 questions, and it
also has three tiers of  paid subscriptions  ranging from $204 to
$780 a year.  Spectrum Equity  An investor group led by Spectrum Equity Investors acquired
SurveyMonkey in 2009 and appointed Goldberg CEO. At the time,
the company had about 20 million unique visitors to its website
each month. It now has 65 million.  In late 2010, SurveyMonkey raised $100 million in debt
financing from institutions including Bank of America Corp’s
Merrill Lynch to help it retire existing debt and make
acquisitions.  Then, in early 2011 SurveyMonkey purchased a 49.9 percent
stake in Clicktools, a provider of survey forms for companies.
Later that year, the company acquired software maker Infinity
Box Inc. for $35 million.  Niki Fenwick, a spokeswoman for Google, declined to comment
on the size of its investment in SurveyMonkey.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lisa Rapaport in  New York  at 
 lrapaport1@bloomberg.net ;
Ari Levy in San Francisco at 
 alevy5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  