-- U.K. Police Arrest Journalist, 2 Cops in Hacking Probe
-- B y   A o i f e   W h i t e
-- 2013-01-17T23:12:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-17/u-k-police-arrest-journalist-2-cops-in-news-corp-bribe-case.html
British police investigating bribery
at  News Corp (NWSA) ’s Sun tabloid and other titles arrested a
journalist and two police officers in the probe.  A 39-year-old journalist was arrested on suspicion of
conspiracy to corrupt and cause misconduct in public office, the
 Metropolitan Police Service  said today in a statement. The two
police officers were arrested for suspected misconduct in public
office and corruption.  The arrests were prompted by information given to police by
New York-based News Corp.’s Management Standards Committee,
which is conducting an internal probe into phone hacking and
bribery. The hacking scandal led to the closure of the company’s
News of the World tabloid in 2011.  The  BBC   said  Anthony France, a crime reporter at the Sun,
had been arrested, without citing any sources. It also quoted an
e-mail to staff from Mike Darcey, chief executive of News
Corp.’s News International unit, that described the arrest as
“disappointing” and said the company had provided the reporter
with a lawyer.  A call to  France ’s phone at The Sun was answered by a
colleague who said he wasn’t in the office today. An official at
News International declined to comment or identify the
journalist who was arrested.  Fifty-six people, including journalists at News Corp.’s Sun,
have now been arrested in the bribery investigation, called
Operation Elveden.  The three men, who weren’t identified by police, are being
interviewed by investigators over suspected offenses between
2004 and 2011, according to the statement. The journalist was
arrested in Hertfordshire, north of London and the police
officers were both arrested in Surrey, south of the capital.  London police said in an e-mailed statement that three men 
arrested today were released on bail, “to return to  London  
police stations on a date in April.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aoife White in Brussels at 
 awhite62@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 