-- China Seeks Peaceful End to Island Dispute as Japan Pledges Calm
-- B y   I s a b e l   R e y n o l d s   a n d   P a u l   T i g h e
-- 2013-01-19T22:48:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-17/u-s-official-calls-for-cooler-heads-in-japan-china-island-spat.html
China said it wants to settle
territorial issues peacefully as  Japan  pledged to respond with
calm in their dispute over islands both nations claim in the
 East China Sea .  Disputes should be resolved through discussions, China’s
Foreign Ministry spokesman Qin Gang said in comments posted on
the ministry’s website yesterday.  While Japan won’t make any concessions over the islands, it
will “respond calmly” so as not to provoke China, Fumio Kishida, the new Japanese foreign minister, said Jan. 18 after
talks with U.S. Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  in  Washington .  Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe, who took office last
month, is boosting defense spending in response to China’s
increasingly assertive claims to the uninhabited Japanese-
controlled islands called Senkaku in Japanese and Diaoyu in
Chinese. The conflict has damaged a $340 billion trade
relationship and prolonged Japan’s recession, while stoking U.S.
concerns of an escalating confrontation.  Japan’s national interest lies in keeping  Asia ’s seas
“unequivocally open, free and peaceful,” Abe said in a speech,
which he was unable to deliver in the Indonesian capital,
Jakarta, because he cut short his visit on Jan. 18.  The seas must be “governed by laws and rules and not by
might,” Abe said, according to an e-mailed transcript of the
prepared speech, issued by Japan’s Foreign Ministry.  U.S. Alliance  Japan’s alliance with the U.S. is vital toward ensuring
that freedom, Abe said. The 10-nation  Association of Southeast
Asian Nations , which includes  Indonesia , is an essential
linchpin to Japan’s diplomatic strategy, he added.  Abe visited Vietnam, Thailand and Indonesia last week to
strengthen bonds with Southeast Asian nations, some of which are
also involved in territorial disputes with China.  “We hope that Japan will follow the historical trend, take
responsibility and make efforts toward stability and development
in Asia” China’s Qin said in his comments yesterday in response
to a question from an unidentified journalist about Abe’s
remarks in Jakarta.  China signaled it may be seeking to reduce tensions over
the issue. Foreign Ministry spokesman Hong Lei on Jan. 17 said
China attaches “great importance” to its relationship with
Japan and wants to resolve the dispute through dialogue, while
reiterating Chinese sovereignty over the islands.  Abe has called  China  “an essential partner for economic
growth” while insisting there is no question of sovereignty
over the islands. The U.S., while saying that it takes no
position on the sovereignty issue, has repeatedly said the
islands fall under its mutual defense treaty with Japan.  Fighter Jets  Japan dispatched eight F-15 fighter jets last month after a
Chinese plane entered Japanese-controlled airspace around the
islands. Chinese government ships have repeatedly entered
Japanese-administered waters in recent months. The country plans
to survey the islands to safeguard China’s maritime rights, the
official Xinhua News Agency cited Foreign Ministry spokesman
Hong as saying on Jan. 15.  The U.S. wants to see China and Japan “resolve this matter
peacefully through dialogue,” Clinton said after meeting with
Kishida, according to a State Department transcript. “We want
to see the new leaders, both in Japan and in China, get off to a
good start with each other in the interest of the security of
the entire region.”  Washington Visit  Clinton said the U.S. applauded the steps already taken by
Abe’s government to “reach out and begin discussions” with
China. Abe has been invited to Washington in the third week of
February to meet with President  Barack Obama , Clinton said.  “The security environment in the Asia Pacific region is
becoming ever more challenging and difficult,” Kishida said
after his meeting. The Japan-U.S. alliance must be reinforced
“in all areas” to ensure peace in the region.  Assistant Secretary of State  Kurt Campbell  said Jan. 17 in
 Tokyo  that the U.S. has “conveyed privately our desire for
quiet diplomacy and effective diplomacy to take place.” He
spoke after meeting with Foreign Ministry officials.  “We’ve made very clear our desire to see cooler heads
prevail and the maintenance of peace and stability,” Campbell
told reporters, adding that the U.S. wants Japan to settle a
similar feud with  South Korea .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Isabel Reynolds in Tokyo at 
 ireynolds1@bloomberg.net ;
Paul Tighe in Sydney at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  