-- U.S. Carmakers Urge Obama to Punish Japan for Weak Yen
-- B y   B r i a n   W i n g f i e l d
-- 2013-01-18T02:16:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-17/u-s-carmakers-urge-obama-to-punish-japan-for-weak-yen.html
President  Barack Obama  should tell
Japan’s new government that the U.S. will retaliate for policies
aimed at weakening the yen, a group representing  Ford Motor Co. (F) ,
 General Motors Co. (GM)  and Chrysler LLC said.  Japan’s  Liberal Democratic Party , which reclaimed power
last month, has let the yen continue its slide against the
dollar, making U.S. auto exports relatively expensive, the
American Automotive Policy Council said yesterday in a
statement.  “We urge the Obama administration to make it clear to
Japan that such policies are unacceptable and will be met by
reciprocal measures,” Matt Blunt, a former Republican governor
of Missouri and president of the Washington-based industry
group, said in the statement.  U.S. automakers have said the undervalued yen distorts
trade and stunts job growth for American manufacturers. The
group has said  Japan  should be blocked from joining Pacific-
region trade talks that include the U.S. until the Asian
nation’s auto market is more open to foreign competition.  The yen has declined 14 percent against the dollar since
Sept. 13 and fell to a 30-month low against the U.S. currency on
Jan. 10. Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe has pledged to
weaken the yen to boost his nation’s economic growth..  Japan is “determined to repeat the ‘beggar thy neighbor’
policies of the past,” Blunt said.  The group wrote Obama three days before the start of his
second term. His administration bailed out General Motors and
Chrysler in 2010 and has made  Asia  a focus of U.S. trade policy.  “We want the yen to be at an appropriate level,” Hirokazu
Furukawa, a spokesman for Japan Automobile Manufacturers
Association, said by phone today. He declined to comment on the
American Automotive Policy Council statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Wingfield in Washington at 
 bwingfield3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  