-- Mugabe Agrees on Constitution Needed for Zimbabwe Vote
-- B y   G o d f r e y   M a r a w a n y i k a   a n d   B r i a n   L a t h a m
-- 2013-01-18T08:48:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-17/mugabe-agrees-on-constitution-needed-for-zimbabwe-election.html
Zimbabwe’s President  Robert Mugabe 
and Prime Minister  Morgan Tsvangirai  agreed on a new
constitution, paving the way for elections needed to end a four-
year impasse.  “This concludes a long journey that we have travelled,”
Tsvangirai told reporters yesterday in the capital, Harare, at
an event also attended by Mugabe.  An agreement brokered by the 15-nation  Southern African
Development Community  in 2009 led to a coalition government
between Mugabe’s Zimbabwe African National Union-Patriotic Front
and the Movement for Democratic Change of Prime Minister Morgan
Tsvangirai. Under that pact a referendum on a new constitution
must be held before elections can be called.  Negotiations over the constitution stalled over issues
including dual citizenship, reform of the security forces and
land rights. The impasse has hampered  Zimbabwe ’s economic
recovery from a decade-long recession.  “The true test lies in the implementation of the
constitution,” Tsvangirai said. “We must uphold the provisions
of this constitution even if the outcome does not favor those
who hold the reins of power.”  Alois Masepe, an independent political analyst in Harare,
said it’s too early to assess the impact of the agreement.  Platinum Reserves  “Who has compromised and on what issues?,” Masepe said in
a phone interview yesterday. “We need to know what’s been
agreed in order to understand what it means.”  Zimbabwe has the world’s second-biggest platinum and chrome
deposits after South Africa and also has reserves of coal,
diamonds and gold.  Impala Platinum Holdings Ltd. (IMP)  and  Anglo
American Platinum Ltd. (AMS)  operate platinum mines in the country
while  Rio Tinto Plc (RIO)  runs a diamond mine. Units of  Barclays Plc (BARC) 
and Standard Chartered Plc operate in the country.  Mugabe, 88, and Tsvangirai, 60, have fought a series of
elections since 2000, all of which have been judged by observers
including those from the European Union as having been marred by
violence, mainly against Tsvangirai’s supporters, and electoral
irregularities.  At his party’s annual conference on Dec. 7, Mugabe
threatened to dissolve parliament and call an election without
holding a referendum.  Mugabe and Tsvangirai “would want to push for an
election,” Lovemore Madhuku, a law lecturer at the University
of Zimbabwe, said in a phone interview from Harare yesterday.
“This is a power game and very soon they would be pushing for a
referendum.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Godfrey Marawanyika in Johannesburg at 
 gmarawanyika@bloomberg.net ;
Brian Latham in Marlborough, UK at 
 blatham@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nasreen Seria at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net  