-- UnitedHealth Profit Meets Estimates as Cost Rise Curbed
-- B y   A l e x   N u s s b a u m
-- 2013-01-17T21:06:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-17/unitedhealth-profit-meets-analyst-estimates-as-costs-contained.html
UnitedHealth Group Inc. (UNH) , the biggest
U.S. medical insurer, reported earnings that matched analyst
estimates, as higher premiums and a surge in enrollment
outweighed rising medical costs.  Fourth-quarter earnings of $1.20 a share met the average of
19 analyst  estimates  tracked by Bloomberg. Enrollment increased
as the Minnetonka, Minnesota-based insurer added 6.4 million
members after a Brazilian acquisition, according to a company
statement today.  An early flu season spurred doctor visits in December,
while some insurers also had predicted Americans would schedule
more medical procedures as the economy improved. UnitedHealth’s
costs for the year rose less than the company had planned,
helping to sustain profit, said  Sheryl Skolnick , a CRT Capital
Markets analyst in  Stamford ,  Connecticut .  “Their discipline on margins seems to be very, very
strong,” Skolnick said in a telephone interview. “This was a
difficult year in which they had tremendous earnings.”  The insurer’s shares rose 1.4 percent to $54.40 at the
close in  New York . The stock has gained 1.5 percent in the 12
months.  WellPoint Inc. (WLP) , the second-biggest U.S. insurer, is
scheduled to report its earnings on Jan. 23.  Forecast Reaffirmed  UnitedHealth said it expects profit of $5.25 to $5.50 a
share this year, reaffirming its Nov. 26  forecast .  The rise in flu cases began in November and reached a high
level a month earlier than usual, the U.S. Centers for Disease
Control and Prevention said this month. As of Jan. 9, about 5.6
percent of all U.S. doctor visits were for influenza, according
to the Atlanta-based agency. The figure was 2.2 percent at the
peak of the season last year.  UnitedHealth said medical costs rose 12 percent in the
quarter to $20.8 billion. That was all but matched by an 11
percent increase in premiums and other revenue to $28.8 billion.  Enrollment in the company’s medical plans jumped by almost
a fifth to 40.9 million, with gains in employer-backed plans as
well as government-sponsored Medicare and Medicaid coverage.
More than 4 million of the new customers came from the company’s
 purchase  last year of  Amil Participacoes SA (AMIL3) ,  Brazil ’s top
insurer, for an announced price of about $4.9 billion.  “We continued to gain market share and broadened our
revenue and earnings growth sources,” Chief Executive Officer
Stephen Hemsley said in the statement.  Stock Buyback  Fourth-quarter  net income  fell 1.1 percent to $1.24 billion
from $1.26 billion, or $1.17 a share, a year earlier. The
company, which had a market value of $54.8 billion as of the end
of trading yesterday, repurchased 57 million shares for $3.1
billion last year, UnitedHealth said.  The stock trades at a 31 percent  discount  to the  S&P 500 ,
its lowest level in almost two years. Investors are shying away
from insurer stocks as they gauge the impact of President  Barack
Obama ’s Affordable Care Act, said Matthew Borsch, a Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. analyst in New York.  That’s likely to remain the case until investors see rules
and regulations “pointing toward a manageable process for the
companies,” he wrote in a Jan. 14 note to clients.  UnitedHealth boosted earnings by 65 percent at its Optum
unit, which provides consulting and technology services to
hospitals, governments and other clients and manages drug-
benefit plans for employers. Hemsley has said the company wants
to double profit from the division by 2015.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Nussbaum in New York at 
 anussbaum1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  