-- UPM Books $2 Billion Charge as Europe Crisis Hurts Paper Demand
-- B y   N i k l a s   M a g n u s s o n
-- 2013-01-17T07:42:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-17/upm-books-2-billion-charge-as-europe-crisis-hurts-paper-demand.html
UPM-Kymmene Oyj (UPM1V) , Europe’s second-
largest paper maker, booked writedowns and other charges that
clipped fourth-quarter profit by 1.6 billion euros ($2 billion)
after Europe’s debt crisis dented demand for paper.  UPM will record an impairment charge of 1.8 billion euros
at its paper unit, including 783 million euros related to
goodwill and a 987 million-euro writedown on fixed assets,
Helsinki-based UPM-Kymmene said in a statement today. Operating
profit before items was about 138 million euros in the fourth
quarter versus 147 million euros a year earlier.  “The continuing challenges in the European economy have
significantly impacted the consumption of paper, exacerbating
the effect of structural changes in paper end-uses and resulting
in further decline in the demand of graphic papers in  Europe ,”
the company said. “High costs and significant overcapacity
continue to challenge the industry operators.”  European paper producers have suffered from declining
demand since at least 2005 as consumers shift to online media.
Europe’s sovereign debt crisis, unemployment and austerity
measures seen in much of Europe is exacerbating the challenges
faced by the industry. UPM said it has not been able to improve
the profitability of its European graphic paper business as much
as targeted and it doesn’t see any significant improvement in
profitability in the foreseeable future.  The Finnish company plans to reduce graphic paper capacity
in Europe by 580,000 tons.  Energy Boost  UPM-Kymmene had initially forecast fourth-quarter operating
profit before special items at the same or at a lower level than
in the third quarter, when it stood at 122 million euros. The
company reported an operating loss before special items of 10
million euros at its paper business in the latest three months.
UPM is scheduled to report final 2012 earnings on Jan. 31.  The paper- and pulpmaker also said that the introduction of
new accounting rules in the first quarter will increase asset
values at its energy business area by about 1.95 billion euros.
UPM’s interest-bearing liabilities will increase by some 200
million euros because of the new accounting standards, while its
equity will be reduced by some 315 million euros in the first
quarter because of new pension liability accounting rules, it
said.  UPM is expanding in energy generation and electricity
trading to counter a glut in paper production and the rise of
the Internet. Paper operations have been operating at about
break even for the past two years and the merger of plants had
failed to achieve the targeted cost savings by the end of last
year, according to the company.  “UPM’s asset values will now better represent the fair
values of the businesses,” said Chief Financial Officer Tapio Korpeinen. “I believe this will contribute to investors’
confidence on our balance sheet values.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Niklas Magnusson in Stockholm at 
 nmagnusson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Thiel in London at 
 sthiel1@bloomberg.net  