-- Veolia Advances as Cost Cuts Ahead of Schedule: Paris Mover
-- B y   B r i a n   S w i n t
-- 2013-01-17T16:39:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-17/veolia-advances-as-cost-cuts-ahead-of-schedule-paris-mover.html
Veolia Environnement SA (VIE)  rose the
most since December in Paris trading after Chief Executive
Officer Antoine Frerot said the biggest water company is ahead
in a two-year plan to cut debt, costs and sell assets.  Shares climbed 3.2 percent to 8.88 euros after Frerot also
said in an interview with BFM radio that a merger with rival
 Suez Environnement Co. (SEV)  “makes sense.”  Frerot has pledged to cut debt and scale back global
operations to bolster profits. A potential merger with Suez
Environnement, Europe’s second-biggest water company, would face
antitrust issues in France, he said. No-one was available for
comment at Suez Environnement.  Veolia was the second-biggest gainer on the benchmark CAC
40 index. In the first 2 1/2 hours of trading, about 2.9 million
shares changed hands, compared with the average daily volume
over the last three months of 3.9 million.  Both Suez Environnement and Veolia said in October that the
two companies weren’t working on a merger.  GDF Suez (GSZ)  CEO  Gerard Mestrallet  said Dec. 11 that the company will keep its 34
percent stake in Suez Environnement even though an investor pact
ensuring control of the water company won’t be renewed. The
shareholders’ agreement is due to lapse in July.  Veolia’s market capitalization is 4.7 billion euros ($6.3
billion) and Suez Environnement’s is 4.5 billion euros, implying
that a potential merger would create a company valued at more
than $10 billion.  GDF Suez’s stake in Suez Environnement stems from a 2008
merger between Suez SA and state-controlled Gaz de France SA to
create GDF Suez. During Mestrallet’s battle to push through that
deal, he fought to keep a controlling stake in Suez
Environnement backed by a five-year shareholder accord.  Under the pact, a group of investors controlling about 12
percent of Suez Environnement have first refusal on holdings
offered for sale. The group includes  Areva SA (AREVA) , Caisse des Depots
et Consignations, Belgian billionaire  Albert Frere ’s  Groupe
Bruxelles Lambert SA (GBLB) , Group CNP Assurances and Sofina.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Swint in London at 
 bswint@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  