-- Vilma Lawsuit Against NFL Commissioner Is Thrown Out
-- B y   A l l e n   J o h n s o n   J r .   a n d   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 2013-01-18T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-17/vilma-lawsuit-against-nfl-commissioner-is-thrown-out.html
National Football League
Commissioner  Roger Goodell  won dismissal of a defamation lawsuit
by  New Orleans  Saints linebacker Jonathan Vilma.  Vilma sued the commissioner in May after Goodell suspended
him for the entire 2012 NFL season for allegedly participating
in a team program to reward players for violent hits that
injured opposing players or knocked them out of games.  Acting as an impartial arbitrator of a challenge to that
sanction, Goodell’s predecessor, Paul Tagliabue, last month
reversed Vilma’s punishment and those of three other players,
faulting Saints management instead. U.S. District Judge Helen G. Berrigan in New Orleans said yesterday in her ruling that a
defamation claim arising from an arbitration involving
discipline had to be dismissed.  “Even according to the plaintiff’s own complaint, the
defamation claims are directly related to Goodell’s decision to
suspend, that is discipline, Vilma,” under the collective
bargaining agreement that governs the league’s relationship with
its players and their union, Berrigan said.  Tagliabue’s Dec. 11 ruling applied only to players, leaving
intact a full-season suspension of Saints head coach  Sean Payton 
and the indefinite suspension of now-former defensive
coordinator  Gregg Williams .  Tagliabue led the NFL from November 1989 to August 2006.  Greg Aiello , chief spokesman for the New York-based 32-team
league, declined to comment on yesterday’s decision.  Vilma Claims  Vilma accused Goodell of making defamatory statements about
his role in the bounty scheme.  “We are obviously disappointed,” Peter Ginsberg, a lawyer
for Vilma, said in an e-mailed statement. He said the player’s
legal team was considering its options.  The union contract “does not give anyone -- including a
commissioner -- a license to misrepresent and to manufacture
facts, especially at the expense of another person’s
reputation,” Ginsberg said.  The Saints finished the past season with a 7-9 record and
missed the playoffs.  On Jan. 20, the  San Francisco 49ers  will play the  Atlanta
Falcons  in Atlanta to decide the National Football Conference
champion. Later that day, the Baltimore Ravens will play the  New
England Patriots  in Foxborough, Massachusetts, to determine the
American Football Conference team to face the NFC game winner in
Super Bowl XLVII in New Orleans on Feb. 3.  The case is Vilma v. Goodell, 12-cv-01283, U.S. District
Court, Eastern District of Louisiana (New Orleans).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Harris in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  