-- Washington May Receive 2 Inches of Snow From Appalachian Storm
-- B y   B r i a n   K .   S u l l i v a n
-- 2013-01-17T14:04:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-17/washington-may-receive-2-inches-of-snow-from-appalachian-storm.html
Washington  may receive about 2
inches of snow from a storm system promising to bring heavier
amounts throughout the Appalachian Mountains and from
 Mississippi  to West Virgina.  Rain falling in the nation’s capital is expected to change
to snow by this afternoon, said Rob Carolan, a meteorologist and
founder of Hometown Forecast Services in Nashua, New Hampshire.  “It doesn’t look like a lot for Washington,” Carolan said
by telephone. “Most of the problems will be 100 miles on either
side of the central spine of the Appalachians.”  Winter storm warnings and weather advisories stretch from
Mississippi, where 3 inches of snow may fall on the state’s
capital Jackson, to southern New Jersey, according to the
weather service. The heaviest snow, as much as 8 inches, is
expected to fall in the Appalachians.  Carolan said the storm will probably miss  New York  City,
just brush the eastern end of Long Island and possibly bring
some snow to Cape Cod and the islands in  Massachusetts .  Drivers in Washington may encounter hazardous conditions on
their way home from work today, according to an alert from the
city. Carolan said frigid air moving in from the north will
reach the eastern U.S. later today, turning the rain into snow
and possibly icing up roads.  Airports along the East Coast may experience delays
primarily from poor visibility, Carolan said.  Charlotte Douglas
International Airport , where heavy rain was falling, reported
delays of about 30 minutes as of 8:30 a.m. East Coast time,
according to the Federal Aviation Administration’s website.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian K. Sullivan in Boston at 
 bsullivan10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  