-- Whitney Digs Into Collection for Heavyweight Show
-- B y   L a n c e   E s p l u n d
-- 2013-01-17T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-17/whitney-digs-into-collection-for-heavyweight-show.html
“American Legends: From Calder to
O’Keeffe,” a yearlong, changing exhibition, helps restore my
faith in the fashion-conscious Whitney Museum of American Art.  This is a big deal, especially when you consider the
Whitney’s recent efforts to pass off Wade Guyton’s overhyped
technological accidents as furthering the tradition of painting.  Though generally safe and far from perfect, “American
Legends” is a smorgasbord of works by 15 artists, culled from
the Whitney’s permanent collection. Amounting to a series of
mini-retrospectives, it should appeal to just about everyone.  Upbeat, bright and breezy, “American Legends” begins just
off the elevators with a career-spanning range of pictures by
Stuart Davis.  His landscapes, still lifes and Pop-colored, abstract
jumbles of letters and shapes are an excellent introduction to
this show’s variety.  Seen in the distance is Elie Nadelman’s masterpiece
“Tango,” a carved and painted, cherry-wood sculpture portraying
a pair of dancers as graceful adversaries.  Nadelman was among the first artists to blend lowbrow and
highbrow. He conflated everything from Hellenistic sculpture to
American folk art, an otherwise untapped genre he brought to our
attention.  Bronze Goddesses  Here is a full range of Nadelman’s work, including wood,
marble, ceramic and bronze goddesses, animals, women and circus
performers. Some, in paper-mache and the mysterious substance
galvano-plastique, are as whisper-soft as Seurat drawings.  There is also a large, bittersweet grouping of Nadelman’s
white plaster, doll-sized female figurines. Crude, childlike,
sexy and coy, these late, rough-hewn sculptures are as enigmatic
as they are beautiful.  Nadelman shares space at the Whitney with the tawdry and
homoerotic pictures of Paul Cadmus. Better juxtapositions would
have been with the show’s other classicists, Joseph Cornell and
Alexander Calder.  Cornell’s magical boxes close the exhibition and, midway
through, a selection of Calder’s inventive wire portraits,
mobiles, stabiles, drawings, jewelry and “Circus” props and
characters comprises one of the most enthralling areas of the
show.  Sensuous O’Keeffe  Ranging from Edward Hopper’s melancholia to the sensuous
work of Georgia O’Keeffe, the exhibition offers an
extraordinarily wide view of 20th-century American art before
Abstract Expressionism.  And with half of its artists shown originally in the 1913
“Armory Show,” the show will complement many upcoming 2013
events devoted to the centennial.  Other hallmarks in “American Legends” are Joseph Stella’s
nighttime “Luna Park” -- an ecstatic celebration of electricity
-- and “The Brooklyn Bridge: Variation on an Old Theme.” This
dark, silvery portrait of a  New York  City landmark is as iconic
as Hart Crane’s poem.  Renzo Piano’s new building is slated to open in 2015 with
two floors dedicated to the permanent collection. The Whitney’s
galleries will increase by 60 percent and space will triple over
all.  Of course, extra room is no guarantee of success (look at
what happened to  MoMA ), but I am hopeful that, with additional
curatorial room to stretch out, the Whitney will mount more
scrappy, revelatory in-house exhibitions like this one.  “American Legends: From Calder to O’Keeffe” runs through
Dec. 2013 at the Whitney Museum of American Art, 945 Madison
Ave. Information: +1-212-570-3600;  http://whitney.org .  (Lance Esplund is U.S. art critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
his own.)  Muse highlights include  Rich Jaroslovsky  on  tech  and Jason
Harper on  cars .  To contact the writer on the story:
Lance Esplund, in New York, at  lesplund@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 