-- Sydney Sizzles in Record Heat as Fires Threaten Victorian Towns
-- B y   J a s o n   S c o t t
-- 2013-01-18T05:07:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-17/wildfires-put-towns-in-australia-s-victoria-state-under-threat.html
Sydney,  Australia ’s largest city,
posted its highest temperature ever recorded today, reaching
45.8 degrees Celsius (114.4 degrees Fahrenheit), as wildfires
burned in five of the nation’s states, destroying homes.  The record, reached at 2:55 p.m. local time today, eclipses
the previous high of 45.3 degrees on Jan. 14, 1939, according to
the  Bureau of Meteorology . Canberra, the national capital,
posted its second-highest temperature of 41.6 degrees Celsius.  “Quite simply, Sydney is melting today,” Corey Watts,
regional projects manager at The Climate Institute, a
independent research organization funded by philanthropy seeking
a zero-carbon global economy, said in an e-mailed statement.
“This kind of weather cannot be taken lightly. These heat waves
can have serious impacts on human health and wellbeing.”  Wildfires posed a threat to towns in Australia’s Victoria
state, with weather forecasters warning of dangerous conditions
throughout the nation’s populous southeast region. The biggest
fire, in the Gippsland area in Victoria’s east, destroyed at
least five homes,  emergency services  said.  “We’re just not used” to coping with the heat, said
British tourist Alan Shallcross, who sweated under a broad-
brimmed sun hat at Circular Quay after visiting Sydney’s Taronga
Zoo with his wife, Pat. “When friends text us and tell us it is
snowing in  London , it is a bit weird.”  More than 80 fires are still ablaze in the states of New
South Wales, where about 50 homes were destroyed last week, and
in  South Australia , Queensland and Tasmania, where about 100
homes were burnt earlier this month. Australia’s hot, dry
climate makes bushfires a major risk in the southern
hemisphere’s summer.  Falling Records  Today’s record comes after the continent registered a
national average of 40.33 degrees Celsius on Jan. 7, the hottest
day in more than 100 years of records. The worst fires in the
nation’s history, the so-called Black Saturday blazes, killed
173 people as they swept through rural Victoria in February
2009.  Firefighters tackled a large, fast-moving blaze in the
Glenmaggie area of the Gippsland region, Victoria’s Country Fire
Authority said on its website. The state’s capital of  Melbourne 
reached 30 degrees Celsius at 6 a.m., before temperatures
cooled, according to the  bureau .  While a low front will bring cooler weather to Sydney later
today, it will also bring strong winds which may hamper fire-
fighting efforts, the bureau’s forecaster, Julie Evans, said in
a phone interview.  Sydney’s temperature is expected to plunge to 25 degrees
tomorrow with Canberra falling to 27 degrees, the bureau said.  In downtown Sydney, air-conditioned shopping malls were
crowded with office workers and tourists seeking respite from
the heat as lunchtime temperatures hit 43 degrees Celsius.  “As long as I don’t have to do any hard manual labor,
that’s fine,” said Corie Schneider, a U.S. tourist, as she
walked through the city center clutching a surfboard before
boarding a ferry to the northern beach suburb of Manly. “I’m
from  California , it’s a big desert and it gets hot, so this is
good.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jason Scott  in Canberra at 
 jscott14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Johnson at 
 ejohnson28@bloomberg.net  