-- WilmerHale, Bracewell & Giuliani, Bird: Business of Law
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 2013-01-17T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-17/wilmerhale-bracewell-giuliani-bird-business-of-law.html
Meredith B. Cross, former director
of the Division of Corporation Finance at the U.S. Securities
and Exchange Commission, will be rejoining Wilmer Cutler
Pickering Hale and Dorr LLP.  Cross, who was director of the division from June 2009
through the end of last year, led the division’s efforts to
implement the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer
Protection Act and the Jumpstart Our Business Startups Act, the
firm said.  During her time, the division recommended close to 60
rulemaking releases to the commission, including concerning say-
on-pay, conflict minerals, proxy access, compensation committees
and other matters.  Cross, a partner at WilmerHale from 1998 to 2009, was co-
head of the firm’s corporate practice. She focused on advising
clients on corporate and securities matters, and working on
issues faced by public and private companies in capital raising
and public reporting.  “She was a thought leader at the commission during a
crucial time and WilmerHale’s clients will benefit from her
direct experience and deep understanding of the regulatory and
legal intricacies that public companies face today,” Susan Murley, co-managing partner of WilmerHale, said in a statement.  WilmerHale has 1,000 lawyers with offices in 12 cities in
the U.S.,  Europe  and Asia.  Energy Duo Added to Bracewell & Giuliani’s London Office  Bracewell & Giuliani LLP hired two energy partners
including Julian Nichol, a partner at  Simmons & Simmons , who
will be the office’s managing partner. Alastair Young, formerly
of Herbert Smith Freehills LLP, is also joining the firm in
 London .  “It is important for us to be able to serve our clients in
all areas of the globe in which they do business,” Bracewell
Managing Partner Mark C. Evans said in a statement. “London is
a key jumping off point. I foresee significantly more attorney
growth for us in London over the next 12 to 18 months.”  Nichol, who will join the firm in March, has experience
advising on project development and financings as well as
mergers and acquisitions work in the power, oil and gas and
mining sectors with a particular focus on transactions in  Africa 
and the Middle East, the firm said. Among his recent client
representations is advising  AES Corp (AES)  on the successful financing
of the Dibamba and Kribi power projects in Cameroon.  Young, who will join in April, is an energy corporate
lawyer focusing on cross-border oil and gas M&A, joint ventures,
project development and regulatory matters.  The firm currently has one partner, Adam Motzel, previously
at  Cleary Gottlieb Steen & Hamilton LLP , in London. Motzel is a
corporate finance lawyer, who heads the office. The Houston-
based firm has 470 lawyers in 10 offices in the U.S., London and
Dubai.  Dickstein Shapiro Partner Joins Herrick as Tax Co-Chairman  Herrick, Feinstein LLP announced that Gary L. Schoenbrun,
formerly of Dickstein Shapiro LLP, has joined the  New York 
office as a partner and will co-head the firm’s tax and personal
planning group.  Schoenbrun concentrates his practice on taxation and
executive compensation, advising clients as tax counsel in
connection with both taxable and tax-free mergers and
acquisitions involving both private and public companies.
Schoenbrun has particular experience in structuring partnership
and limited liability company tax allocation provisions.  Herrick, Feinstein, based in New York, has 170 lawyers in
three U.S. offices.  Aviation Lawyer Brett Hailey Joins Bird & Bird in London  Bird & Bird LLP hired Brett Hailey in its London office,
where he joins the international aviation sector group. Hailey,
who joins from SNR Denton LLP, is an aircraft financing and
leasing lawyer with more than 20 years of experience in the
aviation sector.  Hailey has represented airlines on major fleet renewal
programs and on finance, and has also advised airlines and
lessors on leasing and financing transactions, the firm said.
Hailey was assigned to JPMorgan in 2012 as senior consultant
advising on export-credit financings.  “Although we currently do a lot of aircraft leasing,
financing and commercial transactions, Brett’s joining completes
our team capability to handle more complex financings and to act
for lenders and lessors in aircraft finance transactions,” Paul
Briggs, co-head of the aviation group, said in a statement.  Bird & Bird has more than 900 lawyers in 23 offices across
Europe, the  Middle East  and Asia.  Ashurst Hires Competition Partner in Brussels and Rome  Ashurst LLP hired Denis Fosselard as partner on its
European competition team. He will be splitting his time between
Brussels and  Rome . He joins from Legance Studio Legale Associato
where he was head of the antitrust practice, the firm said.  Fosselard advises on all aspects on EU and Italian
antitrust law and has 20 years of experience in advising
European corporate clients in relation to behavioral and merger
control cases, as well as state aid investigations.  Ashurst has more than 400 partners and 1,700 lawyers at 24
offices in 14 countries in the U.S., Europe, the Middle East,
Australia and  Asia .  Litigation  Citgo to Settle With New Hampshire in Gas Additive Lawsuit  Citgo Petroleum Corp. and  New Hampshire  agreed to sever the
company from an $816 million trial over groundwater
contamination while a settlement is completed, as a witness
testified that 2 percent of the state’s wells are polluted with
hazardous levels of the chemical.  “The parties stipulate that Citgo Petroleum shall be
severed from the above captioned case until such time as a
consent agreement between Citgo and the state is filed with the
court,” the parties said in a court filing dated yesterday and
signed by New Hampshire Assistant Attorney General Mary E.
Maloney and Nate Eimer, a Chicago lawyer who represents Citgo.  Under the agreement, the parties have until Feb. 15 to
complete an accord before Citgo is reinstated to the case,
unless they agree to an extension. Citgo’s lawyers didn’t appear
in court yesterday as the trial resumed.  A settlement would leave  ExxonMobil Corp. (XOM)  as the last
defendant in the state’s lawsuit alleging  oil companies  knew the
chemical would contaminate groundwater. New Hampshire’s suit is
one of scores of cases involving the additive methyl tertiary
butyl ether filed since 2000 against refiners, fuel distributors
and chemical makers. A trial of the case began Jan. 14.  The state is seeking damages from the companies based on
their market share of gasoline sales in New Hampshire during the
period covered by the lawsuit.  The New Hampshire attorney general’s office declined to
comment on specific terms of any proposed settlement.  Fernando Garay , a spokesman for Citgo, declined to immediately comment on
the matter.  The case is State of New Hampshire v.  Hess Corp. (HES) , 03-C-
0550, New Hampshire Superior Court, Merrimack County (Concord).  For more, click here.  Fees  RG Steel Liquidation Shows Filing Preferences Lucrative  Filing preference claims against creditors can be lucrative
for bankrupt companies and the lawyers who bring the lawsuits,
as the liquidation of steel producer  RG Steel LLC  shows, Bill Rochelle writes for  Bloomberg News .  RG Steel has begun filing 600 to 800 lawsuits seeking to
recover about $100 million from creditors who received
preferences before the Chapter 11 case began in May, according
to  Joe Steinfeld , whose firm  ASK LLP  was hired to file the
suits. A preference is a payment to a creditor on overdue debt
received within 90 days of bankruptcy.  In the RG Steel case, Steinfeld said in an interview that
his firm reviewed thousands of payments before bankruptcy and is
filing suits to recover those where the preference claims may be
valid. Steinfeld said he would aim for RG Steel to realize net
recoveries amounting to about 20 percent of the sums being
sought in the suits.  Expenses and legal fees to recover preferences amount to
about 25 percent of recoveries, Steinfeld said.  The expense of filing preferences suits isn’t
inconsiderable. The filing fee alone is almost $300 per suit,
meaning that ASK will put up more than $230,000 just to initiate
the process. ASK has recovered more than $260 million for
bankrupt companies, according to a court filing.  The court-approved fee arrangement calls for ASK to be paid
15 percent of recoveries before suit is filed or 22.5 percent
afterward, plus expenses.  The case is In re WP Steel Venture LLC, 12-11661,  U.S.
Bankruptcy Court , District of Delaware (Wilmington).  For more, click here.  Video  Lance Armstrong’s Lawyer Tim Herman Talks About Legal Fallout  Tim Herman,  Lance Armstrong ’s long-time attorney and a
senior partner at Austin,  Texas ’ Howry, Breen & Herman LLP,
talks about the legal ramifications of an Armstrong confession
to using performance enhancing drugs during his professional
cycling career.  Herman, speaking with Bloomberg Law’s Spencer Mazyck, also
discusses how he began representing Armstrong.  This is a Bloomberg podcast. To download, watch or listen
to this report now, click here.  Firm News  SNR Denton Enters Into New Association in Kuwait  SNR Denton LLP is ending its association with Kuwaiti local
firm International Legal Group and has entered into an
association in  Kuwait  with Jamal Ahmed Al-Shehab. Al-Shehab is
returning to private practice after retiring from the
government, where he was the Minister of Justice and Legal
Affairs. The new firm will be known as the Law Office of Al-
Shehab & Partners in association with SNR Denton.  “The Middle East is a very important market for the firm,
given its strategic location and resilient economies. Together
with Jamal Al-Shehab & Partners, we will continue to provide a
strong, multipractice offering and top quality legal advice to
businesses investing into the region and to locally-based
corporates and investors looking off-shore Kuwait,” Matthew Jones, EMEA CEO at SNR Denton, said in a statement.  Al-Shehab also served as the Minister of Religious
Endowments and Islamic Affairs in the government. He will
continue to be an adviser in the Kuwait government’s partnership
with the United Nations Development Program, the firm said.  SNR Denton opened its office in Kuwait City in 2008. The
firm serves clients on energy, infrastructure and project
finance, corporate and commercial matters in Kuwait. The firm
has 10 offices in nine countries in the Middle East, with more
than 110 lawyers and legal staff. Last year, the firm agreed to
merge with two others to create Dentons, a firm with 79
locations in 52 countries. The new firm will start this quarter.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in Brooklyn, New York, at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  