-- Without Security, Libya’s Oil Cash Can’t Buy Progress
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2013-01-17T23:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-17/without-security-libya-s-oil-cash-can-t-buy-progress.html
A failed petro-state in Libya
remains a possible outcome of the revolution that began two
years ago this week, and its potential consequences are already
on display in  Mali .  Compared with the Arab Spring revolutions in Tunisia and
 Egypt , Libya’s attempt to build a working, pluralistic society
from the rubble left behind by the late  Muammar Qaddafi  has both
huge advantages and even bigger handicaps.  Libya’s upside makes short reading. Thanks to oil, the
country has money, and plenty of it. And thanks largely to the
North Atlantic Treaty Organization-led  intervention  against
Qaddafi in 2011, Libya lacks the widespread popular hostility to
the U.S. and Europe that complicates efforts to help Egypt.  What also differentiates Libya, however, is its lack of
institutions from which to build, enforce security, or control
the country’s borders. And without basic security, real progress
is impossible.  Revolving governments in Tripoli and a reluctance of those
in power to take decisions have allowed insecurity to fester. In
the streets of the capital, the absence of the state --
especially uniformed police, municipal trash collectors and
other providers of core services -- is striking. Benghazi has
become a security vacuum, as demonstrated by the killing of U.S.
Ambassador Christopher Stevens last September and  Italy ’s
decision this week to withdraw its consul, after an unsuccessful
attack on his car.  Lawless Democracy  These and other failures create a popular impression that
under democracy, a world without laws or security is normal. If
basic security returns, then the cranes that have hung idle over
tens of billions of dollars’ worth of Turkish, Chinese, Russian
and other building projects interrupted by the revolution --
from hospitals to housing developments,  railways  to a new
Tripoli  airport  -- will start to work again. Foreign investors
will flood in, attracted by Libya’s bottomless need for
construction and ability to pay for it. The alternative would
mean a growing belief that a unified  Libya  run by elected
moderates cannot succeed.  There are recent signs of improvement. Oil production is
almost at prewar levels, meaning that Libya can expect a current
account surplus similar to what it had in 2010, about 20 percent
of gross domestic product. The country also has $168 billion in
repatriated, once-frozen assets to draw from. Given Libya’s
small population of about 6.4 million, that makes for an awful
lot of development aid.  Prime Minister Ali Zaidan, a Geneva-based human-rights
lawyer before the revolution, is showing more sense of purpose.
Since taking office in November, Zaidan has appointed respected
career officers to head the key interior and defense ministries.
The new interior minister, Ashour Shuwail, moved quickly to
announce militarized zones along the country’s lawless southern
borders and a crackdown in Benghazi. He also began recruiting a
new security force to protect embassies and set out plans to
induct armed militias into the police force and retrieve heavier
weapons from the general population. These would be huge steps,
if implemented.  The government is also allowing some state companies to
sign major contracts. In December, Libya’s General Electricity
Company signed a 250 million-euro ($334 million)  deal  with
Alstom SA of  France  to service 11 gas turbines, to bring them
back online before Libya’s peak summer season. Mohammed Magariaf, president of the General National Congress, said Libya
would compensate foreign companies for work done before the
revolution, an issue that has held up the resumption of building
projects. And this month, Zaidan said that, if necessary, he
would ask foreign companies to bid for contracts to collect the
trash that is piling up in Libya’s cities.  Libya doesn’t need outside money, but it needs technology,
expertise and training. Significant programs to train the police
force, national army, and a true border guard would be
invaluable. Libyan officials recently toured border facilities
in the U.S., but much more can be done for a country able to pay
for what it needs.  Securing Libya’s borders, as we argued in the opening
editorial of this series on the ailing Arab Spring, should be a
top priority for the U.S. and  Europe . Tuareg rebels in northern
Mali got from southern Libya the arms and fresh blood they
needed to jump-start their insurgency, when fellow tribesmen
fled across the region’s ineffectual borders during the
revolution. More than a year after the Qaddafi regime’s
collapse, swathes of territory along its 4,300-kilometer (2,672-
mile) frontier remain ungovernable -- witness the demands by the
militants who this week seized hostages at a natural-gas plant
in Algeria for safe passage across the border to Libya.  As a recent  paper  by Peter Cole for the Carnegie Endowment
for International Peace makes clear, for the Tuareg and other
tribes in southern Libya, neither the state nor the frontiers
have signified much since colonial rulers drew straight lines on
a map, dividing tribesmen from their kin. Securing the frontiers
now will be hard.  Last weekend, the prime ministers of Libya, Tunisia and
 Algeria  met and agreed to set up joint checkpoints and border
patrols. It was an important signal, but for that effort to bear
fruit, Libya must build an effective, centrally controlled
border guard. When that happens -- when Libya enjoys the
security that will once more set its cranes twirling across city
skylines -- then the country will have a better shot at rebirth.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net  