-- Woods Five Off Lead at Abu Dhabi Golf; McIlroy Eight Shots Back
-- B y   M i c h a e l   B u t e a u
-- 2013-01-17T18:51:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-17/woods-five-off-lead-at-abu-dhabi-golf-mcilroy-eight-shots-back.html
Tiger Woods is five shots off the
lead and three ahead of Rory McIlroy after the first round of
the European PGA Tour’s HSBC Championship in  Abu Dhabi , where
golf’s No. 1-and No. 2-ranked players are paired together.  England’s  Justin Rose  and Jamie Donaldson of Wales lead the
event at Abu Dhabi Golf Club at 5-under-par, one shot ahead of
Denmark’s Thorbjorn Olesen and Spain’s Pablo Larrazabal. Rose,
the world’s No. 5 player, and Donaldson both finished the day
with six birdies and a bogey.  Woods, No. 2 in the Official World Golf ranking, had an
even-par round of 72, while Northern Ireland’s McIlroy, who is
playing his first tournament since signing an endorsement
agreement with  Nike Inc. (NKE) , finished at 3-over 75.  It’s the seventh time that Woods, 37, has scored better
than McIlroy, 23, in the past nine rounds that they have been
paired together.  Woods began play on the 10th hole and had three birdies
over a four-hole stretch to finish his opening nine holes at 2-
under. He then recorded the first of three bogeys over his
closing nine when his drive on the par-4 first hole, flew about
200 yards and failed to reach the fairway.  McIlroy, who was runner-up to winner  Robert Rock  at last
year’s HSBC event, hit five fairways in the first competitive
round with his new driver, and ended the day with two double-
bogeys, two bogeys and a birdie. His birdie putt on the 10th
hole, his first of the day, went off the green and into a
bunker.  Germany’s  Martin Kaymer , winner of the 2010  PGA
Championship , completed the threesome and shot a one-under 71.  After this week’s tournament, Woods will return to the U.S.
PGA Tour for next week’s event in Torrey Pines, California, site
of his 2008  U.S. Open  win, while McIlroy won’t play in the U.S.
until the Match Play tournament in Arizona, February 20-24.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Buteau in Atlanta at 
 mbuteau@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  