-- WTO Needs Revamp to Remain Relevant, Kenya's Mohamed Says
-- B y   J e n n i f e r   M .   F r e e d m a n
-- 2013-01-17T14:18:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-17/wto-needs-revamp-to-remain-relevant-kenya-s-mohamed-says.html
The  World Trade Organization  needs a
face-lift to make it relevant in the 21st century, said Kenya’s
Amina Mohamed, one of nine candidates to replace  Pascal Lamy  as
WTO director general when his term expires in August.  “My vision involves the need to upgrade and modernize the
WTO agenda,” Mohamed said in a telephone interview today from
Nairobi. “There is a need to protect it from the onslaught of
protectionist measures that have and may be introduced and to
take stock of what has happened with” the Doha Round of
talks that seeks to cut farm aid and crack open markets.  Mohamed, deputy head of the United Nations Environment
Programme and a former ambassador to the WTO, is up against
candidates from Brazil, Ghana,  Costa Rica ,  Indonesia , Jordan,
South Korea,  Mexico  and  New Zealand . The Geneva-based trade
arbiter has had only one head from a developing country since it
was created in 1995 and no women have ever vied for the job.
Mohamed, 51, is one of three women seeking to succeed Lamy.  The Doha Round of talks, which began in 2001, has struggled
to make headway as WTO members bicker over agriculture subsidies
and industrial tariffs. Global commerce has suffered amid the
 European debt crisis . In September, the WTO cut its forecast
for 2012 and 2013 trade growth to 2.5 percent and 4.5 percent,
respectively.  “We need to take stock to see what can be achieved,”
Mohamed said. Some parts of the  Doha Round  “may have been
overtaken by everything else and need to be looked at afresh.
Some parts may be irrelevant. The future of the Doha Round needs
to be discussed with the membership.”  ‘Open for Business’  Selecting a head from a developing nation would signal that
the WTO “is open for business for anybody from anywhere in the
world,” Mohamed said. Being a woman is an “added value” that
would inspire other women to seek top posts, she said.  Mohamed headed several of the WTO’s most important
committees, including its Dispute Settlement Body and the Trade
Policy Review Body. The other African candidate, Ghanaian Trade
Minister Alan Kyerematen, has the African Union’s endorsement.  She and the other eight candidates will present themselves
to WTO members at a three-day meeting of the General Council
that begins on Jan. 29, after which the process of whittling
down the list and picking Lamy’s successor will begin.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jennifer M. Freedman in Geneva at 
 jfreedman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  