-- Yoko Ono on Anti-Fracking Bus Ahead of Cuomo Decision
-- B y   J i m   E f s t a t h i o u   J r .   a n d   F r e e m a n   K l o p o t t
-- 2013-01-17T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-17/yoko-ono-on-anti-fracking-bus-ahead-of-cuomo-decision.html
Yoko Ono, who opposes hydraulic
fracturing for natural gas, looks to Pennsylvania and sees her
worst fears realized. New York landowners, eager for the cash
energy development can bring, see a promised land.  In a last-ditch lobbying blitz, both sides are pitching
their opposing visions to New York Governor Andrew Cuomo, who
has until next month to decide whether the drilling process also
known as fracking can be used in his state. New York holds the
largest untapped reserves in the Marcellus Shale, a rock
formation that runs through Pennsylvania,  Ohio  and West
Virginia.  Chesapeake Energy Corp. (CHK)  and  Talisman Energy Inc. (TLM)  are
among companies that have purchased drilling rights.  Ono, the musician widow of BeatleJohn Lennon, and their
son, Sean Lennon, are scheduled to host a press tour of Dimock,
Pennsylvania, today to visit residents who say fracking
contaminated drinking water. Drillers say the process is safe
and a group called the  Joint Landowners Coalition  of New York
sees it as an engine of economic recovery for downtrodden dairy
farmers and small businesses.  “Our people are just real, true, heart-and-soul people who
want a future for their kids,” Susan Oliver, a spokeswoman for
the landowners coalition, said in an interview. “Professional
activists” such as Ono and Lennon, “don’t even understand the
process of fracking.”  Landowners’ Card  The landowners group distributed a  greeting card  to its
members, urging each to send a copy to Cuomo. The card has a
picture of an abandoned, rundown farmhouse in New York state
next to one of a modern, working farm in Pennsylvania.  “Happy New Year from your New York constituents,” reads
the caption on the card. “Hoping that 2013 brings NY the
environmental and economic advantages that Natural Gas
development has already brought to our PA neighbors!”  The coalition has been sending studies to Cuomo by outside
groups from as far away as  Australia  to counter those done by
drilling opponents, said Dan Fitzsimmons, the group’s president.
He said they hope to release radio advertisements similar to
those that aired late last year highlighting the economic boom
in Pennsylvania that New York could see if fracking were
approved.  “We’re coming down to the last mile here,” Fitzsimmons
said in an interview. “We all worked really hard the last four
and a-half years. You don’t want to lay down and quit now.”  Celebrity Firepower  Not to be outdone, more than 200,000 comments from
opponents of hydraulic fracturing were delivered to regulators
in the state capital of Albany on Jan. 11 by Ono and Lennon. Two
days earlier, about 500 people turned out at a rally against
fracking in Albany as Cuomo delivered his State of the State
address, crowding out about 300 pro-drilling protesters.  Celebrity firepower “helps raise the profile of the issue
for the public, which affects the overall politics in a way that
is helpful,”  Kate Sinding , a senior attorney with the Natural
Resources Defense Council, said in an interview.  Cuomo, a 55-year-old Democrat, has until Feb. 27 to approve
environmental regulations that would open New York to the type
of gas production that has made overnight millionaires of some
in Pennsylvania while leaving others complaining that drilling
contaminated their drinking water.  Josh Vlasto , a Cuomo spokesman, didn’t respond to an e-mail
and phone call requesting comment.  Since July 2008, New York regulators have been drafting
rules for fracking, a drilling process in which millions of
gallons of chemically treated water is forced underground to
shatter rock and allow gas to flow. New York’s portion of the
Marcellus Shale may hold about 13 percent of all gas in the
formation, second to  Pennsylvania ’s 69 percent, according to
Terry Engelder, professor of geosciences at Pennsylvania State
University.  Draft Rules  The state imposed a moratorium on fracking while
environmental rules were drafted. Groups have submitted over
200,000 comments on the latest set of rules, according to Alex
Beauchamp, northeast regional director for the environment group
Food & Water Watch. If it’s determined that fracking cannot be
done safely, the moratorium will continue and the rules will not
go into effect, according to Emily DeSantis, a spokeswoman for
the state Department of Environmental Conservation. The agency
oversees oil and gas development.  “The governor was kind of hoping the opposition to this
would die down as the process went on and it’s done just the
opposite,” Beauchamp said in an interview. “By showing that
millions of New Yorkers don’t want this you ultimately force the
governor to say, ‘Okay, this is going to be politically damaging
to me.’”  Deadline Missed  In September, Cuomo asked Health Commissioner Nirav Shah to
assess fracking with the help of outside analysts. The move was
designed to help ensure the state’s final decision is “legally
defensible,” Department of Environmental Conservation
Commissioner Joseph Martens said in an e-mailed statement at the
time.  Under state law, agencies must issue regulations within 365
days of the last public hearing. The deadline was extended to
Feb. 27 for the health study. A further delay is possible. In
his Jan. 9 State of the State address, Cuomo didn’t mention
drilling or natural gas, even as anti-fracking protesters lined
a walkway leading to the convention center where the governor
spoke.  “We’re doing a review of fracking on the merits,” Cuomo
said at a Jan. 10 press briefing in  Albany .  Were Cuomo to allow fracking, energy development in New
York would proceed slowly, according to a Jan. 15  research note 
from Kroll Bond Ratings.  Slow Approach  “The industry is likely to take a slow approach, fearing
legal challenges, court-imposed injunctions on permitting and a
well-organized amalgam of grass-root organizations opposed to
any fracking, even with far more stringent environmental
requirements,” according to the note.  Fracking would create 15,000 to 18,000 jobs in southern and
western New York areas that lost a combined 48,000 positions in
the last decade, according to a 2011 report by the Manhattan
Institute, a New York-based organization that supports drilling.
Environmental groups maintain that the proposed regulations will
fail to prevent water contamination and air pollution.  “The Cuomo administration and the legislature need to come
up with other economic opportunities for people in these
areas,” said Sinding, of the Natural Resources Defense Council.
“We remain very concerned that the state, if it moved forward
now and on the basis of these regulations, would not be
adequately protective.”  Artists Group  Ono, who lives in New York City, and Lennon, a musician and
composer, have organized a group of artists opposed to fracking
that includes Lady Gaga, Robert De Niro and Uma Thurman,
according to the website  Artists Against Fracking . The group’s
website allows people to send an electronic message to Cuomo
urging a ban on fracking.  “Fracking kills,” Ono said at a Jan. 11 press briefing in
Albany. “So it’s such a pity that we’re going to do that, we’re
going to commit suicide altogether.”  In the lobbying battle, both sides claim to have true
grassroots bona fides.  “To me it all comes down to numbers,” said Beauchamp,
with Food and Water Watch. “When you look at the real numbers
and who’s turning real people out, it’s us. It’s the people
against fracking.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jim Efstathiou Jr. in New York at 
 jefstathiou@bloomberg.net ;
Freeman Klopott in Albany at 
 fklopott@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  