-- ThyssenKrupp Chairman Faces Calls to Resign After Writedo
-- B y   T i n o   A n d r e s e n
-- 2013-01-18T22:08:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-17/thyssenkrupp-chairman-faces-calls-to-resign-after-writedowns.html
Gerhard Cromme, the supervisory
board chairman of two of  Germany ’s biggest companies, faced
calls to resign at  ThyssenKrupp AG (TKA) ’s annual general meeting
today, after a year tainted by corruption probes and a 4.7
billion euro ($6.3 billion) loss.  Cromme, 69, who has steered the oversight board at the
country’s largest steelmaker since 2001, holds the same post at
 Siemens AG (SIE) , the engineering company that employs 370,000 people.
In a career spanning three decades in steel, he was handpicked
by industrialist Berthold Beitz, 99, to oversee ThyssenKrupp, 25
percent-owned by the Alfried Krupp von Bohlen und Halbach
Foundation that Beitz has led for 45 years.  In the biggest shareholder rebellion in the 14-year history
of the merged company, ThyssenKrupp is under attack from
investors as Chief Executive Officer  Heinrich Hiesinger  attempts
to repair the damage from price-fixing and bribery scandals and
a botched expansion in the Americas that cost it 3.6 billion
euros in writedowns in the last fiscal year.  “It’s questionable whether you can do two full-time jobs
like this at two DAX companies,” Michael Adams, a professor of
economic law and a specialist in corporate governance at the
University of Hamburg, said of Cromme.  Shareholder Powerlessness  ThyssenKrupp, whose stock gained 0.2 percent in 2012 as
Germany’s benchmark DAX Index surged 29 percent, is canceling
its  dividend  for the first time since the company was formed
through the 1999 merger of Thyssen AG and Fried. Krupp AG. The
shares retreated 1.8 percent today and closed at 18.07 euros in
 Frankfurt .  Some 69 percent of shareholders voted in favor of Cromme’s
performance last year. A majority also approved the other
members of the supervisory board’s performance.  In response to shareholder unrest, the supervisory board
will waive half of last year’s pay, Cromme said at today’s
meeting. “We trusted too long, we could have acted sooner,” he
said.  Hans-Christoph Hirt, the executive director of Hermes
Equity Ownership Services Ltd. representing several pension
funds, holds Cromme and Beitz partly responsible.  “A credible new beginning at ThyssenKrupp implies that the
supervisory board takes responsibility for the shortcomings in
the leadership culture,” he told today’s meeting. Hirt said he
would vote against the board’s performance for the past year as
he called for an “orderly succession plan” for the chairman’s
role.  Deka Investment, a top 10 shareholder, called on Cromme to
stand down at the meeting.  Compliance Concerns  Handelsblatt last month cited Beitz, in a rare interview,
as saying that Cromme “is here to stay.” Cromme, in an
interview with Der Spiegel the same month, said he sees no need
to resign.  Institutional Shareholder Services Inc., a Rockville,
Maryland-based company which provides proxy voting and corporate
governance services worldwide, is advising shareholders to vote
against the supervisory board’s performance for the last year.  It’s making the recommendation “in light of ongoing
oversight and compliance concerns at ThyssenKrupp that increased
in intensity” and the board’s “unwillingness to acknowledge
any need for improvement despite significant and serious
developments that it failed to deal with effectively over a
number of years.” ISS commented in a 21-page report to clients
last month.  Deutsche Schutzvereinigung fuer Wertpapierbesitz e.V, one
of Germany’s biggest shareholder groups, and the Association of
Ethical Shareholders Germany said they plan to vote against the
supervisory board’s performance at today’s meeting.  Ousted Executives  ThyssenKrupp ousted three executive board members last
month in an effort to repair the damage caused by its
involvement in a rail and an elevator cartel and the ill-fated
expansion in the Americas.  An audit of unprofitable plants in the U.S. and  Brazil 
highlighted decisions made on assumptions and key data that were
“either clearly too optimistic or later proved to be
incorrect,” the company said in a Dec. 5 statement.  Last week Bertin Eichler, deputy chairman of ThyssenKrupp’s
supervisory board, said he will leave this year after he was
probed by compliance staff over five company-funded foreign
trips deemed to have been of a partly private nature.  Steel Americas  The departure will leave Cromme as one of five remaining
supervisory board members who originally approved the 9 billion-
euro investment in a steel plant in Brazil in November 2005 and
in the U.S. in May 2007.  In contrast, when executive board member Ralph Labonte
leaves on March 31 for health reasons, none of the managers
associated with the Steel Americas investment decision will
remain.  Hiesinger joined ThyssenKrupp from Siemens in 2010 as
deputy CEO to Ekkehard Schulz, who was co-CEO alongside Cromme
for two years before Cromme moved up to the supervisory board.
Schulz took responsibility for the Steel Americas decision by
resigning from all posts at the company and the foundation at
the end of 2011.  Hiesinger is cutting ThyssenKrupp’s business units to five
from eight and building its non-steel base as he seeks buyers
for the Steel Americas unit.  Old Habits  Hiesinger promised to rid ThyssenKrupp of “old structures
and habits” on Dec. 11, when he said the company displayed “an
understanding of leadership in which ‘old boys’ networks’ and
blind loyalty were more important than business success.”  At the time, he described the cooperation with the
supervisory board as “very good.”  That’s not a view shared by a lobby group for chairmen that
expressed its disapproval with Cromme this week.  “We’re of the opinion that the majority of responsibly-
minded supervisory board officials expect you to think about
taking personal consequences and give up your mandate as
ThyssenKrupp supervisory board chairman,” lobby group
Vereinigung der Aufsichtsraete in Deutschland e.V., or VARD,
said in a letter to Cromme.  VARD, whose members include  Air Berlin Plc (AB1)  Chairman Hans-
Joachim Koerber and former  RWE AG (RWE)  Chief Executive Officer
Dietmar Kuhnt, seeks to improve the work of the supervisory
boards that oversee German companies by setting common rules.  Cromme’s term runs until the AGM in 2015.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tino Andresen in Dusseldorf at 
 tandresen1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  