-- Afghanistan Attacks Kill U.S. Civilian, 3 International Soldiers
-- B y   E l t a f   N a j a f i z a d a
-- 2013-06-08T16:17:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-08/afghanistan-attacks-kill-u-s-civilian-3-international-soldiers.html
An Afghan soldier opened fire today
on Americans serving with NATO, killing three after an argument
in the east of the country, while an Italian soldier was killed
in a grenade attack in the west.  An individual wearing an Afghan army uniform shot dead two
U.S. soldiers and a civilian, the International Security
Assistance Forces, or  ISAF , said in an e-mailed statement. A
shooter was killed and another person arrested, ISAF said,
without elaborating. More information will be released after an
investigation by Afghan and ISAF officials, it said.  Insider attacks threaten the trust between Afghan and
international soldiers as the North Atlantic Treaty Organization
prepares to pull troops out of Afghanistan and shift their
position from a combat role to training and support.  The assailant in eastern Afghanistan didn’t have any
connections with the Taliban or other insurgent groups, the
Paktika provincial governor’s office said by e-mail. The
incident took place following a “verbal dispute,” said Mokhlis
Afghan, a spokesman for the province, in a phone interview. “An
angry Afghan soldier shot dead his three American trainers
following an argument between them.” Three U.S. soldiers were
wounded, he said.  Taliban, Grenade  No group has claimed responsibility for the Paktika
shooting. The grenade strike was claimed by the Taliban
guerrillas in a text message.  The grenade was thrown at a convoy of Italian troops
returning to their base from the capital of Farah province,
Abdul Rahman Zhowandai, the province’s spokesman, in said a
phone interview. The attacker escaped and ISAF confirmed the
soldier’s death in a statement.  Hostilities by the Taliban and other insurgents escalated
in the first three months as the spring fighting season began.
Attacks  increased  47 percent in the first quarter of the year,
the  Afghanistan  NGO Safety Office, an organization that provides
advice to aid agencies, said in a report.  Taliban guerrillas stormed a Kabul guesthouse used by the
UN International Organization for Migration, killing an Afghan
policeman and wounding eight other people last month, including
United Nations personnel, police said May 24. A suicide car
bomber on May 16 killed six Americans, including two soldiers,
and eight Afghan civilians in Kabul.  President  Barack Obama  has said the bulk of the 66,000 U.S.
forces in Afghanistan, 11 years after the invasion, will return
home by the end of 2014. While Obama hasn’t yet said how many
U.S. troops will remain after 2014, former U.S. Defense
Secretary  Leon Panetta  said in February that NATO has talked
about leaving a force of 8,000 to 12,000 troops for a post-combat training role.  The NATO summit next year will focus on postwar planning
for Afghanistan, Obama said in May.  For Related News and Information:
Obama Says Next NATO Summit to Focus on Postwar Afghanistan  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eltaf Najafizada in Kabul at 
 enajafizada1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  