-- Mandela Hospitalized in ‘Serious but Stable’ Condition
-- B y   M i k e   H a r r i s o n ,   F r a n z   W i l d   a n d   R o b e r t   B r a n d
-- 2013-06-08T22:00:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-08/mandela-in-serious-but-stable-condition-zuma-s-office-says.html
Former South African President  Nelson Mandela  is in “serious but stable” condition after being
admitted to the hospital for a fourth time since December.  “During the past few days former President Nelson Mandela
has had a recurrence of lung infection,” according to a
statement on the website of President  Jacob Zuma  yesterday.
“This morning at about 1:30 a.m. his condition deteriorated and
he was transferred to a Pretoria hospital,” the statement said,
referring to June 8.  Mandela, 94, was conscious and communicating with his
family, Zuma’s spokesman,  Mac Maharaj , told  Sky News . His wife,
Graca Machel, was at his bedside, the spokesman told  Agence
France-Presse . Mandela was treated in the hospital in April for
a bout of pneumonia and had to have fluid drained from around
his lungs. He also had gallstones removed this year.  Mandela served for five years as  South Africa ’s first black
president after his African National Congress party won all-race
elections that ended apartheid in 1994. He spent 27 years in
prison, most of it on Robben Island off the coast of Cape Town,
where he contracted tuberculosis. Also known by his clan name,
Madiba, Mandela won the Nobel Peace Prize in 1993.  The infection “affects his breathing,” Maharaj said by
telephone yesterday. “The doctors are saying it’s serious but
he’s stable. He’s able to breathe on his own.”  The condition is “treatable on its own,” Maharaj told
eNCA television.  Political Allies  The  ANC  and its political allies, the Congress of South
African Trade Unions and the  South African Communist Party , as
well as the opposition  Democratic Alliance  were among those
wishing Mandela a speedy recovery.  “We will keep President Mandela and his family in our
thoughts and prayers at this time and call upon South Africans
and the peoples of the globe to do the same,” Jackson Mthembu,
an ANC spokesman, said in an e-mailed statement.  Machel canceled an appearance at a London summit on hunger
yesterday to return to South Africa, the Press Association
reported, citing the event’s organizers. She accompanied Mandela
to the hospital yesterday and stayed at his bedside, Maharaj
told AFP.  In an April interview, Zuma said Mandela had been
“sprightly” when he’d seen him in the hospital that month.  “He is a good fighter. He is actually demonstrating this
in his old age,” Zuma said on April 24. “We just accept the
fact that he is no longer young. We are happy that we are still
with him.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Mike Harrison  in London at 
 mharrison5@bloomberg.net ;
Franz Wild in Johannesburg at 
 fwild@bloomberg.net ;
Robert Brand in Cape Town at 
 rbrand9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nasreen Seria at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net  