-- Army Suspends Commander in Sex-Assault Case Not Pursued
-- B y   L a r r y   L i e b e r t
-- 2013-06-08T02:35:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-08/army-suspends-commander-in-sex-assault-case-not-pursued.html
The U.S. Army suspended the
commanding general of its forces in  Japan  while probing whether
he failed to properly handle a sexual-assault allegation.  Major General Michael T. Harrison “was suspended following
actions taken today by Secretary of the Army John McHugh and
Chief of Staff General  Ray Odierno  due to allegations that
Harrison failed in his duties as a commander to report or
properly investigate an allegation of sexual assault,” the
Pentagon said late yesterday in a statement, without providing
details.  The military is embroiled in an uproar over sexual
assaults, which Odierno this week described as “a cancer within
the force.” Debate has centered increasingly on whether
commanding officers should continue to decide whether to act on
allegations of sexual harassment and assault within their units.  Commanders such as Harrison determine whether to
investigate allegations and whether to bring charges. They also
choose the military juries for court-martials and can overturn
resulting verdicts.  Top military officers and their supporters in Congress have
resisted a proposal by Senator Kirsten Gillibrand, who serves on
the Senate Armed Services Committee, to remove sex-assault cases
from the chain of command and turn them over to independent
military prosecutors.  Retaliation Feared  “After speaking to victims, they have told us that the
reason they do not report these crimes is because they fear
retaliation,” Gillibrand, a  New York  Democrat, told the
military’s top uniformed officers at a June 4 hearing of the
committee. “You have lost the trust of the men and women who
rely on you that you would actually bring justice” in their
cases.  Commanders aren’t always objective, Gillibrand said. “Not
every single commander can distinguish between a slap on the ass
and a rape because they merge all of these crimes together.”  While vowing to crack down on sexual assaults in their
services, the military chiefs have been united in saying the
chain of command must remain sacrosanct.  Army General Martin Dempsey, chairman of the Joint Chiefs
of Staff, said in testimony submitted for the hearing that “the
commander’s ability to preserve good order and discipline
remains essential to accomplishing any change within our
profession.”  The most senior lawmakers on the House and Senate defense
committees have sided with the military leaders in insisting
that sex-assault allegations continue to be handled in the chain
of command. The committee leaders have supported lesser changes,
including barring commanding officers from overturning verdicts.  The Defense Department released results last month of a
survey estimating 26,000 cases of sexual assault occurred last
year, compared with 2,949 victims identified in criminal
reports. President  Barack Obama  has called such assaults in the
military “shameful and disgraceful.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Larry Liebert in Washington at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  