-- Artemis Racing to Skip Early America’s Cup Trials After Accident
-- B y   N a n c y   K e r c h e v a l
-- 2013-06-08T04:01:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-08/artemis-racing-to-skip-early-america-s-cup-trials-after-accident.html
Artemis Racing will miss a few early
trials in the 34th America’s Cup as the team prepares its new
boat after the fatal capsizing of its catamaran in  San Francisco
Bay .  The replacement AC72 should be ready to launch in July to
compete for the Louis Vuitton Cup, the team said yesterday on
its website.  “We are working around the clock to get our new boat
ready, in the water and to prepare our team to race,” said Paul Cayard, chief executive officer of Artemis Racing. “We still
have a mountain to climb, but our plan is to launch our new boat
in early July and get ourselves in a position where we can race
by the end of the month.”  When the boat can be pushed hard in race conditions, it
will join the competition, the Swedish team said.  “Learning that Artemis Racing is focused on getting to the
start line is truly great news,” said Stephen Barclay, the
chief executive officer of the America’s Cup Event Authority.
“I don’t think we can expect them to be ready for the first
races, but I’m certain the America’s Cup community will support
them in every way possible.”  Artemis put its racing on hold after the death of Andrew
Simpson, 36, who died May 9 when he was trapped beneath a
section of a capsized yacht, out of sight from other vessels and
divers searching for him. Simpson won a gold medal for Britain
in the Star class at the 2008 Olympics as crew for Iain Percy,
now Artemis’s sailing team director. The pair won a silver medal
in 2012.  Preliminaries Reduced  The accident was the second involving the new 72-foot (22-meter) boats being used in the Cup. Powered by 131-foot carbon
wing sails and capable of skimming above the water on hydrofoils
at speeds exceeding 40 knots (46 mph, 74 kph), they are among
the fastest sailboats ever built.  Larry Ellison ’s Oracle Team,
the defending champion, destroyed a wing during an October
training accident.  After Artemis confirmed its plans to enter the competition,
Regatta Director Iain Murray reduced the number of preliminary
rounds to five from seven to give the teams more maintenance
time between races.  The first race of the series begins July 7. Emirates Team
 New Zealand  and  Italy ’s Luna Rossa will compete against each
other in the early weeks of the round-robin series. When Artemis
decides to enter the races, it will be allowed to hold a third-place berth and compete in the semifinals. The winner will
advance to the finals against the first-place boat.  The winner of the Louis Vuitton Cup finals will then take
on defender Oracle Racing USA in the America’s Cup finals that
start Sept. 7.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nancy Kercheval in Washington at 
 nkercheval@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  