-- Boston Bruins Sweep Penguins 4-0 to Reach NHL Stanley Cup Finals
-- B y   N a n c y   K e r c h e v a l
-- 2013-06-08T04:03:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-08/boston-bruins-sweep-penguins-to-reach-nhl-stanley-cup-playoffs.html
The  Boston Bruins  defeated the
Pittsburgh Penguins 1-0 to sweep the National Hockey League
Eastern Conference championship series and advance to the
Stanley Cup finals.  The Bruins, who last won the Stanley Cup in 2011, will meet
the  Chicago Blackhawks  or  Los Angeles Kings  in the championship
round. The Blackhawks can eliminate the Kings in Game 5 tonight
in  Chicago .  Adam McQuaid scored his second playoff goal on a 45-foot
slap shot that sailed over the glove of Penguins goalie Tomas Vokoun five minutes, one second into the third period at TD
Garden in  Boston  to give the Bruins their fourth straight win in
the best-of-seven conference title series.  “I don’t think our mindset, coming into the series, was
thinking to want to sweep it,” McQuaid said during a news
conference. “We did a really good job of taking one game at a
time. That was something we needed to do against this team that,
you know, is extremely talented and extremely dangerous.”  Both teams were scoreless in the first two periods.  “We were a little sluggish in the first two periods,”
Boston’s Milan Lucic said in a televised interview. “We had to
win a period to win the game.”  Tuukka Rask had 26 saves for the Bruins, who are going to
the  Stanley Cup  finals for the 19th time. They have won six
championships.  Previous Sweep  The last time the Penguins were swept was in 1979 by the
Bruins.  “I think for the last eight periods of hockey, everything
was left out there,” Penguins coach Dan Bylsma said. “Game 3
was as hard fought and competitive for territory and turf as any
game I’ve been a part of. This one was much like that.”  Boston held the league’s top scoring team to two goals
during the four Eastern Conference title games, including Game 3
that went into double overtime before the Bruins won 2-1.  “We didn’t come up with that goal, either in Game 3 or
Game 4,” Bylsma said. “You have to give the Bruins a ton of
credit for that and the way they played and battled, as well.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nancy Kercheval in Washington at 
 nkercheval@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  