-- Canadian Dollar Has Biggest Gain Since 2011 on Surge in Jobs
-- B y   C e c i l e   G u t s c h e r
-- 2013-06-08T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-08/canadian-dollar-has-biggest-gain-since-2011-on-surge-in-jobs.html
Canada ’s dollar posted the biggest
gain against its U.S. peer in a year and a half as the economy
added the most jobs in a decade in May and the  unemployment rate 
declined.  The currency climbed to a three-week high versus the
greenback as new  Bank of Canada  Governor Stephen Poloz
reiterated his predecessor’s view that interest rates will rise
as the economy grows. U.S. reports showing the jobless rate
climbing even as payrolls grew offered mixed signals as the
 Federal Reserve  considers tapering asset purchases. The Bank of
Canada releases next week its semi-annual Financial System
Review, which previously cited mounting consumer debt as the
greatest risk.  The jobs gains “should help the loonie sustain these
multi-week highs against the greenback,”  Joe Manimbo , a market
analyst at Western Union Business Solutions, a unit of Western
Union Co., said yesterday in a phone interview from  Washington .
“I’m looking to see whether it can break through C$1.0150 --
that would open the door to C$1.0100 and we could see the loonie
attain parity.”  The loonie, as the Canadian dollar is known for the image
of the aquatic bird on the C$1 coin, ended the week 1.8 percent
higher against the  U.S. dollar  at C$1.0197 in Toronto, the
biggest five-day increase since December 2011. One loonie buys
$98.07.  The Canadian dollar, which last traded on par with the
greenback on Feb. 14, touched C$1.0167, the strongest since May
16. It crossed the 50-day and 100-day moving averages, seen by
some traders as gauges of momentum.  ‘Carneyesque’ Poloz  Canadian employment rose by 95,000 in May, the most since
August 2002, and the jobless rate fell to 7.1 percent from 7.2
percent even as more people joined the workforce,  Statistics
Canada  said yesterday in Ottawa. The job gain tripled the
highest of 25 forecasts in a Bloomberg economist survey that
predicted no change in the unemployment rate.  This came a day after Poloz, in his first public comments
during testimony to the House of Commons Finance Committee in
Ottawa, said “as the world heals, interest rates will rise.”
The former chief executive officer of the nation’s trade
financing agency declined to say whether the Canadian dollar was
overvalued, and said he wouldn’t offer “running commentary” on
it.  “Mr. Poloz sounded very Carneyesque” in his testimony,
 Shaun Osborne , chief currency strategist at Toronto-Dominion
Bank, said by phone from Toronto yesterday. “We were expecting
a slightly different approach.”  Economy’s Threats  Former Governor  Mark Carney , who left June 1 to head the
 Bank of England , kept the key  interest rate  at 1 percent for the
22nd consecutive meeting on May 29. Poloz will probably maintain
Carney’s no-change policy for at least the rest of the year,
according to economists surveyed by  Bloomberg News .  “For a long time, the expectation had been Canada will be
one of the first central banks to tighten rates,” Osborne said.
“They may be one of the first, but the peer lead they seemed to
have at the end of last year has narrowed.”  Policy makers including Carney said in the previous
financial review in December that instability from  Europe ’s debt
crisis along with indebted domestic households threatened
growth. The first review under Poloz, who cited the risk of the
debt overhang in his June 6 testimony, will be released June 13.  Head-Scratcher  The  U.S. unemployment  rate rose to 7.6 percent from 7.5
percent, Labor Department figures showed yesterday in
Washington, after economists in Bloomberg survey forecast no
change. Nonfarm payrolls rose 175,000 after a revised 149,000
increase in April that was smaller than first estimated. The
median forecast in another survey called for a 163,000 gain.  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said May 22 the central bank
could reduce its monthly purchases of $45 billion of Treasuries
and $40 billion of mortgage bonds if the U.S. employment outlook
shows a sustainable improvement. Policy makers have pledged to
keep interest rates near zero as long as joblessness is above
6.5 percent and inflation is no more than 2.5 percent.  “Investors are still scratching their heads with these
mixed numbers,” Manimbo said. “It’s certainly an improvement
in terms of nonfarm, but the unemployment rate taking away from
the Fed’s target of 6.5 percent is certainly grounds for some
concern.”  Hedge funds  and other large speculators  increased  their
bets the Canadian dollar will decline against the greenback,
figures from the Washington-based Commodity Futures Trading
Commission show. The difference in the number of wagers on a
decline in the Canadian dollar compared with those on a gain --
so-called net shorts -- was 39,776 on June 4, compared with net
shorts of 33,359 a week earlier.  The loonie has fallen 1 percent in the past month against
nine developed nation currencies tracked by the Bloomberg
Correlation-Weighted Index. The U.S. currency has gained 1.1
percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cecile Gutscher in London at 
 cgutscher@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  