-- China Export Growth Plummets Amid Fake-Shipment Crackdown
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-06-09T06:30:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-08/china-may-exports-trail-estimates-as-imports-unexpectedly-drop.html
China ’s trade, inflation and lending
data for May all trailed estimates, signaling weaker global and
domestic demand that will test the nation’s leaders’ resolve to
forgo short-term stimulus for slower, more-sustainable growth.  Industrial production rose a less-than-forecast 9.2 percent
from a year earlier and factory-gate prices fell for a 15th
month, National Bureau of Statistics data showed today in
Beijing. Export gains were at a 10-month low and imports dropped
after a crackdown on fake trade invoices while fixed-asset
investment growth slowed and new yuan loans declined.  The data add pressure on President Xi Jinping and Premier
Li Keqiang to shore up growth less than three months into their
tenure, after first-quarter expansion unexpectedly slowed. While
the figures boost the case for easing monetary policy or
approving more spending, the leaders’ room is limited by rising
home prices, financial risks and overcapacity.  “Growth remains unconvincing and the momentum seems to
have lost pace in May,” said  Louis Kuijs , chief China economist
at Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc in Hong Kong. “While we
still do not worry too much about growth in 2013 ending up
significantly lower than the government’s comfort zone, on
balance this weekend’s data is likely to strengthen the calls
for a more expansionary macroeconomic policy stance.”  Analysts surveyed by Bloomberg News last month trimmed
economic-expansion forecasts for the April-June period to a
median projection of 7.8 percent from an 8 percent pace forecast
in April.  Reasonable Growth  Li told provincial leaders yesterday that while  growth  is
still relatively fast and within a reasonable range and
employment is stable, “complicated factors” are ahead and must
be closely monitored, the official Xinhua News Agency reported.
Xi said at a California summit with U.S. President  Barack Obama 
that “we have full confidence in sustained and healthy long-term economic development” and that risks and challenges are
controllable.  Industrial production compared with the median estimate for
a 9.4 percent increase, with growth the weakest for a January-May period since 2009. Fixed-asset investment excluding rural
areas rose 20.4 percent in the first five months from a year
earlier, down from a 20.6 percent pace in January-April,
statistics bureau data showed. May’s retail-sales growth of 12.9
percent matched the median projection of analysts.  Export Gains  May exports rose 1 percent from a year earlier, down from
14.7 percent in April, while  imports  dropped 0.3 percent from a
year earlier. The median  estimates  of analysts were for 7.4
percent export growth and 6.6 percent import gains. The $20.4
billion trade surplus compared with forecasts for $20 billion.  “This shows the real state of the Chinese export
situation,” said Shen Jianguang, chief Asia economist at Mizuho
Securities Asia Ltd. in Hong Kong. The data give a “pretty
depressed” picture, with weak external demand and a  yuan  that
has appreciated substantially against a trade-weighted basket of
currencies, said Shen, who previously worked at the European
Central Bank.  The slowdown in May’s trade figures was partly the result
of “arbitrage trade” with Hong Kong being curbed, the customs
administration said in a statement yesterday. Appreciation in
the yuan and the worsening trade environment, as well as a
domestic slowdown, weak external demand and high business costs,
also contributed, the agency said.  Lending Figures  New local-currency lending of 667.4 billion yuan ($109
billion) trailed the median  estimate  of 34 economists and was
down from 793.2 billion yuan a year earlier, People’s Bank of
China data showed. Aggregate financing of 1.19 trillion yuan
compared with 1.14 trillion yuan in May 2012, while M2 money
supply grew 15.8 percent from a year earlier.  The PBOC said in a June 7 financial-stability report that
overdue loans rose 46 percent last year, adding to signs of
strain in the banking system.  The consumer price index rose 2.1 percent in May from a
year earlier, statistics bureau data showed, dragged down by
slower food inflation and below all 39 economists’ estimates.
The producer price  index  fell by a more-than-estimated 2.9
percent, the biggest drop since September.  Baoshan Iron & Steel Co., China’s biggest publicly traded
steelmaker, said yesterday it cut product prices for hot-rolled
and cold-rolled steel for July delivery, lowering rates for the
second straight month. Government data today showed rolled steel
output growth accelerated to 11.3 percent in May from a year
earlier after an 8.1 percent pace in April.  Interest Rates  “There’s some room for the central bank to cut  interest
rates ,” though it’s not the preferred option for the PBOC,
which will lean more toward easing via injecting funds into
money markets to ensure stable liquidity and credit supply for
growth, said  Zhu Haibin , chief China economist at JPMorgan Chase
& Co., in Hong Kong.  The trade slump adds to concerns that the global recovery
is losing momentum even as the U.S. shows signs of strengthening.
The ECB last week forecast the 17-nation euro area will contract
0.6 percent this year, more than its March estimate of 0.5
percent. In the U.S., employers added more workers than forecast
in May.  Exports “may remain weak in the near term” as the U.S.
economy softens, which is likely to shift expectations for a
strengthening yuan, said Ding Shuang, senior China economist at
Citigroup Inc. in Hong Kong. The yuan has risen 1.6 percent this
year against the U.S. dollar and about 14 percent against the
yen, the most among Asian currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  --Zhou Xin. With assistance from Nerys Avery in Beijing and
Ailing Tan in  Singapore . Editors: Scott Lanman, Nerys Avery  To contact Bloomberg News staff on this story:
Xin Zhou in Beijing at 
 xzhou68@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  