-- Clapper Defends Data Spying as Fully Debated by Lawmakers
-- B y   S i l l a   B r u s h
-- 2013-06-09T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-08/clapper-defends-data-spying-as-fully-debated-by-lawmakers.html
U.S. programs collecting telephone
and Internet data are lawful efforts that were disclosed to
lawmakers and have been distorted in the media, according to
James R. Clapper, director of national intelligence.  The activities are “conducted under authorities widely
known and discussed, and fully debated and authorized by
Congress,” Clapper said in a statement released in  Washington 
yesterday. “Their purpose is to obtain foreign intelligence
information, including information necessary to thwart terrorist
and cyber-attacks against the United States and its allies.”  The Internet program, code-named PRISM, can’t be used to
intentionally target U.S. citizens or anyone known to be in the
U.S., according to a declassified summary of the program also
released yesterday. Companies provide access to data under court
approval and with knowledge of the provider, the summary said.  A criminal investigation of leaks about the programs is
mandatory and inevitable, given the magnitude and severity, as
well as inquiries into less damaging breaches, said a U.S.
official briefed on the issue, who requested anonymity to
discuss intelligence issues. The Department of Justice declines
to comment on any specific referral, spokesman Andrew Ames said
in an e-mail.  Civil Liberties  The revelation of the programs in the  Washington Post (WPO)  and
U.K.-based  Guardian newspaper  reignited a debate over the proper
balance between civil liberties and security that has flared
repeatedly since the Sept. 11, 2001, terrorist attacks. Yet the
public backing the Obama administration received from leaders of
Congress in the aftermath of the disclosures makes it unlikely
lawmakers will act to limit the surveillance.  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) , Yahoo! Inc.,  Google Inc. (GOOG) ,  Facebook Inc. (FB) ,
and  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  were among the technology providers involved in
the program, the newspapers reported. The companies issued
statements either denying that they had granted the government
access to their servers or saying that they were unaware of the
program.  “In a rush to publish, media outlets have not given the
full context -- including the extent to which these programs are
overseen by all three branches of government -- to these
effective tools,” Clapper said.  Lawmakers’ Reactions  The programs have provided information that has helped
impede the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction and
provided intelligence about possible computer network attacks,
according to the summary.  The Democratic and Republican leaders of the Senate and
House intelligence committees said this week that they received
regular briefings on the programs and support them.  Some lawmakers questioned the breadth of the domestic
surveillance. Senator  Charles Schumer , a  New York  Democrat,
demanded an explanation for surveillance he called “invasive.”  Senator Rand Paul, a Kentucky Republican, called the
surveillance “an astounding assault” on the U.S. Constitution.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Silla Brush in Washington at 
 sbrush@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Maura Reynolds at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  