-- Dar Appointed Pakistan’s Finance Minister as Growth Falters
-- B y   H a r i s   A n w a r
-- 2013-06-08T04:05:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-08/dar-appointed-pakistan-s-finance-minister-as-growth-falters.html
Pakistan’s Prime Minister  Nawaz Sharif  appointed 25 ministers to his cabinet, giving the key
finance and energy portfolios to close aides as the new
government faces a sluggish economy and entrenched energy
shortages.  President Asif Ali Zardari administered the oath to 16
federal and nine junior ministers at the presidential house in
Islamabad yesterday, with two ministers from Sharif’s smaller
coalition partners. Mohammad Ishaq Dar was named Finance
Minister and Khawaja Muhammad Asif will oversee the Water and
Power ministry, according to a government notification issued
late yesterday.  Sharif, 63, took office on June 5 as the nation struggles
to arrest its economic slump. He returned to power more than 13
years after his second period as premier was cut short by a 1999
army coup. Having won almost half of the seats contested in a
May 11 general election, his  Pakistan  Muslim League-N party can
govern without a major coalition partner.  The new administration will need to bridge a budget gap
that’s at the highest in almost two decades and spur  economic
growth  from an annual average of 3 percent as energy shortages
shut the grid for as much as 18 hours a day. Nationwide attacks
by Taliban insurgents have killed 40,000 people since Pakistan
decided to support the U.S. war in  Afghanistan  after the
September 11, 2001 attacks.  Sharif appointed Dar as finance minister, ahead of a
national budget due this month. Dar, 63, will present the budget
as sluggish growth and one of the region’s lowest rates of tax
collection risks a widening of the fiscal deficit. He may also
have to negotiate a bailout with the  International Monetary Fund 
after foreign exchange reserves plunged 40 percent from a year
ago, to less than two months of imports, according to central
bank data.  Dar was commerce minister in Sharif’s first term and
finance minister in 1999, when  Pervez Musharraf  seized power and
dismissed the cabinet. He spent more than a year in jail under
Musharraf over corruption charges that never went to trial.  He has a bachelor’s degree in commerce from the University
of Punjab and has been a director of the  World Bank ,  Asian
Development Bank  and  Islamic Development Bank , according to his
profile on the Senate  website . He also served as finance
minister for three months in 2008 until his party quit Zardari’s
alliance.  Asif, a former privatization minister, will oversee the
nation’s power and water ministry, according to the notification
published in the state-run  Associated Press  of Pakistan, while
Sartaj Aziz has been appointed as an adviser on national
security and foreign affairs.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Haris Anwar in Islamabad at 
 hanwar2@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  