-- UN Mission in Libya Urges Restraint as Benghazi Clashes Kill 31
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   S t e p h e n   a n d   D a n a   E l   B a l t a j i
-- 2013-06-09T20:20:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-08/eleven-people-dead-as-protesters-clash-with-militia-in-benghazi.html
The United Nations mission to Libya
called for “maximum restraint” from all parties following the
death of 31 people in clashes with a militia in the eastern city
of Benghazi over the weekend.  In a statement yesterday, the  United Nations Support
Mission in Libya  reiterated “the necessity of resolving
disagreements peacefully through dialogue.”  Clashes between the Libya Shield brigade and protesters in
Benghazi on June 8 left 31 dead and at least 120 wounded, the
state-run LANA news agency reported, more than doubling an
earlier fatality count.  The violence erupted after demonstrators demanding that the
power of militias be curbed reached the gates of the brigade,
LANA said. The news agency had earlier reported that 11 people
had been killed and 38 injured in the fighting in Benghazi, the
city where U.S. Ambassador Chris Stevens was killed in an attack
last year.  Libyan Army Chief of Staff Youssef Mangoush resigned
yesterday during a closed-door session of the General National
Congress, LANA reported. Mangoush’s action was accepted by
parliament, the agency said.  The Libya Shield abandoned its base following Saturday’s
violence, according to Libyan television station Al Asima. Adel
Tarhuni, a spokesman for Libya Shield, told the station that one
of his soldiers was killed and four others were wounded by
protesters who were armed and hurled stones. “We had to defend
ourselves,” he said.  The Libya Shield and other militias formed by rebels who
fought dictator Muammar Qaddafi in the country’s 2011 civil war
remained intact after he was toppled and killed. They have
challenged the authority of the weak central government that has
emerged since and have been linked to continuing violence that
plagues the country.  The protests in Benghazi, and another in the capital,
Tripoli, had been called in support of Libyan Prime Minister Ali Zaidan’s demand that illegal militias disband or come under
control of the country’s security forces.  Chad’s President Idriss Deby said in an interview published
June 8 by the French daily Le Figaro that Libya is increasingly
controlled by brigades of jihadists and Islamist militants
because it has no army, no institutions and no civil society.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Christopher Stephen in Tripoli at 
 cstephen9@bloomberg.net ;
Dana El Baltaji in Dubai at 
 delbaltaji@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Nancy Moran at 
 nmoran@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  