-- England Routs Argentina in Rugby Test; All Blacks Beat France
-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 2013-06-08T21:14:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-08/england-routs-argentina-in-rugby-test-all-blacks-beat-france.html
The  England  rugby team opened its
two-Test series in Argentina with a 32-3 rout of the Pumas, as
 New Zealand  defeated France 23-13 in a rematch of the 2011 World
Cup final.  David Strettle, Billy Twelvetrees, Ben Morgan and Billy
Vunipola touched down as England outscored Argentina four tries
to none in Salta. Freddie Burns kicked 12 points for the
visitors.  Burns booted a pair of penalties and Strettle touched down
to give England an 11-0 lead after 18 minutes. Twelvetrees and
Morgan went over, with Burns converting both, to push the lead
to 25-0. Bustos Moyano then put Argentina on the scoreboard with
a penalty on the last kick of the first half.  Moyano missed two penalties early in the second half,
drawing jeers from the home crowd, and Twelvetrees had a second
try disallowed by a forward pass. England’s Courtney Lawes was
sin-binned in the 69th minute, but Argentina couldn’t take
advantage. Vunipola’s converted try in the final seconds then
closed the scoring.  The teams conclude their series June 15 in Buenos Aires.  Aaron Smith  and Sam Cane scored first-half tries to help
top-ranked New Zealand beat France in the opener of a three-Test
series at Auckland’s  Eden Park . Aaron Cruden kicked two second-half penalties to seal the victory after France pulled within
four points.  The French went ahead on Wesley Fofana’s converted try and
New Zealand took until the 23rd minute to score its first points
with a penalty from Cruden. The All Blacks took a 10-8 lead 10
minutes later when Smith ran in a try that Cruden converted.  All Blacks  Maxime Machenaud’s penalty made it 10-10 before Cane scored
the All Blacks’ second try just before halftime. After Camille
Lopez pulled France within four points with a penalty, Cruden
gave the All Blacks a 10-point lead they never relinquished.  The teams meet again June 15 in Christchurch before the
series finale in New Plymouth a week later. New Zealand beat
France 8-7 in the World Cup final two years ago.  Host  South Africa  beat Italy 44-10 and  Samoa  defeated
 Scotland  27-17 in the opening round of a four-team tournament in
Durban.  Adriaan Strauss, JJ Engelbrecht,  Bryan Habana , Jean de Villiers and Bjorn Basson scored tries in South Africa’s rout,
while Alesana Tuilagi touched down twice as Samoa beat Scotland
for the first time in nine all-time meetings.  Samoa meets Italy and South Africa plays Scotland in the
second round of games on June 15.  Wales  earlier beat Japan 22-18 in the opener of their two-game series in Osaka. The home team, which outscored the Six
Nation champion by two tries to one, missed three kicks at goal.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in London at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  