-- German, Hungarian Towns Battle Floods; Elbe River Yet to Crest
-- B y   R i c h a r d   W e i s s
-- 2013-06-08T15:15:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-08/german-hungarian-towns-battle-floods-elbe-river-yet-to-crest.html
Cities and towns along the Elbe in
 Germany  and  Hungary  are preparing for the river to crest at
record levels amid the worst flood in the region in more than 10
years.  The full force of the deluge is expected to hit the German
town of Magdeburg in Saxony-Anhalt and Budapest in the coming
days after water subsided in parts of Germany,  Austria  and the
 Czech Republic , according to forecasters from ELWIS, the
country’s information portal for waterways.  Emergency workers and volunteers joined as many as 19,000
soldiers today in an attempt to limit damage from the flooding,
the worst on record in some parts of Germany.  The peak on the Elbe moved from Dresden in Saxony toward
Magdeburg in Saxony-Anhalt, where the inflow of the Saale river,
swollen to record levels, means the city faces water marks that
may top 2002 flood levels by half a meter (20 inches), according
to the state’s flood protection office. Rain forecast during the
weekend may prolong the critical situation in many areas.  The Danube, which already flooded the German towns of
Passau and Deggendorf, is expected to crest at a record level in
Budapest on June 10, Hungarian Prime Minister  Viktor Orban  said
at a press briefing today.  The losses insurers face from the flooding may be lower
than those resulting from a similar deluge in 2002 even as the
toll on local economies looms larger. Insured losses may reach 2
billion euros ($2.65 billion) to 3 billion euros, Michael Klien,
an analyst for Nomura Europe Finance NV in  London  said
yesterday, compared with 3.4 billion euros in 2002.  2002 ‘Parallels’  “Many people are making parallels to 2002,” said Clement Booth, a board member at  Allianz SE (ALV) , in a statement yesterday on
the Munich-based company’s website. “However, we are not seeing
the same extent of damage yet.”  That may be little consolation for the people of Budapest
and 1,200 year-old Magdeburg, where the Elbe reached a record
7.34 meters (24 feet) at 10 a.m.  “Our flood protection has been designed to resist 6.80
meters, not 7.40 meters,” Lutz Truemper, the major of Magdeburg
said today in a televised press conference.  The German army has deployed soliders and is using
helicopters to ferry equipment to areas where dikes are
especially endangered, it said on its website today.  “This is a very long peak that is applying constant
pressure to the dikes, that’s what makes it so dangerous,”
Benno Droege, a spokesman for the Federal Institute of Hydrology
BAFG, said on the Elbe situation, in a phone interview. “In
many regions in Saxony-Anhalt and Lower Saxony, we will
certainly see new record highs, possibly tens of inches above
the floods from 2002 or 1888 as the flood moves north.” Dikes
in Passau and Deggendorf are still at risk of collapsing.  Droege said the peak may not reach areas near the mouth of
the river at the  North Sea  before June 12. The Rhine river has
re-opened for shipping after being closed for much of the last
week, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Richard Weiss in Frankfurt at 
 rweiss5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  