-- Lions Get Tested by Reds After Opening Rugby Tour With Routs
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2013-06-09T13:16:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-08/lions-beat-queensland-reds-22-12-in-third-game-of-rugby-tour.html
The British and Irish Lions beat the
Queensland Reds 22-12 to maintain a 100 percent record on their
rugby tour to  Australia  as the team builds toward a Test series
against the Wallabies.  The Lions, who opened their 10-game trip with lopsided wins
against the Barbarians in Hong Kong and the Western Force in
Perth, were outscored two tries to one by the 2011 Super Rugby
champions in wet conditions last night at Brisbane’s Suncorp
Stadium. Fly-half Owen Farrell booted 17 points to extend the
tourists’ perfect goal-kicking record on Australian soil.  “It was great to get the win, that was a really tough
one,” Lions captain Sam Warburton, who missed the first two
games because of a knee injury, said in a televised interview.
“They came flying out of the blocks. It was great for us, you
don’t want to go into the end of the tour undercooked
defensively. We knew the Reds in attack would offer a lot and
they made it extremely tough for us.”  The combined team from the U.K. and Ireland will play
another three games before facing Australia in a best-of-three
contest starting June 22 in Brisbane. The third-ranked Wallabies
rallied for a 2-1 series win when the teams last met in 2001.  The Lions, who two days ago called up Scotland prop Ryan
Grant as cover after Cian Healy and Gethin Jenkins were ruled
out of the rest of the tour because of injuries, next face
Combined Country in Newcastle on June 11. Winger Tommy Bowe
broke a bone in his hand last night while center Manu Tuilagi
left the game with a shoulder injury. Reds players Beau Robinson
and Ben Lucas were both stretchered off.  ‘Physical Game’  “It was a physical game out there and you saw that with a
few bodies down,” Warburton added.  Simon Zebo  of Ireland will join the Lions to provide injury
cover for Bowe, who had surgery this morning and will be
assessed over the next few days.  Grant and fellow replacement prop Alex Corbisiero will make
their first appearances in two days after joining up with the
squad yesterday, the Lions said. Ireland center Brian O’Driscoll
will captain the midweek team against Combined Country and link
up with  Wales ’s Jamie Roberts in midfield. They played together
four times during the 2009 tour to South Africa. Scotland full-back Stuart Hogg will start at fly-half.  After scoring 128 points and 17 tries in routing the
Barbarians and Force, the Lions only had about a third of the
possession in the first 12 minutes against the fast-starting
Reds and fell behind when winger Luke Morahan returned a kick 70
meters (76 yards) to score under the posts.  Running Reds  “The only way we could get an edge over them was by
running them around and doing what we do best, which is running
teams off their feet,” said Reds captain Quade Cooper. “We got
very close to them. We’re not happy about losing but the effort
that was shown was great.”  Winger Alex Cuthbert almost put the Lions ahead when he
dived for the corner following a break by Bowe. The television
match official ruled that the Welshman had been bundled into
touch before placing the ball over the line.  Farrell kicked the Lions ahead with a 14th-minute penalty.
The English fly-half’s high punt was then caught by Morahan, who
fended off three tacklers, including Warburton, on a run before
chipping the ball over Stuart Hogg and touching down under the
posts. Cooper converted to give the Reds a 7-3 lead.  Tries Reviewed  Farrell made it 7-6 and was then ruled to have knocked on
by the TMO when he tried to ground the ball over the try line in
the 33rd minute. At the resultant scrum, scrum-half Ben Youngs
ripped the ball off Jake Schatz before diving on it over the
line. The try was awarded after a review by the TMO, who was
called into action again when Warburton was ruled to have been
held up as he tried to finish an attack started by fellow
Welshman George North.  The Reds were penalized on the stroke of halftime and
Farrell was successful with his fourth kick at goal to give his
team an eight-point advantage at the break.  Farrell put the Lions 19-7 ahead in the 50th minute and the
Reds scored their second try 12 minutes later. Rod Davies broke
down the wing and passed inside to scrum-half Nick Frisby, who
scampered to the line unopposed. Mike Harris’s conversion
attempt hit the post to leave the Reds seven points behind.  With the Reds needing a converted try to tie the score,
Irish lock Paul O’Connell forced a ruck penalty and Farrell
kicked the Lions 10 points clear with three minutes left.  “It was a tough game and the weather conditions didn’t
help,” Lions head coach Warren Gatland said in a televised
interview. “I thought we showed great character. They threw
everything at us in the first 20 but we toughed it out. They
kept digging for what was required.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  