-- New Zealand Defeats France 23-13 in Rugby Series Opener
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2013-06-08T17:29:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-08/new-zealand-defeats-france-23-13-in-series-opening-rugby-test.html
New Zealand  beat France 23-13 in the
opening match of their three-Test series, the teams’ first
meeting since the All Blacks won the 2011  Rugby World Cup  final.  Top-ranked New Zealand scored two converted tries in the
first half at Auckland’s  Eden Park  and Aaron Cruden kicked two
second-half penalties to seal the victory after France had
pulled within four points.  The French went ahead on Wesley Fofana’s converted try and
New Zealand took until the 23rd minute to score its first points
with a penalty from Cruden. The All Blacks went 10-7 up 10
minutes later when scrum-half  Aaron Smith  ran in a try that
Cruden converted.  Maxime Machenaud’s penalty made it 10-10 before open-side
flanker Sam Cane linked up with Smith to score the All Blacks’
second try just before half time. After Camille Lopez pulled
France within four points with a penalty, Cruden booted the All
Blacks into a 10-point lead they never relinquished.  The teams meet again June 15 in Christchurch before the
series finale in New Plymouth a week later.  Host South Africa beat Italy 44-10 and Samoa defeated
Scotland 27-17 in the opening round of a four-team tournament
in Durban.  Adriaan Strauss, JJ Engelbrecht,  Bryan Habana , Jean de Villiers and Bjorn Basson scored tries in South Africa’s rout,
while Alesana Tuilagi touched down twice as Samoa beat Scotland
for the first time in nine all-time meetings.  Samoa meets Italy and South Africa plays Scotland in the
second round of games on June 15.  Wales  earlier beat Japan 22-18 in the opener of their two-game series in Osaka. The home team, which outscored the Six
Nation champion by two tries to one, missed three kicks at goal.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  