-- Newark’s Booker Makes Bid for Lautenberg U.S. Senate Seat
-- B y   T e r r e n c e   D o p p   a n d   E l i s e   Y o u n g
-- 2013-06-09T04:00:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-08/newark-s-booker-makes-bid-for-lautenberg-u-s-senate-seat.html
Newark Mayor Cory Booker, positioning
himself as a  Washington  outsider, said he’ll run in a “ramped-up” Democratic primary for the seat left open by the death of
New Jersey’s U.S. Senator Frank Lautenberg.  Booker, 44, made his bid official in Newark, New Jersey’s
most-populous city, where he has presided since 2006. In
December, he said he was exploring a Senate run instead of
challenging Republican Governor Chris Christie’s re-election
bid. Booker would be the state’s first black U.S. senator.  Lautenberg, an 89-year-old Democrat who didn’t plan to seek
a sixth term in 2014, died June 3 of complications from viral
pneumonia. Christie, 50, set an Oct. 16 special election for the
Senate seat. Candidates must submit 1,000 voter signatures by
tomorrow to qualify for the Aug. 13 primary ballot.  “This is not what any of us wanted or expected,” said
Booker, who held an announcement at the offices of Audible Inc.,
a provider of audio over the Internet that moved its
headquarters to  Newark  in 2007, and another in Willingboro.
“There’s an old saying -- men plan and God laughs. So we’re
going to have to adjust to this ramped-up timeline.”  Booker called the timing of the August primary “crazy”
and said he expects the campaign to be “an around-the-clock
drill.” He said he won’t run negative ads against fellow
Democrats in order to win the nomination.  Democratic Primary  Booker grabbed national attention when  Facebook Inc. (FB)  co-founder  Mark Zuckerberg  pledged $100 million to the city’s
schools during a 2010 appearance on Oprah Winfrey’s television
show. Zuckerberg, 29, and his wife, Priscilla Chan, are holding
a fundraiser for Booker “in the coming days,” Sarah Feinberg,
a Facebook spokeswoman, said by e-mail.  Zuckerberg hasn’t declared a party affiliation. He held his
first political fundraiser on Feb. 13, when he welcomed
Christie, who is seeking a second term in November, to his home
in Palo Alto,  California .  Booker is the second Democrat to formally enter the special
Senate race. U.S. Representative Rush Holt, a physicist and
five-time winner of the television game show “Jeopardy!,” said
on June 6 that he was running. U.S. Representative Frank Pallone
also has expressed interest.  State voters haven’t elected a Republican to the Senate
since Clifford Case won in 1972, and have backed Democrats for
president since 1992. Registered Democrats outnumber Republicans
by more than 700,000, while the 2.6 million independents top
both parties. Only one Republican has entered the Senate race,
former Bogota, New Jersey, Mayor Steve Lonegan.  Rhodes Scholar  Whoever wins the special election also faces the prospect
of a second statewide campaign to retain it next year.  Booker, a graduate of Stanford University and Yale Law
School, is considered the frontrunner for the seat. A Rhodes
scholar, he rose from the City Council to win the top job in the
municipality of almost 278,000 residents. He won re-election in
May 2010.  He was joined at both announcements by former U.S. Senator
Bill Bradley, a Democrat who served in the senate from 1979 to
1997 and is known as an elder statesman in New Jersey politics.
He said Booker is a person who sees politics as a “noble
enterprise, not a dirty business.”  The mayor’s efforts to turn around Newark have drawn
investments from Wall Street financiers, including hedge-fund
manager  Bill Ackman . Booker was a speaker at the 2012 Democratic
National Convention and helped lead its platform committee.  $1.6 Million  “There is another city in America that needs some change:
Too many have come to see Washington, D.C., as a place where
nothing can get done,” Booker said in Newark. “People believe
that Washington is a place that is not sticking up for American
families, taking on difficult problems or improving the quality
of life in our communities. This has to change.”  He cited $1 billion in economic growth and advancements in
public safety and quality of life in Newark as accomplishments
during his time as mayor. He said he’d initially planned to
finish his term before moving on, though he said he’ll continue
living in the city.  Booker has $1.6 million in hand for the campaign, according
to Federal Election Commission filings. That compares with
almost $800,000 for Holt and more than $3.7 million held by
Pallone, FEC records show. Recent reports for Lonegan, who ran
for Congress in 1998, weren’t available on the agency website.  Faced with two rivals with years of experience in
Washington, Booker has chosen to cast himself in the role of
outsider and change agent, said government professor Peter Woolley of Fairleigh Dickinson University in Madison, New
Jersey.  “That’s his big advantage,” Woolley said yesterday in an
interview. “The other two guys have been in Washington a long
time and he’s the guy who can bring change. That’s a popular
theme in American politics.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Terrence Dopp in Trenton at 
 tdopp@bloomberg.net ;
Elise Young in Trenton at 
 eyoung30@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  