-- Obama Seeks China Cooperation on Hacking That Xi Denies
-- B y   W i t h   a s s i s t a n c e   f r o m   C h r i s   S t r o h m
-- 2013-06-09T00:31:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-08/obama-seeks-china-cooperation-on-hacking-that-xi-denies.html
U.S. President  Barack Obama  told
Chinese President Xi Jinping continued “large-scale theft” of
U.S. property from Chinese cyberattacks is inconsistent with the
cooperative tone set during two days of talks.  White House national security adviser Tom Donilon said the
two leaders held extensive conversations about cybersecurity
yesterday as they wrapped up eight hours of informal discussions
at a California desert estate.  Obama detailed for his Chinese counterpart the damage the
U.S. has suffered from widespread and continuing intrusions,
saying that cybertheft would be “an inhibitor to the
relationship reaching its full potential,” Donilon said.  Officials unveiled the first results of the cooperative
spirit yesterday, announcing an agreement to work together to
reduce hydrofluorocarbons, a greenhouse gas. White House
officials cast the move as a significant step to address climate
change, ahead of talks in Bangkok later this month. Donilon also
said the two sides found “quite a bit of alignment” on
stopping North Korea’s nuclear program.  The U.S. president, dressed in casual clothes, said the
talks were “terrific” as he passed reporters yesterday during
a stroll with interpreters over lawns of the Sunnyland estate in
Rancho Mirage,  California .  Informal Summit  The visit, billed as an informal “shirt-sleeve” summit by
the White House, was the second meeting for the two leaders.
Over a candle-lit dinner cooked by American celebrity chef Bobby
Flay, a morning stroll and afternoon tea with Xi’s wife, the two
leaders held wide-ranging conversations about economic, security
and military issues.  Since taking office, Obama has sought to redirect U.S.
attention toward Asia after a lull in interest in the region
during the Bush administration. In Xi, who took office in March,
White House officials see a leader with a more informal style
who is more open to engagement with the U.S.  Top U.S. officials, including Treasury Secretary Jack Lew,
Secretary of State John Kerry and Donilon, have traveled to
 China  for talks over the past three months, part of an effort to
engage Xi early in his term.  For this meeting, White House officials worked to set a
casual tone in an effort to foster a sense of personal diplomacy
between the two men even as long-running international disputes
undermine the relationship between the two nations.  U.S. officials have accused the Chinese government of being
behind a series of hacker attacks designed to steal trade
secrets and potentially disable computers that operate banks,
power grids and telecommunications systems.  No Doubt  Obama made clear to the Chinese that “the U.S. did not
have any doubt about what’s going on here,” Donilon said.
“Resolving this issue is key to U.S.-China relations.”  A Pentagon report in May for the first time accused China’s
military of penetrating U.S. computer networks to steal
sensitive data. Mandiant Corp., an Alexandria, Virginia-based
computer security firm, released a report in February saying the
People’s Liberation Army in China may be behind the hacking of
at least 141 companies worldwide since 2006.  Xi rejected charges that China is responsible for anti-U.S.
cyber-assaults, saying that his nation was also a victim and
calling for cooperation on the matter.  “The Chinese government is firm in upholding cyber
security and we have major concerns about cyber security,” he
said.  The leaders wrapped up the talks yesterday afternoon, with
no formal statements to the press. Xi departed California, while
Obama planned to spend the evening relaxing at Sunnylands.  Their next formal discussions will probably take place in
September when both leaders travel to St. Petersburg for a G20
summit. Xi invited Obama to visit China for a similar informal
meeting and aides are working on scheduling official state
visits in both countries. 