-- Palace Malice Outruns Oxbow, Favorite Orb in Belmont Stakes
-- B y   N a n c y   K e r c h e v a l
-- 2013-06-09T04:00:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-08/palace-malice-wins-belmont-stakes-ahead-of-oxbow-favorite-orb.html
Palace Malice, running without the
blinkers that hindered a previous performance, won the Belmont
Stakes ahead of Preakness Stakes winner Oxbow and  Kentucky  Derby
champion Orb.  Palace Malice, ridden by Hall of Fame jockey  Mike Smith ,
was one of a record five horses saddled by trainer  Todd Pletcher 
for the third leg of thoroughbred horse racing’s Triple Crown at
Belmont Park in Elmont,  New York .  Considered one of the best 2-year-olds in Pletcher’s barn
last year, Palace Malice lost six of his first seven starts.  “I kept saying I know there’s a big one there; I felt like
he had a big one in him,” said Pletcher, who recorded his
second Belmont win yesterday. “I kept waiting for it to
materialize in the afternoon. He got close a couple of times,
but didn’t quite get it done.”  Palace Malice came out of the gate to set the pace at the
rain-soaked Derby at  Churchill Downs (CHDN)  in Louisville, Kentucky, on
May 4 before finishing 12th. Pletcher didn’t enter the 3-year-old colt in the Preakness on May 18.  “He just got rank with the blinkers and a sloppy track,”
Pletcher said. “He looked like he was in a good comfortable
rhythm (in the Belmont), and that was the main focus.”  Blinkers Off  Palace Malice covered the 1 1/2-mile distance in two
minutes, 30.70 seconds and finished 3 1/4 lengths ahead of Oxbow
after overtaking the second-place runner in the final furlong.
Orb, the 2-1 favorite, was five lengths behind the winner.  “We took the blinkers off,” said Smith, who won the
second Belmont of his career. “Today he was just enjoying the
trip. I was full of run. The whole key was getting him into his
rhythm.”  Palace Malice returned $29.60 on a $2 bet to win, $11.20 to
place and $6.70 to show. Oxbow paid $9.90 and $6.10 and Orb
returned $3.90.  Oxbow, who battled for the early lead with Freedom Child,
was a third co-favorite in the race at 9-1.  “I thought I was dead midway down the backside, they were
suicidal fractions and he never got any break,” said jockey
Gary Stevens, who rode in the Triple Crown after a seven-year
retirement. “Midway around the turn, I said, ‘Well, maybe.’ But
I have ridden long enough to know that he was going to walk home
the last quarter of a mile.”  Orb’s Race  Orb, the favorite in all three races, could muster only
fourth place in the Preakness to blow his chance of being the
first Triple Crown winner since Affirmed in 1978.  “He made a good run around the turn, but we had given up
so much,” said trainer Shug McGaughey. “The speed horses held
all up front and we just couldn’t catch them.”  Orb, ridden by Joel Rosario, was 10 lengths off the lead at
the far turn when the colt started to pick up the pace to
challenge the frontrunners.  “I don’t think he got tired. He put a pretty good run in
to get to where he was, and those horses just weren’t coming
back,” McGaughey said. “If they had come back, we’d have been
fine. They shook loose and we were just too far back to catch
them.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nancy Kercheval in Washington at 
 nkercheval@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  