-- Russia Offers to Replace Austria as UN Golan Peacekeepers
-- B y   S a n g w o n   Y o o n   a n d   C a r o l i n e   A l e x a n d e r
-- 2013-06-08T00:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-08/russia-offers-to-replace-austria-as-un-golan-peacekeepers.html
Russian President  Vladimir Putin 
offered to provide troops for the UN peacekeeping force in the
 Golan Heights  after Austria decided to withdraw its soldiers,
citing escalating risks from  Syria ’s civil war.  “Looking at the difficult situation today in the Golan
Heights, we could take over from the outgoing Austrian
contingent on the demarcation line between the Israeli forces
and the Syrian army,” Putin said  yesterday  at a ceremony for
military officers. “Of course, this would happen only if the
regional powers support the idea, and if the UN secretary-general asks us to do this.”  Austrian Defense Minister Gerald Klug said June 6 the risks
to his country’s soldiers had become “unacceptable” after
clashes in the area between Syrian government forces and
opposition fighters.  Austria  has been the biggest provider of
troops to a United Nations contingent enforcing a buffer zone
between Syria and  Israel  since 1974.  Putin’s offer comes as  Russia  and the U.S. push for a
conference next month in Geneva to encourage negotiations
between Syrian President Bashar al-Assad’s regime and opposition
leaders.  While the UN is “grateful” for Putin’s proposal,
countries that are permanent members of the Security Council
aren’t allowed to participate in the force under the agreement
between Syria and Israel that created the peacekeeping mission,
 Martin Nesirky , a spokesman for UN Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon, said yesterday.  ‘Dire Straits’  Vitaly Churkin, Russia’s UN ambassador, said Russia is
“obviously aware” of the 39-year-old document that created the
United Nations Disengagement Observer Force, or UNDOF, after the
1973 Arab-Israeli War.  “We believe that times have changed,” Churkin told
reporters yesterday in  New York , acknowledging that Putin’s
offer would require action allowing permanent  Security Council 
members to take part. “Now the context is completely different
and UNDOF seems to be in dire straits, so we are offering to
essentially rescue UNDOF.”  Earlier yesterday, Russia supported a Security Council
statement expressing  “grave concern”  for recent heavy fighting
in al-Qusair, a city near the border with Lebanon. Russia, the
major arms supplier to Assad’s government, had blocked some
earlier Security Council proposals about the Syrian crisis.  “It’s the first product of the Security Council on Syria
for many months, apart from press statements on various
terrorist incidents,” said Mark Lyall Grant, Britain’s UN envoy
and this month’s Council president. “So I think it’s
significant, and it’s a sign that perhaps the Security Council
is coming back together a little bit on the Syrian issue.”  Two-Track Approach  The UN’s Department of Peacekeeping Operations is pursuing
a two-track approach, seeking troops for the Golan Heights
mission from both existing participants and new contributor
nations, Grant told reporters. He spoke after UN peacekeeping
chief  Herve Ladsous  briefed the Security Council.  Grant said he didn’t see an “immediate” prospect of a
Russian deployment, as Ladsous “appeared confident” there will
be other contributors.  Syrian government forces and their Lebanese Hezbollah
allies on June 5 seized control of al-Qusair.  Hope for a negotiated end to the Syrian crisis may have
died with the victory of government forces in al-Qusair, the
 Institute for the Study of War  said in a report.  ‘Unswerving Support’  “That the regime was able to execute such an operation at
this stage of the war testifies to its resilience and
adaptability, and, more importantly, to the unswerving support
of its allies Russia, Iran and Hezbollah,” said  Elizabeth
O’Bagy , a senior analyst at the Washington-based group, and
author of the report titled “The Fall of Al-Qusair”. “This
portends the failure of the summit and an end to international
efforts to resolve the conflict through negotiations.”  Government control of al-Qusair, about 30 kilometers (19
miles) southwest of Homs, secures lines of communication from
Damascus to the coast, cuts cross-border weapons supplies for
the rebels and provides a staging ground for efforts to retake
opposition areas to the north and east, the report said.  Britain and  France  plan to arm the Syrian rebels if the
Geneva meeting fails to make progress, according to unidentified
U.K. officials cited by the Financial Times on May 31. The same
officials said Britain and France expected the U.S. to also send
weapons if the talks failed.  Russia’s Foreign Minister  Sergei Lavrov  said in comments
broadcast on state television yesterday that arming the rebels
was “the road to nowhere.”  Aid Request  The UN yesterday asked for an additional $2.9 billion to
meet the needs of Syrians in 2013 both inside the country and
abroad. The figure was revised upward to $4.4 billion from $1.5
billion. So far, the UN says it has received $1.24 billion of
the total amount required.  One in three Syrians is now in need of urgent assistance,
UN humanitarian aid chief  Valerie Amos  said in beginning the
world body’s biggest-ever aid appeal. Between January and April,
the number of people displaced within Syria more than doubled,
and the situation in the region has worsened with over 1.6
million Syrians sheltering in neighboring countries and in North
Africa, Amos said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sangwon Yoon in Seoul at 
 syoon32@bloomberg.net ;
Caroline Alexander in London at 
 calexander1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  