-- Serena Williams Beats Sharapova to Reclaim French Open
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 2013-06-08T16:05:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-08/serena-williams-beats-sharapova-to-reclaim-french-open.html
Serena Williams  dethroned defending
champion  Maria Sharapova  to claim her first  French Open  title in
more than a decade.  Williams beat the second-seeded Russian, 6-4, 6-4 on the
main Court Philippe Chatrier at Roland Garros in Paris.  The 31-year-old American, the oldest woman’s champion since
tennis turned professional in 1968, also won the title in 2002,
when she beat her elder sister  Venus Williams . Williams hasn’t
lost to Sharapova since 2004, when the then 17-year-old beat her
in the Wimbledon final and at the year-end WTA Championships.
Since then, Williams has won all of their 13 matches.  “It was very difficult today, I was very nervous,”
Williams said in a courtside interview in French. “But I won,
and I can’t believe it. I can’t believe I now have 16 Grand Slam
titles, I am so excited.”  Williams’ 16th Grand Slam singles title comes a year after
her first opening-round defeat in a major to then 111th-ranked
Virginie Razzano in Paris. With the help of French coach  Patrick
Mouratoglou , Williams has since only lost three matches and won
Wimbledon, the  U.S. Open , the WTA Championships and a singles
and doubles gold medal at the London Olympics. Today’s victory
extends her win streak to 31, the longest in her career.  “I played against a really tough champion today,”
Sharapova said in a courtside interview. “She’s been playing so
well today, and in fact for the whole year.”  Sharapova started aggressively, clenching her fist after
every shot and shouting “Come on” after every winning rally.
After saving four break points in the opening game, Sharapova
broke for a 2-0 lead as Williams missed a few first serves.  Showing Emotion  Williams, who had been quiet during the first 15 minutes,
showed her own emotions as she clawed the break back with a
smash. Struggling with her ball toss in the swirling wind,
Sharapova dropped serve to hand Williams a 3-2 lead.  Serving at 4-3, 30-30 Williams was broken again as
Sharapova’s deep forehands drew two forehand errors. Unable to
take advantage, the Russian dropped serve in the next game as
the two women engaged in long baseline rallies. Williams served
out the set as Sharapova sent a backhand wide.  In the opening game of the second set, Sharapova fended off
five break points as her groundstrokes drew multiple errors. The
Russian relented in her next service game, getting broken on a
backhand wide. Williams then easily held to love for a 3-1 lead.    Williams took a 4-2 lead with her fifth ace, and then
extended it 5-3 with her second love game of the set as she
struck two more aces. Serving for the match at 5-4, Williams
sunk to her knees after she won the match with her 10th ace.  29 Winners   Williams produced 29 winners, including 10 aces. Sharapova
had 10 winners and 2 aces. Williams made 21 unforced errors,
four more than her opponent.  Williams is now two major singles titles behind  Chris Evert 
and  Martina Navratilova . Margaret Court Smith holds the record
with 24 major singles championships, while  Steffi Graf  won 22.  Today’s final was the first at Roland Garros between the
No. 1 and No. 2 ranked players on the women’s tour since 1995.
Williams had spent 6 hours and 47 minutes on court en route to
the final, including a 46-minute semifinal against last year’s
runner-up  Sara Errani  of  Italy . She was tested in a three-set
quarterfinal against former winner  Svetlana Kuznetsova  of
 Russia .  Sharapova, 26, spent three hours longer on court on the way
to the championship match. She was tested in the quarterfinals
by former top-ranked Jelena Jankovic of  Serbia , coming back from
losing the first set 6-0 for the first time in her career.  The French Open’s slow, high-bouncing red clay surface has
been the most difficult to crack for Williams because it
neutralizes her powerful serve and groundstrokes and gives
opponents more time to react. Having grown up on U.S. hard
courts, in recent years she has adapted her game on clay by
sliding into her shots more and playing more angles.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Rossingh at  Roland Garros  at  drossingh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  