-- Serena Aims for Federer After Taking French Title
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 2013-06-08T22:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-08/serena-aims-for-federer-after-taking-french-title.html
Serena Williams  won in straight sets
against defending champion  Maria Sharapova  at the  French Open 
for her 16th Grand Slam singles tennis title. Now she’s focusing
on Wimbledon and Roger Federer’s mark.  Australia’s  Margaret Court  is the overall record-holder in
tennis with 24 major singles titles, while Federer of
 Switzerland  won a men’s record-extending 17th in London last
year. Williams is the defending champion at the world’s only
grass-court Grand Slam, which starts in two weeks.  “My goal is to get to 17,” Williams said in an interview
at Roland Garros three hours after she’d fired 10 aces on her
way to her second title in Paris with a 6-4, 6-4 victory against
Sharapova.  “How awesome would it be if I could do it at Wimbledon,
that would be great,” the 31-year-old American said. “But the
competition is really tough. It’s not going to be easy for me,
and I’m going to get really serious about my game and get really
focused in order to ever catch  Roger Federer .”  According to her coaching consultant,  Patrick Mouratoglou ,
the records of  Chris Evert  and  Martina Navratilova , who each won
18 major singles titles, and even Steffi Graf’s tally of 22
Grand Slam championships are also within grasp.  “For Serena, nothing is out of reach,” Mouratoglou said
in an interview in the players’ lounge shortly after her win.
“If she wants something, it’s very difficult to stop her.”  For now, Williams is concentrating on title No. 17 and
nothing more.  Williams’s Goals  “My goal is to get to 17,” said Williams, who leaves
Paris with her first French Open title since 2002. “If I get
there, my next goal will be to get to 18.”  The championship came a year after she lost in the opening
round to then 111th-ranked Virginie Razzano of  France . In the
days after her earliest defeat in a major, Williams sought the
help of Mouratoglou. Williams keeps an apartment in Paris, not
far away from his tennis academy.  “When I lose, all hell breaks loose,” Williams said,
adding the loss to Razzano had been “a big motivation” in her
success since then.  With Mouratoglou, the 42-year-old son of former EDF
Energies Nouvelles Chairman Paris Mouratoglou, by her side,
she’s won Wimbledon, the  U.S. Open , the year-end WTA
Championships and now her first French title in 11 years.  Williams also captured singles and doubles gold medals at
the 2012 London Olympics. Her 13th consecutive victory against
Sharapova extended her overall win streak to 31, the longest in
her career.  Men’s Final  “She played strong, she played deep, served really good,
served better than I did,” Sharapova said in a news conference.  The 26-year-old from  Russia , one of the best returners in
the women’s game, said Williams had been “serving harder than
 David Ferrer  when he gets to the final of  Roland Garros .”  Ferrer plays the men’s final today against seven-time
champion and fellow Spaniard  Rafael Nadal .  In her last two service games alone, Williams produced five
of her 10 aces, hitting shots as fast as 198 kilometers per hour
(123 miles per hour).  “She played her best tennis at the end of every set,
because she’s a champion,” Mouratoglou said. “She serves three
aces in the last game -- 198 kilometers per hour on the match
point. It says everything.”  The secret to Williams’s success at the age of 31 is her
consistency, according to Sharapova.  Williams’s Consistency  “She’s able to come in and produce it day in, day out,”
said Sharapova, who hasn’t beaten Williams since 2004. “It’s
not like she’s changed something extremely in her game. She’s
always had a big serve. It’s just become much more consistent.”  Williams feels that, even at her age, she’s not done
improving just yet.  “It’s a big motivation,” she said. “The day I feel that
I cannot improve, that’s going to be a problem for me as I’m
going to have to really debate whether I should keep playing.
But I feel like as of now, I can do a lot of things better. I
feel like I can be more fit. I feel like there is still a level
of improvement that I can reach.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Rossingh in Paris at 
 drossingh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  