-- Syrian Army Captures Village Near Qusair as Assad Extends Gains
-- B y   G l e n   C a r e y
-- 2013-06-08T15:20:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-08/syrian-army-captures-village-near-qusair-as-assad-extends-gains.html
The Syrian Army retook the village of
al-Buweida al-Sharqiya, north of al-Qusair, as forces loyal to
President Bashar al-Assad extended their military gains against
rebels fighting to topple the government.  The army “restored security and stability” in the village
after “eliminating the last gatherings of terrorists,” the
 Syrian Arab News Agency  said, citing an unidentified government
official. The Coventry, U.K.-based opposition Syrian Observatory
for Human Rights reported intense fighting on the outskirts of
al-Buweida today.  The latest reverse for rebels fighting a two-year war to
oust Assad comes after they lost the strategic city of al-Qusair
this week. Government control of al-Qusair, about 30 kilometers
(19 miles) southwest of Homs, secures the road from Damascus to
Lebanon, cuts cross-border weapons supplies for the rebels and
provides a staging ground for further offensives.  In al-Qusair, the International Committee of the Red Cross
has started to evacuate victims from the fighting, Al Jazeera
satellite television reported. Thousands of civilians, some of
them wounded, remain trapped in the city, according to the
Syrian National Council, part of the National Coalition, which
is the main political opposition.  Otaibah, to the east of Damascus, fell after a 37-day
battle, and the rebels have also lost the southern town of
Sanamein, Aziza in the north and ground near the city of Aleppo.  Seven people were killed by a suicide car bomber attack in
the al-Adawiya neighborhood in Homs, SANA reported, citing an
unidentified official. At least 80,000 people have been killed
in  Syria  since the uprising began in 2011, millions of others
have been displaced and reports of human rights abuses on both
sides are increasing, the United Nations said this week.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Glen Carey in Riyadh at 
 gcarey8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  