-- Yen Climbs Most in Almost Four Years as Bearish Bets Are Unwound
-- B y   J o s e p h   C i o l l i
-- 2013-06-08T04:00:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-08/yen-climbs-most-in-almost-four-years-as-bearish-bets-are-unwound.html
The yen rallied the most in almost
four years against the dollar as mounting speculation about the
 Federal Reserve ’s stimulus plans sparked volatile trading and
spurred investors to unwind bearish bets on Japan’s currency.  The 17-nation euro reached a three-month high against the
dollar as European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  said the
region’s economy should recover this year. The U.S. currency had
its biggest weekly loss since September versus the euro even as
a report yesterday showed U.S. jobs growth was higher than
forecast last month. The  Bank of Japan , which bolstered bearish
yen bets with 7 trillion yen ($70 billion) per month of bond-buying, will announce its next policy decision on June 11.  “Given the incredible number of people that were short the
yen, it needed to retrace at some point and either book profits
or curtail over-exuberance,” Ravi Bharadwaj, a senior market
analyst in  Washington  at Western Union Business Solutions, a
unit of Western Union Co., said yesterday in a telephone
interview. “The actual efficacy of the BOJ drastically
increasing its quantitative-easing policies is still very much
unverified.”  The yen appreciated 2.9 percent to 97.56 per dollar this
week in  New York , the biggest gain since the five days ended
July 10, 2009. It touched 94.99 yesterday, the strongest since
April 4. The yen rose 1.3 percent to 128.96 per euro and reached
the highest level since April 16. The shared currency gained 1.7
percent to $1.3218.  Price Swings  JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s G-7  Volatility Index , based on
currency option premiums, reached 10.62 percent yesterday, the
highest level since June 2012.  The yen has fallen 9 percent this year, the worst performer
among 10 developed-market currencies tracked by Bloomberg
Correlation-Weighted Indexes. The euro has advanced 4 percent in
the biggest increase, while the greenback has climbed 3.8
percent.  The British pound was the second-best performer this week
among the dollar’s 16 most-traded counterparts tracked by
Bloomberg, trailing only the yen. Sterling appreciated 2.4
percent versus the U.S. currency. The  New Zealand  and Australian
dollars were the two biggest losers, both sliding 0.7 percent.  Futures traders decreased their wagers that the yen will
decline against the dollar,  figures  from the Washington-based
Commodity Futures Trading Commission show. The difference in the
number of wagers by  hedge funds  and other large speculators on a
decline in the yen compared with those on an increase -- so-called net shorts -- was 82,744 on June 4, compared with net
shorts of 99,769 a week earlier.  Pound Bets  Futures traders added to bets the pound will decline
against its U.S. peer, giving them their most bearish position
in data starting in 1992.  Net shorts  on sterling versus the
greenback totaled 77,738 on June 4, versus 74,525 a week
earlier.  The yen touched a seven-week high June 6 as it crossed a
key level at 98.85 before breaching channel support at 98.03,
according to  MacNeil Curry , chief rates and currencies technical
strategist at Bank of America Corp. The market was betting the
dollar would gain prior to the move, with futures traders last
week  increasing  their bets that the yen will weaken against it
to the most since July 2007.  “The weakness in dollar-yen, as the cross took out stops,
pushed a positioning clear-out that took place across the Group
of 10,” Brian Daingerfield, a currency strategist at Royal Bank
of Scotland Group Plc’s RBS Securities unit in  Stamford ,
Connecticut, said in a June 6 telephone interview. “The
catalyst of broad-based dollar weakness was dollar-yen breaking
through some important levels on the downside.” Stops are
orders that a triggered when prices reached pre-set levels.  Payrolls Data  The dollar pared its weekly loss against the euro yesterday
after a Labor Department report showed U.S. employers added
175,000 jobs in May and the  unemployment rate  rose to 7.6
percent as the  labor force  expanded. The data sustained
speculation the Fed is moving toward reducing its monetary-stimulus program.  “Expectations of tapering is a positive for the  U.S.
dollar  as it means a slowing in the expansion of the Fed’s
balance sheet,” Eric Viloria, a senior currency strategist at
Gain Capital Group LLC in New York, said yesterday by e-mail.
“The May nonfarm payroll number was better than expected and
the increase in the  unemployment rate  also coincides with an
increase in labor-force participation.”  Economists cut their estimates for how much the central
bank will reduce the amount of its monthly asset purchases, a
Bloomberg survey shows. Policy makers led by Chairman  Ben S.
Bernanke  will trim their so-called quantitative easing program
to $65 billion a month at the Oct. 29-30 meeting of the  Federal
Open Market Committee , from the current level of $85 billion,
according to the median estimate in the survey of 59 economists
this week.  The dollar will strengthen by the end of the year to $1.26
per euro and 106 per yen, according to the median forecasts in
Bloomberg News surveys of analysts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joseph Ciolli in New York at 
 jciolli@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  