-- ABB Loses CTO Banerjee After Hogan’s Decision to Step Down
-- B y   P a t r i c k   W i n t e r s
-- 2013-05-13T13:41:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-13/abb-loses-cto-banerjee-in-wake-of-hogan-s-decision-to-step-down.html
ABB Ltd. (ABBN) , which last week announced
the surprise departure of Chief Executive Officer Joe Hogan,
said Prith Banerjee, board member and head of technology, is
quitting to return to the U.S. after one year in the post.  There is no link between the departures of Hogan and his
technology chief, and the timing is “pure coincidence,” said
Antonio Ligi, a spokesman for ABB, the world’s biggest supplier
of power grids. Banerjee is leaving to spend more time with his
family, Ligi said by phone. ABB shares fell 0.9 percent to
$21.32 as of 3:38 p.m. in Zurich, where the company is based.  Banerjee, a U.S. citizen hired by Hogan, oversaw ABB’s
development of a high-voltage, direct-current circuit breaker
during his short tenure. The circuit breaker, cited as one of
2013’s 10 breakthrough technologies by  MIT Technology Review , is
used to build grids that more efficiently integrate energy from
distant power sources such as offshore wind farms, and followed
years of research by ABB engineers.  “Prith has brought new momentum to ABB’s research and
development,” Hogan said in a statement. “I regret Prith’s
decision to leave.”  Claes Rytoft, head of technology at the Power Systems
division, will be interim Chief Technology Officer as ABB
searches internally and externally to fill the position.  The chief technology officer, a former electrical
engineering professor at the  University of Illinois  and  Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ)  executive, is taking a position outside the company
and will leave in the next few weeks, ABB said.  Finance Chief  Hogan, the first American to lead ABB in its 120-year
history, will step down for “private reasons” once a successor
is found, after five years at the helm during which he spent $20
billion on investments and acquisitions to broaden the company’s
reach and portfolio.  Hogan didn’t resign because of ill health and there was no
conflict with the board or chairman, Ligi said last week.  The February appointment of Eric Elzvik to the role of
chief financial officer, after a career of almost three decades
at the company, may lend a degree of stability to management as
Hogan is replaced.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrew Noel in London at 
 anoel@bloomberg.net ;
Patrick Winters in Zurich at 
 pwinters3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Thiel at 
 sthiel1@bloomberg.net  