-- Maduro Accuses Empresas Polar of Sabotaging Venezuela’s Economy
-- B y   J o s e   O r o z c o
-- 2013-05-13T04:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-13/maduro-accuses-empresas-polar-of-sabotaging-venezuela-s-economy.html
Venezuela  President Nicolas Maduro
accused billionaire Lorenzo Mendoza, the owner of the nation’s
largest privately-held company, of exacerbating the worst
shortages in at least four years and fueling inflation.  Empresas Polar SA, which produces everything from beer to
rice, has cut output to make the economic situation worse,
Maduro said yesterday, resuming a conflict with a company often
rebuked by former leader  Hugo Chavez .  “We have many signs that Polar has been cutting production
and hiding products, pretending that nothing is happening, to
create shortages of products such as pre-cooked corn flour,”
Maduro said on state television. Corn flour is used to make
arepas, or patties, a breakfast staple in the South American
nation.  Venezuela’s scarcity index, which measures the amount of
goods that are out of stock in the market, rose to 21.3 percent
last month, the highest since the central bank started tracking
the measure in April 2009. As shortages mount, inflation has
accelerated, reaching 29.4 percent last month from 18 percent in
November last year.  Brazil  is studying emergency food sales to Venezuela, Marco Aurelio Garcia, foreign policy adviser to President  Dilma Rousseff , said on May 9. Maduro this week visited  Uruguay ,
 Argentina  and Brazil.  Maduro said he wanted to work with Polar to resolve the
situation, while warning it to leave governing the country to
him. He told Vice President Jorge Arreaza to arrange a meeting.  Polar said that it would attend the meeting and that it is
willing “to cooperate with the search for solutions that favor
the Venezuelan people,” according to a statement posted on its
Facebook page.  Repeated Clashes  Chavez repeatedly clashed with Polar during his 14 years in
power. In 2010, he threatened to nationalize the company, saying
that it and Mendoza were waging a campaign to undermine his
government. Mendoza and his family are worth about $4 billion
according to Forbes magazine. Polar isn’t “indispensable,”
Chavez said.  By the time Chavez died of an undisclosed type of cancer on
March 5, his government had nationalized more than 1,000
companies or their assets.  Venezuela’s mounting economic problems come after Maduro
won the April 14 presidential election by 1.49 percentage
points, the narrowest margin in 45 years. Opposition leader
Henrique Capriles Radonski is contesting the result in the
 Supreme Court , while the electoral council finishes an audit of
the votes.  Dollar Shortages  After devaluing the bolivar by 32 percent in February, the
new government has limited the supply of dollars to importers,
deepening the shortages and pushing up the cost of goods that
are available.  The authorities have only held one auction of foreign
currency since introducing a new exchange system on March 27.  The bolivar has declined about 33 percent on the black
market this year, according to Dolar Today, a website that
tracks the  exchange rate  on the Venezuelan border with  Colombia .
The currency currently trades at about 26 per dollar on the
black market, compared with 6.3 on the Cadivi system reserved
for importers of essential items, such as medicine.  “I’ve got the precise information and demands so he gets
on the ball, so he comes out to distribute the products, so he
gets to producing,” Maduro said last night in an interview on
the Telesur network. “You’ve got plenty of dollars, Mr. Lorenzo
Mendoza, in case at some point there is some delay you have ways
to cover it.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jose Orozco in Caracas at 
 jorozco8@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net . 