-- Agency Delays $765 Million in U.S. Veterans Care Spending
-- B y   K a t h l e e n   M i l l e r
-- 2013-05-13T04:01:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-13/agency-delays-765-million-in-u-s-veterans-care-spending.html
The U.S. Department of Veterans
Affairs postponed purchases of cardiac monitors, radiological
equipment and pain-medication pumps for patients last year. It
didn’t replace old surgical tools, oxygen-delivery systems or
deteriorating operating-room stretchers.  In all, the  agency  delayed more than $765 million it was
authorized to spend, affecting veterans’ medical care in some
cases, according to VA documents obtained through a Freedom of
Information Act.  The department, criticized by veterans for claims backlogs
and bottlenecks in mental-health care, transferred the money
into a holding account. It was the biggest amount deferred in at
least 10 years and more than eight times the amount shifted to
the fund two years earlier, the records show.  “It makes no sense to postpone those kinds of small-ticket
items, like microscopes and supplies,” said Rick Weidman,
executive director of policy and government affairs for the
Vietnam Veterans of America. “They don’t get funding from
Congress on the theory VA will probably need a certain amount of
money next year. They do it because there’s a need.”  The VA delayed the orders because it wanted to ensure it
was spending efficiently and making enough awards to small
businesses, said Josh Taylor, an agency spokesman. Even so, the
account is under scrutiny. The House Veterans’ Affairs Committee
is probing the department’s use of the account, according to a
panel staff member not authorized to publicly discuss the issue.  Small Business  The department’s funding has jumped more than 40 percent to
about $140 billion this year, compared with fiscal 2009, a boost
to help the agency cope with a surge of new veterans returning
home from the wars in Iraq and  Afghanistan .  The VA defends its use of the account. The withheld money
represented less than 1 percent of its budget in the year ended
Sept. 30, Taylor said. It was delayed “to ensure efficient and
effective spending of resources, and achieve small-business
contract goals,” he said in an e-mail.  Last year, the VA wasn’t making enough progress on meeting
its department-wide target of awarding 34 percent of contract
dollars to small companies, Taylor said. By the end of the
fiscal year, the agency’s spending with those companies reached
35 percent, according to preliminary data from the Small
Business Administration. Taylor didn’t say how many orders were
deferred for this reason.  Pain Medication  Several of the documents obtained by Bloomberg showed
purchases were delayed even after agency officials said
veterans’ medical care had been affected.  A VA office in New York, for example, delayed $79,200 in
orders for London-based  Smiths Group Plc (SMIN) ’s infusion pumps, used
to deliver pain medication for patients, according to the
records.  “We are requesting them immediately as the pain management
of our patients has been and will remain negatively impacted
until they are replaced,” one document stated. The memo didn’t
specify the reason for the postponement.  VA buyers held off spending $128,270 to replace damaged
surgical equipment. “These items are broken or unrepairable,
directly affecting surgical services from providing adequate
care to our veterans,” Paul Russo, director of the agency’s
health-care system in Miami, said in the document.  That delay was partly “due to the VA increasing and
placing a high emphasis on meeting” socio-economic goals, he
said in the records.  The spending on the “necessary and beneficial equipment”
was deferred only after agency officials determined care
wouldn’t be at risk because veterans could be sent elsewhere for
treatment, Russo said in an e-mailed statement last week.  VA officials use the holding account only “after it is
determined that patient care will not be jeopardized,” Taylor
said.  Spending Delays  The agency uses its so-called One VA Plus Fund to bank
money that was appropriated by Congress and wasn’t spent by the
end of the fiscal year, according to a department policy
document. Money stored there typically must be awarded by
contract for its original purpose the next fiscal year.  The account helps to manage budget targets, provide quality
care and respond to fluctuations in demand, the VA’s Taylor
said.  The agency’s transfers to the account appear to be in line
with department regulations, said Peter Gaytan, executive
director of the American Legion, who reviewed some of the
documents. Still, the agency owes veterans an explanation for
the spike in deferred spending, he said.  “This raises concerns,” Gaytan said in a telephone
interview. “We need to ensure that VA is spending efficiently
and any delay in spending VA dollars doesn’t result in the delay
of health-care delivery to patients.”  Cardiac Monitors  Some of the delays were unavoidable. They included $108
million for wireless equipment and patient-tracking systems from
Palo Alto, California-based  Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ)  The project was
held back because Armonk, New York-based  International Business
Machines Corp. (IBM)  protested the award.  In 1,300 pages of documents, the agency often provided no
explanation for delays. This included deferred oxygen-delivery
systems from San Diego-based  CareFusion Corp. (CFN)  and cardiac
monitors from Fairfield, Connecticut-based  General Electric Co. (GE)   The VA records also didn’t show why plans for new
operating-room stretchers would be put off even though the old
ones were outdated and “falling apart.”  Radiology equipment from Munich-based  Siemens AG (SIE)  was
delayed for “challenges in contracting.” Other VA buyers cited
“new review processes” and contracting priorities.  In 10 cases, the documents tied the delays to the
department’s efforts to meet small business goals, a priority of
President  Barack Obama ’s administration.  ‘No Action’  VA buyers in Miami, for instance, put off an estimated
$51,000 “critical item” for a tele-health program that helps
veterans who aren’t able to visit VA hospitals. They blamed the
targets for contracting with small businesses.  “As a result of this national requirement, large business
orders have been returned with no action,” according to a memo.  The Obama administration has pressured agencies to award
more contracts to small businesses. VA Secretary Eric Shinseki
pushed his department to spend 34 percent of its procurement
dollars with small companies last year. The department
ultimately beat that goal, spending about 35 percent of $17.6
billion in eligible funding with small businesses last year,
according to preliminary information posted on the SBA website.  The VA relies on definitions set by the SBA to determine
whether a company is considered a small business. Those
standards vary by industry. Companies that manufacture surgical
supplies, for example, must have 500 or fewer employees to be
deemed a small firm, according to the SBA.  Congressional Probe  Representative Bill Johnson, an Ohio Republican, said
during a House Veterans’ Affairs hearing in September that
veterans have reported delays in obtaining products such as
heart stents and prosthetics. He said he was concerned that
efforts to meet acquisition targets were hurting veterans.  The committee also was investigating whether the VA
manipulated its spending to show it had awarded a larger share
of its work to small companies, U.S. Representative Jeff Miller,
a Florida Republican who chairs the panel, said last year.  “The committee is concerned that VA is moving money around
to meet performance goals, rather than the priority being on
meeting the needs of veterans and efficient use of taxpayer
dollars,” Miller said in a November phone interview.  It wasn’t clear whether this probe was tied to the
committee’s investigation of the holding account.  Jo Schuda , a VA spokeswoman, said some contracting delays
occurred in the government’s fourth quarter last year after two
senior VA officials were required to review procurements that
weren’t being reserved for small businesses.  After the VA realized it would meet its spending targets,
top contracting officials were allowed more flexibility, Schuda
said in a November 2012 e-mail.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kathleen Miller in Washington at 
 kmiller01@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Stoughton at 
 sstoughton@bloomberg.net  