-- Take-Two Gains as Profit Tops Estimates on ‘BioShock’
-- B y   C l i f f   E d w a r d s
-- 2013-05-14T20:20:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-13/take-two-forecast-misses-view-on-grand-theft-auto-delay.html
Take-Two Interactive Software Inc. (TTWO) 
rose to the highest price in more than 23 months after its new
“BioShock Infinite” video-game title and digital sales fueled
profit that beat analysts’ estimates.  Take Two  gained  0.9 percent to $16.54 at the close in  New
York , for the highest price since May 26, 2011. The publisher of
the “Grand Theft Auto” games yesterday reported fourth-quarter
profit excluding some items of 38 cents a share, ahead of the
23-cent average estimate, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  The company has expanded its portfolio of hit games beyond
“Grand Theft Auto” in the last two years to titles including
“Borderlands” and “NBA 2K13,” helping it achieve a
profitable year without the release of a new version of the
shooter game. “BioShock Infinite,” introduced on March 26,
sold more in its first month than previous versions, while
digital sales almost tripled, the New York-based company said.  “They’re surprisingly good at digital, releasing
downloadable content a month after launch to keep people playing
games they might have been finished with,” said  Michael
Pachter , an analyst at Wedbush Securities Inc. in  Los Angeles .  The growth in the company’s digital sales is welcomed by
investors who have concerns about the industry downturn in sales
of packaged titles, said Pachter, who has a buy rating on Take-Two shares.  Digital Games  Sales of digitally delivered games, a measure of video-game
makers’ progress in shifting to Web-sold titles, jumped 192
percent compared with a year earlier, and accounted for 27
percent of overall sales, Take-Two said.  Total sales in the last quarter doubled to $303.1 million,
after some adjustments, surpassing the average estimate of
$279.9 million.  Net income from continuing operations totaled $21.2
million, or 23 cents a share, in the three months ended March
31, New York-based Take-Two said in a statement yesterday.  The company expects “solid profitability for the
foreseeable future,” Chairman and Chief Executive Officer
Strauss Zelnick said in an interview yesterday.  Take-Two forecast results this quarter that missed
analysts’ estimates because of a delay announced earlier this
year in the next “Grand Theft Auto” installment.  Revenue in the current first quarter will be $100 million
to $125 million, Take-Two said. That’s less than the $198.9
million average of analysts’  estimates .  The loss, adjusted for
some items, will be 55 cents to 70 cents a share, wider than the
18-cent loss projected by analysts.  ‘Grand Theft’  Take-Two had targeted an April release of “Grand Theft
Auto 5,” the company said in October. In January, the release
was moved back to September. Shipments of the title are likely
to exceed the 15 million estimated by the company, Pachter said.  The current quarter won’t see any new titles, and instead
will rely only on sales of add-on content and previously
released games, Zelnick said.  “We have no frontline releases,” Zelnick said. “Our
release schedules are less important than delivering quality
titles, and we feel like we ticked all the boxes in the
quarter.”  Take Two’s shares have gained 50 percent this year.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  