-- Malaysia Growth Seen Over 5% for Longest Run Since 2008: Economy
-- B y   C h o n g   P o o i   K o o n   a n d   M i c h a e l   M u n o z
-- 2013-05-14T09:17:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-13/malaysia-growth-seen-exceeding-5-for-longest-stretch-since-2008.html
Malaysia’s growth probably exceeded
5 percent for a seventh straight quarter, the longest stretch
since the depth of the global financial crisis in 2008, with a
pick-up in investment poised to add further momentum.  Gross domestic product in Southeast Asia’s third-largest
economy probably rose 5.5 percent in the first three months of
2013 from a year before, according to the median of 22 estimates
in a Bloomberg News  survey . A slide in exports meant the pace
probably slowed from a 6.4 percent rate in October-to-December.
The government will release the figures tomorrow.  With Prime Minister Najib Razak’s election victory this
month poised to unleash delayed investment projects, economists
at banks from Australia & New Zealand Banking Group Ltd. to
Credit Suisse Group AG predict an acceleration in coming
quarters. Cash handouts to lower-income Malaysians promised in
the run-up to the vote is also helping domestic consumption
offset limited demand for exports.  “Most investors are expecting that with the Barisan
Nasional remaining in power, there’s less uncertainty with
regards to politics,” said Ho Woei Chen, an economist at United
Overseas Bank Ltd. in  Singapore , referring to Najib’s ruling
coalition. “Investments will still be strong. That will
continue to drive growth, together with consumption.”  Najib held on to power with his governing coalition’s
smallest share of the popular vote since 1969 after giving
handouts to the poor, higher wages for civil servants and energy
subsidies. The mandate gives him scope to promote $444 billion
of private-sector-led projects from mass rail to oil storage
planned for this decade.  ‘Strong Rebound’  “We expect to see quite a strong rebound perhaps in the
second half of the year,” said Santitarn Sathirathai, a
Singapore-based economist at Credit Suisse. “We think post-election investment growth will be boosted by businesses
resuming their capital spending activities as election
uncertainty fades,” and “infrastructure investment, given a
promising project pipeline.”  The ringgit has gained about 1.4 percent since the May 5
vote, while the benchmark FTSE Bursa  Malaysia (MAGDHIY)  KLCI Index has
climbed 5.5 percent and closed at a record today.  The last time Malaysia saw growth exceeding 5 percent for
at least seven straight quarters was in 2007 and 2008, a run
that ended after Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. filed the biggest
bankruptcy in U.S. history, roiling global markets.  The central bank forecasts growth of as much as 6 percent
this year, from 5.6 percent in 2012. It has kept borrowing costs
unchanged at 3 percent for 12 meetings, most recently on May 9,
as an expanding economy reduces the need to join South Korea,
Australia and  India  in cutting rates.  Indonesia Rates  Activity indicators in early 2013 suggest a rebound in the
Asia Pacific has lost some traction, Standard & Poor’s said in a
statement today as it lowered its GDP growth forecasts for some
countries in the region.  Indonesia  held interest rates at a record-low 5.75 percent
today. Elsewhere in the region, New Zealand reported first-quarter retail sales excluding inflation rose 0.5 percent, while
India said wholesale-price gains slowed in April.  Industrial-production growth in the euro region quickened
in March from the previous month, while German investor
sentiment, as measured by ZEW Center for European Economic
Research, climbed less than economists estimated in May. The U.S.
Labor Department may say import prices fell in April, while the
National Federation of Independent Business is forecast to
report confidence among small companies rose the same month.  Since taking charge in April 2009 during a recession, Najib
has streamlined bureaucracy and opened up more industries to
foreign investors. In September 2010, he unveiled a so-called
economic transformation program that was targeted at luring
investments and creating jobs, and the government implemented a
minimum wage last year.  Export Demand  The strategy to boost domestic consumption and increase
government spending has helped the economy weather easing demand
for its goods in overseas markets. Malaysia exports commodities
such as palm oil and petroleum, as well as electronics and
chemicals.  “While the external sector is affected by global
developments, domestic demand has continued to provide support
to growth,” the central bank said in a statement last week.
“Investment activity and private consumption have remained firm.
Going forward, the domestic economy is expected to sustain a
steady growth.”  Domestic consumption may also be supported should Najib
delay plans for fiscal consolidation. After winning the tightly-fought election, the prime minister may hold back on a reduction
in fuel subsidies and the implementation of a goods and services
tax, Credit Suisse’s Santitarn said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chong Pooi Koon in Kuala Lumpur at 
 pchong17@bloomberg.net ;
Michael J. Munoz in Hong Kong at 
 mjmunoz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net . 