-- Ally Reaches Creditor Deal, ResCap Examiner Lawyer Says
-- B y   S t e v e n   C h u r c h   a n d   D a k i n   C a m p b e l l
-- 2013-05-13T20:29:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-13/ally-reaches-creditor-deal-rescap-examiner-lawyer-says.html
Ally Financial Inc. (ALLY)  reached a deal to
avoid creditor lawsuits related to the company’s bankrupt
mortgage arm, Residential Capital LLC, said Howard Seife, a
lawyer for the court-appointed examiner investigating the two
companies’ pre-bankruptcy relationship.  Ally and the other participants in settlement talks have
until tomorrow to file a court notice verifying that they have
signed a term sheet, Seife said, following a hastily convened
court hearing today in  U.S. Bankruptcy Court  in  Manhattan .  Terms of the deal were not announced, Seife said. Ally has
previously proposed paying $750 million to settle claims that
creditors say are worth billions of dollars. Gina Proia, an Ally
spokeswoman, declined to comment on the terms.  Ally, ResCap and the committee were in court to ask that
the results of the examiner’s report be temporarily sealed while
final details of the terms are documented, Seife said. The
examiner, former U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Arthur J. Gonzalez, was
prepared to file the report later today in open court, Seife
said.  “The parties did represent in court that the economic
terms of the deal have been agreed to,” Seife said. The parties
said they expected to sign a term sheet, Seife said.  Bonds Rise  U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Martin Glenn agreed to keep the
report sealed. Should Ally and the creditors fail to file a
court notice verifying the deal has been signed, the report
would be unsealed at about 11 a.m. tomorrow, Seife, with the law
firm of Chadbourne & Park, LLP, said in an interview.  ResCap’s 9.625 percent bonds due in 2015 climbed 2.3
percent to 111 cents on the dollar at 3:41 p.m. in  New York 
trading, according to Trace, the bond price reporting system of
the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority.  ResCap, based in New York, filed for bankruptcy last year,
partly to help it resolve lawsuits brought by investors that
purchased mortgage bonds backed by home loans. The investors
claimed the bonds lost value because many of the loans were bad.
Such losses account for much of the $25 billion in unsecured
debt that the creditors committee claims ResCap owes.  The case is In re Residential Capital LLC, 12-bk-12020,
U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story: Steven Church in
Wilmington,  Delaware  at 
 schurch3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at   jpickering@bloomberg.net ; 