-- Amtrak Gets Siemens Locomotive to Serve U.S. Northeast
-- B y   A n g e l a   G r e i l i n g   K e a n e   a n d   W i l l   D a l e y
-- 2013-05-13T15:39:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-13/amtrak-gets-siemens-locomotive-to-serve-u-s-northeast.html
Amtrak , the U.S. long-distance
passenger railroad, is receiving the first of 70 electric
locomotives made by  Siemens AG (SIE)  intended to replace equipment
that’s as old as 35 years.  The first three locomotives bought with money from a $532
million U.S. Federal Railroad Administration loan come off the
Siemens Rail Systems production line in  Sacramento , California,
today. They will be tested for about 2 1/2 months before going
into service in the U.S. Northeast by November, Amtrak Chief
Executive Officer Joseph Boardman said.  “The loan will be repaid essentially from revenues from
the Northeast Corridor,” Karen Hedlund, deputy administrator of
the rail administration, said today on a conference call with
reporters. “It’s evidence of the financial stability they’ve
gained in the last several years.”  Amtrak’s loan also paid for spare parts and maintenance
facility upgrades, she said.  Amtrak placed the $466 million order in 2010 to replace its
entire locomotive fleet on the Northeast Corridor and supply
power to Keystone Corridor trains between Philadelphia and
Harrisburg,  Pennsylvania .  Replacing existing equipment with new technology that can
recapture energy from braking will save about 3 billion kilowatt
hours over their 20-year lifespan, said Michael Cahill,
president of Siemens Rail Systems U.S. division. In today’s
dollars, that’s worth about $300 million, he said.  Amtrak also plans to issue a request for proposals by the
end of the year to replace its Acela high-speed train sets of
engines and passenger cars, Boardman said.  “Siemens would like that to be theirs as well,” he said,
saying “a lot” of companies have expressed interest in
building as many as 60 trains to add Acela units, replace the
existing equipment and supply equipment for  California , which is
building tracks capable of high-speed service.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Angela Greiling Keane in Washington at 
 agreilingkea@bloomberg.net ;
Will Daley at 
 wdaley2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  