-- Man. City to Replace Mancini With Pellegrini: Soccer Roundup
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2013-05-13T08:59:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-13/man-city-to-replace-mancini-with-pellegrini-soccer-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of soccer
stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable Internet links.  Mancini’s Dismissal  Manchester City will fire manager Roberto Mancini this week
and replace him with Malaga coach Manuel Pellegrini, the  Daily
Telegraph said .  City accelerated its efforts to recruit the Chilean last
week because of Barcelona’s growing interest in the former
Villarreal coach, who’s expected to be appointed as Mancini’s
successor once the La Liga season finishes June 1, the newspaper
added.  Secret Negotiations  City’s chief executive officer Ferran Soriano and director
of football Txiki Begiristain have been negotiating with
Pellegrini behind Mancini’s back for weeks, the  Sun said .  Mancini, who guided the club to its first English league
championship in 44 years last season, was not even aware his job
was in danger after City’s upset 1-0 loss to Wigan in the F.A.
Cup final two days ago, the newspaper said.  Pellegrini will meet with City officials in three days to
conclude contract negotiations, the  Daily Mirror said .  Helping Everton  David Moyes, who will replace the retiring Alex Ferguson as
Manchester United manager, said he’ll help Everton Chairman Bill Kenwright find his successor, the  Guardian said .  “When I took over it was maybe little bit easier to bring
in somebody of lesser experience but where Everton are now that
may not be the case,” the newspaper cited Moyes as saying.
“But if he wants my help I will give him it. He has been really
good to me and I will try to help them.”  Not ‘Big Enough’  Wigan owner Dave Whelan said Everton isn’t a big enough
club for Roberto Martinez after the Spaniard oversaw his team’s
F.A. Cup triumph, the  Daily Mirror said .  “Roberto is always in demand,” the Mirror cited Whelan as
saying. “Whenever he wants to go, I’ll release him immediately,
but he’ll only go to a big, big club and I don’t think Everton
are big enough.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  