-- Anadolu Efes Slumps on Alcohol Ad Ban Proposal: Istanbul Mover
-- B y   T a y l a n   B i l g i c
-- 2013-05-13T13:55:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-13/anadolu-efes-slumps-on-alcohol-ad-ban-proposal-istanbul-mover.html
Anadolu Efes Biracilik & Malt Sanayii
AS (AEFES)  was set for the lowest close in seven weeks on speculation a
proposal to ban alcoholic advertising will hurt profit at
 Turkey ’s biggest brewer.  The  shares  fell 2.1 percent to 27.9 liras at 4:28 p.m. in
Istanbul, set for the lowest since March 26 and bringing a four-day slump to 11 percent. About 235,413 shares were traded, more
than 70 percent of the stock’s three-month daily average.  Turk
Tuborg Bira ve Malt Sanayii AS (TBORG) , another Turkish beer-maker,
retreated 1.6 percent. The benchmark  Istanbul Stock Exchange
National 100 (XU100)  index advanced 0.1 percent.  Lawmakers belonging to the ruling  Justice and Development
Party  proposed that the advertisement and promotion of alcohol
be banned in a draft law submitted to the Turkish parliament on
May 10. The legislation includes recommendations for health
warnings on such products, as well as the imposition of fines on
those who violate the ban. Marketers and producers will not be
allowed to arrange and sponsor festivals, events and campaigns,
the 32-article document proposes.  “The draft was perceived by investors as an indication
that the government will be stricter in its fight against the
use of alcohol,” Alper Ozdemir, an analyst at Oyak Securities
in Istanbul, said in a phone interview today. “This adds insult
to injury, coming after weak first-quarter earnings.”  Quarterly Results  Anadolu Efes last week reported first-quarter profit of
2.59 billion liras ($1.4 billion) from 103 million the year
earlier, boosted by a one-time gain of 2.72 billion liras after
the consolidation of operations at unit  Coca-Cola Icecek AS (CCOLA) ,
according to the company’s financial statement. Excluding the
gain, the results implied a quarterly net loss of 130 million
liras, the first in the past four years, Ozdemir said in a
report on May 9, lowering the shares to underperform, or the
equivalent of sell, from market perform.  Anadolu Efes shares have gained 8.6 percent this year,
trailing the 15 percent advance of the Borsa Istanbul index. One
analyst recommends investors  buy the shares,  while 18 say hold
and five say sell, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Taylan Bilgic in Istanbul at 
 tbilgic2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  