-- Manchester City Fires Mancini as Club Seeks ‘Holistic’ Approach
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2013-05-14T01:05:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-13/manchester-city-fires-coach-mancini-kidd-takes-interim-charge.html
Manchester City  fired manager  Roberto Mancini  two days after the team’s upset loss to Wigan in the F.A.
Cup final, ending his tenure exactly 12 months after the club
won its first English soccer championship in 44 years.  Mancini was fired following 3 1/2 years in charge after
City also finished last in its European  Champions League  group
this season and  Manchester United  won the English title for a
record-extending 20th time. City is currently second in the
standings, 13 points behind its local rival.  “The club has failed to achieve any of its stated targets
this year, with the exception of qualification for next season’s
Champions League,” City said in a  statement  last night. “This,
combined with an identified need to develop a holistic approach
to all aspects of football at the club, has meant that the
decision has been taken to find a new manager for the 2013-14
season and beyond.”  Mancini’s exit means both Manchester teams will have new
coaches next season. United on May 9 appointed  David Moyes  as
successor to 71-year-old  Alex Ferguson , who said six days ago he
was retiring after more than 26 years as manager at the club.  City will replace Mancini, 48, with Malaga’s Manuel Pellegrini, the  Daily Telegraph  reported yesterday. Pellegrini
is the 1-10 favorite to be appointed as City’s new manager,
according to U.K. bookmaker Coral, meaning a successful $100 bet
returns $10 plus the original stake.  Pellegrini Denial  Pellegrini, who has coached teams in his native  Chile ,
 Argentina  and  Spain  including Villarreal and Real Madrid, two
days ago denied that he had signed an agreement with City
following Malaga’s draw against Sevilla in Spain’s La Liga.  “I have an agreement with Malaga not to talk to anyone and
nothing has been agreed with any other club,” Pellegrini, 59,
said in comments on Malaga’s website. “I’ve been fortunate
enough, and very proud, that every year the big clubs have shown
an interest in me. I hope in the coming weeks that things will
become a little clearer.”  City said Brian Kidd, Mancini’s assistant manager, will
take over for the final two Premier League games of the season,
beginning with tonight’s match at relegated Reading. Kidd will
also be in charge for the offseason tour to the U.S.  Mancini replaced  Mark Hughes  in December 2009 after leading
 Inter Milan  to three straight Italian Serie A titles.  City ended a 35-year trophy drought by winning the F.A. Cup
in 2011 and secured its first English league championship since
1968 on the last day of the following season. That triumph came
exactly one year before Mancini, who signed a new five-year
contract in July, was fired.  Lowest Tally  This season, City’s title defense ended as United clinched
its 13th Premier League trophy with four matches to spare.
Mancini’s squad also failed to win any of its six Champions
League group games and its tally of three points was the lowest
by an English team in the group stage of  Europe ’s elite club
competition.  City lost the F.A. Cup final three days ago to  Ben Watson ’s
90th-minute header at Wembley as Wigan, which will join Reading
and Queens Park Rangers in being demoted from the Premier League
if it loses at Arsenal tonight, became the lowest-ranked team to
win the trophy since West Ham United in 1980.  City had been a perennial underachiever in English soccer,
even dropping into the third tier in 1998. Since Abu Dhabi’s
Sheikh Mansour bin Zayed Al Nahyan bought the team in 2008, he’s
spent about $1 billion to lift the club from under the shadow of
Manchester United.  City thanked Mancini for his work in its statement, with
Chairman Khaldoon Al Mubarak saying that the Italian had “done
as he promised and delivered silverware and success.”  The club said the “difficult decision” to fire Mancini
had been the outcome of a planned end-of-season review that had
been brought forward “in light of recent speculation and out of
respect for Roberto and his extensive contributions.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  