-- AngloGold Profit Rises as Post-Strike Production Increases
-- B y   P a u l   B u r k h a r d t
-- 2013-05-13T12:15:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-13/anglogold-profit-rises-as-post-strike-production-increases-1-.html
AngloGold Ashanti Ltd. (ANG) , the third-biggest producer of the metal, said first-quarter profit rose
with output following the end of strikes as it focuses on
cutting costs.  Adjusted headline earnings, which exclude one-time events
such as asset sales, climbed to $113 million, or 29 cents a
share, from $19 million, or 5 cents, in the previous quarter,
the Johannesburg-based company said today in a statement.  “The stronger performance relative to the previous quarter
reflects the recovery from the  strike action  at the South Africa
operations which hampered production towards the end of last
year,” AngloGold said in the statement.  Labor disruption last year hurt gold and other mining 
companies after spreading from the platinum industry, costing
the economy 10.1 billion rand ($1.1 billion) in lost output, 
according to the National Treasury. In the wake of the worker 
unrest and plummeting gold prices, AngloGold is reviewing
costs and expansion projects and expects to sell assets.  “The focus here is going to be on better cost control,
cost rationalization across the portfolio, in particular in
terms of corporate costs, exploration and capital rationing,”
Chief Executive Officer Srinivasan Venkatakrishnan said today on
a conference call.  Bear Market  Bullion is having its worst start to a year since 1982
after dropping 15 percent and slumping into a  bear market  in
April. AngloGold forecasts that production will rise to an
estimated 4.1 million to 4.4 million ounces this year, compared
with the 3.94 million ounces mined in 2012, as new projects come
on line.  The company expects initial production from mines in
Australia and the  Democratic Republic  of Congo by the end of 
2013. It produced 899,000 ounces in the first quarter, up from 
859,000 ounces in the previous three months, today’s statement 
shows. Second-quarter volumes are forecast to reach 900,000 to 
950,000 ounces.  The Tropicana project in Western Australia is on schedule
for first production in the fourth quarter, with annual output
expected to be 470,000 to 490,000 ounces, a presentation to
shareholders shows. The Kibali mine in the DRC should also
produce its first gold in 2013. Elsewhere in the DRC, the
Mongbwalu project has been suspended, AngloGold said.  The economics at the halted venture “just didn’t work,”
Tony O’Neill, an  executive director  at AngloGold, said in an
interview in Johannesburg.  Few Options  “The gold is in deposits that are reasonably small and
really make it difficult to get scale, so with current gold
prices you haven’t got many options,” O’Neill said. License
renewals are due in 2014 and discussions with the government at
that time will determine what happens next at Mongbwalu, he
said.  In  Colombia , AngloGold will be looking to bring in a
partner, while it hopes to complete the sale of its Namibian 
Navachab mine by the end of the year, Venkatakrishnan said.  AngloGold was 0.2 percent higher in Johannesburg trading at
168.5 rand by 1:54 p.m.  AngloGold, whose largest overseas competitors are  Barrick
Gold Corp. (ABX)  and  Newmont Mining Corp. (NEM) , appointed Venkatakrishnan
as CEO this month after  Mark Cutifani  quit to lead  Anglo
American Plc. (AAL)   To contact the reporter on this story:
Paul Burkhardt in Johannesburg at 
 pburkhardt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  