-- Apple, Google Pressed by N.Y. Over Handheld Device Thefts
-- B y   D a v i d   M c L a u g h l i n
-- 2013-05-13T16:58:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-13/apple-google-pressed-by-n-y-over-handheld-device-thefts.html
Apple Inc. (AAPL)  and  Google Inc. (GOOG)  are among
technology companies being asked by the New York attorney
general to take steps to deter thefts of iPhones and other
handheld devices and eliminate a black market for the products.  New York Attorney General Eric Schneiderman wrote to Apple,
Google,  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  and Samsung Electronics Co. seeking
information about what the companies are doing to combat thefts
of their devices in the state, according to copies of the May 10
letters.  “I seek to understand why companies that can develop
sophisticated handheld electronics, such as the products
manufactured by Apple, cannot also create technology to render
stolen devices inoperable and thereby eliminate the expanding
black market on which they are sold,” Schneiderman said in the
letter to Apple Chief Executive Officer  Tim Cook .  New York City Police said last year that Apple products
were stolen in a total of 11,447 incidents last year from Jan. 1
to Sept. 23, an increase of 40 percent over the same period in
2011. That compares with a 4 percent rise in the same period for
the total number of index crimes --  seven major crimes
including murder, rape and robbery.  Apple last month reported an 18 percent decline in earnings
and acknowledged that growth will continue to slow amid
shrinking profit margins and accelerating competition from
 Samsung. (005930)   Apple Sales  Apple sold 37.4 million units of the iPhone, compared with
35.1 million a year earlier, when iPhone revenue surged 85
percent. Apple sold 19.5 million iPads, up from 11.8 million. It
also sold 4 million Mac computers.  Google spokeswoman Gina Scigliano said in an e-mailed
statement that the company encourages smartphone users to lock
their devices with a personal identification number or pattern
and set their device to automatically lock when not in use.  Colleen Patterson, a spokeswoman for Cupertino, California-based Apple, Bill Cox, a spokesman for Microsoft, and  James Chung , a spokesman for Samsung, didn’t respond to e-mails
seeking comment about New York’s letter.  In his letter to the companies, Schneiderman cited the
April 2012 murder of a 26-year-old chef at the Museum of  Modern
Art  in Manhattan who was killed for his iPhone on his way home,
and a February incident this year in which three people were
stabbed on a subway platform in the Queens section of New York
in a fight over an iPhone.  Schneiderman said he would be “especially concerned” if
the companies, which may have failed to live up to
representations to consumers about safety and security, have
benefited from increased sales of replacement devices.  “Foreign trafficking of stolen devices has proliferated,
and an abundance of domestic black market resellers, including
right here in New York, means as a practical matter that phones
do not, contrary to your website’s assertion, become unusable,”
Schneiderman said in the letter to Google Chairman  Eric Schmidt .  To contact the reporter on this story:
 David McLaughlin  in New York at 
 dmclaughlin9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  