-- Aquino Poised to Win Senate as Philippines Counts Votes
-- B y   J o e l   G u i n t o   a n d   N o r m a n   P .   A q u i n o
-- 2013-05-14T04:46:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-13/aquino-poised-to-win-senate-as-philippines-starts-counting-votes.html
Philippine President Benigno Aquino
appeared set to win control of the 24-member Senate with vote
counting under way in legislative elections, a result that would
bolster his plans for an expanded anti-corruption drive.  Nine Senate candidates backed by Aquino are leading among
the 12 seats up for grabs with about 54 percent of precincts
reporting, according to an unofficial count posted on the
website of  Rappler , which is authorized by the Commission on
Elections to collect results. They would join four Aquino allies
currently in the Senate whose terms expire in 2016, giving him
an effective majority in the upper house.  Aquino, who has overseen an economic revival during the
first three years of his single six-year term, said in a May 8
interview he wants to reduce the number of people who travel
abroad to earn a living. The 53-year-old leader wants a tighter
grip on the Senate to push for stronger anti-graft measures,
speedier trials and a more efficient procurement system.  “Stronger control of Congress gives Aquino a better chance
of pushing for his legislative agenda for the rest of his
term,” Paul Joseph Garcia, who helps manage the equivalent of
$18 billion at BPI Asset Management Inc. in Manila, said by
phone. “The outcome of the elections will be a validation of
the president’s policy reforms and governance that has boosted
investor confidence.”  Stocks Gain  The  Philippine Stock Exchange Composite Index (PCOMP) , which has
risen 26 percent this year, gained 0.6 percent as of the midday
break, set for a record close. The peso fell 0.1 percent.  The election for half of the Senate, members of the House
of Representatives and other local officials went smoothly, with
electronic voting machines surpassing expectations, Commission
on Elections Chairman Sixto Brillantes told reporters in Manila
after polls closed. Senate winners will be proclaimed by 7 p.m.
tomorrow, he said today.  Former President Joseph Estrada, who was ousted in 2001 and
spent six years in prison on corruption charges, was proclaimed
Manila mayor, according to ABS-CBN News.  Senators are elected nationally among the country’s
estimated 106 million people, while the House of
Representatives, which has more than  280 members , is chosen from
candidates representing local districts. Bills must pass both
houses before Aquino signs them into law.  Aquino Lead  Aquino’s allies held leads over the 13th Senate candidate
by margins ranging from 800,000 votes to five million votes,
according to raw ballot tallies on Rappler. Voters can cast
ballots for as many as 12 candidates, and the top 12 vote-getters nationwide win Senate seats.  Grace Poe, an Aquino ally running for Senate, was leading
in the total vote count, according to Rappler. Aquino’s
candidates held nine of the top 10 spots.  Even without overt Senate support during his first three
years in office, Aquino managed to win support for key bills
such as raising liquor taxes and providing free contraception.
Like his mother Corazon, who won 22 of the 24 Senate seats for
her administration after becoming president in 1986, Aquino used
his popularity to help his allies on the campaign trail.  The president’s approval rating rose 4 percentage points to
72 percent in March, polling body Pulse Asia Inc. said last
month. It has remained high through the first half of his term,
during which his predecessor Gloria Arroyo was arrested on graft
charges and the country’s top judge was impeached for illegally
concealing his wealth.  Post-Election Agenda  Aquino said in last week’s interview that the bureaus of
customs, immigration and corrections will be on his radar after
the Senate election.  “We have to fine-tune the civil service system also, so
you don’t have an attitude that once you are granted civil
service, it is practically impossible for you to be
disciplined,” Aquino said.  The economy expanded  6.6 percent  last year, the fastest in
Asia after  China , and Aquino was rewarded this year for
narrowing a record budget deficit when Fitch Ratings and
Standard & Poor’s gave the  Philippines  investment-grade credit
scores.  The country’s economic expansion masks  unemployment  and
poverty levels that have remained almost unchanged from before
Aquino took office. The jobless rate rose to 7.1 percent,
according to government data released in March, among the
highest in the Asia-Pacific.  ‘Good Momentum’  “A peaceful election is all that’s required for the good
momentum the Philippines is experiencing to continue,” said
Rico Gomez, who helps manage $2.8 billion at Rizal Commercial
Banking Corp. in Manila. “There is too much good momentum in
the economy that it will be foolish to turn the cart.”  Election-related violence occurred on the southern island
of Mindanao, where seven people were killed and 11 injured in
two separate incidents, according to the police and military.
Aquino is negotiating a peace agreement with Muslim rebels to
end a 40-year insurgency in Mindanao and allow mining companies
to tap deposits in the mineral-rich region.  Power failures in provinces including Batangas and Cavite
disrupted voting, Energy Secretary Jericho Petilla said. At
least 96 electronic counting machines malfunctioned, ABS-CBN
News reported, citing election director Teofisto Elnas.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joel Guinto in  Manila  at 
 jguinto1@bloomberg.net ;
Norman P. Aquino in Manila at 
 naquino1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  