-- Arcapita to Weigh Loan Offers From Fortress, Goldman
-- B y   T i f f a n y   K a r y
-- 2013-05-13T19:11:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-13/arcapita-to-weigh-loan-offers-from-fortress-goldman.html
Arcapita Bank BSC, an Islamic-compliant  fund manager , will consider a revised offer for a
bankruptcy-exit loan from Fortress Credit Corp. to compete with
a proposal from  Goldman Sachs International. (GS)   Both loan offers of $350 million would fund Arcapita’s exit
from Chapter 11 protection, Fortress said in papers filed today
in U.S. Bankruptcy Court in  Manhattan . Fortress said it had been
in talks since last year to provide an exit loan to Arcapita and
was disappointed that the company and its creditors’ committee
chose the Goldman Sachs offer.  “It is unclear to Fortress why both the debtors and the
committee have lent their support to the GSI proposal,”
Fortress said in its filing.  Fortress, which is also an agent to Arcapita’s bankruptcy
operating loan, said that the Goldman Sachs proposal may have
been influenced by a conflict of interest and might allow some
unsecured creditors, including members of the creditors’
committee, to improve their positions in Arcapita’s capital
structure relative to other unsecured creditors.  Arcapita and its creditors will “seek approval of the best
exit facility proposal, whether that proposal comes from
Fortress or GSI,” Fortress said. A hearing is set for May 15.  No Fees  Fortress said its revised offer would fund Arcapita’s exit
at a better price, doesn’t include administrative fees, and
won’t make Arcapita pay if it enters into an alternative
transaction. Fortress also would allow Arcapita keep as much as
$30 million in sale proceeds, according to court papers.  Arcapita, based in Manama, Bahrain, filed for Chapter 11
protection in March 2012 after being unable to complete an out-of-court restructuring of $1.1 billion in unsecured debt. It
listed assets of $3.06 billion and debt of $2.55 billion.  When its bankruptcy began, Arcapita had interests in 39
companies, and $7 billion in assets under management. Arcapita
has minority interests in 80 percent of its investments.  The case is Arcapita Bank BSC, 12-bk-11076,  U.S. Bankruptcy
Court , Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tiffany Kary in New York at 
 tkary@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  