-- AstraZeneca, Cubist, Astellas Said to Bid for Optimer
-- B y   D a v i d   W e l c h   a n d   J e f f r e y   M c C r a c k e n
-- 2013-05-14T14:08:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-13/astrazeneca-cubist-astellas-said-to-make-bids-for-optimer-1-.html
AstraZeneca Plc (AZN)  and  Cubist
Pharmaceuticals Inc. (CBST)  are among the suitors that made first-round
bids for  Optimer Pharmaceuticals Inc. (OPTR) , the antibiotics maker
weighing a sale, said people familiar with the matter.  Optimer stock surged 14 percent following Bloomberg’s
report yesterday. The maker of the Dificid drug used to treat
intestinal infections also attracted an offer from Japan’s
 Astellas Pharma Inc. (4503)  and others, said the people, who asked not
to be named because the process is private. Optimer’s  managers 
will make presentations to bidders later in the month, one
person said.  Optimer’s drug is sold for use in hospitals. All the
bidders are health-care companies that could also sell the
treatment to medical centers, one of the people said. Cubist,
Astellas and  AstraZeneca (AZN)  have current partnerships with Jersey
City, New Jersey-based Optimer to sell the drug, making them
logical suitors, one of the people said.  Optimer’s managers disclosed almost three months ago that
they were working with Centerview Partners LLC and JPMorgan
Chase & Co. to explore its strategic options.  Representatives for Optimer, AstraZeneca, Astellas and
Cubist declined to comment.  GlaxoSmithKline Plc (GSK)  had expressed interest early in the
sales process and elected not to bid, said a person familiar
with the matter.  Market Value  Optimer was unchanged at $14.66 at 10:06 a.m. in New York,
giving the company a market value of about $714 million.  The stock declined last week after Optimer reported a
first-quarter loss of 65 cents a share, wider than some  analysts 
projected. Dificid won approval in 2011, and the drug generated
more than $60 million in revenue last year, or almost two-thirds
of Optimer’s total.  Former Chairman  Michael Chang  left Optimer last year after
the board found that he failed to identify and manage conflict
of interest issues tied to a stock grant. The company also
replaced Chief Executive Officer Pedro Lichtinger in February,
when Optimer disclosed the board’s strategic review.  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Welch in New York at 
 dwelch12@bloomberg.net ;
Jeffrey McCracken in New York at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeffrey McCracken at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net  