-- Attorneys General Ask FDA to Require Warning for Drugs
-- B y   A n d r e w   Z a j a c   a n d   A n n a   E d n e y
-- 2013-05-13T23:51:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-13/attorneys-general-ask-fda-to-require-warning-for-drugs.html
The  National Association of Attorneys
General  has asked the U.S.  Food and Drug Administration  to place
a “black box warning” on labels of the opioid category of
prescription-pain relievers to alert pregnant women that use of
such drugs may harm infants.  The use of opioids “has increased at alarming levels,”
triggering more cases of a condition known as Neonatal
Abstinence Syndrome, according to a letter to  Margaret Hamburg ,
commissioner of the FDA, from the attorneys general of 43 states
and territories.  “We therefore believe that a “black box warning” for
these medications would help ensure that women of childbearing
age -- as well as their health care providers -- are aware of
the serious risks associated with narcotic use during
pregnancy,” the letter said.  They suggested a notice that reads “Warning: Use of
narcotic Analgesics in pregnant women may cause neonatal
abstinence syndrome.”  The syndrome, commonly referred to as NAS, occurs when
infants who have been exposed to opioids through their mothers’
use during pregnancy experience withdrawal symptoms after birth
that can include abnormal sleep patterns, tremors, vomiting,
seizures,  weight loss  and other maladies.  Brand Names  Opioids include codeine, hydrocodone and oxycodone sold
under brand names such as Vicodin, OxyContin and Percocet.  “In  Kentucky  alone, the instances of NAS have risen 2500
percent over the past decade from 29 cases in 2001 to 730 cases
in 2011,” Jack Conway, the attorney general of Kentucky and the
co-chair of  attorneys general  substance abuse committee, said in
a statement. “Babies who are born dependent on powerful pain
killers can face a lifetime of challenges, both physically and
mentally.”  NAS also exacts a steep financial cost, according to the
 letter  from the Washington-based legal group.  It cites a 2012 Journal of American Medical Association
article that put the estimated 2009 cost of treating a newborn
with NAS at $53,400, with most of that borne by taxpayers
through the Medicaid insurance program for the poor.  Additional Warning  Medicaid paid for more than 75 percent of the estimated
$720 million spent to treat NAS in 2009, according to the
letter’s summary of the medical association article.  The FDA “will review the request and respond directly” to
the association, said Morgan Liscinsky, an FDA spokeswoman.  OxyContin already comes with a black box  warning  common to
opioids in its class, James Heins, a spokesman for the drug’s
maker, Purdue Pharma, of  Stamford ,  Connecticut , said in an
e-mailed statement.  If the FDA determines that additional warnings are needed,
“we will add them,” Heins said.  Conway said a separate boxed warning is needed to call
attention to the risks of NAS.  “Although some opioids may come with a black box warning,
none specifically relate to Neonatal Abstinence Syndrome,”
Conway said. “My hope is to have this warning prominently
displayed so that patients and physicians are aware of the very
serious risks associated with opioid use during pregnancy.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Andrew Zajac  in  Washington  at 
 azajac@bloomberg.net ;
Anna Edney in Washington at 
 aedney@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  