-- Aussie Dollar Slides Toward 11-Month Low After Confidence Data
-- B y   M a s a k i   K o n d o
-- 2013-05-13T06:27:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-13/aussie-dollar-slides-toward-11-month-low-before-confidence-data.html
Australia ’s dollar declined toward an
11-month low after a private report showed business confidence
slid amid bets that the  Reserve Bank  will cut  interest rates 
further to curb the currency’s strength.  The so-called Aussie weakened against most of its 16 major
peers after Barclays Plc cut its forecast for the currency,
citing Australia’s falling yield advantage. New Zealand’s dollar
held a five-day loss versus the U.S. greenback as the premium on
the South Pacific nation’s 10-year note rate over Treasuries was
near a four-year low.  “The Australian dollar has a little bit more room to
decline,” said Takuya Kawabata, an analyst at Gaitame.com
Research Institute Ltd. in  Tokyo , a unit of  Japan ’s largest
currency margin-trading company. “A recovery in the Aussie
above $1 and a further advance would fan speculation the RBA
will cut borrowing costs again.”  Australia’s dollar lost 0.4 percent to 99.86 U.S. cents as
of 4:14 p.m. in Sydney after touching 99.61 on May 10, the
weakest since June 14 and halting a record 10-month stretch of
trading above parity.  New Zealand ’s currency was little changed
at 83.03 U.S. cents.  The  extra yield  that investors receive to hold New
Zealand’s benchmark 10-year note instead of similar-maturity
Treasuries was at 1.44 percentage points after falling to 1.42
on May 3, the least since January 2009.  Business Confidence  National Australia Bank Ltd. said today its index of
 business confidence  in the country fell to minus 2 in April, the
lowest since November, from 2 in March. A separate report from
the statistics bureau showed today that  home-loan  approvals rose
5.2 percent in March, the most in four years.  “On balance, the data remains consistent with the RBA
remaining on hold for now but leaving the door open for further
rate cuts, if needed,” Alvin Pontoh, an Asia-Pacific macro
strategist in  Singapore  at TD Securities Inc., wrote in a
research note. The recent decline in the Australian dollar
“adds to our case for ‘wait and see’ in the near term.”  The RBA lowered the overnight cash-rate target by a quarter
percentage point to 2.75 percent on May 7, saying the  exchange
rate  has been at “a historically high level over the past 18
months, which is unusual.” Traders see about a 60 percent
chance that the central bank will reduce the rate in three
months, according to data compiled by Bloomberg on overnight-index swaps.  Aussie Forecast  Barclays lowered its 12-month projection for Australia’s
dollar to 93 U.S. cents from 95. The recent “surprise” rate
cut from the RBA has further undermined Australia’s yield
advantage and will weigh on the Aussie, Hamish Pepper and Nick Verdi, foreign-exchange strategists in Singapore at Barclays,
wrote in a research note today.  The yield on Australia’s benchmark three-year yield touched
2.47 percent on May 7, the lowest since Oct. 16, and was at 2.6
percent today.  Hedge funds  and other large speculators cut their bullish
bets on the Aussie, figures from the Washington-based Commodity
Futures Trading Commission showed. The  difference  in the number
of wagers on an advance in Australia’s dollar compared with
those on a decline dropped 78 percent on May 7, the most in a
year, to 6,630.  Demand for the currencies of Australia and New Zealand was
supported as Chinese data showed today that  industrial
production  climbed 9.3 percent in April from a year earlier and
 retail sales  jumped 12.8 percent. Both were in line with the
median estimates of economists surveyed by  Bloomberg News .  “The fundamental backdrop of the Australian dollar is very
positive,”  John Horner , a currency strategist in Sydney at
Deutsche Bank AG, said in an interview with Bloomberg Television
before the release of the Chinese data. The currency is expected
to “recover from this weakness as some of the negative
sentiment on China gets reversed in a month ahead.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Masaki Kondo in Singapore at 
 mkondo3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  