-- Australia’s Dollar Is in Every Bubble, FX Concepts’ Taylor Says
-- B y   J o h n   D e t r i x h e
-- 2013-05-13T16:50:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-13/australia-s-dollar-is-in-every-bubble-fx-concepts-taylor-says.html
Australia’s dollar, which fell below
parity against its U.S. peer last week for the first time since
June 2012, remains overvalued after a commodity boom, according
to  John Taylor , founder of currency-hedge fund FX Concepts LLC.  The Aussie “is in a bubble -- it’s in every bubble you can
find,” Taylor, chief executive officer of FX Concepts in  New
York , said in an interview on Bloomberg Television’s “Market
Makers” with  Erik Schatzker  and  Trish Regan . “It’s all because
they built up their commodity sector tremendously. The currency
went way up, the rest of the economy is ferociously
uncompetitive.”  An  index  of Australian construction fell to 36.7 in April,
the lowest level since 2009, from 44.4 the previous month, as
the S&P GSCI Total Return Index of 24 commodities dropped 4.7
percent, the biggest decline since May 2012. The Aussie fell 3.6
percent against developed market peers over the past month, the
most among 10 currencies tracked by Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes.  Australia ’s dollar declined 0.7 percent to 99.53 U.S. cents
as of 12:46 p.m. in New York today after touching 99.41, the
weakest since June 14. It halted a record 10-month stretch of
trading above parity on May 10.  China Link  “Australia is closely tied with China,” Taylor said,
calling the Aussie one of his least-favorite currencies. “China
is pushing internal growth, not building so many highways.”  The Aussie dropped as a report today showed Chinese
industrial production growth in April trailed economists’
estimates, while retail sales slowed from the previous month.
Separately, National Australia Bank Ltd. said its index of
business confidence in the country fell to minus 2 in April, the
lowest since November, from 2 in March.  The  Reserve Bank  of Australia lowered the overnight cash-rate target by a quarter percentage point to 2.75 percent on May
7, saying the  exchange rate  has been at “a historically high
level over the past 18 months, which is unusual.” Traders see
about a 60 percent chance that the central bank will reduce the
rate in three months, according to data compiled by Bloomberg on
overnight-index swaps.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Detrixhe in New York at 
 jdetrixhe1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  