-- Australian March Home-Loan Approvals Rise by Most in Four Years
-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 2013-05-13T01:40:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-13/australian-march-home-loan-approvals-rise-by-most-in-four-years.html
Australian home-loan approvals rose
the most in four years in March as central bank interest-rate
cuts lured buyers into the market.  The number of  loans  granted to build or buy houses and
apartments advanced 5.2 percent from February, when they rose a
revised 2.1 percent, the statistics bureau said in Sydney today.
The median estimate in a Bloomberg News survey of 16 economists
was for approvals to rise 4 percent.  Governor  Glenn Stevens  and his board reduced the overnight
cash-rate target to a record-low 2.75 percent last week as a
benign inflation outlook gives him scope to boost industries
including construction to rebalance growth away from resource
investment. The RBA said there are signs the shift is occurring,
while warning low rates threaten to ignite housing prices.  “A key risk is that established dwelling prices rise more
quickly than assumed,” the central bank said in its quarterly
monetary policy statement released May 10, noting they have
risen about 4 percent from their 2012 lows. “The associated
boost to wealth and sentiment could in time generate stronger-than-expected consumption growth. If this were accompanied by a
return to increasing household leverage, it would raise concerns
from a financial stability perspective.”  The Australian dollar was little changed at 99.84 U.S.
cents after today’s data. Traders are pricing in a 26 percent
chance the central bank will lower rates to 2.5 percent next
month, swaps data compiled by Bloomberg show.  The total value of loans climbed 4.5 percent to A$23
billion ($23 billion) in March, today’s report showed.  The value of lending to owner-occupiers increased 5.8
percent, the report showed. The value of loans to  investors  who
plan to rent or resell homes rose 2.1 percent.  Today’s report showed first-home buyers made up 14.2
percent of the loans approved in March, from 14.4 percent in
February.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  