-- Australian Billionaires Win Rio Tinto Royalty Dispute
-- B y   J o e   S c h n e i d e r
-- 2013-05-13T09:45:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-13/australian-billionaires-win-rio-tinto-royalty-dispute.html
Rio Tinto Group (RIO)  must pay past
royalties on ore mined in  Western Australia  to Asia’s richest
woman  Gina Rinehart  and Wright Prospecting Pty, a judge ruled.  New South  Wales   Supreme Court  Justice David Hammerschlag in
a May 10  decision  said Mount Bruce Mining Pty, a unit of Rio
Tinto, owed the royalties under a 1970 agreement in which it
agreed to pay 2.5 percent on  iron ore  sales from the Channar and
Eastern Ridge lands in Western Australia.  Rio Tinto, Rinehart’s Hancock Prospecting Pty and Wright
Prospecting had agreed on the sum in dispute, the judge said
without specifying it. The judge had been told by the
plaintiffs’ lawyers during the March trial that about $200
million was at stake. Rio had argued the properties lay outside
the area on which royalties were due under the deal negotiated
with Rinehart’s father  Lang Hancock  and his partner at the time
Peter Wright, who had founded Wright Prospecting.  “The royalty is payable in respect of ore won from the
physical area,” Hammerschlag said in the ruling.  Bruce Tobin, a Melbourne-based spokesman for Rio Tinto,
said the company was examining the judgment and considering its
options.  Wright Prospecting welcomes the ruling, the company said in
an e-mail, adding the agreed sum of the royalties is
confidential.  Other Disputes  Lang Hancock and Peter Wright discovered iron ore deposits
in the Pilbara region of Western Australia in the 1950s. The
find now makes Rio Tinto, which operates mines through Hamersley
Iron Pty., the biggest producer in the country. The prospectors’
companies collect a 2.5 percent royalty from a 1962 agreement
with Rio Tinto on sales of iron ore mined at some of the Pilbara
properties.  Rinehart, who inherited the iron-producing properties from
her father, is ranked the 42nd richest person in the world, with
a net worth of $17.3 billion, according to the  Bloomberg
Billionaires Index .  Angela Bennett, Peter Wright’s heir, and Rinehart are in
disputes over other royalties and properties in the region, with
Wright Prospecting seeking 50 percent of Hancock’s stake in
tenements known as Hope Downs 4, 5 and 6, according to a Sept.
24 lawsuit filed in the Supreme Court of Western Australia in
Perth.  The Case is Wright Prospecting Pty v. Hamersley Iron Pty.
2013/NSWSC536. Supreme Court of New South Wales (Sydney).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joe Schneider in Sydney at 
 jschneider5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Wong at 
 dwong19@bloomberg.net  