-- Automaker-Supplier Improvements Stall, Study Says; Toyota No. 1
-- B y   M a r k   C l o t h i e r
-- 2013-05-13T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-13/automaker-supplier-improvements-stall-study-says-toyota-no-1.html
Improvements in automaker-supplier
relations are stalling, with the difference between the top- and
bottom-ranked companies narrowing, according to a survey of
auto-parts makers in  North America .  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203)  recorded the top score in the survey
with 297. Chrysler Group LLC, the lowest of six ranked
companies, was within 19 percent with a 250 score in the survey
conducted by Planning Perspectives Inc. In 2005, Toyota was No.
1 in the survey at 415, while the predecessor of  General Motors
Co. (GM)  was last at 114.  “The automakers are failing miserably at recognizing that
suppliers can help them,” John Henke, chief executive officer
of Planning Perspectives, said in an interview. “Too often they
look at them as enemies.”  Progress in automaker-supplier relations reached a plateau
this year, Henke said. A score of 250 to 350 in considered
adequate by Planning Perspectives. The six automakers ranked in
survey are all rated adequate, with Toyota and  Honda (7267)  Motor Co.
declining since 2005 from good ratings and U.S. automakers
improving from scores considered poor by Birmingham, Michigan-based Planning Perspectives.  The plateau is a sign that carmakers either don’t have a
plan in place or that it’s not being implemented at the lowest
levels of the companies, Henke said.  “I’m inclined to think it’s the former,” Henke said.  Toyota, Honda  Of the six automakers ranked, Honda was the only one whose
score declined from 2012, 287 from 293. Honda was still No. 2
behind Toyota. Tokyo-based Honda’s score has declined six
straight years.  Natural disasters in  Asia  in 2011 “forced us to slash
production, then rapidly ramp up in 2012 to meet customer
needs,”  Ed Miller , a Honda spokesman, said in an e-mail. “We
are fully aware that this made business difficult for some of
our suppliers. We are working proactively” to improve relations
with vendors, he said.  Toyota, based in Toyota City,  Japan , reversed a five-year
slide with its gain from 296 in 2012.  Chrysler’s 250 score represented a rise of less than 1
percent from 2012. The Auburn Hills, Michigan-based company,
which is majority owned by  Fiat SpA (F) , improved for the fifth
straight year.  Ford Motor Co. (F) , based in Dearborn,  Michigan , was the
biggest gainer, rising 1.5 percent to 271 while remaining in
third place for the second straight year. GM was unchanged at
251 and ranks fifth. The Detroit-based automaker, which exited
bankruptcy in 2009, has more than doubled its standing with
suppliers since bottoming out in 2005.  Nissan Motor Co. (7201) , based in Yokohama, Japan, was ranked
fourth and its 256 score was unchanged from last year.  Comments from the companies show they pay attention to the
survey results.  ‘Learning Opportunity’  “While we appreciate our ranking position, we clearly
understand there are areas for improvement,”  Robert Young ,
Toyota’s head of purchasing for manufacturing operations in
North America, said in a statement. “We will continue to use
these results as a valuable learning opportunity to help improve
our relationships and the way we conduct business.”  Chrysler, boosted by the success of the Ram 1500 pickup and
Dodge Dart, has had 37 straight monthly U.S. sales gains.  “A healthy, motivated supply base is critically important
to our ability to deliver exciting, high-quality vehicles our
customers,” Scott Kunselman, senior vice president for
purchasing, said in an e-mailed statement. “We are continuously
looking for opportunities to strengthen relationships even
further.”  One Ford  Ford has earned  $35.2 billion  in the past four years,
following $30.1 billion in losses from 2006 through 2008. The
turnaround helped the automaker boost its score 67 percent since
2007.  “We are on track with our One Ford plan, which includes
supplier relations as a top strategic priority, and we are
taking actions for continued improvement,” Tony Brown, Ford’s
global purchasing chief, said in a statement.  Planning Perspectives surveyed 583 sales representatives
and engineers from 441 direct suppliers in March and April, on
areas such as trust, communication, helpfulness in engineering
and the opportunity to make a profit.  The parts produced by suppliers, such as instrument panels,
seats, axles and navigation systems, typically make up more than
two-thirds of a vehicle’s value, Planning Perspectives has said.  While the survey collected data on European automakers,
Planning Perspectives said it didn’t yet have enough information
to rank those companies.  Had rankings been made on the data collected,  Bayerische
Motoren Werke AG (BMW)  would have placed first among the Europeans,
followed by  Daimler AG (DAI)  and  Volkswagen AG. (VOW)  BMW would have topped
all automakers and Daimler would have ranked third, behind
Toyota. VW would have ranked last, according to the research.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Clothier in Detroit at 
 mclothier@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  