-- Lazard Capital Markets Weighs Sale Among Strategic Options
-- B y   L a u r a   M a r c i n e k   a n d   M a t t h e w   M o n k s
-- 2013-05-13T16:44:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-13/lazard-capital-markets-weighs-sale-among-strategic-options-1-.html
Lazard Capital Markets LLC, the
closely held brokerage controlled by current and former  Lazard
Ltd. (LAZ)  employees, is exploring a sale or forming a joint venture,
according to a spokesman.  Lazard Capital, spun out amid Lazard Ltd.’s 2005  initial
public offering , also may seek a partner to inject capital or
could sell a minority stake as its owners seek to increase the
value of the franchise, Scott Sunshine, a spokesman for the New
York-based broker-dealer, said in a phone interview. No decision
has been made, he said.  Wall Street firms have considered changing ownership
structures and strategies as commissions get squeezed. Money
managers are  trading less  and doing more of it electronically,
and customers have resisted paying for investment
recommendations. Firms registered with the Financial Industry
Regulatory Authority  dropped  7.1 percent to 4,251 in April from
the end of 2010.  Lazard Capital, led by Chief Executive Officer William Buchanan, cut six senior research analysts in December, people
familiar with the matter said at the time. The firm had more
than $1 billion in  assets  and about $73 million of equity at the
end of 2012, according to regulatory filings. Hamilton, Bermuda-based Lazard Ltd., the largest independent merger adviser, has a
separate capital markets advisory business.  Research, Underwriting  Lazard Capital employs about 200 people who provide
research, sales and trading, along with underwriting for
equities, fixed-income and convertible securities, according to
its website.  The firm was a co-manager for April’s $702 million initial
public offering of  SeaWorld Entertainment Inc. (SEAS)  and the $102
million offering of  Chimerix Inc. (CMRX) , according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Lazard Capital helped oversee $2.12 billion in 23
IPOs during the past 12 months, the data show.  When Lazard Freres & Co. became publicly traded in 2005,
the asset-management and advisory operations became Lazard Ltd.
Its alternative-asset and capital markets businesses were folded
into a shell company owned by management called LFCM Holdings
LLC, according to regulatory filings. Lazard Capital is a wholly
owned subsidiary of LFCM, Sunshine said.  Lazard Capital pays client referral fees to Lazard Ltd. and
also pays to license the brand name. The broker-dealer explores
its options from time to time, Sunshine said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Laura Marcinek in  New York  at 
 lmarcinek3@bloomberg.net ;
Matthew Monks in New York at 
 mmonks1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net ;
Jeffrey McCracken at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net  