-- Baker Botts, Akin, Greenberg, Wachtell: Business of Law
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 2013-05-13T11:52:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-13/baker-botts-akin-greenberg-wachtell-business-of-law.html
Baker Botts LLP announced three
lateral hires last week including international tax lawyer Don J. Lonczak and capital markets lawyer Bonnie A. Barsamian.  Lonczak will be based in the firm’s Washington and New York
offices while Barsamian will be based in its New York office.
Jay Ryan, an electric power lawyer, also joined the firm in its
Washington office last week. Before joining Baker Botts, Lonczak
was a partner in Shearman & Sterling LLP’s tax group. Barsamian
was previously at Fried, Frank, Harris, Shriver & Jacobson LLP.
Ryan joined the firm from Van Ness Feldman PC, where he was on
that firm’s executive committee and was formerly managing
partner of its electric practice, the firm said.  Lonczak has a transaction-oriented practice that includes
structuring and negotiating the tax aspects of domestic and
international mergers and acquisitions, joint ventures and
corporate spinoffs, as well as of public and private financings
and derivatives financial products, the firm said. He has
experience counseling clients on tax matters associated with
cross-border transactions.  Barsamian’s background crosses a range of industries,
including REITs, financial and specialty finance services, media
and entertainment and industrial/consumer products. She
represents issuers and underwriters on public and private
securities offerings and other corporate finance transactions.  Ryan has worked for clients on matters that include the
operation of wholesale power markets and regional transmission
organizations; transmission and generation development;
licensing and relicensing of hydroelectric assets; LNG exports;
and compliance issues arising under federal and state energy and
environmental laws, the firm said.  Baker Botts has about 700 lawyers at 14 offices in the
U.S., Europe,  China  and the Middle East.  Hunton & Williams Hires White & Case Corporate Partner  Hunton & Williams LLP added Alison Dreizen to its New York
office as partner in the global corporate practice. Dreizen
joins the firm from White & Case LLP, where she was the resident
partner in Moscow and spent a year in its Hong Kong office, the
firm said.  She has more than 30 years of global corporate experience
in the financial services, manufacturing, mining and shipping
sectors.  Hunton & Williams has more than 800 lawyers with clients at
19 offices around the world.  Sidley Expands in Houston with Capital Markets Partner Hire  Timothy C. Langenkamp, a capital markets lawyer with
experience in energy transactions, joined Sidley Austin LLP as a
partner in Houston. He’ll be a member of the securities/capital
markets practice group. He was previously at Andrews Kurth LLP.  Langenkamp’s practice is primarily focused on representing
underwriters and issuers in debt and equity capital markets
transactions, with a particular emphasis on offerings by master
limited partnerships, the firm said. He counsels clients on
securities law compliance, corporate governance, mergers and
acquisitions, joint ventures and other general corporate and
securities matters.  Sidley has 30 lawyers in its Houston office, which opened
in February 2012. The firm has 1,750 lawyers in 18 offices
worldwide.  Corporate Partner Joins Carlton Fields in New York  Carlton Fields announced that Edward C. Marschner has
joined the firm’s corporate, securities, and tax practice group
as a shareholder in New York. He was previously at Fox Horan &
Camerini LLP.   Marschner represents closely held multinational groups in
mergers and acquisitions, joint ventures, public contract
teaming, and transnational partnership relationships. He also
advises industrial groups on competition and antitrust law, and
on protecting intellectual property, the firm said.  Carlton Fields has more than 300 attorneys and government
consultants at eight U.S. offices.  Nelson Levine Adds Reinsurance Partner in New York Partner  Marc Abrams has joined the reinsurance practice of  Nelson
Levine de Luca & Hamilton LLC  as partner in the New York office.
He was previously a partner at Wollmuth Maher & Deutsch LLP.  Abrams represents domestic and international insurers,
cedents and reinsurers in dispute resolution, both in U.S.
courts and before arbitration panels.  Nelson Levine has lawyers at seven offices in the U.S. and
 London .  Barnes & Thornburg Grows in Atlanta With Labor Partner  Barnes & Thornburg LLP added Peter Spanos as a partner in
the labor and employment law department in the Atlanta office.
He was previously a partner at Burr & Forman LLP.  Spanos represents and counsels management in employment
litigation and traditional labor law. He has experience in labor
and employment concerns, including employment policies and
procedures; Fair Labor Standards Act collective actions;
wrongful termination and employment discrimination lawsuits,
among other matters.  Barnes & Thornburg has more than 600 attorneys and other
legal professionals at 12 U.S. offices.  News  Patton Boggs Accused of Fraud in Chevron Ecuador Case  Chevron Corp. (CVX)  is pursuing fraud claims against Patton Boggs
LLP, alleging the law firm knew about fraudulent behavior in the
Ecuadorean lawsuit brought against the oil company over
pollution in the Amazon rainforest, the American Lawyer
 reported.   Chevron was ordered in 2011 to pay as much as $18.2 billion
in compensatory and punitive damages for the alleged dumping by
Texaco, acquired by Chevron in 2001, of toxic drilling wastes in
the Ecuadorean jungle from 1964 to about 1992. The judgment came
in an 18-year-old lawsuit from a judge in Lago Agrio, a
provincial capital near the Colombian border.  Chevron has denied wrongdoing in the Lago Agrio lawsuit.
The company says Texaco cleaned up its share of the pollution at
its former oil fields, which were taken over by PetroEcuador,
 Ecuador ’s state oil company. Chevron, based in San Ramon,
 California , contends it was released from any future liability
by an agreement between Texaco and Ecuador.  Patton Boggs entered the case in 2010 to help the
plaintiffs try to enforce an Ecuadorean court judgment in third
countries where Chevron has assets. It brought a malicious
prosecution claim against Chevron in February 2012, the magazine
said.  Chevron’s lawyers, Gibson Dunn & Crutcher LLP, said in a
filing May 10 that Patton Boggs colluded with the Ecuadorean
court or court experts and knew that the judgment was
ghostwritten by other lawyers for the plaintiffs, according to
the magazine.  “Chevron’s proposed complaint against Patton Boggs is
perhaps the starkest example yet of how Chevron will use its
limitless resources to intimidate and harass anyone that dares
to help the Ecuadorian Plaintiffs in their 20-year battle for
justice,” Patton Boggs said in an e-mailed statement. “Patton
Boggs has acted conscientiously, ethically and in good faith at
all times since becoming involved in this case in 2010, and will
not be intimidated by Chevron’s scare tactics.”  The racketeering case is Chevron v. Donziger, 11-00691,
U.S. District Court, District of New York ( Manhattan ). The case
in Ecuador is Aquinda v. Chevron, 002-2003, Superior Court of
Nueva Loja, Lago Agrio, Ecuador.  Facebook Says General Counsel Ted Ullyot Leaving Company  Facebook Inc. (FB) ’s general counsel Ted Ullyot is leaving the
company after helping to guide the social-networking service
through an initial public offering a year ago.  “Ted has been a valued member of Facebook’s leadership who
built our legal team through an intense five-year period in
which we faced complex and high-stakes legal issues of all
types,” the Menlo Park, California-based company said May 10 in
an e-mailed statement.  Ullyot has been Facebook’s vice president, general counsel
and secretary since October 2008, regulatory filings show.
Previously, he was a partner at Kirkland & Ellis LLP and served
as chief of staff at the U.S. Justice Department and as a deputy
assistant to President George W. Bush.  His exit follows the departure of several Facebook
employees since the company held its IPO in May 2012. Blake Ross, product director, left earlier this year. Senior
executives Katie Mitic and Ethan Beard said in August that they
were leaving.  Dewey Meets Opposition to Settlement with Davis and XL  Left out of the $19 million settlement that creditors of
Dewey & LeBoeuf LLP cobbled together with XL Specialty Insurance
Co. and the defunct law firm’s former Chairman Steven Davis, two
other former senior executives from the firm are objecting to
the settlement and contend that lawyers for the creditors’ trust
are disqualified.  XL, a provider of the defunct firm’s management liability
policy, contributes the bulk of the settlement funds while Davis
will give the firm a note for $511,000. In return, Dewey will
waive all claims against XL and Davis.  Stephen DiCarmine, the former executive director, and Joel Sanders, Dewey’s former chief financial officer, were left out
of the settlement. In anticipation of a hearing today for
approval, they objected to the accord in papers filed earlier
this month. The two contended at the time that the settlement
had multiple defects, among them injunctions precluding people
like them from suing non-bankrupt third parties.  They also objected to a provision in the settlement
amounting to a court finding that XL acted in good faith with
everyone covered by the policies.  Later this month, DiCarmine and Sanders were handed another
ground for objection when Brown Rudnick LLP, lawyers for the
creditors’ trustee, hired a former Dewey partner named Stephen A. Best, who had been co-chairman of Dewey’s white-collar
criminal defense group.  DiCarmine and Sanders said in court papers they had a
meeting of several hours with Best to discuss potential legal
problems. They contend that giving him confidential information
makes Brown Rudnick disqualified.  In response, the trustee said that Best left Dewey in 2010,
long before bankruptcy. In addition, the trustee says the
settlement was signed and the approval motion filed before Best
joined the firm on May 1. Since he arrived at Brown Rudnick, the
firm established a so-called ethical wall around Best.  Brown Rudnick said in a court filing that demanding the
firm’s disqualification is based on “contrived and false
claims” that shouldn’t delay approval of the settlement.  For details on the settlement, click here for the April 24
Bloomberg bankruptcy report.  Dewey’s liquidating Chapter 11 plan was approved by the
bankruptcy court in February and implemented in March. The firm
estimated that midpoint recoveries for secured and unsecured
creditors under the plan would be 58.4 percent and 9.1 percent,
respectively. The plan created a trust to collect and distribute
remaining assets.  Dewey once had 1,300 lawyers. The liquidation began under
Chapter 11 in May 2012. At the outset of bankruptcy, there was
secured debt of about $225 million and accounts receivable of
$217.4 million, the firm previously said. The petition listed
assets of $193 million and liabilities of $245.4 million.  The bankruptcy case is In re Dewey & LeBoeuf LLP, 12-bk-12321, U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  Deals  True Religion to Be Acquired by TowerBrook for $835 Million  Greenberg Traurig LLP and Akin Gump Strauss Hauer & Feld
LLP advised  True Religion Apparel Inc. (TRLG) , the maker of designer
jeans worn by Megan Fox and Angelina Jolie, which agreed to be
bought by TowerBrook Capital Partners LP for about $835 million.
Wachtell, Lipton, Rosen & Katz advised TowerBrook.  Dennis J. Block, senior chairman of the global corporate
mergers and acquisitions practice at Greenberg Traurig, led his
firm’s team. Additional shareholders included Daniel Serota,
corporate; Jeffrey M. Wolf, debt financing; Ian A. Herbert,
employee benefits; Steven C. Russo, environmental; William C.
Donovan, debt financing; and Kelly A. Terribile, corporate.  Akin Gump’s team was led by corporate practice co-head
Frank Reddick.  Wachtell didn’t immediately respond to an e-mail requesting
information about the partners involved.  True Religion, which hired Guggenheim Partners in October
to evaluate a possible sale, has lost female customers after
maintaining higher prices than competitors such as  VF Corp. (VFC) ’s 7
for All Mankind label. While  revenue  increased 11 percent last
year, True Religion’s profitability has shrunk. Operating margin
narrowed to 16.7 percent last year from 33.2 percent in 2005.  TowerBrook is a New York-based private-equity firm founded
by Ramez Sousou and Neal Moszkowski, who also serve as co-chief
executive officers. Its previous retail investments include the
Jimmy Choo Ltd. luxury brand, acquired by Labelux GmbH in 2011.  For more, click here.  Firm News  Rushing Named Co-Head of MoFo’s Global Litigation Department  Morrison & Foerster LLP named San Diego partner Don Rushing
co-chairman of the firm’s global litigation department. He joins
San Francisco partner Arturo Gonzalez and succeeds New York
partner Grant Esposito, who had been co-chairmen of the
department since 2010.  Rushing, former head of the firm’s products-liability
group, is a trial lawyer who handles defense of aviation,
consumer product, chemical, and pharmaceutical companies.  “Don is an incredibly accomplished litigator and
experienced leader who commands tremendous respect from his
partners, clients and adversaries,” Larren M. Nashelsky,
chairman of MoFo, said in a statement.  Morrison & Foerster has more than 1,000 lawyers at 16
offices in the U.S., Europe and Asia.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in Brooklyn, New York, at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  