-- Bank of Israel Cuts Interest Rate to 1.5%: Statement
-- B y   S h a j i   M a t h e w
-- 2013-05-13T12:26:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-13/bank-of-israel-cuts-interest-rate-to-1-5-statement.html
Bank of Israel  publishes the
following statement on its website.  “In light of the continued appreciation of the shekel,
taking into account the start of natural gas production from the
Tamar gas field,  interest rate  reductions by many central
banks—notably the ECB, the quantitative easing in major
economies worldwide and the downward revision in global growth
forecasts, the Bank of  Israel ’s Monetary Committee reached two
decisions outside the regularly scheduled framework.  ‘‘The appreciation trend of the shekel continues. In terms
of the effective exchange rate, the shekel has appreciated by
2.4 percent in the past month, and by 5.4 percent in the past 3
months. The shekel’s strength against the dollar and the euro
during these periods stood out markedly in comparison with other
currencies’ movements vis-à-vis the dollar and euro. The
appreciation trend was affected by, among other things, the
beginning of natural gas production from the Tamar  gas field ,
the interest rate reductions by central banks worldwide, notably
the ECB, and the continued quantitative easing programs in
several major economies around the world.  ‘‘Forecasts of global growth, in particular projections
regarding Europe and  China , have recently been revised downward.
This moderation is expected to have an effect on Israel’s
economy.  ‘‘Against this background, the Bank of Israel’s Monetary
Committee reached decisions outside the regularly scheduled
framework. The decisions reached by the Monetary Committee are
the following:  ‘‘To reduce the monetary interest rate by 0.25 percentage
points to 1.5 percent, effective Friday, May 17, 2013.  ‘‘Beginning this year, and in coming years, the Bank of
Israel will purchase foreign exchange in order to offset the
effect of natural gas production on the  exchange rate .  ‘‘The Bank of Israel notes that the inflation environment
is below the midpoint of the target range and is expected to
remain within the range in the coming year as well. Likewise,
actions taken by the Banking Supervision Department in the past
are moderating the impact of the monetary interest rate on the
housing market.  ‘‘The decision regarding the interest rate for June 2013
will be published at 17:30 on Monday, May 27, 2013.’’
* Link to statement:  http://tinyurl.com/conhrl3   To contact the reporter on this story:
Shaji Mathew in Dubai at 
 shajimathew@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Riad Hamade at 
 rhamade@bloomberg.net  