-- Bank of Israel Q&A on Interest Rate, FX Purchase Decisions
-- B y   S h a j i   M a t h e w
-- 2013-05-13T12:45:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-13/bank-of-israel-q-a-on-interest-rate-fx-purchase-decisions.html
Bank of Israel  publishes the
following statement on its website.  “Questions and answers on the Monetary Committee’s
decision to reduce the interest rate in an inter-meeting
decision, and to introduce a plan to purchase foreign exchange
to offset the effect of natural gas production from the Tamar
gas field.  1. Has the foreign exchange policy which you announced in August
2009 been abolished?  No.  2. How will you purchase the foreign exchange—at one time?
through fixed daily purchases?  The purchases will be made in accordance with market conditions,
throughout the year. The Bank of Israel will report these
purchases (separately) together with its Foreign Exchange
Reserves notice on the 7th of each month.  3. In the past you have declared that the optimal level of
reserves is $65–90 billion. Has this been changed? Do you plan
to increase the reserves to above this range?  The current level of the reserves, about $77 billion, is still
far from the upper bound of the range. Furthermore, the Law
allows the Bank of Israel to deviate from this range if needed
for monetary policy purposes.  4. According to your policy, you only purchase foreign exchange
when the  exchange rate  deviates from fundamental economic
conditions or when there are disorderly markets. The production
of natural gas is a real economic factor which is fundamental
and long term. Why offset its effect through foreign exchange
purchases?  Natural resources are a blessing for Israel’s economy. However,
international experience shows that sometimes the discovery of
natural resources can also have negative effects on the economy,
often referred to as ‘‘Dutch disease”. The goal of the policy
announced is to offset these detrimental effects.  5. Have you taken into account the cost to the Bank of Israel
resulting from foreign exchange holdings?  The foreign exchange reserves are invested in liquid assets so
that they can be utilized in times of crisis. The foreign
exchange flows which will accumulate as a result of this policy
will be invested in longer term assets, with higher expected
returns.  6. How did you get to the precise figure of $2.1 billion?  The current account is expected to improve by about $2.8 billion
as a result of natural gas production at Tamar in 2013. However,
foreign exchange-denominated payments are expected to be made by
the related companies in order to repay debts and repatriate
profits, and for new investments. Thus, the Bank of  Israel 
decided to offset about 75 percent of the estimated effect on
the current account.  7. Did you make a mistake in cancelling the monetary interest
rate decision for May?  The decision not to hold a monetary interest rate meeting twice
a year, after the holiday season was based on the fact that
during these periods domestic economic data publication is
delayed. Despite this the Monetary Committee continues to meet
each week, and can act at any time should there be a need. In
recent weeks the shekel appreciated significantly, and interest
rate cuts by other central banks have accelerated this trend,
requiring a policy response.  8. In your assessment, what will be the effect of reducing the
interest rate on  home prices ? Do home buyers need to pay the
price of assistance to exports?  The decision of the Monetary Committee is intended to deal with
the overall economy, and balances considerations impacting
various sectors. It should be noted that the measures adopted by
the Banking Supervision Department concerning mortgages reduce
the impact of the BoI’s interest rate on the housing market.  9. The last time the Bank of Israel made an inter-meeting rate
decision was after the collapse of  Lehman Brothers , at the
height of the global crisis. In 2 weeks you were scheduled to
decide on the interest rate in any case. What do you know that
did not allow you to wait?  Recently, crucial information became available which was at the
basis of the decision. Central banks reduced  interest rates  and
continue large scale quantitative easing. These intensified the
appreciation pressures on the shekel.’’  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shaji Mathew in Dubai at 
 shajimathew@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Riad Hamade at 
 rhamade@bloomberg.net  