-- Banks on Verge of Collapse in Denmark Win Time in FSA Review
-- B y   F r a n c e s   S c h w a r t z k o p f f
-- 2013-05-14T11:57:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-13/banks-on-verge-of-collapse-in-denmark-win-time-as-fsa-steps-back.html
Danish banks in breach of the
nation’s solvency rules will get more time to raise capital and
avert failure as the regulator eases its resolution practices.  The Financial Supervisory Authority will give two banks
currently in breach of individual solvency requirements the time
they need to rebuild their capital buffers, said Anders Balling,
head of banking at the regulator in Copenhagen. At the height of
 Denmark ’s banking crisis two years ago, the FSA gave lenders as
little as 48 hours to find investors before they were shut down.  “We have moved away from an either-or model,” Balling
said in a telephone interview. “We can see the benefits of a
gradual approach. This is also part of the thinking in the new
European capital requirement rules.”  Denmark’s FSA has enforced some of the European Union’s
toughest bank rules, leading the bloc in requiring senior
creditors to share losses since 2011. The financial industry has
criticized the approach, arguing it risked deepening the
nation’s economic crisis. Denmark is the Scandinavian country
hardest hit by the turmoil in the  euro zone  as it struggles to
emerge from a 2008 property bubble and an ensuing spate of
regional  bank failures .  “With the most challenged banks, the thinking is that in
the current climate, with the  macro-economic climate  not so good
-- but not so drastically bad -- there is room for working with
this,” Balling said.  Creditor Losses  The Danish regulator requires banks to calculate individual
solvency needs to determine bank-specific capital buffers. The
approach is known in Denmark as the 8+ model, referring to the
additional reserves banks must hold over an 8 percent minimum,
relative to their risk-weighted assets.  At least 12 Danish banks have been shut down since 2008 for
breaching solvency rules, while another dozen were absorbed by
stronger rivals. After the 2011 failure of Amagerbanken A/S --
the EU’s first bail-in within a resolution framework -- the FSA
stepped up its efforts to catch banks holding what it described
as an “optimistic” view on risky assets.  The watchdog started conducting surprise Friday afternoon
inspections, giving troubled banks a weekend to find the capital
they needed to escape insolvency. Failing that, a lender was
declared insolvent and either wound down or taken over.  Funding Crisis  Extending deadlines to meet  capital requirements  should
help avert a repeat of the funding crisis that hit Denmark’s
banks after 2011, said Mads Thinggaard, an analyst at Nykredit
A/S. Following two bail-ins that year, most of Denmark’s
regional lenders were shut out of wholesale markets.  “It wouldn’t be a good thing for Danish banks to get into
that same situation again,” Thinggaard said. “As long as you
have real hope for saving a bank in a way that means no losses
to simple creditors, it makes good sense for the industry, and
also for the Danish banking customers, that you give them a
chance to play out the rescue possibilities.”  FSA General Director Ulrik Noedgaard said in November the
FSA was considering extending the weekend deadline to as long as
three months, pending the outcome of a review. The agency now
finds an open-ended timeline more appropriate, Balling said.  Now, “there is no time limit as such,” he said. “We can
set a limit if, for instance, there is an increased risk. But as
long as the bank is working constructively with decreasing risk
and increasing capital, we will give them time.”  Recovery Plans  The regulator in February told Basisbank A/S to submit a
capital recovery plan after it failed to meet a solvency
requirement of 10.3 percent of risk-weighted assets. A month
later, it told Vorbasse-Hejnsvig Sparekasse to submit a similar
plan for falling short of its 14.8 percent individual
requirement.  The FSA also warned the banks they would face higher
requirements as of April 1 when a transition period to the 8+
model ended. Recovery plans need to include consideration of
raising equity, issuing debt instruments and reducing riskier
assets, according to the regulator’s website. They also must
address the sale of branches or business and mergers.  “It’s positive that they don’t close banks when they don’t
fulfill pillar 2 requirements, as they used to,” said Morten
Frederiksen, a director at the Danish Bankers Association. “It
is more aligned with the rest of  Europe , and that’s very
important for Danish banks.”  The laxer stance comes as Denmark discusses how to treat
systemically important financial institutions. The government-appointed Sifi committee in March proposed designating the
nation’s six largest banks, including  Danske Bank A/S (DANSKE)  and
mortgage lender Nykredit A/S, as too big to fail.  Intensified Scrutiny  The status carries with it additional capital requirements
as high as 5 percent of risk-weighted assets. Though the
proposal opens the door to state support, banks have argued the
text isn’t explicit enough on this point. The industry also
wants loosened the proposed conditions for issuing debt to meet
the higher capital levels, to ensure investor interest.
Lawmakers have yet to agree on the recommendations.  While the Danish banking industry generally is “robust,”
the FSA has placed a small group of lenders under intensified
scrutiny because of their risk of failure, Noedgaard said in
October. The group makes up 2.3 percent of the industry’s total
assets and 3.2 percent of loans, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Frances Schwartzkopff in Copenhagen at 
 fschwartzko1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at :
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net 
Christian Wienberg at 
 cwienberg@bloomberg.net  