-- Bank of Israel Plans FX Purchases to Offset Gas Output Effects
-- B y   S h a j i   M a t h e w
-- 2013-05-13T12:30:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-13/bank-of-israel-plans-fx-purchases-to-offset-gas-output-effects.html
Bank of Israel  publishes the
following statement on its website.  “Natural gas production in Israel is causing an
improvement in the current account, which is leading to
appreciation pressures on the shekel. This phenomenon, often
referred to as ‘‘Dutch disease’’ is liable to negatively impact
Israel’s economy.  ‘‘The Monetary Committee of the Bank of Israel announces a
foreign exchange purchase plan which will offset the effect of
the natural gas production on the exchange rate.  ‘‘Beginning in 2013, and in following years, the Bank of
Israel will purchase foreign exchange in line with the Bank’s
assessment of the effect of the natural gas production on the
balance of payments: In 2013, the improvement in the current
account is estimated to be about $2.8 billion. Taking into
account the effects on the financial account resulting from the
natural gas production (foreign exchange payments by the gas
companies), the Bank of  Israel  will purchase about $2.1 billion
by the end of the year within the framework of this plan. This
program will be revisited when a ‘‘wealth fund’’ begins
operation, which is expected to be during 2018.  ‘‘The Bank’s assessments of the overall effect on the
balance of payments resulting from natural gas production and
foreign exchange purchases will be updated from time to time and
publicized.  ‘‘The amounts which will be purchased within the framework
of this plan will be added to the Bank of Israel’s foreign
exchange reserves, but will be managed separately, with a longer
term investment horizon.  ‘‘The foreign exchange purchase plan serves as an
additional instrument of the Bank of Israel’s  exchange rate 
policy. As in the past, the Bank of Israel will continue to
operate in the foreign exchange market in cases of exchange rate
fluctuations which are not in line with fundamental economic
conditions, or when conditions in the foreign exchange market
are disorderly.’’
* Link to statement:  http://tinyurl.com/clbh5ys   To contact the reporter on this story:
Shaji Mathew in Dubai at 
 shajimathew@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Riad Hamade at 
 rhamade@bloomberg.net  