-- Beckham’s PSG Ends 19-Year Wait for French Soccer Title
-- B y   P e t e r - J o s e p h   H e g a r t y
-- 2013-05-13T02:41:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-13/beckham-s-psg-ends-19-year-wait-for-french-soccer-championship.html
Paris Saint-Germain secured its first
French soccer championship in 19 years and third overall with a
1-0 win at Lyon.  Jeremy Menez scored the only goal last night to give PSG,
which was acquired by an investment arm of the Qatari government
in 2011, an unbeatable seven-point lead with two games left.
Second-place Marseille had left PSG needing a victory at Lyon to
secure the title with its fourth straight win two days ago.  “We deserve to win this trophy,” PSG President Nasser Al-Khelaifi told his team’s  website . “It’s a magnificent moment
for the club and our supporters. I am so proud of our fans who
have been right behind us through thick and thin. They deserve
this title too after 19 years.”  David Beckham , soccer’s highest-earning player according to
France Football magazine who joined PSG on a five-month contract
at the end of January, came on as late substitute for Menez as
he added a French championship to league titles in England,
Spain and the U.S.  Lyon’s loss means Marseille, a 2-1 winner at home against
Toulouse, qualifies directly for next season’s  Champions League 
group stage. Lille, Nice or Saint-Etienne could yet take third
spot from Lyon.  Barcelona yesterday celebrated its fourth Spanish
championship in five years, and 22nd in total, with a 2-1 win at
 Atletico Madrid . An Alexis Sanchez strike and Gabi’s own goal
gave Barca the comeback win after Radamel Falcao’s opener.  Barca was already assured of the title after second-place
Real  Madrid , the defending champion, drew 1-1 at Espanyol the
day before.  ‘Long Process’  “Winning this title has been a long process but we’ve done
it,” Barca defender  Dani Alves  told his team’s website. “Now
we have to celebrate it with the importance it deserves. If it
were so easy to win La Liga, we wouldn’t have lost it last
season.”  Juventus, which secured its record-extending 29th Italian
league championship May 5, drew 1-1 with Cagliari two days ago.  Second-place Napoli beat Siena 2-1 yesterday, while
Fiorentina defeated Palermo 1-0 to condemn its opponent to
relegation from Serie A alongside Siena and last-place Pescara.  The third Champions League place from  Italy  will be decided
in next weekend’s final round of games after 10-man AC Milan,
which is two points above Fiorentina in third, was held to a
scoreless draw at home by Roma last night.  Milan would seal third spot by winning at Siena on the
final day, when Fiorentina travels to Pescara.  Bayern Munich and Ajax, who have already won the German and
Dutch league titles, respectively, both won at the weekend.
Bayern meets Bundesliga rival Borussia Dortmund in the Champions
League final on May 25.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter-Joseph Hegarty in  London  at 
 phegarty@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 