-- Bezeq Gains Most Since September After Earnings: Tel Aviv Mover
-- B y   S h o s h a n n a   S o l o m o n
-- 2013-05-13T13:51:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-13/bezeq-gains-as-earnings-better-than-expectations-tel-aviv-mover.html
Bezeq Israeli Telecommunication Corp. (BEZQ) 
gained the most in more than seven months as the fixed-line and
wireless services provider reported earnings that beat  Bank
Leumi  Le-Israel Ltd.’s estimates.  Shares of Bezeq, which offers mobile-phone services through
its Pelephone Communications Ltd. unit, jumped 4 percent, the
most since Sept. 27, to 4.545 shekels at the market close in Tel
Aviv. The stock led gains on the benchmark  TA-25 (TA-25)  index, which
rose 1 percent.  The company’s first-quarter earnings before interest, tax,
depreciation and amortization were 1.09 billion shekels ($303
million), it said in an e-mailed statement today. That beat the
1.02 billion-shekel estimate of Bank Leumi and Excellence
Nessuah Brokerage Ltd.’s 1.03 billion-shekel projection,
according to  data compiled by Bloomberg . Profit fell 15 percent
amid an increase in competition.  “The high profitability levels are a positive surprise,”
Ori Licht, head of research at IBI-Israel Brokerage &
Investments Ltd. in  Tel Aviv , said today by phone. “The growth
in broadband Internet was very strong.”  Revenue from Internet services in the quarter grew 4.7
percent to 310 million shekels. Bezeq reiterated its guidance
for 2013 and said it expects to continue “streamlining
processes” throughout the group.  The shares tumbled 14 percent in the past 12 months as
year-on-year profit retreated in the last four quarters,
including the one reported today. Hot Telecommunication System
Ltd. and Golan Telecom entered the wireless market in May 2012,
leading to greater price competition for the incumbents,
including Bezeq.  Wholesale Market  The company is also facing more entrants in the fixed-line
market as Israel Electric Corp. sets up a fiber network and as
the government introduces a wholesale market. The Communications
Ministry in February recommended a 70 percent fee cut on calls
to fixed lines.  Sales for the quarter dropped 12 percent to 2.4 billion
shekels as revenue fell in both cellular and fixed-line
activities, it said. Earnings per share declined to 0.18 shekel
from 0.21 shekel.  B Communications Ltd. (BCOM) , which holds a 31 percent stake in
Bezeq, according to data compiled by Bloomberg, surged 13
percent. Internet Gold-Golden Lines Ltd., which owns a stake in
B Communications, jumped 16 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shoshanna Solomon in Tel Aviv at 
 ssolomon22@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  