-- Brazil Oil Auction Gathers Drillers With Taste of Africa: Energy
-- B y   R o d r i g o   O r i h u e l a
-- 2013-05-14T13:36:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-13/brazil-oil-auction-gathers-drillers-with-taste-of-africa-energy.html
More than 60  oil companies  are set to
bid on  exploration permits  offshore Brazil, taking on risks of
drilling in virgin waters after similar geology across the
Atlantic in Ghana and  Ivory Coast  yielded major discoveries.  Contestants in Brazil’s first oil auction in five years
range from  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM)  and Chevron Corp., the largest U.S.
producers by market value, to Brazilian startup Ouro Preto Oleo
& Gas, a government registry shows. They’re betting that deep-water deposits off the northern coast hold reserves like those
found thousands of miles across the ocean in Africa’s Gulf of
Guinea. The two-day sale, estimated to generate as much as $5
billion for the government, started today in Rio de Janeiro.  Interest in bidding for 289 blocks spread over 11 basins
will be focused on the mainly untapped offshore Foz do Amazonas
basin near neighboring French Guiana, according to consulting
firm Wood Mackenzie Ltd. The area, mostly unexplored except for
efforts by BP Plc,  Tullow Oil Plc (TLW)  and Exxon, shares a geological
heritage with the African land mass that separated from Brazil
millions of years ago and has produced oil since 2007 from
geology that dates to the Cretaceous period.  “There’s a bit of a herd mentality,” Ruaraidh Montgomery,
an analyst at Wood Mackenzie, said in an interview by phone from
Houston. “The big focus for most companies that will take part
are those basins off the north coast of the country in what’s
known as the Equatorial Margin” near the Guiana border.  Early Winners  In early results today, Petroleo Brasileiro SA, Brazil’s
state-owned producer known as Petrobras, and Portugal’s Galp
Energia SGPS SA, won four blocks in the Parnaiba basin while
billionaire  Eike Batista ’s OGX Petroleo & Gas Participacoes SA
picked up two blocks. Other winners included Petra Energia SA
with five blocks and Ouro Preto with one. China’s  Cnooc Ltd. (883) ,
which registered for the auction, isn’t participating, said
Fernando Manso, a press official at oil regulator ANP.  Brazil held its last oil block auction in 2008, a year
after discovering the so-called pre-salt reserves, which hold at
least 50 billion barrels of oil and are the biggest discovery in
the world this century. After oil was struck in basins created
before the salt formations started to take shape about 120
million years ago, developers including  Statoil ASA (STL)  are
exploring Africa’s pre-salt basins.  Tullow sparked interest in both the African Gulf of Guinea
in 2007 and off French Guiana in 2011 with its  Jupiter discovery
in Ghana of about 700 million barrels of oil equivalent  and 840
million at the Zaedyus find in the South American country.  China Presence  While London-based Tullow won’t participate in the round,
two of its partners at Zaedyus will -- Total SA and  Royal Dutch
Shell Plc. (RDSA)   Kosmos Energy Ltd. (KOS) , a partner at the Jubilee field in
Ghana, is registered to participate in Brazil’s auction.  China’s  Sinochem Group  is also registered to compete, while
 China Petroleum & Chemical Corp (600028) , or Sinopec, will compete
through the Brazilian venture it has with Repsol SA of Spain.
The U.K.’s  Premier Oil Plc. (PMO)  and the U.S.’s  Hess Corp. (HES)  are two of
the companies with activities offshore Africa that are
registered. Brazilian competitors also include  HRT Participacoes
em Petroleo SA. (HRTP3)  Petrochina Co., the second most valuable  oil
company , isn’t registered to compete.  Exxon doesn’t comment on bidding rounds before the
government publishes the results, Patrick McGinn, a spokesman
for Exxon, said in an e-mail when asked about similarities
between the geologies. BP spokesman David Nicholas declined to
comment. Spokespeople for  Chevron Corp. (CVX)  and Ouro Preto didn’t
respond to e-mails seeking comment.  Rising Competition  Brazil’s delay to hold an auction is linked to the
government’s revision of oil royalty legislation that followed
the pre-salt discovery, according to political consulting firm
Eurasia Group. After several years of discussions, a new law was
approved in March and suspended a week later by the  Supreme
Court  after the Rio de Janeiro government filed an injunction.  Joao Castro Neves, an analyst at Eurasia, said in a phone
interview from Washington that several factors sped up Brazil’s
decision to hold a second auction, including competition.  “The idea was that you have this huge reserve of oil so
you can take your time to think what the ideal framework is for
Brazil,” Castro Neves said. “When the pre-salt discovery was
made in 2007 it was the biggest in the world. Other discoveries
have been made since and companies are looking at the U.S.
shale, Mexico, Argentina, Africa. For the Brazilian government
this started to change their sense of urgency.”  The lack of oil auctions hasn’t deterred BP from seeking a
head-start in exploring off Brazil’s northern coast near the
French Guiana border. The London-based oil explorer acquired
three blocks last year from Petrobas, in the area.  “This play is very extensive and expands into the Guiana
Basin,”  Wood Mackenzie ’s Montgomery said.  State-controlled Petrobras has said it will be
“selective” in its participation in the round as it seeks to
conserve cash while working on more than doubling production by
2020 with the development of the pre-salt.  “All this acreage on the South American side is frontier
acreage, so there’s been very little exploration drilling,”
Montgomery said. “It’s high risk exploration.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rodrigo Orihuela in Rio de Janeiro at 
 rorihuela@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net  