-- British Columbia Vote Risks Oil-Sands Exports
-- B y   R e b e c c a   P e n t y   a n d   C h r i s t o p h e r   D o n v i l l e
-- 2013-05-13T20:23:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-13/british-columbia-vote-risks-oil-sands-exports-corporate-canada.html
British Columbia’s provincial
election threatens to stymie efforts by  Canadian Natural
Resources Ltd. (CNQ)  and other Alberta oil-sands companies to sell
crude to Pacific markets.  Adrian Dix, 49, whose New  Democratic Party  is leading in
polls ahead of tomorrow’s vote, opposes plans to pipe oil across
the country’s westernmost province for shipment by tanker to
 Asia . Premier Christy Clark, 47, whose ruling Liberals trail Dix
by  nine points  in an Angus Reid Public Opinion poll, has laid
out five conditions for her to support  Enbridge Inc. (ENB) ’s planned
conduit through British Columbia, one of the two lines proposed.  A win by the NDP may force Alberta to seek alternative
outlets given that the Keystone XL pipeline through the U.S. is
still under review and a glut of bitumen is filling existing
pipes and lowering heavy crude prices. Proposals include a
pipeline to Tuktoyaktuk on the  Beaufort Sea  in the Arctic, and
rail shipments to Manitoba’s northern port of Churchill or
Valdez,  Alaska .  The projects through British Columbia by Enbridge and
 Kinder Morgan Energy Partners LP (KMP)  would together move more than 1
million barrels a day from Alberta, home to the third-largest
oil reserves. Oil-sands output will increase to 3.8 million
barrels a day by 2022, double that of a decade earlier,
according to Alberta’s  main energy regulator .  ‘Short-Term Gain’  British Columbia “has economically and politically priced
itself out of the market” as an oil route,  John Stephenson , who
helps oversee C$2.7 billion ($2.67 billion) at First Asset
Investment Management Inc. in Toronto including shares in oil-sands developer  Suncor Energy Inc. (SU) , said in a May 6 phone
interview. “We can’t have people holding up the markets for
what is really short-term gain.”  The NDP has 45 percent of voter support and the Liberals 36
percent, according to an Angus Reid online poll of 808 people
published on May 11. The survey’s margin of error is plus or
minus 3.5 percent, 19 times out of 20.  Dix reaffirmed his  opposition  to Calgary-based Enbridge’s
proposed C$6 billion Northern Gateway line from Alberta to
Kitimat, British Columbia, in a release on April 22. He also has
said on several campaign stops he is now against  Kinder Morgan ’s
plan to turn  Vancouver  into a major oil export hub with the
twinning of its existing Trans Mountain line that ends near the
city, Shruti Joshi, a party spokeswoman, said by phone on May
10. Dix had previously reserved judgment on Trans Mountain,
pending Kinder Morgan’s regulatory application for the
expansion.  Energy Critic  Neither Dix nor John Horgan, the party’s energy critic,
were available for additional comment, Joshi said.  “Northern Gateway is committed to working constructively
with B.C. government and elected officials after the election,”
and continues to listen and talk to communities along the route,
Todd Nogier, an Enbridge spokesman, said in an e-mail on May 10.  Kinder Morgan is “confident” it can address the “many
questions and concerns” about its proposal to be filed with
regulators this year, Greg Toth, senior project director, said
in an e-mailed statement on April 23. Kinder Morgan declined to
comment further, Lisa Clement, a spokeswoman, said in an e-mail
on May 10.  Dix has pledged if elected to take back British Columbia’s
power to block pipelines by scrapping an agreement with  Canada ’s
 National Energy Board  that allows the regulator to review
projects for both the provincial and federal governments.  ‘Fair Share’  Brianne Rohovie, a National Energy Board spokeswoman,
declined to comment in a May 10 phone interview.  Clark, the Liberal leader, has said her support for Gateway
comes with five conditions, including a “fair share” of
economic benefits for her province, according to a statement
from her office.  “Obviously we have an important resource, the future of
Canada, sitting in northern Alberta, that needs to get to market
and we want to work with them,” Liberal Energy Minister Rich Coleman said in a May 2 phone interview.  Both parties say they support a liquefied natural gas
industry that would export British Columbia’s stores of natural
gas in liquid form on tankers from the province to Asia, where
prices are more than  four times  higher than in  North America .
The Liberals said they will tax the LNG industry while the NDP
said it will widen the province’s carbon tax to include
emissions from gas drilling.  Alberta is studying new crude routes “in whatever
direction makes economic sense,” Ken Hughes, that province’s
energy minister, said at a Calgary conference on April 29.  Arctic Pipeline  Steve Laut , president of Canadian Natural, said he favors
an outlet on the Pacific Coast.  “It would be good for Canada, all of Canada,” Laut said
in a May 3 phone interview. An Arctic line would be a “more
difficult option,” he said at the Calgary-based company’s
annual meeting a day earlier. Canadian Natural has booked 75,000
barrels a day of capacity on the expanded Trans Mountain line,
he said.  “Pipelines to the west make sense,” Suncor Chief
Executive Officer  Steve Williams  told reporters on April 30,
offering support for both pipelines. “We recognize there’s
opposition, it’s going through its regulatory process and people
are working hard to try and address those issues.”  Western Canada Select, an oil-sands blend, traded at $19
per barrel less than the U.S. benchmark today, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Canadian Natural, the largest contributor
to the blend, was paid 8.5 percent less for its crude and gas
liquids in the first quarter as the price gap widened, from a
year earlier, the company said on May 2.  ‘Fierce’ Opposition  Canadian Prime Minister  Stephen Harper  is encouraging new
pipelines as environmental and political opposition delay
Enbridge’s Gateway and  TransCanada Corp. (TRP) ’s proposed Keystone XL
link from Alberta to the U.S. Gulf Coast.  Pacific Coast crude exports will be blocked by “fierce”
opposition to tankers, Jessica Clogg,  executive director  at West
Coast Environmental Law Association, said April 30 in a phone
interview, calling the NDP stand “another nail in the
proverbial coffin” for pipelines.  An NDP victory isn’t certain, and Dix’s public opinion
advantage over the Liberals has narrowed since the campaign
began. Whichever party is elected must soften its stance on
energy, particularly taxation of the gas industry, or scare away
investment, First Asset’s Stephenson said.  “Getting an oil pipeline built is a non-starter for
both,” Stephenson said.  China will probably halt investments in the  oil sands  if
Pacific lines aren’t built, Bob Shultz, a professor at the
University of Calgary’s Haskayne School of Business, said in an
April 29 phone interview. Chinese companies have spent $54.7
billion since 2005 acquiring Canadian oil and gas companies and
assets, according to data compiled by Bloomberg  “The Chinese bought into the oil sands and they figured
that was a relatively easy route,” Shultz said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rebecca Penty in Calgary at 
 rpenty@bloomberg.net ;
Christopher Donville in Vancouver at 
 cjdonville@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net ;
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  