-- British Airways Owner Leads Airlines Lower as Virus Spreads
-- B y   R o b e r t   W a l l
-- 2013-05-13T11:10:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-13/british-airways-parent-leads-european-airline-dip-on-virus-fears.html
British Airways parent  IAG SA (IAG)  and
rival  Air France-KLM Group (AF)  fell 4.6 percent as evidence mounts
that a fatal virus spreading in  Europe  can be transmitted among
people, increasing the potential for disruption to air travel.  Shares of International Consolidated Airlines Group SA
dropped as much as 12.80 pence to 263.10 pence in London, the
sharpest drop since April 5, when they retreated following
concern about a bird-flu virus in  China . Air France-KLM fell as
much as 35 cents to 7.25 euros in Paris, the most since May 3.  The novel coronavirus infection is spreading, with France
reporting a second case, after having occurred mainly in  Saudi
Arabia  following the first outbreak in September. The virus,
which has killed more than half the 34 people known to have
caught it, appears capable of limited human-to-human
transmission, the  World Health Organization  said yesterday.  “A more developed outbreak could significantly hit short-term  travel demand ,” Damian Brewer, an analyst at  RBC Capital
Markets  in London, said in a note to investors. “Any sustained
dent in travel demand could also diminish cash flows and
increase financial stress risk.”  SARS Impact  IAG, which also owns Iberia of  Spain , was trading down 4
percent at 265 pence as of 12:05 p.m. local time. Air France-KLM
was priced at 7.29 euros for a 4.1 percent decline.  Deutsche Lufthansa AG (LHA) , Europe’s second-biggest airline,
 slid  as much as 3.5 percent before trading 2.7 percent lower at
15.66 euros in  Frankfurt .  Coronaviruses are a family of pathogens that cause
illnesses ranging from the common cold to Severe Acute
Respiratory Syndrome, or SARS, which sickened more than 8,000
people and killed 774 in 2002 and 2003, according to the WHO.  Keiji Fukuda, the Geneva-based organization’s director-general for health security and the environment, said yesterday
in  Riyadh , Saudi Arabia, that the occurrence of clusters in
multiple countries suggests the virus can be spread among people
when there is “close contact.” There isn’t yet any evidence that
it can “sustain generalized transmission,” he added.  The SARS outbreaks a decade ago severely curtailed air
travel, pushing carriers to significant losses. While the
 International Air Transport Association  estimates the industry
will deliver a $10.6 billion profit this year, that’s equal to a
net income margin of only 1.6 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Wall in London at 
 rwall6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at   bkammel@bloomberg.net  