-- Bulgarian Socialists Get Chance at Power With Close Vote
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   K o n s t a n t i n o v a
-- 2013-05-14T15:21:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-13/bulgarian-socialists-get-chance-at-power-with-close-vote.html
Bulgaria ’s Socialist Party, which
placed second in May 12 early elections, has an opportunity to
return to power after four years as the winning Gerb party
struggles to find allies willing to join the next government.  The European Union’s poorest country faces a higher “risk
of political and social instability” when Cabinet talks begin
after no party won an outright majority in May 12 elections,
James Goundry, an analyst at IHS Global Insight in  London , said
in an e-mailed note yesterday.  Bulgaria’s political turmoil started when the Gerb-led
Cabinet of former Premier Boyko Borissov lost power in February
because of anti-austerity protests. Squabbles with rival parties
including the Socialists, who want former Finance Minister
Plamen Oresharski as premier, over curing the economic slump,
boosting tax revenue and building a 10 billion-euro ($13
billion) nuclear power plant raises concern Bulgarians will be
forced back to the ballot box this or next year.  “It will be very difficult to forge a coalition
government, and the Socialists have a better chance than Gerb,”
Daniel Smilov, a political analyst at the  Center for Liberal
Strategies  in Sofia, said in a phone interview. The new
government will “be vulnerable, it will lack confidence and
won’t inspire any enthusiasm. It won’t be able to remain in
power for more than a year.”  Bulgarian Markets  The yield on Eurobonds maturing in July 2017 fell three
basis points, or 0.03 percentage point to 1.71 percent at 6:00
p.m. in Sofia, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The cost to insure Bulgaria’s debt against non-payment for
five years using credit-default swaps rose 57 basis points to
100.2, data compiled by Bloomberg show. The contracts pay the
buyer face value in exchange for the underlying securities or
the cash equivalent should a borrower renege. The Sofix stock
index fell 0.18 percent at close to 406.47 today.  “If Bulgaria’s creditworthiness wasn’t as strong as it is
perceived to be, the market reaction would have been a lot more
unfavorable,”  Nicholas Spiro , the managing director of Spiro
Sovereign Strategy Ltd. in London, said in an e-mailed note.
“Bulgaria, like many other countries in Europe, is suffering a
crisis of political legitimacy, which doesn’t bode well for
stability and reform.”  The inconclusive outcome of Bulgaria’s election resembles
the result of the Italian vote in February with a deeply
fragmented political scene, a disillusioned electorate and an
emphatic rejection of the political establishment, Spiro said.  Election Results  Gerb, which stands for Citizens for the European
Development of Bulgaria, took 30.53 percent of the weekend vote,
compared with 27.65 percent for the Bulgarian Socialist Party,
according to preliminary results based on 100 percent of the
ballots counted, the Central Electoral Commission said on its
 website  today. The results don’t include voting abroad, it said.
Turnout was 51.33 percent.  Borissov’s party is set to get about 98 seats in the 240-member Parliament, with about 86 seats going to the Socialists,
according to the electoral commission. Gerb controlled 117 seats
in the previous legislation, while the Socialists had 40 seats.  The Movement for Rights and Freedoms, which represents the
ethnic Turks in the Balkan country, won 11.22 percent and may
control 34 seats, while the radical nationalist Attack party got
7.3 percent with 22 lawmakers, the Central Electoral Commission
said.  Coalition Plan  The Socialists and the Movement for Rights and Freedoms
said they are prepared to form a coalition Cabinet, while Attack
said that no government can be formed with the composition of
the new Parliament. The Movement ruled out a coalition with
Gerb.  “Given the possible final parliamentary arithmetic,
coupled with the parties’ historical animosities, all attempts
to form a stable government could easily fail,” said IHS’s
Goundry. “A Gerb-led government looks unlikely, unless Attack
changes its mind and agrees to be a government partner, or at
the very least, support a defined Gerb program in Parliament.”  Most probable is a Socialist-ethnic Turk coalition, Goundry
said, though that linkup may fall short of the 121 seats needed
for a majority. A Socialist-led coalition may try to govern with
the support of Attack on an issue-by-issue basis, he said.  ‘Colonial Rule’  Attack leader Volen Siderov said he will only support a
government that would “free Bulgaria of the colonial rule of
international monopolies.”  Borissov was the only political leader who hasn’t held a
press conference since the election. He will announce his plans
after the Central Electoral Commission releases final official
results on Thursday, the Pressa newspaper reported today, citing
unidentified Gerb officials.  Even if parties overcome policy differences, “they will
have difficulty convincing their supporters that they will
preserve their political identity in such a coalition,” Smilov
said.  The Socialists and Attack want to scrap Bulgaria’s current
10 percent flat tax on personal and corporate income and resume
building the Belene nuclear power plant by  Russia ’s Rosatom
Corp. Borissov canceled the project because of a lack of funds
and investors. The Movement wants to keep the flat tax and are
neutral on Belene’s construction.  Oresharski, speaking to reporters last night, said the
“economy and finances are in a free fall” and the most urgent
measures would be to boost budget revenue by curbing contraband
and lifting administrative pressure on businesses.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Konstantinova in Sofia at 
 ekonstantino@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  