-- Butamax, NIH, Redskins, Righthaven: Intellectual Property
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 2013-05-13T11:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-13/butamax-nih-redskins-righthaven-intellectual-property.html
The nation’s top patent court issued
a deeply divided opinion May 10 on how to determine if software
is eligible for legal protection, reflecting the broader debate
that has split the computer industry.  The U.S. Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit in
 Washington , which handles all patent appeals, issued a 135-page
decision by 10 circuit judges that included five viewpoints and
“additional reflections” from Chief Judge Randall Rader.  “We have propounded at least three incompatible standards,
devoid of consensus, serving simply to add to the unreliability
and cost of the system of patents as an incentive for
innovation,” Circuit Judge Pauline Newman wrote.  Google Inc. (GOOG) , Facebook Inc. and  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  are
among the companies that argued that patent standards for
software are too lax. A group whose members include software
makers  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  and  Oracle Corp. (ORCL)  warned the appeals court
that limiting protection for software could hurt the nation’s
economy.  The case centered on patents owned by Melbourne-based Alice
Corp. over ways to minimize risk in certain computerized-trading
platforms. The court ruled CLS Bank International won’t have to
face patent-infringement claims by Alice, which is owned by
 National Australia Bank Ltd. (NAB)  and Alice Ventures Pty.  A majority of the 10 judges said aspects of Alice’s patents
covering a method of performing the idea weren’t eligible for
protection, while the court was evenly split regarding systems
to implement that idea. Five of the judges said they would send
all or part of the case back to the trial judge for further
review.  The U.S. Supreme Court also has struggled to determine what
types of innovations qualify for patent protection. In 2010, the
court issued a 5-4 decision on patents for methods of conducting
business, and last year limited patents for diagnostic medical
tests. With such a fractured ruling on software, the issue
probably is headed to the high court again.  Although the court issued the full ruling as a precedential
opinion, Rader said the decisions were so split that “nothing
said today beyond our judgment has the weight of precedent.”  The case is CLS Bank v. Alice Corporation, 11-01301, U.S.
Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit (Washington). The
lower-court case is CLS Bank International v. Alice Corp., 07-cv-00974, U.S. District Court,  District of Columbia 
(Washington).  Butamax Grapples With Gevo Over Biofuels Patent Case Claims  Butamax Advanced Biofuels LLC said a federal judge
dismissed a patent-infringement case filed against it by rival
 Gevo Inc. (GEVO) , while Gevo said May 10 the dismissal is temporary and
other cases continue.  Butamax, a joint venture of  DuPont Co. (DD)  and  BP Plc (BP/)  based in
Wilmington,  Delaware , denies using the patented technology,
Chief Executive Officer Paul Beckwith said in a May 10
statement.  Gevo “has agreed to temporarily dismiss its lawsuit”
because Butamax at the present time doesn’t have a chemical
plant in which to infringe, according to a statement from Gevo
Executive Vice President Brett Lund.  Gevo, based in Englewood,  Colorado , is a joint venture to
make specialty chemicals with the oil refiner  Total SA (FP)  and
 Lanxess AG. (LXS)   Claims in the patent suit were dismissed and Gevo can’t
refile the complaint against Butamax “until a final certificate
of reexamination is issued” by the U.S. Patent and  Trademark
Office , wrote U.S. District Judge Sue L. Robinson in an order
May 6 in Wilmington.  At least 13 patent cases have been filed by Butamax and
Gevo against each other since 2011, according to court
electronic records.  The case is Gevo v. Butamax, 12-cv-00070, U.S. District
Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  For more patent news, click here.  Trademark  NIH Marks Barred From OMICS Open-Source Journals, U.S. Says  The  U.S. Department of Health  and Human Services sent a
cease-and-desist  letter  to a Los Angeles publisher of open-access journals related to the use of trademarks belonging to
the  National Institutes of Health .  In the letter written by Senior Attorney Dean Landis, OMICS
online is warned that it isn’t authorized to use the names of
the NIH, its institutes, or PubMed Central, which is the NIH’s
archive of papers.  A link to the letter was posted on Science Magazine’s
Science Insider  website . Science Magazine is published by the
 American Association  for the Advancement of Science.  Science Insider also published a  response  from Srinubabu
Gedela, the director of the  OMICS Publishing Group , in which he
says that his legal team is “solving the problem” with HHS,
and has initiated legal proceedings for defamation against those
who have characterized his organization as a “predatory
publisher.”  Alabama Clothing Vendors Battle Over Houndstooth Trademark  Although legendary University of  Alabama  football coach
 Paul “Bear” Bryant  has been dead for 30 years, the houndstooth
fabric pattern on the  fedora hat  he wore on the sidelines
remains strongly associated with Alabama football and the
subject of a trademark dispute.  The holders of a trademark for a houndstooth elephant
image, who sell related merchandise at Alabama football games,
sued a Tuscaloosa, Alabama-based clothing store for trademark
infringement.  According to the complaint filed May 7 in Alabama federal
court, Richard Diaz of Enterprise, Alabama, and his Gamedawg LLC
object to merchandise sold at Glen Plaid LLC’s  Original
Houndstooth  store in Tuscaloosa. The mark used at Original
Houndstooth is “confusingly similar” to its own, Gamedawg
claims.  Glen Plaid’s use of a houndstooth elephant on its page on
 Facebook Inc. (FB) ’s social-media site and its use of
“@OHoundstooth” with Twitter Inc.’s short-messaging service
are also infringing, Gamedawg says in its pleadings. The company
claims that consumers are confused and that Glen Plaid has
continued its use of the allegedly infringing mark despite
having been sent a cease-and-desist letter in November 2011.  Gamedawg asked the court to bar further infringement of its
marks, and for awards of money damages and profits Glen Plaid
derived from its infringing actions. Gamedawg also asked for
damages to be tripled and for awards of litigation costs and
attorney fees.  Glen Plaid didn’t respond immediately to an e-mailed
request for comment.  The case is Richard Diaz v. Glen Plaid LLC, 7:13-cv-00853-TMP, U.S. District Court, Northern District of Alabama
(Birmingham).  Redskins Owner Says He Will Never Change the Name of His Team  Regardless of the outcome of proceedings at the U.S. Patent
and Trademark Office, the owner of  the Washington Redskins 
National Football League team  told USA Today  that he will never
change the team’s name.  Daniel Snyder told the newspaper that his team’s fans
understand the tradition and what the name means.  Meanwhile, a measure was introduced in the  U.S. Congress 
that would amend the Trademark Act of 1946 to bar registration
of terms that disparage Native American people. That bill -- H.R.
1278  -- which has been referred to the House Committee on the
Judiciary, specifically lists “redskin” as a term that is
offensive.  According to the patent office database, requests for the
cancellation of the Redskins marks are pending.  For more trademark news, click here.  Copyright  Righthaven’s Lack of Standing to Sue Confirmed by Appeals Court  Righthaven, the organization attempting to enforce the
copyrights of Las Vegas-based Stephens Media Group, received no
support for its position from a federal appeals court.  Ruling in two cases Las Vegas’s Righthaven brought against
two men who posted articles from Stephens’ Las Vegas Review-Journal on their websites without authorization, the Ninth U.S.
Circuit Court of Appeals said Righthaven had no standing to
pursue the cases.  The court noted that the agreement that purported to assign
the copyrights to Righthaven contained restrictions on how
Righthaven could use those rights. A later agreement between
Righthaven and Stephens after the cases had been filed didn’t
cure the problem, the court said, noting that “in general,
jurisdiction is based on facts that exist at the time of
filing.”  Under either the original or the amended agreement between
Righthaven and Stephens, Righthaven lacked standing to sue for
infringement, the appeals court ruled, saying the lower court
properly granted motions to dismiss the case.  The appeals court then rejected lower court rulings with
respect to copyright law’s “fair use” provisions. The court
agreed with Righthaven and two content-owners’ trade
organizations that filed friend of the court briefs, the
 Association of American Publishers  and the  Recording Industry
Association of America .  All had argued that if Righthaven lacked standing to pursue
the infringement actions, than the court had no power to address
the issue of fair use. The appeals court agreed, saying it was
“not appropriate” for it to address the issue or for the lower
court’s finding of fair use to stand.  Previously a federal court in  Nevada  had awarded
Righthaven’s assets to one of the defendants in the two
infringement cases. That court found at Wayne Hoehn hadn’t
infringed the copyrights, and awarded him attorney fees.  In the wake of Righthaven’s non-payment, Hoehn was given
the firm’s assets, and a receiver was set up to enforce the
payment.  That case was Righthaven LLC v. Hoehn, 11-cv-00050,
U.S. District Court, District of Nevada (Las Vegas).  The appeals court cases are Righthaven LLC v. Wayne Hoehn,
11-16751, and Righthaven LLC v. Thomas A DiPiase, 11-16776,  U.S.
Court of Appeals  for the Ninth Circuit ( San Francisco ).  For more copyright news, click here.  Trade Secrets/Industrial Espionage  Spain Refuses to Extradite Ex-HSBC Employee for Data Access  Spain ’s high court has barred the extradition of a former
HSBC Holdings employee to  Switzerland , where he is accused of
stealing data from accounts that European authorities are
investigating over possible  tax evasion , the International
Business Times reported.  The court determined that the actions of Herve Falciani,
who has billed himself as a whistle-blower against Swiss bank
practices, weren’t a crime under Spanish law, according to the
Times.  Data provided by Falciani has been used by tax authorities
in France, Italy, Spain and Germany to collect 250 million Euros
and to look for other lost taxes, the newspaper reported.  Swiss authorities have accused Falciani of trade secret
violations, and violating bank secrecy, in addition to
unauthorized access to data, according to the Times.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in Oakland,  California , at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 