-- Cameron Says U.S., U.K., Russia Share Same Aim on Syria
-- B y   K i t t y   D o n a l d s o n   a n d   R o g e r   R u n n i n g e n
-- 2013-05-13T17:33:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-13/cameron-says-u-s-u-k-russia-share-same-aim-on-syria-1-.html
U.K. Prime Minister David Cameron and
U.S. President  Barack Obama  said they are in agreement on plans
to forge a transitional government in  Syria  after Bashar al-Assad is ousted.  Both leaders also welcomed what Cameron called “common
ground” with Russia on ways to forge “a stable, inclusive and
peaceful Syria, free from the scourge of extremism.”  Syria was among the agenda items in talks at the White
House that also included  Iran ’s nuclear ambitions, the Middle
East peace process, the proposal for a free-trade agreement
between the European Union and U.S., countering terrorism and
setting priorities for the Group of Eight nations’ talks in
Northern Ireland next month.  “The world urgently needs to come together to bring the
killing to an end,” Cameron told a news conference in
Washington today. “None of us have any interest in seeing more
lives lost, chemical weapons used, or extremist violence
spreading. So we welcome President Putin’s agreement to join an
effort to achieve a political solution,” he said, referring to
Russian leader Vladimir Putin.  The U.S. and  Russia  have agreed to an international
conference designed to increase pressure on the Syrian
government and lead to Assad’s departure. Obama said Russia has
“an interest as well as an obligation to try to resolve this
issue.  Seeking Transition  “If, in fact, we can broker a peaceful political
transition that leads to Assad’s departure, but a state in Syria
that is still intact, that accommodates the interest of all the
ethnic groups, all the religious groups inside of Syria, and
that ends the bloodshed, stabilizes the situation, that’s not
just going to be good for us, that’ll be good for everybody,”
Obama said.  The U.K and U.S. aim to increase pressure on the Assad
regime to provide humanitarian aid even as they work to
strengthen the moderate opposition, in steps leading to a post-Assad democracy, Obama and Cameron said.  Plans call for a gathering in Geneva in coming weeks of
representatives of the regime and the opposition to draft a
blueprint for a transitional body.  “The challenges remain formidable,” Cameron said. “But
we have an urgent window of opportunity, before the worst fears
are realized.  Cameron said, “There’s no more urgent international task
than this. We need to get Syrians to the table to agree a
transitional government that can win the consent of all of the
Syrian people, but there will be no political process unless the
opposition is able to withstand the onslaught, and put pressure
on” Assad “so he knows there is no military victory.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kitty Donaldson in London at 
 kdonaldson1@bloomberg.net ;
Roger Runningen in  Washington  at 
 rrunningen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  