-- Cameron Says Calls For U.K. to Quit EU Now ‘Very Strange’
-- B y   T h o m a s   P e n n y
-- 2013-05-13T13:46:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-13/cameron-says-calls-for-u-k-to-quit-eu-now-very-strange-.html
U.K. Prime Minister  David Cameron 
rebuked lawmakers in his  Conservative Party  who have already
decided that Britain should withdraw from the European Union.  Cameron said it was “very, very strange” for leading
members of his party to say Britain should pull out of the 27-nation bloc before he has had a chance to change the terms of
Britain’s relationship.  “The idea of throwing in the towel before the
negotiation’s started I think is a very, very strange opinion,”
the prime minister told reporters on an airplane to Washington
for talks with U.S. President  Barack Obama . “What all
Conservative Cabinet ministers agree is we should be spending
the next period improving the European Union and improving our
relations with the EU and putting that to the British public in
a referendum.”  Former Chancellor of the Exchequer  Nigel Lawson  and one-time Defense Secretary Michael Portillo have called for U.K.
withdrawal, while Mayor of London  Boris Johnson  has said it
would be a “shot in the arm” for British democracy. Yesterday,
Education Secretary Michael Gove and Defense Secretary Philip Hammond both said they would vote to leave if asked today.
Cameron has pledged a referendum on membership in 2017 if his
party wins the 2015 general election.  That commitment isn’t enough for about 60 Conservative
Members of Parliament, who have put their names to a
parliamentary amendment expressing “regret” that no provision
paving the way for a U.K. exit was included for this legislative
session in the Queen’s Speech. They are seeking legislation
enshrining the commitment to a referendum in law.  ‘Impossible Situation’  “What they’re doing is putting the prime minister in an
impossible situation,” Malcolm Rifkind, a Conservative lawmaker
and former foreign secretary, told BBC Radio 4 today. “They
will have split their own party, they will cast questions over
the prime minister’s authority, and indirectly, unintentionally,
they will be helping the  Labour Party ’s prospects at the next
election. That is a pretty odd tactic.”  Ed Miliband , the leader of the opposition Labour Party,
mocked a suggestion that Cameron was “relaxed” about the vote
in a speech on May 11. “He’s not lying on the sofa, relaxed,”
he said. “He’s hiding behind the sofa, too scared to confront
his own MPs.”  If the amendment is selected for a vote by House of Commons
Speaker John Bercow, it will come before the chamber by May 15.  The prime minister reiterated today he is confident his
government will be able to deliver reforms to the EU before the
2017 vote.  Not Acceptable  “There’s not going to be a referendum tomorrow, there is
going to be a referendum before the end of 2017,” Cameron told
broadcasters in  Washington . “The problem with the status quo is
I don’t think that the status quo in the EU is acceptable today.
I want to change it, and having changed it I then want to ask
the British people a very simple in/out question.”  Gove and Hammond, in separate BBC interviews, both said
their position on the EU was that the U.K. should leave unless
the government can secure such changes. Bookmaker William Hill
Plc said today it did not believe a referendum would be held
before 2019.  Cameron will meet with Obama at the White House today to
encourage talks on a trade deal between the EU and U.S. as part
of preparations for the Group of Eight summit the U.K. hosts
next month.  Trade Goal  Cameron has made setting up talks on a free-trade agreement
between the EU and U.S. a key goal of his three-day visit. The
deal would be worth 10 billion pounds ($15 billion) a year to
the U.K. economy, Cameron’s office said, citing research by the
Centre for Economic Policy Research, demonstrating the benefits
of Britain’s EU membership.  Eliminating all tariffs on goods could save British
exporters 1 billion pounds a year while an additional 9 billion
pounds in benefits could come from reducing non-tariff barriers,
the research cited by Cameron showed. The automotive industry
could see a boost of 7 percent in total output, financial
services growth of 1 percent and the chemicals sector 1.5
percent, it said.  “When times are tough, some want to put the barriers up,
to look inwards, and to protect themselves from the world,”
Cameron wrote in an op-ed for the Wall Street Journal published
today. “But Britain and America stand for a better way. We have
a precious opportunity to transform the global economy -- not by
less openness and less free trade, but by more,” he said. “And
we must do everything possible to seize it.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Thomas Penny in Washington at 
 tpenny@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  