-- Campari First-Quarter Profit Misses Estimates Amid Sales Slump
-- B y   C l e m e n t i n e   F l e t c h e r
-- 2013-05-13T11:54:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-13/campari-first-quarter-profit-misses-estimates-amid-sales-slump.html
Davide Campari-Milano SpA (CPR) , the maker
of Wild Turkey bourbon, reported first-quarter profit that
missed estimates as sales fell because of weak shipments to
Italian retailers and bad weather in  Germany .  Earnings before interest and tax dropped 18 percent to 51.5
million euros ($66.9 million) in the three months through March
31, the company said today in a statement. The average estimate
of 12 analysts was 60.1 million euros. Sales excluding the
effect of acquisitions and disposals slid 9 percent.  Milan-based Campari had warned that some sales in Italy
recorded in the first quarter of last year would this year be
booked in the second and third quarters as a change in the
country’s shipment law led retailers to delay new orders. The
company got 29 percent of  revenue  last year from  Italy . The new
law reduced sales by about 25 million euros in the first
quarter, it said, adding that it may not recoup the losses.  “The results in the first, and traditionally low-season,
quarter of 2013 were poor, due to the one-off impact of
destocking in Italy,” Chief Executive Officer Bob Kunze-Concewitz said today in the statement. The company also suffered
“continued weakness in Germany” because of bad weather and a
commercial dispute that affected the Campari and Aperol brands.  Campari  fell  as much as 3.8 percent in Milan trading and
was down 3.2 percent at 5.97 euros as of 1:25 p.m.  “We expect the evolution in consumption trends and the
potential persistence of poor weather conditions in Italy and in
euro-zone markets to be the key challenges to the group’s
ability to recover the first-quarter one-off destocking impact
over the next quarters,” Kunze-Concewitz said.  Revenue rose 13 percent to 315.2 million euros after the
company bought Lascelles deMercado & Co. last year to add
Jamaican rum Appleton as it pushes into  emerging markets  and
expands in the U.S. and  Canada . The inclusion of the business
depressed operating profit as a percentage of sales, as did
Italian drinkers choosing less pricy drinks, Campari said.  Sales improved in the U.S., Latin America and  Russia , aided
by gains for Skyy vodka, the company said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Clementine Fletcher in London at 
 cfletcher5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  