-- Canada Heavy Oil Jumps on Speculation of Rising Refinery Demand
-- B y   E d w a r d   W e l s c h
-- 2013-05-13T19:11:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-13/canada-heavy-oil-jumps-on-speculation-of-rising-refinery-demand.html
Canadian heavy oil prices jumped on
the spot market on speculation that the restart of refineries in
the U.S. will reduce crude stockpiles and increase demand for
imports.  U.S. crude  stockpiles  in the midwest storage hub at
Cushing,  Oklahoma , declined 1.3 percent in the week ended May 3
to 49.1 million barrels, the second weekly decline, according to
Energy Information Administration data. U.S. refiners increased
the amount of crude they  processed  by 3.2 percent to 15.2
million barrels a day, the most since January.  Western  Canada  Select heavy oil strengthened $4 a barrel to
an $18.50 discount to U.S. West  Texas  Intermediate oil as of
1:15 p.m. New York time, according to Calgary oil broker Net
Energy Inc. It was the largest one-day increase since Jan. 25,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “Refinery production is back on the rise in the U.S.,”
Carl Larry, president of Oil Outlooks & Opinions LLC said in an
interview from Houston. “That’s going to mean more draw-downs
from Cushing inventories, which in turn is going to bring more
down from Canada.”  Valero Energy Corp. (VLO) ’s 170,000 barrel-a-day McKee refinery
in Texas is scheduled to restart following five weeks of planned
maintenance that began in April.  BP Plc (BP/)  said on April 30 the
420,000-barrel  Whiting plant  will bring units back online during
the second quarter and commission a new 102,000-barrel coking
unit in the second half of the year.  Pine Bend  WCS prices have regained ground after weakening when a fire
broke out May 3 in the coker unit at Flint Hills Resources LLC’s
330,000-barrel-a-day Pine Bend refinery. The grade lost $5 a
barrel from May 2 to May 6, reaching its widest discount to WTI
in two months, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Jake Reint, a company spokesman based in Rosemount,
 Minnesota , didn’t respond to e-mails requesting an update on the
status of the coker this week.  Syncrude, a light crude from oil-sands bitumen processed in
an upgrader, gained 60 cents to trade at parity to WTI, Net
Energy said.  The EIA’s next oil stockpile release is scheduled for 10:30
a.m.  New York  time on May 15.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edward Welsch in Calgary at 
 ewelsch1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  