-- Canada Stocks Fall as Oil Slides on China Concerns, Gold Drops
-- B y   E r i c   L a m
-- 2013-05-13T20:23:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-13/canada-stocks-fall-as-commodities-slide-on-china-growth-concerns.html
Canadian  stocks  fell, following a 1.2
percent gain last week, as  oil prices  retreated after Chinese
demand weakened and gold had its longest slump in five weeks.  Silver Wheaton Corp. (SLW)  dropped 3.5 percent after first-quarter profit missed estimates. Encana Corp. and Husky Energy
Inc. lost at least 1 percent as crude fell. Torex Gold Resources
Inc. and Alacer Gold Corp. slid more than 2.1 percent after gold
slumped for a third day. Barrick Gold Corp., the largest gold
miner, declined 2.9 percent after New Zealand’s biggest fund
manager sold its investments in the company.  The  Standard & Poor’s/TSX Composite Index (SPTSX)  fell 59.54
points, or 0.5 percent, to 12,529.55 at 4 p.m. in Toronto. The
benchmark equity gauge has added 0.8 percent this year. Trading
volume was 39 percent lower than the 30-day average.  “As  China  continues to slow here, people have to put in
their minds that growth is more likely to come at 7 to 7.5
percent instead of 7.5 percent to 8 percent,” said  Ian Nakamoto , director of research with MacDougall MacDougall &
MacTier Inc. in Toronto. His firm manages about $4 billion.
“People expect China to have robust growth and it hasn’t had
robust growth next to expectations for quite some time.”  Reports today showed China’s fixed-asset investment
unexpectedly decelerated last month while industrial output
trailed estimates, adding to concerns that the economy will fail
to show much of a recovery this quarter.  China’s growth unexpectedly lost momentum in the first
quarter as gains in factory output and consumption weakened.
Gross domestic product rose 7.7 percent from a year earlier,
data last month showed, down from 7.9 percent in the fourth
quarter. China is  Canada ’s second-largest trading partner.  Raw Materials  Raw-materials  stocks  contributed  most to losses in the
S&P/TSX, falling 2.1 percent as a group as five of 10 industries
retreated.  Silver Wheaton lost 3.5 percent to C$23.72. The world’s
largest precious metals finance firm posted adjusted first-quarter earnings of 37 cents a share. Analysts expected 39 cents
on average, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Alacer Gold dropped 5.4 percent to C$2.82 and Torex Gold
declined 2.1 percent to C$1.43. Gold for June delivery lost 0.2
percent to settle at $1,434.30 an ounce in  New York . Prices have
fallen for three days, the longest slump since April 4.  Barrick Mines  Barrick Gold fell 2.9 percent to C$20.50. The  New Zealand 
Superannuation Fund, which invests money on behalf of the
country’s government, said it has sold its stakes in Barrick
Gold and the company’s African Barrick Gold unit due to concerns
related to security, environment and community problems at mines
in  Papua New Guinea  and Tanzania.  Energy shares declined 0.7 percent as a group. Encana slid
3 percent to C$18.74 and Husky Energy, a crude oil and natural
gas producer based in Calgary, fell 1 percent to C$29.94.  Oil for June delivery lost 0.9 percent to settle at $95.17
a barrel in New York, the third straight decline. China’s crude
processing reached the lowest level in eight months in April,
according to data published today, and the Organization of
Petroleum Exporting Countries boosted output last month to the
highest level in five months.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eric Lam in Toronto at 
 elam87@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  