-- Car Bomb Kills 13 People Outside Libyan Hospital, TV Says
-- B y   S a l e h   S a r r a r   a n d   C h r i s t o p h e r   S t e p h e n
-- 2013-05-13T16:04:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-13/car-bomb-kills-13-people-outside-libyan-hospital-tv-says.html
A car bomb struck a hospital in
 Libya ’s eastern city of Benghazi, killing 13 people and wounding
41, Tarek Al-Kharraz, spokesman for the local security
directorate, told the al-Ahrar television station.  “Everything there is a big mess,” Anas Feturi, an
accountant, said in an interview at the scene. The bomb went off
at about 1:30 p.m. local time in a car park between the al-Jala
hospital building and a house and destroyed about 10 cars, he
said. There was no immediate claim of responsibility.  The bombing caused the most casualties of any blast since
the overthrow of  Muammar Qaddafi  in October 2011, though it
wasn’t Libya’s first car bomb. A device detonated outside the
French Embassy in Tripoli last month, wounding two French
guards.  The blast at the hospital deepens tensions in Libya where
the central government is struggling to exert authority and
press on with reconstruction. May 10 saw the end of a two-week
blockade of the Foreign and Justice Ministries in Tripoli by
gunmen calling for the passage of the so-called Isolation Law to
purge senior Qaddafi-era officials from office and the removal
of Prime Minister Ali Zaidan.  The bombing “reinforces a sense the country is at one of
its lowest post-revolutionary ebbs,” Shashank Joshi, associate
fellow at the London-based  Royal United Services Institute , said
in an interview.  Militia Base  The hospital is an “ambiguous” target, making it
difficult to speculate about who’s responsible, Joshi said.
“The situation in eastern Libya is extremely prone to violence
and there are a number of different groups with cross-cutting
grievances,” he said.  The Jala hospital had been used as a base by the Ansar al
Sharia militia, which has been blamed for the attack on the
American consulate in the city in September that killed
Ambassador Chris Steven and three colleagues.  Government forces and militias have been vying for control
of the hospital in recent months. It’s occupied by the army at
the moment. Four police stations have been attacked in Benghazi
in the past three days.  The recent turmoil in Libya threatens to scare off
companies and countries needed to help with the reconstruction
two years after uprising.  The Pentagon put quick-reaction forces in Stuttgart,
 Germany , on standby on May 10, according to a U.S. defense
official who asked not to be identified. The U.S. and U.K.
embassies are running on a reduced staff, while the European
Union mission has closed and the German embassy shut its
consular section.  Yesterday,  BP Plc (BP/)  said it was withdrawing “non-essential”
foreign staff from Libya, based on advice from the British
government.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Saleh Sarrar in Dubai at 
 ssarar@bloomberg.net ;
Christopher Stephen in Tripoli at 
 cstephen9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  