-- Cayman Islands Spars With Sachs Over Hedge Fund Directorships
-- B y   B i l l   F a r i e s
-- 2013-05-13T18:51:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-13/cayman-islands-spars-with-sachs-over-hedge-fund-directorships.html
The head of the Cayman Islands
financial services industry trade group rejected charges from
economist  Jeffrey Sachs  that the Caribbean nation’s oversight of
 hedge funds  and banks is a “mortal threat” to the global
economy.  Sachs, in separate  letters  to the Financial Times the past
two weeks, said some residents of the island nation sit on
hundreds of fund boards, limiting their ability to provide
oversight. He also said the Cayman banking system has $1.4
trillion in liabilities and assets, citing data from the  Bank
for International Settlements . The system is a “house of
cards” for the global financial system, he said.  “Professor Sachs needs to understand that a significant
part of the banking assets registered in Cayman are U.S. banks
placing overnight deposits in their own Cayman-registered
branch,” Cayman Finance Chief Executive Officer Gonzalo Jalles
said in an e-mailed statement May 8. “The money is effectively
being transferred between accounts in  New York  and not being
exposed to how a local banker in Cayman decides to invest it.”  The  Cayman Islands , a British Overseas Territory located
south of Cuba, has the highest number of hedge funds in the
Caribbean. About 10,900 funds were registered there in the first
quarter, up from about 9,990 in 2011, according to the Cayman
Islands Monetary Authority.  The monetary authority, known as CIMA, is responsible for
the regulation and supervision of financial services. It says
officials on its board of directors can have contractual
relationships with entities they are charged with regulating.  ‘Knowledge and Experience’  The board’s members are “responsible for the policies and
general administration of the affairs and business,” CIMA says
on its  website . “This benefits the Authority as they have
current knowledge and experience of the regulated industry.”  “It calls into question the degree to which they can
exercise their fiduciary duties,” said John Prout, executive
director of the Foundation for Fund Governance in  Washington .
“It’s a small country. It has a high caliber of professionals
on the island, but they have to move beyond a small-island
mentality.”  Officials at CIMA didn’t respond to questions e-mailed by
 Bloomberg News . Sachs wasn’t immediately available to respond
because he is traveling, according to an official in his office
who asked not to be identified.  OECD Report  The Cayman Islands was cited for accounting shortcomings in
a 2010 report by the Organization for Economic Cooperation and
Development. A year later the nation was praised for moving
“quickly” to address the report’s findings. The country has 31
tax sharing agreements with nations ranging from the U.S. to
 Japan , according to the Paris-based OECD.  “I have no problem with the Cayman Islands developing its
financing expertise and housing a financial industry
commensurate with its size and its capacity to protect the world
from abuses and upheavals,” Sachs, who has advised countries
from  Bolivia  to  Russia  on handling economic crises, wrote in his
May 7 letter. “Instead, it is being used by powerful and out-of-control forces vastly beyond the Caymans’ capacity to
regulate, monitor or backstop in the event of crisis.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bill Faries in Miami at 
 wfaries@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net  