-- Chesapeake Ruling Shocks With $117 Million Loss: Credit Markets
-- B y   M a t t   R o b i n s o n   a n d   L i s a   A b r a m o w i c z
-- 2013-05-13T15:32:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-13/chesapeake-ruling-shocks-with-117-million-loss-credit-markets.html
Last week’s court ruling against a
group of  Chesapeake Energy Corp. (CHK)  bondholders exposes another
risk for investors seeking gains in a market where securities
valuations are already at record highs.  Prices on the second-biggest U.S. natural gas producer’s
notes have fallen by as much as 9 cents on the dollar, erasing
$117 million, after a judge ruled May 8 that Chesapeake could
redeem the securities at par. Investors including the hedge-fund
firm run by former Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. President Bart McDade were betting the Oklahoma City-based company had missed a
deadline and would have to pay as much as $400 million to retire
the debt early.  A search for returns has highlighted the dangers implicit
in wagering on disputes in which borrowers traditionally had the
upper hand after yields on junk debt dropped to a record 5.98
percent and prices soared to an unprecedented 107.2 cents on the
dollar on May 9. Pacific Investment Management Co.’s  Bill Gross 
called a top to the  bond market  in a May 10 Twitter post, saying
a “30-year  bull market  in bonds likely ended” on April 29.  “In a difficult environment, people are looking for almost
any way to get an edge,” Philip Adams, an analyst at Gimme
Credit LLC, who wrote the court would likely rule for the
company in a March 12 note, said in a telephone interview. “It
was an opportunistic situation where someone said ‘Ah, I think
we got ’em’ and tried to make a buck off of it.”  Bondholder Risks  The quality of investor protections built into high-yield
bond sales is deteriorating to record lows as buyers funnel into
riskier assets for a reprieve from a fifth year of Federal
Reserve stimulus, according to Moody’s Investors Service. The
lowest-rated tier of high-yield bonds has returned 8.9 percent
this year, more than any other slice of corporate debt, Bank of
America Merrill Lynch index data show, even as the default rate
rises.  Any company that drafts ambiguous deal documents may
receive similar legal treatment to the “get out of jail free
card” that U.S. District Judge Paul Engelmayer in  Manhattan 
handed to Chesapeake, according to Brian Gibbons Jr., an analyst
at debt researcher CreditSights Inc. in  New York .  “The assumption now will be that indenture readers need to
be on the lookout for sections of documents where they might
need ‘time to apply thoughtfully the canons of contractual
interpretations,’” Gibbons wrote in a May 8 report. “The risks
are to be laid on the bondholder for bad drafting.”  ‘Clumsy’ Indenture  Chesapeake sold $2.3 billion of bonds on March 18 to pay
back the outstanding debt before the dispute was resolved,
demonstrating their confidence that they’d prevail even after
being denied an emergency court ruling on March 14. They joined
borrowers in issuing $158.5 billion of speculative-grade notes
in the U.S. this year, on pace to beat last year’s record $359
billion of issuance.  “The court clearly upheld the issuer’s ability to be
innovative in crafting an indenture that serves its legitimate
business purposes, even when that innovation departed from
customary business practices and was phrased in a way that was a
little bit on the clumsy side,” Richard Ziegler, the lead
attorney for Chesapeake at the trial, said in a telephone
interview.  Market participants and their lawyers expect commercial law
will follow actual practices and the decision “turns those
expectations on their head,” Jeff Ross, a commercial litigator
with Ross and Orenstein LLC in  Minneapolis , said in a telephone
interview last week.  ‘Flamingly Inconsistent’  “Certain ramifications of the decision are flamingly
inconsistent with credit market usage of terms, practices and
expectations,” he said.  Elsewhere in credit markets, the cost of protecting
corporate debt from default in the U.S. rose for a fourth day.
The Markit CDX North American Investment Grade Index, which
investors use to hedge against losses or to speculate on
creditworthiness, increased 1.9 basis points to a mid-price of
74 basis points as of 11:22 a.m. in New York, according to
prices compiled by Bloomberg.  The index, which ended May 7 at the lowest level since
November 2007, typically rises as investor confidence
deteriorates and falls as it improves. Credit-default swaps pay
the buyer face value if a borrower fails to meet its
obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt. A basis point
equals $1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10 million of
debt.  Rate Swaps  The U.S. two-year interest-rate swap spread, a measure of
debt market stress, increased 0.6 basis point to 13.8 basis
points as of 11:23 a.m. in New York. The gauge widens when
investors seek the perceived safety of  government securities  and
narrows when they favor assets such as company debentures.  Bonds of Cupertino, California-based Apple Inc. are the
most actively traded dollar-denominated corporate securities by
dealers today, accounting for 4.8 percent of the volume of
dealer trades of $1 million or more as of 11:23 a.m. in New
York, according to Trace, the bond-price reporting system of the
Financial Industry Regulatory Authority. The iPhone maker sold
$17 billion of bonds on April 30 in the biggest corporate
offering on record.  Chesapeake sued Bank of New York Mellon Corp. March 8 after
the bank challenged its bid for an early redemption of $1.3
billion of 6.775 percent notes due in 2019. Bond investors
wagered that the company had run out of time to repurchase the
debt at par. That would have forced the company to pay about
$400 million in a so-called make-whole premium, or the present
value of all future interest payments, in addition to the
principal amount of the bonds.  Reversal Sought  Noteholders involved in the lawsuit include McDade’s River
Birch Capital LLC, Archer Capital Management LP, Ares Management
LLC, Aurelius Capital Management LP, Carlson Capital LP, Cetus
Capital LLC, Latigo Partners LLP, Monarch Alternative Capital
LP, P. Schoenfeld Asset Management LP and Taconic Capital
Advisors LP, according to a March 12 court filing.  The notes due March 2019 climbed to 109.5 cents April 30
when Judge Engelmayer said the company “had any number of
ways” it could have improved the language to clarify a deadline
for early redemption. The securities last traded at 101.25 cents
on May 10, after falling as low as 100.5 on May 9, Trace data
show.  “The judge carefully explained why the contract allows a
par redemption, and then also why even if the contract was
ambiguous, Chesapeake would still win,”  Adam Cohen , an analyst
and founder of New York-based Covenant Review, said in an e-mail. “This makes it tough for bondholders to prevail if they
appeal.”  A notice of appeal was filed May 11 in federal court in
Manhattan, with  BNY Mellon  seeking reversal of the ruling.  Market Peak  Paul Caminiti, a spokesman for Chesapeake, said the company
is confident in the legal basis of the ruling, expects to
prevail on appeal and that the notes’ redemption is expected to
go forward today as planned.  The dispute came at a time of plunging yields as the Fed
expands its balance sheet to $3.32 trillion through bond
purchases intended to fuel economic growth and reduce
unemployment. After four years of annualized returns of 11.3
percent on corporate bonds globally, Pimco’s Gross, who earned
the nickname “The Bond King” in media outlets, said the debt’s
best years of gains have probably ended in a May 10 Twitter
post.  “You need to look at an amalgamation of Treasuries,
mortgages and corporates, and not just Treasuries,” Gross, co-founder and co-chief investment officer of  Newport Beach ,
California-based Pimco, said in an e-mailed statement.
“Measured on that basis, 4/29/13 has been the price high and
yield low, to this point.”  Record Issuance  Chesapeake sold $2.3 billion of senior bonds in three parts
to redeem debt including the 6.775 percent notes even with the
lawsuit against noteholders pending. The bonds are rated Ba3 by
Moody’s and BB- by Standard & Poor’s and Fitch Ratings,
Bloomberg data show. The offering wasn’t conditioned on the
outcome of the legal dispute.  “They’re saying, ‘We’re so confident that the 2019s are
going to be redeemed at par that we’re going to issue these
bonds and start paying interest on them,” said Covenant
Review’s Cohen at the time.  Companies worldwide from the neediest to the most-flush
with cash have sold $1.54 trillion of debt this year, exceeding
the $1.5 trillion in the same period last year when issuance
reached a record $3.97 trillion, Bloomberg data show.  Demand Cycles  Investor protections on North American high-yield debt
averaged over three months deteriorated to a record low, Moody’s
said last month. The average covenant score, in which 1
represents the highest quality and 5 the weakest, worsened for a
third period to 3.97 in March.  “We go through these cycles of extreme demand and
liquidity,” said Scott Colyer, who manages $10.5 billion as
chief investment officer at Advisors Asset Management in
Monument,  Colorado . “We’re closer to that top. It does show
it’s worthwhile for companies to do anything they possibly can
to refinance and call in early their debt.”  Chesapeake issued the contested bonds in February 2012,
just before it was disclosed that former Chief Executive Officer
 Aubrey McClendon  had been using his personal 2.5 percent stakes
in some Chesapeake Energy wells as collateral for loans that
weren’t fully disclosed to shareholders.  The energy provider included a novel provision in the
note’s contract that would allow the company to redeem the
securities at an early date after it had completed planned asset
sales. Chesapeake said it would save about $100 million in
interest payments by refinancing the bonds before they matured.  ‘Perfect Clarity’  Judge Engelmayer ruled in favor of Chesapeake even as he
wrote in his opinion that the company failed to draft the
contract with “perfect clarity” and said other company
documents describing the provision were “imprecise” and
reflected “inattention” and “sloppiness.”  “This shows that sloppy drafting can have enormous
consequences,” Richard Farley, a New York-based attorney with
Paul Hastings LLP, said in a telephone interview. “This should
be a case study for every junior bond lawyer coming into the
business.”  The case is Chesapeake Energy Corp. v. Bank of New York
Mellon Trust Co., 13-cv-01582, U.S. District Court, Southern
District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Matt Robinson  in New York at 
 mrobinson55@bloomberg.net ;
Lisa Abramowicz in New York at 
 labramowicz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  