-- Cheung Kong Cancels Hotel-Room Sales After Investigation
-- B y   K e l v i n   W o n g
-- 2013-05-14T08:36:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-13/cheung-kong-cancels-hotel-room-sales-as-regulator-starts-probe.html
Cheung Kong Holdings Ltd. (1) , the
developer controlled by  Asia ’s richest man, is canceling the
sale of HK$1.4 billion ($180 million) of hotel rooms after Hong
Kong’s securities regulator began a probe into the transactions.  Cheung Kong , controlled by billionaire  Li Ka-Shing , will
return all deposits and part payments plus interest to all the
buyers of the individual rooms at the Apex Horizon project in
the city’s west, after being notified by the Securities and
Futures Commission that the sales constitute a unauthorized
“collective investment scheme,” the developer said in a
statement to Hong Kong’s stock exchange yesterday.  The sale of the 360 hotel rooms in February drew the
government’s ire as it was seen as a means of skirting an
increase in taxes on apartments that was aimed at cooling
prices. Within days of the sale, the government extended the
taxes to include hotels and other commercial property, and sent
inspectors to check that Apex Horizon units weren’t being used
as residences.  “The government is really sending out a message that
there’s no room for fooling around,” Credit Suisse Group AG
analysts Cusson Leung and Joyce Kwock wrote in a note to clients
today. “The time for making super normal returns in property
will be more difficult going forward.”  New World Development Co. (17)  and  Great Eagle Holdings Ltd. (41) 
have this month announced plans to spin off hotel assets in the
city that may raise as much as a combined HK$5.6 billion.  Legal Uncertainties  Cheung Kong’s  shares  have declined 2.9 percent this year,
compared with a 1.3 percent gain in the Hang Seng Property
Index. The stock fell 0.7 percent to HK$115.60 at the close of
trading in Hong Kong.  “We do not agree” with the SFC, Cheung Kong said in a
separate e-mailed statement. The decision was made “as the
difference in legal opinion may lead to legal uncertainty in
respect of the sale and purchase of the hotel room units, which
may affect the buyers’ ownership, mortgage arrangement or
subsequent sale of the hotel room units,” the company said.  Hong Kong Development Secretary  Paul Chan  said in February
the government sent inspectors to make sure the rooms weren’t
used as residential apartments.  Unhealthy Surge  Hong Kong’s securities law requires the regulator’s
authorization before a collective investment scheme can be
marketed to the public, according to a statement on the SFC’s
website yesterday.  Collective investment schemes involve arrangements of
property and that participants do not have day-to-day control
over the management of the property, according to the statement.
Such property is managed by the operator and the arrangements is
for the participants to receive profits, the SFC said.  The SFC intended to start legal proceedings seeking orders
to unwind the sale, according to the statement. The agreement
with Cheung Kong avoids court action at this stage, it said.  Li, 84, said in March it backed measures by the Hong Kong
government to curb an “unhealthy surge” in property prices.
The city is the world’s most-expensive place to buy an apartment
and to rent retail space, and also has the second-highest
office-occupancy costs, according to brokers including  Savills
Plc (SVS)  and Cushman & Wakefield Inc.  Cheung Kong in March said 2012 profit excluding
contributions from unit  Hutchison Whampoa Ltd. (13)  increased to
HK$19.1 billion from HK$18.1 billion a year earlier.  Property Curbs  Chief Executive Leung Chun-ying, who took over in July last
year, has imposed extra taxes and pledged to increase land
supply to curb real estate prices amid concerns housing is
becoming unaffordable to the general public.  All 360 rooms at Apex Horizon, ranging from 656 square feet
(61 square meters) to 909 square feet, were sold on Feb. 20 and
Feb. 21, Cheung Kong said at the time. Buyers of those rooms
were exempted from curbs introduced by the government, including
a 15 percent extra tax on foreign buyers, as they only applied
to residential properties.  Leung’s latest measures came on Feb. 22, when he doubled
the stamp duty on all properties above HK$2 million, and raised
minimum mortgage down-payment requirements on all non-residential properties. It was the first time it extended curbs
to non-residential properties.  “The hotel-room sale was an indication the market was
gaining momentum again,” said Simon Lo, Hong Kong-based head of
research at property brokers Colliers International. “It gave
the government another reason to introduce more curbs.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kelvin Wong in  Hong Kong  at 
 kwong40@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  