-- China’s Focus to Shift Toward Market, Good Services, Li Says
-- B y   J o s h u a   F e l l m a n
-- 2013-05-13T19:58:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-13/china-s-focus-to-shift-toward-market-good-services-li-says.html
Premier Li Keqiang reiterated  China ’s
move toward allowing for increased action of market forces,
shifting government focus to providing high-quality public
services and ensuring social fairness and justice.  China will simplify bureaucratic approval procedures to
stabilize economic growth and create more jobs, Li told a
national conference yesterday, according to a State Council
 statement  posted on the central government’s website.  In March, Li pledged to open the economy to more market
forces and strip power from the government to achieve 7.5
percent annual growth through 2020. He promised to cut
bureaucracy and regulations and fight graft, while reducing
environmental harm and pollution.  Yesterday’s comments are “much broader, more specific,
more pronounced” than those in March, Cheng Li, a China scholar
at  Washington ’s Brookings Institution, wrote in an e-mail.
“These measures reflect a major policy move, and could be
enormously consequential to China’s private sector and foreign
business firms. It may also generate new dynamics and tensions”
between central and local governments.  The primary task of the government’s work is creating a
sound environment for development, Li said, according to
yesterday’s statement. China will make macroeconomic controls
more effective, targeted and authoritative, he said.  The government should reduce permits for companies’
production and operation, ordinary investment projects and
qualifications, while curbing “blind” expansion of industries
with severe overcapacity issues, Li said yesterday.  China will develop medium-sized and small businesses and
the service industries, and fight against illegal behavior in
the food, environment and safe production areas, Li said.  “Premier Li’s comments suggest that the government
continues to push forward with its reform plans,” Mark
Williams, senior Asia economist at Capital Economics Ltd. in
 London , wrote in an an e-mail. Still, yesterday’s statement
largely reiterates earlier government comments, Williams said.  For Related News and Information:
Link to government statement:  http://tinyurl.com/ccheh7g 
Li Urges Paring State Role to Fuel 7.5% China Growth Until 2020  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joshua Fellman in  New York  at 
 jfellman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  