-- China’s Stocks Drop as Economic Concerns Overshadow IPO Report
-- B y   W e i y i   L i m
-- 2013-05-13T07:45:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-13/china-s-stocks-drop-before-industrial-output-retail-sales-data.html
China’s stocks  fell as economic
reports overshadowed speculation the government will postpone
the resumption of initial public offerings. A gauge of consumer-discretionary stocks dropped the most in two weeks.  Automakers SAIC Motor Corp. and Great Wall Motor Co. led
declines for consumer companies reliant on economic growth,
tumbling at least 3 percent. A report today showed industrial
production growth in April trailed economists’ estimates, while
retail sales slowed from the previous month. Ping An Insurance
(Group) Co. slid the most in three weeks after regulators
suspended its brokerage unit from underwriting for three months.  The Shanghai Composite Index declined 0.2 percent to
2,241.92 at the close. The CSI 300 Index lost 0.4 percent to
2,530.77. The  Hang Seng China Enterprises Index (HSCEI)  slumped 1.7
percent. A resumption of IPOs may be delayed until after June
because of the economic environment, the China Securities
Journal reported today, citing unidentified people.  “There’s no visible improvement in the macro situation,”
said Liu Guangming, an analyst at Dongxing Securities Co. “The
postponement of IPOs may alleviate some fear from investors but
we all know that it’s going to happen sooner or later.”  The Shanghai Composite has fallen 7.9 percent after
reaching this year’s high on Feb. 6 amid concern a slowing
economy will curb profit growth. Trading volumes on the Shanghai
index were 1.4 percent lower than the three-month average,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Economic Data  A measure of consumer-discretionary shares in the CSI 300
slid 1 percent, the most among 10 industry groups. SAIC Motor,
the biggest automaker, slid 3.2 percent to 15.40 yuan. Great
Wall Motor fell 3 percent to 37.66 yuan. Guangzhou city plans to
start limiting the numbers of vehicles with out-of-town license
plates on the road in June,  China  Business News reported today,
citing an unidentified executive with a car maker.  China’s industrial output in April rose 9.3 percent from a
year earlier, compared with the 9.4 percent median estimate in a
Bloomberg News survey of 38 analysts and an 8.9 percent increase
in March. Retail sales gained 12.8 percent, compared with a 12.6
percent increase the previous month. The National Bureau of
Statistics published the data on its website today.  Recent economic reports are showing mixed signals.
Manufacturing slowed last month, while exports grew faster than
expected. Consumer prices rose a higher-than-estimated 2.4
percent in April, while producer prices dropped more than
forecast, the National Bureau of Statistics said on May 9.  Lending was 792.9 billion  yuan  ($129 billion) in April, the
People’s Bank of China said on May 10, compared with the median
estimate of 755 billion yuan in a Bloomberg News survey. M2
money supply rose 16.1 percent from a year earlier, following
March’s 15.7 percent advance.  Developers Slump  A gauge of developers in the Shanghai index fell 0.5
percent, the most among five industry groups. Poly Real Estate
Group, the second-biggest Chinese developer, dropped 1.3 percent
to 11.95 yuan. China Vanke Co., the largest developer, lost 1.1
percent to 11.62 yuan. China’s home sales transaction value fell
13 percent in April from the previous month as the government’s
new property curbs started to take effect.  Ping An Insurance, the nation’s second-biggest insurer,
slid 2.2 percent to 40.19 yuan. The China Securities Regulatory
Commission has suspended Ping An Securities from conducting
underwriting for three months after the brokerage helped Wanfu
Biotechnology (Hunan) Agricultural Development Co. to list,
according to a statement on the regulator’s website on May 10.  Underwriting Halt  Wanfu Biotechnology made false statements in its IPO
materials and Ping An Securities will set up a 300 million yuan
($48.8 million) fund to compensate investors for losses, Ping An
Securities said on May 10. Wanfu Biotechnology last traded at
5.65 yuan on April 22 before a trading suspension, compared with
its IPO price of 25 yuan. Calls to Shen Ruisheng, spokesman for
Ping An Insurance Group, and the office of Wanfu Biotechnology
weren’t answered after normal working hours.  North Navigation Control Technology Co. led gains for
defense-industry stocks, jumping 10 percent to 13.15 yuan. Wuhan
Guide Infrared Co. advanced 3.8 percent to 17.13 yuan. Xinhua
News Agency reported China formed its first  aircraft carrier 
that can dispatch fighter jets.  The Shanghai index trades at 9.2 times estimated earnings,
compared with the three-year average of 10.9 and the MSCI
 Emerging Markets  Index’s current multiple of 10.5, data compiled
by Bloomberg show.  Bond Yields  The government’s anti-corruption campaign and concern about
structural problems in  China’s economy  have pushed down
valuations of stocks, Helen Zhu, chief China strategist at
Goldman Sachs, said in an interview with Bloomberg Television
from  Hong Kong  today. The economy isn’t incrementally slowing
down and may stabilize in the next couple of quarters, she said  The last time Chinese stocks were this cheap  relative to 
bonds, the  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  rallied 18 percent within
two months. The prospect of history repeating itself is luring
some fund managers back to equities.  The earnings yield for the Shanghai index was 3.46
percentage points higher than the average yield on top-rated 10-year corporate bonds on May 2, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The valuation gap was last that high on Dec. 13. The
 ChinaBond Corporate Bond index  fell in the week ended April 26
amid a probe into trading violations, ending a 25-week winning
streak that was the longest since at least October 2008.  The Bloomberg China-US Equity Index of the most-traded
Chinese stocks in the U.S. increased 0.5 percent on May 10,
adding to a 4 percent gain last week. The iShares FTSE China 25
Index Fund climbed 1.9 percent last week. Ctrip.com
International Ltd., China’s biggest web travel agency, soared
the most since 2009 after better-than-estimated earnings spurred
analyst upgrades.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Weiyi Lim in Singapore at 
 wlim26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  