-- China Shadow Banking Poses Systemic Risks to Banks, Moody’s Says
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-05-13T03:36:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-13/china-shadow-banking-poses-systemic-risks-to-banks-moody-s-says.html
China ’s shadow banking poses systemic
risks to the nation’s financial industry after expanding by more
than 67 percent over the past two years, according to Moody’s
Investors Service.  A broad measure of the shadow industry, which includes
private lending, trust loans, credit from non-bank institutions
and banks’ off-balance-sheet deposits known as wealth management
products, totaled 29 trillion yuan ($4.7 trillion) by the end of
last year, Moody’s said in the latest report. That compared with
17.3 trillion yuan in 2010.  Moody’s last month lowered its outlook for China’s credit
rating to stable from positive, saying the nation had made less
progress than expected in reducing risks from credit expansion
and local-government debt. A week earlier, Fitch Ratings Ltd.
cut its long-term local-currency debt rating on the country,
citing threats to financial stability.  “Given the substantial scale and growth of shadow banking
activities in China, we are doubtful of the banks’ ability to
isolate themselves from a significant increase in defaults in
the shadow banking domain,” Moody’s analysts led by Hu Bin
wrote in the report.  Estimates of China’s shadow banking sector range from 2
trillion  yuan  from the Financial Stability Board to as large as
36 trillion yuan from JPMorgan Chase & Co.  The China Banking Regulatory Commission in March told banks
to cap investments of client money in debt that isn’t publicly
traded at 35 percent of all funds raised from the sale of wealth
management products. These investments, held in instruments such
as trust loans, letters of credit and corporate receivables, are
also limited to 4 percent of the lender’s total assets at the
end of the previous year.  Chinese banks have sold wealth management products offering
higher returns than deposits as a way to retain client funds and
attract new ones. The outstanding balance of the products
reached 7.1 trillion yuan at the end of 2012, according to
official data.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Stephanie Tong in Hong Kong at 
 stong17@bloomberg.net ;
Jun Luo in Shanghai at 
 jluo6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  