-- China Oil Refining Falls to Eight-Month Low; Power Output Gains
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-05-13T07:55:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-13/china-oil-refining-falls-to-eight-month-low-power-output-gains.html
China ’s  crude processing  fell to the
lowest level in eight months in April as refineries shut units
for maintenance and industrial production expanded at a slower
pace than forecast. Electricity output increased.  Refining in the world’s second-largest oil consumer dropped
to 9.36 million barrels a day last month, according to  data 
published today on the website of the Beijing-based National
Bureau of Statistics. That’s the lowest since August and 8
percent below December’s record.  China’s apparent oil demand, or domestic throughput plus
net imports, was 9.66 million barrels a day last month, also the
weakest since August, the data show. Industrial output rose 9.3
percent from a year earlier, compared with the 9.4 percent
median estimate in a Bloomberg News survey.  China Petroleum &
Chemical Corp. (386) , or Sinopec, the nation’s biggest refiner, will
cut processing by 1.5 million metric tons this quarter from an
earlier plan because of higher fuel stockpiles, ICIS C1 Energy,
a Shanghai-based commodity researcher, said last month.  “April was this year’s first peak for refinery
maintenance,” Li Li, an oil analyst at ICIS C1 Energy said by
phone from Guangzhou. “Sinopec also cut processing amid
sluggish fuel demand.”  The nation’s biggest refineries reduced their average
operating rate to 80 percent as of April 3 because of
maintenance, compared with 88 percent in mid-February, according
to Oilchem.net, a Shandong-based industry website.  PetroChina
Co. (857) ’s Dalian refinery, its biggest, shut a crude distillation
unit with a capacity of 4.5 million tons a year on March 15 for
a month, according to a company official.  Power, Coal  China generated 399.4 billion kilowatt-hours of  electricity 
in April, up 6.2 percent compared from the same period last
year, today’s data show. Output in the first four months climbed
3.8 percent to 1.59 trillion kilowatt-hours.  “Power growth in April might partly be due to ample
rainfall in parts of southern China,”  Helen Lau , a Hong Kong-based analyst at UOB-Kay Hian Ltd., said by phone. Hydropower
output in the first three months of the year jumped 22 percent
while thermal power climbed 0.5 percent, she said.  China’s domestic thermal coal demand and prices will stay
around current levels this month, according to Lau. Power-station coal at Qinhuangdao port, the benchmark price for the
nation, was unchanged from a week earlier at 605  yuan  ($98.43)
to 615 yuan a ton as of yesterday, according to data today from
the China Coal Transport and Distribution Association.  China’s ethylene output in April climbed 3 percent from a
year earlier to 1.25 million tons, the statistics bureau data
showed.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
 Jing Yang  in Shanghai at 
 jyang251@bloomberg.net ;
Sarah Chen in Beijing at 
 schen514@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  