-- China Is Hit With Five-Year EU Tariffs on Fittings, Tableware
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   S t e a r n s
-- 2013-05-13T11:33:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-13/china-is-hit-with-five-year-eu-tariffs-on-fittings-tableware.html
The European Union imposed five-year
tariffs on pipe fittings and ceramic tableware from  China , the
latest evidence of the Chinese threat to higher-cost EU
producers. Thailand also faces five-year pipe-fittings duties.  The levies as high as 57.8 percent punish Chinese and Thai
manufacturers of threaded malleable fittings and Chinese makers
of ceramic tableware and kitchenware for allegedly selling them
in the 27-nation EU below cost, a practice known as  dumping .  The fittings are used in the gas, water and heating systems
of homes and office buildings as well as in the pipe systems of
oil refineries. Importers of the tableware and kitchenware
include  Germany ’s  Metro AG (MEO)  and  Sweden ’s Ikea.  European manufacturers have suffered “material injury” as
a result of dumped imports from China and  Thailand , the EU said
today in Brussels. Both sets of anti-dumping duties follow
provisional measures introduced in mid-November and will take
effect after publication in the EU Official Journal within three
days.  China, which faces more EU anti-dumping taxes than any
other nation, increased its share of the bloc’s threaded
malleable fittings market to 43.5 percent in 2011 from 28.7
percent in 2008, the bloc said. Thailand expanded its share of
the European market to 5.2 percent from 4.4 percent over the
period, according to the EU.  The five-year  fittings duties  against China range from 24.6
percent to 57.8 percent, depending on the manufacturer. The
levies against Thailand range from 14.9 percent to 15.5 percent.
Both sets of duties are lower than the provisional measures and
the EU will refund importers the difference.  Five-Year Duties  China increased its share of the EU market for ceramic
tableware and kitchenware to 66.8 percent in 2011 from 64.8
percent in 2008, the bloc said. The  five-year duties  range from
13.1 percent to 36.1 percent, also lower than the provisional
measures.  The five-year levies are the outcome of two inquiries that
the EU opened in February 2012 after dumping complaints by
groups on behalf of EU manufacturers of the goods. The fittings
probe also covered  Indonesia , against which the EU is applying
no five-year duties. Indonesia was also spared provisional
measures.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Stearns in Brussels at 
 jstearns2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  