-- China April Home Sales Fall 13% as Property Curbs Take Toll
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-05-13T09:20:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-13/china-april-home-sales-fall-13-as-property-curbs-take-toll.html
China’s home sales transaction value
fell 13 percent in April from the previous month as the
government’s new property curbs started to take effect.  The  value of homes  sold declined to 494.6 billion  yuan  ($80
billion) from 569.4 billion yuan in March, according to the
difference between National Statistics Bureau data for the first
four months of the year and the first quarter. The value of
sales from January to April rose 65 percent to 1.69 trillion
yuan from a year earlier, the data showed.  Thirty-five city governments issued details of property
measures by an April 1 deadline in response to the central
government’s toughest property curbs in a year imposed in March.
They include ordering the central bank to raise down-payment
requirements and  interest rates  for second mortgages in cities
with excessive price gains and enforcing a property-sales tax.  “The decline largely had to do with the high March sales
because developers supplied a lot of homes ahead of the
government’s curbs,” said Jeffrey Gao, a Shanghai-based
property analyst at Macquarie Capital Securities. “But the
government may issue more harsh policies if  home prices  continue
to climb.”  Investments in homes, office buildings, malls and other
real estate gained 21 percent to 1.9 trillion yuan from January
through April, compared with a 19 percent increase a year
earlier, according to the statistics bureau. New property
construction rose 1.9 percent to 555 million square meters (6
billion square feet).  Slowing Sales  Moody’s Investors Service and  Standard & Poor’s  both said
last week that the government curbs will slow down property
sales growth this year.  China Vanke Co. (000002) , the country’s biggest developer listed on
mainland exchanges, said contracted sales last month fell 18
percent from March to 12.4 billion yuan.  Shimao Property
Holdings Ltd. (813) , a Shanghai-based developer of mostly high-end
homes and hotels, last week reported April sales falling 28
percent to 4.6 billion yuan.  China  is studying “long-term” measures to control the
country’s property prices, while the 20 percent property
transaction tax will be difficult to enforce in many cities, the
official Xinhua News Agency reported today, citing unidentified
people.  The Shanghai Stock Exchange Property Index fell 0.5 percent
at the close of trading, the biggest decline among five industry
groups on the  benchmark  Shanghai Composite Index, which lost 0.2
percent.  Home sales volume rose 41 percent in the first four months
to 268 million square meters from last year, according to
today’s data.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Bonnie Cao in Shanghai at 
 bcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  