-- Sprint’s Takeover of Clearwire Gets Approval From Egan-Jones
-- B y   S c o t t   M o r i t z
-- 2013-05-13T20:09:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-13/clearwire-says-egan-jones-has-joined-iss-in-endorsing-sprint-bid.html
Sprint Nextel Corp. (S) ’s bid for
 Clearwire Corp. (CLWR) , slated for an investor vote on May 21, won the
endorsement of Egan-Jones Ratings Co., which joined
Institutional Shareholder Services Inc. in supporting the deal.  “Based on our review of publicly available information on
strategic, corporate governance and financial aspects of the
proposed transaction, Egan-Jones views the proposed transaction
to be a desirable approach,” the Haverford, Pennsylvania-based
shareholder-advisory firm said today in a report.  The endorsement lends fresh support to the deal following
ISS’s stamp of approval last week. The two firms disagreed with
another proxy adviser, Glass, Lewis & Co., which recommended
that investors vote no on Sprint’s $2.97-a-share offer. Sprint,
which already owns slightly more than 50 percent of Clearwire,
is trying to acquire the remaining stake for $2.2 billion.  “These recommendations affirm the conclusion of a rigorous
multiyear strategic review and reinforce the board’s unanimous
belief that this combination is the best strategic alternative
for Clearwire’s minority stockholders, delivering certain, fair
and attractive value,” Bellevue, Washington-based Clearwire
said today in an e-mailed statement.  Sprint and Clearwire reached the deal in December after
their four-year joint venture struggled to build a nationwide
wireless Internet provider. Sprint, based in  Overland Park ,
Kansas, is now planning to use Clearwire’s spectrum to bolster
its own network.  Glass Lewis  said that Sprint hasn’t made a compelling case
for why its offer is the best option.  Clearwire shares  fell 2.8 percent to $3.16 in  New York . The
stock has advanced 9.3 percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Moritz in New York at 
 smoritz6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  