-- Co-Operative Troubles Taunt PRA in Test for U.K. Watchdog
-- B y   B e n   M o s h i n s k y
-- 2013-05-13T11:50:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-13/co-operative-troubles-taunt-pra-in-first-test-for-u-k-watchdog.html
The Prudential Regulation Authority
may be spurred to intervene directly in the Co-Operative Bank
Plc, as the U.K.’s new bank supervisor faces its first test of
credibility barely a month after it was created.  The regulator, which expressed concern last month as the
customer-owned lender abandoned a 750 million-pound ($1.15
billion) bid for 632  Lloyds Banking Group Plc (LLOY)  branches, may
require the bank to boost its capital or cut lending following
the decision by Moody’s Investors Service slash the lender’s
credit rating to junk status on May 9.  “The PRA needs to look seriously at their capital
strength,” Barney Reynolds, a financial services lawyer at
Shearman & Sterling LLP said in a telephone interview in  London .
“On the face of it they may look pretty silly if they don’t
intervene and something goes wrong. The regulators could tell
them to raise capital, maybe to get outside investment.”  The crisis is an early challenge for the PRA, which took
over oversight of the U.K.’s largest lenders from the Financial
Services Authority last month. The FSA lost the confidence of
lawmakers in 2007 when it was taken by surprise by the collapse
and eventual nationalization of Northern Rock Plc and then was
unable to prevent bail outs of larger U.K. lenders, including
Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc during the global financial
crisis a year later.  Ba3  The Co-Operative Bank, based in Manchester,  England , says
that Moody’s cutting its rating by six steps to Ba3/not prime
from A3/prime doesn’t mean it needs a government bailout.
Moody’s said the bank may require “external support” if real-estate losses escalate.  The customer-owned firm’s chief executive officer Barry Tootell quit the day after the downgrade, which saw its 9.25
percent subordinated notes due April 2021 fall as much as 27
pence to 75 pence on the pound, according to Bloomberg pricing
data.  The PRA is already reacting quicker than its predecessor by
voicing the concerns about capital and management structures
that led Co-Op Bank to drop the plan to acquire the Lloyds
branches, Reynolds said.  “That’s a positive sign,” Reynolds said. “This is like
RBS in a way, but instead Sir Fred has been stopped in his
tracks,” he said, referring to former RBS CEO  Fred Goodwin .  A spokesman from the PRA declined to comment on the Co-Op
downgrade.  Low Capital  Co-Op Bank’s core Tier 1 capital ratio, a measure of its
ability to absorb losses, was 6.7 percent in January, less than
the 7 percent target set by U.K. regulators, Moody’s said.  An estimate of a 750 million-pound capital shortfall is
“credible, albeit not necessarily extraordinarily
conservative,” said Eva Olsson, a London-based analyst at
Mitsubishi UFJ Securities. The figure suggests the bank will
report losses of about 500 million pounds in the coming three
years, she said in a note to clients.  The bank has been hit by bad consumer and commercial real
estate loans stemming from its purchase of Britannia Building
Society in 2009. Impairments more than quadrupled to 468.7
million pounds in 2012, the company reported in March. The bank
posted a pretax loss of 673.7 million pounds last year, compared
with a profit of 54.2 million pounds a year earlier.  Industry Shortfall  The PRA, which took over supervision of the industry from
the Financial Services Authority, has yet to disclose how much
capital each U.K. bank will have to raise to plug a 25 billion-pound industry shortfall the Financial Policy Committee
identified in March. The PRA may inform the banks at the end of
this month.  “More equity in the balance sheet mix can lower the cost
of debt funding,”  Robert Jenkins , a former member of the Bank
of England’s Financial Policy Committee, said in an e-mail.
“This is a timely reminder that the opposite is also true.”  We acknowledge “the need to strengthen our capital
position in light of the broader economic downturn and the
pending introduction of enhanced regulatory requirements,” Co-Op Bank said. “We plan to significantly simplify our business,
which will greatly improve our operational effectiveness and
also enhance our capital position in the process.”  The downgrade triggered speculation junior bondholders may
be forced to take losses as part of a bail-in of the U.K.
lender. In February, the Dutch government expropriated about 900
million euros ($1.2 billion) of SNS Reaal NV’s junior debt after
property losses brought the fourth-largest Dutch lender to the
brink of collapse.  “I think this is about precautionary measures,” Reynolds
said. “On the other hand, this isn’t a zero failure regime.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Moshinsky in Brussels at 
 bmoshinsky@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  