-- Cognizant Expects Immigration Bill Debate to Extend Into 2014
-- B y   S a r a h   F r i e r
-- 2013-05-13T19:08:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-13/cognizant-expects-immigration-bill-debate-to-extend-into-2014.html
Cognizant Technology Solutions Corp. (CTSH) ,
the largest recipient of visas for bringing H-1B temporary
workers to the U.S., expects a debate on immigration reform to
last until 2014, making it difficult to predict how the
legislation will affect the company.  “You can’t model it,” President Gordon Coburn said in an
interview last week. “The process for changes to the bill we
expect goes late this year into next year.”  The proposed immigration bill, the first major overhaul of
the laws in more than two decades, includes fees and rules that
make it harder for outsourcing companies like Cognizant to
depend on temporary visas to bring workers into the country.
Cognizant uses the visas to add thousands of U.S. employees each
year, often deploying them to customers’ technology projects.  The bill increases the cost of applying for temporary work
visas, especially if more than half of a company’s U.S.
employees use them. It also says no company with more than 15
percent of its U.S. staff on work visas can put those employees
at client sites -- something specifically targeted at
outsourcers.  At least two analysts have predicted lower profit margins
for Cognizant and other outsourcing companies such as Infosys
Ltd. because of the restrictions. Still, it’s too early to gauge
the impact, Coburn said.  Customer Input?  Cognizant’s customers may step forward to fight the
provisions, he said. The Teaneck, New Jersey-based company works
with large institutions in the banking and insurance industries,
potentially giving it more sway during negotiations.  “Customers are going to weigh in, and they should,” he
said. “Ultimately what’s going to be important is when
customers go to Congress and say, ‘If you do this, it’s going to
be bad for banks. If you do this, it’s going to be bad for
insurers.’”  The  H-1B visas  were  created in 1990  to let technology
companies bring in skilled employees from oversees, ostensibly
to make up for a shortage of local talent.  Unlike companies like Google Inc. and Facebook Inc., which
rely on the program to recruit a relatively small number of
highly skilled people, outsourcers use H-1B visas in the
hundreds or thousands a year. That’s drawn scrutiny from
lawmakers concerned that the program is just a way to get
cheaper labor.  Coburn said the company uses the program to find the skills
necessary for outsourcing tasks, not to replace U.S. workers.  “We pay our people prevailing wage,” he said. “They’re
not cheap once I include relocation costs and visa costs.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Frier in  New York  at 
 sfrier1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at   nturner7@bloomberg.net  