-- Commerzbank Slides on Share Sale Report: Frankfurt Mover
-- B y   N i c h o l a s   C o m f o r t
-- 2013-05-13T16:10:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-13/commerzbank-slides-in-frankfurt-after-share-sale-report.html
Commerzbank AG (CBK) , Germany’s second-biggest bank, slid in Frankfurt trading after newspaper
Handelsblatt said the company will sell shares in a 2.5 billion-euro ($3.25 billion) capital increase this week.  The stock fell 4.7 percent to 9.94 euros at the close of
trading, the biggest decline in two months. That extended losses
this year to 31 percent, the most among 40 firms on the
 Bloomberg Europe Banks and Financial Services Index .  Commerzbank will sell the shares in the rights offering
tomorrow or May 15 and grant a discount of about 35 percent,
Handelsblatt reported yesterday, citing people in the finance
industry that it didn’t identify. Karsten Swoboda, a spokesman
for the Frankfurt-based bank, declined to comment. Commerzbank
originally announced the plan in March.  “There is pressure on the stock,” Ingo Frommen, an
analyst with Landesbank Baden-Wuerttemberg who has a hold
recommendation on the shares, said by telephone from Stuttgart,
 Germany . “Some investors probably won’t boost their holdings
and we may not see the low point for the stock until the middle
of the subscription period.”  Commerzbank, wracked by financial troubles including failed
shipping businesses, is carrying out its fifth capital increase
in four years. Its shares have declined 94 percent since
September 2008, the most among financial companies in Europe
outside Ireland and  Greece . The company got an 18.2 billion-euro
government bailout in 2009 and is also eliminating staff and
winding down unprofitable assets.  Angry Shareholders  The bank said last month that it will offer the stock by
the start of June after reducing the number of shares to 583
million from 5.83 billion in a reverse share split.  Commerzbank wants to sell the shares this week to take
advantage of record highs on stock markets, Handelsblatt
reported.  Angry shareholders criticized Chief Executive Officer
 Martin Blessing  at an annual general meeting last month, saying
wrong decisions by the bank meant their investments had all but
evaporated. Several called on the management to resign.  Blessing’s predecessor Klaus-Peter Mueller, who made
investments in property and shipping that later turned sour, is
chairman of the bank’s supervisory board, responsible for
overseeing operations and appointing executive board members.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicholas Comfort in Frankfurt at 
 ncomfort1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  