-- Companies in U.S. Kept Lid on Inventories as Sales Fell in March
-- B y   J e a n n a   S m i a l e k
-- 2013-05-13T14:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-13/companies-in-u-s-kept-lid-on-inventories-as-sales-fell-in-march.html
Companies in the U.S. unexpectedly
held inventories in check in March as sales fell by the most in
nine months, an indication orders will rise as demand picks up.  Stockpiles were little changed in March for a second month,
Commerce Department figures showed today in Washington. The
median estimate in a Bloomberg survey projected a 0.3 percent
advance. Sales decreased 1.1 percent, the biggest retreat since
June 2012.  The report also showed retailers cut inventories by the
most in two years amid concern the increase in the  payroll tax 
would prompt households to curb spending. Companies may need to
restock depleted shelves, giving factories a boost, after
another report today showed sales at merchants from clothing
stores to electronics shops unexpectedly increased last month.  The median  forecast  for business inventories was based on a
Bloomberg survey of 47 economists. Estimates ranged from little
change to gains of 0.5 percent. February’s figure was revised
from an originally reported 0.1 percent increase.  Another Commerce Department report today showed the  retail
sales  increase in April reflected broad-based gains. The 0.1
percent increase in purchases followed a 0.5 percent drop in
March. The  median  forecast of 81 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg called for a 0.3 percent decline. The figures used to
calculate growth, which exclude categories such as automobiles,
also advanced.  Retailers’  stockpiles (MTIBCHNG) , the only part of today’s inventory
report not previously released, declined 0.5 percent in March,
the biggest fall since February 2011. Sales decreased 0.6
percent.  Retail Inventories  Excluding auto dealers, retailer stockpiles dropped 0.6
percent, the biggest retreat since September 2009.  Consumers may have a means to make purchases as the job
market improves. The number of Americans filing claims for
jobless benefits decreased by 4,000 to 323,000 in the week ended
May 4, the fewest since January 2008, a Labor Department report
last week showed.  Businesses had enough items on hand to last 1.29 months at
the current sales pace in March, compared to 1.28 the prior
month, according to today’s report on inventories.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeanna Smialek in  Washington  at 
 jsmialek1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  