-- Copper Rises on Indications Chinese Demand Is Set to Strengthen
-- B y   A g n i e s z k a   T r o s z k i e w i c z
-- 2013-05-13T09:31:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-13/copper-rises-on-indications-chinese-demand-is-set-to-strengthen.html
Copper rose for a second day in
London on indications demand is poised to strengthen in  China ,
the world’s biggest consumer of the metal.  Chinese refined-copper usage may speed up this year from
2012, Duan Shaofu, deputy head of the heavy metals department at
the China Nonferrous Metals Industry Association, said by phone
today. The nation’s industrial production increased 9.3 percent
in April from a year ago, statistics showed, near the 9.4
percent median estimate of economists in a Bloomberg survey.  “The industrial-production figures are just marginally
lower than forecast,” Pengjiang “Richard” Fu, director for
Asian commodities trading at Newedge Group SA in London, said by
e-mail.  Copper for delivery in three months added 0.4 percent to
$7,402 a metric ton by 10:29 a.m. on the  London  Metal Exchange,
extending three weeks of advances. Copper for delivery in July
rose 0.2 percent to $3.359 a pound on the Comex in  New York .  Investment by China State Grid Corp. and home-appliance
sales may expand more quickly this year, the China Securities
Journal cited Duan as saying at an industry conference.
Inventories of copper monitored by the Shanghai Futures Exchange
reached a six-month low, figures showed last week.  Money managers reduced their net-short position, or wagers
on falling copper prices, to 16,798 Comex futures and options
contracts as of May 7 from 23,368 a week earlier, according to
the U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission.  Commodity trading advisors “continue to cover shorts,
albeit at a significantly reduced pace,” George Adcock, an
analyst at Marex Spectron Group in London, said by e-mail today,
referring to buying of metal to close out bets on a decline.
“There is a general confusion in the marketplace as to whether
we head higher or take another leg lower.”  Copper  stockpiles  tracked by the LME rose 0.4 percent to
606,700 tons on deliveries in Johor,  Malaysia , daily exchange
figures showed. Inventories surged ninefold this year at the
location, the biggest LME copper repository. Orders to take the
metal from warehouses fell 0.4 percent to 211,950 tons after
jumping 35 percent to a record in the prior session.  LME lead, nickel and tin rose as aluminum and zinc fell.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Agnieszka Troszkiewicz in London at 
 atroszkiewic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  