-- Cotton Futures Drop on Demand Concerns; Orange Juice Advances
-- B y   M a r v i n   G .   P e r e z
-- 2013-05-13T19:03:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-13/cotton-futures-drop-on-demand-concerns-orange-juice-advances.html
Cotton futures fell for a second
straight session on concern that demand will slow from China,
the world’s biggest user and importer. Sugar also slid, while
orange juice, coffee and cocoa rose.  In April, China’s fixed-asset investment unexpectedly
slowed from a month earlier, while the country’s industrial
output grew 9.3 percent, the National Bureau of Statistics said
today, trailing analysts’ estimates in a Bloomberg survey. In
the season starting Aug. 1, Chinese imports of the fiber may
tumble 34 percent from a year earlier as the nation’s stockpiles
swell, the  U.S. Department of Agriculture  said last week.  “China reported a poor industrial production number
overnight, which I take as bearish to cotton,”  Keith Brown , the
president of Keith Brown & Co. in Moultrie, Georgia, said in an
e-mail.  Cotton for July delivery dropped 0.5 percent to settle at
86.04 cents a pound at 2:30 p.m. on ICE Futures U.S. in  New
York . The price fell 1.6 percent in the previous session.  Also in New York, raw-sugar futures for July delivery
slipped 1 percent to 17.25 cents a pound.  Orange-juice futures for July delivery jumped 2.6 percent
to $1.4815 a pound, the fourth consecutive gain and the longest
rally in two months. Earlier, the price reached $1.496, the
highest for a most-active contract since April 17.  On May 10, the USDA affirmed the outlook for  Florida ’s
orange crop, the world’s second largest, with output expected to
drop to the lowest in four years after drought and a plant
disease called citrus greening curbed the harvest’s potential.
 Brazil  is the biggest citrus grower.  “There’s a realization that there’s going to be a serious
shortage this fall,”  Shawn Hackett , the president of Hackett
Financial Advisors in  Boynton Beach , Florida, said in an e-mail.  Arabica-coffee futures for July delivery advanced 0.9
percent to $1.4575 a pound, while cocoa futures for July
delivery jumped 1.1 percent to $2,326 a metric ton, snapping a
five-session slump.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Marvin G. Perez in New York at 
 mperez71@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  