-- Croatia Trades Bombs for Cafe Culture as EU Entry Nears
-- B y   J a s m i n a   K u z m a n o v i c
-- 2013-05-14T11:59:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-13/croatia-trades-bombs-for-cafe-culture.html
Under shellfire on Christmas Eve
1991, 13-year-old Maja Biloglav fled Zadar by boat at night,
sent away by her parents as the Yugoslav army surrounded the
Adriatic town following  Croatia ’s  declaration of independence .  Now 34 and back in Zadar, the administrator for a rental
company says she hopes Croatia’s July 1 entry into the  European
Union  will keep nationalism across the former  Yugoslavia  from
festering into violence again.  “It was an ugly war,” said Biloglav as she sipped a glass
of Croatian red wine in a cafe near the white Renaissance church
of St. Anastasia. “The European Union isn’t perfect, but it
seems to be the only realistic option for us.”  European integration is taking a deeper step into the
Balkans with Croatian entry as political leaders seek to stamp
out still-smoldering resentments left from the Yugoslav civil
wars. Croatia, which lost more than 20,000 people during its
fight for independence, plans to use EU funds to complete its
reconstruction as it leaves behind its conflicted past.  “Croatia’s entry shows that the European Union’s expansion
continues despite the crisis, and the bloc needs to expand to
compete with  Asia  and the BRIC countries,” Tvrtko Jakovina, a
history professor at the  University of Zagreb , said in a phone
interview. Membership also brings “the potential of stabilizing
one of the most precarious regions in  Europe .”  Incoming Funds  Croatia, whose economic development was stifled by Europe’s
bloodiest fighting since World War II, is trying to revive
growth after four years of recession or stagnation. As much as
10 billion euros ($13 billion) in EU funds may flow in through
2020 to modernize communist-era rails, sewers and bridges;
diversify a domestic industry dominated by tourism and services;
and bring  living standards  up to those of eastern EU members
such as the Czech Republic, Slovakia and  Poland .  The only remaining EU member needed to approve accession is
 Germany , whose lower house has scheduled a final vote this week.
 Chancellor Angela Merkel  favors membership.  The prospects of EU membership have pushed investors into
Croatian  government bonds , lowering the yield on dollar notes
maturing in March 2021 to 4.28 percent yesterday. It had been
about 8 percent in December 2011, the month the country signed
the accession treaty with the 27-nation bloc.  The 16-month-old Social-Democrat-led government of Prime
Minister  Zoran Milanovic  is trying to attract investors.
Europe’s sovereign debt crisis caused 2012 foreign direct
investment in Croatia to plummet to almost one-fifth of the $4.2
billion registered in 2008, according to the central bank.  Airport Arrival  The country of 4.2 million is seeking to boost investment
in infrastructure and energy and boost exploration of its gas
and oil supplies in the Adriatic. The government repeatedly has
said it is close to finding a strategic partner to build a
liquefied natural gas terminal on the island of Krk.  Low-cost carrier  Ryanair Holdings Plc (RYA)  in April opened a
base in Zemunik, Zadar’s airport, and  Austria ’s Falkensteiner
Tourism Group AG last year opened its second resort in Zadar.
Still, the pace has slowed since the late 1990s, when Germany’s
 Deutsche Telekom AG (DTE)  and Siemens AG, along with  Sweden ’s  Ericsson
AB (ERICB) , made investments.  Centered on Croatia’s 5,800-kilometer-long (3,600-mile)
long coast, tourism accounts for one-fifth of the country’s
economy as visitors flock to craggy cliffs, national parks and
islands in azure bays. The rest of the economy is composed of
retail, food processing, agriculture, timber and pharmaceutical.  The  government  in February reduced its 2013 growth forecast
to 0.7 percent from an earlier estimate of 1.8 percent, citing
low foreign investment. Retail trade declined 2.1 percent in
March from a year ago.  Rating Cut  The country’s credit rating was cut to junk by  Standard &
Poor’s  in December, followed by a similar reduction by  Moody’s
Investors Services  in February. Both credit rating companies
cited the stalled recovery, a lack of budget discipline and
vulnerability to external shocks.  Public debt will increase to 55 percent of gross domestic
product this year, while state borrowing will total 27 billion
kuna ($4.7 billion), according to the government’s forecast in
November. The government on March 21 said it would reduce the
total public deficit this year to 3.4 percent of GDP from an
earlier forecast of 3.9 percent.  “We invested here based on the hope that this country
would one day join the EU,” Andreas Treichl, chief executive
officer of  Erste Group Bank AG (EBS) , told Swedish investors in Zagreb
in April. “But the EU membership doesn’t solve problems, and if
Croatia doesn’t attract investors, it will lose out.”  Poorest Neighbor  Last year’s per-capita GDP in Croatia, at $12,971 compares
with $18,579 in the  Czech Republic , $22,192 in Slovenia and
$41,512 in Germany, according to the  International Monetary
Fund’s website.   “The key is that Croatia uses the accession to speed up
the recovery by attracting greenfield investments to enlarge the
country’s export base and by using the maximum amount of EU
funds,” said Vladimir Gligorov, an economist at the  Vienna
Institute for International Economic Studies . “Ultimately, this
is up to Croatia.”  As a by-product of entry, many Croatian companies will
start paying new or higher customs to Balkans neighbors, with
which they had enjoyed a free-trade agreement. And in the newly
duty-free EU market, they will confront greater competition.  That concerns Vandri Montabelo, chairman of the management
board of  Maraska d.d. Zadar . The company is named for the more
than 2,000-year-old town, and produces a cherry liqueur called
 Zadarski Maraschino  from a recipe dating back to 1768.  ‘Saturated’ Market  “The EU market represents a great potential, but it is
also the most saturated, most demanding market,” Montabelo
said. “I lose sleep at night thinking how to make someone buy
just our product.”  Sipping wine in the cafe, Biloglav recalled that she feared
she’d never see her parents again when she sat in the fleeing
speedboat in 1991. Serb-led Yugoslav army troops advanced as far
as Zadar’s suburbs, virtually disconnecting the southern coast
from the rest of the country. She returned a year before the
city was reopened in 1993.  “This is all in the past,” she said. “After what we’ve
been through, the future looks bright.”  -- With assistance from Krystof Chamonikolas in  Prague , Gordana Filipovic in Belgrade and Tony Czuczka in Berlin. Editors: James
M. Gomez, Anne Swardson  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jasmina Kuzmanovic in Zagreb at 
 jkuzmanovic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  