-- Cyprus Gets First Aid Tranche as Greece Cash Backed
-- B y   C o r i n a   R u h e   a n d   K a r l   S t a g n o   N a v a r r a
-- 2013-05-13T19:38:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-13/cyprus-gets-first-aid-tranche-as-greece-cash-backed-by-ministers.html
Cyprus received its first emergency
aid payment and  Greece  won approval of 7.5 billion euros ($9.7
billion) of rescue loans.  Cyprus received 2 billion euros today and will get as much
as 1 billion euros more in June as the Mediterranean island’s 10
billion-euro aid package was activated, the European Stability
Mechanism, the euro area’s permanent backstop fund, said in a
statement.  The release came as finance ministers from the 17 euro
countries wrangled over banking policy and economic remedies to
the fallout from the financial crisis that emerged in Greece in
2009. They also gave the green light to two fresh aid payments
for Greece.  “We’ve shown over the past three years that the general
direction to overcome the confidence in the euro is right,”
German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  told reporters. “We
still have slower growth in  Europe , and we have to see to it
that we reduce unemployment even with limited growth rates.”  Austerity Rethink  Europe’s governments are in the midst of a policy rethink
after three years of budget cutting as they face up to a
deepening recession in the euro area and a record unemployment
rate that exceeds 12 percent. Still in doubt for economists is
what kind of stimulus will actually be delivered and what effect
it could have in the crisis-torn currency bloc.  The Greek aid includes 4.2 billion euros that should get
approval from the European Financial Stability Facility in
coming days. A second payment of 3.3 billion euros in June is
contingent on Greece meeting performance milestones.  The euro-area finance ministers said they welcomed Greece’s
“important measures” on “strengthening the organization and
effectiveness of the revenue administration” and steps to
“fully recapitalize Greek core banks and to consolidate the
banking system.” Still, “strong resolve will be needed in the
establishment of the new organizational structure and the fight
against  tax evasion ” and “further work is needed to fully
implement the entire list of prior actions,” according to a
statement.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Corina Ruhe in Brussels at 
 cruhe@bloomberg.net ;
Karl Stagno Navarra in Brussels at 
 ksnavarra@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  