-- Cyprus Gets First Aid Payment as Slovenia Fights to Avoid Rescue
-- B y   C o r i n a   R u h e   a n d   A n g e l i n e   B e n o i t
-- 2013-05-13T14:19:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-13/cyprus-gets-first-aid-payment-as-slovenia-fights-to-avoid-rescue.html
Cyprus got its first emergency-aid
payment as euro-area finance ministers set to work avoiding a
bailout in Slovenia.  Cyprus received 2 billion euros ($2.6 billion) today and
will get as much as 1 billion euros more in June as the
Mediterranean island’s 10 billion-euro aid package was
activated, the European Stability Mechanism said in a statement.  The release came as finance ministers from the 17 euro
countries wrangled over banking policy and economic remedies to
the fallout from the financial crisis that emerged in  Greece  in
2009. They also intended to rubber-stamp a payment to Greece.  “We’ve shown over the past three years that the general
direction to overcome the confidence in the euro is right,”
German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  told reporters. “We
still have slower growth in  Europe , and we have to see to it
that we reduce unemployment even with limited growth rates.”  Europe’s governments are in the midst of a policy rethink
after three years of budget cutting as they face up to a
deepening recession in the euro area and a record unemployment
rate that exceeds 12 percent. Still in doubt for economists is
what kind of stimulus will actually be delivered and what effect
it could have in the crisis-torn currency bloc.  In the coming hours, the policy makers will probably
approve the release of 7.5 billion euros of payments to Greece,
with 4.2 billion to be channeled this month and 3.3 billion
euros in June, a European Union official said May 8.  “I definitely hope” for a decision, Dutch Finance
Minister Jeroen Dijsselbloem, who chairs the meetings, told
reporters today.  Slovenia, which is fighting to avoid becoming the sixth
bailout recipient, will seek to persuade euro-area policy makers
that its package of tax increases and asset sales will put it on
the path of fiscal wellbeing.  The measures “go in the right direction,” said
Luxembourg’s Luc Frieden. “They now have to be implemented and
then one has to see what they lead to.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Corina Ruhe in Brussels at 
 cruhe@bloomberg.net ;
Angeline Benoit in Brussels at 
 abenoit4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  