-- Deborah Bernstein, Aquiline’s ‘Indomitable’ Partner, Dies at 41
-- B y   L a u r e n c e   A r n o l d
-- 2013-05-13T23:51:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-13/deborah-bernstein-indomitable-aquiline-partner-dies-at-42.html
Deborah Bernstein, who worked at
 Goldman Sachs (GS)  Group Inc., Pequot Capital Management Inc. and
Aquiline Capital Partners LLC in the 15 years since she
graduated from  Stanford University ’s business school, has died.
She was 41.  She died on May 10 at her home in  New York City  after a
prolonged battle with  breast cancer , her mother, Caroline
Kresky, said yesterday in an interview.  “Deborah was a shining star who passed far before her
time,” Bernstein’s parents and husband,  David Miller , wrote in
an obituary posted online.  Bernstein was a partner since November 2008 at New York-based Aquiline, the private-equity firm founded by Jeffrey Greenberg in 2005 after he left Marsh & McLennan Cos. as chief
executive officer. Aquiline invests in financial services such
as insurance, banking, securities, asset management and
financial technology.  “She made a lasting impact on the firm including building
our Financial Technology group and developing our talented
team,” Aquiline said in a statement released yesterday by
communications firm RLM Finsbury. “We will miss Deborah and her
indomitable spirit.”  Bernstein joined Aquiline after eight years at the  San
Francisco  and  New York  offices of Pequot Ventures, a venture
capital unit of Pequot Capital Management. Bernstein was a
general partner who co-led the firm’s investment efforts in
financial services technology, according to Aquiline’s
announcement of her hiring in 2008.  Finished Marathons  She had left Pequot Ventures after its principals formed a
new firm, FirstMark Capital LLC earlier that year.  An athlete who completed marathons in  Seattle  and New York,
Bernstein was active in charitable causes including Dress for
Success, which helps women find jobs and stay employed. She also
loved cats and would whip out her checkbook to give money to
shelters after petting their animals, her mother said.  “Deborah touched a lot of lives in a lot of meaningful
ways,” Kresky said. “Even her doctor wrote me an e-mail that
he was heartbroken. She wasn’t just good at what she did -- she
had a real gift with people.”  Deborah Lisa Bernstein was born on July 1, 1971, in
Washington, and grew up in Atlanta, the daughter of Kresky and
Michael Bernstein. She studied economics at  Dartmouth College ,
in Hanover,  New Hampshire , graduated summa cum laude in 1993 and
was elected to the Phi Beta Kappa academic honor society.  MBA Degree  She began her career at Goldman Sachs as an analyst in the
Financial Institutions Group, focusing on consumer credit and
insurance, mergers and acquisitions and corporate finance. She
then returned to school, earning her MBA degree from Stanford’s
Graduate School of Business in 1997.  “Deborah Bernstein is back from Stanford, returning to New
York with her cat Rangoon to begin a new post at Goldman
Sachs,” a  class notes item  from 1997 on Dartmouth’s alumni
website said.  In that second stint at Goldman, from 1997 to 1999, she was
an associate in the Principal Investment Area focusing on
buyouts and venture-capital investing. She worked from 1999 to
2001 as a principal at Thomas Weisel Capital Partners LP, a
private equity fund.  Bernstein and Miller, a fellow Dartmouth graduate, married
in 2002. The two had met at a fraternity party during her
sophomore year. They went their separate ways for five years
after college before bumping into each other in the Hamptons, on
New York’s  Long Island , on Independence Day weekend in 1998,
according to an article in Dartmouth’s student newspaper.  Miller is chief marketing officer at eFront, a New York-based company providing software for financial companies.  The couple’s son, Asher, is 5 months old.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laurence Arnold in  Washington  at 
 larnold4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Charles W. Stevens at 
 cstevens@bloomberg.net  