-- Deeper Cuts Seen as Congress Returns to Farms, Food Stamps
-- B y   A l a n   B j e r g a
-- 2013-05-13T15:21:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-13/deeper-cuts-seen-as-congress-returns-to-farms-food-stamps-1-.html
Lawmakers who last year failed to
complete a rewrite of U.S. agricultural policy will restart
their effort this week with pressure building for even bigger
cuts for farmers and food-stamp recipients.  Federal budget-cutting and criticism that aid has been too
lavish during a time of record revenue are driving proposals in
the Senate and House agriculture committees to end direct
payments to farmers and save $23 billion and $40 billion,
respectively, over the next 10 years.  This could set up a struggle to pass a bill that will
satisfy farmers, environmentalists and nutrition advocates, said
Mark McMinimy, an analyst at Guggenheim Washington Research
Group in Washington.  “It’s going to become a lot of nibbling among programs,
trying to keep the core programs intact,” he said in an
interview. “Everyone has to be on board, but there are fewer
incentives to keep everyone together.”  Both panels are scheduled this week to draft their versions
of a new five-year law reauthorizing a half-trillion dollars in
U.S. Department of Agriculture programs. The Senate is scheduled
to begin tomorrow and the House a day later.  Crop subsidies benefiting buyers such as  Archer-Daniels-Midland Co. (ADM)  and food stamps subsidizing purchases at  Supervalu
Inc. (SVU)  are prime targets for lawmakers seeking to trim the
deficit.  2012 Bill  Last year, a bill passed the Senate that would have
resulted in the first major reductions in farm aid since 1996.
The measure fizzled in the House, where leaders wanted deeper
cuts to food stamps, the biggest USDA expense. The current law,
passed in 2008, was extended in January until Sept. 30, after
concerns were raised that a lapse in farm programs would double
the price of milk.  Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid, a Nevada Democrat, has
said his chamber will vote on the committee proposal this month,
while House Majority Leader Eric Cantor, Virginia Republican,
said he plans floor action this summer, giving both parties time
to negotiate a final package before the current law expires.  Senate Agriculture Chairwoman Debbie Stabenow, a Michigan
Democrat, said the bill being crafted in her committee creates
risk-management tools to protect farmers against market
gyrations or weather disasters without subsidies that pay out
even in good times.  Deficit Reduction  “By ending unnecessary subsidies, streamlining and
consolidating programs and cracking down on abuse, the bill
reduces the deficit by billions,” she said in a statement last
week.  In March, the Congressional Budget Office said the plans
approved by the full Senate and the House Agriculture Committee
last year would save less money than originally estimated, which
has lawmakers pursuing more savings. Both committees have said
they’ll eliminate a program that pays growers of corn,  rice  and
other major crops regardless of market prices, while using some
of the savings to insure farmer revenues in less-profitable
years. Food stamps will also see cuts.  “We all knew that if we didn’t pass a farm bill last year,
this was going to happen,” said Mary Kay Thatcher, chief
lobbyist for the American Farm Bureau Federation, the biggest
U.S. farmer organization, in a telephone interview. Subsidies
will need to be balanced “so that no one commodity gets too
rich compared to another one,” she said.  Crop Insurance  To do that, lawmakers on both committees have added payment
programs for southern cotton, rice and peanut farmers to
compensate for remaining subsidies seen as being more generous
to northern-grown crops like corn and soybeans.  Expanding crop insurance is the main goal of nearly every
grower group, she said. “Crop insurance is the most important
part of the farm bill,” she said.  That priority is misplaced, said Ken Cook, president of
Environmental Working Group, a conservation advocate based in
Washington.  As record prices have lowered some subsidies to farmers,
spending government-subsidized crop insurance sold by Wells
Fargo & Co.,  Ace Ltd. (ACE)  and others have zoomed to records, raising
the attention of groups fighting for less farm aid. Government
payments, excluding crop insurance, are predicted to reach $10.9
billion this year. Net  farm income  may reach a record $128.2
billion this year, the USDA said in February.  Drought Damages  Indemnities for last year’s Corn Belt drought, the worst
since the 1930s, are at  $17.1 billion  so far, with taxpayers on
the hook for up to 75 percent of the cost, according to
Environmental World Group. Both the House and Senate proposals
would expand crop insurance and introduce some form of “shallow
loss” protection for farmers with revenue reductions not
covered by indemnities.  “We really need to spend some of that money in different
ways,” Cook said in an interview. “We could take money that’s
being sent to crop insurance companies and spent on large
farmers to underwrite their profits and eliminate the need” for
cuts to conservation and food stamps, he said. “We could even
return some to taxpayers. What a concept!”  Food stamps present the other major problem for both
agriculture committees, McMinimy said, because of the need to
attract votes from urban areas to pass the bills in Congress.  Senate Plan  The Senate plan introduced by Stabenow would lower spending
on the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program -- which funds
food stamps -- by about $4 billion over 10 years. The House
proposal backed by her counterpart, Republican Representative
Frank Lucas of  Oklahoma , would lower those costs by more than
$20 billion.  Nutrition advocates want no cuts at all. “They are
absolutely unnecessary. It will be difficult for any farm bill
to pass the Senate with cuts that take food from hungry
people,” said David Beckmann, head of Bread for the World, an
anti-hunger group, in an interview.  Some give on food stamps will be unavoidable, with the
House likely moving toward the Senate position to get adequate
bipartisan support, McMinimy said.  Other disputes, over a dairy program that House Speaker
John Boehner has called worse than current policy he considers
“ Soviet-style ,” whether cotton programs will comply with trade
rules enough to end a years-long dispute with  Brazil , and
restrictions on sugar trade, will also affect committee and
floor debate, McMinimy said.  Subsidies Defended  Lawmakers who don’t serve on the agriculture committees
including Senator Jeanne Shaheen of New Hampshire are trying to
roll back sweetener subsidies created in the 2008 farm bill as
low prices may force the government to buy crops. Candy makers
including  Mars Inc.  and  J.M. Smucker Co. (SJM)  say U.S. policies are
increasing consumer costs, while domestic sugar producers say
the assistance is needed as prices fall and companies prosper.  “Food makers pocket cheap sugar prices as a profit,” Jack
Roney, director of economics and policy analysis, American Sugar
Alliance, an Arlington, Virginia-based advocate for producers,
said in a news conference today defending current programs.
“You just don’t see any pass-through of sugar prices to
consumers.”  The main advantage a bill has in its chance of becoming law
this year is the support of leadership for passing one, he said
-- assurances from the House, where last year’s attempt stalled,
increase the chance of passage.  “I’m 80 percent that they’re going to get a farm bill done
in 2013,” though a short-term extension after the Sept. 30
expiration may be necessary, he said. “There’s more desire to
complete one this year.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alan Bjerga in  Washington  at 
 abjerga@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  