-- Dell Committee Asks Icahn for More Information on Plan
-- B y   L i s a   R a p a p o r t   a n d   A a r o n   R i c a d e l a
-- 2013-05-14T15:40:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-13/dell-committee-asks-icahn-for-more-information-on-proposal.html
(Corrects title of Southeastern board nominee in 12th
paragraph of story that ran May 13.)  Dell Inc. (DELL) ’s special committee asked
billionaire  Carl Icahn  for more information about his proposed
takeover of the personal-computer maker, made last week as a
challenge to founder Michael Dell’s $24.4 billion buyout.  In a letter to Icahn today, the committee said it wants
more details about the financing for his transaction and asked
him to identify the persons he would expect to form the senior
management team. It also requested a draft of a “definitive
agreement” for the transaction.  Icahn and his partner Southeastern Asset Management Inc.
plan to borrow money for Dell to offer $12 a share in cash or
stock to investors, while also letting them retain stakes in a
public company. The payout would dilute existing Dell shares,
which Icahn said would have a value of at least $1.65 apiece. In
contrast to  Michael Dell ’s plan to take the company private,
Icahn is asking investors to bet on the future of a PC maker
beset by rising competition, tumbling demand and mounting debt.  “The most likely scenario at this point is that Michael
Dell’s deal goes through,” Lance Vitanza, an analyst at CRT
Capital Group LLC, said in an interview today. “There are a lot
of people who don’t want the volatility.”  Icahn is also seeking a seat on Dell board and proposed
five other potential board members, according to a filing today.  Dell’s shares rose less than 1 percent to $13.52 at the
close in  New York , about 1 percent below the $13.65-a-share
price CEO Dell and  Silver Lake  Management LLC are offering to
take the company private.  Committee’s Questions  “It is not clear to us whether you intend to formulate
your transaction as an actual acquisition proposal that the
Board could evaluate and potentially endorse or accept or rather
to propose it as an alternative that the Board could consider in
the event the pending sale to Silver Lake and Michael Dell is
not approved,” the special committee said in today’s letter.  In addition to working capital, Dell is likely to have
“other significant cash needs,” such as approximately $1.7
billion of debt maturities within about 12 months after closing,
according to the letter.  Lee Harper, a spokeswoman for Southeastern, and Icahn
didn’t immediately return calls seeking comment. Gordon Goldstein, a spokesman for Silver Lake, declined to comment on
Dell’s letter to the two investors today.  Icahn, who along with Southeastern owns almost 13 percent
of the shares, said last week that if he prevails, he would look
to replace founder and CEO Michael Dell. Financing for their
proposal will come from existing cash at the PC maker and about
$5.2 billion in new debt.  Board Proposals  Icahn today proposed himself and five other potential board
members, including Harry Debes, former CEO of business-software
maker Infor, and Rajendra Singh, CEO of investment firm Telecom
Ventures LLC, as part of the effort to scuttle the original
agreement.  Icahn also said he would nominate Icahn Enterprises
President and CEO Daniel Ninivaggi, and Icahn Enterprises
Managing Director Jonathan Christodoro. Southeastern nominated
Bernard Lanigan, Jr., CEO of Southeast Asset Advisors Inc., and
five other people, including New York City Chief Information
Officer Rahul Merchant. Merchant is an appointee of New York
City Mayor  Michael R. Bloomberg , who is the founder and majority
owner of Bloomberg LP, the parent of  Bloomberg News .  Potential Growth  To prevail, Icahn will have to persuade those investors who
want to keep an equity stake in Dell that fresh leadership can
do a better job playing catch-up in cloud computing while
managing greater debt and combating the biggest sales decline in
the history of personal computing.  Investors who don’t want Dell stock face bigger risks under
Icahn’s plan. While they would receive $12 a share, there’s no
guarantee that they’ll be able to find a buyer willing to pay
$1.65 or more for their existing holdings -- a prospect that may
make the Silver Lake-Dell bid more alluring.  Icahn and Southeastern said last week their proposal gives
investors a chance to benefit from potential future growth.  “Mathematically, there is no question it is superior,”
Icahn said in an interview on Bloomberg Television last week.
“You have a choice of getting $12 and still owning Dell, which
has great potential.”  Cash Certainty  Even so, Jefferies Group LLC, the investment bank that
Icahn said may commit $1.6 billion to help finance his takeover,
told clients in a research report that Dell’s investors are more
likely to favor a competing offer.  “Most shareholders would prefer the certainty of $13.65 in
cash” from Michael Dell and Silver Lake,  Peter Misek , an
analyst at New York-based Jefferies, wrote in a note today.
Investors may accept that rather “than risk the uncertainty and
the ensuing stock volatility if the Silver Lake proposal were
voted down and Icahn/Southeastern attempt to install a new board
of directors.”  Richard Khaleel, a spokesman for New York-based Jefferies,
declined to comment on whether the firm has committed funding or
on the analyst note.  Owning Dell hasn’t been such an attractive option for
shareholders in recent years. The shares were trading above $30
in 2007 after Michael Dell returned as CEO following a hiatus,
yet they have been sinking amid plummeting demand for PCs and
accelerating competition for selling the data-center products
and services Dell has opened its coffers to acquire.  Lackluster Growth  Dell’s board is predicting another year of lackluster
growth as demand for PC ebbs, underscoring the urgency behind
the company’s decision to be taken private, documents filed in
March showed.  Sales for the year ending next January will slip to $56.5
billion, and Dell’s PC business will shrink by $10 billion over
four years, according to projections in a proxy statement filed
with regulators.  “I think Icahn is gesticulating in order to push
Dell/Silver Lake to bump so that he can get out break-even or
with a small profit,” said Albert Saporta, managing director at
at AIM&R, an investment research firm based in Geneva. “It
should be pretty clear by now that Dell is not worth a lot more
than $13.65.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lisa Rapaport in New York at 
 lrapaport1@bloomberg.net ;
Aaron Ricadela in  San Francisco  at 
 aricadela@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net ;
Cecile Daurat at 
 cdaurat@bloomberg.net  