-- Dell Accuses Hitachi in Suit of Price-Fixing Conspiracy
-- B y   K a r e n   G u l l o
-- 2013-05-14T02:39:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-13/dell-accuses-hitachi-in-suit-of-price-fixing-conspiracy.html
Dell Inc. (DELL) , the world’s third-largest
personal computer maker, accused at least six makers of optical
disk drives including  Hitachi Ltd. (6501)  of conspiring to fix prices
of their products from 2004 to 2010.  Disk-drive makers rigged bids, shared confidential
information about pricing, sales and production and agreed to
set prices for their products sold in the U.S., Dell said in a
complaint filed in federal court in Austin, Texas.  Dell paid inflated prices for optical disk drives as a
result and seeks triple damages for the overcharges under
antitrust laws, according to the complaint. Dell accuses the
companies in the complaint of breach of contract and violations
of U.S. antitrust law.  Optical drives go into Blu-ray and DVD players, used with
computers and televisions. Hitachi-LG Data Storage Inc. agreed
to plead guilty and pay a $21.1 million fine for bid-rigging and
price-fixing optical disk drives, the Justice Department said in
2011.  Hitachi-LG conspired with other companies from June 2004
through September 2009 to rig bids and fix prices for optical
drives to be sold to Dell,  Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ)  and  Microsoft
Corp. (MSFT) , according to the Justice Department. The U.S. began
investigating optical disk drive makers in 2009, and the
Hitachi-LG charges were the first in the probe. Hitachi-LG is a
joint venture of Tokyo-based Hitachi Ltd. and Seoul-based  LG
Electronics Inc. (066570)   Guilty Pleas  Dell said in its complaint that four Hitachi-LG executives,
including two who were in charge of the Dell account, pleaded
guilty to participating in the optical disk drive price-fixing
conspiracy.  Other defendants in Dell’s lawsuit include Amsterdam-based
 Koninklijke Philips Electronics NV (PHIA) , Taipei-based BenQ Corp.,
Suwon, South Korea-based  Samsung Electronics (005930)  Co., Tokyo-based
 Sony Corp. (6758)  and  Toshiba Corp. (6502) , also based in Tokyo.  Billionaire  Carl Icahn  and his partner Southeastern Asset
Management Inc. have offered $12 a share in cash or additional
Dell stock to investors to  take over  the company, based in Round
Rock, Texas.  Icahn’s deal would maintain Dell as a publicly traded
company. The payout would dilute existing Dell shares, which
Icahn said would have a value of at least $1.65 apiece. That
compares with $13.65 a share in cash offered by Dell founder and
Chief Executive Officer  Michael Dell  and Silver Lake Management
LLC.  “We have not yet received any information about the
case,” Qisda Corp., the Taiwanese owner of BenQ, said in an e-mailed response to Bloomberg News today. “BenQ/Qisda did not
discuss and agree on prices with other optical drive makers.”  Atsushi Ido, a spokesman for Toshiba, declined to comment
on the complaint. Sari Kamiya, a Sony spokeswoman, also declined
to comment, saying the company hasn’t seen the complaint.  Representatives of Hitachi-LG, Samsung and Hitachi didn’t
immediately respond to phone calls seeking comment on the
lawsuit.  The case is Dell Inc. v. Hitachi-LG Data Storage Inc.,
13-00393, U.S. District Court, Western District of Texas
(Austin).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karen Gullo in San Francisco at 
 kgullo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  