-- Detroit Emergency Manager Targets Long-Term Debt for Cuts
-- B y   C h r i s   C h r i s t o f f
-- 2013-05-13T16:47:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-13/detroit-manager-citing-cash-crisis-targets-debt-for-cuts.html
Detroit  may run out of cash next
month and must cut long-term debt and retiree obligations,
according to emergency financial manager Kevyn Orr’s preliminary
plan to save  Michigan ’s largest city from bankruptcy.  Orr’s report says the cost of $9.4 billion in bond, pension
and other long-term liabilities is sapping the ability to
provide public safety and transportation. He listed cutting debt
principal, retiree benefits and jobs among his options.  “No one should underestimate the severity of the financial
crisis,” Orr said yesterday in a statement. He called his
report “a sobering wake-up call about the dire financial
straits the city of Detroit faces.”  The report, required under a state law that gives Orr broad
authority over city government, offers guidelines for cost cuts
while giving few details. The document delineates Detroit’s
financial situation, noting it is “insolvent on a cash basis.”
Its accumulated deficit will top $380 million by June 30, and by
then it will run out of cash unless it defers pension payments
and other obligations, according to the plan.  The Motor City is caught in a downward spiral of revenue
from a shrinking tax base -- it has lost two-thirds of its
postwar peak population -- while unemployment at 18 percent is
twice the  state level , according to Orr’s report. Managing an
area larger than  Boston ,  San Francisco  and  Manhattan  combined
has become increasingly difficult.  Damaging Cycle  “Without a significant restructuring of its debt, the city
will be unable to break the cycle of damaging cutbacks in
essential municipal services and investments,” according to
Orr’s report. He also cited the need for concessions from
unions, and revamping the police and fire departments to protect
residents beset by crime and arson-inviting blight.  Detroit’s long-term obligations are at least $15.7 billion,
including unfunded pension and retirement benefits. The general
fund this fiscal year, with revenue of about $1.1 billion, will
pay about $461 million for debt and health costs, according to
the report.  All the city’s revenue couldn’t pay off its debt in 20
years, said Bill Nowling, a spokesman for Orr.  “If we don’t change and restructure, we are going to run
out of cash,” he said yesterday by telephone. “That shouldn’t
come as a shock to anybody.”  Alerting Creditors  “This is exactly the situation the city is in, and our
creditors need to know that,” Nowling said. “Some do. A lot
don’t.”  Orr’s plan lays out alternatives for dealing with long-term
debts, including reducing  interest rates , stretching out payment
schedules and outright forgiveness of principal or refinancing.
The city’s credit rating is below investment grade.  Any reduction of Detroit’s general-obligation bond payments
“would have significant implications for the city’s ability to
borrow in the future,” Lisa Washburn, managing director at
Concord, Massachusetts-based Municipal Market Advisors, wrote in
a report today. Doing so might taint Michigan as a whole by
increasing borrowing costs for other localities, Washburn said.  The $3.7 trillion municipal market is already penalizing
city securities after Orr’s report. A tax-exempt Detroit
general-obligation bond maturing in April 2015 traded today at
an average yield of 8.52 percent. That’s the most investors have
demanded to hold the debt since before March 5, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. On May 10, it traded at a 7.27
percent yield.  Consensus Challenge  It will be difficult to reach consensus among debt holders,
said Doug Bernstein, a bankruptcy lawyer with  Bloomfield Hills ,
Michigan-based Plunkett Cooney PC. Curbing pension benefits will
be crucial to gaining an agreement from bondholders to cut debt
costs without resorting to bankruptcy-court protection, he said.  “That’s an optimistic view, that you can do it by
consensus,” Bernstein said. “Maybe when they read the numbers,
they’ll agree. But given the number of different credit classes
and collective-bargaining units, I don’t see them conceding
voluntarily.”  Orr’s report is probably a prelude to the city’s seeking
Chapter 9 bankruptcy protection, said Manny Grillo, the New
York-based head of restructuring practices for Goodwin Procter
LLP. He said there are too many creditors, including 48 employee
unions, to reach a consensus without court intervention.  “No one is ever going to be the first to cut a deal,”
Grillo said.  State Assistance  State Treasurer Andy Dillon has saidthe city would be the
biggest U.S. municipality to declare bankruptcy. Michigan, led
by Republican Governor  Rick Snyder , may step in with financial
help “to fill in the gaps” only after deals have been struck
to lower debt costs, Grillo said.  Orr’s report doesn’t mention the prospect of state
assistance. Michigan borrowed $137 million last year to aid the
city. It has given Detroit about $80 million, holding the rest
in escrow, according to Nowling.  The report is a “source of truth” as negotiations begin
to cut costs and overhaul government, Nowling said.  Darkened City  Mayor Dave Bing, in an e-mailed statement, said he would
conduct a full review of Orr’s report today.  “The assessment by Mr. Orr of the city’s financial
condition is consistent with my administration’s findings,”
Bing said.  Snyder named Orr, a lawyer in  Washington  who specializes in
restructurings, to solve Detroit’s fiscal crisis and he assumed
control March 25. Orr must hold a public hearing within 30 days
of releasing his plan, which also sketches out ways to deal with
nonfunctional street lights, removal of vacant buildings and
improving bus service.  Orr wants to continue an effort to turn over the aging
streetlight system to a public lighting authority by 2020. The
plan calls for eliminating almost half of 88,000 streetlights,
concentrating replacements in more populous areas. The plan also
says Detroit should exit the business of supplying electricity
to businesses and municipal operations.  Orr’s report notes that workers have already absorbed pay
and benefit cuts. However, those reductions weren’t spread
uniformly over all the unions, and the plan indicates more
equitable concessions will be sought.  Orr can impose new contract terms if he can’t wrest cuts
and givebacks from union leaders, according to the law.  Hiring a new police chief and restructuring the department
will happen soon, Nowling said. Given cuts in the city workforce
over the past few years, additional employees may be needed in
the short term to implement more efficient practices, including
the replacement of outdated computers, according to Orr’s plan.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Christoff in Lansing, MI 
 cchristoff@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net . 