-- DFW Shops Debt Before Merger Builds Airline Behemoth: Muni Deals
-- B y   R o m y   V a r g h e s e
-- 2013-05-13T04:00:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-13/dfw-shops-debt-before-merger-builds-airline-behemoth-muni-deals.html
Dallas-Fort Worth International
Airport is selling $366.5 million of debt this week as its
primary carrier, American Airlines, prepares to merge with  US
Airways Group Inc. (LCC)  to create the world’s largest airline.  The offering of bonds with maturities from 2026 through
2050 would help pay for capital projects such as the $2.05
billion initiative to overhaul four terminals, according to deal
documents. After the sale, the airport, the world’s eighth-largest by passengers, would have $5.69 billion in debt
outstanding, the documents said.  Michael Phemister, DFW’s vice president of treasury
management, said he expects the issue to be well-received.  “The interest rates are actually better than a month ago
and supply appears to be down,” he said in an e-mail.  Standard & Poor’s ranks the deal A+, its fifth-highest
rating, saying the airport has a “solid business position.” In
March, Moody’s Investors Service cut the airport’s rating one
step to A2, sixth-highest, saying the facility will have the
highest debt outstanding among its U.S. peers this year.  A DFW airport bond maturing in 2033 traded May 9 at an
average yield of 3.7 percent, 1.12 percentage points above
benchmark munis of similar maturity, compared with a yield of
3.89 percent when sold last month.  American Airlines’ parent company, Fort Worth-based  AMR
Corp. (AAMRQ) , said in February that it plans to exit bankruptcy by
merging with Tempe, Arizona-based US Airways.  Airport bonds have earned about 2 percent this year,
beating a return of about 1 percent for top-rated debt,
according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch indexes.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Romy Varghese in Philadelphia at 
 rvarghese8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  