-- DirecTV Joins Ford Selling Euro Bonds as Discount to U.S. Widens
-- B y   K a t i e   L i n s e l l
-- 2013-05-13T12:50:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-13/directv-selling-debut-euro-bonds-as-discount-to-u-s-debt-widens.html
DirecTV, the largest U.S. satellite-television provider, and  Ford Motor Co. (F)  are issuing euro-denominated bonds as the yield discount to  U.S. dollar  notes
increased to the biggest in nearly three years.  DirecTV is offering 500 million euros ($648 million) of 10-year notes, its first sale in the currency, according to a
person familiar with the matter. Ford, the second-largest U.S.
carmaker, is also selling 500 million euros of bonds through its
FCE Bank Plc unit, another person said.  U.S. issuers including Microsoft Corp. and AT&T Inc. raised
17.2 billion euros from bond sales this year, the most since the
start of 2008 and about seven times more than the same period
last year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The average
yield on investment-grade euro corporate bonds is 1.79 percent,
98 basis points less than comparable dollar notes, the biggest
discount since June 2010, Bank of America Merrill Lynch indexes
show.  “Some U.S. companies are looking to diversify and they’re
making the most of the opportunity to issue longer-dated euro
notes,” said Tim Butcher, an analyst at Scottish Widows
Investment Partnership in Edinburgh, who said the firm is
considering investing in  DirecTV (DTV) ’s bond. “DirecTV’s deal may
offer a slight premium as it’s a new name in the euro market.”  Ford Sale  DirecTV’s euro bonds will be priced to yield 120 basis
points more than the benchmark mid-swap rate, down from 125 to
130 basis points that was initially marketed, according to the
person, who asked not to be identified because the details are
private.  The El Segundo, California-based company last sold bonds in
January, when it raised $750 million for a potential share
buyback, it said at the time. DirecTV, which is rated BBB or two
levels above junk by  Standard & Poor’s , issued its first bonds
in pounds in September, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Cara Brugnoli, a spokeswoman for the company, didn’t
immediately respond to an e-mail seeking comment on the sale
outside of office hours.  Dearborn, Michigan-based Ford is selling five-year
securities that will be priced to yield 105 basis points more
than swaps, according to the person familiar with the matter. It
is the carmaker’s biggest euro sale since February, when it sold
600 million euros of 1.875 percent notes due May 2016, data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  Christopher Makin, a Warley, England-based spokesman for
Ford, declined to comment on the fundraising.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katie Linsell in London at 
 klinsell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Shelley Smith  at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  