-- Eastern Europe Slowdown Is Bottoming Out, Capital Economics Says
-- B y   A g n e s   L o v a s z
-- 2013-05-13T16:52:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-13/eastern-europe-slowdown-is-bottoming-out-capital-economics-says.html
Eastern  Europe ’s economic slowdown
probably bottomed out in the first quarter, according to Capital
Economics Ltd.  The region’s gross domestic product grew an average 0.8
percent from a year earlier in the first three months,
economists at London-based Capital, led by  Neil Shearing , wrote
today in an e-mailed note. The exception is  Russia , whose
slowdown probably “deepened further,” they said.  Eastern Europe has been hurt through trade and banking
links to the recession-hit euro area, on which it relies for
exports and funding. German industrial production and factory
orders both increased more than forecast in March and
unemployment remains near a two-decade low, suggesting Europe’s
largest economy is starting to grow again after a contraction in
the final quarter of 2012.  “Regional growth will probably accelerate over the rest of
the year, but the recovery is likely to be sluggish and
uneven,” Capital wrote. “It looks like the highly-open
economies of central Europe have benefited from a modest
improvement in industry in  Germany , their key export market.”  Polish GDP probably rose 0.8 percent from a year earlier in
the first quarter, Capital estimated. The central bank will
probably cut borrowing costs once more this year as “growth is
still extremely sluggish, and will continue to be held back by
households rebuilding their savings and weak demand from key
euro zone trading partners,” it said.  Growth in Russia probably slowed to 1 percent in the first
three months as industrial output and fixed investment stagnated
and  consumer spending  weakened, the economists said. Sluggish
growth will probably “fuel the debate about possible policy
stimulus to support the economy,” increasing pressure on policy
makers to lower rates and the government to relax fiscal rules,
they wrote.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Agnes Lovasz in London at 
 alovasz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  