-- Theater-Shooting Suspect Gets Date for Plea Ruling
-- B y   J e f f   K a s s   a n d   J o e l   R o s e n b l a t t
-- 2013-05-13T19:32:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-13/theater-shooting-suspect-s-insanity-plea-ruling-delayed-by-judge.html
James Holmes will learn May 31
whether he can plead insanity to charges of murdering 12 people
in a shooting rampage at a  Colorado  movie theater, a judge said.  State court Judge Carlos A. Samour Jr. in Centennial,
Colorado, said today at a hearing that he will hand down his
decision on that date. He will rule on defense motions regarding
the insanity plea and the death penalty by May 28.  The 45-minute hearing today was to determine whether
Holmes’s lawyers presented “good cause” to change his not
guilty plea, which a judge entered for him in March, to not
guilty by reason of insanity.  Samour said there was little legal authority on what
constitutes “good cause” to change a plea after arraignment.
New evidence is one factor, he said, and the decision must be
weighed “liberally and in favor of the accused.”  Defense attorney Daniel King told the judge that he had
good cause because his team “hit the ground running” on the
mental-health issue when they first received the case. King said
they have an “opinion by qualified professionals” and, without
specifying a diagnosis, said Holmes wasn’t sane at the time of
the shooting.  New Information  Arapahoe County Senior Deputy District Attorney Jacob Edson
told the judge he wanted to know exactly when the defense had
received new information after the March 12 arraignment. The
defense must show something happened in the intervening time in
order to change the plea, he said.  Holmes’s “mental illness hasn’t changed in the past 60
days” and no mental health expert would give an opinion until
they were provided with all the information, King responded.  “It’s remarkable we’ve made the progress we have,” in
obtaining a diagnosis, King said.  The judge said that “good cause has been established,”
adding that he may not allow the insanity plea even with his
determination.  Edson told the court that 19 victims or their
representatives object to a change in plea to insanity and six
had no objection.  Prosecutors in March rejected an offer from Holmes to plead
guilty and spend his life in prison without any chance of parole
in exchange for sparing him from the death penalty.  Death Penalty  The death penalty sought by prosecutors along with Samour’s
expected acceptance of the insanity plea will “stop the clock”
on the case and likely delay a trial scheduled for February 2014
while Holmes undergoes psychological testing, Karen Steinhauser,
a former Denver prosecutor now in private practice, said in
phone interview.  “For many victims and the public, a plea of not guilty by
reason of insanity may seem like it’s just a delay tactic and
they may believe there’s no way he was insane at the time,”
Steinhauser said.  Of utmost importance is that the trial is “done one time
and one time only,” she said. “If the court makes a mistake
just to try to move things quicker, it can result in the whole
case being reversed years down the road.”  Holmes, who studied neuroscience at the  University of
Colorado , Denver, is charged with 166 counts, including murder
and attempted murder. In addition to the 12 people killed, 70
were injured in the July 20 shooting spree at a midnight
screening of “The Dark Knight Rises” in  Cinemark Holdings
Inc. (CNK) ’s Century Aurora 16 theater in the Denver suburb.  The case is People v. Holmes, 12-cr-01522, 18th Judicial
District Court, Colorado (Centennial).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeff Kass in Centennial, Colorado, courthouse at  kassj@msn.com ;
Joel Rosenblatt in  San Francisco  at 
 jrosenblatt@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  