-- EEOC $240 Million Turkey Farm Workers’ Verdict to Be Cut
-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 2013-05-13T21:38:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-13/eeoc-240-million-turkey-farm-workers-verdict-to-be-cut.html
The U.S. Equal Employment Opportunity
Commission and the  Iowa  turkey farm against which it won a
record $240 million award on behalf of employees with mental
disabilities told a federal judge that sum must be reduced.  A Davenport, Iowa, jury found May 1 that Hill Country Farms
Inc., doing business as Henry’s Turkey Service, subjected 32 men
to verbal and physical harassment, harsh  living conditions  and
other abuses from 2007 to 2009.  Each man won a jury award of $5.5 million in compensatory
damages and a $2 million in punitive damages. The amount must
fall because federal law caps the total at $50,000 per person if
the employer has from 15 to 100 employees for 20 or more weeks
of the prior calendar year, the government said in a May 10
court filing.  The jury award was the biggest in the employment agency’s
history, it said in a May 1 press statement.  “While certainly an appropriate and meaningful measure of
the actual harms suffered by these victims of discrimination,
including but not limited to mental anguish, pain and
suffering,” it must be reduced, the EEOC told the court.  The total judgment amount should be about $1.79 million
including interest, the agency said.  A $1.37 million judgment for Americans With Disabilities
Act wage violations was awarded separately case in September.  “Each man’s recovery of the maximum allowable $50,000 is
to be added to the amounts previously awarded by the court for
wage discrimination, together with applicable prejudgment
interest on all the monetary damages awarded,” the agency said
in its filing.  Company Lawyers  Lawyers for Hill Country Farms submitted a proposal that
the judgment be reduced to the legal maximum.  The Goldthwaite, Texas-based company employed the men in
Iowa, where they eviscerated turkeys. The EEOC presented
evidence that the company exploited the workers because their
intellectual disabilities made them vulnerable and unaware of
their rights, the agency said.  The case is Equal Employment Opportunity Commission v. Hill
Country Farms, 11-cv-00041, U.S. District Court, Southern
District of Iowa (Davenport).  Editors:  Charles Carter ,Mary Romano  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Harris in the Chicago federal courthouse
at   aharris16@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 