-- Elan to Pay $1 Billion for Stake in Theravance Royalties
-- B y   M a k i k o   K i t a m u r a
-- 2013-05-13T20:17:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-13/elan-to-pay-1-billion-for-stake-in-theravance-royalties.html
Elan Corp. (ELN)  agreed to pay $1 billion
for a share of the royalties on new drugs from  Theravance Inc. (THRX) 
as the Irish drugmaker tries to persuade shareholders to spurn a
takeover offer by Royalty Pharma.  Elan will receive 21 percent of the royalties earned by
Theravance from  GlaxoSmithKline Plc (GSK)  on the four respiratory
medicines, and 20 percent of that income stream will be paid to
Elan shareholders as a dividend, the Dublin-based company said
in a statement today. The transaction is subject to shareholder
approval, it said. Theravance shares rose to its highest price
in eight years.  Elan is adopting an investment model pioneered by Pablo Legorreta, chief executive officer of Royalty Pharma, which has
offered to buy Elan for about $5.7 billion. The company’s board
last month unanimously rejected the takeover bid, advising
shareholders not to take action. Elan plans to announce several
more deals this year, Chief Executive Officer Kelly Martin said
in a phone interview today.  “This is just one piece of the puzzle,” Martin said.
“This deal allows us to invest our long-term cash flow into
interesting clinical and commercial assets.”  Elan’s hunt for new assets stems from Biogen Idec Inc.’s
Feb. 6 agreement to buy Elan’s stake in the Tysabri multiple
sclerosis drug for $3.25 billion in cash plus future royalties.
The sale transformed the Irish company into an investment
vehicle, since it has no operations. Elan said at the time that
it planned to use the cash for possible acquisitions and would
return some of the proceeds to shareholders.  ‘Risk Spectrum’  Royalty Pharma offered $11.25 for each of Elan’s American
depositary receipts. Investors in Elan tendered only 15 percent
of the shares last month when Elan did a share buyback at that
price, in what Adrian Howd, an analyst at Berenberg Bank in
 London , said was a vote of confidence in management.  With today’s deal, the longer-term prospects of Elan’s
business now feels more solid with limited risk, said Howd.
“These assets are at the lower end of the risk spectrum” given
Glaxo’s strong commercial track record in respiratory drugs, he
said.  Tom Buchanan, a spokesman for Royalty Pharma at Maitland in
London, didn’t immediately comment on Elan’s purchase of the
Theravance royalty stream.  Elan’s ADRs fell 1.4 percent to $11.61 at the close in New
York. They’ve fallen 12 percent in the past year, compared with
a 33 percent return for the Bloomberg Europe Pharmaceuticals
Index. Theravance rose 18 percent to $41.20, its highest closing
value since October 2004.  Breo Approval  The investment comes just days after U.S. regulators
approved Breo, the first of four drugs that South San Francisco,
California-based Theravance has been developing with Glaxo.
Breo, an inhaled treatment for airflow obstruction in chronic
obstructive pulmonary disease, may generate $4 billion in
worldwide peak sales, according to M. Ian Somaiya, an analyst
with Piper Jaffray & Co. The drug is sold with an inhaler called
Ellipta.  Under its agreement with London-based Glaxo, Theravance
will receive 15 percent of the first $3 billion of global sales
of Breo Ellipta and 5 percent of revenues above that amount,
Elan said. Royalties for the other three drugs range between the
mid-single digits to 20 percent.  Breakup Planned  Theravance said last month it would split into two
companies at the end of this year or early 2014. One of the
companies will be called Royalty Management Co. and will focus
on the Glaxo collaboration, while the other, Theravance
Biopharma, will focus on developing drugs.  Theravance generated $135.8 million in  revenue  last year.
while sales are projected to almost triple to $382.6 million in
2016, according to the average of five analysts’  estimates 
compiled by Bloomberg.  Analysts have speculated that Glaxo may acquire Theravance
to fully control the respiratory drugs the companies developed
together. Glaxo owns 27 percent of Theravance and may pay $51 a
share for the remainder, Piper Jaffray analysts said in a note
to investors on March 4.  David Daley, a spokesman for Glaxo, declined to comment.  Separately, Elan is also considering raising debt capital,
given interest in the company and attractive rates, it said,
without specifying the amount.  Centerview Partners LLC; Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher &
Flom LLP; and Gunderson Dettmer Stough Villeneuve Franklin &
Hachigian LLP are advising Theravance. Elan’s advisers were
Evercore Partners; Ondra Partners; Cadwalader, Wickersham & Taft
LLP; and A&L Goodbody.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Makiko Kitamura in London at 
 mkitamura1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  