-- Electronic Trade to Spur Mumbai Volume 20% Seoul’s: India Credit
-- B y   A n u r a g   J o s h i   a n d   A n o o p   A g r a w a l
-- 2013-05-14T06:48:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-13/electronic-trade-to-spur-mumbai-volume-20-seoul-s-india-credit.html
The debut of electronic trading in
 India ’s corporate bonds seeks to expand volumes now 20 percent
of those in  South Korea  and improve transparency amid global
probes into manipulation of interbank markets.  The  National Stock Exchange of India Ltd. , backed by  State
Bank  of India and Goldman Sachs Group Inc., introduced yesterday
the system that allows anonymous matching of orders and reduces
transaction costs. Last month, $20 billion of company debt was
exchanged in Mumbai’s two decade-old telephone market, compared
with $102 billion in  Seoul , data from the  Securities and
Exchange Board of India  and Korea Exchange Inc. show.  “The corporate bond market lacks transparency,”
Parthasarathi Mukherjee, Mumbai-based president for treasury and
international banking at  Axis Bank Ltd. (AXSB) , the No.1 arranger of
rupee bonds, said in a phone interview on May 9. “The platform
should boost liquidity in trading and improve price discovery.”  Expanding India’s company debt market is crucial to the
success of Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh ’s plan to attract $1
trillion by 2017 to build roads, ports and electricity networks
and steer  Asia ’s third-largest economy out of the worst slowdown
in a decade. Average weekly volume in  government securities  has
surged more than 13-fold since August 2005, when the  Reserve
Bank of India  started screen-based transactions on an order-matching platform.  Seeking Transparency  Trading that allows anonymous matching of orders will allow
a more level-playing field, helping “develop a market that will
benefit all participants,” Aneesh Srivastava, who manages about
$546 million as chief investment officer at IDBI Federal Life
Insurance Co., said in a telephone interview yesterday.  The nation is upgrading trading infrastructure as  China 
probes rule violations in its over-the-counter market and
authorities elsewhere investigate more than a dozen banks for
their role in the alleged rigging of benchmarks including the
London interbank offered rate, or Libor. Barclays Plc, Royal
Bank of Scotland Group Plc and UBS AG have been fined a total of
around $2.5 billion by U.S. prosecutors.  India, yet to implement many of the steps policy makers
agreed on as early as in 2005 to develop the  bond market , is now
seeking to catch up with regional markets that have grown
faster. Outstanding corporate debt are the equivalent of 13
percent of gross domestic product in the country, compared with
60 percent in the U.S. and 40 percent in China, according to the
Mumbai-based Securities and Exchange Board, or SEBI.  China, Singapore  A tripling of bond sales by local companies in five years
to 2.5 trillion rupees ($46 billion) in 2012 was dwarfed by an
almost sevenfold surge in issuance in China to 4.2 trillion  yuan 
($683 billion), data compiled by Bloomberg show. Singapore, with
its AAA rating and transparent rules, is attracting record bond
listings from the region. New fixed-income offers on Singapore
Exchange Ltd. surged 54 percent in 2012 to $166 billion, data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  In South Korea, investors can electronically trade bonds
that are listed on  Korea Exchange , which was incorporated in
2005, according to its website. Exchange-based trading in the
country’s government bonds started as early as in 1999, and 10-year debt futures were first offered in 2008.  In India, the  Reserve Bank  introduced the so-called
Negotiated Dealing System for rupee-denominated government notes
eight years ago, with transactions cleared and settled by the
Clearing Corp. of India.  Average  weekly volume on that platform
increased to 4 trillion rupees from 296 billion rupees in the
month it was opened, central bank data show.  ‘Baby Steps’  India’s “corporate bond market is taking baby steps and
there’s a lot of ground to be covered,” Chitra Ramkrishna,
chief executive officer at Mumbai-based National Stock Exchange,
said at a conference yesterday. “We want to make it the place
for issuers to come for capital. What we would like to provide
is what works for the markets in terms of adding to liquidity.”  Bonds worth 66.3 billion rupees were exchanged in 54
transactions on the first day of electronic trading, according
to the National Stock Exchange’s website.  Singh’s administration is stepping up efforts to attract
more buyers and sellers of debt. The government plans to cut the
so-called withholding tax on rupee debt, charged on interest
income earned by foreigners, to 5 percent from 20 percent,
Finance Minister Palaniappan Chidambaram said in parliament on
April 30. The proposed cut in the withholding tax will be in
effect for two years starting June.  Foreign Investment  Last month, India simplified rules on global investment in
rupee securities, removing restrictions including those on the
types and maturities of notes that can be bought.  International  ownership  of local sovereign and corporate
notes jumped $4.8 billion since Dec. 31 to a record $37.8
billion on May 9, according to official data.  Ten-year (GIND10YR)  federal
securities yield 7.55 percent in India, compared with 3.41
percent in China and 2.88 percent in South Korea.  The yield on the benchmark 8.15 percent note due June 2022
fell four basis points today, while the rupee advanced 0.2
percent to 54.6050 per dollar in Mumbai, as official data showed
inflation declined to a 41-month low of 4.89 percent in April.  Bond risk for Indian companies has slid this year. The
average cost of five-year credit-default swaps insuring against
non-payment by seven local issuers declined 48 basis points to
222, according to data provider CMA, which is owned by McGraw-Hill Cos. and compiles prices quoted by dealers in privately
negotiated markets.  Past Failures  India’s economic  slowdown  and the failures of previous
steps aimed at developing the  debt market  may damp investor
response to electronic trading, according to Rupa Rege Nitsure,
chief economist at state-owned  Bank of Baroda .  “Some investors may not welcome new products at this stage
because the pace of economic growth and financial market
vibrancy are far from convincing,” said Mumbai-based Nitsure.
“The fate of products that are languishing” also may rein in
enthusiasm toward new steps to expand the market, she said.  India’s attempts to expand the fixed-income market by
introducing securitized debt, municipal notes, credit-default
swaps and bond futures have failed. Sales of asset-backed
securities slid 43 percent in five years to 366 billion rupees
in the 12 months through March 2012, according to ICRA Ltd., the
local unit of Moody’s Investors Service. India hasn’t seen a
municipal bond sale since 2008, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  There has been little trading in rupee-denominated credit-default swaps since they were allowed in 2011. Government debt
futures also have had almost no activity since an attempt in
2009 by regulators to revive the market.  Screen-based trading “will help rationalize costs for
borrowers from the corporate bond market, a thing that had been
due long,” Rajeev Agarwal, whole-time director at the SEBI, the
capital-market regulator, said in an interview yesterday.  Exchange-based electronic trading may encourage individual
investors to purchase more corporate bonds in India, according
to National Stock Exchange’s Ramkrishna.  “Retail is a potential that has to be tapped because
India’s savings are high,” she said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anurag Joshi in Mumbai at 
 ajoshi53@bloomberg.net ;
Anoop Agrawal in Mumbai at 
 aagrawal8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Katrina Nicholas at   knicholas2@bloomberg.net  