-- Melting Ice Opens Fight Over Sea Routes for Arctic Debate
-- B y   F l a v i a   K r a u s e - J a c k s o n   a n d   N i c o l e   G a o u e t t e
-- 2013-05-13T00:00:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-13/melting-ice-opens-fight-over-sea-routes-for-arctic-debate.html
When 16th and 17th century European
explorers sailed west in pursuit of a trade route to  Asia , their
search for a Northwest Passage was foiled by Arctic ice.  Five hundred years later, melting icecaps have set off a
global race to control new shipping lanes over the North Pole.
Just as the discoveries of Ferdinand Magellan and Vasco de Gama
gave seafaring Portugal routes around Cape Horn and the Cape of
Good Hope, the opening of the Arctic, with its shortcut from the
Atlantic to northeast Asia and its untapped oil reserves, can
redraw the geopolitical map and create new power brokers.  When the U.S., Russia and six other major stakeholders of
the Arctic Council meet May 15 in the northernmost Swedish city
of Kiruna, they’ll be joined by nations with observer status,
including China and the European Union, that are angling for an
elevated status in the diplomatic club and a greater say in the
region’s future.  New passages linking Asia to America and Europe will be as
revolutionary as was the 1869 opening of the  Suez Canal , which
boosted European trade with Asia by connecting the Mediterranean
to the Red Sea and shortening the journey for cargo vessels,
according to President Olafur R. Grimsson of  Iceland , home to
the world’s biggest glaciers and a member of the council.  In a visit to  Washington   last month , Grimsson said his core
mission was to “try to wake this town to the fact that the
Arctic should be among the top priorities for the  U.S. foreign
policy  in the first half of the 21st century” and no longer
relegated to its “backyard.”  Frigid Slush  Arctic ice is melting at an accelerating rate. Compared
with the average measurements from 1980 to 2000, the area of ice
covering the Arctic Ocean, a body of water roughly the size of
Russia, had shrunk last summer by half, according to the Arctic
Institute, a Washington policy group. The thickness of the
remaining ice had dwindled by 80 percent.  The Arctic Ocean may become a frigid slush of fresh and
saltwater in the summer within three to five years, according to
a White House estimate. An Arctic shipping route or easier
access through the Northwest Passage, now open only to heavily
fortified ice-breaking ships, would mean shorter and less
expensive trips between northeastern Asia and the U.S. East
Coast and Europe.  Less ice also may mean easier access to oil and gas under
the Arctic Ocean floor, resources the U.S. Geological Survey
estimates may be 30 percent of the world’s undiscovered natural
gas reserves and 13 percent of its undiscovered oil.  This week’s conference comes amid signs that  greenhouse
gases  blamed for global warming are accumulating at rates
mankind has never experienced. The U.S. National Oceanic and
Atmospheric Administration reported on May 10 that the amount of
carbon dioxide in the atmosphere exceeded 400 parts per million,
a threshold not seen for 3 million years.  Oil-Spill Treaty  The countries that make up the Arctic Council -- Russia,
Finland,  Denmark , Sweden,  Norway , Iceland, the U.S. and  Canada  -
- will sign a treaty on oil-spill preparedness and response,
discuss their agenda for the next two years and possibly vote on
adding to the roster of permanent observers, which includes
Spain, France, Germany, the Netherlands, the U.K. and Poland.  A vote on upgrading China’s status would be tied to a
larger “question about whether the issues related to the Arctic
will be handled by the countries in the region, or whether the
Arctic -- because of  climate change , global economic potential -
- is a global issue,” according to  Heather Conley , director of
the Europe program at the Center for Strategic and International
Studies, a Washington policy group.  Obama’s Strategy  The ministers also will discuss efforts to deal with the
increases in maritime traffic and oil exploration, and to cope
with the impact of melting ice on indigenous Arctic communities.  In preparation for the meeting, on May 10 President  Barack
Obama  signed a new “national strategy for the Arctic region”
that lists as its first priority advancing U.S. interests --
including the protection of energy interests, maintaining free
passage through Arctic seas and building regional
infrastructure.  Without a clear budget plan or specific initiatives such as
an upgrade to an outdated American fleet of icebreakers, “this
strategy becomes nothing more than a lengthy wish list,” said
Mihaela David, a fellow at the Arctic Institute.  U.S. Disadvantage  The U.S. had been without an Arctic policy since the last
year of President  George W. Bush ’s administration, leaving the
world’s No. 1 economy at a disadvantage, Conley said.  “Our policy isn’t keeping pace with the level of change in
the Arctic,” she said in an interview.  That wasn’t always the case. During the  Cold War , the
Arctic was an arena of military competition between the U.S. and
the  Soviet Union , according to Ronald O’Rourke, the naval
affairs specialist with the nonpartisan  Congressional Research
Service .  While the U.S. lost interest, Russia remained combative and
in 2001 was first to file a claim at the  United Nations  to
extend its sea territory in the Arctic shelf. It drove the point
home in 2007. In a stunt reminiscent of Spanish Conquistadors,
bearded polar explorer Artur Chilingarov led a submarine
expedition to the North Pole and planted a Russian flag on the
seabed below the ice.  Under international law, no country owns the North Pole,
and the five nations with Arctic coastlines -- Russia, the U.S.,
Canada, Norway and Denmark -- are limited to their 200-nautical-mile economic zones.  Underwater Treasure  The U.S. is alone in not having ratified the UN Convention
on the Law of the Sea, which gives states 10 years from the date
of ratification to extend their claims on the continental shelf.
Gaining sovereignty to more land that’s underwater will give
them a jump-start when it comes to exploiting mineral-rich
resources below the seabed.  Secretary of State  John Kerry , who as a U.S. senator backed
the Obama administration’s unsuccessful push for climate-change
legislation, will reaffirm the U.S. commitment to the Arctic and
highlight challenges to the region, particularly from global
warming, according to a State Department official who asked not
to be identified discussing plans for the talks.  History indicates that climate cycles have far-reaching
consequences. The Age of Discovery, which led  Christopher
Columbus  to stumble upon America, happened during the  Little Ice
Age , when a drop in temperature froze sea routes that had been
discovered by the Vikings and wiped out millenia-old Norse
settlements in Greenland.  Conflict, Strife  The melting of three ice-covered areas -- the Arctic,
Antarctic and the Himalayas --  already is having fundamental
consequences for extreme weather patterns, according to
Grimsson, who cited the U.S. superstorm Sandy and China’s latest
winter, which was the coldest in almost three decades.  “When the ice sheet melts away, you are confronted with a
whole series of unexpected and far-reaching scenarios that will
generate conflict and strife,” said Hans Joachim Schellnhuber,
a climate scientist and director of the Potsdam Institute for
Climate Impact Research. “The unabated rate at which the globe
is warming has far-reaching foreign policy implications.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Flavia Krause-Jackson in  New York  at 
 fjackson@bloomberg.net ;
Nicole Gaouette in Washington at 
 ngaouette@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  