-- Emerging Stocks Extend Longest Slump in One Month on China Data
-- B y   M a r i a   L e v i t o v   a n d   J u l i a   L e i t e
-- 2013-05-13T21:32:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-13/emerging-stocks-slide-for-third-day-on-weak-yen-pakistan-surges.html
Emerging-market stocks fell a third
day, capping the longest slide in a month, as Chinese industrial
output trailed estimates and  India ’s trade deficit widened.
Homebuilder Gafisa SA paced losses in Brazil’s Ibovespa.  Cnooc Ltd. (883) ,  China ’s largest offshore energy explorer, slid
2.4 percent in  Hong Kong , while  Tata Steel Ltd. (TATA) , India’s biggest
maker of the alloy, had the biggest decline since March. OAO
Mechel sank 4.7 percent in Moscow as first-quarter coal
production fell. Brazilian shares fell a fourth day as Gafisa
sank after reporting a quarterly loss.  Pakistan ’s shares climbed
to a record after this weekend’s election.  The MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index declined 0.8 percent to
1,041.90. Stocks retreated after reports showed Chinese
production grew 9.3 percent in April from a year earlier,
missing estimates, while fixed-asset investment unexpectedly
decelerated. India’s trade deficit widened in April to $17.8
billion from $10.31 billion in March.  “There has been a deceleration of economic activity in
China,”  Philip Orlando , the New York-based chief equity
strategist at Federated Investors Inc., said in a telephone
interview today. His firm manages about $377 billion. “We don’t
see a hard landing, but it’s a legitimate fear. Everyone is
concerned about China slowing.”  Nine out of  10 groups  in the emerging-market gauge fell as
commodity companies had the biggest losses. The broader measure
slid 1.3 percent this year, after briefly erasing its 2013 drop
last week. That compares with a 12 percent gain in the MSCI
World Index of developed-country stocks.  Emerging ETF  The iShares MSCI Emerging Markets exchange-traded fund slid
0.9 percent to $43.17. The Chicago Board Options Exchange
Emerging Markets ETF Volatility Index, a measure of options
prices on the fund and expectations of price swings, lost 1.2
percent to 19.36, snapping three days of gains.  Brazil ’s Ibovespa lost 1.2 percent, capping the longest
losing streak since March 25. Gafisa dropped 5 percent, while
power utility Light SA led declines among utilities after it
posted earnings that were below analysts’ estimates.  Russian equities fell for a second day as crude oil, the
nation’s chief export earner, retreated. Mechel, the country’s
biggest coking-coal producer, sank the most since April 17.
Benchmark gauges in Hungary, Poland and  Turkey  advanced.  The Shanghai Composite Index declined 0.2 percent, while
the Hang Seng China Enterprises Index slumped 2.1 percent. Cnooc
had the biggest decline in about a month. India’s S&P BSE Sensex
tumbled 2.1 percent, the most in a year. Tata Steel sank 4.2
percent.  Pakistan’s KSE 100 Index jumped 1.7 percent to a record as
unofficial election results showed a party led by former Prime
Minister  Nawaz Sharif  winning the most seats in parliament.  The extra yield investors demand to own emerging-market
debt over  U.S. Treasuries  was unchanged at 264 basis points,
according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s EMBI Global Diversified
Index.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Maria Levitov in London at 
 mlevitov@bloomberg.net ;
Julia Leite in  New York  at 
 jleite3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net ;
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  