-- Employer-Sponsored Insurance Rose in Massachusetts
-- B y   A l e x   W a y n e
-- 2013-05-13T14:54:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-13/employer-sponsored-insurance-rose-in-massachusetts.html
The share of workers opting to take
company medical coverage rather than more take-home pay rose in
 Massachusetts  after the state overhauled its health system in
2006, a result the U.S. Affordable Care Act may replicate, a
report suggests.  The percentage of employees with insurance from their jobs
rose to 72.1 in 2011 from 70.8 in 2006, according to a
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP  analysis  today. In the same period,
the U.S. number dropped to 58.3 percent from 68.2 percent.  The conflicting numbers between Massachusetts and the rest
of the nation may act as a guidepost for the 2010 federal
Affordable Care Act, which requires most Americans to carry
insurance beginning next year. The Massachusetts law was used by
the Obama administration as a model for crafting the ACA.  “The mere existence of the requirement to have insurance
may have influenced individuals as much, if not more than, the
financial consequences for not doing so,” the researchers said.  Trade groups including the U.S. Chamber of Commerce in
 Washington  have said businesses may drop employee coverage after
weighing the benefits against the costs. The  Congressional
Budget Office  said this year that about 27 million people are
expected to gain coverage through the Affordable Care Act by
2017, though as many as 8 million people will lose health plans
now offered through their employers.  Taxable Income  U.S. penalties for not carrying insurance and the tax
advantages for both employers who provide it and workers who
receive coverage may discourage businesses from dropping their
plans, at least in the first few years of the national health
law, said Ceci Connolly, the managing director of
PricewaterhouseCooper’s Health Research Institute in Washington.  Employer-sponsored health insurance isn’t treated as
taxable income under U.S. law, a benefit projected to cost the
government $1 trillion in forgone taxes over the next five
years.  “The message from Massachusetts is, employers and
individual workers have a number of considerations to make when
it comes to health insurance, and they should not quickly
discount either the mandates or the value of the tax
exclusion,” Connolly said in a telephone interview.  The Massachusetts and federal laws each require individuals
to carry insurance and businesses to offer coverage of some
type. Both laws provide exemptions for people too poor to afford
coverage and for small businesses. Penalties differ.  Federal Fines  The individual penalty for not carrying insurance under the
federal law will be $95 next year or 1 percent of income,
whichever is more. In Massachusetts, people have to pay 50
percent of the lowest premium available for each month they
don’t carry insurance, a fine that was as much as $1,260 last
year, according to PricewaterhouseCoopers.  U.S. health insurers have said the individual penalty under
the federal law may not be high enough to compel people to carry
insurance.  Massachusetts also requires all businesses with 11 or more
employees to help pay for their health insurance or face a fine
of as much as $295 per worker. The threshold under the U.S. law
is 50 workers or more, and the penalty is $2,000 to $3,000 per
employee.  The  National Federation of Independent Business , a
Nashville, Tennessee-based trade group that represents small
businesses, sued to overturn the ACA in a case that went to the
 Supreme Court . The court ruled in June that the law’s mandate to
carry insurance is constitutional.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Wayne in Washington at 
 awayne3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  