-- Mercedes Narrows Gap With BMW, Audi on Compact-Car Demand
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h   R a u w a l d
-- 2013-05-13T10:39:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-13/mercedes-narrows-gap-with-bmw-audi-on-compact-car-demand.html
Daimler AG (DAI) ’s Mercedes-Benz brand beat
sales growth at larger German luxury-carmaking competitors
 Bayerische Motoren Werke AG (BMW)  and Audi AG last month as new
versions of its A- and B-Class compacts attracted buyers.  Deliveries by Stuttgart-based Mercedes jumped 12 percent
from a year earlier to 116,566 cars and sport-utility vehicles
in April. Sales at Munich-based BMW’s namesake brand rose 7.5
percent to 130,598 cars and SUVs, while deliveries at  Volkswagen
AG (VOW) ’s Audi division increased 6.6 percent to 133,500, according
to data from the manufacturers.  Daimler has a target by the end of this decade of regaining
the top spot in luxury car sales that it lost to BMW eight years
ago. It’s also working to overtake Ingolstadt-based Audi, which
has ranked second in the industry since 2011. Mercedes reworked
the A-Class last year into a sportier model to compete with
BMW’s 1-Series and Audi’s A3.  “I expect Mercedes to catch up somewhat with BMW and Audi
in the second half of the year, mainly due to demand for the
compact models and the E-Class” upscale vehicles,  Juergen Pieper , a Frankfurt-based analyst at Bankhaus Metzler, said in a
phone interview.  BMW’s four-month deliveries increased at a faster rate than
at its two main competitors, with a 7.1 percent jump to 512,000
cars and SUVs versus Audi’s 6.7 percent gain to 503,000
deliveries and 5.6 percent growth to 441,464 at Mercedes.  Adding Models  BMW’s sales momentum “will continue as we add new vehicles
throughout the year to our very attractive product line-up, such
as the new BMW 3 Series Gran Turismo,”  Ian Robertson , the
carmaker’s sales chief, said in a  statement  today. Sales were
helped by growth of 2.8 percent in  Europe  last month and
“strong gains” in  Asia  and the Americas.  The German luxury-car makers, all of which are targeting
sales increases this year, have fared better than Europe’s mass-market auto manufacturers as rising demand in China and the U.S.
offsets a sixth straight year of industrywide declines in their
home region.  “We remain buyers of premium autos and sellers of mass
makers” in terms of shares, Erich Hauser, a London-based
analyst at Credit Suisse said May 10 in a report to clients.
“The companies most likely to see a recovery in demand in the
second half of 2013 will once again be premium players.”  BMW’s sales growth last month was propelled by a 15 percent
jump in demand for the X1 SUV to 11,837 vehicles and 16 percent
gain for the 3-Series to 38,491 cars, driven by the introduction
of the revamped wagon version.  New S-Class  Mercedes is looking for a sales boost this year after
adding the CLA four-door coupe to its compact car line-up and
introducing a fresh version of the E-Class. A new version of the
flagship S-Class sedan is scheduled to reach showrooms in the
second half of the year.  To meet rising demand for the A- and B-Class models,
Mercedes will increase production of the vehicles with 21 extra
 shifts  at its plant in Rastatt,  Germany . The compact-car
facility in Kecskemet,  Hungary , added Saturday production last
month, and Mercedes will build more SUVs at its plant in
Tuscaloosa,  Alabama , Daimler has said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christoph Rauwald in Frankfurt at 
 crauwald@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Chad Thomas  at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  