-- Erdogan’s IMF Triumph Masks Surge in Private Debt: Turkey Credit
-- B y   B e n j a m i n   H a r v e y   a n d   T a y l a n   B i l g i c
-- 2013-05-14T14:34:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-13/erdogan-s-imf-triumph-masks-surge-in-private-debt-turkey-credit.html
Turkey  paid its last loan installment
to the International Monetary Fund after a 52-year relationship,
a triumph for Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan as government
debt falls even as private borrowing surges.  The Treasury completed a payment of $412 million to the IMF
today, Erdogan said in televised remarks from Ankara. A decrease
in government debt to about 40 percent of gross domestic product
from 78 percent when he came to power a decade ago has helped
drive lira borrowing costs below higher-rated countries
including  India ,  Russia , Brazil and  Chile .  The decrease is countered by a surge in corporate borrowing
over the period, leaving Turkey “one of the most leveraged
economies in the emerging-market universe,” Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. said in an e-mailed report yesterday. Net external debt of
$413 billion, about 51 percent of GDP, puts Turkey in a league
with other countries including the Czech Republic and  Poland ,
and the private sector’s pace of credit accumulation is
accelerating, Goldman said in a report from  London  by economists
Ahmet Akarli and Michael Hinds.  “Turkey is a perfect example of the maturing of the
emerging-market asset class,” Charles Robertson, global chief
economist at Renaissance Capital in London, said by e-mail
yesterday. “Once weak, vulnerable and dependent on external
assistance, it’s now vibrant and a growth pole for its region.”  While the Turkish government “deserves praise” for fiscal
discipline and working its way out of IMF debt, “the private
sector has taken its place,” he said.  IMF Borrowing  Turkey took its first loan from the IMF in 1961, according
to Deputy Prime Minister Ali Babacan in an interview with CNBC-e
yesterday. It last borrowed in 2008, and today’s payment will
mark the first time Turkey has no outstanding debt to the fund
since 1994, Babacan said. When the current ruling party came to
power in 2002, the government owed the IMF $23.5 billion,
Erdogan said.  Turkey’s two-year  lira debt  yields were more than 23
percent as recently as 2008. They were at 5.02 percent at the
close in Istanbul today, compared with 8.46 percent for local-currency debt in Brazil, 7.28 percent in India, 5.77 percent in
Russia and 5.05 percent in Chile, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Sovereign Yields  Yields on two-year debt may fall as low as 4 percent amid
global central bank easing, while longer-term yields rise,
Commerzbank AG senior economist  Tatha Ghose  said in e-mailed
comments May 3. JPMorgan Chase & Co. economist  Yarkin Cebeci 
predicted lows of 4.5 percent on the same day, while
Renaissance’s Robertson said yesterday the best of Turkey’s bond
rally is probably past, with room for some “moderate
compression” over the next year.  Maxim Oreshkin, chief economist for Russia and Turkey at
VTB Capital in Moscow, said the current level of Turkish yields
is “totally unsustainable.” He predicted in e-mailed comments
yesterday that they could rise above 6 percent by year-end.  Last June, Turkey pledged $5 billion to the IMF to help
with the  European debt crisis , which will make the country a net
lender rather than borrower to the fund. The money will be given
on condition that Turkey could call it back immediately, a
clause Turkey is demanding because of its high  current-account
deficit , Babacan said.  External Shocks  Turkey’s private-sector debt contributed to giving it the
world’s biggest current-account deficit after the U.S. in 2011.
At $77 billion, it was about 10 percent of GDP. The gap was the
third-largest last year. The deficit will probably be about 6.8
percent of GDP this year, according to the average estimate of
21 economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  “This clearly increases Turkey’s susceptibility to
external financing shocks, posing a potential threat to the
exchange rate, output and in the extreme, financial stability,”
according to the Goldman Sachs report. The accumulation of
private sector debt could prove “unsustainable,” it said,
likening it to a geological fault line.  In transforming from debtor to creditor, Turkey, whose
almost $800 billion economy is the largest in the Middle East,
joins South America’s biggest economy,  Brazil . The Latin
American nation was approved for the largest loan in IMF history
in 2002, more than $30 billion at the time. Brazil paid the debt
off in 2005, two years ahead of schedule. The country also
pledged $10 billion to the IMF last year as the fund sought to
boost its capacity amid a worsening in Europe’s debt crisis.  Changing Profile  “The customer profile of the IMF is changing,” Burak Kanli, chief economist at Finans Invest in Istanbul, said by
phone yesterday. “In the decades before the crisis its
customers were Turkey,  Indonesia ,  Mexico , Brazil. Now it’s most
of Europe - eastern and western. Turkey paying off its debt and
becoming a creditor to the IMF is a result of this changing
customer profile.”  Yields on Turkey’s benchmark two-year debt have fallen 113
basis points this year, the second-biggest drop among 19
emerging-market nations tracked by Bloomberg, trailing  Romania .  The  extra yield  investors demand to hold Turkey’s dollar
bonds rather than U.S. Treasuries rose two basis points, or 0.02
percentage points, to 187 today, according to JPMorgan’s EMBI
Global Diversified index. That compared with an average of 268
for  emerging markets , the index shows.  Lira Trend  The lira appreciated fell 0.1 percent to 1.8138 per dollar,
extending its drop this year to 1.7 percent.  Five-year credit-default swaps were unchanged at 116,
having been more than double that level a year ago. The nation’s
risk premium is now on par with Brazil and  Israel , and lower
than South Africa, Russia or Indonesia.  Swaps pay the buyer for the underlying securities or the
cash equivalent should a government or company fail to adhere to
debt agreements. The cost of the contracts rises as perceptions
of creditworthiness worsen.  Erasing Turkey’s debt to the IMF “is very important from a
symbolic point of view,” VTB Capital’s Oreshkin said. “Turkey
is able to solve its problems on its own and is able to attract
capital.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Benjamin Harvey in Istanbul at 
 bharvey11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  