-- Merkel Confident EU Can Agree on More Ambitious Emissions Target
-- B y   T o n y   C z u c z k a   a n d   S t e f a n   N i c o l a
-- 2013-05-13T16:01:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-13/merkel-confident-eu-can-agree-on-more-ambitious-emissions-target.html
German  Chancellor Angela Merkel  said
she’s confident that European Union member states can agree to
more ambitious climate protection targets.  Germany  is in talks with EU member states including Poland
about the need for a new CO2 emissions reduction target, Merkel
told a sustainability conference today in Berlin.  “We need, as soon as possible, another EU-wide target that
goes beyond the CO2 reduction of 2020,” Merkel said. “I think
that at the end of this year, possibly in connection with the
climate conference in Poland, that we can succeed in jointly
agreeing” on a new target.  The EU remains split on future climate policy and a
potential move to a stricter C02 reduction goal. While richer EU
nations are ready to deepen carbon cuts, poorer member countries
are concerned about the cost of a more ambitious switch to
cleaner fuels.  Poland , which gets most of its electricity from
coal, last year vetoed a planned ministerial declaration on
future emission reductions.  “Merkel’s comments indicate that the debate about the EU’s
climate targets will intensify later in 2013,” Konrad Hanschmidt, an analyst with Bloomberg New Energy Finance, said
by e-mail. “We do not think a final agreement is possible in
such a short time-frame, but formal ministerial discussions will
be a big step in the right direction in establishing the
targets.”  At home, Merkel’s government remains undecided on whether
to back a European Commission proposal to fix a glut in the EU
emissions trading system, also known as ETS, by temporarily
delaying the sale of some permits, a measure called backloading.
Merkel said it “must be possible,” to discuss taking CO2
certificates out of the market because economic growth is much
lower than projected when the market was devised.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tony Czuczka in Berlin at 
 aczuczka@bloomberg.net ;
Stefan Nicola in Berlin at 
 snicola2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  