-- Tesla Profit Aided by Sales of California, U.S. Credits
-- B y   A l a n   O h n s m a n
-- 2013-05-13T20:03:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-13/tesla-profit-aided-by-sales-of-california-u-s-emission-credits.html
Tesla Motors Inc. (TSLA) ’s first quarterly
profit, led by a surge in deliveries of the electric-car maker’s
Model S, got an added bump from sales of California and U.S.
environmental credits that generated 15 percent of revenue.  Such sales totaled $85 million, the  Palo Alto , California-based company said in a May 10 filing. That included California
zero-emission vehicle credits of $67.9 million and “other
regulatory credits” of $17.1 million, Tesla said. The latter
amount, mainly from U.S. rules, wasn’t detailed in the first-quarter earnings on May 8, said Jeff Evanson, a spokesman.  The automaker, led by billionaire Elon Musk, has surplus
credits because it sells only electric vehicles, which don’t
produce tailpipe emissions. Tesla reported quarterly net income
of $11.2 million, beating analysts’ estimates, on 4,900 sales of
the Model S, which has $69,900 base price.  Tesla gained 14 percent to a record $87.80 at the close in
 New York . The  shares  have more than doubled this year, as the
Russell 1000 Index rose 15 percent.  California requires large carmakers to have varying amounts
of zero-emission vehicle credits from electric auto sales to
curb tailpipe exhaust. Tesla also has credits to sell under
federal regulations on fuel economy and greenhouse-gas
emissions. The company didn’t identify buyers of the credits.  The first-quarter revenue from zero-emission credits was
probably a peak for the year, Chief Executive Officer Musk, 41,
said in a conference call last week.  “We’re expecting a decline in ZEV credit revenue for Q2,
and then, probably a fairly significant decline in Q3,” he
said. “We are not expecting anything in Q4.”  Sales from zero-emission credits, which are included in
automotive revenue, were disclosed last week because they are
typically more volatile than other types of environmental
credits, Evanson said, without elaborating.  The company’s total quarterly  sales  were $561.8 million,
including $555.2 million in automotive revenue.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alan Ohnsman in  Los Angeles  at 
 aohnsman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  