-- Estonia’s Economy Grows Slowest Since 2010 on Construction Slump
-- B y   O t t   U m m e l a s
-- 2013-05-13T06:26:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-13/estonia-s-economy-grows-slowest-since-2010-on-construction-slump.html
Estonia’s economy slowed more than
economists estimated in the first quarter to the weakest pace in
three years as the construction industry stumbled.  Gross domestic product  rose 1 percent from a year earlier,
the smallest increase since the Baltic economy exited a
recession in April-June of 2010 and down from a 3.7 percent pace
in the fourth quarter, the statistics office, based in the
capital, Tallinn,  said  today on its website. That fell short of
all estimates in a Bloomberg survey of five analysts which had a
median forecast of 3.6 percent. GDP shrank a seasonally adjusted
1 percent from the fourth quarter.  The $22 billion economy of the newest euro member is set to
expand 3 percent this year, slowing from 3.2 percent in 2012
when it posted the European Union’s third-fastest growth rate,
the Finance Ministry said last month. Construction decelerated
last quarter as projects financed in the past two years by sales
of United Nations’ carbon quotas were brought to an end.  “The start of the year was slow as public-sector
investments probably declined and exports slowed somewhat,”
Tonu Palm, a Tallinn-based economist with Nordea Bank AB, said
before the data release. Still, “growth should accelerate in
the second half thanks to the euro area and Scandinavia.”  Estonia, which adopted the euro in 2011, has weathered
Europe’s debt crisis as Swedish and Finnish demand helped its
economy recover from a 20 percent contraction in the wake of
Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.’s 2008 demise.  Export of goods, adjusted for inflation, accelerated to 13
percent in the first quarter, helped mainly by chemicals,
electronics and transport, the statistics office said. Even so,
shipments abroad shrank in both February and March, according to
data the office published last week.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ott Ummelas in Tallinn at 
 oummelas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  