-- EU Leaders to Seek Household, Industry Energy-Cost Study
-- B y   R e b e c c a   C h r i s t i e
-- 2013-05-13T17:54:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-13/eu-leaders-to-seek-household-industry-energy-cost-study.html
European Union leaders will call for
a study of energy prices and costs facing households and energy-intensive industries, according to draft conclusions of their
May 22 summit.  “The impact of high energy prices and costs must be
addressed,” according to the draft, dated May 13 and obtained
by Bloomberg News. The draft says the European Commission will
present their analysis of energy-price “composition and
drivers” before the end of 2013 for talks in February 2014.  The 27-nation bloc’s leaders also will call for EU and
national measures to boost financing opportunities throughout
the economy, according to the draft. It specifies trying to make
more use of the European Investment Bank, in particular for
energy and resource-efficiency projects.  EU leaders will gather in Brussels to discuss energy and
tax issues against the backdrop of a weakening economy and
record unemployment. The European Commission on May 3 said the
17-nation euro-area economy is set to shrink for a second
straight year, with the 27-nation EU also expected to contract.  With joblessness above 12 percent in the euro area, the
draft conclusions say energy policy can serve as an incentive
for private-sector investment.  “Significant investments in new and intelligent energy
infrastructure are needed to secure the uninterrupted supply of
energy at affordable prices,” according to the draft. “Their
financing should largely come from the market.”  Tax evasion is another target for nations seeking to
bolster revenue. The draft summit conclusions lay out a timeline
on legislative efforts aimed at fighting tax fraud and limiting
“aggressive tax planning and profit shifting.”  A separate draft document, dated May 8 and prepared for a
meeting of EU finance ministers in Brussels tomorrow, says the
EU “invites consideration” of whether it should develop its
own list of non-EU jurisdictions deemed non cooperative on tax
issues. After finance ministers weigh those conclusions, they
will be passed up to the leaders for discussion May 22.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rebecca Christie in Brussels at 
 rchristie4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  