-- European Stocks Decline From 2008 High; Commerzbank Sinks
-- B y   T o m   S t o u k a s
-- 2013-05-13T16:02:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-13/european-stock-futures-little-changed-adecco-may-move.html
European stocks  declined from the
highest level in almost five years as bank and airline shares
retreated, overshadowing better-than-forecast retail sales data
in the U.S.  Commerzbank AG sank the most in two months after
Handelsblatt reported the lender will sell new shares this week.
 Standard Chartered  Plc dropped to a four-month low as  Carson
Block , the short seller who runs Muddy Waters LLC, said he’s
betting against the bank’s debt. Air France-KLM Group fell 4
percent. Lonmin Plc rallied 2.6 percent after the platinum
producer returned to profit in the fiscal first half.  The Stoxx Europe 600 Index slipped 0.2 percent to 304.46 at
the close of trading, snapping four days of gains. The gauge
advanced 1.3 percent last week as companies from BT Group Plc to
Hochtief AG posted better-than-expected earnings and European
Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  said policy makers are ready
to cut  interest rates  if needed. The measure has climbed 8.9
percent in 2013.  “We still expect the  U.S. economy  to hit a soft patch in
the second quarter, but today’s numbers -- together with the
recent labor-market news -- confirms that the underlying
recovery is robust,” Witold Bahrke, who helps oversee $55
billion as senior strategist at PFA Pension A/S in Copenhagen,
said in an e-mail. ‘The risk is that the U.S. economy turns out
to be too strong, which could put the sweet spot of decent
growth and loose financial conditions at risk.’’  Retail Sales  Retail sales in the U.S. unexpectedly advanced 0.1 percent
in April following a 0.5 percent drop in March, Commerce
Department figures showed today in  Washington . The median
forecast of economists surveyed by Bloomberg called for a 0.3
percent decline.  A report on May 15 may show that the euro region is
suffering the longest recession since the single currency’s
creation.  Gross domestic product  in the 17-nation economy fell
0.1 percent in the first three months of 2013, a sixth straight
quarterly decline, according to the median of 39 economists’
forecasts in a Bloomberg News survey. That would exceed the 15-month long contraction in 2008-2009.  In  China ,  industrial output  in April rose 9.3 percent from
a year earlier and retail sales gained 12.8 percent, the
National Bureau of Statistics said today. The gain in industrial
output compared with the 9.4 percent median estimate in a
Bloomberg News survey of 38 analysts and an 8.9 percent increase
in March.  FTSE, DAX  National benchmark indexes fell in 11 of the 18 western
European markets.  France ’s CAC 40 retreated 0.2 percent, the
U.K.’s FTSE 100 rose 0.1 percent while  Germany ’s DAX was little
changed. The volume of shares changing hands in Stoxx 600
companies was 16 percent lower than the 30-day average,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Commerzbank slid 4.7 percent to 9.94 euros, the biggest
drop since March 14. Germany’s second-largest bank will sell new
shares a part of a 2.5 billion-euro ($3.3 billion) capital
increase, Handelsblatt said, citing unidentified people in the
finance industry.  Standard Chartered, the U.K. lender that earns most of its
profit in  Asia , slipped 1.9 percent to 1,552.5 pence as Block
said he’s betting against the lender’s debt because of
“deteriorating” loan quality.  “We think the market misunderstands the amount of risk
that’s presently in the book,” Block said at a conference in
 Las Vegas  on May 10. A $1 billion loan to Samin Tan, chairman of
Bumi Plc, the coal company at the center of a dispute between
co-founders  Nathaniel Rothschild  and Indonesia’s Bakrie family,
and loans to Far East Energy Corp. were “red flags,” he said.  Standard Chartered  Julie Gibson, a spokeswoman for Standard Chartered in  New
York , declined to comment on May 10. Doris Fan, a Hong Kong-based spokeswoman at the lender, also declined to comment.  Air France led airlines lower, falling 4 percent to 7.30
euros.  International Consolidated Airlines Group SA (IAG)  lost 1.9
percent to 270.7 pence while Deutsche Lufthansa AG slid 2.1
percent to 15.75 euros.  France reported its second confirmed coronavirus-related
infection yesterday and Saudi Arabia’s Ministry of Health said
the pathogen has killed 15 people in the Middle Eastern country
since September. The virus is related to the one that caused
Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome, or SARS, a decade ago.  Lonmin advanced 2.6 percent to 286 pence. The third-largest
platinum producer returned to profit in its first half through
March from a year earlier. The profit of 13.3 cents a share
compared with a loss of 6.3 cents in the year-earlier period.
The median estimate in a Bloomberg survey of five analysts was
for a loss of 4 cents.  Vestas Wind Systems A/S (VWS)  surged 11 percent to 66.30 kroner,
its highest price since February 2012. Credit Suisse Group AG
raised the world’s biggest wind-turbine maker to neutral from
underperform, citing benefits from cost cuts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Stoukas in Athens at 
 astoukas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  