-- Level Global Co-Founder Gets 6 1/2-Year Prison Sentence
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 2013-05-13T23:54:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-13/level-global-co-founder-to-get-6-1-2-year-sentence.html
Level Global Investors LP co-founder
Anthony Chiasson was sentenced to 6 1/2 years in prison for
using illegal tips funneled to him from analysts and company
insiders to make more than $68 million for his hedge fund.  U.S. District Judge Richard Sullivan in Manhattan handed
down the sentence today, setting aside the recommendation from
advisory guidelines for a term of 10 to 13 years. Sullivan
presided over the  jury trial  last year that ended in Chiasson’s
conviction on conspiracy and securities fraud charges for
trading on illegal tips on  Dell Inc. (DELL)  and  Nvidia Corp. (NVDA)   Chiasson, 39, of  New York , began his career on  Wall Street 
at  Salomon Brothers  and later left  Steven A. Cohen ’s SAC Capital
Advisors LP to start his own hedge fund.  Sullivan said that while the eight to 10 years in prison
sought by prosecutors would have been appropriate, Chiasson’s
crimes didn’t rise to the level of other insider traders the
judge has sentenced, such as former Galleon Group LLC trader  Zvi Goffer , who Sullivan ordered to 10 years in prison.  While Sullivan today acknowledged that Goffer was a
“leader and corrupter” who recruited insiders to give him
illegal tips, he said Chiasson’s insider trading must be
punished with a period of incarceration.  “It is not embezzling, but it was cheating to realize
tremendous profits of tens of millions of dollars,” Sullivan
said.  Six others charged with taking part in the  insider-trading 
ring that provided illegal tips to Chiasson have pleaded guilty
and are cooperating with a U.S. probe that has increasingly
focused on  Stamford , Connecticut-based SAC Capital and Cohen,
its founder.  ‘Just Staggering’  Chiasson’s sentence was the third-longest prison term
imposed by a federal judge in Manhattan upon an insider-trading
defendant since the Manhattan U.S. Attorney’s office and  Federal
Bureau  of Investigation in New York began a crackdown against
illegal tipping by fund managers, analysts and insiders at
technology companies.  Of the 81 people charged by federal prosecutors in
Manhattan with insider trading, 49 people have been convicted
and sentenced. Only two others received longer terms than
Chiasson -- Goffer and Galleon Group LLC co-founder  Raj Rajaratnam , who was sentenced to 11 years in prison.  Good Works  The judge acknowledged today that Chiasson has done good
works, including helping save his Catholic high school in
 Portland ,  Maine , from closure and creating a scholarship program
for his alma mater, Babson College. Sullivan also suggested that
Chiasson was wealthy enough to give generously.  “I have to come back to this crime, these crimes, which
were committed over a period of time when you were already
fabulously wealthy,” Sullivan said. Chiasson’s tax returns show
that during the time the insider trading occurred, the portfolio
manager was earning $16 million, $10 million and $23 million a
year, Sullivan said.  “That’s just staggering,” the judge said. “It’s hard to
imagine why someone would risk all that to engage in a crime
such as this. I can understand the need to beat the street and
pick the winners, but the risks put in jeopardy everything you
ever worked for.”  ‘Extraordinary’ Life  Greg Morvillo, Chiasson’s lawyer, sought leniency, saying
the conduct alleged by prosecutors was “aberrant” and that his
client has led an “extraordinary” life filled with good works,
starting when he was an altar boy at age 8. Morvillo argued that
the amount of money allegedly earned on illicit tips
artificially pushed Chiasson’s potential prison term into the
10-year range.  “I’m asking you to judge this man not based on how much
money he made but on the man and his life,” Morvillo said.  The judge said he felt sympathy for Chiasson’s wife, who
was in the courtroom, and the couple’s two young children,
including a 1-year-old daughter.  “I’m so sorry for your family, I’m so sorry for your
wife,” Sullivan said.  The judge said he disagreed with Morvillo that the
sentencing guidelines are unfair in how they accounted for the
amount of money reaped in the scheme. He said anyone who pursued
such hefty profits from illegal activities should expect more
severe punishment.  “I do think that anyone who engages in this kind of
conduct for this a kind of money has to be on notice that the
guidelines are a pretty good warning call on what to expect if
you get caught,” Sullivan said.  Prison Camp  Sullivan today rejected Chiasson’s request to remain free
while he challenges his conviction and ordered him to surrender
in 90 days. He said he would recommend that Chiasson serve his
time at a federal prison camp in Otisville, New York, or a
facility in the New York area to remain near his wife and
children. Sullivan also ordered Chiasson pay a $5 million fine
and said a forfeiture amount will be determined at a later date.  Mark Pomerantz, another lawyer for Chiasson, told Sullivan
today that the defendant will ask the  U.S. Court of Appeals  in
New York to allow him to remain free pending his appeal.  Chiasson, who didn’t address Sullivan in court, declined to
comment as he left court.  Morvillo said in a phone interview that his client was
“disappointed” with the term imposed and would challenge
a ruling by Sullivan that Morvillo said made it easier for
prosecutors to prove culpability for insider trading.  For more than 30 years, other federal judges in Manhattan
have ruled that the recipient of a tip isn’t liable for insider
trading unless he knows the tipper did so for a personal
benefit, Morvillo said. Sullivan alone has issued a ruling
that makes it easier for the government to prove culpability
for insider trading, Morvillo said.  ‘Round One’  “This is just round one,” he said. “Mr. Chiasson
maintains his innocence and is still very proud of all he
accomplished at Level Global.”  Chiasson was convicted of one count of conspiracy and five
counts of securities fraud in December. Level Global, based in
Greenwich,  Connecticut , agreed in April to pay more than $21
million to settle regulatory claims filed by the U.S. Securities
and Exchange Commission.  Chiasson’s co-defendant at trial, former Diamondback
Capital Management LLC portfolio manager  Todd Newman , was also
found guilty. He was sentenced by Sullivan on May 2 to 4 1/2
years in prison. He is appealing that conviction and has asked
that he be allowed to remain free while he appeals his case.  Pleading, Cooperating  Prosecutors said the two portfolio managers were part of a
group of portfolio managers, fund analysts and technology
company insiders who shared material nonpublic information about
the firms and then traded on them.  Defendants who pleaded in guilty in the probe and are
cooperating include Jon Horvath, a former analyst at SAC’s Sigma
unit. Michael Steinberg, an SAC portfolio manager to whom
Horvath reported, was indicted in March on one count of
conspiracy and four counts of  securities fraud  for trading in
Dell and Nvidia based on tips from Horvath. Steinberg has
pleaded not guilty.  Also indicted was Mathew Martoma, a former fund manager for
SAC’s CR Intrinsic Investors. In what prosecutors at the office
of Manhattan U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara called the biggest
insider-trading scheme in history, Martoma was accused of
helping SAC make $276 million on illegal tips about an
Alzheimer’s drug by trading in shares of Elan Corp. and Wyeth
LLC.  SEC Settlement  SAC agreed to pay $600 million to settle an SEC lawsuit
tied to Martoma’s alleged insider-trading. Martoma has pleaded
not guilty and is awaiting trial.  Cohen, 56, hasn’t been charged with a crime and has denied
any wrongdoing.  While at SAC, Chiasson worked as David Ganek’ analyst and
the two founded Level Global in January 2003. By 2010, the fund
had grown to $4.2 billion in assets under management. After the
FBI raided Level Global in November 2010, Ganek announced the
fund would close in January 2011.  Sullivan today said he would decide later on how much money
Chiasson would be ordered to forfeit as proceeds of trading from
illegal tips. He also concluded today that Level Global had
earned more than $20 million from insider trading on illegal
tips.  Morvillo said today that he calculated that Level Global
earned only $3.7 million as a result of trading in the stocks of
 Round Rock , Texas-based Dell and Santa Clara, California-based
Nvidia.  Forfeiture  Assistant U.S. Attorney Antonia Apps said based on a 24-hour calculation of trading set by Sullivan during Newman’s
sentencing, Chiasson was liable to forfeit more than $40.3
million earned by Level Global as a result of trading in the two
technology company stocks.  Morvillo said today that Chiasson “should not be required
to forfeit gains of any co-conspirators.” Morvillo previously
said in court papers that the fund earned more than $21.6
million on trades by Ganek.  During the trial, Sullivan made a legal finding that Ganek
was an uncharged co-conspirator in Chiasson’s insider-trading
scheme. Ganek hasn’t been charged with a crime and has denied
any wrongdoing.  “Should Mr. Chiasson be on the hook for all the trades at
Level Global, including the trades by Ganek?” Sullivan asked
lawyers today. “There was a finding that Ganek is an unindicted
co-conspirator and if that’s the case, would he be on the hook
for all of the Ganek trades?”  ‘No Evidence’  “I don’t think so,” Morvillo said. “There’s no evidence
that Anthony Chiasson and David Ganek were doing this
together.”  Apps said today the government believes that Chiasson
should be held liable for any of Ganek’s trading in the stocks,
saying the trading position Level Global took in Dell in 2008
“was based on inside information; It’s clearly one trade and
one reason behind the trade.”  Sullivan said he will issue a ruling on how much Chiasson
will be ordered to forfeit after receiving submissions from both
sides.  Spyridon “Sam” Adondakis, who worked for Chiasson as an
analyst, pleaded guilty and testified at the trial. He described
obtaining constant updated nonpublic information about
technology companies that he passed to Chiasson. Adondakis said
he didn’t tell Ganek about the source of his tips.  “Anthony Chiasson’s case is over and we remain confident
that our client did nothing wrong,”  John Carroll , Ganek’s
lawyer, said today in a statement. “The government’s
recognition that no charges should be brought confirms our
confidence in David.”  The case is U.S. v. Newman, 1:12-cr-00121, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in New York at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  