-- Ex-BlackRock Manager Said to Be Arrested in U.K. Probe
-- B y   L i n d s a y   F o r t a d o ,   B e n   M o s h i n s k y   a n d   A l e x i s   L e o n d i s
-- 2013-05-14T16:41:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-13/ex-blackrock-manager-said-to-be-arrested-in-uk-probe.html
Former  BlackRock Inc. (BLK)  fund manager
Mark Lyttleton was arrested April 30 as part of an  insider
trading  probe by the U.K. Financial Conduct Authority, two
people familiar with the matter said.  Lyttleton was detained along with his wife, Delphine, in
west  London , said one of the people, both of whom declined to be
identified because the matter isn’t public. An FCA spokesman
declined to comment on the investigation. The Lyttletons
couldn’t be reached for comment.  The FCA said in a May 3 statement that a 41-year-old man
and a 37-year-old woman were arrested when the City of London
Police executed a search warrant. The U.K.’s financial watchdog
is seeking to crack down on insider trading by employees at
London financial companies after having previously targeted
lower-profile individuals. The watchdog is currently prosecuting
seven other people for insider dealing, which carries a maximum
sentence of seven years in prison upon conviction.  “The FCA has informed us that the allegations relate to
actions carried out for personal gain, while off our premises,
and that neither BlackRock, nor any other employee, is under
investigation,”  Brian Beades , a spokesman for New York-based
BlackRock, said in an e-mailed statement. The firm is
cooperating in the investigation, Beades said.  Neither the FCA nor Blackrock would provide contact
information for an attorney for the Lyttletons. A man who
answered the phone at  Anamaya  in west London, where Delphine
Lyttleton is listed as a practitioner in homeopathy, life
coaching and meditation, said she was unavailable to comment. He
said she rented space from the business.  Market Abuse  The FCA on April 1 took over the market abuse and consumer
finance enforcement duties from the Financial Services
Authority, which was phased out by lawmakers who blamed it for
failing to prevent the financial crisis in 2008.  Sky News 
reported the arrest yesterday.  Lyttleton, who was based in BlackRock’s London office, ran
funds including BlackRock U.K. Dynamic Fund, with 558 million
pounds ($855 million) in assets, and BlackRock U.K. Absolute
Alpha Fund, with 383 million pounds in assets, until March. He
left BlackRock March 28, according to one of the people.
Lyttleton had worked at Merrill Lynch & Co.’s investment unit,
which was acquired by BlackRock in 2006.  The U.K. Absolute Alpha Fund, which bets on stocks falling
instead of rising, rose 1.5 percent in 2008, beating 98 percent
of its peers, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. By August
2009, the fund had as much as 1.6 billion pounds of assets.  Leaving BlackRock  Performance dropped following the financial crisis as
Lyttleton bet that rising taxes, high unemployment and cuts in
 government spending  would constrain growth, he said in an August
2009 interview. While his view on the U.K. economy was correct,
the stock market rallied, pushing his fund into the bottom 5
percent of peers in 2009 and 2010.  The fund has been in the bottom 2 percent of its peer group
in the last three years and declined 5.6 percent in the past
year, putting it in the bottom 1 percent of its competitor
funds, according to Bloomberg data.  Lyttleton’s U.K. Dynamic Fund, which climbed 12 percent in
the last year, was in the bottom 20 percent of funds in its peer
group, according to Bloomberg data. The fund is now managed by
Nick Little, a colleague on BlackRock’s U.K. equity team.  Life Coach  Delphine Lyttleton is a homeopath, certified meditation
teacher and life coach in West London, according to her LinkedIn
 profile . On the website for the company where she practices,
Anamaya, she said she previously worked for an American
investment bank before becoming burned out and leaving her job
to learn holistic medicine.  The arrests last month were in conjunction with searches of
homes and offices in Zug,  Switzerland . Judith Aklin, a
spokeswoman for police in Zug, said the searches there were
conducted April 30 after authorities received a request for
legal assistance from the U.K. She declined to comment further.  Low corporate tax rates have helped attract almost 30,000
companies, including Glencore International Plc and Xstrata Plc,
to Zug, as well as  hedge funds  such as Stone Milliner Asset
Management AG, Tiberius Asset Management AG and Argentiere
Capital AG.  A Credit Suisse study from 2011 declared Zug the most
attractive Swiss canton for doing business. It included factors
such as transportation and taxation.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lindsay Fortado in London at 
 lfortado@bloomberg.net  and;
Ben Moshinsky in London at 
 bmoshinsky@bloomberg.net ;
Alexis Leondis in  New York  at 
 aleondis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net  