-- Ex-N.J. Trooper Gets Probation for High-Speed Escort
-- B y   D a v i d   V o r e a c o s
-- 2013-05-13T16:10:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-13/ex-n-j-trooper-gets-probation-for-high-speed-escort.html
A former  New Jersey State Police 
sergeant who escorted a high-speed caravan of Porsches,
Lamborghinis and Ferraris on the Garden State Parkway was
sentenced to one year of probation.  Nadir Nassry, 48, also was sentenced today to 75 hours of
community service by Superior Court Judge Bradley J. Ferencz in
 Middlesex County , state Attorney General Jeffrey S. Chiesa said
in an e-mailed statement. Nassry pleaded guilty on March 11 to
altering the license plates of his car to avoid detection.  On March 30, 2012, drivers reported two state-police
cruisers leading 20 or more cars in a “Death Race” convoy at
speeds as high as 100 miles (161 kilometers) an hour to  Atlantic
City , according to complaints filed with the New Jersey Turnpike
Authority. The convoy started in Fort Lee, near  Manhattan , and
ended about 133 miles away, according to the attorney general’s
office.  Nassry, a trooper for 26 years, agreed to forfeit his job
and be barred from any  law enforcement  post in  New Jersey . He
pleaded guilty to a fourth-degree charge of falsifying or
tampering with records, admitting that he used black electrical
tape to change the numbers on the license plates of his state
police car.  A trooper who helped with the escort, Joseph Ventrella, 29,
also agreed to forfeit his job and will be barred from law
enforcement in New Jersey, Chiesa said. He seeks to avoid a
conviction through a pre-trial intervention program.  ‘Alarming Episode’  “We responded to this alarming episode by establishing new
rules for trooper escorts and by reaffirming the high standards
of the New Jersey State Police,” Chiesa said. “The troopers
involved in this unauthorized escort forfeited their law
enforcement careers because they violated those standards,
putting motorists at risk and discrediting the force.”  Charles Sciarra, an attorney for Nassry, didn’t immediately
return a call seeking comment. He previously said that Nassry
led the caravan at the request of  Brandon Jacobs , who played for
the  National Football League ’s San Francisco 49ers. Chiesa has
said that neither Jacobs nor any other drivers escorted by
troopers would face criminal charges.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Voreacos in Newark, New Jersey, at 
 dvoreacos@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  