-- Mexico Bond Yields Drop on Rate-Cut Speculation; Peso Declines
-- B y   B e n   B a i n
-- 2013-05-13T15:43:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-13/mexico-bond-yields-drop-on-rate-cut-speculation-peso-declines.html
Mexican shorter-term bond yields
declined to record lows on speculation policy makers will
further reduce benchmark borrowing costs amid signs of slowing
economic growth.  Yields on peso bonds due in December 2014 dropped two basis
points, or 0.02 percentage point, to 3.77 percent at 10:22 a.m.
in Mexico City, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. That is
the lowest since the securities began trading in 2005. The
currency fell 0.7 percent to 12.1684 per  U.S. dollar , paring its
gain this year to 5.7 percent, still the biggest among the
greenback’s 16 most-traded currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  Royal Bank of  Canada  reiterated today in a research note to
clients that it projects Mexico’s policy makers will cut the
benchmark rate in July if annual inflation slows to below the
upper end of their target range of 2 percent to 4 percent.
Industrial production in  Latin America ’s second-biggest economy
fell three times more than forecast in March, the national
statistics agency reported last week.  “People are convinced another rate cut is coming,”
Alejandro Urbina, who helps oversee about $800 million in
emerging-market assets at Silva Capital Management LLC in
 Chicago , said in an e-mailed response to questions. “Now, most
of the analysts/economists are only sorting out when and how
much. That is what is going on in the short end of the curve.”  The central bank left its target lending rate at a record
low 4 percent on April 26 after unexpectedly cutting it by a
half-percentage point on March 8. HSBC Holdings Plc forecast on
May 10 that policy makers will make a 0.5 percentage point
reduction in July after earlier seeing no change through 2014.  Six-month swaps tied to the interbank rate yield 4.20
percent, indicating traders are projecting about a 56 percent
chance that policy makers will reduce borrowing costs over the
next six months.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Bain in  Mexico  City at 
 bbain2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  