-- F-1’s Williams Makes Progress With Hybrid London Bus, CEO Says
-- B y   A l e x   D u f f
-- 2013-05-13T09:32:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-13/f-1-s-williams-makes-progress-with-hybrid-london-bus-ceo-says.html
Williams Grand Prix Holdings Plc (WGF1) ,
Formula One’s only publicly listed team, expects to start street
testing of a hybrid  London  double-decker bus this year as it
seeks a revenue boost from technological expertise, chief
executive officer Alex Burns said.  The nine-time F-1 constructors’ champion and bus operator
 Go-Ahead Group Plc (GOG)  14 months ago agreed to make six prototype
vehicles with flywheels that recoup energy from braking, a
system Williams developed for racing. Williams and Go-Ahead are
testing one prototype off public roads that has shown “very
promising” fuel saving, Burns said, without being more
specific.  The project is “moving quite quickly,” Burns said in an
interview last weekend at the Circuit de Catalunya near
 Barcelona . “The potential market is huge once we get into
volume and driving cost down.”  Williams is diversifying as success eludes it on the
racetrack, adding 100 research and development staff last year,
according its 2012 accounts. The team won the most recent of its
nine championships in 1997 when driver Jacques Villeneuve also
took the drivers’ title, and finished eighth of 12 teams last
year. It’s yet to score a point after five races this season.  Newcastle upon Tyne , England-based Go-Ahead is London’s
largest bus operator, controlling about one-fifth of the market,
 according to its website . The street trials will initially be
without passengers, Burns said.  Braking Ballpark  The kinetic energy a double-decker generates is “in the
same ballpark” as a Formula One car braking at as much as 200
miles per hour (322 kilometers per hour) because its weight
makes up for a lack of speed, Burns said. Although the flywheel
is better suited to heavier double-decker buses, Williams is
also in talks with single-decker operators, Burns added.  Williams is also developing a flywheel for trams with
 Alstom SA (ALO) , the world’s third-largest power equipment maker,
Burns said. That project is less advanced, he added.  Williams bought startup Automotive Hybrid Power Ltd. in
2010 to help develop the flywheel as the technology was shelved
in Formula One that year on cost grounds. Last year about one
quarter of Williams’ 127 million-pound ($195 million) sales came
from outside the sport, Burns said. The group made a 5 million-pound loss in 2012.  “The aim is also to do better in Formula One, which will
attract more” revenue from prize money and sponsorships and
bring stability, Burns said.  In another project, Williams is tapping experience of
making simulators for racetracks to make a simulator to train
young people, and taxi and emergency-service drivers to navigate
public roads safely, Burns said.  Williams has a development contract with Qatari taxi
operator Mowasalat, and is in talks with other groups in the
Gulf region, Burns said.  “We are now at the stage when we have a saleable product”
that could grow into a “substantial” business, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Duff in  Madrid   at
 aduff4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at  at
 celser@bloomberg.net  