-- Flaherty Says Canada REIT Wave No Concern
-- B y   T h e o p h i l o s   A r g i t i s
-- 2013-05-13T13:48:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-13/flaherty-says-canada-real-estate-trust-wave-is-no-concern.html
Canadian Finance Minister  Jim Flaherty  said he’s not worried by the recent wave of businesses
spinning off real estate assets into tax-preferred trusts.  Canadian Tire (CTC/A) , the country’s largest sporting goods
retailer, said May 9 it will create a C$3.5 billion ($3.47
billion) real estate investment trust in an initial public
offering this fall, becoming the eighth company to either sell
or propose such an IPO this year.  “We have seen an uptick in commercial real estate
certainly in recent times, so in that sense, it doesn’t surprise
me,” Flaherty said in an interview in Aylesbury, near  London ,
where he was attending a meeting of Group of Seven finance
officials. “As long as people play within the rules, we won’t
need to intervene.”  Flaherty  moved  in 2006 to stop a trend of companies
converting to high-yield income-trust securities in order to
take advantage of favorable tax rules at the time. So-called
real estate investment trusts, or REITs, were exempted in that
decision, and Flaherty said in the interview that they deserve
to be treated differently.  “We did not eliminate REITs back in 2006 because they were
not considered to be passive investment vehicles,” Flaherty
said. “They actually invest and reinvest in shopping malls and
office buildings and various other things, so it’s not just a
money flow-through to passive investors.”  Filing Plans  Canadian Tire is joining  Loblaw Cos. (L) , the country’s biggest
grocery chain by market value, which said it plans to file
regulatory documents for a C$7 billion REIT this month.
Retailers are using REITs to raise capital from yield-hungry
investors amid increasing competition from U.S. companies such
as Target Corp.  Hudson’s Bay Co., the Canadian retailer established in
1670, is looking at creating a REIT “sometime in the future,”
Chief Executive Officer  Richard Baker  said last month.  REITs, which receive preferential tax treatment from the
government, are companies that invest in income-producing real
estate and pay out most of their income to investors through
unit distributions. They have raised $760 million from six
Canadian IPOs this year, including Milestone Apartments REIT and
Agellan Commercial REIT, to account for 74 percent of $1.03
billion raised from initial offerings this year in the country,
data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Canadian REITs raised almost $500 million in seven IPOs
last year, more than any other industry in  Canada , the data
show. The Standard & Poor’s/TSX Capped REIT Index soared 165
percent from a five-year low on March 9, 2009 through May 10.
The benchmark S&P/TSX Composite index rose 66 percent over the
same period. The REIT index rose 0.13 percent today to 174.84 at
9:37 a.m. in Toronto trading.  Financial Institution  Flaherty also said in the interview his government will
probably appoint a new chief executive at Canada Mortgage &
Housing Corp. with experience in finance, because the nation’s
housing agency has become an important financial institution.
CMHC CEO Karen Kinsley said last week she is stepping down,
while the government this month also named  Robert Kelly , former
chief executive officer at Bank of  New York  Mellon Corp., as the
agency’s new chairman.  “It’s morphed into one of Canada’s largest financial
institutions,” Flaherty said, adding the Kelly is a
“fabulous” appointment. “To be frank, its board did not
reflect that fact.”  Banking Regulator  Flaherty gave new powers last year to the nation’s banking
regulator to oversee CMHC’s finances and added two government
deputy ministers to the agency’s board of directors. Most
 mortgage insurance  in Canada is provided by CMHC, which is
backed by the federal government’s top credit rating. The value
of mortgages insured by the government’s housing agency was
C$566 billion at the end of 2012, according to its  annual
report , almost double from C$291 billion in 2006.  The changes to CMHC’s oversight made last year require the
Office of the Superintendent of Financial Institutions to check
the housing agency’s finances at least once a year. Asked if the
government planned any changes at the housing agency, Flaherty
said he’ll wait for the results of the first review by OSFI. He
didn’t say when that would be.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Theophilos Argitis in Ottawa at 
 targitis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  