-- Flybe Jumps as Slot Sale May Draw EasyJet, BA Bids: London Mover
-- B y   R o b e r t   W a l l
-- 2013-05-13T16:10:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-13/flybe-jumps-as-slot-sale-may-draw-easyjet-ba-bids-london-mover.html
Flybe Group Plc (FLYB)  rose 13 percent,
leading advancing stocks on the FTSE All-Share Index, after
Europe’s biggest regional airline said it’s in talks to sell
take-off and landing slots at  London  Gatwick airport.  Negotiations are taking place “with a number of parties,”
the Exeter, England-based airline said in a statement today.
“Discussions are ongoing and there can be no certainty as to
whether any transaction will be forthcoming.”  Flybe  shares  advanced to 58.875 pence, the highest price in
eight months, at the close of trading in London. That extended
the gain this year to 15 percent, valuing the  airline  at 44
million pounds ($67 million). The number of shares traded was
more than five times the average daily amount over the past
three months.  “EasyJet, British Airways and Norwegian Air Shuttle are
likely interested parties,” Peter Hyde, a London-based analyst
at  Liberum Capital , said by phone. “EasyJet may pay the most
because it already has 41 percent of slots at Gatwick and could
put the additions to best use.”  Flybe said last month that it had 54.4 million pounds in
cash at the end of its  financial  year on March 31 and that it
would report an underlying pretax loss at the low end of its
forecast, on sales similar to the previous year. Chief Executive
Officer Jim French announced details of a cost-reduction plan
in January.  Flybe pilots agreed this month to a 5 percent cut in pay to
avoid job losses. The airline’s regional focus means Flybe has
higher unit costs than discount carriers such as  Ryanair
Holdings Plc (RYA)  and  EasyJet Plc. (EZJ)   Airport Fees  “Recent airport charges increases at Gatwick have been
skewed against the operators of smaller aircraft, like Flybe,”
 Gerald Khoo , a London-based  analyst  at Espirito Santo Investment
Bank with a neutral rating on Flybe shares, said in a note.
“The continuation of such measures could place an ongoing
squeeze on the profitability of Flybe’s Gatwick routes.”  Gatwick is Flybe’s main London-area airport, where it
maintains 25 slot pairs, with a smaller presence at Luton.  Ryanair, Europe’s largest discount carrier, had offered to
pay Flybe 100 million euros ($130 million) in cash to operate
aircraft and short-haul routes as it sought regulatory approval
to acquire  Aer Lingus Group. (AERL)  Antitrust authorities blocked the
deal in February.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Wall in London at 
 rwall6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  