-- News Corp. Shakes Up Fox’s TV Schedule With Nine Shows
-- B y   A n d y   F i x m e r   a n d   E d m u n d   L e e
-- 2013-05-13T14:47:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-13/fox-unveils-nine-shows-including-live-action-macfarlane-comedy.html
News Corp. (NWSA) ’s Fox Broadcasting
unveiled nine prime-time programs for the 2013-2014 season,
shaking up a schedule that has fallen into second place among
key viewers after once dominating the ratings.  Five new comedies and four dramas will join the schedule,
 Kevin Reilly , chairman of entertainment for Fox, said today in a
statement. The Los Angeles-based network and other broadcasters
are showing their new lineups to advertisers this week in an
annual event known as the “upfronts.”  Fox is seeking to rebuild a prime-time schedule that lost a
fifth of its viewers, worst among the major broadcasters.
“Dads,” the first live-action show by “Family Guy” creator
Seth MacFarlane, features Seth Green and Giovanni Ribisi as
gaming entrepreneurs whose fathers move in with them. Other
shows include an adaptation of Washington Irving’s “The Legend
of Sleepy Hollow” and the sci-fi “Almost Human.”  “We’re making the biggest investment in original
programming in our history to ensure that Fox continues to
engage viewers and move the culture more than any other
entertainment brand,” Reilly said in the statement.  “ American Idol ,” once the cornerstone of Fox’s schedule,
has hurt ratings at the network, largely because of the “age of
the show,” according to Reilly.  The format will again be retooled, network executives said,
with the possibility it will only include three judges.  Randy
Jackson   announced  he will step down this year after 12 seasons
as a judge. Reilly said the remaining judges -- Nicki Minaj,
 Mariah Carey  and Keith Urban -- are “welcome back.”  ‘24’ Returns  The network also plans to bring back the real-time
espionage series “24” with  Kiefer Sutherland  next May, Reilly
said on a call with reporters.  Joining “Dads” on Tuesday’s comedy block will be
“Brooklyn Nine-Nine,” starring Andy Samberg and Andre Braugher, about a detective seeking to impress his new captain.
“Enlisted” follows an older sibling who returns home to
reconnect with his two brothers and lead a group of misfits on a
small Army base in  Florida .  Among the new dramas, Ichabod Crane in “Sleepy Hollow” is
resurrected two and a half centuries into a future where the
world faces destruction and he is humanity’s last hope. “Almost
Human,” from producer  J.J. Abrams , is set 35 years in the
future, when a cop played by Karl Urban is paired with an
android to fight crime and investigate a deeper cover-up.  Shyamalan Series  Next year, Fox will air  M. Night Shyamalan ’s “Wayward
Pines,” a thriller starring Ethan Burke as a secret service
agent sent to a town to find two missing federal agents. The
investigation opens new questions that may unravel his life.  Also next year, Fox plans to add the dramas “Rake,” a
legal drama starring Greg Kinnear, and “Gang Related,” about a
rising star in Los Angeles’ elite gang task force played by
Ramon Rodriguez. At the same time, the network plans to air
three new comedies “Surviving Jack,” “Us & Them” and the
animated series “Murder Police.”  Fox also ordered the reality show “Junior Masterchef,” a
cooking competition featuring kids.  News Corp., controlled by Chairman and Chief Executive
Officer  Rupert Murdoch , fell 0.8 percent to $33 at 10:11 a.m. in
 New York . The stock had gained 30 percent this year as of May
10, compared with 15 percent for the  S&P 500 Index .  Fox will be part of a new entertainment company called 21st
Century Fox that will be split from News Corp.’s publishing
assets later this year. Murdoch will stay head of the business.
After the split, Robert Thomson will be CEO of News Corp., which
will mostly consist of the publishing business including the
Wall Street Journal and New York Post.  Advertising Sales  U.S. television networks are introducing new shows ahead of
meetings with their biggest advertisers to obtain commitments
and set ad rates for the TV season that begins in September. NBC
said yesterday it picked up three dramas and three comedies,
including “The Michael J. Fox Show.”  Ad spending on  network television  is projected to decline 2
percent this year to $16.9 billion, and total  TV advertising ,
including cable networks, will increase 2.8 percent to $63.9
billion, slowing from 7.1 percent in 2012, according to
ZenithOptimedia,  Publicis Groupe SA (PUB) ’s research division.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andy Fixmer in  Los Angeles  at 
 afixmer@bloomberg.net ;
Edmund Lee in New York at 
 elee310@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net ;
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  