-- French Chef Puts Crickets on Menu in Push to Use Insects as Food
-- B y   R u d y   R u i t e n b e r g
-- 2013-05-13T10:24:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-13/french-chef-puts-crickets-on-menu-in-push-to-use-insects-as-food.html
French chef David Faure says diners
don’t complain about the crickets he started  serving  with his
foie gras starter last month. Some say they wouldn’t mind more.  Faure, who runs the Michelin-starred restaurant Aphrodite
in Nice, praises the popcorn flavor of crickets and the nutty
tones that mealworms bring to his cod dish.  “I had this idea for several years, after travel to
continents where it’s normal to eat insects,” the chef said by
phone from his restaurant two days ago. “It’s really a question
of taste.”  Faure says eating insects may soon be as normal in Western
countries as having sushi. He may be onto something. The United
Nations agency in charge of agriculture published a report today
promoting insects as  food , saying their benefits merit educating
consumers in rich countries to help overcome their aversion to
finding critters in their plate.  “Consumer disgust remains one of the largest barriers to
the adoption of insects as viable sources of protein in many
Western countries,” the UN’s Rome-based Food & Agriculture
Organization said in the 201-page  report  promoting the practice
known as entomophagy.  Insects are healthy and nutritious, convert feed more
efficiently than livestock and produce less  greenhouse gases 
than pigs and cattle, according to the agency. With 9 billion
people expected on the planet by 2050, new ways of growing food
are needed, the FAO wrote.  At least 2 billion  people  worldwide eat insects as part of
their traditional diet, the FAO said. The practice hasn’t caught
on in Europe nor in the U.S.  $76.50 Meal  Faure said his insect-themed “alternative foods” menu at
59 euros ($76.50), which also includes a desert with mealworms,
may provide confidence to diners who want to try eating a little
differently.  “People will continue to put a  steak  on the barbecue, but
if from time to time people make this gesture, that can make a
difference,” the chef said.  Crawlers have a lot going for them, the FAO says. Because
they’re cold blooded and don’t spend energy to keep a constant
body temperature, insects on average convert 2 kilograms (4.4
pounds) of feed into a kilogram of animal protein, compared to 8
kilograms of feed for a kilogram of beef, according to the FAO.  Almost Fish  Mealworms have comparable amounts of unsaturated omega-3
and 6 fatty acids as fish and comparable protein, vitamin and
mineral content to meat and fish, according to the UN division.  In the tropics, where  entomophagy  is “well-established,”
edible insects should be promoted as a valuable source of
nutrition to counter growing westernization of diets, according
to the FAO. In Western societies, communication and education
needs to address the “disgust factor,” it said.  “Some clients say it’s not cuisine or stupid things like
that,” Faure said.  Faure said his biggest obstacle was finding a reliable
local supplier of edible insects. He now gets his mealworms and
crickets from  Micronutris , a company near Toulouse in southern
 France  that raises the insects on organic vegetables and meal,
rather than buying by Internet from suppliers in  Asia .  “The problem is the traceability and knowing what i put in
the plate of my clients,” the chef said.  History has shown that diets can change quickly, as proven
by the rapid acceptance of raw fish in the form of  sushi ,
according to the FAO. Insects are to Western consumers what the
Japanese delicacy was decades ago, says Faure.  “Fifty years ago it was impossible to make a European eat
sushi and now you find a sushi bar on every corner,” Faure
said. “It’s the same for insects. Pretty soon we’ll see insect
bars opening everywhere.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rudy Ruitenberg in Paris at 
 rruitenberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter in London at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  