-- French Coronavirus Case Points to Limited Human Spread
-- B y   M a t h i e u   R o s e m a i n   a n d   J a s o n   G a l e
-- 2013-05-13T10:39:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-13/french-coronavirus-case-points-to-limited-human-to-human-spread.html
(Corrects number of infections in first paragraph.)  The novel coronavirus that has killed
more than half the 34 people it’s known to have infected appears
capable of limited human-to-human spread, the  World Health
Organization  said, as  France  reported a second case.  The patient, who is hospitalized in an isolated ward,
probably caught the pneumonia-causing virus from an infected
patient in a hospital room they shared in Valenciennes, in
northeast France, in late April, the French Health Ministry and
the WHO said yesterday.  The French cases have opened up a new front in an
international effort to control the virus, which has killed 18
people globally and is related to the one that caused Severe
Acute Respiratory Syndrome, or SARS, a decade ago. The majority
of infections with the new virus have occurred in Saudi Arabia,
where the Ministry of Health reported yesterday 15 deaths from
24 confirmed cases since September. Several of the infections
have been tied to health-care centers.  “The different clusters seen in multiple countries
increasingly support the hypothesis that, when there is close
contact, this novel coronavirus can transmit from person-to-person,” WHO spokesman Gregory Hartl said in a  statement .
“This pattern of person-to-person transmission has remained
limited to some small clusters and so far, there is no evidence
that this virus has the capacity to sustain generalized
transmission in communities.”  Saudi Arabia has invited scientists from Columbia
University to help with a field and environmental survey and
also other specialists from  Canada , the U.S. and the WHO, the
Saudi Ministry of Health said.  ‘Major Challenge’  “The emergence of this new coronavirus is globally
recognized as an important and major challenge for all of the
countries which have been affected as well as the rest of the
world,” Hartl said in the WHO statement.  Investigators have yet to determine the source of the
virus, the mode of transmission, the level of human involvement
in its spread or how widespread it is, he said.  Most of the infected people have been older men, often with
other medical conditions, Hartl said. Doctors aren’t sure of the
reason for this pattern and whether it will change over time, he
said.  “Several urgent actions are needed,” Hartl said. “The
most important ones are the need for countries, both inside and
outside of the region, to increase their levels of awareness
among all people, but especially among staff working in their
health systems and to increase their levels of surveillance
about this new infection.”  Coronaviruses are a family of pathogens that cause
illnesses ranging from the common cold to SARS, which sickened
more than 8,000 people and killed 774 in 2002 and 2003,
according to the WHO. While the new virus is related to the one
that causes SARS, it appears far less transmissible, the WHO has
said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mathieu Rosemain in Paris at 
 mrosemain@bloomberg.net ;
Jason Gale in Melbourne at 
 j.gale@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  