-- Frieden Says EU Ministers May Agree on Tax Negotiating Mandate
-- B y   R e b e c c a   C h r i s t i e   a n d   S t e p h a n i e   B o d o n i
-- 2013-05-13T16:13:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-13/frieden-says-eu-ministers-may-agree-on-tax-negotiating-mandate.html
European Union finance ministers may
agree on how to negotiate tax treaties with Switzerland and
Liechtenstein without finishing updates to the bloc’s savings
tax accord, Luxembourg Finance Minister Luc Frieden said.  The long-delayed savings tax pact still needs more work,
Frieden said today. At the same time, he said it might be
possible to proceed with the negotiating mandate, which also
covers talks with Andorra,  San Marino  and  Monaco .  “We won’t agree tomorrow to the savings tax directive with
an extended use because there’s still some need for
clarification,” Frieden told reporters in Brussels. “As far as
the mandate is concerned, I suppose both Luxembourg and Austria
can accept it.”  Austria and Luxembourg have blocked the two tax agreements
because of a reluctance to cede ground on automatic tax
information exchange and other bank secrecy issues. Both nations
have in recent weeks agreed to change their information-exchange
policies, jumpstarting the EU tax talks.  Frieden said his nation might support some progress on the
savings tax accord even if it can’t be finished. “We are fine
with extending the field of use of the directive, but at the
moment we lack precision about a number of questions that need
answers,” he said.  Austrian Finance Minister Maria Fekter did not speak to
reporters when she arrived in Brussels for a euro-area finance
minister’s meeting today. Spokesman Gregor Schuetze declined to
comment on Frieden’s remarks or Austria’s voting position, when
reached by telephone today.  ‘Constructive Engagement’  European Commission spokeswoman  Emer Traynor  said the tax
issues appear to be near agreement. “We’ve seen in recent weeks
Austria move from a position of quite strong intransigence to
openness and constructive engagement,” Traynor said.  French Finance Minister  Pierre Moscovici  also predicted a
deal. “What I expect is that everybody agrees now to the fact
that we can adopt the principle contained in the directive on
savings,” Moscovici said. “This is very important.
Everything’s moving.”  France  has led calls for  Europe  to adopt an anti-tax-evasion framework similar to FATCA, the U.S. Foreign Account Tax
Compliance Act. The Group of Seven nations, which includes the
U.S., also pledged to continue efforts to fight  tax fraud  during
talks last week.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Rebecca Christie  in Brussels at 
 rchristie4@bloomberg.net ;
Stephanie Bodoni in Brussels at 
 sbodoni@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  