-- Germany Is Wrong to Delay a Real Banking Union for Europe
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2013-05-13T22:11:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-13/germany-is-wrong-to-delay-a-real-banking-union-for-europe.html
Within the next few weeks, the
European Commission is due to announce plans for a single bank-resolution authority for the euro area, a reform that is crucial
for maintaining confidence in  Europe ’s financial system.  Germany’s finance minister,  Wolfgang Schaeuble , has long
expressed doubts about this step. He has said it would require
changes to European treaties -- meaning it can’t be done quickly
-- and has opposed the pooling of taxpayer liabilities. This
week, in an op-ed article for the  Financial Times , he restated
his reservations. The timing seems calculated to undermine the
commission’s proposal.  Schaeuble isn’t as obstinate as he is often made out to be.
He is showing a newfound flexibility on fiscal austerity,
recognizing that it can be taken too far. And his doubts about a
full EU banking union aren’t unreasonable: A true union is a big
step, and in an ideal world he would be right that Europe should
move cautiously. Sadly, this isn’t an ideal world. Europe is
trapped in a severe recession, and its financial sector is
fragile. The EU can’t afford to take its time.  An EU banking union would require three main components: a
single supervisor, a single resolution authority to wind down
troubled banks and a single  deposit-insurance  system.
Governments agreed to the first part in December, when they put
the  European Central Bank  in charge and began working on
implementation. The third part, collective deposit insurance,
had already been slow-tracked before Schaeuble’s most recent
comments. Increasingly, the second part looks ready to be
shelved as well.  New Treaty  Whether a banking union really does require a new treaty is
debatable. The European Commission seems to think otherwise.
Officials there have said that the necessary changes can be made
within the terms of existing EU laws. But if Germany’s
government (to say nothing of its constitutional court) decides
otherwise, delays seem inevitable.  Does it matter? Yes. Arrangements for resolving distressed
banks can break the circuit that connects financial-sector
failure to public-sector insolvency -- the very link that caused
the euro area’s financial crisis of 2010 to flare out of
control. A single resolution authority, backed by a single
resolution fund, would commit the resources of the whole euro
area to the task of closing and restructuring failed banks.
Anything less means troubled banks would continue to be capable
of bankrupting sovereign governments.  Schaeuble understands this. He acknowledges the vital
importance of an effective bank-resolution system and rightly
says that reform can’t wait until the long process of treaty
revision is complete. He therefore proposes an intermediate step
based on “a network of national authorities.” He adds: “Instead
of a single European resolution fund -- which the industry would
take many years to fill -- such a model would lean on national
funds, which already exist in several  member states .”  This vague formula leaves room for maneuver. Schaeuble
clearly states that the costs of bank restructuring, especially
those arising from errors made under the previous regulatory
system, shouldn’t simply be pooled. But he hasn’t said exactly
how Europe should “lean on” national funds or whether cross-border transfers of any kind should be allowed. A variety of ad
hoc arrangements and cost-sharing formulas might be consistent
with what he has said.  Fiscal Transfers  Even so, this wouldn’t be a banking union, and it wouldn’t
sever the link between bank failure and national insolvency. In
a way, that’s the point: Schaeuble’s real concern is to preserve
this connection. The pooling of risk that a true banking union
entails would expose German taxpayers to unknown costs stemming
from financial breakdown in other countries. A banking union
involves fiscal transfers. German taxpayers don’t want that, and
Schaeuble thinks he’s looking out for their interests.  They are wrong, and so is he. Europe’s crisis has made it
clear that a monetary union is unacceptably dangerous without a
genuine banking union. Germans have at least as much to gain as
other Europeans from a euro system that contains financial
crises instead of propagating them, even if the added safety
comes at some (usually modest) fiscal cost.  It’s too late for the weighing of arguments and
constitutional propriety that Schaeuble says he wants.  Germany 
should have thought about all this before it agreed to create
the euro. Now that the single currency exists, Europe needs a
full banking union to go with it, and it can’t happen too soon.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 