-- Germany, France to Unveil ‘New Deal’ for EU’s Jobless Youth
-- B y   B r i a n   P a r k i n
-- 2013-05-13T12:44:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-13/germany-france-to-unveil-new-deal-for-eu-s-jobless-youth.html
Germany  and  France  will announce
joint proposals this month to address Europe’s soaring youth
unemployment, the Labor Ministry in Berlin said, confirming a
newspaper report of a planned “New Deal for Europe.”  The blueprint will be unveiled in Paris on May 28 and will
enroll the  European Investment Bank  to unlock billions of euros
in loans to companies that create jobs for young people, the
 Rheinische Post reported  today. The proposals are part of a
joint initiative termed a “New Deal for Europe” that echoes
former President  Franklin D. Roosevelt ’s drive to cut U.S.
unemployment in the 1930s, the newspaper said.  The EIB may “leverage” the 6 billion euros ($7.8 billion)
to be made available through 2020 by the European Union to offer
loans worth a total of as much as 60 billion euros, the
newspaper said, citing unnamed officials. The plan will be aired
by the German and French finance ministers,  Wolfgang Schaeuble 
and  Pierre Moscovici , and by the respective labor ministers,
Ursula von der Leyen and Michel Sapin, it said.  Chancellor Angela Merkel  sees youth unemployment as
possibly the most serious challenge facing Europe at this time,
Steffen Seibert, the chief government spokesman, said today at a
press conference in Berlin. Germany is “obliged” to impart its
“expertise” in curbing youth employment, including promoting
the country’s “dual apprenticeship” system of training that
brings together job experience with college-based training, he
said. “At the end of the day, the initiatives have to be based
on a common EU approach.”  Rising Rates  The economy of the 17-nation euro area will probably shrink
for a second year while unemployment will rise to a record 12.2
percent, the EU Commission said May 3 as it presented new
forecasts. Youth unemployment -- defined as people aged below 25
without work -- rose to 24 percent in the single currency area
in March,  according  to Eurostat.  The average masked rates of 56 percent in  Spain  and 38
percent in Portugal and Italy. Youth unemployment in the EU will
remain above 17 percent until 2015, the International Labor
Organization said May 8 in a report called “Generation at
Risk.” The rate in Germany in March was 7 percent.  “Conceivable is establishing a link between credit
conditions” on offer and the creation of jobs and training
places by companies, EIB President Werner Hoyer was cited as
telling the  Rheinische Post . The Paris meeting will be organized
by the Berggruen Institute of Governance, the newspaper said.  The Luxembourg-based EIB says  on its website  that it is
“the only bank owned and representing the interestes of Europe
Union member states.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Parkin in Berlin at 
 bparkin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  