-- German Stocks Little Changed as U.S. Sales Offset Banks
-- B y   A d r i a   C i m i n o   a n d   J o n a t h a n   M o r g a n
-- 2013-05-13T15:58:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-13/german-stocks-are-little-changed-commerzbank-declines.html
German stocks  were little changed at
a record high as better-than-forecast U.S. retail sales offset
declines in  Commerzbank AG (CBK)  and Deutsche Lufthansa AG.  Commerzbank AG fell the most in two months after
Handelsblatt reported the lender will sell new shares this week
as part of a capital increase. Lufthansa dropped 2.1 percent.
 QSC AG (QSC)  jumped 5.4 percent after posting earnings that beat
analysts’ estimates.  The  DAX Index (DAX)  added less than 0.1 percent to 8,279.29 at
the close of trading in  Frankfurt . The gauge rose for a third
straight week last week as companies reported results that beat
analysts’ estimates. The broader HDAX Index lost less than 0.1
percent today.  “The recent move has been remarkable so it’s not
surprising to see a little consolidation,” said Yves Marcais,
an equity sales trader at Global Equities in Paris. “The bank
sector is weighing on indexes.”  The volume of shares changing hands in companies on the DAX
was 28 percent lower than the average of the past 30 days,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Retail sales  in the U.S. unexpectedly rose in April,
reflecting broad-based gains that may ease concern consumers are
holding back. The 0.1 percent increase followed a 0.5 percent
drop in March, Commerce Department figures showed today in
 Washington . The  median  forecast of 81 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg called for a 0.3 percent drop.  Euro-area finance ministers met in Brussels today to review
programs for Cyprus and  Spain  and may sign off on aid payments
to  Greece .  Euro Recession  A report on May 15 may show that the euro region is
suffering the longest recession since the single currency’s
creation.  Gross domestic product  in the 17-nation economy fell
0.1 percent in the first three months of 2013, a sixth straight
quarterly decline, according to the median of 39 economists’
forecasts in a Bloomberg News survey.  Commerzbank slid 4.7 percent to 9.94 euros. Germany’s
second-largest lender will sell new shares at a discount of
about 35 percent as part of a 2.5 billion-euro ($3.3 billion)
capital increase, Handelsblatt said, citing unidentified people
in the finance industry. Karsten Swoboda, a spokesman for the
Frankfurt-based bank, declined to comment on the report.  Deutsche Bank AG,  Germany ’s biggest bank, retreated 0.3
percent to 36.10 euros, paring earlier losses of as much as 2.9
percent. A gauge of European banking stocks declined the most of
the 19 industry groups on the Stoxx  Europe  600 Index.  Lufthansa Drops  Lufthansa, Europe’s second-largest airline, retreated 2.1
percent to 15.75 euros.  A gauge of European travel companies was among the worst
performers on the Stoxx 600 amid concern that a new viral
outbreak could disrupt travel following increasing evidence of
human-to-human spread after  France  reported its second confirmed
coronavirus-related infection yesterday. The virus is related to
the one that caused Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome, or SARS,
a decade ago.  Porsche Automobil Holding SE dropped 1.2 percent to 60.28
euros after being sued by more  hedge funds  in Germany. The
plaintiffs, including Viking Global Equities LP, Glenhill
Capital LP and  David Einhorn ’s Greenlight Capital Inc., are
seeking 1.4 billion euros, Bernhard Schabel, a spokesman for the
Stuttgart Regional Court, said in an interview today. They are
suing over the carmaker’s use of options in its failed 2008 bid
to take over Volkswagen AG.  QSC climbed 5.4 percent to 2.68 euros. The provider of
network and wireless systems to small and medium-sized companies
reported first-quarter earnings before interest and taxes of 6.3
million euros ($8.2 million), surpassing analyst estimates.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adria Cimino in Paris at 
 acimino1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  