-- Gillard Fights History of Australian Political Rebounds
-- B y   J a s o n   S c o t t
-- 2013-05-13T23:34:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-13/gillard-fights-history-of-australia-rebounds-from-poll-deficits.html
Australian Prime Minister  Julia Gillard , accustomed to prevailing against the political odds,
has history stacked against her quest for re-election.  The nation’s first female leader and her ruling  Labor
Party , in the first minority government since World War II,
trails the opposition Liberal-National coalition by 16
percentage points, a May 7 Newspoll shows. The margin four
months from an election is double that of predecessors  Paul Keating  and  John Howard , who with more time in hand both
recovered to win.  “The victories of Howard and Keating show there are
historical precedents for big comebacks by incumbent prime
ministers, but not of the magnitude that Gillard needs,” said
Martin O’Shannessy, chief executive of Newspoll. “There would
need to be a large external, unpredictable game changer or a
complete collapse within the coalition. A Labor wipe-out looks
more likely than either of those scenarios.”  With the government indicating today’s budget will show a
A$17 billion ($17 billion) drop in tax revenues this fiscal
year, limiting her ability to fund pre-election promises, the
fate of Gillard, 51, on Sept. 14 may already be out of her
hands. In past come-from-behind wins, luck played a part.
Labor’s Keating benefited in 1993 from an opposition proposing a
complex  sales tax  revamp that proved unpopular. Coalition leader
Howard’s presence in  Washington  on the day of the Sept. 11,
2001, terrorist attacks gave him an international stage to show
statesmanship and promise stability at a time of tragedy.  No Walkover  Grahame Morris, a former chief of staff to Howard, predicts
the election will be closer than polls indicate, with many
voters deciding who they will vote for on the day.  “The result will probably be decided in about 12 marginal
seats throughout  Australia  that will swing to the coalition,”
he said in an interview. “I don’t think it will be a walkover
for Abbott.”  The survey by  Newspoll , which says it has accurately
predicted the result of all 56 state and federal elections since
it began in 1985, showed the government trails the Tony Abbott-
led coalition 31 percent to 47 percent among respondents’ first
choices. Labor hasn’t led in that measure since July 2010, a
month after Gillard ousted her Labor colleague  Kevin Rudd  in a
backroom party coup. Newspoll is 50 percent owned by News Ltd.
and 50 percent by Millward Brown Inc., a market-research
company.  The poll’s two-party preferred measure, designed to gauge
which party is likely to win enough seats to form a government
under Australia’s preferential voting system, showed the
coalition with a 56 percent to 44 percent lead over Labor. It
has a margin of error of 3 percent.  Unpopular Abbott  Other polls also show Gillard behind. A Nielsen survey
published April 15 in the Sydney Morning Herald showed Labor’s
primary vote on 29 percent and the coalition on 49 percent. On a
 two party basis , it showed 57 percent support for the opposition
against 43 percent for Labor. The poll has a margin of error of
2.6 percent.  Potentially keeping Gillard in the game is the fact Abbott
isn’t popular either, due to perceptions he’s negative and too
conservative. The Newspoll poll showed 51 percent of voters were
dissatisfied with his performance, with 36 percent in support,
compared with 61 percent dissatisfaction with Gillard.  The prime minister’s support has been sapped by infighting
in her party and perceptions of untrustworthiness triggered by
the way she came to power in 2010. That’s been exacerbated by
media and opposition hostility toward her government and an
economy under strain from a strong currency, creating pockets of
high unemployment in areas traditionally supportive of her
party.  Currency Woes  Even so, Australia’s headline economic figures under
Gillard compare favorably. The  unemployment rate  of 5.5 percent
in April is less than the 6.9 percent Howard faced during his
September 2001 U.S. trip. When Keating went to the polls, the
jobless rate was about 11 percent.  The national employment strength may not be enough to
convince voters in seats that traditionally support Labor. An
Australian currency that’s risen about 66 percent against its
U.S. counterpart since late October 2008, triggered by demand
for commodities, has created a two-speed economy with voters in
manufacturing and services industries in the country’s south and
east in the slow lane.  Gillard cobbled together a minority government in September
2010 with support from independents and Greens after the closest
election in seven decades. She broke with protocol by declaring
the date of the election in January, giving Abbott more than
seven months to prepare, while Keating and Howard called their
elections one month beforehand.  “Labor is looking for a game changer in a series of
mistakes by Abbott, and at the moment he’s keeping his
discipline,” said Morris, now director of political lobby group
 Barton Deakin .  Tampa Boost  Morris said Howard received a boost from his refusal in
August 2001 to let the Norwegian freighter MC Tampa enter
Australia and offload 438 refugees it had rescued in
international waters, at a time Australians were concerned about
the number of people seeking asylum in the country.  Less than a month later, when Howard was hosting a press
conference in Washington, an election win was still unlikely.
Voters were wary due to an economic slowdown, with the
implementation of a 10 percent goods and services tax feeding  a
rise in fuel and other prices.  On Sept. 11, as televisions showed images of a plane
plunging into the World Trade Center, Howard spoke of the
“horrific, awful event” occurring in  New York .  Increased Majority  That night, the Australian leader read a letter he had sent
to President  George W. Bush  and the people of the U.S.: “We
will stand by them, we will help them, we will support actions
they take to properly retaliate.”  The next poll showed support for his government had jumped
6 percentage points. Three months later, the man later lauded by
Bush as “a man of steel” won the election with an increased
majority.  “The moment 9/11 happened Howard had the election won,”
said  Andrew Hughes , who conducts political-marketing research at
the  Australian National University  in Canberra. “It seems
Gillard’s only chance of winning from here would be an event in
which she could show her leadership credentials during the
country’s time of need.”  Eight years earlier, Labor leader Keating narrowed a
similar poll deficit to claim what he described in his election
night speech in March 1993 as the “sweetest victory of all.”  Abbott Discipline  Keating’s campaign, described by some media commentators as
unwinnable, was aided by gaffs by opposition leader John Hewson.
In an appearance on prime time television, Hewson struggled to
explain how a goods and services tax he intended to implement
would affect the price of a birthday cake.  That contrasts with Abbott, who has been careful not to
release specifics on how pledges such as boosting paid parental
leave for mothers will be funded, while criticizing Gillard for
breaking her own budget promises.  Labor also benefited as Keating was able to unite the party
under his leadership, according to Greg Turnbull, who was his
senior media adviser in 1993.  “Keating had been in parliament for a quarter of a century
by the time of that election, and he was able to galvanize
Labor,” said Turnbull. “Gillard displays a couple of his key
characteristics -- she is determined and she’s a fighter.”  Gillard Agenda  Gillard, a former union lawyer, has sought to sell her
policies of boosting spending for education and health care.  She’s had wins in both areas, with Abbott supporting a rise
in the public health levy to fund increased disabled-care
funding, while New South Wales -- the biggest state and
controlled by the coalition -- last month declared its support
to boost education spending throughout the nation by A$14.5
billion over six years.  Gillard has struggled to focus voter attention on her
record of passing legislation, including taxes on mining profits
and  carbon emissions . That message has been diluted by party
infighting that culminated in March, when Rudd was urged by a
Labor colleague to challenge Gillard for the second time in
little more than a year.  “It seems there hasn’t been a week in the term of this
minority government that hasn’t featured either bad management
or bad luck, or both,” Turnbull said. “I don’t think Gillard
can win from here,” although she could make up some ground
before September, he said.  Gillard has accused the opposition of using gender rhetoric
to undermine her leadership, a contention Abbott refutes.  “We know things can be better,” Abbott, 55, said on April
27 in Adelaide. “We know we can have a government that doesn’t
try to divide Australians. We know we can have a government that
doesn’t play the outdated class war card.”  Comeback Unprecedented  Abbott, a Rhodes scholar and former journalist who once
studied for the priesthood, is pledging to scrap Gillard’s
carbon and mining-profits taxes and revamp an industrial
relations program he says gives too much power to unions. He
claims Labor’s policies have damaged the economy, after the
government backed down in December from a pledge to report a
surplus when the budget is released in Canberra today.  The budget will focus on delivering jobs and economic
growth, as well as making “big investments” in education and
disability care beyond the four-year economic cycle, Treasurer
 Wayne Swan  told reporters in Canberra today.  “The length of time that Labor has been behind combined
with the size of the deficit would make a comeback from here
unprecedented,” said  John Warhurst , a political analyst at the
Australian National University in Canberra.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jason Scott  in Canberra at 
 jscott14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  