-- Glencore Xstrata Halts Work on Balaclava Coal Port in Australia
-- B y   B e n   S h a r p l e s
-- 2013-05-13T05:44:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-13/glencore-xstrata-halts-work-on-balaclava-coal-port-in-australia.html
Glencore Xstrata Plc (GLEN) , the world’s
biggest shipper of thermal coal, halted work on the Balaclava
Island export terminal in Australia’s Queensland state because
of poor market conditions and overcapacity.  Specific shipping limitations and concerns about the
industry’s medium-term outlook added to the decision to shelve
the new terminal, the company said in an e-mailed statement
today. The facility had a planned export capacity of 35 million
tons a year, according to the Glencore Xstrata website. Spot
coal  prices  have declined 4.4 percent this year to $86.65 a
metric ton, data from IHS McCloskey show.  Glencore Xstrata is among companies that are shelving
projects and reducing workers to cut costs amid falling prices
and weakening demand. Power-station coal contracts were settled
at the lowest since 2009 last month, according to two people
with knowledge of the deal. Work on Balaclava Island, 40
kilometers (24 miles) north of Gladstone in Queensland, was
stopped after a review following Glencore International Plc’s
takeover of Xstrata Plc on May 2, the company said.  In the long-term,  Australia  will need to increase its coal-export capacity in an efficient and internationally competitive
manner in response to a rise in demand in Asia, Glencore Xstrata
said in the statement.  Coal at the Australian port of Newcastle, Asia’s benchmark
price, rose 85 cents to $86.65 in the seven days ended May 3,
the first gain in three weeks, data from IHS McCloskey show.
Prices averaged $94.29 last year after slipping to a three-year
low of $78.05 on Oct. 19.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ben Sharples in Melbourne at 
 bsharples@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  