-- GM to Spend $100 Million to Build Michigan Data Center
-- B y   T i m   H i g g i n s
-- 2013-05-13T20:08:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-13/gm-to-spend-100-million-to-build-michigan-data-center.html
General Motors Co. (GM)  said it will spend
$100 million to build a  data center  in Michigan as part of its
overhaul of information technology operations  The new facility in Milford, Michigan, northwest of GM’s
 Detroit  headquarters, follows a $130 million facility in Warren,
another Detroit suburb, that opened last year, GM said today in
a statement. Construction on the second center begins this year
with plans for it to open in July 2014.  “Today every single length of the automotive value chain
is wired and connected and that means from design to the
showroom floor,” Chief Executive Officer Dan Akerson said today
during a speech at the Warren facility. “You have to have a
core competency in IT. You have to own it and you have to
control it.”  The centers are part of a reorganization of GM’s IT work.
GM had done about 10 percent of its IT work internally. Chief
Information Officer Randy Mott plans to boost that to 90 percent
as Akerson pushes to update GM’s computer and financial
reporting systems. The automaker started with about 1,500 in-house IT workers and ultimately wants to have about 9,000, Mott
said in January.  GM’s competitors hired outside companies to perform as much
as 35 percent of their IT work, Mott told reporters today.  “When we started this journey we were the most outsourced
and I think we’ll end on the side of being the least outsourced
when we get to the 90 percent in-sourced,” Mott said.  Hiring Plans  The two new  Michigan  facilities will replace a network of
23 data centers operated by GM and three information technology
suppliers, according to the statement. The Warren facility has
48 work stations and a 955-square-foot (89-square-meter) video
wall.  GM will build the second data center at its Milford Proving
Ground test track, the company said. About $158 million worth of
equipment will be installed, according to the statement. Milford
is about 40 miles (64 kilometers) from Detroit. The company is
spending $546 million on the two facilities and the equipment
for each, Mott said.  GM plans to add about 7,500 information technology workers
over as many as five years as it shifts such work in-house
instead of using outside contractors such as  Palo Alto ,
California-based  Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ)   The automaker has also announced so-called innovation
centers in Warren, suburban Atlanta, suburban Phoenix and
Austin,  Texas . GM said it will absorb 3,000 Hewlett-Packard
workers who had been performing duties for the autoworker.  Akerson’s Goals  GM fell 1.3 percent to $31 at the close in  New York . The
shares have gained 7.5 percent this year, compared with a 15
percent climb for the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.  Akerson is pushing GM toward several mid-decade goals,
including boosting North America operating margin to 10 percent,
stemming loses in  Europe  and increasing sales in  China  to 5
million from  2.84 million  last year.  He pushed to upgrade the company’s IT efforts and financial
reporting systems as part of a broader effort to reorganize the
automaker around global brands and away from regional
authorities. In October, Akerson named Bob Ferguson to a newly
created position overseeing Cadillac globally.  A global Chevrolet leader will be named soon, Akerson told
reporters today after his speech.  “I think we’ve made great progress,” the CEO said of the
company’s efforts. “I don’t know if we’ll ever stop evolving,
almost by definition, we should never stop. Quite frankly, I
think some of that was lacking in the years leading up to” GM’s
2009 government-backed bankruptcy.  As part of its efforts to refresh its product line, GM is
bringing about 20 new or refreshed vehicles to the U.S. this
year. GM reached an 88-year-low in U.S. market share in 2012.  Over the next three years, GM will invest more than $16
billion in  North America  “to refresh our product at twice the
rate we have in the prior three years,” Akerson said during his
speech.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tim Higgins in Warren, Michigan at 
 thiggins21@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  