-- Gold Rush Seen Lifting Profit at Biggest Jewelry Maker
-- B y   S w a n s y   A f o n s o   a n d   M a l a v i k a   S h a r m a
-- 2013-05-14T11:04:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-13/gold-rush-lifts-profit-at-biggest-jewelry-maker-corporate-india.html
A surge in demand for gold ornaments
and coins after the biggest slump in prices in three decades is
poised to boost profit at  Rajesh Exports Ltd. (RJEX) , India’s largest
manufacturer and exporter of jewelry.  Net income  in the three months ending June may advance 20
percent after rising 3.3 percent in the same period a year
earlier, Rajesh Mehta, chairman of the Bangalore-based company
said in a phone interview yesterday. Sales at the 75 retail
outlets owned by the company probably surged as much as 40
percent yesterday during Akshaya Tritiya, the biggest gold-buying occasion, from a year ago, he said.  The festival considered to be an auspicious day to buy the
precious metal led to shoppers crowding jewelry stores to buy
ornaments lifting sales at retailers such as Rajesh,  Titan
Industries Ltd. (TTAN)  and  Gitanjali Gems Ltd. (GITG) , while a company roped
in cricketer Sachin Tendulkar to promote its coins. Gold
plummeted 14 percent in two sessions through April 15 in the
worst slide since 1983, boosting demand from India to  Australia .  “Gold is God’s currency for people so the faith is much
more,”  Prithviraj Kothari , managing director of Riddisiddhi
Bullions Ltd. said yesterday. “Indians have blind faith in
gold. From birth to death people need gold.”  Imports by India, the world’s biggest bullion consumer, may
soar 47 percent this quarter to 225 metric tons from a year
earlier as the drop in prices and festivals spurs demand, Haresh Soni, chairman of the All India Gems & Jewellery Trade
Federation, said yesterday. Sales during Akshaya Tritiya are
estimated to be 20 percent more than a year earlier, he said.  Never Diminishing  During Akshaya, a Sanskrit word meaning “that which never
diminishes,” Indians begin new ventures or buy valuables with
the belief it will bring luck and prosperity. Based on the lunar
calendar, the date changes every year.  Gold sales  may jump 50 percent to 30 tons during this
year’s festival, said Kothari, who chose the day to open his
first retail outlet to sell diamond-studded jewelry in Mumbai’s
Zaveri Bazaar. The festival is considered by the country’s more
than 900 million Hindus as the traditional day to buy precious
metals. Bullion is also bought during religious festivals and
marriages as part of the bridal trousseau or gifted in the form
of jewelry by relatives.  Gitanjali,  India ’s biggest gold and diamond jewelry
retailer by revenue, forecasts sales will increase 30 percent to
35 percent this quarter from a year earlier, Managing Director
Mehul Choksi said yesterday. Deliveries during Akshaya Tritiya
may have increased 50 percent to 60 percent, he said.  Caressing Gold  “I buy gold for every Akshaya Tritiya,” said 45-year-old
housewife Heena Makwana, as she and her sari-clad mother
caressed a gold bar they purchased at Vimalsons Jewellers in
Zaveri Bazaar. “Usually I buy 5 grams-10 grams, but this year I
have bought 100 grams because of the low rate.”  Rajesh Exports fell 3.3 percent to 121.55 rupees at 3:30
p.m. close in Mumbai trading, while Titan lost 1.1 percent to
282.30 rupees and Gitanjali retreated 2.4 percent to 586.25
rupees. Rajesh Exports reported a profit of 982.6 million rupees
in the three months ended June 30 last year.  “Gold demand is going to increase for two reasons -- India
is the largest consumer of gold, and the price of gold is at a
very lucrative level,” said Navneet Goenka, managing director
and vice chairman of  Goenka Diamond and Jewels Ltd . “They think
gold looks like a very secure commodity right now.”  Gold entered a bear market in  London  in April as investors
sold the metal in favor of riskier assets on speculation that
the global economy was recovering. The precious metal is off to
its worst start to the year since 1982, losing 15 percent.  Sachin Tendulkar  Bullion for immediate delivery fell 0.1 percent to
$1,428.76 an ounce. While gold has rebounded from a two-year low
of $1,321.95 on April 16, it is 26 percent below the record
$1,921.15 reached in 2011. Futures tumbled to as low as 25,270
rupees per 10 grams on the  Multi Commodity Exchange of India
Ltd. (MCX)  on April 16, the cheapest since September 2011. The June-delivery contract fell 0.5 percent to 26,733 rupees today.  Jewelers in India announced a slew of offers from discounts
on ornament-making charges to gift vouchers to lure buyers on
Akshaya Tritiya. Valuemart Gold & Jewels Ltd. roped in Tendulkar
to promote coins embossed with the image and signature of the
cricketing icon. The company is selling gold coins weighing 10
grams each priced at 34,000 rupees, Valuemart said on its
website.The World Gold Council and  India Post  are offering a 7
percent discount on coins, while Bullion India is promising free
home-delivery for online purchases.  ‘Perennial Demand’  “There are more people buying gold jewelry this year
rather than coins as prices have slumped,” Yashovardhan Zaveri,
managing director of Tribhovandas Bhimji Zaveri Delhi Pvt., said
from his jewelry store in New Delhi. “Normally, coins are
preferred on auspicious days.”  Banks in India are charging a premium of $10 an ounce
compared with $2 before prices slumped, he said. Premiums may
ease to $4 by mid-June when demand typically eases because of
the monsoon, he said.  “There’s a perennial demand for gold in India and any dip
in the price is seen as a buying opportunity,” said  Jagannadham Thunuguntla , chief strategist at SMC  Global Securities Ltd. (GLBS)  in
New Delhi. “Jewelers have been growing in the past five to six
years with the phenomenal, unprecedented gold rally, and they
are continuing to be the beneficiaries.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Swansy Afonso in Mumbai at 
 safonso2@bloomberg.net ;
Malavika Sharma in New Delhi at 
 msharma52@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  