-- Gold Imports by India May Surge as Festival Lures Shoppers
-- B y   S w a n s y   A f o n s o
-- 2013-05-13T13:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-13/gold-imports-by-india-to-surge-as-festival-slump-lure-shoppers.html
Gold imports by  India , the world’s
biggest consumer, may soar this quarter as a plunge in prices
spurs demand for jewelry, coins and bars during the country’s
biggest bullion festival, a jewelers’ group said.  Inbound shipments may jump 47 percent to 225 metric tons in
the three months through June from 153 tons a year earlier, said
Haresh Soni, chairman of the All India Gems & Jewellery Trade
Federation. Sales during Akshaya Tritiya, the auspicious gold-buying festival today, are estimated to be 20 percent more than
a year earlier, he said.  Shoppers crowded jewelry stores and bank outlets across
India to buy ornaments and coins, potentially helping gold
extend a rally from a two-year low even as holdings in exchange-traded funds backed by the precious metal tumble. Bullion
plummeted 14 percent in two sessions through April 15 in the
worst slide since 1983, boosting demand from India to  China  and
 Australia  and causing a shortage of supplies.  “Gold is God’s currency for people so the faith is much
more,”  Prithviraj Kothari , managing director of Riddisiddhi
Bullions Ltd., and a former president of the  Bombay Bullion
Association , said by phone from Mumbai. “People buy gold on
Akshaya Tritiya as the belief is that anything bought on the day
will only multiply.”  Auspicious Day  Akshaya Tritiya is considered by the country’s more than
900 million Hindus as the traditional day to buy precious
metals. Bullion is bought during festivals and marriages as part
of the bridal trousseau or gifted in the form of jewelry by
relatives.  Gold sales  may jump 50 percent to 30 tons during this
year’s festival, Kothari said.  “We are on a holiday but since this is the most auspicious
day of the year we came to buy gold,” Narendra Holkar, a 50-year-old businessman from Bangalore, said while scanning a set
of intricately designed jewelry at a shop in Mumbai’s Zaveri
Bazaar. Holkar plans to buy a necklace and pendant for his 19-year-old daughter.  Bullion entered a  bear market  in  London  in April as
investors sold the metal in favor of riskier assets on
speculation that the global economy was recovering. The precious
metal is off to its worst start to the year since 1982, losing
15 percent.  ‘Dramatic Increase’  Gold for immediate delivery fell 1.1 percent to $1,432.78
an ounce at 6:49 p.m. in Mumbai. While bullion has rebounded
from a two-year low of $1,321.95 on April 16, it is 25 percent
below the record $1,921.15 reached in 2011.  “The dramatic increase in demand this time due to the
slump in prices has led to shoppers advancing purchases,” Soni
said in a phone interview from New Delhi. “If the positive
sentiment continues, then demand in May will also be good. All
jewelers are optimistic about demand during Akshaya Tritiya and
advance bookings this year have been very good.”  Jewelers in India have announced a slew of offers from
discounts on ornament-making charges to gift vouchers to lure
buyers on Akshaya Tritiya. A bullion manufacturer, Valuemart
Gold and Jewels Ltd., roped in cricketing icon Sachin Tendulkar
to promote its gold coins. The World Gold Council and  India Post 
are offering a 7 percent discount on coins, while Bullion India
is promising free home-delivery for online purchases.  “There are more people buying gold jewelry this year
rather than coins as prices have slumped,” Yashovardhan Zaveri,
managing director of Tribhovandas Bhimji Zaveri Delhi Pvt., said
from his jewelry store in  New Delhi . “Normally, coins are
preferred on auspicious days.”  Until Midnight  Most stores will be open for business until midnight today
as the summer heat may keep shoppers indoors during the day,
said Soni from the trade federation.  “Supply is a major problem for Indian jewelers as they are
getting only about 20 percent of their requirements,” he said.
“Because of the huge demand right now in India and China, banks
are quoting a higher premium.”  Banks in India are charging a premium of $10 an ounce
compared with $2 before prices slumped, he said. Premiums may
ease to $4 by mid-June when demand typically eases because of
the monsoon, he said.  The  Reserve Bank  of India today said it would immediately
restrict imports on a consignment basis by banks only to
those required to meet the “genuine” needs of jewelry
exporters. The move is part of its plan to contain a record
current-account deficit and was first announced on May 3. The
decision may drive up premiums further, said Kumar Jain, vice
president of the Mumbai Jewellers Association.  The trade deficit widened in April to $17.8 billion from
$10.31 billion in March as gold and silver imports more than
doubled to $7.5 billion in April from a year ago, Anup Pujari,
director general of foreign trade, said in New Delhi today.  India’s gold imports dropped 11 percent last year to 860
tons from a record 969 tons in 2011, the council estimates.
Demand for jewelry and investment fell to 864.2 tons in 2012,
the second straight year of declines, it said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Swansy Afonso in  Mumbai  at 
 safonso2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  