-- Guinness Nigeria Profit Declines as Consumer Spending Squeezed
-- B y   C h r i s   K a y
-- 2013-05-13T11:19:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-13/guinness-nigeria-profit-declines-as-consumer-spending-squeezed.html
Guinness Nigeria Plc (GUINNESS) , the West
African nation’s second-largest brewer, said nine-month profit
declined 18 percent as weak  consumer spending  stifled growth.  Net income fell to 7.6 billion naira ($48.3 million) in the
nine months through March, compared with 9.3 billion a year
earlier, the local unit of London-based  Diageo Plc (DGE)  said today in
a statement on the Nigerian Stock Exchange website. Revenue
climbed 3 percent to 94.9 billion naira, while cost of sales
increased 7 percent to 48.2 billion naira.  Inflation in Africa’s most populous nation raised raw
material costs and crimped consumer spending on beer and non-alcoholic beverages, Guiness Nigeria Chief Executive Officer
Seni Adetu said on a conference call in February. The company’s
management is scheduled to host a call with analysts at 2 p.m.
local time in Lagos,  Nigeria ’s commercial capital.  “It would appear that the company has not yet recovered
from the squeeze on household wallets that affected most
consumer names last year and brought about a slowdown in beer
consumption,” Tunde Abidoye, a Lagos-based analyst at FBN
Capital Ltd., wrote in an e-mailed note today. “In addition, we
feel Guinness Nigeria’s beer volumes are seeing increasing
competition from both traditional rivals such as  Nigerian
Breweries Plc (NB)  as well as  SABMiller Plc (SAB) , which is making in-roads
into the low-end segment of the Nigerian beer market.”  Guinness Nigeria’s share price was unchanged at 280 naira
at 12:03 p.m. in Lagos trading. The stock has increased 1.8
percent this year, compared with a 28 percent gain on the
 Nigerian Stock Exchange All-Share Index. (NGSEINDX)   To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Kay in Abuja at 
 ckay5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vernon Wessels at 
 vwessels@bloomberg.net  