-- Liberals Fulfilling Caricature in Flextime Fight
-- B y   R a m e s h   P o n n u r u
-- 2013-05-13T22:00:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-13/liberals-fulfilling-caricature-in-flextime-fight.html
It didn’t get a lot of attention. It
happened the same day as hearings on the Benghazi attacks and
the announcement of a verdict in the Jodi Arias trial. But House
Majority Leader  Eric Cantor  took a modest step forward last week
in his plan to broaden the Republican agenda beyond budget cuts.  In February, Cantor had given a  speech  titled “Making Life
Work,” in which he argued that the government should enact
conservative policies that would make a difference in people’s
daily lives. As an example, he said the government ought to make
it easier for employers to offer flextime to their workers.  On May 8, the House passed a bill to do just that. Under
the  Fair Labor Standards Act  of 1938, workers who get an hourly
wage must be paid 50 percent more for overtime work. They can’t
take their compensation in the form of an equivalent amount of
time off. The House bill, introduced by  Alabama  Republican
Martha Roby, would make it possible for them to get an hour and
a half off in the future in return for an hour of overtime
today.  Karen DeLoach, a bookkeeper from Montgomery, Alabama,
 testified  before Congress last month that a flextime option
would make it easier for her to help out her niece, who has
special needs, and to go on mission trips overseas with her
church. April is a busy time for her because of tax returns, and
she would like to be able to bank hours then for these purposes.  Almost all  House Democrats  disagree with DeLoach, and voted
against the flextime bill. They say it would erode the sacred
principle of the 40-hour work week and let unscrupulous
employers coerce workers into turning down overtime pay.  Republicans note that state employees have had the ability
to substitute comp time for overtime pay since 1985 and say it’s
time for private-sector workers to have the same options. The
Democratic retort is that private-sector workers are more
vulnerable to their employers because they don’t have civil-service protections and are less likely to be unionized.  A Caricature  The bill attempts to make up for this difference by
providing new safeguards for private-sector workers. The
legislation requires companies to comply with an employee’s
request to cash out his or her accumulated comp time within 30
days, which isn’t the usual practice in the government.  Republican rhetoric often exaggerates how hostile to
business Democrats are, but the way they approach issues like
this one forms the basis of the caricature. Offered a proposal
designed to let employers and workers help each other out, they
reacted with reflexive suspicion of businessmen and free
markets. They let the theoretical potential for abuse in some
cases trump all the people, like DeLoach, whom the proposal
could help.  Instead of letting businesses offer flextime, the
Democrats’ preferred policy is to require them to offer paid
leave. The  Congressional Research Service   has pointed out  that
such a policy could well lead employers to reduce take-home pay.
That’s strange logic: To protect workers from the risk of being
pressured into lower take-home pay, the Democrats would actually
create a risk that they will get lower take-home pay. But at
least nobody will be manipulating their choices, since they
won’t have any. It’s the kind of perversity that led my old
boss, William F. Buckley Jr., to quip that liberals are for
anything as long as it’s coercive.  The arguments against the flextime bill don’t really
account for the changes in American society since 1938. The law
was enacted at a time when the U.S. had a much more rigid
division of labor by gender, and paid workers -- overwhelmingly
male -- were much less likely to want time off to be caregivers
than they are today.  High Ground  A simple question puts the objections in perspective: If
our society hadn’t inherited government restrictions on
flextime, would we impose them now? That is, if the law already
allowed companies to offer flextime instead of higher pay, in
return for overtime, would Congress vote to take that option
away? Would most people want it to? It seems pretty clear that
the answer to all these questions is no.  United Democratic opposition means this bill won’t pass the
Senate or be signed by the president. But Republicans seem
confident that they have the political high ground. They are
sending out e-mails with titles such as “Why did Elizabeth Esty
vote against families?” (She’s a Connecticut Democrat in the
House.) Unions may want to stick with the rules of 1938 forever,
but that doesn’t seem like a very good bet.  ( Ramesh Ponnuru  is a Bloomberg View columnist, a visiting
fellow at the  American Enterprise Institute  and a senior editor
at National Review. The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Ramesh Ponnuru at  rponnuru@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Timothy Lavin at   tlavin1@bloomberg.net  