-- Impax Considering Backing Solar Companies in China, Europe, U.S.
-- B y   L o u i s e   D o w n i n g
-- 2013-05-13T19:25:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-13/impax-mulls-investing-in-solar-companies-in-u-s-china-europe.html
Impax Asset Management Group Plc (IPX) ,
managing about $3.5 billion, is evaluating investments in four
or five publicly traded solar companies in China,  Europe  and the
U.S. as the oversupply of manufacturing capacity declines and
prices recover.  The investor is looking at a company that leases sites for
parks, a producer of inverters and a couple of low-cost Chinese
makers of polysilicon and panels, Bruce Jenkyn-Jones, managing
director of listed equities at Impax, said in an interview.  “If you’re investing in the stock market today in the
renewables sector, the first place you would look is the solar
sector,” Jenkyn-Jones said. “This is starting to turn around
and there are pockets of opportunity emerging for long-term
investors.” London-based Impax’s listed equities unit currently
has less than 10 percent of its assets invested in renewables.  Producers have been battling a glut as  China  raised output
even as European subsidies for renewables fell because of fiscal
austerity. That cut solar panel prices 55 percent in the past
two years, trimming margins and pushing more than 30 companies,
including Q-Cells SE and a unit of Suntech Power Holdings Co.
into bankruptcy. More are likely to follow, Jenkyn-Jones said.  While oversupply remains a problem, clean energy will be a
long-term investment opportunity as long as there’s a need to
cut reliance on fossil fuels and renewables costs fall, he said.
The situation’s improving in  India  and  Brazil  and the California
rooftop leasing market is “very interesting,” the MD said.  Market Distorted  “Renewables was a market distorted by subsidies,” said
Jenkyn-Jones. “Falling costs are now reducing subsidies,
leading to more sustainable business models. Consolidation is
also likely to lead to a more efficient market.”  Impax is also studying Asian companies involved in wind
power such as suppliers of gearboxes and turbines, as well as
maintaining some investments in wind-farm operators, he said.  The firm’s biggest investments are in  energy efficiency ,
where the payback periods are shrinking as prices fall and
regulation supports use of the technology, Jenkyn-Jones said.  The investor has increased holdings in the water industry,
particularly infrastructure.  Population growth  and rising wealth
is driving investment in  Asia , and China’s current five-year
economic plan includes spending on water infrastructure, Jenkyn-Jones said. The U.S. and U.K. are replacing aging networks.  Impax, an investor in closely held companies through its
private-equity division, in September 2011 raised 330 million
euros ($428 million) in such a fund for European wind. The fund
will be fully invested in renewable energy projects by 2015.  The company managed about $3.5 billion for institutions and
wealthy investors worldwide on April 30, it said on its website.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Louise Downing in London at 
 ldowning4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  