-- Indonesia Moves to End Finance Minister-to-Fuel Price Ambiguity
-- B y   A g u s   S u h a n a
-- 2013-05-13T06:36:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-13/indonesia-moves-to-end-finance-minister-to-fuel-price-ambiguity.html
President  Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono  is
poised to swear in a new finance chief as early as tomorrow
while his government prepares to set higher subsidized-fuel
prices, moving to end policy ambiguity that has hurt investor
confidence and the currency.  Acting Finance Minister Hatta Rajasa said today that the
inauguration of his replacement, whom he declined to identify,
would take place this week. He also said he signed a revised
state budget that will be presented to Parliament tomorrow. The
government has said the new budget will contain details of a
compensation plan to offset the impact of higher fuel prices on
the poor.  “There’s been an overhang on the markets, on confidence,
so I think further delays could have undermined the government’s
credibility, and the president’s as well,” said Chua Hak Bin,
an economist at Bank of America Corp. in  Singapore , referring to
the finance minister appointment and the fuel policy.  The Indonesian rupiah is worst performing currency in  Asia 
after the yen in the past year as surging oil imports strained
government finances and led to a record current-account
shortfall. Delays in curbing fuel subsidies have already cost
the country a positive outlook on its sovereign  credit rating  at
 Standard & Poor’s , and Yudhoyono has said he will only increase
prices after Parliament approves compensation for the poor.  The government intends to raise subsidized gasoline prices
to 6,500 rupiah ($0.67) a liter, and subsidized diesel to 5,500
rupiah per liter, Planning Minister Armida Alisjahbana told
reporters today.  Yield Gap  The difference in yield between Indonesia’s two- and 10-year bonds narrowed to the least since February earlier today
after the government spelled out its plans for fuel subsidies in
recent weeks. The yield spread shrank 20 basis points this month
to 95 in Jakarta, the least since Feb. 25, according to prices
from the Inter Dealer Market Association.  Consumer prices  rose 5.57 percent in April from a year
earlier, slowing from a 22-month high of 5.9 percent in March.
Bank  Indonesia  will release its monetary policy decision
tomorrow, with all 21 economists surveyed by Bloomberg
predicting the  reference rate  will be left at 5.75 percent.  Inflation may accelerate to as much as 8 percent after the
government raises fuel prices, Chua said.  Without a reduction in fuel subsidies, the cost of
maintaining the subsidies may rise to 297.7 trillion rupiah this
year from the current target of 193.8 trillion rupiah, Yudhoyono
has said. Indonesia spent 211.9 trillion rupiah on fuel
subsidies last year, spurring demand for energy products that
contributed to a record  trade deficit  in October.  Rating Outlook  Rajasa, who is also coordinating minister for the economy,
took over the finance job last month from Agus Martowardojo, who
is set to become the next  Bank Indonesia  chief. The appointment
of Rajasa on April 19 rattled markets as stocks fell after the
announcement.  S&P cut its rating outlook on Indonesia’s debt to stable
from positive on May 2, saying a stalling of reform momentum and
a weaker external profile have reduced the chance of an upgrade
over the next 12 months. The company ranks Indonesia at its
highest junk level, opting not to follow Fitch Ratings Ltd. and
Moody’s Investors Service in restoring  Southeast Asia ’s largest
economy to investment grade.  S&P said it may raise the country’s rating if the fuel
reforms are finalized, the state budget is improved, or if
structural reforms boost economic growth.  Indonesia’s  economy grew  at the slowest pace in more than
two years last quarter as slower exports and  government spending 
countered gains in consumption and investment.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Agus Suhana at 
 asuhana1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  