-- Minnesota Senate Sends Gay Marriage Measure to Dayton
-- B y   E s m é   E .   D e p r e z
-- 2013-05-13T21:20:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-13/minnesota-senate-sends-gay-marriage-measure-to-dayton.html
Minnesota ’s Senate approved same-sex
marriage, sending the measure to Governor Mark Dayton, whose
signature would make his the 12th U.S. state where gays can wed.  The state’s upper chamber, led by Democrats, voted 37-30 in
St. Paul today on the bill, which would take effect Aug. 1. The
Democratic-led House approved it last week. Dayton, a member of
the Democratic-Farmer-Labor party, has said people have a
constitutional right to marry those they love.  “Sometimes the simplest bills are the most powerful in
affecting peoples’ lives for the better,” Senator Scott Dibble
of the DFL party said during floor debate.  “With just a few
words we have the ability to bring loving families across the
entire state of Minnesota to the full sunshine of equality and
freedom that they’ve been denied for so long.”  Dibble married his husband in  California  during the narrow
window in 2008 when it was legal there.  Minnesota would become the second Midwestern state to grant
gays the right to wed, after legalization in neighboring  Iowa 
came by way of a court ruling in 2009. The law’s passage creates
an archipelago of states beyond the East and West coasts, where
most of the 11 states that already have such laws are located.
House members in nearby  Illinois  may be the next to act, after
the state senate approved a bill in February.  Untouched Constitution  Six months ago, Minnesota voters spurned an effort to amend
their constitution to keep gays from marrying. It’s the third
state in less than two weeks to approve gay marriage, following
Rhode Island and  Delaware .  Same-sex marriage is now legal in  Massachusetts ,  Maine , New
Hampshire,  Vermont , Connecticut, Delaware, Rhode Island,
Washington, Iowa, New York, and  Maryland , in addition to the
District of Columbia.  Senator Warren Limmer, a Minnesota Republican who voted
against the bill, said it didn’t go far enough in protecting
religious organizations and people who oppose gay vows.  Brian Brown, president of the National Organization for
Marriage, a Washington-based group, said in a  statement  last
week after the House vote that opponents will not back down.  “Minnesota will someday, once again, reflect the truth
about marriage in its laws, of that we are confident,” he said.
“The recent actions in Minnesota should serve as a wakeup call
to other states that have not yet passed marriage protection
amendments: If you do not protect marriage proactively in your
constitution, the powerful and wealthy gay marriage lobby will
target your state for their next campaign to change your laws.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Esmé E. Deprez in New York at 
 edeprez@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at   smerelman@bloomberg.net  