-- Iran Candidates for June 14 Presidential Vote: An Overview
-- B y   L a d a n e   N a s s e r i
-- 2013-05-13T06:28:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-13/iran-candidates-for-june-14-presidential-vote-an-overview-1-.html
Iranians on June 14 will cast ballots
to pick a successor to President  Mahmoud Ahmadinejad , who is
barred by the constitution from seeking a third consecutive
term. Candidates had until May 11 to register for the race, with
686 signing up.  Candidates will be screened by the Guardian Council for
their qualifications and loyalty to the Islamic Republic. The
list of approved candidates will be announced on May 22.  The following are some of the potential front-runners and
other notable candidates.  Ali Akbar Hashemi Rafsanjani  Rafsanjani is among the founders of the Islamic republic
and has wielded power since its creation in 1979. He was its
president from 1989 to 1997 and sought to regain the post in the
2005 election, losing to Ahmadinejad. A son and daughter who
backed the opposition movement born out of the disputed 2009
election were temporarily jailed on charges of inciting unrest
and spreading propaganda. Rafsanjani was born in 1934.  Ali Akbar Velayati  Velayati, a physician by training, is a senior foreign
policy adviser to Supreme Leader  Ayatollah Ali Khamenei .
Velayati, 67, served as foreign minister through the Iran-Iraq
war in the 1980s and until 1997.  Mohammad Baqer Qalibaf  Qalibaf, the mayor of Tehran, ran and lost to Ahmadinejad
in 2005. He has used the capital as a platform to foster a
reputation as a politician who gets things done. Qalibaf, a
former Revolutionary Guards air force commander, also served as
a national police chief. He’s 52 this year.  Gholam-Ali Haddad Adel  Haddad Adel, 68, is an adviser to Khamenei and a former
parliamentary speaker. His daughter is married to Khamenei’s
son.  Saeed Jalili  Jalili, 47, is  Iran ’s top nuclear negotiator and the
secretary of the country’s Supreme National Security Council. He
is a former deputy foreign minister for European and American
affairs and a veteran of the eight-year  Iran-Iraq war .  Mohsen Rezai  Rezai is the secretary of Iran’s Expediency Council, a top
arbitration body, and a former Revolutionary Guards commander.
Rezai, who’s 58 this year, ran in the 2009 election and lost to
Ahmadinejad.  Esfandiar Rahim Mashaei  Mashaei is Ahmadinejad’s top aide and protégé, and his
daughter is married to the president’s son. Mashaei has sought
to project himself as an Iranian nationalist and Ahmadinejad’s
critics, including senior clerics, have accused Mashaei of
initiating a “current of deviation,” which they say is
endangering the Islamic Republic.  Mohammad Reza Rahimi  Rahimi is Ahmadinejad’s vice president and a former
governor of Iran’s western Kordestan province.  Hassan Rohani  Rohani was a chief nuclear negotiator under former
President Mohammad Khatami and also has ties with Rafsanjani. He
is 64.  Mohammad Reza Aref  Aref was a vice president during Khatami’s second term in
the early 2000s and is a professor at a Tehran university.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ladane Nasseri in Dubai at 
 lnasseri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  