-- Ahmadinejad Draws Fire for Promoting Aide as Successor
-- B y   L a d a n e   N a s s e r i
-- 2013-05-13T14:41:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-13/iran-s-ahmadinejad-draws-fire-for-promoting-aide-to-succeed-him.html
Iranian President  Mahmoud Ahmadinejad 
has drawn fire from lawmakers and the Guardian Council that vets
presidential candidates for promoting a close aide to succeed
him in next month’s election.  All 12 council members agreed that Ahmadinejad’s presence
at the  Interior Ministry  on May 11 “to introduce one of the
candidates was illegal under election law,” spokesman Abbas Ali
Kadkhodaei told the state-run  Iranian Students News Agency 
yesterday. “The matter has been conveyed to the judiciary.”  About 150 lawmakers filed a complaint to the judiciary over
Ahmadinejad’s “illegal” backing of his protégé, Esfandiar
Rahim Mashaei, the state-run  Mehr  news agency reported today.  The protests underscore a power struggle within the ruling
elite that intensified in the last year of Ahmadinejad’s
presidency and is taking a new turn before the June race with
the entry of top officials including former President Ali Akbar Hashemi Rafsanjani and chief nuclear negotiator Saeed Jalili.  Mashaei entered the contest minutes before registration of
candidates closed two days ago. The president and his ally
walked and stood side by side, making victory signs. Asked by
reporters whether his presence there was legal, Ahmadinejad
replied that he had taken “a day off from work,” the Tehran-based Shargh newspaper said yesterday.  Personal Stance  Ahmadinejad’s office answered the criticisms by saying his
appearance with Mashaei was within the realm of “freedom of
opinion” and reflected his “personal” stance, according to a
 statement  published today on the president’s website.
Candidates’ campaigns start once they are cleared to run and an
expression of support prior to that isn’t an infraction, the
statement read.  The Guardian Council started screening candidates and will
review their suitability, based on their qualifications and
loyalty to the political system, within five days, the state-run
 Press TV  news channel cited Kadkhodaei as saying yesterday.
Electoral law allows the council to extend that period by five
days, the broadcaster said today. The election is on June 14 and
approved candidates are allowed to start their official
campaigns from May 24.  Contest Shakeup  The last-minute entry of Mashaei, as well as Rafsanjani,
shakes up a contest which analysts had said may mostly consist
of like-minded politicians devoted to Supreme Leader  Ayatollah Ali Khamenei . The race will be the first presidential election
since the disputed 2009 vote, which sparked days of mass
protests amid fraud allegations, and led to a second term for
Ahmadinejad during which he challenged Khamenei and quarreled
with top officials.  Iranian leaders have signaled that ensuring security in the
election and unity at the top levels of the establishment are
key goals as the country battles economic sanctions and faces
threats of Israeli military attacks over its nuclear program.  Rafsanjani is among the founding fathers of the Islamic
Republic, though he and his children have come under attack for
backing the opposition movement that emerged during the disputed
2009 election. The editor-in-chief of the Kayhan newspaper,
Hossein Shariatmadari, who’s appointed by Khamenei, said in
today’s edition that Rafsanjani was backed by supporters of
“sedition.”  ‘Illegal’ Support  Shariatmadari also attacked Ahmadinejad’s “illegal”
public backing of Mashaei, saying the move was aimed at
emboldening their followers to defy rules and create mayhem.
Mashaei, who has emphasized his credentials as an Iranian
nationalist, is accused by clerics and critics of Ahmadinejad of
initiating a “current of deviation” at odds with the Islamic
Republic’s interests.  The presence of the two divisive figures is forcing other
candidates to reconsider their electoral strategies.  Ali Akbar Velayati, a foreign policy adviser to Khamenei,
who had joined forces with two other senior officials to support
a bid by one member of the group, said the trio may now throw
its weight behind Jalili.  The campaign office of Rohani, a former nuclear negotiator,
said he will work with Rafsanjani, with one of the two pulling
out before election day.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ladane Nasseri in Dubai at 
 lnasseri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  