-- Irish Insolvency Chief to Chase Borrowers Who Refuse to Pay
-- B y   J o e   B r e n n a n
-- 2013-05-14T11:04:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-13/irish-insolvency-chief-to-chase-borrowers-who-refuse-to-pay.html
Ireland’s new insolvency service will
pursue and prosecute borrowers fraudulently seeking debt
forgiveness, said Lorcan O’Connor, head of the new agency  Borrowers who lie about their finances face fines of as
much as 100,000 euros ($130,000) or as long as five years in
prison, according to laws which created the  Insolvency Service
of Ireland , known as the ISI, last month.  “There is anecdotal evidence that in some cases people
have been either preferring certain creditors over others or
adopting a strategic default,” O’Connor, 37, said in an
interview at the ISI’s Dublin office on May 7. “It’s incumbent
on the service to ensure we are strict and protect the integrity
of the 99 percent of cases that are genuine.”  Analysts are split over how many Irish borrowers are so-called strategic defaulters: borrowers who can afford to pay but
don’t do so in the hope of winning future debt forgiveness.
Gregory Connor, a finance professor at NUI Maynooth,  estimated 
in March that strategic defaulters may make up more than 35
percent of arrears cases. Finance Minister  Michael Noonan 
responded that these figures are “ wholly anecdotal  and not
based on any robust, structured or in-depth analysis of the
situation.”  “We don’t know how many strategic defaulters there are out
there, but certainly somebody seeking to play the banks would
have to be a lot more cautious,” said  Eamonn Hughes , an analyst
at Dublin-based  Goodbody Stockbrokers . “A lot of the pieces of
the puzzle are falling into place on who may qualify for a
deal.”  Home Prices  Prime Minister  Enda Kenny ’s government set up the
insolvency service and appointed O’Connor as part of its plan to
deal with the legacy of the real estate bubble which imploded in
2008. Kenny’s predecessor  Brian Cowen  agreed to new insolvency
laws as part of the agreement to win an international bailout in
2010.  Home prices  have fallen 51 percent since peaking in 2007,
and unemployment stands about 14 percent, leaving borrowers
struggling to repay loans.  Some 16 percent of owner-occupier mortgages and 27 percent
of buy-to-let loans were at least 90 days in behind in
repayments by value at the end of last year, central bank
figures show.  Rent Receivers  While there’s no definitive figure on how many are
strategically defaulting in the hope of winning debt
forgiveness,  Bank of Ireland Plc  said in March that it has
appointed 1,100 rent receivers, who directly collect rent from
tenants, to stop borrowers diverting the cash away from loan
repayment.  The ISI, which is ready to take first applications at the
end of June, will sign off on accords negotiated between
borrowers and banks with the aid of mediators.  “The reasonable living-expenses guide we have set out will
also address the issue” of strategic defaulters, said O’Connor,
formerly a director in Deloitte LLP’s restructuring services in
Ireland. “If you are looking for debt relief in some shape or
form, you need to adjust your lifestyle in some cases.”  Debt Relief  Borrowers seeking debt relief may be banned from taking
vacations, sending children to private school and paying for
private health insurance, according to guidelines published last
month. Monthly individual living expenses may be capped at 35.73
euros for clothing, 247.04 euros for food and 33.40 euros for
personal-hygiene items.  Borrowers will arrive at O’Connor’s door having exhausted
other avenues to reach a deal with their lender. In some cases,
they will be encouraged to trade down to smaller homes, while
the  central bank  is pushing the idea of split mortgages, where
portions of loans will be put on hold until the person’s
circumstances improve.  In other cases, banks may agree to debt forgiveness in an
accord directly negotiated with the borrower, without the
involvement of any outside agency.  Unsecured Loans  O’Connor said he agreed with Irish Justice Minister Alan Shatter’s estimates of demand for the services of the ISI, which
employs about 50 people. As many as 4,000 borrowers may seek
relief on unsecured loans of as much as 20,000 euros in the
ISI’s first full year, Shatter told lawmakers in March.  Some 20,000 borrowers may look for relief on secured debt
up to 3 million euros or unlimited unsecured loans, he said.
Most of these arrangements will leave people in their homes.  The average costs of larger insolvency arrangements “could
be between 5,000 euros and 10,000 euros,” O’Connor said. While
this is payable by the borrower, it ultimately eats into what
the lender can recover, he said.  Ireland will “in all likelihood” follow a U.K. pattern
where most accord changes reflect worsening fortunes rather than
an improvement, he said.  Failure to come to a deal leaves the bankruptcy option,
which involves borrowers losing their homes. Shatter said he
expects about 3,000 applications for bankruptcy. Under new laws,
borrowers are discharged from bankruptcy after three years,
compared with 12 years under the previous insolvency regimes.  Drawing Calls  So far, the ISI has drawn 1,000 calls and e-mails,
O’Connor said, with over 20,000 visits to the agency’s website.  Accords reached under the ISI’s aegis “are better for all
sides than bankruptcy but not as good as doing a deal short of
this,” said O’Connor. “I would be supportive where debtors and
creditors can come to an arrangement” privately.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Joe Brennan  at   jbrennan29@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  