-- J.C. Penney Rises on Report More Discounts Boosting Sales
-- B y   M a t t   T o w n s e n d
-- 2013-05-13T20:13:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-13/j-c-penney-rises-on-report-more-discounts-boosting-sales.html
J.C. Penney Co. (JCP)  gained in New York
trading after analysts at Cleveland Research said deeper
promotions this month have increased sales by bringing more
shoppers into stores.  The shares  rose  2.9 percent to $18.24 at the close. The
Plano, Texas-based company’s shares have slid 7.5 percent this
year, compared with a 15 percent increase for the Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index.  J.C. Penney is working to improve sales after revenue last
year tumbled 25 percent to $13 billion amid  Ron Johnson ’s failed
attempt to remake the retailer. Even before Myron Ullman
replaced Johnson as chief executive officer on April 8, the
company had been bringing back promotions.  Research suggests the retailer has had a “significant”
increase in sales and traffic early this month, helped by
newspaper advertising and aggressive coupon promotions,
Cleveland Research analysts led by Jeff Stinson said today in a
note. Customers also have responded well to J.C. Penney’s new
marketing campaign, they said. The firm is based in the Ohio
city of the same name.  Johnson removed most discounts in favor of everyday low
prices to cut the costs of implementing promotional events and
to make shopping easier.  In a sales event last weekend for Mother’s Day, J.C. Penney
used the term “doorbusters” to advertise in-store savings of
as much as 40 percent. Doorbusters traditionally are used during
the Black Friday shopping weekend after Thanksgiving that is
known for large discounts.  J.C. Penney has released  television advertising  this month
saying that it learned from its mistakes and thanking customers
for coming back.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matt Townsend in  New York  at 
 mtownsend9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  