-- Janus Loses Its Top Equities Fund Managers Schaub, Meade
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   C o n d o n
-- 2013-05-13T12:47:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-13/janus-loses-its-top-equities-fund-managers-schaub-meade.html
Janus Capital Group Inc. (JNS)  said three
fund managers, including the pair that run two of the firm’s top
stock funds, are leaving the company.  Brian Schaub and Chad Meade, managers of the $4.9 billion
 Janus Triton Fund (JGMAX)  and the $2.3 billion  Venture (JAVTX)  Fund, and Ron Sachs, who runs the $8.6 billion  Twenty Fund (JAVLX)  and the $3.6
billion  Forty Fund (JARTX) , will leave the firm, the Denver-based
company said today in a statement. The firm hired Doug Rao, a
former partner at Marsico Capital Management, to replace Sachs
on the Forty Fund and will fill the other vacant positions
internally.  The departures are the highest-level exits at Janus since
Richard Weil took over as chief executive officer in February
2010. Schaub and Meade made  Triton (JATTX)  Janus’s best stock fund in
the past five years, returning an annual average of 12 percent
and beating 98 percent of competing funds during that period.
The pair also led Venture to 9.8 percent annual returns over
five years, beating 87 percent of rivals.  The company lost at least 15 fund managers and executives
under Weil’s predecessor, Gary Black, who clashed with top money
managers over pay.  Marc Pinto, a 19-year veteran of Janus’s large-cap growth
equity investment team, will take over the Twenty Fund. Jonathan
Coleman will replace Schaub and Meade managing the Triton Fund
and will co-manage the Venture Fund with equity research analyst
Maneesh Modi. Barney Wilson will now run the  Janus fund (JANSX)  alone.  Twenty Fund  Sachs’s Twenty Fund went from being among Janus’s best
under former manager Scott Schoelzel to among its poorest. It
returned an average 1.2 percent over the past five years and
trailed 96 percent of competing funds. The Forty Fund returned
an average 1.1 percent in the past five years, lagging behind 89
percent of rivals, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Investors have pulled money from the Denver-based asset
manager for 15 straight quarters amid poor performance and a
broad shift to index-based investments and fixed-incomes. While
Weil has expanded teams that invest in bonds and multi-asset
products, 82 percent of Janus’s assets are in actively-managed
equities.  Janus, which managed $163.8 billion as of March 31, said
April 23 that first-quarter net income rose 24 percent to $28
million from a year earlier after stock-market gains helped
boost assets.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Condon in Boston at 
 ccondon4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  