-- JPMorgan-Backed Developer Says Slump to Reverse: Corporate India
-- B y   P r a t i k   P a r i j a   a n d   P o o j a   T h a k u r
-- 2013-05-13T11:23:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-13/jpmorgan-backed-developer-says-slump-to-reverse-corporate-india.html
Parsvnath Developers Ltd. (PARSV) , an Indian
builder that counts JPMorgan Chase & Co. among project
investors, says sales growth is rebounding after four quarters
of declines, as rate cuts this year help revive the economy.  The real-estate company, which has 190 million square feet
of land, is introducing new plans for buyers to sweeten offers
and “aggressively” selling units to double sales this quarter
as demand picks up in the world’s second-most populous country,
Chairman Pradeep Jain said in an interview. Quarterly group
revenue of Parsvnath slid an average 26 percent in 2012,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “The overall economic situation isn’t very great but is
recovering,” Jain said in  New Delhi , where Parsvnath is based.
“End-user demand is good, particularly in Delhi and surrounding
areas. You can see growth in sales from the current quarter.”  India ’s central bank has lowered borrowing costs three
times in 2013, kindling optimism the property market will snap
out of a slowdown that propelled unsold homes to a record in the
final quarter of last year. Growth in the $1.8 trillion economy,
 Asia ’s third biggest, is set to accelerate from an estimated 5
percent in the 12 months ended March 31, the least in a decade,
according to government estimates.  Share Slump  Shares of Parsvnath have dropped 37 percent in the past
year, making it the worst performing stock in the S&P BSE India
Realty Index.  DLF Ltd. (DLFU) , India’s biggest developer whose market
value of 403 billion rupees ($7.4 billion) is 26 times that of
Jain’s company, has gained 24 percent in the period. The
benchmark S&P BSE Sensex index has climbed 21 percent.  JPMorgan’s private-equity unit had paid 2.6 billion rupees
in December, 2010 for a 22 percent stake at Parsvnath’s La
Tropicana residential project in the nation’s capital, according
to Jain, while Sun-Apollo Ventures LLC and Red Fort Capital are
other funds that have invested in its other projects.  Parsvnath has introduced a plan that allows buyers to pay
25 percent of the property’s cost on booking, and the rest while
taking possession with no extra cost built in and no loans
involved. The offer, which Jain said will lure buyers and boost
profit, is for four commercial and 16 residential projects
across India.  “It’s a very risky move for a developer, especially if it
is a falling  property market ,” said Parikshit Kandpal, a
Mumbai-based analyst at Karvy Stock Broking Ltd. “The risk is
entirely on the developer as there’s no customer’s bank loan to
back up the sale.”  Most Expensive  Home prices  in  Mumbai , India’s most  expensive  real estate
market, rose to a record high of 11,626 rupees a square foot in
the quarter ended March 31, according to data from Liases Foras
Real Estate Rating & Research Pvt., driven by speculation demand
will pick up. In the capital region, where Parsvnath operates,
prices have risen 21 percent since June 30.  In the previous quarter, the stock of  unsold  homes at new
residential projects climbed to a record, as rising prices
crimped affordability in the nation’s biggest cities, according
to  Pankaj Kapoor , founder of property research company Liases.
Total unsold inventory of residential stock in the six major
cities tracked by Liases Foras climbed to 100 million square
feet (9.3 million square meters), the highest since 2009.  Interest rates , which are still near a two-year high, and a
cultural aversion to debt account for India’s relatively low
home-loan penetration rates. Home loan debt of $104 billion is
equal to 8 percent of gross domestic product compared with 20
percent in  China  and 77 percent in the U.S., according to data
compiled by  Housing Development Finance Corp. (HDFC)   Worst Is Over  Indian mortgage rates, at 10 percent on average, are among
the highest in Asia. That compares with about 2 percent in  Hong
Kong , 6.5 percent in China, and 6 percent in  South Korea ,
according to Credit Suisse Group AG.  The worst for the industry is over, Jain said separately on
May 9, adding the environment is “changing for the better.”
Prices may increase as much as 18 percent annually, he said.  Real-estate stocks in India are looking more attractive as
borrowing costs decline and demand for homes support property
prices, according to CLSA Asia-Pacific Markets. The 11-member
S&P BSE India Realty Index has rebounded 9 percent from a five-month low reached on April 9. It is still 18 percent lower than
its 21-month high reached on Jan. 18.  “Residential volumes continued to hold up in the first
quarter of 2013,” Mahesh Nandurkar and Abhinav Sinha, Mumbai-based analysts at CLSA, wrote in a note to clients on April 17.
“With residential volumes holding well and chances of interest-rate cuts increasing, property stocks are offering attractive
entry points.”  Rate Cuts  Bank of America Merrill Lynch predicts the  Reserve Bank  of
India will extend its rate reductions with four more for a total
of 1 percentage point through the end of March. Governor Duvvuri Subbarao lowered the benchmark repurchase rate in March and May,
both times signaling there’s little space for further cuts.  Sales volumes have picked up in some markets with signs of
an economic revival and a rebound in stocks, according to
Karvy’s Kandpal. Finance Minister Palaniappan Chidambaram last
month predicted growth of as much as 6.7 percent in the year
that started April 1, from an estimated 5 percent in the
previous 12 months.  Over the earlier part of the past 12 months, many issues
with the sector caused “a massive underperformance of listed
realty stock,” Kandpal wrote in a research note last month.
“There’s been a marked shift during the latter part of the last
six months.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Pratik Parija in New Delhi at 
 pparija@bloomberg.net ;
Pooja Thakur in Singapore at 
 pthakur@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net ;
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  