-- Kim Replaces North Korea’s Defense Chief With Younger General
-- B y   S a n g w o n   Y o o n
-- 2013-05-13T04:11:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-13/kim-replaces-north-korea-s-defense-chief-with-younger-general.html
North Korean leader Kim Jong Un
replaced his defense chief with a younger, little-known general
in the second such personnel shift since he took power in 2011.  Jang Jong Nam yesterday accompanied Kim and his wife Ri Sol
Ju to a performance in Pyongyang as minister of the People’s
Armed Forces, the official Korean Central News Agency reported
today. His predecessor, 73-year-old Kim Kyok Sik, took the post
last year, according to South Korea’s Munhwa Ilbo newspaper.  Jang is believed to be in his early 50s and to have “very
strong loyalty” to Kim Jong Un, Yonhap News reported today,
citing an unidentified South Korean government official. His age
and other personal details can’t be confirmed as he isn’t listed
in the South Korean Unification Ministry’s April 2012 directory
of 42 key North Korean figures.  Kim, who succeeded his late father as leader in December
2011, has made several personnel changes as he works to ensure
control over the totalitarian state. Tensions on the Korean
peninsula are high after the North tested an atomic device in
February and threatened preemptive nuclear attacks against the
U.S. and South Korea.  North Korea is in the midst of a generational shift in its
military forces, South Korean Defense Ministry spokesman Kim Min Seok told reporters today in  Seoul , while declining to make
further assessments. The ministry needs to see more personnel
appointments to determine whether this reflects a change in
military policy, Kim said.  Little is known about Jang, who has been named in six KCNA
statements since 2008. Kim’s father Kim Jong Il promoted Jang to
Major General in April 2011, KCNA said. As commander of the
army’s First Corps, Jang vowed at a rally in Pyongyang in
December to “annihilate” North Korea’s enemies.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sangwon Yoon in Seoul at 
 syoon32@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  