-- N.Z. House Prices Rise at Fastest Annual Pace Since 2007
-- B y   T r a c y   W i t h e r s
-- 2013-05-13T00:13:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-13/n-z-house-prices-rise-at-fastest-annual-pace-since-2007.html
New Zealand  house prices  rose 9.8
percent in April from a year earlier, the biggest annual
increase since 2007, as central bank Governor Graeme Wheeler
urges banks to limit risky home lending.  House price inflation  accelerated from 8.6 percent in the
12 months through March, and was the fastest since a 12 percent
pace in the year ended September 2007, according to an index
published by the Real Estate Institute of New Zealand Inc.
Prices rose 0.8 percent from March and are up 3.9 percent this
year, the institute’s report showed.  Wheeler is requiring banks to hold more capital against
risky home loans, concerned that low  interest rates  and
competition between banks is stoking borrowing and home prices.
The central bank has kept the official cash rate at a record-low
2.5 percent since March 2011 and is reluctant to increase it
because there is a risk higher borrowing costs will further
boost the New Zealand currency, damaging exports.  “With the high New Zealand dollar, the RBNZ will want to
shy away from cash rate hikes as long as possible,”  Mark Smith ,
senior economist at ANZ Bank New Zealand Ltd. in Wellington,
said in an e-mailed note. “It is likely to deploy macro-prudential tools to cool lending if housing market buoyancy
continues.”  The tools, which include the ability to limit high loan-to-value ratio lending, are being developed by the central bank as
a way of slowing home lending when risks of a property bubble
emerge. About 30 percent of all home loans are for 80 percent or
more of purchase prices, according to central bank figures.  ‘Problematic’ Gains  “The recent growth in house prices is problematic from a
financial stability perspective,” Wheeler said in a report last
week. He also said May 8 that the central bank had sold the  New
Zealand dollar  to curb its gains.  House-price gains are being driven by Canterbury amid
rebuilding from the 2010-11 earthquakes, and in Auckland,
reflecting a shortage of supply, the Real Estate Institute said.
Prices in Auckland rose 14 percent from April last year.  Prices in Wellington rose to a record and “several regions
appear to be benefiting from the tail wind generated by the
strength of prices in Auckland and Christchurch,” said Chief
Executive Officer Helen O’Sullivan.  House sales rose 25 percent in April from a year earlier to
7,104 -- the highest for the month since 2007, today’s report
showed. The median time to sell a house fell to 34 days from 37
days a year earlier.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tracy Withers in Wellington at 
 twithers@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  