-- Network News Pioneer Barbara Walters to Retire From ABC in 2014
-- B y   A n t h o n y   P a l a z z o
-- 2013-05-13T06:06:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-13/network-news-pioneer-barbara-walters-to-retire-from-abc-in-2014.html
Barbara Walters , the first woman to
co-anchor a network evening newscast, will retire in 2014 after
one more year on ABC News and her talk show, “ The View .”  Walters will make the announcement today on “The View,”
the daytime program she created in 1997,  Walt Disney Co. (DIS) ’s ABC
said on its  website . She will report and anchor for the news
division and appear on “The View” until next summer.  ABC plans to honor the groundbreaking newscaster with a
career retrospective next May. Walters started at NBC’s “Today
Show” in 1961 and rose to become co-anchor, with Harry Reasoner, of “ABC Evening News” in 1976. Walters has
interviewed every U.S. president and first lady since  Richard Nixon , ABC News said.  Walters, 81, is a co-host of “The View,” where she will
continue as executive producer. She will anchor ABC News
specials over the next 12 months including a “20 Years of 10
Most Fascinating People” special in December and an Oscars
special.  The Walters announcement comes as ABC and other networks
present their fall prime-time lineups to advertisers this week
in New York. ABC releases its schedule this week. NBC said
yesterday it will bring back Michael J. Fox in a comedy on
Thursday nights.  Walters became nationally known as a television personality
on the “Today” show in the 1960s, eventually becoming co-host
of the program.  Begin, Sadat  Over the years she interviewed Russia’s Boris Yeltsin,
China’s Jiang Zemin, former U.K. prime minister Margaret Thatcher, Libya’s Muammar Qaddafi and Iraq’s  Saddam Hussein ,
according to her biography. She crossed the Bay of Pigs with
Cuba’s  Fidel Castro , ABC said.  In 1977, Walters was the first journalist to arrange a
joint interview with Egypt President  Anwar Sadat  and Israeli
Prime Minister Menachem Begin.  Walter’s 1999 interview with Monica Lewinsky, the first one
granted to TV by the former Clinton White House intern, remains
the highest-rated news program aired by a single network,
according to the biography.  She was also the first American journalist to interview
Russia’s President Vladimir Putin and scored the first interview
with President George W. Bush and first lady  Laura Bush  after
the Sept. 11, 2001, terrorist attacks.  In September 2004, after 25 years as co-host and chief
correspondent for ABC News’ “20/20,” Walters left the show to
focus on “Barbara Walters Specials.”  Disney, based in Burbank, California, gained 0.8 percent to
$67.20 on May 10 in New York, an all-time high. The stock has
advanced 35 percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anthony Palazzo in  Los Angeles  at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  