-- New York Fed Says Tight Credit Restrains Small Business Growth
-- B y   J o s h u a   Z u m b r u n
-- 2013-05-13T14:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-13/new-york-fed-says-tight-credit-restrains-small-business-growth.html
The Federal Reserve Bank of New York
said tight credit restrained the growth plans of many small
businesses in 2012, citing a survey of lending in its district
conducted in March and April.  “The ability to  access credit  remains a widespread growth
challenge for small businesses in the region, even among
profitable firms,” the New York Fed said in its Small Business
Credit Survey released today.  The bi-annual survey found that 49 percent of small
businesses identified the difficulty getting credit as “a
barrier to growth,” according to the survey of 812 small
businesses in New York, New Jersey, and  Connecticut . Among firms
operating at a loss, 66 percent had difficulty getting credit,
yet even 36 percent of profitable firms were concerned with
obtaining credit, the survey found.  The New York Fed’s survey is part of central bank efforts
to determine if record low  interest rates  are spurring credit to
small firms that in recent years have lagged behind large firms
in generating jobs.  Companies with fewer than 20 workers increased employment
by 3.8 percent from February 2010 to April 2013, while large
companies -- with more than 1,000 on their payrolls -- expanded
their workforces by 8.6 percent, according to data compiled by
Moody’s and ADP Research Institute.  The New York Fed’s survey reported that 18 percent of firms
“were discouraged and did not apply for credit” compared with
29 percent in 2012. About two-thirds of firms that did not apply
for credit “were already sufficiently financed or simply didn’t
want to take on more debt,” the survey showed.  The poll asked a series of questions about the recovery
from Superstorm Sandy which struck the region in October. The
survey said that 61 percent of firms estimated their losses from
the storm of less than $25,000, while 13 percent of firms had
losses greater than $100,000.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joshua Zumbrun in Washington at 
 jzumbrun@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  