-- Dead Ranger Boogaard’s Estate Sues NHL for Wrongful Death
-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 2013-05-13T16:59:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-13/nhl-accused-in-suit-of-giving-boogaard-drugs-that-led-to-death.html
The National Hockey League was sued
for wrongful death by the estate of the late  New York  Rangers
player Derek Boogaard.  The league, through its team doctors, trainers and staff,
is accused of plying Boogaard with prescription painkillers so
that he could fight opposing players, leading to an addiction
and an ultimately fatal overdose. He died on May 13, 2011.  “The NHL drafted Derek Boogaard because it wanted his
massive body to fight in order to enhance ratings, earnings and
exposure,” estate lawyer William T. Gibbs said today in a
statement announcing the May 10 filing at an Illinois state
court in  Chicago .  “Fighting night after night took its expected toll on
Derek’s body and mind,” the attorney said. “To deal with the
pain, he turned to the team doctors, who dispensed pain pills
like candy.”  Boogaard played 277 NHL games between 2005 and 2011,
spending five seasons with the  Minnesota Wild  and one with the
 New York Rangers , according to his NHL  player biography  page.
During that time, the 6-foot-7-inch, 265-pound player scored
three goals, was credited with assists on 13 more and accrued
589 penalty minutes.  His death at age 28 two years ago today was followed by the
suicide of Rick Rypien, 27, of the Winnipeg Jets in August 2011
and the death of retired Nashville Predators player Wade Belak,
35, two weeks later.  Penalty Minutes  In a 549-game NHL career spanning 1996 to 2011, Belak was
assessed 1,263 penalty minutes while scoring eight goals and
adding 25 assists, according to his league biography. Rypien,
who played parts of six seasons, served 226 penalty minutes
while scoring nine times and assisting seven.  “We don’t have any comment,” NHL spokesman Gary Meagher
said about the lawsuit filed by Boogaard’s estate. Neither of
the NHL teams for whom Boogaard played are named as defendants
in the case.  After his death, Boogaard was found to have been suffering
from chronic traumatic encephalopathy, a form of  brain damage 
caused by repeated blows to his head during his hockey career,
according to the complaint.  That trauma allegedly damaged areas of his brain
controlling judgment, inhibition, mood, behavior and impulse
control, the estate lawyers alleged.  ‘Copious Amounts’  The 30-team league is accused of breaching its duty to
Boogaard by failing to keep him “reasonably safe” during his
NHL career, permitting him to be repeatedly injected with the
intramuscular analgesic Toradol and giving him “copious
amounts” of prescription pain medications and sleeping pills.  During the 2008-2009 season, NHL medical personnel allegedly
prescribed 1,021 pills for him. At the end of that season, he
underwent two operations in 16 days, after which he was
prescribed 150 pills of oxycodone by league doctors.  Boogaard ultimately became addicted to the opioids and
sleeping pills, was twice admitted to substance-abuse treatment
facilities, after which he died from an accidental prescription
drug overdose, according to the complaint.  He is survived by his father, Len, mother Joanne, three
brothers and a sister, who seek unspecified money damages under
Illinois’s wrongful-death statute.  “He was there protecting his teammates at all costs, but
who was there to protect him?” Joanne Boogaard said in a joint
statement with the estate’s lawyer, Gibbs, an attorney in the
Chicago law firm Corboy & Demetrio PC.  The case is Nelson, as personal representative of the
Estate of Boogaard v.  National Hockey League , 13-L-3945, Cook
County, Illinois Circuit Court, Law Division (Chicago).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Harris in the Chicago federal courthouse at  aharris16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  