-- Nike LeBron Shoes, NFL Helmets Are New Lawsuit Targets
-- B y   S u s a n   D e c k e r
-- 2013-05-13T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-13/nike-lebron-shoes-to-nfl-helmets-are-new-lawsuit-targets.html
Nike Inc. (NKE)  is designing golf clubs
with data-collecting sensors to help perfect a swing. Its LeBron
X+ basketball shoes can measure vertical leap.  No longer are sporting-goods makers relying just on the
allure of a star athlete or a colorful design to sell athletic
wear and equipment. As they build in technology to sell
performance and safety advantages, they’re encountering the same
sorts of legal challenges to their features as makers of
smartphones and medical devices have.  Patent-infringement lawsuits were filed this year against
Beaverton, Oregon-based Nike over its FuelBand monitor, through
which users download heart rates and other data to a smartphone
application, and its Hyperdunk+ and LeBron X+ shoes, the latter
named for the  Miami Heat ’s  LeBron James .  The litigation promises to be expensive -- patent cases
with more than $25 million at stake cost $5 million on average,
according to the American Intellectual Property Law Association
-- and could determine winners in the growing market.  “You have a relatively small industry, with a relatively
few number of players and incredibly competitive companies,”
attorney Brian Rosenthal of Mayer Brown in  Washington .
“Everytime there’s a technological advance, everyone wants to
be number one.”  Gadgets that combine electronics with athletic equipment
are the fastest growing segment of the so-called wearable device
market, which also includes  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s Google Glasses,
according to Juniper Research, based in Hampshire,  England . The
market is projected to grow from about $800 million this year to
$1.5 billion in 2014, said Nitin Bhas, a researcher with Juniper
in  London .  Impact-Measuring Helmets  Nike isn’t the only sporting-goods maker sued over its
innovations, and the sector could be the next big patent
battleground after the smartphone litigation tying up  Apple
Inc. (AAPL) , Google Inc.’s Motorola unit, Samsung Electronics Co. and
other technology companies.  SportBrain Inc., an Austin, Texas-based company that sells
pedometers, sued Herzogenaurach, Germany-based Adidas and Fitbit
Inc. over their activity monitors.  Easton-Bell Sports Inc. ’s Riddell unit, the official maker
of helmets for the  National Football League , is accused of
infringing a Colorado company’s patents for headgear that
measures the impact of a tackle or other blow and transmits it
to a wireless device.  The NFL, which is facing lawsuits from more than 4,000
former players, and Riddell are under pressure to provide more
protection from repeated head blows that have been linked to a
progressive brain disease that can lead to dementia and death.  Motion Sensors  Electronics companies including Samsung and Royal Philips
NV. are also obtaining fitness patents, said  David Cornwell , a
lawyer with Sterne Kessler in Washington whose clients include
Adidas. “I’m seeing a lot of companies that I wouldn’t expect
for sports electronics,” Cornwell said.  The smartphones have applications to let a user easily
measure progress and get feedback, while a computer chip known
as a micro-electro mechanical system, or MEMS, tracks movement
or speed more accurately through motion sensors.  Fitbug Holdings Plc (FITB)  Chief Executive Officer Paul Landau
recalls being “in quite a lonely space” in 2005 when his
London-based company started selling its electronic devices that
monitor fitness activity and track progress online.  Landau said in an interview he “was having to do all the
evangelizing, that you could use devices that could upload data
and you could use online tools to motivate and achieve goals.”  Companies envision a day when, for instance, one coach will
be watching players on the field while another is keeping tabs
on their vital signs on a tablet computer.  Digital Strategy  Nike is relying on its innovations to develop brand loyalty
and drive sales. In the past year, it’s obtained patents on  golf
clubs  that analyze one’s swing, and a computerized soccer ball
to evaluate the strength of a kick.  Mary Remuzzi, a Nike spokeswoman, declined to comment on
the patent litigation.  Among the patents  Adidas AG (ADS)  was awarded recently was one
for  “intelligent footwear systems‘‘  -- sneakers with sensors
that can adjust the cushion or sole based on how the shoe is
being used.  ‘‘We are talking about technology that is real, not a pipe
dream,’’ said former NFL player Isaiah Kacyvenski, now director
of sports business at Cambridge, Massachusetts-based MC10 Inc.,
which is developing flexible sensors that can be put on the body
to monitor  heart rate  or other vital signs.  Golf Balls  Patent litigation over sporting goods is nothing new. Tiger Woods’ switch to rubber golf balls in 2000, from the traditional
elastic winding balls professionals used, helped spark one.
After Woods began breaking records, all the golf companies used
rubber.  A decade-long patent battle between Titleist Pro V maker
Acushnet Co., now owned by a group led by  Fila Korea Ltd. (081660) , and
 Callaway Golf Co. (ELY)  was only settled last year, said Rosenthal,
who represented Acushnet in the fight.  ‘‘It’s fair to expect that as technology plays a more
important role in differentiating athletic companies, a natural
part of that -- as with any other industry -- is for there to be
an expansion of patent litigation,’’ said Matt Gaudet, a patent
lawyer with Duane Morris in Atlanta.  For now, most of the new innovations are for the dedicated
athlete or fitness buff. Nike’s top technology, called Elite+,
can add $100 to the price of a LeBron James shoe that already
costs $160, said  Matt Powell , analyst with Boulder, Colorado-based SportsOneSource.  ‘‘Our phones do far more than we ask them to do,’’ Powell
said. ‘‘Why shouldn’t our shoes do more, too?’’  To contact the reporter on this story:
Susan Decker in Washington at 
 sdecker1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  