-- Nintendo Wins U.S. Court Ruling Over Video-Game Systems
-- B y   S u s a n   D e c k e r
-- 2013-05-14T01:35:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-13/nintendo-wins-u-s-court-ruling-over-video-game-systems.html
Nintendo Co. (7974) , maker of the Wii video-gaming system, won a U.S. appeals court ruling that makes it
harder for patent-licensing companies to seek an import ban on
products as a way to demand royalties.  Motiva LLC, which claimed Nintendo infringed its patents
for a system to track a game user’s position, didn’t meet the
requirements to file a trade complaint, the Court of Appeals for
the Federal Circuit said yesterday in a  decision  posted on its
website. The ruling backs the U.S. International Trade
Commission’s decision against the Dublin, Ohio-based company.  The ITC’s goal is to protect U.S. markets from unfair trade
practices, and it requires patent owners to prove they have
something worth protecting. The agency said Motiva’s three-year-old lawsuit against Kyoto, Japan-based Nintendo in a district
court didn’t pass that test, and the appeals court agreed.  “The evidence demonstrated that Motiva’s litigation was
targeted at financial gains, not at encouraging adoption of
Motiva’s patented technology,” Circuit Judge Sharon Prost wrote
for the three-judge panel. “The inventors looked forward to
financial gains through Motiva’s litigation, not hopes of
stimulating investment or partnerships with manufacturers.”  The ITC had found Nintendo didn’t infringe the patents. The
Federal Circuit, rather than ruling on that issue, made its
decision on the question of whether a case should have been
allowed at the commission.  “The court made a reasonable judgment,” Nintendo said in
an e-mailed statement today.  Domestic Industry  The ITC has the power to block products that infringe U.S.
patents. Companies such as  Google Inc. (GOOG)  and Apple Inc. have said
that potential threat is being used too often by patent-licensing firms to force legal settlements. Such cases properly
belong in district court, a group representing the technology
companies said in testimony to Congress.  The ITC has only issued four import bans to companies that
don’t make products, and in each of the cases, the patent owner
developed the technology, according to  an April report  from the
commission.  A trade judge, in a first this week, will hold a hearing to
determine if a patent owner for laminated packaging meets the
requirement that a domestic industry exists before it can bring
infringement claims against liquor companies and toymakers.  “The ITC is not shutting the door, but it’s like one of
those spy movies where you have to get through all these little
lasers to get in,” said Smith Brittingham, a patent lawyer with
Finnegan in  Washington , who specializes in ITC cases. “They’re
saying, ‘We recognize a poor domestic industry when we see one.
Congress, you do not need to change our way of doing business to
save the world from really tenuous claims.’”  Motiva, Wii  Motiva was founded in 2003 by two men who sought to
integrate fitness and video games through motion detection,
according to the complaint. They were unsuccessful in
commercializing any product.  In November 2006, Nintendo began selling the Wii, which
features a motion-sensor controller that allows users to
replicate movements like swinging a tennis racquet on screen.  “The release of the Wii crushed a startup in America,”
said Motiva’s lawyer Christopher Banys in Palo Alto,  California .
“The ITC ought to be available to companies that are inventive
institutions. Where does a nascent business go when it feels
it’s been crushed?”  Motiva sued Nintendo in 2008 in federal court in Tyler,
 Texas , a district with a history of decisions favoring patent
owners. Nintendo succeeded in having the case transferred to a
federal court in  Seattle , and then having it put on hold while
the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office reviews the validity of the
patents.  Too Late  The ITC complaint was filed in September 2010, which both
the agency and the Federal Circuit said was too late if Motiva
wanted to show it was interested in preserving its ability to
commercialize the inventions.  “Unless your licensing industry is truly robust, long-standing and from a company that has some kind of cache, I don’t
think the ITC is the place to be,” said Rodney Sweetland, a
patent lawyer with Duane Morris, who specializes in ITC cases.  The case is Motiva LLC v. ITC, 12-1252, U.S. Court of
Appeals for the Federal Circuit (Washington). The lower case is
In the Matter of Video Game Systems and Controllers, 337-743,
U.S. International Trade Commission (Washington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Susan Decker in Washington at 
 sdecker1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  