-- Nomura Rises to Highest Since 2008 as Brokers Rally: Tokyo Mover
-- B y   T a k a h i k o   H y u g a
-- 2013-05-13T06:45:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-13/nomura-climbs-most-since-2008-as-brokerages-rally-tokyo-mover.html
Nomura Holdings Inc. (8604) ,  Japan ’s biggest
brokerage, climbed to the highest level since November 2008 as
securities firms rallied on expectations that they will continue
to profit from the country’s stock market rebound.  Shares of Nomura surged 9.6 percent, the most in a month,
to 934 yen at the close of trading in Tokyo.  Daiwa Securities
Group Inc. (8601)  rose 8.3 percent to 1,002 yen, the highest since July
2008. The  Topix Index (TPX)  advanced 1.8 percent.  Securities firms have benefited the most from the Topix’s
71 percent gain over the past six months as the increase in
trading boosts brokerage and stock underwriting income. The yen
has weakened amid the Bank of Japan’s unprecedented monetary
stimulus and today reached the lowest since October 2008 after
Group of Seven officials signaled tolerance for its decline.  “Investors are buying Japanese brokerages’ shares in
anticipation that their revenue will expand as securities
trading continues to rise and the yen weakens after the G-7
meeting,” said  Takehito Yamanaka , a Tokyo-based analyst at
Credit Suisse Group AG, who rates Nomura outperform. “We’re
seeing a second wave of investors who hadn’t bought Japanese
financial stocks earlier.”  The Topix Securities and Commodity Futures Index was
today’s  best performer  on the benchmark, followed by gauges for
banks, other financial businesses and insurers.  Megabanks Jump  Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group Inc. (8306) , Japan’s biggest bank,
jumped 8.2 percent to 728 yen, taking its market capitalization
to 10 trillion yen ($98 billion).  Sumitomo Mitsui Financial
Group Inc. (8316) , the country’s second-biggest lender by market value,
climbed 5.6 percent, and  Mizuho Financial Group Inc. (8411) , the third
biggest, advanced 5.1 percent.  The three so-called  megabanks  all have investment banking
units, which, together with Nomura and Daiwa, posted a 22
percent increase in aggregate net operating revenue in the year
ended March, helped by monetary easing and Prime Minister Shinzo
Abe’s growth strategy, according to Fitch Ratings Ltd.  Nomura and closest domestic rival Daiwa, both based in
 Tokyo , reported their highest quarterly  profit  in seven years as
the stock-market rebound spurred brokerage commissions and
underwriting fees. Daiwa’s net income quadrupled for the three
months ended March from a year earlier to 48.8 billion yen, it
said on May 1. Nomura’s profit more than tripled to 82.4 billion
yen, the company said on April 26.  The resurgence may not be sustained, Fitch said in a May 9
statement. “Ultimately, top-line profitability is still
susceptible to investor confidence, which may fade if the
government’s policy fails to stimulate real and lasting economic
growth,” it said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Takahiko Hyuga in Tokyo at 
 thyuga@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  