-- NYSE Proposes Lower Access Fees to Get More Trading
-- B y   D a v e   M i c h a e l s
-- 2013-05-14T13:57:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-13/nyse-proposes-lower-access-fees-to-get-more-trading-on-exchanges.html
(Corrects description of  NYSE Euronext (NYX)  in story originally
published May 13.)  NYSE Euronext, owner of the largest
U.S. equities exchange, sought to mute opposition to its quest
for regulatory curbs on so-called dark-pool trading by offering
to lower its fees it charges to execute trades.  The proposal by NYSE Chief Operating Officer Lawrence E. Leibowitz is the latest effort by U.S. exchanges to persuading
the Securities and Exchange Commission to curb activity in off-exchange dark pools, which has grown to 36 percent in March from
16 percent in 2008, according to data from Rosenblatt Securities
Inc. Speaking at a roundtable panel capital market regulation in
 New York , Leibowitz acknowledged the access fee of 30 cents per
100 shares is “a large price.”  “Lowering that access fee in exchange for something that
forced more volume to respect the public quote, I think would be
exactly an appropriate trade off,” Leibowitz said at the event
organized by Representative  Scott Garrett , a New Jersey
Republican, and other House lawmakers.  Officers of NYSE Euronext,  Nasdaq OMX Group Inc. (NDAQ)  and Bats
Global Markets Inc. have met with SEC officials and lawmakers in
recent weeks to pitch for a so-called “trade-at” rule, which
would allow broker-operated dark pools to execute trades only if
they offered better prices than are available on exchanges. The
exchange executives have said trading in dark venues, which
don’t publish bid and offer quotes, harms price discovery while
offering limited price improvement to investors.  Several dark-pool operators offered support for Leibowitz’s
proposal, although details of the idea weren’t fully discussed.
 Dan Mathisson , head of U.S. equity trading for Credit Suisse AG,
said he could support a “trade-at” rule “if combined with a
large decrease in the fee.”  Innovation, Competition  Today’s fragmented equity markets, which include 13
exchanges and nearly 40 dark pools, are a product of innovation,
competitive pressure and SEC regulations implemented over the
past 20 years.  Brokers say they execute customer trades internally or
route them to a dark pool in order to avoid exchanges’ access
fees, which is part of a pricing model that pays suppliers of
bids and offers and charges those trading against them. Nearly
all retail-customer orders never see an exchange because they
are filled by wholesale market makers that pay brokerages to
trade against the orders.  “They don’t like the access fees the exchanges are
charging, so a lot of them are basically going to cheaper
execution venues,” James J. Angel, a professor of finance at
 Georgetown University , told the roundtable participants.  SEC Commissioner Daniel M. Gallagher said in an interview
after the event that the NYSE’s proposal appears to be “the
type of thing that you consider in a holistic review.”  Garrett said the event was intended to get the SEC to
consider whether its regulatory model has lagged behind changes
in the industry, including how exchanges, dark pools and
brokerages compete for business.  “The SEC is continually and maybe too much for some
regulating in this space, little by little,” Gallagher said.
“In the aggregate we are not sure what it amounts to.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dave Michaels in Washington at 
 dmichaels5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Maura Reynolds  at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  