-- Obama’s Biggest Mistakes in Syria
-- B y   J e f f r e y   G o l d b e r g
-- 2013-05-13T22:00:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-13/obama-s-biggest-mistakes-in-syria.html
Syria’s dictator, Bashar al-Assad,
isn’t the only leader who is crossing “red lines” these days.
U.S. President  Barack Obama  has also crossed a few. Here are
three of them:  1. He crossed a red line by asserting the existence of a
red line that he then failed to treat as a red line. It’s now
clear to American allies, including the U.K., Saudi Arabia and
 Israel , that the Assad regime has deployed small amounts of
chemical weapons against its opponents. It seems likely that the
regime did this partly to test the West’s reaction. And so far
the West has failed to react.  Once Obama publicly stated that the use (and even movement)
of chemical weapons was unacceptable, and once his allies told
him there was a high likelihood they were indeed used, he was
required to take steps to secure the weapons, to ramp-up support
for the opposition or to impose a no-fly zone over parts of
 Syria . He’s moving in slow motion on this question, and Assad is
undoubtedly drawing lessons from his hesitancy.  2. Obama also crossed a red line by frightening allies
through indecision. The U.S. is still the greatest power in the
world, and its friends look to it for leadership. Saudi Arabia,
Jordan,  Turkey , the United Arab Emirates, and even the U.K. and
other European powers don’t quite understand Obama’s reluctance
to get more deeply engaged in the Syrian crisis. (Note to
apoplectic isolationists: Engagement doesn’t have to mean armed
intervention. Thank you.) Allies have been lobbying for more
than a year and a half for Obama to provide weapons and training
to the Syrian opposition, and the White House still won’t
commit.  British Prime Minister David Cameron was in  Washington  on
May 13 to talk to Obama about Syria, and Cameron has found
himself in the unlikely spot of playing the liberal
interventionist to Obama’s hypercautious foreign-policy realist.
Cameron’s statement at a joint news conference hinted at his
frustration: “Syria’s history is being written in the blood of
her people and it is happening on our watch.” By “our watch” he
means “America’s watch.” Cameron knows that only the U.S. has
the heft -- diplomatic and military -- to change the course of
Syria’s history.  It’s a topsy-turvy world we live in: American allies
resented George W. Bush’s administration for telling them what
to do. Today, those allies are upset with the Obama
administration for refusing to even make suggestions.  3. Obama has crossed yet another red line by allowing
Iranian aggression in Syria (and Lebanon) to go unchecked. The
Iranians are the Syrian regime’s most important allies. Obama
has taken a tough stance on  Iran , tougher than any American
president since the Islamic revolution brought extremist clerics
to power in 1979. Yet, when the opportunity arose early in the
Syrian uprising to check Iranian power by supporting anti-Assad
forces -- well before radical Islamists saw an opportunity to
dominate the opposition -- Obama responded indecisively.
Presumably, the Iranians are making judgments about Obama’s
willingness to confront them, and they aren’t the judgments he
would want them to make.  Obama now faces no good choices in Syria. He faced better
ones a year and a half ago. Syria, early in the uprising,
presented the administration with a unique opportunity. In
 Egypt , it wasn’t in the American national-security interest to
see President  Hosni Mubarak  go, but his departure corresponded
with our values. In Syria, Assad’s overthrow would be in line
with both our values and our interests. Even today, a U.S.-led
effort, requiring no troops on the ground, could make the cost
to Iran of supporting Assad unacceptably high. But this calculus
doesn’t seem to be generally understood in the White House.  So the question arises: Now that the Syrian government
seems to have blown past the chemical-weapons red line, and has
overseen the murder of as many as 80,000 people without
triggering much of an American response, is there anything Assad
can do that would cause Obama to intervene more aggressively?  “Once the furies have been unleashed,” Obama told
reporters, it is “very hard to put things back together.” The
shame of this statement is that American intervention, early on,
could quite conceivably have kept these furies in check. Now
that they’ve been unleashed, stopping the killing in Syria
becomes almost impossibly hard.  ( Jeffrey Goldberg  is a Bloomberg View columnist. The
opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the author of this column:
Jeffrey Goldberg at  goldberg.atlantic@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Timothy Lavin at   tlavin1@bloomberg.net . 