-- Obama Says Congress’s Benghazi Probe Is Political Circus
-- B y   H a n s   N i c h o l s   a n d   R o g e r   R u n n i n g e n
-- 2013-05-14T12:06:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-13/obama-says-congress-benghazi-probe-becoming-political-circus-.html
(Corrects date of Benghazi hearing request in ninth
paragraph of story published yesterday.)  President  Barack Obama  said his
administration made no attempt to cover up the involvement of
terrorists in last year’s deadly attack on a U.S. outpost in
Libya, dismissing a congressional inquiry as a “political
circus.”  “There’s no ‘there’ there,” Obama said at a White House
news conference with U.K. Prime Minister  David Cameron  today.  Obama said he “acknowledged” the day after the Sept. 11,
2012, attacks in Benghazi that they were “an act of
terrorism,” and that Congress previously saw e-mails between
the Central Intelligence Agency, the State Department and the
White House about the talking points used by United Nations
Ambassador  Susan Rice  that have become a focus of critics.  “The whole thing defies logic, and the fact that this
keeps getting churned out, frankly, has a lot to do with
political motivations,” Obama said the news conference.  The attacks on the U.S. diplomatic compound killed four
Americans, including U.S. Ambassador Chris Stevens. Today was
the first time Obama has addressed the issue since the new round
of congressional hearings began last week.  The attack, and the U.S. response, became a flash point in
the election campaign in which Obama was being challenged by
Republican  Mitt Romney . Republicans have continued to criticize
the administration since then, accusing White House officials of
playing down for political reasons the link to terrorism and
warnings from intelligence agencies before the attacks.  Former Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton , a potential
Democratic presidential nominee in 2016, also is drawing renewed
Republican criticism over the attack.  Finger-Pointing  The House Oversight and Government Reform Committee, led by
Republican Representative  Darrell Issa  of  California , held last
week’s hearings. House Speaker  John Boehner , an  Ohio Republican ,
has vowed that “more hearings and more information” are to
come.  Republicans on the Senate Foreign Relations Committee
called for a hearing on the Obama administration’s handling of
the attack. The request was made in a May 10 letter to the
panel’s chairman, Senator  Robert Menendez , a New Jersey
Democrat, from lawmakers including  Bob Corker  of  Tennessee ,
Marco Rubio of  Florida  and Rand Paul of  Kentucky .  Issa said yesterday that he would seek sworn depositions
from former U.S. Ambassador Thomas Pickering and retired Admiral
Mike Mullen, two chairmen of a panel, the Accountability Review
Board, that looked into the attacks.  “This is a failure, it needs to be investigated,” Issa
said on NBC’s “Meet the Press.” Republicans have focused their
inquiries into why the Obama administration delayed calling the
attacks “terrorism.”  Obama’s Defense  Obama today disputed that there was even a delay in
labeling the attack as terrorism, referring to a White House
statement he made the day after the attacks.  While Obama said last Sept. 12 that “no acts of terror
will ever shake the resolve of this great nation,” he didn’t
specify if he was speaking about the attacks in Benghazi or
making a more general statement.  Republicans have seized on Obama’s failure to use the word
“terrorism” and comments Rice made on all five Sunday talk
shows on Sept. 16, that the attacks were spontaneous and not
premeditated.  In those appearances, she said the Americans died after a
protest sparked by an anti-Islam video made in the U.S. was
“hijacked” by extremists. The video had prompted protests in
 Egypt , Tunisia, Sudan and Yemen.  Campaign Backdrop  Republican critics, focusing on on Rice’s remarks, accused
the administration of trying to play down the link to terrorism
to bolster Obama’s record amid a presidential campaign.  E-mails obtained by ABC News show that the talking points
used by Rice, originally drafted by the CIA, underwent at least
12 revisions with input from the State Department and other
administration officials.  The original draft by the CIA included the portrayal of the
attack as having been “spontaneously inspired by the protests
at the U.S. Embassy in Cairo” over the anti-Islamic video,
which the administration has acknowledged was incorrect. It also
said that “Islamic extremists with ties to al-Qaeda
participated in the attack,” citing the group Ansar al-Sharia.  State Department spokeswoman  Victoria Nuland  urged removing
references to the terrorist group, saying it could “prejudice
the investigation,” according to ABC.  Olsen Testimony  Still, on Sept. 19, Matthew Olsen, director of the U.S.
National Counterterrorism Center, told a congressional hearing
that the U.S. is “looking at indications” that individuals
involved in the attack may have had connections to al-Qaeda or
its North African affiliate, al-Qaeda in the Islamic Maghreb.  Obama cited Olsen’s testimony three days after Rice’s
appearances to argue that showed there was no attempt to cover
up the involvement of terrorists.  “Who executes some sort of cover-up or effort to tamp
things down for three days?” Obama said.  Administration officials have defended their editing
process, saying that the talking points were crafted just four
days after the attack as intelligence agencies were still
sorting through information about the cause and perpetrators.  ‘Nobody Understood’  At today’s press conference, Obama again took
responsibility for the loss of the diplomats’ lives, and pledged
to work with anyone in Congress who wanted to improve security
at diplomatic facilities. In defending his administration’s
initial response, he said “nobody understood exactly what was
taking place” in the first few days.  “Here’s what we know. Americans died in Benghazi,” he
said. “What we also know is, clearly they were not in a
position where they were adequately protected.” The
recommendations from the panel headed by Pickering and Mullen
“are being implemented as we speak,” Obama said.  Republicans are using the death of four Americans for
political gain and fundraising, Obama said.  “If anybody out there wants to actually focus on how we
make sure something like this does not happen again, I am happy
to get their advice and information and counsel,” he said.  Republicans such as Senator  John McCain  of Arizona for
months have portrayed the administration’s account of the attack
as intentionally misleading.  “I’ve known it was a cover-up for a long time,” McCain,
his party’s 2008 presidential nominee, said in an interview last
week. “The narrative of the presidential campaign was that
Osama bin Laden was dead, al-Qaeda was ‘on the run,’ decimated,
and this act obviously was only from a spontaneous
demonstration.”  Republican  Senator Lindsey Graham  has compared it to the
Watergate scandal that drove President  Richard Nixon  from
office.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Hans Nichols  in Washington at 
 hnichols2@bloomberg.net ;
Roger Runningen in Washington at 
 rrunningen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  