-- Obama Seen Expanding Natural Gas Exports on Production Records
-- B y   J i m   E f s t a t h i o u   J r .   a n d   J i m   S n y d e r
-- 2013-05-13T04:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-13/obama-seen-expanding-natural-gas-exports-on-production-records.html
As the U.S. sets records for natural
gas production, the specter of shortages and surging prices has
been replaced by a debate over how much to sell overseas. The
bounty has fueled speculation President  Barack Obama  is ready to
expand exports.  Sending liquefied natural gas to non-U.S. customers,
unthinkable a few years ago when demand outstripped supply, is
now seen as a way to help U.S. trade and blunt the influence of
producers such as Russia and  Iran . The Obama administration is
reviewing applications for 20 gas export terminals. If all win
approval, the facilities could ship the equivalent of 41 percent
of total U.S. production this year, according to Energy
Department data.  A decision is possible in “weeks and not months,” said
David Leiter, president of ML Strategies LLC, a  Washington 
lobbying firm. John Tobola, general counsel for Freeport LNG,
said the company expects “action in this quarter” on its bid.  The prospect of exporting gas has alarmed users such as  Dow
Chemical Co. (DOW)  and triggered a lobbying battle with producers
including  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM) , which want the market to determine
how much is sold overseas. Too much gas for export will push up
domestic prices, wiping out a competitive advantage U.S.
producers have over foreign companies, according to Dow.  Market Psychology  “We still have a psychology about energy that’s based on
the very lengthy period of time when America was so dependent on
imports that it was creating energy-security issues,” Spencer Abraham, a former U.S. energy secretary who has worked with gas
exporters since leaving office, said in an interview. “Nobody
would be advocating this if we only had 10 more years of natural
gas supplies. The fact is that we have at least a century or
more.”  U.S. gas production, which has jumped 28 percent in the
past decade, will average a record 69.9 billion cubic feet a day
this year, the Energy Department said last week. Output will
reach an all-time high for the sixth straight year on the surge
coming from shale formations, such as the Marcellus in the
Northeast.  Dow says the U.S. has sufficient supplies to send some
overseas. Too many exports though could bring back price
volatility, as domestic manufacturers and electric utilities
compete with foreign customers for the same commodity, said
Kevin Kolevar, Dow’s vice president for government affairs and
public policy.  Surplus Gas  “We are in a time a surplus, but we’ve seen moments of
irrational exuberance before,” Kolevar said in a phone
interview. “We need to be thoughtful. With all the evidence we
have today, we still could be wrong.”  Cheniere Energy Inc. (LNG)  in April 2012 won federal approval to
build a $10 billion natural-gas export terminal in  Louisiana ,
which may start shipping gas in 2015. The department hasn’t set
a timetable for the next applications, including  Dominion
Resources Inc. (D) ’s proposal to export from its Cove Point terminal
in  Maryland , said William Gibbons, a department spokesman.  Liquefied natural gas gets its name because the gas is
super-cooled to liquid form so it can be transported on tankers
for distribution to markets too distant to be connected to gas
fields by pipelines.  Obama Comments  Obama said in a speech in  Costa Rica  last week that U.S.
exports may “facilitate lower costs” for other nations,
without indicating whether he would approve additional sales
overseas. The Energy Department in December found that natural
gas exports would have “net economic benefits” for the U.S.  The analysis was a victory for companies, including  Sempra
Energy (SRE)  and Dominion Resources, that are seeking permits to build
the multibillion-dollar terminals. In addition to gas producers,
expanded exports would help makers of steel and cement used to
build natural gas wells, according to Michael Levi, a senior
fellow at the  Council on Foreign Relations  and author of “The
Power Surge,” which examines the fight over the future of U.S.
energy policy.  “I’ve done estimates that suggest that you might be able
to net something on the order of a few billion dollars a year
from allowing exports,” Levi said on May 3 conference call.
“Not anything spectacular, but the economic benefits, the net
benefits should be positive.”  Low Prices  Prices for natural gas remain below the level where U.S.
based chemical producers would begin losing an advantage over
overseas competitors, said Charles Ebinger, an energy analyst at
the  Brookings Institution , a Washington public policy group.  The spot price for gas in Louisiana on May 10 was $3.90 per
million British thermal units, well below $9.81 in the U.K.
 Japan , the world’s largest gas importer, paid as much as $19.63
in February, data compiled by Bloomberg showed.  “In most markets, they’re competing against products made
from oil,” Ebinger said in an interview. “With the price
deferential between natural gas and oil, the reality is the
price of gas could go up significantly and I don’t think that
would adversely affect their competitive position.”  Processing and shipping may add at least $6 to U.S. gas
sold overseas, Leiter of ML Strategies said.  “As people have really gotten smarter about this and
looked at it they’re realizing that the manufacturing concern,
because of the relatively high cost of exporting LNG, just
doesn’t stand the test,” Leiter said in an interview. “There’s
still a U.S. manufacturing advantage.”  White House  Policy makers are reluctant to quickly approve the
applications, said Ebinger, who said he has spoken with
officials at the White House and the Energy Department. Natural
gas prices are volatile and while new reserves have eased market
swings, Obama would pay a political price if prices jumped, even
if unrelated to exports, Ebinger said.  “The administration is scared, and with some
justification,” Ebinger said. “They are doing a go-slow
approach.”  A 2012 Brookings study co-written by Ebinger found that
exports would have only a modest impact on domestic prices and
on manufacturers that use the fuel. Increased production would
settle prices once exports begin, according to an Energy
Department study.  “If the market is allowed to operate here it will
effectively work to result in the right number being built,”
said Abraham, energy secretary during President  George W. Bush ’s
first term and now chairman of The Abraham Group, a consulting
firm in Washington that has worked with Cheniere. “Let’s say
you artificially were going to limit it to four. Well which four
do you pick because you may pick ones that don’t ever get
built.”  Some energy lobbyists said they expect the administration
to withhold a decision until a new energy secretary is sworn in.
That could happen this week after Senate Majority  Harry Reid , a
Nevada Democrat, said leaders agreed to bring Obama’s choice,
Ernest Moniz, to the floor for a vote.  “The White House increasingly views the shale gas boom as
a geopolitical opportunity,” said Paul Bledsoe, a former White
House energy aide to President  Bill Clinton . “We’ve definitely
entered a new era.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jim Snyder in Washington at 
 jsnyder24@bloomberg.net ;
Jim Efstathiou Jr. in  New York  at 
 jefstathiou@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  