-- Ocado’s Morrison Talks Said to Still Center on Technology Tie-Up
-- B y   G a b i   T h e s i n g
-- 2013-05-13T14:32:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-13/ocado-s-morrison-talks-said-to-still-center-on-technology-tie-up.html
Ocado Group Plc’s (OCDO)  talks on a possible
tie-up with  William Morrison Supermarkets Plc (MRW)  still center on
developing and licensing Web technology and exclude Ocado
selling or delivering Morrison products, according to a person
familiar with the matter.  The discussions with Bradford, England-based Morrison also
concern mobile applications and the use of Ocado’s new
distribution center in Dordon, central  England , said the person,
who declined to be identified because the talks are private.
They spoke following concern that a broader collaboration may
sour its relationship with the competing Waitrose chain.  Ocado fell as much as 13 percent in London trading today
after the Sunday Telegraph reported that Waitrose would reject
any delivery deal between the online grocer and Morrison.
Waitrose, a part of John Lewis Partnership Plc, would examine
any deal between the two to ensure no breach of contract, the
newspaper cited Waitrose Managing Director Mark Price as saying.  Ocado announced in March that it was in discussions to help
Morrison establish an online grocery service. The company sells
groceries from Waitrose, with whom it has an agreement to use
the grocer’s brand on its website and vans until 2020. An option
exists to terminate that deal as early as 2017.  The Waitrose agreement states that Ocado “is not permitted
to sell any products that carry the brand of certain
competitors,” according to Ocado’s 2010 initial public
flotation prospectus. Ocado also must not bring the John Lewis
or Waitrose brands “into disrepute” and undertook “not to
position its offering as a whole to be similar to that of a
discount retailer,” according to the prospectus.  Spare Capacity  The talks with Morrison include how the grocer could use
spare capacity at Ocado’s recently-opened second warehouse in
Dordon, central England, to start an online grocery service.
Ocado said in March that the facility was handling 10,000 to
15,000 orders a week, a tenth of what its site in Hatfield,
southern England, handles at peak times, and that it was in
discussions with retailers over licensing its technology.  Morrison reiterated May 9 that the online service will
start in January 2014, regardless of an agreement with Ocado. A
spokesman said today he could not go beyond that statement.  Morrison favors Ocado’s method of delivering food from a
central distribution center, rather than using local stores to
fulfil orders like  Tesco Plc (TSCO) ,  J Sainsbury Plc (SBRY)  and  Wal-Mart
Stores Inc. (WMT) ’s Asda, a person familiar with the talks told
Bloomberg News on April 26. Using a central hub would lead to
fewer substitutions of products, one of the main online
shoppers’ irritants, the person said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gabi Thesing in London at 
 gthesing@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  