-- Lockheed F-35 Should Get Safety Valve, Official Says
-- B y   T o n y   C a p a c c i o
-- 2013-05-13T15:17:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-13/lockheed-f-35-should-get-safety-valve-official-says.html
The Pentagon’s top weapons buyer is
backing calls to restore a valve on  Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT) ’s F-35
jet that improves the fighter’s chances to survive a hit from a
high-explosive round.  “The addition of an improved” valve “would result in the
aircraft being fully compliant” with its operational
requirements, Frank Kendall, the under secretary for
acquisition, wrote a lawmaker last month in a previously
undisclosed letter.  The two-pound valve system was part of 43 pounds (20
kilograms) of equipment removed in 2008 to save weight on the
F-35, the Pentagon’s most expensive weapons program. The valve
is intended to shut off the flow of a flammable liquid used to
cool avionics.  Computer analysis of the pared-down F-35 design last year
determined that the aircraft’s vulnerability to fires ignited by
enemy bullets or missile fragments increased 25 percent from an
assessment before the equipment’s removal, according to data
from the Pentagon’s weapons-testing office.  Questions about the aircraft’s vulnerability in combat are
among those surrounding the $395.7 billion program, which has
increased in estimated cost by 70 percent since 2001.  Pentagon and congressional supporters have stood by the
plane as it has weathered production flaws, aircraft delivery
and software delays, bulkhead cracks, groundings and sour
relations between the Pentagon’s program office and Bethesda,
Maryland-based Lockheed.  The program has yet to deliver an aircraft with a durable
tailhook for carrier landings, a helmet that gives pilots
undistorted images and software that will operate all combat
systems.  Vulnerable Areas  Every aircraft has vulnerable areas that could disable or
destroy an engine, fuel tank or the pilot if hit by a bullet or
fragment. Testing is intended to calculate which areas are
vulnerable and the likelihood of a hit. The F-35 analysis
assessed the jet’s vulnerability to an onboard fire.  The shutoff valve removed in 2008 was designed to prevent a
fire by detecting leakage of liquid used to cool the F-35’s
computerized avionics and stopping the flow from a damaged fuel
line.  The Pentagon’s F-35 program office and Lockheed Martin are
in the preliminary stages of reviewing an improved valve, which
is a “technically challenging activity,” Kendall wrote.  A final decision will be made by the Air Force, Navy,
Marine Corps and international purchasers that will fly the
aircraft, Kendall wrote Representative James Moran, a Virginia
Democrat who serves on the House defense appropriations
subcommittee and has insisted on restoration of the safety
equipment.  ‘More Survivable’  Even without the valve, the F-35 design is “far more
survivable than any of the legacy tactical aircraft we have ever
fielded,” Kendall wrote. The F-35 is replacing the F-16, A-10
Thunderbolt, F-18A/C/D models and AV-8B Harrier aircraft.  “The combination of stealth, data fusion, advanced
sensors, advanced countermeasures and electronic attack”
greatly reduce the chances the aircraft will be hit by enemy
fire, Kendall wrote.  Kendall said the test office conclusion that vulnerability
increased 25 percent focused on a small area “assuming that the
aircraft is hit.” The probability “is actually a small,
classified number,” Kendall wrote. This means “the overall
impact to aircraft survivability is small, less than 0.5
percent,” he said.  Improvements Cited  The F-35 program office and the Government Accountability
Office have cited recent improvements in the plane.  Lockheed’s performance since a strike of its aerospace
workers ended in July “has been fairly stable and the program
has seen marked improvement in design stability,” Air Force
Lieutenant General Christopher Bogdan, the program manager, told
a Senate Armed Services Committee panel April 25.  The GAO, the watchdog agency for Congress, reported in
March that the fighter’s “current outlook is improved but long-term affordability is a major concern.”  “Overall, the F-35 Joint Strike Fighter program is moving
in the right direction after a long, expensive and arduous
learning period,” the GAO said. “It still has tremendous
challenges ahead.”  Kendall’s letter fits that theme of improvement. Last year,
he said putting the aircraft into production while development
testing was beginning constituted “acquisition malpractice.”  He told reporters last month,  “I feel much more
comfortable” now about the F-35.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony Capaccio in Washington at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  