-- Lonmin Raises Full-Year Output Forecast After Profit Return
-- B y   P a u l   B u r k h a r d t
-- 2013-05-13T16:23:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-13/lonmin-returns-to-profit-in-first-half-raises-output-guidance.html
Lonmin Plc (LMI)  raised its full-year
output forecast after the third-largest platinum producer
returned to profit in the first half as sales increased.  Lonmin plans to exceed 700,000 ounces of platinum metals in
concentrate this year, it said in a statement today. That’s more
than the 680,000 ounces it projected Jan. 31. Profit of 13.3
cents a share in the six months ended March, compared with a
loss of 6.3 cents a year earlier, beat the median  estimate  in a
Bloomberg survey of five analysts for a loss of 4 cents.  South African platinum producers are seeking to rebound
from 2012 pay strikes that cut output and raised costs. At stake
for Johannesburg-based Lonmin is a recovery from its $698
million annual loss, which prompted spending cuts and debt
renegotiations as stagnating prices capped profit. The company
will soon start wage talks with unions, with pay increases set
for Oct. 1, Acting Chief Executive Officer Simon Scott said.  “Further shrinkage of the industry” would follow if there
is a substantial increase in costs, combined with the current
pressure on producers’ margins, Scott said on a call.  Platinum producers are seeking to centralize wage talks
through the Chamber of Mines, as is done in the gold and coal
industries. The Association of Mineworkers and Construction
Union, now the biggest representatives of employees in the
industry, doesn’t want to participate in such combined
negotiations.  Wage Negotiations  “The introduction of centralized wage bargaining in the
platinum industry is unlikely this year,” Scott said. “That’s
not to say it won’t ever be on the table. It makes a whole lot
of sense.”  Lonmin’s platinum sales climbed 2.4 percent to 326,142
ounces in the six months through March from a year earlier.
Lonmin produced 366,059 ounces of platinum in concentrate, 0.6
percent less than a year earlier, it said. Costs rose 5.8
percent to 8,648 rand ($951) per platinum-group metal ounce.
Platinum prices rose 2.7 percent to an average $1,615.02 an
ounce in the period from a year earlier.  The  stock  gained 2.6 percent to 286 pence by the close in
 London , with more than double the three-month daily average of
shares traded.  Anglo American Platinum Ltd. (AMS) , the world’s biggest producer,
on May 10 sought to appease the South African government’s anger
about its proposal to cut as many as 14,000 jobs by scaling back
the reductions at its mines in the country to about 6,000
positions. The revised plans would trim about 350,000 ounces of
annual production.  Platinum Deficit  “It’s still a relatively significant number of ounces out
of the market,” Scott said of Anglo Platinum’s plans in a
telephone interview.  Lonmin expects a platinum deficit of about 200,000 ounces
in 2013 because of last year’s disruptions. This may deepen in
subsequent years as supply constraints persist, it said. The
metal is used in catalytic converters to help reduce harmful
emissions.  While there are “difficulties in the operating
environment,” prices will change during the next one to two
years as stocks of the metal are used up, Scott said in the
interview. “Until that time, we need to manage our costs very
carefully and that’s what we’re doing.”  South African platinum supply dropped by almost 400,000
ounces in 2012 and is expected to grow by 2 percent to 3 percent
annually in “the next few years,” Lonmin said in today’s
statement.  Recycled Platinum  While recycling is expected to partially fill that gap,
with growth of as much as 10 percent a year, that may not be
enough to cover lost supplies, it said.  Competition between the National Union of Mineworkers and
AMCU, which is seeking recognition from companies after
increasing its membership, is intensifying before wage
negotiations. Miners at Lonmin’s Marikana operations refused to
go underground in March, demanding the NUM close its office.  The AMCU, with a total membership of about 120,000 workers,
wants a threshold for recognition of 30 percent, while Lonmin is
seeking a level of 10 percent. The union has referred
recognition talks with Lonmin to South Africa’s Commission for
Conciliation, Mediation and Arbitration.  “We communicate as needed and on a daily basis with our
workforce and we’ve made our intentions clear that we want to
reach a negotiated agreement,” Lonmin’s Scott said. “We need
to recognize those majority unions and give them the recognition
they need, but if there are significant portions of our
workforce that are in smaller unions, there needs to be a
mechanism of recognizing those unions as well.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Paul Burkhardt in Johannesburg at 
 pburkhardt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  