-- Monsanto Wins Seed Case as High Court Backs Patent Rights
-- B y   G r e g   S t o h r
-- 2013-05-13T21:03:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-13/monsanto-wins-seed-case-as-u-s-high-court-backs-patent-rights.html
The U.S. Supreme Court bolstered
 Monsanto Co. (MON) ’s ability to control the use of its genetically
modified seeds, ruling that companies can block efforts to
circumvent patents on self-replicating technologies.  The justices unanimously upheld an $84,456 award Monsanto
won in a lawsuit against Vernon Hugh Bowman, an Indiana farmer.
Rather than buying herbicide-resistant soybean seeds from a
Monsanto-authorized dealer, Bowman used harvested soybeans
containing the technology to plant his crops.  “Bowman planted Monsanto’s patented soybeans solely to
make and market replicas of them, thus depriving the company of
the reward  patent law  provides for the sale of each article,”
Justice  Elena Kagan  wrote for the court. Kagan rejected Bowman’s
contention that he wasn’t legally responsible for making those
replicas, dismissing what she called his “blame-the-bean
defense.”  The case may affect makers of live vaccines, genetically
modified salmon, and bacteria strains used in medical research,
potentially helping makers of those products restrict use beyond
the first generation. Even so, the court said its ruling was a
narrow one that didn’t resolve all issues concerning patents on
self-replicating technologies.  “We recognize that such inventions are becoming ever more
prevalent, complex and diverse,” Kagan wrote. “In another
case, the article’s self-replication might occur outside the
purchaser’s control. Or it might be a necessary but incidental
step in using the item for another purpose.”  Genetic Modifications  The case centered on a technology that has helped make
Monsanto the world’s largest seed company, with $14.7 billion in
annual revenue, as well as a prime target for opponents of
genetically modified food.  St. Louis-based Monsanto inserts genes into crops, letting
them withstand application of the herbicide Roundup. Farmers who
buy so-called Roundup Ready seeds must accept restrictions on
their use, agreeing not to save the harvest for planting in a
later season.  Monsanto has sued 146 U.S. farmers for saving Roundup Ready
soybeans since 1997, winning all 11 cases that went to trial,
the company says.  Today’s ruling “reflects the court’s sensitivity to the
importance of patent protection not only for agriculture
companies such as Monsanto, but for the basic incentive
structure the patent system provides for innovation,” the
company said in a statement. Monsanto fell 1.2 percent to
$106.83 at the close in  New York .  Infringing Farmers  Bowman’s lawyer, Mark Walters, said in an e-mail that the
ruling “makes infringers out of 95 percent of America’s soybean
farmers, dependent on the grace of a single company to avoid
liability.”  For Monsanto, “this is fantastic for their business
model,” said Patrice Jean, a patent lawyer with Kenyon & Kenyon
in New York who has a doctorate in molecular biology. “It
solidifies what they can cover and enforce under the patent law.
Who wants to have the technology patented and as soon as they
sell it, that’s it?”  Biotechnology companies, software makers and research
universities backed Monsanto in the case. Makers of replacement
auto parts and the American Antitrust Institute supported
Bowman. The Obama administration largely supported Monsanto.  Bowman sought to get around Monsanto’s rules from 1999 to
2007 by buying less-expensive soybeans from a grain elevator.
Because the elevator accepted harvests from farmers using
Monsanto seeds, the second-generation beans proved to be
herbicide-resistant. The farmer says he saved $30,000 for his
farm.  Without Permission  When Monsanto found out about the practice, the company
sued Bowman. The  U.S. Court of Appeals  for the Federal Circuit
 upheld  the award against Bowman in 2011.  The Supreme Court today rejected Bowman’s contention that
Monsanto had “exhausted” its  patent rights  by the time he
bought the seed.  The legal principle of patent exhaustion “does not enable
Bowman to make additional patented soybeans without Monsanto’s
permission,” Kagan wrote. She said the patent owner “retains
an undiminished right to prohibit others from making the thing
his patent protects.”  That language will help biotechnology companies protect
their patented work, Jean said. “It does give a lot of teeth to
people who own patents in this area,” she said.  Monsanto said before the ruling that a loss would force the
seed industry to shift research away from soybeans, canola and
wheat -- crops that produce exact replicas of themselves because
they are self-pollinating. Grain from hybrid crops such as corn
isn’t typically replanted because the offspring are less
productive.  Genetic traits require an average of $136 million to
develop and commercialize, a process that takes 13 years,
according to CropLife International, an industry group based in
Brussels. Monsanto in 2012 reported $1.51 billion in research
and development spending.  The case is Bowman v. Monsanto, 11-796.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Stohr in Washington at 
 gstohr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Steven Komarow  at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  