-- Monte Paschi May Post Fourth Straight Loss on Lower Income
-- B y   S o n i a   S i r l e t t i   a n d   F r a n c e s c a   C i n e l l i
-- 2013-05-14T09:00:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-13/monte-paschi-seen-posting-fourth-straight-loss-on-lending-income.html
Banca Monte dei Paschi di Siena , the
bailed-out Italian bank embroiled in a fraud probe, will
probably report a fourth straight quarterly loss as lending
income falls.  Monte Paschi may post a net loss of 154 million euros ($200
million) when it publishes results tomorrow, compared with a
profit of 88.5 million euros a year earlier, according to the
average  estimate  of nine analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  Chief Executive Officer Fabrizio Viola must return the bank
to profit this year under Monte Paschi’s 4.1 billion-euro rescue
plan to avoid handing a stake to the government. In the
meantime, prosecutors are probing whether former managers at the
Siena-based bank, which piled up a total loss of 7.9 billion
euros in the past two years, used derivative contracts to
obscure the losses.  “For the time being, the bank’s revenue generation is
insufficient to cover the deteriorating asset quality,” Luigi Tramontana, an analyst at Banca Akros in Milan, said in an e-mailed report to clients last week. “The management is working
on further restructuring, but asset disposals will be difficult
to achieve in the current context.”  Monte Paschi fell 0.5 percent to 20.83 cents at 10:37 a.m.
in Milan trading. The stock has  declined  14 percent in the past
12 months, giving the bank a market value of 2.4 billion euros.
The 40-company Bloomberg  Europe  500 Banks and Financial Services
Index  gained  36 percent in the period.  Probe Impact  The bank, founded in 1472, won shareholder approval last
month to sue former managers over derivatives that hid more than
700 million euros of losses and lie at the center of a fraud
probe by Italian prosecutors. Viola said on April 29 that the
swaps are now fully reflected in the bank’s accounts and there
are no more losses that weren’t booked correctly.  Even so, “the probes may have an impact on Paschi’s
accounts in terms of lower deposits and are also hurting the
ability of the new management to attract investors,” said
Jacopo Ceccatelli, a partner at financial advisory firm JC &
Associati SIM in Milan.  Viola, 55, and Chairman  Alessandro Profumo , 56, appointed
last year to turn the bank around, are selling leasing and
consumer credit units, closing 400 branches and eliminating
4,600 jobs by 2015. They must submit a revised strategy to the
 European Banking Authority (BMPS)  by the end of June.  Their mission is complicated by Europe’s financial crisis
and  Italy ’s  longest recession  in 20 years, which are affecting
loan quality and profitability.  Government Stake  Revenue may drop 31 percent to 1.04 billion euros in the
first quarter from a year earlier, hurt by lower income from
lending and the cost of state aid, according to the average
estimate of seven analysts. Net interest income probably fell to
546 million euros from 883 million euros. Loan-loss provisions
probably amounted to 424 million euros compared with 430 million
euros a year before, analysts estimated.  “We expect internal capital generation to be wiped out by
the servicing of government support,” Manuela Meroni, a Milan-based analyst, said in an e-mailed report today. The payment of
interest on the government support in the form of shares “may
generate a stock overhang,” he said.  The bank is paying an annual coupon of 9 percent on the 4.1
billion euros of debt sold to the government in the bailout.
Should Monte Paschi post a 2013 loss, it will have to pay the
coupon in the form of new shares, issued at market value.  At the current price of about 21 cents, the government
would receive some 1.74 billion shares, or about 13 percent of
Monte Paschi, according to Bloomberg calculations. The state
would hence become the bank’s second-biggest shareholder after
Fondazione Monte dei Paschi di Siena, a Siena-based foundation
that currently owns 35 percent of the firm.  Persistent Losses  The lender may have an annual loss of 262 million euros for
2013, according to the average of 14 analysts’ estimates.  “Monte Paschi will be loss making in both 2013 and 2014,”
wrote Andrea Vercellone, an analyst at Exane  BNP Paribas SA (BNP) , in
an e-mailed report to clients earlier this month. “We expect
the 2013 coupon on Monti bonds and a portion of that for 2014
will be paid in newly issued shares.”  Investors will almost certainly see their shareholdings
diluted and will probably not receive a  dividend  until 2019,
when the bank will free itself of government support, he said.  Moody’s Investors Service  downgraded  Monte Paschi’s long-term debt and deposit ratings last week by three steps to B2,
with a negative outlook, and said it wasn’t confident about
Monte Paschi’s plans to repay state aid.  There are “questions around internal capital generation
and uncertain prospects for external capital raises,” the
ratings company said on May 9.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sonia Sirletti in Milan at 
 ssirletti@bloomberg.net 
Francesca Cinelli at 
 fcinelli@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  