-- Moody’s Says New Money Fund Rules May Reshape Industry
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   C o n d o n
-- 2013-05-13T18:21:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-13/moody-s-says-new-money-fund-rules-may-reshape-industry.html
New rules being considered for U.S.
money-market mutual funds will make them safer for investors
while forcing some smaller providers out of the business,
Moody’s Investors Service analysts said today in a research
report.  The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission may impose a
floating share value on money funds that buy corporate debt and
cater to the largest clients, known as institutional prime
funds, a person familiar with the matter said May 10. Such a
step would apply to funds holding $939 billion, or about 37
percent of U.S. money-fund assets, according to Westborough,
Massachusetts-based research firm iMoneyNet.  New rules being considered will “lead to a reshaping of
the industry, as some funds close or consolidate, and some of
the smaller money-market fund managers either exit the business
or reassess their business models,” according to the report.  Regulators have debated how to make money funds more stable
since the September 2008 collapse of the $62.5 billion Reserve
Primary Fund. The money-management industry has fought the idea
of floating the share price of the funds. This year, several
companies have urged regulators to limit any rules to prime
funds, or those that buy corporate debt, while other firms have
lobbied for an even narrower application to only institutional
funds.  The closure of the Reserve Primary fund triggered a run on
institutional prime funds that helped freeze global credit
markets. Luis A. Aguilar said he expects that he and fellow SEC
commissioners will vote next month on proposed new rules.  ‘Significant Impact’  The Moody’s study said the potential transformation of some
funds to a floating share value from a constant value “would
have a significant impact” on cash-management products
available to investors, investor preferences and industry
composition.  Moody’s analysts said they didn’t know how broadly or
narrowly a floating value may be applied.  Money funds in the U.S. typically maintain a constant $1
share price by booking securities at their expected value at
maturity as long as the market value remains within half a cent
of $1. The funds distribute investment earnings in cash or new
shares.  Some regulators have argued a floating value that
constantly reflects the market price of holdings would make
funds less susceptible to runs, or large-scale investor
withdrawals.  The Moody’s report said funds are also under pressure from
low  interest rates  and a diminished supply of highly rated
investments. The combination may push investors into
alternatives to traditional money-market funds, such as bank
accounts, separately managed accounts and riskier short-term
bond funds, the report said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Condon in Boston at 
 ccondon4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  