-- Morgans Hotel Board Faced Burkle Deal Threats, Judge Told
-- B y   J e f   F e e l e y
-- 2013-05-13T23:16:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-13/morgans-hotel-board-faced-burkle-deal-threats-judge-told.html
Morgans Hotel Group Co. (MHGC)  board members
faced threats by billionaire  Ron Burkle  to harm the hotel chain
if they didn’t back his acquisition of several of Morgans’s
businesses, a lawyer for one of the company’s directors said.  Burkle, whose Yucaipa Cos. is swapping $230 million in
notes and preferred stock for ownership of Morgans’s  Delano
South Beach Hotel  in Miami and a restaurant company,
“threatened to crater” some of the hotel company’s other deals
if directors didn’t accept his buyout bid and offer to backstop
a $100 million recapitalization effort,  A. Thompson Bayliss , an
attorney for a Morgans board member opposing the deal, told a
judge today. Burkle also serves on the hotel chain’s board.  “What we have here is business terrorism by Mr. Burkle,”
Bayliss told Delaware Chancery Court Judge Travis Laster at a
hearing in Wilmington today.  Jason Taubman Kalisman , a Morgans director and a founding
member of its largest shareholder, OTK Associates, sued his
fellow board members last month over their decision to back the
Yucaipa deal and the $100 million rights offering to current
investors. OTK owns about 14 percent of New York-based Morgans’s
shares, according to court filings.  Proxy Fight  OTK began a proxy fight earlier this year, saying it’s
seeking to overhaul Morgans’s board and return the company to
profitability. The 13-hotel chain has lost money in every
quarter since 2007, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Kalisman wants Laster to bar the swap and recapitalization from
proceeding until after the July 10 shareholder vote.  Last month, Morgans officials agreed to postpone the rights
offering until May 16 so Laster could consider Kalisman’s
complaints about the deal. OTK and Kalisman accused Morgans’s
current directors of rushing to complete the offering before the
company’s annual shareholder meeting, originally scheduled for
May 15, to avoid losing their seats as a result of the proxy
vote.  Lawyers for the Morgans board and Burkle argued today the
swap and recapitalization deals are best interests of the hotel
company’s investors and shouldn’t be enjoined.  ‘Rhetoric, Innuendo’  “An injunction could lead to the breakup of this deal,”
 Raymond DiCamillo , a lawyer for company directors, told Laster.  Kalisman’s lawyers are relying on “rhetoric and innuendo”
to raise question about Burkle’s negotiations with his Morgans
board colleagues over the swap and the recapitalization,  Bruce
Silverstein , the billionaire’s lawyer, said during the hearing.  Silverstein added that Burkle isn’t seeking to gain control
of the hotel chain in the $230 million deal, which includes the
billionaire’s holdings in Morgans preferred shares and
convertible notes. Burkle also will retire warrants and assume
an $18 million promissory note as part of the deal.  Frank Quintero, a spokesman for Los Angeles-based Yucaipa,
didn’t immediately return a call seeking comment on Bayliss’s
claims the billionaire threatened to disrupt Morgans’s operation
if his board colleagues didn’t support his acquisition bid.  ‘Various Threats’  Kalisman contends in court filings the company’s plan to
sell $100 million in stock to existing shareholders at $6 a
share could mean Burkle winds up with as much as 32 percent of
Morgans’s shares if the rights aren’t exercised in full. He also
objects to the sale of the Miami hotel and the Light Group, a
restaurant company, to the billionaire in exchange for Morgans
notes and preferred shares.  As part of his negotiations over the deal, Burkle “liked
to use various threats to try to intimidate” his colleagues on
Morgans board, Kalisman’s lawyers said in court filings.  “Burkle repeatedly threatened to litigate to pressure”
Morgans officials into a deal, according to a filing unsealed
just before today’s hearing. The billionaire also threatened to
scuttle deals aimed at having Morgans executives operate hotels
in Moscow and  Las Vegas , Kalisman’s lawyers said.  Kalisman contends Burkle’s supporters on Morgans board
failed to seriously consider competing bids for the hotel and
food-and-beverage company.  Even though he was a Morgans director and a member of the
board group responsible for evaluating such transactions, his
colleagues “weren’t forthright” about the rights offering’s
details and didn’t give him “reasonable notice” that the deal
would be considered, Bayliss argued today.  The  Morgans chain  features boutique hotels such as the
Mondarian SoHo in  New York , the Clift Hotel in  San Francisco  and
the Delano Marrakech in  Morocco .  The case is Kalisman v. Friedman, 8447, Delaware Chancery
Court (Wilmington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jef Feeley in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 jfeeley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  