-- Houston Light Crude Discounts Widening on Shipping Constraints
-- B y   D a n   M u r t a u g h
-- 2013-05-13T21:07:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-13/houston-light-crude-discounts-widening-on-shipping-constraints.html
Light, sweet crude in Houston has
weakened to a bigger discount to oil in  Louisiana  and to
international benchmark Brent because of shipping constraints.  Crude has been trading in Houston for $4 a barrel less than
Brent as new pipelines and increased Texas crude production have
boosted supply in the city while takeaway capacity remains
limited, according to Adam Longson, a commodity strategy
research analyst for  Morgan Stanley (MS)  in New York.  Light Louisiana Sweet crude, the benchmark light, sweet oil
on the U.S. Gulf Coast, increased 3 cents to a $1.36-a-barrel
premium over Brent at 4:08 p.m. in New York. The crude is priced
in St. James, Louisiana. Based on that spread and the the Morgan
Stanley estimate, crude in Houston is about $5 to $6 under
Louisiana.  Valero Energy Corp. (VLO)  Chief Executive Officer  Bill Klesse 
said in a first-quarter earnings call April 30 that the discount
for crude in Houston versus Louisiana was about $1 to $2 a
barrel.  Magellan Midstream Partners LP (MMP)  started its Longhorn
pipeline to Houston from West Texas in mid-April at 75,000
barrels a day, and plans to expand to 135,000 by late May.
 Sunoco Logistics Partners LP (SXL)  expects to begin shipping crude to
Houston from West Texas on the Permian Express pipeline in June.  “Houston lacks a benchmark, but physical traders indicate
Houston is already pricing about $4/bbl under Brent, given
physical limitations in moving crude out of the area,” Longson
said in his note. “Houston regional pricing will only erode
further as more crude reaches the area.”  Incoming Supply  Enterprise Products Partners LP (EPD)  and  Enbridge Inc. (ENB)  are
bringing about 295,000 barrels a day to the Houston area from
Cushing, Oklahoma on the Seaway pipeline. The nine geographic
fields that make up the majority of Eagle Ford formation in
South Texas yielded a record 471,258 barrels of crude a day in
February, according to preliminary data released by the Texas
Railroad Commission.  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA)  reversed part of its Ho-Ho pipeline
to carry crude from Houston to the Port Arthur area in January.
The company plans to complete the reversal project to move crude
to Louisiana refineries by the end of the year.  “Capacity to bring incremental crude to St. James is
limited (pipeline, rail and barge), suggesting LLS will continue
to trade well above Houston pricing, even after the Ho-Ho
pipeline reversal later in 2013,” Longson said.  LLS’s premium to West Texas Intermediate crude in Cushing
weakened 40 cents to $8.80 a barrel at 4:01 p.m., the smallest
gap since January 2012, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Heavy Louisiana Sweet sank 30 cents to $8.40 over WTI.  Mars Blend slipped 5 cents to a $4.45 premium over the U.S.
benchmark, while Poseidon gained 10 cents to $4.35 over WTI.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Murtaugh in Houston at 
 dmurtaugh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  