-- How U.S. Can Break Up Iran’s Long Nuclear Game
-- B y   G a r y   M i l h o l l i n
-- 2013-05-13T22:27:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-13/how-u-s-can-break-up-iran-s-long-nuclear-game.html
There has been a lot of  talk  about
 Iran  making a sudden dash for the bomb. The fear is that, with
its thousands of gas centrifuges and its tons of enriched
uranium, Iran might be able to make a bomb’s worth of nuclear
fuel before the U.S. or any other country could intervene to
stop it.  In a speech in September at the  United Nations , Israeli
Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu  went so far as to display a
bomb diagram, on which he drew a red line showing when the dash
might occur. He said it could be as early as this spring.  It is surprising that this version of events has gained
such currency, because it isn’t likely to happen. Iran, in fact,
doesn’t seem to be in a hurry. It is playing a  longer game , all
the more menacing because it is more likely to succeed.  Iran’s goal is to build a nuclear arsenal at an acceptable
cost. To achieve that, Iran must avoid any drastic step that
would trigger a war. In a shootout with the U.S., the ayatollahs
would risk their survival -- a large cost indeed.  Iranian leaders have stayed just beneath the line of
intolerable provocation. Of course, they must also keep the pain
from sanctions low enough to avoid revolt. They are succeeding
there as well. So their  strategy  is working.  Multiple Bombs  Its success is only one reason that Iran probably won’t
race for a bomb anytime soon. A second reason should be fairly
obvious: No country wants only one bomb. That is especially true
of the type of bomb Iran has been trying to develop. It employs
the principle of implosion, and would have to be tested. The
U.S. was obliged to test its implosion bomb in 1945 before
dropping “ Fat Man ” on Nagasaki,  Japan .  Iran, too, would be obliged to test, to find out whether
its design worked, and to let the rest of the world know it
worked. Otherwise, there would be no effect of nuclear
deterrence, which is the reason for getting the bomb in the
first place. Thus, a sprint to produce one bomb’s worth of fuel
-- a possibility that has spilled a small torrent of ink
estimating how long it would take -- would cross the finish line
with mainly test data.  And the activity would probably be detected. The director
of U.S. intelligence,  James Clapper , assured a congressional
committee in March that Iran couldn’t divert material and make a
weapon-worth of uranium “before this activity is discovered.”
By “material,” Clapper meant the uranium Iran has already
enriched. Most of it is “low-enriched,” meaning two-thirds of
the way to weapon-grade. A small amount is “medium-enriched,”
meaning 90 percent of the way.  To make a dash now, Iran would have to start with enriched
material; to start with natural, unenriched uranium would take
so long as to be impractical. But there is a catch: All the
enriched uranium is regularly checked by UN inspectors. Within a
few weeks at most, they would probably detect its diversion.  The result would be a perfect storm, politically.
Governments would be under tremendous pressure to act. Israel,
the U.S. and  Europe  couldn’t afford not to. Iran would be in
flagrant  breach  of its Nuclear Nonproliferation Treaty
obligations, which require continuous inspection of enriched
uranium and forbid its use for any but peaceful ends. Iran could
face the very war it had been trying to avoid.  This war could start before the dash succeeded. To produce
bomb-grade uranium, Iran would have to enrich its stockpile
further. That means passing it again through its centrifuges.
Unluckily for Iran, yet luckily for just about everybody else,
its present generation of centrifuges is grossly inefficient.  Iran’s largest known  enrichment site  is near Natanz, about
160 miles south of Tehran. It is home to some 9,000 rapidly
spinning centrifuge machines. How long would it take these
machines to raise Iran’s uranium stockpile to weapon-grade?  Uranium Supply  Only a small amount of work would be needed, in theory, if
it started with the medium-enriched uranium. The minimum time,
assuming everything went perfectly, could be as low as a few
weeks. But there is a big problem. Iran has only enough of this
material for one bomb. To fuel even a small arsenal of five
bombs, Iran would need to amass far more, which would take three
years at its present rate of production.  Could Iran start with its larger stock of low-enriched
uranium? It has enough now to fuel five to six bombs, a
plausible number for a beginner’s arsenal. But it would take at
least eight months to raise that much to weapon-grade. Such a
production run, of course, won’t happen. It wouldn’t be a sprint
or even a jog. It would be a crawl, in plain view. Long before
Iran could fuel even five bombs, precision-guided munitions
could be streaking down.  Instead, Iran is  playing  the longer game. It can follow the
example of  Israel , India and  Pakistan , which came to the bomb
late, yet got true arsenals without armed conflict and are now
accepted as nuclear powers.  The Iranians are experimenting with better centrifuges,
reported to enrich uranium three to five times faster. Several
hundred of these machines are at Natanz already, and Iran
predicts that 3,000 will be installed “in the near future.”  Enrichment is also increasing. There is room at Natanz for
tens of thousands of additional centrifuges, and Iran could
 triple  the number operating at its fortified Fordo plant.
Sometime next year, Iran will amass enough low-enriched uranium
to fuel seven bombs and, if it activates its idle capacity at
Fordo, enough medium-enriched uranium to fuel five more. A dozen
bombs would be a credible nuclear force.  So roughly two years from now, we could see a new
situation. Iran could have a hefty stockpile of medium-enriched
uranium; it could be operating several thousands of potent new
centrifuges; it could be operating thousands more of its old
centrifuges; throughout the Islamic Republic, scores of
workshops would be creating centrifuges at locations unknown to
international inspectors. It may have entered at last the “zone
of immunity” the Israelis have been warning about, meaning that
Iran’s power to make nuclear weapons would no longer be
vulnerable to air attack.  Comfort Zone  That status is what Iran seems to be striving for. What
Israel dreads as a danger zone, Iran would welcome as a comfort
zone. If Iran fed its new centrifuges with its new stock of
medium-enriched uranium, it could shave enrichment times to the
bone. Instead of taking a few months to fuel five bombs, the
theoretical time would shrink to a few weeks.  This is bound to create an aura of inevitability. Iran can
reasonably hope that when its program is fully mature, the world
will decide that an aerial attack won’t be adequate, that all-out war will cost too much, and that “containment” will be the
better way to go.  The U.S. and its allies have found no way to  counter  this
strategy. They have imposed sanctions, yet the sanctions haven’t
stopped nuclear progress. They have warned of military action.
Iran seems not to believe it. The U.S. and its allies have urged
negotiations, but this misreads the needs of the long game. Iran
must push ahead. How can it accept the UN’s demand that it stop
enriching uranium? If it did, it could never perfect its new
centrifuges, and would be frozen at a level where it could never
reach an arsenal. Iran’s nuclear argosy would be stuck on a
reef.  Instead, the U.S. is stuck. Iran is doing nothing
sufficient to create a crisis. It tiptoes forward, builds its
potential every day, claims a right to enrich uranium, deals
with sanctions, and  strings out  negotiations. “No breakthrough
but also no breakdown,” was what a U.S. official called it
after the most recent round of talks.  To sever the deadlock, the U.S. must change its game. It
must carry out what it says is its policy on Iran. The  Barack Obama  administration claims to have a policy of “prevention,”
that is, to stop Iran from getting the bomb. This is different
from “containment,” which tries to manage a nuclear threat
after it arises. The administration even says it will prevent
the capacity to build a bomb -- an earlier phase in development
-- rather than wait until Iran is only a screw-turn short of
success.  Small Arsenal  There is only one way to apply such a policy: to define the
point where Iran’s ability to make a small arsenal comes into
being and to state what will be done to prevent that point from
being reached. In other words, red lines. Plus  statements  of
what will happen when they are crossed.  For example, the U.S. could declare a limit on the amount
of enriched uranium Iran would be allowed to accumulate (the
excess would be sent abroad) or declare a limit on the number of
centrifuges Iran could deploy (new or old). And the consequences
could be a progression. First, more severe sanctions, and then
military steps such as interdiction of oil shipments, a blockade
of ports or even an air attack. At each step Iran could limit
the harm by limiting its program.  None of this seems to fit the administration’s playbook,
yet without it, the U.S. has no way to build  political support 
for taking action. This last point is vital. If prevention is
really the policy, then force has to be an option. Yet the U.S.
can’t attack Iran out of the blue. The American public would
have to be prepared, as would U.S. allies. The U.S. government
would have to remind everyone that the UN has condemned Iran for
violating the Nuclear Nonproliferation Treaty, that Iran thereby
lost any right to enrich uranium, that the UN has called on Iran
to cease enrichment, and that Iran hasn’t complied.  To this could be added Iran’s unflagging support for
terrorist groups, its supply of parts for roadside bombs in  Iraq 
that have killed U.S. troops, and its outrageous violations of
human rights. All of these could and would be cited in support
of red lines, if prevention were really the policy.  Instead,  Uncle Sam  has maintained a mild demeanor, intended
to nurture negotiations. They have gone nowhere for years. It is
clear why. Iran sees all too acutely that the U.S. isn’t ready
to set red lines, and is even further from using force. None of
the political  groundwork  has been done, or is likely to be done.  Without it, threats aren’t credible. Thus, Iran sees no
impediment to its long game. It is working well, and, unless
something changes, it will give Iran the bomb.  (Gary Milhollin is executive editor of Iranwatch.org, a
website on Iranian weapons programs that is published by the
Wisconsin Project on Nuclear Arms Control. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Gary Milhollin at  info@wisconsinproject.org .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Katy Roberts at  kroberts29@bloomberg.net . 