-- Lloyds CEO Says Image of Banks Harming Recruitment of Graduates
-- B y   G a v i n   F i n c h
-- 2013-05-13T16:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-13/lloyds-ceo-says-image-of-banks-harming-recruitment-of-graduates.html
Lloyds Banking Group Plc (LLOY)  Chief
Executive Officer Antonio Horta-Osorio said the U.K. financial
center’s tarnished reputation is harming banks’ ability to
recruit the best university graduates.  A YouGov survey of students that showed only 2 percent were
considering a career in financial services is “very worrying”
and should be urgently addressed by an industry that needs the
finest recruits to transform itself, according to a draft of a
prepared speech Horta-Osorio is making at Oxford University’s
Said Business School today.  “We want the best and the brightest to see banking as a
credible career choice,” Horta-Osorio, 49, said. “This is
vital for the industry’s long-term viability.”  The banking industry has faced a series of scandals
including the widespread rigging of benchmark  interest rates ,
the improper selling of loan insurance to customers and
accusations of money laundering for drug dealers and terrorists.
Lloyds, Britain’s biggest mortgage lender, has set aside 6.8
billion pounds ($10.4 billion) to compensate customers who were
mis-sold payment protection insurance, more than any other U.K.
bank.  Horta-Osorio is striving to return the 39 percent
government-owned bank to the private sector after receiving a 20
billion-pound taxpayer bailout following the takeover of HBOS
Plc during the 2008 financial crisis. London-based Lloyds has
eliminated more than 35,000 jobs since it was rescued, including
850 positions in its business banking, consumer, insurance,
wealth and asset finance divisions announced last week.  “We aspire to be safe, risk-averse, dependable and more
than a little dull,” Horta-Osorio said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gavin Finch in London at 
 gfinch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net 
LLOY LN <Equity> 