-- Lloyds Chairman Bischoff Retires as Bank Returns to Profit
-- B y   G a v i n   F i n c h
-- 2013-05-13T08:54:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-13/lloyds-chairman-bischoff-to-retire-as-bank-s-earnings-recover.html
Lloyds Banking Group Plc (LLOY)  Chairman  Win Bischoff  will retire after more than three years in the job,
saying the British bank’s rebound from its 2008 government
rescue has progressed enough for him to move on.  Bischoff, 72, will leave before May 2014, depending on when
his successor is announced, Britain’s biggest mortgage lender
said in a statement today.  The veteran of London’s City financial district has been
chairman since 2009 after holding the same role at  Citigroup
Inc. (C) , the U.S. bank he sold Schroders Plc to after a 30-year
career at the British firm. At Lloyds, which ceded a 39 percent
stake to the U.K. state after its 20 billion-pound ($31 billion)
bailout in 2008, Bischoff hired Antonio Horta-Osorio as chief
executive in 2010 and oversaw a return to profit since then.  “He’s overseen the stabilization of Lloyds in terms of
balance sheet restructuring and the overhaul of the management
team,” said Gary Greenwood, an analyst at Shore Capital Ltd. in
Liverpool,  England , with a hold rating on the shares. “Now we’re
looking at the next leg, which is basically privatizing
it and returning it to a decent level of profitability.”  On April 30, Lloyds posted a near-threefold increase in
first-quarter profit as impairments for souring loans dropped.
The shares have risen about 8 percent since then. The British
government is seeking to reduce its stakes in Lloyds and Royal
Bank of Scotland Group Plc before an election due in 2015.  Shares Slip  “Lloyds has, over the past four years, made significant
progress in its goal to become a strong, efficient, U.K.-focused
retail and commercial bank,” and “in many areas, it is ahead
of plan,” Bischoff said in the statement. It’s “therefore a
good time to start the search for my successor.”  Lloyds shares  fell 2.3 percent to 57.57 pence at 9:53 a.m.
in London trading.  Anthony Watson, the bank’s senior independent director, is
leading the search for a new chairman. Bischoff had said in July
that he planned to retire from Lloyds within one to two years.  After agreeing to sell Schroders’s investment-banking unit
to Citigroup in 2000, Bischoff joined the U.S. bank and became
chairman in 2007 after Charles O. “Chuck” Prince quit amid
mounting mortgage losses.  Lloyds’s first-quarter pretax profit rose to 1.48 billion
pounds from 497 million pounds in the year-earlier period,
beating the 1.03 billion-pound median estimate of nine analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg. Provisions fell 40 percent to 1 billion
pounds.  The bank’s bailout stemmed from its government-brokered
takeover of HBOS Plc during the financial crisis. Since then, a
turnaround has been hampered by about 6.8 billion pounds of
redress for improperly sold loan insurance and 12.1 billion
pounds of losses tied to the real estate collapse in Ireland.  Lloyds has eliminated more than 35,000 jobs since its 2008
bailout and announced plans to close more than half of its 30
overseas units to focus on Britain. In the past two years, the
bank has shrunk its so-called non-core division by more than
half to 92 billion pounds.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gavin Finch in  London  at 
 gfinch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  