-- Pamela Ryckman Trades on Girl Power of Stiletto Network
-- B y   H e p h z i b a h   A n d e r s o n
-- 2013-05-13T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-13/pamela-ryckman-trades-on-girl-power-of-stiletto-network.html
Forget the old boy’s club. Groups
like the Brazen Hussies, Power Bitches and SLUTS -- aka
Successful Ladies Under Tremendous Stress -- are where today’s
hot deals are being brokered and they’re strictly girls-only.  That’s according to  Pamela Ryckman , who labels the
phenomenon with the title of her new book, “ Stiletto Network .”  Members swap Manolos, sex-toy tips and tales of double
dating with  Bill Gates  and  Steve Jobs . They wield serious clout,
too, nominating one another for directorial boards, funding
lucrative startups and launching billion-dollar charity
campaigns.  Strung together from interviews with the founders and
beneficiaries of these power circles, “Stiletto Network” is
one of the livelier contributions to the discussion of women in
the workplace. It’s also one of the most frustrating.  To start with, there’s Ryckman’s tone. Before having kids
and setting her sights on a career in journalism, she worked in
strategy for  Merrill Lynch & Co. (BAC)  and  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) 
You wouldn’t know it. She writes like a cheerleader sweet on
Candace Bushnell, calling women “gals” and cooing over their
shoes and shiny hair.  Nor does she get access to some of the starrier stiletto
networkers like  Facebook (FB) ’s Sheryl Sandberg, who hosts salons at
her home in Atherton,  California , or  Barbara Walters , who
lunches with a  New York  group called the Harpies.  Belizean Grove  While Ryckman doesn’t speak to  Sonia Sotomayor , who used to
belong to the Belizean Grove -- a female riposte to the
secretive Bohemian Grove -- she does track down the group’s co-founder, former broadcast executive Susan Stautberg.  We also hear from “Grovers” who use words like
“magical” and “enriching” to describe their annual retreat
in Central America, where rituals include the donning of wigs
and bustiers.  Part sorority, part think tank, part job-creation vehicle,
the Belizian Grove has led directly to books being written,
companies formed and money invested.  Other interviewees include Kitty Pilgrim, the CNN anchor
turned thriller writer whose club is Ladies Who Lunch, and Heidi Roizen, a technology entrepreneur and venture capitalist who
convenes a Silicon Valley cabal.  Leap In  From “girlpreneurs” to female captains of industry, these
women add compelling voices. They don’t just lean in, they leap.
They drive Maseratis because they can and wear laced leather
pants because why shouldn’t they? There’s even a cat named
 Eleanor Roosevelt .  The cat belongs to Carole Hyatt, whose Leadership Forum
brings younger women together for career development workshops.
Hyatt herself is old enough to remember the “Mad Men” era when
a woman couldn’t get a loan,  office space  or even a  credit card .
Yet stiletto networks, Ryckman insists, are the result of
evolution not revolution.  “It’s the quilting bee transferred to the boardroom,” she
says. Give me a break.  Horizontal and cross-sector, these networks are flourishing
for several reasons, Ryckman says. Ambitious women once looked
to male mentors to further their careers. With more room at the
top, women can now afford to help one another, while those
who’ve already made it appreciate the power that comes with
cultivating the next generation.  Women are also creating their own opportunities. While 97
percent of Fortune 500 CEO positions and 85 percent of corporate
board seats are still held by men, she writes, “the number of
women-owned businesses in the U.S. is growing twice as fast as
the number of total businesses.”  F-Word  One of the book’s more troubling refrains is a proud
disdain for what Ryckman dubs “that dowdy, dated ‘f-word.’”
Again and again, Type-A C-suiters rush to insist that they’re
absolutely not feminists, who apparently do not wear Louboutin.  Which brings us back to the shoes and hair. It’s true that
in insisting on their right to compete as they are, rather than
wasting energy trying to be one of the guys, these women are
demanding a more complete equality.  Yet having compiled inspiring examples of women’s brains,
creativity and moxie, it’s a shame Ryckman defines femininity
almost exclusively through high heels and flippy hairstyles.  “Stiletto Network: Inside the Women’s Power Circles That
Are Changing the Face of Business” is published by Amacom
($22.95, 258 pages). To buy this book in  North America , click
 here .  Muse highlights include  John Mariani  on wine and  Lili
Rosboch  on art.  To contact the writer on the story:
Hephzibah Anderson in London at
 Hephzibah_anderson@hotmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 