-- Patron Plans $1.3 Billion German Property Spending Over 2 Years
-- B y   N e i l   C a l l a n a n
-- 2013-05-13T07:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-13/patron-plans-1-3-billion-german-property-spending-over-2-years.html
Patron  Capital Partners , a private-equity firm that invests in European real estate, plans to spend
more than 1 billion euros ($1.3 billion) on German properties
over the next two years.  “We have a strong appetite for real estate in  Germany  and
are dedicated to spending considerable amounts of our investment
capital and internal capacities on opportunities in this
region,” Keith Breslauer, Patron founder and managing director,
said in the statement.  Patron already manages about 560,000 square meters (6
million square feet) of land and buildings in Germany, it said.
The assets include office buildings in Berlin’s Mitte district,
railway buildings and land throughout Germany and  Generator
brand youth hostels , according to its website. Germany is the
least risky market for buyers of stores, warehouses and office
buildings because its economy has continued to grow despite the
recession in  Europe , Aviva Investors said in April.  London-based Patron raised about 1 billion euros through
September to buy distressed real estate and related companies
across Europe through its Patron’s Fund IV, the company said.
About half of that money has been invested.  Investors bought about 6.7 billion euros of income-producing property in Germany in the first quarter, a 21 percent
increase from last year, according to broker  Savills Plc. (SVS)   Patron said it hired former Pramerica Real Estate
Investors’ European chief investment officer Georg von
Hammerstein to help it find investments in Germany and German
speaking countries including Austria and Switzerland.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Neil Callanan in London at 
 ncallanan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Blackman  at   ablackman@bloomberg.net . 