-- Pearson Contract Evaluated After Errors on NYC Gifted Test
-- B y   J a n e t   L o r i n
-- 2013-05-13T07:26:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-13/pearson-contract-evaluated-after-errors-on-nyc-gifted-test.html
New York  families whose children took
a test for access to accelerated public-school programs have
been informed of a second scoring error by  Pearson Plc (PSON) ,
prompting the city to re-evaluate its contract with the company.  Pearson failed to use some New York students’ ages at the
time they took the test and instead used a default test date,
which led some children to be categorized incorrectly. That
affected their scores, according to Schools Chancellor Dennis Walcott. Families were informed in April of the  first error.   “This failure to complete the basic quality-assurance
checks Pearson confirmed that they had completed is deeply
disturbing,” Walcott said in an e-mailed statement. “For this
reason, the Department of Education is reviewing a variety of
options, including terminating Pearson’s contract.”  Pearson has been moving deeper into the test-taking market.
It receives more than half of its revenue from the unit that
sells textbooks and testing and educational-consulting services,
cushioning a decline in print sales. In its 2012  annual report 
released in March, the company said it won state contracts in
Colorado and  Missouri , as well as one with the New York-based
 College Board  to deliver a  middle-school  assessment product.
Online-testing volume rose 10 percent in the year, Pearson said.  Gifted Program  The errors involved tests that determine eligibility for
 New York City ’s sought-after  Gifted & Talented  program. Four-year-olds taking the exam qualify to apply for a kindergarten
placement in their district if they score in the  90th percentile 
or higher, and at least in the 97th percentile for the citywide
classes. Achieving the score doesn’t mean the student will win a
seat in the classes, which have limited capacity.  Pearson, the London-based publisher of the Financial Times
newspaper, apologized for the error and has begun to implement
changes to the program requested by New York’s Education
Department, according to a statement from  Scott Smith , president
of Pearson’s Learning Assessment unit. The company is taking
necessary measures to ensure this doesn’t happen again, he said.  “There’s no excuse for the scoring errors made on the
assessments used to determine eligibility for the New York City
Gifted & Talented programs,” Smith said.  When asked about Walcott’s statement that the city is
considering options including terminating Pearson’s contract,
Pearson spokeswoman Susan Aspey said the company would have no
further comment at this time.  Pearson  shares  declined as much as 1.6 percent and were
down 0.7 percent at 1,198 pence at 8:24 a.m. in  London .  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Janet Lorin  in New York at 
 jlorin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lisa Wolfson at 
 lwolfson@bloomberg.net  