-- Philadelphia Abortion Doctor Convicted of Killing Babies
-- B y   S o p h i a   P e a r s o n   a n d   C h r i s t o p h e r   Y a s i e j k o
-- 2013-05-13T20:41:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-13/philadelphia-abortion-doctor-convicted-of-killing-babies.html
Kermit Gosnell, the physician accused
of turning a Philadelphia abortion clinic into a horror house of
fetal remains, was convicted of first-degree murder in the
deaths of three babies born alive during illegal third-trimester
procedures. He was acquitted in the death of a fourth child.  Jurors in state court in Philadelphia deliberated 10 days
before finding Gosnell guilty of murdering the babies by
severing their spinal cords with scissors. Gosnell, 72, was also
found guilty of involuntary manslaughter in the death of a 41-year-old Virginia resident who overdosed after a November 2009
abortion at his clinic in West Philadelphia. Jurors will begin
hearing arguments next week on whether Gosnell should face the
death penalty.  Jurors found Gosnell guilty of more than 200 other counts
for related crimes including violating a 24-hour waiting period
before performing abortions. His attorney Jack McMahon, who
likened his defense of the case to a salmon swimming upstream,
declined to comment on whether he will appeal.  Gosnell is “disappointed and upset,” McMahon said outside
the courthouse. “We aired out our position on this over a long
trial, we had a fair trial, we got to put out our position, and
the jury spoke.”  Squalid Conditions  Gosnell was arrested along with nine employees in January
2011 and charged with performing late-term abortions in filthy
conditions at his Women’s Medical Society clinic. The charges
followed an investigation begun in 2010 after drug agents raided
the facility and uncovered the death of Karnamaya Mongar, who
went into cardiac arrest after clinic employees gave her lethal
doses of the narcotic Demerol.  Investigators found women being treated in squalid
conditions with old equipment and outdated drugs, prosecutors
said. They described the clinic as a “house of horrors” with
floors and walls stained with cat urine and blood.  Prosecutors said Gosnell performed illegal abortions and
employed unlicensed and unskilled staff members to administer
narcotics to patients. Witnesses testified during the trial that
Gosnell snipped the necks of at least 30 fetuses. He resorted to
that method of terminating pregnancies after he stopped using
the drug Digoxin, which causes intrauterine death, before each
abortion.  A co-defendant, Eileen O’Neill, was also found guilty of
theft by deception and conspiracy for practicing at the clinic
without a license. Eight other employees pleaded guilty before
the trial to related crimes. Most testified against Gosnell. The
doctor didn’t testify or call witnesses in his defense.  Gosnell showed little emotion as the verdict was being
read. McMahon said he doesn’t regret not putting the doctor on
the witness stand.  The case is Commonwealth of Pennsylvania v. Gosnell, CP-51-CR-0001667-2011, Court of Common Pleas of Philadelphia County
(Philadelphia)  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sophia Pearson in Philadelphia at 
 spearson3@bloomberg.net ;
Christopher Yasiejko in Pennsylvania state court at
 yasiejko@gmail.com   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  