-- Pimco Welcomes Russia 35% Dividend Plan as Gazprom Faces ‘Test’
-- B y   K s e n i a   G a l o u c h k o
-- 2013-05-13T13:22:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-13/pimco-welcomes-russia-35-dividend-plan-as-gazprom-faces-test-.html
Pacific Investment Management Co.,
the world’s biggest manager of fixed-income mutual funds,
praised a plan to lift Russian state companies’ dividends, while
calling OAO Gazprom’s payout a “big test” of the proposal.  “We welcome this proposal, all investors would welcome
it,” Masha Gordon, manager of Pimco’s $581 million  emerging-markets  equities fund, said by phone today. “The question will
be what the difference will be between the proposal and
implementation. Let’s see whether companies will continue to
challenge the government and how effective the state is in terms
of promoting its decisions through the boards of directors.”  Russia  is considering an increase in dividends paid by
state-controlled companies to 35 percent of profit to boost
budget revenue, said three government officials with knowledge
of the matter on May 8. Russia  started requiring  state-backed
companies to pay no less than 25 percent of net income as
dividends in November, as the world’s biggest energy exporter
grapples with capital outflows and the cheapest equities among
emerging markets.  While adhering to the rule, gas-export monopoly Gazprom is
recommending a 2012 payout that is 33 percent lower than the
year before after profit slumped. OAO Transneft may pay out 25
percent of net income to international accounting standards in
2017, a company official said on April 18.  Pimco is avoiding state-owned Russian companies as they
back down on higher dividends, Gordon said in an interview April
18.  ‘Big Test’  Gazprom’s board of directors will decide on the size of the
dividend payout recommendation in the second half of May,
Mikhail Rosseev, head of the consolidated financial statement
directorate at Gazprom, said during an April 30 conference call.
Management recommended paying 5.99 rubles a share in dividends
for 2012, according to company spokesman  Sergei Kupriyanov .  “A big test would be the decision by Gazprom’s board of
directors,” Gordon said. If Gazprom’s board of directors
doesn’t accept the management’s offer and boosts the dividend
payout “there’ll be a higher chance of seeing a further
dividend payout boost above 25%,” Gordon said.  State power producer OAO Inter RAO UES signaled on April 15
that it may not pay dividends for a second year after reporting
a net loss of 22.8 billion rubles ($722 million) for 2012.  Companies on Russia’s benchmark  Micex Index (INDEXCF)  trade at 5.3
times estimated earnings, the cheapest valuation among 21
emerging markets tracked by Bloomberg. Russia’s 50-stock Micex
4.4 percent  dividend yield  compares with 2.7 percent for the
MSCI Emerging Markets Index. The Micex retreated 0.6 percent to
1,418.26 by 2:48 p.m. Moscow today.  “We welcome this proposal because it introduces financial
discipline for companies that historically distributed their
cash streams incorrectly,” Gordon said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ksenia Galouchko in Moscow at 
 kgalouchko1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Wojciech Moskwa at 
 wmoskwa@bloomberg.net  