-- Prosecutor Seeks Six-Year Jail Term for Berlusconi in Sex Trial
-- B y   L o r e n z o   T o t a r o
-- 2013-05-13T16:23:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-13/prosecutor-seeks-six-year-jail-term-for-berlusconi-in-sex-trial.html
A Milan prosecutor requested former
Italian Prime Minister  Silvio Berlusconi  serve a six-year jail
term and be barred from public office if he’s convicted of
paying a minor for sex and abusing power for trying to cover it
up.  Prosecutor Ilda Boccassini made the request today at the
end of more than six hours of closing arguments in the trial.
Berlusconi was ordered to stand trial in February 2011. A final
ruling may come as soon as next month, after the defense
response starting on June 3, Ansa newswire reported.  Berlusconi said the accusations are false, biased and
ridiculous, according to an e-mailed statement. The prosecutor’s
jail sentence request “is certainly very high and absolutely
disproportionate,”  Niccolo Ghedini , Berlusconi’s lawyer and a
lawmaker for his party, told reporters after the hearing in
comments broadcast by SkyTG24.  The media tycoon-turned-politicians has repeatedly accused
the prosecutors of trying to destroy him since he entered
politics in 1994. In a separate case, a Milan appeals court
upheld last week Berlusconi’s conviction for  tax fraud  in a
film-rights case involving his  Mediaset SpA (MS)  television company.
That verdict, issued by a lower court in October, carried a
four-year prison sentence. Berlusconi denies all charges in both
trials.  On May 6 Italy’s highest court in  Rome  rejected a request
to move both trials to the northern city of Brescia from nearby
Milan. The court rejected the lawyers’ claim that the Milan
court was biased.  Ruby Heart-Stealer  Today’s request by Boccassini marks the final phase of the
prosecution in the trial that focused on the former premier’s
relationship with Karima El Mahroug, a Moroccan nightclub
performer nicknamed Ruby Heart Stealer who attended parties at
his Milan mansion in February 2010 when she was 17.  The abuse-of-power charge stemmed from Berlusconi’s role in
helping secure her release from police custody in Milan after
her detention in May of the same year on unrelated theft
charges.  Berlusconi’s People of Liberty party currently plays a key
role in backing the new government led by Prime Minister Enrico Letta. Letta declined to comment on Berlusconi’s trials when
asked by reporters earlier today during a press conference near
Siena in Tuscany.  Cabinet members agreed today to scale back participating in
political rallies after Deputy Prime Minister  Angelino Alfano ,
who is also the secretary general of Berlusconi’s party, joined
in a May 11 protest in Brescia against the judiciary.  -- With assistance from Chiara Vasarri and Alessandra Migliaccio
in Rome. Editors: Marco Bertacche, Dan Liefgreen  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lorenzo Totaro in Rome at 
 ltotaro@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  