-- Public Service Enterprise to Run Long Island Power Authority
-- B y   F r e e m a n   K l o p o t t   a n d   J i m   P o l s o n
-- 2013-05-13T21:58:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-13/public-service-enterprise-to-run-long-island-power-authority-1-.html
Public Service Enterprise Group Inc. (PEG) 
will take over operations of the Long Island Power Authority,
leaving the state-owned utility without any day-to-day
responsibilities after thousands of its customers were left
without power for weeks by Hurricane Sandy.  Under the agreement, which needs legislative approval, the
 New York  Department of Public Service would oversee PSE&G’s New
York operations, New York Governor  Andrew Cuomo  said today at a
press conference in Albany. Public Service, owner of  New
Jersey ’s largest utility, was awarded a 10-year contract in 2011
to manage the authority’s power lines and distribution systems
starting next year.  Cuomo’s plan to expand the role of Public Service, based in
Newark, New Jersey, was revealed May 1 at a meeting of the
governor’s cabinet. Cuomo criticized the authority’s response to
Sandy, saying in November that its management failed. Chief
Operating Officer Michael Hervey resigned from the authority two
weeks after the storm, which caused the largest power-restoration effort in Long Island’s history.  “LIPA has been a problem for a very long time and it was
on full display during  Hurricane Sandy ,” Cuomo said today. “We
need a new and better way.”  The agreement will freeze electricity rates for LIPA
customers through 2015, Cuomo said. The state-owned authority
would be left as holder of $7 billion of debt. Refinancing as
much as half of that at current lower rates will ease bills for
customers, the governor said.  “This is a thoughtful plan that has many great ideas and
certainly is an important step in the right direction,”
Assembly Speaker Sheldon Silver, a Manhattan Democrat, said at
today’s press conference. “We look forward to working with the
governor to craft a law that would be passed this year.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jim Polson in New York at 
 jpolson@bloomberg.net ;
Freeman Klopott in  Albany  at 
 fklopott@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  