-- Qihoo Tumbles as Production Sinks Chalco: China Overnight
-- B y   B e l i n d a   C a o
-- 2013-05-13T20:45:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-13/qihoo-tumbles-as-production-sinks-chalco-china-overnight.html
Chinese equities  retreated in  New
York  from the highest level in three months, led by  Aluminum
Corp. of China Ltd. , after investment in the nation’s fixed
assets and industrial output trailed economists’ estimates.  The Bloomberg China-US Equity Index of the most-traded
Chinese stocks in the U.S. dropped 1.4 percent to 94.77
yesterday, the biggest decline in three weeks. Aluminum Corp.
sank the most since June, while China Southern Airlines Co.
traded at the widest discount to its  Hong Kong  stock in two
weeks as its load factor declined. Qihoo 360 Technology Co., a
 software developer  based in Beijing, slumped after short seller
 Carson Block  said the company is a “fraud.” LDK Solar Co. led
renewable energy producers higher.  The China-US gauge tracked equities in  Shanghai  and Hong
Kong lower after government reports showed  industrial output 
grew 9.3 percent in April and fixed-asset investment increased
20.6 percent in the first four months of the year, below what
economists surveyed by Bloomberg were expecting. Central bank
data last week showed new lending at Chinese banks exceeded
analysts’ projections while money supply growth quickened.  “What’s striking in the Chinese economy is the anemic
nature of the recovery compared with the extraordinary amount of
new financing poured into the corporate sector since August last
year,” John-Paul Smith, an emerging-markets strategist at
Deutsche Bank AG in  London , said by e-mail. “There’s no end in
sight to overcapacity and declining investment returns across a
broad range of industries. That should drive Chinese equities
down further over the medium term.”  ETF Slumps  The  iShares FTSE China 25 Index Fund (FXI) , the largest Chinese
 exchange-traded fund  in the U.S., sank 1.8 percent to $37.73 in
New York, the steepest decline in three weeks. The Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index was little changed at 1,633.77.  Alex Xu, chief financial officer of Qihoo, said by e-mail
yesterday that he saw no particular reason for the day’s stock
drop and didn’t immediately respond to an e-mail asking about
Block’s comments. Block, founder and director of research at
 Muddy Waters  LLC, said at a conference in Las Vegas May 10 that
he isn’t currently shorting Qihoo shares.  Qihoo’s American depositary receipts sank 4.2 percent to
$38.53 in New York, after surging to a record high of $40.22 on
May 10. Qihoo jumped 17 percent last week and was the third-biggest gainer on the China-US gauge.  Sogou Cooperation  Qihoo is in communication with Sohu.com Inc.’s search
engine Sogou about a possible cooperation in equity investment
without reaching any formal agreement, according to a May 11
 report  on Sina Corp’s technology news website, which cited Sogou
Chief Executive Officer Wang Xiaochuan at an Internet
conference. Wang said Sogou is in talks with several companies
including Qihoo, Baidu Inc. and Tencent Holdings Ltd., according
to the report.  The rally in Chinese Internet companies last week caused
“inflation” in some stocks, according to Henry Guo, an analyst
at ABR Investment Strategy LLC in  San Francisco . “In a
potential purchase of Sogou, Qihoo has to issue new shares to
make the deal happen, which is huge negative for current stock
holders due to dilution,” Guo said by e-mail yesterday.  Muddy Waters said Jan. 24 on Twitter that a boycott
compaign by some  Internet users  targeted Qihoo. The post was
echoing a “widespread smear compaign,” Qihoo CFO Xu said in an
e-mailed response Jan. 25.  Sino-Forest Corp., a Chinese plantation company listed in
 Canada , filed for  bankruptcy protection  in March 2012, after the
short selling firm said in a June 2011 report its revenue had
been exaggerated.  Load Factor  ADRs of Aluminum Corp., China’s biggest producer of the
metal, known as Chalco, tumbled 5.2 percent to $10.14, the
biggest slump since June 21.  Beijing-based Chalco said May 9 it will sell about 8.18
billion  yuan  ($1.3 billion) of assets, including production
plants, mainly to its parent, after posting net losses for six
straight quarters.  China Southern, Asia’s biggest airline by passenger
numbers, slid 2.8 percent to $27.23 in New York, declining the
most in two weeks. Its ADRs, each representing 50 underlying
shares in the Guangzhou-based carrier, traded 0.3 percent below
its Hong Kong stock, the biggest discount since April 26.  The carrier’s load factor, or the percentage of seats
filled by paying customers, declined 1.6 percent in April from a
year earlier, from a 2.7 percent gain in March, according to
data it released yesterday.  Solar Support  LDK, a solar wafer manufacturer based in Xinyu of Jiangxi
province, surged 12 percent to $1.45, the highest close since
March 12.  Yingli Green Energy Holding Co. (YGE)  climbed 3.3 percent to
$2.52, while  Trina Solar Ltd. (TSL)  gained 3.5 percent to $5.93, the
highest price since July.  China’s Ministry of Science and Technology conducted a
study on major photovoltaic companies and solar stations in late
April and held a meeting to discuss policies to support the
industry, according to a statement posted yesterday to the
ministry website.  The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  of domestic Chinese shares
slipped 0.2 percent to 2,241.92 yesterday, after gaining 1.9
percent last week. The  Hang Seng China Enterprises Index (HSCEI)  in Hong
Kong dropped 2.1 percent to 11,109.27, losing the most since
April 5.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Belinda Cao in New York at 
 lcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net  