-- Rangers Win to Force Game 7 in NHL Playoffs as Red Wings Advance
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2013-05-13T05:19:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-13/rangers-maple-leafs-win-to-force-seventh-games-in-nhl-playoffs.html
The  New York  Rangers visit the
Washington Capitals today in a decisive seventh game in their
National Hockey League playoff series after Derick Brassard’s
second-period goal gave the Rangers a 1-0 win.  Brassard’s goal midway through the second period was all
the offense the Rangers needed as goaltender Henrik Lundqvist
made 27 saves yesterday at New York’s Madison Square Garden for
his seventh career postseason shutout.  It was the fifth straight game in the first-round series to
be decided by one goal. The Rangers have lost all three games in
Washington, including the last two in overtime.  “If you lose two in overtime, you’re close,” Lundqvist
told reporters. “It’s just a bounce and you win it, so we know
we can do it. We have to play a really hard and smart game. I
feel like they always come a little harder in their home
building, but we can build on this one.”  The Rangers-Capitals matchup is one of today’s two decisive
Game 7’s in the Eastern Conference, where the Boston Bruins host
Toronto a day after the Maple Leafs extended the series with a
2-1 victory.  The  Detroit  Red Wings last night became the final team from
the Western Conference to earn a spot in the second round by
beating the Anaheim Ducks 3-2 on the road in a Game 7.  Henrik Zetterberg, Justin Abdelkader and Valtteri Filppula
scored goals for the Red Wings, who won the final two games in
the series against the second-seeded Ducks. Anaheim had the
NHL’s third-best record during the regular season.  Detroit Advances  Detroit, which made the playoffs for the 22nd straight year
on the final day of the regular season, joins the Chicago
Blackhawks, San Jose Sharks and Los Angeles Kings in the second
round of the Western Conference playoffs. Four games between the
Red Wings and Ducks went to overtime.  “It could have gone either way,” Zetterberg said in a
televised interview. “They played a great series, but the
little bounces were with us.”  The Rangers last season had Game 7 playoff wins at home
against Ottawa and  Washington . Now they’ll have a chance to do
it on the road after Brassard extended his point streak to four
games, ripping a slapshot past Capitals goalie Braden Holtby,
who was screened on the play by Rick Nash in front of the net.  “You make your legacy as a player in these types of
situations,” Rangers coach John Tortorella said of tonight’s
Game 7. “A number of our guys last year had a blast playing in
these games. Some guys handle it and some guys don’t, but that’s
what you play for, to get yourself in this type of situation and
see what type of character you have, as a player individually
and as a team.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  