-- Transocean Chairman Talbert to Step Down Amid Icahn Fight
-- B y   J a m e s   P a t o n   a n d   D a v i d   W e t h e
-- 2013-05-13T20:48:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-13/transocean-chairman-talbert-to-step-down-amid-fight-with-icahn.html
Transocean Ltd. (RIG) , the largest offshore
oil rig contractor, said Chairman Michael Talbert will step down
as the company tries to fend off billionaire investor  Carl Icahn ’s board nominees.  Talbert will give up his position as chairman by November
and leave the board by the 2014 shareholder meeting if he’s re-elected to his seat on May 17, Vernier, Switzerland-based
Transocean said today in a statement. Talbert, 66, has been on
the Transocean board since 1994 and was chief executive officer
until 2002.  “After consultations with our shareholders, I have decided
to retire from the board on a timetable that will allow the
board to carefully select a new chairman who will help guide the
company in the creation of sustainable, superior value for all
shareholders,” Talbert said in the statement. Transocean will
announce an independent chairman no later than the board’s
November meeting.  Icahn, who holds a 5.6 percent stake in Transocean, called
on the company in January to issue a $4-a-share dividend and is
seeking to replace three of the 14 board members, including
Talbert. Transocean proposed a $2.24 dividend in March after not
issuing one last year as it sought to maintain an investment
grade credit rating and a “strong, flexible balance sheet”
while reducing the value of its businesses.  Search Time  The company is asking shareholders to vote for all five of
the board members up for re-election this year and reject
Icahn’s proposed dividend.  Icahn called the announcement of Talbert’s departure a
“last ditch effort to preserve his re-election,” in a letter
to shareholders today.  “We find it to be utterly absurd that a chairman facing
the prospect of losing his directorship would be so brazen as to
ask shareholders to return him as chairman so that he and the
board can then pick his successor,” Icahn wrote.  Keeping Talbert as chairman for six months will give
Transocean time to consider candidates among existing directors
and anyone else outside the board, Martin McNamara, chairman of
the board’s governance committee, said in a phone interview
today.  The search process, which McNamara will probably lead if he
remains head of the governance committee after the May 17 annual
meeting, would use a search firm, he said.  Guy Cantwell , a Transocean spokesman, declined to give the
exact date of the November board meeting.  ‘Their Terms’  Transocean and “Talbert are trying to show shareholders
that the company will be taking a new direction with the
board/chairman, but it will be on their terms, not Icahn’s,”
Luke Lemoine, an analyst at Capital One Southcoast Inc. in  New
Orleans , said in an e-mail.  Glass Lewis & Co., a proxy adviser, recommended against
Talbert’s re-election because he led the board during a period
of underperformance, according to an April 30 note to investors.
Institutional Shareholder Services also recommended shareholders
vote against Talbert.  Icahn’s slate, if elected, could “constitute a distraction
of management from the very substantial progress we’re making,”
said McNamara, who will mark his 20th year on the board next
year when his term is up for re-election.  “It would have been better if this discussion, if you
will, had proceeded differently and begun sooner,” he said.
“I’m not sure a proxy contest is the best form of
communication.”  Existing board members will be as open and cooperative as
possible if Icahn’s nominees win shareholder approval, McNamara
said.  Transocean, which has 26 buy, 16 hold and two sell ratings
from analysts,  fell 0.3 percent  to $54.50 at the close in  New
York . The shares have gained 22 percent this year.  Transocean owned the $365 million Deepwater Horizon rig
that was destroyed in the  BP Plc (BP/)  oil spill in the  Gulf of
Mexico . The company employed nine of the 11 workers who died in
the April 2010 disaster.  To contact the reporters on this story:
James Paton in Sydney at 
 jpaton4@bloomberg.net ;
David Wethe in Houston at 
 dwethe@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net ;
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  