-- Record Overseas Bid Lures Nestle to India Deals: Real M&A
-- B y   A n g u s   W h i t l e y   a n d   M a l a v i k a   S h a r m a
-- 2013-05-13T10:48:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-13/record-overseas-bid-lures-nestle-to-india-deals-real-m-a.html
The largest overseas bet on Indian
consumers is spurring speculation that companies from  Nestle SA (NESN) 
to  Colgate-Palmolive Co. (CL)  will pursue more deals in a nation
where household income is forecast to triple this decade.  Foreign bids for Indian businesses selling food, drinks,
cosmetics and household goods already reached a record $5.6
billion this quarter, after  Unilever NV (UNA)  offered to raise its
majority stake in Hindustan Unilever Ltd., according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. With consumer spending growth in India
forecast to almost double that in the U.S. over the next five
years, health products maker Marico Ltd. and  Jyothy Laboratories
Ltd. (JYL) , which sells laundry detergent, may be takeover targets for
foreign buyers, Kejriwal Research & Investment Services said.  While asking prices for some assets may deter bidders,
 India ’s annual retail sales of $500 billion and an economy
driven by domestic consumption rather than exports will lure
global brands, said Technopak Advisors Pvt. The country’s middle
class is forecast to add the equivalent of more than the entire
population of Germany in little more than a decade, and Colgate
and Nestle may boost controlling stakes in their publicly traded
Indian units as the market expands for products from soap to
milk powder, said Emkay Global Financial Services Ltd.  “India, because of its sizeable population, can’t be
ignored,” Gaurav Gupta, New Delhi-based senior director at
Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu India Pvt, said in a phone interview.
“India is offering a great opportunity for companies to be part
of the volume growth. You don’t get similar growth in other
parts of the world.”  Record Deal  Growth in consumer spending in India will average 8.9
percent in the next five years, compared with 4.6 percent in the
U.S. and 3.9 percent in the U.K., market researcher  Euromonitor 
estimates.  Foreign companies -- drawn by this growth potential -- have
already spent record amounts on deals for Indian food, drinks,
cosmetics and household-goods companies this year, data compiled
by Bloomberg show. That’s been driven by Unilever’s April 30
offer of 292.2 billion rupees ($5.3 billion) to raise its stake
in  Hindustan Unilever Ltd. (HUVR)  to 75 percent from 52 percent.  Before Unilever’s bid, cross-border deals for Indian
companies in the industry had already reached $3.1 billion in
2012, previously the highest annual total, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg that dates back to 2001. Last year’s
biggest deal was Diageo Plc’s November offer of 111.7 billion
rupees for 53 percent of India’s United Spirits Ltd., a move
that will give the maker of Johnnie Walker the top position in
the world’s largest whisky-drinking nation.  Spending Power  The bidders are lured by the increasing spending power of
India’s consumers, Ankur Bisen, vice president for retail at
consultant Technopak Advisors in Delhi, said in a phone
interview.  Between 2010 and 2021, India’s middle class -- who earn as
much as $5,550 a year -- will swell by 100 million to 570
million, PricewaterhouseCoopers estimated in a  June 2012 report .
Average household income for the country’s 1.2 billion people
may almost triple this decade, Firstcall India Equity Advisors
Pvt. said in a May 4 report.  In the next two to three years, Indian consumers will shift
from predominantly mom-and-pop stores to being more aware of
global retailers and increasingly prepared to buy branded
products, according to Gupta, the senior director at Deloitte.  Branded Products  “It’s creating space for more premium products to come in,
and hence it’s an opportunity for the smaller players to grow
and the more recognized brands from the international market to
come into India,” he said. “There is continued interest and
there will more international players coming into India.”  Jyothy Laboratories, an Indian maker of household goods
such as Ujala laundry detergent and Maxo home insecticides, may
consider selling brands or a part of its business, and overseas
buyers may be interested, said  Arun Kejriwal , a director at
Kejriwal Research in  Mumbai .  The Mumbai-based company may be open to a sale after its
1.19 billion rupee acquisition of Henkel AG’s local unit and
subsequent 35 percent drop in profits in the year through March
2012, he said.  “Jyothy had everything going right for it until it
acquired Henkel’s business, after which it went through some
tough times,” Kejriwal said. “If someone offered them a price,
they could sell a range of products out of the company.”  Targeting Marico  Another target is Mumbai-based Marico, the $2.5 billion
seller of cooking oil, hair care products and packed food,
Kejriwal said. Marico’s Chairman Harsh Mariwala has indicated
he’s open to deals at the right price, Kejriwal said.  “Harsh Mariwala is on record stating that he doesn’t mind
divesting some businesses to someone or doing a joint venture
with someone if they give him the right price,” he said. “He
may have received some interest.”  Jyothy Chairman M.P. Ramachandran and Marico Chairman
Mariwala didn’t respond to phone calls requesting comment.  Jyothy fell 2.2 percent to 175.85 rupees at close of
trading in Mumbai today, while Marico declined 0.1 percent to
213.65 rupees.  Investor confidence in India’s consumer-goods industry has
sent valuations soaring. Jyothy, with a market value of $529
million, traded last week at 66 times profit, more expensive
that 95 percent of companies in the Standard & Poor’s BSE 500
Index, data compiled by Bloomberg show. Marico’s  price-earnings
ratio  of 34 also exceeded the median for the index of 14, the
data show.  New Interest  It’s not just India’s city-dwellers who are buying more
products. Per-capita spending by villagers grew faster than that
of urban dwellers for the first time in two and a half decades
in the two years to March 31, 2012, according to S&P’s Indian
unit Crisil Ltd.  That’s drawn interest from companies including  Danone SA (BN) ,
based in Paris, and San Francisco-based Del Monte Corp., which
have customized products to match Indian tastes, said Sujay Kotak, Mumbai-based assistant vice president at Singhi Advisors,
an investment banking and corporate advisory firm.  “We’re seeing a lot of interest from mid-market and large
companies based out of Europe and U.S. that are looking at
India,” Kotak said by phone. “At the right price, there could
be deals, but there could be smaller joint ventures or
partnerships.”  The next buyers may be Nestle, the world’s largest food
maker, and Colgate, the maker of its namesake toothpaste, Irish
Spring soap and Ajax house cleaner, Pritesh Chheda, an analyst
at Mumbai-based Emkay, said in a phone interview. Chris Hogg, a
spokesman for Vevey, Switzerland-based Nestle, said the company
doesn’t comment on speculation. Representatives at New York-based Colgate didn’t return a phone call seeking comment.  Nestle, Colgate  Nestle controls 63 percent of  Nestle India Ltd. (NEST) , which has
a market value of about $8.6 billion, data compiled by Bloomberg
show. Sales and profit at Nestle’s Indian business have more
than doubled in the past five years, the  data  show.  At Colgate-Palmolive (India) Ltd., 51 percent-owned by
Colgate, revenue doubled while earnings almost tripled in the
five-year period, according to the company’s 2012  annual report .  The day Unilever’s Indian investment was announced, Nestle
India  shares  jumped 5.2 percent for the biggest gain in almost
two and a half years, while Colgate-Palmolive (India)  rose  5.8
percent, the most since June 2011.  Nestle India fell 1.1 percent to 4,848.20 rupees today,
while Colgate-Palmolive fell 0.7 percent to 1,530 rupees.  “India’s demographics -- where we have the world’s largest
young population, the world’s largest middle income group
population -- makes it most attractive for these companies to
target India,” Kejriwal said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Angus Whitley in Sydney at 
 awhitley1@bloomberg.net ;
Malavika Sharma in New Delhi at 
 msharma52@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Sarah Rabil at 
 srabil@bloomberg.net ;
Grant Clark at 
 gclark@bloomberg.net . 