-- Three WellPoint Directors Resign From Insurer’s Board
-- B y   A l e x   N u s s b a u m
-- 2013-05-14T20:09:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-13/three-wellpoint-directors-resign-from-insurer-s-board.html
Three of  WellPoint Inc. (WLP) ’s 11 board
members have stepped down, citing personal reasons for their
decision to depart about six weeks after a new chief executive
officer took over at the second-largest U.S. health insurer.  Lenox Baker, Sheila Burke and Susan Bayh resigned from the
board effective immediately, Indianapolis-based WellPoint said
yesterday in a regulatory filing. “Each of the directors
resigned for personal reasons and there were no disagreements or
disputes between the company and any of the named directors
which led to their resignation,” WellPoint said in the filing.  WellPoint ousted Angela Braly as chief executive officer
last August amid shareholder complaints about declining
enrollment and the insurer’s disappointing stock performance.
Joseph R. Swedish, a former hospital administrator, was hired to
replace her and began March 25. The insurer last month reported
first-quarter earnings that topped analysts’ estimates and
yesterday affirmed its annual profit forecast of at least $7.75
a share including investment losses of 5 cents a share.  “This is normal and it’s probably good for the company to
clean out a few of the board members, especially given how long
it took the board to come to the decision that it was time to
remove the prior CEO,”  Erik Gordon , a business professor at the
University of Michigan in Ann Arbor, said in a telephone
interview. “A new CEO always wants the full support of the
board.”  Upgrading Talent  The resignations are “fortuitous for CEO Swedish as it
allows him the opportunity to upgrade the talent of his board,”
said Brian Wright, a Monness Crespi Hardt & Co. analyst in New
York, in a note to clients today. “We believe investors will
view this favorably, as well.”  The insurer rose 2.6 percent to $78 at the close in New
York. The shares have gained 28 percent this year.  Baker, a retired cardiac surgeon; Burke, a lecturer at the
Kennedy School of Government at Harvard University in Cambridge,
 Massachusetts , and Georgetown University in  Washington ; and
Bayh, a lawyer and wife of former Democratic U.S. Senator Evan
Bayh of  Indiana , had served on the board since December 2004,
according to  data  compiled by Bloomberg.  WellPoint “has benefited from their knowledge, leadership
and many contributions,” the company said in a statement.
“Health care is transforming and that transformation is
accelerating rapidly.”  Asked when new board members might be chosen, Kristin Binns, a WellPoint spokeswoman, didn’t give a timeline. “The
board constantly evaluates qualified individuals,” she said in
an e-mail. “They remain committed to this on-going process.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Nussbaum in New York at 
 anussbaum1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  