-- ResCap Examinner Probe of Ally May Alter Creditor Talks
-- B y   S t e v e n   C h u r c h   a n d   D a k i n   C a m p b e l l
-- 2013-05-13T04:01:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-13/rescap-examinner-probe-of-ally-may-alter-creditor-talks.html
An investigative report on  Ally
Financial Inc. (ALLY) ’s relationship with its bankrupt mortgage arm,
Residential Capital LLC, may affect settlement talks between the
companies and creditors who blame Ally for $25 billion in
potential claims.  The court-ordered report, due today, will examine
allegations that Ally exerted so much influence over ResCap that
the auto lender can be forced to pay its unit’s unsecured debts.  “It can be a game changer,” Lee R. Bogdanoff, a
bankruptcy lawyer, said in a telephone interview. Bogdanoff was
the chief author and attorney for the examiner in the $13
billion bankruptcy of newspaper publisher  Tribune Co. (TRBAA)   Mediation between Ally and unsecured creditors of ResCap
may change with one group or another gaining leverage, depending
“on how emphatic the examiner is when he makes his
conclusions,” Bogdanoff, co-managing partner of Los Angeles-based Klee, Tuchin, Bogdanoff & Stern LLP, said.  Former U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Arthur J. Gonzalez is
scheduled to report the results of his investigation into
whether Ally’s pre-bankruptcy relationship with ResCap.  Gonzalez spent $82.8 million to collect 2 million
documents, interview Ally and ResCap executives under oath, and
review every important contract and financial transaction
involving ResCap, Ally and its former majority owner, an
investment group led by Cerberus Capital Management LP.  Monkey Wrench  “It could throw a monkey wrench into things,” Jesse Rosenthal, an analyst at New York-based Creditsights Inc., said
in a phone interview. “This is many months in the making and
many millions of dollars.”  After getting a government bailout, Ally is now 74 percent-owned by U.S. taxpayers. Federal officials have been seeking to
recoup the government’s $17.2 billion investment. The company
considered an initial public offering before scrapping it until
ResCap is resolved.  Gonzalez’s report may tell the market just how hard it will
be for Ally to break free from ResCap and avoid years of
litigation over soured mortgage-backed securities. Gonzalez’s
findings aren’t binding on the bankruptcy judge who ordered it
prepared, Martin Glenn in Manhattan.  Bankruptcy examiners can have a big effect on how a company
reorganizes by giving ammunition to one side or another during
negotiations. The more evidence an examiner uncovers to support
or debunk allegations of wrongdoing, the more impact the report
will have.  Making Progress  The release of the ResCap report was put off from noon May
10, to today at the request of U.S. Bankruptcy Judge  James M. Peck , the mediator working to resolve disputes between Ally and
ResCap creditors. Peck requested the delay after telling
Gonzalez, the bankruptcy examiner, that talks were making
progress.  In Tribune, the examiner’s report had specific conclusions
about whether lawsuits creditors wanted to file would succeed.
After the report, Tribune withdrew its initial reorganization
plan and began negotiations with lower-ranking creditors.  Tribune exited bankruptcy in December, more than four years
after initially seeking court protection. The Tribune examiner’s
report cost about $10 million and took about 75 days to
complete, Bogdanoff said.  Glenn and all sides in the case have said repeatedly that
the investigation will influence settlement talks between Ally
and creditors, as well as ResCap’s plan to file a bankruptcy
proposal that pays as much of its debt as possible. Creditors
and Detroit-based Ally have been in mediation for weeks.  Too Low  Ally had proposed paying $750 million to settle claims that
creditors say are worth billions. The official committee of
unsecured creditors opposed that settlement, saying it was too
low.  ResCap filed for bankruptcy almost a year ago, on May 14,
2012, partly to help it resolve lawsuits brought by investors
that purchased mortgage bonds backed by home loans. The
investors claimed the bonds lost value because many of the loans
were bad. Such losses account for much of the $25 billion in
unsecured debt that the creditors committee claims ResCap owes.  Before the filing, the boards of Ally and ResCap agreed
that Ally would pay $750 million to the ResCap estate in what
Ally Chief Executive Officer Michael Carpenter later called a
“hostage payment.” ResCap also agreed to settle lawsuits with
mortgage-bond investors by giving them the chance to collect as
much as $8.7 billion.  Non-Agency Bonds  From 2004 to 2007, a ResCap predecessor issued $197.8
billion in non-agency mortgage bonds, according to Inside
Mortgage Finance, an industry publication based in Bethesda,
 Maryland .  After selling its mortgage-servicing business and a loan
portfolio, ResCap has more than $4.5 billion to try to split
among creditors claiming to be owed tens of billions of dollars.  Secured bondholders, whose debt trades at more than 100
cents on the dollar, are owed about $2.1 billion. The company
also owes about $972 million to creditors holding unsecured,
publicly traded debt, according to court documents.  ResCap claims to owe Ally at least $1.13 billion.  Gonzalez, who presided over the bankruptcy of Detroit
automaker Chrysler LLC, investigated a range of legal issues,
including whether creditors may be able to sue Ally and ResCap
executives and the companies for breach of fiduciary duty and
fraudulently transferring assets from ResCap to Ally.  Reasonable Compensation  Under the U.S. Bankruptcy Code, if a parent company causes
a subsidiary to become insolvent by taking away property without
providing reasonable compensation, creditors can sue claiming
that a fraudulent transfer took place.  Creditors can also force the parent to pay a unit’s debt by
showing that the two “operated as a single economic entity.”  One point of contention between the company and creditors
is Ally’s online bank. Creditors allege that Ally improperly
stripped ResCap of a stake in the unit, robbing them of value
that could be used now to reimburse losses.  Last year, hedge fund Elliott Management Corp., which owned
a small stake in Ally at the time, said the Internet lender
could fetch from $13.1 billion to $16.3 billion in a sale.  Fitch Ratings said Ally’s debt ratings will be negatively
affected if it’s forced to cover many of the liabilities,
according to a report yesterday. Ally has said litigation and
private-label security claims may be from zero to $4 billion,
Fitch said.  “Ratings could come under pressure if Ally is viewed as
being liable for ResCap’s liabilities and is exposed to claims
at the higher end of this range,” the ratings firm said. If the
impact on Ally is immaterial, that could lead to “ratings
stability,” Fitch said.  The case is In re Residential Capital LLC, 12-bk-12020,
U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New York
( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Steven Church in Wilmington, Delaware at 
 schurch3@bloomberg.net ;
Dakin Campbell in San Francisco at 
 dcampbell27@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
John Pickering at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net ;
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  