-- Restaurant Meals ‘Alarmingly High’ in Fat, Study Finds
-- B y   A l e x   W a y n e
-- 2013-05-13T20:32:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-13/restaurant-meals-alarmingly-high-in-fat-study-finds.html
The average meal at a chain
restaurant contains more than half the calories, 1.5 times as
much sodium and almost all the fat that people are recommended
to consume in an entire day, researchers in Canada found.  Scientists at the University of Toronto  analyzed 
nutritional information for 685 meals and 156 desserts reported
by 26 sit-down  restaurant chains . On average, the meals
contained 1,128 calories, or 56 percent of the U.S. Food and
Drug Administration’s 2,000 calorie-a-day recommendation.  The meals contained 151 percent of the FDA’s recommended
limit for sodium, 89 percent of the limit for fat and 60 percent
of the limit for cholesterol, the researchers reported today in
the journal  JAMA Internal Medicine .  “Calories, fat, saturated fat and sodium levels are
alarmingly high in breakfast, lunch and dinner meals” at chain
restaurants, the researchers said. “Addressing the nutritional
profile of restaurant meals should be a major public health
policy.”  The researchers didn’t name any of the restaurant chains.  The number of U.S. adults who are  obese  has doubled since
1980 to more than 78 million, according to the Centers for
Disease Control and Prevention. The condition raises the risk of
 heart disease  and diabetes, among other health issues, and costs
the  U.S. economy  an estimated $147 billion a year in medical
expenses and lost productivity, the Atlanta-based agency has
said.  Obama Effort  Childhood obesity rates have tripled in the last 30 years,
spurring the Obama administration, led by first lady  Michelle Obama , to urge food companies to take voluntary steps to improve
the nutritional value of their products.  Darden Restaurants Inc. (DRI) 
pledged to reduce total calories and sodium in its food by 20
percent over 10 years.  In a separate study published in the same journal,
researchers from the Center for Science in the Public Interest,
George Washington University and Northwestern University found
that reductions of sodium levels in processed and restaurant
foods since 2005 have been “inconsistent and slow,” despite
public commitments by food companies.  The researchers examined sodium content in processed foods
bought at Giant Food Inc.,  Safeway Inc. (SWY)  and  Whole Foods Market
Inc. (WFM)  in 2005, 2008 and 2011. They also looked at foods available
at 16 U.S. fast-food restaurants, including  McDonald’s Corp. (MCD)  and
stores owned by  Yum! Brands Inc. (YUM)   They found that sodium levels in the processed grocery
foods had decreased about 3.5 percent on average since 2005,
while the fast-food restaurants had increased their sodium
content by about 2.4 percent on average.  “Changes in sodium levels by the food processing and
restaurant industries have been minimal,” the study says,
arguing that “prompt, strong regulatory action to lower levels
of sodium in processed and restaurant foods is necessary.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Wayne in Washington at 
 awayne3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  