-- Retail Sales in U.S. Probably Fell on Cooling Automobile Demand
-- B y   S h o b h a n a   C h a n d r a
-- 2013-05-13T04:00:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-13/retail-sales-in-u-s-probably-fell-on-cooling-automobile-demand.html
Retail sales  probably fell in April
for a second consecutive month, hurt by cooling demand for
automobiles, economists said before a report today.  The 0.3 percent drop last month would follow a 0.4 percent
decline in March, according to the  median  forecast of 74
economists surveyed by Bloomberg. Falling gasoline prices also
hurt service-station receipts, overshadowing gains at
discounters including  TJX Cos. (TJX)   Economists forecast consumer spending will slow this
quarter as Americans rebuild savings and come to grips with the
January increase in the  payroll tax . At the same time,  lower
fuel  costs combined with rising stock and home values are
boosting buying power, which will underpin purchases as the
labor market mends.  “The headwind from taxes is still there, but we also have
some tailwinds,” said  Jonathan Basile , an economist at Credit
Suisse in  New York . “On top of that, the drop in gasoline
prices is freeing up a little more money for consumers to spend
outside the gas pump.”  The Commerce Department will release the retail sales
figures at 8:30 a.m. in Washington. Economists’ estimates in the
Bloomberg survey ranged from a decline of 0.9 percent to a gain
of 0.3 percent.  Household spending will grow at a 1.8 percent annualized
rate this quarter after expanding at a 3.2 percent pace in the
first three months of the year, the most since the end of 2010,
according to the median forecast of economists surveyed by
Bloomberg this month.  Tax Increase  Higher taxes may be starting to squeeze budgets. At the
beginning of 2013, the payroll tax reverted to its 2010 rate of
6.2 percent after holding at 4.2 percent for two years.  Cars and light trucks sold at a  14.9 million  annual pace in
April, down from a 15.2 million rate the prior month, according
to data from Ward’s Automotive Group. The average for the first
quarter was 15.3 million, the strongest since the same period in
2008 and a sign the longer-term outlook remains positive.  Ford Motor Co. (F) , General Motors Co. and Chrysler Group LLC
said sales increased in April from the same month last year.  “Low borrowing costs and rising consumer wealth should
continue to support spending growth,” Jenny Lin, Dearborn,
Michigan-based Ford’s senior U.S. economist, said on a May 1
conference call.  Fuel Costs  Cheaper gasoline also restrained receipts at filling-stations last month because the Commerce Department’s data
aren’t adjusted for prices.  A gallon of  regular gasoline  at the pump averaged $3.55 in
April, lower than March’s $3.69. The price peaked at a four-month high of $3.79 on Feb. 26, according to AAA, the biggest
U.S. auto group.  “Vehicle sales are going to be a drag but we’re looking
for a more solid underbelly to retail sales,” said Basile.  Excluding automobiles and gasoline, retail sales probably
climbed 0.3 percent in April after falling 0.1 percent the prior
month, according to the median forecast in the Bloomberg survey.  Retailers that sell discounted name-brand clothing and home
goods were among those showing the best results. Same-store
sales jumped 8 percent last month from the same time in 2012 at
TJX, the owner of T.J. Maxx and Marshalls stores, while  Ross
Stores Inc. (ROST)  had a 7 percent gain. Results at both chains
exceeded analysts’ forecasts.  May is “off to a strong start,” Sherry Lang, senior vice-president of global communications at Framingham, Massachusetts-based TJX, said on a May 9 sales call. “It was nice to see
strength in apparel as well as home categories across the
board.”  Missing Estimate  Nonetheless, the gains haven’t been broad based.  L Brands
Inc. (LTD) , the operator of the Victoria’s Secret lingerie chain,
reported a 2 percent rise in April sales at stores open at least
a year, missing analysts’ average estimate.  Investors are betting retailers will weather the fallout
from higher taxes. The Standard & Poor’s Supercomposite
Retailing Index has advanced 18.7 percent this year, compared
with a 14.6 percent gain in the broader  S&P 500 (SPX)  index.  Advances in equity prices, which mainly benefit wealthier
Americans, are helping to underpin  consumer spending . U.S.
stocks are in the fifth year of a  bull market  amid better-than-forecast corporate earnings and record stimulus by the  Federal
Reserve .  Retail sales may also keep getting help from the housing
market. Residential  real-estate prices  rose in the year ended in
February by the most since May 2006, according to the S&P/Case-Shiller index of house values in 20 cities.  Better job growth would help spur purchases and put more of
the 11.7 million unemployed Americans back to work. Payrolls
expanded by 165,000 workers in April after a 138,000 gain in
March, according to the Labor Department. They rose by 236,500 a
month on average from November through February.  
To contact the reporter on this story:
Shobhana Chandra in  Washington  at 
 schandra1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  