-- Rifkind Says Removing U.K. Nuclear Weapons Would Take Generation
-- B y   K i t t y   D o n a l d s o n
-- 2013-05-13T15:13:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-13/rifkind-says-removing-u-k-nuclear-weapons-would-take-generation.html
Relocating Britain’s nuclear missiles
from  Scotland  in the event of the country winning independence
could take “a generation,” said Malcolm Rifkind, chairman of
the U.K. Parliament’s Intelligence and Security Committee.  “It would take months, if not years to find an alternative
site,” Rifkind, a lawmaker in Prime Minister David Cameron’s
Conservative Party and opponent of Scottish independence, said
at the Royal United Services Institute in London today. “It’s
not unrealistic to assume that, with the best will in the world,
it would be 10 to 15 years before the actual construction of an
alternative site could be completed.”  The U.K. has kept its nuclear deterrent at the Faslane base
in western Scotland for 44 years. The government in London might
be faced with having to remove the missiles from what would be a
foreign country should the Scottish National Party win its bid
for independence. Scottish First Minister Alex Salmond’s
administration in Edinburgh opposes having what he calls weapons
of mass destruction in Scotland.  A vote for full sovereignty in the independence referendum
set for Sept. 18 next year will lead to a demand for the removal
of the four submarines and dozens of warheads. Rifkind pointed
to  Russia  using a naval base in Sevastopol for 22 years after
Ukraine exited the former Soviet Union.  “Look how long it has taken to find sites for nuclear
waste -- infinitely less controversial than where you are going
to place nuclear submarines,” Rifkind said today.  SNP defense spokesman Angus Robertson told the Royal United
Services Institute audience at the discussion today that he
wouldn’t “be drawn on timescales.”  Faslane, 25 miles (40 kilometers) west of Glasgow,
Scotland’s biggest city, has been home to the nuclear deterrent
since 1969, when Polaris submarines replaced bombers as the
launch platform. Warheads are stored eight miles away at
Coulport in reinforced concrete bunkers.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kitty Donaldson in  London  at 
 kdonaldson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  