-- Rising Revenue Undercuts Parties’ Tax-Spending Arguments
-- B y   D a v i d   J .   L y n c h
-- 2013-05-13T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-13/rising-revenue-undercuts-parties-tax-spending-arguments.html
A shrinking U.S. federal  deficit  is
undermining the favorite tax-and-spending arguments of both
Republicans and Democrats.  During the recurring fiscal crises of the past few years,
Republicans have pressed for deep budget cuts, including
fundamental changes to programs such as Medicare and Social
Security. Democrats have called for increasing the tax burden on
the wealthiest Americans.  Both will be harder sells in an unfamiliar era of falling
deficits.  “It does take the air out of the balloon,” said Tony Fratto, who was deputy White House press secretary under
Republican President George W. Bush. “It takes away the
ferocity behind these two views.”  The deficit for the first seven months of fiscal 2013 --
October 2012 through April -- fell 32 percent to $489 billion
compared with the same period a year earlier, according to the
Congressional Budget Office.  Most of the decline is the result of higher-than-expected
revenue from an improving economy, tax increases that took
effect on Jan. 1, and $85 billion in automatic government
spending cuts known as sequestration. Last week, President
 Barack Obama  boasted that the deficit is “falling at the
fastest rate in decades.”  The government’s fiscal profile also will improve this year
thanks to payments from the mortgage-finance companies Fannie
Mae, which plans to pay the government $59.4 billion in
dividends at the end of June, and Freddie Mac, which plans to
repay $7 billion in government aid at the same time.  Fight Postponed  Those payments will delay the next political confrontation
over raising the government’s borrowing limit, which was
initially scheduled to occur on May 19.  Treasury Secretary Jacob J. Lewsaid in a May 10 interview
with CNBC television that the government won’t need additional
borrowing authority “until at least Labor Day,” Sept. 2.  Investors remain sanguine about the government’s borrowing
needs. The  yield  on the 10-year Treasury bond was 1.9 percent on
May 10 in New York compared with 2.38 percent the day Obama was
inaugurated for his first term.  “The deficit isn’t really an issue for the next four or
five years; it’s clearly going to be moving down,” said Jim O’Sullivan, chief U.S. economist for High-Frequency Economics
Ltd. in Valhalla, New York.  Fourth Year  The deficit’s decline as a percentage of GDP, now in its
fourth year, promises to reshape -- though not end -- the almost
nonstop political combat over government finances that included
the first credit downgrade of the U.S. in August 2011.  The deficit will fall to less than 4 percent of gross
domestic product in the fiscal year beginning Oct. 1 from a peak
of more than 10 percent five years earlier, say economists such
as O’Sullivan and John Makin of the Republican-leaning American
Enterprise Institute.  “It takes the pressure off,” Makin said. “There’s not a
crisis there, by any means. The deficit scolds don’t have much
to talk about anymore.”  Tomorrow, the Congressional Budget Office is scheduled to
release updated projections, including a deficit forecast for
the next fiscal year that will probably be smaller than the 3.7
percent figure in its  January  report.  On Capitol Hill, some Republicans are backing away from
long-standing demands for cuts in planned spending on Medicare
and Social Security, said Representative Tom Cole, an Oklahoma
Republican.  Tax Code  Entitlement cuts are “falling out of favor” with some
Republicans who see pushing to overhaul the tax code as more
politically attractive, he said.  “It’s much more popular because somehow everybody
envisions their taxes going down,” Cole said. “Everybody
around here wants dessert -- nobody wants to eat spinach.”  The austerity argument also suffered a blow last month when
errors were found in an academic paper by economists Carmen Reinhart and Kenneth Rogoff that had identified a link between
high public debt and slower economic growth. Republican
lawmakers had cited the paper, “Growth in a Time of Debt,” as
supporting their anti-deficit campaign.  Today’s narrowing deficit represents “another step down
the road away from austerity as a political rallying cry,” said
Anne Mathias, managing director for research at Guggenheim
Partners Investment Management in Washington.  Buffett Rule  Obama’s proposal to raise taxes on higher-income Americans
-- and institute the “Buffett rule,” a minimum tax on
millionaires, named after billionaire  Warren Buffett , who
supports the idea -- also faces stiffening political headwinds,
she said. And Makin said he expects the economy to weaken around
midyear because of government spending cuts, making tax
increases -- or further spending cuts -- politically toxic.  Though the 10-year financial forecast is brightening, the
government’s long-run financial problems remain unresolved. By
2040, debt held by the public will exceed 103 percent of the
nation’s economy, up from  73 percent  at the end of last year.  In February, the president signed legislation suspending
the $16.4 trillion debt limit through May 18. The ceiling will
increase on May 19 to accommodate additional borrowing that
occurred during the intervening months. The Treasury then plans
to use what it calls “extraordinary measures” to pay the
government’s bills and delay the need to raise the debt ceiling.  Sometime this fall, congressional Republicans and the White
House will resume their struggle over the debt limit. With the
deficit shrinking, the outcome is likely to be more budgetary
“incrementalism” rather than a so-called grand bargain that
overhauls entitlement programs and the tax code, says Donald Marron, former executive director of the congressional Joint
Economic Committee.  “It’s fun to talk about grand bargains,” Marron said.
“But it’s very hard to get elected folks to agree to so many
moving parts.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
David J. Lynch in  Washington  at 
 dlynch27@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Clark Hoyt at 
 choyt2@bloomberg.net  