-- Sanford Won’t Gain Plum Posts in Return to U.S. House
-- B y   R o x a n a   T i r o n   a n d   J a m e s   R o w l e y
-- 2013-05-13T16:53:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-13/sanford-won-t-gain-plum-posts-in-return-to-u-s-house.html
Mark Sanford, the South Carolina
Republican governor disgraced by lying to conceal an
extramarital affair, has staged a political comeback and will be
sworn in as the newest U.S. House member this week.  Sanford shouldn’t expect a celebratory welcome to the
chamber where he served three terms before he was governor.  Republican leaders are wary of him and won’t be giving him
plum committee assignments, though he keeps his seniority.
Still, lawmakers will walk a fine line because Sanford beat his
Democratic opponent, Elizabeth Colbert Busch, by a wide margin,
54 percent to 45 percent.  “Some people, knowing how people are around here, they
might keep a little distance,” Representative Steve Chabot, an
 Ohio Republican , said in an interview. “I don’t think anybody
excuses the behavior. But that’s not for us to judge. That was
for the people of his own congressional district.”  Democrat Representative  Steve Cohen  of  Tennessee  said, “I
imagine he’s going to get some shots here and there, but I think
he probably expects that.”  Sanford, once a rising star in the  Republican Party , may be
sworn in as soon as May 15. He replaces Representative  Tim Scott , who is filling the Senate term of  Jim DeMint , who
resigned. The Republican Steering Committee will meet days after
Sanford is sworn in to decide which panels he’ll serve on.  Sanford’s Censure  In 2009, Sanford admitted to an extramarital affair with an
Argentine woman he visited in that country after telling aides
he was hiking the Appalachian Trail -- which became a punchline
for late-night talk show hosts. Sanford was censured by his
state’s Republican-led legislature and paid ethics fines, though
he didn’t resign. He finished his second term as governor in
early 2011.  Sanford’s marriage ended. He is now engaged to the
Argentine woman, Maria Belen Chapur.  Sanford represented much of his new House district from
1995 to 2001, retiring that year to honor a term-limit pledge.
Under House rules, he retains his seniority.  Because he’s joining Congress partway through the first
year of the session, his committee assignments will be limited
to filling vacancies on panels that are usually less coveted.
The timing of his return puts less pressure on House leaders
because they won’t have to choose among high-profile committees
or bump other members from assignments.  Slots ‘Filled’  “If you come halfway through, some of the slots are
already filled,” Representative Pete Sessions, a Texas
Republican, said in an interview. Sessions said Sanford would
stand “a better chance of having a choice” of good assignments
in the next session of Congress.  Sessions, the chairman of the Rules Committee, called
Sanford a friend and said there are some panel assignments that
would “fit him nicely.”  Sessions cited the Natural Resources Committee and the
Transportation panel as two possible spots for Sanford. Sanford
previously served on the International Relations panel, now
called the Foreign Affairs Committee. He also had assignments on
the Government Reform and Oversight panel, the Joint Economic
Committee and the Science Committee.  The Foreign Affairs panel, though, may be out of the
question. It has no vacancy and his past membership on that
committee is already fodder for jokes.  Sanford won his congressional seat with little help from
the  National Republican Congressional Committee , the political
arm of  House Republicans .  Keeping Distance  The organization kept its distance from his campaign after
it discovered last month that Sanford’s ex-wife, Jenny, filed a
complaint accusing him of trespassing at her home in February.
Sanford said he wanted to watch the end of the  Super Bowl  with
one of their four sons and unsuccessfully tried to reach his ex-wife, who has custody.  “With all the stuff coming out, how could you take the
risk?” Representative Devin Nunes, a California Republican,
said in backing the NRCC’s decision.“We couldn’t keep dumping
money if these allegations were going to keep coming out. We’ve
been down that road plenty of times.”  In his campaign to revive his political career, Sanford
acknowledged mistakes in his private life as he asked voters to
give him a second chance and to consider his 14 years in public
office.  Sanford emphasized his favorable ratings from groups
promoting spending restraint and tax cuts, and touted his
opposition to appropriations projects in Congress and to federal
stimulus funds as governor.  ‘Very Independent’   Sanford said he’s willing to overlook being shunned by the
Republican establishment.  “Past is past, and I look forward to working with the
entire Republican team,” Sanford said on Fox News Sunday.  Sanford said he’ll focus his attention on entitlement
programs such as Medicare, Medicaid and Social Security.  “What I’m going to do is, in essence, look under the hood
at a whole host of things,” Sanford said on the program
yesterday. “I think you got to deal with the big rocks. The big
rocks in  Washington , D.C., are certainly entitlements.”  The lack of help from the congressional Republican
establishment may lessen pressure on Sanford to go along with
House leaders and allow him to vote against the party.  “Mark has always been a very independent guy, a very
idealistic guy and there’s probably a challenge that when the
NRCC pulled the money out at a critical time in his campaign
he’s going to be even more independent and more dedicated to
pushing ideas,” Representative Jack Kingston, a Georgia
Republican, said in an interview. “When he was a member, he
never feared being the lone wolf on a bill.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Roxana Tiron in Washington at 
 rtiron@bloomberg.net ;
James Rowley in Washington at 
 jarowley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  