-- Schaeffler to Cancel Continental AG Investment Accord
-- B y   T o m   L a v e l l
-- 2013-05-13T16:15:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-13/schaeffler-to-cancel-continental-ag-investment-accord.html
Schaeffler AG,  Continental AG (CON) ’s
largest investor, plans to end an agreement between the two
makers of auto parts as it continues to dismantle a plan for a
gradual merger.  Continental is “confident that the two companies will
continue their very good and goal-oriented cooperation on into
the future” following the termination of the shareholding
accord in mid-May 2014, Chief Executive Officer Elmar Degenhart
said today in an e-mailed statement.  Family-owned Schaeffler, which makes industrial bearings
and transmission components, agreed in August 2008 to
temporarily limit its stake in Hanover-based Continental to
49.99 percent in a deal to resolve a dispute over control of the
tire producer, which is also Europe’s second-biggest car-parts
manufacturer.  Debt ballooned to about 12 billion euros ($15.6 billion) at
Herzogenaurach, Germany-based Schaeffler after the efforts to
limit its holding in Continental backfired amid the global
recession, when more shareholders than it was expecting accepted
its offer to buy stock. Schaeffler parked the excess Continental
shares at banks and scaled back the stake to 49.9 percent in
September 2012. At one point, its direct and indirect holding
totaled 90 percent.  “The investment agreement no longer has any practical
relevance for either company since key provisions of the
agreement expired in August 2012,” Schaeffler said in a
separate statement.  Continental and its biggest investor are cooperating on
about 30 projects, Degenhart said earlier this year.  “We consider our investment in Continental a long-term
strategic investment aimed at sustainably increasing the value
of Continental,” Maria-Elisabeth Schaeffler and Georg F.W. Schaeffler, the bearing maker’s owners, said in the statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Lavell in Frankfurt at 
 tlavell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Risser at 
 drisser@bloomberg.net  