-- SEC Chairman Reviewing Company Cybersecurity Disclosures
-- B y   C h r i s   S t r o h m
-- 2013-05-13T19:01:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-13/sec-chairman-reviewing-company-cybersecurity-disclosures.html
U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission Chairman Mary Jo White has asked her staff to review
whether publicly traded companies should be prodded to disclose
more information about cyberattacks on their computer networks.  White has asked her staff to give her “a briefing of the
current disclosure practices and overall compliance” with SEC
guidance on cybersecurity and “any recommendations they have
regarding further action in this area,” she said in a letter to
Senate Commerce Committee Chairman Jay Rockefeller.  In the letter, dated May 1 and released by Rockefeller’s
office today, White said SEC staff-level guidance to companies
on cybersecurity “has had a positive impact” on better
informing the public in company filings.  The guidance advises public companies to disclose to
investors the threat and potential impact of cyber attacks that
pose a “specific and material” risk.  The commission’s staff has issued comments related to
cybersecurity disclosures to about 50 publicly traded companies,
White said, offering for the first time a number of how many
companies have been contacted by the agency regarding their
filings.  “Staff is using the information gathered through these
efforts to evaluate the efficacy of the guidance,” White wrote.  The 27 largest U.S. companies disclosing cyber attacks to
the SEC this year all said they sustained no major financial
losses, according to a Bloomberg review of company filings. The
reports contrasted with statements from U.S. government
officials who say billions of dollars in corporate secrets are
being stolen.  True Costs  Rockefeller, a West Virginia Democrat, convinced the SEC to
issue the guidance in October 2011. Rockefeller sent White  a
letter  April 9 calling on the SEC to elevate the guidance and
issue it at the commission level.  “While the staff guidance has had a positive impact on the
information available to investors on these matters, the
disclosures are generally still insufficient for investors to
discern the true costs and benefits of companies’ cybersecurity
practices,” Rockefeller wrote. In her response to Rockefeller,
White didn’t say whether the agency will toughen the guidance.  Rockefeller has pushed legislation to make the SEC issue
stronger guidelines for disclosing risks of cyber attacks,
urging that it be included in cybersecurity legislation in 2012.
That measure died in the Senate.  White’s response “makes it clear the SEC will continue to
prioritize increased disclosure of cybersecurity practices and
to monitor the steps companies are taking to manage
cybersecurity risks,” Rockefeller said in an e-mailed statement
today.  “It’s important for investors to understand whether
companies are effectively addressing all forms of risk, from
financial and operational to cyber, and this information is a
key element in the legislation that the Senate is working on to
strengthen our nation’s cybersecurity,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Strohm in Washington at 
 cstrohm1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  