-- Serbian Central Bank Will Probably Cut Rates as Inflation Slows
-- B y   G o r d a n a   F i l i p o v i c
-- 2013-05-13T22:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-13/serbian-central-bank-will-probably-cut-rates-as-inflation-slows.html
Serbia ’s central bank will probably
lower borrowing costs today for the first time since January
2012 to spur economic growth as price pressures ease, a survey
of economists showed.  The Narodna Banka Srbije will cut the benchmark  one-week
repurchase rate  by a quarter-point to 11.50 percent, according
to 11 of 23 economists in a Bloomberg  survey . Four predict a
half-point reduction, three see a 75 basis-point decrease and
five forecast borrowing costs staying unchanged. The bank will
announce its decision at about noon in Belgrade.  Serbian monetary policy is set to follow the rest of
eastern  Europe , where borrowing costs are falling to bolster
flagging economic growth. Rather than battling last year’s
recession with rate cuts, central bankers in Belgrade tightened
policy eight times in nine meetings through February as
regulated price increases and rising dinar liquidity drove the
inflation rate to a 12.9 percent October peak.  “Essentially, we are seeing rate cuts virtually
everywhere,”  Benoit Anne , the head of emerging-market strategy
at  Societe Generale SA (GLE)  in  London , said in a May 9 e-mail to
investors, predicting a quarter-point cut. “Including in
Belgrade where we expect the National Bank of Serbia to switch
back to an easing bias next week.”  Poland ’s central bank on May 8 cut its benchmark  interest
rate  by a quarter-point to a record-low 3 percent and  Hungary 
reduced borrowing costs for a ninth month in April, bringing it
to an all-time low of 4.75 percent from 5 percent.  The Serbian dinar traded at 110.9060 per euro at 5:35 p.m.
in Belgrade yesterday. It has gained 1.3 percent against
Europe’s common currency this year.  Inflation Outlook  The inflation rate rose from a 30-year low of 2.7 percent
in April 2012. It reached 12.4 percent in February and was 11.4
percent last month. Policy makers want to bring it down to 4
percent, plus or minus 1.5 percentage points, by December.  The pace of price increases may slow to about 9.8 percent
in May, giving the central bank scope to ease, according to
Predrag Stojanovic, head of treasury at Belgrade-based Piraeus
Banka AD.  The central bank “is well behind the curve” and “since
they did not cut last month, it may not be realistic to expect a
75 basis point reduction, but a quarter-point could be
realistic,” Stojanovic said. “The 11.75 percent makes little
sense except for a psychological reason to show that Serbia has
high interest rates.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gordana Filipovic in Belgrade at 
 gfilipovic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  