-- Sharif Plans to Appoint Ishaq Dar Pakistan Finance Minister
-- B y   K h u r r u m   A n i s   a n d   A u g u s t i n e   A n t h o n y
-- 2013-05-14T09:43:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-13/sharif-to-appoint-dar-pakistan-finance-minister-ahead-of-budget.html
Nawaz Sharif , whose party gained most
seats in  Pakistan ’s May 11 election and is set to form the next
government, plans to name Mohammad Ishaq Dar as finance minister,
ahead of a national budget in June.  The appointment of Dar had been agreed in meetings before
the election and has since been confirmed, Mamnoon Hussain, a
central senior vice president of the Pakistan Muslim League-Nawaz, said by phone yesterday. Siddiq-ul-Farooq, a party leader
and spokesman, also said Dar will head the government’s economic
team as finance minister.  Dar, 64, would have about a month to prepare a national
budget at a time when sluggish growth and one of the region’s
lowest rates of tax collection risks a widening of the fiscal
deficit. He may also have to negotiate a bailout with the
 International Monetary Fund  after foreign exchange reserves
plunged 40 percent from a year ago, to less than two months of
imports, according to central bank data.  “Dar will need a much stronger team this time because the
situation is much worse,” Sakib Sherani, chief executive
officer at Macroeconomic Insights, an Islamabad research firm,
said by phone today. “The balance of payments is an immediate
challenge, they will have to figure out the holes in public
finances and damage to public sector companies.”  Sharif’s party won the most seats in the voting. His party
had won 123 contests for the lower house of parliament, about
four times the number of his nearest rival, according to the
latest tally of official results from the Election Commission of
Pakistan. Dar didn’t answer three calls made to his mobile phone.  People’s Mandate  “For the first time, a government in Pakistan has been
removed by the people for misgovernance,” Nasim Beg, executive
vice chairman of the Arif Habib Corp., which runs cement and
fertilizer plants, said in an interview in Karachi today. That
means Sharif will understand the consequences of failing to
deliver. He will enjoy a “genuine people’s mandate,” to fix
the economy and address the energy crisis, Beg said.  Sharif said in a recent interview with the Geo channel he’d
hire professional managers for loss-making state companies and
end the cycle of debt that has crippled electricity generation
and transmission companies.  State-owned firms -- especially those in the power sector -
- are “bleeding” cash and will need private managers to turn
them around, Pakistani billionaire Mian Mohammad Mansha, who
heads MCB Bank Ltd. and Nishat Mills Ltd., said in an interview
last month. The government took over 391 billion rupees ($3.97
billion) of debt from the books of public sector enterprises in
the year ended June 30, according to the  State Bank  of Pakistan.  “A new loan agreement with the International Monetary Fund
would be credit positive since it could avert a balance-of-payments crisis and institute a framework for fiscal
discipline,” Moody’s Investors Service said in an overnight
statement.  Third Term  The election results set the stage for the longer-term
stability of the country’s sovereign rating of B minus, Standard
& Poor’s Ratings Services said in a statement from  Singapore 
yesterday. That’s six levels below investment grade.  “The economy is one of the top most priorities,” Iqbal
Zafar Jhagra, secretary general of the party, said by phone from
 Peshawar . “You rectify your economy and all other problems will
be automatically resolved.”  Dar was the country’s commerce minister in Sharif’s first
term and finance minister in 1999, when  Pervez Musharraf  seized
power and sacked the cabinet. Now the opposition leader of the
Senate, or parliament’s upper house, Dar spent more than a year
in jail under Musharraf over corruption charges that never went
to trial.  Energy Crisis  He has a bachelor’s degree in commerce from the University
of Punjab and has been a director of the  World Bank ,  Asian
Development Bank  and  Islamic Development Bank , according to his
profile on the Senate  website . He also served as finance
minister for three months in 2008 until his party quit President
Asif Ali Zardari’s alliance.  “The government has a majority and that makes it easier
for them,” said Reehana Raza, director at the Institute of
Development and Economic Alternatives, a Lahore-based think-tank.
“Solving the energy crisis and spurring growth are the key
economic challenges. Dar is the most experienced man in the team,
he’s the done the job before and knows it well.”  Pakistan was among the 15 lowest revenue-gathering nations
in the world as a percentage of GDP, according to the U.S.
Central Intelligence Agency’s World Fact Book 2012. The South
Asian nation recorded the highest  budget deficit  in two decades
in the fiscal year through June as it missed its tax target.  The nation’s fiscal deficit may be 7.5 percent of gross
domestic product this year, wider than the government’s target
of 4.7 percent, the IMF said in January.  State Monopolies  Sharif, whose family owns steel and sugar mills, ended
state monopolies in shipping, airlines and telecommunications
during his two terms as prime minister in the 1990s.  Pakistan’s $210 billion economy grew an average 3.8 percent
each year during Sharif’s stints as premier, according to data
on the World Bank’s website. Under Zardari’s five-year
administration, growth slowed to an average 3 percent, less than
half the annual pace of the previous five years, as the economy
was crippled by record power blackouts lasting as long as 18
hours a day.  The  KSE 100 Index (KSE100)  rose as much as 1.3 percent, extending
yesterday’s gains. Overseas investors bought $202 million worth
of Pakistani shares this year, the most since the same period in
2010, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  National Budget  The finance minister will have to present the national
budget for the year starting July 1 next month.  Sharif’s party dominated its Punjab bastion in the election
and reduced Zardari’s Pakistan Peoples Party to a third of its
previous strength in parliament, according to the official
results.  Pakistan Muslim League-Nawaz will seek the support of
independents to form Pakistan’s government, Shahbaz Sharif, a
party leader, told reporters in Lahore yesterday.  The ballot marked the first time a civilian government
completed its term and transferred power to a successor.
Pakistan has been ruled for half its history by the military.
The voter turnout was about 60 percent, according to the
Election Commission of Pakistan, compared with 44 percent in the
2008 election.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Augustine Anthony in Karachi at 
aanthony9bloomberg.net;
Khurrum Anis in Karachi at 
 kkhan14@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  