-- Sharif Plans to Appoint Dar as Pakistan’s Finance Minister
-- B y   K h u r r u m   A n i s   a n d   A u g u s t i n e   A n t h o n y
-- 2013-05-13T12:40:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-13/sharif-may-appoint-dar-as-finance-minister-ahead-of-june-budget.html
Nawaz Sharif , whose party gained most
seats in  Pakistan ’s May 11 election and is set to form the next
government, plans to name Mohammad Ishaq Dar as finance minister,
two senior members of the group said.  The appointment of Dar had been finalized in meetings
before the election and has since been confirmed, Mamnoon
Hussain, a central senior vice president of the Pakistan Muslim
League-Nawaz, said by phone today. Siddiq-ul-Farooq, a party
leader and spokesman, also said Dar will head the government’s
economic team as finance minister.  Dar, 64, would have about a month to prepare a national
budget at a time when sluggish growth and one of the region’s
lowest rates of tax collection risks a widening of the fiscal
deficit. He may also have to negotiate a bailout with the
 International Monetary Fund  after foreign exchange reserves
plunged 40 percent from a year ago, according to central bank
data.  “In 100 days, they will have to initiate very significant
tax reforms or spending reforms,” Sayem Ali, a Karachi-based
economist at Standard Chartered Plc., said by phone. “They have
to take some measures to strengthen the falling reserves.’  Sharif’s party was on course for a victory in the election,
according to an unofficial tally of votes by state-run Pakistan
Television. His party had won 127 contests for the lower house
of parliament, about four times the number of his nearest rival,
PTV reported. Dar didn’t answer three calls made to his mobile
phone.  Third Term  The election results set the stage for the longer-term
stability of the country’s sovereign rating of B minus, Standard
& Poor’s Ratings Services said in a statement from  Singapore 
today. That’s six levels below investment grade.  “The economy is one of the top most priorities,” Iqbal
Zafar Jhagra, secretary general of the party, said by phone from
 Peshawar . “You rectify your economy and all other problems will
be automatically resolved.”  Sharif, whose family owns steel and sugar mills, ended
state monopolies in shipping, airlines and telecommunications
during term terms as prime minister in the 1990s. He said in a
recent interview with the Geo channel he’d hire professional
managers for loss-making state companies and end the cycle of
debt that has crippled electricity generation and transmission
companies. He also plans to ramp up lending for small businesses.  Economic Growth  Pakistan’s $210 billion economy grew an average 3.8 percent
each year during Sharif’s stints as prime minister, according to
data on the  World Bank ’s website. Under President Asif Ali
Zardari’s five-year administration, growth slowed to an average
3 percent, less than half the annual pace of the previous five
years.  The  KSE 100 Index (KSE100)  surged this year as higher commodity
prices and  consumer spending  boosted earnings of the gauge’s
companies by 43 percent in the past 12 months. That profit
growth lured $202 million of stock purchases from overseas
investors this year, the most since the same period in 2010,
according to Bloomberg compiled by data.  The finance minister will have to present the national
budget for the year starting July 1 next month. Dar is the
leader of the opposition in the Senate, or upper house.  Sharif’s party dominated its Punjab bastion in the election,
reduced its chief rival to a third of its previous strength in
parliament and may be able to govern without the help of a major
coalition partner, according to PTV.  “This is an ideal and a graceful victory for Sharif,”
said political analyst and retired army General Talat Masood in
a phone interview in Islamabad yesterday. “He will form a
strong government at the center, which is badly needed to tackle
some enormous economic and security challenges.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Augustine Anthony in Karachi at 
aanthony9bloomberg.net;
Khurrum Anis in Karachi at 
 kkhan14@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  