-- Shekel Forecasters Tip Fischer Victory: Israel Overnight
-- B y   L e s l i e   P i c k e r
-- 2013-05-14T13:48:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-13/shekel-forecasters-tip-fischer-victory-israel-overnight.html
Israel ’s central bank needs to follow
yesterday’s surprise interest rate cut and dollar purchase plan
with more measures to succeed in stemming the shekel’s gains,
the currency’s most accurate forecasters say.  “The  Bank of Israel  will have to do more intervention,
more  capital controls , more of everything to weaken the
shekel,” said  Daniel Hewitt , a senior economist on emerging
 Europe ,  Middle East  and  Africa  at Barclays Plc, which had the
second-most accurate forecasts on the shekel last quarter,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. “It’s going to have a
big fight on its hands and over the long term or medium term,
the Bank of Israel’s going to win.”  The shekel retreated 1.2 percent yesterday, the biggest
one-day drop since August, after policy makers led by Bank of
Israel Governor  Stanley Fischer  unexpectedly reduced the
benchmark lending rate by 25 basis points and pledged to buy
about $2.1 billion by the end of the year. The currency
strengthened this year as the start of natural gas production
and rates more than double the U.S.’s lured investors.  The currency weakened another 0.8 percent to 3.6444 a
dollar at 9:43 a.m. in New York, trimming this year’s advance to
2.5 percent, the second-biggest after  Mexico ’s peso among the 31
most-traded currencies.  Accurate Forecaster  The Bloomberg Israel-US Equity Index of the largest Israeli
companies traded in New York fell 0.9 percent yesterday after
 Tel Aviv ’s benchmark  TA-25 Index (TA-25)  posted the biggest gain in
three months.  Cellcom Israel Ltd. (CEL) , the nation’s largest mobile
phone provider, slumped in New York after posting a 21 percent
drop in first-quarter sales.  The Bank of Israel started buying dollars in April for the
first time in two years to arrest the shekel’s climb and bolster
exports, which make up about 40 percent of Israel’s economy.
Borrowing costs in Israel aren’t “low enough” to deter foreign
capital, Governor Fischer, 69, told a conference in Tel Aviv
April 23. The country’s 1.5 percent rate compares with 0.5
percent or lower in the U.S.,  Japan , U.K. and the euro region.  The Bank of Israel will cut rates to 1 percent or lower,
engage in quantitative easing or “unsterilized intervention,”
according to Olgay Buyukkayali, the most accurate shekel
forecaster in the first quarter, Bloomberg data show. The
London-based strategist at Nomura Holdings Inc. also wrote in a
report yesterday that the bank’s action “does not justify
shorting shekels.”  ‘Strong Sign’  Nomura scored 75.49 out of 100 based on the accuracy,
timing and directional precision of its prediction in the
period, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Barclays’ score
was 67, while  Societe Generale  SA scored 64.34.  Barclays’s Hewitt said by phone yesterday that the shekel
will trade around 3.60 a dollar in the second quarter. Nomura
sees it strengthening to 3.60, while Societe Generale’s
Guillaume Salomon said that 3.64 versus the dollar is the
highest the shekel will go.  “We have seen the lows of the year in the dollar-shekel,”
Guillaume Salomon, chief emerging-markets strategist at Societe
Generale in  London , said by phone yesterday. “It’s a strong
sign to the market participants that the central bank has said
the currency’s strength is enough and we’ll do anything to turn
the trend.”  Appreciation Potential  The Israeli shekel will depreciate 1 percent to 3.65 in the
second quarter, according to the mean of 12 forecasts compiled
by Bloomberg.  “Our view is that we don’t think that this turns around
the outlook for the shekel, we think it slows the appreciation
potential,” Anezka Christovova, a foreign-exchange strategist
at Credit Suisse AG in London, said by phone yesterday. Credit
Suisse is in the process of reviewing her foreign-exchange
forecast for the shekel versus the dollar, she said.  The shekel’s appreciation, the start of natural gas
production from the Tamar field and interest rate cuts by
regulators, including the  European Central Bank , were cited by
the Bank of Israel among reasons for yesterday’s decisions.  Of 11 economists surveyed by Bloomberg prior to the rate
decision, only Shlomo Maoz, of  Ramat Gan , Israel-based Alfa
Platinum Investment House and Modi Shafrir of Tel Aviv-based
I.L.S. Brokers Ltd., predicted a cut to 1.50 percent. The median
estimate was for  rates  to remain unchanged at 1.75 percent.  Stepping Down  The central bank move came a little more than a month
before Fischer plans to step down. The former No. 2 at the
 International Monetary Fund  said he was leaving for personal
reasons, mostly because his family is in the U.S. and he has
achieved many of the goals he wanted to accomplish.  “This is Fischer’s last stand,”  John Taylor , chief
executive officer of FX Concepts LLC, said yesterday at
Bloomberg headquarters in New York. His firm manages $1 billion
in currency funds. “We’re short euros and long shekels, and
this didn’t help that position at all today. I think we’d like
to be long shekels against the euro anyway.”  Israel’s benchmark TA-25 Index advanced 1 percent, the most
since Feb. 20, to 1,204.66 yesterday. The Bloomberg Israel-US
Equity Index slipped to 91.41, led by Cellcom.  Israel’s biggest mobile provider plummeted 6.6 percent, the
most since October, to $8.90, after reporting first-quarter
sales that declined to 1.26 billion shekels ($349 million).
Shares of Netanya, Israel-based Cellcom slipped for a third
straight day, dropping 2.4 percent in Tel Aviv trading to 32.75
shekels, or $9.06.  Ituran Location and Control Ltd.  added 1.9 percent to
$16.67, a two-year high. The Israeli manufacturer of devices for
locating stolen vehicles posted a record 684,000 net
subscribers, helping sales increase 8.6 percent to $41 million,
according to a statement yesterday. Shares in Tel Aviv gained 4
percent to 60.20 shekels, or $16.66. Co-Chief Executive Officer
Eyal Sheratzky said the Azur, Israel-based company sees a
stronger shekel having only a small effect.  “We’re mostly not having an exposure because in every
region, our costs and revenue are in local currencies,”
Sheratzky said by phone yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Leslie Picker in  New York  at 
 lpicker2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net  