-- Shooting Suspect Insanity Plea Seen as Delaying Trial
-- B y   J o e l   R o s e n b l a t t
-- 2013-05-13T04:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-13/shooting-suspect-insanity-plea-seen-as-delaying-trial.html
A judge allowing James Holmes to
plead insanity to charges of murdering 12 people in a shooting
rampage at a  Colorado  movie theater would “stop the clock” on
the case, further delay his trial, and almost guarantee an
appeal, a former prosecutor and a law professor said.  State court Judge Carlos A. Samour Jr. in Centennial,
Colorado, is scheduled today to determine whether Holmes’s
lawyers have presented “good cause” to change his not guilty
plea, which a judge entered for him in March, to not guilty by
reason of insanity.  A decision by Arapahoe County District Attorney George
Brauchler last month to pursue the death penalty against Holmes
should be cause enough, Karen Steinhauser, a former Denver
prosecutor now in private practice, said in phone interview.
Brauchler’s office would be “hard pressed to object to the
change of plea,” she said.  The death penalty sought by prosecutors along with Samour’s
expected acceptance of the insanity plea will “stop the clock”
on the case and likely delay a trial scheduled for February 2014
while Holmes undergoes psychological testing, Steinhauser said.  “For many victims and the public, a plea of not guilty by
reason of insanity may seem like it’s just a delay tactic and
they may believe there’s no way he was insane at the time,”
Steinhauser said.  Possible Reversal  Of utmost importance is that the trial is “done one time
and one time only,” she said. “If the court makes a mistake
just to try to move things quicker, it can result in the whole
case being reversed years down the road.”  Holmes, who studied neuroscience at the University of
Colorado, Denver, is charged with 166 counts, including murder
and attempted murder. In addition to the 12 people killed, 70
were injured in the July 20 shooting spree at a midnight
screening of “The Dark Knight Rises” in  Cinemark Holdings
Inc. (CNK) ’s Century Aurora 16 theater in the Denver suburb.  Prosecutors in March rejected an offer from Holmes to plead
guilty and spend his life in prison without any chance of parole
in exchange for sparing him from the death penalty.  Public defenders representing Holmes have objected on due
process grounds to a provision of Colorado law blocking Holmes
from calling witnesses at any sentencing hearing to present
evidence about his mental condition if he doesn’t cooperate with
court-appointed psychiatrists. Under Colorado law, psychiatrists
are permitted to require Holmes to submit to interviews under
the influence of a so-called truth serum, according to
Steinhauser.  Narcoanalytic Interview  The judge who previously handled the case, William
Sylvester, ruled that prosecutors may require Holmes to submit
to a “narcoanalytic interview” under the influence of
“medically appropriate” drugs. Such drugs can enable a person
to recall something they’re having difficulty remembering.  The provision forcing Holmes to choose between cooperating
with state psychiatrists or being precluded from presenting his
own evidence is “of questionable constitutionality” and likely
to be a basis of an appeal should Holmes be convicted, said Aya
Gruber, a law professor at the  University of Colorado  in
Boulder.  “Juries are so reluctant to acquit people that do heinous
things, especially in high-profile cases” Gruber said. Holmes
will most likely cooperate with court-ordered psychiatrists,
with the case probably concluding in a death sentence for
Holmes, she said.  Alternatively, she said the wide media coverage of the
trial will enable Holmes to “get out the message that he is
mentally disturbed, which can’t do anything but help him in the
sentencing stage.”  “It really is a test case,” Gruber said, that will “be
appealed on many grounds that we can’t speculate on -- but one
of them will be that provision.”  The case is People v. Holmes, 12-cr-01522, 18th Judicial
District Court, Colorado (Centennial).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joel Rosenblatt in San Francisco at 
 jrosenblatt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  