-- Singapore Says Evidence Points to Shane Todd’s Suicide
-- B y   A n d r e a   T a n
-- 2013-05-13T13:41:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-13/singapore-inquiry-into-u-s-man-s-death-by-hanging-begins.html
Singapore’s state counsel said U.S.
research engineer Shane Todd was found hanging from a black
strap in front of a door in his home when the police found him.  Todd, who was 31 when he died in June last year, was in a
standing position with a white towel wrapped around his neck,
Senior State Counsel Tai Wei Shyong said on the first day of the
coroner’s inquest. The police didn’t find any signs of foul
play, he said.  The case drew queries from U.S. senators of Todd’s home
state of  Montana  after his family said he was killed,
contradicting the police’s report that showed he committed
suicide. As many as 63 people may give evidence over the two-week hearing, according to Gloria James-Civetta, a lawyer for
Todd’s family.  “The state is acutely aware of the strong public interest
in this case,” Tai said. “We are committed to presenting all
the relevant evidence to the court, so that a proper
determination can be made as to the cause of and circumstances
surrounding Shane’s death.”  His father Rick Todd has said his son’s death may be tied
to his work at Singapore’s Institute of Microelectronics and
possible technology transfers to China’s Huawei Technologies Co.  “We really appreciate  Singapore ’s process,” he told
reporters after the end of today’s hearing.  Todd arrived in Singapore in November 2010 to join the
institute and resigned in May last year, with his last working
day on June 22, Tai said.  Seeking Forgiveness  Eight witnesses took the stand today including his friends
Michael Goodwin and Bart Lendrum, who said while Todd appeared
stressed, he didn’t show suicidal tendencies.  The police found a two-page letter on Todd’s laptop seeking
forgiveness and thanking his parents, brothers, girlfriend,
Shirley Sarmiento, and friends, as well as two thumb drives, a
diary, and a hard disk drive, Tai said.  Sarmiento had told the police that he was depressed because
of his job and was working in a “dishonest environment,” the
state counsel said. Todd’s mother, Mary Todd, found a bottle
containing tablets with an anti-depressant and a name card of a
psychiatrist, which were handed to the police, Tai said.  Hangman, Knots  Police searches using words including “noose,”
“hangman” “methods,” “knots,” and “suicide” on Todd’s
laptop showed he visited several suicide-related websites, Tai
said. The most number of such searches were made on June 23, the
day before he was found dead, he said. Todd also made 19
searches related to depression from April to June 2012, he said.  Todd consulted a doctor on March 17, 2012, complaining of
stress at work, difficulties coping and sleeping, Tai said. He
was referred to a psychiatrist and prescribed anti-depressant
tablets, he said.  Coroner’s inquests in Singapore are held to examine sudden
or unexplained deaths.  Possible verdicts  include suicide,
misadventure, “open” when the circumstances surrounding the
death aren’t clear, death due to negligence and murder. The
ruling by the coroner, Judge Chay Yuen Fatt, is final and can’t
be appealed.  His family has pressed the Singapore police to allow the
 Federal Bureau of Investigation  to get full access in the probe.
The two U.S. senators,  Max Baucus  and Jon Tester, in March
introduced an amendment to block funding to the institute until
the U.S. Attorney General certifies the FBI has full access to
all evidence.  ‘Deeply Disappointed’  The institute, a unit of Singapore’s Agency for Science,
Technology and Research, received almost $500,000 in sub-grants
from the U.S. Defense Department in 2010, according to Baucus’s
office.  The senators’ actions “deeply disappointed” Singapore’s
Foreign Affairs Ministry, which said the issue of applying
pressure should not arise between the two nations.  Singapore Foreign Affairs Minister K. Shanmugam, who met
with Baucus on March 12 during a visit to the U.S., has said
there were no illegal technology transfers at the institute,
which is subject to rigorous audits.  The institute has said it takes the protection of
intellectual property very seriously and welcomes a team from
the U.S. to verify that there was no wrongful transfer of
controlled U.S. technology.  Huawei, the world’s second-largest maker of networking
gear, said it doesn’t have any cooperation with the Singapore
institute in the gallium nitride field, the focus of Todd’s
work. The Shenzhen company’s research relates only to civil and
commercial use of telecommunications technology and not
military, it said.  The witnesses expected tomorrow include the police officers
who arrived at Todd’s home after he died.  The Coroner’s Inquiry is Shane Truman Todd. 002014 of 2012.
Singapore Subordinate Courts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrea Tan in Singapore at 
 atan17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Wong at 
 dwong19@bloomberg.net  