-- South Africa Wine Exports Setting Records on China Demand
-- B y   G u y   C o l l i n s
-- 2013-05-13T22:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-13/south-africa-wine-exports-setting-records-on-china-demand.html
South African wine exports are poised
to beat their 2012 record this year following high yields and on
demand for premium vintages from North America and Asia,
industry executives and growers said.  Wine exports rose to 469 million liters (124 million U.S.
gallons) in the year ending April 30, up 25 percent from the
previous 12 months and more than triple the total shipped in
2000, data from the Wines of South  Africa  trade body, or WOSA,
show. Bulk shipments rose 53 percent while those of bottled and
packaged wines fell 5 percent, as large producers bottled more
in export markets.  Although wine has been grown in South Africa since Dutch
settlers arrived in the 17th century, the country was cut off
from trade during the apartheid era of racial discrimination,
which ended in 1994 with the first all-race elections. Two
decades on, exporters are seeking to consolidate in established
markets such as the U.K. and Germany while boosting sales in
Asia and Africa.  “If you think about South Africa’s history, we’ve been
making wine for 350 years but it’s only really since 1994 that
we’ve actively pursued the export market, that we’ve been
welcome and accepted,” Johan Erasmus, general manager of the
Glen Carlou winery in the Paarl Valley north east of Cape Town,
said at a  London  tasting in March. “We are much more in touch
with consumers worldwide.”  A wet winter meant plenty of underground water, helping to
boost yields in 2013, according to Su Birch, Chief Executive
Officer at WOSA. Yields at the 2012 harvest rose to 14.13 metric
tons per hectare (2.471 acres), the highest for at least six
years, and probably climbed to about 14.90 tons this year,
according to estimates based on preliminary data from WOSA.  Export Outlook  WOSA’s September forecast was for wine exports this year of
between 430 million and 440 million liters, after a record 409
million in 2012. A combination of high yields, more marketing in
the U.S. and elsewhere and global demand for bulk wine means
that’s already looking too low. “It depends what the rand
does,” Birch said by phone from Stellenbosch last month,
predicting full-year exports of about 460 million liters.  The currency is near a four-year low against the dollar,
helping exporters. It has weakened 7.1 percent this year, the
most among 245 major emerging-market currencies tracked by
Bloomberg. Leading export brands include First Cape, Kumala and
 Distell Group Ltd. (DST) ’s Fleur du Cap.  Premium Market  Still, costs in South Africa are rising. The government
boosted the minimum wage for farmworkers by 52 percent to 105
rand ($11.51) a day from March 1 after strikes in wine-growing
areas in the Western Cape province began in November and turned
violent, prompting the police to respond with tear gas, stun
grenades and water cannons. Some vineyards were torched.  In the premium market, defined by WOSA as wines above $10 a
bottle, a shift by growers to more Cabernet Sauvignon, Shiraz
and other international grapes following the end of apartheid
and to proportionately less Chenin Blanc, a French varietal
popular in South Africa, has helped boost brand appeal.  The proportion of vineyards planted with Cabernet
Sauvignon, a classic Bordeaux grape, tripled to 12 percent in
2011, the latest year for which figures were available, from 4
percent in 1990, according to WOSA.  Sauvignon Blanc climbed to 10 percent from 4 percent while
Shiraz, also known as Syrah and associated with  France ’s Rhone
Valley, rose to 10 percent from 1 percent and Merlot jumped to 6
percent, also from 1 percent. Pinotage, a hybrid between pinot
noir and cinsaut developed locally, has also increased its
plantings, although outpaced by Shiraz and Chardonnay.  Producers growing international grapes include Glen Carlou,
a 28-year-old winery owned by Swiss-based  Hess Family Estates ,
whose range includes Pinot Noir, Shiraz and Cabernet Sauvignon.  Bordeaux Varietals  Oldenburg Vineyards in Stellenbosch grows Bordeaux
varietals Cabernet Sauvignon, Cabernet Franc and Merlot as well
as Syrah, Chardonnay and Chenin Blanc.  “It’s not so much a yield game, it’s more a quality
game,” said Oldenburg’s owner Adrian Vanderspuy while visiting
London in March. “We aim to be at the premium end.”  Even as Europe remains South Africa’s biggest export
destination, with between 60 percent and 70 percent of sales,
Vanderspuy said the market on both sides of the Atlantic is
changing amid demand for higher-quality wines.  “We’re not necessarily going for the supermarkets” in the
U.S., Vanderspuy said. “The whole category of South Africa is
growing. Our first shipment of wine has just gone to  Shanghai .”  Shelf Space  The U.K. took the biggest share of South Africa’s wine
exports last year with 22 percent and  Germany  was second with 19
percent, according to  WOSA . While shipments of South African
bottled wine to the U.K. and the U.S. fell in the five years to
2011, they rose sixfold to 4.28 million bottles in  China  and
almost tripled to 3.44 million in Nigeria.  With exports rising, South Africa is still battling for
shelf space. Its share of wines imported into the U.S. was 1.2
percent last year, down from about 8 percent in the 1990s,
according to the San Francisco-based Wine Institute and George
Monyemangene, South Africa’s consul-general in New York.  In August Wal-Mart, the world’s largest retailer, started
selling South African wines in the U.S. after spending $1.8
billion in 2011 buying 51 percent of Johannesburg-based  Massmart
Holdings Ltd. (MSM) , Africa’s biggest food and goods wholesaler.  Not all wineries plant just classic French grapes, even if
they are aiming for foreign markets. At Da Capo Vineyards in
Stellenbosch, founded by Milan-born Alberto Bottega in 1998, his
son Roberto said Italian varieties Nebbiolo, San Giovese and
Barbera grow alongside Cabernet Sauvignon and Merlot.  “South Africa is in a unique position,” Bottega, who
promotes his father’s estate, said at a London tasting. “Our
wines are somewhere between the old world and the new.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Guy Collins in London at 
 guycollins@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Sillitoe at 
 psillitoe@bloomberg.net  