-- Spontaneous Gene Mutations Tied to Child Heart Defects
-- B y   R e g   G a l e
-- 2013-05-13T06:22:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-13/spontaneous-gene-mutations-tied-to-child-heart-defects.html
About 10 percent of congenital heart
defects may come from spontaneous rather than inherited gene
mutations, according to a study that offers new insight into a
condition that can range from simple to severe.  Scientists investigated the DNA of 362 newborns with
serious heart defects in families where neither the parents 
nor the child’s siblings had cardiac illness. The research, 
reported online yesterday in the journal  Nature , found 
hundreds of mutations that were only in the affected children.  Congenital heart defects occur in 8 out of every 1,000
newborns in the U.S., or more than 35,000 children yearly,
according to the National  Heart, Lung and Blood Institute . While
the findings may not help prevent the condition, identifying the
variants may one day aid doctors in individualizing treatments
for the children, the researchers said.  “One of the most important questions when a family has a
child with congenital heart disease is why?” said Edwin Kirk, a
clinical geneticist at the Sydney Children’s Hospital, who
wasn’t involved in the study. “Any research that helps us
understand the answer hopefully one day will be something we can
apply to answering the question for individual families.”  Surgical Success  Understanding the role of the variants may eventually help 
improve outcomes, said co-author Christine Seidman, director of 
the Cardiovascular Genetics Center at Brigham and Women’s 
Hospital in  Boston , in a statement.  “After we repair the hearts of these children, some
children do great and some do poorly,” said Seidman, who is a
researcher at the Howard Hughes Medical Institute in  Chevy
Chase ,  Maryland . Scientists have suspected this might be due 
to differences in the underlying disease causes, she said.  The researchers compared DNA from children with heart
defects and in healthy babies. Both had about the same number 
of so-called de novo mutations, the non-inherited variants. 
The sick children, though, were much more likely to carry
damaging mutations at two sites within a cellular pathway 
known to regulate genes key in heart development.  “This is really a major contribution because it gives us
some hard facts about the incidence of new mutations and the
rates at which they may cause congenital heart disease,” said
David Winlaw, a pediatric cardiac surgeon at Children’s Hospital
Westmead in Sydney, in a telephone interview. “The great
difficulty is knowing the relevance of a specific mutation.”  The next step is to narrow down the list of genes known to 
be associated with congenital  heart disease  to a list that’s 
known to be causative, he said.  New Finding  “This class of proteins that they have identified as being
important for congenital heart disease are involved in that
regulatory process,” said Sydney Children’s Hospital’s Kirk in
a telephone interview. “That’s new. There was some hint of it
from a couple of rare syndromes, but for non-syndromic
congenital heart disease, I don’t think we had any hint that
this was going to be important.”  The findings will help guide future research in this field,
he said.  “When we go looking for changes in genes to do with
congenital heart disease, it gives a whole bunch of new targets
to work on,” Kirk said. “That has a fairly important research
impact.”  The research was undertaken by the Pediatric Cardiac
Genomics Consortium, and involved scientists at nine U.S.
centers and one in the U.K.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Reg Gale in  New York  at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Gale at 
 j.gale@bloomberg.net  