-- Swelling Iceland Cash Raises Capital Control Risks, TM CEO Says
-- B y   O m a r   R .   V a l d i m a r s s o n
-- 2013-05-13T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-13/swelling-iceland-cash-raises-capital-control-risks-tm-ceo-says.html
Removing Iceland’s capital controls
is becoming harder as the high  interest rates , deployed to
backstop the krona, are swelling the amount of captive money
held by offshore investors and posing a risk to the equity
market, the head of TM Insurance Ltd. said.  “The central bank upholds very high interest rates” which
drives up the amount of offshore kronur owned by “foreigners
that want to get out of the economy,” said Sigurdur Vidarsson,
chief executive officer of  Tryggingamidstodin hf , which went
public last week, in an interview in Reykjavik. “Every day the
problem is getting bigger and more unmanageable.”  Iceland is struggling to end controls put in place in 2008
after the collapse of the nation’s three biggest banks sent the
economy and the krona into a tailspin. The central bank, which
announces its next rate decision on May 15, has tightened policy
six times since August 2011, bringing its benchmark to 6
percent, to support the krona and cool inflation.  The restrictions are blocking as much as $8 billion in
offshore krona holdings being divested, forcing them into other
assets categories and making Sedlabanki “very concerned” of a
bubble in the equity market, Sigridur Benediktsdottir, head of
financial stability at the Reykjavik-based bank, said in an
interview this month.  Shares Surge  TM Insurance, which started as an insurer to the fishing
industry in the 1950s and now also offers life and auto
insurance, was one of the beneficiaries when it became the third
company to go public this year. The shares rose more than 34
percent on May 8, its first day of trading on the  Nasdaq OMX (NDAQ) 
 Iceland  exchange. Holding company  Stodir hf  sold a 28.7 percent
stake in the insurer for 4.4 billion kronur ($37 million). It
received offers of 357 billion kronur at a price of 20.1 kronur
a share.  The  stock  traded at 26.35 kronur when the market closed on
May 10. The company was delisted in 2008 after its number of
shareholders fell below a minimum requirement.  The next government, which is currently being negotiated
after the April 27 elections, will need to start allowing
Icelanders to invest their savings outside of the economy to
keep the markets and economy from overheating, according to
Vidarsson.  “All the valuables that are created in Iceland are stuck
in Iceland,” he said. “If you take the pension funds, they
alone have to invest for 134 billion kronur every year -- net.
To put this figure into perspective, the combined value of the
shares offered in TM Insurance and VIS Insurance, which also
recently went public, was 19 billion kronur.”  Limited Investments  The predicament reveals the flipside of crisis-management
policies that have helped the $14.4 billion economy emerge from
financial failure and outgrow most of western  Europe . Of the 17
companies on Iceland’s Nasdaq OMX Nordic exchange, six have been
listed since the 2008 collapse. The shares in the six have risen
44 percent, on average, from their IPO pricing.  TM is Iceland’s third-largest insurer with total assets
amounting to 27.4 billion kronur at the end of 2012. The
company’s profits fall 23.2 percent to 2.6 billion kronur in
2012 from the previous year.  The first-day share gain is “relative,” said Vidarsson. 
“The question is whether the pricing of the public offer was 
too low or too fair or however you look at it. But, of
course, the primary reason is the limited amount of investment
opportunities and the  capital controls .”  Even as the dangers of asset bubbles grow, also in the
nation’s property market, the parliament in March removed a 2013
deadline for ending the controls to prevent another currency
crisis.  Government Talks  Iceland’s Progressive Party is currently in talks on
forming a government with the Independence Party. The two-largest opposition parties won the election on April 27, ousting
the Social Democratic-led government, with promises to ease
households’ debt burdens and impose writedowns on creditors
holding local krona assets in the failed banks. The two parties
have also set ending the capital controls as a priority.  Following the failure of  Kaupthing Bank hf , Glitnir Bank hf
and Landsbanki Islands hf in 2008, the country received a $4.6
billion bailout led by the  International Monetary Fund , a
program it exited from in August 2011. Its economy is expected
to grow 1.9 percent this year, according to the IMF. The euro
area will contract 0.3 percent this year, the IMF says.  The foreign debt overhang and the capital controls on the
krona are among the last hurdles to overcome before the nation
can boast a full-fledged exit from its turmoil. It won a court
battle against the U.K. and the Netherlands in January, freeing
it from as much as $2.6 billion in damages for not honoring
depositor claims stemming from failed Landsbanki.  Savings Fligth  The central bank has been reluctant to speed up the process
to not risk the krona. It has held dual currency auctions to
ease the country out of the restrictions, even as it also
started support purchases of kronur in February. The bank now
also refused to grant Landsbanki an exemption to the controls to
pay 200 billion kronur to the governments of the U.K. and the
Netherlands, Morgunbladid reported on May 11, without saying how
it obtained the information.  “When the capital controls are abolished, the pension
funds should be among the first ones to get out,” said
Vidarsson. “The pension funds would never take a run with all
their investments out of the country. Individuals, however,
might take all their savings out of the economy as soon as they
get the chance.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Omar R. Valdimarsson in Reykjavik 
 valdimarsson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonas Bergman at 
 jbergman@bloomberg.net . 