-- Synagro Wins Court Approval of Auction Process, EQT Ups Bid
-- B y   M i c h a e l   B a t h o n
-- 2013-05-13T22:44:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-13/synagro-wins-court-approval-of-auction-process-eqt-ups-bid-1-.html
Synagro Technologies Inc., a
biosolids-management company, won court approval of procedures
that will govern the sale of virtually all its assets at an
auction next month, according to a company spokesman.  U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Brendan Linehan Shannon granted the
company permission to hold a June 10 auction, with a $460
million lead offer from private-equity firm EQT Infrastructure
II LP, at a hearing today in Wilmington, Delaware, spokesman Tom
Becker said in an e-mail.  “We’re pleased to move forward with this process and look
forward to closing a transaction that will maximize value for
our stakeholders and strengthen Synagro,” Becker, with Sitrick
and Co., said in an e-mail.  The deadline for other potential buyers to make competing
offers was set for June 3, according to court papers. The
company will seek court approval to sell its assets to EQT or
any other auction winner at a hearing scheduled for June 20.  Synagro filed for  bankruptcy protection  last month
following several renewable-energy companies into court
protection as they struggled in recent years to turn their
environmentally friendly energy initiatives into profits.  Failed Companies  Alternative-energy companies that have failed since
September 2011, some of whom received government financing to
support their growth, include Solyndra LLC,  A123 Systems Inc. (AONEQ) ,
Ener1 Inc.,  Beacon Power Corp. (BCONQ)  and Abound Solar Inc.  Electric-car maker Coda Holdings Inc. filed for bankruptcy
this month and Fisker Automotive Inc., which fired about 75
percent of its staff this year, missed its first payment on $193
million it had drawn down on a $529 million Energy Department
loan.  Synagro serves more than 600 municipal and industrial water
and wastewater facilities and is the largest recycler of organic
byproducts in the U.S., it said in a statement. The company
processes waste to produce environmentally friendly products
including fertilizer and fuels. The company was founded in 1986,
and has 800 employees in 34 states from  Connecticut  to
 California , according to its website.  Washington-based  Carlyle Group LP (CG) , the world’s second-biggest private-equity firm by assets, acquired Synagro in 2007
for $462 million plus the assumption of $310 million in debt.  EQT, based in  Sweden , agreed to be the lead bidder at a
court-supervised auction with an original offer of about $455
million.  Synagro and the investment firm agreed to amend its
purchase agreement to resolve an objection from creditor
American Securities Opportunities Advisors LLC, according to
court documents. EQT increased the offer by $5 million, with an
additional $3.5 million payment 60 days after closing if it wins
the auction and modified the circumstances under which it would
receive break-up and expense reimbursement fees of about $13.8
million.  The case is In re In re Synagro Technologies Inc.13-11041,
 U.S. Bankruptcy Court , District of Delaware (Wilmington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Bathon in Wilmington at 
 mbathon@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at   jpickering@bloomberg.net . 