-- Syria Opposition May Attend Talks Involving Assad Aides
-- B y   D o n n a   A b u - N a s r
-- 2013-05-13T11:29:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-13/syria-opposition-may-attend-talks-involving-assad-aides.html
Syria ’s main political opposition has
not ruled out attending a U.S.-Russian-sponsored conference that
would include members of President Bashar al-Assad’s government,
its acting chief said today.  The Syrian National Coalition is discussing with allies
inside and outside Syria a position on the conference seeking a
negotiated settlement to the Syrian conflict, George Sabra said
in a phone interview from Istanbul today. U.S. Secretary of
State  John Kerry  and Russian Foreign Minister  Sergei Lavrov  are
pressing for the meeting.  The coalition said last week that any political solution
“should start with the departure of Bashar al-Assad and the
pillars of his regime.” Sabra said that was a longstanding
position “but this is an international conference and the
coalition hasn’t taken any stand on it until it’s clear what the
conference is about, who will attend and when it will start.”  International and regional efforts have failed to put an
end to the Syrian conflict, which began with peaceful protests
in March 2011 that evolved into a civil war. More than 80,000
people have been killed in the violence, according to the
opposition Syrian Observatory for  Human Rights .  Seeking to address the opposition’s concerns, Kerry said
last week in  Rome  that Assad wouldn’t be part of any
transitional government. On May 7 in Moscow, Kerry agreed with
 Russia ’s position that Assad’s resignation can’t be a
precondition for talks, saying a leadership transition must
occur by “mutual consent” of the opposing sides.  Outside Pressure  Salman Shaikh, director of the  Brookings  Institution’s Doha
Center in Qatar, said the “natural conclusion” of the
coalition statements is that the opposition may have been
pressured by outside powers to start negotiating with the Assad
regime.  “Up till now their legitimacy has come from the
international community’s recognition of them as representatives
of the Syrian people,” Shaikh said. “With that in mind, yes
they can come under pressure because this is their main source
of support.”  The “international community is scrambling now to find a
way to deescalate the situation,” he added in a phone interview
from  Morocco .  ‘Hopeful News’  The UN’s special envoy on Syria, Lakhdar Brahimi, has
agreed to withdraw his planned resignation and seek a solution
at a peace conference proposed by Kerry and Lavrov, United
Nations Deputy Secretary-General Jan Eliasson said last week.  The U.S.-Russia effort “is the first hopeful news
concerning that unhappy country in a very long time,” Brahimi
said in a May 8 statement.  The crisis has seeped into neighboring countries, like
Lebanon and  Turkey . Twin car bombings in the Turkish town of
Reyhanli, near the Syrian border, killed 46 people on May 11.
The Turkish government blamed the attack on Turks with ties to
Syrian intelligence.  Syria’s Information Minister Omran al-Zoubi rejected the
accusation, instead blaming the government of Prime Minister
 Recep Tayyip Erdogan  for the blasts, the official SANA news
agency said.  The Turkish government has been facilitating the delivery
of weapons, explosive devices, car bombs and money into Syria,
al-Zoubi said at the Intellectual Political Symposium in
Damascus yesterday. “I ask Erdogan to step down as a
murderer,” said al-Zoubi.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Donna Abu-Nasr in Beirut at 
 dabunasr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  