-- U.K. Panel Sees Risk of Troop Cuts to Pay for Defense Equipment
-- B y   K i t t y   D o n a l d s o n
-- 2013-05-13T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-13/u-k-panel-sees-risk-of-troop-cuts-to-pay-for-defense-equipment.html
U.K. lawmakers said Prime Minister
 David Cameron ’s  defense budget  may lack an adequate reserve
against cost overruns, possibly resulting in troop reductions
and deeper cuts.  Three years after Cameron’s Conservative-led coalition
promised to balance the military’s budget, Parliament’s cross-party Public Accounts Committee said “we do not yet have
confidence the equipment plan is affordable.”  Balancing the defense ministry’s books will “depend on the
Treasury delivering on its commitment to a 1 percent annual
increase in the equipment budget in the next spending review,”
 Margaret Hodge , chairwoman of the committee, said in an e-mail
today. “It also depends on savings in the wider defense budget,
including cutting staff numbers.”  Cameron has repeatedly pledged to increase spending on
defense equipment by 1 percent after 2015, accounting for just
under half of the military budget. Chancellor of the Exchequer
 George Osborne , who will announce cuts to departmental spending
on June 26, has said the defense ministry will have to find
further savings elsewhere to reduce the nation’s deficit.  While the committee welcomed the publication last year for
the first time of a 10-year equipment plan by Defense Secretary
Philip Hammond, it expressed concern that he took an “over-optimistic approach” to risk management, with a 4.8 billion-pound ($7.3 billion) contingency provision amounting to just 3
percent of the total budget of 159 billion pounds that may be
insufficient to cover fully any cost overruns.  “We now have a fully funded and affordable equipment plan
totaling 160 billion pounds which includes risk provision in
each project and, for the first time, over 4 billion pounds of
contingency to guard against cost growth,” defense-equipment
minister Philip Dunne said in an e-mail.  -- Editors: James Hertling, Alan Crawford  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kitty Donaldson in London at  kdonaldson1@bloomberg.net  or  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  