-- U.K. House-Price Gauge Climbs to Almost Three-Year High
-- B y   S v e n j a   O ’ D o n n e l l
-- 2013-05-14T08:57:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-13/u-k-house-price-gauge-rises-to-highest-in-almost-three-years.html
A  U.K. house-price gauge  rose to the
highest in almost three years last month as government measures
to support the housing market spurred demand, the  Royal
Institution  of Chartered Surveyors said.  The index rose to 1 from minus 2 in March, the first
reading above zero since June 2010, London-based RICS said in an
e-mailed report today, citing a monthly poll of property
surveyors. A positive number means more respondents saw values
increase rather than decline. A measure of inquiries from new
buyers rose to 25 from 13, the highest since November 2009.  The survey follows a report from mortgage lender Halifax
last week that showed U.K.  house prices  rose to the highest in
almost three years in April. Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  pledged 3.5 billion pounds ($5.4 billion) of loans plus
130 billion pounds of guarantees in March to help the housing
market, adding to a credit-boosting program introduced with the
 Bank of England  last summer.  “It is encouraging to see government initiatives are
having an impact,” said Peter Bolton King, RICS Global
Residential Director. “Help to Buy in combination with the
Funding for Lending Scheme appears to be giving the market a
shot in the arm. Thankfully, sales are expected to pick up over
the coming months.”  Tighter lending conditions, a squeeze on household incomes
and a flagging economy have held back potential home buyers,
while a lack of properties for sale helped to prop up values.  Mortgage Advances  Recent data suggests lending conditions may be starting to
ease. Loans for house purchases rose 14.8 percent to 42,000 in
March from February, the  Council of Mortgage Lenders  said in e-mailed statement today. Mortgage advances were down 19.2 percent
from a year earlier, when demand was boosted by first-time
buyers taking advantage of a tax holiday before it expired.  The RICS report signals the housing market may be picking
up, with the balance for price expectations over the next 12
months rising to 34 from 26. Results were positive in every part
of the U.K., except  Northern Ireland , it said. In April, a
measure of agreed sales across the U.K. rose to 19 from 11,
while the number of new instructions to sell rose to 8.  In London, a measure of new buyer inquiries rose to 31 last
month, the highest level in almost two years, from 20 in March.
The price balance for the capital rose to 28 from 27.  Still, in the capital, the number of properties put up for
sale fell to a balance of minus 36 in April from minus 19 the
previous month, the report showed.  In its report, Halifax said  house prices  rose 1.1 percent
in April from March. Hometrack Ltd. said last month that average
values increased 0.3 percent in April, the same as in March,
which was the largest gain in three years.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Svenja O’Donnell in  London  at 
 sodonnell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  