-- U.S. Revises CO2 Reading That Showed Key Threshold Passed
-- B y   A l e x   M o r a l e s
-- 2013-05-13T10:25:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-13/u-s-revises-co2-reading-that-showed-key-threshold-passed.html
The U.S. National Oceanic and
Atmospheric Administration revised down readings that showed the
amount of carbon dioxide in the atmosphere surpassed a threshold
not seen for 3 million years.  Preliminary data published May 10 showed the gas reached a
concentration of 400.03 parts per million, or ppm, at NOAA’s
Mauna Loa monitoring station in  Hawaii  the day before. The
figure for May 9 has now been  revised down  to 399.89 ppm, and is
still deemed preliminary.  The level, not passed for at least 3 million years, is
considered a landmark by scientists and environmentalists, who
say  carbon emissions  caused by burning fossil fuels are warming
the planet and must be reined in before they cause irreversible
changes to weather, sea levels and Arctic ice cover.  While hourly measurements at the station have frequently
surpassed 400 ppm in the past month, the daily level has not.
The most recent data, for May 11, shows a reading of 399.46 ppm,
the same level as shown by  separate readings  taken at the same
observatory by the  University of California ,  San Diego ’s Scripps
Institution of Oceanography, which uses different equipment to
analyze its data.  The Mauna Loa data is important because it’s the longest
set of continuous measurements of atmospheric concentrations of
carbon dioxide. Charles David Keeling, a geochemist at Scripps,
began taking readings there in 1958. Scientists use measurements
of gases in ice bubbles trapped in ice, as well as analysis of
ancient sediments, to determine carbon dioxide levels in the
atmosphere hundreds of thousands of years ago.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Morales in London at 
 amorales2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  