-- Ukraine Has Longer to Meet EU Demands, Lithuanian Minister Says
-- B y   A n d r e w   L a n g l e y
-- 2013-05-13T21:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-13/ukraine-has-longer-to-meet-eu-demands-lithuanian-minister-says.html
Ukraine has six months to meet
European Union terms for an association agreement instead of a
May deadline the 27-nation bloc set for improving its judiciary
and electoral system, according to the foreign minister of
 Lithuania , which takes over the rotating EU presidency in July.  While the former Soviet republic is “technically ready”
to sign the pact that includes a free-trade agreement, the
government “must make very tough choices,” Linas Linkevicius
said in a May 10 interview in London. It’s still possible to
sign the accord at a November summit in Lithuania’s capital,
Vilnius, he said.  “We will keep this pressure until the last moment,”
Linkevicius said. “If they will be ready, we will be ready and
we hope, we still believe, that it’s doable to sign the
association agreement by the summit in Vilnius.”  The pact has been delayed by the 2011 imprisonment of ex-Prime Minister  Yulia Tymoshenko  for abuse of office, a move the
bloc deems selective justice. While President  Viktor Yanukovych 
pardoned an ally of Tymoshenko, Yuriy Lutsenko in April,
prosecutors are considering a murder charge against her as she
awaits a European Court of  Human Rights  ruling on her existing
conviction.  The Strasbourg-based rights court ruled last month that
Tymoshenko’s pre-trial detention was arbitrary and that she had
“no possibility to seek compensation for her unlawful
deprivation of liberty.” The ruling doesn’t affect her seven-year prison term, Ukraine’s Justice Minister Oleksandr Lavrynovych said April 30.  Linkevicius declined to comment on whether it was possible
to sign Ukraine’s association agreement with Tymoshenko in jail.  Aside from the judicial issues, Ukraine’s government must
decide between the EU’s free-trade pact and a Russian-led
customs union, according to the minister. While some
improvements have been made to the electoral system, the
“general picture is still yet to be accomplished,” he said.  “We have plenty of time,” Linkevicius said. “We will be
ready to catch up if they will be ready.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Langley in  London  at 
 alangley1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  