-- Human Immune-Boosting Cancer Drugs Seen Extending Lives
-- B y   R o b e r t   L a n g r e t h
-- 2013-05-13T04:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-13/human-immune-boosting-cancer-drugs-seen-extending-lives.html
Merck & Co. (MRK) ,  Bristol-Myers Squibb Co. (BMY) 
and  Roche Holding AG (ROG)  have opened a new front against cancer with
the next generation of experimental drugs that use the human
immune system to seek and destroy tumor cells.  The new therapies have the potential to reap billions of
dollars in sales while lengthening patient remissions, said
doctors and analysts awaiting study results to be released this
week as part of the  American Society of Clinical Oncology 
meeting that starts May 31.  Building on the success of Bristol-Myers’  Yervoy  drug for
melanoma that reached the market in 2011, drugmakers are
devising more potent immune therapies or combining treatments
for maximum effectiveness. They are also testing the new
medicines in more types of cancers, including lung and breast.  If the new generation of immune therapies lives up to its
promise, “this is going to be a paradigm shift for treating
cancer,” said Merck senior vice president Gary Gilliland in an
interview. “We are pretty good at shrinking tumors, but not
good at getting rid of them. Immune therapy is a way to begin to
approach that.”  It will take at least a year before scientists will be able
to determine whether the new drugs can extend lives. Still, the
strategy offers scientists the first major new avenue for
attacking cancer in a decade. In recent years, researchers have
focused on treatments that targeted specific  genetic processes 
that create uncontrolled cell growth. While this approach
produced some successes, advanced tumors are often able to evade
attack within a few months by producing mutations.  ‘Fair Fight’  Now many believe that by strengthening the immune system’s
ability to identify and kill cancer cells, they can broaden the
attack so it will fight any dangerous malignancy.  “You’re setting up a fair fight” with the disease, said
Nils Lonberg, a senior vice president at Bristol-Myers, in a
telephone interview. “The immune system is just as adaptable as
the cancer.”  The financial stakes are high. The targeted drug Avastin,
for instance, made by Roche, had $5.8 billion in sales last year
for use against colon and other tumors. Nivolumab, a new immune-boosting cancer drug candidate that Bristol-Myers is developing
could generate an “Avastin-like sales number, maybe even
better,” if it’s found to work in lung cancer, said Tony Butler, a New York-based analyst at  Barclays Plc (BARC) , by phone.  Off Switch  The new drugs are designed to prevent flicking what is
essentially an off switch, called PD-1, for immune system T-cells, the body’s key defenders against attacks from dangerous
germs, infections or other biological bad guys.  “Tumors have this Harry Potter cloak of invisibility,”
Merck’s Gilliland said. The new class of drugs “lifts the
cloaking device and allows the immune system to attack.”  Yervoy from Bristol-Myers was the first drug proven to
extend survival in advanced melanoma, the most deadly form of
skin cancer.  Data presented in September on the medicine showed it
doubled the number of patients that survived  four years  to 19
percent. Now, the New York-based drugmaker is seeing positive
early results from nivolumab, a new experimental immune therapy
for skin, lung and kidney tumors.  In June of last year, Bristol-Myers reported that nivolumab
shrank tumors in people with advanced lung, kidney and skin
cancer in 18 percent to 28 percent of patients who had failed on
other treatments.  So far, nivolumab is leading the next wave of immune-boosting cancer medicines with six final-stage trials in 3,300
patients with lung cancer, kidney tumors and melanoma.  Close Competition  At least six other companies are testing immune therapy
drugs in patients with advanced cancer, said Jedd Wolchok
director of immunotherapy at the Ludwig Center at Memorial
Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center in New York. Wolchok’s team is
testing seven treatments from six companies in 10 trials, up
from just two drugs five years ago, he said in an interview.  “A couple of years ago the big story was that
immunotherapy can work,” he said, referring to Yervoy’s initial
success. ‘Now immunotherapy has entered the mainstream.”  Merck, of Whitehouse Station, New Jersey, is in second-stage testing on its immune therapy, lambrolizumab, in melanoma.
If successful, the 500-patient trial may be large enough to gain
approval from U.S. regulators without completing the usual
required third-stage of testing, putting it in a virtual dead
heat with Bristol’s nivolumab in melanoma.  Merck Success  In November, doctors at a melanoma research conference
presented early data showing lambrolizumab shrank tumors in  51
percent  of patients with advanced skin tumors. Merck has also
begun studies of its drug in cancers of the lung, head and neck,
and breast.  The best way to keep the PD-1 system from turning off
immune cells is not yet clear, which is why the upcoming trial
results are so important. In addition, both Bristol-Myers and
Merck compounds have shown side effects including the potential
for lung inflammation in some cases.  Meanwhile, a medicine under development at the Basel,
Switzerland drugmaker Roche targets a related protein on tumor
cells called  PD-L1 , which the company believes may be a safer
approach. Results from an initial trial of the drug in patients
with various types of advanced cancer will be presented at the
meeting. Based on the results to date, Roche plans to begin a
final-stage study of its drug in lung cancer.  Patient Demand  Merck’s Gilliland said patient demand for the PD-1 drugs is
so intense that the company had to step up the pace of opening
trial sites. Some patients with advanced melanoma have skipped
over approved treatments to jump right to Merck’s experimental
drug, he said.  The enthusiasm is understandable because immune drugs hold
the promise of producing long-lasting remissions, said Michael
Gordon, director of research at  Pinnacle Oncology Hematology , in
Scottsdale,  Arizona , who has been involved in testing the Roche
drug.  Cancer doctors “are accustomed to moving from one therapy
to another” as tumors rapidly develop resistance,” he said in
a telephone interview. “It is generating tremendous excitement
to have a drug class that might well be able to provide long
term control of metastatic cancer.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Langreth in New York at 
 rlangreth@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  