-- Used Gold Supply Heads for ’08 Low as Sellers Balk: Commodities
-- B y   J o e   R i c h t e r   a n d   D e b a r a t i   R o y
-- 2013-05-14T16:52:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-13/used-gold-supply-heads-for-08-low-as-sellers-balk-commodities.html
Consumers will sell the least used
gold in five years after prices tumbled into a  bear market ,
curbing a source of metal that typically accounts for about one
in every three ounces of global supply.  Refiners will handle about 1,550 metric tons of old jewelry
and other discarded metal this year, 4 percent less than in 2012
and the least since 2008, Toronto-based TD Securities Inc.
estimates. The amount is valued now at $71.4 billion, from $84.5
billion at this year’s peak. Recycling more than doubled in the
decade through 2011 as prices rose to a record. A majority of
the 38 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg last month said gold’s
streak of 12 consecutive annual gains is over.  “April was the worst month in memory,” said Arthur
Abramov, the owner of  Manhattan  Buyers Inc., a cash-for-gold
operator in  New York  that saw volumes drop to 300 ounces a month
from 500 ounces. “A lot of people were shocked, and a lot of
people were standoffish about selling.”  Gold had its biggest drop in 33 years on April 15 as some
investors lost faith in bullion as a store of value, hurting
everyone from miners to investors including billionaire  John
Paulson . While declining supply in commodities usually signals
higher costs, the impact in gold may be more muted because most
of the 171,300 tons ever mined are still circulating. Societe
Generale, Credit Suisse Group AG and Goldman Sachs Group Inc.
are among those predicting the price slump has further to go.  Metal Purchased  Futures tumbled 15 percent to $1,427 an ounce this year on
the Comex. Prices are now 26 percent below the record $1,923.70
reached in 2011. The Standard & Poor’s GSCI gauge of 24
commodities fell 3 percent since the start of January and the
MSCI All-Country World Index of equities rose 11 percent. A Bank
of America Corp. index shows Treasuries lost 0.2 percent.  The 30-member Philadelphia Stock Exchange Gold and Silver
Index, led by  Freeport-McMoRan Copper & Gold Inc. (FCX) , fell 36
percent this year, and more than $39 billion was wiped off the
combined value of gold held through  exchange-traded  products,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The prospect of losses has made retailers who buy used gold
and the middlemen who sell to refiners unwilling to part with
metal purchased at higher costs. Volumes of recycled metal,
known as scrap by the industry, dropped 2.6 percent last year as
prices retreated from the record in 2011, according to data from
the World Gold Council in  London .  “Nobody is selling right now, and it’s survival of the
fittest,” said Dan Nektal of 46th Street Buyers in New York,
which has been in the jewelry business for three decades. “If
you bought at $1,700, how can you sell at the moment?
Everybody’s presuming it’s going to go back up.”  Record Outflow  Societe Generale  is predicting a fourth-quarter average of
$1,375, the lowest for the period in three years, and Goldman
Sachs expects the metal to trade at $1,390 in 12 months.
Investors pulled a record $20.8 billion from bullion funds this
year, according to Cambridge, Massachusetts-based EPFR Global,
which tracks money flows. Hedge funds’ bets on further declines
are about four times the average of the past six years,
according to U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission data.  Slumping prices spurred demand for physical metal, with the
 U.S. Mint  saying April 23 it ran out of its smallest gold coins.
Australia’s Perth Mint said volumes jumped to a five-year high.
India’s bullion imports may surge 47 percent to 225 tons in the
second quarter to meet consumer buying, according to the All
India Gems & Jewellery Trade Federation. Imports by  China  from
 Hong Kong  more than doubled to an all-time high in March.  Global Benchmark  Prices that rallied 8 percent since reaching a two-year low
of $1,321.50 on April 16 may boost the supply of scrap. Gold
will “grind higher” on physical demand and buying by central
banks for reserves,  James Steel , an analyst at HSBC Securities
(USA) Inc., said at a conference in New York on April 30.  “Physical demand or the scrap market is not the main
indicator for prices as the paper market dwarfs both these
markets,” said  Stanley Crouch , who helps oversee $2 billion of
assets as chief investment officer at New York-based Aegis
Capital Corp. “Expectations about physical demand helping
prices to rebound will be short-lived as the macro reasons will
push prices further down.”  Holdings in  exchange traded funds  backed by the metal were
2,228 metric tons as of last week and were larger than any
except those held by the U.S.,  Germany , the  International
Monetary Fund  and Italy and France. The amount linked to futures
contracts was about 1,371 tons as of May 10.  Volatile Price  While customer traffic already is “a little better” at
Manhattan Buyers, it is still down by as much as half from a
year ago, according to Abramov. More scrap will become available
as prices stabilize, he said. The  volatility  meant the shop had
to reduce its purchase price relative to the global benchmark
set daily in London. Sellers were getting about $200 to $300 an
ounce less by mid-April than they were at the start of the
month.  “That money means something to a lot of people,” Abramov
said. “A lot of them are waiting for prices to come back.”  Billionaire John Paulson is standing by the metal even
after his Gold Fund saw declines of about 47 percent this year,
according to two people familiar with the matter. Paulson & Co.
is the biggest investor in the  SPDR Gold Trust (GLD) , the largest
bullion ETP. Central-bank stimulus around the world will help
prices rally to $1,700 by the end of this year, JPMorgan
Cazenove analyst Allan Cooke said in a May 8 report.  Stimulus Measures  Gold gained 61 percent since the end of 2008 as the  Federal
Reserve  was joined by central banks in Europe and  Japan  in
seeking to boost economic growth by buying bonds. The stimulus
contributed to an almost doubling of sovereign debt to more than
$23 trillion, a Bank of America index shows.  Scrap volumes, mostly from jewelry, reached 47.3 million
ounces last year, or 37 percent of the 127.3 million ounces of
refined supply, according to New York-based CPM Group.  The U.S. is the largest scrap supplier, followed by Italy
and China.  “When the price goes down, no one wants to sell back into
the market,” said Dick Poon, the general manager of Heraeus
Metals Hong Kong Ltd., a refiner and trader. “Scrap flows were
already lower this year compared to previous years, and are not
likely to come back for the time being. Scrap may not return
until the price goes back above $1,600.”  Bullion Refining  Sumitomo Metal Mining Co. (5713) , Japan’s biggest gold producer,
is processing little scrap and instead mainly using ore and by-products of copper smelting to supply its bullion refining
business, said Masashi Takahashi, a spokesman in  Tokyo .  “Business is not good,” said Leah David of Leah David
Fine Jewelry and Watch Boutique in Manhattan, who has been in
the business since 1986. “Since very few people want to sell
anything, jewelers like me will have no choice but to sell our
own inventory or the new jewelry as scrap. We have done that a
few times in the past, and may need to do that again.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joe Richter in New York at 
 jrichter1@bloomberg.net ;
Debarati Roy in New York at 
 droy5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  