-- Virgin America Loss Narrows as Carrier Restructures Debt
-- B y   M a r y   J a n e   C r e d e u r
-- 2013-05-13T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-13/virgin-america-loss-narrows-as-carrier-restructures-debt.html
Virgin America  Inc., the low-fare
airline partly owned by U.K. billionaire  Richard Branson ,
narrowed its first-quarter net loss by 39 percent and
restructured debt to lower interest expenses.  Virgin America also modified terms with some creditors,
which eliminated $290 million of debt and will trim interest
expense in the second half of the year by two-thirds, to $20
million. The deal was “a first step” toward preparing for a
public offering that may occur as soon as next year or 2015
depending on the broader markets and Virgin America’s
performance, said Chief Executive Officer David Cush.  The closely held carrier, which began flying about six
years ago, is trying to achieve profitability in the second half
of this year and won’t add to its fleet of 53 jets until 2015 as
it pauses growth, Cush said.  “When you’re growing as rapidly as we’ve been growing,
it’s very difficult to grow profitably,” Cush said in a
telephone interview.  “When we’re in a market for 18 months or longer, we’re
highly profitable,” he said. “It’s just that we’d have 30 to
40 percent of capacity in new markets that were highly
unprofitable. We’re letting the network mature.”  The carrier’s operating deficit was $46.4 million for the
first three months of the year, compared with $76 million in the
same period a year ago, according to a statement. Revenue rose
13 percent to $301.3 million.  Virgin America also borrowed an additional $75 million
after the first quarter ended, said Chief Financial Officer
Peter Hunt. The Burlingame, California-based carrier had about
$800 million in debt before that, he said.  Besides Branson’s Virgin Group, other investors include New
York-based Cyrus Capital Partners and Don Carty, former chairman
and CEO at American Airlines parent AMR Corp.  Virgin America, which started service in August 2007, has a
fleet of Airbus SAS A320-family jets and flies to cities
including  San Francisco ,  Los Angeles ,  Las Vegas ,  New York  and
 Boston .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mary Jane Credeur in Atlanta at 
 mcredeur@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at   edufner@bloomberg.net . 