-- Virus-Trackers Grapple With Unknowns as Coronavirus Spreads
-- B y   S i m e o n   B e n n e t t
-- 2013-05-13T12:04:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-13/virus-trackers-grapple-with-unknowns-as-coronavirus-spreads.html
Health officials are grappling with
unanswered questions as they struggle to understand the threat
posed by the new coronavirus that’s killed more than half the
people diagnosed with the respiratory infection.  The pathogen, which is related to the SARS virus that
killed 774 people a decade ago, has killed 18 of the 34 people
known to have been infected in Saudi Arabia, Jordan, Qatar, the
United Arab Emirates, the U.K. and  France , the World Health
Organization said in a  statement  yesterday. Saudi Arabia, which
has had the most fatalities, reported a further two deaths among
existing cases yesterday, taking the total to 20.  Virus trackers don’t know where the pneumonia-causing virus
came from, how it’s spreading, how widespread it is and how many
people may be infected without showing any symptoms, Keiji Fukuda, the Geneva-based WHO’s assistant director-general for
health security and the environment, told reporters in  Riyadh ,
Saudi Arabia yesterday.  “The big question is, how do people get infected in the
first place: where’s it coming from?” Gregory Hartl, a WHO
spokesman, said by phone today. “We’re really no closer to an
answer today than we were yesterday.”  Coronaviruses are a family of pathogens that cause
illnesses ranging from the common cold to SARS, which sickened
more than 8,000 people in 2002 and 2003, according to the WHO.
While the new virus is related to the one that causes SARS, it
appears far less transmissible, the WHO has said.  French Cases  France reported a second case yesterday, in a patient who
shared a hospital room with a man who fell ill after returning
from a trip to the United Arab Emirates. The case provides
further evidence that the virus can be passed from person-to-person, the WHO said.  British Airways parent  IAG SA (IAG)  and  Air France-KLM Group (AF)  both
slumped as much as 4.6 percent today amid concern that the
spread of the virus may reduce travel demand.  Saudi Arabia has invited scientists from New York’s
Columbia University and also other specialists from  Canada , the
U.S. and the WHO to help study the virus, the Saudi Ministry of
Health said.  The pathogen’s ability to spread between people has been
suspected at least since February, when it has found in a
relative a relative of a man who had traveled to the Middle
East. Still, there’s no evidence the virus is capable of
sustained person-to-person transmission, the WHO said.  “Although the virus has not reached the point of causing a
pandemic, it does have potential to cause pandemic if it
acquires the ability to transmit efficiently in the human
population,” Sue Huang, director of a WHO research laboratory
in Wellington, New Zealand, in an e-mailed statement today.  Most of the infected people have been older men, often with
other medical conditions, the WHO has said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simeon Bennett in Geneva at 
 sbennett9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  