-- Wallabies’ Beale May Miss Lions Rugby Matches for Treatment
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   E l s e r
-- 2013-05-13T11:52:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-13/wallabies-beale-may-miss-lions-rugby-matches-for-treatment.html
Wallabies back Kurtley Beale, who was
suspended from Super Rugby twice this season because of his
behavior, checked into a private hospital for “assistance in
resolving personal issues,” the Australian Rugby Union said.  The player is taking an indefinite leave of absence, the
ARU said today in an e-mailed statement. He was banned earlier
this month after breaking the conditions of his return,
jeopardizing his chances of being selected to face the British
and Irish Lions.  Beale “has voluntarily entered a private health facility
in order to undertake counseling,” the ARU said. “He has done
this with the backing of ARU, the Rugby Union Players’
Association and the Melbourne Rebels who support him on this
decision to seek assistance. Any future selection will be
dependent upon successful completion of his treatment program.”  Wallabies coach  Robbie Deans  is scheduled to announce an
initial 25-man squad for the three-Test series against the
Lions, who only tour  Australia  every 12 years, on May 19. Beale
was omitted from a 30-man planning camp last month, though Deans
said at the time that he still had time to earn selection.  Beale, who was voted the Wallabies’ best player in 2011 by
his peers, returned for the Rebels after being stood down
indefinitely March 28 for punching two squad members on a team
bus following a loss to the Sharks in  South Africa .  The Sydney-based ARU said after that incident that Beale
had agreed to seek counseling for “off-field issues.” The
latest discipline breach involved Beale drinking alcohol after
the Rebels loss to the Chiefs on May 3 and missing a counseling
session,  Melbourne ’s Age newspaper reported.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Elser in London at 
 celser@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  