-- Wheatley Seeks Dual-Track Libor as Gensler Says Replace Rate
-- B y   L i n d s a y   F o r t a d o
-- 2013-05-13T17:45:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-13/wheatley-seeks-dual-track-libor-as-gensler-says-replace-rate.html
Martin Wheatley, the head of the U.K.
markets regulator, said the  London  interbank offered rate should
eventually be replaced with a transaction-based benchmark using
a dual-track system.  The tarnished benchmark, based on a daily survey of panel
banks, should run in parallel with a transaction-based rate
until a full overhaul of the system can be enacted, Wheatley,
chief executive officer of the Financial Conduct Authority,
said, according to FCA spokesman Chris Hamilton.  Wheatley’s proposals contrast with Gary Gensler, the
chairman of the U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission, who
said in a speech in London last month that interest-rate
benchmarks such as Libor and Euribor are “unsustainable in the
long run” and need to be replaced with rates that are based on
real data.  Global regulators are working on alternatives to Libor
after U.S. and U.K. officials uncovered attempts by banks to
manipulate Libor.  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc , UBS AG, and
Barclays Plc have been fined a total of about $2.5 billion and
at least a dozen firms remain under investigation.  Wheatley has said the market should dictate how much Libor
is used in the future. The benchmark could be replaced with the
parallel rate system as soon as next year, Wheatley said. His
comments were first reported in the Financial Times.  Iosco Review  Gensler and Wheatley are leading a panel on behalf of the
International Organization of Securities Commissions into how
global benchmarks can be strengthened. In a report last month,
the panel said market benchmarks should be based on data from
actual trades in a bid to restore credibility.  They are also pushing for banks involved in benchmark
setting to sign up to a code of conduct as part of a drive to
make the process more robust.  The European Union, which is also investigating benchmark-rigging, will propose tougher regulation of the rates. Michel Barnier, the EU’s financial services chief, said in an e-mail
today that “to the greatest extent possible,” the market
should use indexes that are based on real transactions.  Barnier said the use of estimates in benchmarks shouldn’t
be outlawed entirely because of the need to allow for situations
where there is a lack of real transaction data and also because
such a move would affect many existing contracts.  More Transparency  The plans would “bring about more transparency, reduce
conflicts of interest, and ensure that benchmarks are
representative,” Barnier said. The new rules will be backed by
fines, and will be in line with international standards prepared
by market regulators, he said.  Other interbank lending rates, as well as benchmarks used
in the $379 trillion swaps market, have come in for scrutiny.
The CFTC is also probing suspected rigging of the ISDAFix rate
used as reference for derivatives trades.  Iosco, which brings together markets regulators for more
than 100 nations to coordinate their rule-making, will seek
industry feedback on the proposals through May 16, 2013. Another
group of global watchdogs, the Financial Stability Board, will
issue a report in July on progress in identifying alternatives
to tarnished benchmarks, and on steps to improve oversight of
rate setting.  The review follows concerns expressed by regulators that
Libor was undermined in part because banks submit estimates for
how much it would cost to borrow from each other, rather than
real transaction data.  Regulatory oversight of Libor was handed to Wheatley’s FCA
about six months after he proposed wide-ranging changes to the
benchmark interest rate in September. The so-called Wheatley
Review recommended scrapping more than 100 Libor rates tied to
currencies and maturities where there isn’t enough trading data
to set them properly and creating a code of conduct for lenders
contributing to the rate.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lindsay Fortado in London at 
 lfortado@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net  