-- 
U.S. on Brink as ‘Absolutist’ Tea Party Resists, Murkowski Says

-- B y   B r i a n   W i n g f i e l d   a n d   K a t a r z y n a   K l i m a s i n s k a
-- 
2011-07-30T04:00:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-29/-absolutist-tea-party-backers-put-u-s-on-brink-alaska-s-murkowski-says.html
U.S. lawmakers allied with the
“absolutist” Tea Party have put the nation on the financial
brink with their aversion to compromise, Senator  Lisa Murkowski 
said.  “I am really worried about where we are standing, and I
think part of that has come about because you have individuals
that say it is my ‘way or the highway,’” Murkowski, an Alaska
Republican, said yesterday in an interview at Bloomberg’s
Washington office. “That is not how you govern.”  House Republicans  backed by the Tea Party have vowed to
support an increase in the $14.3 trillion debt limit only if
it’s accompanied by spending cuts and doesn’t raise taxes.
President Barack Obama and Democrats propose a mix of tax
increases and spending reductions.  “You have folks who are so black-and-white, who are so
absolutist, that we are in a process now where we are on the
brink,” said Murkowski, 54, who was defeated by a Tea Party
supporter last year in a Republican primary and then re-elected
as a write-in candidate.  The senator said she backs the proposal advanced by the
Gang of Six, “or some iteration of it.” The bipartisan group
of senators called the Gang of Six has proposed to cut the
 budget deficit  by $3.7 trillion using a combination of spending
cuts and an overhaul of taxes that would raise $1 trillion.
Obama endorsed the plan, while House Republicans balked at the
tax increases.  ‘Damaging The Process’  “Those that believe that compromise is a dirty word, that
believe that there is no place for compromise within their
efforts, I think are damaging the process,” she said yesterday.  U.S. borrowing will exceed congressional authority on Aug.
2 unless Congress raises the debt ceiling, Treasury Secretary
 Timothy Geithner  has said.  A short-term extension of borrowing authority may be the
best option to prevent a U.S. default, giving lawmakers more
time to wrestle with plans to cut the deficit, Murkowski said.  “I think that has to be our fallback position,” she said.  The  Federal Reserve  is preparing guidance for banks in the
event the debt limit isn’t raised and the Treasury Department
runs out of money to pay all of its bills, a government official
said yesterday.  The guidance would cover issues including how payments on
short-term loans are made, collateral pledged for loans as well
as other supervisory and regulatory matters, said the official,
who asked not to be identified because congressional
negotiations on the debt limit are still under way.  Credit Rating  A credit-rating downgrade of U.S. Treasury securities
caused by a failure to increase the borrowing authority would
affect collateral pledged for loans.  Standard & Poor’s  on July 14 said there’s a 50 percent
chance the U.S. AAA rating would be cut from the highest grade
within 90 days even if an agreement is reached by Aug. 2. S&P
said it needs to see “a credible solution to the rising U.S.
government debt burden.”  The Senate is unified to ensure the U.S. meets its debt
obligations, according to Murkowski.  “I think we avoid the default,” she said. “I don’t know
if we avoid the downgrade, and I’ve got real concerns about
that.”  The debt and budget issues are “sucking the air out of the
room” for other issues, Murkowski said. “And if in fact we go
into a situation where it’s a short-term extension, my fear is
that this will continue for the balance of the year,” resulting
in very little new legislation.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brian Wingfield in Washington at 
 bwingfield3@bloomberg.net ;
Katarzyna Klimasinska in Washington at 
 kklimasinska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net  