-- 
A War on Multiculturalism, a Massacre in Norway: Pankaj Mishra

-- B y   P a n k a j   M i s h r a
-- 
2011-07-29T00:01:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-29/a-war-on-multiculturalism-massacre-in-norway-commentary-by-pankaj-mishra.html
A few summers ago, I traveled to the
central Swedish uplands for a conference. On the face of it, the
subject “What Is the West?” seemed promising. What, indeed,
was the West in the age of intensified globalization and mass
immigration?  “Multiculturalism,” variously defined, had been under
attack by centrist politicians trying to outflank extreme-right-
wing parties across Western  Europe . But was complete
assimilation to European ways feasible, or even desirable, for
immigrants of various ethnic and religious backgrounds?  Certainly, assimilation had made little difference to the
fate of many in Europe in the first half of the 20th century.
Theodore Herzl wasn’t the only one to feel that “the Jew who
tries to adapt himself to his environment, to speak its
languages, to think its thoughts” was still identified as a
potentially treacherous “alien” by fellow Europeans.  For me the question was not so much what “is” the West,
but what could it be -- whether, for instance, the increasingly
multiethnic nation-states of Europe could create a dynamic and
pluralistic identity for themselves, learning from the
experience of the U.S. as well as multinational empires in the
past.  Yet when I arrived at the conference, which included a
number of prominent English and American academics and
journalists, I was startled as one speaker after another stood
up to angrily denounce Islam and Muslims as a serious menace to
Western civilization.  Some Arcane Scholarship  Puzzlingly, few of these close readers of the Hadith and
new experts on jihad seemed to know any European Muslims, or
know that most of the targets of their anti-immigrant fury were
nonobservant Muslims, grateful to be in Europe, indifferent to
sharia law and mostly concerned, like everyone else, with making
better lives for themselves and their children.  Although supported by arcane scholarship, these
denunciations were not much more sophisticated than those I grew
up listening to in my upper-caste Hindu circles in India. In
this self-flattering vision, Muslims were everything the rest of
us were not: socially backward, economically parasitic,
politically retrograde, prone to group-think and violence, in
addition to being canny breeders and demographic terrorists.  The lone representative of the Muslim world among us, a
Turkish scholar, protested that he couldn’t recognize this
portrait of Muslims. He was ignored. In any case, the West’s
real enemy for some speakers wasn’t Muslims but the feckless
Western liberal believers in coexistence, who dangerously
underestimated the threat to European values from Islam.  For these speakers, multiculturalists “might have been
invented by  Osama bin Laden  himself,” as the writer  Bruce
Bawer , who lives in Oslo, put it in his 2009 book “Surrender:
Appeasing Islam, Sacrificing Freedom.”  The Western economies were then booming. The setting of the
conference itself -- a grand mansion with extensive grounds --
spoke of a long and serene possession of power and wealth. And
yet here were some extremely privileged men working themselves
up into high degrees of rage and self-pity.  Trying to explain this bizarre spectacle, a well-known
Swedish journalist told me that terrorist attacks and Muslim
immigration in Europe had provoked great anxiety in Sweden and
that the organizers of the conference -- a Swedish business
family with strong political connections -- were trying to
“come to grips with Islam.”  I now find that two of the most stridently anti-Muslim
“thinkers” at the conference were major influences on Anders Behring Breivik, the Norwegian accused of killing more than 70
people in Oslo last week. In his capacious manifesto, Breivik
also exulted at the possibility of Hindu nationalists in  India 
opening up another front against Muslims and “cultural
Marxists.”  Prejudice Becomes Respectable  It is unreasonable to pin guilt by intellectual association
on the authors of Breivik’s selective quotations. After all,
this dedicated foe of weak-kneed liberals also drew upon John
Stuart Mill. Yet the mass murder by an apparently lone and
crazed man in Norway should also not deflect attention from the
insidiousness with which crude prejudices about Islam and
Muslims have become respectable in Europe in recent years.  Early this year, Sayeeda Warsi, a co-chairman of the
British Conservative Party and a Muslim, was roundly attacked
for claiming that prejudice toward Muslims had “passed the
dinner table test” and become socially acceptable. But this
simple truth is verified not only by  Rupert Murdoch ’s
traditionally xenophobic tabloids but also by glancing at the
so-called quality broadsheets and books produced by prominent
trade publishers.  For example, Christopher Caldwell, a weekly columnist for
the Financial Times, claimed in his 2009 book “Reflections on
the Revolution in Europe” that Muslims were already
“conquering Europe’s cities, street by street.” It didn’t
matter that Muslims constitute about 4 percent of the EU’s total
population. According to Caldwell, “Muslim culture is unusually
full of messages laying out the practical advantages of
procreation.”  “Reflections on the Revolution in Europe” was received
with much critical tenderness. Bawer’s “While Europe Slept: How
Radical Islam Is Destroying the West from Within” was even a
finalist for a National Book Critics Circle award in the U.S.
More such screeds have shaped European establishment and popular
opinion since I wondered “What Is the West?” in  Sweden .  Let there be no doubt: All this helped bring us to the
strange place where, when a madman kills more than 70 people
because he thinks the West is being too soft on Muslims, the
first impulse of many is to blame the horrific violence on --
Muslims.  And, as once-strong economies weaken, more people go out of
work, and fear and insecurity haunt ordinary lives, the
influence of such propagandists rises. “Minorities,” the
Indian-American social anthropologist Arjun Appadurai has
rightly warned, “are the major site for displacing the
anxieties of many states about their own minority or marginality
(real or imagined) in a world of a few megastates, of unruly
economic flows and compromised sovereignties.”  At the best of times, there were no easy answers to the
question of how the ethnically homogenous nation-states of
Europe should accommodate Muslim populations. Now the “minority
problem” lies hostage to the deteriorating health of European
societies.  Europe has been here before. And we should hope that the
murderous spree in  Norway  last week was the work of a
certifiably mad loner. But, as extreme-right-wing parties
flourish across Western Europe and bigotry goes mainstream, we
would also do well to remember the novelist Joseph Roth’s words
at a dark time -- 1937 -- in Europe: “Centuries of civilization
are no guarantee that a European people, by some ghastly curse
of fate, will not revert to barbarism.”  (Pankaj Mishra, the author of “Temptations of the West:
How to be Modern in India,  Pakistan ,  Tibet  and Beyond,” is a
Bloomberg View columnist based in Mashobra, India. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Pankaj Mishra at  pmashobra@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Tobin Harshaw at   tharshaw@bloomberg.net . 