-- 
Macquarie’s CEO Moore May Struggle to Meet Earnings Forecast, Analysts Say

-- B y   J a c o b   G r e b e r
-- 
2011-07-29T06:43:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-29/macquarie-s-moore-may-struggle-on-profit-outlook.html
Macquarie Group Ltd. (MQG)  Chief Executive
Officer Nicholas Moore may struggle to meet the full-year profit
forecast he reiterated yesterday, said analysts.  Net income at  Australia ’s largest investment bank for the
year ending March 31, 2012, will be A$1.01 billion ($909
million), according to the median estimate of six analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg News today. That’s 12 percent less than
their previous profit forecast of A$1.14 billion.  Moore yesterday stuck to his forecast that profit will top
the A$956 million reported for the previous fiscal year. Markets
will need to rebound in coming months for that to happen, the
analysts said. Moore has shrugged off calls to join rivals such
as Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and Credit Suisse Group AG by
cutting jobs to boost earnings at what is  Asia ’s second-worst
performing financial stock in the past six months.  “People are increasingly getting more skeptical” about
Macquarie, said Prasad Patkar, who helps manage the equivalent
of $1.7 billion at Sydney-based Platypus Asset Management Ltd.
“They look like an expensive investment bank in a relatively
weak position compared to the large global players.”  Shares of Macquarie fell 1.5 percent to A$27.57, the lowest
in more than two years, at the close in Sydney. The stock has
slumped 26 percent this year, almost four times the decline in
the benchmark S&P/ASX 200 Index.  Earnings in the 12 months to March 31 at the bank’s fixed
income, currency and commodities unit, which accounted for 70
percent of trading income last year, will be “broadly in line”
with the previous fiscal year, Macquarie said yesterday, cutting
its April prediction that profit will rise.  FICC Struggles  The so-called FICC unit was the biggest contributor to
total profit in the six months ended March 31 among the eight
divisions the bank details in its earnings reports, adding A$408
million to earnings in the period, when the bank posted net
income of A$553 million.  FICC is among Macquarie’s “market facing” businesses that
suffered in the June quarter from slumping sentiment among
clients, Moore told reporters yesterday. “All the
counterparties we deal with basically were experiencing a lack
of confidence,” he said.  There are few signs global confidence is about to rebound.
The  Standard & Poor’s  500 index fell for a fourth day yesterday
as U.S. lawmakers indicated they were no closer to reaching an
agreement to increase the debt ceiling and avoid default.  “Without a material improvement in markets in the second
half, which at present seems unlikely, one would suggest that
the risk to earnings remains on the downside” for Macquarie,
Deutsche Bank AG analysts led by James Freeman in Sydney wrote
in a note dated yesterday. “Until the risk to earnings is
reduced, we struggle to see Macquarie outperform.”  Weak Sentiment  Sentiment has been further battered by weak earnings at
rival investment banks such as UBS AG, which this week scrapped
its profit target for 2014 and announced cost cuts after second-
quarter profit dropped 49 percent. Credit Suisse and Goldman
Sachs have between them announced plans to cut 3,000 jobs.  Macquarie’s earnings over the next three years will be
between 15 percent and 19 percent lower than previously forecast,
according to Sydney-based analysts at Royal Bank of Scotland
Group Plc including Andrew Lyons.  “We struggle to see markets recovering to the extent
required for Macquarie to reach its full-year 2012 guidance,”
Lyons wrote in the note dated yesterday.  To contact the reporter for this story:
Jacob Greber in Sydney at 
 jgreber@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  