-- 
African Wind, Hydro, Cook Stoves May Benefit From New CO2 Rule

-- B y   C a t h e r i n e   A i r l i e
-- 
2011-07-29T09:02:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-29/african-hydro-cooking-stoves-may-benefit-from-new-carbon-rules.html
Wind turbines , hydro-electric dams
and efficient cooking stoves in Africa and other countries may
attract up to $1 billion in investment, according to  ClimateCare 
after the United Nations agreed on new carbon market rules that
may grant such projects more emissions credits.  The UN Clean Development Mechanism’s Executive Board,
regulator of the world’s second biggest carbon market by traded
volume, agreed this month on new standards for projects in
places where basic human needs aren’t met. The new rule melds
the CDM’s goal of reducing emissions blamed for global warming
with an aspiration to transfer technologies that poor nations
need to avoid higher-polluting development paths akin to
 Europe ’s Industrial Revolution.  “With the new rules governing avoided future emissions,
the less-developed countries of the world can avoid investments
in fossil-fuel technologies and leapfrog directly to clean
technologies,” Adam Harvey, a vice president at ClimateCare,
said in a telephone interview. “It really doesn’t make sense to
spend money on adopting dirty technologies and then spend money
again on becoming clean.” ClimateCare, based in Oxford,
 England , is a unit of JPMorgan Chase & Co. that develops
emissions-cutting projects.  The so-called “guidelines on the consideration of
suppressed demand in CDM methodologies” were approved during
the executive board’s meeting in Marrakech that ended July 15.
The guidelines include ways to calculate CO2 emission reductions
in poor areas against a benchmark that represents so-called
minimum service levels for heat, water and light. These levels
represent an acceptable standard of living, which many
communities have not yet achieved.  ‘Tremendous Battle’  About a quarter of the world’s population don’t have access
to modern cooking fuels or electricity, forcing them to use
kerosene-burning lamps and cooking fuels like wood and charcoal
not just to cook but also to boil water to make it safe for
drinking, Harvey said, citing  United Nations  Environment Program
figures.  “It’s been a tremendous battle to agree on this because
the issue of environmental integrity has been more prominent
than the requirement to achieve sustainable development,” Steve
Thorne, a Cape Town-based director at SouthSouthNorth Africa, a
not-for-profit group advocating sustainable development, said in
a telephone interview. “They’ve not allowed the use of
predictive tools to estimate avoided future emissions either,
and this is key for reducing the transaction costs of projects
that take suppressed demand into account.”  Displace Coal  The new rules may tempt investors into projects they may
have otherwise avoided, such as installing millions of fuel-
efficient stoves into houses through to building hydro-electric
plants and wind farms. These may displace the need for coal-fed
stations or growing reliance on diesel generators in the poorest
areas in countries such as Sudan, Uganda and South  Africa .  Rwanda  hosts a CDM project  that uses solar energy to purify
water and earns 3,148 metric tons of credits a year. That’s
worth about 30,000 euros ($43,000) at current prices on the ICE
Futures Europe exchange. That won’t be enough to cover the costs
of monitoring the project to ensure emissions savings, according
to  information  on the Climate and Development Knowledge Network
website. It could have been awarded as many as 60,000 credits a
year, worth 568,000 euros, under the new standards, according to
the website.  Suppressed Demand  Thorne first highlighted the issue of suppressed demand in
2001 while attending the conference that brought about the
Marrakech Accords, the rules governing the UN’s carbon market.
The ten-year delay in agreeing these rules reflects the fact
that “there was anxiety about the market response to emission
reductions which may not be real and measurable under the normal
definition,” Thorne said.  Demand for UN credits comes from companies participating in
the European Union and  New Zealand  emissions trading systems,
and from countries seeking to meet emission reduction targets
imposed under the  Kyoto Protocol . BP Plc and Electricite de
France SA are among companies that invest in projects in
 developing countries  to generate credits that can be sold to EU,
New Zealand or Kyoto buyers.  “Developers are no longer in darkness as to whether a
project which promotes clean development and avoided future
emissions will go through,” Harvey said. Rural power projects
to curb fossil fuels as well as cooking and water purification
programs avoiding uncontrolled tree felling for charcoal and
firewood, may boom under the new guidelines, he said.  Speedy Industrialization  China  and  India , two of the world’s fastest-growing
economies, have been the main beneficiaries of the UN’s carbon
market so far. Investors have flocked to the speedy
industrialization which is causing CO2 emissions to soar and
opening up greater opportunities to curb those emissions.  Emissions-cutting projects in China have issued 381 million
tons of emissions credits since 2005. That’s 57 percent of total
emissions reductions achieved so far under the CDM, according to
UN data compiled by Bloomberg. Indian projects have issued 99
million tons, or 15 percent of the total, while projects in
Africa have issued 8.9 million, or 1.3 percent.  The UN’s carbon market was created by the 1997 Kyoto
Protocol, an agreement ratified by 191 countries, excluding the
U.S., that set emissions limits for developed countries in the
eight years through to 2012. The market is governed by rules
agreed under the Marrakech Accords in 2001. Nations are due to
meet from Nov. 28 in Durban,  South Africa , to negotiate a
climate-protecting agreement to continue after 2012.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Catherine Airlie at
   cairlie@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at   sev@bloomberg.net  