-- 
After Funding Republicans, U.S. Chamber Urges Debt Limit Deal

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   D .   S a l a n t
-- 
2011-07-29T19:18:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-29/after-funding-republicans-u-s-chamber-urges-debt-limit-deal.html
The  U.S. Chamber of Commerce , which
spent $29 million last year primarily in support of Republican
congressional candidates, is intensifying its push for Congress
to raise the debt limit.  A statement issued today by the chamber’s chief economist,
Martin Regalia, said that “a small negative impact resulting
from failure to increase the debt ceiling and defaulting on our
obligations could turn the economy back into a recession.”  The chamber, the largest U.S. business federation, also set
up a link on its home page for visitors to send e-mails to
members of Congress under the subject line, “Default is not an
option.”  The actions come as a potential U.S. default looms if the
borrowing limit is not raised by Aug. 2, according to the
Treasury Department.  The chamber’s position puts it at odds with some  House
Republicans , who oppose current plans to raise the debt limit
even with spending cuts that would exceed the increase.  FreedomWorks, a Tea Party-aligned group led by former House
Majority Leader Dick Armey, a Texas Republican, today urged
House members to vote against a proposal by House Speaker  John Boehner  of  Ohio  that would increase the debt limit in two
stages, the second contingent on congressional approval of a
balanced budget amendment.  Last week, in the chamber’s  blog , chief lobbyist  Bruce Josten  urged business leaders to contact their lawmakers and
“tell them that default is unacceptable.”  “Now, make no mistake; too much spending and the need for
real entitlement reform has led to the debt crisis we’re in
today,” Josten wrote. “But jeopardizing our country’s credit
rating and fiscal security by refusing to compromise isn’t the
answer.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan D. Salant in Washington at 
 jsalant@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mark Silva  at   msilva34@bloomberg.net . 