-- 
Air Safety Means Tougher Stance on Controllers’ Blunders: View

-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 
2011-07-29T00:00:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-29/air-safety-means-taking-a-tougher-stance-on-controllers-blunders-view.html
Visit the  Federal Aviation
Administration ’s website, and you will be greeted by a short
 video  in which the U.S. agency urges pilots, mechanics,
suppliers and aircraft builders to be mindful of passengers’
lives. “We all have to make a commitment to put safety first,”
declares FAA Administrator  Randy Babbitt .  In important ways, though, that commitment is fraying.  The FAA employs 15,600 air-traffic controllers, who ensure
safe, orderly movement of aircraft through U.S. airspace. These
are coveted positions, paying an average of $136,000 a year.
Applicants must pass an eight-hour exam and undergo as much as
four years of on-the-job development before being fully
certified. Periodic drug and alcohol testing comes with the job.  The FAA’s financing is currently tied up in Congress over a
political dispute about how to tally union votes. That momentary
controversy masks deeper concerns about controllers’ on-the-job
accountability. In theory, when controllers make mistakes, they
can be fired. Reality turns out to be much more troubling.  A Bloomberg News investigation found that within the past
two years, the FAA has attempted to fire 140 controllers and
other air-traffic workers, only to end up rescinding, reducing
or deferring penalties in 40 percent of the cases. Drug and
alcohol violations are especially unlikely to lead to firings.
In two-thirds of those cases, employees have kept their jobs or
been allowed to retire with their benefits intact.  Remember the uproar in April, when it emerged that FAA
controllers in Miami,  Seattle  and Knoxville,  Tennessee , had been
napping on the job? Transportation Secretary Ray LaHood made
headlines by vowing to fire sleeping controllers. So far, that
has been an empty threat. The Seattle case is pending. The
Knoxville worker retired. And the Miami controller still works
for the FAA after the proposed termination was reduced to a
lesser penalty.  Deadly Crash  Even more astonishing is the aftermath of an August 2009
crash between a single-engine plane and a helicopter over the
 Hudson River , near  New York City . In the minutes before that
crash, the controller who should have been advising the plane’s
pilot was on the phone, joking with an airport worker about how
to grill a dead cat.  That accident killed nine people. Safety investigators said
the controller was distracted and partly to blame. The FAA tried
to fire that controller, who instead has been suspended,
transferred and demoted. He still works for the FAA.  Controllers enjoy two forms of job protection. They can
challenge disciplinary penalties through a government panel
called the Merit Systems Protection Board. They can also invoke
15 pages of provisions in their  union  contract, letting them
appeal sanctions to an arbitrator. Some disciplinary proceedings
can stretch out for years.  Rare Opportunity  Next year, the U.S. government will have a rare opportunity
to fix this mess. The union contract covering air-traffic
controllers expires Sept. 30, 2012. If the FAA or its parent
body, the Transportation Department, wanted, they could take aim
at contract language that makes it unusually difficult to fire
controllers whose conduct is a menace to public safety.  LaHood was asked this spring whether he wanted to seek
changes in the controllers’ contract. He said he hadn’t
considered it. But he should.  In an age of straitened government, the FAA is in a great
position to demand more from its controllers. Thousands of
qualified candidates -- including military veterans who have
handled air traffic in Iraq and  Afghanistan  -- are vying for
just  829 controller openings  this year. The next contract should
be written so that public safety and controllers’ accountability
are paramount. If that means picking a fight over the contract’s
drawn-out grievance and arbitration process, then LaHood should
do so.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 