-- 
Air France Crash Report Points to Pilot Errors as Skills Undergo a Review

-- B y   A n d r e a   R o t h m a n   a n d   L a u r e n c e   F r o s t
-- 
2011-07-29T14:43:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-29/air-france-crash-probe-puts-focus-on-improving-pilots-emergency-training.html
Airline pilots need better training
on how to fly planes in an emergency with only limited aid from
computers, investigators concluded after probing how cockpit
confusion doomed Air France Flight 447 and killed 228 people.  Aviation authorities should revise pilot training and make
changes to aircraft certification, flight recorders and data
transmission, the French BEA aircraft accident bureau said today
in a report into the 2009 crash off the coast of  Brazil .  The document chronicles the final hours of the Airbus A330
aircraft, revealing a plane that responded accurately to
commands, and confusion on the part of the two co-pilots while
the captain was off duty. Neither pilot appeared to realize the
plane had stalled, even as an alarm sounded for 54 seconds
before the jet hit the ocean in the middle of the night.  The comments in the cockpit display “total incomprehension
of the situation, and they are heard saying several times that
they don’t know what’s going on,” BEA Chief Investigator Alain Bouillard said in an interview after presenting the report.  Flight 447 crashed on June 1, 2009, after the Airbus lost
speed and stalled before beginning a 3 1/2 minute plunge into
the Atlantic. No announcements were made to the passengers
during the descent, the report said. Data presented by the BEA
show the youngest of the three pilots, who was 32 and at the
controls for most of the last minutes, angled the jet nose
higher, a position the aircraft maintained until its impact.  Air France Response  Air France said there was no reason to question the crew’s
technical skills.  “Misleading stopping and starting of the stall warning
alarm” confused the crew and contributed to the crash, the
carrier said in a statement published on its Web site in
response to the report. “Air France pays tribute to the courage
and determination they showed in such extreme conditions.”  Stalls occur when a plane slows to a degree that its wings
lose lift. Recovering from a stall involves dropping the nose to
regain airspeed, a procedure that novice pilots begin practicing
early in their training. The captain, who returned to the
cockpit after the plane had stalled, had almost 11,000 hours of
flying experience. That compares with 3,000 hours for the
youngest of the three-man crew, who remained in control.  Recommendations  Among the agency’s recommendations, it called for one crew
member to be designated as a “relief captain” whenever co-
pilots are left alone in the cockpit. The pilot left for his
break “without clear operational instructions,” the BEA said.  The recommendations are likely to rekindle debate about
adequate pilot training in an era of aviation dominated by
computers. Modern jets are highly automated, and computers
ensure the aircraft remains in its so-called flight envelope.  “The plane departed from normal cruise conditions, and the
crew seem to have reacted inappropriately because they
misidentified the situation,” said  Paul Hayes , director of
safety at London-based aviation consulting firm Ascend Worldwide
Ltd. “It appears they thought the stall warning was false and
reacted to what they thought was an over-speed situation.”  A buffeting effect resulting from the stall, audible in the
cockpit recording, may have been misinterpreted by the co-pilots
as a sign the aircraft was going too fast, according to
Bouillard. One of the co-pilots can be heard saying, “we’re
doing a hell of a speed,” when in fact the plane was dropping
because it had already lost too much velocity, he said.  ‘Lively Exchange’  “There are lively exchanges and a lot of stress,”
Bouillard said.  Regulators should require specific pilot training on high-
speed stalls, which isn’t currently mandatory and which neither
of the Air France co-pilots had received, the report said. Among
other recommendations is the addition of cockpit cameras to
enable a better reconstruction of the occurrences, a move that
pilot unions have so far opposed as invasive.  Manufacturers should also consider making available a
reading of the so-called angle of attack, which defines the
angle between air flow and the longitudinal axis of the
aircraft. In the case of the crashed Airbus, the angle, which
wasn’t visible to the pilots, always remained above 35 degrees
during the descent.  Icy Sensors  The French investigation pieced together the last moments
of the doomed flight after retrieving the flight- and data
recorders from the bottom of the ocean earlier this year
following multiple missions. Investigators recovered complete
readings of the flight recorders, the BEA said.  Even before the recorders were found, the investigation
honed in on airspeed sensors that malfunctioned after they were
blocked by ice at cruising altitude, causing the auto-pilot to
shut down while the captain was on a routine break.  The junior co-pilot responded by forcing the plane into a
sharp climb, the report said. He continued to pull back on the
stick even after the aircraft slowed, lost lift and dropped
almost vertically with the stall alarm blaring. Speed
indications returned after a 54-second lapse, though they had no
impact on pilot behavior, the report concluded.  The audio recording of the cockpit exchanges reveals poor
communication between the co-pilots and a lack of clear command
in the flight captain’s absence, according to the BEA. They
failed to exchange information or observations on the plane’s
orientation and descent through the air.  No Task Sharing  “There was no explicit task-sharing between the two
copilots,” the report said. “No standard callouts regarding
the differences in pitch attitude and vertical speed were
made.”  In the final investigation phase, the BEA will consult
cognitive scientists and doctors about the “human factors”
leading to the crash, according to Bouillard.  At one point the junior co-pilot ceded control to his more
experienced colleague, before re-engaging without warning a few
seconds later. Both men briefly made simultaneous inputs on the
side stick, a maneuver that prompts a vibrating warning on the
steering device. While the captain had returned to the cockpit,
he never took back the controls and remained in the background.  By the time the captain had rejoined his co-pilots, the
situation had already deteriorated considerably, the
investigators concluded in a report in May.  The chief pilot was among the victims recovered from the
ocean surface in the weeks after the crash. Salvage crews
managed to pull up the bodies of other victims from the sea bed
after the jet was discovered earlier this year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrea Rothman in Paris at 
 aerothman@bloomberg.net ;
Laurence Frost in Paris at 
 lfrost4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net ;
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  