-- 
Alibaba Resolves Dispute With Yahoo, Softbank Over Alipay Unit

-- B y   B r i a n   W o m a c k   a n d   Z a c h a r y   T r a c e r
-- 
2011-07-30T01:37:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-29/alibaba-reaches-agreement-with-yahoo-softbank-on-alipay-payment-schedules.html
Alibaba Group Holding Ltd. reached
an agreement yesterday with Yahoo! Inc. and  Softbank Corp. (9984) , its
largest shareholders, ending a four-month spat over how to
compensate investors after an ownership change in China’s most
popular online-payment service.  Alibaba, which transferred the Alipay unit to a company
controlled by Chairman Jack Ma last year, will get as much as $6
billion if Alipay sells shares to the public, according to a
statement yesterday. Before any sale, Alibaba will receive 49.9
percent of Alipay’s earnings.  The deal leaves Alibaba, and by extension Yahoo and
Softbank, with less access to the growth of the payments
business. Yahoo’s shares had lost almost 30 percent of their
value in the past three months on concern that its future in the
booming Chinese market was at risk. The U.S. company disclosed
the loss of Alipay in May, saying it only learned about the
August 2010 transfer in March.  “The market had feared that Yahoo would be diluted, and I
guess that fear has been realized,” said  Clayton Moran , an
analyst at Benchmark Co. in  Boca Raton ,  Florida , who has a
“hold” rating on the stock.  Yahoo, based in Sunnyvale,  California , fell 3 percent to
$13.10 in New York trading on the Nasdaq Stock Market. Shares of
Softbank fell 3.5 percent to 3,010 yen in  Tokyo  yesterday.  ‘Little Visibility’  Alibaba will get at least $2 billion in the case of an IPO
or “other liquidity event” at Alipay, according to the
statement. Within the range of the agreement, the amount to be
paid to Alibaba in such events will be calculated by multiplying
Alipay’s equity value by 37.5 percent.  Before the transfer, Alibaba owned 100 percent of Alipay
and all of its profit, and the agreement reduced both the
ownership and the share of earnings, Doug Anmuth, an analyst at
JPMorgan & Chase, who rates Yahoo “neutral,” said in a note
today.  “In addition, there is very little visibility into the
exact timing of an IPO,” he said.  Alipay will continue to offer payment services to Alibaba
on preferential terms, the companies said in the statement.
Alibaba will also license patents and technology to Alipay, for
which Alipay will pay royalties.  ‘Marginally Profitable’  The Alipay business is only “marginally profitable,”
Joseph Tsai, chief financial officer of Alibaba, said in a
conference call yesterday. The announcement is the culmination
of a series of constructive discussions between Alibaba Group
Management, Yahoo and Softbank, he said.  Ma said earlier this month that Yahoo, Softbank and Alibaba
would receive “very large” compensation for the loss of the
unit, according to an interview with the  China  Entrepreneur
magazine. He has said that for three years Alibaba’s board had
discussed the need to reorganize Alipay to comply with China’s
restrictions on foreign investment in payment operators, and
that the spinoff was “transparent” and “legal.”  Investors grew impatient with Yahoo after it announced May
10 the transfer of Alipay in a regulatory filing.  Greenlight Capital Inc., the hedge fund run by  David Einhorn , sold its stake in Yahoo for a “modest loss” over
doubts surrounding the value of the company’s investment in
Alibaba, the firm said earlier this month. Greenlight had
previously predicted that the China unit stake might be worth as
much as Yahoo’s entire market value.  Bartz’s Turnaround  Yahoo’s main business, which Chief Executive Officer  Carol Bartz  has been trying to turn around for more than two years, is
under pressure from rivals such as Facebook Inc., the world’s
most popular social-networking site. Yahoo is expected to cede
its spot as the top seller of display advertising in the U.S. to
Facebook this year, according to research firm EMarketer Inc.  Yahoo’s second-quarter results disappointed investors.
Excluding sales passed on to partner sites, revenue was $1.08
billion, missing the $1.11 billion predicted by analysts,
according to Bloomberg. Sales will be $1.05 billion to $1.1
billion in the current period, Yahoo said. That fell short of
the $1.12 billion projected by analysts.  The new deal brings some closure to concerns about the
Alibaba stake, said  Ben Schachter , an analyst at Macquarie
Capital in  New York .  “It’s great to have resolution and we can stop talking
about it -- and start talking more about the Yahoo business,”
said Schachter, who has a “neutral” rating on the stock. “But
the reality of the Yahoo business is not something a lot of
people want to talk about because it doesn’t look good.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Womack in  San Francisco  at 
 Bwomack1@bloomberg.net 
Zachary Tracer in New York at 
 ztracer1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net  