-- 
All Nippon Defers Four 787s, Predicts Profit Drop After Japan Earthquake

-- B y   C h r i s   C o o p e r   a n d   K i y o t a k a   M a t s u d a
-- 
2011-07-29T11:15:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-29/all-nippon-defers-787s-expects-profit-drop.html
All Nippon Airways Co., the first
customer for  Boeing Co. (BA)  787, deferred deliveries of four
Dreamliners and forecast a 14 percent decline in full-year
profit after a tsunami disrupted travel in  Japan .  The carrier will receive 20 Dreamliners in the two years
ended March 31, 2013, compared with the 24 previously planned,
spokeswoman Megumi Tezuka said by phone today. The Tokyo-based
airline made the change as it adjusts flight schedules, she said.  ANA’s net income will likely decline to 20 billion yen
($258 million) in the year ending March 31, as a power shortage
following a March 11 earthquake and tsunami damps travel. The
carrier also has to contend with fuel prices that have jumped 52
percent in a year and a global travel slowdown that has caused
Singapore Airlines Ltd. and Air France-KLM Group to pare growth.  “The impact from the earthquake is likely to have a
lasting effect this year,” said  Ryota Himeno , an analyst at
Mitsubishi UFJ Morgan Stanley Securities Co. “Demand for
domestic travel is dropping as people avoid flying.”  In the fiscal first quarter, ANA had a loss of 8.5 billion
yen, compared with a loss of 5.3 billion yen a year earlier, it
said in a statement today. Sales were little changed at 305
billion yen.  The carrier fell 1.5 percent to 261 yen at the 3 p.m. end
of trading in  Tokyo . The earnings were announced after the
market closed.  Dreamliner Schedule  ANA will receive 12 Dreamliners before March 31, down from
a planned 14, Tezuka said. It will get eight more next fiscal
year, instead of 10. Boeing has said it intends to deliver the
first 787 by the end of September.  ANA’s  passenger numbers  on domestic routes plunged 20
percent from a year earlier in April, following the tsunami,
which crippled a nuclear-power plant. The tally dropped more
than 10 percent in May and June, according to data on the
carrier’s website.  Passenger numbers on ANA’s overseas routes rose 4 percent
in the fiscal first quarter as the carrier added flights
following the opening of a new terminal at Tokyo’s Haneda
airport. Japan Airlines Corp. has also cut overseas services as
part of a restructuring plan.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Chris Cooper  in Tokyo at 
 ccooper1@bloomberg.net ;
Kiyotaka Matsuda in Tokyo at 
 kmatsuda@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  