-- 
Landmines Go Missing From Seoul Hillside After Torrential Rains

-- B y   S e o n j i n   C h a   a n d   J u n   Y a n g
-- 
2011-07-29T03:19:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-29/landmines-missing-from-seoul-hillside-after-torrential-rains.html
Ten landmines were unaccounted for
at a military compound near a residential part of  Seoul  as
torrential rains triggered mudslides and flash floods that
killed at least 51 people in  South Korea  this week.  Civilians were warned to immediately report any “strange
objects” after a record three-day deluge in Seoul and across
much of the Korean peninsula scattered storm debris and flooded
properties, including military compounds, Kang Sun Mu, a
spokesman at the Disaster & Safety Management Office, said today.  The military was today searching for the mines buried
around an air defense artillery unit on top of Mount Umyeon,
said a defense ministry official who declined to be named,
citing government policy. Lower sections of the same mountain
gave way on July 27, sending earth and rocks careering into
houses and apartment buildings, killing 16 people.  Another 30 millimeters (1.2 inches) of rain is forecast in
Seoul for the 17 hours to 5 p.m. after 587 millimeters over the
last three days, according to the Korea Meteorological
Administration.  North Korea  was also affected, with thousands of
homes and hundreds of factories, schools and public buildings
destroyed, the state-run Korean Central News Agency said.  More than 11,000 South Koreans were evacuated as 10,038
homes and 978 hectares (2,400 acres) of farmland were flooded,
according to a statement on the National Emergency Management
Agency’s website.  North Korea  Twenty times that amount of land was submerged by rains in
North Korea, KCNA said. The heaviest downpours were in South
Hwanghae province, according to the report, which didn’t say how
many people may have been killed.  There were as many as 86 power outages across South Korea
at the peak of the rains, though electricity was restored to
most of the affected houses or buildings yesterday, according to
the Ministry of  Knowledge Economy .  Domestic demand may weaken this month due to the torrential
rains, the  finance ministry  said in a statement today.  “We’re closely watching how much the rain may affect
prices for agricultural produce,” Yoon Jong Won, director-
general at the finance ministry, said by telephone yesterday.
“There might be some supply problems, but it will be only brief
until the rain stops and prices for fruit and vegetables should
stabilize soon.”  Park Sang Hyun, chief economist at HI Investment &
Securities Co. in Seoul, said the rain was likely to add to
inflation pressures.  Inflation Pressures  “I expect consumer inflation to accelerate to 4.6 percent
this month and stay above 4 percent next month,” Park said.  Automobile insurers may have to payout about 40.3 billion
won ($38 million) in damages claims, the Financial Supervisory
Service said in an e-mailed statement yesterday.  Flights at Incheon International Airport, the nation’s
biggest airfield, weren’t disrupted, spokesman Kim Ki Min said
by telephone.  Parts of railroads connecting Seoul and its northern
outskirts have been disrupted since July 27, while other major
routes and high-speed train services were working normally,
according to Korea Railroad Corp.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Seonjin Cha in Seoul at 
 scha2@bloomberg.net ;
Jun Yang in Seoul at 
 jyang180@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net ;
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  