-- 
Hang Lung Profit Falls as It Holds Off Hong Kong Hone Sales; Shares Drop

-- B y   K e l v i n   W o n g
-- 
2011-07-29T05:48:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-29/hang-lung-posts-lower-than-expected-profit-on-fewer-hong-kong-condo-sales.html
Hang Lung Properties Ltd. (101) , the  Hong
Kong  developer that focuses on building shopping malls in China,
said full-year profit excluding gains from revaluations fell 59
percent on fewer homes sales in the city. The shares dropped.  Net income excluding revaluation gains and deferred tax
fell 59 percent to HK2.74 billion ($352 million) in the 12
months to June 30 from HK$6.67 billion a year earlier, the
developer said in a statement to the Hong Kong stock exchange
today. That is in-line with the median estimate of HK$2.75
billion from five analysts surveyed by Bloomberg News.  Hang Lung, Hong Kong’s third-biggest developer by market
value, made only HK$3 million in revenue from apartment sales
even after  home prices  rose 23 percent during the year under
review. The company will open a shopping mall in Jinan in August,
its fourth outside Hong Kong, as part of its $5.1 billion push
to build commercial properties in the world’s fastest-growing
major economy.  “The focus will be on the progress of leasing in their
shopping malls in China,”  Cusson Leung , a Hong Kong-based
analyst at Credit Suisse Group AG, said before the earnings
announcement.  Hang Lung’s shares have declined 20 percent this year,
making it the worst performer in the seven-member Hang Seng
Property Index, which lost 4.2 percent. The shares fell 2
percent to HK$29.45 as of 1:45 p.m. in Hong Kong, after the
earnings were announced.  Rental profit  The developer hasn’t bought any land in Hong Kong over the
last 10 years as it shifted its focus to  China . It made a profit
of HK$5.26 billion a year earlier from selling homes at the
HarbourSide and Long Beach projects in the West Kowloon district.  Hang Lung still has about HK$6 billion worth of unsold
homes in Hong Kong, according to today’s statement.  Rental profit from China rose 14 percent to HK$1.86 billion,
while those from Hong Kong gained 11 percent to HK$2.33 billion,
the company said today.  Hang Lung booked a HK$3.3 billion gain reflecting the
increased value of real estate held for investment, against a
HK$21.2 billion gain the same period the previous year.  Including those gains, net income for the year fell 75
percent to HK$5.79 billion, or HK$1.31 a share, from a restated
HK$23.6 billion, or HK$5.61 a share, a year earlier.  Yuan Holdings  Chairman Ronnie Chan said in an interview last month that
Hang Lung built up Chinese currency holdings of 20 billion yuan
($3.1 billion) over the past nine months, waiting for a pullback
in prices to acquire land in the world’s fastest-growing major
economy. Hang Lung hasn’t purchased land in China since early
2009, Chan said.  The developer has net cash of about HK$10.5 billion,
today’s statement said.  The Chinese government has ordered banks to increase their
reserve ratio and has lifted  interest rates  to damp accelerating
inflation and curb property values. Prices of new homes rose in
June from the previous year in 67 of the 70 cities measured by
the National Bureau of Statistics.  Hang Lung, which has two shopping malls in  Shanghai , is also 
building in Shenyang, Dalian, Jinan, Wuxi and Tianjin. Its 
developments in Hong Kong include the Standard Chartered Building
in the Central business district and Hang Lung Centre in the 
Causeway Bay area.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kelvin Wong in Hong Kong at 
 kwong40@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  