-- 
Anglo American Profit Rises 41% on Prices; CEO Sees ‘Inflation Headwinds’

-- B y   C a r l i   L o u r e n s
-- 
2011-07-29T16:46:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-29/anglo-american-says-that-its-first-half-profit-rises-41-on-metal-gains.html
Anglo American Plc (AAL) , part-owner of
the world’s biggest platinum and diamond producers, said first-
half profit rose 41 percent, missing estimates, as it confronts
“very strong headwinds” on costs.  Underlying earnings climbed to $3.1 billion, or $2.58 a
share, from $2.2 billion, or $1.84 a share, a year earlier,
Anglo said today in a statement. That compares with the $2.63-a-
share mean estimate of eight analysts surveyed by Bloomberg News
and Anglo’s consensus of $2.59.  The benefit of rising metal prices, up 65 percent in the
past two years on the  LMEX London Metals Index (LMEX) , has been eroded
by energy and labor costs. In South Africa, where power prices
climbed 26 percent this year, workers are on strike to demand
pay increases of more than 10 percent. Anglo copper sales fell
12 percent as rain curbed output across the southern hemisphere.  Anglo’s announcement of a 28 cent-a-share dividend today is
“disappointing,”  Peter Davey , head of mining research at SBG
Securities, said by phone from  London . He said he expected a
payment closer to 40 cents. “The performance is a bit
disappointing as well, especially in copper.” Bloomberg’s
dividend estimate was for 29 cents.  The second half should be “stronger,” Chief Executive
Officer  Cynthia Carroll  told investors in London today. Anglo
has raised the price outlook for all the materials it produces,
she said.  Project Pipeline  The stock fell 3.3 percent to 2,900 pence by the 4:30 p.m.
close in London, the biggest drop in more than a month and
bringing its decline this year to 13 percent. BHP Billiton Ltd.,
the world’s largest mining company, dropped 2.3 percent.  Anglo increased the estimate of its possible project
pipeline to $85 billion from the $70 billion forecast in
February.  “We’re very mindful of the capital project outlook that we
have ongoing,” Carroll told reporters on a call today. “We’re
spending about $6 billion in capex this year” and $6.2 billion
to $6.5 billion in 2012 and 2013, she said.  The company has begun studies on expanding its Minas Rio
 iron-ore  project in Brazil to produce as much as 90 million
metric tons a year and will start its Los Bronces copper project
in  Chile  late this year. It delayed a decision on its $3 billion
Quellaveco copper project in  Peru  to 2012 from 2011.  Fertilizers ‘Strong’  The price of imports of iron ore by  China , the world’s
largest consumer of the steelmaking ingredient, rose 30 percent
in the past 12 months to $175.40 a ton. Copper for delivery in
three months climbed 37 percent to $9,845.25 a ton in London as
demand from expanding Asian economies for the metal, used in
plumbing and telecommunications equipment, increased.  Anglo, nearing completion of a program to sell non-core
assets, reversed a decision to sell the Copebras fertilizer unit
in  Brazil  as there is “strong demand on the agricultural side
of the fertilizers,” Carroll said. “For the time being, we
thought we’d capitalize on that. We’re seeing very, very high
return and high demand, certainly for the near and medium
term.”  The costs of energy and key raw materials increased
“dramatically” in the first half, Carroll said.  Inflation ‘Headwinds’  “We’ve had very strong headwinds on the inflation side,”
she said. “We’ve seen electricity prices increase by 35 percent
in Chile, 26 percent in South Africa. We’ve seen sulphuric acid
going up by over 100 percent. Obviously significant impact on
the copper costs. We really don’t see much of that changing,”
Carroll said.  Labor costs are rising 12 percent in Chile this year, about
8 percent or 9 percent in  South Africa  and 5 percent in
 Australia , Carroll said.  Anglo’s thermal coal production in South Africa was halted
by a strike that started July 24. Miners have also stopped work
at sites controlled by  De Beers , the diamond producer 45 percent
owned by Anglo, since July 22. Xstrata Plc, AngloGold Ashanti
Ltd. and Royal Dutch Shell Plc are among companies to experience
strikes in the country this month.  In Australia, Anglo faces a tax on  carbon emissions  that
Carroll has said puts coal investments at risk. She’s also among
leading opponents of a call for mine nationalization in South
Africa.  Analysts who track Anglo American use underlying earnings,
excluding special items and “remeasurements” that include some
currency gains and losses, to assess performance.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  