-- 
Tanzania Railways Repays Debt to IFC Ahead of Nationalization

-- B y   D a v i d   M a l i n g h a   D o y a
-- 
2011-07-29T11:14:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-29/tanzania-railways-repays-debt-to-ifc-ahead-of-nationalization.html
Tanzania Railways Ltd. agreed to
repay a $7 million loan to the International Finance Corp. to
clear its debts before being nationalized by the Tanzanian
government, the IFC said.  TRL, as the rail operator is known, incurred the debt after
a 25-year concession awarded to Haryana, India-based Rites Ltd.
was canceled in 2009. The IFC had disbursed $14 million of a $44
million loan to TRL to help rehabilitate, develop and operate
the country’s 2,700-kilometer (1,678-mile) rail network,
according to information on the IFC’s website.  “The first $7 million was paid by TRL in September 2010,”
IFC spokesman Zibusiso Sibanda said yesterday in an e-mailed
response to questions from Washington DC. “The agreement was
about the remaining $7 million.”  TRL was established as a joint venture in 2007 in which
Rites held a 51 percent interest and the government the rest.
The concession was cancelled in 2009 after TRL began to face
financial difficulties, the Dar es Salaam-based  Guardian
newspaper  reported in January.  TRL faced “severe challenges” that resulted in the sale of
the company to a private investor failing, Sibanda said. The IFC
won’t comment further on the agreement because “some information
is protected by confidentiality agreements,” he said.  Two phone calls to Rites’s main number during office hours
weren’t answered when Bloomberg called seeking comment.  Colonial Development  Most of Tanzania’s rail-network was built before 1924,
during the German colonial era, to transport agricultural
products including sisal and coffee to the coast for export to
 Europe .  Tanzania plans to invest 2 trillion Tanzanian shillings
($1.3 billion) over five years to upgrade the railway line to a
standard gauge and build new lines to strategic economic areas,
according to the country’s five-year development plan.  In 2009, TRL had a fleet of 83 mainland locomotives and
1,357 wagons, according to a March, 2010 presentation by
Benhardard Tito, managing director of Reli Assets Holding
Company Ltd. The company, a signatory to the concession, was
formed as a custodian of railway assets.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Malingha Doya in  Dar es Salaam  via Nairobi at
   pmrichardson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Richardson  at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net . 