-- 
Apple Dislodges Nokia as World’s Biggest Smartphone Maker

-- B y   M a r k   L e e   a n d   D i a n a   b e n - A a r o n
-- 
2011-07-29T20:11:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-29/apple-no-1-smartphone-vendor-in-second-quarter-researcher-says.html
Apple Inc. (AAPL)  and Samsung Electronics
Co. both surpassed  Nokia Oyj (NOK1V)  in smartphone shipments for the
first time last quarter as the Finnish company sold fewer units
from its aging Symbian product lines.  Apple accounted for 18.5 percent of global smartphone
shipments in the second quarter, compared with 13.5 percent a
year earlier, Strategy Analytics said today. Nokia dropped to
third place, falling behind Samsung after its market share
shrank to 15.2 percent from 38.1 percent, the analysts said.  Nokia remains the biggest handset producer overall, even
though its market share has fallen to the lowest level since
1999, Strategy Analytics said. The stock is down 47 percent this
year, reflecting Nokia’s difficulties in competing with the
iPhone and handsets using Google Inc.’s software. Apple, which
posted record profit last quarter, has jumped 21 percent.  “This shift in market share has been going on since the
introduction of the iPhone, and Nokia has been unable to find an
answer,” said Leon Cappaert at KBC Asset Management in
Brussels, who helps manage 400 million euros ($570 million),
including Apple shares. “Component availability seems to be
easing and the second half will be very good for iPhones and
iPads.”  ‘Unexciting Portfolio’  Global handset shipments grew 13 percent to 361 million
units last quarter, led by 76 percent growth in smartphones,
which are more advanced handsets with computer-like capabilities
for running applications and playing media,  Strategy Analytics 
said. Sales of smartphones totaled 110 million units.  Nokia’s share of the global handset market, which includes
smartphones and more basic models, fell to 24.5 percent last
quarter from 34.7 percent a year earlier, the research firm
said.  “Samsung is breathing down Nokia’s neck,”  Neil Mawston , a
London-based analyst at Strategy Analytics said. “An unexciting
touch-phone portfolio, inventory correction, wavering demand for
the Symbian platform and limited presence in the huge U.S.
market continued to weigh on Nokia’s near-term performance.”  Nokia was little changed at 4.06 euros in Helsinki trading.
Samsung, which today reported second-quarter profit that beat
analysts’ estimates because of higher mobile-phone sales, has
fallen 11 percent this year.  Apple Shares  Apple dropped $1.34 to $390.48 at 4 p.m. New York time in
Nasdaq Stock Market trading. The shares have climbed 21 percent
this year.  Cupertino, California-based Apple, the world’s most
valuable technology company, counts the iPhone as its biggest
source of revenue.  IPhone sales rose to 20.3 million units last quarter,
buoyed by overseas demand, particularly  China , Apple said this
month. The product accounted for 46.6 percent of revenue at
Apple, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Apple is said to be planning a new iPhone with a faster
chip for September that also boasts of a more advanced camera,
two people familiar with the product said in June.  In contrast, Nokia had its first quarterly loss since 2009
after handset sales slumped following an accord to shift to
Microsoft Corp. software.  Chief Executive Officer Stephen Elop, who joined from
Microsoft last September, is struggling to sell handsets based
on Nokia’s 10-year-old Symbian software that he is phasing out
as he prepares new models based on Microsoft’s Windows Phone.  The market for low-end phones known as feature phones
contracted 4 percent in the second quarter, Framingham,
Massachusetts-based IDC. said in its market share report.  The shrinkage was the first since the third quarter of 2009
and was most noticeable in richer countries where users were
shifting to smartphones, the IDC researchers said.  IDC calculated second-quarter handset shipments growing at
11.3 percent to 365.4 million units, owing partly to higher
estimates for shipments from smaller vendors.  LG Electronics
Inc. (066570) , Apple and  ZTE Corp. (000063)  rounded out the top five handset
makers, according to both research firms.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Mark Lee  in  Hong Kong  at 
 wlee37@bloomberg.net ;
Diana ben-Aaron in Helsinki at 
 dbenaaron1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at   ycho2@bloomberg.net ;
Kenneth Wong at   kwong11@bloomberg.net  