-- 
Marines ‘Absolutely Confident’ F-35B Will Get Off Probation

-- B y   T o n y   C a p a c c i o
-- 
2011-07-29T21:38:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-29/marines-absolutely-confident-f-35b-will-get-off-probation-1-.html
The Marine Corps commandant said he
is “absolutely confident” the service’s version of the
 Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT)  F-35 Joint Strike Fighter will be taken
off probation by the Defense Department.  Former Secretary of Defense  Robert Gates  in January put the
F-35B, a short-takeoff, vertical landing version, on what could
be a two-year development probation to work out problems with
its lift system.  Since that decision, “a lot’s happened,” General James Amos said today. “The metrics for determining how the airplane
is flying and testing have improved dramatically. Not in every
area, but in most areas, the airplane is ahead of schedule on
test.”  Amos made his remarks after one of the five short-takeoff
and landing models at the test site demonstrated its
capabilities. It made a vertical landing -- about the 120th
conducted this year, in contrast to 10 all of last year.  Through July 25, F-35Bs have flown 182 times this year
compared with 154 flights planned, according to government test
data.  “I’m absolutely confident it will get through probation,”
Amos said. “It depends on when the secretary of defense likes
what he sees,” Amos told reporters at the Patuxent River Naval
Air Station in  Maryland .  ‘Realistic Cheerleader’  The criteria as to when the aircraft escapes probation
“have not been established,” said Amos, who dubbed himself a
“realistic cheerleader.”  Amos said he’s aware that the Lockheed Martin aircraft must
show consistent reliability improvements without weight
increases, meet software delivery schedules and successfully
complete shipboard testing to commence in late October.  The F-35 program manager, Vice Admiral David Venlet, said
in an interview that key steps to leaving probation next year
include testing propulsion system clutch and driveshaft
improvements and auxiliary air inlet door modifications. The
door improvements are needed to solve what’s now a potential
“unacceptable” safety risk, according to program data reviewed
by Amos.  “Basic engineering” is being done on each of those,
Venlet said. “We would like to demonstrate each successfully in
flight test and then have that conversation with the secretary
of defense.”  Flight Tests  The Navy will be flight testing the different fixes by
April or May 2012, he said.  The challenges “are not beyond the scope of what other
airplane programs have seen,” Lockheed Martin Chairman and
Chief Executive Officer  Robert Stevens  said in an interview
today.  “I want to get out of probation,” he said. “I get a
daily report on F-35 performance -- each day, seven days a
week,” he said.  Michael Gilmore, the Pentagon’s director of operational
test and evaluation, said in an e-mail statement today the Navy
and Lockheed Martin have worked “extremely hard to fly ahead of
the currently planned pace.”  The increased vertical landings are the result of flying
five aircraft instead of just three as planned last year and
successful modifications that enable more rapid flights, Gilmore
said.  Durability Testing  The program office created plans after the Gates
announcement “requiring two years to execute the planned
probation period,” Gilmore wrote.  This includes the resumption in early 2012 of durability
testing suspended late last year after the discovery of fatigue
cracks in an aft bulkhead, he said.  “It is our understanding that durability testing may begin
in early 2012 after repairs to the bulkhead are completed,”
Gilmore wrote. “Durability testing is an important piece of the
information needed to review progress.”  The progress described at the demonstration today comes
after key F-35 milestones have slipped by at least four years.
Development and testing, originally to be finished in March
2012, won’t be done until April 2016. A decision to move the
program into full production also has been delayed four years,
from what was once an April 2012 target date.  Program officials were two years late in releasing the
second of five progressively more complex software versions, the
U.S. Government Accountability Office reported in March.  Targets Missed  Program delays have forced the Marines Corps to scrap a
December 2012 target to have its version ready for combat and
isn’t setting a new date, Amos told reporters in December.  The  Air Force  has changed its first-unit combat date to
April 2016 from a target of June 2011, and the Navy date also
slipped to April 2016 from April 2012.  The Pentagon is developing three versions of the aircraft
in the $382 billion F-35 program. Air Force and Navy variants
are designed for conventional takeoffs and landings on fixed
runways and aircraft carriers.  The Marine Corps’ vertical landing version would replace
the 25-year-old AV-B Harrier for use from smaller amphibious
warfare vessels and landings on improvised airstrips.  Reporters were flown today from the Pentagon in  Textron
Inc (TXT) .-  Boeing Co. (BA)  MV-22 Ospreys that 10 years ago were also under
probation and faced termination after two crashes in 2000 that
killed 23 Marines.  An independent panel in 2001 concluded the Osprey needed
improvement but had no inherent design flaws.  Full Production  The program was approved for full-production in September
2005 after four years of additional development to demonstrate
it overcame the host of deficiencies. The Osprey has been
deployed in Iraq and  Afghanistan .  A V-22 flew the corpse of  Osama Bin Laden  to the USS Carl
Vinson after he was killed in the May 2 raid.  Congress through December has approved spending $35 billion
on the $53.2 billion V-22 program.  Amos said he monitors daily the F-35B’s status on a
computer terminal in his Pentagon office. He showed reporters
today how, with a mouse click, he can review a matrix of test
metrics. Lockheed’s Stevens views the same data.  The aircraft by Sept. 30 will complete 1,552 individual
“test points” of 2,272 scheduled for this year, according to
data Amos tracks.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony Capaccio in Washington at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  