-- 
Stocks Fall, Yen Gains as House Delays Vote; Spanish Bonds Drop

-- B y   S h i y i n   C h e n   a n d   S h a n i   R a j a
-- 
2011-07-29T07:06:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-29/asia-stocks-decline-on-technology-forecasts-dollar-heads-for-weekly-slump.html
Stocks fell for a third day and the
yen rose toward a record against the dollar as U.S. lawmakers
called off a vote on House Speaker  John Boehner ’s plan for
raising the debt limit. Spanish and Italian bonds and the euro
fell as Moody’s Investors Service said it may downgrade Spain.  The MSCI All-Country World Index declined 0.6 percent at
4:05 p.m. in  Tokyo . Standard & Poor’s 500 Index futures sank 0.5
percent. The yen climbed as much as 0.3 percent to 77.46 per
dollar, while the euro dropped 0.3 percent against the Swiss
franc. The yield on Spanish 10-year bonds rose nine basis
points, while the rate on Italian 10-year notes gained 10 basis
points. Oil fell 0.4 percent in New York, set for a weekly loss.  House Republican leaders scrapped a vote on the debt
ceiling bill Thursday night in  Washington , indicating that
Boehner is short of votes needed to pass his bill amid a vow by
Senate Democrats to defeat the measure. The delay fueled concern
that a compromise by the two parties won’t be reached before the
Aug. 2 deadline for a possible U.S. default. Figures today are
forecast to show the economy grew at a slower pace last quarter.  “Its unbelievable, these guys are not just playing with
financial markets but their own constituents’ jobs,” said  Shane Oliver , the Sydney-based head of investment strategy at AMP
Capital Investors Ltd., which oversees about $100 billion.
“It’s certainly adding to stock-market nervousness. I think
they will eventually get a deal that avoids massive spending
cuts or default, but the risk is growing that they won’t.”  The Stoxx Europe 600 Index decreased 0.8 percent, with  Eni
SpA (ENI) ,  Italy ’s biggest oil company, sliding 1.5 percent after
reporting earnings that missed analyst estimates. The MSCI Asia
Pacific Index sank 0.9 percent, extending its weekly loss to 1.9
percent, as Nintendo Co. and  Sony Corp. (6758)  cut their profit
forecasts. The Asian gauge is still headed for a 1.1 percent
monthly gain, its first since April.  Tech Earnings  Nintendo, the world’s largest maker of video-game machines,
fell as much as 21 percent, the most in at least 21 years in
Osaka. Sony,  Japan ’s biggest exporter of consumer electronics,
dropped 3.3 percent.  TDK Corp. (6762)  plunged 5.6 percent as the
world’s biggest maker of magnetic heads for disk drives reported
an 83 percent profit drop. Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing
Co. retreated 1.4 percent after the world’s largest customized
chipmaker said profit fell 11 percent last quarter.  Futures signal the  S&P 500  may extend a four-day slump. The
gauge has declined 1.5 percent in July, its third consecutive
monthly drop and the longest losing streak since November 2008.  Representative Kevin McCarthy of  California , the House’s
chief vote-counter, told reporters after several hours of
closed-door meetings that there would be no House vote tonight.
Senate Democrats are working to break the impasse over raising
the debt limit by devising a strict enforcement mechanism to
guarantee future deficit savings, according to Democratic
officials.  Impact to Growth  The Obama administration was scheduled brief the public no
earlier than after U.S. financial markets close today on
priorities for paying the nation’s bills if the $14.3 trillion
debt ceiling isn’t raised, a Democratic Party official said.  “There’s a fair bit of uncertainty in the short term,”
said Sean Fenton, who helps manage about $1.1 billion at Tribeca
Investment Partners in Sydney. “The market has been reasonably
calm, but we’re getting close to the deadline and they’re
starting to worry more about the impact to U.S. growth if we
don’t get a resolution soon.”  U.S. gross domestic product likely grew 1.8 percent in the
second quarter, compared with 1.9 percent in the prior three
months, according to the median forecast of economists surveyed
by Bloomberg News. Ten-year Treasuries yields were little
changed at 2.93 percent before the release of today’s report.  Dollar Loss  The dollar has slipped 0.3 percent in the past week,
extending its losses in the past month to 1.5 percent, according
to Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Currency Indexes. The U.S.
currency traded at 80.14 Swiss centimes, little changed from
yesterday, when it fell to a record low of 79.90.  The euro weakened to 1.14419 against the franc and sank 0.5
percent to 110.77 yen after Moody’s said  Spain ’s regions are
struggling to cut  budget deficit  and last week’s Greek bailout
increases the risk that bondholders will have to pay for further
European rescues. A cut would probably be “limited to one
notch,” Moody’s said.  The  New Zealand dollar , known as the kiwi, sank 0.6 percent
to 86.64 U.S. cents. Data today showed the nation’s home-
building approvals fell in June for the second time in three
months.  South Korea ’s won weakened 0.2 percent to 1,054.08 after
Statistics Korea said industrial production expanded 6.4 percent
in June from a year earlier, the slowest pace in nine months.  Hong Kong ’s first inflation-linked bonds jumped to
HK$106.65 on their debut, having been sold at HK$100. The city’s
consumer prices rose 5.6 percent from a year earlier in June,
the most since July 2008, and the Hong Kong dollar’s peg to the
greenback means local  interest rates  track those in the U.S.,
where the  Federal Reserve  has kept a near-zero policy rate since
December 2008.  The S&P GSCI Index of commodities fell 0.3 percent, a third
day of losses. Oil for September delivery declined 0.4 percent
to $97.03 a barrel on the  New York  Mercantile Exchange. Prices
are 2.8 percent lower this week and 1.7 percent higher the past
month.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Shiyin Chen in Singapore at 
 schen37@bloomberg.net ;
Shani Raja in Sydney at 
 sraja4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Patrick Chu at 
 pachu@bloomberg.net  