-- 
Asian Stocks Decline on U.S. Debt Deal Impasse, China Lending Restrictions

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   B u r g o s   a n d   S h a n i   R a j a
-- 
2011-07-29T23:53:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-29/asian-stocks-decline-on-u-s-debt-deal-impasse-china-lending-restrictions.html
Asian stocks dropped for a second
week in July, trimming the regional benchmark index’s first
monthly advance since April, as U.S. lawmakers failed to break a
deadlock over raising the federal debt limit and  China  increased
lending restrictions to local governments.  Li & Fung Ltd. (494) , the largest supplier of toys and clothes to
retailers including Target Corp. and Wal-Mart Stores Inc., sank
8.7 percent in Hong Kong on speculation shipments to the U.S.
will weaken. Nintendo Co., the maker of the Wii game consoles,
slumped 18 percent after slashing its full-year profit forecast
by 82 percent. China Vanke Co., the nation’s biggest developer,
fell 3.2 percent in Shenzhen after the government prohibited
banks from renewing loans to local financing vehicles.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index slid 1.6 percent as better-
than-estimated earnings from  AIA Group Ltd. (1299)  and Cheung Kong
Infrastructure Ltd. were overshadowed by concern the U.S. may
default on its debt if lawmakers can’t reach an agreement on
raising the government’s borrowing limit by Aug. 2. For the
month, the gauge increased 2.6 percent after European leaders
announced steps toward easing the region’s sovereign debt crisis.  “It’s unbelievable, these guys are not just playing with
financial markets but their own constituents’ jobs,” said
Sydney-based  Shane Oliver , head of investment strategy at AMP
Capital Investors Ltd., which has almost $100 billion under
management. “It’s certainly adding to stock-market nervousness.
I think they will eventually get a deal that avoids massive
spending cuts or default, but the risk is growing that they
won’t.”  Australian Inflation  Japan ’s  Nikkei 225 (NKY)  Stock Average sank 3 percent through the
week. South Korea’s Kospi index declined 1.8 percent. China’s
 Shanghai  Composite Index dropped 2.5 percent. Hong Kong’s Hang
Seng Index was little changed.  Australia ’s S&P/ASX 200 Index slumped 3.9 percent as a
report published on July 27 showed the nation’s inflation rate
gained more than economists forecast last quarter, increasing
the chance that  Reserve Bank  of Australia Governor Glenn Stevens
will resume tightening policy.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index sank 3.9 percent as House
Speak John Boehner urged Republican leaders to rewrite a
proposal to raise the U.S. debt ceiling for the second time this
after scrapping a scheduled July 28 vote on the plan when he
didn’t get enough support from his own party.  Exporters Drop  Exporters to the U.S. declined. Li & Fung, which counts the
U.S. as its biggest market, dropped 8.7 percent to HK$12.96 in
Hong Kong. Honda Motor Co., the Japanese carmaker that gets
about 44 percent of sales from North America, sank 4.8 percent
to 3,080 yen. James Hardie Industries SE, the biggest seller of
home siding in the U.S., decreased 3.9 percent to A$5.73 in
Sydney.  Nintendo, the world’s largest maker of video-game machines,
slumped 18 percent to 12,290 yen in  Tokyo . The company
unexpectedly slashed its full-year profit forecast 82 percent to
20 billion yen ($258 million) after declining demand for its new
3-D handheld player led the company to cut prices of the product.  Sony Corp. (6758) , Japan’s largest exporter of consumer
electronics, tumbled 7.3 percent to 1,947 yen after the company
cut its annual profit forecast following a slump in demand for
televisions in U.S. and  Europe .  Banks fell this week amid concern a cut in the U.S. credit
rating will further roil credit markets already hit by the
prospect of Greece’s sovereign debt crisis spreading across
Europe. Standard & Poor’s cut Greece’s credit rating, saying the
nation will partially default on its debt even after European
leaders agreed to a second bailout package, and Moody’s
Investors Service said yesterday it has placed Spain’s ranking
under review for a potential downgrade.  Debt Talks  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA) , Europe’s No.1 lender by market value,
slid 1.9 percent to HK$76.55.  Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group
Inc. (8306) , Japan’s largest listed bank by market value, lost 3.7
percent to 392 yen.  Commonwealth Bank of Australia (CBA) , the nation’s
biggest lender, declined 2.5 percent to A$49.27 in Sydney.  “The outcome of U.S. debt talks was one of the big
concerns for investors, so this will trigger a mini sell-off in
stock markets,” said Prasad Patkar, who helps manage the
equivalent of $1.7 billion at Sydney-based Platypus Asset
Management Ltd. “Failure to reach a debt deal would jeopardize
the U.S.’s credit rating, and this has the potential to cause a
seizure in global credit markets.”  China Lending Clampdown  Chinese developers and lenders after the China Banking
Regulatory Commission said July 28 banks are prohibited from
moving their loans off their balance sheets through trust firms,
wealth-management services or bill financing.  China Vanke declined 3.2 percent to 8.15 yuan in Shenzhen.
Poly Real Estate Group Co., China’s second-biggest real estate
company, dropped 2.3 percent to 10.47 yuan in Shanghai. Agile
Property Holdings Ltd., which builds villas and apartments in
the southern Chinese city of Guangzhou, fell 2 percent to
HK$12.60 in Hong Kong.  The country’s railway companies tumbled on concern a deadly
high-speed train accident on July 23 in the eastern part of the
country will prompt the government to slow construction and
reduce investment.  China Railway Construction Corp., builder of more than
half of the nation’s rail links since 1949, tumbled 18 percent
to HK$4.78 in Hong Kong. CSR Corp., the largest train maker,
plunged 18 percent to HK$5.67. China CNR Corp., the second-
largest, sank 14 percent to 5.59 yuan in Shanghai.  Cheung Kong  Infrastructure  Among stocks that advanced, AIA Group, the third-largest
Asia-based insurer by market value, jumped 6.5 percent to
HK$28.65 in Hong Kong this week. The company reported a
stronger-than-estimated 24 percent increase in first-half net
income to $1.31 billion from a year earlier, beating the average
estimate of $1.09 billion by five analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  Cheung Kong Infrastructure, the roads and utility company
controlled by billionaire  Li Ka-shing , climbed 5.5 percent to
HK$44.90 after posting a 96 percent increase in first-half net
income to HK$4 billion ($510 million) from a year earlier. That
compares with a median estimate of HK$3.45 billion in a
Bloomberg survey of three analysts.  Of the 255 companies in the MSCI Asia Pacific Index that
reported earnings from July 11 through 7 p.m. in  Hong Kong  on
July 29, 115 companies beat analyst estimates, while 87 had
fallen short.  The regional benchmark index lost 0.7 percent this year
through yesterday, compared with a gain of 2.8 percent by the
 S&P 500  and a drop of 3.8 percent by the Stoxx Europe 600 Index.
Stocks in the Asian benchmark were valued at 13.4 times
estimated earnings on average, compared with 13 times for the
S&P 500 and 10.8 times for the Stoxx 600.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jonathan Burgos in  Singapore  at 
 jburgos4@bloomberg.net ;
Shani Raja in Sydney at 
 sraja4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net . 