-- 
Latvia Seeks to Allay Estonian Fears Over LNG Terminal Plan

-- B y   O t t   U m m e l a s   a n d   A a r o n   E g l i t i s
-- 
2011-07-29T12:45:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-29/latvia-seeks-to-allay-estonian-fears-over-lng-terminal-plan.html
Latvia ’s Economy Minister Artis Kampars said the country’s plan to build a regional liquefied
natural gas terminal utilizing its existing underground gas
storage unit won’t favor  Russia ’s  Gazprom OAO (GAZP) , seeking to allay
Estonian fears over the proposed venture’s independence.  The natural gas storage infrastructure is publicly owned
and “therefore there is no reason for concern about any
privileges in Latvia’s gas market for Russia’s Gazprom and
companies aligned with it,” Kampars said in a  statement 
yesterday on the ministry’s website.  Gazprom, Russia’s gas export monopoly, is the sole supplier
of natural gas to Estonia, Latvia and  Lithuania , mainly through
the Incukalns storage facility. The Baltic countries, which have
uneasy political relations with their larger neighbor, are
seeking European Union support for building an LNG terminal in
the region, citing higher gas prices than in western  Europe  and
security of supply risks. Still, they have not agreed on a
single location.  Kampars’s statement came after his Estonian counterpart
Juhan Parts sent a letter last week that raised concerns about
Latvian plans to build an LNG terminal in Riga that would use
the Incukalns facility. Latvijas Gaze AS, which is 34 percent
owned by Gazprom, has an exclusive contract to use the facility
until 2017.  Security of Supply  Latvia has geological formations that allow for the
creation of natural-gas storage facilities with an estimated
total capacity of up to 50 billion cubic meters, according to
Latvijas Gaze’s website. This is about 10 percent of the
European Union’s annual consumption, and almost equal to the
EU’s total storage capacity, it said.  “From  Estonia ’s perspective the planned LNG terminal in
Riga working together with underground storage would not
increase the security of gas supplies in Estonia: we would still
be dependent in our gas supplies only from underground storage
as we are today,” Parts said in a letter dated July 22 and
forwarded to Bloomberg by Estonia’s Economy Ministry.  A feasibility study carried out by a consortium of British
companies GL Noble Denton and Energy Contract Company suggested
building one LNG terminal in the Baltic countries to be located
in Latvia to use its infrastructure, according to the Latvian
Economy Ministry.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ott Ummelas in Tallinn at 
 oummelas@bloomberg.net ;
Aaron Eglitis in  Riga  at 
 aeglitis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  