-- 
Mauritian Equities Head for Biggest Monthly Drop in 14 on Risk Aversion

-- B y   K a m l e s h   B h u c k o r y
-- 
2011-07-29T13:11:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-29/mauritian-equities-head-for-biggest-monthly-drop-in-14-on-risk-aversion.html
Mauritian stocks had the biggest
monthly drop in more than a year as concern that the U.S. and
 Europe  will struggle to contain their debt crises curbed demand
for frontier-market assets and as ministers in the Indian Ocean
island country resigned this week.  The 38-member SEMDEX index increased 0.2 percent to
2,026.95 by the 1:30 p.m., close in Port Louis, the capital,
paring its decrease in July to 3.1 percent, the biggest monthly
drop since May 2010.  U.S. lawmakers scrapped a vote on the debt-ceiling bill
yesterday, with the delay fuelling concern that a compromise
won’t be reached before the Aug. 2 deadline for a possible U.S.
default. Moody’s Investors Service said it may downgrade  Spain 
as last week’s Greek bailout raises the risk that bondholders
will have to pay for further European rescues. Mauritius’s
Finance Minister Pravind Jugnauth said he and four other
ministers from his party resigned in solidarity with Santi Bai
Hanoomanjee, the health minister who was charged with graft.  “The trend can be attributed to sovereign debt in Europe
and the risks of a U.S. debt default and downgrade,” Imrith
Ramtohul, a senior investment manager at Mauritius Union Group
who helps oversee 7 billion rupees ($253 million) in assets,
said by e-mail.  Mauritius Commercial Bank (MCB) , the country’s largest lender by
market value with a 24 percent weighting in the index, led
decreases, retreating 5.9 percent to 177 rupees in the period,
its biggest monthly drop since February 2009.  Hotel Stocks  New Mauritius Hotels Ltd. (NMH) , the island’s biggest leisure
operator by market value, slipped 4.4 percent while Sun Resorts
Ltd., the second-largest, slumped 8.7 percent.  “Hotels are moreover likely to be impacted by a weaker
euro and a slowdown in Europe,” Ramtohul said.  Europe accounted for 64 percent of tourist arrivals in the
second quarter, according to the Mauritius Tourism Promotion
Authority’s website. Tourism, with textiles, is the country’s
biggest earner of foreign currency. The rupee appreciated 3.9
percent to 39.96 per euro over the month, heading for the
biggest monthly gain since January 2010.  Mauritian President Anerood Jugnauth assigned the Finance
and Economic Development Ministry to Education Minister Vasant
Kumar Bunwaree on July 27. Bunwaree served as finance minister
from 1996 to 2000.  “Vasant Bunwaree is a safe pair of hands,” Bank of
Mauritius Governor Rundheersing Bheenick said in a transcript of
an interview published by Port Louis-based l’Express today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kamlesh Bhuckory in  Port Louis  via Johannesburg at 
1933 or  gbell16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin in Johannesburg at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  