-- 
Aussie, N.Z. Dollars Head for Weekly Drops on U.S. Debt Deadlock, Spain

-- B y   K r i s t i n e   A q u i n o
-- 
2011-07-29T15:54:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-29/aussie-kiwi-fall-pare-weekly-gains-as-u-s-debt-issue-curbs-yield-bids.html
The Australian and  New Zealand 
currencies were poised for weekly drops against the yen as U.S.
politicians struggled to resolve the budget deadlock and  Spain 
faced a possible downgrade by Moody’s Investors Service.  “Risk appetite is clearly declining,” said  Thomas Harr ,
head of Asian foreign-exchange strategy at Standard Chartered
Plc in Singapore. “This warning that Spain could be downgraded
is clearly hurting risk sentiment broadly, and Aussie and kiwi
are relatively vulnerable to risk sentiment.”  New Zealand’s dollar was little changed at 67.72 yen at
11:52 a.m. in  New York , compared with 67.68 yesterday, and has
fallen 0.4 percent this week. The Aussie slid 0.7 percent to
84.89 yen and has fallen 0.7 percent for the week.  The Aussie and kiwi slid for the week after U.S. House of
Representatives Speaker  John Boehner  canceled a vote on his plan
to increase the U.S. debt ceiling and Spain’s Prime Minister
Jose Luis Rodriguez Zapatero called early elections as austerity
measures eroded support for his Socialist Party.  The kiwi also fell after a report showed New Zealand’s
home-building approvals fell in June for the second time in
three months. Second-quarter approvals were the lowest in at
least 12 years, falling 7.5 percent from the first three months
of the year and 26 percent from a year earlier.  The Australia and New Zealand dollars may gain versus the
euro as the two nations’ central banks are likely to raise
interest rates while Europe struggles with its sovereign-debt
crisis, according to Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc.  Investors may benefit from bets that the euro will drop to
A$1.20 and NZ$1.50 by about the first quarter of next year, Greg Gibbs, a foreign-exchange strategist at RBS in Sydney, wrote in
a note to clients yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kristine Aquino in  Singapore  at 
 kaquino1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  