-- 
Aussies Get Best of Murdoch by Ignoring His Fall: Iain McCalman

-- B y   I a i n   M c C a l m a n
-- 
2011-07-29T00:00:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-29/australians-best-murdoch-by-ignoring-his-fall-commentary-by-iain-mccalman.html
One would expect Australia,
the birthplace of  Rupert Murdoch  and of the family’s
media empire, to be transfixed by the U.K. investigation
of News Corp. for phone-hacking and police bribery.  All the more so because Murdoch cut such a self-
consciously Australian figure at his testimony before a
British parliamentary committee. His self-presentation
seemed intended to evoke nothing so much as that
Australian icon: the “Anzac Digger.”  This is a nickname for the tough, independent-minded
World War I soldiers who died in great numbers at Anzac
Cove during the battle of Gallipoli against the Turks in
April 1915 and who have become the keystones of
Australia’s modern foundational myth of national unity
and self-sacrifice. It is not, however, a sobriquet
anyone had previously applied to Murdoch, who is
pejoratively known in  Australia  as the “Dirty Digger.”  Nonetheless, Murdoch was quick to remind his
interrogators of the fearless traditions of investigative
journalism he had inherited from his journalist father,
Keith, whom he habitually invokes for having defied the
embargoes of the U.K. military establishment to break the
news of Britain’s willful incompetence in the Dardanelles
campaign, including the failed battle of Gallipoli.  Antipodean Outsider  There seemed more than an element of filial re-
enactment in Rupert Murdoch’s carefully crafted
performance. He presented himself as a lean and craggy,
if slightly creaky, Antipodean outsider, a tough elderly
man fearlessly taking on the might of the British Labor
establishment and their leftist Guardian-reading
supporters.  He was a man repressing his inclination to thump the
table, and he replied to their inquisition in terse and
broad Australian tones, baring his humility for all to
see. He also blamed everything on those who had betrayed
his trust, just as Australians like to blame the
betrayals of the British generals for the sacrifice of
their country’s youth on the stony slopes at Gallipoli.  It was a perfect piece of populist theater from one
of the masters of the genre, yet it belied  that his
father became Australia’s first media mogul and taught
Rupert everything he now knows about how to eliminate
press rivals and manipulate pliant politicians.  And, surprisingly, since any invocation of the
nation’s military past and present is usually a certain
winner on all sides of politics in Australia, the letter
columns of local Murdoch tabloids and the telephones of
talkback-radio kings have shown few signs of popular
sympathy for, or even interest in, the plight of the
Dirty Digger and his family.  Conversely, we might have expected hearty rejoicings
at the possibility of payback time among those
Australians on the political left, who have borne the
brunt of hostility from Murdoch newspaper and television
commentators for decades.  Bob Brown , the leader of the
 Greens Party , has long described all of Murdoch’s
newspapers, including its respectable flagship the
Australian, as “hate media.” Yet even Brown’s response to
the rocking of  News Corp. (NWS)  has been muted. Prime Minister
 Julia Gillard , who is in desperate need of a political
diversion from the crushing opposition campaign against
her proposed anti-emission “carbon tax,” did no more than
suggest that Murdoch’s Australian companies might have
some “hard questions to answer” over the British scandal.  Not a Crime  How do we explain this unexpected and pervasive bout
of indifference to the fate of a man whose influence has
long been courted or loathed? Partly because owning 70
percent of Australia’s newspapers and deploying them in a
relentlessly partisan political manner is no crime. Also,
as is the case in the U.S., neither the government nor
Murdoch’s media rivals have been able to find a confirmed
instance of phone hacking or other News of the World-
style journalistic transgressions.  Initial talk of a possible wide-ranging
parliamentary investigation into media ethics and cross-
ownership has died down to a call for the introduction of
some limited legal protections for people against
unwarranted violations of personal privacy. Here, too,
Murdoch’s media rivals are treading softly for fear that
such legislation might cramp their own freedoms to
investigate.  But I suspect there is a larger cause for public
indifference: Rupert Murdoch and his son James are no
longer seen as Australians. This isn’t simply because
they have U.S. citizenship and lived for most of their
lives as expatriates. Australians are always ready to
adopt as nationals any celebrity who might spend even a
fraction of time in their country.  The BeeGees, for example, are considered favorite
sons on the grounds that the disco stars spent a few of
their childhood years Down Under. Well-known expatriates
in the U.K., such as Barry Humphries and Clive James, or
the film star Paul Hogan in the U.S., are generally
regarded with affection or indulgence.  It’s certainly not Rupert Murdoch’s local reputation
for philanthropic miserliness or personal and political
thuggery that caused Australians to lose interest. Kerry Packer, his great press-baron rival who died in 2005, had
a Neanderthal style and a physically terrifying presence,
yet a surprising number of Australians of all walks of
life retain feelings of affection for that particular
media bully.  Perhaps it is because there was never anything
studied about Packer’s public performances or his
Australian persona: masculine to the back teeth, he
drank, swore, adored cricket and rugby, and gambled
compulsively on the horses and in casinos. To adapt the
words of Randy Newman’s song “Rednecks” about the
southern populist Lester Maddox, Australians are inclined
to say of Packer that “he might be a thug, but he’s
our thug.”  They don’t generally feel the same way about
Murdoch. He is seen to be a cold-blooded international
tycoon and wirepuller, whose “digger” image is wholly
cynical and whose global ruthlessness is a matter for
shame. And Australians are equally quick to abandon their
affiliations with any expatriates who prove embarrassing:
 Mel Gibson , who for a while embodied the “Anzac Digger”
after starring in Peter Weir’s film “Gallipoli,” is
unquestionably an American now after his run-ins with the
law and anti-Semitic tirade. So, too, it seems, are the
Murdochs.  (Iain McCalman, a professor of history at the
 University of Sydney  and the author of “Darwin’s Armada,”
is a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions expressed are
his own.)  To contact the writer of this column: Iain McCalman in
Sydney at  iain.mccalman@arts.usyd.edu.au   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tobin Harshaw at 
 tharshaw@bloomberg.net . 