-- 
Automakers Agree to 54.5 MPG Fuel-Economy Rule, Obama Says

-- B y   A n g e l a   G r e i l i n g   K e a n e
-- 
2011-07-29T18:53:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-29/automakers-agree-to-54-5-mpg-u-s-fuel-economy-rule-obama-says.html
Automakers agreed to double the fuel
economy of the vehicles they sell in the U.S. to a fleetwide
average of 54.5 miles per gallon by 2025, President  Barack Obama 
said.  The White House negotiated the proposal, which will take
effect in 2017, with automakers including  General Motors Co. (GM) ,
 Ford Motor Co. (F)  and  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203)  The administration
proposed a 56.2 mpg requirement last month, up from a fleetwide
average of 27 mpg today for cars and light trucks.  “This agreement on fuel standards represents the single
most important step we’ve ever taken to reduce our dependence on
foreign oil,” Obama said today at an event in Washington with
auto executives.  Obama is seeking to limit the amount of fuel used by U.S.
vehicles as part of a pledge to reduce oil imports by a third by
2025. The agreement with automakers, which also curbs
greenhouse-gas emissions, comes as his administration negotiates
with Congress on raising the U.S. debt ceiling to avoid default.  Obama used the event to promote his energy priorities and
to highlight some of the issues being weighed in the standoff
over raising the federal debt ceiling.  The agreement on higher standards “is only possible
because we made investments in technology,” Obama said. A
“sensible and balanced approach” is needed to make sure the
U.S. is able to sustain economic growth in the future, he said.  National Debt  In the wrangling over the nation’s debt, Obama has argued
that relying solely on cutting spending will sap research and
education budgets. He also said the administration’s talks with
automakers should serve as an example for Congress because they
provided benefits for all parties.  “These standards are going to be a win for consumers, for
these companies, for our economy, for our security and for our
planet,” he said.  Ford, GM, Chrysler Group LLC,  Bayerische Motoren Werke AG (BMW) ,
Honda Motor Co.,  Hyundai Motor Co. (005380) , Jaguar Land Rover,  Kia
Motors Corp. (000270) ,  Mazda Motor Corp. (7261) ,  Mitsubishi Motors Corp. (7211) , Nissan
Motor Co., Toyota and Volvo Cars, which represent 90 percent of
vehicles sold in the U.S., agreed to support the proposal,
according to a statement from the White House.  Trucks, Cars  Some Japanese and European companies that manufacture
mainly cars instead of trucks complained during the talks that
the rule favors GM, Ford and Chrysler, because the fuel-economy
standards for light trucks will increase more slowly than for
cars, said people familiar with the talks.  Volkswagen AG (VOW)  didn’t sign the agreement to support the
Obama administration’s proposal, the Wolfsburg, Germany-based
carmaker said in an e-mailed statement. The “positive impact”
of so-called clean diesel, used by the company’s mid-size Passat
TDI, which can get 43 mpg on the highway and travel almost 800
miles on a tank of fuel, doesn’t receive consideration in the
proposal, Volkswagen said.  “The proposal encourages manufacturers and customers to
shift toward larger, less-efficient vehicles, defeating the goal
of reduced greenhouse-gas emissions,” Tony Cervone, a
Volkswagen spokesman, said in an e-mailed statement. “We are
committed to the ongoing negotiations with the White House on
reaching maximum achievable fuel economy and/or greenhouse-gas
reduction standards.”  Daimler AG (DAI) , the Stuttgart, Germany-based maker of Mercedes-
Benz vehicles, also hasn’t agreed to support the proposal.  U.S. Vs. Europe  “The construct of the law is one that meets the needs of
the American market for the next 15 years in the same way that
the Europeans set their standards regardless of how Americans
view the EU standard for fuel efficiency,” Representative Ed Markey, a Massachusetts Democrat, said in an interview. Markey
helped write the law requiring more frequent fuel-economy
increases.  While vehicle prices will increase, it’s too early to tell
by how much, said  Jim Lentz , head of Toyota’s U.S. sales unit.
The “million-dollar question” is what type of technologies
will sell best, Lentz said in an interview.  The proposed rule requires annual fuel-economy increases of
5 percent for cars. Light trucks like pickups and sport-utility
vehicles can raise fuel economy at 3.5 percent for the first
five years the rule will be in effect. Then, unless regulators
decide differently in a midterm review, trucks also would have
to boost fuel economy by 5 percent a year.  By 2025, U.S. fuel-economy standards will save a total of
12 billion barrels of oil and reduce oil consumption by 2.2
million barrels a day, about half of the oil the country imports
from OPEC a day, the Environmental Protection Agency said in a
statement.  Fuel Savings  The rules will also save consumers more than $8,000 a
vehicle, on average, in fuel costs, the EPA said.  U.S. Representative Hansen Clarke, a Michigan Democrat,
said automakers can meet the overall standard because of the
allowance for light trucks to improve fuel economy more slowly
during the first five years of the rule. Making smaller, more
fuel-efficient cars may help U.S. automakers compete with Asian
competitors.  “This standard will also help promote more U.S.
manufacturing jobs like in the city of  Detroit  by allowing the
fuel-economy standards for cars to rise faster than those
standards for light trucks and SUVs,” Clarke said in an
interview. Clarke said his father immigrated to the U.S. from
 India  to work at a Ford foundry.  A separate rule issued in 2009 takes effect next year, and
requires automakers to increase average fuel economy to 35.5 mpg
by 2016.  Changes to the 2017 to 2025 proposal can be made before the
first draft is published by Sept. 30. The final rule will be
published next year.  Clean Air  The EPA and  National Highway Traffic Safety Administration 
will issue the rule. The state of  California , which has the
authority to regulate greenhouse-gas emissions from vehicles,
helped write the regulation to ensure one national standard.  Under the 1970  Clean Air Act , California can opt out of
national rules to establish more stringent requirements to clean
its air, particularly in the Los Angeles area. U.S. states can
choose to accept a federal standard or California’s.  “Auto companies are accepting these numbers and they are
not suing,”  Mary Nichols , head of California’s Air Resources
Board, which sets state rules for automakers, told reporters on
a conference call today. “That is a big deal.”  Carmaker Lobbying  Environmental groups including the New York-based Natural
Resources Defense Council had asked the administration to raise
fleetwide fuel economy to 62 mpg. The rule “was weakened by
auto-industry lobbying,”  Dan Becker , head of the Washington-
based Safe Climate Campaign, said in an interview.  Automakers had initially argued that the technologies may
not be in place in time to allow them to meet the standards
within the administration’s timeframe. The proposed rule
provides the “right balance,” said Sue Cischke, Ford’s vice
president of environmental and safety engineering.  “It gives us certainty for the next 14 years that we can
invest in technologies,” Cischke said in an interview.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Angela Greiling Keane in  Washington  at 
 agreilingkea@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  