-- 
Lazard Is Said to Hire Credit Suisse Chemicals Investment Banker Whitney

-- B y   Z a c h a r y   R .   M i d e r   a n d   C r i s t i n a   A l e s c i
-- 
2011-07-29T18:42:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-29/lazard-is-said-to-hire-credit-suisse-chemicals-investment-banker-whitney.html
Lazard Ltd. (LAZ) , the biggest non-bank
merger adviser, hired Richard Whitney, co-head of chemicals
investment banking at  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN) , said a person with
knowledge of the matter.  Whitney, who is based in New York, will join Lazard later
this year, said the person, who spoke on condition of anonymity
because the move hadn’t been publicly disclosed. Whitney
joined Donaldson, Lufkin & Jenrette in 1986 and stayed on after
its sale to Credit Suisse in 2000, according to records from the
Financial Industry Regulatory Authority.  Lazard is adding bankers as the market for mergers and
acquisitions advice rebounds. Hamilton, Bermuda-based Lazard
said yesterday it got $394 million of revenue from M&A and
strategic advice in the first half of 2011, an 18 percent
increase from the same period a year earlier. Recent hires
include Greenhill & Co.’s Timothy George and UBS AG’s Gary Howe.  Monica Orbe, a Lazard spokeswoman, said she couldn’t
comment, as did Jack Grone of Credit Suisse. A call to Whitney’s
office wasn’t immediately returned.  Whitney helped MacDermid Group Inc. Chief Executive Officer
Daniel Leever take his company private for about $1 billion in
2006. In 2004, he advised KKR & Co. on the sale of its Borden
Chemical Inc. to Apollo Management LP, according to Corporate
Control Alert, an industry newsletter.  Lazard was the 10th-biggest adviser on mergers and
acquisitions of chemical companies in the past five years,
working on $31.9 billion of transactions, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Zurich-based Credit Suisse was sixth with
$43.4 billion. Morgan Stanley was first.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zachary R. Mider in  New York  at 
 zmider1@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Jennifer Sondag  at 
 jsondag@bloomberg.net . 