-- 
BA-Iberia Group Taps U.S. Business Boom to Outdo Air France-KLM, Lufthansa

-- B y   S t e v e   R o t h w e l l
-- 
2011-07-29T11:05:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-29/ba-iberia-post-second-quarter-profit.html
International Consolidated Airlines
Group SA, formed from the January merger of British Airways and
Iberia, tapped a rebound in U.S. business travel to post a
second-quarter profit that outperformed European competitors.  IAG had an operating profit of 190 million euros ($272
million), versus a 71 million-euro year-earlier loss, the
London-based company said today. Analysts had expected earnings
of 166 million euros, based on the average of four estimates.  Air France-KLM Group and  Deutsche Lufthansa AG (LHA) ,  Europe ’s
two biggest airlines, tumbled yesterday after missing profit
predictions as fuel costs surged and crises in the  Middle East 
and  Japan  sapped demand. IAG, the No. 3, reiterated today that
it expects significant growth in operating profit as it wins
market share on U.S. routes through an alliance with  American
Airlines  and merger savings help counter high kerosene prices.  “It’s steady as she goes,” said Andrew Fitchie, an analyst
at Investec in London. “They are ticking all the boxes and doing
the right things in a difficult and challenging environment.
It’s quite confident compared with Lufthansa and Air France.”  Shares Gain  IAG rose as much as 2.4 percent and was trading 2.1 percent
higher at 237.5 pence as of 11:59 a.m. in  London , where the
company is based, making it the third-best performer on
Britain’s benchmark FTSE-100 Index.  “Looking at the financial reports of some of our
competitors it would appear that we are doing slightly better,”
IAG Chief Executive Officer  Willie Walsh  said on a conference
call. “The environment in London is probably somewhat better
than the rest of Europe. Our premium-traffic performance has
been very strong, particularly in the long-haul area.”  Air France slumped 8.1 percent yesterday following a 145
million-euro second-quarter loss, while Lufthansa closed 2.8
percent lower after earnings of 230 million euros failed to meet
a 325 million-euro target. Singapore Airlines Ltd. figures also
fell short last night and the stock traded 3.3 percent lower.  IAG shares are down 18 percent since Jan. 22, valuing the
company at 4.32 billion pounds ($7 billion). Lufthansa has lost
14 percent and Air France-KLM has tumbled 37 percent.  U.S. Growth  The merged company is tapping a rebound in bookings for
corporate travel, especially between BA’s London Heathrow hub
and New York. The alliance with  AMR Corp. (AMR) ’s American Airlines
after the companies won antitrust immunity last year has also
spurred sales, while the carrier kept a lid on capacity, buoying
average fares as quarterly fuel costs jumped 32 percent.  IAG’s passenger traffic rose almost 11 percent in the first
six months, led by a 16 percent gain on routes to  North America .
Capacity climbed 10 percent, so that the  load factor , a measure
of occupancy, increased 0.2 percentage point to 76.9 percent.  The carrier said its long-haul business is stable, with
“strength in the premium sector,” and the melding of trans-
Atlantic schedules between BA, Iberia and American is beginning
to grab market share, Walsh said today on the conference call.  “We’ve had a number of early achievements with aligning
the schedule on  New York  to Heathrow,” he said. “We’re clearly
gaining premium market share, which is one of the objectives
that we had set. Having a trilateral relationship can be
difficult, but my assessment is that it’s definitely positive.”  Iberia ‘Issues’  There is further scope to grow volumes in business- and
first-class cabins, Walsh added. Second-quarter revenue rose 20
percent from a year earlier to 4.14 billion euros.  Responding to questions on a call with analysts, Walsh said
he’s aware of “structural issues” at Iberia that need to be
addressed, without elaborating. Since IAG’s creation it has
formed a single cargo business, introduced integrated sales and
airport teams and achieved savings through joint procurement in
areas including insurance and ground handling, the CEO said,
with non-fuel costs declining 5.8 percent in the quarter.  The carrier said it may be tougher to claw back kerosene
expenses that are expected to rise by one-third to 5.2 billion
euros for the year as the hedged price converges with spot rates
and the European economic outlook remains unclear. The European
short-haul market also remains “highly competitive,” Walsh said.  IAG recovered 50 percent of the first-half fuel-bill
increase through “revenue initiatives” including surcharges.  Fewer Frequencies  Walsh said IAG will slow fourth-quarter capacity growth to
6 percent from a slated 7.6 percent by cutting frequencies on
some routes. While the carrier will continue to evaluate winter
seating, the CEO said he’s otherwise “comfortable” with the
plans and “pleased to see some competitors taking capacity out.”  Air France-KLM (AF)  said yesterday it will pare the increment in
winter seating from 5.1 percent to 2.7 percent. Lufthansa’s
main-brand airline will trim growth to 6 percent from 12 percent
and other units are also revising their expansion plans.  Global passenger growth slowed to 4.4 percent in June from
6.8 percent in May, the  International Air Transport Association 
said yesterday. IATA, which predicts a 78 percent drop in
industry income this year to $4 billion, a 0.7 percent margin,
blamed the slowdown on fuel costs, the economy and higher taxes.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steve Rothwell in London at 
 srothwell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at   cthomas16@bloomberg.net  