-- 
Balanced-Budget Amendment Could Curb Spending Needed in Economic Recovery

-- B y   A l i s o n   F i t z g e r a l d   a n d   G r e g   S t o h r
-- 
2011-07-31T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-29/balanced-budget-amendment-may-create-more-problems-than-it-fixes.html
Three out of four Americans favor a
constitutional amendment requiring a balanced federal budget,
polls show. The question is whether an amendment would create
more problems than it fixes.  House Republicans , before accepting an increase in the
$14.3 trillion limit on federal debt to avoid a projected Aug. 2
default, insist on a balanced budget amendment. After the House
on July 29 approved such a plan by Speaker  John Boehner  --
including its link to passage of a constitutional amendment --
the Democratic-controlled Senate rejected the measure.  Requiring the U.S. government to spend only what it
collects in  tax revenue  each year could deepen economic
downturns and limit long-term infrastructure investment, said
 Joel Prakken , chairman of Macroeconomic Advisers LLC.  “If there’s a shock to the economy and revenues weaken, it
would be a real drag on the economy,” Prakken said.  Democrats say Republicans’ insistence on a balanced budget
amendment with no tax increases means they want to cut
entitlement programs.  “This is about protecting Social Security, Medicare and
Medicaid,” Representative Jim McGovern of Massachusetts said
yesterday during floor debate in the House.  The balanced budget amendment proposal is drawing
skepticism even among supporters of the Republican effort to
slash federal spending. The Wall Street Journal  editorial  page
earlier this month came out in opposition.  ‘Ignoring’ Constitution  “Congress is already ignoring the Constitution in spending
on the 1,001 things it’s not authorized to spend on,” said
Roger Pilon, director of the Center for Constitutional Studies
at the  Cato Institute , which urges smaller government and lower
taxes. “The problem isn’t with the document. The problem is
with those people who have abandoned their oath to abide by the
document.”  A bill passed by the House this month called Cut, Cap and
Balance included a provision that would cap federal spending at
19.9 percent of the U.S. gross domestic product, require that
the budget be in balance each year and raise taxes only after a
super-majority passed the increase.  A constitutional amendment requires passage by a two-thirds
majority of each chamber of Congress and then ratification by
three-fourths of the states.  Public Support  Lawmakers first considered a constitutional requirement to
balance the federal budget in 1956, according to the
 Congressional Research Service . The idea first came to a vote in
1981.  The proposal has broad support among the public. A  poll 
conducted this month for  CNN  by ORC International found that 74
percent of Americans support a balanced budget amendment, while
24 percent oppose it. The poll surveyed 1,009 people July 18-20
and had a margin of error of plus or minus 3 percentage points.  “It’s a great idea in spirit,” said Tim Kane, an
economist at the Kansas City-based Kauffman Foundation.  He said the government nonetheless must have the ability to
borrow and spend so that it can cushion the blow of an economic
slowdown through programs such as  unemployment insurance , food
stamps and aid to states. Extra economic stimulus would be
impossible under many balanced-budget proposals.  Economic Cycle  To avoid tying the president’s hands in time of war, or
worsening a recession, an amendment should require a balanced
budget over several years or an economic cycle, Kane said. Along
with Glenn Hubbard, the former chairman of the  Council of
Economic Advisers  under Republican President  George W. Bush ,
Kane has circulated a proposal that would limit spending to the
median of tax revenue over five years.  “That keeps the spending above cycle during a down turn”
Kane said.  Prakken agrees, saying an amendment should track a business
cycle instead of individual years. “In recessions you’d be
allowed to run a deficit and in good years you can replace
that,” he said.  Adding such caveats to a constitutional amendment would be
unprecedented, said Joe Minarik, director of research at the
Washington-based Committee for  Economic Development .  “Every version of a balanced budget amendment provides
some escape hatch based on a vote in the Congress,” said
Minarik, who was the chief economist at the Office of Management
and Budget under Democratic President  Bill Clinton . “If such an
amendment were passed and ratified, it would be the only
provision of the Constitution that could be waived.”  High Standard  He said the need for exceptions shows that balancing the
budget doesn’t reach the high standard necessary to include it
in the Constitution.  A constitutional amendment would embroil the courts in the
federal budget, said  Doug Kendall , president of the Washington-
based Constitutional Accountability Center, which advocates for
environmental protections and civil rights. He said it isn’t
clear how a court would react to an out-of-balance budget.  “Would it start cutting things?” Kendall said. “Would it
invalidate the budget in the middle of the year? Would it make
choices as to whether we pay our soldiers in  Iraq  or give
Grandma her Social Security check? Do we want our courts doing
that?”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alison Fitzgerald in Washington at 
Afitzgerald1bloomberg.net;
Greg Stohr in Washington at 
 gstohr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  