-- 
Bankrupt Fabricato Doubling on Colombia Free Trade Deal May Signal Bubble

-- B y   B l a k e   S c h m i d t
-- 
2011-07-29T15:02:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-29/bankrupt-fabricato-doubling-on-colombia-trade-may-signal-bubble.html
Fabricato SA,  Colombia ’s bankrupt
textile producer, more than doubled this year on prospects for a
U.S. free-trade accord, a rally some analysts say is unwarranted
as investors overestimate the potential benefit to earnings.  “It’s totally a bubble,”  Rupert Stebbings , the Colombia
director for Santiago-based brokerage Celfin Capital, said in a
telephone interview from Bogota. “Nothing in terms of the
market or fundamentals can justify Fabricato’s price.”  The 173 percent advance in Medellin-based Fabricato pushed
the price to 29 times estimated 2012 earnings, the third-highest
in the world among the 71 textile companies for which Bloomberg
has 2012 estimates after  China ’s NingBo YAK Technology
Industrial Co. and  Taiwan ’s Ruentex Industries Ltd. The stock is
up 13 percent this month, while Colombia’s benchmark index fell
0.3 percent. The share fell 0.7 percent to 73.5 pesos at 10:45
a.m. New York time today.  Fabricato, mired in bankruptcy since 2000 after a recession
in 1999 and stiffer competition from  Asia , is the world’s
second-biggest gainer for textile companies with a market value
of at least $100 million as the accord awaits a vote by U.S.
lawmakers. Peruvian manufacturers enjoyed a similar rally before
a U.S. free-trade agreement was approved in 2007 only to plummet
afterward on lower-than-forecast sales to America, said  Roberto Flores , an analyst at Lima-based brokerage Inteligo SAB.  In Colombia, investors are betting the deal would improve
the outlook for textile companies by locking in trade benefits
that expired in February after U.S. lawmakers didn’t renew the
measures, said Angelica Dominguez, an analyst at brokerage Bolsa
y Renta in Medellin. The accord would immediately end most
remaining tariffs on yarns, fabrics and fibers, according to
Maria del Mar Palau, the head of Colombia’s textile chamber.  ‘Great Benefits’  Fabricato Chief Executive Officer Ivan Zuluaga said the
company will see “great benefits” financially by 2013 should
the U.S. pass a free-trade agreement with Colombia this year.  “Clothing makers around the world including Brazil and
Asia will push to do business in Colombia so they can send their
products to the U.S. without tariffs,” Zuluaga said in a July
26 conference call. The company is in talks with European
clothing brands that want to use Colombia as a potential tariff-
free base for shipping to the U.S., he said.  Fabricato’s financial results have played an “important
role” in the price of the shares, Zuluaga said.  Colombian textile producers may prove more resilient than
Peruvian counterparts as they have been “learning to live”
with a strong peso and seeking new markets in Mexico,  Ecuador 
and  Peru  after a 2009 diplomatic crisis with neighboring
 Venezuela  led to a plunge in exports, said Palau at Colombia’s
textile chamber. The companies also reduced debt, Palau said.  U.S. Politics  Peruvian companies  Cia Universal Textil SA (UNITEXI1)  and  Industria
Textil Piura (PIURAC1)  doubled in a 2007 rally on free-trade accord
optimism. Shares erased gains by 2009 as U.S. demand slumped.  Colombia’s congress and constitutional court both endorsed
the agreement by 2008. U.S. President  Barack Obama ’s plan to
send the trade deal to Congress along with pacts the U.S.
reached with two other nations has been delayed by a dispute
over renewing a worker aid program opposed by Senate
Republicans.  While leaders are negotiating to advance the pacts, debate
will probably be postponed until after a recess next month
because the Obama administration is consumed in resolving a
federal borrowing stalemate, U.S. Representative  Dave Camp , a
Michigan Republican and chairman of the House Ways and Means
Committee, told reporters July 27.  “Nobody was putting a penny” on approval of the Colombia
deal until U.S. Republicans won the House majority last
November, Palau said. The accord was held up as labor unions
opposed it, citing the killing of 51 union leaders last year in
Colombia, the world’s deadliest nation for organized labor.  Colombia-U.S. Ties  The agreement is supported by U.S. companies from  San Jose ,
California-based  Cisco Systems Inc. (CSCO)  to  Caterpillar Inc. (CAT)  of
Peoria,  Illinois . Duties would end on more than 80 percent of
manufactured-goods exports to Colombia, the Office of the U.S.
Trade Representative says. The U.S. exported $11 billion to
Colombia last year. The U.S. has free-trade agreements in force
with 17 nations, including Mexico and Chile.  Fabricato and smaller producer  Coltejer SA (COLTEJ)  may face so-
called Dutch disease -- when gains in the local currency driven
by a resource boom erode profits for exporters and make non-
commodity industries such as manufacturing less competitive,
said  Andres Jimenez , head of international sales at Interbolsa
SA, Colombia’s biggest brokerage. The peso has jumped 8.1
percent against the dollar since March 1, the best performance
among 25 emerging-market currencies tracked by Bloomberg, on
record oil and mining investment.  Government Efforts  Fabricato reported second-quarter profits of 2.7 billion
pesos ($1.5 million), compared with a 5.6 billion peso loss a
year ago, as currency gains “somewhat deteriorated” profits,
Zuluaga said.  In a bid to ease the peso’s rally, the government said it
would create an overseas fund with as much as $1.2 billion from
dollars bought in the local market through the end of 2011, and
forgo repatriating funds from abroad the rest of the year. The
central bank announced last September it would buy more than $20
million a day for at least a year.  Fabricato has paid off all but 1.6 percent, or $3 million,
of the debt it had when it began restructuring in 2000, Zuluaga
said. The company said in a March statement that it may come out
of bankruptcy in 2013, 10 years before the legal deadline.  Coltejer’s first-quarter revenue rose 51 percent from a
year ago to 75 billion pesos, while profit wasn’t comparable to
2010 because of a property sale. Coltejer’s shares rose 27
percent this year to 1.12 pesos. Rafael Moises Kalach, chairman
of Medellin-based Coltejer, didn’t respond to requests for
comment.  Stock Outlook  Stebbings said speculation of a Fabricato sale has also
boosted the share price since Zuluaga announced his resignation
in May. Zuluaga, who will leave the company Aug. 1, denied
reports in La Republica newspaper that the company plans to sell
to  Mexico  City-based Grupo Kaltex, according to a statement in
May.  “Even if Venezuela suddenly reopened and the U.S.
agreement was passed, Fabricato can’t make enough to justify
that rally,” Stebbings said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Blake Schmidt in Bogota at 
 bschmidt16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  