-- 
Bard’s Golden ‘Danae;’ Black Lips, ‘Mommyville’: Summer Preview

-- B y   J e r e m y   G e r a r d
-- 
2011-07-30T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-29/bard-s-golden-danae-black-lips-sex-free-mommyville-summer-weekend.html
Venture north to  Bard College ’s
captivating grounds and Frank Gehry-designed theater.  Nothing quite compares to the fascinating summer programs
popping out of Leon Botstein’s brain.  Last night, the Bard president conducted a bizarre opera
written during the Nazi era by Richard Strauss, “Die Liebe der
Danae” (The Love of Danae).  Falling bombs cancelled the Salzburg premiere in 1944,
condemning this musically lush mash-up of Greek myths to the
sidelines ever since.  The production, set in the present and replete with
projections and lots of gilt, is a collaboration among architect
Rafael Vinoly, set designer Mimi Lien and stage director Kevin
Newbury. Meagan Miller sings the title role. Also on Sunday at 3
p.m.  ‘Bitter Sweet’  “Bitter Sweet,” by Noel Coward in a wistful mood, looks
back through the eyes of a grande dame at devil-may-care love
before reality and tragedy set in.  Coward wrote both book and score for this rarely seen 1929
operetta, whose best-known songs are “If Love Were All” and
“I’ll See You Again.” (Coward reserved the sappy film version,
starring Nelson Eddy and Jeanette MacDonald, for his own
memorable brand of derision.)  This production, staged by Michael Gieleta, stars Welsh
actress Sian Phillips, whom PBSophiles will remember as the
ruthless Livia in “I, Claudius.” Performances run August 4
through 14.  Sibelius Redux  Finnish great Jean Sibelius takes the spotlight in the
orchestral portion of SummerScape. Botstein puts his band, the
American Symphony Orchestra, through its paces in a series of
concerts exploring the music of Sibelius and his influence on
contemporary European composing through the work of Grieg,
Rachmaninoff and others. The first performance is Aug. 12;
others continue through Aug. 21.  Spiegeltent  And of course, there’s Spiegeltent for the usual polyglot
cabaret. This summer’s offerings range from African dance music
presented by Balla Kouyate to singer comedian Lea DeLaria and
Naomi Shelton & the Gospel Queens.  Bard College is in Annandale-on-Hudson, about a 2-hour
drive or train ride from  Manhattan . For information on
SummerScape, call +1-845-758-7900 or go to
 http://www.fishercenter.bard.edu   NADA Hudson  While you’re in the neighborhood, check out the inaugural
edition of NADA Hudson, an art fair organized by the  New Art
Dealers Alliance . The New York-based group is bringing 51
emerging art projects to  Basilica Hudson , an 1884 foundry
recently converted into a performance art space steps off the
riverfront.  Spend some time at the booth-free installation of sculpture
and video art inside the cavernous space. The fair runs Saturday
and Sunday, 11 a.m. to 7 p.m. at Basilica Hudson. Information:
 http://basilicahudson.com .  Back Home  If you’re staying in the city, consider those perennial bad
kids, the Black Lips. They play the  Bowery Ballroom .  Though super-producer Mark Ronson spit-shined the sloppy
garage-rock on their newest album, “Arabia Mountain,” the
dirty foursome still owns its collective sneer.  Expect shouted group choruses and frenetic beats. Word of
warning: once they’re on-stage, watch for projectiles --
streaming rolls of toilet paper, beer cans, euphoric audience
members.  At 6 Delancey St. Information: +1-212-533-2111;
 http://www.boweryballroom.com .  ‘Sex in Mommyville’  Anna Fishbeyn’s furious “Sex in Mommyville” begins with a
young mother, played by the author, complaining about the end of
sex with the arrival of spawn. After 17 frustrating days,
Artemis just wants to get it on with her husband Zeus, an
overworked, undervalued Wall Street lawyer on a track leading
away from partnership.  Actually, that’s not all she wants. She wants to finish her
book about the hijacking of feminism by everyone from magazines
and Madison Avenue to Hollywood and, for all I know, the
Trilateral Commission. And for her Russian-born parents to stop
barging in without calling. And on and on.  Irritating as the play can be, I’ll still take her spleen
over the sitcom slickness of Zach Braff’s “All New People.”  At the  Manhattan Repertory Theatre , 303 W. 42nd St.
Information: +1-646-329-6588;  http://manhattanrep.com .  ‘A Joyous Sound’  Sunday night at 10:30, tune in to Channel 13 for “A Joyous
Sound,” film maker Julie Cohen’s charming portrait of Ivan
Fischer and his Budapest Festival Orchestra.  We join the conductor at home with his flutist wife, kids
and their heroic turtle, Hector, as he prepares for rehearsals
and muses on his role in making music come alive for new
audiences.  We follow musicians, like an ABBA-loving young violinist
and a tuba player who wins marathon medals, as they tour, record
and play -- everything from Mahler to Johann Strauss.  Information: +1-212-560-1314;  http://www.thirteen.org .  (With assistance from Katya Kazakina and Zinta Lundborg.
Jeremy Gerard is a critic and editor for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Jeremy Gerard in  New York  at 
 jgerard2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 