-- 
BCR First-Half Profit Falls on Bad Loans, Low Credit Demand

-- B y   A n d r a   T i m u   a n d   I r i n a   S a v u
-- 
2011-07-29T06:23:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-29/bcr-s-first-half-profit-falls-on-bad-loans-low-credit-demand.html
Banca Comerciala Romana SA,
 Romania ’s largest bank by assets, said first-half profit fell 68
percent from a year earlier, citing “relatively high” bad-loan
costs.  Net income dropped to 158 million lei ($53 million) from
488.5 million lei, the Bucharest-based bank said today in an e-
mailed statement. Net-interest income, or the difference between
money paid on deposits and earnings on loans, declined 14
percent to 1.64 billion lei from 1.9 billion because of low
demand for credits.  “The domestic and international economic environment
remains tough, impacting our clients and therefore BCR,”
Dominic Bruynseels, BCR’s chief executive officer, said in the
statement. “Credit demand remains low as the economic recovery
is gradual. Against this background BCR’s operating performance
continued to improve in the second quarter as we did since
September last year.”  Romania’s banking industry, which is about 90 percent
dominated by international lenders, has been struggling with bad
loans over the past two years after the country plunged into the
worst recession on record. The country’s gross domestic product
will probably advance 1.5 percent this year, according to the
 International Monetary Fund .  The biggest lenders in eastern  Europe , including  Erste
Group Bank AG (EBS) , BCR’s majority shareholder, UniCredit SpA and
Raiffeisen Bank International AG, are betting that lending in
the former communist bloc will return to growth after loan
losses have started to decline.  Provisions for bad loans, which stood at 17.9 percent of
lending, fell 3 percent to 945 million lei in the first half
from 975 million, as Romanian companies and individuals are
still confronted with adverse market conditions, the bank said.  Companies were the main contributor to increased bad loans,
BCR said in the statement.  The bank’s total assets rose 1.7 percent to 74.9 billion
lei from 73.6 billion lei at the end of last year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andra Timu in Bucharest at 
 atimu@bloomberg.net ;
Irina Savu in Bucharest at 
 isavu@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  