-- 
Bekaert Tumbles Most in 12 Years as Profit Drops on China

-- B y   J o h n   M a r t e n s
-- 
2011-07-29T15:55:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-29/bekaert-tumbles-as-profit-drops-on-lower-steel-cord-solar-demand.html
Bekaert NV, the world’s largest
maker of steel cord used in tires, fell the most in 12 years in
Brussels after profit declined for the first time in two years
on lower demand for cord in China and solar panels in  Europe .  Bekaert dropped 12 percent to 42.44 euros at the 5:40 p.m.
close of trading on Euronext Brussels, the biggest retreat since
September 1998. First-half net income fell 20 percent to 144.3
million euros ($206.2 million), the Zwevegem, Belgium-based
company said today in a statement. Analysts projected a 3
percent increase to 186.5 million euros, the average of four
estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  “Bekaert lowered prices faster than we anticipated in both
sawing wire and tire cord in order to face competition,” Filip De Pauw, an analyst at ING Groep NV in Brussels, wrote in an
investor note. “Knowing that seasonally the second half of the
year is weaker, consensus estimates downgrades should not be
helpful.”  China ’s campaign to tame consumer and property prices, with
five interest-rate increases since mid-October and record
reserve requirements for lenders, curbed demand for Bekaert’s
steel cord and some of its customers in the country are facing
payment arrears. Earnings from sawing wire, which is used to
slice silicon ingots into wafers for solar cells, declined as
the sovereign-debt crisis in Europe led some governments to
scrap subsidies for solar energy and as Bekaert lowered prices
to defend against competing manufacturers.  Increased Competition  Bekaert derived about 44 percent of operating profit before
special items from sawing wire and an additional 27 percent from
steel cord last year, according to Ben Defay, an analyst at
JPMorgan Chase & Co. in  London . His recommendations on Bekaert
have returned almost 28 percent in the past year, the most among
seven analysts, according to Bloomberg data.  First-half operating profit before one-time items increased
in  North America  and  Latin America  and was unchanged in Europe,
 Middle East  and  Africa . Earnings fell 10 percent in the Asia-
Pacific region, which remains Bekaert’s most profitable, even as
sales rose 16 percent.  The steel-cord maker is facing increased competition in
China from  Xingda International Holdings Ltd. (1899) , which began mass
production of sawing wire in December. Bekaert also set aside 21
million euros to cover potential credit losses in China in the
first half.  Net debt climbed to 815.9 million euros on June 30 from
521.9 million euros at the end of last year, as Bekaert’s
working capital ballooned by 307 million euros to 1.1 billion
euros.  Before today, Bekaert shares had fallen 42 percent since
the company said on May 11 that Chinese demand began to slow and
it would cut prices to defend against local competition.  Bekaert said it will continue to lower prices, mainly in
China. It also said early signs of a “slight” improvement in
demand indicate that the solar-market downturn “might have
bottomed out.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Martens in Brussels at 
 jmartens1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at 
 acullen8@bloomberg.net  