-- 
Belgium’s Economy Slows as European Recovery Loses Momentum

-- B y   J o n e s   H a y d e n
-- 
2011-07-29T13:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-29/belgium-s-economy-slows-as-european-recovery-loses-momentum.html
Belgium ’s economic growth slowed in
the second quarter as  Europe ’s recovery lost momentum amid
government budget cuts and concerns that the sovereign-debt
crisis will spread.  Gross domestic product in Belgium, the euro area’s sixth-
largest economy, expanded 0.7 percent from the first quarter,
when it grew 1 percent, the  National Bank of Belgium  in Brussels
said today in a statement. GDP rose 2.5 percent from a year
earlier in the three months through June, down from 3 percent in
the first quarter.  The slower growth may complicate efforts to narrow the
budget deficit as a political stalemate has left the country
without a full-time government for more than a year. With
coalition talks now on hold until mid-August, Belgian 10-year
bond yields have risen to a two-year high and the premium
investors demand to hold the securities instead of German
equivalents is near a record.  Investors are concerned that a new Greek aid package and
enhanced crisis-fighting measures announced last week won’t be
enough to contain the turmoil. European worries have been
exacerbated by a political stalemate among U.S. politicians over
increasing the government debt limit.  European markets were rattled again today after Moody’s
Investors Service said it placed  Spain ’s Aa2 credit rating on
review for a possible downgrade, citing concern about
implementation of the European rescue fund. Italy also is on
review for downgrade at Moody’s.  Budget Deficit  Standard & Poor’s Ratings Services said on June 14 that its
negative outlook on Belgium’s AA+ credit rating remained
unchanged and reflected a one-in-three chance the euro region’s
third-most indebted nation’s rating would be cut over a period
of six months to two years.  Caretaker Prime Minister  Yves Leterme  on July 12 lowered
the deficit forecast, saying this year’s budget shortfall would
amount to about 3.3 percent of GDP, compared with 3.6 percent
previously forecast. Still, business confidence fell for a
fourth month in July amid slowing output and falling orders in
the manufacturing industry, the central bank said in a report on
July 25.  The yield on the Belgian 10-year bond was at 4.34 percent
today, after reaching 4.41 percent on July 19, matching the
highest in the past two years. The 10-year premium, or spread,
over German bonds increased for a sixth day, rising to 175 basis
points, near the record 178 on July 12.  Elio Di Rupo, the leader of Belgium’s French-speaking
Socialists, will resume coalition talks that include eight
potential partners in mid-August, the royal palace said July 22.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jones Hayden in Brussels at 
 jhayden1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  