-- 
Belgacom Net Tops Estimates on Slowing Line Loss, Settlement

-- B y   J o h n   M a r t e n s
-- 
2011-07-29T07:16:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-29/belgacom-net-tops-estimates-on-slowing-line-loss-settlement-1-.html
Belgacom SA (BELG) , the largest telephone
company in  Belgium , reported second-quarter profit that beat
estimates as voice-revenue erosion slowed and an undisclosed
settlement led to a release of provisions for litigation.  Net income declined to 199 million euros ($285 million), or
62 cents, from 203 million euros, or 63 cents, a year earlier,
the Brussels-based company said today in a statement. Profit
beat the 181 million-euro average estimate of six analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg. Sales fell 3.1 percent to 1.61 billion
euros, in line with analyst projections.  Belgacom, which cut its full-year earnings forecast in May
because of an accelerating decline in voice revenue, slowed
fixed-line losses in the residential market with bundled
offerings of TV and fixed telephony aimed at senior customers.
Voice-revenue erosion continued to accelerate among corporate
customers and a weaker dollar hurt revenue at Belgacom’s
international carrier unit.  “Although it’s still early, we did see some encouraging
positive signs,” Chief Executive Officer Didier Bellens said in
the statement. “We will continue our efforts over the second
half of this year to make further progress on our goal to regain
market share.”  The phone company raised the lower end of its forecast for
full-year earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and
amortization, in line with analyst estimates, and now includes a
20 million-euro positive impact from the release of litigation
provisions.  Belgacom shares rose as much as 3.1 percent to 24.29 euros
and traded at 24.24 euros, or 2.8 percent higher, at 9:14 a.m.
local time.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Martens in Brussels at 
 jmartens1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at 
 acullen8@bloomberg.net  