-- 
BMW Betting on Electric Lounge Car With Hemp Floor to Hold Off VW’s Audi

-- B y   C h r i s   R e i t e r
-- 
2011-07-29T12:38:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-29/bmw-bets-on-electric-lounge-car-with-hemp-floor-to-hold-off-audi-advance.html
Bayerische Motoren Werke AG (BMW)  will
give a new electric-powered city car a lounge feel with bench
seats, naturally tanned “mocha brown” leather and hemp fibers
in the floor covering to hold off  Volkswagen AG (VOW) ’s Audi.  BMW for the first time showed concept versions of the i3
electric city car and the i8 hybrid supercar, which Chief
Executive Officer  Norbert Reithofer  said will cost more than
100,000 euros ($143,000), in  Frankfurt  today. The models,
developed from scratch, will anchor BMW’s new “i” sub-brand.  “The majority of current electric vehicles are so-called
conversions of traditional vehicles but conversions are always
compromises,” development chief Klaus Draeger said. “We wanted
to bring e-mobility to the streets without compromise.”  BMW is betting that the 530 million euros investment to
set up production of the vehicles will pay off in the race with
Audi, which overtook  Daimler AG (DAI) ’s Mercedes-Benz this year and
has vowed to topple the Munich-based carmaker as the luxury-car
leader by 2015. Initial volumes for the models could be in the
“tens of thousands,” with the potential to grow rapidly depending
on market and regulatory developments, sales chief  Ian Robertson 
told Bloomberg TV.  “If the project is successful, it will give BMW an edge in
innovation, which is a key attribute for premium car
manufacturers,” said  Ferdinand Dudenhoeffer , director of the
Center for Automotive Research at the University of Duisberg-
Essen. “It would be a difficult situation for Audi.”  Carbon Fiber  Both of BMW’s electric cars are built around a carbon-fiber
frame and an aluminum underbody to lower weight and consequently
reduce battery costs. Investments for the project include a new
carbon-fiber factory in the U.S. and a 400 million-euro
expansion of its factory in Leipzig,  Germany . The i3 will go on
sale in 2013, followed by the i8 in 2014.  The four-person city car, which has a range of about 150
kilometers (93 miles), features narrower tires to reduce road
friction and a faster charging system that can reload the
battery to 80 percent capacity in an hour. That compares with
more than seven hours for standard electric-vehicle chargers.
The front and rear doors also open away from each other.  The i8 plug-in hybrid combines an electric motor with a
three-cylinder gasoline engine to accelerate to 100 kilometers
per hour in 4.6 seconds, while getting more than 78 miles per
gallon. It has a top speed of 250 kilometers per hour and can
drive for up to 35 kilometers just on the energy stored in its
lithium-ion power packs. Both cars have oversized windows on the
doors.  Audi Offerings  Audi’s first electric-powered vehicle, the R8 e-tron sports
car, will come to market at the end of next year as a limited
production model, spokesman Armin Goetz said. Audi will test
about 20 electric-drive A1 compacts in Munich later this year
and is preparing for a similar project with the A3 in  Shanghai .  Audi aims to roll out its first serial production plug-in
hybrid at the end of 2013 or in early 2014, Goetz said.  BMW plans to offer versions with an on-board generator to
extend the range and is considering other variants, sales chief
Robertson said. The company will look to sell the vehicles using
a mobile sales force and the Internet in addition to
conventional dealers. The cars will be “relatively expensive”
because of the large amount of technology in them, he said.  Sub-Brand Risks   BMW created the separate sub-brand, which will bear a BMW
emblem with a blue ring around it, to market electric vehicles.
The approach is in contrast to Audi and Mercedes-Benz, which
plans to integrate electric vehicles into their overall lineups.
The risk for BMW is the main brand’s image of fuel-burning
models could suffer by pushing the sub-brand too much, said
Christoph Stuermer, a Frankfurt-based IHS Automotive analyst.  “With a sub-brand, BMW risks creating a floating island
around the mainstream products, but they’re not going to make
money on that technology unless they bring it into the
mainstream products,” Stuermer said. “The challenge will be to
spread that technology, while maintaining the integrity of the
core brand.”  BMW will use some of the technology in the electric cars in
other models and the electric offerings will “support” BMW’s
target to generate a return on sales of 8 percent to 10 percent,
Chief Financial Officer Friedrich Eichiner said today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Reiter in Berlin at 
 creiter2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Chad Thomas  at   cthomas16@bloomberg.net  