-- 
HBO Cancels ‘Hard Knocks’ Following Lockout, Lack of Interest From Teams

-- B y   E b e n   N o v y - W i l l i a m s
-- 
2011-07-29T17:51:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-29/hbo-cancels-hard-knocks-following-lockout-lack-of-interest-from-teams.html
“Hard Knocks,” the Home Box Office
Inc. reality show where New York Jets coach  Rex Ryan  swore so
much he apologized to his mother and was reprimanded by a former
National Football League coach, won’t be done this year.  The five-episode series that documents NFL training camps
won’t air due to the four-month lockout and football’s shortened
offseason, HBO Sports and NFL Films said today in a joint e-
mailed release. Last year’s series, which featured the
Jets, showed Ryan curse more than 20 times in its opening
episode.  “The uncertainty of the NFL’s summer schedule and the
incredibly expedited timetable this month made it impractical
for a team to commit,” the two parties said in the release.  The announcement comes four days after the NFL and its
players ended a four-month lockout with agreement on a 10-year
labor accord. Under the agreement, teams have begun to negotiate
free-agent signings, make trades and sign rookies.  A 24-man NFL Films crew lived at the Jets’ training camp
last season, and shot more than 1,000 hours of video in
meetings, training sessions, dormitories and on the practice
field. On the show, Ryan, 48, said the Jets would win the  Super
Bowl .  Ryan was chastised by former Indianapolis Colts coach  Tony Dungy , now an NBC analyst, during a radio show for cursing too
much. New England Patriots quarterback  Tom Brady , when asked
whether he watched the Jets on “Hard Knocks,” said, “I hate
the Jets.” He also said he never watched it.  Ryan said his mother was disappointed by his cursing on the
show, and she told the New York Post that the coach called her
to apologize because he “knew in his heart that I was not happy
with it.”  Teams Refuse  On May 16, the  Tampa Bay Buccaneers  announced on their
Twitter page that they had declined  HBO ’s invitation to host the
series, because “the team wants to keep the focus on the field
in 2011.”  Four days later, Denver Broncos spokesman Jim Saccomano
announced that the team had also declined HBO’s request because
of the lack of privacy. He said that the team might do a similar
version of the show internally, using its own staff and video
crew.  “Remember, this is why we have doors on bathrooms, and on
bathroom stalls,” Saccomano said on the team website. “It is
clear that HBO tries to be as unobtrusive as possible. But
’they’ still are not ‘us.’”  Seattle Seahawks coach  Pete Carroll  said yesterday on
Twitter that his team was asked to do “Hard Knocks” and
declined because it “didn’t feel like it’d help us.” NFL
Network also reported in May that the  Atlanta Falcons  discussed
holding the show at their camp before deciding against it.  Special Edition  A 90-minute edition of “Hard Knocks,” produced from
footage from past seasons, will premiere on Aug. 31. The special
will feature previously unaired interviews and outtakes.  “We know football fans are hungry for compelling NFL
programming and we think they’ll love the 10th anniversary
special,” HBO Sports Executive Producer Rick Bernstein said in
the release.  The series, which began in 2001 with the  Baltimore Ravens 
and has featured five different teams, will resume for 2012
training camp, according to the release.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eben Novy-Williams in New York at 
 enovywilliam@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net . 