-- 
Boeing Seeks to Seal Documents in Labor Case

-- B y   S u s a n n a   R a y
-- 
2011-07-29T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-29/boeing-seeks-to-seal-documents-in-labor-case-over-new-787-plant.html
Boeing Co. (BA)  argued yesterday that
some information related to a 787 Dreamliner factory should be
sealed from the public as the planemaker tries to overturn a
National Labor Relations Board complaint alleging anti-union
retaliation.  Boeing asked an administrative law judge in Seattle to
designate an array of documents and testimony as confidential,
keeping them from the machinists union, journalists and rivals
such as Airbus SAS. The labor board and union argued that as
long as no proprietary 787 data is requested, and because of
wide news coverage of the case, the information should be
public.  The gist of the complaint is that Boeing illegally
threatened employees, “and those workers want to see this
hearing,” Dave Campbell, a Seattle-based attorney for the
International Association of Machinists and Aerospace Workers,
told the judge.  The NLRB claims Boeing executives said they were building a
nonunion plant in  South Carolina , the first outside the Seattle
area, to achieve production stability after five strikes since
1989. Federal law prohibits retaliation over a walkout, and the
board wants restitution in the form of another 787 assembly line
in the Puget Sound region, where Boeing employees are
represented by unions.  Boeing has said financial considerations drove the decision
and U.S. companies have the right to move work around the
country. South Carolina workers are scheduled to build the first
Dreamliner in the state next year. The plant’s monthly target
output will be three jets by 2013, with a goal of seven planes a
month in Everett, Washington.  Concern Over Airbus  “To the extent that there is financial information that
would harm Boeing shareholders because it came in the possession
of Airbus, for example, that would present issues,” Eugene Scalia, an attorney with Gibson, Dunn & Crutcher LLP in
 Washington , D.C., who represents Boeing, said in an interview
outside the courthouse. In addition, certain documents would
give the union an advantage in negotiating the next contract, he
said.  If union lawyers aren’t allowed in the room to provide
their expertise on the topics and help the NLRB prepare for
cross-witness, it would be “disabling” for the board’s case
against Boeing, Campbell testified.  The company wants an order on the matter by a federal
judge, rather than the administrative law judge, because federal
courts have the power to impose sanctions for any violations,
Scalia said.  Confidential Documents  Boeing considers just 2 percent to 3 percent of more than
4,000 documents produced for the case to be confidential, said
Richard Hankins, an Atlanta-based lawyer with McKenna Long &
Aldridge LLP working for Boeing.  Under Boeing’s protective order, “most of the important
parts of the trial would be closed to the public and press, and
the record would be sealed,” Campbell, the union lawyer, said
in an interview.  The NLRB brought the complaint against Boeing in April
after a yearlong inquiry, and the hearing that began in June has
covered pre-evidentiary issues such as subpoena requests. Boeing
has said it expects to lose initially and will appeal all the
way to the U.S. Supreme Court if necessary.  The attorneys said they planned to meet to negotiate a
possible agreement last night, with the goal of presenting a
compromise to the judge when the hearing resumes today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Susanna Ray in  Seattle  at 
 sray7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  