-- 
BofA’s Retreat May Make Wells Fargo No. 1 in Mortgage Servicing

-- B y   H u g h   S o n
-- 
2011-07-29T04:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-29/bofa-s-retreat-may-make-wells-fargo-no-1-in-mortgage-servicing.html
Bank of America Corp. , the biggest
U.S. mortgage servicer, may lose that rank to  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC) 
as Chief Executive Officer  Brian T. Moynihan  scales back riskier
operations that put a strain on capital.  Bank of America will take on fewer contracts to handle
billing and collection on home loans and sell some rights to
competitors, the  Charlotte , North Carolina-based firm said this
month. The value of those rights was $12.4 billion in the second
quarter, a 41 percent drop from its 2008 peak. Bank of America
serviced about  $2 trillion  in loans as of June 30, almost one in
five of all U.S. mortgages by principal value, compared with
 $1.8 trillion  for Wells Fargo, the leader in creating loans.  Moynihan, 51, is selling assets that would force the bank
to hold more capital under new international rules designed to
avert another financial crisis. The sales are another sign Bank
of America is backtracking on the rationale for its $2.5 billion
purchase in 2008 of Countrywide Financial Corp., whose entire
value has since been written off.  “They’re reversing everything they can about Countrywide,
it was a terrible mistake,” said  Paul Miller , an analyst at FBR
Capital Markets with a “market perform”  rating  on the company.
“They will always be a significant player in mortgages, but
Wells Fargo will end up being the number one servicer.”  What Servicers Do  Servicers collect payments from borrowers and pass them on
to mortgage lenders or investors, minus fees, and handle
foreclosures when borrowers don’t pay. As the financial crisis
deepened, analysts predicted that mortgage servicing rights, or
MSRs, would provide a steady stream of fees even if home sales
dropped. The Countrywide purchase under Moynihan’s predecessor,
 Kenneth D. Lewis , made Bank of America the biggest servicer,
 adding  $17.2 billion in contracts to the $4.3 billion the bank
had in mid-2008.  Lewis and the analysts didn’t anticipate that a record
surge in U.S. foreclosures would drive up the costs of handling
home loans. Countrywide was the biggest creator of subprime
loans, made to homeowners with the weakest credit, and
regulators and lawmakers have blamed lax underwriting for
fueling defaults. Costs increased as lenders bungled paperwork
and regulators launched investigations into possibly fraudulent
foreclosures, with some dragging on for 18 months or more.  Lower Value  Bank of America cut the value of its servicing rights by
$2.9 billion to $12.4 billion in the second quarter as
agreements with regulators and private investors to improve
practices pushed expenses up and  profit down . Wells Fargo said
its rights were worth $14.8 billion, a drop of $870 million from
the previous quarter.  Banks revalue the rights every quarter based on what they
would garner in a sale. When interest rates drop and more
borrowers refinance, the values decline. Some lenders use
derivatives to hedge the impact of interest-rate changes.  “We’re taking a very close look at the types of activities
we’re originating and servicing, so on the front end, you’ll see
actions where we look to scale back,” Bank of America Chief
Financial Officer  Bruce Thompson  said during a July 19
conference call. “Secondly, we’re very focused on looking out
and moving MSR assets through sale.”  Banks are primarily selling “high-risk” servicing rights
on loans tied to borrowers who are  late on payments  or overly
leveraged, said Robert Lee, senior vice president at Mortgage
Industry Advisory Corp. in  New York , a brokerage and software
provider for servicers.  Soaking Up Resources  “Things are fine when its performing, but all of a sudden
now I’m sitting on $2 trillion in mortgages, and now I’m
handling many more delinquent loans,” Lee said. “It becomes a
hard asset to service. It requires more resources including
people and capital, and you’re going to want a higher yield.”  Under rules from the  Basel Committee on Banking Supervision 
that will be phased in between 2013 and 2019, lenders will have
to hold  capital  against mortgage servicing rights that exceed a
prescribed threshold, said Bank of America spokesman  Jerry Dubrowski . The company, which booked a $70 million gain on the
sale of servicing rights in the second quarter, may take years
to sell its holdings, he said.  “In today’s mortgage environment, we are focused on
leveraging our servicing portfolio to support customers who have
or are seeking a deep relationship with Bank of America,” said
 Terry Francisco , another Bank of America spokesman. Vickee Adams, a spokeswoman for San Francisco-based Wells Fargo,
declined to comment on the servicing rights.  Calling on Specialists  Smaller, so-called specialty servicers and private equity
firms are among buyers of servicing rights, Lee said. Last
month, as part of an $8.5 billion legal settlement, Bank of
America agreed to outsource the handling of some high-risk
Countrywide loans to as many as 10 specialty firms that may be
able to close cases faster.  Other large banks have decided to leave distressed-loan
servicing to specialized firms. Goldman Sachs Group Inc., based
in New York and the fifth-largest  U.S. bank  by assets, agreed
last month to sell its mortgage processor to  West Palm Beach ,
Florida-based  Ocwen Financial Corp. (OCN)  for $263.7 million.  “Many firms are deciding that servicing is not a core
asset to them, and they’re likely to exit the business,”
William Erbey, chairman of Ocwen, said in a May conference call.
“You’re seeing a great deal more activity today than we’ve seen
at any time in our being in the business for two decades.”  Buying and Selling  Ocwen, which focuses on acquiring and servicing delinquent
and non-performing mortgages, agreed last year buy a servicer
owned by  Barclays Plc (BARC)  for about $1.3 billion in cash.  Goldman Sachs bought Litton in December 2007 as investors
including billionaire  Wilbur Ross  and Centerbridge Capital
Partners LLC purchased servicers to seek profit from discounted
loans. Ross’s WL Ross & Co. bought American Home Mortgage
Servicing Inc. in 2008 when its parent company collapsed, and
later added operations and servicing contracts from H&R Block
Inc.,  Citigroup Inc. (C)  and Taylor, Bean & Whitaker Mortgage Corp.  Mortgage servicing came under increased scrutiny last year
after regulators accused firms of using so-called robosigners
who submitted foreclosure documents to courts and attested to
their accuracy without actually verifying them. The five biggest
firms may pay more than $20 billion to settle probes by the  U.S.
Department of Justice  and 50 state attorneys general.  Wells Fargo CEO  John Stumpf  said in April that mortgage
servicing will remain profitable even after changes imposed on
the industry. Wells Fargo has gained about 1 percent in the past
year of New York trading, compared with the 30 percent decline
for Bank of America, the worst showing in the 24-company  KBW
Bank Index. (BKX)   “Others might have a different view because they have a
much more troubled portfolio,” Stumpf told analysts. “My guess
is that it will continue to be a good business for those who do
it well.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hugh Son in New York at 
 hson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  