-- 
BofA Mortgage Deal ‘Insufficient,’ Western & Southern Says

-- B y   D a v i d   M c L a u g h l i n
-- 
2011-07-29T23:20:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-29/bofa-mortgage-deal-insufficient-western-southern-life-says.html
Bank of America Corp. (BAC) ’s proposed
$8.5 billion mortgage-bond settlement with investors drew more
criticism, as Western & Southern Life Insurance Co. called the
deal “wholly insufficient.”  The settlement is “a sweetheart deal” and an attempt to
“sweep aside the enormous liability” Bank of America faces
from investors, Western & Southern said in a court filing today
in New York State  Supreme Court .  “In addition to the wholly inadequate recovery provided to
injured investors, Western & Southern has identified several
significant issues that raise serious questions about the
fairness of the proposed settlement,” the company said.  The settlement, which will be considered for approval by a
state judge, calls for Bank of America to pay $8.5 billion to
resolve claims from investors in 530 residential mortgage-
securitization trusts. The deal was reached with a group of
institutional investors and would apply to investors outside
that group.  Western & Southern said in the filing that it’s seeking to
intervene in the case so it can obtain information about the
settlement and evaluate it.  Forcing the Deal  The institutional investors, including  Blackrock Inc. (BLK)  and
Pacific Investment Management Co. LLC, are forcing the deal onto
other investors “who have had no say in the structuring of, or
the terms of the proposed settlement,” Western & Southern said.  Kathy Patrick , a lawyer representing the institutional
investors, didn’t respond to an e-mail seeking comment. In an
interview earlier this month, she called the settlement
“entirely fair.”  Lawrence Grayson, a spokesman for  Charlotte , North
Carolina-based Bank of America, said in an e-mailed statement
that the trustee for the mortgage-bond trusts,  Bank of New York
Mellon Corp. (BK) , has outlined the due diligence it conducted “to
ensure a fair and reasonable settlement.”  “The agreement anticipated and provided for objections by
those pursuing separate agendas, and we look forward to those
issues being addressed by the court during its scheduled
proceedings in this matter,” Grayson said.  ‘Serious Questions’  Other investors are also questioning the settlement. A
group of pension funds said they have “serious questions”
about the fairness of the deal, which they said could provide a
windfall to some investors, according to a court filing. A group
of  Federal Home Loan Banks  said their interests may not have
been protected in the negotiations. They question expert reports
used to support the deal and said an estimate of a reasonable
settlement could range from $22 billion to $27.5 billion or
more.  New York Attorney General  Eric Schneiderman , meanwhile, is
considering whether to intervene in the case, he said in a July
13 letter. He has “an ongoing investigation into matters
directly related” to the proceeding.  The case is In the matter of Bank of New York Mellon,
651786/2011, New York state Supreme Court, New York County
( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
David McLaughlin in New York at 
 dmclaughlin9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 