-- 
BofA, Goldman Sachs Find State Mortgage Cases Hard to Shake

-- B y   K a r e n   G u l l o
-- 
2011-07-29T22:32:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-29/bofa-goldman-sachs-find-state-mortgage-securities-cases-hard-to-shake.html
Investors suing  Bank of America
Corp. (BAC)  and more than a dozen other underwriters to force the
buyback of $6.7 billion in downgraded mortgage securities have
defeated efforts by the banks in pretrial skirmishes to throw
out the cases or move them from state courts.  A Washington state judge in  Seattle  said in rulings over
the past two months that Bank of America,  Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. (GS)  and other underwriters can’t cite faulty data from
appraisers or expired statutes of limitation to avoid Federal
Home Loan Bank of Seattle’s claims that there was false
information in offering documents for at least $3.9 billion in
securities it bought.  Bank of America tried unsuccessfully today to persuade a
 California  state court judge that the statue of limitations had
expired on claims in a lawsuit seeking to make underwriters
repurchase $19 billion in mortgage-backed securities.  If the judge’s tentative ruling becomes final, it may open
the door for investors to access internal bank files and e-mails
about the loans in the pre-trial exchange of evidence,
strengthening their bargaining position in any settlement talks.  “At each milestone it puts additional pressure on the
defendant to settle,” said Isaac Gradman, an attorney and
managing member of IMG Enterprises LLC, a mortgage-backed
securities consulting firm in Petaluma, California, that advises
clients on legal and contractual matters.  ‘Public Awareness’  The nine securities dealers sued by the Federal Home Loan
Bank of  San Francisco  asked Judge Richard Kramer today to
dismiss the case. They said the home loan bank waited too long
to sue, should have heeded “public awareness” of the risks of
mortgage-backed securities and was warned in the offering
documents about potential problems with loan performance,
according to court filings.  The statute of limitations for seeking buybacks is two
years from when the bank knew or should have known about the
alleged false statements, Kramer said. The securities at issue
in the case date back to 2006. The lawsuit was filed last year.  The home loan bank, a sophisticated and central player in
the mortgage business, would “have had to be more than deaf,
dumb and blind” not to have known back in 2007 about the
problems with residential loans, said Stephen Hibbard, an
attorney for Bank of America, at today’s hearing in San
Francisco. “The information was out there in the world, and
this sophisticated plaintiff should have known.”  Statute of Limitations  Kramer, in his tentative ruling, rejected arguments by Bank
of America and other underwriters that the statute of
limitations under California law had passed. The Federal Home
Loan Bank will drop its federal securities-law claims if Kramer
adopts his tentative ruling that the bank waited too long to sue
under federal law, said David Grais, the bank’s attorney, at
today’s hearing.  Kramer hasn’t ruled on the underwriters’ requests for
dismissal on other grounds.  The Federal Home Loan Banks of Seattle, San Francisco,
Pittsburgh,  Chicago  and Indianapolis, as well as companies
including  Charles Schwab Corp. (SCHW)  and Allstate Insurance Co., are
pursuing lawsuits in state courts across the country under each
state’s so-called blue sky investor protection laws.  The term blue sky came from the words of a judge in the
early 1900s who referred to speculative schemes backed by
nothing more than so many feet of “blue sky,” according to the
North American Securities Administrators Association  website .  Blue Sky  Under the blue-sky laws, plaintiffs don’t have to prove
that there was a fraud committed, only that the defendants made
untrue statements, unlike in federal securities cases where it
must be shown that defendants knew their actions were
fraudulent, said Grais, a lawyer at Grais & Ellsworth in  New
York  who represents some of the home loan banks.  “The burden of proof is less in the state cases,” said
William Black, law and economics professor at  University of
Missouri  and former litigation director at the Federal Home Loan
Bank Board, explaining why investors favor the venue over
federal courts.  Black said state court plaintiffs stand a better chance of
getting a judge who isn’t “hostile to the notion that someone
in a nice suit made a false representation selling securities.”  Bill Halldin , a spokesman for  Charlotte , North Carolina-
based Bank of America, declined to comment on today’s tentative
rulings.  The cases take aim at investment banks that played a
central role in securitizing pools of home loans that were sold
to investors during the housing bubble.  Credit Quality  In securitizations, a large number of loans are grouped
into a pool and sold to a trust which raises money for the
purchase by selling bonds, or certificates.  The underwriters purchase certificates from the trust and
sell them to investors. They gather statistics and data about
the loans’ credit quality to include in documents filed with
regulators when the securities are offered for sale.  The  cash flow  from the loans in the pool is the source of
funds to pay the holders of the certificates. Loans backing
these certificates that went into default were a key part of the
financial crisis in 2008 that helped send the U.S. into the
biggest recession since the 1930s.  In more than a dozen cases filed in state courts since
2009, investors have alleged that the offering documents
prepared by the underwriters contained false or misleading
information about the loans, such as how much equity borrowers
had in their homes, the appraised value of the home and the
criteria used by lenders to decide whether borrowers should get
loans.  Countrywide, IndyMac  The loans were originated or acquired by Countrywide
Financial Corp., IndyMac Bank, GreenPoint Mortgage Funding Inc.,
National City Mortgage and others, according to the complaints.  Countrywide, based in Calabasas, California, was once the
biggest U.S. residential home lender, originating or purchasing
about $1.4 trillion in mortgages from 2005 to 2007. The bulk of
them were sold to investors as mortgage-backed securities. Bank
of America acquired Countrywide in 2008.  The lawsuits are separate from group, or class-action,
cases pending in federal courts where some institutional
investors may have to settle for less than 1 percent of what
they initially sought because judges have scaled back or
dismissed claims.  The state cases also aren’t covered by an $8.5 billion
settlement announced June 29 between Bank of America and 22
institutional investors in Countrywide mortgage-backed
securities. That accord, if approved, will resolve investors’
claims that Countrywide was required under contract to
repurchase loans that didn’t meet its underwriting guidelines.  Cases Continue  The state court cases would continue under the terms of the
proposed settlement, Grais said.  A group of  Federal Home Loan Banks , including some that are
suing in state court, have said that Countrywide investors may
be owed more than three times what is offered in the
$8.5 billion settlement, according to a court filing.  Underwriters moved the state cases to federal court,
claiming that the lawsuits shouldn’t be heard in state courts
because some of the loans involved were made by companies in
bankruptcy, according to court filings. Federal judges rejected
the argument and sent almost all the cases back to state courts,
according to court filings.  Judges in Seattle and Pittsburgh have refused to throw out
two of more than a dozen cases pending around the country
seeking buybacks of as much as $32 billion in securities. The
amount at stake in the Pittsburgh case is $2.8 billion. Motions
to dismiss in other cases are pending or haven’t yet been filed.  Credit Ratings  The Federal Home Loan Bank of Seattle, in one of 11
lawsuits it filed in  Washington ’s King County Superior Court
against underwriters, claimed that New York-based Goldman
Sachs’s offering documents made false representations about more
than half of the loans in a 2,793-loan pool that it bought in
2007 for $105 million.  The security, originally given the highest credit ratings
by Moody’s Investors Service and  Standard & Poor’s , has been
downgraded to junk status, according to the complaint.  Goldman Sachs claimed that the lawsuit should be dismissed
because it can’t be sued over statements in the offering
documents that came from other parties.  Washington’s investor protection law holds underwriters
strictly liable for materially untrue or misleading statements,
“regardless of the ultimate source of those statements,” Judge
Laura Inveen said in a July 19 order.  Michael DuVally , a Goldman Sachs spokesman, declined to
comment.  Grais said the next phase of the case would be to seek
internal documents from the underwriters to learn what they knew
about the loans involved in the securities.  The San Francisco case is Federal Home Loan Bank of San
Francisco v. Credit Suisse, CGC-10-497840, California Superior
Court, San Francisco County.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karen Gullo in San Francisco at 
 kgullo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  