-- 
Bovespa Heads for the Biggest Monthly Decline Since May 2010

-- B y   L e o n   L a z a r o f f
-- 
2011-07-29T17:28:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-29/bovespa-heads-for-the-biggest-monthly-decline-since-may-2010.html
Brazil stocks headed to their
biggest monthly retreat since May 2010 as U.S. lawmakers remain
split on a plan to raise the U.S. debt limit by an Aug. 2
deadline, threatening default by the world’s largest economy.  The Bovespa index fell 0.3 percent to 58,558.18 at 1:20
p.m. New York time, extending its decline for July to 6.2
percent. The real strengthened 1 percent to 1.5515 per  U.S.
dollar .  Vale SA declined as second-quarter profit at the world’s
biggest iron-ore producer and largest stock on the index missed
analysts’ estimates while Gol Linhas Aereas Inteligentes SA
tumbled after Brazil’s second-biggest airline by market value
cut some of its 2011 forecasts and was downgraded at Credit
Suisse Group SA and Banco BTG Pactual.  “External elements are combining with domestic
uncertainties to drive the Brazilian market right now,” Eric Conrads, who helps manage $12 billion in emerging market stocks
at ING Investment Management in New York, said in a phone
interview. “Earnings are also not coming in that great. Vale,
Gol -- you have a lot of misses, so that’s not helping.”  Brazil ’s budget surplus before interest payments almost
doubled in June from the previous month, an indication President
 Dilma Rousseff  is following through on her pledge to tame
 government spending  to slow growth. Brazil’s central bank has
raised the benchmark rate five times this year, one of a series
of measures taken to curb its fastest inflation since 2005.  U.S. Economy   President Obama, speaking from the White House, said that
with a potential U.S. default four days away, the time for
compromise between Republicans and Democrats is “now.”  House
Republicans  said they have the votes to pass House Speaker  John Boehner ’s plan today. Obama opposes that plan. Senate Majority
Leader  Harry Reid  said he will take action to move to a vote on
his competing plan while holding out hope for a deal with
Republican leaders.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index fell for a fifth
consecutive day as the U.S. economy grew less than forecast in
the second quarter. Gross domestic product rose at a 1.3 percent
annual rate following a 0.4 percent gain in the prior quarter
that was less than previously estimated, Commerce Department
figures showed today in  Washington . The median forecast of
economists surveyed by Bloomberg News called for a 1.8 percent
increase.  Brazil’s Planning Minister Miriam Belchior said a plan to
cut 50 billion reais ($32 billion) from this year’s federal
budget won’t affect the government’s growth acceleration
program. Rousseff’s administration said Brazil’s primary surplus
will widen this year to 117.9 billion reais, equal to about 2.9
percent of GDP, from 101.7 billion reais last year. Brazil still
has an overall deficit, related to payments on its debt.  Vale Misses  Vale fell 1.5 percent to 45.56 reais after second-quarter
net income rose to $1.22 a share, short of the $1.39 a share on
an adjusted basis average of 13 estimates compiled by Bloomberg.
Gol plunged 14 percent, the most in more than two years, to
13.11 reais.  OSX Brasil SA dropped 1.1 percent to 367 reais, heading for
a record low, after the release of a five-year investment plan
failed to allay concern that delays will keep billionaire  Eike Batista ’s shipbuilding start-up from delivering profits.  MMX Mineracao & Metalicos SA, the iron-ore miner also
controlled by Batista, fell 3.1 percent to 8.21 reais, its
lowest price in a month as commodity prices fell. The Thomson
Reuters/Jeffries CRB Index of 19 raw materials dropped 0.9
percent, headed for its third consecutive daily decline.  Embraer  Embraer SA, the world’s fourth-largest planemaker, surged
8.6 percent, the most in more than six months, to 11.36 reais as
the company said second-quarter net income rose 51 percent.  Brazil’s benchmark equity measure entered a  bear market  on
July 27 after falling 20 percent from a November high as the
government adopted new measures to stem currency gains and
inflation quickened. It’s the only benchmark  stock index  among
the so-called BRIC nations to have dropped this year at least 20
percent from the preceding bull market peak, the standard
definition of a bear market.  Crude for September delivery slipped 1.9 percent to $95.58
a barrel on the  New York  Mercantile Exchange as oil headed for
its first weekly decline since June.  The Bovespa trades at 9.5 times analysts’ earnings
estimates, near the lowest since March 2009, according to weekly
data compiled by Bloomberg. That compares to a ratio of 12.4 for
the Shanghai Composite Index, 6.7 for  Russia ’s Micex and 14.7
for  India ’s Sensex.  Traders moved 5.72 billion reais ($3.64 billion) in stocks
yesterday, data compiled by Bloomberg show. That compares to a
daily average this year of 6.36 billion reais through July 25,
according to data from the exchange.  Foreign investors have pulled 93.4 million reais from  Latin
America ’s largest equity market in the year through July 22,
according to the exchange.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Leon Lazaroff in New York 
 llazaroff@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  