-- 
Brisa Steps Up Spending Cuts as Toll Revenue May Miss 2011 Goal

-- B y   A n a b e l a   R e i s
-- 
2011-07-29T23:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-29/brisa-steps-up-spending-cuts-as-toll-revenue-may-miss-2011-goal.html
Brisa-Auto Estradas de  Portugal  SA,
the country’s biggest toll-road operator, plans to step up cost
cutting as traffic and toll revenue in Portugal may miss its
target this year, Chief Executive Officer Vasco de Mello said.  Toll revenue at the company’s main concession may miss the
March forecast of a 2 percent to 3 percent gain, Mello said in a
phone interview yesterday. Brisa is focusing on “reducing
expenditures” to offset worsened macroeconomic prospects, Mello
told analysts in a conference call late yesterday.  Portugal, which in May accepted an external-aid package
from the European Commission and the  International Monetary
Fund , forecasts the economy will shrink 2.3 percent this year
and 1.7 percent in 2012. Brisa, based near Lisbon, has been
cutting costs by installing automated teller machines on
highways and limiting spending on maintenance and consultants.
It raised money last year by selling a stake in a Brazilian
company.  “Our expectations have to be adjusted to these new macro
variables,” Mello said. “Brisa will maintain cash generation
capacity under this very difficult macroeconomic environment.”
Mello told analysts he will soon announce details of a program
to further cut costs and investments next year. In the first
half, costs declined 8 percent at the operator’s main
concession.  Cash Flow Outlook  The company expects earnings before interest, taxes,
depreciation and amortization minus  capital spending  of at least
350 million euros ($503 million) this year, Mello said. Ebitda
excluding capital spending was 345 million euros last year, the
company said in a  presentation  yesterday.  In the first half, sales rose 2.2 percent to 323.7 million
euros, and toll revenue declined 1.7 percent to 261.7 million
euros, the company said in a statement. Ebitda dropped 1.2
percent to 221.8 million euros.  Brisa shares have fallen 38 percent this year, giving the
company a market value of 1.94 billion euros. That’s the fourth-
biggest decline in Portugal’s 20-stock benchmark index.  Brisa is looking at opportunities in India and  Turkey  after
selling its stake in Companhia de Concessoes Rodoviarias SA,
 Brazil ’s biggest toll-road operator.  The credit rating of the company’s main concession in
Portugal, Brisa Concessao Rodoviaria, is under review by Moody’s
Investors Service and faces a possible downgrade to so-called
junk status, after it was cut to Baa3 on July 18. Moody’s cut
Portugal’s sovereign debt to Ba2, a junk rating, on July 5.  Dividend Plan  Brisa’s plan to pay a 31 euro-cent-a-share dividend for the
next four years won’t be at risk even if Moody’s downgrades the
concession, Mello said. Brisa has cash reserves of 500 million
euros available to pay dividends after the sale of Brazil’s CCR,
he said. It has paid 31 cents a share each year since 2008.  Mello said the downgrade wouldn’t affect the company’s
expansion outside Portugal as investments in new projects will
be “capital-light,” through ventures with local operators.  Brisa still plans to sell bonds after failing to do so in
the first half, Mello said.  “We are prepared to act as soon as market conditions are
acceptable,” he said. In the meantime, the company has been
renewing its short-term credit lines and considering medium-term
credit lines, he said. BCR has a cash position of 160 million
euros and generates free  cash flow  close to 200 million euros
per year, he said.  The company expects to complete a share buyback program
this year, giving it a 10 percent stake in its own shares, up
from about 7.2 percent now, Mello said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anabela Reis in Lisbon at 
 areis1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at 
 acullen8@bloomberg.net  