-- 
British American of Kenya to Expand in Region, Boosting Revenue

-- B y   E r i c   O m b o k
-- 
2011-07-29T04:22:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-29/british-american-of-kenya-to-expand-in-region-boosting-revenue-ceo-says.html
British American Investment Co., the
Kenyan financial-services company whose initial public offering
closes on Aug. 5, expects revenue growth to accelerate next year
as it expands into neighboring  Tanzania  and South Sudan.  The company is “optimistic” operations will begin in at
least one of the two nations in the first quarter of 2012,
Managing Director Benson Wairegi said in an interview yesterday
in the capital, Nairobi. The expansion may help the company
exceed the industry’s average growth of 15 percent, he said.  “Our average growth rate for the past five years in total
revenue terms has been about 22 to 23 percent,” Wairegi said.
“Going forward, we are targeting a growth rate of between 20 and
30 percent.”  Kenyan companies are expanding in East Africa to boost
market share and take advantage of accelerating economic growth.
Gross domestic product in the  East African Community , a common-
market of more than 133 million people in  Kenya ,  Uganda ,  Rwanda ,
Burundi and Tanzania, is expected to grow 6.4 percent in 2016,
compared with 5.8 percent this year, according to International
Monetary Fund data.  British American is raising as much as 5.85 billion
shillings ($65 million) of new equity capital in an initial
public offering to finance its expansion. Earlier this month, it
introduced services in Uganda, where the business is expected to
break even in three years, Wairegi said.  ‘Market Leader’  British American is the market leader in individual life
insurance in Kenya, with a 25 percent share in 2009, and an 11
percent share in group- life insurance  and pensions, Wairegi
said. The company’s fund-management unit, British American Asset
Managers, has funds worth 17 billion shillings and has the
largest market share of unit trusts at 33 percent, African
Alliance Securities Kenya Ltd. said in an e-mailed note to
clients on July 25.  Only 2.9 percent of Kenyan households have insurance,
according to Sterling Investment Bank Ltd., which has a “buy”
rating on the stock. That compares with a global average of 7.5
percent, and rates of 16.5 percent in  England , the market
leader, and 16 percent in  South Africa , the continent’s biggest
economy, the Nairobi-based brokerage said in a note on July 26.  British American is offering 650 million shares at 9
shillings each. The stock will begin trading on the  Nairobi
Stock Exchange  on Sept. 2, Wairegi said. Sterling has a price
estimate of 11.63 shillings on the stock.  Property Investment  After the initial public offering, the company plans to use
some of the funds raised to boost its investment in property to
as much as 30 percent of all its assets within about three years
from 9 percent now, Wairegi said.  Projects include an office block on 1.5 acres (0.6
hectares) of land in Upper Hill, a financial district next to
Nairobi’s city center, with an initial 2 billion shillings being
earmarked, he said. In Kilimani, a residential-commercial suburb
in Nairobi, British American will undertake property development
on 1.6 acres, he said.  “We are also looking for more land in interesting areas
like the Thika-Nairobi super-highway and the Mombasa Road, which
as you know are two areas that are growing very fast,” Wairegi
said.  China  Wu Yi Co., based in Fujian, China, Sinohydro Corp.
and Shengli Engineering Construction are building a 27 billion-
shilling road linking Nairobi with the pineapple-growing town of
Thika 40 kilometers (25 miles) north. Part of the road linking
Nairobi with the port city of Mombasa is also being
rehabilitated.  British American Investment holds an 11.05 percent
strategic equity investment in  Equity Bank Ltd. (EQBNK) , Kenya’s biggest
bank by customers, and 16.57 percent of Housing Finance Co., the
country’s largest provider of home mortgages, according to
Sterling.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eric Ombok in Nairobi at 
 eombok@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shaji Mathew at 
 shajimathew@bloomberg.net . 