-- 
BSkyB Plans to Start $1.2 Billion Share Buyback as Earnings Beat Estimates

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   B r o w n i n g
-- 
2011-07-29T08:15:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-29/bskyb-plans-to-start-1-2-billion-share-buyback-as-earnings-beat-estimates.html
British Sky Broadcasting Group Plc (BSY) ,
will buy back 750 million pounds ($1.2 billion) in shares, two
weeks after Rupert Murdoch’s  News Corp. (NWSA)  abandoned its bid for
the rest of the pay-television broadcaster.  News Corp.’s 39 percent holding in BSkyB won’t increase
after the stock repurchase, the Isleworth, England-based
broadcaster said today. Full-year earnings before interest,
taxes, depreciation and amortization were 1.41 billion pounds,
exceeding the 1.39 billion-pound average estimate of 19 analysts
compiled by Bloomberg.  News Corp. shelved its 7.8 billion-pound bid for the
remaining shares on July 14 after allegations of phone hacking
at its now-defunct News of the World tabloid engulfed the media
company and prompted an unprecedented political backlash. James Murdoch, the 38-year-old son of  Rupert Murdoch , will remain as
BSkyB chairman. The 14-person board, which gave him unanimous
support at a meeting yesterday, will continue to monitor events,
Chief Executive Officer Jeremy Darroch said today.  “It was obviously a very full discussion,” Darroch said
on a conference call. “At the end of that, the board was
unanimous in its support for James to continue as chairman.”  Voting Rights  BSkyB’s had fallen 16 percent from this year’s high of 850
pence before the Guardian reported July 4 that News of the World
employees intercepted murder victim Milly Dowler’s voice mails
in 2002. The stock rose as much as 2.1 percent, and traded 0.6
percent higher at 720.5 pence as of 8:44 a.m. in  London .  The broadcaster also increased its full-year dividend by 20
percent to 23.3 pence a share, totaling 253 million pounds.
BSkyB’s free cash flow adjusted for some items jumped 51 percent
to 869 million pounds.  News Corp. will maintain both its voting and economic
interests, BSkyB said. “News Corp. on an ordinary basis would
not want to sell shares in Sky,” Darroch said on. By tendering
its own shares, News Corp. avoids “issues around creeping
control.”  “Shareholders in the round are feeling bruised after the
share price collapse over the last two to three weeks,” said
Alex de Groote, an analyst at Panmure Gordon in London.
“Realistically there’s not going to be a bid for Sky for the
foreseeable future so they want to be compensated for that.”  Under Pressure  BSkyB’s board had come under pressure to review  James Murdoch ’s position as non-executive chairman, after his
testimony to U.K. lawmakers on July 19 over the phone-hacking
scandal was contradicted by two former employees. While the
hacking incidents took place before he started overseeing News
Corp.’s News International U.K. publishing unit, Murdoch
authorized settlements to hacking victims that are now being
questioned.  BSkyB said today independent directors Allan Leighton and
 David Evans  will step down at the company’s annual meeting in
the fall.  News Corp. is dealing with three probes by police and
regulators into phone hacking at the News of the World. At least
10 people have been arrested, including former News
International CEO Rebekah Brooks and ex-News of the World editor
 Andy Coulson , who was Prime Minister  David Cameron ’s press chief
until January.  BSkyB also said today it acquired Formula 1 rights to show
all races between 2012 and 2018 alongside the British
Broadcasting Corp.  Bloomberg LP, the parent of Bloomberg News, competes with
News Corp. units in providing financial news and information.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jonathan Browning  in London 
 jbrowning9@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  