-- 
BSkyB Plans to Start $1.2 Billion Share Buyback as Earnings Match Estimate

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   B r o w n i n g
-- 
2011-07-29T06:20:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-29/bskyb-plans-to-start-1-2-billion-share-buyback-as-earnings-match-estimate.html
British Sky Broadcasting Group Plc (BSY) ,
will buy back 750 million pounds ($1.2 billion) in shares, two
weeks after Rupert Murdoch’s  News Corp. (NWSA)  abandoned its bid for
the rest of the pay-television broadcaster.  News Corp.’s current 39 percent holding in BSkyB won’t
increase as a result of the buyback, the Isleworth, England-
based broadcaster said in a statement today. Full-year earnings
before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization were 1.41
billion pounds, exceeding the 1.39 billion-pound average 
estimate of 19 analysts compiled by Bloomberg.  News Corp. shelved its 7.8 billion-pound bid for the
remaining shares on July 14 after allegations of phone hacking
at its now-defunct News of the World tabloid engulfed the media
company and prompted an unprecedented political backlash. James Murdoch, the 38-year-old son of  Rupert Murdoch , will remain as
BSkyB chairman. The 14-person board, which gave him unanimous
support at a meeting yesterday, will continue to monitor events, 
a person with knowledge of the matter said.  BSkyB’s shares have fallen 16 percent from this year’s high
of 850 pence before the Guardian reported July 4 that News of
the World employees intercepted murder victim Milly Dowler’s
voice mails in 2002.  “Shareholders in the round are feeling bruised after the
share price collapse over the last two to three weeks,” said
Alex de Groote, an analyst at Panmure Gordon in  London .
“Realistically there’s not going to be a bid for Sky for the
foreseeable future so they want to be compensated for that.”  Pressure  BSkyB’s board had come under pressure to review  James Murdoch ’s position as non-executive chairman, after his
testimony to U.K. lawmakers on July 19 over the phone-hacking
scandal was contradicted by two former employees. While the
hacking incidents took place before he started News Corp.’s U.K.
newspaper publishing unit, Murdoch authorized settlements to
hacking victims that are now being questioned.  News Corp. is dealing with three probes by police and
regulators into phone hacking at the News of the World. At least
10 people have been arrested, including former News
International CEO Rebekah Brooks and ex-News of the World editor
 Andy Coulson , who was Prime Minister  David Cameron ’s press chief
until January.  Bloomberg LP, the parent of Bloomberg News, competes with
News Corp. units in providing financial news and information.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jonathan Browning  in London 
 jbrowning9@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  