-- 
BSkyB to Show Formula 1 Races in Deal That Takes Exclusivity From BBC

-- B y   A m y   T h o m s o n
-- 
2011-07-29T11:11:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-29/bskyb-to-show-formula-1-races-in-deal-that-takes-exclusivity-from-bbc.html
British Sky Broadcasting Group Plc (BSY) ,
the U.K.’s biggest pay-TV company, won a seven-year agreement to
broadcast the Formula One racing series that ends exclusive
availability on the publicly funded British Broadcasting Corp.  Beginning in March 2012, the Sky Sports channel will be
“the only place to see all the races, with at least half those
being exclusively on Sky,” Isleworth, England-based BSkyB said
in a statement today. Half of the races and qualifying sessions
will still also be broadcast on the BBC’s outlets, it said.  BSkyB relies mainly on sports broadcasts and movies to lure
customers. The broadcaster, partly owned by News Corp., sells
“Sports Pack” add-on channels to video customers for about  20
pounds  ($32.60). The  BBC , which is funded by license fees from
U.K. taxpayers, offers Formula One car races at no additional
charge. The network gave up its exclusive broadcast rights,
which ran through 2013, in an effort to save money.  “We were very happy with the price we paid,” BSkyB Chief
Executive Officer Jeremy Darroch said on a conference call,
declining to specify an amount. “It’s a great addition to what
we do.”  BSkyB had 10.2 million customers for its TV product and 3.8
million for its Sky HD high-definition video service at the end
of June. The company’s sales rose by 16 percent to 6.6 billion
pounds in the 12 months through June.  News Corp. (NWSA) ’s Role  BSkyB is 39 percent owned by New York-based News Corp.,
which was forced to drop a 7.8 billion-pound offer for the
remaining shares of the pay-TV broadcaster amid pressure
surrounding phone-hacking allegations at a U.K. newspaper owned
by the U.S. publisher.  James Murdoch , deputy operating chief at News Corp., will
remain chairman of the U.K. broadcaster, BSkyB said today.  BSkyB rose as much as 2.1 percent to 731 pence and was up
0.4 percent as of 12:07 p.m. in London trading. The stock has
declined 2.4 percent this year.  The BBC, the world’s oldest public-service broadcaster,
lost its license for Formula One in 1997 with the rights to
broadcast the races going to  ITV Plc. (ITV)  The BBC then won it back
with a new agreement starting with the 2009 season.  The BBC has considered dropping Formula One coverage, which
costs 60 million pounds annually, amid a freeze on its license
fees, the Sunday Times reported last month. Formula One
President  Bernie Ecclestone  has said that the races have to be
available on free-to-air television, according to an agreement
with the European Union. BSkyB’s programming is available
through paid cable or satellite subscriptions.  “With this new deal, not only have we delivered
significant savings but we have also ensured that through our
live and extended highlights coverage all the action continues
to be available,” Barbara Slater, director of BBC Sport, said
in a statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Amy Thomson in London at 
 athomson6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  