-- 
Bundesbank Loses U.K. Bid to Seize Assets in Lehman CDO Deal

-- B y   K i t   C h e l l e l
-- 
2011-07-29T15:33:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-29/bundesbank-loses-u-k-bid-to-seize-assets-in-lehman-cdo-deal.html
Germany ’s central bank lost its bid
to take control of a 2.9 billion-euro ($4.2 billion)
securitization set up by  Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. (LEHMQ)  just
before its collapse.  Judge Michael Briggs ruled Excalibur Funding No. 1 wasn’t
in default for long enough to allow the senior noteholder, the
Bundesbank, to wrest control away from Lehman.  Excalibur was created by Lehman in May 2008 when the U.S.
bank packaged together a group of loans and collateralized debt
obligations. New York-based Lehman filed for bankruptcy three
months later listing assets of $639 billion.  Under the rules of the Excalibur agreement, if the special
purpose vehicle was found to be in default, management of its
assets would pass to the Bundesbank as holder of 2.1 billion
euros of its senior debt. Lawyers for Lehman, which holds 722
million euros of Excalibur’s junior debt, argued Excalibur had
enough cash to meet its obligations.  While there was a default on Jan. 25, it didn’t continue
beyond Jan. 28, Justice Briggs said in his ruling.  Standard & Poor’s Financial Services LLC, which gave
Excalibur’s senior notes an ‘A’ rating when the security was
issued in 2008, warned in November the vehicle didn’t have
enough income to pay interest on the junior notes held by Lehman
and that senior noteholders were unlikely to be repaid in full.  In the latest of a series of downgrades, it lowered
Excalibur’s rating to ‘D’ in March.  The case is: LB RE Financing No.3 Limited v Excalibur
Funding No.1 Plc and Deutsche Bundesbank and US Bank Trustees
Ltd., U.K.  High Court  of Justice ( Chancery Division ), 11-01164.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kit Chellel in London 
 cchellel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  