-- 
California Gasoline Rises Most in a Week on Exports, Plant Work

-- B y   L y n n   D o a n
-- 
2011-07-29T20:28:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-29/california-gasoline-rises-most-in-a-week-on-exports-plant-work.html
Spot California-blend gasoline
strengthened for the third day in anticipation of fuel cargoes
leaving the West Coast in the next few weeks and maintenance is
expected to begin at a  Chevron Corp. (CVX)  refinery.  The discount for prompt-delivery Carbob in  Los Angeles 
narrowed 4.15 cents to 13.4 cents versus futures traded on the
 New York  Mercantile Exchange at 1:44 p.m. East Coast time,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. That’s the narrowest
spread for the fuel in almost three weeks.  Carbob in  San Francisco  strengthened 4.1 cents, also to a
discount of 13.4 cents.  Chevron is said to be planning maintenance on a coker and a
vacuum gasoil unit at its refinery in El Segundo, California,
next month. The refinery will shut the units for about two
weeks, affecting the plant’s ability to process heavier oils,
according to a person with knowledge of the work.  California  gasoline’s discount has created tremendous
export opportunities for refiners in the state, said Marcel van
Dijk, business development manager at the Port of Los Angeles.
Van Dijk, who coordinates with terminal operators, shipping
lines and receiving cargo owners, said diesel exports have been
particularly on the rise.  “We still produce an excessive amount of diesel fuel,” he
said. “With our dollar value being so low against other
currencies and the economy down, exports are creeping up.”  The premium for prompt-delivery, California-blend diesel in
Los Angeles was unchanged at 1 cent over heating oil futures.
The fuel in San Francisco narrowed 0.25 cent to a 1-cent
premium.  A ship named the Aegean Wave was scheduled to load clean
products from the West Coast today for delivery in South and
Central America, according to ship fixture data compiled by
Bloomberg. The ship is anchored off Los Angeles, according to
AISLive data on Bloomberg.  Two other ships, the Cape Bacton and the Puze, loaded
products from the West Coast earlier this month.  The discount for conventional, 87-octane gasoline in
 Portland ,  Oregon , narrowed 1 cent to 8 cents versus futures.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lynn Doan in San Francisco at 
 ldoan6@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets in New York at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net . 