-- 
Canada’s Economy Shrank 0.3% in May Posting the Largest Drop in Two Years

-- B y   A n d r e w   M a y e d a
-- 
2011-07-29T14:44:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-29/canada-s-economy-shrank-0-3-in-may-posting-the-largest-drop-in-two-years.html
Canada’s gross domestic product fell
in May by the most in two years due to temporary disruptions in
the mining and oil and gas sector, government data showed.  Output fell 0.3 percent in May to C$1.26 trillion ($1.32
trillion) on a seasonally adjusted basis, after being little
changed in April and gaining 0.3 percent in March,  Statistics
Canada  said today in Ottawa. Economists in a Bloomberg survey
forecast the economy would grow 0.1 percent, based on the median
of 24 responses.  The  Bank of Canada   said July 20  the economy’s growth
probably slowed to 1.5 percent in the second quarter of this
year, its slowest pace since the country emerged from recession
in 2009, because of “supply disruptions” related to the
earthquake and tsunami in  Japan , slowing  government spending  and
the impact of higher food and energy prices. Governor Mark Carney has kept the central bank’s benchmark policy rate at 1
percent since September.  “The weakness is slightly over-stated” in May because of
temporary factors, said  David Tulk , chief Canada macro
strategist at TD Securities, though the numbers highlight how
expansion in the second quarter has been a “lost cause.”  Tulk said today’s data suggest the central bank’s second-
quarter forecast may be too high.  U.S. Weakness  The Commerce Department said separately today the  U.S.
economy  grew at a less-than-previously estimated 0.4 percent
pace in the first quarter, and expanded at a 1.3 percent annual
rate in the second quarter. The median forecast of economists
surveyed by Bloomberg News called for a 1.8 percent increase in
the three months through June.  Bonds rose, with yield on the 2-year Canadian note dropping
nine basis points to 1.39 percent, the lowest since July 18. The
Canadian currency weakened 0.8 percent to 95.68 cents per  U.S.
dollar  at 10:30 a.m. in Toronto, compared with 94.93 yesterday.  The economy grew 2.2 percent in May from the same month a
year earlier, Statistics Canada said today, the smallest yearly
gain since February 2010. Output increased 2.8 percent in April
from the same month a year earlier.  Output in mining, oil and gas extraction dropped 5.3
percent in May following two monthly gains due to wildfires in
northern  Alberta  and maintenance shutdowns at  oil fields , the
report said. Production at copper, nickel, lead and zinc mines
fell 9.6 percent after a 6.1 percent increase in April.  Manufacturing Declines  Manufacturing declined 0.4 percent as output of non-durable
goods slumped and oil refineries shut down for maintenance,
Statistics Canada said. Construction slipped 0.3 percent in May.  Wholesale trade increased 1.0 percent in May while
retailing rose 0.2 percent. Public-sector output rose 0.5
percent due to the country’s census, the report said, while the
finance and insurance industries increased 0.1 percent.  A separate Statistics Canada report showed that factory
prices and raw materials costs fell faster than economists
predicted last month.  The industrial product price index fell 0.3 percent in June
from May, led by petroleum and coal products as gasoline prices
dropped 4.3 percent, Statistics Canada said. The median estimate
in a Bloomberg survey of 15 economists was for a 0.1 percent
decline.  The raw-materials price index fell 2.2 percent in June, the
report said, compared with economist predictions for a 2 percent
decrease, according to the median estimate in a Bloomberg survey
with 13 responses. It was the second straight monthly drop in
the index after seven consecutive increases.  Over the 12 months ending in June, industrial prices rose
5.2 percent while raw-materials costs rose 23.0 percent,
suggesting factory profit margins have been squeezed.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Mayeda in Ottawa at 
 amayeda@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net ;
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  