-- 
Canada May Gross Domestic Product Report (Text)

-- B y   C h r i s   M i d d l e t o n
-- 
2011-07-29T13:17:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-29/canada-may-gross-domestic-product-report-text-.html
The following is the text of the May
GDP report released by  Statistics Canada .  Real gross domestic product decreased 0.3% in May, after no
change in April and a 0.3% increase in March. The mining, oil
and gas extraction sector was the main source of the decline in
May. Manufacturing and construction also fell. Wholesale and
retail trade, the public sector, utilities as well as the
finance and insurance sector increased. Transportation services
were unchanged.  Note to readers  The monthly gross domestic product (GDP) by industry data
at basic prices are chained volume estimates with 2002 as their
reference year. This means that the data for each industry and
aggregate are obtained from a chained volume index multiplied by
the industry’s value added in 2002. For the 1997 to 2007 period,
the monthly data are benchmarked to annually chained Fisher
volume indexes of GDP obtained from the constant-price input-
output tables.  For the period starting with January 2008, the data are
derived by chaining a fixed-weight Laspeyres volume index to the
prior period. The fixed weights are the industry output and
input prices of 2007. This makes the monthly GDP by industry
data more comparable with the expenditure-based GDP data,
chained quarterly.  Revisions  With this release of monthly GDP by industry, revisions
have been made back to January 2010. For more information about
monthly GDP by industry, see the National Economic Accounts
module on our website (www.statcan.gc.ca/nea-cen/index-eng.htm).  Weather and maintenance hamper energy production  After two consecutive monthly increases, mining, oil and
gas extraction fell 5.3% in May. Oil and gas extraction
decreased by 4.2% as wildfires in Northern Alberta as well as
maintenance shutdowns resulted in reduced production at  oil
fields . Support activities for mining, oil and gas extraction
contracted as drilling and rigging activities were down partly
as a result of unfavourable weather. Output of copper, nickel,
lead and zinc mines declined 9.6%, following a 6.1% gain in
April.  Manufacturing declines  Manufacturing declined 0.4% in May, with production of non-
durable goods decreasing 1.4% while the output of durable goods
increased 0.4%. Output at refineries was significantly reduced,
mostly as a result of maintenance shutdowns at a number of
facilities across the country. Manufacturing of food and plastic
products also declined. Motor vehicles and parts production
decreased 0.5% in May, following a more pronounced decline in
April caused mainly by a supply disruption as a consequence of
the tsunami in  Japan . Conversely, manufacturing of computer and
electronic products (+5.1%), chemicals (+2.3%) as well as
machinery (+1.2%) was up.  Construction decreases  Construction activity was down 0.3% in May. A decline in
engineering and repair work and non-residential building
construction outweighed an increase in residential building
construction.  Growth in wholesale and in retail trade  Wholesale trade advanced 1.0% in May, with the growth
concentrated in machinery and equipment as well as agricultural
supplies. Wholesaling of petroleum products and of motor
vehicles was down.  Retail trade was up 0.2% as a result of increased activity
at building material and garden equipment stores and general
merchandise stores. Conversely, activity at food and beverage
stores and new car dealers was down.  Increase in the public sector  Output in all three components of the public sector
(education, health and public administration) increased, with a
notable advance in the federal government as a result of the
2011 Census.  Other industries  The finance and insurance sector edged up 0.1% in May.
Growth in the credit intermediation and securities brokerage
industries was partially offset by a decline in the insurance
sector.  While transportation services overall were unchanged, the
declines in mining and in manufacturing output contributed to a
reduction in rail transportation. Air transportation was also
down.  Data on gross domestic product by industry for June will be
released on August 31.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Middleton in Washington at 
 cmiddleton2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Marco Babic at   mbabic@bloomberg.net  