-- 
Canadian Dollar Weakens as Report Shows Nation’s Economy Contracted in May

-- B y   F r e d e r i c   T o m e s c o   a n d   C h r i s   F o u r n i e r
-- 
2011-07-29T21:17:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-29/canadian-dollar-weakens-as-report-shows-nation-s-economy-contracted-in-may.html
Canada ’s dollar declined against its
U.S. counterpart after a report showed the nation’s economy
unexpectedly contracted in May by the most in two years as
production in the mining and oil and gas sector declined.  The Canadian currency fell versus all of its 16 most-traded
counterparts as a report showed the  U.S. economy  grew less than
forecast in the second quarter, after almost coming to a halt at
the start of the year, as consumers retrenched. Crude oil,
Canada’s largest export, declined.  “The fact that Canada and U.S. GDP weren’t great just took
a toll on the Canadian dollar,” said Brian Kim, a currency
strategist in  Stamford ,  Connecticut , at Royal Bank of Scotland
Group Plc. “Disappointing GDPs in  North America  in general are
not helping the currency.”  The Canadian currency weakened 0.6 percent to 95.52 cents
per  U.S. dollar  by 5 p.m. in Toronto, compared with 94.93
yesterday. It gained 0.9 percent in July, from 96.34 cents on
June 30, and touched 94.07 cents on July 26, the strongest since
Nov. 9, 2007. One Canadian dollar buys $1.0469.  Crude oil futures slipped 1.5 percent to $95.95 a barrel.
The MSCI World Index of equities in developed countries fell 0.5
percent, while Canada’s benchmark Standard & Poor’s/TSX
Composite Index dropped 0.8 percent.  Economic Data  Yields on two-year Government of Canada bonds fell nine
basis points to 1.39 percent, pushing the price of the 2 percent
note due in August 2013 up 17 cents to C$101.20. The yield on
the 10-year note fell 10 basis points to 2.78 percent.  Canada’s economic output fell 0.3 percent in May to C$1.26
trillion ($1.32 trillion) on a seasonally adjusted basis, after
being little changed in April and gaining 0.3 percent in March,
 Statistics Canada  said today in Ottawa. Economists in a
Bloomberg survey forecast the economy would grow 0.1 percent,
based on the median of 24 responses.  The Canadian GDP report gives more evidence that the second
quarter “will be a very subdued print,” Mazen Issa, macro
strategist at Toronto-Dominion Bank’s TD Securities unit in
Toronto, wrote in a note to clients. The report also increases
the risk that growth in the quarter ended June 30 will fall
short of TD’s 1.3 percent forecast, he said.  Materials Prices  A separate Statistics Canada report showed that factory
prices and raw materials costs fell faster than economists
predicted last month. The industrial product price index fell
0.3 percent in June from May, led by petroleum and coal products
as gasoline prices dropped 4.3 percent, Statistics Canada said.
The median estimate in a Bloomberg survey of 15 economists was
for a 0.1 percent decline.  U.S. gross domestic product rose at a 1.3 percent annual
rate following a 0.4 percent gain in the prior quarter that was
less than previously estimated, Commerce Department figures
showed today in  Washington . The median forecast of economists
surveyed by Bloomberg News called for a 1.8 percent increase.  Canada’s currency weakened earlier as an impasse between
President  Barack Obama  and House Speaker  John Boehner  spurred
some investors to predict the U.S. will lose its AAA credit
rating. Moody’s Investors Service said it may cut  Spain ’s credit
ranking.  “This is all about the U.S. dollar and the euro,” said
Firas Askari, head currency trader at Bank of Montreal’s BMO
Capital unit, by e-mail from Toronto. “The market is focused on
the U.S. deficit crises. This continuing political brinksmanship
is causing great unease in all asset classes. This is not a
Canadian dollar story at all.”  Canada’s dollar has declined 3.3 percent this year versus
the currencies of nine other developed nations in the second-
worst performance, according to Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted
Currency Indexes. The greenback has fallen 7.9 percent and the
Japanese yen has lost 2.1 percent of its value.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Frederic Tomesco in Montreal at 
 tomesco@bloomberg.net ;
Chris Fournier in Toronto at 
 cfournier3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  