-- 
McDonald’s to Open a Restaurant a Day in China in Four Years

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-07-29T08:30:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-29/mcdonald-s-franchises-to-account-for-up-to-20-of-china-business.html
McDonald’s Corp. (MCD) , the world’s
largest restaurant chain, should open an outlet a day in  China 
as it challenges Yum! Brands for dominance in Asia’s largest
economy as rising salaries boost spending on fast food.  “We should be opening a restaurant every day in the next
three to four years” in China, Peter Rodwell, company
president for Asia excluding  Japan ,  Australia  and  New Zealand ,
said in an interview in Singapore today. “We’re now opening a
restaurant every other day.”  McDonald’s franchised outlets in China may account for as
much as 20 percent of the total within six years, Rodwell said,
as the hamburger chain aims to increase its stores from 1,300
to 2,000 by 2013. While its website says more than 75 percent
of restaurants worldwide are operated by  franchisees , only six
McDonald’s shops in the world’s most-populous nation are
franchised, said Vivian Zhang, a Shanghai-based spokeswoman.  “Franchising can be a very effective way to grow in
China,” said Ben Cavender, an analyst at China Market Research
in  Shanghai . “It will potentially allow them to accelerate
their expansion on the mainland.”  China Franchises  McDonald’s plans to grow its franchising business, first
started in Wuxi in 2007, as it is “confident about the China
market’s future”, Zhang said in an e-mailed statement today.
It has three franchisees with two stores each in Liaoning,
Jiangsu and Zhejiang province, she said.  “We expect somewhere in the range of 15 to 20 percent of
the organization or the business will be franchised in the next
five to six years,” Rodwell, who’s also responsible for the
company’s Middle East operations, said in a separate interview
for Bloomberg TV.  Most of McDonald’s 800 restaurants in the  Middle East  are
operated by franchisees, he said.  McDonald’s fell 0.4 percent to $86.78 in New York Stock
Exchange composite trading yesterday. The stock has climbed 13
percent this year, outperforming the 3.4 percent advance of the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.  The Oak Brook, Illinois-based company has said it plans to
recruit 50,000 employees in China this year, including 1,000
university graduates as management trainees. McDonald’s, which
trails Yum in number of Chinese locations, moved its China
training center from  Hong Kong  to Shanghai last year.  KFC,  Pizza Hut   Yum had 3,200 KFC restaurants and 500 Pizza Huts in 650
Chinese cities at the end of 2010. McDonald’s had about 1,100
stores in China as of December.  McDonald’s may create more than 10,000 jobs yearly in
China as each new restaurant requires about 60 employees, said
Liam Jeory, a McDonald’s spokesman in Hong Kong.  McDonald’s “needs to get everything right at the very
beginning before going ahead on a large scale” with regard to
franchising in China, Michelle Chen, a Shanghai-based analyst
with KGI  Asia  Ltd., said in a phone interview today. “A common
issue with franchising in China is that franchisees want quick
money and don’t have the same capability as the corporate for
running a business.”  Sales at all of China’s fast-food chains rose 12 percent
last year to 60 billion yuan ($9.3 billion), according to
Euromonitor International. Yum led the market with a 40 percent
share, compared with 16 percent for McDonald’s, the London-
based researcher said.  McDonald’s has increased product prices in China at least
twice this year to help mitigate pressure from rising prices.
China’s consumer prices rose 6.4 percent in June from a year
earlier, the most in three years.  --Rishaad Salamat, Andrea Tan and  Michael Wei . With
assistance from Vianne Fung and Frank Longid in Hong Kong.
Editors: Michael Tighe, Subramaniam Sharma  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Michael Wei in Shanghai at +86-21-6104-3044 or
 mwei13@bloomberg.net ;
Andrea Tan in  Singapore  at +65-6212-1325 or
 atan17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Longid at 
 flongid@bloomberg.net  