-- 
Chevron’s Second-Quarter Profit Hits Record on Crude Rally

-- B y   J o e   C a r r o l l
-- 
2011-07-29T20:40:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-29/chevron-s-second-quarter-profit-increases-on-crude-rally.html
Chevron Corp. (CVX)  said net income
climbed 43 percent to a second-quarter record as rising energy
demand and the Libyan civil war drove crude above $125 a barrel
for the first time in 2 1/2 years.  Higher crude prices triggered contractual clauses in some
nations that reduced the company’s share of output, pushing
Chevron’s worldwide production down 1.9 percent to the
equivalent of 2.69 million barrels of crude a day. The full-year
output estimate was lowered by 2.2 percent today to 2.73 million
barrels a day, due in part to the crude rally.  Chevron fell $1.01 to $104.02 at 4:22 p.m. in New York
Stock Exchange composite trading. Crude futures traded in  New
York  dropped by $1.74 to $95.70 a barrel, dragging down an index
of 13  oil companies  by about 1 percent.  Net income for the second quarter rose to $7.73 billion, or
$3.85 a share, from $5.41 billion, or $2.70, a year earlier,  San
Ramon , California-based Chevron said today in a statement. The
result was 23 cents higher than the average estimate from six
analysts in a Bloomberg survey.  Profit from oil and natural-gas sales jumped 51 percent to
$6.87 billion as the price Chevron received for each barrel of
output outside the U.S. rose to $107 from $71 a year earlier,
the statement said. With 74 percent of its oil output located in
countries other than the U.S., Chevron was able to capitalize on
the premium price for London-traded Brent oil, which increased
at five times the pace of U.S. crude prices this year.  Global Demand  “Their international assets and oil fields really carried
the day,” said  Gianna Bern , founder of Chicago-based Brookshire
Advisory & Research. “They have a lot of higher-priced Brent
barrels, and that’s what propelled these impressive results.”  Sales rose 31 percent to $66.7 billion. Chevron had $13.3
billion in cash and cash equivalents as of June 30, according to
the statement.  Worldwide demand for crude-based fuels such as diesel and
gasoline jumped by 740,000 barrels a day during the second
quarter,  according to  the  International Energy Agency  in Paris.
In Libya, home to Africa’s largest oil reserves, crude output
has tumbled 91 percent since the beginning of the year amid an
uprising against  Muammar Qaddafi , according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Perdido Startup  Chevron’s full-year production estimate assumes an average
oil price of $111 a barrel, Vice Chairman George Kirkland sad
today during a conference call with investors.  In addition to the impact of price-sensitive production-
sharing contracts, the output target was reduced because of the
shutdown of a  gas pipeline  in Thailand and slower-than-expected
startup at the Perdido platform in the  Gulf of Mexico , in which
Chevron holds a stake, he said.  The company’s refineries earned $1.04 billion during the
second quarter, a 7.1 percent increase, according to the
statement.  Chevron plans to spend $26 billion this year to drill for
oil, build gas-export terminals and repair refineries. Chief
Executive Officer John Watson has been trimming refining and
retail holdings to focus on higher-profit ventures such as deep-
water exploration in places such as the U.S. Gulf of  Mexico .  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM) , based in Irving, Texas, is the largest
U.S. oil company. Exxon yesterday reported a 41 percent rise in
net income for the second quarter, to $10.7 billion.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joe Carroll in Chicago at 
 jcarroll8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  