-- 
Chicago’s Budget Deficit Widens $50 million to $635.7 Million, Mayor Says

-- B y   T i m   J o n e s
-- 
2011-07-29T20:21:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-29/chicago-s-budget-deficit-widens-50-million-to-635-7-million-mayor-says.html
Chicago’s  budget deficit  for fiscal
2012 is projected to be $635.7 million, Mayor  Rahm Emanuel  said
today, and could approach $800 million by 2014.  The gap is almost $50 million wider than the city’s
estimate of $587 million when Emanuel became mayor of the
nation’s third-largest city in May.  “We have a structural problem, and the moment of truth has
arrived,” Emanuel said at a City Hall news conference. “An
economic recovery will not solve this problem for us.”  Chicago’s budget for the current year is $3.2 billion.
Emanuel is scheduled to present his fiscal plan for 2012 in
October.  The city has projected a budget deficit every year since
2001, reflecting a “structural” problem with city finances, he
said. The mayor said that while he won’t reduce the city’s
police force, he will seek work-rule change from employees. He
again ruled out tax increases for people who “feel nickeled and
dimed.”  “I can’t ask people to pay more into a system that needs
fundamental restructuring,” he said.  AFSCME Council 31, which represents 4,000 city employees,
said in a statement that  Chicago  “is at a crossroads” and that
the union is ready to work with Emanuel, to a point.  Cutting Clout  “Will he cut top-heavy management and clout-heavy
contracts and make big corporations pay their fair share of the
costs?” Henry Bayer, AFSCME Council 31 executive director, said
in the statement.  Even as Chicago’s budget deficit has mounted, its borrowing
costs have fallen. A taxable Chicago general obligation bond
maturing in January 2035 yielded 6.07 percent in trading today,
data compiled by Bloomberg show. The extra yield investors
demand to hold the bond instead of 10-year Treasuries narrowed
to 328 basis points, compared with 437 basis points Jan. 21. A
basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  The new deficit projection follows the May 6 announcement
by former Mayor  Richard M. Daley ’s financial team that the
expected shortfall for 2012 had dropped 10 percent to $587
million.  That decrease from an earlier estimate of $655 million,
which the Daley administration forecast in July 2010, was “a
reflection of the slight uptick in revenues and the aggressive
efforts to hold down headcount and expenditures,” Eugene Munin,
the city budget director, said at the time.  ‘Good Financial Stewards’  Those figures, coming 10 days before Daley left office
after 22 years, amounted to a closing argument on behalf of the
Daley administration as “good financial stewards” for the
city, in the words of Chief Financial Officer Gene Saffold.  The projected shortfall for the 2012 budget is “a painful
message,” said Laurence Msall, president of the Civic
Federation, a non-partisan research organization in Chicago.  “There can be no sacred cows,” Msall said in an
interview, adding that the budget cannot be balanced without a
cut in the city’s payroll.  Emanuel, 51, in the past has criticized Daley’s leasing of
some city operations and said reserve funds from those
agreements shouldn’t have been used to balance budgets. Lease
agreements for the Chicago Skyway and the city’s 36,000 parking
meters enabled the city to keep property taxes stable through
the recession, Saffold said at the May 6 news conference.  The new mayor won’t have the money from leasing parking
meters that Daley tapped. His repeated use of such reserve funds
to balance budgets led  Standard & Poor’s  to cut Chicago’s credit
rating on Nov. 5 by one level to A+, the fifth-highest grade.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tim Jones in Chicago at 
 tjones58@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Flynn McRoberts at   fmcroberts1@bloomberg.net  