-- 
China Should Buy U.S. Equities Instead of Treasuries, Economist Xie Says

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-07-29T04:22:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-29/china-should-favor-u-s-stocks-over-treasuries-as-default-looms-xie-says.html
China should buy U.S. stocks instead
of Treasuries as they may be safer investments amid concerns
about a U.S. debt default or  credit-rating  downgrades, according
to  Andy Xie , an independent economist.  “The U.S. stock market can be a credible alternative,”
Xie, 50, formerly Morgan Stanley’s chief Asia economist in  Hong
Kong , said in an interview in Bloomberg’s Shanghai office
yesterday. “U.S. companies are reporting strong earnings and
they are selling a lot to emerging markets. Even though U.S.
stocks aren’t cheap by historical standards, they are a better
investment relative to Treasuries.”  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index companies are beating analysts’
earnings estimates for a 10th straight quarter, and the group
surpassed its annual per-share profit record of $84.66 from 2007
last year. Analysts see 17 percent income growth in 2011,
according to the average estimate in a Bloomberg survey.  The prospect of a U.S. default could spur fund inflows into
emerging markets, fueling inflation in countries ranging from
 China  to  India , Xie said. The economist said in October 2010
that China would face a “big battle” to contain inflation,
which jumped to a three-year high last month. He also accurately
predicted in April 2007 that China’s equities would tumble.  Loss of Confidence  China is the biggest foreign investor in Treasuries, as
holdings reached a record $1.149 trillion in April, a Treasury
Department report said in June. Former Chinese central bank
adviser Yu Yongding said July 27 that China should reduce its
Treasury holdings amid an impasse among policy makers on raising
the U.S. government’s debt limit.  China’s appetite for Treasuries will wane as the country
loses confidence in America’s government,  Stephen Roach , non-
executive chairman of Morgan Stanley  Asia  Ltd., said yesterday
in an e-mailed note. Treasuries rose yesterday, pushing 10-year
yields to a one-week low, on concern the debt deadlock will
damage the economy.  U.S. House Speaker  John Boehner , falling short of the votes
within his own party needed to increase the debt limit after a
night of one-on-one appeals to members, canceled a vote on a
plan that Senate leaders pledge to defeat.  President  Barack Obama ’s administration and Democrats and
Republicans in Congress are locked in a stalemate over the type
of deficit-cutting measures that should be tied to an increase
in the nation’s $14.3 trillion debt ceiling. The Treasury
Department has said the U.S. exhausts its borrowing authority on
Aug. 2 and risks going into default. S&P, Moody’s Investors
Service and Fitch Ratings have said they may downgrade the
U.S.’s top AAA rating if lawmakers fail to reach agreement.  ‘Least Risky’  A newspaper published by China’s central bank ran a
question-and-answer article on the debt stand-off today that
said U.S. bonds are the world’s most stable and least risky and
only America’s debt market could absorb China’s investment of
foreign-exchange reserves.  The biggest impact on China from a default would be through
a global recession, rather than the losses on its currency
holdings, which would be “serious,” Jin Minmin and Liu Lina,
reporters at the Xinhua News Agency wrote. The article,
reprinted in the central bank’s Financial News, also said that
most analysts see the U.S. as unlikely to default.  Seek Safety  “Some have been talking about cutting investment in  U.S.
debt  for years. But the question is what else is safer?  Europe 
is in trouble,” said Yang Delong, a Shenzhen-based  fund manager 
at China Southern Fund Management Co. which oversees $21
billion. “China does need a variety of investments but safety
should be the priority in any government move.”  U.S. Treasuries are a safe investment, Lawrence Lau, head
of the Hong Kong-based unit of China Investment Corp., which
runs the nation’s $300 billion sovereign wealth fund, said at a
forum in Beijing on May 12. Equities rose by 12 percentage
points last year to 48 percent of its global portfolio as of
Dec. 31, CIC said in its annual report released on July 26.  “U.S. bonds are not safe, but people think they are
safe,” Yu, a researcher at a Beijing institute under the
 Chinese Academy of Social Sciences , told reporters in Mumbai
this week. “That is a mirage.”  Concern the U.S. credit rating will be cut has dragged the
benchmark  S&P 500 Index (SPX)  down 3.3 percent since July 22, the day
Boehner, a Republican, walked out of negotiations with Obama.
The index has advanced 3.4 percent this year on speculation
earnings growth will hold up even as the world’s biggest economy
slows.  Biggest Beneficiary  Singapore , whose economy grew faster than China’s last
year, could be one of the biggest beneficiaries as money flows
out of Treasuries, according to Bank Julius Baer & Co. and
Schroders Plc.  Funds that can only invest in assets with the highest
credit rating would reallocate to countries that have that
ranking such as Singapore, said  Mark Matthews , Singapore-based
head of research for Asia at Bank Julius Baer, which manages
about $205 billion in client assets. Singapore is rated AAA by
Moody’s and Fitch.  “Whether U.S. shares are necessarily better than U.S. debt
-- maybe,” said Lee King Fuei, a Singapore-based fund manager
at Schroders, which oversaw $323 billion as of March 31. “If
U.S. debt and the dollar is what you are worried about, you
should consider the Singapore currency and stocks. Generally,
Asian stocks are probably looking much better.”  Xie favors U.S. energy and agriculture companies because of
rising demand for commodities from emerging markets, he said,
without naming any stocks. Since leaving Morgan Stanley, the
former World Bank economist has worked as a fund adviser and
written opinion articles for Caixin Media Co., a Chinese
financial news company, and Bloomberg News.  “China should buy U.S. stocks,” Xie said. “Stocks are
better than bonds.”  --Allen Wan in  Shanghai , Weiyi Lim in Singapore. With assistance
from Irene Shen, Zhang Shidong, Victoria Ruan and Paul 
Panckhurst. Editors: Darren Boey, Nick Baker.  To contact the Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Allen Wan in Shanghai at 
 awan3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at   dboey@bloomberg.net  