-- 
China Regulator Said to Tell Banks Loan Provision Inadequate

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-07-29T06:20:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-29/china-regulator-s-bad-loan-provision-inadequate.html
China ’s banking regulator told
lenders they haven’t set aside sufficient funds to cover losses
on loans to local governments and ordered them to accelerate
debt collection, a person with knowledge of the matter said.  The lenders were told this month that they are lagging
behind the China Banking Regulatory Commission’s schedule for
revising the loan agreements on infrastructure projects, the
person said, declining to be named because the information is
confidential. The agency had asked banks to collect two
repayments a year after construction is completed.  The comments reflect persistent concerns that $1.7 trillion
of lending to local governments may spur a wave of bad debts
that could lead to the nation’s third banking bailout in less
than two decades. As much of 30 percent of the credit may sour,
 Standard & Poor’s  estimates, after a surge in lending that
powered China’s recovery from the global financial crisis.  “The banking regulator is getting tougher on the local
government debt risk, and that should to some extent increase
the pressure on banks to boost their provisions,” said May Yan,
a Hong Kong-based analyst at Barclays Capital Inc.  Efforts to curb risks in the loans have achieved “initial
results, and the overall risk is controllable,” the regulator
said in an e-mailed response to questions from Bloomberg. Going
forward, banks should amend debt agreements, get better
collateral and refine calculations on capital levels based on
risk-weightings assigned to such loans, it said.  Underestimating Debt  China’s first audit of local government debt last month
found liabilities of 10.7 trillion yuan ($1.7 trillion) at the
end of 2010, 79 percent of which were bank loans. That estimate
fell short of the actual figure by about 3.5 trillion yuan,
Moody’s Investors Service said July 5, adding that lenders may
be left to manage a portion of bad debt on their own.  Direct lending by banks to local government financing
vehicles has surged over the past few years, from roughly 1.7
trillion yuan at the beginning of 2008 to about 4.97 trillion
yuan at the end of 2010,  Steve Wang , the Hong Kong-based head of
fixed-income research at BOCI Securities, said July 26.  Much of the loan growth came amid a record $2.7 trillion
two-year credit boom from the start of 2009 that drove China’s
economic-stimulus program. The lending spree left the nation
with almost $8 trillion in outstanding debt by the end of June,
exceeding the combined size of China and  India ’s economies.  Potential Defaults  Loans to local government financing vehicles, set up mainly
to fund infrastructure projects such as roads and airports, may
sour and become the biggest contributor to banks’ bad debts,
Liao Qiang, a Beijing-based director of financial institution
ratings for S&P, said in April.  “Concerns over China’s local government financing vehicle
loans have resurfaced in recent weeks,” analysts at UOB Kayhian
Investment Co. led by Sheng Nan in  Shanghai , wrote to clients
July 25. “There have also been talks of local governments
overvaluing the land used as collateral for their LGFV loans.”  Standard Chartered Plc, which gets more than half its
income from  Asia , estimates that at least 4 trillion yuan of the
loans -- and possibly much more -- will ultimately not be repaid
by cash flows generated by the infrastructure projects,
according to a June 29 report.  Stocks Drop  Wang Zhenning, a press officer at Beijing-based  Industrial
& Commercial Bank of China (1398)  Ltd., the world’s largest lender,
declined to comment.  Bank of China Ltd. (3988)  said it doesn’t comment
on market rumors, and  China Construction Bank Corp. (939)  said it
hasn’t received any information on the issue.  ICBC fell 2 percent to HK$5.84 as of 1:44 p.m. in Hong Kong
trading, reversing earlier gains, and is headed for its biggest
drop in almost three weeks.  Bank of China  dropped 1.9 percent,
while Construction Bank tumbled 1.3 percent.  China has at least two years to sort out its mountain of
local government debt, which poses a “very serious” risk for
the world’s fastest-growing economy over the longer term,
People’s Bank of China adviser Zhou Qiren said on July 23.  The central bank on July 11 became the second agency to
dismiss speculation that local-government debt may be as much as
14 trillion yuan. The National Audit Office denied understating
the liabilities, according to a report issued by the official
Xinhua news agency earlier that day.  Still, the regulator is concerned that lenders haven’t
moved fast enough to curtail risks, the person said.  Revising Loan Terms  The agency told lenders their reported bad loans are too
low in comparison to the real risk, and their 1 percent
provision coverage ratio for local government lending is
unacceptable, the person said.  The banks, which were told to revise the loan accords by
the end of May to ensure two scheduled payments by the borrower
every year after the projects are completed, have ensured the
desired terms on fewer than half of the loans, the person said.  About 17 percent of medium and long-term loans, which
account for more than 90 percent of all local government credit,
have failed to require paying down the principal until maturity,
and almost 40 percent demand only one payment annually, the
person said.  The repayment capacity of the local governments has been
eroded as debt climbed to 116 percent of their revenue from 85
percent in early 2009 because of the government’s stimulus
program,  Mike Werner , an analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein & Co.
in  Hong Kong , said in a July 4 note.  “There will always be the risk that the CBRC may be forced
to allow the larger banks to absorb some of the losses of the
banking system,” Werner wrote. “Investors in the listed
Chinese banks must deal with this overhang until the government
arrives at a comprehensive solution.”  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  