-- 
Chubu Says Japan Regulator Sought to Sway Public on Atomic Power

-- B y   T s u y o s h i   I n a j i m a   a n d   Y u j i   O k a d a
-- 
2011-07-29T10:00:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-29/chubu-says-japan-regulator-sought-to-sway-public-on-atomic-power.html
Chubu Electric Power Co. said
 Japan ’s nuclear regulator asked the utility to prepare questions
favoring atomic power for a public hearing in 2007, compromising
the watchdog’s code of conduct.  The Nuclear and Industrial Safety Agency -- which lists one
of its codes of conduct as “neutrality and justice” -- asked
Chubu to write queries on plutonium-thermal technology at its
Hamaoka nuclear plant, so that “not all questions would be from
opponents of the program,” Chubu Electric said today in a
statement on its website.  The regulator, known as NISA, also suggested the utility
have local residents ask the questions during the meeting, the
statement said. Chubu Electric said it declined the request as
it would violate its own compliance regulations. NISA said it
couldn’t confirm the accuracy of the statement.  “We haven’t confirmed if any NISA officials requested this
of Chubu Electric,” Yuji Hino, the agency’s spokesman, said by
phone. “Reports from utilities were submitted to the Agency for
Natural Resources and Energy, we have not received the reports
yet.”  Japan’s utilities are releasing information on non-
transparent attempts to influence public opinion on nuclear
power. This is after Kyushu Electric Power Co. said it asked
staffers at affiliates to send e-mails supporting the restart of
two reactors to an internet-broadcast show run by the Ministry
of Economy, Trade and Industry on plant safety.  The behavior was called “unspeakable” and completely
against the rationale of the program by Trade and Industry
minister  Banri Kaieda , who later called for the resignation of
Kyushu Electric president Toshio Manabe.  NISA?  Chubu’s statement is the first to suggest NISA was involved
in concealed attempts to influence public opinion on atomic
power.  “This lowers the credibility of NISA, which gives official
go-ahead when restarting a nuclear reactor and will make it more
difficult to get approvals from local governments on restarts,”
Reiji Ogino, an analyst at Mitsubishi UFJ Morgan Stanley in
Tokyo, said by phone today.  Opposition to atomic power is rising in Japan after the
March 11 earthquake and tsunami crippled Tokyo Electric Power
Co.’s Fukushima Dai-Ichi nuclear plant, triggering the worst
atomic disaster since Chernobyl 25 years ago. An Asahi newspaper
poll published on July 12 said 77 percent of respondents opposed
nuclear power.  Of Japan’s 54 reactors, 38 are idled or inactive as local
officials block restarts of units closed for maintenance and
safety checks since the earthquake and tsunami wrecked the
Fukushima station, causing radiation leaks.  Tokyo  Electric Power Co. also said today it asked workers
and affiliates to attend public discussions on nuclear power
between 2007 and 2010.  The discussions were held in Japan’s Niigata prefecture,
site of the utility’s Kashiwazaki Kariwa nuclear plant,
according to a faxed statement from Tokyo Electric today.  Tepco said 27 of 275 managers at its nuclear division said
they either asked staff to attend or received requests to attend
such discussions. Employees were not asked to express specific
opinions at the meetings, according to the statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tsuyoshi Inajima in Tokyo at 
 tinajima@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Langan at 
 plangan@bloomberg.net  