-- 
Colombia May Raise Rate as Lending, GDP Surge

-- B y   H e l e n   M u r p h y
-- 
2011-07-29T14:43:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-29/colombia-may-raise-rate-for-sixth-month-as-lending-gdp-surge.html
Colombia ’s central bank will likely
boost borrowing costs today for a sixth straight month as the
need to contain economic growth and a surge in credit outweighs
concern that rising interest rates will drive the peso higher.  The seven-member board, led by bank chief Jose Dario Uribe,
will increase the overnight rate by a quarter point to 4.50
percent, according to 22 of 25 economists surveyed by Bloomberg.
Three analysts expect the bank to keep the 4.25 percent rate
after the board in June was split for the first time since
February.  Growth in  South America ’s fourth-biggest economy jumped the
most since 2007 in the first quarter, expanding 5.1 percent,
prompting economists and President  Juan Manuel Santos  to voice
concern that the economy may be overheating. Foreign mining and
energy investment will stimulate 6 percent growth in 2011,
according to the government, pressuring the bank to keep
inflation expectations anchored around its target.  “Lending is so strong that the bank won’t risk undoing the
impact of previous hikes, so they will continue,” said  Benito Berber , a strategist at Nomura Securities Inc. in  New York .
“Right now there is a possibility of overheating, so the bank
will take the right measures to prevent it. The issue of credit
needs to be addressed.”  Explaining their vote to raise rates last month, policy
makers said  consumer credit  and retail sales pointed to the
“strong momentum in domestic demand” stoking growth in the
$285 billion economy. Total gross lending rose 23 percent in May
from a year earlier -- eclipsing  Brazil ’s 20 percent pace -- to
a record 191.2 trillion pesos ($107.9 billion).  Policy Divide, Peso  While focused on the economy’s “above-trend” growth,
policy makers today will also “consider measures that would
have a short-term impact on the  exchange rate ,” Nader Nazmi,
senior Latin American economist at BNP Paribas in New York,
wrote in a research note e-mailed to investors yesterday.  According to the minutes of the bank’s June 17 meeting, one
board member pointed to the current U.S.-Colombia yield gap as
responsible for the  “alarming” increase  in external borrowing
to an annual pace of 170 percent in May and said additional rate
increases would only attract more inflows.  Policy makers may also discuss steps to curb the peso’s
rally including increasing daily dollar purchases from the
current $20 million and possibly imposing a reserve requirement
on external borrowing, said Nazmi, who doesn’t expect any
announcement today.  Brazil’s government this week announced new steps aimed at
stemming the rally in its currency, which strengthened to a 12-
year high against the dollar this week.  Demand, Sales  Exporters  argue that the strong peso forces them to cut
jobs as they receive fewer pesos for goods such as flowers and
coffee sold abroad.  Santos has echoed their concern, though he has ruled out
 capital controls  for now, instead calling for efforts to prevent
further strengthening.  The currency weakened 0.2 percent to 1775.57 per dollar at
10:38 a.m. from 1772.47 yesterday. It has gained 7.5 percent
this year, the best performance against the dollar among the
seven major Latin American currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  Guillermo Botero, head of retail group Fenalco, said July
15 that the strong peso is having a “very negative” effect on
the productive sector and its ability to maintain jobs,
according to RCN Radio.  Expectations, Outlook  Economists covering the Colombian economy raised their 2011
inflation forecast for a second month, according to a  monthly
central bank survey  published July 11.  Consumer prices will rise 3.3 percent this year, according
to a central bank survey of 42 economists published today, up
from a forecast of 3.2 percent in June and 3.1 percent in May.  Annual inflation quickened to 3.23 percent in June from a
five-decade low of 1.84 percent a year earlier. The central bank
targets a range of 2 percent to 4 percent.  According to the central bank’s July 11 survey, economists
expect a year-end benchmark rate of as high as 5 percent, as
indicated by the average estimate of 4.94 percent.  Santos last month urged Finance Minister Juan Carlos Echeverry, who as board president has one vote in the rate
decision, to argue for a rate pause.  The central bank, founded in 1923, has been independent
under the constitution since 1991, when it was given the mission
of fighting inflation.  Prevention  Industrial output rose 4.3 percent in May from a year
earlier, imports soared 55 percent and construction permits
surged 128 percent.  First-quarter economic growth exceeded the median estimate
of 4.8 percent in a Bloomberg survey of 27 economists and was
the fastest expansion since the 8.1 percent pace posted in the
fourth quarter of 2007.  Retail sales have exceeded 10 percent year-on-year growth
for 13 months -- including a record 23.2 percent rise in April.  “The bank has done a good job to prevent the economy from
overheating and the traffic light going to red -- it’s on amber
now,” said Julian Marquez, an analyst at Bogota-based
Interbolsa SA, Colombia’s biggest brokerage. “But the indicator
that most worries me is retail sales.”  The last time bank lending and retail sales in Colombia
were rising as fast as their current pace was 2007, when gross
domestic product expanded 6.9 percent, the biggest increase in
two decades.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Helen Murphy in Bogota at 
 hmurphy1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net ; 