-- 
South America Plans Meeting on Defending Currencies, Economies From Crisis

-- B y   J o s h u a   G o o d m a n
-- 
2011-07-30T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-29/colombia-s-santos-urges-regional-leaders-to-unite-on-currencies.html
Finance officials from  South America 
and Mexico will gather next month to discuss ways to protect
their currencies and economies from the debt crisis in the U.S.
and  Europe .  The meeting of finance ministers from the Union of South
American Nations, to take place Aug. 10-11 in Buenos Aires, was
organized at the urging of Colombian President  Juan Manuel Santos . The gathering will allow governments to coordinate
action to deal with shared problems including “speculative”
capital inflows that are fueling a rally in their currencies,
Santos said at a July 28 summit of regional leaders.  “Latin America is sitting on $700 billion in reserves that
are losing their value because of the crisis we’re going through
with the impasse in the  U.S. Congress  over the debt ceiling,”
Santos said in Lima, Peru at a summit of the 12-nation bloc,
known as Unasur. “This is affecting us and we can’t continue as
mere spectators.”  Policy makers in Latin America are trying to curb gains in
their currencies, which hurt the competitiveness of their
exports, and fight inflation after near-zero borrowing costs in
advanced economies such as the U.S. and  Japan  spurred demand for
higher-yielding assets in emerging markets.  Capital Controls  This week, Brazil imposed a 1 percent tax on bets against
the dollar in the country’s derivatives market after the real
reached the highest level since the country abandoned its peg to
the greenback in 1999.  Since last year, policy makers in  Latin America ’s biggest
economy also tripled a tax on foreigners’ purchase of bonds and
raised levies on foreign borrowing.  Policy makers in Colombia and Chile, while so far avoiding
similar capital controls, have each stepped up daily dollar
purchases in their local spot currency markets.  The region’s currencies are among the best-performing in
the world over the past two years, with the Brazilian real
surging 22 percent, the Chilean peso gaining 19 percent and the
Colombian peso up 17 percent.  The  International Monetary Fund  said in June that it
expects Latin America and Caribbean economies to grow an average
4.6 percent this year and 4.1 percent next year, after nations
including  Peru  and Brazil expanded at their fastest pace in two
decades in 2010.  Argentine President  Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner  hailed
the summit in Lima, saying regional leaders need to be more
proactive about addressing common challenges.  “It wasn’t only a routine meeting of Unasur,” Fernandez
said yesterday in Brasilia, alongside her Brazilian counterpart,
Dilma Rousseff. “For the first time we looked collectively at
the problems and how they are affecting our region, like
speculative capital inflows that tend to strengthen our
currencies.”  Santos said Unasur leaders agreed to invite officials from
Mexico to attend the meeting in Buenos Aires, given that the
country is a member of the Group of 20 richest nations along
with Argentina and  Brazil .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  