-- 
British Comedian Who Threw Foam Pie at Murdoch in Parliament Pleads Guilty

-- B y   L i n d s a y   F o r t a d o
-- 
2011-07-29T12:54:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-29/comedian-who-attacked-rupert-murdoch-with-foam-pie-pleads-guilty.html
A British comedian pleaded guilty to
assaulting  Rupert Murdoch  with a shaving-foam pie while he
testified to U.K. lawmakers about the phone-hacking scandal at
his now-defunct News of the World tabloid.  Jonathan May-Bowles, 26, who uses the moniker Jonnie
Marbles, today admitted assault and causing harassment, alarm or
distress, Crown Prosecution spokesman Tim McAtackney said. He
will be sentenced on Aug. 2.  May-Bowles, of Windsor,  England , attacked the News Corp.
chairman and chief executive officer as he testified to
Parliament’s Culture, Media and Sport Committee with his son,
James, on July 19. Murdoch’s wife Wendi stood up from behind her
husband and swung at May-Bowles, who was taken out of the room
by police officers and charged the next day.  The hearing was suspended after the incident and resumed
about 15 minutes later with Murdoch jacket-less and the public
gallery cleared.  News Corp. (NWSA)  is dealing with at least three probes by police
and regulators into phone hacking and police bribery at the News
of the World. At least 10 people have been arrested. Murdoch was
also forced to drop its 7.8 billion-pound ($12.7 billion) offer
for full control of British Sky Broadcasting Group Plc.  May-Bowles, in  an article  in the  Guardian newspaper  the day
after the attack, said he threw the pie at “the face of one of
the world’s richest and most powerful men” for “all of the
people who couldn’t.”  “For a few bright moments I thought I might see justice
done, keep the pie in my bag and spare myself a night in jail,”
he wrote. “Those moments were short lived: as committee member
after committee member feebly prodded around the issues and
Murdoch Jr. began to dominate.”  A spokeswoman for News Corp. declined to comment.  Bloomberg LP, the parent of Bloomberg News, competes with
News Corp. units in providing financial news and information.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lindsay Fortado in London at 
 lfortado@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  