-- 
Corinthians May Make Second Offer for Tevez, Board Member Says

-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 
2011-07-29T21:12:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-29/corinthians-may-make-second-offer-for-tevez-board-member-says.html
SC Corinthians Paulista ,  Brazil ’s
biggest soccer team by revenue, will make another bid to sign
Manchester City striker  Carlos Tevez  if the Argentine is still
with the club in December, said Luis Paulo Rosenberg, who sits
on the club’s board.  City this month rejected a 40 million euro ($56 million)
offer from Sao Paulo-based Corinthians, who paid  Argentina ’s
Boca Juniors $20 million for Tevez in 2004. Tevez, who played
for Corinthians in 2004-2006, said he wants to leave City to be
closer to his daughters, who live in Argentina with their
mother.  Corinthians and City had been close to an accord but
couldn’t complete a trade before Brazil’s transfer period closed
July 20. Brazilian teams next can buy players in December.  “You can expect we will be back for him,” Rosenberg, who
also is the club’s head of marketing, said in an interview in
 Rio de Janeiro . “ Manchester City  needed more money. They asked
for more. I think we were short some 5 million euros. We still
needed to negotiate with Tevez, too, but we couldn’t do that
until we had an agreement with City.”  Tevez, 27, played for Corinthians when the club was owned
by a company controlled by his agent, Kia Joorabchian.  Tevez joined  England ’s West Ham in 2006, then spent two
seasons at  Manchester United  before signing for City in what
U.K. media reported was a deal worth as much as 47 million
pounds ($75 million).  Inter Milan Chief Executive Officer Ernesto Paolillo said
in a text message today that while his team is interested in
Tevez, it can’t make an offer until it manages to sell one of
its higher-value players first.  Corinthians’ Offer  Corinthians’ offer would have divided the payment for Tevez
over four years. Rosenberg said the team would have used a
quarter of its annual television budget, which he said was worth
$60 million, toward the transfer fee.  “Tevez, besides being a fantastic player, has an emotional
link with our supporters that is very special,” Rosenberg said.
“I forecast a substantial increase in marketing revenues if we
would buy Tevez, so it was not something so unusual or
daredevil. For us it was in our budget.”  The forward scored 20  Premier Leagu e goals in the 2010-11
season to help City finish in third place and qualify for the
 Champions League  for the first time. He also captained the team
to the F.A. Cup, its first major trophy since 1976.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tariq Panja in Rio de Janeiro via London at 
 tpanja@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at  at
 celser@bloomberg.net  