-- 
Cornerback Asomugha Signs Five-Year Deal With Eagles, McNabb to Minnesota

-- B y   N a n c y   K e r c h e v a l
-- 
2011-07-30T05:20:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-29/cornerback-nnamdi-asomugha-signs-five-year-deal-with-philadelphia-eagles.html
Cornerback Nnamdi Asomugha joined
fellow Pro Bowlers Dominique Rodgers-Cromartie and Asante Samuel
in the  Philadelphia Eagles ’ defensive secondary, shunning the
 New York Jets ,  Dallas Cowboys  and San Francisco 49ers.  Asomugha, 30, a four-time All Pro selection during his
eight-year career with the Oakland Raiders, was considered the
top free agent available this year.  Signing of free agents began last night at 6 p.m. Eastern
time. The teams had been restricted from talking to players
during the 4 1/2-month lockout that ended July 25.  The Jets had hoped Asomugha would create a Pro Bowl
cornerback tandem with Darrelle Revis on a team that had the
American Football Conference’s fourth-stingiest passing defense
last season.  Instead, he will align with Rodgers-Cromartie, who was
acquired from the Arizona Cardinals, and Samuel. Eagles General
Manager Howie Roseman said the team was late in its negotiations
with Asomugha.  “I think that his priority was to go to a place where he
was going to compete for a world championship and I think that’s
why we had a shot there,” Roseman said during a news conference
yesterday. “We have a good team and we’re looking forward to
the season.”  Asomugha’s contract is worth $60 million over five years,
with $25 million guaranteed, ESPN said.  ‘Best Cornerback’  “I think we all know about Nnamdi,” Eagles coach  Andy Reid  said on the team’s website. “He’s one of, if not the best,
cornerback in the  National Football League . He’ll be a great
addition to our other two.”  The Eagles also signed quarterback Vince Young, 28, who was
released by the Tennessee Titans. A two-time Pro Bowl selection,
Young was 30-17 in his 47 starts since 2006, the best by a
quarterback in franchise history. Last year, Young played in
nine games, completing 93 of 156 passes for 1,255 yards and 10
touchdowns.  The Eagles also signed defensive end Jason Babin, who was a
Pro Bowl selection last season for the Titans, to a five-year
deal, the team said.  The  Minnesota Vikings  said they had acquired six-time Pro
Bowl quarterback Donovan McNabb, 34, in a deal with the
 Washington Redskins .  Couldn’t Say No  “He’s on the verge of being a Hall of Famer now,” said
Vikings coach  Leslie Frazier , who worked with McNabb when they
both were with the Eagles. “He’s put up great numbers
throughout his career. It’s hard to say ‘no’ to Donovan McNabb
when he’s available.”  The 49ers said they had re-signed quarterback Alex Smith,
the top overall pick in the 2005 National Football League draft,
to a one-year contract.  New England acquired defensive lineman Albert Haynesworth
in a trade with the Washington Redskins in exchange for an
undisclosed draft choice, the Patriots said in a news release.  Cam Newton, the No. 1 pick in this year’s draft, agreed to
a four-year, $22 million deal with the Carolina Panthers, the
 Associated Press  said, citing a person familiar with the
negotiations.  The Buffalo Bills signed unrestricted free agents Brad Smith, a quarterback/wide receiver, and quarterback Tyler Thigpen, the team said. Cornerback Drayton Florence re-signed
with the team.  Ochocinco to Patriots  The  New England  Patriots acquired receiver Chad Ochocinco
in a trade with Cincinnati for undisclosed draft choices, the
Bengals said.  Punter Michael Koenen, who has spent his entire NFL career
with the  Atlanta Falcons , signed a six-year contract with the
Tampa Bay Buccaneers. The Bucs re-signed guard Davin Joseph to a
seven-year deal and tackle Jeremy Trueblood to a two-year
agreement.  The Jacksonville Jaguars signed linebackers Paul Posluszny,
who has recorded more than 100 tackles in three straight seasons
and led the Bills the past two seasons, and Clint Session and
guard/center Jason Spitz.  The  Chicago Bears  agreed to terms with eight free agents
including Jets defensive lineman Vernon Gholston and wide
receiver Roy Williams.  Jets Re-sign Holmes  Defensive end Ray Edwards, who posted 139 tackles and 29.5
sacks during his five seasons with the Vikings, signed a five-
year contract with Atlanta, the Falcons said.  The Jets already had re-signed 2009 Super Bowl Most
Valuable Player Santonio Holmes and added kicker  Nick Folk .
Current Jets free agents include wide receiver Braylon Edwards
and cornerback  Antonio Cromartie .  Asomugha was selected No. 31 by the Raiders in the first
round of the 2003 draft. He became a starter in 2005 and the
following year had 11 passes defended and eight interceptions,
tied with three others for third in the NFL.  The Lafayette,  Louisiana , native has just three
interceptions over his last four years, all Pro Bowl seasons, as
opposing quarterbacks avoided throwing to his side of the field.
Last season the Raiders’ defense allowed a league-low 249
completions and 189.2 passing yards per game, second to the San
Diego Chargers.  The  Green Bay Packers  released linebackers Nick Barnett,
Brandon Chillar, Brady Poppinga, defensive end Justin Harrell
and tackle Mark Tauscher and waived first-year safety Michael
Greco and linebacker Curtis Young.  The  New York Giants  placed two-time Pro Bowl defensive
end Osi Umenyiora on the reserve/did not report list after he
failed to report for the opening day of training camp. Umenyiora
said during the lockout that General Manager Jerry Reese had
failed to live up to a promise to renegotiate his contract.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nancy Kercheval in  Washington  at 
 nkercheval@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  