-- 
Corn Imports by China May Gain to Record on State Re-Stocking, Hog Herds

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-07-29T04:49:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-29/corn-imports-by-china-may-gain-to-record-on-state-re-stocking-hog-herds.html
China , the second-biggest corn
consumer, may boost imports of the grain to a record 6 million
metric tons in the year beginning Oct. 1 to replenish stockpiles
and as demand for feed grows, according to Yigu Information
Consulting Ltd.  An expected gain in domestic output may not be enough to
meet growing demand and restocking of state reserves, said  Zhang
Qi , an analyst at the Dalian-based researcher. About half the
expected import amount may have already been booked, Zhang said.
Yigu runs the biggest corn-information  website  in China by
readership.  Purchases by China may further drain U.S. inventories,
forecast to be at the lowest level since 1996 before the 2012
harvest, and help extend a 75 percent gain in Chicago futures in
the past year. China has sold corn and soybeans from state
reserves in an effort to ease price gains that have pushed
inflation to the highest level in three years. Pork prices
gained 57 percent last month.  “State reserves may have to seek overseas shipments to
meet its stock-building goal, as if they buy domestically that
would bid up prices,” Zhang said. “We may experience a supply
crunch in October-November, as farmers will likely demand higher
prices as they know supply is tightening.”  Zhang’s forecast compares with the U.S. Department of
Agriculture’s estimate of 2 million tons of imports on July 12.
Shipments may jump to 4 million metric tons in the 2011-2012
season, after booking an estimated 3 million tons of the U.S.
crop, Rabobank International has said.  More Imports  China may seek to boost annual corn imports from the U.S.,
the biggest exporter, to 15 million tons over the next few
years, Michael Dwyer, director of global policy analysis
division at the USDA, said July 27. Imports may reach 1.5
million tons in 2010-2011, compared with a record 4.3 million
tons in 1994-1995, according to USDA data.  Corn for December delivery increased 0.4 percent to $6.8875
a bushel on the Chicago Board of Trade today. Corn is the
biggest U.S. crop, valued at $66.7 billion in 2010, followed by
soybeans at $38.9 billion, USDA data show.  Consumption in China may surge to a peak by September and
October as farmers have been increasing herds to profit from
record pork prices, Zhang said. Piglets take three to four
months to mature, at which time their consumption rises
significantly, Zhang said. There may be supply crunch in October
and November, he said.  Pork Consumption  Pork prices jumped to a record in the week of July 15 and
helped send overall inflation last month to 6.4 percent, the
highest since 2008. The gain prompted the government to offer
subsidies to hog farmers to boost output. Pork consumption in
the world’s most populous nation more than doubled in the past
two decades, adding 51 million tons last year, as Chinese
incomes climbed, according to the USDA.  Still, a 2.4 percent gain in corn production to a record,
may curb an increase in imports, the China National Grain & Oils
Information Center said in May. Output is set to advance to
181.5 million metric tons this year from 177.3 million tons in
2010, the center said.  China may use a record 16 million tons of wheat as cheaper
substitute for corn in the year beginning June 1, the center
said June 16.  The costs of growing this corn this year, including
fertilizer, seeds and herbicide, rose about 15 percent from a
year ago, while labor fees also gained, Zhang said.  Output from 2011 harvest, starting around October, may
expand 3.8 percent from a year ago to 164.9 million tons, Zhang
said. Still, much of the new harvest may not get sold until the
Spring Festival in January as farmers dry the grain to fetch
better prices, Zhang said.  Argentina  expects to begin shipping corn to China next
year, offering an alternative to U.S. supplies, Undersecretary
of Agriculture Oscar Solis said July 20. The country may have
about 20 million tons of corn available for export out of nearly
30 million tons forecast to be harvested next year, Solis said
in an interview in Beijing.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Richard Dobson  at 
 rdobson4@bloomberg.net  