-- 
Credit Agricole Falls on Greece Impact of Up to EU850 Million

-- B y   F r a n k   C o n n e l l y
-- 
2011-07-29T08:55:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-29/credit-agricole-falls-on-greece-impact-of-up-to-eu850-million.html
Credit Agricole SA (ACA) ,  France ’s second-
largest bank by assets, fell in Paris trading after saying
losses at its Greek unit and costs tied to  Europe ’s aid plan for
the country will lower its second-quarter profit by as much as
850 million euros ($1.22 billion).  Credit Agricole declined as much as 3.7 percent, and was
down 22 cents to 8.60 euros by 10:52 a.m. in Paris. The bank
still expects to post a net profit for the quarter when it
publishes earnings on Aug. 25, it said in an e-mailed statement
after the close of trading yesterday.  The French bank, led by Chief Executive Officer Jean-Paul Chifflet, said it “welcomes” the effort of euro-region leaders
to provide additional support to Greece. The participation of
its Emporiki Bank of Greece SA in a program to involve private
investors will result in an estimated 71 million-euro impairment
to the unit’s Greek government bond holdings. Increased funding
costs and higher-than-expected loan defaults at Emporiki will
also contribute to a loss of about 451 million euros at the unit
in the quarter, the bank said.  “The current and expected situation for the coming
quarters makes reaching Emporiki Bank’s goal for breakeven of
its financial results by the end of 2012 more difficult,”
 Credit Agricole  said in the statement. The unit “will continue
to implement its restructuring plan, which will keep bearing
results, adjusting it whenever necessary to the economic
environment, in order to return to break even as soon as
possible,” it said.  Funding for Emporiki  Emporiki will continue to seek local sources of funding,
such as deposits, to reduce Credit Agricole’s need to finance
the unit. Those efforts have already lowered the refinancing
from the French bank by about 1 billion euros since the end of
March, Credit Agricole said.  Credit Agricole plans to write down the remaining 359
million euros of goodwill tied to Athens-based Emporiki in the
second quarter. Overall, the support plan for  Greece  will have
an impact of about 150 million euros for Credit Agricole.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Frank Connelly in Paris at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  