-- 
Creepy Aliens Invade John Wayne Turf; Carell’s Dorky Dad: Film

-- B y   R i c k   W a r n e r
-- 
2011-07-30T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-29/creepy-aliens-invade-john-wayne-turf-carell-s-pickup-lines-rick-warner.html
It looks like a scene from a classic
Western: A taciturn gunslinger drifts into town and gets into a
bar fight. He’s arrested by the sheriff and is about to be taken
away when a cattle baron shows up, accuses him of theft and
threatens to take the law into his own hands.  A shootout looms.  But that’s where “ Cowboys & Aliens ,” set in the New
Mexico Territory in 1875, takes a genre-bending turn.  Suddenly bright lights appear and the dusty little town is
blasted by insect-shaped flying machines that snatch people into
the air with retractable cables. The gunslinger, wearing a
shining metal shackle on his wrist, points it skyward and shoots
down one of the planes.  This isn’t your father’s  John Wayne  movie.  Jon Favreau’s film, starring Daniel Craig as the lone-wolf
outlaw Jake Lonergan and  Harrison Ford  as the tyrannical rancher
Colonel Dolarhyde, combines the traditional Western with the
alien-invasion flick. It’s an interesting experiment that
produces mixed results: Along with some rip-roaring action, we
get a host of stock characters and a hodgepodge plot that can’t
satisfy fans of either genre.  Favreau showed his ability to mix adventure and comedy in
the “Iron Man” series, but here he (and five screenwriters)
never figure out how to blend the disparate parts.  Mystery Woman  Craig and Ford are well-matched as macho, vest-wearing
characters who are stingy with words and handy with their fists
and guns. The capable supporting cast includes Olivia Wilde as a
beautiful mystery woman,  Paul Dano  as Dolarhyde’s bratty son,
Keith Carradine as the upright sheriff, Sam Rockwell as a meek
saloon keeper and Adam Beach as Dolarhyde’s trusted Indian
friend.  The aliens, described in the publicity notes as “part
insect, part amphibian and part sea creature,” are mechanical
monsters enhanced by computer effects. Their vulnerability
varies from scene to scene. Sometimes it takes dozens of bullets
and a spear to bring one down. Other times, one shot to the head
does the job.  The film was produced by a list of Hollywood heavyweights,
including  Steven Spielberg  and Ron Howard. Though Favreau has
clearly borrowed some of Spielberg’s tricks, his film lacks the
mentor’s magic.  “Cowboys & Aliens,” from  Universal Pictures , is playing
across the U.S. Rating: **  ‘Crazy, Stupid, Love’  A bored wife dumps her clueless husband for a co-worker. A
no-nonsense law student falls for a slick playboy. A babysitter
has a crush on the dad of the house, and one of his kids is
besotted with the babysitter.  Amour comes in all ages, shapes and sizes in “ Crazy,
Stupid, Love ,” a zesty romantic comedy starring  Steve Carell ,
Julianne Moore,  Emma Stone , Ryan Gosling and Marisa Tomei.  Directors Glenn Ficarra and John Requa, working from an
inventive script by Dan Fogelman, milk laughs and pathos from
decent people in sticky situations.  Cal (Carell, in top form) is a boring middle-aged suburban
dad whose wife Emily (Moore) stuns him by asking for a divorce.
He starts hanging out at a local bar, where he meets a skirt-
chaser named Jacob (Gosling, with a new buff physique) who
teaches him how to pick up women.  While Emily carries on an affair with colleague David
(Kevin Bacon), her 13-year-old son Robbie (Jonah Bobo) tells his
babysitter Jessica (Analeigh Tipton) that he’s madly in love
with her.  Ladies’ Man  Jessica yearns for Cal, still reeling from a torrid one-
night stand with a bar pickup (a hysterical Tomei). Then there’s
Hannah (Stone), a budding, love-averse lawyer who somehow ends
up in Jacob’s bedroom.  Confused? Following all the storylines can be head-
spinning, but the film pays off with a sweet, old-fashioned
lesson about how crazy, stupid and heartbreaking love can be.  “Crazy, Stupid, Love,” from  Warner Bros. Pictures , is
playing across the U.S. Rating: ***  (Rick Warner is the movie critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. Opinions expressed are his
own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Rick Warner in  New York  at 
 rwarner1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 