-- 
Croatian Recession Caps Profit Growth at T-Hrvatski

-- B y   J a s m i n a   K u z m a n o v i c
-- 
2011-07-29T09:17:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-29/croatian-2-year-recession-caps-profit-growth-at-t-hrvatski-1-.html
(Corrects title of Mudrinic in fourth paragraph.)  T-Hrvatski Telekom d.d., the
Croatian unit of  Deutsche Telekom AG (DTE) , said a two-year economic
contraction is capping profit growth and sees no marked
improvement for the year.  Net income rose 0.7 percent in the first half to 828
million kuna ($159 million) from a year ago, after falling an
annual 8.5 percent in the first quarter, the company said today
in an e-mailed statement. Earnings before interest, taxes,
depreciation and amortization, or Ebitda, fell to 1.7 billion
kuna, while revenue dipped 4 percent.  Croatia is struggling to pull out of a recession as
consumption and investment continue to slump. Gross domestic
product shrank 0.8 percent in the first quarter, after
contracting 1.2 percent last year and 5.8 percent in 2009. The
phone company is trying to boost its results with “rigorous
cost cutting.”  “The long-awaited recovery has not yet emerged,” Chief
Executive Officer Ivica Mudrinic said in the statement. He
“sees little prospect of recovery in the national economy in
the second half” of the year.  The company, 51 percent owned by Deutsche Telekom, said it
kept its leading position in the three main markets for mobile,
fixed-line and Internet services, it said.  Mudrinic said T-Hrvatski was also affected by a tax on the
telecommunications industry and the regulatory environment,
which is a “disincentive to investment.”  Still, the company had a “solid set of results” even as
rising unemployment boosts overdue payments and eats into
overall consumption.  It also said it may back out of a share sale for Post and
Telecommunications of Kosovo J.S.C., citing an ongoing
corruption probe involving management at the former province’s
phone and postal company.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jasmina Kuzmanovic at 
 jkuzmanovic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at   jagomez@bloomberg.net  