-- 
Crude Oil Falls, Heads for Weekly Decline, on U.S. Debt Ceiling Dispute

-- B y   B e n   S h a r p l e s   a n d   G r a n t   S m i t h
-- 
2011-07-29T12:41:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-29/crude-oil-falls-heads-for-weekly-decline-on-u-s-debt-ceiling-dispute.html
Oil fell, headed for the first
weekly decline in five, on concern a failure to reach a deal on
raising the U.S. debt limit may cause the nation to default,
threatening the economy of the world’s biggest crude consumer.  Futures extended losses after data from the Commerce
Department showed the world’s largest economy grew 1.3 percent
in the second quarter, less than analysts predicted. U.S. crude
stockpiles rose for the first time in two months last week,
Energy Department data showed July 27. House Speaker  John Boehner  delayed a planned vote on debt-limit legislation as
Senate leaders stood ready to kill the measure should it get to
their chamber.  “The U.S. debt talk resembles a train wreck,” Thorbjoern Bak Jensen, an analyst at Global Risk Management, said by phone
from Middelfart,  Denmark . “Oil is still awaiting the debt
ceiling outcome.”  Crude for September delivery fell as much as $1.22 to
$97.39 a barrel in electronic trading on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange . It was at $96.33 a barrel at 1:33 p.m. London time.
Prices are down 3.6 percent this week and 0.9 percent higher
this month.  Brent for September settlement on the London-based ICE
Futures Europe exchange was at $116.54 a barrel, down 82 cents.
The European benchmark contract was at a premium of $20.31 a
barrel to  New York  futures, compared with a record close of
$22.63 on July 14.  Crude in New York is extending losses as prices slide below
the 50-day moving average, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Front-month futures have settled for more than a week
above this indicator, at $97.33 today. A breach of technical
support usually means prices will continue to fall.  Debt Vote  The U.S. House won’t vote on Speaker Boehner’s debt-limit
plan, Representative  Kevin McCarthy , the majority whip, or vote-
counter, said yesterday in  Washington . Boehner’s plan failed to
gain enough backing from his own Republican Party members.  Senate Democrats are working to break the impasse over
raising the debt limit by devising a strict enforcement
mechanism to guarantee future deficit savings, according to
Democratic officials.  Negotiators were working to find a solution both sides
could accept. Should the House pass Boehner’s bill, it faces a
veto threat from President  Barack Obama  and a promise by Senate
Majority Leader  Harry Reid  of defeat in that chamber.  U.S. gross domestic product grew 1.8 percent in the second
quarter, compared with 1.9 percent in the prior three months,
based on the median forecast of economists surveyed by Bloomberg
News. The Commerce Department report is due today.  Tropical Storm Don  Oil is headed for the first monthly gain in three as the
first storms of the Atlantic hurricane season form, shutting
some production facilities.  Tropical Storm Don may experience “some strengthening”
before making landfall on the Texas coast later today, the
National Hurricane Center said.  Don is about 255 miles (410 kilometers) southeast of Corpus
Christi with maximum winds of 50 miles per hour, according to a
National Hurricane Center bulletin issued at 7 a.m. Central
Daylight Time today. The system is forecast to go ashore near
 Corpus Christi  as a tropical storm later today or early
tomorrow, the center said.  Production Halts  About 6.8 percent of oil and 2.8 percent of gas production
from the  Gulf of Mexico  has been shut because of Don, said the
 Bureau of Ocean Energy Management , Regulation and Enforcement.  U.S. crude stockpiles climbed 2.3 million barrels to 354
million in the week ended July 22, an Energy Department report
showed on July 27. A 2 million-barrel drop was forecast in a
Bloomberg News survey.  “We did see a build in inventories,” said  Jonathan Barratt , a managing director of Commodity Broking Services Pty
in Sydney, who predicts oil in New York will average $100 a
barrel this year. “If it becomes more of a trend rather than a
one-off, that’s a worry.”  Crude may drop next week, a Bloomberg News survey showed.
Thirteen of 32 respondents, or 41 percent, forecast oil will
decrease through Aug. 5. Analysts were split last week, with 41
percent looking for a gain and 41 percent projecting a fall.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Sharples in Melbourne at 
 bsharples@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at   sev@bloomberg.net  