-- 
Cushing Crude Stockpiles Rise 1.6%, Satellite Survey Shows

-- B y   A a r o n   C l a r k
-- 
2011-07-29T14:30:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-29/cushing-crude-stockpiles-rise-1-6-satellite-survey-shows.html
Crude oil inventories in Cushing,
Oklahoma, rose 1.6 percent on July 26 from July 16, according to
data compiled by  DigitalGlobe Inc. (DGI)   Stockpiles held in floating-roof tanks at the hub increased
583,000 barrels to 36.9 million barrels, satellite images taken
by the Longmont, Colorado-based company show. The Energy
Department said July 27 that Cushing stockpiles, including
floating and fixed tanks, were 37.1 million.  Cushing is the physical delivery point for New York
Mercantile Exchange oil futures contracts and the largest crude-
trading and storage hub in the U.S. The hub has  working storage 
capacity of 48 million barrels, the department said on May 31.  The  DigitalGlobe  estimate is based on images of operational
floating-top tanks at Cushing, which increased by 2 to a total
of 225 since the previous collection, the satellite company
said. The number of fixed tanks at the hub declined to 109.  Oil storage capacity at Cushing may rise 21 percent to 75
million barrels of storage capacity in the next six months,
Joseph Gorder, an executive vice president at  Valero Energy
Corp. (VLO) , said during an earnings call on July 26.  Blueknight Energy Partners LP (BKEP)  and  TransMontaigne Partners
LP (TLP)  said on  July 19  they will construct 1 million barrels of
crude storage in Cushing. The site will allow for the delivery
of oil by truck and pipeline and blending operations.  Data Releases  Cushing’s floating-roof tanks are used mostly to store
crude oil, according to  Andy Lipow , president of Lipow Oil
Associates LLC in Houston, who estimates that 90 percent of the
storage volume in the hub is floating tanks. Fixed-roof tanks
are for storing petroleum products with lower vapor pressures,
such as jet fuel and distillate, he said.  Some fixed-roof tanks in Cushing may have been retrofitted
with internal floating roofs and may be used to store crude oil,
according to Lipow. Heavier crudes can also be kept in fixed-
roof tanks.  DigitalGlobe data is released twice each week at 10:30 a.m.
New York time on Mondays and Fridays. For the Friday release,
the information is collected from the previous Saturday through
Wednesday. For the Monday release, it’s from the previous
Thursday or Friday.  When clouds obscure the satellite view, data is used from
the last day in which there was a full collection. The highest
percent of collection data will be used when cloud cover
obscures images during a collection period.  Inventories were not fully visible during the previous
satellite survey on July 21 and 22. Stockpile totals in
floating-roof tanks at the hub were ascertained for only 170 of
223 tanks on July 21. The last full data collection occurred on
July 16.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Aaron Clark  in New York at 
 aclark27@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at   dstets@bloomberg.net  