-- 
TD Bank to ‘Rein in’ Costs as Demand Slows, Johnston Says

-- B y   S e a n   B .   P a s t e r n a k
-- 
2011-07-29T20:06:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-29/td-bank-to-rein-in-expenses-as-demand-slows-johnston-says.html
Toronto-Dominion Bank (TD) , the Canadian
lender that doubled its branches over the past six years through
a U.S. expansion, plans to cut expense growth by as much as half
to offset a slowdown in its home market.  Canada’s second-biggest bank plans to increase core
expenses, which excludes costs for acquisitions and foreign
exchange, by about 3 percent next year, Chief Financial Officer
Colleen Johnston said. That compares with gains of 5 percent to
6 percent over the past couple years, according to bank figures.  “The key is we’ve got to look at core expenses and rein
them in,” Johnston said in a July 21 interview at the bank’s
Toronto headquarters. “I think the challenge for us as an
organization is where we’ve been investing and growing.”  Johnston foresees “a slowing environment,” in  Canada ,
driven by less demand for housing and increased competition on
products such as mortgages and credit cards. Existing home sales
are forecast to decline 1.3 percent this year as mortgage rates
rise, according to the  Canadian Real Estate Association .  Toronto-Dominion has increased domestic consumer-banking
profit by an average of 14 percent a year since 2003, a faster
pace than any of its Canadian competitors. In addition, the bank
has spent more than $25 billion on acquisitions south of the
border, giving it more branches in the U.S. than at home.  Double-digit growth in Canadian banking is “not realistic
over the long term,” said Johnston, 53, who joined the bank in
2004 from  Bank of Nova Scotia. (BNS)  “The reality is that at some
point that’s going to slow down to a more normal level.”  Canadian Bank Slowdown  The slowdown in Canadian consumer-bank profit could begin
in the second half of 2011, following earnings of C$847 million
($893 million) from that unit in the fiscal second quarter, its
second-highest result to date. Toronto-Dominion is scheduled to
report third-quarter results on Sept. 1.  If business is slowing down, “it’s only natural to the CEO
then to, in fact, cut back on the cost line,” said Gareth
Watson, vice president of  investment management  at Richardson
GMP Ltd. in Toronto, which oversees about C$16 billion. “It’s
difficult to increase the revenue line in a difficult
environment.”  Toronto-Dominion  records  about C$3 billion a quarter in
non-interest expenses. While the bank plans to increase staff
and add 55 locations overall next year, it will curb costs by
centralizing purchases ranging from real estate maintenance to
telecommunications equipment for the entire organization,
Johnston said.  “The big advantage we’ve got is we’re now a North American
bank,” said Johnston “When we go and talk to a major supplier,
we have 2,500 branches now in  North America .”  Bank of Montreal (BMO)  Growth  Other Canadian lenders, including Bank of Montreal, have
said expense gains will moderate to counter a slowing economy.  Toronto-Dominion is counting on strong U.S. growth, where
profit increased 38 percent to C$652 million in the first six
months of the year, compared with an expansion of 18 percent for
consumer banking in Canada.  “We can grow our balance sheet much faster than our peer
group in the U.S.,” because many of the U.S. locations are
fairly new, said Johnston “We’ve got a lot of younger branches
that are underpenetrated. You’re going to see very strong
growth.”  The bank also expects 2011 to be a record year for its
asset-management business, which includes a stake in brokerage
 TD Ameritrade Holding Corp. (AMTD)  Investment banking, which typically
represents about 10 percent to 15 percent of earnings, will be
“relatively flat,” Johnston says.  Triathlons  Johnston , a triathlete, has been ranked one of the top 25
Most Powerful Women in Banking by U.S. Banker magazine two years
running, as well as Best CFO by Canadian Business magazine in
2009. A graduate of Toronto’s York University with a bachelor of
business administration, the Vancouver-born Johnston began
competing in triathlons last year after learning how to swim --a
tribute to her mother who had recently passed away.  She also chairs Toronto-Dominion’s  Women in Leadership 
committee, which aims to identify opportunities and promote
within the organization.  Since forming the committee in 2005, the bank has increased
the number of female vice presidents, senior vice presidents and
executive vice presidents to 34 percent of all employees, from
22 percent. Over that time, the bank has gone from fifth among
Canadian banks in that distinction to third.  Moved Beyond ‘Tokenism’  Johnston, who along with  Royal Bank of Canada (RY)  CFO Janice Fukakusa is the country’s highest-ranking female bank executive,
expects that a female Canadian bank chief executive officer
could be named “within the next couple of generations” of
succession. Toronto-Dominion CEO  Edmund Clark , 63, has said he
plans to retire in two years. Caisse Centrale Desjardins du
 Quebec , the country’s largest credit union group, is led by CEO
Monique Leroux.  “You have more and more women in very senior roles,” said
Johnston. “I believe we’ve moved way beyond any type of
tokenism around women or any other area of diversity, and I
think that’s the key to success.”  Toronto-Dominion fell 60 cents to C$76.49 at 4 p.m. in
trading on the Toronto Stock Exchange.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sean B. Pasternak in Toronto at 
 spasternak@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at   dscanlan@bloomberg.net ;
David Scheer at   dscheer@bloomberg.net  