-- 
Debt Plan Includes Spending-Cut ‘Trigger’ With a Long History of Failure

-- B y   H e i d i   P r z y b y l a
-- 
2011-07-29T15:26:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-29/debt-plan-includes-spending-cut-triggers-with-long-histories-of-failure.html
As they struggle to reach an
agreement over how to extend the nation’s debt limit and trim
budget deficits, Republicans and Democrats are turning to an
enforcement tool, called a “trigger,” with a history of
failure.  Republicans are insisting that the trigger would cause
across-the-board, automatic spending cuts if Congress comes up
short of implementing its own budget reductions. Democrats want
the mechanism to force deficit reduction through both cutting
expenditures and adding revenue.  “If we need to put in place some kind of enforcement
mechanism to hold us all accountable for making these reforms,
I’ll support that, too, if it’s done in a smart and balanced
way,” President  Barack Obama  said at the White House today.  A trigger could be a potential area of compromise if it
assumes new revenue through overhauling the  tax code , Senator
 Mike Crapo , an Idaho Republican, said in an interview last week.
“A trigger that would raise taxes, I don’t think that’s
acceptable” to Republicans, he said.  Even if the parties can reach agreement to avoid a possible
default on Aug. 2, Congresses have repeatedly ignored or
overridden automatic cuts dictated in previous legislative
agreements.  For that reason, budget and credit rating experts are
skeptical of the device, and they are even more critical of the
call in both the House and the Senate for identifying future
cuts through a newly created bipartisan committee -- another
 Washington  mainstay that can’t guarantee any real impact.  ‘Congress Can Undo’  “Anything Congress does, Congress can undo,” said  Bob Bixby , executive director of the Concord Coalition, an
Arlington, Virginia-based group that advocates for balanced
budgets. “They can’t really bind themselves. You really have to
have a political will to make these things work or they won’t.”  Formulating an effective way to hold Congress to its
promises to make the choices required to slash trillions in
spending in the next decade is key to satisfying demands by
credit rating services like Standard & Poor’s for a credible
commitment to taming the long-term debt.  Without enforcement powers, any new bipartisan committee
may not be taken seriously on  Wall Street  and by  ratings
agencies , said  David Ader , head of government bond strategy at
 Stamford , Connecticut-based CRT Capital Group LLC.  Toxic Term  At least three commissions in the past year have failed to
offer a plan that gained traction, including Obama’s  National
Commission on Fiscal Responsibility and Reform , a group of six
senators often called the “Gang of Six,’’ and a bipartisan
panel of lawmakers led by Vice President  Joe Biden .  A reference to a “bipartisan deficit commission” has
become so toxic in Washington that Senate Minority Leader  Mitch McConnell , a Kentucky Republican, admonished reporters who used
the term, insisting they call the proposed new panel a
“committee.” That hasn’t diminished the skepticism.  “What can this committee offer that can be so dramatically
different than what we’ve heard before?” Ader asked. “It’ll be
tiresome and frustrating,” he said. “I don’t see how it’s
possible it’ll have any teeth to it.”  Standard & Poor’s  has warned that there is a 50 percent
chance it will lower the U.S. government’s AAA credit rating by
one or more levels within three months. S&P said that even if
Congress raises the debt limit in time to avert a default, it
might lower the U.S. sovereign rating to AA+ with a negative
outlook if it isn’t accompanied by a “credible solution” on
the debt.  Bill Hoagland, a budget adviser to Republican congressional
leaders from 1982 to 2007, isn’t convinced that a new committee
will meet the rating services’ demand.  ‘Kicking the Can’  Republicans will appoint lawmakers who have taken an oath
against tax increases, while Democrats will name members
unwilling to allow cuts to Medicare and Social Security,
Hoagland said. “I see this committee kicking the can down the
road again,” he said.  The  deficit-reduction  proposal by House Speaker  John Boehner , an Ohio Republican, imposes statutory spending limits,
a device that worked successfully for almost a decade as part of
the 1990 Budget Enforcement Act. It’s a simple trigger: Failure
to stay below the spending caps prompts automatic,  across-the-
board spending cuts.  The U.S. went from a $221 billion deficit in 1990, the year
the caps were enacted, to a $236 billion surplus in 2000, by
abiding by the spending caps during a period of economic growth
that brought in new revenue. In 2002, the provisions both
expired and Congress didn’t renew them.  Health Care, Entitlements  Hoagland said this particular trigger may not be effective
in reducing the nation’s debt because discretionary spending
covers only roughly 18 percent of the federal budget.  “The real problem remains the health-care entitlement
programs and the revenue side,” he said.  The 1990 agreement also featured a pay-as-you-go
requirement for mandatory programs and revenues. A trigger was
enacted to enforce the caps and the “paygo” requirement.  Still, Congress overrode the enforcement provision two out
of the three times it was triggered, according to an April 28
report by the  Peterson-Pew  Commission on Budget Reform.  Gramm-Rudman  And in 1985, the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit
Control, or the Gramm-Rudman-Hollings Act, included a trigger to
enforce deficit targets. If the year’s target wasn’t met,
spending cuts were triggered. In the five years of the act, the
triggers kicked in twice, one of which was reduced by Congress
and the other overridden by a subsequent budget agreement.  Congress has also rejected scheduled automatic reductions
in doctors’ Medicare pay rates established in the Balanced
Budget Act of 1997, prompting the annual passage of additional
spending that is so routine it has a nickname: the “Doc Fix.”  Alternative enforcement options are being pushed by outside
groups in the closing days of the debt negotiations. These
include a freeze on new policies that increase the deficit, a
trigger that repeals tax cuts for upper-income Americans favored
by Obama and opposed by Republicans, and a guaranteed vote on
the “Gang of Six” plan.  Lawmakers such as Virginia Senator  Mark Warner , a Democrat
and co-chair of the Senate group, are insisting that an
enforcement mechanism is necessary -- if only to give the new
bipartisan committee credibility.  “If this new so-called commission deadlocks, what happens
then?” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story: Heidi Przybyla in
Washington at 
 hprzybyla@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  