-- 
Boehner’s Grip on Fractured Party Slips as Tough Test of Compromise Nears

-- B y   J a m e s   R o w l e y
-- 
2011-07-29T18:34:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-29/debt-increase-dispute-tests-boehner-s-power.html
The same forces that brought  John Boehner  to power as speaker of the U.S. House are now the ones
that weaken him.  For all the unity within the House Republican majority that
he forged this year to thwart President  Barack Obama ’s agenda,
Boehner was unable yesterday to amass the votes to pass his plan
to cut the federal deficit and raise the debt ceiling.  The Ohio Republican failed to compel many of his party’s
first-termers, elected with the support of a Tea Party-driven
message of cutting  government spending  and resisting tax
increases, to back him. He was forced to call off a planned vote
on his measure after hours of direct appeals to objecting
members in the speaker’s office.  Today, Boehner unveiled changes to the legislation that
Majority Leader  Eric Cantor , a Virginia Republican, said will
provide the needed votes for passage. Leaders added a provision
that would condition the second of two debt-limit extensions on
Congress sending to the states for ratification a balanced-
budget amendment to the Constitution.  Political Pivot  Yet with the Democratic-controlled Senate poised to kill
the bill Boehner wants to pass, a debt-limit deal still may
hinge on Boehner reaching a compromise with Senate Majority
Leader  Harry Reid  of  Nevada . That would require the speaker to
make a political pivot -- attracting enough Democratic House
votes to pass such an accord to offset even greater numbers of
Republican defectors.  “If Boehner was basically knocking heads to get the votes
on his bill, he is really going to have to apply thumb screws to
get the bill that comes back from the Senate to get it
enacted,” said  Ross Baker , a political scientist at  Rutgers
University  in  New Brunswick ,  New Jersey .  Such a political dilemma could eventually prompt a
challenge to Boehner’s speakership within his party, Baker said.  “If you were looking for a pretext to stage a coup, that
would be a pretty good one,” he said. That “would happen later
on,” not “in the midst of everything,” Baker added.  U.S. stocks pared losses. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index
fell to 1,299.79, or 0.1 percent, at 2:07 p.m. in  New York  after
tumbling as much as 1.4 percent. The  Dow Jones Industrial
Average  fell 36.17 points, or 0.3 percent, to 12,203.94 after
slumping as much as 157 points.  Boehner’s Style  Boehner is known for a collegial approach in dealing with
his caucus -- especially compared to past leaders -- and that
was in evidence as he pushed for passage of his measure.  Representative Jeff Flake of  Arizona , after a meeting with
Boehner last night, recalled the days of former House Majority
Leader  Tom DeLay , a Texas Republican nicknamed “the Hammer”
for his heavy-handed lobbying efforts. “I was here with
DeLay,” Flake said. By comparison, he told reporters, “Boehner
has a soft touch.”  Flake, who had been a ‘no” vote, told reporters today that
he would support the changed measure. “I think you will see
quite a few get on board,” he said.  Representative Jason Chaffetz, a Utah Republican and another
target of Boehner’s lobbying, told reporters he was “very
pleasantly surprised that they’re not twisting and ripping arms
off.”  After leaving a meeting with Boehner last night, Chaffetz
reiterated his opposition to the speaker’s bill.  Boehner’s Bill  The measure Boehner pushed yesterday would provide an
immediate $900 billion debt-ceiling increase while cutting
spending by $915 billion, according to the nonpartisan
 Congressional Budget Office ’s scoring. It also would set the
stage for another $1.6 trillion installment of borrowing
authority if Congress enacted a law before year’s end to reduce
deficits by $1.8 trillion.  The spending cuts are insufficient, argued some Republicans
opposing the bill, including about 10 of the 87 freshman elected
last November who gave the party control of the House and
Boehner his speakership. Others demanded inclusion of the
balanced budget amendment.  Though Democratic and Republicans senators have said such a
provision stands no chance in their chamber, House Republican
leaders went ahead and added the balanced-budget language.  Postponement  Less than an hour before yesterday’s scheduled 6 p.m. House
vote, leaders announced action was being postponed on the bill.
The House partly occupied its time on the naming of post
offices.  Meanwhile, Republicans who had either declared their
opposition to the measure or made clear they were leaning
against it were summoned to the speaker’s office.  One of them, Representative Louie Gohmert of  Texas , called
his session with Boehner “very gracious, very nice and
respectful.” He then said he still planned to vote no.  Today, Gohmert said he may change his mind.  “I haven’t
read the bill, but I like what I’m hearing,” he said after a
Republican caucus this morning.  During the meeting, Boehner told his colleagues “he loves
them,” though “some less than others, today. But he loves us
all,” Representative Steve LaTourette, Ohio Republican, told
reporters.  Independent Voters  As the debt-limit dispute has played out, Boehner has been
caught between his penchant for compromises on big issues that
help his party with independent voters and the wishes of a band
of anti-spending  House Republicans  who are spoiling for a
showdown with Democrats on the debt limit.  If the plan is defeated, Boehner will be “shown to be
weakened by the fact that he doesn’t have his troops behind
him,” said LaTourette, a long-time Boehner ally.  A loss also would cast doubt on Boehner’s ability “to
leverage legislation for the rest of this term,” which lasts
through 2012, LaTourette said.  Today, LaTourette predicted the revised measure would pass,
though the changes “cost us leverage” because they make it
even more certain “the Senate will not pass it,” he said.  The measure’s certain demise in the Senate may be a
political lesson for some of the House members who sought the
change, though “I don’t know if any of” them “learned it,”
LaTourette said.  Standing Ovation  Boehner also met with Senate Republicans today and received
a standing ovation, according to those present. “We all respect
the man for going what he’s gone through and accomplishing what
he’s accomplished,” said Senator  Orrin Hatch , a Utah
Republican. “It’s a very difficult job and he’s done a terrific
job.”  Hatch said Boehner’s message was that “they are going to
get their bill over here and we’ll go from there.”  Some of the House Republicans who have stood firm against
Boehner’s plan express admiration for his leadership.  “He’s got the most difficult job on the planet,” said
Representative Joe Walsh of  Illinois , a Tea Party-backed
freshman.  Allies of Boehner say his difficulties stem, in part, from
the inexperience of members in the freshmen class, one of the
largest ever elected to the House.  “We have some learning to do in our conference,” said
Representative Tom Cole, an Oklahoma Republican. New members are
learning that “Democrats do run the Senate, they do have” the
presidency, so “we can’t get everything we want.”  Boehner’s position won’t get any easier as he turns to his
next big test -- crafting legislation that can pass both houses
of Congress before the Aug. 2 deadline for a projected default.  For Boehner to be able to bargain effectively with
Democrats, “he’s got to show in a straight-up fight that he can
get” the votes to pass his legislation by persuading members
“to do some things they don’t want to do,” Cole said.  “I have never had any doubts in John Boehner’s
abilities,” Cole said. “The real question is does the
conference have the ability?”  Today’s expected vote, he said, will be “a very big day
for the speaker, it’s a bigger day for the conference.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Rowley in Washington at +1-  To contact the editor responsible for this story: Mark Silva at
   msilva34@bloomberg.net  