-- 
Democratic Independent Political Groups Bring in $10 Million

-- B y   A l i s o n   F i t z g e r a l d
-- 
2011-07-29T20:12:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-29/democratic-independent-political-groups-bring-in-10-million.html
Four Democratic political groups,
led by former White House and congressional staffers, have
raised more than $10 million to support the re-election of
President  Barack Obama  and win back seats in the House and
Senate.  Priorities USA Action, which discloses its donors, and
Priorities USA, an affiliated group that keeps its contributors’
names secret, have raised a combined total of more than $5
million since April to help the president win a second term.
Both groups were founded by  Bill Burton , a former White House
spokesman, and Sean Sweeney, a former senior White House
adviser.  Majority PAC, a group focused on helping win Senate seats
for Democrats, raised $1.25 million while the House Majority PAC
took in $985,000. A fourth group, American Bridge 21st Century
and its affiliated foundation, raised $3.07 million to conduct
opposition research for all three other groups. The four groups
issued a joint press release today.  “Progressive donors across the country have invested in
our effort because they share our belief that we can’t rebuild
America if  Karl Rove  and the Koch Brothers tear down the middle
class,” said Priorities USA Action senior adviser Paul Begala
in an e-mailed statement. Begala was referring to billionaire
brothers Charles and  David Koch , owners of Koch Industries Inc.,
who spent millions in the 2010 midterms to elect Republicans.  Fundraising Goals  The two Priorities USA groups set a combined goal of
raising $100 million for the 2012 campaign season.  The organizations, operating independently of individual
campaigns and the  Democratic National Committee , will copy the
tactics used by Republican strategist Rove and his allies last
year when the  Republican Party  won control of the  House of
Representatives  and gained six seats in the Senate. The
Democratic groups will meet regularly to share information and
resources and to target their political advertising at races
where it would have greatest impact.  American Crossroads, the group advised by Rove, said in
June that it raised $3.8 million in the first half of the year.
That doesn’t include the money raised by its sister non-profit
Crossroads GPS, which is spending $20 million on television ads
criticizing Obama for  government spending  and the $14.3 trillion
 U.S. debt . Rove has set a goal of taking in $120 million for
2012.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alison Fitzgerald in Washington at 
 afitzgerald2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  