-- 
DiBenedetto Investor Group’s Takeover of Roma Club Is Said to Be Delayed

-- B y   T a r i q   P a n i a   a n d   S o n i a   S i r l e t t i
-- 
2011-07-29T18:35:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-29/dibenedetto-investor-group-s-takeover-of-roma-club-is-said-to-be-delayed.html
U.S. investors led by Boston Red Sox
partner Thomas DiBenedetto and  UniCredit SpA (UCG)  signed an agreement
to complete the purchase of Italian soccer club AS Roma on Aug.
17, a spokesman said.  Negotiations to complete the transaction, originally
scheduled to be conclude today, had to be extended because terms
of the original agreement changed.  The U.S. investors, who include hedge fund manager James Pallotta and UniCredit,  Italy ’s biggest bank, agreed in March to
buy 67 percent of Roma from the Sensi family for 60.3 million
euros ($86 million).  “The agreement is fully in place and iron clad,” said
Sean Barror, a spokesman for the U.S. group.  The buyers have now agreed to increase their investment
from 35 million euros to as much as 80 million euros, while
UniCredit has agreed to provide additional financing for the
deal, two people familiar with the matter had told Bloomberg
News.  A spokesman for UniCredit in Milan, who asked not to be
named because of company policy, declined to comment. Barror
declined to discuss financial details of the transaction.  “When you sell a major club, a television channel, an IP
company, and its physical assets, this is a complex
transaction,” Barror said in earlier interview. “We are now
ready for major ambitions.”  Roma, which last won the Italian title in 2001, was put up
for sale in July because the Sensi family accumulated debt of
more than 300 million euros with UniCredit. The bank agreed to
swap the debt for equity and jointly owned a 67 percent stake in
the team with the Sensi’s oil company Italpetroli SpA.  The club has made management changes and hired a new coach
during the takeover negotiations. Former Spanish international
midfielder Luis Enrique was hired as coach from Barcelona’s
reserve team. Franco Baldini, general manager for  England ’s
national team, has agreed to join Roma later this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tariq Panja in  Rio de Janeiro  via London at 
 tpanja@bloomberg.net ;
Sonia Sirletti in Milan at 
4206 or  ssirletti@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at   celser@bloomberg.net 
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net  