-- 
Does America Know Debt Downgrade Means 3.25% Faster Than Anyone Can Say AA

-- B y   J o h n   D e t r i x h e   a n d   T o m   K e e n e
-- 
2011-07-29T16:40:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-29/does-america-know-debt-downgrade-means-3-25-faster-than-anyone-can-say-aa.html
The unanticipated rally in U.S.
Treasuries while lawmakers wrangle over raising the nation’s
borrowing limit would soon evaporate if a collapse of talks
leads to a default, according to UBS AG’s Mike Schumacher.  “We think if there is really a blowoff event in
 Washington , so let’s say all the discussions completely fall
apart over the next few days, you could possibly see the 10-year
yield go up to 3.25 percent or 3.3 percent,” Schumacher, head
of global rates strategy at UBS in New York, said in a July 27
radio interview on “Bloomberg Surveillance” with  Tom Keene .  Ten-year notes rallied the most in two weeks today,
pushing the yield to as low as 2.84 percent, as investors bet
the U.S. will avoid a default even as lawmakers were deadlocked
and economic growth faltered.  Standard & Poor’s , which has given
the U.S. a top AAA ranking since 1941, said on July 14 that the
chance of a downgrade is 50 percent in the next three months and
may cut the rating as soon as August if there isn’t a “credible
solution” to reduce the nation’s deficit.  “$4 trillion would be a good down payment,”  John Chambers , chairman of S&P’s sovereign rating committee, said in
a video interview distributed by the New York-based ratings firm
yesterday. “A grand bargain of that nature would signal the
seriousness of policy makers to address the fiscal situation in
the U.S.”  The government is inching closer to running out of cash
before an Aug. 2 deadline to raise the $14.3 trillion debt
ceiling. House Republican leaders scrapped a vote on the debt
ceiling bill late yesterday, fueling concern a compromise by the
two parties won’t be reached before the deadline and casting
doubt on whether the Treasury can sell more debt.  Senate Talks  “You have to remember the whole discussion about the
deficit reduction is comparatively small versus the entitlement
question,” Schumacher said in a telephone interview today. “If
Congress can’t get its arms around a smaller one, how can it
tackle a bigger one?”  As the House deadlocked, Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid 
said today he has asked Senate Republican leader  Mitch McConnell 
to meet with him and “negotiate in good faith knowing the clock
is running down.” The Treasury Department has set an Aug. 2
deadline for raising the $14.3 trillion debt limit to avert a
default.  “If we don’t get a big deal, let’s say it’s a $1 trillion
reduction in the deficit, then the economic impact probably
would be fairly small,” Schumacher said in a telephone
interview. “The second order effect is people would have
concerns of whether the U.S. can ever grapple with
entitlements.”  ‘Getting a Resolution’  Yields on 10-year notes tumbled 10 basis points, or 0.1
percentage point, to 2.84 percent, the lowest since July 12, at
12:28 p.m. in  New York , according to Bloomberg Bond Trader
prices. Yields are down 12 basis points this week and 32 basis
points this month. The 3.125 percent securities due in May 2021
increased 7/8, or $8.75 per $1,000 face amount, to 102 13/32.  “No one expects the U.S. will not be paying its debt,”
said  David Semmens , a U.S. economist at Standard Chartered Bank
in New York. “As we get into the weekend, people will be
focused on getting a resolution to the debt crisis, but
it also brings the focus back to the weak economic growth we are
seeing in the U.S.”  The Treasury will give priority to making interest payments
to holders of  government bonds  when due if lawmakers fail to
reach an agreement to raise the debt ceiling, according to an
administration official. The official requested anonymity
because no announcement has been made.  GDP Revision  The U.S. has said about $90 billion in debt matures on Aug.
4 and more than $30 billion in interest comes due Aug. 15.
Overall, more than $500 billion matures in August.  “A smaller than expected deal would be bad for the
Treasury market,” said Guy LeBas, chief fixed-income strategist
at Janney Montgomery Scott LLC in Philadelphia. “Very few
people think the deal will be large enough to avoid a downgrade,
a scenario that’s almost priced into the market.”  Gross domestic product climbed at a 1.3 percent annual rate
following a 0.4 percent gain in the prior quarter that was less
than earlier estimated, Commerce Department figures showed today
in Washington. The median forecast of economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News called for a 1.8 percent increase.  “There’s been a consistent overestimation of economic
output,” LeBas said in a telephone interview. “The Treasury
market is responding far more to that than rating risk.”  -- With assistance from Susanne Walker in New Yokr. Editors:
Dave Liedtka, Robert Burgess  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Detrixhe in New York at 
 jdetrixhe1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  