-- 
MDR Mortgage President Sued by U.S. Alleging False Data Provided on Loans

-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C r o n i n   F i s k
-- 
2011-07-29T19:56:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-29/mdr-mortgage-president-sued-by-u-s-alleging-false-data-provided-on-loans.html
MDR Mortgage Corp.’s founder and
president, Robert S. Luce, was sued by the U.S.  Justice
Department  for alleged False Claims Act violations tied to
defaulted loans insured by the Federal Housing Administration.  Luce was responsible for falsely representing to the
Department of Housing and Urban Development that he wasn’t under
criminal investigation or indictment while the company
originated loans from April 2005 to October 2008, the Justice
Department said in a complaint filed today in federal court in
 Chicago . Luce was under indictment for mail fraud,  wire fraud 
and obstruction of justice in an unrelated matter at the time,
the U.S. said.  MDR, based in Palatine,  Illinois , was barred by FHA
regulations from originating mortgage loans because of the
indictment, the U.S. said. MDR originated more than 90 FHA-
insured loans that later defaulted and HUD had to pay more than
$1.6 million in insurance claims, the U.S. said.  “For the purpose of fraudulently obtaining HUD mortgage
insurance for each of these loans, MDR knowingly created false
records, made false statements, and submitted the false records
and statements to HUD and FHA,” according to the complaint.  ‘Voluntarily Ceased’  Luce pleaded guilty to obstruction of justice in the
criminal case in July 2008 and MDR “voluntarily ceased”
involvement in HUD loans two months later, the U.S. said.  Luce will “vigorously defend” the lawsuit, his lawyer,
Kenneth Cunniff, said in a phone interview.  “Mr. Luce has been negotiating with the government for
months,” Cunniff said. “It’s our position that there was no
loss to the government as a result of the statements that were
made.”  The civil lawsuit seeks recovery under the  False Claims Act 
and civil penalties under the Financial Institutions Reform,
Recovery and Enforcement Act.  “Mortgage lenders who lie in order to reap the benefits of
these insurance programs, as is alleged here, undermine the
integrity of these programs and misuse taxpayer funds that are
meant to support single-family housing,”  Tony West , assistant
U.S. attorney general, said in a statement today.  The lawsuit is U.S. v. Luce, 11-cv-05158, U.S. District
Court, Northern District of Illinois (Chicago).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Margaret Cronin Fisk in Southfield,  Michigan ,
at   mcfisk@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  