-- 
Dunkin’ Brands, Teavana Get Coffee-Stock Jolt: Chart of the Day

-- B y   D a v i d   W i l s o n
-- 
2011-07-29T04:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-29/dunkin-brands-teavana-get-coffee-stock-jolt-chart-of-the-day.html
Rallies in Dunkin’ Brands Inc. and
Teavana Holdings Inc. after initial public offerings this week
reflected growing investor interest in providers of specialty
coffees and teas.  The CHART OF THE DAY illustrates the trend with an index
consisting of  Starbucks Corp. (SBUX) ,  Green Mountain Coffee Roasters
Inc. (GMCR)  and a trio of smaller companies:  Peet’s Coffee & Tea Inc. (PEET) ,
Caribou Coffee Co. and Coffee Holding Co.  The coffee-stock gauge soared 95 percent this year through
yesterday, trouncing a 3.4 percent gain in the Standard & Poor’s
500 Index. Starbucks, the group’s worst performer, rose 24
percent in advance of yesterday’s earnings report.  Dunkin’ Brands, the operator of Dunkin’ Donuts coffee
shops, climbed 47 percent on the first day of trading July 27
after the Canton, Massachusetts-based company’s IPO. Teavana, a
seller of loose-leaf teas that’s based in Atlanta, surged 64
percent the next day in its stock-market debut.  “Teavana is riding in the wake of what happened with
 Dunkin’ Donuts , and the parallels are coming out,” David Menlow, president of IPOfinancial.com in Millburn,  New Jersey ,
said in a telephone interview yesterday. His firm has “buy”
ratings on both companies. He doesn’t own shares of either.  The industry index assigned one-third weights to Starbucks
and to  Green Mountain , based on share prices at the end of last
year. They had market values as of yesterday of $30 billion and
$15.4 billion, respectively. Peet’s, Caribou Coffee and Coffee
Holding collectively accounted for the other one-third of the
gauge, and each was weighted by its value as of Dec. 31.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 David Wilson  in New York at 
 dwilson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  