-- 
Leaders Give Russia Little Reason to Sober Up: Tatyana Tolstaya

-- B y   T a t y a n a   T o l s t a y a
-- 
2011-07-29T00:00:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-29/leaders-give-russia-no-reason-to-sober-up-commentary-by-tatyana-tolstaya.html
The other day, Russian President
 Dmitry Medvedev  signed a  law  equating beer with alcoholic
beverages, a move that restricts its advertisement and limits
its sale and distribution. Unfortunately, the decision can mean
only one thing: The vodka lobby trumped the beer lobby.  People's health won’t improve. The young beer drinker won’t
reach for an orange juice. Beer will simply get more expensive,
and people will turn back to their beloved vodka.  Legend has it that more than 1,000 years ago, when  Vladimir
the Great  was deciding which religion to accept, he rejected
Islam specifically because it proscribed alcohol. “The joy of
Rus’ is to drink:” That phrase, attributed to Vladimir,
determined the nation’s destiny for the next thousand years.
Back then, people drank relatively weak beverages such as mead,
beer or kvas. Vodka wasn’t invented until the days of Ivan the
Terrible in the 16th century.  Ivan is reputed to have organized the first drinking house,
a specialized establishment in which one could drink but not
eat. In the 17th and 18th centuries, Peter the Great continued
the inebriation of the Russian people: At balls and assemblies,
he required guests to drink to excess -- sometimes, reportedly,
to their death -- for his entertainment.  Perhaps, though, the explanation of Russia’s relationship
to alcohol can be found in a  national character  prone to
extremes, rather than in czars or religion. Any form of
moderation, from politeness to prudence, is seen as weakness.
The Russian macho won’t stop until he’s had his fill and dropped
dead.  Drunk Tanks  In Soviet times, drunks littered the streets, prompting the
government to build half-medical, half-penal tanks to contain
them. I knew a narcologist who lost his government job because
he was constantly drunk and failed to show up for work. He was
unlucky: His co-workers drank no less than he did, but his liver
wasn’t as tough as theirs. He didn’t have the strength to crawl
back to work in the morning.  As he told it, his work consisted of verifying the
transgressions of moonshiners. The police would haul in the
violators and their product, the doctors would solemnly fill out
the necessary documents, and everyone would witness the
offending liquid being poured down the sink. The moonshiners
would pay a fine or go to jail. Then the doctors and police
would lock the door; pull out the hidden bucket that had
collected the fresh delicious moonshine; unpack pickles, brown
bread, preserved fish and other hors d’oeuvres; and get the
party started. It was a great job. Some chose to work all night.  Wild With Envy  Whenever I tell the story of the narcologist, my listeners
go wild with envy. The fact that his family disintegrated and he
died young bothers no one. I can testify that good moonshine is
far superior to the vodka one can buy in the store. It’s cheap,
clean, tastes a bit like aquavit, rates about 100 proof and
offers the excitement of feeling like an outlaw. Go ahead, try
to ban it. We’ll cook it and drink it. We don’t need your
stinking decrees.  I seldom see people splayed out on the asphalt these days,
but that’s not an indicator. The drunkenness has shifted to
homes and restaurants. Alcohol consumption per capita has
 increased  along with its variety and accessibility.  I know a lot of people who have made drinking their primary
pastime. In between benders, they somehow manage to earn enough
money to support the habit. Kids drink from age 12 or 13, mainly
malt beverages. Beer ads portray its consumers as happy-go-lucky
party types, who see nothing more natural than grabbing a case
or two, because the world is great and life is beautiful. Then
they get behind the wheel stinking drunk, or get run over by
someone else.  Fake Vodka  A large portion of the vodka for sale is actually  fake ,
poorly distilled spirits. The deadly rotgut, aimed at the
pocketbook of  Russia ’s poorest drinkers, comes by the trainload
from the south. Everybody knows about it, but the interests of
organized crime are stronger than presidential decrees,
particularly given the fact that our current president isn’t
really in charge. Like cheap vodka, he’s also a fake.  Wine, for its part, isn’t a contender. Wine-drinking
culture hasn’t taken root in Russia. We produce very little of
our own, and the imported version must get through a gauntlet of
excises, checks, bans and licenses designed to enrich the
relevant officials. As a result, it’s far too expensive for
regular consumption. In any case, Russians drink less for flavor
than for the brain-numbing effect that hard alcohol -- and
particularly poorly distilled hard alcohol -- delivers much more
effectively.  Invincible People  The Russian people are invincible, because over the past
thousand years they’ve learned to downshift like no other
nation. No 20-year-old French cognac? Can’t import Georgian
wine? Beer too expensive? No problem. We’ll get booze where we
can. We’ll buy infusion of hawthorn at the pharmacy. We’ll make
moonshine from potatoes, sawdust or tomato paste. We’ll make
cocktails from glue. We’ll extract spirits from bathroom cleaner
(it’s called “snowflake,” has a grayish color and reeks like
hell).  Trying to separate people from their favorite drink with a
decree is an exercise in futility. What the country really needs
is something else: jobs, affordable housing, opportunities for
kids to get into sports or art. Our weak and greedy leaders find
it easier to prohibit, but our people have long since learned
how to get around prohibitions.  President Medvedev probably won’t strain window cleaner
through rye bread. But the people will. We may die young, but
we’ll die free.  (Tatyana Tolstaya is a Russian writer whose works include
the novel “The Slynx.” The opinions expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Tatyana Tolstaya at  ttolstaya@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Mark Whitehouse at   mwhitehouse1@bloomberg.net . 