-- 
Economy in U.S. Probably Expanded at the Slowest Pace in a Year

-- B y   S h o b h a n a   C h a n d r a
-- 
2011-07-29T04:00:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-29/economy-in-u-s-probably-expanded-at-the-slowest-pace-in-a-year.html
The  U.S. economy  probably grew in
the second quarter at the slowest pace in a year as consumers
cut back on spending, economists said ahead of a government
report today.  Gross domestic product rose at a 1.8 percent annual rate
after a 1.9 percent pace in the prior three months, according to
the median forecast of 84 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News.
Household purchases, the biggest part of the economy, climbed
0.8 percent, the weakest performance since the recession ended
in 2009, the survey showed.  Slower job and income gains raise the risk that a pickup in
purchases will fail to develop in the second half of 2011. With
few drivers to spur the expansion, Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  has
said the  Federal Reserve  needs to keep all policy options open.  “There is still some uncertainty as to whether the second-
half rebound materializes,” said  Michael Feroli , chief U.S.
economist at JPMorgan Chase & Co. in  New York . “The slowdown in
consumer spending is worrisome. The labor market doesn’t look
healthy at all.”  The GDP report, due at 8:30 a.m. from the Commerce
Department in Washington, is the first of three for the quarter,
with the other releases scheduled for August and September when
more information becomes available.  Survey estimates ranged from 0.9 percent to 2.9 percent.
The Commerce Department today will also issue revisions going
back to 2003.  The projected gain in second-quarter  consumer spending ,
which accounts for about 70 percent of the economy, followed a
2.2 percent advance in the first three months of the year.  Food and Fuel  Higher expenses for necessities like food and energy may
have curtailed spending on less essential items. The cost of a
gallon of regular gasoline climbed in May to about $4 a gallon,
the highest in almost three years, according to AAA, the
nation’s biggest auto group.  The absence of faster job growth is also discouraging
shoppers. The  unemployment rate  climbed to 9.2 percent in June
while payrolls grew by 18,000, the smallest gain in nine months,
Labor Department figures showed on July 8.  A pickup in spending will take time to develop, as
consumers’ moods have soured. At 9:55 a.m., a report may show
the Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan final index of
consumer sentiment fell this month to the lowest level since
March 2009, when the economy was still in a recession,
economists projected. The Bloomberg Consumer Comfort Index, fell
last week to the lowest level since May, data showed yesterday.  Business Spending  Business investment was probably one of the drivers of
economic growth last quarter. Nonetheless, the government’s
inability to agree on a budget and debt-limit increase may be
making companies reluctant to order new equipment and hire in
the second half.  The Institute for Supply Management-Chicago Inc.’s business
barometer cooled to 60 this month, from 61.1 in June, according
to the median forecast of economists surveyed by Bloomberg. The
group’s report is due today at 9:45 a.m.  Shares of manufacturers have trailed the broader market
since the beginning of the year. The Standard & Poor’s
Supercomposite Machinery Index has declined 2.8 percent this
year, while the broader S&P gauge is up 3.4 percent.  One area of weakness last quarter was auto purchases. Cars
and light trucks sold at an average 12.1 annual rate in the
April to June period, down from a 13 million pace in the first
three months of the year, according to industry data.  Supply Shortage  A shortage of Japanese-made parts after the earthquake and
tsunami in March slowed production at U.S. manufacturers. The
shortage of components is projected to ease this quarter.  The employment outlook remains dim at the start of the
third quarter, based on company announcements this month.  San
Jose , California-based  Cisco Systems Inc. (CSCO) , the world’s largest
networking-equipment maker, plans to cut about 6,500 jobs
worldwide. Goldman Sachs Group Inc. will reduce its staff by
about 1,000, and  Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT)  will offer a voluntary
separation plan to 6,500 employees.  “Recent economic data are clear -- the U.S. economy is
still struggling to emerge from the Great Recession and unable
to move to a path of vibrant and sustainable growth,” Dan
DiMicco, chairman and chief executive officer at steelmaker
Nucor Corp., said on a July 21 teleconference with analysts.  Another reason for concern is that much of the growth in
the second quarter came from an expansion of inventories rather
than from demand, economists including Feroli said. Waning
domestic final sales -- which strip out inventories, exports and
imports -- indicate the U.S. economy lacks the strength to
accelerate.  The Fed said the economy grew at a slower pace since the
beginning of June, according to its Beige Book survey released
July 27. Growth cooled in eight of the Fed’s 12 regions,
compared with four in the prior survey.  “In the very near term, the recovery is rather fragile,”
Fed Chairman Bernanke told lawmakers on July 14. “We just want
to make sure that we have the options when they become
necessary” to stimulate the economy.  
To contact the reporter on this story:
Shobhana Chandra in  Washington  at 
 schandra1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz in Washington at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  