-- 
Ecuador to Require Banks to Buy Government Debt, Mejia Says

-- B y   N a t h a n   G i l l
-- 
2011-07-29T21:06:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-29/ecuador-to-require-banks-to-buy-government-debt-mejia-says.html
Ecuador changed its banking laws to
require financial institutions to invest part of their  reserve
requirements  in government debt, said Klever Mejia, the central
bank’s director of risks.  Private banks must put a minimum of 1 percent of their
reserves in  government bonds , Mejia said today in an e-mailed
response to questions from Bloomberg News. The central bank on
July 13  said  it was changing banks’ reserve laws to “establish
global liquidity levels that guarantee adequate margins of
financial security.”  “At least 1 percent of the securities must be issued by
the public sector,” Mejia said today.  Ecuador’s Economic Policy Minister Katiuska King on June 1
said the South American nation’s use of the  U.S. dollar  makes
the economy “vulnerable” to international economic crises and
limits tools available to offset declining remittances from
immigrants in Europe and the U.S.  The Andean country’s reliance on oil to support  government
spending  and limited funding options following a $3.2 billion
default in 2008 and 2009 may jeopardize the nation’s use of the
dollar, Michael Henderson, a London-based economist at Capital
Economics Ltd., said today in a note to clients.  “Limited financing options are likely to turn up the heat
on the dollarized economy over the medium-term,” Henderson
said.  Ecuador’s Oriente crude, which normally trades at a
discount to benchmark West Texas Intermediate, has climbed 22
percent this year to $104.12 per barrel as of yesterday,
according to prices compiled by Bloomberg. WTI oil will fall to
$97.19 per barrel by the end of the year and average $102 a
barrel next year, according to the weighted median estimate of
32 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nathan Gill in Quito at 
 ngill4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 Papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  