-- 
Egypt Protesters Demand ‘Arab, Islamic Identity’ in Tahrir Rally

-- B y   A h m e d   A .   N a m a t a l l a
-- 
2011-07-29T12:34:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-29/egypt-protesters-demand-arab-islamic-identity-in-tahrir-rally.html
Tens of thousands of protesters
gathered in Egypt’s main cities of Cairo and Alexandria today
with demands including the preservation of the country’s “Arab
and Islamic identity.”  “We will not accept an alternative to the laws of our
God,” read one of the signs in central Cairo’s  Tahrir Square ,
according to footage broadcast on state-run Nile News.  The demonstration in Cairo is the largest since protesters
rallied three weeks ago to demand that the government speed up
political and economic reforms after the January uprising that
ousted President  Hosni Mubarak . Debate over the role of religion
has intensified as Egypt prepares for its first post-Mubarak
election, due in November.  About 60 percent of Egyptians say the country’s laws should
“strictly follow the teachings” of Islam, according to a
survey by the Washington-based Pew Research Center in April.
Seventy-five percent had a favorable view of the Muslim
Brotherhood, the biggest opposition group in the Mubarak era and
frontrunner for the parliamentary vote, the study found.  Mathar Shahine, the leader of today’s Islamic Friday prayer
in the square, had earlier called for  Egypt  to “preserve its
Arab and Islamic identity,” and described members of the
country’s Coptic Christian minority as “our partners in this
nation with the same rights and duties as everyone else.”  Another demand of protesters in recent weeks has been the
acceleration of trials for Mubarak and officials charged with
corruption and killing protesters at the start of the uprising.  The trial of the former president, his two sons Alaa and
Gamal, ex-Interior Minister Habibi el-Adly and others will begin
in Cairo on Aug. 3, the Middle East News Agency said yesterday,
citing Mohamed Manie, assistant to the justice minister.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ahmed A Namatalla in Cairo at 
 anamatalla@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mahmoud Kassem at 
 mkassem1@bloomberg.net . 