-- 
Emerging Stocks Fall for Third Day on U.S., Europe Debt Concerns, Earnings

-- B y   I a n   C .   S a y s o n   a n d   B e l i n d a   C a o
-- 
2011-07-29T22:37:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-29/emerging-stocks-fall-for-third-day-on-u-s-europe-debt-concerns-earnings.html
Emerging-market stocks declined for
a third straight day and borrowing costs rose as concern grew
that debt crises in the U.S. and  Europe  may curb the global
economic expansion.  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index decreased 0.7 percent to
1,137.73 at 5 p.m. in New York, the lowest since July 20. A
three-day slide brought this week’s retreat to 1.3 percent. The
gauge is down 0.7 percent this month. Russia’s Micex gauge lost
0.9 percent. Most Asian stocks dropped as benchmarks in  Taiwan 
and  Korea  declined the most.  The U.S. reported less-than-forecast economic growth in the
second quarter as consumers retrenched. The House passed Speaker
John Boehner’s plan to raise the U.S. debt limit and cut
spending, a bill Senate Democrats say they will kill as they
press for an alternative approaching an Aug. 2 deadline to avoid
default.  Malaysia’s ringgit and the Turkish lira weakened the most
versus the greenback in developing-nation currencies. The lira
fell as much as 1.3 percent after the nation reported a record
trade deficit for June and four top military generals resigned
amid tensions with the Prime Minister over alleged military
plots to undermine his government.  “Investors are taking a defensive stance,” said Paul Joseph Garcia, who helps manage $15 billion at Manila-based Bank
of the Philippine Islands.  ‘Negligible’ Inflows  Mutual funds invested in emerging-market stocks attracted a
“negligible” $266 million inflow in the week ended July 27,
Citigroup Inc. analysts led by  Markus Rosgen  wrote in a report
today, citing figures compiled by EPFR Global. That compares
with a withdrawal of $1.1 billion in the week ended July 20.  The extra yield investors demand to own emerging-market
debt over U.S. Treasuries increased nine basis points, or 0.09
percentage point, to 303, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s
EMBI Global Index.  Powertech Technology Inc. (6239)  slumped the most since December
2008 in Taipei while Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Co. fell
after reporting lower profit.  Vale SA, the world’s largest iron-ore producer, lost 1.4
percent, the most in three weeks, as its second-quarter profit
missed analysts estimates. Gol Linhas Aereas Inteligentes SA
sank after  Brazil ’s second-biggest airline by market value cut
some of its 2011 forecasts and was downgraded by banks. Gol
plunged 22 percent, the most since its 2004 initial public
offering.  India ’s Bombay Stock Exchange Sensitive Index slipped 0.1
percent, ending July with a 3.4 percent decline, its biggest
monthly loss since January.  China ’s Shanghai Composite Index
slipped 0.3 percent today.  U.S. Growth  U.S. gross domestic product rose at a 1.3 percent annual
rate in the second quarter, Commerce Department figures showed
today. That was less than the 1.8 percent median forecast of
economists surveyed by Bloomberg News. Household purchases,
about 70 percent of the economy, climbed 0.1 percent.  Moody’s is reviewing  Spain ’s Aa2 classification, the
ratings company said in a statement today. A cut would probably
be “limited to one notch,” the agency said. Spain, the euro
region’s fourth-largest economy, is trying to rein in a surge in
borrowing costs and convince investors it won’t follow Greece,
Ireland and  Portugal  in seeking an international bailout.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ian C. Sayson in Manila at 
 isayson@bloomberg.net 
Belinda Cao in  New York  at 
 lcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net . 