-- 
Employment Costs in U.S. Increased 0.7% in Second Quarter

-- B y   B o b   W i l l i s
-- 
2011-07-29T12:30:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-29/employment-costs-in-u-s-increased-0-7-in-second-quarter.html
Employment expenses in the U.S. rose
more than forecast in the second quarter, led by higher costs
for benefits such as health care.  The 0.7 percent increase in the employment cost index from
April through June followed a 0.6 percent gain in the prior
three months, Labor Department figures showed today. Economists
projected a 0.5 percent gain, according to the median estimate
in a Bloomberg News survey. Wages rose 0.4 percent for a third
straight quarter.  With 14.1 million people unemployed and a 9.2 percent
jobless rate, workers have little leeway to demand pay increases
that account for almost 70 percent of a company’s costs. The
 Federal Reserve  said in its latest survey of regional economies
that the job market “remained soft” and inflation pressures
had “moderated” in most areas.  “From the employee side of the ledger, inflation pressures
are very tame,”  John Herrmann , a senior markets strategist at
State Street Global Markets in  Boston , said before the report.
Wages “remain well-contained because of the slack and fragility
of the labor market and that’s unlikely to change any time
soon.”  Estimates of second-quarter employment costs ranged from a
increases of 0.4 percent to 0.7 percent, according to the survey
of 49 economists.  The employment cost index measures the expense to companies
of wages, benefits and employer-paid taxes such as Social
Security and Medicare.  The U.S. consumer-price index fell 0.2 percent last month,
figures from the Labor Department showed July 15. Excluding
volatile food and energy, the so-called core gauge rose 0.3
percent, more than forecast and pushed up by higher clothing
expenses and bigger gains in car prices.  Wages and Salaries  Wages and salaries, which account for about 70 percent of
company expenses, climbed 0.4 percent in the second quarter,
today’s Labor Department report showed. Wages increased 1.6
percent from the same quarter of 2010.  Benefit costs for all workers, which include some bonuses,
severance pay, health insurance and paid vacations, increased
1.3 percent last quarter, the most since the second quarter of
2007.  Benefit expenses for private industry climbed 1.6 percent
and were up 4 percent from the same period a year earlier. The
12-month change reflected a 3.6 percent rise in health care
costs.  Wages for state and local government workers rose 0.4
percent for a third straight quarter.  Company Compensation  Among companies, total compensation costs jumped 0.8
percent after 0.5 percent gains in the prior two periods.  Some companies are cutting staff as the recovery slows.
Tellabs Inc., a telecommunications equipment maker based in
Naperville,  Illinois , said on July 26 that it will cut 330 jobs,
or 10 percent of its workforce, over the next year as part of a
restructuring plan, while also adding some workers.  Norfolk Southern Corp. (NSC) , the second-biggest eastern U.S.
railroad, said this week it is keeping a lid on compensation
costs at the same time as it hires and trains more conductors.  “Looking into the third and fourth quarters, we’re seeing
total compensation, benefits expense, roughly in line with
second quarter,” James Squires, chief financial officer at the
Norfolk, Virginia-based railroad, said on a July 26 conference
call with analysts.  “Labor market conditions remained soft in most Federal
Reserve Districts,” the Fed said this week in its Beige Book
summary of conditions in regional economies since the beginning
of June. “Wage pressures remained subdued in most districts and
for most occupations.”  Oil Prices   Oil prices, which surged in April to their highest since
2008, have since receded due to slowing global growth. While the
average price of a gallon of gasoline reached $3.99 on May 4,
the highest since July 2008, it declined to $3.54 on June 29. It
has since risen to $3.70 this week.  “Price pressures seemed to have moderated somewhat,
although some firms reported being able to pass on some rising
costs,” the Fed said. “Overall, input price pressures appeared
to have fallen modestly.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Bob Willis in Washington at 
 bwillis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  