-- 
Eni Cuts Output Goal on Libya as Profit Misses Estimates

-- B y   A l e s s a n d r a   M i g l i a c c i o
-- 
2011-07-29T16:24:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-29/eni-cuts-output-target-sees-quarterly-profit-drop-on-libya-1-.html
Eni SpA (ENI) ,  Italy ’s largest energy
producer, cut its full-year production target because of the
disruption to Libyan production as second-quarter earnings
missed analysts’ estimates.  Adjusted net income declined 14 percent to 1.44 billion
euros ($2.06 billion) from 1.67 billion euros a year earlier,
the Rome-based company said today in a statement. That was below
the 1.6 billion-euro average estimate in a Bloomberg survey of
16 analysts. Output fell 15 percent to the equivalent of 1.49
million barrels of oil a day.  Results were hurt by the “disruption in supply of oil and
gas from  Libya  which affected all our business activities,”
Chief Executive Officer  Paolo Scaroni  said in the statement.
“Gas and power results also suffered from the high supply costs
of natural gas.”  The ongoing halt to Libyan oil production caused by the
conflict between  Muammar Qaddafi  and rebel forces is damaging
oil and gas producers such as Eni and Total SA of  France  that
had been active in the country. Eni’s production from Libya has
fallen to around 50,000 barrels of oil equivalent a day from
280,000 barrels.  “The second-quarter results may lead us to trim our full-
year estimates,” Equita Sim SpA analyst Domenico Ghilotti wrote
in a note to investors today. He has a buy rating on the stock
with a target price of 20.5 euros.  Stock Performance  Eni retreated 1.3 percent to 15.18 euros in Milan. The
stock is down 7.1 percent this year.  Full-year output will be below the 1.82 million barrels of
oil equivalent recorded in 2010, based on a price of $115 a
barrel, the producer said. In February, Eni had forecast an
increase in production. Some of the lost Libyan production will
be compensated by ramping up existing fields and starting new
ones in the U.S.,  Australia ,  Egypt , Italy and Algeria.  Scaroni said he continues to see “solid full-year
results” which allowed the company to propose an interim
dividend of 0.52 euro per share.  Earnings advanced 17 percent in exploration and production,
while profit fell 54 percent at Eni’s gas and power division.
Refining and marketing had a loss of 79 million euros.  Profitability at the gas division was hurt by increased
competition and costly gas procurement contracts that are still
being renegotiated, the company said. Eni predicted continuing
weakness in the European gas market in the months to come.  Discussions with OAO Gazprom, Russia’s gas export monopoly,
and Algeria’s state-owned Sonatrach are “progressing
constructively” over contracts, according to slides posted on
the company’s website.  Refining margins are expected to remain unprofitable due to
low demand and excess capacity, according to Eni. The refining
utilization rate fell to 73 percent in the second quarter from
82 percent in the first three months of the year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alessandra Migliaccio in Rome at 
 amigliaccio@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  