-- 
Merkel’s Party, FDP Partner Split Over German Tax Reductions

-- B y   R a i n e r   B u e r g i n
-- 
2011-07-29T14:12:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-29/merkel-s-party-fdp-partner-split-over-german-tax-reductions.html
German Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s
Free Democratic Party coalition partner rejected a proposal by a
senior member of her party to raise taxes for top earners,
laying bare internal government dissent.  Germany should raise the income-tax rate for those earning
more than 100,000 euros ($142,800) per year to help pay for tax
cuts for low earners,  Norbert Barthle , the parliamentary budget
spokesman for Merkel’s Christian Democratic bloc,  told  the
Suedwest Presse newspaper in an article yesterday. That proposal
was slapped down by two senior members of the Free Democrats
today.  “Norbert Barthle’s call for tax increases for ‘high-
earners’ is wrong for economic and financial reasons,” Volker
Wissing, the deputy chairman of the FDP’s parliamentary group,
 said  on the party’s Internet site. “Tax rises for the aspiring
middle class of our country are nothing but a brake on social
advancement by means of tax law.”  The tax spat is the latest twist in a dispute between the
parties over fiscal and other policies that has dogged the
coalition since it came to power in October 2009. The FDP, which
replaced Foreign Minister  Guido Westerwelle  with Economy
Minister Philipp Roesler as its leader in May, dropped to a
record low of 3 percent support in a poll published on July 27.  Coalition leaders agreed in principle this month to grant
tax relief for low and middle-income earners starting in 2013,
with the scale of proposed reductions to be determined later
this year after an assessment of revenue forecasts. The FDP,
which won a record 14.6 percent of the vote at the 2009 election
after campaigning on a platform of lower taxes, said on July 4
that the planned cuts are “an important precondition for more
consumption and more investment.”  Debt-Reduction Focus  The tax plans have been criticized by state governments
ruled by Merkel’s party, which argue they are already struggling
with budget deficits. Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble , a CDU
member, has repeatedly said that the federal government’s focus
on debt reduction means there is little room for tax relief.  The threshold for the 42 percent income-tax rate should be
raised to 70,000 euros or 80,000 euros per year from 53,000
euros at present, said Barthle. The rate for individuals earning
250,000 euros per year or more should be kept at 45 percent, he
was cited as saying. Barthle didn’t say which tax rate should
apply between 100,000 euros and 250,000 euros of income.  The proposal would affect small companies that are already
disadvantaged compared with larger enterprises, which are
subject to corporate tax, Wissing said. Barthle’s proposal risks
undermining  Germany ’s economic boom, he said.  Hermann Otto Solms, the FDP’s finance and economy
spokesman,  said  on Deutschlandfunk radio today that it’s
Barthle’s job to cap  government spending  and lower subsidies to
create scope for net tax reductions.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rainer Buergin in Berlin at 
 rbuergin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  