-- 
Erste Has $71 Million Greek Bonds Left, Shed Most This Year

-- B y   B o r i s   G r o e n d a h l
-- 
2011-07-29T12:06:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-29/erste-assesses-whether-to-participate-in-iif-greece-bond-swap.html
Erste Group Bank AG (EBS)  reduced its
Greek government bond holdings by about 85 percent this year,
keeping only about 50 million euros ($71 million) on its books.  Erste, eastern  Europe ’s second-biggest lender, reduced the
bonds through redemptions and sales, Chief Risk Officer Bernhard Spalt told journalists in Vienna today. Greek government bond
holdings had been 345 million euros at the end of 2010,
according to data published July 15 as part of Europe’s  stress
test results .  The bank didn’t make losses on the bonds it sold, because
they had been marked to market already, Spalt said. The
remaining bond holdings are still booked at par.  Including other instruments linked to Greek government
debt, such as guarantees and credit default swaps, Erste’s
exposure stood at 207 million euros as of today, Spalt said.  That’s down from 626.1 million euros at the end of
December, and 404.7 million euros at the end of June, according
to Erste’s second-quarter report. The numbers had granted the
lender a spot in rankings of Greece’s top 40 creditors such as
one drawn up by  Barclays Capital .  Erste hasn’t decided whether to participate with its
remaining holdings in a Greek rescue package brokered by the
 Institute of International Finance , Chief Executive Officer
Andreas Treichl said.  ‘Numbers Changing’  Under the IIF proposal, banks last week agreed to swap
their existing Greek bonds for new bonds with lower coupons and
longer maturities. The IIF estimates participating firms will
see an average 21% reduction in the value of their holdings.
JPMorgan Chase & Co. calculates the bonds may lose as much as 34
percent of their value, while Rabobank International anticipates
losses of as much as 50 percent.  “The numbers are changing and we will make a decision once
we feel really confident that whatever is presented is going to
be the final package,” Treichl told analysts in a telephone
conference today. “We just want to have clarity before we make
a decision.”  The package is supported by 32 financial institutions,
according to a  list of firms  published on the website of the
IIF, which lobbies on behalf of banks. Treichl is a member of
the IIF’s 34-strong  board of directors .  Erste’s total exposure to  Greece ,  Italy , Ireland,  Spain  and
 Portugal , including all debt instruments and the private as well
as the public sector, stood at 4.52 billion euros at the end of
June, down from 5.34 billion euros at the end of 2010, it said
in its  quarterly report . The biggest share, at 2.16 billion
euros, is related to Italy.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Boris Groendahl in Vienna at 
 bgroendahl@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at 
 acullen8@bloomberg.net  