-- 
MetLife Chief Kandarian Hoards Cash, Extends Maturities Amid Debt Clash

-- B y   A n d r e w   F r y e
-- 
2011-07-29T15:55:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-29/metlife-chief-kandarian-hoards-cash-extends-maturities-amid-clash-on-debt.html
MetLife Inc. (MET) , the biggest U.S. life
insurer, is hoarding cash and extending maturities on Treasuries
to brace for the possibility Congress and President  Barack Obama 
fail to prevent a government default and downgrade next month.  “As painful as it is to watch this, it is kind of
democracy at work,” Chief Executive Officer Steven Kandarian
said today in a conference call with analysts. “We are well
positioned even if there happens to be a one notch downgrade of
the U.S. Treasury.”  Obama and House Republican leaders face an Aug. 2 deadline
to raise the $14.3 trillion debt ceiling and provide the
government with enough funds to pay its bills. New York-based
MetLife had an investment portfolio of  $466 billion  as of June
30, including $35.6 billion of  U.S. Treasury  and agency debt.  “We have extended all of our near-term Treasury maturities
past August,” Chief Investment Officer Steven Goulart said on
the call. “We’ve added several billion dollars of excess cash,
which we think is a prudent thing to do in an environment of
uncertainty.”  Rates on six-month bills due Aug. 4 climbed to 0.24
percent, the highest since they were issued in February, in a
sign investors are growing more concerned lawmakers will fail to
reach an agreement.  “There’s a fair amount of stress that’s starting to build
up,” Goulart said. “Treasury bills have cheapened for August.
They’re actually trading at bigger discounts than September
bills at this point.”  ‘Difficult to See’  House Speaker  John Boehner  is struggling to find support
among Republicans in the House and pass a bill to the Democrat-
controlled Senate. Obama said today that Republicans and
Democrats are in “rough agreement” on their plans and the time
for compromise is “now.”  “It’s difficult to see it every day,” Kandarian said.
“But I am hopeful that there will be action in  Washington 
that’s appropriate that addresses these long-term problems in a
sensible way.”  MetLife rose $1.22, or 3.1 percent, to 41.03 at 11:41 a.m.
in New York Stock Exchange composite trading, the third-biggest
gain in the 81-company Standard and Poor’s 500 Financials Index.  MetLife announced late yesterday second-quarter earnings
that beat analysts’ estimates. Investment income jumped about 25
percent to $5.1 billion and operating earnings in the company’s
international business more than tripled to $507 million.
MetLife paid about $16 billion for American Life Insurance Co.
in November to add clients and investments in more than 50
countries from Japan to  Russia  to  Chile .  Share Buybacks  MetLife’s “results reinforce our view that it is well
positioned to benefit from its diversified international
platform,”  Jay Gelb , an analyst with Barclays Plc, said
yesterday in a research report. The insurer “could resume
meaningful share repurchase activity in 2012 or earlier.”  MetLife Chief Financial Officer William Wheeler said the
holding company is amassing excess cash that it may spend on
buybacks, dividends, acquisitions or debt repayment. Wheeler
said he’ll have about $4.8 billion available by the fourth
quarter and cash will continue to build next year. MetLife
struck deals to sell assets in  Venezuela  and  Taiwan  and divest
portions of its businesses in the U.K. and  Japan .  “Your capital position, Bill, as you laid it out, is
frankly better than I think most on this conference call
would’ve expected,” John Nadel, an analyst at Sterne Agee &
Leach Inc., told Wheeler.  MetLife, which is regulated as a bank, is in talks with the
 Federal Reserve  about its plans for capital deployment, Wheeler
said. Decisions on expenditures may be put off until October as
the insurer seeks to determine how regulation may tighten
following the implementation of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street
reform law, Kandarian said.  “We’ve seen a great deal of uncertainty still remain in
the marketplace around regulatory issues,” Kandarian said.
“So, we just think it’s prudent to wait at this point in
time.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Frye in  New York  at 
 afrye@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net . 