-- 
Europe Commodity Day Ahead: China May Boost Corn Buy to Record

-- B y   C h a n y a p o r n   C h a n j a r o e n
-- 
2011-07-29T07:24:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-29/europe-commodity-day-ahead-china-may-boost-corn-buy-to-record.html
The following are the top stories on
metals, agriculture and shipping.  
TOP STORY:  China  May Boost Corn Imports to Record on Re-Stocking, Hog Herds  China, the second-biggest corn consumer, may boost imports
of the grain to a record 6 million metric tons in the year
beginning Oct. 1 to replenish stockpiles and as demand for feed
grows, according to Yigu Information Consulting Ltd.  COMMODITY EXCLUSIVES:  China Gold Demand May Surpass  India  This Year, Goldcorp CEO Says  Demand for physical gold in China may exceed consumption in
India by the end of this year, said Chuck Jeannes, chief
executive officer of Goldcorp Inc., the world’s No. 2 producer
of the metal by market value.  Radiation-Free Food Bolsters South Korea’s Exports to  Japan  (1)  South Korean food exports to Japan are climbing at the
fastest pace on record after radioactive contamination and
supply disruptions prompted consumers to switch to overseas
producers.  China’s Hog-Farmer Incentives to Boost Corn: Chart of the Day  China, the world’s biggest pork producer, plans to boost
output by increasing incentives for hog farmers after a 57
percent jump in prices, a move that may double imports of corn
used in feeds, said  Barclays Capital .  Tyson Foods Stuck Selling Thighs to Consumers Who Want Breasts  For years, the U.S. chicken  industry has boosted profits
by selling white meat to Americans, who eschew darker cuts, and
exporting tons of thighs, legs, and feet to China,  Russia , and
Mexico, where consumers are less fussy.  Chicken Wings Rise on NFL Pact, Hooters Offer: Chart of the Day  Chicken-wing prices are rebounding from a seven-year low as
the end of the National Football League labor dispute boosts
prospects for sales at restaurants including Hooters of America
LLC and Buffalo Wild Wings Inc.  Nickel Surplus to Narrow on China’s Demand, Sumitomo Metal Says  A global nickel surplus may narrow on increasing stainless-
steel demand from China and as new mining projects have stalled,
limiting a decline in prices, said Sumitomo Metal Mining Co.,
Japan’s top producer.  China Gold Demand May Surpass India This Year, Goldcorp Says (1)  Demand for physical gold in China may exceed consumption in
India by the end of this year, said Chuck Jeannes, chief
executive officer of Goldcorp Inc., the world’s No. 2 producer
of the metal by market value.  McDonald’s to Open a Restaurant a Day in China in Four Years  McDonald’s Corp., the world’s largest restaurant chain,
“should” open a restaurant a day as it challenges Yum! Brands
for dominance in Asia’s largest economy as rising salaries boost
spending on fast food.  Obama Fuel-Efficiency Goals Put Automakers Ahead of Pace: Cars  When President  Barack Obama  proposes new fuel-economy
standards today, he will be setting a pace that’s more
aggressive than the industry has managed in the past four years  INDUSTRIAL METALS:  Copper Poised for Second Monthly Gain on Strike at BHP Mine  Copper headed for a second monthly gain after BHP Billiton
Ltd. canceled shipments from  Chile ’s Escondida mine, the world’s
biggest producer of the metal, as workers vowed to extend a
weeklong strike.  BHP’s Chilean Workers Extend Strike at Biggest Copper Mine  Workers at BHP Billiton Ltd.’s Escondida unit in Chile
pledged to extend their weeklong strike that’s halted shipments
from the world’s biggest copper mine and helped push up prices
for the metal.  MINING:  Coal India May Decide Labor Wage Increases by End of August (1)  Coal India Ltd., the world’s biggest producer of the fuel,
said it may sign a wage agreement with labor unions by the end
of August.  Japan Pulling Plug on Nuclear Age Risks $5 Trillion Economy (1)  Japan’s Fukui prefecture helps Sharp Corp. make solar
cells, generates cash for BHP Billiton Ltd. and keeps the lights
on in the Kansai area, which has an economy the size of  Mexico ’s
and is home to Panasonic Corp.  Vale Plans $3 Billion Dividend as Net Income Misses Estimates  Vale SA, the world’s largest iron-ore producer, posted
second-quarter profit that missed analysts’ estimates and said
it will pay an extra dividend of $3 billion as it seeks to boost
returns to shareholders.  S. African Union Vows to Shut AngloGold, Harmony Mines in Strike  South African workers at AngloGold Ashanti Ltd., Gold
Fields Ltd. and Harmony Gold Mining Co., the continent’s three
largest producers of the metal, began striking as they demand
pay increases that almost triple inflation.  PRECIOUS METALS:  Gold May Decline as Rally to Record Spurs Sales, Survey Shows  Gold may decline as a rally to a record on debt concerns in
the U.S. and  Europe  prompts some investors to sell the metal, a
survey found.  Spot Gold Declines, Paring First Monthly Increase in Three  Spot gold fell, paring the first monthly increase in three,
as some investors sold the metal before a potential agreement
between U.S. politicians on the country’s debt ceiling.  Goldcorp CEO Sees Gold Price at $1,700 an Ounce by End of Year  Chuck Jeannes, chief executive officer of Goldcorp Inc.,
the world’s No. 2 bullion producer by market value, expects the
price of the metal to rise to as high as $1,700 an ounce by the
end of this year because of economic turmoil and increasing gold
demand in China and India.  AGRICULTURE:  Coffee May Decline 15% to Fibonacci Level:  Technical Analysis   Arabica coffee may decline as much as 15 percent to $2.04 a
pound in  New York  if prices stay below $2.74, according to
technical analysis by Commerzbank AG.  Palm Oil  Drops on Concern U.S. Debt Stalemate May Lower Demand  Palm oil dropped for a second day, heading for the first
weekly loss in four, on speculation that the stalemate in the
U.S. over raising a debt limit to avoid a default may hurt
global demand for commodities.  Soybeans Gain on Optimism China Demand May Expand on Feed Use  Soybeans advanced on speculation that demand in China, the
world’s biggest importer, may gain as the country’s hog herds
expand, boosting consumption of  animal feed  derived from the
oilseed.  Rubber Drops for Second Day as U.S. Debt Impasse Curbs Demand  Rubber declined for a second day, paring a monthly advance,
as U.S. lawmakers failed to make progress on a deal to raise the
nation’s debt ceiling, curbing investor appetite for the
commodity used to make tires.  SHIPPING:  Crude Tanker Sails From Offshore  Libya  to Sardinia, Data Show  The Captain X. Kyriakou, an oil tanker able to haul about 1
million barrels of crude, is now off Sardinia, having previously
signaled its position off Libya, according to ship-tracking data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Tropical Storm Don Turns ‘Westward,’ Will Resume Course (1)  Tropical Storm Don temporarily “jogged westward” and is
expected to resume a course across the  Gulf of Mexico  tonight
that has forced some oil and gas rigs to shut down.  ECONOMIES:  U.S. Contingency Plan Said to Give Priority to Bondholders (2)  The  U.S. Treasury  will give priority to making interest
payments to holders of  government bonds  when due if lawmakers
fail to reach an agreement to raise the debt ceiling, according
to an administration official.  Treasury May Adopt ‘Risky’ Payment Plan as U.S. Deadline Nears  The U.S. is approaching the moment it may have to decide
which bills to pay, a prospect Treasury Secretary  Timothy F.
Geithner  has called “unacceptably risky and unfair” to
Americans.  Obama and Geithner May Regret Threats of Default: Caroline Baum  I’m sitting at my computer, watching the national debt
clock tick relentlessly higher, as if to challenge me to make
mental computations. How long does it take the U.S. to
accumulate an additional $1,000 in debt?  OTHER MARKETS:  Asia  Stocks, U.S. Futures Drop as House Delays Vote on Debt Plan  Asian stocks and U.S. equity futures slid while the yen
touched a four-month high versus the dollar after Republican
lawmakers called off a vote on House Speaker John Boehner’s plan
for raising the U.S. debt limit amid a continued impasse.  Yen, Franc Rise Toward Records on U.S. Debt Limit, Spain Rating  The yen and Swiss franc strengthened toward records against
the dollar after U.S. lawmakers delayed a vote on a plan to
raise the debt limit to avert a default, boosting demand for
refuge currencies.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chanyaporn Chanjaroen in London at 
 cchanjaroen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Richard Dobson  at 
 rdobson4@bloomberg.net  