-- 
European Stock Futures Tumble U.S. Lawmakers Cancel Debt Vote

-- B y   C o r i n n e   G r e t l e r
-- 
2011-07-29T06:32:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-29/european-stock-futures-tumble-u-s-lawmakers-cancel-debt-vote.html
European stock futures sank,
indicating the Stoxx Europe 600 Index will extend its monthly
drop, as U.S. lawmakers called off a vote on a Republican plan
for raising the debt limit. Asian shares and U.S. futures slid.  Eni SpA (ENI) ,  Italy ’s biggest oil company, may retreat after
reporting second-quarter results that missed analysts’
estimates.  Veolia Environnement SA (VIE)  might decline as the world’s
biggest water utility said it plans to restructure operations
and won’t meet its annual profit target.  Futures on the Euro Stoxx 50 Index expiring in September
tumbled 1.7 percent to 2,651 at 7:29 a.m. in  London , while FTSE
100 Index futures dropped 1.1 percent. The MSCI Asia Pacific
Index fell 0.9 percent, while Standard & Poor’s 500 Index
futures slipped 0.6 percent.  “These debt talks are going down to the wire and it’s
going to be a tense weekend as global financial markets really
start hoping for something before Asian trade resumes on
Monday,” Cameron Peacock, a market analyst at IG Markets in
Melbourne, wrote in a note to clients today.  The benchmark Stoxx 600 has fallen 2.1 percent this month
as investors speculated that  Europe ’s sovereign-debt crisis will
derail the economic recovery and as concern mounted that U.S.
lawmakers will fail to agree on the federal government’s debt
ceiling by next week’s deadline. The decline has extended the
index’s drop from this year’s high on Feb. 17 to 8.3 percent.  Scrapped Vote  House Republican leaders scrapped a vote on the debt
ceiling bill late yesterday, indicating that House Speaker  John
Boehner  is short of votes needed to pass his bill amid a vow by
Senate Democrats to defeat the measure. The delay fueled concern
that a compromise by the two parties won’t be reached before the
Aug. 2 deadline for a possible U.S. default.  Officials from President Barack Obama’s administration are
scheduled to brief the public no earlier than after U.S.
financial markets close today on priorities for paying the
nation’s bills if the $14.3 trillion debt ceiling isn’t raised,
a Democratic official said.  A report today may show the  U.S. economy  grew in the second
quarter at the slowest pace in a year. U.S. gross domestic
product expanded at a 1.8 percent annual rate, compared with 1.9
percent in the prior three months, according to the median
forecast of economists surveyed by Bloomberg News.  The Institute for Supply Management-Chicago Inc.’s business
barometer and the Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan final
index of consumer sentiment are also due to be released today.  Spain  Rating  In Europe, Moody’s Investors Service placed Spain’s Aa2
credit rating on review for a possible downgrade because of
funding pressure and challenges faced by regional governments to
meet their budget targets.  Eni may decline after reporting second-quarter net income
of 1.44 billion euros ($2.1 billion), missing analysts’
estimates of 1.61 billion. The company said it expects
production in 2011 to fall.  Veolia Environnement  said it plans to restructure
operations and won’t meet its target for 2011 net income growth.
The Paris-based company blamed operations in Southern Europe,
particularly Italy, North Africa and the U.S. for its
restructuring, which it said will result in first-half asset
impairments and writedowns of about 800 million euros.  Schneider Electric SA (SU) , the world’s biggest maker of low-and
medium-voltage equipment, pared its full-year margin as first-
half profit rose less than analysts estimated because of rising
raw-material costs.  Galp, Total  Galp Energia SGPS SA (GALP) , Portugal’s biggest oil company, said
second-quarter net income fell 36 percent to 70 million euros,
missing analysts’ estimates of 71.7 million euros.  Total SA might be active after  France ’s largest oil company
said second-quarter profit dropped as field maintenance and
Libya shutdowns crimped production. Adjusted net income fell 6
percent to 2.8 billion euros, in line with analyst forecasts.
Production dropped 2 percent 2.31 million barrels a day.  European Aeronautic, Defence & Space Co., the parent of
Airbus SAS, said profit in the first half rose 39 percent after
higher plane deliveries outweighed lower revenue at the defense
subsidiary.  Vodafone Group Plc (VOD) , the world’s largest mobile-phone
company, said it will pay a special dividend of 2 billion pounds
($3.3 billion) to shareholders in February, after the board of
 Verizon Wireless , in which Vodafone has a 45 percent stake,
agreed to pay a $10 billion dividend.  British Sky Broadcasting Group Plc (BSY) , will buy back 750
million pounds in shares, two weeks after Rupert Murdoch’s News
Corp. abandoned its bid for the rest of the pay-television
broadcaster.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Corinne Gretler in Zurich at 
 cgretler1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at   arummer@bloomberg.net . 