-- 
Europe Stocks Sink as U.S. Growth Disappoints, Debt Talks Stall

-- B y   C o r i n n e   G r e t l e r
-- 
2011-07-29T15:34:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-29/european-stocks-tumble-as-u-s-lawmakers-cancel-debt-limit-vote.html
European stocks slid, extending
their weekly drop, as U.S. lawmakers called off a vote on a
Republican plan to increase the nation’s debt ceiling and growth
in the world’s largest economy trailed forecasts.  Veolia Environnement SA (VIE)  sank 8.9 percent as the world’s
biggest water utility said it plans to restructure operations
and won’t meet its annual profit target. Bekaert NV, the largest
maker of steel cord used in tires, tumbled 11 percent after
earnings missed estimates.  The Stoxx Europe 600 Index lost 0.6 percent to 265.44 at
4:33 p.m. in  London , extending this week’s drop to 2.4 percent.
The gauge has fallen 2.7 percent in July as investors speculated
that Europe’s sovereign-debt crisis will derail the economic
recovery and concern mounted that U.S. politicians will fail to
agree on the federal government’s borrowing limit by next week’s
deadline. The decline has extended the index’s retreat from this
year’s high on Feb. 17 to 8.8 percent.  “The disappointing economic growth indicates that the U.S.
can’t afford big budget cuts without risking a second
recession,” said Kai Fachinger, who manages more than $1
billion in equities at SAM Sustainable Asset Management AG in
Zurich. “The weak consumer data reflect the high uncertainty
among American consumers.”  U.S. Growth  U.S. gross domestic product rose at a 1.3 percent annual
rate in the second quarter as household purchases rose 0.1
percent, Commerce Department figures showed today. The median
forecast of economists surveyed by Bloomberg News called for a
1.8 percent expansion in the economy. Growth in the first
quarter was revised down to 0.4 percent from a 1.9 percent prior
estimate, reflecting fewer inventories and more imports.  “This is very negative, especially because the tactically
important  S&P 500  will fall below 1,295 points,” said Michael Scholz, an equity strategist at WestLB AG in Dusseldorf. “This
means that the bulls failed this week with the rebound. The
bears confirmed the downward move since May.”  House Republican leaders scrapped a vote on the debt
ceiling bill late yesterday, indicating that House Speaker  John Boehner  is short of votes needed to pass his bill amid a vow by
 Senate Democrats  to defeat the measure. The delay fueled concern
that a compromise by the two parties won’t be reached before the
Aug. 2 deadline for a possible U.S. default.  The Stoxx 600 pared an earlier 1.8 percent plunge as
President  Barack Obama  said Republicans and Democrats are in
“rough agreement” on their plans to raise the debt limit.  Market Seizure  “I think investors do believe there will be a solution to
the debt ceiling and that the U.S. will not default,” said
Manish Singh, London-based head of investment at Crossbridge
Capital, which has about $2 billion under management. “However,
they don’t want to hold too much risk going into the weekend for
fear of a market seizure if something unexpected happens.”  National benchmark indexes declined in every western
European market, except Iceland. The U.K.’s FTSE 100 Index slid
0.5 percent and  Germany ’s DAX Index dropped 0.1 percent.
 France ’s CAC 40 Index lost 0.7 percent.  In  Europe , Moody’s Investors Service placed  Spain ’s Aa2
credit rating on review for a possible downgrade because of
funding pressure and challenges faced by regional governments to
meet their budget targets.  “Thrown into the current mood of crisis, it stokes up more
concern, not just for Spain, but for the entire periphery,”
said  Padhraic Garvey , head of developed-market debt at ING Bank
NV in Amsterdam. “On a day-trade it’s negative for Spain. On a
structural basis this chipping away by the rating agencies is
damaging for the entire periphery.”  Veolia, Bekaert  Veolia Environnement  tumbled 8.9 percent to 15.92 euros,
the lowest since April 2009. The utility said it plans to
restructure operations and won’t meet its target for 2011 net
income growth, blaming operations in southern Europe, North
Africa and the U.S.  Suez Environnement Co. (SEV)  declined 3.4 percent
to 12.66 euros.  Bekaert fell 11 percent to 42.64 euros in Brussels trading
after reporting first-half profit that missed analysts’
estimates. That’s the company’s lowest price in a year.  Sanoma Oyj (SAA1V) , a Finnish publisher, slid 4.7 percent to 12.27
euros after lowering its outlook for full-year net sales and
operating profit.  Schneider Electric   Schneider Electric SA (SU)  fell 1.6 percent to 101.05 euros, its
lowest price since October 2010. The world’s biggest maker of
low-and medium-voltage equipment pared its full-year margin
target as first-half profit rose less than analysts estimated
because of rising raw-material costs.  Michelin & Cie., the world’s second-largest tiremaker,
dropped 4.1 percent to 58.71 euros as Managing Partner Dominique
Senard said raw-material cost increases might trim 400 to 500
million euros from 2012 earnings. Michelin’s first-half
operating income of 971 million euros ($1.4 billion) fell short
of analysts’ estimates of 990 million euros.
      Teleperformance (RCF) , a French call-center company, plunged 14
percent to 17.88 euros, the biggest drop since 2008, after the
customer-services provider said first-half net income declined
to 33.3 million euros from 39.2 million euros a year earlier.  Vodafone Group Plc (VOD)  limited losses in the Stoxx 600,
climbing 4.4 percent to 172.70 pence, its biggest gain since
March. The world’s largest mobile-phone company said it will pay
a special dividend of 2 billion pounds ($3.3 billion) to
shareholders in February, after the board of  Verizon Wireless ,
in which Vodafone has a 45 percent stake, agreed to pay a $10
billion dividend.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Corinne Gretler in Zurich at 
 cgretler1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net . 