-- 
European Inflation Unexpectedly Slows as Rate Remains Above ECB’s Ceiling

-- B y   S i m o n e   M e i e r   a n d   J a n a   R a n d o w
-- 
2011-07-29T09:39:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-29/european-inflation-unexpectedly-slows-as-rate-remains-above-ecb-s-ceiling.html
Euro-region inflation unexpectedly
slowed in July, though it remained above the  European Central
Bank ’s 2 percent ceiling for an eighth month as rising energy
prices added pressure on companies to pass on higher costs.  The inflation rate in the 17-nation euro region declined to
2.5 percent from 2.7 percent in the previous month, the European
Union’s  statistics office  in Luxembourg said today in an initial
estimate. Economists expected price growth to hold steady, the
median of 31 forecasts in a Bloomberg News survey showed.  A 6 percent gain in crude oil costs this year is sapping
consumers’ purchasing power and pushing companies to raise
prices to protect earnings just as the recovery falters.
European Central Bank President  Jean-Claude Trichet  on  July 7 
signaled concern that price pressures may feed into wage demands
and spark more persistent inflation after increasing borrowing
costs a second time this year.  “The slowdown of inflation at the euro-area level is
mostly related to very weak Italian numbers,” said  Marco Valli ,
chief economist for the single-currency region at Unicredit
Global Research in Milan. “It’s a technical issue. We will see
a rebound of inflation in August and September.”  The euro pared losses after the data were released, trading
at $1.4284 at 11:22 a.m. in Brussels, down 0.4 percent.  Italian Price Drop  Italian inflation, calculated using a harmonized European
Union method, slowed to 2.1 percent in July from 3 percent in
June as consumer prices dropped 1.7 percent in the month, Rome-
based national statistics office, Istat, said in a preliminary
report today. On a non-harmonized basis, Italian inflation held
at 2.7 percent.  By contrast, inflation in  Germany  unexpectedly quickened in
July to 2.6 percent from 2.4 percent in June. The threat of
higher energy prices will contribute to a decline in  consumer
confidence  in  Europe ’s largest economy in August, market
research company GfK said this week.  The Frankfurt-based ECB last month forecast euro-region
inflation to average 2.6 percent this year and 1.7 percent in
2012. Governing Council member  Andres Lipstok  wrote in  Estonia ’s
Postimees newspaper on July 26 that “monetary policy interest
rates remain very low in an historical comparison.”  Trichet said earlier this month that euro-region inflation
will probably stay “clearly above” 2 percent over the coming
months, calling risks to the outlook “on the upside.” Euro-
region growth probably slowed in the second quarter from 0.8
percent in the previous three months, he said.  With the region’s recovery losing momentum as governments
step up spending cuts to plug budget gaps, companies may find it
harder to raise prices. Euro-region producer-price inflation
slowed to 6.2 percent in May from 6.7 percent.  The statistics office will release a breakdown of July
consumer prices on Aug. 17. Euro-region core inflation, which
excludes volatile costs such as energy, quickened to 1.6 percent
in June from 1.5 percent in the previous month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simone Meier in Zurich at 
 smeier@bloomberg.net ;
Jana Randow in Frankfurt at 
 jrandow@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  