-- 
European Stocks Decline as U.S. Debt Ceiling Talks Stall; Alcatel Slumps

-- B y   C o n o r   S u l l i v a n
-- 
2011-07-29T23:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-29/european-stocks-post-weekly-drop-as-u-s-debt-talks-stall-alcatel-slumps.html
European stocks slid this week as
U.S. lawmakers failed to agree on a deal to raise the federal
government’s debt ceiling before the Aug. 2 deadline when rating
firms may decide the country has defaulted.  Banking stocks led declines on the benchmark Stoxx Europe
600 Index as Banco Popolare SA,  Dexia SA (DEXB)  and Alpha Bank SA all
retreated at least 13 percent. Alcatel-Lucent SA, France’s
largest telecommunications-equipment maker, plunged 23 percent
on concern that U.S. mobile operators will cut spending.  The Stoxx 600 retreated 2.5 percent to 265.25 this week,
extending its decline for June to 2.8 percent. The gauge has
fallen 8.9 percent from this year’s high on Feb. 17 as investors
speculated that Europe’s sovereign-debt crisis would spread from
 Greece  to the larger economies of  Spain  and  Italy .  “It’s the hangover from the U.S. debt situation” that is
weighing on markets, said Martin Dobson, head of trading at
Westhouse Securities Ltd. in London. “I think markets will
still be trading very carefully and very tentatively” if
politicians vote to increase the debt ceiling, Dobson said.  European stocks extended their weekly retreat as concern
mounted that Republicans and Democrats will fail to agree to
increase the U.S. debt ceiling by the Treasury Department’s Aug.
2 deadline. House Speaker  John Boehner  fell short of the votes
within his own party needed to increase the U.S. debt limit
after a night of one-on-one appeals to members. President  Barack
Obama  had threatened to veto the Republicans’ plan.  Senate Democrats plan to break the impasse by devising a
strict enforcement mechanism to guarantee future deficit
savings, according to Democratic officials. The talks center on
setting up automatic spending cuts or tax increases, or some
combination of the two, if the government fails to stay within
the debt limit.  U.S. Economic Growth  The U.S. Commerce Department announced that the world’s
largest economy expanded at a 1.3 percent annual pace in the
second quarter. Economists had predicted growth of 1.8 percent,
according to the average estimate in a Bloomberg survey. The
Commerce Department also revised growth in gross domestic
product for the first quarter down to 0.4 percent.  In  Europe , Moody’s Investors Service placed Spain’s Aa2
rating on review, saying a cut would probably be “limited to
one notch.” Spain’s Prime Minister Jose Luis Rodriguez Zapatero
brought forward elections to Nov. 20 from March, as austerity
measures have eroded support for his ruling Socialist Party.  A gauge of banking stocks slid 4.7 percent this week. Banco
Popolare, Italy’s fourth-biggest bank, plunged 13 percent, while
Dexia,  Belgium ’s largest lender, sank 13 percent. Alpha Bank
slumped 15 percent.  Veolia, Suez Slide  Veolia Environnement  tumbled 13 percent to its lowest price
since April 2009. The utility said it won’t meet its forecast
for net income growth this year because of weaker business in
southern Europe and north  Africa . Suez Environnement Co.
declined 3.3 percent.  A gauge of carmakers posted the biggest drop of the 19
industry groups on the Stoxx 600. Daimler AG, the world’s third-
largest maker of luxury cars, decreased 3.5 percent to 50.66
euros.  Volkswagen AG sank 6.3 percent as Europe’s largest carmaker
said rising commodity prices and a strengthening euro will damp
earnings gains this year. Volkswagen also posted second-quarter
earnings before interest and taxes of 3.17 billion euros ($4.6
billion). That fell short of the 3.26 billion-euro average
estimate of 14 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  Peugeot, Finmeccanica Drop  Peugeot plunged 12 percent after  France ’s largest carmaker
said its automotive unit may post a loss in the second half
because of disruption from the Japanese earthquake in March and
rising material costs.  Finmeccanica SpA, which produces commercial and military
aircraft, tumbled 28 percent for the largest retreat in the
Stoxx 600 this week. The company lowered its 2011 revenue
prediction to 17.5 billion euros to 18 billion euros.
Finmeccanica had forecast sales this year of 18.3 billion euros
to 19 billion euros.  Alcatel-Lucent plunged 23 percent amid speculation that
U.S. mobile phone companies will cut their spending in the
second half.  Ryanair dropped 7.9 percent, its biggest weekly slump since
January. The airline said first-quarter earnings were little
changed at 139.3 million euros after higher fuel costs eroded
gains from rising passenger numbers. That missed the average
analyst estimate of 156.8 million euros, according to a
Bloomberg survey.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Conor Sullivan in  London  at 
 csullivan39@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  