-- 
Eveready May Raise Battery Prices, Start New Products Sales

-- B y   P r a d i p t a   M u k h e r j e e
-- 
2011-07-29T10:44:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-29/eveready-may-raise-battery-prices-start-new-products-sales-1-.html
Eveready Industries Ltd.,  India ’s
biggest maker of batteries, plans to raise prices and sell new
products to reverse four straight quarters of profit decline.  The company may raise tariff as early as December, Deepak Khaitan, managing director of the Kolkata-based company, said in
an interview yesterday. Eveready also plans to start selling
Uniross brand torches in a next year, he said.  Zinc futures have risen 26 percent in the past year on the
London Metal Exchange, while India’s central bank has increased
its policy rate 11 times since last year. The metal makes up 25
percent of the company’s total expenses. Net income plunged 96
percent in the quarter ended March, according to the company’s
most recent earnings report.  “Battery is a very price-sensitive category but it will be
beneficial for us to take a price hike as I can see cost
pressure mounting,” said Khaitan. “More brands and products
will help improve our profitability.” Prices of some products
were raised as much as 9 percent last December, he said.  Eveready shares gained 4.3 percent to 44.85 rupees at the
3:30 p.m. close in Mumbai, the highest since May 20. They have
declined 18 percent this year, exceeding a 14 percent drop in
the  BSE Small-Cap Index. (BSESMCAP)   The company bought 80 percent of  France ’s Uniross SA,
according to a filing to Indian exchanges on May 14, 2009.  Eveready, which sells about 1.2 billion batteries a year,
is investing 300 million rupees ($6.8 million) to expand
capacity to make AA batteries by 19 percent, Khaitan said. AA
batteries are used to power torches and television remotes.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Pradipta Mukherjee in Kolkata at 
 pmukherjee7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Arijit Ghosh at 
 aghosh@bloomberg.net  