-- 
Ex-Bank of America Chief Lewis Loses Bid to Dismiss Securities Law Claim

-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o   a n d   J o e l   R o s e n b l a t t
-- 
2011-07-30T00:55:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-29/ex-bofa-chief-lewis-loses-bid-to-dismiss-securities-law-claim.html
Kenneth Lewis , the former  Bank of
America Corp. (BAC)  chief executive officer accused of recklessness
involving losses at Merrill Lynch, lost his bid to have a
securities claim dismissed from a shareholder lawsuit.  U.S. District Judge Kevin Castel in Manhattan today
dismissed claims against Lewis over the bank’s disclosure of
federal financial assistance, and another concerning
shareholders’ right to sue over certain types of securities.  The judge refused to dismiss claims that the defendants,
including Bank of America, Lewis and former Chief Financial
Officer Joe L. Price, failed to disclose Merrill’s deteriorating
financial condition in the fourth quarter of 2008.  “The complaint adequately alleges that, by virtue of his
position within BofA and his awareness of Merrill’s losses,
Lewis’s inaction on the disclosure issue raises a strong
inference of recklessness,” Castel wrote in today’s opinion.  Congress held hearings in 2009 questioning bonuses paid to
employees of Merrill, the brokerage acquired by the bank that
year, even as the firm’s losses triggered a federal bailout for
Bank of America.  Lawrence Grayson, a spokesman for  Charlotte , North
Carolina-based Bank of America, and Andrew J. Ceresney, a lawyer
for Lewis, both said they’re reviewing the ruling and declined
to comment further.  The case is In re Bank of America Corp. Securities,
Derivative and ERISA Litigation, 09-mdl-2058, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in New York at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net ;
Joel Rosenblatt in  San Francisco  at 
 jrosenblatt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 