-- 
Ex-SAC Manager Longueuil Sentenced to 30 Months in Prison

-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 
2011-07-29T23:53:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-29/ex-sac-capital-manager-longueuil-sentenced-to-30-months-in-prison.html
Former SAC Capital Advisors LP
portfolio manager Donald Longueuil was sentenced to 30 months in
prison for his role in an insider trading scheme that the U.S.
says includes fund managers, so-called expert networking
consultants and technology company insiders.  “I made mistakes,” Longueuil told U.S. District Judge Jed Rakoff before he was sentenced in  New York . “I crossed the
line. I broke the law.”  Longueuil, 35, pleaded guilty April 28 to a four-year
conspiracy to commit securities and wire fraud and to  securities
fraud  in a case that also included former SAC portfolio manager
Noah Freeman, Samir Barai, founder of Barai Capital Management,
and Jason Pflaum, an analyst who worked for Barai.  Prosecutors said Longueuil, Barai and Freeman were friends
who pooled their illegal tips about technology companies in
order to get a trading edge, while Pflaum assisted Barai in the
scheme. All four men have pleaded guilty to federal charges.
Freeman and Pflaum are cooperating with the government in its
investigation while Longueuil and Barai aren’t cooperating.  “There is a bedrock of hard facts that can’t be ignored,”
Rakoff said before sentencing Longueuil. “The crime was, in the
court’s view, not a one-time aberration. The crime was one that
has infiltrated too much of the business of this country.”  Destroyed Computers  Longueuil admitted that after reading a newspaper article
about a federal probe of  Mountain View , California-based Primary
Global Research LLC, he went to his office and took pliers to
two drives on his computer, destroying them. Prosecutors said he
walked 20 blocks and dumped the parts in four different garbage
trucks.  Rakoff cited Longueuil’s acts as “a flagrant flouting of
the most elementary rule of law and morality.”  One of the sources the three men used for inside
information, Winifred Jiau, a former consultant at Primary
Global, an expert-networking firm, was convicted in June after a
trial in New York.  Longueuil, who worked in SAC Capital’s CR Intrinsic unit in
New York from July 2008 to July 2010, was accused of giving
information to Freeman. Freemen in return passed material non-
public information to Longueuil that he had obtained from other
sources including Jiau, according to prosecutors.  As part of the conspiracy, which prosecutors said ran from
2006 to 2010, Longueuil and his co-defendants conspired to
obtain inside information about companies including Marvell
Technology Group Ltd.,  Fairchild Semiconductor International
Inc. (FCS) ,  Advanced Micro Devices Inc. (AMD) ,  Actel Corp. (ACTL)  and  Cypress
Semiconductor Corp. (CY) , the U.S. said.  ‘Tainted’ Life  “I want to counsel others before they cross the line like
I did,” Longueuil told the judge today. “I have one life to
live and I forever tainted it. I take full responsibility for my
mistakes and I am dedicated to rebuilding my reputation.”  Assistant U.S. Attorneys  David Leibowitz  and Avi Weitzman
told Rakoff today that the defendant deserved a term of as long
as four years and eight months. They said such a term was
necessary “to deter Wall St. professionals like Longueuil from
engaging in similar offenses.”  Craig Carpenito, Longueuil’s lawyer, suggested to Rakoff
that an 18-month term would be appropriate, calling his client
“at best a third-tier tippee” and said Longueuil hadn’t made
any profit from inside information he received on  Marvell
Technology Group Ltd. (MRVL)   Dedicated Effort  Weitzman told Rakoff that Longueuil’s crimes “were no
momentary lapse in judgment in an otherwise law-abiding life.”  “This was a long-term, repeated and dedicated effort on
the part of Mr. Longueuil, Noah Freeman and Samir Barai to
obtain inside information,” Weitzman said.  Carpenito said his client has already been punished as a
result of having pleaded guilty and the publicity surrounding
the case.  “Living in the Google-age, Internet searches will always
identify him first and foremost as an ‘insider trader,’ a
convicted felon, and associate him with greed, selfishness and
criminality,” Carpenito wrote in court papers.  Longueuil has also agreed to forfeit more than
$1.25 million in profits from the scheme. The judge didn’t
impose any fines.  SAC Capital, based in  Stamford ,  Connecticut , has said it
cooperated with the investigation. Jonathan Gasthalter, a
spokesman for SAC Capital, has said Freeman and Longueuil were
both dismissed from SAC in 2010 because of poor performance.  Concealed Evidence  Of the 14 people charged by  Manhattan  U.S. Attorney Preet
Bharara’s office since November in the investigation, 12 have
pleaded guilty and one, Jiau, was convicted at trial. James Fleishman, a Primary Global sales executive, has pleaded not
guilty and is scheduled to go on trial Aug. 29.  “Donald Longueuil thought he could cover his tracks by
frantically searching the streets of New York in the middle of
the night for places to conceal the evidence of his crimes,”
Bharara said in a statement. “It turns out he may have been too
smart for his own good, as he now becomes the latest privileged
professional to go to jail for brazenly breaking the laws
against  insider trading .”  The case is U.S. v. Longueuil, 11-cr-00161, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in New York at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 