-- 
Debt-Cap Failure ‘Collective Insanity’: Citigroup

-- B y   N i c k   G e n t l e
-- 
2011-07-29T04:38:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-29/failing-to-raise-debt-ceiling-collective-insanity-says-citi.html
A U.S. debt default triggered by the
failure of politicians to agree to raising the country’s debt
ceiling would be an “act of collective insanity” with severe
impact on assets prices and the global economy, according
 Citigroup Inc. (C)  economists.  The prospect of a default by the U.S. government, while
still remote, is no longer negligibly small, wrote Citigroup
Global Markets economists led by  Willem Buiter . A default would
“severely” damage the country’s role as an international
financial power and as provider of the world’s reserve currency,
they said. The political division is so wide that there is
little chance of a meaningful agreement on addressing the long-
term debt problem any time soon, making a downgrade of the
country’s AAA credit rating “likely.”  “A default because of a failure to raise the Federal debt
ceiling would be an act of collective insanity,” Buiter,
London-based chief economist for Citigroup, wrote in a note
dated July 28. “The implications of even a technical U.S.
default are likely to be severe both for the U.S. and the world
economy, involving a widespread rise in public and private
funding costs, a generalized fall in asset prices, and a large
hit to economic growth.”  House Republican leaders scrapped a vote on the debt-
ceiling bill Thursday night in  Washington , indicating that
Speaker  John Boehner  is short of votes needed to pass his bill
amid a vow by Senate Democrats to defeat the measure. The delay
fueled concern that a compromise by the two parties won’t be
reached before the Aug. 2 deadline for a possible U.S. default.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nick Gentle in  Hong Kong  at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  