-- 
FBI Said to Defer to Scotland Yard in News Corp. U.K. Police Bribery Probe

-- B y   G r e g   F a r r e l l   a n d   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 
2011-07-29T00:07:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-29/fbi-said-to-defer-to-scotland-yard-in-news-corp-u-k-police-bribery-probe.html
The FBI isn’t planning to mount an
aggressive investigation into allegations that  News Corp. (NWSA) ’s
payments to U.K. police officers a decade ago violated a U.S.
overseas bribery law, two law-enforcement officials familiar
with the matter said.  The  Federal Bureau of Investigation  will let Scotland Yard
take the lead on the investigation, which is already under way
in the U.K., said the officials, who didn’t want to be
identified because they aren’t allowed to discuss the U.S.
Justice Department’s investigation.  London police are investigating allegations of widespread
hacking by reporters from the now-closed U.K. tabloid News of
the World. Scotland Yard is also investigating allegations that
individuals at the paper paid British police over several years
for information about ongoing criminal investigations and the
lives of the Royal Family.  This month, New Jersey Senator  Frank Lautenberg  called for
U.S. Attorney General Eric Holder to investigate the possibility
that payments to U.K. police could be considered a violation of
the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act. The FCPA prohibits U.S.
companies from paying bribes to officials of foreign
governments. On July 15, Holder confirmed the existence of an
“ongoing investigation.”  Some lawyers question whether the law, used primarily to
punish bribes to obtain business, would apply to paying police
officers for information.  “The FCPA is not a global statute governing all corrupt
activity in the world,” said Steven Peikin, a former federal
prosecutor now at  Sullivan & Cromwell . “It would seem to me
that if you’re paying off a police official to obtain
information, that would be a stretch. It’s not the heartland of
conduct that the FCPA was intended to reach.”  Teri Everett, a News Corp. spokeswoman, didn’t immediately
return phone and e-mail messages seeking comment on the U.S.
probe.  Alisa Finelli, a Justice Department spokeswoman, declined
to comment.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Greg Farrell in New York at 
 gregfarrell@bloomberg.net ;
Patricia Hurtado in federal court in New York at   pathurtado@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  