-- 
Fed’s Bullard Says Debt-Ceiling Rise Could Pave Way for Growth

-- B y   J o s h u a   Z u m b r u n
-- 
2011-07-29T19:15:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-29/fed-s-bullard-says-debt-ceiling-rise-could-pave-way-for-growth.html
Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis
President  James Bullard  said a resolution of the debt-ceiling
impasse may remove a key unknown that has restrained economic
growth in the  United States .  “Once this last uncertainty is resolved, the path to
faster growth may be open,” Bullard said according to prepared
remarks for a speech today in  Jackson Hole , Wyoming.  Lawmakers and President Barack Obama have been unable to
reach an agreement to raise the government’s borrowing limit,
four days before the  U.S. Treasury  said the country will exhaust
its borrowing authority. House Speaker John Boehner told
Republican Senators that his chamber would vote on its debt-
reduction plan before 6 p.m. today, after canceling a vote
yesterday.  “It is essential that the Congress and the president come
to an agreement on the U.S. budget and the projected level of
 U.S. debt  going forward,” Bullard said. “There is a
substantial opportunity to put the U.S. fiscal situation on
firmer footing, and remove a cloud of uncertainty hanging over
U.S. macroeconomic prospects.”  The  U.S. economy  grew less than forecast in the second
quarter of 2011 after almost grinding to a halt in the first
quarter, the Commerce Department said today.  Gross domestic product climbed at a 1.3 percent annual rate
following a 0.4 percent gain in the prior quarter that was less
than earlier estimated. The median forecast of economists
surveyed by Bloomberg News called for a 1.8 percent increase in
the second quarter.  Three Restraints  “This is all confirming what we already knew, which is
that the first half has not been as strong as we’d like,”
Bullard said earlier today in an interview with CNBC Television.  Bullard identified three restraints to the economy in the
first half of this year that are fading -- the earthquakes and
tsunami in  Japan  that disrupted global supply chains, the jump
in oil and other commodities that has subsided as political
turmoil in the  Middle East  and Africa has moderated, and the
debt crisis in  Europe .  Bullard said that a housing bubble last decade may have
distorted economists’ estimates of the economy’s growth trend.  The excessive resources devoted to housing “temporarily
contributed to more rapid GDP growth than would have occurred
otherwise, but was ultimately unsustainable as the bubble
collapsed and caused a large recession,” he said.  While the economy grew 2.4 percent per year from 2001 to
2007, without the housing bubble the economy’s trend may have
been 1.75 percent, he said, calling the number an example.  ‘Bubble Explanation’  “If the bubble explanation is correct, we should be
comparing today’s output level to the level suggested by the
underlying, non-bubble, fundamental economy that would have
existed over the last decade,” Bullard said.  Bullard repeated his view that monetary policy “remains
‘ultra-easy’ for now” and “this is an appropriate setting for
monetary policy today.”  Bullard, 50, has led the St. Louis Fed since 2008. Fed
presidents rotate voting on monetary policy with Bullard next
voting in 2013.  -- With assistance from Jillian Berman in  Washington . Editors:
Kevin Costelloe, Carlos Torres  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joshua Zumbrun in Washington at 
 jzumbrun@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  