-- 
Fed Plans Bank Guidance in Event Aug. 2 Deadline Missed

-- B y   J e a n n i n e   A v e r s a
-- 
2011-07-29T22:00:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-29/fed-readies-guidance-for-banks-in-case-aug-2-debt-ceiling-deadline-missed.html
The  Federal Reserve  is readying
guidance for banks in the event the U.S. debt limit isn’t raised
and the Treasury Department runs out of money to pay all of its
bills, a Fed official said.  “As part of prudent contingency planning and in response
to questions from the industry, the Federal Reserve is working
with other bank regulators to prepare guidance for financial
institutions,” Fed spokeswoman  Barbara Hagenbaugh  said today in
Washington.  The guidance would cover issues including how banks would
handle government payments, such as cashing customer’s Social
Security checks. It also would address collateral pledged for
loans as well as other supervisory and regulatory matters, said
government officials who asked not to be identified because
congressional negotiations on the debt limit are still under
way.  A credit-rating downgrade of U.S. Treasury securities
caused by a failure to lift the $14.3 trillion debt ceiling
would affect collateral pledged for loans.  The stalemate, if it extends past the Aug. 2 deadline,
would probably create turmoil in financial markets, which could
cause banks and other companies to hoard cash,  William Poole ,
former president of the Federal Reserve Bank of  St. Louis , said
in an interview. If that happens, the Fed has the power to
create new facilities to provide short-term funds to banks and
other financial institutions, he said.  “The Fed could open the liquidity spigot,” Poole said.  Hoarding Cash  MetLife Inc. (MET) , the largest U.S. life insurance company, is
hoarding cash as the debt deadline draws closer, officials said
today. “We’ve added several billion dollars of excess cash,
which we think is a prudent thing to do in an environment of
uncertainty,” Steven Goulart, MetLife’s chief investment
officer, said in a conference call with analysts.  Treasuries rallied on speculation lawmakers will break a
deadlock over raising the debt limit, sending 10-year yields to
the lowest since November. The 10-year yield dropped 17 basis
points, or 0.17 percentage point, to 2.78 percent at 3:25 p.m.
in New York, according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices.  The U.S. Treasury Department met with bond dealers in  New
York  today to discuss next month’s quarterly auctions of notes
and bonds and the debt ceiling.  The Treasury canceled its regularly scheduled individual
meetings with bond dealers in favor of the group meeting,
according a statement from the Treasury Department. The meeting
at the Federal Reserve Bank of New York’s headquarters in
downtown  Manhattan  was for “all primary dealers,” according to
the Treasury’s statement.  ‘General Consensus’  “There was a general consensus among all participants that
Congress should act as quickly as possible to raise the debt
ceiling for as long a period as possible to lift the cloud of
uncertainty from the economy,” the statement said.  Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  has said the U.S.
will lose its authority to borrow on Aug. 2, meaning it won’t
have the cash to pay all of its bills. The Treasury is working
on a plan to decide who gets paid and who doesn’t.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeannine Aversa in  Washington  at 
 javersa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  