-- 
Finmeccanica Default Swaps Extend Surge to 31-Month High

-- B y   S a b i n e   P i r o n e   a n d   A b i g a i l   M o s e s
-- 
2011-07-29T15:29:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-29/finmeccanica-default-swaps-extend-surge-to-31-month-high-1-.html
The cost of insuring against default
by  Finmeccanica SpA (FNC)  soared to the highest in 31 months,
extending yesterday’s increase after the Italian defense company
said it faces “structural problems.”  Credit-default swaps on Finmeccanica jumped 17 basis points
to 295, according to CMA. That’s the highest since January 2009
and the biggest weekly increase since December 2008, when the
contracts peaked at 452.5 basis points. Relative yields rose on
the Rome-based company’s bonds, which are rated BBB by Standard
& Poor’s and A3 by Moody’s Investors Service.  “This isn’t an investment-grade spread, this is more or
less a high-yield spread,” said Bob Buhr, an analyst at Societe
Generale SA. “I think the reaction reflects more uncertainty
over how well they are going to be able to contain the specific
issues they are dealing with.”  Finmeccanica shares slumped yesterday after its aeronautics
and transport units faced “certain structural problems” and
will give new guidance on earnings in the fourth quarter after
assessing results from restructuring programs. The company cut
its 2011 revenue outlook to between 17.5 billion euros and 18
billion euros.  The extra yield investors demand to hold Finmeccanica’s 600
million euros of 5.25 percent bonds due in 2022 surged to 340
basis points more than  government securities , from 255 on July
25, according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. The average bond
spread on a BBB rated European industrial company is 176 basis
points, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch index data.  Accelerated Restructuring  Finmeccanica’s new Chief Executive Officer Giuseppe Orsi
said he will “accelerate” the restructuring program and exit
commercially unviable products. The company may decide to sell
its AnsaldoBreda train-making unit if it doesn’t succeed in
restructuring it by year-end.  Finmeccanica said it will increase production efficiency
and rationalize sites of its aeronautics business, which
designed and builds the horizontal stabilizers for Boeing Co.’s
787-8 airliner. The company limited details of its plans because
of forthcoming talks with unions.  Finmeccanica said that it expects no impact from the
restructuring after 2011 and foresees no major refinancing
before 2013.  A basis point on a credit-default swap protecting 10
million euros ($14.3 million) of debt for five years is
equivalent to 1,000 euros a year. Swaps pay the buyer face value
in exchange for the underlying securities or the cash equivalent
should a borrower fail to adhere to its debt agreements.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sabine Pirone in London at 
 spirone@bloomberg.net ;
Abigail Moses in London at 
 Amoses5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Armstrong  at 
 Parmstrong10@bloomberg.net . 