-- 
Foster’s Won’t Rule Out Talks With SABMiller After Spurning Takeover Bid

-- B y   R o b e r t   F e n n e r
-- 
2011-07-29T08:40:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-29/foster-chief-executive-says-company-won-t-rule-out-engaging-with-sabmiller.html
Foster’s Group Ltd. (FGL) , which rejected
a takeover from  SABMiller Plc (SAB) , won’t rule out talks with its
rival even as no discussions have been held since the A$9.5
billion ($10.4 billion) bid was rejected last month.  “We are not saying we would never engage,” Foster’s Chief
Executive Officer  John Pollaers  said in  Melbourne  today. “The
value put on the table there was just so far away from reality,
it wasn’t worth engaging.”  SABMiller hasn’t returned with a higher bid since its
A$4.90 a share cash bid was rejected on June 21 and the London-
based company said it would “seek engagement” with Foster’s.
Pollaers, who has run the Melbourne-based brewer since it spun
off its wine unit in May, said the company’s market share has
stabilized at about 50 percent and Australian consumption may
return to “modest” long-term growth after natural disasters
curbed demand.  “We have a strong plan we have confidence in and we are
already executing it,” Pollaers said. “We have spoken to our
shareholders and they are saying it is the right plan and we are
doing the right thing.”  Foster’s rose 1.4 percent, the biggest one-day gain since
disclosing the bid on June 21, to A$5.05 at the 4:10 p.m. close
in Sydney.  Beth Longcroft, a spokeswoman for SABMiller, declined to
comment on Pollaers’ remarks.  SABMiller could afford to pay more for Foster’s, according
to analysts surveyed by Bloomberg News, even though an
acquisition would dilute the brewer’s exposure to faster-growing
emerging markets. Any purchase would give SABMiller  Australia ’s
top-selling beer as well as a business with some of the highest
margins around the world.  Pollaers is concentrating on stemming market-share losses
and cutting production costs to free up cash and boost promotion
of brands. He’s also developing new brews to win back consumers
who switched to sweeter pre-mixed drinks and craft beers.  The company said July 19 it may buy back shares or boost
dividends after winning a dispute with the Australian
Commissioner of Taxation that will see it get about A$390
million in cash refunds and interest.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Fenner in Melbourne 
 rfenner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Longid at   flongid@bloomberg.net  