-- 
From Infamous Bronx Horror to $66 Million Humane Beacon of Hope

-- B y   J a m e s   S .   R u s s e l l
-- 
2011-07-30T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-29/from-bronx-horror-to-66-million-humane-beacon-of-hope-james-s-russell.html
Walking down a quiet, leafy street
in the Bronx, I come upon a wedge-shaped, seven-story building
patterned in a vibrant mix of oranges, reds and grays.  The new $66-million Prevention Assistance and Temporary
Housing Center handsomely anchors a corner of East 151st Street
in the Bronx. Opened in May, it supplanted the notoriously
inadequate Emergency Assistance Unit that had for decades
symbolized the city’s inability to cope with homeless families.  I tried to imagine the scene only a few years earlier:
Unable to fit into the dilapidated facility, a crowd of homeless
mothers and children milled in the trash-strewn street.  Ennead ,
the Manhattan architecture firm known until recently as the
Polshek Partnership, designed a simple box, but window dividers
bump up and down and terra-cotta strips shade some of the glass.
This richly textured surface invigorates a building that could
so easily have been a bureaucratic fortress.  Cash-strapped state and local governments need to pay a
visit to PATH, as the building is known. They will see how
meaningful sensitive design can be. It’s so easy to default to
low-cost but neighborhood-killing designs with barred entries
and perhaps an insouciant dollop of razor wire.  Building Horror  They become horrors like the old Emergency Assistance Unit.
Computers and telephones often failed to work, so placing
families in shelters could take days. Children had to sleep on
filthy floors under glaring lights. Nursing staff worked without
running water. Forms with confidential information overflowed
from trash bins.  Lawsuits drove a 2003 settlement requiring  New York City  to
overhaul its process and build a new facility.  With an inviting entry ramp sheltered by a projecting
porch, the new building declares its civic mission with quiet
assurance. In fact, you could mistake the place for a popular
neighborhood library.  Inside, one mother efficiently herded her neatly-dressed
small children with school backpacks through an airport-style
security checkpoint. Lining up at a counter where caseworkers
assessed their needs, another stressed-out mother exploded in
rage at mistakes in the paperwork.  Cool grays, wood-paneled ceilings and ample daylight serve
to calm the wait and dispel confusion. That’s a necessity, since
some mothers or their children may need immediate medical
attention. Others are fleeing physical violence. Child-welfare
agents and Department of Education staff help children who have
been neglected or haven’t been attending school.  Peak Summer Season  On average, 3,400 families show up monthly, though summer
is the peak season. (The center is open 24 hours every day.)
Parents more readily abandon an untenable housing situation when
kids are out of school Commissioner Seth Diamond of the
Department of Homeless Services told me.  Most families proceed to additional waiting rooms on the
upper floors, where caseworkers help applicants find ways to
avoid the shelter system by arranging rent aid or adjudicating
family or landlord disputes.  These areas are functional but airy, and offer broad views.
Zipper signs guide applicants to their assigned caseworkers. (In
the old building, the staff would sometimes lose track of
families.) A welcoming booth offers guidance, and applicants can
also store belongings and get food.  Murmuring televisions form the primary diversion for the
long waits. I watched one child toddle up to a colorful work
made out of film and paper cutouts by Brooklyn artist Lane
Twitchell.  Trumping the Norm  Plans for the new facility were vetted through a peer-
review process called Design Excellence, so the architects were
emboldened to trump the government-building norm. The Federal
government uses a similar process to deliver buildings that work
well and enrich communities at reasonable cost.  Within six to eight hours homeless people are placed in
shelters for up to 10 days, while caseworkers assess their long-
term housing and income prospects.  “The building is the beginning of the story,” Diamond
said. “It’s the first step in the picture of successfully
moving back into the community and getting work.”  As people endure the trauma of homelessness, the building
does not abrade their dignity. This is not just attractive
architecture at its best. It’s deeply humane.  (James S. Russell writes on architecture for Muse, the arts
and culture section of Bloomberg News. Island Press has just
published his book, “The Agile City.” The opinions expressed
are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
James S. Russell in New York at 
 jamesrussell@earthlink.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 