-- 
Fund Capital Buffer, India Takeovers, EU Bank Pay, Lafarge: Compliance

-- B y   C a r l a   M a i n
-- 
2011-07-29T11:51:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-29/fund-capital-buffer-india-takeovers-eu-bank-pay-lafarge-compliance.html
Money-market mutual funds would be
forced to create capital buffers equaling 1 percent to 3 percent
of assets to protect against losses under a plan now favored by
staff at the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, according
to three people briefed on the regulator’s deliberations.  Top SEC officials, seeking to make money funds safer,
prefer the plan over another capital buffer idea crafted by
 Fidelity Investments  and calls to eliminate the funds’ stable
share price, said the people, who asked not to be identified
because they weren’t authorized to speak publicly. The concept
is based on recommendations submitted to the agency in January
by university economists known as the  Squam Lake Group .  Regulators and fund executives have wrestled for almost
three years over how to prevent a recurrence of the run on
money-market funds that followed the September 2008 collapse of
the $62.5 billion Reserve Primary Fund. The industry has fought
a proposal to strip funds of their stable share price, saying it
would kill the product that manages $2.64 trillion for companies
and households, and represents the largest collective purchaser
of short-term corporate debt in the U.S.  The SEC’s staff remains undecided on several details of the
plan, including exactly how big the buffer should be, two of the
people said. If the plan is endorsed by agency staff, SEC
commissioners will have to approve it and may still consider
rival proposals, the people said.  Florence Harmon, a spokeswoman for the SEC, declined to
comment.  For more, click here.  Compliance Policy  Indian Regulator Eases Takeover Rules to Spur Investment  India ’s market regulator eased takeover rules, seeking to
lure investors after mergers and acquisitions in the South Asian
nation slumped.  The new rules will help investors raise their holdings in
companies to as much as 25 percent, without having to offer to
buy additional shares from the public, the  Securities and
Exchange Board  of India’s Chairman U.K. Sinha told reporters in
Mumbai July 27. The previous cap was 15 percent. Investors who
breach the new limit will have to buy an additional 26 percent
stake, Sinha said.  The regulations will help companies attract investors amid
a fall in the stock market, said Arindam Ghosh, a partner at law
firm  Khaitan & Co.  The value of acquisitions in India has
dropped 37 percent this year to $27.5 billion, data compiled by
Bloomberg show. Foreigners account for 63 percent of this
spending, the data show.  The market regulator, known as SEBI, rejected a proposal
from its panel that would have required acquirers to buy all
shares of the target company.  In  Japan , the trigger for an open offer is 33.3 percent,
while in  Hong Kong  it is 30 percent and in Singapore 29.99
percent. In all three, breaching the limit requires an acquirer
to make an offer for the entire company.  EU Banks Told to Reveal How Many Staff Make 1 Million Euros  Banks will be quizzed by the European Union’s top banking
regulator on the number of employees who make more than 1
million euros ($1.43 million) in a review of implementation of
pay and bonus rules.  The European Banking Authority will also gather aggregate
data on compensation broken down by business area, the regulator
said in a statement on its website yesterday.  The move “is a further step towards greater disclosure of
remuneration,” the EBA said. The London-based agency said it’s
seeking “a common approach across the EU” for gathering pay
data.  Regulators across the world are targeting bankers’ pay and
bonuses to prevent a repeat of the excessive risk taking and
focus on short-term profits that they say contributed to the
global financial crisis of 2008. They have called for payouts to
be linked to success, instead of rewarding failure.  The EBA’s call for banks to disclose details on pay stems
from an  EU law  adopted in November 2010.  The data on bankers paid more than 1 million euros should
encompass the business area involved and the main elements of
salary, bonus, long-term awards and pension contributions,
according to the EU law. It stated the information should be
published by the EU’s banking agency in “aggregate” form.  For more, click here.  EU May Classify Spot Carbon Permits as Financial Instruments  The European Union’s regulator may propose classifying spot
carbon-dioxide contracts as financial instruments to better
protect the world’s biggest emissions market from fraud.  The  European Commission , the EU regulatory arm, is planning
to present draft measures by the end of this year to enhance the
supervision of the spot market after online thieves illegally
transferred allowances valued at around 25 million euros ($36
million) in January. The EU’s options include extending the
Markets in Financial Instruments Directive, or Mifid, to cover
spot carbon deals, or designing a tailor-made regime.  Isaac Valero-Ladron, climate spokesman for the commission in
Brussels, said there is no “detailed timeframe” for presenting
the proposal.  While carbon futures are already subject to Mifid and the
Market Abuse Directive, known as MAD, contracts for prompt
delivery, accounting for about 10 percent of trading, typically
aren’t seen as financial instruments and aren’t bound by the
same laws. Criminals used this regulatory gap to transfer
without authorization about 2 million allowances from companies
including Prague-based CEZ AS.  For more, click here.  Consumer Bureau Plans Enforcement Based on FTC’s Model  The U.S. Consumer Financial Protection Bureau plans to
follow enforcement procedures “based largely on the existing,
stable model” used by the Federal Trade Commission, according
to a document on the bureau’s website.  The bureau, which began operations July 21, used the
document to outline how it will seek documents, conduct hearings
and deal with witnesses as it begins oversight of financial
firms’ dealings with consumers.  President Barack Obama proposed creating the consumer
bureau as part of what became the Dodd-Frank Act after lenders
were accused of reaping profits by preying on borrowers before
the subprime mortgage crisis. The agency, which will operate
independently, will regulate products ranging from home
mortgages to payday loans.  The posted rules by themselves give little insight into how
forceful the consumer bureau will be in dealing with lenders,
according to Howard Beales, a former FTC official who is now
professor at George  Washington  University in Washington. The
bureau could choose to resolve issues through supervision, the
process of examining bank books and nudging them to make
changes, rather than through lawsuits.  The consumer bureau also posted  rules  governing how it will
conduct reviews in which firms can contest administrative
penalties. It plans to use procedures now used by federal
agencies overseeing banks.  House Republicans Cite SEC ‘Mismanagement’ in Proxy Rule  The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission should act
“far more cautiously” when figuring out the costs and benefits
of the rules it writes, senior House Republicans on the
 Financial Services Committee  said in a letter to SEC Chairman
 Mary Schapiro .  Representatives Scott Garrett of New Jersey,  Randy
Neugebauer  of Texas and Jeb Hensarling of Texas said in the
letter dated yesterday that last week’s rejection of the SEC’s
so-called proxy access rule by the U.S. Court of Appeals in
Washington “raises fundamental questions” about the
regulator’s work. The lawmakers requested that the agency report
what it spent on writing the rule and defending it in court.  In a July 22 ruling, the court agreed with the U.S. Chamber
of Commerce and the Business Roundtable that the SEC failed to
properly study the cost to companies if shareholders were given
an increased ability to push candidates into board elections.
The rule was mandated by the Dodd-Frank Act’s financial-
regulatory overhaul enacted last year.  John Nester , an SEC spokesman, declined immediate comment.  Compliance Action  Lafarge, Holcim Say Indian Units Involved in Antitrust Probe  Lafarge SA (LG)  and  Holcim Ltd. (HOLN) , the world’s largest cement
makers, said their Indian units have been accused by local
regulators of breaking the country’s antitrust rules.  The  Competition Commission of India  told Lafarge last month
the company is among several accused of violations dating from
2005, the Paris-based cement maker said in a regulatory filing
yesterday. Lafarge “vigorously defends itself against the
allegations,” it said. The decision may come by the end of the
year, it added.  Holcim’s Ambuja Cements and ACC units are being probed by
India’s competition regulators and are “fully collaborating
with the authorities,” Roland Walker, a spokesman for the Jona,
Switzerland-based company, said in an e-mail.  Lafarge and Holcim are among companies facing a European
Union probe into possible price fixing and import limits.
Lafarge last year lost a challenge at the EU’s highest court
against a 249.6 million-euro ($357 million) antitrust fine in
2002 for its role in another cartel.  ABN Allows Private Bank Clients to Switch Bank Free of Charge  ABN Amro Group NV will allow private banking clients to
transfer to another lender free of charge in the next two months
to comply with a European Union requirement for approval of
state aid, it said in a statement on its website dated July 27.  The Netherlands-based bank provides private banking as well
as retail banking and other services.  Courts  U.K. Bid to Limit Exposure to BT Pensions Rejected by Judge  The U.K. government lost a legal bid to limit its liability
for  BT Group Plc (BT/A)  workers’ pensions, which lawmakers guaranteed
after the telecommunications group was privatized in 1984.  The government’s case centered on a merger of pension plans
in 1993, which added around 61,600 people and liabilities of 9.5
billion pounds ($15.5 billion) to BT’s plan. Judge George Mann
in  London  ruled yesterday the U.K.’s attempt to raise that issue
would be “an abuse of process” and rejected it.  As part of a legal battle about the extent of the
guarantee, Mann ruled in October the government would be liable
for the pensions of employees hired before and since the
privatization if the telecommunications company collapsed. The
London-based company’s pensions had a deficit at the end of
September of about 5.2 billion pounds.  BT said in statement that yesterday’s ruling clarified what
the government would be able to contest in a trial scheduled for
November to resolve the remaining questions about the extent of
the guarantee.  A spokesman for the U.K. Department for Culture, Media and
Sport said it was too early to say what effect yesterday’s
judgment would have on the overall case.  The case is: TLC 637/09 BT Pension Scheme Trustees v
British Telecommunications Plc & ors.  SocGen Sues Tuscany, Joining Parade of Swap Disputes in London  Societe Generale (GLE)  SA sued the region of Tuscany over a 2005
derivatives deal, becoming at least the fifth bank to take its
dispute with the Italian region to U.K. courts.  “We can confirm that Societe Generale has made a filing in
the High Court in respect of the region of Tuscany,” the Paris-
based bank said in a statement. “It is not appropriate at this
stage to make any further comment.”  Tuscany is involved in a dispute with  Bank of America
Corp. (BAC) , UBS AG and Deutsche Bank AG over swaps contracts sold in
2002 to hedge against interest-rate changes on a 465 million-
euro ($664 million) bond issued by the Italian region. Societe
Generale didn’t take part in the original deal. It replaced UBS
in one of the swap contracts in 2005, following an auction held
by Tuscany.  Bank of America, UBS, Deutsche Bank and New York-based
 JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  have filed claims in London seeking a
ruling on the validity of their contracts. Dozens of local
governments in  Europe  have taken legal action against banks over
derivatives contracts which turned out to cost far more than
expected.  Jamie Curle, Tuscany’s lawyer, declined to comment on the
lawsuit filed July 20 at High Court in London.  The case is Societe Generale v Regione Toscana, High Court
of Justice, Queen’s Bench Division (London), 11-866.  For more, click here.  Ex-Pegasus Wireless Chief Knabb Pleads Guilty to Fraud  Ex-Pegasus Wireless Corp. Chief Executive Officer Jasper
Knabb pleaded guilty to securities fraud and other charges in
connection with a $25 million scheme to sell shares for bogus
debt and funnel the proceeds to himself, family and friends.  Knabb, 44, created 31 fake promissory notes and other
documents representing that Pegasus had outstanding debt, U.S.
Attorney Melinda Haag in  San Francisco  said yesterday in an e-
mailed statement.  Christopher Bruno, an attorney for Knabb, didn’t
immediately return a voice-mail message seeking comment about
the plea.  Knabb’s sentencing is scheduled for Nov. 3. He faces a
maximum penalty on the conspiracy and securities fraud charges
of 25 years in prison, as well as fines and restitution.  The case is U.S. v. Durland, 11-00009, U.S. District
Court, Northern District of  California  (San Francisco).  Interviews/Speeches  Gieve Says U.S. Rating Downgrade Likely in Next Two Months  Former Deputy Bank of England Governor  John Gieve , now a
senior adviser at GLG Partners LP, discussed the U.S. debt-
ceiling debate and risk of a credit-rating downgrade.  Gieve, who spoke with Francine Lacqua on Bloomberg
Television’s “Last Word,” also commented on the European
sovereign debt crisis.  For the Gieve video, click here.  Citi’s Brandes Says Odds of a U.S. Default Are Remote  Michael Brandes, global head of fixed-income strategy for
Citi Private Bank, talked about the debt ceiling debate and the
political implications for U.S. lawmakers.  Brandes spoke with  Matt Miller  on Bloomberg Television’s
“InsideTrack.” Matthew Dowd, former chief political strategist
for George W. Bush, and Neil Barofsky, Bloomberg Television
contributing editor, also spoke. (Source: Bloomberg)  For the Brandes video, click here.  For more about negotiations in Congress, click here, and
click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carla Main in New Jersey at 
 cmain2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this report:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 