-- 
Galp Raises 2020 Production Target After ‘Exceptional’ Progress in Brazil

-- B y   J o a o   L i m a
-- 
2011-07-29T16:40:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-29/galp-raises-output-goal-on-exceptional-progress-in-brazil-1-.html
Galp Energia SGPS SA (GALP) ,  Portugal ’s
biggest oil company, raised its 2020 output target in light of
“exceptional” progress in  Brazil  and said “several parties”
had shown an interest in buying shares in its Brazilian unit.  The company expects working interest production of more
than 300,000 barrels of oil equivalent a day by the end of the
decade, Lisbon-based Galp said today in a filing. That’s up from
a previous forecast of 200,000 barrels a day.  “The exceptional progress in Brazil drives the new
production targets,” the company said. “Better reservoir
characteristics reduce the time-to-market of resources.”  Galp has stakes in four offshore blocks in Brazil’s  Santos
Basin , including the Lula and Jupiter finds. The process to sell
shares in its Brazilian unit is “ongoing” and a final decision
will be made by the end of the third quarter.  “The company’s solid confidence in announcing new
production targets indicates that the exploration and production
asset portfolio has a significant growth profile,” Sofia Cordeiro, an analyst at Banif Banco de Investimento SA said
today in a note. She has a “neutral” rating on the stock.  Galp earlier reported a 36 percent drop in adjusted second-
quarter net income to 70 million euros ($100 million) from a
year earlier as refining margins narrowed. That compared with
the 71.7 million-euro mean estimate in a Bloomberg survey.
Earnings on this basis exclude one-time items and inventory
changes.  Angola, Brazil  Galp rose 0.4 percent to close at 15.745 euros in Lisbon.
The stock has climbed 9.8 percent this year, giving the company
a market value of 12 billion euros.  Eni SpA (ENI) ,  Italy ’s biggest oil
company, and Portuguese holding company Amorim Energia BV each
control a third of Galp.  Galp is expanding exploration in regions such as the Santos
Basin and Angola to improve access to crude and lessen
dependence on refining and fuel sales in Portugal and  Spain .  The Lula field, formerly known as Tupi, holds an estimated
6.5 billion barrels of recoverable oil and equivalents. Galp is
also a partner with  Petroleo Brasileiro SA (PETR4) , Brazil’s state-
controlled oil company, in Cernambi, which holds 1.8 billion
barrels of estimated reserves.  Galp plans to carry out a capital increase at the Brazilian
unit to raise at least 2 billion euros. In April, it said it
wants to carry out the planned sale of shares through a private
placement rather than a public offering in the stock market.
Chief Executive Officer Manuel Ferreira de Oliveira on May 23
said that the companies looking to become partners in its
Brazilian unit are mostly from  Asia .  ‘High-Quality Bidders’  “We already have a short list of high-quality bidders,
which are working very hard to prepare their binding offers,”
Ferreira de Oliveira said today in a Bloomberg Television
interview with Francine Lacqua.  Galp also said today it’s still receiving binding offers
for the possible sale of as much as 49 percent in its natural-
gas infrastructure unit.  The producer used its refineries at about 70 percent of
capacity in the latest quarter and processed 3.1 percent less
crude. The refining margin, a measure of profit from converting
oil into fuels, narrowed to 60 cents a barrel in the quarter
from $3.40 a year earlier.  Benchmark refining margins will remain “under pressure”
in the third quarter, Galp said.  Refinery Upgrades  Galp’s refinery in Oporto can process about 90,000 barrels
a day, while the Sines plant has a 220,000-barrel-a-day
capacity. Galp said an upgrade project at the Sines refinery
will be completed before the end of 2011.  Working interest production rose 10 percent in the second
quarter to 21,800 barrels a day. Average net entitlement
production increased 26 percent to 13,800 barrels a day, helped
by higher output from  Angola ’s Tombua-Landana and Kuito fields,
and at Lula. Galp targets working interest production of about
19,000 barrels a day in the third quarter.  Adjusted earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization fell 17 percent to 230 million euros in the second
quarter. Galp forecasts average annual growth in Ebitda of about
15 percent from 2010 to 2015.  Galp plans to invest 1.2 billion euros to 1.5 billion euros
this year in Portugal and elsewhere. It plans about 3.5 billion
euros in spending from 2012 to 2015, with exploration and
production representing 70 percent of the total.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joao Lima in Lisbon at 
 jlima1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  