-- 
Bunds Advance on Moody’s Spain Rating Threat, U.S. Debt Concern

-- B y   L u c y   M e a k i n   a n d   P a u l   D o b s o n
-- 
2011-07-29T15:43:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-29/german-bonds-rise-a-sixth-day-on-moody-s-spain-credit-review-u-s-debt.html
German bonds rose for a sixth day,
the longest run of gains since November, after Moody’s Investors
Service said it may cut  Spain ’s  credit rating  amid prospects for
early elections in the Mediterranean nation.  The weekly advance pushed the yield on the 10-year bund
down by the most since the five days ended Dec. 19, 2008, as
investors diversified away from U.S. securities. Data today
showed the world’s largest economy grew less than forecast in
the second quarter. House Speaker John Boehner yesterday
canceled a vote on his plan to raise the debt limit, prolonging
a stalemate among lawmakers and the risk of a default.  Spain’s downgrade threat, “together with the news from the
U.S. and ongoing month-end index demand, should keep bunds
supported into the weekend,” said Christopher Rieger, head of
fixed-income strategy at Commerzbank AG in  Frankfurt . “The fact
that the downgrade should not be more than one notch should
limit the damage.”  Ten-year bund yields fell nine basis points to 2.54 percent
as of 4:39 p.m. in London. The 3.25 percent security maturing in
July 2021 gained 0.84, or 8.4 euros per 1,000-euro ($1,440) face
amount, to 106.145. Yields on two-year notes declined eight
basis points to 1.16 percent.  Spanish 10-year bonds fell for a third straight day,
pushing the yield on the securities five basis points higher to
6.08 percent, after earlier climbing as high as 6.15 percent.
The additional yield investors demand to hold the securities
instead of benchmark German bunds rose by 14 basis points to 354
basis points.  Moody’s Review  Portuguese two-year notes snapped an eight-day advance,
sending yields up 30 basis points to 14.59 percent. Similar-
maturity Irish yields jumped 66 basis points to 14.37 percent.  “In the shaky and low-liquidity market we have, this
increases the tension,” Norbert Aul, a European rates
strategist at  RBC Capital Markets  in London, said of the
downgrade threat from Moody’s. “In an environment like this,
bunds will remain well bid and spreads are on the back foot.”  Moody’s is reviewing Spain’s Aa2 classification, citing
concern about implementation of the 440 billion-euro European
rescue fund. The euro region’s fourth-largest economy has the
same credit rating as Italy, which is also on review for
downgrade by Moody’s.  “Pressures are likely to increase still further following
the announcement of the official package for Greece, which has
signaled a clear shift in risk for bondholders of countries with
high debt burdens or large budget deficits,” Moody’s said in a
statement today. Another concern is that it’s “not clear” when
the bailout fund’s new powers will be implemented, Moody’s said.  Election Outlook  Spanish Prime Minister Jose Luis Rodriguez Zapatero today
called for early elections as austerity measures erode support
for his ruling Socialist Party as it seeks to convince investors
it can control the government budget deficit. The nation will go
to the polls on Nov. 20.  Italian Prime Minister  Silvio Berlusconi  survived a
confidence vote in the Senate. The upper house voted 160 to 139
in  Rome  in favor of legislation related to the length of trials,
a bill critics say will help shield him from prosecution. It was
the 48th time he has used the mechanism to end debate and drive
through legislation.  The Italian 10-year yield rose five basis points to 5.88
percent. The spread to bunds increased 14 basis points to 333
basis points. The bonds headed for the third weekly drop in four
weeks after speculation that Finance Minister  Giulio Tremonti 
may resign pushed up yields.  Tremonti Speculation  Tremonti, widely credited with keeping  Italy ’s public
finances in check during the financial turmoil of the past three
years, came under pressure yesterday as newspapers including
Corriere della Sera published alleged details of his dealings
with Marco Milanese, a former aide who is under investigation by
Naples prosecutors for alleged graft.  Tremonti admitted he made “mistakes” and denied any
“unlawful acts,” according to a letter published in the
Italian daily today.  Bunds extended gains after a report showed U.S. gross
domestic product rose at a 1.3 percent annual rate following a
0.4 percent gain in the prior quarter that was less than
previously estimated. The median forecast of economists surveyed
by Bloomberg News called for a 1.8 percent increase.  Belgian Bonds  The additional yield investors demand to hold Belgian 10-
year bonds instead of benchmark bunds widened to a record as
Belgium saw slower growth. Gross domestic product in the euro
area’s sixth-largest economy expanded 0.7 percent from the first
quarter.  The spread widened to as much as 186 basis points, the most
since Bloomberg began collecting the data in 1993.  The risk of writedowns and more contagion from the debt
crisis helped to drag the Stoxx 600 Banks Index down for the
fifth time in six days.  Credit Agricole SA said losses at its Greek unit and costs
tied to  Europe ’s aid plan for the country will lower second-
quarter profit by as much as 850 million euros. The French bank
said the participation of its Emporiki Bank of  Greece  SA in a
program to involve private investors will result in an estimated
71 million-euro impairment to the unit’s Greek bond holdings.  Swap Spread  Greek two-year note yields jumped 274 basis points to 32.87
percent. The yields have climbed more than 20 percentage points
since the start of this year, surging to a record 40.46 percent
on July 20.  The 10-year euro swap spread, which shows the difference
between the swap rate and the yield on benchmark German bunds
and is used as a measure of perceived risk, rose for a fifth
day, climbing to 60 basis points, the most since January 2009.  German  government bonds  handed investors 2.4 percent this
year, compared with 3.6 percent for U.S. Treasuries, according
to indexes compiled by Bloomberg and the European Federation of
Financial Analysts Societies. Greek debt has lost 11 percent and
Italian bonds dropped 3.3 percent, while Spain’s have returned
0.2 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lucy Meakin in  London  at 
 lmeakin1@bloomberg.net ;
Paul Dobson in London at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  