-- 
German Stocks Retreat; Deutsche Boerse, HeidelbergCement Fall

-- B y   J u l i e   C r u z
-- 
2011-07-29T16:03:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-29/german-stocks-fall-for-a-third-day-deutsche-boerse-heidelbergcement-drop.html
German stocks fell for a third day
as U.S. lawmakers called off a vote on a Republican plan to
increase the government’s debt limit and as a report showed the
 U.S. economy  grew less than forecast in the second quarter.  Deutsche Boerse AG (DB1) , which is seeking to buy NYSE Euronext
to create the world’s largest exchange operator, fell 1.8
percent after posting second-quarter profit that missed
analysts’ estimates.  HeidelbergCement AG (HEI) , the world’s third-
biggest maker of cement, lost 1 percent after saying second-
quarter profit slumped 10 percent.  The benchmark  DAX Index (DAX)  slid 0.4 percent to 7,158.77 at the
5:30 p.m. close in  Frankfurt , retreating 2.3 percent this week.
The gauge posted its largest monthly retreat since March,
sliding 3 percent, as investors speculated that  Europe ’s
sovereign-debt crisis will derail the economic recovery and as
concern mounted that U.S. politicians will fail to lift the
federal government’s debt ceiling by next week’s deadline. The
broader HDAX Index also tumbled 0.4 percent today.  “It’s been a Hollywood-style debt debate which has
frustrated markets,” said Daniel Weston, a portfolio adviser at
Schroeder Equities GmbH in Munich. “No one can pinpoint
precisely what the outcome will be, but the market is certainly
hoping for a debt-ceiling increase and more clarity very soon.”  House Republican leaders scrapped a vote on the debt-
ceiling bill late yesterday, indicating that House Speaker  John Boehner  is short of the votes needed to pass his bill. The delay
fueled concern that Republicans and Democrats will fail to reach
a compromise before the Treasury Department’s Aug. 2 deadline
for a possible U.S. default.  German stocks pared some of their losses after President
 Barack Obama  said Republicans and Democrats are in “rough
agreement” on their plans to raise the debt limit.  U.S. Economic Growth  A report today showed that U.S. gross domestic product
climbed at a 1.3 percent annual rate following a 0.4 percent
gain in the previous quarter that was revised down from a
previous estimate of 1.9 percent. The median forecast of
economists surveyed by Bloomberg News called for a second-
quarter increase of 1.8 percent.  In Europe, Moody’s Investors Service placed  Spain ’s Aa2
credit rating on review for a possible downgrade as its regional
governments struggle to cut their budget deficits.  Deutsche Boerse  slipped 1.8 percent to 51.64 euros, its
fifth straight decline for the longest falling streak in seven
weeks. The company said net income rose to 178.8 million euros
($257 million) from 160.8 million euros a year earlier. That
fell short of the average analyst estimate for profit of 191.4
million euros, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  HeidelbergCement, Deutsche Bank  HeidelbergCement dropped 1 percent to 38.45 euros, its
lowest price in almost nine months. Second-quarter operating
income decreased to 441 million euros from 492 million euros,
the company said. That missed the average estimate of 480
million euros in a Bloomberg survey of analysts.  EON AG and RWE AG,  Germany ’s biggest utilities, slid 1
percent to 19.22 euros and 1.5 percent to 36.55 euros,
respectively. Utility shares fell across Europe today as Veolia
Environnement SA, the world’s biggest water utility, said it
will miss its 2011 net income growth target.  GEA Group AG (G1A)  jumped 4.8 percent to 24.27 euros, their
largest advance in almost six months. The company raised its
order intake forecast for this year to 5.4 billion euros to 5.6
billion euros and its revenue prediction to 5.1 billion euros to
5.3 billion euros, including acquisitions.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julie Cruz in Frankfurt at 
 jcruz6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  