-- 
German Retail Sales Increased 6.3% in June as Unemployment Level Declined

-- B y   J a n a   R a n d o w
-- 
2011-07-29T07:29:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-29/german-retail-sales-increased-6-3-in-june-as-unemployment-level-declined.html
German retail sales surged the most
on record in June as falling unemployment boosted household
purchasing power.  Sales, adjusted for inflation and seasonal swings, rose 6.3
percent from May, when they fell 2.5 percent, the Federal
Statistics Office in Wiesbaden said today. That’s the strongest
increase since 1991, when data for a reunified Germany were
first available. Economists had forecast a gain of 1.7 percent,
the median of 22 estimates in a Bloomberg News survey showed.
Sales dropped 1 percent in the year.  The German economy,  Europe ’s largest, is weathering the
region’s sovereign-debt crisis as companies step up hiring to
meet export orders, fueling  consumer spending . The Bundesbank
last month raised its 2011 growth forecast to 3.1 percent from
2.5 percent, citing stronger domestic demand.  “German consumers are finally waking up,” said  Carsten Brzeski , senior economist at ING Groep in Brussels. “Of course,
the rather discouraging track record of German retail sales is
reason enough not to get overly excited. However, German
consumers offer some glimmer of hope that at least the German
economy is heading towards a soft, not hard, landing.”  The statistics office said this month it exchanged about
8,100 companies representing 33 percent of the sample it uses to
calculate the monthly retail sales statistics. It will swap
another 17 percent of reporting firms next year.  ‘Significant Weaknesses’  The Bundesbank said on July 18 that the retail sales
statistical series has “significant weaknesses” and May's
decline is “without validity.”  Unemployment dropped for a 25th straight month in July,
keeping the jobless rate at 7 percent, the lowest since
reunification.  Metro AG,  Germany ’s biggest retailer, on July 26 confirmed
its earnings forecast for 2011, saying it expects profit before
extraordinary items to rise about 10 percent. Still, the
company’s Media-Saturn household electronics unit posted its
first operating loss in at least 20 years in the second quarter
as sales dropped in Germany.  The threat of higher energy prices will contribute to a
decline in  consumer confidence  in August, market research
company GfK said this week.  Oil prices  rose 2.2 percent this
month and inflation accelerated to 2.6 percent from 2.4 percent
in June.  “The employment situation in Germany is excellent and
provides the foundation for an increase in real disposable
income,” said Jens Kramer, an economist at NordLB in Hanover.
“That should support private consumption. It won’t become the
main growth pillar, but it will support growth driven by demand
from abroad.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jana Randow in  Frankfurt  at 
 jrandow@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  