-- 
Gertler Company Settles Over Missed Payments After Congolese Mine Flooded

-- B y   F r a n z   W i l d   a n d   M i c h a e l   J .   K a v a n a g h
-- 
2011-07-29T14:13:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-29/gertler-company-settles-over-missed-payments-after-congolese-mine-flooded.html
Fleurette Properties Ltd., a company
owned by Israeli mining investor Dan Gertler, said it settled a
claim over a missed debt payment following flooding at a copper
and zinc mine in the Democratic Republic of Congo.  The claim in London’s High Court was settled on July 27,
Lior Chorev, a spokesman for Fleurette, said in a phone
interview yesterday from  Boston ,  Massachusetts .  Palensia Investment Ltd., registered in the British Virgin
Islands, on March 25 sued Fleurette for more than $104 million
and Gertler for $15 million as guarantor of the debt after the
Gibraltar-based company missed part of an $8 million debt
payment, according to documents submitted to the court.  “Fleurette was at all times on the right side of the moral
and legal argument in this matter,” Chorev said, without giving
details of the settlement, which he said are confidential.
“Fleurette had the ability to pay all sums under its agreement
with Palensia. Fleurette feels fully vindicated by its actions
throughout the proceedings and settlement negotiations.”  Patrick Doris, Palensia’s lawyer, declined to confirm or
deny that there had been a settlement when reached by phone
today in London. He didn’t comment further.  Congo’s Kipushi mine, which is controlled by Fleurette,
flooded in November when electricity problems caused its pumps
to malfunction, forcing emergency measures to drain the site,
the Kinshasa-based  le Potentiel  newspaper reported on March 25.
Kipushi is undergoing a feasibility study that aims to bring it
back into production. The mine, which may produce about 140,000
metric tons of zinc and 11,000 tons of copper per year,
according to a  2007 contract  for the operation, has been closed
since 1993.  Palensia Investment  Chorev said in a separate interview on July 21 the dispute
between Palensia and Fleurette arose after Palensia, which in
2006 and 2007 invested in projects including Kipushi, sought to
recoup its original investment that was devalued during the 2008
global economic slowdown. Palensia had previously partnered with
Fleurette and its affiliates on several occasions, securing it
“substantial profits” over a short period of time, Chorev said
last week.  In the lawsuit, Palensia sought $104.4 million, the unpaid
balance that Fleurette owed, and $15 million from Gertler, plus
10 percent interest per year on both sums, according to
documents submitted to the  London  court.  Gold, Silver  Kipushi is 30 kilometers (18 miles) southwest of
Lubumbashi, close to the country’s border with Zambia. The
mine’s ore deposits contain metals and minerals including zinc,
copper, gold, silver, cadmium, germanium and sulfur. A 2003
study of Kipushi’s deposits measured 16.9 million tons of ore,
containing 392,755 tons of copper and 2.83 million tons of zinc.
Production at the mine peaked in 1988 when it produced 143,000
tons of zinc and 43,000 tons of copper.  Gecamines, Congo’s state-owned copper mining company, and
Switzerland-based United Resources AG in February 2007 signed a
joint venture to develop Kipushi, with United Resources
promising a $400 million investment, according to the agreement.
United Resources was renamed Kipushi Resources Holding AG,
before it was liquidated in November 2009, according to Swiss
 registry filings .  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Franz Wild  in Johannesburg at 
 fwild@bloomberg.net ;
Michael J. Kavanagh in Kinshasa at 
 mkavanagh9@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 