-- 
Gold May Gain in New York as U.S., Europe Debt Woes Spur Demand

-- B y   N i c h o l a s   L a r k i n   a n d   G l e n y s   S i m
-- 
2011-07-29T12:13:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-29/gold-set-for-monthly-gain-as-u-s-lawmakers-wrangle-over-debt-ceiling-deal.html
Gold may gain toward a record in New
York as debt concerns in the U.S. and  Europe  spur demand for the
metal as a protection of wealth.  Gold futures climbed to a record $1,631.20 an ounce on July
27 and are up for the first month in three amid deadlock between
U.S. President  Barack Obama  and  House Republicans  over lifting
the debt ceiling. Moody’s Investors Service said it may cut
 Spain ’s credit rating. Gold held in exchange-traded products
rose to an all-time high yesterday.  “U.S. debt levels will continue to dominate risk and
market sentiment in the coming sessions,”  James Moore , an
analyst at TheBullionDesk.com in  London , said in a report. “The
pace with which dips have recovered reflects the level of safe-
haven interest in the yellow metal and the concern investors
have of a default by the U.S.”  Gold for December delivery rose $2.20, or 0.1 percent, to
$1,618.40 an ounce by 8 a.m. on the Comex in  New York . Prices
are up 1.1 percent this week and 7.7 percent this month.
Immediate-delivery gold was little changed at $1,616.75 in
London after reaching a record $1,628.05 on July 27.  Gold is up 14 percent this year, heading for an 11th
straight annual gain, the longest winning streak since at least
1920 in London. The MSCI All-Country World Index of equities
gained 1.6 percent in 2011, the Standard & Poor’s GSCI Index of
24 commodities is up 9.1 percent and Treasuries returned 3.4
percent, according to a Bank of America Merrill Lynch index.  Debt Limit  U.S. House Speaker  John Boehner , falling short of the votes
within his own party needed to increase the nation’s debt limit
after a night of one-on-one appeals to members, canceled a vote
on a plan that Senate leaders pledged to defeat.  The Obama administration will brief the public no earlier
than after financial markets close today on priorities for
paying the nation’s bills if the $14.3 trillion debt ceiling
isn’t raised, a Democratic Party official said. Treasury
Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  has said options to prevent a
default will run out on Aug. 2 if the limit isn’t increased.  “While the threat of a default gets nearer, investors are
still fairly confident they will reach a deal over the
weekend,” said Huang Wei, an analyst at Huatai Great Wall
Futures Co. “Gold might face some pressure as no one really
wants to have a big long position with the possibility of an
agreement by Monday.”  International Bailout  Moody’s said a possible downgrade for Spain would probably
be “limited to one notch.” Spain, the euro region’s fourth-
largest economy, is trying to rein in a surge in borrowing costs
and convince investors it won’t follow Greece, Ireland and
 Portugal  in seeking an international bailout.  Holdings of the metal in ETPs rose for a fourth day,
climbing 19.1 metric tons to a record 2,150.5 tons, data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  “It’s not hard to imagine that gold could rise and go
through $2,000,” Aaron Regent, chief executive officer of
 Barrick Gold Corp. (ABX) , the largest producer of the metal, said
yesterday. Demand is being driven by the debt crises in the U.S.
and Europe, central-bank buying and diversification, he said.  Silver for September delivery in New York was down 0.2
percent at $39.715 an ounce, taking its monthly gain to 14
percent. Palladium for September delivery fell 0.3 percent to
$825.50 an ounce and is up 8.5 percent this month. Platinum for
October delivery was 0.4 percent lower at $1,785.90 an ounce. It
gained 3.5 percent this month.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nicholas Larkin in London at 
 nlarkin1@bloomberg.net ;
Glenys Sim in Singapore at 
 gsim4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Deane  at 
 jdeane3@bloomberg.net  