-- 
Google Buys IBM Inventions as It Aims to Build Patent Hoard

-- B y   D e v i n   B a n e r j e e   a n d   B r i a n   W o m a c k
-- 
2011-07-29T20:16:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-29/google-acquires-inventions-from-ibm-as-it-faces-mounting-patent-litigation.html
Google Inc. (GOOG) , facing a growing threat
of intellectual-property lawsuits, acquired a batch of patents
this month from  International Business Machines Corp. (IBM)  to bolster
its portfolio.  The U.S. Patent and Trademark Office on July 11 and 12
 recorded  more than 1,000 patents assigned to  Mountain View ,
California-based Google by IBM. They cover a range of topics,
including microprocessing chips, regional databases and memory
fabrication and architecture, said Bill Slawski, president of
SEO by the Sea Inc., a Warrenton, Virginia-based research firm
specializing in search-engine optimization.  “Like many tech companies, at times we’ll acquire patents
that are relevant to our business,” Google said yesterday in an
e-mailed statement.  Chris Andrews, an IBM spokesman, declined to comment.  Google’s Android mobile-operating system has been targeted
in at least six legal complaints, increasing its need for
intellectual property to defend the company against litigation.  “Among this collection of patents, there may be something
that can help Google in these lawsuits,” Slawski said in an
interview today. “It doesn’t hurt to have a big patent
portfolio these days.”  Google Vulnerable  Google, the world’s largest Internet search company, aims
to curb abuses of the patent system. It’s calling on Congress
and the Federal Trade Commission to rein in lawsuits, and asking
the Patent and Trademark Office to take closer looks at patents
being used in litigation.  “The tech industry has a significant problem,” Google
General Counsel Kent Walker said in an interview earlier this
week. “Software patents are kind of gumming up the works of
innovation.”  Google’s rivals have said the company is critical of the
patent system because it has few patents of its own and entered
a smartphone market where companies had been researching and
selling products for years before Android phones went on sale in
2008.  The Android system is a free, open-source program that
relies on some nonproprietary features Google didn’t create and
allows outside developers to modify the code. That has left the
company vulnerable to claims that it built Android on the backs
of research done by other technology companies.  ‘Fruit of Efforts’  “The patent is the fruit of a company’s efforts,” Slawski
said. “It says you’ve given yourself a chance to develop
technology and then actually do something with it.”  Google, which had $39.1 billion in cash and short-term
investments as of June, put in an initial $900 million offer in
April to buy the patents of bankrupt phone-equipment maker
Nortel Networks Corp. It was outbid by a group that includes
 Apple Inc. (AAPL) ,  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) , and Research In Motion Ltd., which
all make devices that compete with Android phones.  Google fell $7.25, or 1.2 percent, to $603.69 at 4 p.m. New
York Time in Nasdaq Stock Market trading. The shares have
climbed 1.6 percent this year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Devin Banerjee in New York at  dbanerjee2@bloomberg.net ;
Brian Womack in  San Francisco  at 
 Bwomack1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at   pelstrom@bloomberg.net  