-- 
Groupon Reports Quarterly Loss After Abandoning Controversial Accounting

-- B y   D o u g l a s   M a c M i l l a n   a n d   L e e   S p e a r s
-- 
2011-08-10T19:28:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-29/groupon-s-digestive-problems-at-sec-may-delay-ipo-former-official-says.html
Groupon Inc., the biggest provider
of online coupons, reported losses for the second quarter and
the prior year after backing away from an accounting method
scrutinized by U.S. regulators.  Groupon abandoned controversial figures for adjusted
consolidated segment operating income, or adjusted CSOI, in an
amended initial public offering filing today. The Securities and
Exchange Commission was examining that accounting practice in a
routine review of Groupon’s proposed $750 million IPO, a person
familiar with the matter said on July 27.  New accounting makes Groupon “a much less hairy product to
look at” for IPO investors, said Nitsan Hargil, director of
research at GreenCrest Capital Management LLC in  New York . “The
change eases my concerns from the point of view of the company
hiding information from me. I am still not as happy
as I would like to be with the numbers themselves.”  Based on CSOI figures reported today, the company had a
loss of $181 million last year. In a filing last month, the
company had reported adjusted CSOI of $60.6 million for 2010.  The second-quarter net loss was $102.7 million in the
period ended June 30, compared with a loss of $35.9 million a
year earlier, Groupon said today. Quarterly sales increased 10-
fold to $878 million.  ‘Growth Opportunity’  “There is a lot of growth opportunity still so they could
continue in this way for a while,” said  Greg Sterling , an
analyst at Opus Research in  San Francisco , in an interview.
“But as a public company, investors would be unwilling to
tolerate losses like this for too long.”  Groupon cited adjusted CSOI as one of the main criteria for
measuring the business in prior filings. The number is pro forma,
meaning it excludes non-cash expenses and online marketing
expenses used to attract new subscribers, raising concern that
it may mask Groupon’s costs. Unlike the adjusted metric, CSOI
includes marketing and other costs associated with adding users.  Groupon said in the filing today that gross profit is a key
metric and “a reflection of the value of our service.” In the
first half of 2011, gross profit more than doubled to $611
million, up from $280 million in the first half of 2010.  Groupon’s unusual approach to accounting may have caused
“digestive problems” with the SEC, possibly delaying the
initial public offering by one month, Richard Sauer, a former
official at the government agency, said last month.  Coupon Revenue  The company said its average revenue per coupon sold was
$25 in the first half of this year, compared with $23 in the
first half of 2010. Groupon made an average of $18 from each of
its 115.7 million subscribers in the first six months of this
year.  “The filing will have to speak for itself,” said Joe Carberry, a spokesman for Groupon at Brunswick Group LLC. SEC
spokesman  John Nester  declined to comment on the Groupon filing
today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Douglas MacMillan in San Francisco at 
 dmacmillan3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  