-- 
Guns of August Loaded as Debt Fight Goes to Wire: Jonathan Alter

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   A l t e r
-- 
2011-07-29T15:00:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-29/guns-of-august-loaded-as-debt-fight-goes-to-wire-jonathan-alter.html
In Barbara Tuchman’s classic account
of the outbreak of World War I, “The Guns of August,” neither
 Germany  nor its adversaries seem to want war in 1914. But they
stumble into it anyway. Substitute “default” for “war” and you
have a good idea of where we are in the Great Debt-Limit Crisis
of 2011.  After talking to sources in the White House and on  Capitol
Hill  this week, I think I have a good idea of how this should
play out -- in a rational world.  Republicans have believed all along that President  Barack Obama  can be played, rolled, humiliated and forced to fully
capitulate. More than a few have extended that belief to the
Senate: I’m told that emissaries of the Republican leadership
assured business executives all week that Democrats in the
Senate would fold and approve House Speaker  John Boehner ’s plan
after it passed the House.  This belief was naive. First, Boehner is having much more
trouble convincing  House Republicans  to go along with his plan
than expected. And Democrats have their own ideas anyway.  So we’re likely to have a weekend of negotiations between
Senate Minority Leader  Mitch McConnell  and Senate Majority
Leader  Harry Reid , who has proposed his own plan for raising the
debt limit. The two men don’t like each other but have done
deals for years.  In a rational world, the compromise they fashion would go
back to the House next week and be approved, with the votes of
90 Democrats replacing those of the Tea Party Republicans who
hate Boehner’s plan. Then Obama would sign the bill early next
week, and the crisis would end.  The reason this remains a plausible outcome is that the
differences between the Reid and Boehner bills are relatively
small. When they are reconciled over the weekend -- and attached
to an amended version of the cynical but shrewd legislative
procedure that McConnell has suggested -- we should have a deal.  The two bills reduce budget deficits and cap discretionary
spending by about the same amount. Reid’s proposal actually cuts
deficits more because it relies on savings from winding down the
wars in Iraq and  Afghanistan .  Neither  bill  includes real revenue increases, a clear
victory for Republicans, though a hollow one, considering that
taxes will almost certainly go up in 2013 when the Bush tax cuts
expire. Neither bill offers much detail about cuts -- that’s the
way politicians do it -- or convincingly binds future
Congresses.  The big difference is in how each plan deals with future
votes on the debt ceiling. Republicans want to hold the system
hostage again next January. Democrats want this issue settled
through the 2012 election so they can start talking about
something else for a change.  This is where the markets come in, and in a way that helps
the Republicans. The news that  Standard & Poor’s  is considering
a downgrade of the U.S. government’s AAA credit rating is
increasing pressure for future deficit reductions.  Obama is willing to accept trigger mechanisms to cut
deficits, but he and Reid don’t want reductions down the road
(whether through a new “Super Congress,” as proposed by Boehner,
or even a revived “Gang of Six” process) to be tied to raising
the debt ceiling. Their bottom line is to decouple triggers from
debt ceilings and avoid another hostage-taking episode in six
months.  The rational way around this is to adopt McConnell’s
convoluted plan of giving the president the power (and attendant
blame) for raising the debt ceiling in increments over the next
year. In brief, McConnell’s maneuver would allow the debt limit
to be raised, but without Republicans having to vote for it.  This plan is obviously the old Washington way of doing
things, but it sure beats default and downgrade.  The big question is whether Boehner reacts by telling his
caucus, “Hey, we got 85 percent of what we had in my bill!” or
feels so much Tea Party pressure that he goes further to the
brink next week.  With any kind of deal, Obama is going to have a hard time
explaining how he didn’t get his clock cleaned. Republicans
prevailed in keeping taxes out, and they won on cutting spending
by about as much as the debt ceiling will be raised. In a
rational world, that would constitute victory.  But maybe it’s 1914. Maybe the British and the Germans are
misjudging each other’s cables, while troops mass on the French
border.  ( Jonathan Alter , the author of “The Defining Moment: FDR’s
Hundred Days and the Triumph of Hope,” is a Bloomberg View
columnist. The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the author of this column:
Jonathan Alter at  alterjonathan@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Timothy Lavin at   tlavin1@bloomberg.net . 