-- 
Icahn Can’t Claim Clorox Without Adding $600 Million: Real M&A

-- B y   T a r a   L a c h a p e l l e ,   R i t a   N a z a r e t h   a n d   K r i s t e n   H a u n s s
-- 
2011-07-29T20:13:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-29/icahn-can-t-claim-clorox-without-adding-600-million-real-m-a.html
If  Carl Icahn  is serious about
buying  Clorox Co. (CLX)  in what would be his biggest takeover, the
activist investor may be forced to come up with an additional
half-billion dollars.  His sweetened $80-a-share offer for Clorox, which was
rejected by its board this week as “inadequate,” values the
company at 11.6 times earnings before interest, taxes,
depreciation and amortization, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Takeovers of household and cosmetic-products makers
greater than $1 billion in the last five years were struck at a
median of 12.2 times Ebitda, implying that Clorox’s equity may
fetch $85 a share, the data show. That would cost Icahn an extra
$600 million, excluding fees and expenses, to close the deal.  Icahn, 75, has yet to articulate a plan to boost returns at
a company that’s already making more profit from sales than any
other U.S. household products maker, data compiled by Bloomberg
show. While Jefferies & Co. said it’s  “highly confident”  it
can help Icahn raise $7.8 billion in debt, the total is almost
three-quarters of the entire amount it arranged in the U.S.
high-yield market last year and would be its biggest financing
arrangement, the data show.  “There’s a level of disbelief that the offer is real, that
if Icahn were totally serious we would get more details on the
funding,”  Timothy Ghriskey , Bedford Hills, New York-based chief
investment officer at Solaris Group LLC, which manages $2
billion, said in a telephone interview. “The higher that Icahn
goes and especially the more clarity he gives on the financing
might convince people that he’s real here, and the board would
have to give it more weight and consideration.”  Poison Pill  Kathryn Caulfield, a spokeswoman for Oakland, California-
based Clorox, declined to comment.  Susan Gordon , a spokeswoman
for Icahn, said the investor wasn’t available for comment.  Icahn, Clorox’s largest investor with a 9.4 percent stake,
 raised his offer  to $80 a share on July 20, after the company
rejected his earlier bid of $76.50 a share and adopted a so-
called poison pill to guard against a takeover. The current bid
values the equity he doesn’t already own at $9.7 billion, plus
$2.3 billion in net debt, data compiled by Bloomberg show. The
raised bid represents an 18 percent premium to the 20-day
trading average before the initial offer.  Clorox fell $1.10, or 1.5 percent, to $71.59 today, the
lowest price since Icahn’s proposal was first disclosed.  ‘Not Credible’  The proposal “substantially undervalues the company and is
not credible,” Clorox’s board of directors said in a statement
July 26, rejecting Icahn for a second time. It lacks detail and
“a fully underwritten debt commitment and clearly identified
and adequate equity capital” needed to complete the deal,
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Donald Knauss wrote in a
letter to Icahn.  Clorox’s profit margin of 10.6 percent in the last 12
months was the highest among U.S. household products makers with
market values greater than $500 million, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The industry average was 6.4 percent.  “Management has done the best they can with all of its
categories,”  Ali Dibadj , a New York-based analyst at Sanford C.
Bernstein & Co., said in a phone interview. “I’m not sure that
a buyer would make it much better than what the current
management has done.”  In May, Clorox cut the top end of its annual profit
forecast and predicted 2012 earnings that fell short of
analysts’ projections, citing higher commodity costs. Clorox
said it increased the price of Glad trash bags 9.5 percent as
the cost of resin, used to make plastic bags and bottles, rises.
Higher resin prices will account for about 60 percent of total
commodity cost increases of as much as $170 million this fiscal
year, the company said on its May conference call.  Record High  “While this poor performance has lessened the prospects
for Clorox shareholders on a standalone basis, our perspective
is that the prospects for shareholders have never been greater
in terms of a sale of the company,” Icahn, the chairman of
 Icahn Enterprises LP (IEP) , said in his letter to the board.  Clorox reached a record high of $74.55 July 15, the day
Icahn’s takeover proposal was made public. The shares closed at
$72.69 yesterday, 9.1 percent below the current offer. They’re
still 7.1 percent higher than the average price in the 20 days
prior to Icahn’s first bid.  “Investors in Clorox still question the reasoning for
Icahn to go after Clorox,” Bernstein’s Dibadj said. “The
market isn’t responding positively to his bid. They’re not
believing him.”  Historic Deals  In the last five years, the median multiple for takeovers
of household products and cosmetic companies greater than $1
billion was 12.2 times Ebitda, data compiled by Bloomberg show.
At that multiple, Clorox’s total equity would be valued at $11.4
billion, or $85.30 a share, based on Ebitda of $1.1 billion in
the last 12 months, the data show.  The increase would cost him an additional $640 million.  “You would have to think that if he goes to the mid-$80s
in an all-cash offer that it would be hard for the board to turn
it down again,”  Jack Russo , an analyst at  Edward Jones  in St.
Louis, said in a phone interview. “Even if he would raise it to
that, you’re still going to have questions about getting proper
financing.”  Jefferies said it’s “highly confident” it can help Icahn
raise $7.8 billion in debt to help fund the takeover, according
to a letter dated July 14 disclosed in a  regulatory filing .  Questions on Financing  “The market doesn’t believe because there are so many
questions on the financing,” said  Dan Veru , chief investment
officer at Fort Lee, New Jersey-based Palisade Capital
Management LLC, which oversees $3.8 billion. “He needs to line
up his financing, more than just a ‘highly confident’ letter
from Jefferies.”  The New York-based bank arranged $4.4 billion of leveraged
loans and $6.4 billion of high-yield bonds in the U.S. last
year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The largest loan
for which Jefferies has served as the administrative agent was a
$385 million term loan for Sunquest Information Systems Inc.
last year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Last month, Jefferies, along with three other banks,
arranged about $2.1 billion of financing for  Alere Inc. (ALR) , data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  “We do not give ‘Highly Confident Letters’ lightly,” said
 Tom Tarrant , a spokesman for Jefferies. “Over the years, we
have arranged tens of billions of dollars in financings for our
clients. Given the quality of the company’s assets, the level of
equity Carl Icahn is committed to putting into this transaction,
and the structure that he has proposed, we are, indeed, highly
confident that Jefferies can arrange the financing for this
transaction.”  Strategic Buyer  Standard & Poor’s  said that adding $7.8 billion in debt
could lead to Clorox’s BBB+ rating, the eighth-highest level of
investment grade, being lowered into the ‘B’ category, which is
at least four levels into junk.  Icahn has urged the board to “aggressively pursue” a deal
with a strategic buyer, such as  Procter & Gamble Co. (PG) ,  Unilever
NV (UNA) ,  Colgate-Palmolive Co. (CL) ,  Reckitt Benckiser Group Plc (RB/) ,
 Kimberly-Clark Corp. (KMB)  or Henkel AG.  While some of the companies may find certain Clorox’s
brands attractive, they’re unlikely to buy the entire business
because of its range of products, said Russo of Edward Jones.
Clorox makes  everything  from Formula 409 kitchen cleaner to
Hidden Valley Ranch salad dressing, its namesake bleach and
Burt’s Bees lip balm.  Clorox gets about 80 percent of revenue in the U.S., while
competitors are trying to boost sales in faster-growing emerging
markets, said Rob Plaza, an analyst at the private-banking unit
of KeyCorp in Cleveland, which oversees $22 billion.  ‘He’s a Master’  With no other likely buyers, Clorox may be left to
negotiate a higher bid from Icahn or face a proxy fight for
board seats,  Matt McCormick , a money manager at Cincinnati-based
Bahl & Gaynor Inc., said in a phone interview. His firm oversees
$4 billion.  Icahn made millions in the 1980s pressuring companies from
USX Corp. to Texaco Inc. to split up or boost dividends and
buybacks. If he’s successful in acquiring Clorox, he “might
split it up and possibly keep one of the divisions,” he said in
a July 20 interview with Bloomberg’s “Street Smart with  Carol Massar  and Matt Miller.”  “He’s a master at this,” McCormick said. Still, “you
have a real chance that Icahn will be forced to put up more or
go away,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tara Lachapelle in  New York  at 
 tlachapelle@bloomberg.net ;
Rita Nazareth in New York at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net ;
Kristen Haunss in New York at 
 khaunss@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Katherine Snyder at   ksnyder@bloomberg.net ;
Faris Khan at   fkhan33@bloomberg.net . 