-- 
Michigan Consumer-Sentiment Index Fell to 63.7 in July From 71.5 in June

-- B y   J i l l i a n   B e r m a n
-- 
2011-07-29T14:01:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-29/michigan-consumer-sentiment-index-fell-to-63-7-in-july-from-71-5-in-june.html
Confidence among U.S. consumers
dropped more than forecast in July to the lowest level in two
years, which may hold back the biggest part of the economy.  The Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan final index of
consumer sentiment fell to 63.7, the weakest since March 2009,
from 71.5 in June. The gauge was projected to decline to 64,
according to the median forecast of economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News. The preliminary June reading was 63.8.  Limited payroll gains, reduced home values and higher gas
prices may dissuade Americans from stepping up spending, which
expanded in the second quarter at the slowest pace since 2009
when the economy was in recession. Partisan wrangling over
cutting the nation’s budget deficit in time to raise the debt
ceiling could also be souring moods.  “We have to see a pickup in job growth at the very least
before the consumer shows a little more enthusiasm to spend,”
 Sal Guatieri , a senior economist at BMO Capital Markets in
Toronto, said before the report. “It doesn’t inspire much
confidence in a consumer-led economic recovery, at best the
consumer will lag the recovery.”  Estimates of the 63 economists surveyed for the confidence
measure ranged from 61.5 to 68, according to the Bloomberg
survey. The index averaged 89 in the five years leading up to
the recession that began in December 2007.  The economy grew at a 1.3 percent annual pace in the second
quarter, less than forecast, Commerce Department figures showed
today. Household purchases, about 70 percent of the economy,
rose 0.1 percent.  Current Conditions  The Michigan survey’s index of current conditions, which
reflects Americans’ perceptions of their financial situation and
whether it is a good time to buy big-ticket items like cars,
decreased to 75.8 from 82 the prior month.  The index of consumer expectations for six months from now,
which more closely projects the direction of  consumer spending ,
dropped to 56 from 64.8.  Consumers in today’s confidence report said they expect an
inflation rate of 3.4 percent over the next 12 months, compared
with 3.8 percent in the prior survey.  Over the next five years, the figures tracked by Federal
Reserve policy makers, Americans expected a 2.9 percent rate of
inflation, compared with 3 percent the previous month.  Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  told Congress
earlier this month that the “economy still needs a good deal of
support.” Slower jobs gains and falling home prices are
weighing on consumers, Bernanke said.  Employment Growth  Employers added 18,000 jobs in June, the fewest in nine
months as the  unemployment rate  climbed to 9.2 percent.  Property values fell in the year ended in May by the most
in 18 months, the S&P/Case-Shiller index of property values in
20 cities showed earlier this week.  Today’s confidence report follows the Bloomberg Consumer
Comfort Index, which fell to minus 46.8 for the week ended July
24. The Conference Board’s monthly sentiment index climbed in
July from an eight-month low.  Lagging  consumer confidence  and weak employment gains may
curb consumer spending, said  Larry Young , chief executive
officer of Dr. Pepper Snapple Group Inc.  “I remain concerned about the  U.S. economy , unemployment
trends and the impact this is having on the overall spending
patterns,” Young said on a July 27 conference call with
analysts.  The Plano, Texas-based non-alcoholic beverage company
reiterated its projection for a 3 percent to 5 percent increase
in sales for the year.  The impasse over cutting the  budget deficit  could also be
weighing on consumers’ moods. Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  has repeatedly said the government’s authority to
borrow will run out on Aug. 2 unless Congress raises the debt-
ceiling, posing a risk the U.S. will lose its top  credit rating .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jillian Berman in Washington at 
 jberman13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  