-- 
Microsoft Must Pay Alcatel $70 Million in Patent Damages, U.S. Jury Says

-- B y   B i l l   C a l l a h a n
-- 
2011-07-29T21:28:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-29/microsoft-must-pay-alcatel-70-million-in-patent-damages-u-s-jury-says.html
Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  must pay $70 million
for infringing an Alcatel-Lucent patent used in versions of
Microsoft’s Outlook program and two other applications, a
federal jury in San Diego said today.  Alcatel-Lucent,  France ’s largest maker of
telecommunications equipment, asked for as much as $75 million
in damages. Microsoft’s lawyers asked jurors to limit the award
to $5 million.  The technology, called the “Day patent,” was described in
court during the as involving a touch-screen form entry.
Microsoft argued it’s simply a “date-picker” function and
isn’t used with e-mail, the most popular function on Outlook.
Paris-based Alcatel-Lucent described the technology as a tool
that “plays a central role in the entire operation” of
Outlook.  “Alcatel-Lucent is obviously pleased with the verdict and
the jury’s recognition in the value of the Day patent that
Microsoft infringed,” Luke Dauchot, a lawyer for Alcatel-Lucent,
said after the verdict.  A different jury in  San Diego  in 2008 found that Redmond,
Washington-based Microsoft had infringed the patent and awarded
$358 million in damages. An appeals court, upholding the
infringement verdict, overturned the damages award, finding the
calculation lacked sufficient evidentiary support. The case was
sent back for retrial on damages only.  ‘Genuine Apportionment’  “We continue to maintain that current law requires a
genuine apportionment of damages when the infringement is
directed to a small feature of a feature-rich product,”  David Howard , Microsoft’s deputy general counsel, said in an e-mail
today. “We are reviewing the verdict in that light and
considering next steps.”  Dauchot told the jury in his closing argument the patent
was “pervasive in the affected programs and helped provide “an
easy, fast, reliable way of using Outlook.”  He told jurors Outlook wouldn’t have been as popular
without the patent’s technology and that “Microsoft’s own survey
showed that Outlook is the most frequently used Microsoft Office
application by consumers.”  Microsoft attorney Juanita Brooks told jurors that Alcatel-
Lucent is trying to win money for a patent that is of little
significance to Microsoft because the company’s patent portfolio
was not making enough money.  The case is Lucent Technologies Inc. v. Gateway Inc., 07-
cv-2000 U.S. District Court, Southern District of  California 
(San Diego).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bill Callahan in San Diego at 
 callahan@san.rr.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  