-- 
Tiger Woods Commits to PGA Championship

-- B y   M i c h a e l   B u t e a u
-- 
2011-07-29T19:50:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-29/tiger-woods-commits-to-pga-championship.html
Tiger Woods will play in the  PGA
Championship  near Atlanta in August, provided everything goes
well in his return to golf next week, the PGA of America said.  Woods, seeking his 15th major title, has missed golf’s past
two major championships, the  U.S. Open  and British Open, while
recovering from knee and ankle injuries.  Mark Steinberg , Woods’s agent, said in a PGA-issued
statement that the former No. 1-ranked golfer in the world will
play in the event at the Atlanta Athletic Club in Johns Creek,
Georgia, if there are “no complications” related to his
injuries when he competes next week at the World Golf
Championships event in Ohio.  Woods, who originally was injured during the  Masters
Tournament  in April, is four shy of matching  Jack Nicklaus ’s
record of 18 major titles. His last win in one of golf’s four
Grand Slam events came at the 2008 U.S. Open, a tournament he
won while hobbling on an injured left knee.  The PGA Championship is scheduled for Aug. 11-14. Woods has
won the event four times, most recently in 2007.  Woods announced yesterday that he plans to play in the U.S.
PGA Tour event at the Firestone Country Club in Akron, Ohio. The
tournament starts Aug. 4.  “I’m excited to get back out there,” Woods said in a
statement on his website.  Woods will play next week without longtime caddie Steve Williams, who was fired by the golfer on July 20 after 13 years
together.  First Major  Williams, a 47-year-old New Zealander, had been Woods’s
caddie since 1999 and helped him win 13 major titles. Mike
“Fluff” Cowan caddied for Woods during his first major
victory, the 1997  Masters Tournament .  The Golf Channel said yesterday that Bryon Bell, Woods’s
longtime friend and current president of Woods’s golf-course-
design firm, will be his caddie.  Woods, 35, hasn’t played in a tournament since May 12, when
he pulled out of the Players championship in Ponte Vedra Beach,
 Florida , after nine holes.  Rory McIlroy of Northern Ireland captured the U.S. Open in
June at Congressional Country Club, at 22 the youngest major
champion since Woods won the Masters in 1997. A second Northern
Ireland golfer, 42-year-old Darren Clarke, won the British Open
at Royal St. George’s Golf Club in Sandwich,  England , this
month.  Woods hasn’t won a tournament since November 2009. He’s
fallen to No. 21 in the  Official World Golf Ranking  after
holding the top spot for a record 281 weeks.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Buteau in Atlanta 
 mbuteau@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  