-- 
Lilly Wins Appeals Court Ruling in Strattera Patent Case

-- B y   S u s a n   D e c k e r
-- 
2011-07-29T16:43:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-29/lilly-wins-appeals-court-ruling-in-strattera-patent-case-1-.html
Eli Lilly & Co. (LLY) , the world’s biggest
maker of psychiatric drugs, won an appeals court ruling in its
effort to block generic versions of attention-deficit treatment
Strattera.  The U.S. Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit in
 Washington  overturned today a judge’s decision that Lilly’s
patent on the medicine was invalid and remanded the case to the
lower court for further proceedings. The patent expires in 2017.  Strattera, known by its chemical name atomoxetine
hydrochloride, generated sales of $577 million last year for
Indianapolis-based Lilly. The company had won an order that
prevented drugmakers including Mylan Inc. and Teva
Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. from entering the market with a
generic version until this appeal was decided.  “We are pleased with today’s ruling from the Court of
Appeals regarding Strattera’s method-of-use patent and remain
confident that the patent is valid and enforceable,” Lilly
General Counsel Robert A. Armitage said in an e-mail. “In
overturning the prior district court ruling, we believe that the
court fairly applied long-standing patent law principles.”  The other companies seeking to sell copies of the medicine
include Sun Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd.;  Novartis AG (NOVN) ’s Sandoz
unit; Synthon BV; Iceland’s Actavis Group hf; Canada’s Apotex
Inc.; India’s Aurobindo Pharma Ltd.,  Glenmark Pharmaceuticals
Ltd. (GNP) , and Cadila Healthcare Ltd.’s Zydus.  The case is Eli Lilly & Co. v. Actavis Elizabeth LLC,
2010-1500, U.S. Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit
(Washington). The lower court case is Eli Lilly & Co. v. Actavis
Elizabeth LLC, 07cv3770, U.S. District Court for the District of
 New Jersey  (Newark).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Susan Decker in Washington at 
 sdecker1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Allan Holmes at 
 aholmes25@bloomberg.net  