-- 
Spain Remains in `Danger Zone' as European Debt Crisis Persists, IMF Says

-- B y   C h a r l e s   P e n t y
-- 
2011-07-29T23:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-29/imf-sees-spain-in-danger-zone-as-european-debt-crisis-persists.html
Spain is still in “the danger
zone” and must keep up momentum in restructuring its economy to
stave off contagion from  Europe ’s sovereign-debt crisis, the
 International Monetary Fund  said.  “The outlook is difficult and the risks elevated,” the
Washington-based IMF said in a report yesterday after a visit by
staff to Spain. “The policy agenda remains challenging and
urgent -- there can be no let up in the reform momentum.”  The assessment coincided with Prime Minister Jose Luis Rodriguez Zapatero’s decision the same day to call early
elections on Nov. 20 and Moody’s Investors Service’s warning
that it may downgrade Spain. The euro-region’s fourth-biggest
economy is trying to rein in surging borrowing costs that have
pushed the yield on its 10-year bond above 6 percent, hindering
efforts to stoke growth as unemployment stays above 20 percent.  “Many of the imbalances and structural weaknesses
accumulated during the boom remain to be fully addressed,” the
fund said. “Spain is not out of the danger zone” and
“scenarios of negative spillovers from Spain indicate a
substantial impact on the rest of Europe and indeed globally,
given the country’s systemic importance.”  The report, a so-called article IV assessment, praised
Spain for its “strong and wide-ranging” response to economic
challenges in the last year. The country met its 2010  budget
deficit  target, forged ahead with efforts to curb the cost of
its pension system and reshaped its banking industry by forcing
lenders to meet minimum capital requirements, the IMF said.  ‘Potentially Severe’  Spain still needs to do more, the fund said. “Downside
risks dominate” the outlook for economic growth in the near
term because of rising concerns about sovereign risks in the
euro area, according to the report.  “Risks are tilted to the downside and potentially
severe,” the fund said.  The IMF said Spanish banks that need capital should raise
it “promptly from the market” to help allay concerns about the
health of the financial system. The Bank of Spain, which said in
March that 12 lenders would need to raise 15 billion euros ($22
billion) to meet new  capital requirements , said this month the
process of recapitalizing the system is now almost complete.  “In light of the uncertain operating environment and
comparing with other jurisdictions, staff sees merit in further
building capital, liquidity and provisioning buffers in the
system over time,” the fund said.  Labor Laws   The IMF said that in terms of Spain’s efforts to cut its
budget deficit, the “larger risk” to the 2011 target is that
some regional governments may not keep to spending limits.  “All levels of government should deliver on their
commitments,” the report said. “Bold strengthening” of
changes to labor laws are also needed to reduce the scope of
collective bargaining and the practice of indexing wages to
inflation, while severance payments should be cut to at least
average European Union levels, the IMF said.  Meanwhile,  Spain  should make an early commitment to
balancing its books over the medium-term, while meeting medium-
term fiscal requirements “will likely require further action,”
the IMF said.  The fund’s staff predict the deficit will narrow to 4
percent of gross domestic product by 2014. Taking into account
the risk of a potentially weaker outlook and the possibility
that the regions will miss their targets, additional measures of
about 2 percent of GDP would be needed to reach the government’s
goals, the IMF said.  In its report, the fund maintained its predictions for
Spain’s economic growth, forecasting expansion of 0.8 percent in
2011 and 1.6 percent next year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Charles Penty in Madrid at 
 cpenty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net 
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net  