-- 
India a ‘Safe Haven’ Amid U.S., Europe Debt Crisis, Centrum Says

-- B y   S h i k h a r   B a l w a n i
-- 
2011-07-29T04:54:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-29/india-a-safe-haven-amid-u-s-europe-debt-crisis-centrum-says.html
Chokkalingam G., chief investment
officer at Centrum Broking Pvt., a Mumbai-based brokerage that
also manages assets for individuals, comments on the outlook for
Indian equities.  The Bombay Stock Exchange Sensitive Index rose 0.6 percent
to 18,314.09 at 10:17 a.m. local time, rallying for the first
time in four days, after the markets regulator eased rules on
takeovers, seeking to lure investors after acquisitions in the
nation slumped.  On market outlook:  “For the next month or two, markets may continue to move
sideways because of the global concerns.  ‘‘The western world would resolve their problems on their
own. There is no choice for them as they can’t allow economies
or currencies to collapse.  ‘‘In the midst of these problems,  India  would be a safe
haven’’ because of consistently high economic growth, robust
exports, stable earnings, strong banks’ credit growth and rising
service-tax revenue, he said.  On  interest rates :  ‘‘Apart from the U.S. debt issue, markets are concerned not
about what the central bank may do but about what it has already
done and the implications of that.  ‘‘The rise in interest rates has been way too aggressive
given that India is not facing any major structural issues.’’  ‘‘The rate-cycle will peak out soon. Smart investors don’t
wait for the peaking out of inflation or interest rates.’’  On takeover rules:  ‘‘The regulator’s move would encourage buyers to acquire
companies as they need not pool in lot of money to target a
company. Acquirers may raise stake to little under 25 percent in
a company and take over control at an appropriate moment.’’  The new takeover rules allow investors to raise holdings in
companies to any level below 25 percent, without having to offer
to buy additional shares from the public, SEBI Chairman U.K.
Sinha told reporters in Mumbai yesterday. Investors who breach
the 25-percent limit must buy an additional 26 percent stake,
Sinha said. The previous trigger limit was 15 percent.  On sectors and stocks:  Chokkalingam said he has been recommending clients to buy
shares of private-sector lenders like City Union Bank Ltd. He
also recommends  United Phosphorus Ltd. (UNTP) , a maker of pesticides
and other agro-chemicals, sugar maker EID Parry India Ltd. and
tiremaker  MRF Ltd. (MRF)   To contact the reporter on this story:
Shikhar Balwani in Mumbai at 
 sbalwani@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net . 