-- 
India Investors Holding Cash Amid Rates Outlook, Maximus Says

-- B y   S a n t a n u   C h a k r a b o r t y
-- 
2011-07-29T06:00:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-29/india-investors-holding-cash-amid-rates-outlook-maximus-says.html
Megha Vazkar, head of institutional
dealing at Maximus Securities Ltd., comments on the outlook for
the nation’s equities. She spoke in a phone interview from
Mumbai.  The Bombay Stock Exchange Sensitive Index lost 0.3 percent
18,151.18 at 11:14 a.m. local time, declining for a fourth day.
The S&P CNX Nifty Index dropped 0.3 percent to 5,471.65.  On stocks outlook:  “The Nifty is expected to trade in the 5,400 to 5,600
range. The U.S. debt negotiations, the start of the August
derivatives contract series and corruption investigations are
keeping the markets under pressure. Investors prefer to wait on
the sidelines and are not comfortable deploying their cash at
these levels.”  On inflation:  “Inflation remains sticky and is not likely to come down
soon. The market will trade in a narrow range until there is
some certainty on the end of rate tightening and inflation
control. We expect the  Reserve Bank  of  India  to continue to
raise  interest rates  by another 50 basis points to contain
inflation.”  On US debt negotiations:  “We expect the U.S. debt issue to be resolved soon, as no
one would want to risk the country’s AAA rating. We expect U.S.
stocks to rebound after a deal is announced.”  On stocks:  “We are advising investors to buy Petronet LNG Ltd.
(India) and Indraprastha Gas Ltd. on expectation that higher
compressed-natural-gas demand will boost the bottom lines of
these companies. We are positive on Future Ventures and
Pantaloon Retail Ltd. as these companies are likely to benefit
from foreign fund-buying after a government panel recommended
allowing foreign investment in retail.”  A government panel on July 22 proposed allowing foreign
companies to own as much as 51 percent in multi-brand retail
stores.  “We are also recommending software exporters Tata
Consultancy Services Ltd., Infosys Ltd., Hexaware Technologies
Ltd. and HCL Technologies Ltd., which offer good buying
opportunities at current levels.”  On takeover rules:  “The new takeover code will allow strategic investors to
raise their stake in target companies without the trouble of
making an open offer for more shares.”  The new takeover rules allow investors to raise holdings in
companies to any level below 25 percent without having to offer
to buy additional shares from the public, SEBI Chairman U.K.
Sinha told reporters in Mumbai yesterday. Investors who breach
the 25 percent limit must buy an additional 26 percent stake,
Sinha said. The previous trigger limit was 15 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Santanu Chakraborty in Mumbai at 
 schakrabor11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  