-- 
Inter Milan Preparing $65 Million Tevez Bid, Sun Says: Roundup

-- B y   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 
2011-07-29T09:39:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-29/inter-milan-preparing-65-million-tevez-bid-sun-says-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of soccer
stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable links to the Web.  Tevez to Milan?  Inter Milan  is preparing a 40 million-pound ($65 million)
bid for  Manchester City ’s  Carlos Tevez , the  Sun  reported.  Tevez will be allowed to leave after City yesterday signed
Atletico Madrid striker Sergio Aguero in a move U.K. media said
was worth 38 million pounds.  Tevez’s agent Kia Joorabchian will be traveling to Milan
to make sure a deal will be reached after a previous transfer
attempt to Brazilian club Corinthians failed when both clubs
could not agree on a fee, the paper said.  New Offer  Arsenal may improve its offer for Everton center-back  Phil Jagielka  from 10 million pounds to 15 million pounds, the  Daily
Telegraph  reported.  Everton, which signed a four-year deal with Jagielka in
March, has valued the player at 18 million pounds.  Mata Deal  Valencia winger Juan Mata has told friends he’s joining
Arsenal in a move worth 19 million pounds, the  Sun  reported.  Arsenal will also complete a 9 million-pound deal to move
striker Nicklas Bendtner to Sporting Lisbon this weekend, the
paper added.  Keane to QPR?  Queens Park Rangers manager Neil Warnock is trying to land
Ireland and Tottenham striker  Robbie Keane  on a one-season loan
as he has no more money, the  Sun  reported.  “They’ve made it clear to me we’ve got to try and get
value for money and not to spend transfer fees,” the paper
quoted Warnock as saying.  QPR will be playing in the Premier League for the first
time since 1996.  N’Zogbia Switch  Wigan winger  Charles N’Zogbia , 25, is expected to sign a
five-year contract worth 9.5 million pounds with Aston Villa
when the club comes back from Hong Kong next week, the  Sun 
reported.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Rossingh in London at 
 drossingh@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 