-- 
FDA Backs Quicker Reviews for Hip Implants in Reply to Panel’s Report

-- B y   A n n a   E d n e y
-- 
2011-07-29T16:27:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-29/hip-implants-need-tougher-fda-reviews-u-s-advisory-group-tells-agency.html
A program allowing U.S. regulators
to approve moderate-risk medical devices in an average of 10
months instead of years shouldn’t be scrapped, the  Food and Drug
Administration  said in response to an advisory panel report.  The  Institute of Medicine , asked by the agency to review
the program, urged the FDA today to abandon use of the so-called
510(k) process to clear a class of devices that include
orthopedic implants and x-ray machines. The system is used to
evaluate products similar to those already cleared, or about 90
percent of applications. The FDA said it would put the
institute’s recommendation up for public comment.  “We are open to additional proposals and approaches for
continued improvement of our device review programs,” said
 Jeffrey Shuren , director of the agency’s Center for Devices and
Radiological Health, in a  statement .  The FDA should direct device makers such as  Johnson &
Johnson (JNJ)  to prove each moderate-risk, or Class 2, product is safe
and effective on its own merits, the institute said today. The
report, which isn’t binding, follows by a month a  Government
Accountability Office  finding that 83 percent of 700 devices
recalled on average yearly are Class 2.  “A move away from the 510(k) clearance process should
occur as soon as reasonably possible,” for moderate-risk
devices, the institute wrote in a 165-page  report . Lesser risk,
or Class 1, products can still be measured by a process similar
to the 510(k) program, said the institute, an arm of the
 National Academy of Sciences  in Washington.  Review Costs  The agency is taking public comments on the institute’s
recommendations. The FDA spent about $870,000 per device for
more extensive reviews that require human studies, compared with
$18,000 for the less-involved 510k application, according to the
GAO, which used 2005 figures, the most recent available.  The report is intended to start a conversation that will
lead to changes in a few years, David Challoner, chairman of the
institute panel and emeritus vice president for health affairs
at the University of  Florida , Gainesville, said by phone. The
FDA couldn’t initiate such a discussion “because of
legislative and other concerns,” he said.  The recommendation, if put in place, would squelch product
development and add uncertainty to reviews that are already slow
and unpredictable, said Dave Fisher, executive director of the
Medical Imaging and Technology Alliance, which represents device
makers that include  General Electric Co. (GE) , of Fairfield,
 Connecticut  and San Francisco-based  McKesson Corp.. (MCK)   Squelching Innovation  Approving such a change “would be inhibiting innovative
technology from reaching patients for clinical trials, for
technology that’s already widely known,” Fisher said in a
telephone interview. “You don’t need a clinical trial to know
that a radiation therapy device, that its output will kill
cancer cells. We know what will happen with an X-ray machine.”  Imaging and radiation devices are generally moderate-risk
devices. Even with industry complaints about the process, the
510(k) program and its reliance on comparisons to similar
devices should remain the FDA’s standard, he said.  Products that have had recall and failure issues would
likely face the most scrutiny under the institute’s plan,
including metal-on-metal hips and infusion pumps, said Mike Matson, a senior analyst at Mizuho Securities USA in  New York .
J&J, based in  New Brunswick ,  New Jersey , makes metal-on-metal
hips while  Baxter International Inc. (BAX)  in Deerfield,  Illinois , is
a leader in infusion pumps.  “If the IOM supports these things the whole probability of
these things happening does go up,” Matson said in a telephone
interview.  ‘A Higher Standard’  Devices that are implanted and “life-sustaining and life-
saving should be held to a higher standard,” said  Diana Zuckerman , president of the National Research Center for Women
and Families in Washington, by telephone.  The FDA requested the institute review after a set of
proposals it was considering to change the approval process for
devices drew concern in public comments, the agency has said.  The FDA “would rather Congress weigh in” than use its
administrative power to act on the more controversial
recommendations, said Eric Assaraf, an analyst with MF Global
 Washington  Research Group, in a telephone interview. ‘This is
mostly headline risk because we think that FDA doesn’t want to
or won’t act” on the recommendations.  The institute did not detail a new clearance process,
saying the FDA should determine what evidence it needs to show a
product safe and effective.  Combination Products  The institute’s report also suggested the FDA focus on
combination products, such as medical software, nanotechnology
and medical robotics, as it develops its new regulatory reviews
system and recommended it create programs similar to the 510(k)
system for innovative products that pose a low risk to patients.  These products may require post-market reviews, patient
registries and human trials, the report said.  Congress has already weighed in with concern over the FDA’s
approval process. A bipartisan group of lawmakers wrote the
agency late last year and again in January, expressing concern
with the effects of tougher regulatory reviews.  The FDA released a preliminary report on its 510(k)
overhaul in August 2010 and is implementing some changes this
year, including releasing guidance to help manufacturers improve
clinical trials and streamline the process for some low-risk
products.  The agency also said it would improve communication about
when clinical data should be submitted in support of a 510(k)
application.  The Washington Legal Foundation  petitioned  the agency to
refuse any advice from the institute, arguing manufacturers and
inventors weren’t represented on the advisory board.  The agency had no control over who is assigned to the
committee, FDA Commissioner  Margaret Hamburg  said at a Senate
hearing yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anna Edney in Washington at 
 aedney@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Adriel Bettelheim at 
 abettelheim@bloomberg.net . 