-- 
Mitsubishi UFJ Profit Jumps on Morgan Stanley Deal, Rivals Fall

-- B y   S h i g e r u   S a t o
-- 
2011-07-29T15:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-29/mitsubishi-ufj-profit-climbs-on-morgan-stanley-share-gain-1-.html
Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group Inc. (8306) ,
 Japan ’s biggest bank by market value, posted a record first-
quarter profit as gains from its conversion of Morgan Stanley
preferred shares outweighed a drop in loan income.  Net income tripled to 501 billion yen ($6.5 billion) in the
three months ended June 30 from 166 billion yen a year earlier,
the Tokyo-based bank said in a statement yesterday. Profit was
the highest since the bank was formed in a 2005 merger.  Japan’s banks, whose earnings are under pressure from low
borrowing costs as the country tries to revive economic growth,
are betting rebuilding after a magnitude 9 earthquake in March
will spark demand for credit this year. Rivals  Sumitomo Mitsui
Financial Group Inc. (8316)  and  Mizuho Financial Group Inc. (8411)  yesterday
reported declines in quarterly profit.  “Strong loan demand to fund Japan’s reconstruction efforts
after the earthquake and tsunami have yet to emerge, but will do
in later this year,” said Yoshinobu Yamada, a Tokyo-based bank
analyst at Deutsche Bank AG. “Japanese banks should expect a
pickup in loan demand in the second half of this fiscal year.”  Japanese bank lending fell 0.6 percent in June from a year
earlier, the smallest decline in 19 months. Mitsubishi UFJ
President Katsunori Nagayasu said this month that loan demand is
likely to recover in the second half of the fiscal year,
propelled by  capital spending  as the economy rebounds from the
March disaster. He also heads the Japanese Bankers Association.  Morgan Stanley (MS)  Stake  Mitsubishi UFJ had a 291 billion yen gain related to the
conversion of preferred shares of Morgan Stanley into common
stock, according to yesterday’s statement. The Japanese bank in
April agreed to exchange $7.8 billion of convertible preferred
stock in Morgan Stanley for common shares that will give it a 22
percent stake, making it the biggest common shareholder.  Lending profit declined 6.1 percent to 471 billion yen in
the quarter from a year earlier, it said. Income from trading of
bonds and other securities fell 11 percent to 82.9 billion yen.  Sumitomo Mitsui, Japan’s second-biggest bank by market
value, said net income fell 2.4 percent to 207 billion yen in
the first quarter from a year earlier as higher taxes and asset
impairment charges overshadowed gains in lending and trading
profit.  Mizuho, the third largest lender by market value, said
profit plunged 36 percent to 96.4 billion yen. Earnings were
partly dragged down by a 45 percent drop in income from trading
bonds and other securities, it said.  Loan Profitability  The average net interest margin at the three Japanese banks
was 1.04 percent for the quarter ended March 31, Bloomberg data
show. For global competitors  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) , JPMorgan
Chase & Co., Citigroup Inc. and  Wells Fargo & Co ., the average
was 3.32 percent.  Japan’s banks have been expanding in the Asia-Pacific
region to counter declining demand at home, where lending has
dropped for 19 straight months.  Mitsubishi UFJ is in talks with Royal Bank of Scotland
Group Plc to buy the U.K. bank’s infrastructure advisory unit in
Australia, two people with knowledge of the negotiations said in
June. The acquisition would add to the project-financing assets
in  Europe , the  Middle East  and Africa that it acquired from RBS
for 3.9 billion pounds ($6.3 billion) in December.  Mizuho is in final discussions to buy a stake in  Vietnam ’s
largest publicly traded bank for as much as 60 billion yen, a
person with knowledge of the discussions said last week. That
would be its largest purchase in a foreign company since buying
a $1.2 billion stake in Merrill Lynch & Co. in 2008.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shigeru Sato in  Tokyo  at 
 ssato10@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net . 