-- 
Mitsubishi Estate to Expand Asset-Management Business, Tap Pension Growth

-- B y   K a t h l e e n   C h u   a n d   K a t s u y o   K u w a k o
-- 
2011-07-29T06:21:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-29/mitsubishi-estate-to-expand-asset-management-business-to-tap-pension-funds.html
Mitsubishi Estate Co.,  Japan ’s
largest developer by market value, plans to expand a property
fund that targets pension investors to help boost its asset-
management business.  The company aims to increase the size of an open-ended fund,
or private real estate investment trust, to as much as 500
billion yen ($6.4 billion) from about 30 billion yen within the
next 10 years, said Tetsuji Arimori, president of  Mitsubishi
Jisho Investment Advisors Inc. , the Tokyo-based asset management
unit of Mitsubishi Estate. The asset manager will buy properties
from its parent and other real estate owners, he said.  “Our main business strategy is to concentrate on growth of
our open-ended fund,” Arimori in an interview in Tokyo. “The
size of such kind of growth is very much possible.”  The  fund  was set up in March as part of the company’s long-
term goal to more than double the total assets under management
to 5 trillion yen by 2020. Mitsubishi Estate is betting on the
need for Japanese pensions to lift their property holdings,
which now make up only 1 percent of their $2.46 trillion
investments. That compares with 12 percent in  Australia  and 6
percent in the U.K, according to a report by UBS Global Asset
Management.  Mitsubishi Estate shares fell 0.4 percent to 1,384 yen at
the 3 p.m. close of trading on the Tokyo Stock Exchange.  Pensions Diversifying  Japanese pension funds plan to invest in a greater variety
of assets after two decades of slumping returns at home and as
the nation’s population ages. Thirty-one percent of 135
retirement funds plan to increase alternative investments such
as real estate from this fiscal year starting April 1, according
to a JPMorgan Asset Management (Japan) Ltd. survey in May.  Mitsubishi Estate was the second firm in Japan to create an
open-ended property fund. Nomura Real Estate Holding Inc. set up
a 20 billion yen fund in November and plans to double its assets
to 40 billion yen by the end of March 2012, according to the
 company.   Mitsubishi Estate’s fund, which has a debt-to-equity ratio
of 35 percent to 45 percent, aims for an annual target return of
as high as 7 percent, Arimori said.  Mitsubishi Jisho, which was established in 2001, has 900
billion yen of assets under management. Apart from the open-
ended fund, the asset manager will continue to set up private
real-estate funds, Arimori said.  Mitsubishi Estate’s profit dropped 34 percent to 4.5
billion yen in the three months ended June 30 as it sold fewer
apartments following the March disaster, the company said today
in a statement.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kathleen Chu in  Tokyo  at 
 Kchu2@bloomberg.net ;
Katsuyo Kuwako in Tokyo at 
 kkuwako@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  