-- 
Japan’s June Industrial Output Expands Less-Than-Forecast 3.9% From May

-- B y   K e i k o   U j i k a n e
-- 
2011-07-29T03:00:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-29/japan-s-june-industrial-output-expands-less-than-forecast-3-9-from-may.html
Japan’s industrial production rose
less than expected as companies from  Nissan Motor  Co. to Toyota
Motor Corp. warned that a yen close to a post World War II high
threatens to drag down exports.  Factory output increased 3.9 percent in June from May, when
it rose 6.2 percent, the biggest gain since 1953, the Trade
Ministry said in  Tokyo  today. The median estimate of 31
economists surveyed by Bloomberg News was for a 4.5 percent gain.  A plunge in Nintendo Co.’s share price today highlighted
challenges for Japanese companies including weakness in overseas
demand and the yen’s strength against currencies including the
dollar. Sony Corp. and Nintendo yesterday unexpectedly slashed
their profit forecasts after their televisions and handheld
games players failed to keep pace with products from rivals in
 South Korea  and the U.S.  “The stronger yen is making Japanese products less
competitive and that’s very tough for exporters,” said  Yoshimasa Maruyama , a senior economist at Itochu Corp. in Tokyo. “Japan’s
rapidly losing its competitive edge because of the currency.”  Japanese Finance Minister  Yoshihiko Noda  said today he will
take “appropriate actions” against the rising yen as “markets
are diverging recently from the strength of actual economy.”  Companies said they plan to boost output 2.2 percent this
month and 2 percent in August, an indication they are confident
about demand. Shipments soared 8.5 percent in June, the biggest
gain since records began in 1953. The forecasts suggest
companies aren’t making drastic output cuts because of mandatory
power-saving measures implemented on July 1 due to a nationwide
energy shortage in wake of the nuclear accident in Fukushima.  Positive Forecasts  The plans show “we’re not seeing much of an impact from
the power-saving drive and that’s very positive,” said  Takuji Aida , a senior economist at UBS AG in Tokyo. “This is good for
the medium-term outlook.”  The yen traded at 77.62 per dollar at 11:49 a.m. in Tokyo
from 77.82 before the report was published, while the postwar
high is 76.25. Concern that U.S. lawmakers will fail to reach
an agreement on raising that nation’s debt ceiling has boosted
Japan’s currency this week.  Nintendo fell by more than 20 percent in Osaka trading
after it lowered its profit forecast by 82 percent and announced
that lack of demand for its new 3-D handheld player prompted it
to cut prices of the five-month-old product by as much as 40
percent. Sony, Japan’s largest exporter of electronics,
yesterday cut its profit estimate 25 percent, citing lower TV
demand in  Europe .  Earnings Shrink  Earnings of the 328 companies in Japan’s Topix index to
report net income since July 11 have shrunk about 14 percent
from a year earlier, data compiled by Bloomberg show. In 48
cases, profit was higher than analysts forecast, while 39
companies missed estimates.  In South Korea, whose currency has strengthened most
against the dollar among major Asian economies this year,
industrial output also decelerated. Production grew at the
slowest pace in nine months, rising 6.4 percent in June from a
year earlier, a government report showed today. Separate reports
in Japan today showed the  unemployment rate  rose to 4.6 percent
and consumer prices excluding fresh food rose 0.4 percent.  Finance Minister Noda said in parliament today that
intervening in the  currency market  “has some positive effects
temporarily,” and officials will take action against disorderly
moves rather than currency levels. Japan last sold yen in March
after the currency surged in reaction to the quake and tsunami.  ‘Limits’ of Efforts  Nissan Motor is reaching the limits of its efforts to
respond to the stronger yen and is worried about its impact on
jobs, Corporate Vice President Joji Tagawa said on July 27. The
Japanese currency’s strengthening past 80 yen to the dollar is
slowing the nation’s economic recovery, Toyota Motor President
 Akio Toyoda  said on July 19.  The  U.S. economy  probably expanded at a 1.8 percent annual
pace in the second quarter, the slowest pace in a year,
economists said before a report due later today. In  China ,
 Japan ’s biggest export market, the preliminary purchasing
managers’ index compiled by HSBC Holdings Plc and Markit
Economics dropped to 48.9 in July, signaling manufacturing may
slow. A reading below 50 reflects a contraction.  Japanese companies including Canon Inc., the world’s
largest camera maker, still say a recovery is underway.  The
company this week raised its profit forecast on higher sales and
a lower-than-expected impact from the quake.  “Production at most of our factories returned to pre-
earthquake level at the end of June,” Toshizo Tanaka, Canon
executive vice president, said on July 25. The company foresees
little impact from power-supply shortages this fiscal year as
Canon has taken measures at its plants and offices such as
adding generators, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Keiko Ujikane in Tokyo at 
 kujikane@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  