-- 
Japan Ending Nuclear Age Risks $5 Trillion Economy as Komatsu, Sharp Walk

-- B y   Y u j i   O k a d a   a n d   Y u r i y   H u m b e r
-- 
2011-07-29T13:53:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-29/japan-ending-nuclear-age-risks-5-trillion-economy-as-komatsu-sharp-walk.html
Japan’s  Fukui prefecture  helps Sharp
Corp. make solar cells, generates cash for  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP)  and
keeps the lights on in the Kansai area, which has an  economy the
size of Mexico’s  and is home to Panasonic Corp.  What makes Fukui key to production of global brands is the
reason it got the nickname “Nuclear Ginza.” The prefecture on
the Japan Sea coast north of Osaka is home to 14 reactors in
atomic plants, the highest concentration in the world.  The  power lines  that snake out hundreds of kilometers from
the town of  Ohi  -- with four reactors and a population of 8,700
-- and three nearby atomic plants supply 49 percent of Kansai’s
electricity. The region is about the size of  Belgium  and
includes Kyoto and Osaka, the world’s  seventh-largest
metropolis . Sharp and Panasonic have factories in the area,
along with Toshiba Corp.’s that makes chips used in the iPad.  After the Fukushima nuclear disaster, Prime Minister  Naoto Kan  said Japan needs to learn to do without atomic energy and 77
percent of respondents in an Asahi newspaper poll published July
12 agreed with him.  Shunichi Teramae , the mayor of Kaga city on
the border of Kansai, has a different view.  “Without nuclear power the Kansai economy will collapse,
and so will Japan’s economy,” said Teramae in an interview,
adding his town gets no subsidies from the nuclear industry.  Nor will it stop at Japan’s $5 trillion economy.  A collapse in manufacturing will affect companies from
Toshiba-supplied  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  to  BHP Billiton , which has more than
10 percent of revenue directly linked to Japanese coal, ore and
copper concentrate sales, including to Kansai plants. Apple and
BHP declined to comment on Japan’s energy issues.  Hollowing Out  Japan’s reliance on nuclear power will be reduced in three
stages, the first being the next three years, then by 2020 and
then through 2050, Kan said today after a meeting with his
ministers. The new energy strategy will consider how to separate
power generation and distribution and encourage “various
operators” to enter the  electricity market , Kan said.  “We’ve decided to reduce nuclear dependence and make a
road map toward that goal,” Kan said in a televised address
later in the day. “As the government, we’ll reduce reliance on
nuclear energy in a planned, step-by-step manner to achieve a
society that doesn’t depend on nuclear energy.”  A  Japan  without nuclear generation and reliant on Kan’s
goal to get 20 percent of its power from renewable energy would
add 1.66 trillion yen ($2.1 billion) a year to the power bill
for  Japan Iron and Steel Federation  members, the association
said July 19.  Move Abroad  Abandoning nuclear power risks hollowing out Japan’s
industry as companies like Komatsu Ltd., the world’s No. 2 maker
of construction machinery, say they can move abroad “whenever
we want,” taking jobs and taxable revenue with them, Chairman
Masahiro Sakane said. Prime Minister Kan’s nuclear-free vision
doesn’t consider all the issues, he said.  “Power supply is an uncertain factor for companies and
companies don’t like uncertainty,” said  Hideo Kumano , an
economist at Dai-Ichi Life Research Institute Inc. “A
disruption to Japan’s supply chain from power shortages would
lead to global supply chain disruptions.”  Global automotive output slowed for weeks after the 9-
magnitude earthquake on March 11 in Japan stopped factories of
suppliers like Renesas Electronics Corp., the world’s biggest
maker of microcontrollers used in cars and mobile phones.  Japan makes 44 percent of the world’s audiovisual
equipment, 40 percent of the electronic parts, 19 percent of
semiconductors and about 20 percent of all technology products,
according to CLSA Asia-Pacific Markets research.  Idled, Inactive  This summer, that manufacturing base is operating amid
power shortages in several parts of the country, including
Kansai. Of Japan’s 54 reactors, 38 are idled or inactive as
local officials block restarts of units closed for maintenance
and safety checks since the earthquake and tsunami wrecked the
Fukushima Dai-Ichi station, causing radiation leaks.  Gross domestic product will fall by 3.6 percent and 200,000
jobs may be eliminated if all of Japan’s reactors close by next
spring as scheduled maintenance takes them offline, the Tokyo-
based Institute of Energy Economics said yesterday in a report.  “Even if we’d like to build a new plant in Japan, the
trend is to move abroad, much as we hate to admit it,” NEC
Corp. Chairman Kaoru Yano said at a seminar hosted by the
Keidanren business lobby this month. “The quickest solution to
the power supply problem would be to restart the nuclear
reactors.”  Nuclear Manufacturing  The rise of Japan’s manufacturing after World War II to
dominate the global auto and electronics industries came in
lockstep with promotion of nuclear power to reduce the country’s
dependence on imported oil. Japan passed laws on nuclear
subsidies to develop the industry in 1974, a year after the
global oil shock sent its economy into a recession.  Ohi Mayor Shinobu Tokioka smiles when asked how Japan would
switch its energy source from nuclear to renewables.  The town’s four reactors transmit energy 120 kilometers
south to power  Osaka .  Sharp’s solar project  in Sakai, next to
Osaka, is designed to produce 470 times less power and lacks
light during the three winter months, Tokioka said.  “The nuclear industry provides jobs and is a customer for
goods and if we scrapped reactors we’d have energy shortages,”
the mayor said in an interview in his office.  Those shortages now look more likely as  Kansai Electric 
Power Co. has just 4 of its 11 nuclear reactors in Fukui in
operation. The rest are closed for maintenance or malfunction,
with no date for a restart. This may leave the region in short
supply of power for up to five years, according to an Asahi
newspaper report.  Nuclear Cost  The nuclear industry’s reliable power supply has come at a
cost. Even prior to the Fukushima nuclear disaster and radiation
fallout, the Kashiwazaki Kariwa nuclear plant leaked radioactive
water after an earthquake in 2007.  Both Tokyo Electric Power Co. and Kansai Electric have
admitted in the last decade to falsifying nuclear safety
reports.  Just this week, Chubu Electric Power Co. said that it has
been unable to remove a damaged fuel rod from a reactor for 17
years.  Still, asking renewable energy to take the place of nuclear
over the next 20 to 30 years is unrealistic, said  Kazuharu
Kawase , mayor of Tsuruga city, which is 50 kilometers east of
Ohi and hosts two nuclear plants.  ‘Very Ambitious’  “Natural sources of energy are important and an effort
should be made to make these sources more widespread,” Kawase
said. “But changing everything over to natural energy will be
difficult because of location, climate and costs.”  Kan has said Japan can reduce the cost of solar power and
boost renewable energy to 20 percent of the total by the end of
this decade from 1 percent now.  “Prime Minister Kan’s commitment is very, very
ambitious,” said Yugo Nakamura, an analyst with Bloomberg New
Energy Finance. “If the government really wants to shift to
that it’s technically possible, but it’s challenging and costly.
We need to know who will pay the very high price.”  Manufacturers like Mitsui Mining & Smelting Co. said they
won’t stick around to find out.  Japan’s biggest zinc smelter said it will move production
abroad on concern a Japan without nuclear power will have
electricity shortages.  “In the medium term, we will have no choice but to move
our factories overseas” to gain access to stable power supply,
said Keiji Nishida, general manager of Mitsui Mining’s finance
team. That view was echoed by Sharp Chairman Katsuhiko Machida
at a briefing in Osaka July 15.  Endless Obstacles  “Manufacturers here have faced endless obstacles such as
foreign exchange rates, corporate tax and environmental and
labor regulations. This issue over power supply could be the end
of manufacturing in Japan.”  The loss of jobs from an exodus of Japanese manufacturers
would again delay the economy’s exit from deflation and to pay
back a debt burden that’s swelled to twice the size of the
economy.  “The images from Fukushima were paralyzing,” says  Shigeo
Ishihara , mayor of Omaezaki, home to the Hamaoka plant that Kan
asked to shut down after the March disaster. “But if we don’t
keep these reactors operating, Japan’s economy will wither --our
young people will move abroad, leaving the country with only
grandpas and grandmas.”  Omaezaki expected 44 percent of its budget this year to
come from nuclear industry-related income. It breaks down to
472,000 yen ($5,900) a resident, about 30 percent more than any
of the three municipalities it borders.  Atomic Economics  The joining of Japan’s industrial might with atomic power
has produced “a single economic structure” replicated
throughout the country with a nuclear plant at its center, said
Shinichiro Tonooka, a history professor at Tsuruga College,
which is part-funded by subsidies the city gets for hosting two
nuclear stations.  “The overwhelming majority of residents benefit
economically from the atomic station,” Tonooka said. Until
Japan has a viable alternative, nuclear will need to keep
powering the country, he said.  A short winding road leads from Ohi’s nuclear plant to the
Sodegahama beach where pleasure boaters and amateur fishermen
flock in the summer months. Near the beach stands a three-story
 community center  owned by the town, quiet and empty.  Inside, Kunie Ishida has little to do. She recollects when
Kansai Electric took locals to watch comedy shows in Osaka and
how residents living at the tip of the peninsular had to travel
by boat to reach the main coast before the utility built the
bridge.  “We’re all grateful to the power plant,” Ishida says.
“The stuff with Fukushima looks troubling, yes. But, here
everyone supports the power plant. Ohi’s is the safest plant.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Yuji Okada in Tokyo at 
 yokada6@bloomberg.net ;
Yuriy Humber in Tokyo at 
 yhumber@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Teo Chian Wei at 
 cwteo@bloomberg.net  