-- 
Nikkei 225 Declines Most in a Week Since March Amid U.S. Debt Deadlock

-- B y   N o r i e   K u b o y a m a
-- 
2011-07-29T07:40:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-29/japanese-stocks-slip-for-third-day-on-u-s-debt-impasse-canon-sony-fall.html
Japanese stocks slipped for a third
day, sending the  Nikkei 225 (NKY)  Stock Average to its biggest weekly
decline since March, as U.S. lawmakers failed to strike a deal
on raising the federal debt ceiling and Nintendo Co. slashed its
profit forecast.  Nintendo plunged 12 percent. Sony Corp. sank 3.3 percent
after slumping demand for televisions forced  Japan ’s biggest
exporter of consumer electronics to cut its outlook for earnings.
Nisshin Steel Co. led gains by makers of the material after
saying profit will jump this year on demand from carmakers
recovering from Japan’s March earthquake.  “Earnings at tech companies have been worse than
expected,” said  Kiyoshi Ishigane , a senior strategist in Tokyo
at Mitsubishi UFJ Asset Management Co., which oversees the
equivalent of $84 billion. “Until the U.S. resolves the debt
issue, investors are going to be cautious.”  The Nikkei 225 slid 0.7 percent to 9,833.03 at the 3 p.m.
close in  Tokyo , extending earlier losses after the yen gained
against the dollar and the euro. For the week, the gauge
declined 3 percent, the biggest drop since the period ended
March 18. Stocks fell amid mixed earnings results from Japanese
companies and as U.S. lawmakers fail to make progress on a deal
to raise the nation’s debt ceiling and avoid a default. The
broader Topix lost 0.8 percent today.  No Deal  The yen gained against the dollar and Japanese stocks fell
further after the U.S. Congress today had another setback in
efforts to strike a deal before an Aug. 2 deadline.  Kevin McCarthy , the No. 2 Republican leader in the U.S. House of
Representatives, said there will be no vote on Speaker  John
Boehner ’s debt-limit plan tonight in  Washington .  The Topix has slipped 3.8 percent from a post-earthquake
high on July 8 as concern mounts the U.S. may default on its
debt, driving down the dollar and weakening the earnings outlook
for Asian exporters. For the month, the gauge has edged down 0.9
percent. Declines have been limited as companies including Canon
Inc. and Fanuc Corp. reported better earnings amid a faster-than
expected recovery from Japan’s March 11 earthquake.  Stocks fell today as some of Japan’s biggest makers of
electronics slashed profit outlooks, even as the number of
positive earnings surprises on the Topix for the first quarter
exceeded disappointing results.  Sony, Nintendo  Sony lost 3.3 percent to 1,947 yen after the company cut
its profit forecast 25 percent on slumping demand for
televisions. The maker of Bravia TVs and PlayStation game
consoles also said it expects Japan’s currency to appreciate.
The company forecast the yen will trade at an average of 80 to
the dollar, compared with a previous estimate of 83 yen.  Japan’s currency extended gains today, nearing a postwar
record against the greenback. The yen reached 77.46 per dollar
today, the strongest since touching 76.25 on March 17. Against
the euro, the Japanese currency extended gains after Moody’s
Investors Service said it may cut  Spain ’s credit rating. A
stronger yen cuts the value of overseas income for Japanese
exporters.  Nintendo tumbled 12 percent to 12,290 yen, the most since
January 2009. The world’s biggest maker of game consoles slashed
its profit forecast by 82 percent to 20 billion yen ($257
million) as falling demand for the new 3-D handheld player led
it to cut the product’s price.  Competition, Quake Damage  Nintendo will reduce the price of the 3DS by 40 percent in
Japan to 15,000 yen in the face of competition from Apple Inc.’s
iPhone and online games played on Facebook Inc.’s service.  Nintendo declined the second-most on the Topix, following
solar-cell maker Ulvac Inc., which sank 19 percent to 1,429 yen
after saying quake damage may cause its first loss in two years.  Almost one-fifth of the 1,669 companies on the Topix
reported results today, most after the market closed. Sixty-
eight of 444 companies that have released results since July 11
beat analyst estimates for first quarter profit, while 45 missed
expectations, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Among stocks that advanced today, Nisshin Steel rallied 8.8
percent to 160 yen after saying it expects profit to almost
double to 21 billion yen this fiscal year. Steel demand will
likely pick up as carmakers and other manufacturers recover from
Japan’s record earthquake, it said.  Industrial production rose 3.9 percent last month and
companies said they plan to increase output this month and next,
Japan’s trade ministry said today. The forecasts suggest Japan’s
energy shortage and government measures to limit electricity use
aren’t crimping production.  “We’re not seeing much of an impact from the power-saving
drive and that’s very positive,” said  Takuji Aida , a senior
economist at UBS AG in Tokyo. “This is good for the medium-term
outlook.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Norie Kuboyama in Tokyo at 
 nkuboyama@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net . 