-- 
Japan Aims to Curb Nuclear Reliance While Ensuring Power Supply, Kan Says

-- B y   T a k a s h i   H i r o k a w a   a n d   S a c h i k o   S a k a m a k i
-- 
2011-07-29T15:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-29/japan-aims-to-curb-nuclear-reliance-while-ensuring-power-supply.html
Japan’s government pledged to reduce
the country’s reliance on nuclear power after a public backlash
and hold a national discussion on gradually shifting to
alternate sources to avoid shortages and higher prices.  “We’ve decided to reduce nuclear dependence and make a
road map toward that goal,” Prime Minister  Naoto Kan  said in a
televised press conference late yesterday in Tokyo. “As the
government, we’ll reduce reliance on nuclear energy in a
planned, step-by-step manner to achieve a society that doesn’t
depend on nuclear energy.”  Japan will move away from atomic power in three stages, the
first being the next three years, then by 2020 and 2050, Kan
said earlier in the day. Officials aim for 80 percent of
electricity demand to be assessed by smart meters within five
years, according to a government statement.  Kan is trying to address mounting rejection of nuclear
power following the worst atomic accident in 25 years while
continuing to satisfy the country’s energy needs.  Japan  could
only meet 90 percent of electricity demand next summer without
its 54 nuclear reactors and costs could rise by about 20
percent, or 3 trillion yen ($38.9 billion) annually, National
Strategy Minister  Koichiro Gemba  said yesterday.  “In the medium to long term, we’ll reduce dependence on
nuclear power and strengthen and accelerate green innovation,”
Gemba said. “We’ll consider how to realize the best mixture of
new energy.”  Diversify Energy  The government will present options to diversify away from
atomic power by the end of the year, Gemba said. The new energy
strategy will consider how to separate power generation and
distribution and encourage “various operators” to enter the
 electricity market , Kan said.  The March 11 earthquake and tsunami crippled  Tokyo 
Electric’s Dai-Ichi plant in Fukushima and triggered the worst
atomic disaster since Chernobyl, displacing about 50,000
households after radiation leaked. More than 70 percent of
respondents in a Kyodo News survey published July 25 said they
support phasing out the energy source.  The same poll showed Kan’s approval rating falling to 17.1
percent, down from 23.2 percent in June, and 66.9 percent said
the prime minister should resign by the end of August. The poll
of 1,014 people conducted July 23-24 didn’t provide a margin of
error.  Disaster Spending  Japan’s government said earlier this week it would spend
about 10 trillion yen in a third disaster recovery package to be
put together after Kan fulfills a pledge to resign. The
government plans to spend 19 trillion yen over the next five
years to rebuild, Kan said yesterday.  Japan’s effort to win backing for funds to rebuild from the
disasters has been hampered by calls for Kan to step down, with
opposition as well as some  Democratic Party of Japan  lawmakers
demanding he resign over his inadequate response.  Parliament this week approved a 2 trillion yen rebuilding
package, the first of three legislative goals Kan says must be
achieved before he stands down. The others are passage of a
renewable energy bill and authorization to sell 44.3 trillion
yen in  government bonds  needed to fund this year’s record
budget. The Diet session is due to end at the end of next month.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Takashi Hirokawa in Tokyo at 
 thirokawa@bloomberg.net ;
Sachiko Sakamaki in Tokyo at 
 ssakamaki1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Patrick Harrington at 
 pharrington8@bloomberg.net  