-- 
July Chicago Purchasing Managers Index Falls More Than Estimated to 58.8

-- B y   A l e x   K o w a l s k i
-- 
2011-07-29T13:54:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-29/july-chicago-purchasing-managers-index-falls-more-than-estimated-to-58-8.html
Business activity in the U.S.
expanded at a slower pace in July, a sign manufacturing may be
moderating after leading the economy recovery.  The Institute for Supply Management-Chicago Inc. said today
its business barometer fell to 58.8 in July, lower than
forecast, from 61.1 the prior month. Figures greater than 50
signal expansion.  Manufacturers like  Eaton Corp. (ETN)  expect sales to pick up in
the second half of the year as the recovery proceeds and
 developing countries  like  China  increase demand for U.S.-made
goods. While easing commodity costs support production,
employers are cutting back on hiring, which may temper consumer
spending that accounts for 70 percent of the  U.S. economy .  “Supplies out of  Japan  seem to be improving,”  Russell
Price , a senior economist at Ameriprise Financial Services Inc.
in  Detroit , said before the report. “Production over the next
few months is likely to benefit manufacturing.”  The median forecast of 54 economists surveyed by Bloomberg
News projected the measure would drop to 60. Estimates ranged
from 56 to 63.3.  The economy grew less than forecast in the second quarter,
after almost coming to a halt at the start of the year, as
consumers retrenched, another report today showed.  Gross domestic product climbed at a 1.3 percent annual rate
following a 0.4 percent gain in the prior quarter that was less
than earlier estimated, according to figures from the Commerce
Department. Household purchases, about 70 percent of the
economy, rose 0.1 percent, the smallest gain in the recession.  Data Breakdown  The Chicago group’s production gauge eased to 64.3 from
June’s reading of 66.9. The gauge of new orders fell to 59.4
from 61.2. The employment measure dropped to 51.5 from 58.7 the
prior month, indicating less hiring.  Economists watch the Chicago index and other regional
manufacturing reports for an early reading on the national
outlook. The Chicago group says its membership includes both
manufacturers and service providers with operations in the U.S.
and abroad, making the gauge a measure of overall growth.  The ISM’s monthly national factory index, due Aug. 1, slid
to 55 in July from 55.3, according to the median projection in a
Bloomberg News survey. A reading above 50 signals expansion.  Manufactures face sluggish domestic demand after  consumer
spending  stalled in the second quarter as employment prospects
waned. At the same time, restraints from Japan’s earthquake and
higher raw material costs may be wearing off, making factories’
more able to meet new demand from growing overseas economies
spurred by a weaker  U.S. dollar .  Fed Outlook  Federal Reserve policy makers, including Chairman  Ben S.
Bernanke  have, nonetheless, projected that the economy will
strengthen in the second half of 2011 as “factors that are
likely to be temporary” subside.  Eaton, a Cleveland-based maker of hybrid transmissions for
trucks, said industrial markets and the automobile industry are
recovering. “All of that leads us to believe that ‘12 is going
to be a solid year of economic growth, Sandy Cutler, chairman
and chief executive officer, said in a July 25 teleconference
with analysts.  Eaton, with business segment from electrical to fluid power
and automotive, projects sales this year will top the 2008
record of $15.37 billion by 6 percent. Revenue climbed 22
percent in the first half, the company said in a statement.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alexander Kowalski in Washington at 
 akowalski13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net . 