-- 
KKR Wins Lower Rates on Capsugel, Academy Loans as Returns Turn Positive

-- B y   K r i s t a   G i o v a c c o
-- 
2011-07-29T13:30:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-29/kkr-wins-lower-rates-on-capsugel-academy-loans-as-returns-turn-positive.html
KKR & Co. obtained lower rates on
$1.76 billion of loans backing its buyouts of Capsugel Holdings
Inc. and Academy Sports & Outdoors Inc. as returns on the debt
are poised to turn positive for first time in two months.  Capsugel, a provider of hard capsule and drug delivery
systems which Pfizer Inc. is selling to the private-equity firm
for $2.4 billion, cut the  interest rate  on a $920 million deal
to 4 percentage points more than the London interbank offered
rate. Academy Sports, a sporting goods retailer, reduced the
rate on an $840 million buyout loan by as much as 0.5 percentage
point, to 4.5 percentage points more than the lending benchmark.  Investors are buying loans sold by speculative-grade
borrowers deemed most creditworthy as lawmakers in the U.S.
struggle to reach an agreement to increase the government debt
ceiling before an Aug. 2 deadline. Returns on leveraged loans
are poised to turn positive in July with buyers seeing gains of
almost 0.26 percent after facing losses for the last two months.  “Stronger credits are able to price tighter while others
merit a wider price for investors to take on that perceived
incremental risk,” Mike Freno, a  Charlotte , North Carolina-
based managing director at Babson Capital, which oversees $135
billion, said in a telephone interview. “Investors are doing a
good job of pricing in appropriate risk.”  Credit fundamentals are the strongest since before the
collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. The trailing 12-month
default rate of speculative grade global credits dropped to 2.2
percent in the second quarter, from 2.5 percent in the first
quarter and 6.2 percent a year ago, according to Moody’s
Investors Service. The last time the default rate was as low was
in June 2008, when it was 2.1 percent, according to Moody’s.  Falling Prices  The Standard & Poor’s/LSTA 100 Index, which tracks the 100
largest dollar-denominated first-lien leveraged loans, declined
to 94.57 cents yesterday, down 0.13 cent over the week and the
lowest since June 30, when the index closed at 94.23 cents. The
index reversed two consecutive months of negative returns, when
it returned negative 0.65 percent and negative 0.41 percent, in
June and May, respectively.  “Investors are focusing on the primary market, where
there’s a healthy deal flow and where people have focused a lot
of time and resources because deals are coming at very
attractive levels,” Freno said. “To the extent there are
attractive opportunities in the primary market, the secondary
market will trade a little rangebound.”  Debt Ceiling  House Speaker  John Boehner  delayed yesterday’s planned vote
on debt-limit legislation and the Senate is expected to vote
this weekend on a possible compromise to avert a potential U.S.
default and raise the debt ceiling by the full $2.4 trillion
President  Barack Obama  requested. Boehner’s plan would provide
an immediate $900 billion debt-ceiling boost, cut $915 billion
in spending and tie a future borrowing increase to enactment of
a deficit-slashing law late this year.  New issue institutional loan volume declined to $20.9
billion in June from $29 billion in May, according to Highland
Capital Management LP. Investors’ risk appetite has limits,
Highland said in a July note and investors are demanding more
yield for some credits.  Smart Modular Technologies Inc. increased the rate on a
$300 million  term loan  to support its buyout by  Silver Lake
Partners , according to a person with knowledge of the deal who
declined to be identified because it’s private. The maker of
data-storage products now is offering to pay seven percentage
points more than Libor on the debt, compared with 4.5 percentage
points more than Libor as outlined in a May 25 regulatory
filing.  Institutional Spreads  The average institutional first-lien loan spread rose to
490.54 basis points as of July 28, up from 428.75 on June 30,
according to Standard & Poor’s LCD. That’s off a year low of 378
basis points at the end of February and off July 2010’s all-time
high of 589.1 basis points. A basis point is 0.01 percentage
point. First-lien loans are repaid first in a bankruptcy or
liquidation, second-lien debt is repaid next.  Capsugel slashed the rate on its facility by 0.5 percentage
points, from 4.5 percentage points initially proposed. The
company, based in Peapack,  New Jersey , sold the seven-year debt
at 99.5 cents on the dollar, reducing proceeds for the borrower
and boosting the yield for investors.  Academy Sports initially proposed to pay as much as five
percentage points more than Libor on its seven-year term loan.
The Katy, Texas-based company sold the debt at 99 cents.  “There are periods of ebbs and flows where everything
tightens rapidly and when things move back rapidly, but, on
average, we’ll continue to see this disciplined approach where
investors are being paid appropriately for levels of risk they
are taking,” Babson’s Freno said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Krista Giovacco in  New York  at 
 kgiovacco1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Faris Khan at 
 fkhan33@bloomberg.net . 