-- 
Naira Heads for First Week Drop in Three as Nigerian Dollar Demand Climbs

-- B y   C h r i s   K a y
-- 
2011-07-29T12:06:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-29/naira-heads-for-first-week-drop-in-three-as-nigerian-dollar-demand-climbs.html
Nigeria ’s naira headed for its first
weekly drop in three after dollar demand rose at an auction and
the central bank move to allow more sales at foreign-exchange
bureaux.  The currency of  Africa ’s biggest oil producer has slid 0.5
percent this week in interbank trading to 153.11 per dollar,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The naira was unchanged
as of 11:40 a.m. in Lagos trading, after slipping to as low as
153.17 per dollar.  Demand for dollars at the Central Bank of Nigeria’s July 25
auction climbed to $545 million, the most requested since March
28, and stood at $518 million at the last sale on July 27. The
marginal rate, used as the official  exchange rate , fell to
150.46 per dollar. The bank targets naira stabilization by
keeping the rate within 3 percent above or below 150 per dollar
at the auctions in a bid to control inflation.  “The rising demand pattern observed at the CBN auction has
been attributable to cyclical demand from importers of petroleum
products and food commodities, particularly rice,” Ediale Eremionkhale, a currency trader at Lagos-based Access Bank Plc,
said by e-mail. “Our market simply depends on the interplay
between forces of demand and supply. The naira has weakened at
both the official window and interbank market due to the rising
demand at the CBN auction and limited supply from  oil
companies .”  Interest Rates  The bank doubled the amount of money lenders can sell to
foreign-exchange bureaux to $500,000 a week in a bid to
stabilize the trading rate of the local currency, according to a
 statement  its website yesterday. Governor Lamido Sanusi said
July 26 that the  monetary policy committee  “noted” the
difference between the auction and bureaux de change rates and
that the spread may lead to “arbitrage” and “unhealthy
speculation.”  The current bureau de change rate is 163.50 to 165.50 naira
per dollar, Eremionkhale said.  “The recent policy move is intended to narrow the
difference between the CBN, auction, interbank and bureaux de
change rates,” Eremionkhale said. “We do not believe that the
amount of increase is sufficient to cause any change in the
current market dynamics.”  Nigeria raised its benchmark  interest rate  for the fourth
time this year to 8.75 percent on July 26. While inflation
slowed in June to 10.2 percent, the weakest since May 2008, the
core inflation rate, which excludes food, is expected to
accelerate in the second half, Sanusi said.  “Despite weakening slightly this week, the naira has been
sustained within a 3 percent trading range around 150 per
dollar,” Nema Ramkhelawan-Bhana, a currency analyst at Rand
Merchant Bank in Johannesburg, said by e-mail today. “Prudent
tightening of monetary policy should allow the CBN to reduce
excess demand for foreign currency over time, thereby lessening
depreciatory pressures on the naira.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Kay in London at 
 ckay5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  