-- 
Natixis Asset Prefers Spain to Italy on EFSF’s Help for Banks

-- B y   E m m a   C h a r l t o n
-- 
2011-07-29T07:24:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-29/natixis-asset-prefers-spain-to-italy-on-efsf-s-help-for-banks.html
Natixis (KN)  Asset Management prefers
Spanish bonds to their Italian counterparts, saying terms of
this month’s European Union financial support deal will be of
greater benefit to  Spain  and its troubled regional lenders.  “The reform will take pressure off the sovereign to tackle
the savings-and-loans issue,” said Axel Botte, a strategist at
Natixis Asset,  France ’s fourth-largest investment manager and a
unit of Natixis SA. “Spain’s public-sector finances are
relatively sound. The European Financial Stability Facility is
now allowed to recapitalize banks almost directly, and this will
help Spain. Italy is a bit more complicated.”  European leaders boosted the flexibility of the EFSF
bailout fund on July 21 after contagion from the sovereign-debt
crisis that engulfed  Greece , Ireland and  Portugal  spread to the
bigger economies of Spain and Italy, sending their bond yields
soaring. The EFSF can now lend to countries besides the three
already in a bailout program to help recapitalize their banks.  Five Spanish lenders failed this year’s round of European
Union stress tests. All Italian banks passed.  Botte said Natixis is “slightly long” on Spanish bonds
with a maturity of one to three years and “neutral” on Italian
debt of all maturities. He declined to say when the fund had
changed its position, though he told Bloomberg in April that the
fund was positive on Italian five- and 30-year bonds.  Austerity Plans  Spain’s plans to restrain  government spending  are clearer
than Italy’s, and the Spanish government also faces a lighter
financing burden in the near term, according to Botte, whose
company manages $237 billion in fixed-income assets.  Spain is implementing a plan to reduce its government
shortfall to 6 percent of gross domestic product this year from
9.2 percent in 2010.  In Italy, Prime Minister Silvio Berlusconi’s government
accelerated its deficit-cutting plan this month as its bond
yields climbed. Most of the measures in Italy’s 48 billion-euro
($68 billion) austerity package, including an extended freeze on
civil-servant wages, will be implemented in 2013 and 2014, when
a new government is due to be in office.  “The lack of detail on the austerity measures passed in
early July created some volatility in the market,” Botte said
of  Italy . “The other problem for Italy is the heavy auction
calendar in August and September.”  Italy has 1.8 trillion euros of debt, the biggest  bond
market  in  Europe . The nation must pay 166 billion euros of
maturing bonds and bills in the second half of 2011 and 260
billion euros in 2012, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Soaring Yields  Italy’s 10-year yields have surged more than a percentage
point this month, reaching 5.91 percent at 8:09 a.m. in  London .
They rose just six basis points between Dec. 30 and June 30.  “Italy is very far from being an insolvency case as is the
case, in our view, for Ireland, Portugal or Greece,” Botte
said. “The fear may disappear, though not for the next two
months because of the bond supply coming up.”  At 6.13 percent, 10-year Spanish securities yield almost 70
basis points above the rate at the end of June. They were little
changed in the period from January to June.  Banco Pastor SA (PAS) , Grupo Caja3 and  Caja de Ahorros del
Mediterraneo (CAM)  failed the stress tests after regulators found they
didn’t have enough capital to withstand a recession scenario, as
did Unnim and CatalunyaCaixa, two Catalan savings banks. A
further seven Spanish lenders only narrowly passed.  Spain’s bonds with a maturity of one to three years have
handed investors a total return of 1.2 percent this year, while
similar-maturity Italian debt lost 0.2 percent, according to
indexes compiled by the European Federation of Financial
Analysts Societies and Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Emma Charlton in London at 
 echarlton1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at   dtilles@bloomberg.net  