-- 
Nedbank Loses Sternberg to Standard Bank’s SBG, Says Pay ‘Out of Kilter’

-- B y   R e n e e   B o n o r c h i s
-- 
2011-07-29T10:08:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-29/nedbank-capital-loses-mining-analyst-heidi-sternberg-to-sbg.html
Nedbank Capital, a unit of  Nedbank
Group Ltd. (NED) , said Heidi Sternberg, a mining analyst at the
company’s cash equities business, left the firm to join Standard
Bank Group Ltd.’s securities division.  SBG is paying high salaries, Nedbank Capital Chief
Executive Officer  Brian Kennedy  said in a telephone interview
from Johannesburg yesterday. The pay scales in the equities
market in  South Africa  may be “out of kilter” with the returns
on offer because of increased competition, he said.  Standard Bank, Africa’s largest lender, last year ended its
South African stock-brokerage joint venture with  Credit Suisse
Group AG. (CSGN)  The banks have since been hiring separately to compete
in Africa’s biggest economy. SBG this year hired Voyt
Krzychylkiewicz and Nicole Penny from  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) , Justin
Froneman from Macquarie First South Securities and Risto Ketola,
who ran an independent research company in Finland.  “We have made substantial hires in the past six months,
hiring 19 people across the board,” Marc Ter Mors, global head
of equity research at SBG, said by phone from Johannesburg
today. “We’re still looking at expanding.” He declined to
comment on salaries.  Nedbank Capital’s rate of staff turnover has fallen to 5
percent this year from 10 percent last year, Kennedy said. Of
about 35 employees in the cash equities unit, only Sternberg and
another mining analyst, Christian Siebert, have left, he said.  Nedbank Group, South Africa’s fourth-largest bank, is
controlled by U.K. insurer  Old Mutual Plc. (OML)   To contact the reporter on this story:
Renee Bonorchis in Johannesburg at 
 rbonorchis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net ;
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  