-- 
New York Power Company Says Price Cuts May Mean Bankruptcy

-- B y   B r i a n   W i n g f i e l d
-- 
2011-07-29T14:13:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-29/new-york-power-company-says-price-cuts-may-mean-bankruptcy-1-.html
A company that provides 21 percent
of  New York  City’s electricity says it may file for bankruptcy
because a newcomer is undercutting wholesale prices for the
city’s power market.  “We will have no choice but to consider some sort of
restructuring” for Astoria Generating Co. unless the Federal
Energy Regulatory Commission intervenes, Mark Sudbey, chairman
and chief executive officer of the company’s parent, US Power
Generating Co. of New York, said in an interview with Bloomberg
Government.  The dispute follows moves in New York and other states to
offer incentives to companies that build power plants. Owners of
older facilities say the arrangements let operators of the new
generators bid low on the wholesale market, skewing prices,
while providing subsidies that make up the difference.  The new $1.3 billion Astoria II natural-gas plant in
Queens, near one of Sudbey’s plants, has driven down wholesale
power prices by more than 50 percent in auctions run by the
operator of New York state’s electrical grid, he says.  TransCanada Co. of Calgary has joined his closely held
company in asking federal regulators to overturn pricing
approved by the grid operator for the new plant, which is owned
by  Astoria Project Partners II LLC , a partnership including  GDF
Suez (GSZ)  of Courbevoie,  France .  The state-owned  New York Power Authority , which sells
electricity to government and private customers, “has made no
secret of its desire to suppress power prices,” the companies
said in a July 11 filing with FERC.  Political Pressure  With help from politicians, the power authority has put
“immense pressure” on the grid operator to keep prices
artificially low for consumers, the companies said. That may
create higher prices in the long-run as older plants shut down.  On the other side are power buyers led by  Consolidated
Edison Inc. (ED) , owner of the biggest utility serving New York City,
and the New York Power Authority.  Complaints lodged with federal regulators are “yet another
attempt to seek preferential status” for existing generators
over new providers, the group said in a July 6 filing with FERC.  The average wholesale price for  New York City  electricity
in 2010 was $65 per megawatt-hour, the highest in the contiguous
U.S., according to the Energy Department. Residents and
businesses in New York state paid an average 15.52 cents per
kilowatt-hour, higher than the national average of 9.82 cents
per kilowatt-hour, in April 2009, according to the department’s
most recent data. A megawatt is 1,000 kilowatts.  New Jersey  Plants  Earlier this year, the state of New Jersey acted to
encourage construction of three new power plants in an attempt
to lower electricity prices. FERC said in April a proposal by
PJM Interconnection LLC, the grid operator that covers mid-
Atlantic states and part of the Midwest, may push prices too
low, and the agency is weighing how that applies to New Jersey’s
plans.  The New York grid operator isn’t properly following market
rules to prevent buyers from driving electricity prices too low,
US Power Generating, TransCanada and  NRG Energy Inc. (NRG)  of
Princeton, New Jersey, said in a complaint to FERC last month.  The  New York Independent System Operator  “will be
disputing the allegations” in its response that is due to FERC
on Aug. 3, Kenneth Klapp, a spokesman for the Rensselaer, New
York-based grid operator, said in an e-mail.  Astoria Energy  Danni Sabota, a spokeswoman for GDF Suez Energy North
America, referred questions to Charles McCall, CEO of closely
held Astoria Energy LLC, which established the agreement between
the New York Power Authority and the new plant. McCall didn’t
return a call seeking comment.  The New York Power Authority plans to file its response
with FERC by Aug. 3, Michael Saltzman, a spokesman, said in a
phone interview. “We don’t have anything further to add at this
time,” he said. Consolidated Edison spokesman Bob McGee said
the company couldn’t immediately comment.  Wholesale prices for electrical capacity, the ability to
provide power months or years into the future, are determined in
New York through an auction run by the grid operator. Utilities
buy their power in the wholesale market and sell it to consumers
for a profit.  Prices to provide electrical capacity for New York City
fell to $5.76 per kilowatt-month in July from $11.76 in June in
auctions. The price for the August auction, posted yesterday,
was $5.83 per kilowatt-month.  ‘Fundamental Failure’  The price decline was due to the first-time participation
of the Astoria II facility in the July auction, according to
Sudbey.  “This basically is a fundamental failure of the
marketplace,” said Sudbey, whose company operates two  power
plants  in  Brooklyn  and one in Queens. Astoria II can afford to
offer its supply below cost because it has a 20-year agreement
to sell its power to the New York Power Authority, he said.  At depressed prices, established power producers may not
earn enough revenue to cover their fixed operating costs,
according to Sudbey. Astoria Generating Co. earns about 80
percent of its revenue from capacity payments.  FERC should require that Astoria II and other new
generators offer to sell their electrical capacity at 75 percent
of construction and generating costs, according to US Power
Generating and TransCanada.  Astoria II’s owners haven’t filed comments in the dispute.  FERC spokesman Craig Cano declined to comment on the
pending proceeding.  ‘Inflammatory’ Claims  The companies’ claims that the grid operator has colluded
with other market participants to suppress prices are baseless
and “inflammatory,” the New York Independent System Operator
said in a filing with FERC on July 12.  “Falling prices, like rising prices, are not necessarily a
sign of market inefficiency, let alone market abuses,” the grid
operator said.  TransCanada and US Power Generating Co. have offered “no
proof” that the market would be harmed unless FERC intervenes,
the New York Power Authority and the City of New York said in a
regulatory filing the next day.  During the summer of 2008, New York City’s capacity prices
fluctuated from $5.53 per kilowatt-month to $6.33 per kilowatt-
month, approximately their current level, the power authority
and the city said.  Those low prices occurred as the grid operator was just
implementing its new rules to prevent buyers from exerting too
much influence in the market. “You can call it an anomaly,”
said Sudbey.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Wingfield in Washington at 
 bwingfield3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net  