-- 
FBI’s News Corp. Hacking, 9/11 Probe Said to Be in Early Stage

-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o ,   D a v i d   G l o v i n   a n d   G r e g   F a r r e l l
-- 
2011-07-30T02:23:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-29/news-corp-web-hacking-9-11-victim-probe-by-fbi-said-to-be-in-early-stage.html
The FBI is in the initial stage of a
probe of  News Corp. (NWSA)  as investigators evaluate whether U.S.
charges can be brought over claims employees hacked into a
rival’s website and sought access to phone records of victims of
the 9/11 attacks, a person familiar with the matter said.  The  Federal Bureau of Investigation  will let Scotland Yard
take the lead on a parallel investigation already under way in
Britain, said two law-enforcement officials familiar with the
matter.  The bureau isn’t planning to mount an aggressive
investigation into allegations that News Corp.’s payments to
U.K. police officers a decade ago violated a U.S. overseas
bribery law, said the officials, who didn’t want to be
identified because they aren’t allowed to discuss the U.S.
Justice Department’s investigation.  “If the conduct largely relates to payments made to the
U.K. police, it is quite probable that the U.S. would defer to
the strong enforcement regime in the U.K.,” said Angela Burgess, a partner at the law firm Davis Polk & Wardwell LLP in
 New York . “If there are U.S. victims or a greater U.S. nexus, a
broader U.S. investigation is more likely.”  In the U.S., Manhattan federal prosecutors have joined the
inquiry into allegations that News Corp.’s American marketing
arm hacked a password-protected website at Floorgraphics Inc.,
an attorney for Floorgraphics said.  FBI Questions  William Isaacson, a lawyer at Boies, Schiller & Flexner LLP
who represented Floorgraphics at a 2009 civil trial against News
America Marketing In-Store Services, said two Manhattan
prosecutors participated in his July 18 interview by the FBI. In
its lawsuit, Floorgraphics, now based in Hamilton, New Jersey,
claimed News America employees hacked into its website in 2003
and 2004.  “They wanted to know what the case was about,” Isaacson
said in a telephone interview. One of the prosecutors identified
by Isaacson works in the office’s public-corruption unit, while
the other works in the complex-fraud unit, according to a
personnel directory in the federal courthouse in  Manhattan .  Allegations of phone hacking at the now-closed News of the
World newspaper in the U.K. have led to the arrest of at least
10 people, including Rebekah Brooks, a former chief executive
officer of News Corp.’s News International unit, and ex-News of
the World editor  Andy Coulson , who was Prime Minister  David Cameron ’s press chief until January.  Scandal Fallout  The furor led to News Corp.’s dropping a takeover bid for
British Sky Broadcasting Group Plc and prompted Cameron to start
an inquiry.  The FBI is pursuing a claim that News Corp. reporters
unsuccessfully tried to get a former New York police officer to
obtain phone records of victims of the Sept. 11, 2001, terrorist
attacks that destroyed the World Trade Center in Manhattan.  U.S. investigators are attempting to identify any victims,
evaluating whether there is enough evidence to bring any federal
charges and if the alleged crimes in the U.S. took place too far
in the past to be prosecuted, said the person familiar with the
probe related to the Sept. 11 attacks, who declined to be
identified because the matter isn’t public.  The probe into the illegal phone records access is in the
most preliminary stage, the person said.  News Corp. chief  Rupert Murdoch  told U.K. lawmakers last
week that he has “seen no evidence of these allegations.”  News Corp.’s New York Post told employees to retain files
related to any attempts at unauthorized access to third-party
data, or illegal payments to government officials in an effort
to obtain information, according to a  memorandum reproduced  on
The Poynter Institute’s Romenesko Web site.  Federal Probe  Teri Everett, a spokeswoman for News Corp., didn’t
immediately return a call seeking comment on the memorandum or
the federal probe of the company.  Ellen Davis , a spokeswoman for U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara
in Manhattan, declined to comment on a U.S. investigation. Alisa
Finelli, a Justice Department spokeswoman, also declined to
comment.  Bharara’s office regularly investigates allegations of
white-collar crime that cut across state and international
borders.  Suzanne Halpin, a spokeswoman for Wilton, Connecticut-based
News America, declined to immediately comment on the
participation of Manhattan prosecutors in the Floorgraphics
probe.  Isaacson said he fielded questions from two Manhattan
assistant U.S. attorneys and an FBI agent in what appeared to be
a preliminary inquiry. His phone interview with the prosecutors
and FBI agent came on the same day that press reports appeared
about the Floorgraphics lawsuit, he said.  Floorgraphics Lawsuit  In its lawsuit, which was tried in federal court in
Trenton,  New Jersey , Floorgraphics accused News America
Marketing of stealing business by hacking into its secure
website 11 times from October 2003 to January 2004 and through
other means. At the time, Floorgraphics sold floor advertising
in grocery stores.  At the trial, a News America Marketing lawyer acknowledged
that his client’s computers were used to access Floorgraphics’
site. Six days into the trial, News America Marketing entered
into what its lawyer called a “series of business
arrangements” with Floorgraphics, part of which involved a
$29.5 million payment and an agreement to buy Floorgraphics’
assets, according to court records.  Floorgraphics agreed to dismiss the case.  “This site was available to hundreds, if not thousands,
of Floorgraphics retailers, representatives of consumer packaged
goods companies and Floorgraphics employees,” Halpin, the News
America Marketing spokeswoman, said in a statement last week.  ‘Employee Movement’  “There is considerable employee movement within this
industry, and we believe it was someone with an authorized
password” who was using a News America Marketing computer, she
said. “News America Marketing condemns such conduct, which is
in violation of the standards of our company.”  This month, U.S. Senator  Frank Lautenberg  for New Jersey
called for U.S. Attorney General Eric Holder to investigate the
possibility that payments to U.K. police could be considered a
violation of the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, which forbids
U.S. companies from paying bribes to officials of foreign
governments. On July 15, Holder confirmed the existence of an
“ongoing investigation.”  ‘A Stretch’  Some lawyers question whether the law, used primarily to
punish bribes to obtain business, would apply to paying police
officers for information.  “The FCPA is not a global statute governing all corrupt
activity in the world,” said Steven Peikin, a former federal
prosecutor now at Sullivan & Cromwell LLP.  “It would seem to me that if you’re paying off a police
official to obtain information, that would be a stretch,” he
said. “It’s not the heartland of conduct that the FCPA was
intended to reach.”  The Floorgraphics civil case is Floorgraphics v. News
America Marketing In-Store Services Inc, 04-cv-03500, U.S.
District Court, District of New Jersey (Trenton).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in New York at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net ;
David Glovin in New York at 
 dglovin@bloomberg.net ;
 Greg Farrell  in New York at 
 gregfarrell@bloomberg.net 
.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  