-- 
Nintendo Tumbles to Six-Year Low as Flop of 3DS Leads to Cut in Forecasts

-- B y   N a o k o   F u j i m u r a   a n d   Y o s h i n o r i   E k i
-- 
2011-07-29T07:14:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-29/nintendo-plunges-as-3ds-flop-leads-company-to-cut-prices-profit-forecasts.html
Nintendo Co. fell to the lowest
level in almost six years in  Osaka  trading after a lack of
demand for its new 3-D handheld player led the company to slash
the product’s price and earnings forecasts.  The world’s largest maker of video-game machines plunged 12
percent to 12,290 yen at the 3:10 p.m. close on the Osaka
Securities Exchange. That’s the biggest drop since January 2009
and the stock’s lowest close since before the Wii console was
introduced in November 2006.  Nintendo will cut the price of the five-month-old 3DS
player as much as 40 percent, and it lowered the profit forecast
82 percent as more gamers flock to  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPhone and
online games played on Facebook Inc.’s service. The company
needed “drastic measures” to lure gamers, President Satoru Iwata told reporters in Osaka yesterday.  “The company remains in the severe situation for next few
years until it develops something revolutionary, not an
extension of existing products,” said  Mitsuo Shimizu , an
analyst at Cosmo Securities Co. in Tokyo. “Social games are
killer because who would spend around $40 to buy software when
you can get it for free or something much lower.”  For former President Hiroshi Yamauchi, today’s rout lowered
the value of his stockholdings by 24.2 billion yen ($312
million). Yamauchi, great grandson of the founder, is the
company’s biggest shareholder with a 10 percent stake as of
March 31, according to regulatory data compiled by Bloomberg.  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and  Nomura Holdings Inc. (8604)  were among
brokers that cut their ratings on the stock after the earnings
missed analysts’ estimates.  3DS Price Cut  Net income may total 20 billion yen for the year ending
March 31, compared with Nintendo’s previous estimate of 110
billion yen, the Kyoto-based company said yesterday. The
forecast was almost 70 percent below the lowest of the 21
analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  The price of the 3DS, released in February, will be lowered
to 15,000 yen from 25,000 yen in Japan starting Aug. 11 to
trigger “momentum” for the product before the year-end
shopping season, the company said. In the U.S., the 3DS will
cost $169.99 starting Aug. 12, down 32 percent from the current
price of $249.99.  “Not a long time has passed since they started to sell
3DS, so it’s a little doubtful if they made much profit out of
it,” said Masayuki Ohtani, a strategist at Securities Japan
Inc. in Tokyo.  Cheaper Than Vita  The cuts will make the 3DS cheaper than the PlayStation
Vita portable player that  Sony Corp. (6758)  plans to introduce this
year.  Nintendo’s 20 billion yen forecast would result in its
lowest profit in more than 25 years. The company also slashed
its revenue forecast 18 percent to 900 billion yen and reduced
the full-year operating profit estimate by 80 percent to 35
billion yen.  The video-game maker kept a forecast to sell 16 million 3DS
players by March 31, betting the price cut will spur demand.
Nintendo cut its annual sales projections for the Wii by 7.7
percent to 12 million and lowered the forecast for previous-
generation DS players by 18 percent to 9 million units.  The company plans to introduce flagship titles such as
“Super Mario 3DLand” and “Mario Kart” in November and
December for the 3DS, the company said.  ‘Resident Evil’  Capcom Co., based in Osaka,  Japan , began selling a game
from the “Resident Evil” franchise for the 3DS this fiscal
year.  Nintendo, which has about 1 trillion yen in cash, near cash
and short-term investments, is facing increasing competition
from Apple, which has sold more than 200 million devices capable
of downloading and playing games.  Apple’s App Store offers a choice of more than 100,000 game
and entertainment applications to users of the iPad, iPhone and
iPod Touch.  “Nintendo should use its ample cash to buy a social game
maker, as the place to play games is shifting to smartphones and
tablet PCs,” said Masamitsu Ohki, a  fund manager  at Tokyo-based
Stats Investment Management Co. “It doesn’t need to start its
own.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Naoko Fujimura in  Tokyo  at 
 nfujimura@bloomberg.net ;
Yoshinori Eki in Tokyo at 
 yeki@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at   ycho2@bloomberg.net  