-- 
Nippon Yusen, Mitsui O.S.K. Slash Profit Forecasts on Shipping Rates, Fuel

-- B y   C h r i s   C o o p e r   a n d   K i y o t a k a   M a t s u d a
-- 
2011-07-29T10:51:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-29/nippon-yusen-mitsui-o-s-k-slash-profit-forecasts-on-shipping-rates-fuel.html
Nippon Yusen K.K. and Mitsui O.S.K.
Lines Ltd.,  Japan ’s two largest shipping lines, slashed their
annual profit forecasts amid falling rates and rising fuel costs.  Nippon Yusen expects net income of 5 billion yen ($64
million) for the year ending March 31, compared with a previous
prediction of 34 billion yen, according to a statement today.
Mitsui O.S.K. said net income will probably be 17 billion yen,
compared with an earlier 30 billion yen forecast.  The Tokyo-based companies are among shipping lines to have
delayed the introduction of peak-season surcharges on Asia-U.S.
container routes this year as retailers slow imports on concerns
about  consumer spending . Rates for chartering out commodity
ships have also fallen 34 percent in a year on overcapacity,
while fuel costs have climbed alongside higher crude prices.  “The biggest drag will be container-shipping,” said Janet Lewis, a Hong Kong-based analyst at Macquarie Capital Securities
Ltd. “The dry-bulk sector isn’t going to clear up any time soon
either.”  Kawasaki Kisen Kaisha Ltd. (9107) , Japan’s No. 3 shipping line,
reiterated its forecast for a 2 billion yen net income this
fiscal year. It cut its operating forecast to a 5 billion yen
loss from a 6 billion yen profit.  Car Shipments  The three Japanese shipping lines, which all reported
first-quarter losses compared with year-earlier profits, have
also suffered from declining demand for car shipments after the
nation’s March 11 earthquake disrupted production. Vehicle
exports plunged 68 percent in April, the biggest drop since the
Japan Automobile Manufacturers Association began compiling the
data in 1973.  “Cars hurt them in the first quarter,” said Lewis.
“Still, that will probably be the highest profit source for
them for the rest of the year.”  Mitsui O.S.K. fell 0.5 percent to 405 yen at the 3 p.m.
close of trading in  Tokyo . Nippon Yusen dropped 0.7 percent to
283 yen. K-Line declined 1.6 percent to 253 yen. All three
shipping lines　have slumped more than 20 percent this year.  Container-shipping rates have fallen on Asia-U.S. and Asia-
Europe routes as the global fleet expands and demand cools. The
slowdown has prompted shipping lines to delay the introduction
of a peak-season levy of $400 per 40-foot container on Asia-U.S.
shipments to Aug. 15 from June 15.  The global fleet of dry-bulk carriers will also grow 13
percent this year, outpacing a 4 percent increase in traffic,
according to Clarkson Research Services Ltd., a unit of the
world’s largest shipbroker. The Baltic Dry Index, a benchmark
for commodity-shipping rates, closed at 1,278 yesterday, after
falling for a 15th session in a row.  The price of 380 Centistoke marine bunker fuel, used by
ships, traded at $686.50 a metric ton yesterday in  Singapore .
It’s jumped 55 percent in a year.  For the first quarter, Mitsui O.S.K. reported a loss of 8
billion yen, compared with a 20.8 billion yen net income a year
earlier. Nippon Yusen posted a 7.2 billion yen loss after a 23
billion yen profit. K-Line had a 3.7 billion yen loss, versus a
15.8 billion yen profit.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Chris Cooper  in Tokyo at 
 ccooper1@bloomberg.net ;
Kiyotaka Matsuda in Tokyo at 
 kmatsuda@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  