-- 
Nissan Sells Peso Debt as Overseas Costs Climb: Mexico Credit

-- B y   A n d r e s   R .   M a r t i n e z
-- 
2011-07-29T11:47:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-29/nissan-sells-peso-debt-as-overseas-costs-climb-mexico-credit.html
Carlos Slim ’s Banco Inbursa SA and
Nissan Motor Co. of Tokyo are leading the busiest month for
Mexican peso debt sales since April as benchmark peso yields
fall to an eight-month low and borrowing costs rise overseas.  Local corporate offerings totaled 14.9 billion pesos in
July, the most in three months, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Mexican companies borrowed $2.1 billion in the dollar
bond market in June and July after borrowing $4.7 billion in the
previous two months. Issuance by companies in  Brazil ’s local
market fell to 2.4 billion reais ($1.5 billion) this month from
3.7 billion reais in June.  The slowest inflation in almost five years is driving down
borrowing costs in  Mexico  while concern the U.S. may default is
making it more expensive to sell debt abroad. As policy makers
raise benchmark  interest rates  from Brazil to  China , Mexico’s
central bank has kept its target rate at a record low 4.5
percent, helping prompt Nissan and Inbursa to sell 8.5 billion
pesos of debt this month.  “It’s just easier in the short-term right now to issue in
pesos,” Araceli Espinosa, a debt analyst at  Scotia Capital ,
said in a telephone interview from Mexico City. “Foreign
investors don’t want to risk too much right now, so they go into
the peso debt market, where there is less uncertainty.”  Yields on Mexican government peso bonds due in 2024, the
benchmark for companies, sank 26 basis points, or 0.26
percentage point, in July to 6.94 percent, the lowest since
November. The extra yield investors demand to own Mexican
corporate dollar bonds instead of U.S. Treasuries grew 14 basis
points to 326 over the same period.  Annual inflation in  Latin America ’s second-biggest economy
slowed to 3.28 percent in June, compared with 6.71 percent in
Brazil, from 3.69 percent a year earlier. Mexico’s rate touched
a five-year low of 3.04 percent in March.  Rate Outlook  The slowdown in consumer price increases prompted traders
on July 19 to push back bets for a boost in interest rates for a
10th time this year.  Banco de Mexico , the only central bank in a
major Latin American country to leave borrowing costs unchanged
in the past year, will wait at least until April to raise the
key rate from 4.5 percent, futures trading shows.  Banco Inbursa, the banking unit of Slim’s Grupo Financiero
Inbursa SAB, sold around 5 billion pesos of three-year bonds to
yield 20 basis points over the 28-day TIIE interbank lending
rate on July 21.  Luis Frias Humphrey, Inbursa’s director of corporate
banking, didn’t return a phone message.  NR Finance Mexico SA, Nissan’s local credit unit, issued
2.5 billion pesos of debt due in 2014 to yield 50 basis points
above the 28-day interbank lending rate on July 27.  A Nissan press official in Mexico City referred calls to a
spokesman in  Japan , who didn’t immediately return an e-mail for
comment after business hours.  Corporate Offerings  Mexican corporate offerings totaled 113.4 billion pesos
this year, up 11 percent from the same period in 2011, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. Mexican companies sold $12.1
billion abroad in 2011, down 40 percent from the year-earlier
period.  “Dollar debt issuances have slowed down because of the
uncertainty in the U.S., because of the debt limit talks,”
Arnulfo Rodriguez, the head of fixed-income research at
Citigroup Inc.’s Banamex unit, said in a telephone interview in
Mexico City. “Mexico has good fundamentals.”  Democrats were working yesterday to break an impasse over
raising the U.S. debt limit by devising a strict enforcement
mechanism to guarantee future deficit savings, according to
party officials. The U.S. House delayed a vote on Speaker  John Boehner ’s debt-ceiling increase.  ‘Political Issue’  Mexican companies will return to the dollar  debt market 
after the  U.S. Congress  and President  Barack Obama  reach an
agreement to raise the debt ceiling and avoid default, said
 Alejandro Hernandez , who helps manage about $1.5 billion of debt
at Interacciones Casa de Bolsa SA in Mexico City.  Dollar issuance is “going to get back on track slowly,”
Hernandez said in a telephone interview. “The debt ceiling is a
political issue more than anything with upcoming elections next
year. The world’s largest economy is not going to default.”  The extra yield investors demand to hold Mexican government
dollar bonds instead of U.S. Treasuries narrowed two basis
points to 126 at 7:44 a.m. New York time, according to JPMorgan
Chase & Co.  The cost to protect Mexican debt against non-payment for
five years fell one basis point to 111 basis points, according
to data provider CMA, which is owned by CME Group Inc. and
compiles prices quoted by dealers in the privately negotiated
market. Credit-default swaps pay the buyer face value in
exchange for the underlying securities or the cash equivalent if
a government or company fails to adhere to its debt agreements.  The peso dropped 0.4 percent to 11.7572 per  U.S. dollar .  Futures Contracts  Yields on futures contracts for the 28-day TIIE interbank
rate due in April fell four basis points to 5 percent,
indicating traders expect the central bank to raise benchmark
borrowing costs that month.  Local debt issuance in Mexico will keep rising because
central bankers will hold the benchmark rate at a record low
through this year, Banamex’s Rodriguez said.  “There is no fundamental reason in Mexico for rates to
rise,” Rodriguez said. “Mexico is not having any of the same
fundamental problems that other countries are having.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andres R. Martinez in Mexico City at 
 amartinez28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  