-- 
Nomura, Daiwa to Cut Costs as Losses Build Overseas, Japan Economy Falters

-- B y   T a k a h i k o   H y u g a
-- 
2011-08-01T06:30:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-29/nomura-profit-climbs-more-than-sevenfold.html
Nomura Holdings Inc. (8604)  and  Daiwa
Securities Group Inc. (8601) ,  Japan ’s largest brokerages, plan to cut
costs as the faltering local economy, Europe’s sovereign credit
crisis and U.S. debt impasse weigh on earnings.  Nomura plans to trim expenses annually at its wholesale
unit by about $400 million, the Tokyo-based company said July 29
after reporting that a one-time gain boosted first-quarter
profit more than sevenfold. Daiwa, whose loss for the three
months ended June 30 widened from a year earlier, said it plans
to merge two units and reassign staff to curb outlays.  The securities firms’ overseas units posted their biggest
pretax loss in at least five quarters, driven by higher salaries
abroad as they seek to compete with Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and
 Citigroup Inc. (C)  Nomura, which bought some Lehman Brothers
Holdings Inc. units in 2008, plans to reallocate employees or
trim jobs in its wholesale business.  “Starting cost cutting means Nomura is finally impinging
on what has been Lehman’s untouchable legacy,” said  Fumiyuki Nakanishi , senior strategist at SMBC Friend Securities Co. in
Tokyo. “Japan’s leaders are now restructuring their businesses,
signaling that they couldn’t obtain good results overseas
despite expectations and they’re even struggling with retail
businesses at home.”  Daiwa’s Loss  Nomura’s net income advanced to 17.8 billion yen ($230
million) for the three months ended June 30 from 2.3 billion yen
a year earlier, the Tokyo-based brokerage said last week. That
compared with a 13.7 billion yen average estimate of 11 analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg News. Daiwa’s loss widened to 9.4 billion
yen from 1.2 billion yen.  Shares of the two firms climbed today along with Japanese
stocks after U.S. lawmakers agreed to raise the federal debt
limit and cut the deficit. Nomura rose 1.1 percent to 380 yen at
the close in  Tokyo , paring its loss this year to 26 percent.
Daiwa gained 1.5 percent to 341 yen, trimming its 2011 decline
to 18 percent, compared with a 20 percent drop in Goldman Sachs
and 18 percent for Morgan Stanley.  Nomura’s overseas businesses posted a pretax loss of 32.8
billion yen in the quarter, the biggest in at least five
quarters. At Daiwa, the loss was 8.2 billion yen, the most in
seven quarters.  Investment banks around the world are struggling to boost
earnings as equity markets tumble on increased concern about
government debt in Europe and the U.S.  Job Cuts  Credit Suisse Group AG plans to cut about 2,000 jobs after
second-quarter profit fell 52 percent on lower earnings from
trading. Goldman Sachs said last month it will cut about 1,000
jobs as fixed-income revenue dropped.  UBS AG (UBSN)  scrapped its 2014
profit target and announced cost cuts after second-quarter
profit at  Switzerland ’s largest bank slid 49 percent.  Daiwa plans to integrate an  investment banking  unit with a
brokerage division by March 31 to contain expenses that have
climbed as it expands in  Asia . Personnel costs rose 13 percent
last quarter from a year earlier.  “With Japan’s earthquake, power issues and rise in the yen,
as well as the European sovereign-debt crisis and inflation in
emerging markets, Daiwa is in an environment that requires
caution,” Chief Executive Officer Takashi Hibino said in a
statement on its website July 29. “We will ensure a strong
business platform by continuing with the restructuring.”  Moving Staff  Hibino said in May he plans to move staff from support
positions to the sales force to control headcount and boost
revenue. About 250 employees out of 2,050 in planning, treasury
and system operations have joined Daiwa’s sales force, the
company said last week. About 200 investment bankers have
shifted to retail sales.  Nomura benefited from a 24.3 billion yen accounting gain
after increasing its stake in  Nomura Real Estate Holdings Inc. (3231) 
to 51 percent, last week’s results showed. Revenue climbed 36
percent to 427 billion yen in the three-month period.  “In some respects this is a creditable result but Nomura
still faces an uphill struggle to expand revenues while
controlling costs to improve its returns,” said David Marshall,
an analyst at research firm CreditSights Inc. in  Singapore .
“The $400 million of cost saving they plan will help but only
to a limited extent and the key is to strengthen their franchise
and build revenues.”  Investment Banking Slump  Investment banking fees dropped 32 percent from a year
earlier to 13.8 billion yen, the lowest in five quarters.
Brokerage commissions slipped 18 percent while trading profit
rose 13 percent. Staffing expenses climbed 12 percent.  Nomura’s U.S. operations had a pretax profit of 501 million
yen, the firm reported. In  Europe , the company lost 31.7 billion
yen, and in Asia it lost 1.5 billion yen.  The brokerage will continue to hire in the Americas “in a
focused manner,” Jesse Bhattal, chief executive officer of
Nomura’s wholesale division, said in an interview on July 29.
“We will continue to invest a disproportionate share of
investment dollars in the U.S.”  The securities firm was No. 23 among managers of global
equity transactions last quarter, arranging $1.2 billion in
sales, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  The plans to cut costs “shows they couldn’t be globally
competitive enough to rival Goldman or UBS three years after
acquiring Lehman,” SMBC’s Nakanishi said. “It also illustrates
its domestic business is not getting profitable enough to cover
a decline in investment banking and overseas businesses.”  Operations in Japan, which account for more than half of
Nomura’s revenue, have suffered as equity underwriting declined
following the record earthquake that struck in March.  Domestically, Nomura was selected as a lead underwriter on
July 15 for Japan Airlines Co.’s initial public offering. It
will compete with Goldman Sachs, Citigroup, Daiwa and SMBC Nikko
Securities Inc. to arrange Nikko Asset Management Co.’s initial
public offering, the first debut share sale by a major Japanese
asset manager in a decade.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Takahiko Hyuga in Tokyo at 
 thyuga@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  