-- 
Nursing Homes to Absorb $3.87 Billion U.S. Medicare Cut in 2012

-- B y   D r e w   A r m s t r o n g
-- 
2011-07-29T21:23:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-29/nursing-homes-drop-as-medicare-says-it-will-cut-3-87-billion-in-paymemnts.html
Nursing home operators led by
 Kindred Healthcare Inc. (KND)  and  Sun Healthcare Group Inc. (SUNH)  will see
Medicare payments drop by $3.87 billion, following an April
proposal designed to remedy overpayments to the industry, the
U.S.  said . The industry’s shares fell in after-market trading.  The 11.1 percent cut for 2012 announced today follows
Medicare’s finding that a new payment system put in place this
year let for-profit homes drive up reimbursements for patients. 
Sun Healthcare dropped as much as 21 percent at 4:46 p.m. New 
York time in trading after the close of the Nasdaq Stock Market.  The new rates “correct for an unintended spike in payment
levels and better align Medicare payments with costs,”
according to a statement by Medicare, the U.S. health plan for
the elderly and disabled. The American Health Care Association,
the industry’s Washington lobby group, said Medicare is moving
too fast and that nursing homes have no time to adjust.  The cut “makes reductions beyond what is necessary,” said
Mark Parkinson, chief executive officer of the association, in
an e-mail. “This drastic reduction will be especially
challenging for skilled nursing facilities to manage.”  Following Sun Healthcare, based in  Irvine ,  California ,
 Foothill Ranch , California-based  Skilled Healthcare Group Inc. (SKH) 
was down 16 percent in after-market trading. Kindred, of
Louisville,  Kentucky , fell 14 percent.  Draft Rules  In the draft rules put out on April 28, Medicare proposed
cutting payments to nursing homes by $3.94 billion. A billing
provision in Medicare’s new payment system, which went into
effect at the beginning of this year, brought the companies $2.1
billion in extra payments, according to a July report by the
U.S. Department of Health and Human Services inspector general.  Nursing home groups had lobbied to stop the cuts, or at
least shrink them. In a June 24 letter to  Donald Berwick , the
head of the U.S. Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services, 152
U.S. House representatives asked the agency to delay cuts and
study the issue further.  Medicare wanted to clamp down on a practice allowing
nursing homes to categorize patients as getting the most intense
services that the program will pay for. This year’s new payment
system left a billing code open that allowed nursing homes to
bill for higher rates while providing the same amount of
service. Companies used that process to avoid lower revenue,
according to Medicare.  The regulation shuts down that billing method, according to
Medicare. It will also require nursing homes to report in more
detail the therapies Medicare pays them to provide.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Drew Armstrong in Washington at 
 darmstrong17@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Adriel Bettelheim at 
 abettelheim@bloomberg.net . 