-- 
NYC Residents May Lose Medicaid, Social Security on U.S. Default,Liu Says

-- B y   H e n r y   G o l d m a n
-- 
2011-07-29T22:04:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-29/nyc-residents-may-lose-medicaid-social-security-on-u-s-default-liu-says.html
New York City  may lose about $3
billion a month in social security, Medicare and Medicaid
payments to the elderly, poor and disabled if the  U.S. Congress 
fails to extend the debt limit, city Comptroller  John Liu  said.  The city’s borrowing costs may rise and its pension-fund
investments may lose value in the aftermath of a congressional
failure to compromise over the issue, he said.  Liu recommended the immediate creation of an emergency
“Debt Ceiling  Task Force ,” with representatives of his office,
Mayor  Michael Bloomberg ’s budget office and the City Council to
deal with a potential failure to extend the debt limit.  New York City, where officials anticipate borrowing more
than $9.3 billion for capital projects this fiscal year,
“stands to be affected by the growing market turmoil and to a
greater extent by fallout if the current failures in  Washington 
are not resolved promptly,” Liu said in the statement.  President Barack Obama today said Republicans and Democrats
are in “rough agreement” on their plans to raise the nation’s
debt limit with just four days before a threatened U.S. default
and the time for compromise is “now.”  About 1.1 million elderly and disabled city residents
receive Social Security payments averaging $1,063 a month,
totaling about $1.16 billion, Liu said in an e-mailed  advisory 
on the impact of the debt limit.  Federal and state funds accounted for $1.8 billion, or 81
percent, of Medicaid expenses in June, Liu said.  3 Million Individuals  “Any delay in the receipt of Medicaid funding would impact
the financial condition of hospitals, service providers and the
city’s Medicaid population of close to 3 million individuals,”
he wrote in the statement.  Any halt in Medicare benefits for about 1 million elderly
enrollees in the city could reduce revenue to the city’s public
hospital system by more than $50 million a month, he said.
Delays in federal public assistance payments totaling about $44
million a month, and another $20 million in state support, could
affect “millions of people and thousands of service
providers,” Liu said.  The city’s pension funds would be able to pay their
beneficiaries with more than $7 billion in short-term securities
the funds hold, Liu said. The funds’ investments and asset
allocations “will need to be reviewed for the longer term
implications” of a failure to extend the debt limit, he said.  Representatives of the mayor and City Council Speaker
 Christine Quinn  didn’t immediately respond to requests for
comment about Liu’s statement.  The mayor is founder and majority owner of Bloomberg News
parent Bloomberg LP.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Henry Goldman in New York  City Hall  at   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net . 