-- 
Obama and Geithner May Regret Threats of Default: Caroline Baum

-- B y   C a r o l i n e   B a u m
-- 
2011-07-29T00:00:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-29/obama-geithner-may-regret-threats-of-default-commentary-by-caroline-baum.html
I’m sitting at my computer, watching
the  national debt clock  tick relentlessly higher, as if to
challenge me to make mental computations. How long does it take
the U.S. to accumulate an additional $1,000 in debt?  Answer: Faster than my eyes can move from the screen to the
second hand of my watch. At that pace, how long would it take to
add $1 billion? $1 trillion? Too many zeroes for my brain.  This is just a distraction -- for me and for Washington
politicians. We’re both trying to avoid getting down to work.  For Washington’s part, the short-term focus on raising the
$14.3 trillion debt limit by the Treasury’s Aug. 2 deadline has
become a diversion from the nation’s long-term fiscal problems.
The federal government has to rein in the growth of its debt so
that it becomes manageable in relation to the size of the
economy.  You wouldn’t know it from listening to the lecturer in
chief Monday night. In his  address  to the nation, President
 Barack Obama  resorted to many of his favorite divide-and-conquer
techniques, more suited to warfare than politics, in an attempt
to demonstrate he is rising above the fray.  He blamed  George W. Bush , this time for squandering the
 budget surplus  the former president inherited. He played the
class-warfare card, setting up a choice between corporate-jet
owners and senior citizens, between hedge fund managers and
their secretaries. He compared himself to  Ronald Reagan , a
comparison that challenges even the wildest imagination. And he
scared the public and investors with the threat of default, even
as he insisted on a debt-limit extension through the 2012
election to spare the economy further damage.  Default Defined  All this while invoking the spirit of compromise and the
need to “come together as one nation.”  Obama’s Washington-knows-best attitude was on display
Monday night when he said most Americans outside of  Washington 
had probably never heard the term “debt ceiling” before.  The only way Americans could possibly be unfamiliar with
the term is if they had tuned out the president for the last few
weeks. The president and his Treasury secretary,  Tim Geithner ,
have taken every opportunity to fan the default flames, even
though such an outcome is highly unlikely.  Default is defined as the failure to make timely payment of
principal and interest. Standard and Poor’s uses that
definition, specifically as it pertains to market debt, when it
issues its sovereign debt ratings.  Scare Tactics  The Treasury is not going to default in August, nor in
subsequent months for that matter. An estimated $172.4 billion
of  tax revenue  next month is more than enough to cover the $29
billion of August interest payments. For fiscal 2011, which ends
Sept. 30, the Treasury is expected to take in revenue of $2.2
trillion, while only $214 billion is needed to service the debt.  And even if it lacks the authority for new borrowing, the
Treasury can continue to roll over existing debt.  Instead of dangling the default threat every chance they
get, Obama and Geithner should be telling the world that the
U.S. has every intention, and the resources, to meet its debt
obligations. They should shout it from the rooftops, put a
banner on the Treasury Direct  website , and use the Sunday talk
shows to reassure investors, not frighten them.  The administration’s stated desire to remove the
uncertainty hanging over the economy flies in the face of their
saber-rattling. Why, one might even conclude that they are --
perish the thought -- playing politics with the debt ceiling!
(Oh, wait, it’s the Republicans who are doing that.)  Signs of Stress  Until this week, financial markets were taking Washington’s
fiscal follies in stride. Surely these folks won’t prevent the
government from making good on the spending decisions of prior
Congresses.  In the past two days, the discount rate on Treasury bills
maturing on Aug. 4 has gone from 0.05 percent to 0.15 percent.
This week’s 5- and 7-year note auctions met with tepid demand.
The price of a one-year credit default swap on the U.S., a
derivative contract that offers default protection, rose to a
record 80 basis points from 46 basis points last week.  Just because the U.S. isn’t going to default doesn’t mean
it can pay all its obligations, including Social Security and
veterans’ benefits, payments to defense contractors and money
distributed to the states. The federal government borrows about
40 cents of every dollar it spends, so it would have to
prioritize its payments if Congress fails to raise the debt
ceiling by next week.  A failure to pay its bills may be cruel and unusual
punishment for seniors who rely on their monthly checks; it may
hurt an already weak economy; it may cause chaos and disruptions
in financial markets; and it may leave a scar on a great nation.
But it does not qualify as a default.  Likelihood of Downgrade  That said, an increase in the debt ceiling is no guarantee
the U.S. will retain its AAA rating. When S&P put the U.S.’s top
rating on CreditWatch on July 14, indicating a 50 percent chance
of a downgrade in the next 90 days, it made clear that its
decision would be contingent on both a debt-limit increase and a
“credible solution to the rising U.S. government debt burden.”  One way or another, Congress will raise the debt ceiling by
Aug. 2. I wish I had the same confidence watching the Washington
play-by-play that S&P’s second criterion will be satisfied.  ( Caroline Baum , author of “Just What I Said,” is a
Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Caroline Baum in  New York  at 
 cabaum@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Mary Duenwald   mduenwald@bloomberg.net . 