-- 
Obama Fuel-Efficiency Goals Put Automakers Ahead of 100-Year Pace

-- B y   D a v i d   W e l c h   a n d   A n g e l a   G r e i l i n g   K e a n e
-- 
2011-07-29T18:25:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-29/obama-fuel-efficiency-goals-put-automakers-ahead-of-pace-cars.html
When President  Barack Obama  proposed
new fuel-economy standards today, he set a pace that’s more
aggressive than the industry has managed in the past four years
-- or for any sustained period in the last 100.  With the introduction of cars such Nissan Motor Co.’s
electric Leaf and the proliferation of  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203) ’s
hybrid Prius,  fuel efficiency  has gained almost 2 percent a year
on average since 2007, according to U.S. data. To meet Obama’s
targets, automakers need to improve cars by 5 percent a year and
trucks by 3.5 percent most years.  Accelerating the improvements will be possible with lighter
vehicles, smaller engines and fuel-saving technologies such as
fuel-injectors and turbochargers. Obama’s plan is for the
average vehicle by 2025 to be rated by the Environmental
Protection Agency at 54.5 mpg, a level that translates to about
37 mpg on a window sticker.  “The car companies will have to adopt technology at a
faster pace than they would like,” said  Jeremy Anwyl , chief
executive officer of Edmunds.com, a  Santa Monica , California-
based auto-research website for consumers. “Trucks will get a
bit of a break but the standards will still be a stretch.”  Obama has pledged to reduce dependence on imported oil by a
third, and he said the standards announced today are aimed at
helping him attain that goal as well as reducing greenhouse-gas
emissions. California, which has the authority to set its own
rules that are stronger than federal regulations, is helping
write the national fuel-economy standards.  Not George Jetson  “All the companies have the technology to achieve these
standards,”  Dan Becker , director of the Safe Climate Campaign,
said in an interview. “It will require more extensive use of
better engines, improved transmissions, high-strength,
lightweight materials, better aerodynamics. But it’s not going
to require cars to turn into George Jetson-type vehicles.”  The average fuel economy of new vehicles rose to 29.3 mpg
last year from 26.6 mpg in 2007, the  U.S. said .  The administration is seeking to more than double the EPA-
rated fuel economy of the vehicles sold in the U.S. in less than
two decades. Given that the  1908 Model T  was estimated to have
gotten about 17 mpg, it would be about five times the progress
made in the previous century. Some in the industry question
whether the increases can be achieved or will be too expensive.  ‘Not Doable’  “It’s not doable unless there’s enough in the fine print
that they won’t have to get there anyway,” said Eric Noble
president of The CarLab, an automotive consulting firm in
Orange,  California . “It’s not achievable, nor would consumers
accept those vehicles.”  Automakers may try to weaken the standards during a mid-
term review that people familiar with the proposal have said is
included, said Becker, who is based in Washington.  “The automakers insisted on a mid-term review,” Becker
said. “We are concerned that that review will be an opportunity
for automakers to lobby to try to end or weaken that program.”  The corporate average fuel economy, or CAFE, figure is
based on a vehicle’s performance in laboratory tests rather than
real-world driving conditions, and is typically higher than the
window-sticker figure consumers see when shopping. For example,
Toyota’s 2011 Prius hybrid, with a window sticker of 50 mpg in
combined city and highway driving, has a CAFE test rating of 71
mpg, according to the Union of Concerned Scientists, an
environmental-advocacy group.  Seven Models  Seven models currently available for sale get 39 mpg or
more, about what would be needed to meet the 2025 standard.
That’s more than twice as many as three years ago, because of
new entries, such as  Ford Motor Co. (F) ’s Fusion hybrid and  General
Motors Co. (GM) ’s  Chevrolet Volt  plug-in hybrid.  While the technologies will add to the price of a new
vehicle, the  Boston Consulting Group  say that the cost could be
as low as $2,000 per car. In the past, automakers have opposed
CAFE rules even as fuel economy has improved and vehicles became
more affordable.  “The new rules won’t change how cars behave,” said John
German, a project manager with the International Council on
Clean Transportation, an environmental public-policy group in
Washington. “Consumers will have to pay more for vehicles up-
front but they will get back the cost in fuel savings.”  The new rules will add more cost as automakers offer more
technology such as hybrid-electric systems, turbochargers for
smaller engines and lightweight materials. They will also shrink
engines to boost efficiency.  Estimates Vary  Analysts differ on how much costs will rise to pay for that
technology. The EPA estimates that it will cost about $2,400 a
vehicle to improve fuel economy by 5 percent a year from 2017 to
2025.  Boston Consulting Group estimates that it would cost about
$2,000 a vehicle to improve fuel economy from a 26 mpg today to
39 mpg by 2020.  The Center for Automotive Research in  Ann Arbor ,  Michigan ,
estimates that it would cost $8,214 a vehicle to hit 56 mpg. CAR
predicts that the government will have to revise the standards
downward because the costs will be too high for consumers, said
Jay Baron, the group’s president.  The costs should be lower than $8,000 a car because new
technologies will get cheaper as automakers spend more time
developing them, said  Jim Hall , principal of 2953 Analytics
Inc., a consulting firm in Birmingham, Michigan.  While vehicle prices will increase, it’s too early to tell
by how much, said  Jim Lentz , president of Toyota’s U.S. sales
unit.  “The million-dollar question is what type of technologies
are going to be embraced by the consumer,” Lentz said in an
interview after Obama’s announcement.  Tough Stuff  “Is the regulation tough? You’re damned right it is,”
Hall said. “You’ll get smaller engines and some cars will get
lower performance. Costs will go up, but I can’t say that they
will be more expensive in inflation-adjusted dollars.”  Because the proposed rules don’t take effect for six years
and govern cars sold in the next decade, it’s difficult to
accurately assess how much more cars could cost, Hall said.  Which estimate is correct will make a big difference for
consumers. In five years of ownership, EPA estimates consumers
will save $4,710, twice its cost estimate, and CAR sees savings
of $4,363, or half of its projected expense.  While vehicles became more efficient over the last four
years, their cost relative to wages declined. It took 23.2 weeks
of median family household income to earn as much as the average
vehicle price in the first quarter of this year, down from 24.7
weeks four years earlier, according to Dallas-based Comerica
Bank.  To meet the new fuel rules, carmakers are all looking at
smaller engines, said Anwyl, the Edmunds.com CEO. Pickups are
already selling in higher volumes with V-6 engines.  In June, Ford sold more F-150 pickups with its turbo-
charged V-6 than those with V-8 engines for the first time since
the 1980s. Ford is also working on a turbo-charged three-
cylinder engine for its Fiesta subcompact and Focus compact,
both of which run on a four-cylinder engine now.  GM, Luxury  GM is pushing hybrids and diesel cars to the U.S. market.
While diesel-powered passenger cars have typically been the
domain of European carmakers like  Volkswagen AG (VOW)  and Daimler AG’s
Mercedes-Benz,  Chevrolet  plans to sell a diesel version of its
Cruze compact in 2013 that may get more than 40 mpg.  GM is also putting an electric motor and lithium-ion
battery pack in the Chevrolet Malibu sedan in early 2013 to get
38 mpg on the highway.  Luxury cars may need to make the biggest adjustment to meet
future regulations. Already, luxury carmakers are downsizing
their engines and adding turbochargers to give well-heeled car
enthusiasts the power they want while meeting regulations.
Mercedes is looking at four-cylinder engines for its hulking S-
class flagship sedan, said Andreas Dinger, partner in the Munich
office of Boston Consulting Group.  BMW is also looking at technology that uses heat from car
exhaust to generate electricity on board a car to operate the
electronic climate control, audio and other appliances, said a
person familiar with the company’s plans. That would save about
15 percent of the fuel used, said the person, who asked not to
be identified before the plans are announced.  Tom Kowaleski, a spokesman for BMW declined to comment on
product plans.  “We are already seeing luxury carmakers downsize
engines,” Dinger said. “They can get the same performance
using turbochargers and other technologies.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 David Welch  in Southfield, Michigan at 
 dwelch12@bloomberg.net ;
Angela Greiling Keane in  Washington  at 
 agreilingkea@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  