-- 
Lockhart Says Fed May Be Unable to Fix Damage If Debt Deal Isn’t Reached

-- B y   J o s h u a   Z u m b r u n
-- 
2011-07-29T15:16:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-29/lockhart-says-fed-may-be-unable-to-fix-damage-if-debt-deal-isn-t-reached.html
Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta
President  Dennis Lockhart  said the central bank may not be able
to undo the damage to the economy that could be caused if the
U.S. debt ceiling is not increased.  “Don’t look to the Fed to offset the damage that could be
incurred here,” Lockhart said in an interview today with CNBC
television. “It’s just essential that this debt ceiling
increase get done. I am really reticent to speculate on how the
markets would react,” he said.  Lawmakers and the President Barack Obama have been unable
to reach an agreement to raise the government’s borrowing limit,
four days before the  U.S. Treasury  said the country will exhaust
its borrowing authority.  Lockhart said the Fed needs to “wait and see” how the
economy develops before considering further action.  The Fed completed its $600 billion bond purchase program as
scheduled in June and said it would continue to hold  interest
rates  near zero for an “extended period.” The Fed’s target
rate has been in a range of zero to 0.25 percent since December
2008.  “That’s a very accommodative posture,” Lockhart said.
Asked about the need for additional easing, he said “It’s a
very high bar. I don’t completely rule it out, but it’s a high
bar.”  U.S. Economy   The U.S. economy grew less than forecast in the second
quarter, after almost coming to a halt at the start of the year,
the Commerce Department said today.  Gross domestic product climbed at a 1.3 percent annual rate
following a 0.4 percent gain in the prior quarter that was less
than earlier estimated. The median forecast of economists
surveyed by Bloomberg News called for a 1.8 percent increase in
the second quarter. Household purchases, about 70 percent of the
economy, rose 0.1 percent.  Lockhart said that he expects the economy will grow more
quickly in the second half of the year and that he expects “to
see a much better picture when we get to the end of the year
looking back.”  Lockhart, 64, a former Georgetown University professor, has
led the Atlanta Fed since 2007. Fed presidents rotate voting on
monetary policy with Lockhart next voting in 2012.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Joshua Zumbrun  in  Washington  at   jzumbrun@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  