-- 
Lockhart Says U.S. Growth Will Rebound, Fed Should Keep ‘All Options Open

-- B y   S t e v e   M a t t h e w s
-- 
2011-07-29T19:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-29/lockhart-says-u-s-growth-will-rebound-fed-should-keep-all-options-open.html
Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta
President  Dennis Lockhart  said he’s sticking to his forecast for
the economy to pick up in the second half of the year while
saying the central bank should keep all policy tools available.  “If the more optimistic forecast I’ve outlined comes true,
I expect conditions to develop that will support an argument in
favor of policy normalization certainly by the end of 2012,”
Lockhart said in the text of a speech today in Jackson Hole,
 Wyoming . “If however, we’re facing prospects of long and
persistent weakness, I favor keeping all options open.”  The  Federal Open Market Committee  meets Aug. 9 to consider
monetary policy as the two-year-old U.S. economic recovery
slowed. Second-quarter gross domestic product expanded at a 1.3
percent annual rate following a 0.4 percent gain in the prior
quarter that was less than earlier estimated, Commerce
Department figures showed today in  Washington .  “Patience with the current policy is appropriate,”
Lockhart said today.  The Atlanta Fed leader said his “base” forecast is for an
acceleration of growth starting in the current quarter from a
“pretty broad-based slowdown.” In an earlier interview today
with Bloomberg Television, he said he supported a continuation
of current Fed policy, adding there is a “high bar” for
consideration of a third round of asset purchases to stimulate
expansion.  At their last meeting in June, central bankers decided to
keep the Fed’s balance sheet at a record to spur the recovery
after completing $600 billion of bond purchases. They also
repeated their vow to keep  interest rates  near zero for an
“extended period.”  Greater Strength  “I am expecting greater strength in the second half of
2011 and into 2012, accompanied by inflation numbers that
converge to around 2 percent,” he said at a conference
sponsored by the Global Interdependence Center, which promotes
free trade. The Kansas City Fed will hold a separate conference
at  Jackson Hole  next month.  Lockhart cited the research of economists  Carmen Reinhart 
and  Kenneth Rogoff  that shows the recovery from recessions
caused by financial crises take longer.  “While at present I do not see much risk of another
outright recession, I don’t think we can dismiss the possibility
that we’re in a persistent slow-growth recovery, with all the
challenges this presents,” he said.  Reports released this month show retail sales stagnating
and the labor market struggling, with employers adding 18,000
jobs in June and the  unemployment rate  climbing to 9.2 percent
from 9.1 percent in May.  Lockhart, 64, a former Georgetown University professor, has
led the Atlanta Fed since 2007. Fed presidents rotate voting on
monetary policy with Lockhart next voting in 2012.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steve Matthews in Atlanta at 
 smatthews@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  