-- 
Lockhart Favors Keeping Fed Stimulus, Sees No Need for QE3

-- B y   S t e v e   M a t t h e w s   a n d   M i c h a e l   M c K e e
-- 
2011-07-29T16:44:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-29/lockhart-favors-keeping-fed-stimulus-sees-no-need-for-more-bond-purchases.html
Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta
President  Dennis Lockhart  said he favors maintaining record
monetary stimulus and doesn’t see the need for a third round of
asset purchases to stimulate growth.  “We keep policy where it is,” Lockhart said today in a
Bloomberg Television interview in  Jackson Hole ,  Wyoming , after a
government report showed the economy expanded less than forecast
in the second quarter and nearly stalled in the first. “It is
highly accommodative.”  “I don’t think you want to take any policy option off the
table,” he said. At the same time, “There is a high bar to do
another round of quantitative easing.”  The  Federal Open Market Committee  meets Aug. 9 to consider
monetary policy. Second-quarter gross domestic product expanded
at a 1.3 percent annual rate following a 0.4 percent gain in the
prior quarter that was less than earlier estimated, Commerce
Department figures showed today in  Washington .  “We have had a very weak first half,” Lockhart said,
though barriers to growth are subsiding. “The thesis is some
temporary developments in the first half will subside and we
will see stronger growth” of around 3 percent or more in the
second half.  Moderate Inflation  Inflation is likely to moderate as well, the Atlanta Fed
chief said.  “I still believe in the transitory inflation story,”
Lockhart said. “I expect most of the inflation measures to be
converging on” the Fed’s informal target of about 2 percent.  The Fed’s preferred price gauge, which is tied to  consumer
spending  and strips out food and energy costs, climbed at a 2.1
percent pace, the most since the last three months of 2009,
compared with 1.6 percent in the first quarter, as higher oil
and food costs pushed up prices of other goods and services. The
central bank’s longer-term projection is a range of 1.7 percent
to 2 percent.  “I am in a wait-and-see mode” in considering any policy
changes. “I support staying where we are for the time being.”
The Fed’s target interest rate should stay near zero “for the
foreseeable future,” he said.  While expansion has slowed, “the Fed can’t fix every
problem,” Lockhart said. “The Fed’s role is to provide very
supportive conditions” for growth.  Lockhart, 64, a former Georgetown University professor, has
led the Atlanta Fed since 2007. Fed presidents rotate voting on
monetary policy with Lockhart next voting in 2012.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Steve Matthews in Atlanta at 
 smatthews@bloomberg.net ;
 Michael McKee  in New York at 
 mmckee@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  