-- 
Money Funds Have Biggest Redemptions This Year Amid Debt Talks

-- B y   C h a r l e s   S t e i n   a n d   S r e e   V i d y a   B h a k t a v a t s a l a m
-- 
2011-07-29T17:45:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-29/money-funds-report-biggest-redemptions-of-the-year-amid-u-s-debt-impasse.html
Investors last week pulled more
money from money-market mutual funds than any week this year as
U.S. lawmakers failed to resolve the impasse over raising the
debt ceiling.  Withdrawals reached $37.5 billion, with about 70 percent of
the redemptions coming from institutional funds that invest in
U.S. government securities, according to data from the
 Investment Company Institute , a Washington-based trade group.
Investors poured $3 billion into German stock funds in the week
ended July 27, the most since mid-2008, and $1 billion into gold
and precious-metals funds, according to EPFR Global, a
Cambridge, Massachusetts-based research firm.  “This is a unique situation and people are afraid of the
unknown,” said  Peter Crane , president of Crane Data LLC, a
Westborough, Massachusetts-based firm that tracks the $2.6
trillion money-market fund industry. Crane said that last week’s
money fund withdrawals, while higher than normal, didn’t
indicate panic on the part of investors.  The  House of Representatives  last night put off a vote on
Speaker  John Boehner ’s plan to raise the $14.3 trillion debt
ceiling after the Republican lawmaker failed to win enough
support from his own party. The stalemate in  Washington  has
exposed money-market clients to increased danger, including the
potential for a missed interest or principal payment on
 government bonds  as well as “incremental weakening” of overall
 credit quality  for portfolios with U.S. government holdings,
Moody’s Investors Service Inc. said earlier this week in a
statement.  ‘Safe Havens’  Moody’s placed the AAA rating of  U.S. debt  on review for
possible downgrade as the Aug. 2 deadline for raising the
ceiling approaches.  The credit watch has sent investors to perceived “safe
havens” outside the U.S., according to EPFR. German stock funds
tracked by the firm have attracted $15 billion in deposits this
year, compared with $5.5 billion for U.S. equity funds, EPFR
said.  Concerns about the safety of money-market funds have been
overstated, said Brian Reid, the ICI’s chief economist. Low
 interest rates  and lingering concerns about  Europe ’s debt
problems could also be behind the withdrawals from money funds,
Reid said.  “I don’t know of any scenario in which money-market funds
would be disproportionately affected compared to other market
participants by a failure to raise the ceiling,” Reid wrote in
an  article  published yesterday on ICI’s website.  ’Stress-Tested’ Funds  Last week’s redemptions were the largest since the week
ended Dec. 15, 2010, when investors pulled $37.7 billion from
the funds, according to the ICI.  Fidelity Investments , the biggest manager of money funds,
wrote in a commentary to clients yesterday that the firm has
taken steps to ensure the safety of its funds even in the event
of a “severe disruption” in the markets.  “We have stress-tested our money-market mutual funds, and
we believe they can withstand significant market volatility --
far more than the historical largest one-day move in three-month
bills that occurred in the last 40 years,” Tim Huyck, who
manages money-market portfolios at Boston-based Fidelity, wrote
in the commentary.  The firm’s funds exceed their daily and weekly liquidity
requirements -- 10 percent and 30 percent, respectively -- and
have shorter weighted average maturities, Huyck wrote. Money
funds are required to keep a portion of their assets in
securities that can readily be converted to cash.  Fidelity’s funds won’t be forced to sell securities if the
U.S. is downgraded from AAA to AA, the firm said.  ‘Extremely Remote’ Risks  U.S. money-market funds held about $760 billion in
Treasuries, government-agency debt and repurchase agreements in
April, according to New York-based JPMorgan Chase & Co.  David Glocke, who oversees $163 billion in money-fund
assets at  Valley Forge , Pennsylvania-based Vanguard Group Inc.,
said his firm has seen no evidence of withdrawals among the
retail customers it serves.  Data from the ICI show virtually all the withdrawals last
week were made by institutional investors.  “We don’t expect the U.S. will default on its
obligations,” Glocke said in a telephone interview today. He
called the risk of default “extremely remote.”  Vanguard holds more mutual-fund assets than any U.S. firm.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Charles Stein in Boston at 
 cstein4@bloomberg.net ;
Sree Bhaktavatsalam in Boston at 
 sbhaktavatsa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  