-- 
New York’s Carlyle Hotel Sold to Hong Kong Billionaire Cheng

-- B y   N a d j a   B r a n d t
-- 
2011-07-29T20:33:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-29/hong-kong-billionaire-cheng-yu-tung-purchases-new-york-s-carlyle-hotel.html
The family of Hong Kong billionaire
 Cheng Yu-tung  bought five luxury hotels, including  Manhattan ’s
Carlyle, from  Maritz, Wolff & Co.  and Rosewood Corp. for about
$570 million.  The transaction includes Maritz Wolff’s Rosewood Inn of the
Anasazi in  Santa Fe ,  New Mexico , and  Rosewood Little Dix Bay  in
the British Virgin Islands. The other hotels in the deal are
Rosewood Corp.’s Rosewood Crescent Hotel in  Dallas , and Rosewood
Mansion on Turtle Creek, also in Dallas and co-owned by the two
sellers, Philip “Flip” Maritz, co-founder of Maritz Wolff,
said in a telephone interview.  A unit of New World Development Co., controlled by the
Cheng family, agreed last month to buy luxury hotelier  Rosewood
Hotels & Resorts  for $229.5 million from Maritz Wolff and
Rosewood Corp., a Dallas-based firm that manages 19 properties
including the Carlyle and Rosewood Mansion on Turtle Creek.  New World Development plans to expand its international
luxury hospitality presence, the company said when the earlier
deal was announced. Maritz Wolff -- founded by Flip Maritz and
Lew Wolff, co-owner of the Oakland Athletics baseball team -- is
taking advantage of investor interest in the recovering lodging
sector, the founders said in April.  Chinese investors are looking to invest in high-end hotels
in large U.S. cities in anticipation of an influx of travelers
from  Asia , according to Alan Reay, president of Atlas
Hospitality Group in  Irvine ,  California .  China ’s Middle Class  “It is driven by the combination of the strength of the
Chinese economy and the relative strength of their currency to
the dollar,” Reay said in a telephone interview. “They
obviously see the travel industry as a growth industry,
especially with the growing middle class in China, which is
increasingly traveling to other parts of the world.”  Luxury hotels are of particular interest because high-end
lodging has had the biggest recovery after the financial-market
crash in late 2008, he said.  “This deal demonstrates the advantage for Asian investors
willing to use their relatively lower cost of capital and
longer-term investment horizon to acquire strategic investments
here in the U.S.,” Flip Maritz said in a telephone interview.
“This is one of the first truly strategic investments by a
company from that region in a hotel brand with worldwide
ambitions.”  Hotel sales in the Americas may rise as much as 25 percent
this year to $13 billion, buoyed by foreign investors and real
estate investment trusts seeking to deploy cash, brokerage Jones
Lang LaSalle Hotels said in January.  Rising Revenue  Revenue per available room, an industry measure of
occupancy and rate, at hotels with the priciest rooms rose 13
percent to $171.56 in the first quarter, according to
Hendersonville, Tennessee-based  Smith Travel Research Inc . That
was the biggest increase from a year earlier among seven hotel
segments.  Cash flow  at the 188-room Carlyle never dropped below $10
million annually during the recession, according to Flip Maritz.
The hotel has views of the Manhattan skyline, “fine antiques”
in many rooms and “lush velour terry child-sized” bath robes
and slippers for its younger clients, according to its  website .  The Inn of the Anasazi  in downtown Santa Fe is a 58-room
boutique hotel with hand-carved doors, sculptured stairways and
sandstone walls. Little Dix Bay, a luxury resort on Virgin Gorda
in the Caribbean, features ocean-view dining, outdoor showers
and complimentary tennis clinics, according to the hotel’s
 website .  Selling Hotels  Maritz Wolff, based in Los Angeles and founded in 1994, is
now down to stakes in four properties from almost 50 a decade
ago. The firm is planning to return $500 million to investors
over the next four years, it said in April.  “The successful sale of the Carlyle showcases the
reputation and investment success that Flip and I have achieved
over the past decade and a half,” Wolff said in an e-mail.  The company said on June 14 that it’s putting up for sale
its Fairmont San Francisco hotel, a 591-room luxury property in
the city’s Nob Hill neighborhood. Maritz Wolff co-owns the hotel
with Saudi billionaire Prince Alwaleed bin Talal.  U.S. hotel prices peaked at about $153,000 per room in 2006
then plunged 36 percent to a low two years ago, according to New
York-based research company  Real Capital Analytics Inc.  The
average price climbed to $192,479 a room in the second quarter,
helped by a surge in luxury-hotel transactions.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nadja Brandt in  Los Angeles  at 
 nbrandt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  