-- 
Hong Kong’s SFC Said to Choose Herbert Smith’s Ashley Alder as New Chief

-- B y   D e b r a   M a o
-- 
2011-07-29T07:13:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-29/hong-kong-s-sfc-said-to-choose-herbert-smith-s-ashley-alder-as-new-chief.html
Hong Kong’s  Securities and Futures
Commission  will appoint Ashley Alder, the Asia head of law firm
 Herbert Smith  LLP, as its new chief executive officer.  Alder, an executive director of corporate finance at the
regulator from 2001 to 2004, will return to lead the SFC in
October, according to a person familiar with the decision who
declined to be identified because it isn’t public.  Andrew Tortoishell, Herbert Smith’s Greater  China  managing
partner, confirmed the move and said that Alder’s successor will
be finalized “very shortly.”  Patrick Wong , a spokesman for Hong Kong Financial Secretary
and chairman of the selection panel, John Tsang, declined to
confirm Alder’s appointment. Wong said the government would be
making an announcement “quite soon.” The Financial Times
earlier reported the appointment.  Alder, 52, will be responsible for maintaining  Hong Kong ’s
regulatory reputation as the city attracts more initial public
offerings from overseas, at a time when corporate governance in
Chinese companies is being scrutinized by short sellers and
regulators in the U.S. and  Canada . The position has been vacant
since June 8, when Martin Wheatley left to take over the U.K.’s
new Consumer Protection and Markets Authority.  “He needs to both ensure more consistent standards of
oversight of listed companies and resist pressure to over-
regulate and hinder growth,” said James Wadham, a Hong Kong-
based partner at law firm Clifford Chance LLP.  Cnooc, Prada  Alder advised the Hong Kong Futures Exchange on its merger
with the city’s stock exchange in 1999, according to the SFC’s
 announcement  of his previous appointment. He received a Master
of Law with first class honors from  Cambridge University  in 1983,
it said.  At London-based Herbert Smith, he advised on the 2005
initial share sale of Dongfeng Motor Group Co., Cnooc Ltd.’s
2005 attempt to buy Unocal Corp. and the China Petroleum &
Chemical Corp.’s privatization of a Hong Kong-listed unit.  So far this year, the Hong Kong market has attracted $15.3
billion in initial share offerings, including those of Milan-
based Prada SpA, Mansfield, Massachusetts-based Samsonite
International SA, and Baar, Switzerland-based Glencore
International Plc.  In March, the commission identified due diligence lapses in
applications from investment banks for IPOs. Chinese companies
accounted for 45 percent of the HK$21.9 trillion ($2.8 trillion)
capitalization of the stock exchange’s main board as of the end
of April.  Insider Trading   Wheatley’s SFC secured Hong Kong’s  first jail sentence for
insider trading  and he said on his last day in office that the
regulator plans to make bankers legally liable for statements in
prospectuses.  Hong Kong has emerged from the financial crisis as a global
economic center, said Donna Wacker, another partner with the
London-based Clifford Chance’s Asia regulatory group.  “Better regulatory cooperation with mainland China and
other jurisdictions is important to maintain this position,”
Wacker said.  While the International Monetary Fund’s Executive Board
 said in 2010  that said Hong Kong’s financial system was “well-
regulated and supervised,” China’s reputation among investors
have been strained since short sellers accused overseas-listed
Chinese companies like Sino-Forest Corp. and Longtop Financial
Technologies Ltd. of exaggerating operations.  Foreign Nationals  Alder is the fifth foreign national out of six appointed to
lead the Hong Kong agency since its creation in 1989. The only
Chinese national and permanent resident of Hong Kong to have led
the SFC was Anthony Neoh, its chairman from 1995 to 1998.  Profit-per-equity partner at Herbert Smith rose 4.4 percent
to 900,000 pounds ($1.47 million) in the year ended April, the
firm said this month. The SFC’s chief executive officer earned
HK$9.09 million last year, the commission said in its  2010
annual report  .  Herbert Smith’s revenue in  Asia  jumped by 27.6 percent in
the period to 83.2 million pounds, while London turnover fell by
2 percent to 304.9 million pounds.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Debra Mao in Hong Kong at 
 dmao5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Wong at 
 dwong19@bloomberg.net  