-- 
Mortgage REITs Tumble on Financing Concerns Fueled by Debt-Ceiling Impasse

-- B y   J o d y   S h e n n
-- 
2011-07-29T20:22:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-29/mortgage-reits-tumble-on-financing-concerns-fueled-by-debt-ceiling-impasse.html
Real estate investment trusts that
buy mortgage debt tumbled, adding to their biggest weekly loss
in more than a year, on concern the markets that finance them
will be roiled if the U.S. government defaults on its debt.  A Bloomberg index of shares of 32 mortgage REITs, including
New York-based  Annaly Capital Management Inc. (NLY)  and Atlanta-based
 Invesco Mortgage Capital Inc. (IVR) , dropped as much as 8.5 percent
today, the most since May 6, 2010. The stocks pared the losses
to 2 percent at 4:15 p.m. in New York.  The companies fell as the cost of overnight repurchase
agreement, or repo, financing for government-backed mortgage
securities jumped 9 basis points to 20 basis points as of 12:21
p.m., the highest since Jan. 19, according to data from ICAP
Plc. Executives from REITs including Invesco Mortgage,  Hatteras
Financial Corp. (HTS)  and  American Capital Agency Corp. (AGNC)  told analysts
on earnings calls this week that while repo rates were climbing,
the gain was modest and so-called haircuts, or the down payments
required for the loans, weren’t changing.  “This week we’ve seen our financing rates on repo rolls go
up like a basis point or two, but no change in haircuts,”
Richard J. King, Invesco Mortgage’s chief executive officer,
said on a conference call yesterday, according to a transcript.
A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  Increases Vary  Financing terms still haven’t changed “at all” and, while
rates have moved higher, the increase varies by dealer, Invesco
Mortgage Chief Investment Officer John Anzalone said today in a
telephone interview. His company, which invests in both
government-backed agency mortgage securities and other property-
linked debt, is overseen by Invesco Ltd., which manages about
$650 billion of assets.  In repo financing, securities such as Treasuries and
mortgage bonds are sold to a lender with an agreement by the
borrower to buy them back later. Haircuts protect lenders
against price declines in the collateral, in the event the
borrower defaults.  With the U.S. potentially facing an inability to pay its
debt or a credit-rating downgrade, President  Barack Obama  told
the nation today in an address that both parties must support
any plan to cut the deficit and raise the federal debt ceiling
and that a proposal from  House Republicans  won’t meet that test.  Overnight mortgage-bond repo rates have climbed from 0.04
percentage point on July 22, according to ICAP, the world’s
largest inter-dealer broker. Mortgage REIT shares have fallen
6.5 percent over the past week, the biggest weekly decline since
May 2010, according to Bloomberg data.  ‘Nothing Has Changed’  “It’s just an equity market event,” Kenneth A. Steele,
chief financial officer at Winston-Salem, North Carolina-based
Hatteras, said today in a telephone interview. “Nothing has
changed in the things that affect us that we, or anyone we’ve
talked to, has seen.”  Down payments on mortgage-bond and Treasury repo “are
unlikely to rise barring a spike in price volatility and/or a
sharp decline” in values, Credit Suisse Group AG analysts led
by  Mahesh Swaminathan  wrote in a report yesterday.  They now range from 3 percent to 5 percent, depending on
the counterparty, King said.  Mortgage REITs have raised more than $14.2 billion this
year in secondary equity sales and initial public offerings, the
most since at least 2004 and more than the double the previous
high of $6 billion in 2007, according to SNL Financial, a
Charlottesville, Virginia-based financial information and
research provider. Some of the REITs invest in bonds and loans
without government backing, and don’t rely on repo financing.  ‘Unbelievably Strong’  Gary Kain, president of Bethesda, Maryland-based American
Capital Agency, said today in a telephone interview that the
mortgage-bond repo market remains “unbelievably strong.”  A change of 1 percentage point or 2 percentage points in
haircuts would “honestly not be a big event,” because they
have fallen by about 3 percentage points to 4 percentage points
since the start of 2009, and mortgage REITs haven’t responded by
increasing their leverage, which is now about eight times, he
said.  In the event of tighter borrowing terms, REITs generally
have a “very generous buffer” of liquidity that they could use
to avoid selling holdings to raise cash, BNP Paribas SA analyst
Anish Lohokare in  New York  wrote in a report yesterday.  Jay Diamond, a spokesman for Annaly, didn’t return an e-
mail seeking comment.  REITs’ holdings in the $5.2 trillion agency mortgage-bond
market have grown by between about $80 billion and $90 billion
this year as they raised capital, Nomura Securities
International Inc. wrote in a July 15 report. REITs now own
about $190 billion to $200 billion, according to Nomura’s
Ohmsatya Ravi.  Government-backed mortgage bonds rose today.  Fannie Mae ’s 4
percent securities climbed about 0.8 cent on the dollar to 101.6
cents, the highest since Nov. 30, essentially tracking a gain in
similar-duration Treasuries, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jody Shenn in New York at 
 jshenn@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  