-- 
Total Second-Quarter Profit Drops on Lower Libyan Production

-- B y   T a r a   P a t e l   a n d   K a r i   L u n d g r e n
-- 
2011-07-29T16:01:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-29/total-second-quarter-profit-declines-on-libya.html
Total SA (FP) ,  Europe ’s third-largest oil
producer, said second-quarter profit dropped as field
maintenance and Libya shutdowns crimped production.  Adjusted net income fell 6 percent to 2.8 billion euros ($4
billion), or 1.24 euros a share, in line with analyst forecasts.
Production dropped 2 percent to 2.31 million barrels a day, the
Paris-based company said in a statement today. The company will
pay an interim dividend of 57 euro cents a share.  Total,  Repsol YPF SA (REP)  and Eni SpA have suspended or slowed
operations in Libya as the country’s civil war stretches into a
fifth month. Rebel forces, recognized by 30 nations as the
country’s legitimate governing authority, have yet to
significantly widen areas they control. They hold much of the
east and some of the west near Tripoli, while Libyan leader
 Muammar Qaddafi  retains the capital.  “The combination of sustained global demand and
geopolitical troubles increased tensions in the oil market
during the second quarter,” Chief Executive Officer Christophe de Margerie said in the statement.  Eni SpA (ENI) , Italy’s largest energy producer, cut its full-year
production targets today and said second-quarter profit missed
analyst estimates because of the ongoing halt to Libyan oil
output. Production from Libya has fallen to around 50,000
barrels of oil equivalent a day from 280,000 barrels due to the
conflict.  Total declined 59 cents, or 1.5 percent, to close at 37.78
euros in Paris. Eni retreated 20 cents, or 1.3 percent, to 15.18
euros in Milan.  Maintenance Shutdowns  Disruption in Libya cut Total’s global production by 2.5
percent. Combined with maintenance shutdowns, that was enough to
offset gains through acquisitions, including a stake in Russian
gas producer OAO Novatek. Crude oil production in the quarter
dropped 10 percent as natural gas output gained 10 percent.  Libya’s National Transitional Council said June 29 that
they plan to review all contracts, including oil contracts, in
the event of a victory over Qaddafi to make sure that no
corruption was involved in their awarding. Before the conflict
broke out, over 20 percent of the oil imported by Austria,
Ireland and  Italy  was Libyan crude, according to the
 International Energy Agency .  Investment Decisions  In a bid to boost future output, Total plans to make final
investment decisions on the Ichthys LNG project off  Australia ,
Egina in Nigeria, Moho Bilondo in the Republic of Congo and the
Shtokman gas field in  Russia ’s Barents Sea by the end of the
year. New developments in Angola and Nigeria may start later
this year and next. The French  oil company  has said it may raise
investment to about $23 billion annually in the next few years
from about $20 billion to pay for the new ventures  Europe’s biggest refiner said  throughput decreased by 13
percent, compared with 2010. Profits from turning crude into
fuels such as gasoline and diesel in northwest Europe dropped 48
percent in the second quarter from a year earlier. The decline
reflects “unfavorable market conditions for refining,” Total
said, adding that maintenance also reduced capacity.  Brent crude prices averaged $117 a barrel in the second
quarter, a 50 percent increase from a year earlier as economic
expansion fueled energy demand and a war in Libya disrupted
exports. Royal Dutch Shell said yesterday that earnings almost
doubled to $8.66 billion, while  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM)  reported
lower-than-estimated profit due to a slump in international
refining products.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  