-- 
House Passes Bill to Require Review of FDIC Bank-Failure Policy

-- B y   P h i l   M a t t i n g l y
-- 
2011-07-29T21:08:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-29/house-passes-bill-to-require-review-of-fdic-bank-failure-policy.html
The U.S. House backed a bill calling
for the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp.’s watchdog to audit
resolutions of 382 banks since 2008 as lawmakers probe the
biggest wave of shutdowns since the savings-and-loan crisis.  The  legislation  passed unanimously by the Republican-led
House would require the FDIC inspector general to review the
agency’s policies and procedures, including an analysis of
dealings with private-equity firms that sought to buy banks or
their assets.  “There is no greater threat to our communities than  bank
failures ,” said Representative Lynn Westmoreland, the Georgia
Republican who sponsored the bill in response to  67 shutdowns  in
his state since the start of 2008. “It is clear that Congress
needs more information about the underlying causes.”  U.S. regulators have closed banks at the fastest pace since
the early 1990s amid loan losses in the wake of the subprime
mortgage crisis. The FDIC’s confidential list of so-called
problem lenders stood at 888 -- about 12 percent of insured
banks -- at the end of the first quarter, the FDIC said in May.  Westmoreland’s bill would require an examination of loss-
sharing agreements the FDIC has used to attract buyers for
failed bank assets. In those agreements, the agency agrees to
bear a portion of any losses on the assets.  Under the House bill, which would require approval by the
Senate and President Barack Obama to become law, the FDIC
inspector general would work with inspectors general from the
Treasury Department and  Federal Reserve  on the study, and on a
separate review of the agency’s policies with the  Government
Accountability Office , the investigative arm of Congress.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Phil Mattingly in Washington at 
 pmattingly@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lawrence Roberts at 
 lroberts13@bloomberg.net  