-- 
House to Vote on Debt-Ceiling Bill That Obama, Senate Oppose

-- B y   J u l i e   H i r s c h f e l d   D a v i s   a n d   J a m e s   R o w l e y
-- 
2011-07-29T15:09:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-29/house-bids-to-salvage-boehner-debt-ceiling-bill-as-democrats-eye-endgame.html
President  Barack Obama  said
Republicans and Democrats are in “rough agreement” on their
plans to raise the U.S. debt limit with just four days before a
threatened U.S. default and the time for compromise is “now.”  House Republicans  said they have the votes to pass House
Speaker  John Boehner ’s plan today. Obama opposes that plan.
Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid  said he will take action to
move to a vote on his competing plan, and at the same time held
out hope for a deal with Republican leaders.  “This is not a situation where the two parties are miles
apart,” Obama said at the White House. “There are plenty of
ways out of this mess.”  House Republican leaders, four days before a threatened
U.S. default and facing stiff resistance within their ranks to
raising the U.S. debt ceiling, are planning to make a second try
at passing legislation that is headed for a Senate roadblock and
threatened Obama veto.  As the House deadlocked, Reid said today he has asked
Senate Republican leader  Mitch McConnell  to meet with him and
“negotiate in good faith knowing the clock is running down.”  Reid said he will take action in the Senate by the end of
the day on his rival bill.  “This is likely our last chance to save this nation from a
default,” said Reid, after speaking with Treasury Secretary
 Timothy Geithner  about the impact of inaction. “Secretary
Geithner says it’s already started,” Reid said. “The
international community is extremely worried.”  Stocks Fell  U.S. stocks fell, extending four days of losses. The
 Standard & Poor’s 500  dropped 1.1 percent to 1,285.79, its
lowest level for the month, at 9:36 a.m. in  New York . The Dow
slipped 119.42 points, or 1 percent, to 12,120.69.  Boehner was forced forced to scrap action on his measure 
late last night. They are rewriting the bill for a second time
this week after face-to-face meetings with recalcitrant
lawmakers failed to yield the votes to push it through the House.  Skeptics concerned that the plan wouldn’t do enough to rein
in the debt were insisting on conditioning part of the borrowing
boost on congressional passage of a balanced budget amendment to
the Constitution.  The measure should be amended to “something transformative
that transcends election cycles and has some degree of
permanency to it,” said Republican Representative Trey Gowdy of
 South Carolina , a freshman opponent of the measure who met with
House leaders for three hours last night as they struggled
unsuccessfully to build support for the bill.  Boehner’s Challenge  The delay was a setback for Boehner and his leadership
team, forcing them to delay a vote until today. They implored
Republicans to back a measure that Obama’s advisers have said he
would veto and Senate leaders promised to quickly defeat.  The Treasury Department has set an Aug. 2 deadline for
raising the $14.3 trillion debt limit to avert a default. Senate
Democrats, working to break the impasse, were trying to devise a
strict enforcement mechanism to guarantee future deficit
savings, according to Democratic officials.  There was little time to strike a deal, though Democrats
said the demise of the House bill may force a compromise.  “I hope now the Republicans will come back to the table to
negotiate a bipartisan, balanced agreement,” House Minority
Leader  Nancy Pelosi  of California said as she left the Capitol
near midnight. “They’ve taken us really to the brink of
economic chaos.”  Behind the scenes, officials said, talks on a potential
deal centered on how to force future deficit-cutting by
Congress, by setting up consequences -- such as automatic
spending cuts or tax increases, or some combination of the two -
- if the savings aren’t achieved.  Deadlock Before Breakthrough  “Around here, you’ve got to have deadlock before you have
breakthrough,” said Senator Kent Conrad, a North Dakota
Democrat and chairman of the Budget Committee. He said the
question being debated privately is, “How do you assure people
you actually get the savings?”  Boehner’s measure would provide an immediate $900 billion
debt-ceiling increase while cutting spending by $917 billion. It
would allow Obama to seek a second, $1.6 trillion installment of
borrowing authority if Congress enacted a law by Christmas to
slash deficits by $1.8 trillion. That would set up yet another
debt-limit showdown early next year if lawmakers were unable to
agree to such a plan.  Obama has called such an approach unacceptable, saying it
could lead to a downgrade of U.S. credit and continued economic
uncertainty. Democrats are trying to hatch an alternative set of
triggers -- delinked from the debt-limit increase -- to break
the impasse.  Democrats’ Plans  Democrats are united in opposing a two-stage plan that
would force another battle over raising the debt limit in about
six months. All 51 Senate Democrats and two independents signed
a letter pledging to oppose Boehner’s proposal.  If the House measure passes, Reid said he will immediately
move to put it aside, paving the way for Senate votes this
weekend on a possible compromise to avert a default.  The  U.S. Treasury  will give priority to making interest
payments to holders of  government bonds  if lawmakers fail to
raise the debt-ceiling, according to an administration official
who requested anonymity because no announcement has been made.
The Treasury has said about $90 billion in debt matures on Aug.
4, more than $30 billion comes due Aug. 15 and more than $500
billion matures in all of August.  Boehner, an  Ohio  Republican, defended his plan, calling it
“a sincere, honest effort to end this crisis in a bipartisan
way.”  Ordering Pizza  Still, Boehner failed -- while lawmakers and their staffs
ate takeout pizza and scuttled from meeting to meeting in the
Capitol -- to sway holdouts determined to oppose his plan.  A parade of lawmakers, including South Carolinians Gowdy
and  Tim Scott , Jason Chaffetz of  Arizona , Jim Jordan of Ohio,
Dennis Ross of  Florida  and Louie Gohmert of  Texas , emerged from
the sessions last night saying they still couldn’t back the
bill. Voting yes “assures we get to watch them vote it down,”
Gohmert said of the Senate. “That’s not terribly helpful.”  The Senate may begin voting this weekend on an alternative
proposal from Reid to raise the debt ceiling by the full $2.4
trillion Obama has requested, while cutting $2.2 trillion over a
decade. If the Senate can reach a compromise, it could hitch a
ride on that measure and clear Congress within days.  Treasuries advanced as a solution to the budget deadlock
eluded politicians. Yields on 30-year bonds fell today as much
as five basis points to 4.21 percent, the lowest level since
July 20.  Rates on six-month bills due Aug. 4 climbed to 0.24
percent, the highest since they were issued in February, in a
sign investors are growing more concerned lawmakers will fail to
reach an agreement.  Plans Overlap  There is already overlap between Boehner’s plan and Reid’s.
Reid dropped Democrats’ insistence on tax increases. Both
proposals take as their starting points a cut of close to $1
trillion in discretionary spending over 10 years, and both
establish bipartisan congressional committees to recommend
future savings leading to a guaranteed up-or-down vote by year’s
end.  The key question being discussed now, said North Dakota’s
Conrad, is, “If the special committee fails for whatever reason
-- if it deadlocks, if it doesn’t come up with the savings --how
do you have a fallback?”  Obama administration officials are to brief the public no
earlier than after financial markets close today on priorities
for paying the nation’s bills if the debt limit isn’t raised, a
Democratic official said.  Bankers including Goldman Sachs Group Inc. Chairman and
Chief Executive Officer  Lloyd Blankfein  and  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) 
chief  Jamie Dimon  called on Obama and Congress to raise the
federal debt limit to steer the U.S. government away from the
threat of default.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Julie Hirschfeld Davis in Washington at 
 jdavis159@bloomberg.net ;
James Rowley in Washington at 
 jarowley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  