-- 
Overnight Repurchase Rates Increase as U.S. Debt-Limit Deadline Approaches

-- B y   J o h n   D e t r i x h e
-- 
2011-07-29T15:18:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-29/overnight-repurchase-rates-increase-as-u-s-debt-limit-deadline-approaches.html
Rates for borrowing and lending
securities in the repurchase-agreement market increased to the
highest level in five months amid the government stalemate over
raising the nation’s debt ceiling.  The average level of overnight general collateral repo
rates traded through ICAP Plc was 0.20 percent at 10 a.m. in  New
York , when most trading takes place, the highest since Feb. 2.
The rate dropped to 0.001 percent on July 20. Rates averaged
0.05 percent the past three months and 0.15 percent in the last
year, according to ICAP, the world’s largest inter-dealer
broker.  Money-market rates had lingered near year lows as a
reduction in Treasury bill sales and Federal Reserve debt
purchases combined with a Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. fee
change to cause collateral shortages. In a repurchase agreement,
one party provides cash to another in exchange for a security.
Repos are used to finance holdings, meaning movements in the
rates affect the cost of holding the securities.  “We are far from a liquidity crisis,” said Michael Pond,
co-head of interest-rate strategy in New York at Barclays Plc.
“However, the market is saying that the probability of one has
increased.”  Effective Rate  Rates on Treasury six-month bills set to mature Aug. 4,
just after the Aug. 2 deadline for when the U.S. will exhaust
its ability to borrow, rose 13 basis points to 0.27 percent, the
biggest jump and the highest level since the securities were
issued in February, according to Bloomberg Bond Trader data. The
bills are the first government debt securities to mature after
the deadline.  In February, the Treasury eliminated $195 billion in
Supplementary Financing Program bills, or SFPs, it sold on
behalf of the Fed as it sought to help avoid exceeding the U.S.
debt limit. The Treasury reduced the amount of four-week bills
it sold this week by 36 percent, the first decrease since May.  The average rate for overnight federal funds, known as the
fed effective rate, was 0.08 percent yesterday, which compares
with the central bank’s target rate for overnight loans between
banks of zero to 0.25 percent. Securities that can be borrowed
at  interest rates  close to the Fed’s target rate are called
general collateral.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Detrixhe in New York at 
 jdetrixhe1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  