-- 
Pakistani Taliban, Linked to al-Qaeda, Targeted for UN Sanctions

-- B y   B i l l   V a r n e r
-- 
2011-07-29T19:53:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-29/pakistani-taliban-linked-to-al-qaeda-targeted-for-un-sanctions.html
The Taliban in Pakistan, which
claimed responsibility for the failed Times Square bombing in
New York City last year, was targeted today for  United Nations 
sanctions.  The UN  Security Council  added the group, which is formally
known as Tehrik-e-Taliban Pakistan, to the list of entities and
persons linked to al-Qaeda whose assets are frozen and travel
banned.  “Today’s action sends a strong message to those who
support and finance terrorism, and reinforces U.S. efforts to
disrupt, dismantle and defeat al-Qaeda,” Susan Rice, the U.S.
ambassador to the UN, said in a statement.  The Taliban in Pakistan has “clear links to al-Qaeda at
the operational level,” Britain’s Ambassador Mark Lyall Grant
said in a statement. Lyall Grant noted that the U.K. and U.S.
have made a “conscious choice not to seek the wholesale listing
of the Afghan Taliban” out of a desire to support
reconciliation with the government in Kabul.  “But the Afghan Taliban should heed this message,” Lyall
Grant said. “The window will not be open forever. If the
Taliban continue actively to work against the political process,
continue attacks on civilians in Afghanistan and Pakistan and UN
Security Council-backed international forces, then we will seek
the listing of key Taliban leaders, notably on the military
side.”  The U.S. said the Pakistan group has carried out “several
notorious terrorist attacks against United States interests,
including a December 2009 attack on a U.S. military base in
Afghanistan and an April 2010 bombing against the U.S. Consulate
in Peshawar.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bill Varner at the United Nations at 
 wvarner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva in Washington at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  