-- 
Perth’s Home Prices Tumble 5.8% as Mining Boom Bypasses Property Market

-- B y   J a s o n   S c o t t
-- 
2011-07-29T01:58:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-29/perth-s-home-prices-tumble-5-8-as-mining-boom-bypasses-property-market.html
Property prices in  Perth , the center
of  Australia ’s mining boom, may fall further this year after
slumping the most out of any state capital in the past 12 months,
an  Australian Property Monitors  economist said.  “Perth will probably bottom out toward the end of the year
and we’re not looking at a positive turn around until next
year’s first quarter,”  Andrew Wilson , senior economist, said in
a phone interview from Sydney yesterday. “There’s entrenched
low buyer and seller confidence in the market and it’s hard to
turn that around.”  Perth home prices fell 5.8 percent in the 12 months to June
to a median A$535,617 ($588,750), compared with the 2.4 percent
national decline to A$546,121, Wilson said in a report yesterday.
The city’s home prices fell 1.5 percent in the three months to
June, compared with the national average of a 0.6 percent
decline. Unit prices in the city have fallen 6.1 percent in the
past 12 months.  Perth property prices have stalled after doubling between
2004 and 2007 even as the economy booms on the back of  the 
resource-rich Pilbara region. Much of the A$264 billion of
investment planned for Western Australia is being overseen in
the state capital, with work starting on  Chevron Corp. (CVX) ’s A$43
billion Gorgon liquefied natural gas project and BHP Billiton
Ltd. and Rio Tinto Group’s expansions to iron ore operations.  Demand Next Year  “We probably won’t see any improvement in prices this
year,” Alan Bourke, principal at  Bourkes Real Estate , said in a
phone interview from his South Perth agency today. “Hopefully
things will start to recover next year. Some of the top-end
rental properties are starting to be taken by executives in the
resources sector, with a lot of people coming in from Chevron
and the other major players.”  Western Australia’s economy is growing as demand for its
resources remain high, the state’s  Chamber of Minerals & Energy 
said in a July 20 statement. Gross state product is expected to
expand 4.4 percent in the 12 months to June 30, 2012, it said.  “ Western Australia  remains the heavyweight champion of the
Australian investment landscape,” Deloitte Access Economics
said in a separate report yesterday. “The volume of resources
projects underway is huge. Western Australia also has no
shortage of major investment projects in planning.”  About A$264 billion of investment is planned for Western
Australia, compared with $184 billion for the next closest state,
Queensland, Deloitte Access Economics said.  Two Speeds  While Western Australia’s mining and energy industries are
booming, other sectors of the economy, including real estate,
are struggling. Australia’s economy shrank 1.2 percent in the
first quarter, the most since 1991, because of natural disasters.  Australian retail sales unexpectedly dropped in May and
 consumer confidence  this month plunged the most since Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc. collapsed in September 2008. Credit to
home buyers in May increased at the slowest annual pace since
1977, when central bank data begins.  “Once we break the pessimism affecting the non-mining
sector parts of the economy, prices will improve,” said Bourke,
who is also president of the  Real Estate Institute of Western
Australia . “For the long term it’s one of the greatest places
in the world to buy and even the medium term looks good.”  In the Pilbara, 1,500 kilometers (930 miles) to the north
of Perth, mining and energy projects are causing a housing
shortage. Karratha’s median home price in March was about
A$805,000, and the suburb of  Port Hedland ’s was A$1.06 million,
up 25 percent from the year before, REIWA figures show.  Australia’s largest state by area, with 2.6 million square
kilometers (1 million square miles) of land, earned A$93 billion
from minerals and energy exports during 2010, or 68 percent of
the national total.  “Sentiment in Perth’s property market will turn around
because incomes, already the highest in the country, will rise
further, there will be a strong need for accommodation, and new
supply has been limited,” Wilson said. “The resources sector
in Western Australia is extraordinarily strong. The work coming
through is in the pipeline and not speculative.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jason Scott  in Perth at 
 jscott14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  