-- 
Philippine Bonds Drop on Policy Tightening; Peso Gains on Month

-- B y   K a r l   L e s t e r   M .   Y a p
-- 
2011-07-29T09:33:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-29/philippine-bonds-drop-on-policy-tightening-peso-gains-on-month.html
Philippine  government bonds  slid
after the central bank said it was watchful of inflation and
will adjust monetary policy as needed, fueling speculation
there’s more tightening to come.  Benchmark four-year notes fell after the central bank
ordered lenders to set aside more money as reserves yesterday
for the second time this year. Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas kept
its benchmark  interest rate  at 4.5 percent, having announced two
increases of a quarter of a percentage point earlier in the year,
and said inflation may peak next quarter. The peso completed its
best month since September last year.  “The market knows that the monetary tightening cycle is
not over,” said Rafael Algarra, treasurer at Security Bank Corp.
in Manila. “Inflation will still be something to worry about.
It’s going to continue to put pressure on interest rates on
 government securities  to go up.”  The yield on the 4.875 percent July 2015 peso bond rose six
basis points, or 0.06 percentage point, to 4.78 percent as of
4:30 p.m. in Manila, its highest level in a week, according to
prices at Philippine Dealing & Exchange Corp.  Bangko Sentral said yesterday risks to its inflation
forecasts remain “skewed to the upside.”  Consumer prices increased 5.2 percent in June from a year
earlier, the biggest gain since April 2009, according to data
from the  National Statistics Office  using 2006 as a base year.
Inflation was 4.6 percent using 2000 as a base year. The central
bank targets an average annual inflation rate of 3 percent to 5
percent this year and next, using the 2000 series.  The peso advanced 2.8 percent in July to 42.147 per dollar,
according to Tullett Prebon Plc, its biggest monthly gain since
September. The currency climbed 0.6 percent this week as the
debt crisis in  Europe  and the U.S. spurred demand for
alternatives to the dollar and euro.  The Philippines’ “enduring fiscal weakness” needs to be
addressed,  Standard & Poor’s  said in a statement today after
markets closed, affirming the BB rating and stable outlook on
the nation’s foreign-currency debt.  To contact the reporter for this story:
Karl Lester M. Yap in Manila at 
 kyap5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net . 