-- 
Polio Can Be Beaten If U.S. Protects Vaccination Efforts: View

-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 
2011-07-29T00:00:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-29/polio-can-be-beaten-if-u-s-protects-worldwide-vaccination-efforts-view.html
In the history of medicine, only one
disease has ever been eradicated, but it was a terrible one.
 Smallpox , which claimed 2 million lives in 1967, was stamped out
by 1980 through an enormous vaccine campaign.  Today the world has a shot at a second such triumph, this
time over polio. It will take more than good medicine to
succeed. It will also require good politics.  In 1988, polio was still afflicting 350,000 people
worldwide. Since then, thanks in part to the remarkable efforts
of a coalition called the  Global Polio Eradication Initiative ,
that number has plummeted, to 1,000 last year. By financing
vaccine efforts, the initiative has reduced the number of
countries in which polio is endemic from 125 to just four.  In two of those countries, Afghanistan and  India , progress
is good, according to the most recent report of the initiative’s
Independent Monitoring Board.  Nigeria  and  Pakistan , however,
have experienced setbacks. In both those countries, the
incidence of polio in the first half of 2011 was significantly
greater than in the same period last year. Pakistan, the report
said, is at risk of becoming polio’s last outpost.  Vaccination teams have difficulty simply reaching children
in remote or conflict-prone areas such as Pakistan’s northwest.
Beyond that, they face persistent distrust. In 2003, conspiracy
theories spread in Nigeria that the polio vaccine was a Western
plot to sterilize Muslims. Families refused inoculation, a polio
outbreak spread to eight countries, and the sterilization rumors
jumped all the way to Pakistan.  Taking Polio Drops  The  World Health Organization  has worked to counter
suspicions, with some officials publicly taking the polio
vaccine, which is administered orally, to demonstrate its safety
and other officials engaging religious leaders, occasionally
turning them into vaccine advocates. Still, some Islamic leaders
in Pakistan continue to denounce vaccination as unsafe or un-
Islamic.  The CIA risked making matters considerably worse earlier
this year when it  covertly ran a vaccination drive  for children
in Abbottabad, the Pakistani city where U.S. forces later killed
 Osama bin Laden  at his compound. In an operation revealed by the
British newspaper the Guardian, a CIA-sponsored Pakistani
medical team went door to door offering local children free
hepatitis B vaccinations in an effort -- unsuccessful, it turned
out -- to gather DNA to determine whether the children at the
targeted compound were bin Laden’s.  That the scheme would eventually come to light, and
possibly feed distrust about vaccination campaigns, was
foreseeable.  Spying is a messy business that necessarily involves
deceit, and U.S. intelligence operatives need latitude to do
their work. In this case, however, the planners and approvers of
the CIA operation didn’t appropriately calculate the possible
consequences of their actions on an agenda that is as important
to the world as fighting al-Qaeda.  Vaccination Works  The widespread deployment of childhood vaccinations is the
most effective of all public health measures. Since 2000, the
GAVI Alliance, a coalition of pro-vaccine groups, has reached
257 million children in poor countries, mostly with newer
vaccines, saving an estimated 5.4 million lives.  Eradication of smallpox saves the world more than  $1
billion a year , according to the WHO. If polio transmission can
be stopped by 2015, the net benefit from reduced treatment costs
and gains in productivity will be $40 billion to $50 billion,
according to a recent study.  Of course, that’s just one way of measuring the benefits.
Eliminating polio would also mean that never again would anyone
suffer from the often crippling disease. Health workers would be
inspired to reach for great new heights, just as they were after
defeating smallpox.  These are goals worth investing in, and the U.S. government
has done just that. Its share of the $9 billion in contributions
and pledges to the polio eradication effort through 2012 is $2
billion. That investment needs to be protected. Future U.S.
intelligence schemes should take it into account.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 