-- 
Primary Dealers Meet With Treasury Officials Over Auctions, Debt Ceiling

-- B y   C a r o l i n e   S a l a s   G a g e   a n d   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r
-- 
2011-07-29T17:45:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-29/primary-dealers-said-to-meet-with-treasury-officials-at-noon-on-debt-plans.html
The U.S. Treasury Department met
with bond dealers in  New York  to discuss next month’s quarterly
auctions of notes and bonds and the debt ceiling.  The Treasury canceled its regularly scheduled individual
meetings with bond dealers in favor of the group meeting, the
department said in a statement today. All 20 primary dealers
were invited.  The government is inching closer to running out of cash
before an Aug. 2 deadline to raise the $14.3 trillion debt
ceiling. House Republican leaders scrapped a vote on the debt
ceiling bill late yesterday, fueling concern a compromise by the
two parties won’t be reached before the deadline and casting
doubt on whether the Treasury can sell more debt.  Officials are “talking to the Street, making preparations
just in case they have to reschedule their regular auctions,”
said Gary Pollack, who helps oversee $12 billion as head of
fixed-income trading at Deutsche Bank AG’s Private Wealth
Management unit in New York. “This is a positive sign.”  The meeting was at the  Federal Reserve  Bank of New York’s
headquarters in downtown  Manhattan .  “There was a general consensus among all participants that
Congress should act as quickly as possible to raise the debt
ceiling for as long a period as possible to lift the cloud of
uncertainty from the economy,” Treasury said in the statement.  Yields Decline  The Federal Reserve is also preparing guidance for banks in
the event that the U.S. debt limit isn’t raised and the Treasury
Department runs out of money to pay all of its bills, according
to a government official who asked not to be identified because
congressional negotiations are still under way.  Treasuries advanced as investors sought refuge. An
administration official said yesterday the Treasury will give
precedence to making interest payments on government debt.  Yields on 10-year notes tumbled 10 basis points, or 0.10
percentage point, to 2.85 percent, after reaching the lowest
level since July 12, at 1:43 p.m. in New York, according to
Bloomberg Bond Trader prices.  “This is uncharted territory for everybody involved,”
Pollack said. “Whoever thought we would be at this brink of a
default of the  United States of America .”  At its previous refunding announcement on May 4, the
Treasury announced plans to sell $72 billion in its quarterly
sales of long-term debt and that it anticipated auction sizes
would “remain steady” as Congress and the White House debate
raising the debt limit. The Treasury’s next scheduled refunding
announcement is for Aug. 3 at 9:00 a.m.  The government sold $32 billion of three-year notes in May,
June and July, and $24 billion of 10-year notes and $16 billion
of 30-year bonds in May. The 10-year and 30-year sales were
lowered to $21 billion and $13 billion respectively in June and
July.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Caroline Salas Gage in New York at 
 csalas1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  