-- 
Rand Set for a Monthly Gain as U.S. Growth Slows, Gold Soars to New Record

-- B y   R o b e r t   B r a n d
-- 
2011-07-29T14:14:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-29/rand-declines-for-a-second-day-on-u-s-eu-debt-concerns-and-mine-strikes.html
The rand headed for its biggest
monthly gain versus the dollar since April after the  U.S.
economy  grew less than forecast in the second quarter, dimming
demand for dollar assets and driving gold to a record.  The rand gained as much as 0.2 percent to 6.6940 per dollar
and traded little changed at 6.7154 as of 3:46 p.m. in
Johannesburg, bringing its advance this month to 1.7 percent.
The rand declined 0.5 percent versus the euro to 9.6470.  The currency of  Africa ’s biggest economy erased an earlier
decline after gold soared as much as 1.2 percent in  London  to
$1,632.80 an ounce, beating the previous record of $1,628.05 set
two days ago, as investors sought assets that would protect them
from a slowdown in the world’s biggest economy.  South Africa  is
the world’s fifth-largest producer of the metal, which together
with platinum accounts for 20 percent of the nation’s exports.  “We’ve seen the dollar come under pressure after the weak
GDP number,”  Chris Becker , an analyst at Econometrix Treasury
Management, which advises clients on currency and bond
purchases, said by phone from Johannesburg. “Gold has rallied
quite a bit, and the rand has also benefited.”  Emerging-market stocks extended declines, and South
Africa’s benchmark share index slumped to its lowest in a month
as the U.S. growth data raised concern global demand is set to
retreat. Earlier, stocks fell and the rand weakened after U.S.
lawmakers delayed a vote on a plan to raise the debt limit to
avert a default and Moody’s Investors Service said it may cut
 Spain ’s credit rating.  “There have been no positive developments concerning the
U.S. debt ceiling and this morning’s decision by Moody’s to
place Spain under a review for a possible downgrade will not
help markets ahead of the weekend,” BNP Paribas SA analysts led
by London-based Paul Mortimer-Lee wrote in an e-mailed research
note. “We doubt there will be a lot of appetite for risk-on
positions today.”  Bonds rose, with 6.75 percent debt due 2021 slipping 0.4
percent cents to 89.64 rand, reducing the yield by six basis
points, or 0.06 percentage point, to 8.26 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Brand in  Cape Town  at 
 rbrand9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  