-- 
Rare Woman Tequila Master Breathes Fire Into $275 Casa Dragones

-- B y   P a u l   G o g u e n
-- 
2011-07-30T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-29/rare-woman-tequila-master-breathes-fire-into-275-casa-dragones-review.html
The antique yacht Freedom floated in
the  Hudson River  behind Chelsea Piers, promising good food and
expensive tequila.  Sister ship to the presidential yacht Sequoia, Freedom is a
104-foot fantail motor yacht built by Mathis Yacht Building Co.,
of Camden,  New Jersey , in 1926. The work of famed boat designer
John Trumpy, the craft was completely restored in 2009 and can
sleep 10 guests in 5 state rooms.  One of its co-owners is Bob Pittman, chairman of media and
entertainment platforms at Clear Channel Communications Inc. and
-- much more to the point -- co-founder of Casa Dragones
tequila.  I was on this nautical adventure for a tasting of  Casa
Dragones , a fairly recent entry into the high-end category
occupied by brands such as Don Julio 1942, Gran Patron Burdeos
and Partida Elegante. These can sell for as much as $500 a
bottle. Casa Dragones retails for $275 and can be found at Crush
and Astor Wines.  The brand’s other co-founder and chief executive officer is
Bertha Gonzalez Nieves, the first woman to be designated a
Maestra Tequilera.  Gonzalez explains. “It is a distinction awarded by the
Mexican Academy of Tequila Tasters, which is recognized by the
Tequila Regulatory Council. It is the highest distinction you
can get in the industry.”  As blue-point oysters disappeared, she spoke about her
entry into this macho enclave.  Few Females  “Its daunting when you are first coming into the industry,
when you are in meetings and there are not a lot of females,”
she said. “As time went by it was really clear that the common
denominator was passion for the industry. That’s how I
confronted it. I didn’t confront the industry from a female
point of view, I confronted it from a passion point of view.”  The platinum-colored spirit is officially designated as a
100 percent blue agave joven, or young, tequila. It’s produced
in small batches in Tequila,  Mexico . The name comes from a small
cavalry unit called the Dragones that “started one of the
movements that eventually led to Mexican independence,”
according to company literature.  In the glass, its aroma combines floral and citrus. The
first sip tastes of vanilla and spicy fruit, with a finish
that’s clean and warm with a super-smooth throat feel.  As the Freedom chugged its way down the Hudson, the Statue
of Liberty with her torch held high above her head was an
inspiring sight. Mimicking her stately pose with a Riedel glass
of Casa Dragones in my hand, I raised a toast to the colossal
queen of New York Harbor. “To your huddled masses. You would
love this stuff.”  (Paul Goguen is a multimedia producer for Bloomberg News.
Any opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this story:
Paul Goguen in  New York  at 
 pgoguen1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 