-- 
Treasury May Adopt ‘Risky’ Payment Plan as U.S. Deadline Nears

-- B y   C h e y e n n e   H o p k i n s   a n d   I a n   K a t z
-- 
2011-07-29T04:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-29/treasury-may-have-to-adopt-risky-payment-plan-as-u-s-deadline-looms.html
The U.S. is approaching the moment
it may have to decide which bills to pay, a prospect Treasury
Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  has called “unacceptably risky
and unfair” to Americans.  The Obama administration will brief the public no earlier
than when financial markets close today about priorities for
paying the nation’s obligations if the U.S. debt limit isn’t
raised by then, a Democratic official said.  Deciding who gets paid and who doesn’t, a process members
of Congress have called “prioritization,” is fraught with
politically perilous choices for the administration, forcing it
to pick among bondholders, retirees and the military, said  Mark Zandi , chief economist at Moody’s Analytics. An administration
official yesterday said the Treasury will give precedence to
making interest payments on  government bonds .  “Once you prioritize people, it would scare people and
make some very angry,” Zandi said. “If they put the debt
payments ahead of Social Security payments, that would create
some political repercussions.”  Six-month Treasury bills maturing Aug. 4 pared losses. The
rate on the bills was 0.155 percent at 4:51 p.m. yesterday in
 New York , down from as much as 0.2 percent.  “There’s really no alternative to favoring the
bondholders,” said Christian Cooper, head of U.S. dollar
derivatives trading in New York at Jefferies Group Inc., which
as one of the 20 primary dealers is obligated to bid in Treasury
sales. “The alternative would point to a default.”  Borrowing Authority  The Obama administration says the Treasury’s borrowing
authority runs out Aug. 2 and that it may not be able to pay all
of its bills after that date unless the nation’s $14.3 trillion
debt limit is raised.  Standard & Poor’s  placed the U.S. AAA rating on
“CreditWatch” July 14, saying there is a 50 percent chance it
would be cut in the next 90 days even if an agreement is reached
by Aug. 2. S&P said it needs to see “a credible solution to the
rising U.S. government debt burden.”  Democrats yesterday were trying to break an impasse over
raising the debt limit by devising a strict enforcement
mechanism to guarantee future deficit savings, according to
Democratic officials.  Geithner, in a letter last month to Senator  Jim DeMint ,
Republican of South Carolina, called prioritizing the country’s
bills “unwise, unworkable, unacceptably risky and unfair to the
American people.”  The option “has been rejected by every president and
secretary of the Treasury who have considered it,” Geithner
wrote. “There is no alternative to enactment of a timely
increase in the debt limit.”  Group’s Estimate  The Washington-based Bipartisan Policy Center, a research
group founded by former Senate leaders from both parties,
estimated in June that the federal government wouldn’t be able
to fund about 50 percent of its obligations unless Congress
approves an increase in the debt ceiling.  From Aug. 3 until the end of the month, the Treasury would
have about $172.4 billion of revenue while owing $306.7 billion,
leaving a shortfall of $134.3 billion, according to the report.  For example, Social Security benefits for that period cost
$49.2 billion, the group estimated. Medicare and Medicaid total
$50 billion, defense vendors and active military duty pay cost
$34.6 billion and unemployment insurance benefits are $12.8
billion. Federal salaries and benefits total $14.2 billion.  “It is logistically difficult to manage the payment stream
in a way that minimizes the chances for a default,” said Ed
Wilson, a partner at Venable LLP and a former Treasury official.
“The closer you get to default, the less headroom there is in
 cash flow .”  GAO Opinion  In 1985, the Government Accountability Office released a
legal opinion saying the “Treasury is free to liquidate
obligations in any order it finds will best serve the interest
of the  United States .”  Still, the Treasury has never prioritized payments,
Geithner said in his letter to DeMint. Prior Treasury staff have
provided logistical advice to the White House on such a move,
while Justice Department officials have offered legal opinions.  “There is no explicit statutory authority for the
executive branch to prioritize payments,” said Jay Powell,
visiting scholar for the Bipartisan Policy Center and a Treasury
undersecretary for President  George H.W. Bush . “In our system
of government Congress decides what to pay and orders the
executive branch to carry out its wishes.”  Senator  Pat Toomey , a Republican from  Pennsylvania , this
week introduced legislation that would require the Treasury to
prioritize payments for debt service, Social Security and
active-duty military pay.  Fed Checks  The Fed processes the Treasury’s entitlement payments, such
as Social Security, Medicare and Medicaid. Most are done
electronically through the reserve banks’ automated clearing
house. In 2010, the Fed’s reserve banks processed 1.2 billion
automated clearinghouse payments and 185 million Treasury checks,
according to the Fed’s 2010 annual report.  The administration has also been reluctant to discuss
prioritization because it wants to keep the onus on Congress to
raise the debt ceiling before Aug. 2, said Mark Calabria,
director of financial regulation studies at the  Cato Institute 
in  Washington .  “Once you start saying that certain things can be paid
without raising the limit, you reduce pressure to raise the
limit,” he said. “This is all about keeping the pressure on
Congress.”  Meeting With Bankers  Treasury officials have a previously scheduled meeting
today with Wall Street bond dealers ahead of next week’s
quarterly auctions of notes and bonds. The officials will talk
with the Treasury Borrowing Advisory Committee, which includes
executives from financial firms such as  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ,
 Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) ,  Morgan Stanley (MS) ,  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) 
and Pacific Investment Management Co.  Bankers such as Goldman Sachs Chairman and Chief Executive
Officer  Lloyd Blankfein  and JPMorgan’s  Jamie Dimon  called on
President  Barack Obama  and Congress to raise the limit.  “The consequences of inaction -- for our economy, the
already struggling job market, the financial circumstances of
American businesses and families, and for America’s global
economic leadership -- would be very grave,” the executives
wrote in the letter sent yesterday by the Financial Services
Forum.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cheyenne Hopkins at 
 chopkins@bloomberg.net ;
Ian Katz in Washington at 
 ikatz2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  