-- 
Treasuries Rally Amid Slowing Economic Growth, Bets U.S. to Avoid Default

-- B y   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r
-- 
2011-07-29T21:23:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-29/treasury-two-year-notes-poised-for-second-weekly-loss-amid-debt-stalemate.html
Treasuries rallied, driving 10- and
30-year yields to the lowest levels this year, on speculation
lawmakers will break a deadlock over raising the nation’s debt
limit and avoid defaulting on the nation’s $9.34 trillion of
marketable debt outstanding.  Returns on  U.S. government debt  have recouped all of their
June losses as the government said today U.S. gross domestic
product grew more slowly than forecast in the second quarter. At
the same time, rates on bills maturing just after the Aug. 2
debt-ceiling deadline rose for a seventh straight day. The U.S.
would delay quarterly auctions of U.S. notes and bonds if
there’s no extension of the cap before next week.  “No one expects the U.S. will not be paying its debt,”
said  David Semmens , a U.S. economist at Standard Chartered Bank
in New York. “As we get into the weekend, people will be
focused on getting a resolution to the debt crisis, but it also
brings the focus back to the weak economic growth we are
seeing.”  Yields on 10-year notes tumbled 15 basis points, or 0.15
percentage point, to 2.8 percent at 5:22 p.m. in  New York ,
according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. They touched 2.77
percent, the lowest level since Nov. 30. Yields were down 17
basis points this week and fell 36 basis points this month, the
most since August. The 3.125 percent notes due in May 2021
climbed 1 9/32, or $12.81 per $1,000 face amount, to 102 25/32.  Thirty-year bond yields slid 14 basis points to 4.12
percent and touched 4.10 percent, the lowest since Nov. 30. They
decreased 14 basis points on the week and dropped 25 basis
points on the month, the most since August. Two-year note yields
fell six basis points to 0.36 percent, the lowest since July 19.  Bill Rates  Rates on the $90 billion of six-month bills due Aug. 4
reached 0.3 percent, the highest level since they were issued.  The U.S. would consider selling cash-management bills if
there’s no deal on the $14.3 trillion debt ceiling before next
week’s note-and-bond sale announcement, Morgan Stanley said in a
client note after Treasury officials met with bond dealers in
New York to discuss next month’s quarterly auctions. The
Treasury would sell $51 billion of three- and six-month bills on
Aug. 1 as scheduled, according to Morgan Stanley, one of the 20
primary dealers required to bid at the sales.  “They’ll delay the auctions and issue short-term cash-
management bills and just keep rolling them,” said James Caron,
head of U.S. interest-rate strategy at Morgan Stanley in New
York. “It’s one market where rates can’t get much lower.”  Credit Rating  Treasuries, which have returned 1.12 percent this month as
measured by Bank of America Merrill Lynch indexes, fluctuated
this week as the standoff between President  Barack Obama  and
House Speaker  John Boehner  threatened America’s top credit
rating.  Standard & Poor’s  placed the U.S. AAA rating  on
“CreditWatch” July 14, saying there’s a 50 percent chance it
would be cut within 90 days even if an agreement is reached by
the deadline. S&P said it needs to see “a credible solution to
the rising U.S. government debt burden.”  The spread between two- and 10-year yields shrank to 2.44
percentage points, the narrowest level since Dec. 3, after the
Commerce Department reported that GDP grew at a 1.3 percent
annual rate from April through June after a 0.4 percent gain in
the prior quarter that was less than previously estimated. The
median forecast of economists surveyed by Bloomberg News called
for a 1.8 percent increase.  ‘Economic Bulls’  “This puts all the economic bulls back into the bull
pen,” said  George Goncalves , head of interest rate strategy at
the primary dealer Nomura Holdings Inc. “This data is the
capping stone that confirms the weak trend of data.”  House Republicans  said they have the votes today to pass
Boehner’s proposal to raise the debt cap and cut spending.
Obama, who opposes it, said at the White House the time for
compromise is “now.”  Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid  said he will move to a
vote on his competing plan, and at the same time held out hope
for a deal with Republican leaders.  The U.S. will give precedence will to making interest
payments on  government bonds , an administration official said
yesterday.  Rates for borrowing and lending securities in the
repurchase-agreement, or repo, market increased to the highest
level in five months amid the government stalemate over raising
the nation’s debt ceiling.  Repo Rates  The average level of overnight general collateral repo
rates traded through ICAP Plc was 0.21 percent at 10 a.m. in New
York, when most trading takes place, the highest since Feb. 2.  Hedge-fund managers and other large speculators trimmed
bets that U.S. 10-year notes will decline and added to wagers
that two-year notes will advance, according to U.S. Commodity
Futures Trading Commission data. They increased bets the 30-
ytear bond will decline, the data showed.  Speculative short positions on 10-year securities, or bets
prices will fall, outnumbered long positions by 24,347 contracts
on the Chicago Board of Trade. Net-short positions fell by
14,176 contracts, or 37 percent, from a week earlier. Long
positions on two-year debt outnumbered short positions by 13,367
contracts. Net-long positions increased by 6,173 contracts, or
86 percent, from a week earlier, the data showed.  On bonds, speculative short positions outnumbered long
positions by 72,348 contracts. Net-short positions rose by 5,198
contracts, or 8 percent, from a week earlier, the data showed.  CUSIPS and due dates of  U.S. debt  due in August  To contact the reporter on this story:
Susanne Walker in New York at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  