-- 
Asian Currencies Complete Second Weekly Advance on Rising Interest Rates

-- B y   L i l i a n   K a r u n u n g a n   a n d   C h i e n   M i   W o n g
-- 
2011-07-29T09:21:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-29/ringgit-rupee-lead-gains-in-asian-currencies-on-growth-rising-rates.html
Asian currencies completed a second
weekly gain, led by the Philippine peso and  India ’s rupee, on
speculation the region’s growth outlook and rising interest
rates will attract foreign funds.  The Bloomberg-JPMorgan  Asia  Dollar Index touched a 14-year
high this week as India boosted borrowing costs by more than
economists forecast and Bank Negara Malaysia said taming
inflation is “critical,” a week after it described borrowing
costs as being “quite low.” In the U.S., lawmakers continued
to argue over how to tackle the nation’s debt as an Aug. 2
deadline to raise the borrowing limit looms.  “The fundamentals are still attractive in the Asian region
as growth continues,” said  David Cohen , a Singapore-based
economist for Action Economics. “This has been contributing to
the central banks’ decisions to raise interest rates, which is
supportive of their currencies.”  The Philippine peso strengthened 0.6 percent this week to
42.147 per dollar as of the 4 p.m. close, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The rupee appreciated 0.4 percent to
44.1613,  Indonesia ’s rupiah gained 0.3 percent to 8,503 and
Singapore’s dollar climbed 0.2 percent to S$1.2049.  The Asia Dollar Index, which tracks the region’s 10 most-
active currencies excluding the yen, advanced 0.1 percent this
week and 0.9 percent this month, the most since April.  Asian nations need to implement policies to curb inflation
even as the global economy slows, the Manila-based  Asian
Development Bank  said in a report yesterday. The lender’s
forecast for growth of 7.9 percent this year in emerging-market
East Asian economies may be revised lower, according to its Asia
Economic Monitor report.  U.S. Debt Concern  Asia’s emerging-market economies will expand 8.4 percent in
2011, almost quadruple the 2.2 percent growth projected for
developed nations, the  International Monetary Fund  said last
month.  The Obama administration will brief the public after
financial markets close today on priorities for paying the
nation’s bills if the U.S. debt limit isn’t raised, a Democratic
Party official said.  “Asia is relatively more stable than  Europe  or the U.S.
and looks safer compared with the rest of the world,” said Teck Kin Suan, an economist at United Overseas Bank Ltd. in Singapore.
“That contributes to inflows to Asia.”  The peso traded near its strongest level in more than three
years after Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas said yesterday risks to
its inflation forecasts remain “skewed to the upside”. The
central bank remains watchful against inflation and will adjust
its “policy and prudential setting as needed,” it said, citing
a necessity for “caution” in monetary stance.  Indian Rate Surprise  Policy makers kept the benchmark  interest rate  at 4.5
percent yesterday, having announced two increases of a quarter
of a percentage point earlier in the year.  The rupee climbed to its highest level in almost three
years after the central bank raised interest rates this week for
the fifth time this year to damp inflation. The currency touched
43.855 on July 27, the strongest since August 2008.  The  Reserve Bank  of India raised the repurchase rate by 50
basis points to 8 percent on July 26, double the increase
forecast by most economists in a Bloomberg survey. Benchmark
rates are a maximum 0.25 percent in the U.S. and  Japan .  Elsewhere, Malaysia’s ringgit rose 0.1 percent this week to
2.9680. Thailand’s baht was unchanged at 29.81,  China ’s yuan
advanced 0.15 percent to 6.4366, while Taiwan’s dollar fell 0.2
percent to NT$28.890 and South Korea’s won weakened 0.2 percent
to 1,054.08.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lilian Karunungan in Singapore at 
 lkarunungan@bloomberg.net ;
Chien Mi Wong in Singapore at 
 cwong303@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net . 