-- 
Roger Clemens Asks Judge to Stop U.S. From Retrying Steroid Perjury Case

-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g
-- 
2011-07-29T17:20:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-29/roger-clemens-asks-judge-to-bar-u-s-from-retrying-steroid-perjury-case.html
Major League Baseball veteran  Roger Clemens  asked a federal judge to bar prosecutors from retrying
him on charges that he lied to Congress, arguing that under the
Constitution he can’t face a jury twice for the same crime.  Clemens, 48, filed a motion to dismiss the indictment
against him today in U.S. district court in  Washington . U.S.
District Judge  Reggie Walton  ended the first trial July 14 after
prosecutors showed jurors a video clip containing information he
had ruled couldn’t be part of the government’s perjury and
obstruction case.  Clemens’s lawyer,  Rusty Hardin , said in court papers that
the government’s conduct “was no accident.” He alleged the
experienced prosecutors on the case had intentionally provoked a
mistrial after setbacks that “cast doubt” on whether Clemens
could be convicted.  “A second trial in which the government can improve its
jury selection, hone its trial strategy, and tackle issues
raised by the defense in opening,” would reward the government’s
misconduct and subject Clemens to an unconstitutional retrial,
said Hardin, who asked for the mistrial during the second day of
testimony.  Yankees Pitcher  Walton raised the possibility that the government might not
be able to bring the former New York Yankees pitcher before a
new jury when he stopped the trial. He said at the time that he
would have to assess whether the government, “having
precipitated this mistrial,” could retry Clemens or whether
“re-prosecution is barred by double jeopardy.”  The government has until Aug. 19 to respond to Clemens’
motion. Walton scheduled a Sept. 2 hearing to decide whether the
seven-time Cy Young Award winner will be tried again.  “We’re limited in what we can say beyond what is formally
submitted or stated to the court,”  Bill Miller , a spokesman for
the U.S. Attorney’s Office in Washington, said, citing a gag
order imposed by the judge. “Our response will come on or before
August 19.”  Clemens is charged with one count of obstructing a
congressional investigation, three counts of making false
statements and two counts of perjury in connection with a
congressional probe of ballplayers’ use of performance-enhancing
drugs. If convicted on all charges, he faces as long as 30 years
in prison and a $1.5 million fine.  Statements to Congress  The charges stem from Clemens’s statements to the House
Committee on Oversight and Government Reform in February 2008,
in an interview with committee staff and later at a public
hearing. Clemens, under oath, denied ever using anabolic
steroids or HGH, according to the indictment.  Walton said that prosecutors violated a court order when
they showed the jury of 10 women and two men a video clip of a
2008 congressional hearing where the wife of government witness
 Andy Pettitte  was discussed. Walton ruled earlier that no
references to Laura Pettitte, or an affidavit she gave Congress,
could be made during the government’s case.  At the start of the trial, prosecutors said that Andy Pettitte, a former teammate, would testify about his close
relationship with Clemens and how Clemens told him in 1999 or
2000 that he had used HGH. Clemens told Congress that Pettitte
misheard the conversation.  ‘Going Badly’  Hardin argued in today’s motion that prosecutors wanted a
mistrial because the case against Clemens was “going badly” in
three ways.  Walton had limited the evidence from other players and
Laura Pettitte, and then prosecutors found themselves unprepared
to address newly discovered evidence that undermined the
credibility of the government’s key witness, Clemens’s former
trainer,  Brian McNamee , Hardin said.  In addition, Walton’s questions about the way Clemens had
been charged led prosecutors to revise their opening statement
to leave out any discussion of what had been “a prominent
alleged obstructive act in the indictment,” Hardin wrote.  The case is U.S. v. Clemens, 10-cr-00223, U.S. District
Court,  District of Columbia  (Washington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in federal court in Washington at   tschoenberg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 