-- 
Tropical Storm Don May Strengthen Before Making Texas Landfall

-- B y   C h r i s t i a n   S c h m o l l i n g e r   a n d   B r i a n   K .   S u l l i v a n
-- 
2011-07-29T08:30:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-29/tropical-storm-don-may-strengthen-before-making-texas-landfall.html
Tropical Storm Don may experience
some “slight” strengthening before making landfall on the
Texas coast today, the National Hurricane Center said.  Don is about 335 miles (540 kilometers) southeast of  Corpus
Christi  with maximum winds of 50 miles (72 kilometers) per hour,
according to a  National Hurricane Center  bulletin issued before
2 a.m. East Coast time today. The system is forecast to go
ashore near Corpus Christi as a tropical storm later today or
early tomorrow, the center said.  Tropical storm warnings and watches are posted along the
Texas coast from Galveston Island to the Mexican border.  “Don is a small-scale thing,” said  Jim Rouiller , senior
energy meteorologist at Planalytics Inc. in Berwyn,  Pennsylvania 
yesterday. “It is important for the  energy industry  to
understand this will represent very little impact. There might
be some brief, short-duration shut-ins and they may evacuate
non-essential personnel, but the people who keep the pumps going
will still be in business.”  Storms are watched closely because they are a threat to oil
and natural gas interests in the Gulf, home to 31 percent of
U.S. oil output and 7 percent of natural gas production. Coastal
refineries account for 7.61 million barrels a day, or 42 percent
of U.S. capacity.  Companies Prepare  Don has forced the closing of about 6.8 percent of oil
production and 2.8 percent of gas output from the Gulf,
according to the  Bureau of Ocean Energy Management, Regulation
and Enforcement.   Northern Natural Gas  will shut production from its
 Matagorda Offshore Pipeline System  in the Gulf that extends from
Mustang Island to Tivoli, according to a notice for customers.  Enbridge Inc. said in a notice that it evacuated personnel
from its West Cameron 509 platform and will allow gas to free-
flow to shore.  BP Plc said yesterday it halted production at its Atlantis
platform, and  Anadarko Petroleum Corp. (APC)   said it  evacuated workers
and shut in production at its Marco Polo, Nansen, Boomvang,
Gunnison, Red Hawk and Constitution production facilities.  Apache Corp. (APA)  evacuated 368 production employees and
contractors from its facilities in the western Gulf, according
to an  update  posted on the company’s website yesterday. The
company said it has curtailed 15.5 million cubic feet of gas and
1,890 barrels of oil production per day.  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA)  closed its Perdido Spar platform.
Shell and  Chevron Corp. (CVX)  said they were removing non-essential
workers from some operations.  Rainfall Outlook  “Current expectations are that Don will remain south of
the producing region in the Gulf” because of the high pressure
area in the South that has caused weeks of extreme heat, said
Travis Hartman, energy weather manager for MDA Earthsat Energy
in Gaithersburg,  Maryland  yesterday. “Ultimately, Don will
bring welcomed rain to some of the drought-stricken areas in
Mexico and Texas while also creating some additional chatter in
the markets as it is the first relevant system of the season.”  Don is expected to drop 3 inches to 5 inches of rain across
 drought-stricken  southern Texas and as much as 7 inches in
isolated areas, according to the center.  “Texas needs rain with a name,” state Agriculture
Commissioner Todd Staples said in a statement. “Hopefully, this
will be just the kickoff of a series of rain events to break the
grip of this devastating drought.”  A weather system becomes a tropical storm when it develops
cyclone characteristics, and becomes a named storm when winds
reach at least 39 mph. A storm becomes a hurricane when winds
hit 74 mph.  Possible Cyclone  Don is  encountering dry air  in the western Gulf, which
along with wind shear may keep it from intensifying before it
goes ashore, according to the hurricane center.  “The intensity guidance is in good agreement that Don will
make landfall as a tropical storm and not as hurricane,”
according to a hurricane center forecast analysis yesterday.  The storm is expected to fall apart in about three days.  The U.S. hasn’t had a direct hit from a tropical storm
since Bonnie went ashore in  Florida  in July 2010. The last
hurricane to make landfall in the U.S. was Ike, a Category 2
storm, in  Texas  in 2008.  Forecasters are also tracking an area of disturbed weather
about 1,200 miles east-southeast of the Lesser Antilles that has
a 30 percent chance of becoming a tropical cyclone in the next
two days, according to the hurricane center.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian K. Sullivan in Boston at 
 bsullivan10@bloomberg.net ;
Christian Schmollinger in Singapore at 
 christian.s@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  