-- 
Tropical Storm Don to Hit Texas Within 18 Hours

-- B y   B r i a n   K .   S u l l i v a n
-- 
2011-07-29T18:36:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-29/tropical-storm-don-to-land-in-texas-within-18-hours-u-s-department-says.html
Tropical Storm Don is expected to
make landfall in  Texas  in about 18 hours and quickly lose
strength, dissipating completely in two days, according to the
U.S. National Hurricane Center.  Don forced the shutdown of 11.9 percent of oil production
and 6.2 percent of gas output from the  Gulf of Mexico , the
 Bureau of Ocean Energy Management, Regulation and Enforcement 
said today.  The storm, with maximum winds of 50 miles (80 kilometers)
per hour, is about 120 miles east of Brownsville, Texas, and
bands of rain swirling out from its core are approaching the
coastline, according to a center advisory issued shortly before
1 p.m. local time.  “Slight strengthening is possible before landfall with
steady weakening expected after landfall,” the center said. Don
isn’t expected to achieve hurricane level.  Storms are watched closely because they are a threat to oil
and natural gas interests in the Gulf, home to 31 percent of
U.S. oil output and 7 percent of natural gas production. Coastal
refineries account for 7.61 million barrels a day, or 42 percent
of U.S. capacity.  The storm is expected to go ashore between  Corpus Christi 
and Brownsville, then track across the southern tip of Texas
before entering the Mexican state of Coahuila sometime tomorrow,
according to center maps. Tropical storm warnings and watches
are posted from Galveston Island to the Mexican border.  Companies Prepare  Personnel were evacuated from 56 oil and gas platforms and
four rigs in the Gulf, the Bureau of Ocean Energy said.  Apache Corp. (APA)  reported today it has curtailed 41 million
cubic feet of gas, up from 15.5 million yesterday, and 1,970
barrels of oil per day, up from 1,890 barrels. Apache also
evacuated 368 production employees and contractors from
facilities in the western Gulf, according to its website.  Northern Natural Gas  told customers in a notice it was
shutting production from its  Matagorda Offshore Pipeline System 
in the Gulf that extends from Mustang Island to Tivoli.  Enbridge Inc. said in a notice that it evacuated personnel
from its West Cameron 509 platform and will allow gas to free-
flow to shore.  Production Halted  BP Plc halted production at its Atlantis platform, and
 Anadarko Petroleum Corp. (APC)  said it evacuated workers and shut in
production at six facilities.  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA)  closed its Perdido Spar platform.
Shell and  Chevron Corp. (CVX)  were removing non-essential workers.
Chevron said no production was affected.  Don is expected to drop 3 inches to 5 inches of rain across
 drought-stricken  southern Texas and as much as 7 inches in
isolated areas, according to the center.  “Texas needs rain with a name,” state Agriculture
Commissioner Todd Staples said in a statement yesterday.
“Hopefully, this will be just the kickoff of a series of rain
events to break the grip of this devastating drought.”  A weather system becomes a tropical storm when it develops
cyclone characteristics, and becomes a named storm when winds
reach at least 39 mph. A storm becomes a hurricane when winds
hit 74 mph.  The U.S. hasn’t had a direct hit from a tropical storm
since Bonnie went ashore in  Florida  in July 2010. The last
hurricane to make landfall in the U.S. was Ike, a Category 2
storm, in Texas in 2008.  Storm Brewing  Forecasters are also tracking an area of disturbed weather
about 1,200 miles east-southeast of the Lesser Antilles that has
a 30 percent chance of becoming a tropical cyclone in the next
two days, according to the hurricane center.  That system has to contend with some wind shear and dry air
and dust, all of which can prevent it from developing into a
hurricane, said Bob Haas, weather group operations manager and
meteorologist at  MDA Information Systems Inc.  in Gaithersburg,
 Maryland . Some forecasting models show the system becoming
better organized in the next five days, however.  “The tropical wave in the eastern Atlantic bears
watching,” Haas said in an e-mail today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian K. Sullivan in  Boston  at 
 bsullivan10@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  