-- 
Tropical Storm Don Predicted to Brush Texas

-- B y   B r i a n   K .   S u l l i v a n
-- 
2011-07-29T21:13:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-29/tropical-storm-don-is-predicted-to-brush-texas-tip-tonight-weaken-quickly.html
Tropical Storm Don is expected to
make landfall in southeastern  Texas  late today and has already
shown signs of weakening, according to forecasters.  The storm will probably lose strength quickly as it moves
over land in the Corpus Christi area and dissipate completely in
about 48 hours, said the U.S.  National Hurricane Center .  “The pressure has been slowly rising and that’s a sign
that it’s weakening,” said Mike Pigott, a senior meteorologist
with AccuWeather Inc. in  State College ,  Pennsylvania . “We’re
thinking it should make landfall between 8 to 10 p.m.” local
time.  Don forced the shutdown of more than 11.9 percent of oil
production and 6.2 percent of gas output from the  Gulf of
Mexico , the  Bureau of Ocean Energy Management, Regulation and
Enforcement  said today.  The storm, with maximum winds of 50 miles (80 kilometers)
per hour, is about 95 miles southeast of  Corpus Christi , and
bands of rain swirling out from its core have reached the
coastline, according to a center advisory issued shortly before
4 p.m. local time.  Storms are watched closely because they are a threat to oil
and natural gas interests in the Gulf, home to 31 percent of
U.S. oil output and 7 percent of natural gas production. Coastal
refineries account for 7.61 million barrels a day, or 42 percent
of U.S. capacity.  Projected Track  Don is expected to go ashore between Corpus Christi and
Brownsville, then track across the southern tip of Texas before
entering the Mexican state of Coahuila sometime tomorrow,
according to center maps. Tropical storm warnings and watches
are posted from Galveston Island to the Mexican border.  Personnel were evacuated from 56 oil and gas platforms and
four rigs in the Gulf, the  Bureau of Ocean Energy Management 
said.  Apache Corp. (APA)  reported it curtailed 49 million cubic feet of
gas, up from 15.5 million yesterday, and 2,000 barrels of oil
per day, up from 1,890 barrels. Apache also evacuated 368
production employees and contractors from facilities in the
western Gulf, according to its website.  Northern Natural Gas  told customers in a notice it was
shutting production from its  Matagorda Offshore Pipeline System 
in the Gulf that extends from Mustang Island to Tivoli.  Enbridge Inc. said in a notice that it evacuated personnel
from its West Cameron 509 platform and will allow gas to free-
flow to shore.  Production Halted  BP Plc halted production at its Atlantis platform, and
 Anadarko Petroleum Corp. (APC)  said it evacuated workers and shut in
production at six facilities.  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA)  closed its Perdido Spar platform and
 Chevron Corp. (CVX)  said it closed an unspecified amount of Gulf
production.  Don is expected to drop 2 inches to 4 inches of rain across
 drought-stricken  southern Texas and as much as 6 inches in
isolated areas, according to the center, less than forecasters
originally thought.  A weather system becomes a tropical storm when it develops
cyclone characteristics, and becomes a named storm when winds
reach at least 39 mph. A storm becomes a hurricane when winds
hit 74 mph.  The U.S. hasn’t had a direct hit from a tropical storm
since Bonnie went ashore in  Florida  in July 2010. The last
hurricane to make landfall in the U.S. was Ike, a Category 2
storm, in Texas in 2008.  Storm Brewing  Forecasters are also tracking an area of disturbed weather
about 1,150 miles east-southeast of the Lesser Antilles that has
a 30 percent chance of becoming a tropical cyclone in the next
two days, according to the hurricane center.  That system has to contend with some wind shear and dry air
and dust, all of which can prevent it from developing into a
hurricane, said Bob Haas, weather group operations manager and
meteorologist at  MDA Information Systems Inc.  in Gaithersburg,
 Maryland . Some forecasting models show the system becoming
better organized in the next five days, however.  “The tropical wave in the eastern Atlantic bears
watching,” Haas said in an e-mail today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian K. Sullivan in  Boston  at 
 bsullivan10@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  