-- 
S&P Slammed by Wall Street Over Pulled Mortgage Ratings

-- B y   S a r a h   M u l h o l l a n d
-- 
2011-07-29T14:57:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-29/s-p-slammed-by-wall-street-banks-over-pulled-commercial-mortgage-rating.html
Wall Street banks including Morgan
Stanley and Deutsche Bank AG slammed  Standard & Poor’s  decision
to suspend ratings on commercial-mortgage bonds after finding a
flaw in the review process.  S&P withdrew rankings it had assigned to a $1.5 billion
offering from  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and Citigroup Inc.,
forcing the banks to scuttle the deal after it was placed with
investors. It then yanked ratings on Freddie Mac’s $1.19 billion
deal that  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC)  sold
earlier this month that has yet to be completed.  “The manner in which S&P took its action has severely
eroded investor and issuer confidence in its ratings,” Morgan
Stanley analysts led by Richard Parkus in New York wrote in a
note yesterday, referring to the Goldman Sachs and Citigroup
transaction. “Such an event is unprecedented within the CMBS
market.”  S&P’s decision is impeding bank efforts to unload mortgages
they have accumulated for sale as securities and introduces new
risks for debt tied to hotels, shopping centers and offices. The
$700 billion market was already showing signs of strain as
investors pushed back against new sales amid sovereign crises
and looser underwriting standards.  “At this point, many may lose confidence in CMBS 2.0 and
given everything else going on, it could not have come on a
worse week,” Deutsche Bank analysts Harris Trifon and Dave Zhou, based in New York, wrote in a report titled “S&P
downgrades itself and sinks GC4,” referring to the first
withdrawn deal.  ‘Conflicting Methods’  S&P is reviewing the application of its criteria for
offerings that pool multiple commercial mortgages, the firm said
in a separate statement. “The review was prompted by the
discovery of potentially conflicting methods of calculation,”
of how income from the properties relates to their debt burden.  Ed Sweeney , an S&P spokesman, said the firm had no further
comment.  “Ratings are a condition precedent to closing and
settlement,” Goldman Sachs and Citigroup said yesterday in a
joint statement.  The deal was also graded by Morningstar Inc., which was
prepared to rank the offering, said Joe Petro, a managing
director at the Chicago-based firm. Petro said he fielded
several calls from frustrated investors yesterday.  “Nobody can really understand why S&P’s doing what they’re
doing,” Petro said. “We stand by the analysis that we put out
on the transaction.”  Overhauled Offering  Goldman Sachs and Citigroup overhauled the offering last
week to increase the amount of protection the AAA portion of the
deal had against losses, after investors questioned the level.
They priced the deal after increasing relative yields on the BBB
bonds by 200 basis points to 700 basis points more than
benchmark swap rates on the offering.  JPMorgan and Wells Fargo placed the commercial-mortgage
bonds for the  Freddie Mac  deal with investors earlier this
month. The deal is set to settle on Aug. 10.  The Freddie Mac deal, which is guaranteed by the
government-backed company, is not being pulled, said a person
with knowledge of the transaction, who declined to be identified
because terms are private.  Tasha Pelio, a JPMorgan spokeswoman, declined to comment.
Shelley Beason of Wells Fargo couldn’t immediately provide
comment.  S&P withdrew the preliminary ratings because of the review
process, the ratings company said in a July 28 statement. The
deal was also ranked by  Fitch Ratings .  ‘Enough Risk’  The confusion may lead to a pull-back in originations in the
near-term, according to James Grady, a managing director at
Deutsche Asset Management in  New York , which manages $240
billion, including commercial-mortgage debt.  “CMBS origination platforms have enough risk in their
business model, from spread volatility to the risk that
investors reject individual loans,” said Grady. “They don’t
need to deal with a complete wild card like this.”  Deutsche Bank AG and UBS AG had to cut a $2.2 billion sale
of commercial-mortgage backed securities by more than 36 percent
this month. JPMorgan reduced its forecast for sales of the bonds
to between $30 billion and $35 billion, the New York-based
lender said in a July 22 report. It had projected in November as
much as $45 billion in new offerings for this year.  Geiger, Salem  The heads of commercial mortgage bond trading for Citigroup
and Goldman Sachs left the firms this week amid the market
turmoil. Warren Geiger left Citigroup, according to a statement
yesterday from the New York-based lender. His exit followed the
departure of Matthew Salem from Goldman Sachs, a person familiar
with the situation said earlier this week.  Relative yields on top-rated securities linked to
commercial mortgages have risen 11 basis points to 220 basis
points, or 2.2 percentage points since July 1, according to a
Barclays Plc index.  More than $22 billion of commercial-mortgage bonds have
been sold this year, compared with $11.5 billion in all of 2010,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Sales of the debt
peaked at $234 billion in 2007, helping fuel a boom in property
prices. Issuance plummeted to $12.2 billion in 2008 as souring
subprime-home loans infected credit markets. The market stayed
closed until November 2009, choking off funding to borrowers
with debt coming due.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Mulholland in New York at 
 smulholland3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  