-- 
Saigon Asset to Start Distressed-Assets Fund

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-07-29T04:21:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-29/saigon-asset-to-start-distressed-assets-fund.html
Saigon Asset Management Corp ., run
by a former managing director of  Vietnam ’s biggest  fund manager ,
plans to start the country’s first distressed-assets fund as a
credit crunch squeezes small to medium-sized firms.  Saigon Asset Management will team up with the investment
unit of Vietnam Joint-Stock Commercial Bank for Industry & Trade,
or VietinBank, the nation’s second-biggest listed bank, for the
fund. They plan to raise $150 million to invest in companies
that have non-performing loans with the bank, said Louis Nguyen,
chairman and chief executive of the fund manager.  The fund is aiming to capitalize on Vietnam’s credit crunch
as tightened policy to combat Asia’s fastest inflation pushed up
lending rates and hampered the ability of companies to get or
refinance loans. Policy makers have pushed the credit growth
target this year to below 20 percent from 23 percent to damp
inflation, which accelerated for the 11th straight month in July.  “This is the perfect time to strike,” Nguyen, who founded
Saigon Asset Management four years ago and manages two funds
totaling $125 million, said in an interview. “We’re looking for
firms that have been performing well and are on a growth path
but are in a tough spot because of the credit crunch.”  The  State Bank  of Vietnam’s deputy governor, Nguyen Van
Binh, said last month the government aims to keep bad debt at
commercial banks to less than 5 percent. Christian de Guzman,
Singapore-based vice-president at Moody’s Investors Service,
estimates that figure is “far north” of 5 percent and could
possibly be in the “double digits” if international accounting
standards rather than Vietnamese methods are applied.  ‘Asset Deterioration’  “We do expect some asset deterioration to continue through
the rest of the year,” de Guzman said. “There will be an ample
supply of assets coming down the line.”  The fund also aims to take advantage of lower valuations
after the benchmark VN Index slid 16 percent this year,  Asia ’s
worst performer. The measure trades at 9.6 times estimated
earnings, the lowest in the region after  Pakistan ’s Karachi
Stock Exchange 100 Index.  The fund, which will be jointly operated by Nguyen’s group
and VietinBank Capital, the lender’s investment unit, will glean
through the bank’s non-performing loans to invest in real estate
companies and non-public businesses in the consumer and
financial services sectors, Nguyen said.  “It’s very difficult for foreign investors to find good
deal flows in Vietnam, so linking up with a local bank is
critical,” said Nguyen, who was a managing director at
VinaCapital Investment Management Ltd., the nation’s biggest
fund manager. He left VinaCapital in 2007.  Meeting Investors  Saigon Asset Management is planning to meet investors in
Asia and  Europe  in September to raise about $100 million, while
VietinBank Capital will raise the rest within the country, the
companies said.  Lending rates in Vietnam now exceed 20 percent, making it
difficult for many small-to-medium sized businesses to refinance
loans or get capital for operations, said Nguyen Anh Tuan,
VietinBank Capital’s general director.  “A large number of non-performing loans are not that
bad,” said Tuan. “They’re still receiving orders from overseas,
their goods are selling well and they have a growing customer
base. They’re in trouble now mostly because the  interest rates 
in Vietnam are too high.”  The State Bank of Vietnam on July 24 said it would continue
managing credit for non-production businesses and reiterated
that banks must restrict lending for stock investments and real
estate to 16 percent by year-end.  --K. Oanh Ha. Editors: Linus Chua, Andreea Papuc  To contact the reporter on this story:
K. Oanh Ha in Hanoi at 
 oha3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  