-- 
Samsung Profit Beats Estimates as Mobile Phone Sales Outweigh Panel Glut

-- B y   J u n   Y a n g
-- 
2011-07-29T06:47:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-29/samsung-electronics-profit-falls-18-on-slump-in-television-panel-sales.html
Samsung Electronics Co., the world’s
largest maker of televisions and flat-screen panels, reported a
greater-than-estimated second-quarter profit after sales of
mobile phones masked a drop in panel demand.  Net income fell 18 percent from a year earlier to 3.51
trillion won ($3.3 billion) in the three months ended June, the
Suwon, South Korea-based company said in a statement today. The
average of 21 analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg was for
a profit of 3.4 trillion won.  Earnings at Samsung’s telecommunication unit more than
doubled in the quarter because of demand for Galaxy smartphones,
which compete with  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPhone. That helped the company
overcome falling prices of memory chips and weakening demand for
display panels used in computers and other electronic devices.  “Overall demand for electronics products is slower than
expected, but their handsets are doing well,” said Yoo Byung
Ok, a Seoul-based  fund manager  at UBS Hana Asset Management Co.,
which manages about $17 billion.  Samsung rose 0.8 percent to 844,000 won at the 3:00 p.m.
close of trading in Seoul, while  South Korea ’s benchmark Kospi
index slipped 1.1 percent.  Profit at the telecommunication unit rose to 1.67 trillion
won from 630 billion won, the company said in the statement
today. That beat the 1.6 trillion won median of five analyst
estimates compiled by Bloomberg. Sales gained 43 percent to
12.18 trillion won.  Coming Close to Apple  Samsung sold 19.2 million smartphones in the second
quarter, surpassing  Nokia Oyj (NOK1V)  for the first time and falling
short of Apple’s 20.3 million iPhones, research firm  Strategy
Analytics  said today.  Including basic phones, Samsung will probably have a 20
percent market share this year, compared with Nokia’s 26
percent, closing the gap to the narrowest ever,  Neil Mawston , a
London-based analyst at research company Strategy Analytics said
last week.  Samsung aims to outpace the mobile-phone market’s growth in
“all segments” this year, Lee Young Hee, a vice president for
the mobile business, said on a conference call today.  The company aims to increase tablet computer sales more
than fivefold from 2010 and sell more than 60 million
smartphones this year.  Displays  Overall operating profit, or sales minus the cost of goods
sold and administrative expenses, fell 25 percent to 3.75
trillion won, in line with the company’s preliminary estimate of
3.7 trillion won. Sales rose 4.1 percent to 39.4 trillion won,
in line with a preliminary estimate announced on July 7.  Samsung’s display division, which makes flat panels for
televisions and computer monitors, had an operating loss of 210
billion won, compared with an 880 billion won profit a year
earlier, the company said. The median estimate of five analysts
was for an operating loss of 67 billion won.  Operating profit at Samsung’s TV-making unit rose to 510
billion won from 360 billion won a year ago, while sales fell 5
percent. That compares with the 180 billion won median of the
five analyst estimates.  Demand for TVs will likely remain “stagnant” in advanced
countries, with emerging markets to lead sales growth, Samsung
said today. The company said it may reduce capital expenditure
for displays and increase spending on chips instead, following
its closest competitor LG Display Co.  U.S.,  Europe  Demand  Sony Corp., the world’s third-largest TV maker, slashed its
forecast yesterday for sales in the year ending March 31 by 19
percent to 22 million units on weakening demand in the U.S. and
Europe.  Shipments of large-sized LCD panels will grow 14 percent in
2011, compared with a 23 percent increase in 2010, on weaker
demand for TVs and computer monitors, research company IHS
ISuppli said May 16.  Profit at Samsung’s semiconductor division was 1.79
trillion won, dropping from 2.94 trillion won and lagging behind
the 1.98 trillion won median forecast in the survey.  “It’s getting harder to predict demand for electronics
products,” UBS Hana’s Yoo said. “There are macro-economic
concerns for advanced markets, and it’s not easy to be as
optimistic as in the past.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jun Yang in  Seoul  at 
 jyang180@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  