-- 
HSBC’s Victory May Cut $100 Billion Jackpot for Madoff Investors

-- B y   L i n d a   S a n d l e r
-- 
2011-07-30T04:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-29/hsbc-victory-may-cut-100-billion-jackpot-for-madoff-investors.html
A courtroom win by  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA) 
may reduce the $100 billion trustee Irving Picard is seeking on
behalf of  Bernard Madoff ’s clients, undercutting bets traders
have made on victims’ claims.  U.S. District Judge Jed Rakoff on July 28 threw out almost
$9 billion in damages that Picard demanded from HSBC and feeder
funds, saying the trustee was free to pursue $2 billion in
bankruptcy claims. Picard has no right to sue on behalf of
customers or the Madoff estate, using common-law claims against
parties “who allegedly violated a duty to Madoff Securities’
customers by failing to detect Madoff’s fraud,” Rakoff ruled.  Much of the $100 billion Picard is seeking from banks such
as  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  involves similar claims to the HSBC
case, or other claims being scrutinized by two district judges.  Rakoff’s ruling “is clearly bad news for Picard,” said
New York bankruptcy lawyer  Harvey Miller . “Picard was pushing
the envelope in his zeal to recover against alleged wrongdoers
and overlooked existing constraints and precedents as pointed
out by Judge Rakoff.”  Picard demanded $19 billion in damages from the con man’s
banker, JPMorgan, equal to all the money lost by all investors
in Madoff’s Ponzi scheme. He seeks as much as $59 billion --
including trebled racketeering charges that Rakoff is examining
-- from Bank Medici AG, its founder, Sonja Kohn, and  UniCredit
SpA. (UCG)   If the suits are scaled back as HSBC’s was, Madoff clients
will have a smaller pot of damages from which to recover losses,
and investors who bought some of their claims at a discount may
lose the bets they made. Madoff claims are trading at about 70
cents on the dollar.  Assumption Change  “The HSBC ruling probably changes the assumption you’re
making as to how much the trustee can settle for on similar
suits where he has the same kind of claims,” said Andrew Gottesman, who heads bankruptcy claims trading at SecondMarket
Inc. in  Manhattan . “If you were bearish, it edifies your
position. If you were bullish, it maybe changes you to
neutral.”  Amanda Remus, a Picard spokeswoman, said the trustee is
“reviewing the district court decision as well as preparing to
move forward in the  bankruptcy court  on the remaining” claims
of more than $2 billion.  UBS AG, sued for $2.6 billion, has said that more than $2
billion of common-law claims were brought by Picard. The Mets
owners,  Fred Wilpon  and Saul Katz, face a $1 billion suit, as
Picard bids to recoup $300 million in so-called fictitious
profit and $700 million in principal.  Common-Law Claims  There are no common-law claims against the Mets owners,
according to Remus. However, Rakoff is scrutinizing Picard’s
demands that were based on allegations they suspected the fraud
and failed in their duty to investigate it. Wilpon and Katz may
not have had a legal duty to investigate whether Madoff was
running a fraud, Rakoff said at a court hearing this month.  For investors who settled with Picard before the HSBC
ruling, it may be too late to change anything, said Chip Bowles,
a bankruptcy lawyer at Greenebaum Doll & McDonald PLLC in
Louisville,  Kentucky .  “It would be nearly impossible to undo it if it has been
approved by the courts,” he said.  A $220 million settlement between Picard and heirs of
Norman F. Levy survived a court challenge in March. Picard’s $5
billion share of a settlement with Jeffry Picower’s estate is
still under challenge, after being approved in bankruptcy court.  Picard will almost certainly appeal Rakoff’s ruling,
because “so much money is at stake,” said Michael Clark, a
lawyer with Duane Morris LLP in Houston who specializes in
financial fraud and white-collar law.  ‘Better Stead’  “Even if there’s an appeal, JPMorgan and the others are in
much better stead” after the Rakoff ruling, he said. “Short
term, an appeal is not good for investors who’ve lost money
because you’re talking two or three years, if it goes all the
way to the  Supreme Court .”  If the ruling isn’t reversed on appeal or modified, “it
will reduce Picard’s ability to pursue all similar common law
claims,” said Miller of Weil Gotshal & Manges LLP.  Picard said July 28 he has recovered about $8.6 billion to
pay $17.3 billion in claims filed, including a $1 billion
settlement with hedge-fund firm Tremont Group Holdings Inc. that
day, and the $5 billion from Picower. He and his  law firm , Baker
& Hostetler LLP, have charged about $179 million for their work
since Madoff’s Ponzi scheme collapsed in 2008, according to
court filings.  “There have been considerable recoveries,” Duane Morris’s
Clark said. “The question is, is this something that could be
done more efficiently.”  Madoff, 73, is serving a 150-year sentence in a federal
prison in  North Carolina .  The main case is Securities Investor Protection Corp. v.
Bernard L. Madoff Investment Securities LLC, 08-ap-1789,  U.S.
Bankruptcy Court , Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Linda Sandler in New York at 
 lsandler@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at   jpickering@bloomberg.net . 