-- 
Schneider Pares Margin Target as Profit Misses Estimate

-- B y   F r a n c o i s   d e   B e a u p u y
-- 
2011-07-29T07:24:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-29/schneider-electric-pares-margin-target-as-profit-misses-estimate.html
Schneider Electric SA (SU) , the world’s
biggest maker of low- and medium-voltage equipment, pared its
full-year margin target after reporting lower-than-estimated
earnings because of raw-material inflation.  Schneider shares had their steepest decline in 2 1/2 years.
The company lowered its profitability goal to about 15 percent
of sales from a prior 15 percent to 15.5 percent range. First-
half net income rose 9 percent to 802 million euros ($1.15
billion). Analysts estimated 851 million euros.  “While the market had expected a weak margin, Schneider’s
result nevertheless looks poor,” said Alex Barnett, an analyst
at Jefferies International Ltd. “Where’s the pricing power?”  The company, based in Rueil-Malmaison near Paris, plans to
accelerate price increases to stave off some 400 million euros
in added raw-material costs, it said today in a  statement . Chief
Executive Officer Jean-Pascal Tricoire spent more than $3
billion in the first half to expand in emerging markets and
broaden the company’s offering in power-efficiency solutions.  Schneider traded 5 percent lower at 97.52 euros as of 9:17
a.m. The stock is down 13 percent this year, giving the company
a market value of 27 billion euros.  Margins to Improve  The company expects profitability to improve due to
seasonality effects and “better raw-material pass-through.”  Earnings before interest, taxes and amortization, excluding
acquisition and integration costs, was equal to 13.7 percent of
sales in the first half, down from 14.5 percent a year earlier.  Second-quarter revenue rose 16 percent to 5.39 billion
euros, helped by the acquisition in June 2010 of Areva’s power-
distribution unit. Excluding acquisitions and currency effects,
sales increased 8.8 percent, and the company reiterated a full-
year target for an advance of 6 percent to 9 percent.  Other recent acquisitions include Spanish software company
 Telvent GIT SA (TLVT) , Chinese energy-savings drives maker Leader
Harvest Power Technologies, and Indian maker of inverters and
power-storage systems Luminous Power Technologies Pvt. Ltd.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Francois De Beaupuy in Paris at 
 fdebeaupuy@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  