-- 
Senator Conrad Predicts Congress Will Avoid U.S. Default Aug. 2

-- B y   B r i a n   F a l e r
-- 
2011-07-30T04:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-29/senate-budget-panel-head-conrad-predicts-congress-will-avoid-u-s-default.html
Senate Budget Committee Chairman
 Kent Conrad  expressed confidence that lawmakers will be able to
head off a government default, likely at the last minute on Aug.
2.  “I don’t believe there will be a default,” Conrad said
yesterday. “Leaders on both sides are sufficiently responsible
that they understand if there were a default it would be a
disaster for this country.”  Speaking in an interview on Bloomberg Television’s
“Political Capital with  Al Hunt ,” airing this weekend, Conrad
said that while his colleagues were at odds with Republicans
over a plan, they will meet the deadline for extending the
nation’s borrowing limit.  “Work expands to fill the time -- we certainly know that’s
true here,” said Conrad, a North Dakota Democrat. “You’ve got
to have gridlock before you have breakthrough. One thing we know
about this place is both sides have to be convinced they’re not
going to get their way, they’re not going to prevail, before
they’re willing to really compromise.”  Compromise Outlines  The outlines of a possible compromise are apparent,
including a reliance on spending cuts, the creation of a special
budget-cutting committee and a vote later this year on a
proposal to add a balanced budget amendment to the Constitution,
Conrad said. He said he favors extending the debt ceiling
through next year.  Lawmakers are debating what sort of safeguard to include
that would guarantee $2 trillion in budget cuts if the committee
deadlocks, said Conrad. He said any such “default mechanism”
ought to hit both sides of the budget ledger with automatic
spending cuts and tax increases.  “You’re going to have to have a revenue piece here to have
a compromise,” he said.  Lawmakers may be able to surmount Republican objections to
tax increases by pairing provisions curbing individual tax
preferences with long-term cuts in the alternative minimum tax,
said Conrad. The alternative tax is a parallel system originally
designed to prevent the wealthy from avoiding taxes that
increasingly hits middle-class Americans.  “The revenue piece has to be something that they can argue
is not a tax increase -- using the alternative minimum tax is
the best way of doing that,” said Conrad.  Alternative Minimum Tax  Cutting the alternative minimum tax would cost the Treasury
$1.5 trillion in revenue over a decade, he said, and “if you
replace that money with tax-expenditure reform, which virtually
everyone is for, you can argue there’s been no tax increase but
there is revenue we would not otherwise have.”  He predicted the government’s credit rating would be
downgraded “unless we show credibly that we have a path to
getting to the grand bargain” on the budget. A downgrade would
be a “very serious blow to the country,” said Conrad,
estimating that every 1 percent increase in  interest rates  would
add $1.3 trillion to the debt.  Conrad said additional stimulus spending to help boost the
economy is “probably” and “unfortunately” impossible, saying
he believes another $100 billion in infrastructure projects are
in order. He said an extension of a Social Security payroll tax
approved last year “might be possible as part of a final
compromise to get on the tax side of the ledger.”  Asked if he believed President  Barack Obama  should have
been more involved in the debt-limit negotiations, Conrad said
history will record he “has done about as well as anyone could
do,” because “any time he’s for something, there are elements
of the other side that are automatically against it.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Faler in Washington at 
 bfaler@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  