-- 
Senator Conrad Says Congress Will Avoid Default (Transcript)

-- B y  
-- 
2011-07-29T22:44:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-29/senator-conrad-says-congress-will-avoid-default-transcript-.html
Democratic Senator  Kent Conrad  said
in an interview on Bloomberg Television’s “Political Capital
with  Al Hunt ,” airing this weekend, that lawmakers in
 Washington  likely will be able to head off a government default,
likely at the last minute on Aug. 2.  (This is not a legal transcript. Bloomberg LP cannot
guarantee its accuracy.)  AL HUNT: We begin the program with Senate Budget Committee
Chairman Kent Conrad of North Dakota, right in the middle of
this chaos. Senator, thank you for being with us. Next Tuesday,
default deadline, what are the probabilities that we’ll hit next
Tuesday without doing something on the debt ceiling?  SENATOR KENT CONRAD: I don’t believe there will be a
default. I think leaders on both sides are sufficiently
responsible that they understand if there were a default it
would be a disaster for this country. We’d see a spike in
interest rates. We’d see a weakening of economic growth. It
would be a very serious blow to the  United States .  HUNT: All right, if there’s not, give us the contours of
how we avoid it, what kind of resolution, how long and what
would be the ingredients, what will be the ingredients?  CONRAD: I believe that the ingredients will be a
compromise. Obviously Republicans control the house, Democrats
control the Senate. There is a Democrat in the White House we’re
going to have to work together. And I think the majority leader
on the Senate side has already outlined the contours of a plan
that could form the basis of a conclusion. That is only spending
cuts, no revenue and a special congressional committee to
complete the deficit savings after an initial down payment. I
think those are the outlines of a compromise with an agreement
on a balanced budget amendment vote, later in the year.  HUNT: And you would have this with - the debt ceiling then
would go through 2012?  CONRAD: Yes, it does. You know I think it’s very important
that we not have just a short-term extension. Market watchers
are telling us that would be a serious mistake.  HUNT: Of course that gets you through a year and a half,
but that doesn’t get to the long-term structural deficit that
you have worried so much about. As I understand it, what you
would like to do is have another commission, another committee,
of the Congress and then have some kind of trigger if it doesn’t
pass. Triggers haven’t worked in the past, senator, why would
they work now?  CONRAD: Well, look, my preference would be to act now to do
the Group of Six plan which is almost $4 trillion of savings -  HUNT: But you know that’s not very likely.  CONRAD: Not going to happen immediately. I believe it is
going to happen with a special committee of Congress -  HUNT: In this Congress?  CONRAD:  - because I don’t think there’s much of an
alternative.  HUNT: Do you think it can happen in this Congress?  CONRAD: Yeah, I do. Not the final resolution because you
know, fundamental  tax reform  is going to take longer than six
weeks or six months. That’s going to take more than a year. But
you could put in place the process with a default mechanism so
if the savings were not realized there would be a mechanism to
assure that we would get another $2 trillion of  deficit
reduction .  HUNT: And that would involve automatic spending cuts or
automatic tax increases if you don’t achieve it, which you can’t
bind one Congress to another, so how do you make a trigger
effective?  CONRAD: What you could do is on the revenue side, use the
alternative minimum tax as a mechanism for assuring revenue.
That is that there would be an offset for reforming the
alternative minimum tax, reform will cost $1.5 trillion. To
replace that revenue is not considered a tax increase by most
Republicans. So that could generate some revenue you would not
otherwise have and you could couple that with automatic spending
cuts to have an overall package that will assure you you’d get
the savings that will otherwise not be assured.  HUNT: Would there be cuts in entitlement spending also?  CONRAD: It would depend on what’s included in the spending
restraint package.  HUNT: What would be your preference?  CONRAD: My preference would be for the committee itself to
function, but if it doesn’t to have a default mechanism that
would have a balance.  HUNT: You know, Senator, that sounds very reasonable and
you probably can get some Republicans in the Senate to go along
with it, you can’t get any  House Republicans , at this stage, to
go along with it though. They don’t want anything like that.  CONRAD: Not at this hour, but I am hopeful as we move
through that more of them will realize at the end of the day you
cannot do this just on one side of the aisle. It simply will not
work.  HUNT: Does the end of the day mean Aug. 2, I mean, that’s
not very many days?  CONRAD: Well, that’s the first day.  HUNT: OK.  CONRAD: As you know, there are many days on this play. And
look, you’re going to have to have a revenue piece here to have
a compromise and the revenue piece has to be something that they
can argue is not a tax increase. Using the alternative minimum
tax is the best way of doing that because we all know we’re not
going to permit the alternative minimum tax to sweep up tens of
millions of middle-class people. So if you reform it that loses
money. If you replace that money with tax expenditure reform,
which virtually everyone is for, you can argue there’s been no
tax increase but there is revenue we would not otherwise have.  HUNT: To go back to the short term, when do you think
you’ll finally reach a compromise with that Aug. 2 deadline,
Monday night?  CONRAD: Aug. 2.  HUNT: Aug. 2, so it will happen - it’ll go right to the
deadline.  CONRAD: You know - no, what’s it, Murphy’s Law, work
expands to fill the time?  HUNT: It is. Right.  CONRAD: We certainly know that’s true here because you’ve
got to have gridlock before you have breakthrough. One thing we
know about this place is both sides have to be convinced they’re
not going to get their way. They’re not going to prevail before
they’re willing to really compromise.  HUNT: Do you wish the White House and the president had
been more actively involved in the specifics of this?  CONRAD: I think the president, history will record, has
done about as well as anyone could do --  HUNT: So he couldn’t do much more right now?  CONRAD: No, because any time he’s for something, there are
elements of the other side that are automatically against it.  HUNT: Right.  CONRAD: And look, he said, over and over and over, he wants
to do the grand bargain. He’s willing to do entitlement reform,
tax reforms, spending cuts, a $4 trillion package that’s what
every bipartisan --  HUNT: You could get that through the Senate couldn’t you?  CONRAD: Yeah you could.  HUNT: Yeah. But the House says, absolutely no way. Let me -
-  CONRAD: No, I think honestly, I think before we’re done, I
believe if it’s properly constructed you could get people in the
House, Democrats and Republicans, not all -  HUNT: Right.  CONRAD:  - you’d probably lose left and the right, but the
solid center would hold and you could get this through.  HUNT: Do you think there will be a credit downgrade, and is
it justified if there is?  CONRAD: I think there will be a credit downgrade unless we
show credibly that we have a path to getting to the grand
bargain.  HUNT: And when do you have to show that by?  CONRAD: Uh, they’ve told us 90 days.  HUNT: OK, and so therefore that doesn’t happen and you
think there will be a credit downgrade?  CONRAD: I do. And that would be a very serious blow to the
country. For every 1 percent increase in  interest rates  it adds
$1.3 trillion to the debt.  HUNT: So let me ask you this, we’re talking about the debt,
we’re talking about the deficit and at the same time the report
came out Friday, this economy has stalled. I mean there is
really no recovery right now and a lot of economists say; what
we really need short term, next year or two is some added
stimulus. Is that impossible in this environment?  CONRAD: It probably is, unfortunately so. Look, the thing
to me that would make most sense is a boost in infrastructure
investment in this country, roads, bridges, airports and the
rest, in the range of $100 billion. But as part of an overall
plan, that takes on this debt threat otherwise a 10-year plan
that really would reduce our overall --  HUNT: But you don’t see any short-stimulus including the
 payroll tax , the extension of payroll tax over --  CONRAD: Ah, it might be possible as part of a final
compromise to get on the tax side of the ledger. But really,
that is not as effective as infrastructure investment would be
because infrastructure spending, all of that would be right here
in this country, all of it would go into the economy. If it’s on
the tax side of the ledger part of that gets saved, doesn’t go
into the economy. And those are all jobs here in America, plus
it makes us more efficient in --  HUNT: But you’re not optimistic about being able to get
that in this environment?  CONRAD: I’m not, although I tell you my constituency,
conservative fiscally, state of  North Dakota , when I do town-
hall meetings and I talk about infrastructure investment, all
the heads nod.  HUNT: You’re retiring next year, you’ve been here for a
while, a member of The United States Senate, have you ever seen
the situation worse than it is right now?  CONRAD: No, and I mean I must say that concerns me for the
long term because, you know, in my 25 years here there has
always been a strong bipartisan, reaching across the aisle, that
still exists in the Senate but is much less so in the House.  HUNT: Right.  CONRAD: We’ve got to restore that; it’s important for the
country.  HUNT: OK. Senator Kent Conrad, thank you so much for being
with us.  ***END OF TRANSCRIPT***  THIS TRANSCRIPT MAY NOT BE 100% ACCURATE AND MAY CONTAIN
MISSPELLINGS AND OTHER INACCURACIES. THIS TRANSCRIPT IS PROVIDED
“AS IS,” WITHOUT EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND.
BLOOMBERG RETAINS ALL RIGHTS TO THIS TRANSCRIPT AND PROVIDES IT
SOLELY FOR YOUR PERSONAL, NON-COMMERCIAL USE. BLOOMBERG, ITS
SUPPLIERS AND THIRD-PARTY AGENTS SHALL HAVE NO LIABILITY FOR
ERRORS IN THIS TRANSCRIPT OR FOR LOST PROFITS, LOSSES OR DIRECT,
INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, CONSEQUENTIAL, SPECIAL OR PUNITIVE DAMAGES
IN CONNECTION WITH THE FURNISHING, PERFORMANCE, OR USE OF SUCH
TRANSCRIPT. NEITHER THE INFORMATION NOR ANY OPINION EXPRESSED IN
THIS TRANSCRIPT CONSTITUTES A SOLICITATION OF THE PURCHASE OR
SALE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES. ANY OPINION EXPRESSED IN THE
TRANSCRIPT DOES NOT NECESSARILY REFLECT THE VIEWS OF BLOOMBERG
LP.  #<610805.56910.2.1.87.23378.96>#  #<610849.263818.2.1.87.23378.25>#
 