-- 
Serbia’s Planned Eurobond Sale to Be Part Inflation Linked

-- B y   G o r d a n a   F i l i p o v i c
-- 
2011-07-29T12:59:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-29/serbia-s-planned-eurobond-sale-to-be-part-inflation-linked-1-.html
Serbia  plans to offer $200 million
worth of dinar-denominated inflation-linked bonds as part of its
proposed $1 billion debut Eurobond sale this year, Deputy Prime
Minister Bozidar Djelic said.  After the $200 million offering, “the remaining amount
will be sold in U.S. dollars and later swapped for euros,”
Djelic said today in Belgrade.  Serbia’s inflation rate was at 12.7 percent in June, more
than double the upper end of a 3 percent to 6 percent target
band for 2011. The government and the Belgrade-based Narodna
Banka Srbije want annual price growth to slow below 10 percent
by the end of the year, eventually to within next year’s target
band of 2.5 percent to 5.5 percent by mid-2012.  The central bank has launched a policy easing cycle in
June, cutting its benchmark interest rate, the two-week
repurchase rate, both in June and July by a total of 75 basis
points to 11.75 percent.  Prime Minister  Mirko Cvetkovic ’s Cabinet selected JP Morgan
Chase & Co. and  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  to help it prepare and sell as
much as $1 billion by the end of September or October.  Cvetkovic said in a July 19 interview that the nation’s
first-ever Eurobond sale will not be sidetracked by the euro
area’s growing debt crisis.  The Balkan nation needs financing as it reduces its  budget
deficit  and cuts spending to meet demands by the European Union
and the  International Monetary Fund . Serbia wants to become an
official candidate at the end of the year to join the world’s
largest trading bloc.  ‘Precious Information’  “Once we sell the Eurobond, both in dollars and dinars, we
will see the difference in yields on both instruments and it
will be precious information for monetary policy makers and for
further narrowing of the gap between the fiscal and monetary
policies,” Djelic said.  The government and the central bank hope to see that the
“covered  interest rate  parity works” as an indication of
expected “further dinar direction,” Djelic said.  The Belgrade-based National Bank of Serbia has launched
efforts to reduce the economy’s reliance on the euro as a
parallel currency, as a 40 percent dinar depreciation between
late 2008 and late 2010 resulted in surging defaults among bank
clients who rely on the local currency for their revenues and
have debt in foreign currencies.  As part of its “dinarization” drive, the government and
the central bank are also negotiating with the European Bank for
Reconstruction and Development detail on issuing a “longer-
term, dinar denominated bond, which will also be inflation
linked and with Serbia’s sovereign guarantee,” Djelic added.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gordana Filipovic in Belgrade at 
 gfilipovic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at   jagomez@bloomberg.net  