-- 
Singapore Air Falls After Profit Slump

-- B y   R o b e r t   F e n n e r
-- 
2011-07-29T02:17:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-29/singapore-air-falls-after-profit-slump.html
Singapore Airlines Ltd. (SIA) , the world’s
second-largest carrier by market value, fell the most in four
months on the city’s stock exchange after posting first-quarter
earnings that missed analyst estimates.  The stock fell as much as 3.9 percent, the most on an
intraday basis since March 15, and was trading 3 percent lower
at S$14.27 as of 9:57 a.m. The carrier yesterday reported an 82
percent slump in net income to S$44.7 million ($37 million) in
the three months ended June compared with the S$127 million
median of four analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg News.  Singapore Air’s main flying unit and its cargo business
both posted operating losses after a 46 percent jump in fuel
prices, helping prompt Credit Suisse Group AG, Deutsche Bank AG
and UOB Kay Hian Research Pte. to cut their recommendations on
the stock. The carrier also scaled back capacity growth plans
amid “flat” bookings and competition from budget rivals.  “A less benign economic environment, higher fuel costs and
competition have exacted a toll on its long-haul operations,” K. Ajith, an analyst at UOB Kay Hian Singapore, wrote in a note to
clients today. The airline’s planned low-cost long-haul unit
could “potentially lead to better profits.” The brokerage cut
the stock to “hold” from “buy.”  The Singapore-based airline plans to start the new budget
carrier next year. It is yet to announce the name or routes.  The carrier plans to boost passenger capacity 5 percent
this fiscal year, compared with the 6 percent predicted in May.  Travel Disrupted  Singapore Air’s passenger load factor, or the percentage of
seat filled by paying customers, declined for an 11th straight
month in June on a year-on-year basis. The March 11 tsunami in
 Japan  and subsequent nuclear crisis has also disrupted  travel
demand  in  Asia .  The main Singapore Airlines unit made an operating loss of
S$36 million in the fiscal first quarter, compared with a profit
of S$136 million a year earlier. The cargo unit had a S$14
million loss.  “Our anticipated fuel efficiency gain from the
introduction of bigger and/or fuel efficiency aircraft didn’t
materialize,” Credit Suisse analysts led by Sam Lee said in a
report. They cut their rating to “neutral” from
“outperform.”  Singapore Air’s regional carrier SilkAir posted a S$21
million operating profit for the first quarter and its
engineering arm had a S$35 million profit.  The company’s fuel costs rose 27 percent to S$1.44 billion,
or about 40 percent of overall expenditure. The carrier had a
fuel-hedging gain of S$12 million compared with a S$78 million
loss a year earlier.  Singapore Air’s namesake unit filled 75.6 percent of total
available seats in the period, down from 78.4 percent a year
earlier. Passenger numbers rose 3.2 percent to 4.15 million.
Yield, the average price a traveler pays to fly one kilometer,
was 11.8 Singapore cents, compared with 11.7 cents.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Fenner in Melbourne at 
 rfenner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  