-- 
South African Credit Growth Accelerates to Annual 5.25% in June, Bank Says

-- B y   M i k e   C o h e n
-- 
2011-07-29T06:04:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-29/south-african-credit-growth-accelerates-to-annual-5-25-in-june-bank-says.html
South African credit growth
accelerated in June as the lowest interest rates in 30 years
encouraged consumers to borrow more.  Borrowing by households and businesses rose 5.25 percent
from a year earlier, up from a revised 5.22 percent in May, the
Pretoria-based  Reserve Bank  said on its website today. The
median estimate of 16 economists surveyed by Bloomberg was 5.3
percent.  Credit demand “has been on a steadily improving trend
during the past few months, driven by household borrowing, in
particular installment sales,” Monale Ratsoma, an economist at
Thebe Securities Ltd. in Johannesburg, said before today’s data.
“I’m expecting that to continue.”  The economy grew at its fastest pace in a year in the first
quarter, expanding 4.8 percent, the government statistics agency
said on May 31.  Consumer spending , which accounts for two-thirds
of demand in the economy, gathered pace after the central bank
cut its benchmark  interest rate  three times last year to 5.5
percent. The bank’s monetary policy committee left the rate
unchanged on July 21 for a fourth consecutive time.  South African retail sales rose 9.2 percent in June from a
year earlier, after gaining 10 percent the month before, the
Retailer Liaison Committee, an industry group, said on July 22.
Vehicle sales jumped 12.6 percent in June from a year ago, up
from 6.1 percent in May, the National Association of Automobile
Manufacturers of  South Africa  said on July 4.  The broad M3 measure of money supply increased 6 percent in
June from the year earlier down from 6.2 percent in May, the
central bank said. The median estimate in a Bloomberg survey was
for M3 to expand 6.4 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mike Cohen in  Cape Town  at 
 mcohen21@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Philip Sanders in  London  at 
 psanders@bloomberg.net . 