-- 
South Korean Won Declines for a Second Day as Output Data Signal Slowdown

-- B y   J i y e u n   L e e   a n d   K y o u n g w h a   K i m
-- 
2011-07-29T06:28:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-29/south-korean-won-declines-for-a-second-day-as-output-data-signal-slowdown.html
South Korea ’s won declined for a
second day on signs that  Asia ’s fourth-largest economy is
slowing.  The currency headed for a weekly drop as Statistics Korea
said industrial production expanded 6.4 percent in June from a
year earlier, the slowest pace in nine months. Global funds sold
more local shares than they bought for a fifth day as Samsung
Electronics Co., the world’s largest maker of televisions and
flat-screen panels, reported an 18 percent drop in second-
quarter profit.  “Foreign investors are likely to shy away today given weak
production data,” said Jeong My Young, a Seoul-based senior
currency analyst at Samsung Futures Co. “Market players are
being cautious as U.S. and Europe issues remain unsolved.”  The won fell 0.2 percent today, and by the same amount this
week, to 1,054.08 per dollar at the 3 p.m. close in  Seoul ,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Obama administration officials will brief the public after
financial markets close today on priorities for paying the
nation’s bills if the U.S. debt limit isn’t raised, a Democratic
Party official said.  Spain ’s credit ratings were placed by Moody’s Investors
Service on review for a possible downgrade because of funding
pressure and challenges faced by regional governments to meet
their budget targets.  The yield on South Korea’s 4 percent bonds due March 2016
rose three basis points, or 0.03 percentage point, to 4.02
percent, according to prices from Korea Exchange Inc.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kyoungwha Kim in Singapore at 
 kkim19@bloomberg.net ;
Jiyeun Lee in Seoul at 
 jlee1029@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net.NI  FRX 