-- 
South Africa’s Top Court Rules Zuma Decision on Judge Unconstitutional

-- B y   F r a n z   W i l d
-- 
2011-07-29T11:38:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-29/south-africa-s-top-court-rules-zuma-decision-unconstitutional.html
South Africa ’s Constitutional Court
ruled that President  Jacob Zuma ’s attempt to extend the tenure
of the country’s chief justice was unconstitutional.  Judges at the Johannesburg-based court, South Africa’s top
judicial organ, all agreed that a decade-old law that entitled
the president to extend the term of Chief Justice Sandile Ngcobo
was in itself unlawful, according to a copy of today’s  ruling 
posted on its Website. As the law had never been used before,
its powers had never been challenged.  “Parliament alone had the power to extend a Constitutional
Court judge’s term of office,” the ruling said.  Ngcobo was appointed to the  Constitutional Court  in 1999
after serving for three years on the  Supreme Court , and was
named chief justice in August 2009, when Pius Langa retired from
the post. The Constitution states that judges on the country’s
highest court may serve a non-renewable term of 12 years, unless
Parliament passes a law to extend their tenure.  The presidency yesterday said that the Judge’s Remuneration
and Conditions of Employment Act authorized Zuma to extend the
chief justice’s tenure. While the presidency accepts and
respects the judgment, it maintained that “the law was valid
until” today, spokesman Mac Maharaj said in an e-mailed
statement.  Ngcobo decided to step aside to protect the integrity of
the justice system, Justice Minister  Jeff Radebe  said on July
27. His replacement will be announced before Aug. 15, he said.  The Council for the Advancement of the South African
Constitution, Freedom Under Law, the Justice Alliance of South
Africa and the Centre for Applied Legal Studies petitioned the
Constitutional Court to rule on the validity of Zuma’s offer to
extend Ngcobo’s tenure.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Franz Wild  in Johannesburg at 
 fwild@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Sanders at 
 psanders@bloomberg.net . 