-- 
Spain Faces Moody’s Downgrade Risk on Regions Budget Concern

-- B y   M a n u e l   B a i g o r r i ,   S h a r o n   S m y t h   a n d   A n g e l i n e   B e n o i t
-- 
2011-07-29T09:39:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-29/spain-placed-by-moody-s-on-downgrade-review.html
Spain  faces a possible downgrade by
Moody’s Investors Service as its regions struggle to cut budget
deficits and last week’s Greek bailout increases the risk that
bondholders will have to pay for further European rescues.  Moody’s is reviewing the nation’s Aa2 classification, the
ratings company said in a statement today. A cut would probably
be “limited to one notch,” Moody’s said. The euro fell. Spain
has the same  credit rating  as  Italy , which is also on review for
downgrade at Moody’s.  “This news is a blow to Europe’s efforts to contain the
debt crisis to smaller countries like Greece or  Portugal ,” said
 Kornelius Purps , a fixed-income strategist at UniCredit SpA in
Munich. “Rating downgrades, or any threat in this regard, do
not gel with highly sensitive  market sentiment .”  Spain, the euro region’s fourth-largest economy, is trying
to rein in a surge in borrowing costs and convince investors it
won’t follow Greece, Ireland and Portugal in seeking an
international bailout. While European leaders on July 21 agreed
to bulk up their rescue fund to set up a firewall around
countries such as Spain, the yield on the country’s 10-year bond
has again breached 6 percent after falling last week.  Moody’s also said it’s concerned that it will take too long
for European officials to empower the 440 billion euros ($629
billion) fund so that it can buy government debt.  Bonds Drop  Spanish 10-year bonds fell for a third straight day,
pushing the yield on the securities 4 basis points higher to
6.08 percent as of 10:13 a.m. in  London . The additional yield
investors demand to hold the securities instead of benchmark
German bunds rose by eight basis points to 348 basis points.
The euro slid 0.3 percent to $1.4285.  In its note, Moody’s said the last Greek rescue plan is
likely to increase pressure on Spain as the package “has
signaled a clear shift in risk for bondholders of countries with
high debt burdens or large budget deficits” and because it is
unclear when the bailout fund’s new powers will take effect.  “Challenges to long-term budget balance remain due to
Spain’s subdued economic growth and fiscal slippage within parts
of its regional and local government sector,” Moody’s said.  Clear Shift  Spanish Finance minister  Elena Salgado , speaking on radio
Onda Cero, said “ Europe ’s decisions at last week’s summit must
be implemented more quickly” to reassure markets. “Spain is on
the right path for fiscal consolidation,” she said, adding that
“this is only a revision and Moody’s won’t take action” for
another three months.  Spain’s Treasury told investors in a note obtained by
Bloomberg News that the concerns expressed by Moody’s are
“misplaced” because of the country’s low debt-to-gross
domestic product ratio and its “very conservative” budgetary
provisions for the interest rate burden.  “The government will continue to show the breadth and
impact of the structural reforms in the financial, labor and
product markets,” the Treasury said.  Prime Minister Jose Luis Rodriguez Zapatero, whose party
faces elections by March, is implementing the deepest budget
cuts in three decades while pushing lenders hit by real-estate
losses to raise capital.  Unemployment Drop  Salgado pointed out the most recent data on unemployment is
positive after second-quarter unemployment came in lower at 20.9
percent, compared with 21.3 percent in the first three months of
the year. The central government will help Spain’s regions fund
themselves, she said.  “Moody’s decision comes as a surprise because the latest
data is positive,” said Estefania Ponte, the Madrid-based head
of research at Cortal Consors. Spain is penalized by the delay
in the implementation of the last Greek rescue plan, she said.
“The market has been waiting for some time now for bond buy-
backs to lessen the level of Greek debt.”  Salgado on July 27 secured an agreement with the nation’s
17 semi-autonomous regions on new budget rules, after first-
quarter data showed the regions may miss their target of a 1.3
percent of gross domestic product deficit this year. The regions
each committed to meet deficit targets of 1.3 percent in 2012,
1.1 percent in 2013 and 1 percent in 2014. Their outstanding
debt of 121 billion euros, or 11 percent of overall GDP, is the
most on record, Bank of Spain data show.  Moody’s also cut debt ratings of six Spanish regions by one
level to reflect the “deterioration of their fiscal and debt
positions.” Castilla-La Mancha, the central territory with
Spain’s worst deficit, was cut to A3 from A2, while the northern
region of Catalunya was lowered to Baa1 from A3. Five more
regions were put under review, three of them for a downgrade.  The debt and deposit ratings of five Spanish banks were
also placed on review by Moody’s. Lenders facing a possible
downgrade are  Banco Santander SA (SAN) , CaixaBank,  Banco Bilbao
Vizcaya Argentaria SA (BBVA) ,  La Caixa  and CECA.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Manuel Baigorri in Madrid at 
 mbaigorri@bloomberg.net ;
Sharon Smyth in Madrid at 
 ssmyth2@bloomberg.net ;
Angeline Benoit in Madrid at 
 abenoit4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  