-- 
Spotify, Microsoft, Alcatel, HTC, TCW: Intellectual Property

-- B y   E l l e n   R o s e n
-- 
2011-07-29T11:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-29/spotify-microsoft-alcatel-htc-hp-tcw-intellectual-property.html
Spotify, the European music-
streaming service that started in the U.S. two weeks ago, is
already getting a taste of the U.S. legal system.  PacketVideo Corp. sued the company for patent infringement
July 27 in federal court in San Diego. PacketVideo sued Spotify
last month in the Netherlands over a European patent.  According to the complaint, PacketVideo produces software
employed in media applications including those used for music
and video. According to the complaint, the company’s software
“is currently embedded in more than 260 million devices
worldwide and more than 320 different products.”  Chief Technology Officer Osama Al-Shaykh said in an
interview yesterday that PacketVideo acquired the patents in
2007 as part of its acquisition of Basel, Switzerland-based SDC
AG and waited to sue because “it took us a while to do our
homework before we strongly believed that there is an
infringement on our patents.”  He said the company hopes the case can be settled.  Alison Bonny, a spokeswoman for Spotify, said by e-mail
that Spotify uses its own proprietary technology. “Spotify is
strongly contesting PacketVideo’s claim,” she said.  Frederick Lorig, Steven Anderson and Christopher Mathews,
partners in the  Los Angeles  office of Quinn Emanuel Urquhart &
Sullivan, represent PacketVideo. Bonny declined to say who was
representing Spotify.  The case is PacketVideo Corp. v. Spotify USA Inc., 11-cv-
1659, U.S. District Court, Southern District of  California  (San
Diego).  Patents  Alcatel Lawyer Calls Microsoft’s Infringement ‘Pervasive’  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  engaged in infringement of an Alcatel-
Lucent patent that is “pervasive” in the software maker’s
Outlook program, said a lawyer for France’s largest
telecommunications equipment maker.  “It really is pervasive in Outlook, particularly in
Calendar,” Alcatel-Lucent lawyer Luke Dauchot told a jury in
federal court in San Diego in his closing argument yesterday. He
said the “Day patent,” as it was described during the trial,
“provided an easy, fast, reliable way of using Outlook.”  Dauchot said the technology also was infringed in
Microsoft’s Money and Personal PC applications. He told jurors
Outlook wouldn’t have been as popular without the patented
technology and that “Microsoft’s own survey showed that Outlook
is the most frequently used Microsoft Office application by
consumers.”  Juanita Brooks, an attorney for Redmond, Washington-based
Microsoft, told jurors that Paris-based Alcatel-Lucent is trying
sued over a patent that is of little significance to Microsoft
because the French company’s patent portfolio was not making
enough money.  “They’re trying to get tens of millions of dollars for a
feature that is one of tens of thousands in Outlook,” she said.  A different jury in San Diego federal court in 2008 found
that Microsoft had infringed the patent and awarded $358 million
in damages. While upholding the verdict, an appeals court
overturned the damages award, finding the calculation lacked
sufficient evidentiary support, and sent it back for retrial.  Microsoft, the world’s biggest software maker, had argued
on appeal that the damages were too high because the invention
is one of many features within a product.  The patent involves a form entry that Redmond, Washington-
based Microsoft said is simply a “date-picker” function that
isn’t utilized with e-mail, the most popular function in
Outlook. Alcatel-Lucent described the technology as a pop-up
tool for form-filing that “plays a central role in the entire
operation” of Outlook.  The case is Lucent Technologies Inc. v Gateway Inc., 07-cv-
2000 U.S. District Court, Southern District of California (San
Diego).  HTC Didn’t Infringe FlashPoint Imaging Patents, Judge Says  HTC Corp. (2498) , Asia’s second-biggest maker of smartphones,
didn’t infringe digital-imaging patents owned by closely held
licensing company FlashPoint Technology Inc., a U.S.
International Trade Commission judge said.  FlashPoint failed to show HTC violated its patent rights
for imaging devices used in mobile phones, commission Judge Paul Luckern said in a  notice  posted on the agency’s website
yesterday. LG Electronics Inc.,  Nokia Oyj (NOK1V)  and  Research In Motion
Ltd. (RIM) , which had also been targeted, settled with Peterborough,
New Hampshire-based FlashPoint before the judge could rule.  The decision -- pending review by the full six-member
commission -- clears one of the cases HTC is involved in at the
ITC as companies including Apple Inc. and Samsung Electronics
Co. use their patents to try to beat back competition in the
expanding smartphone market.  HTC, which makes phones such as the Droid Incredible and
EVO 4G that use Google Inc.’s Android operating system, said two
weeks ago that it was found to have infringed two Apple patents,
a ruling the company is appealing.  “Intellectual property plays an increasingly important
role in the development and implementation of new technologies,
and HTC has placed highest priority in IP protection,” Grace Lei, general counsel for Taoyuan, Taiwan-based HTC, said in a
statement yesterday about the FlashPoint case.  The dispute centered on technology related to the way
digital cameras operate, including focus and flash settings, and
automatic rotation of the image depending on how the camera is
held, according to the complaint.  FlashPoint, whose founders include former employees of
 Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s imaging business, said it developed its own digital
operating system for cameras, and ceased research in 2007 to
focus on licensing its patents.  Companies that license FlashPoint patents include  Eastman
Kodak Co. (EK) , Samsung Electronics, Hewlett-Packard Co., Nikon Corp.
and Apple, according to the complaint.  The ITC is quasi-judicial U.S. agency in  Washington  that
arbitrates trade disputes and has the power to block imports of
products found to infringe U.S. patents.  HTC agreed this month to pay $300 million for S3 Graphics
Inc. after an ITC judge in a third case found that Apple’s
operating system for Mac computers infringed two S3 patents for
graphics technology. The operating system for the iPhone, iPad
and iPod touch didn’t use the S3 inventions, the judge said. HTC
also has a case against Apple at the commission.  The case is In the Matter of Certain Electronic Imaging
Devices, Complaint 337-726, U.S. International Trade Commission
(Washington).  LG Files ITC Complaint Against Siemens’s Osram Unit Over LEDs  LG Electronics Inc. (066570) , accused last month of infringing
 Siemens AG (SIE) ’s patents for light-emitting diode technology, filed
a U.S. International Trade Commission complaint of its own on
July 27.  The case targets Munich-based Siemens’s Osram unit and
involves similar LED technology, according to a  notice  posted on
the ITC’s website. While a copy of the complaint filed by Seoul-
based LG wasn’t immediately available, companies in these cases
typically seek to block U.S. imports of products they say
infringe patents.  The dispute is over technology used in LED displays for TV
sets and monitors that require less energy than traditional
lighting. Osram last month filed complaints at the ITC and in
federal courts against LG and Samsung Electronics Co. over LEDs.
Samsung responded with its own ITC case against Osram, and LG
had submitted a complaint with the Korea Trade Commission.  “We are well prepared,” Stefan Schmidt, a spokesman for
Osram, said about LG’s complaint in an e-mail. “Osram holds
around 8,000 LED-related patents globally and has a longstanding
tradition in handling patent rights.”  The ITC typically completes its investigations in 15 to 18
months.  The new case is In the Matter of Certain Light-Emitting
Diodes, Complaint No. 2837, U.S. International Trade Commission
(Washington).  Copyright  Hollywood Studios Win U.K. Case Against BT Over Piracy Site  News Corp. (NWSA) ’s Twentieth Century Fox and five other Hollywood
film studios won a U.K. ruling forcing BT Group Plc, Britain’s
biggest Internet-service provider, to block access to a website
that promotes online piracy.  The judgment in  London  yesterday is the first of its kind
and the studios said it could be used to obtain similar orders.
Fox, Universal Studios, Warner Bros., Viacom Inc.’s Paramount
Pictures and  Sony Corp. (6758) ’s Columbia Pictures were backed in the
case by the Motion Picture Association of America.  The ruling “is a victory for millions of people working in
the U.K. creative industries and demonstrates that the law of
the land must apply online,” Chris Marcich, a regional managing
director for the film association, said in a statement.  The website, known as Newzbin, liquidated after losing a
related U.K. lawsuit last year, only to resurface with more than
700,000 members, the studios’ lawyers said. They argued BT and
other ISPs must block the site altogether to prevent
infringement.  “BT has actual knowledge of other persons using its
service to infringe copyright,” Judge Richard Arnold said in
the ruling.  While BT said it agreed Newzbin’s activities were illegal,
it argued that a court injunction would be inappropriate,
because the website isn’t a customer of the company.  “This is how you test the law,” BT spokesman Simon Milner
said outside court yesterday. The judgment “sets a helpful
precedent showing that you have to get a court order and prove
significant infringement.”  Fox convinced a U.K. court in March 2010 that Newzbin
infringed its copyrights. The website went into liquidation to
avoid damages and has been revived as “Newzbin 2,” the movie
studios claimed.  “The judgment sends a clear signal that ISPs have a role
to play in protecting their customers from rogue websites that
exploit and profit from creative work without permission,” said
Geoff Taylor, chief executive officer of the British Recorded
Music Industry trade group.  ‘Incredible Hulk’ Copyright Belongs to Marvel, Judge Rules  Walt Disney Co. (DIS) ’s Marvel Entertainment owns the rights to
the Incredible Hulk and X-Men comic-book characters, a federal
judge said, ruling against the heirs of the superheroes’ co-
creator Jack Kirby. Stan Lee, who worked for Marvel as an
editor, is credited as co-author of the Hulk.  The children of the late cartoonist didn’t have the legal
right to terminate the comic-book publisher’s copyrights for the
characters, U.S. District Judge  Colleen McMahon  in Manhattan
said yesterday in a court order. Marvel said it owned the rights
because Kirby was an employee of the company.  “This case is not about whether Jack Kirby or Stan Lee is
the real ‘creator’ of Marvel characters,” McMahon said in her
order. “It is about whether Kirby’s work qualifies as work-for-
hire under the Copyright Act of 1909.” The Kirby works “were
indeed works for hire,” she said.  The decision affects the rights to the characters in movies
as well as comic books. The 2008 Marvel-produced film “The
Incredible Hulk” grossed $263.4 million worldwide, according to
 boxofficemojo.com . Burbank, California-based Disney bought
Marvel last year for $4.2 billion.  In 2009, Kirby’s adult children sent 45 notices to Marvel
to terminate license renewals for the characters in comics
published from 1958 to 1963. Marvel sued in January 2010,
seeking a judgment that the termination notices were invalid.  Marc Toberoff, a lawyer representing the Kirbys, didn’t
immediately respond to messages seeking comment.  Kirby, who died in 1994, also created or co-created the
Fantastic Four and the Avengers. His heirs said their father was
a freelance artist paid by the page who received no benefits
from Marvel.  The case is Marvel Worldwide Inc. v. Kirby, 10-00141, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  Trade Secrets  Ex-HP Executive Sued by Former Employer Says Evidence False  The lawyer for a former  Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ)  sales executive
accused of stealing secret information, filed a letter in court
saying the evidence used against his client was “false and
fabricated.”  Adrian Jones, who left Hewlett-Packard to join  Oracle Corp. (ORCL) 
in February, was accused of downloading company information to
an external hard drive. In the letter, filed June 10 in
California state court, Jones said the drive was used by
Hewlett-Packard to do a backup and was never in his possession.  Hewlett-Packard and Oracle are increasingly competing in
the market for server computers. Hewlett-Packard ousted Chief
Executive Officer Mark Hurd in August 2010, saying he had tried
to cover up a relationship with a marketing contractor. Hurd, a
friend of Oracle CEO Larry Ellison, joined Oracle as a co-
president.  “The central allegation in HP’s employment lawsuit against
Adrian Jones has turned out to be complete fiction,” said
 Deborah Hellinger , a spokeswoman for Redwood City, California-
based Oracle. “If they did it knowingly, then HP and their
lawyers should be sanctioned. If they did it mistakenly, then
they simply owe Mr. Jones an apology.”  Hewlett-Packard said yesterday that Jones did store secret
company information, even if it wasn’t on that hard drive. He
returned other devices with sensitive files to the company, said
Michael Thacker, a spokesman for Palo Alto, California-based
Hewlett-Packard.  “Regardless of the device, Adrian Jones said he had no
confidential information,” Thacker said. “But he did, and he
had returned it.”  Jones worked at Hewlett-Packard as a senior vice president
in its enterprise hardware group based in  Tokyo , where he
oversaw the unit’s sales in Asia. He began seeking a job outside
Hewlett-Packard in the fall of 2010, according to the letter.  In December, the company began a probe of Jones. Hewlett-
Packard said its investigation found he failed to disclose a
close personal relationship with a subordinate, arranged a pay
raise of about 97 percent for her and expensed travel to
Australia to see her with no legitimate business purpose.  Hewlett-Packard asked for Jones’s additional computers,
including his home computer in Tokyo, an iPhone and his
girlfriend’s iPad, according to the letter. Jones received the
job offer from Oracle Feb. 13.  In June, Hewlett-Packard filed a separate lawsuit against
Oracle, claiming that the company went from partner to “bitter
antagonist” and had breached its contract.  The lawsuit, filed June 15 in state court in San Jose,
California, cited Oracle’s hiring of Hurd and Oracle’s March
announcement that it would cease software development for
Hewlett-Packard servers that use Intel Corp.’s Itanium chip.
Oracle also has used “strong-arm tactics” in forcing customers
to “shift from HP’s Itanium server hardware to Oracle’s own
server hardware,” the suit said.  That suit, which also cites libel claims, followed Hewlett-
Packard’s June 8 letter to Oracle demanding that the software
maker keep supporting the Intel chip, reiterating its concern
that the move will hurt customers and trammel competition.  The case is Hewlett-Packard Co. v. Jones, 1-11-cv-198103,
California Superior Court, Santa Clara County.  TCW Accuses Gundlach of Secret Plot to Steal ‘Entire Business’  A lawyer for TCW Group Inc. told a jury yesterday that
former investment chief  Jeffrey Gundlach  plotted with colleagues
to steal the company’s trade secrets before he was fired and
started a rival money-management firm.  “They tried to steal an entire business from TCW worth
hundreds of millions of dollars,” TCW lawyer John Quinn said in
his opening statement yesterday at a state court trial in Los
Angeles. “They secretly plotted to leave en masse.”  TCW, the Los Angeles-based unit of  Societe Generale (GLE)  SA,
sued Gundlach, 51, and three other ex-employees in January 2010,
a month after he was fired and more than half of TCW’s fixed-
income professionals had joined his firm, DoubleLine Capital LP.
TCW seeks $375 million in damages.  Gundlach, who had worked at TCW for 25 years and who was
named Morningstar’s Fixed Income Manager of the Year in 2006,
said in a cross-complaint that TCW fired him to avoid having to
pay as much as $1.25 billion in future management and
performance fees for the funds his group managed. Gundlach has
since reduced his damages estimate to about $500 million.  DoubleLine’s lawyer, Brad Brian, said in his opening
statement yesterday that Societe Generale wanted to maximize its
investment in TCW and “they were not going to let Mr. Gundlach
stand in their way.” The company discussed terminating Gundlach
in August 2009, he said.  While TCW knew it would lose business by firing Gundlach,
the company did it anyway because the lost business would be
compensated by reducing what was owed to him, Brian said.  Brian also said Gundlach and the others didn’t use any
proprietary TCW information.  The trial may have undesirable consequences for both sides,
said  Geoff Bobroff , an independent fund consultant in East
Greenwich, Rhode Island. Gundlach, who has attracted $13 billion
in assets since his firm opened, may see damage to his
reputation, while TCW Group risks the disclosure of its inner
workings and details such as fees.  The case is Trust Co. of the West v. Gundlach, BC429385,
California Superior Court, Los Angeles County.  Comings and Goings  Google Litigator Leaving to Join Perkins Coie  Google’s head litigator, Timothy Alger, is leaving the
company to join the Palo Alto, California, office of Perkins
Coie. In a statement on its website, the firm said Alger would
become a partner in its litigation practice, focusing on new and
traditional media among other matters. According to the
statement, Alger had worked at Google since 2008.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ellen Rosen  in New York at 
 erosen14@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this report:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 