-- 
Sri Lanka Inflation Quickens, Adding to Interest-Rate Pressure

-- B y   A n u s h a   O n d a a t j i e
-- 
2011-07-29T10:46:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-29/sri-lanka-inflation-quickens-adding-to-interest-rate-pressure.html
Sri Lanka ’s inflation accelerated in
July, adding pressure on the central bank to raise  interest
rates  in the South Asian nation.  Consumer prices in the capital, Colombo, climbed 7.5
percent from a year earlier after gaining 7.1 percent in June,
the statistics department said on its website today.  Central Bank Governor Ajith Nivard Cabraal has refrained
from increasing rates since 2007 to spur economic growth,
judging that rising food supplies and currency gains will help
cool inflation. By contrast, Asian nations from  India  to
 Thailand  have boosted borrowing costs to damp price gains.  “Policy makers will have to rethink and consider whether
tightening rates would be detrimental to growth,” said Sanjeewa
Fernando, an analyst at CT Smith Stockbrokers Pvt. in  Colombo .
“Inflation isn’t showing signs of easing.”  The Sri Lankan rupee has gained 1.3 percent since Jan. 1
and was trading at 109.49 against the dollar at 3:09 p.m. in
Colombo. The Colombo All-Share Index rose 2.9 percent today.  The inflation rate in Sri Lanka has remained above 7
percent since February.  Cabraal on July 8 left the central bank’s benchmark reverse
repurchase rate at 8.5 percent and the repurchase rate at 7
percent for the sixth straight month to boost a recovery in the
economy after the end of a 26-year civil war in 2009.  In April, the central bank ordered lenders to keep aside
more cash as reserves, increasing the statutory reserve ratio to
8 percent from 7 percent.  Growth Forecast  Cabraal forecasts economic growth will accelerate to 8.5
percent this year from 8 percent in 2010.  The central bank said July 8 inflation may ease in the
coming months aided by higher food supplies. Sri Lanka would be
comfortable with inflation of 4 percent to 6 percent, and price
gains may moderate closer to 6 percent by the end of 2011,
Cabraal said in June.  Sri Lanka’s next monetary policy announcement is scheduled
for Aug. 19.  The  Reserve Bank  of India on July 26 increased the
repurchase rate to 8 percent from 7.5 percent, while the Bank of
Thailand raised borrowing costs on July 13.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anusha Ondaatjie in Colombo at 
 anushao@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Hari Govind at 
 hgovind@bloomberg.net  