-- 
State and Local Government Cuts Slow U.S. Growth for Record Four Quarters

-- B y   S a r a h   F r i e r
-- 
2011-07-29T18:42:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-29/state-local-cutbacks-slow-u-s-growth-for-a-record-four-quarters-in-row.html
State and local cuts were a drag on
the  U.S. economy  from April to June for the fourth straight
quarter, the longest slide since at least 1947, as governments
slashed spending and dismissed employees to balance budgets.  Spending and investment by state and local governments
shrank at a 3.4 percent annual rate in the second quarter,
matching the decline in the first three months of 2011, the U.S.
Commerce Department said today. The fourth consecutive drop is
the longest such slump since the government began compiling
quarterly data in 1947.  The U.S. economy expanded at a less-than-forecast 1.3
percent annual rate, the Commerce Department said. State and
local governments accounted for a 0.41 percentage point drag,
the same as the first quarter, as governors and mayors adjusted
to lower revenue by cutting employees and services.  “We’ve seen this before, but we haven’t seen it to this
magnitude,” said Chris Mier, a managing director at Loop
Capital Markets LLC in  Chicago  who follows the municipal-bond
market.  State and local government purchases and investments slid
to about $1.45 trillion in the second quarter, the lowest amount
since the three months ended in September 2001. The figure may
decline again as the recovery continues from the 18-month
recession that ended in June 2009, said  Joshua Shapiro , chief
U.S. economist at Maria Fiorini Ramirez Inc. in  New York .  More to Come  “It’s an ongoing process,” Shapiro said. “It’s probably
got at least another year or two to go.”  States had to deal with initial fiscal 2012 deficits
estimated at $103 billion as budget writers crafted spending
plans, according to the  Center on Budget and Policy Priorities ,
a nonprofit research organization in  Washington . The group
focuses on issues affecting lower-income Americans.  Local and state governments employed 557,000 fewer workers
in June, or 2.9 percent below an August 2008 peak of 19.8
million, according to U.S. Labor Department data compiled by
Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Frier in New York at 
 sfrier1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  