-- 
Statkraft, AES Said to Consider Bids for Turkey’s Akenerji

-- B y   E r c a n   E r s o y
-- 
2011-07-29T13:34:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-29/statkraft-aes-said-to-be-considering-bids-for-akenerji.html
Statkraft SF and  AES Corp. (AES) , partners
of Turkey’s  Koc Holding AS (KCHOL) , are among four potential bidders for
local utility  Akenerji Elektrik Uretim AS (AKENR)  as power use soars in
the country, said two people with direct knowledge of the sale.  The other two possible suitors are European energy
utilities, said the people, who declined to be identified
because the talks are confidential.  Electricity demand in Turkey is outpacing economic growth,
which reached an annual 11 percent in the first quarter, the
fastest rate among the Group of 20 major economies. Final bids
for Akenerji are due in September, Chief Executive Officer Ahmet Umit Danisman said by telephone. The Istanbul-based company is
valued at about 1.35 billion liras ($799 million).  Turkey’s Akkok Group, which owns Akenerji with Prague-based
 CEZ AS (CEZ) , is seeking to focus more on acrylic production and real
estate than energy. Turkey has attracted foreign utilities
including Austria’s  Verbund AG (VER)  and OMV AG, and  Germany ’s  RWE AG. (RWE)   Akenerji rose as much as 3.4 percent in Istanbul trading,
the biggest intraday gain in six weeks, and was up 1.1 percent
at 3.56 liras as of 3:50 p.m. local time.  Statkraft is interested in “opportunities for long-term
growth in Turkey,” Steinar Bjornbet, managing director of the
Norwegian company’s Turkish unit, said today by telephone,
declining to comment on whether it’s bidding for Akenerji.  AES, CEZ  AES bought 49.6 percent of Turkey’s Entek Elektrik Uretim
AS for $136.5 million from Koc’s Aygaz AS unit in December.  Mark Green, Turkey country manager at Arlington, Virginia-
based AES, wouldn’t comment when contacted today. Eva Novakova,
a Prague-based spokeswoman for CEZ, also declined to comment.  Akenerji, in which CEZ and Akkok each own a 37.5 percent
stake, has a production capacity of 659 megawatts in Turkey from
hydro, wind and gas-fired plants, according to its  website . The
company plans to add 1,147 megawatts by 2015.  Sedas, Akenerji’s power grid near Istanbul which CEZ and
Akkok bought from the government for $600 million in 2008,
serves 1.3 million industrial and household customers, the
website shows.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ercan Ersoy in Istanbul at 
 eersoy@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  