-- 
Strauss-Kahn Shows Justice for Accused/Accuser Uses Same Rules

-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o   a n d   K a r e n   F r e i f e l d
-- 
2011-07-29T04:01:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-29/strauss-kahn-prosecutor-shows-justice-for-accused-accuser-uses-same-rules.html
If Manhattan District Attorney Cyrus Vance Jr. had decided to codename his investigation of former
International Monetary Fund chief  Dominique Strauss-Kahn , he
might have called it “Operation Rock and a Hard Place.”  Eleven weeks ago, with Strauss-Kahn headed to a country
that didn’t extradite, Vance had to decide whether to charge the
French presidential hopeful with sexually attacking a hotel maid,
based on his assessment of a credible claim. Six weeks after he
said the maid admitted telling lies about her background and the
aftermath of the alleged attack, Vance is grappling with whether
to drop the charges even though there’s evidence of a crime.  Lawyers for Strauss-Kahn and the maid are demanding that
Vance make opposite decisions. Without indicating any doubts
about pursuing the case, Vance has said he’s sticking to the
principle he laid down on July 1, when prosecutors told the
judge in charge of the case that the maid, Nafissatou Diallo,
had lied and had other “credibility issues.”  “As prosecutors, our duty is to do what is right in every
case, without fear or favor wherever that leads,” Vance said
after the court hearing. “Our judicial system seeks to ensure
fairness and justice for both victims and defendants.”  Since July 1, Vance, 57, has provided no public details of
his investigation of the alleged May 14 attack in Strauss-Kahn’s
Sofitel suite and set no deadline to finish his probe. A status
hearing on the case was postponed to Aug. 1 from July 18 and
then to Aug. 23, giving him more time to complete his mission.  After Vance’s disclosure, Strauss-Kahn’s lawyers asked him
to drop the charges of sexual assault and attempted rape, a
demand echoed by French supporters of the 62-year-old ex-IMF
chief, who is known as “DSK” in France.  On the Offensive  Going on the offensive, Diallo’s lawyer  Kenneth Thompson 
demanded the same day that the district attorney pursue the
case, claiming the 32-year-old maid hadn’t lied about her core
claim: Strauss-Kahn had attacked her. Through statements and
press interviews Thompson and Diallo, a political refugee from
 Guinea , have since attempted to explain or deny Vance’s
“credibility issues” and other damaging allegations.  A translation digest done for Vance of conversations Diallo
had in her native dialect about Strauss-Kahn with a jailed
friend quoted her as saying: “He’s got a lot of money. I know
what to do,” according to a person familiar with it. After she,
Thompson and prosecutors reviewed the taped conversations for
hours July 27, he told reporters she’d never said that.  “What she said was, ‘He is powerful and rich,’ during one
conversation,” that was “merged together” with another in the
translation, Thompson said.  Drop the Charges  Diallo took her damaged case to the public by revealing her
identity in tearful print and broadcast interviews last weekend.
She detailed her side of the story and denied a  New York  Post
story, based on defense sources, that she is a prostitute.  “I want justice,” she told ABC News. “I want him to go to
jail,” adding: “God is my witness. I’m telling the truth. From
my heart. God knows that. And he knows that.”  In a statement, Strauss-Kahn lawyers said Diallo is “the
first accuser to conduct a media campaign to persuade a
prosecutor to pursue charges against an innocent person from
whom she wants money.” Thompson said she plans to file a civil
damages suit against Strauss-Kahn.  After the Aug. 1 status hearing was postponed, Strauss-
Kahn’s lawyers asked that the charges be dropped by the new Aug.
23 date.  The French  Amid noisy demands from both sides, French officials and
intellectuals have called Vance’s handling of the case a rush to
judgment. Former Culture Minister Jacques Lang called DSK’s
arrest and charging “a lynching.” French philosopher Bernard-
Henri Levy said Vance, the son of a former U.S. secretary of
state, had destroyed Strauss-Kahn’s presumption of innocence.  New York defense lawyers, normally critical of police and
prosecutor tactics, took the opposite view. The initial decision
to charge Strauss-Kahn, who pleaded not guilty, was the correct
one, given the evidence available at the time, the nature of the
crime and the flight risk Strauss-Kahn presented, defense
lawyers such as Gerald Shargel said.  “They did everything they were supposed to do,” said
Shargel, a criminal defense lawyer in New York for more than 30
years who also teaches criminal law at Brooklyn Law School.
“This DSK case is like the perfect storm. The DA’s office felt
it had its back against the wall and didn’t want him to leave
the country. I don’t think their judgment calls are subject to
being second-guessed.”  Swift Action  Records show authorities moved swiftly during the more than
14 hours between the alleged assault, which police said occurred
around noon on May 14 at a Midtown Manhattan hotel, and Strauss-
Kahn’s arrest at about 2:45 a.m. the next day at the Special
Victims Squad office in East Harlem.  Vance spokeswoman  Erin Duggan  summed up the  district
attorney ’s view of the case: “The accuser’s credible account of
a sexual assault by a stranger was corroborated by multiple
sources, including witnesses and evidence. It was vetted and
appropriately presented to the grand jury under the time
constraints and circumstances unique to this case. After
indictment prosecutors continued their investigation and
disclosed additional relevant information to the defense and to
the court, as they are legally and ethically obligated to do.”  That tracks the assessment of the arrest and initial
charges by Gerald Lefcourt, a New York-based criminal defense
lawyer who has represented members of the Black Panthers and
actor  Russell Crowe . “They had probable cause, corroboration to
the witness’s story when they made the arrest,” he said. “That
was not, in any normal view of how the criminal justice system
works in this country, a rush that wasn’t appropriate.”  ‘On the Plane’  Brad Simon, a former federal prosecutor in New York who
practices in  France , said he doesn’t fault the decision to
arrest Strauss-Kahn even after hearing the strong French
criticism of U.S. authorities.  “He was already on the plane, which means that if they
didn’t apprehend him, he’d be gone,” Simon said. “I’m a defense
attorney, and I’m generally skeptical of prosecutors, but here,
what choice did they have? The French wouldn’t have willingly
turned him over. Just look how they’ve reacted since.”  Strauss-Kahn’s lawyer  Benjamin Brafman  declined to comment
on defense lawyers’ view of the case. After prosecutors’ July 1
disclosures about the accuser’s credibility, Brafman said the
case “should never have been brought to begin with.”  One reason for the strident response from France may be the
different way the two countries’ justice systems work.  ‘Very, Very Fast’  “In the U.S., things went very, very fast,” said Thomas
Morin, a Paris-based lawyer at Linklaters LLP. “In France, you
have to either file a complaint to the police or through a
lawyer to a judge, and things don’t begin to move for several
weeks or even months.”  Dominique Moisi, a founder and senior adviser at the French
Institute for International Relations in Paris, said on France24
Television July 5 that the case would have been handled in
France, “with greater discretion.”  “For a lot of French people, the U.S. system broke down,”
he said. “They feel that the Americans provoked an enormous
global scandal without bothering to zero in on the personality
of the woman who was accusing DSK.”  In a letter to defense lawyers, Vance said Diallo’s
credibility issues included telling prosecutors and a grand jury
that after the alleged assault she’d fled his hotel room and hid
in the hallway. She later said that after the incident she’d
cleaned a nearby room, then returned to clean Strauss-Kahn’s
suite before reporting the attack to her supervisor.  Diallo also told prosecutors on June 9 that she had lied in
recounting how she’d been granted political asylum, including a
tale about being gang raped.  Diallo’s Interviews  In on-the-record interviews published by  Newsweek  and
broadcast by ABC News, Diallo, reiterated her claim that
Strauss-Kahn had sexually assaulted her. Through Duggan, Vance
declined to comment on her remarks, published July 24 and 25.  Without the benefit of her recent remarks at the time of
the initial charges, police and prosecutors relied on what they
had back then: The maid had identified Strauss-Kahn from a photo
within hours of the alleged attack and picked him out of a
police lineup at 4 p.m. the next day. A sexual encounter of some
kind was corroborated by forensic DNA evidence police found at
the scene, according to Assistant District Attorney Joan
Illuzzi-Orbon.  “It’s DSK who put this whole thing in motion,” said Linda Fairstein, former chief of the  Manhattan  District Attorney’s Sex
Crimes Unit, who unsuccessfully tried to get an United Nations
official accused of a similar sex crime 20 years ago pulled off
a plane as he headed for a no-extradition country. “It’s his
semen on her clothes and in that hotel room; there’s no question
a sexual encounter occurred. I don’t know what people expect of
police. You have a victim who was found credible at the time.”  No Special Treatment  Fairstein, who was never able to prosecute the official,
disputed any suggestion that police and prosecutors should have
safeguarded Strauss-Kahn’s reputation by not placing him under
arrest and asking him to remain in the U.S. during an
investigation of the woman’s claims.  “If he were a French dishwasher from a restaurant in Paris
he wouldn’t have been given that treatment,” she said. “A sexual
encounter happened, and why in the world would he be entitled to
a privilege that wouldn’t be extended to anyone else? It would
have broken every police protocol to say ‘We’ll look into this,
and we’ll get back to you.’”  Missteps  Once Strauss-Kahn was arrested, New York defense lawyers
did say there were missteps in the way he was treated by police
and prosecutors. The decision to parade him in handcuffs before
reporters, news photographers and television cameras in a so-
called perp walk was one cited by Levy as an abuse.  “This vision of Dominique Strauss-Kahn humiliated in
chains, dragged lower than the gutter -- this degradation of a
man whose silent dignity couldn’t be touched, was not just
cruel, it was pornographic,” Levy said in a July 2 column for
the Daily Beast, an online news website.  Lefcourt, a former president of the National Association of
Criminal Defense Lawyers, said that “in a perfect world, there
are a few things we know they could have avoided. First they
created this monstrous scene with the perp walk, and then they
asked for no bail.”  The decision to oppose bail was seen as cruel by French
critics such as Levy. Defense lawyers said it was a tactical
misstep because keeping Strauss-Kahn in custody set a legal
clock ticking to get a grand jury to indict him, making the
charges formal.  Assistant Manhattan District Attorney John “Artie”
McConnell called Strauss-Kahn “an incurable flight risk” at a
May 16 bail hearing.  New York Law  Under New York law, if a suspect remains in custody without
bail after arrest and arraignment, prosecutors must indict or
release the suspect within five or six weekdays, depending on
the day of arrest.  By holding Strauss-Kahn in custody, “they really boxed
themselves in a corner,” said  Henry Mazurek , a New York defense
lawyer. “They didn’t have the opportunity to make a review of
the evidence and a background check of the complainant, so they
ended up relying almost entirely on her and the physical
evidence.”  Should Vance decide to drop the charges after his
investigation is complete, Strauss-Kahn may fare worse in
France, where he faces a similar accusation, said Denis Chemla,
a Paris-based Herbert Smith LLP partner who is also licensed to
practice law in New York.  The Banon Case  French writer Tristane Banon has told Paris police that
Strauss-Kahn attempted to rape her eight years ago. A
preliminary investigation of the matter began July 8, Paris
prosecutors said. Strauss-Kahn sued her for libel after her
complaint. Vance’s prosecutors met with her lawyer July 19. They
may interview her as part of their investigation, a person
familiar with the case said.  “For all the criticisms we have of the American system,
nothing can erase that the American system is fairer and quicker
than ours,” Chemla said. “The most terrible thing is that the
guy is going to be under investigation for two and a half years
and after two and a half years, nothing will come of it. That’s
the French system. While in the American system, one can see a
prosecutor who at the end of the week says ‘Oh hold on, there’s
a problem.’ We’re not capable of doing that.”  The case is People v. Strauss-Kahn, 11-02526, New York
State Supreme Court, New York County (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in Manhattan federal court
at   pathurtado@bloomberg.net ;
Karen Freifeld in state supreme court in Manhattan
at   kfreifeld@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  