-- 
Supreme Court Says Canada Doesn’t Share Liability for Tobacco Health Costs

-- B y   A n d r e w   M a y e d a
-- 
2011-07-29T14:27:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-29/supreme-court-says-canada-doesn-t-share-tobacco-cost-liability.html
Canada’s  Supreme Court  ruled
unanimously that the federal government doesn’t have to share
liability with  tobacco companies  for health costs related to
smoking.  The country’s top court was asked to rule on  two cases  that
raised the issue of whether the federal government should be
partially liable for the costs stemming from the health problems
of smokers.  “The facts as pleaded do not bring Canada’s relationship
with consumers and the tobacco companies within a settled
category of negligent misrepresentation,” the court wrote in
its decision today.  In the first case, smokers in British Columbia began a
class-action, or group, lawsuit against the Canadian unit of
Imperial Tobacco Group Ltd., alleging that the company’s
description of cigarettes as “light” or “mild” was
misleading. The consumers asked Imperial to refund the money
they spent on such cigarettes.  Imperial asked the court to add the federal government as a
defendant, saying  Canada ’s health department encouraged the
company to develop and promote light cigarettes and vouched for
the relative safety of light brands. Canada collected license
fees and royalties on tobacco strains developed by Canada for
use in light cigarettes, according to Imperial.  Cost Recovery  The second case stems from a 2001 suit by the B.C.
government against 14 tobacco manufacturers, including Rothmans
Inc. and R.J. Reynolds Tobacco Co., seeking recovery of money
spent by the province on health care stemming from tobacco-
related diseases. Nine of the companies argued that the federal
government be included as a defendant, saying it should be
liable for some of the costs.  Today’s rulings overturned split decisions by the B.C.
Court of Appeal in 2009, which had been in favor of the
companies in both cases.  The  cases are  Attorney General of Canada versus the Queen
in Right of British Columbia, number 33563, and the Queen in
Right of Canada versus Imperial Tobacco Canada Ltd., number
33559.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Mayeda in Ottawa at 
 amayeda@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net ;
David Scanlan at   dscanlan@bloomberg.net . 