-- 
Swedish Growth Quickens, Signals Rate Increase

-- B y   J o h a n   C a r l s t r o m
-- 
2011-07-29T08:45:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-29/swedish-growth-quickens-signals-rate-increase.html
Swedish economic growth unexpectedly
accelerated in the second quarter, underlining the likelihood
that the central bank will press ahead with planned interest-
rate increases to cool  Europe ’s biggest economic expansion.  Gross domestic product grew more than estimated in the
three months through June, increasing a seasonally adjusted 1
percent, up from 0.8 percent in the previous quarter, Stockholm-
based  Statistics Sweden  said today. That compares with a median
estimate of 0.6 percent in a survey of 16 economists. Annual
growth slowed to 5.3 percent from 6.4 percent in the first three
months.  “Growth came in somewhat above our and the Riksbank’s
forecast,” said Andreas Jonsson, an economist at Nordea Bank
AB, in a client note. “This supports our view that the Riksbank
will continue tightening policy short-term.”  Sweden’s economy expanded 5.7 percent last year, the most
in the European Union, as exports, which account for about half
of its output, recovered from the financial crisis and consumers
kept up spending following four years of income-tax cuts. The
central bank this month raised its benchmark lending rate for a
seventh time in a year to 2 percent and predicted it will rise
to 2.5 percent by the end of the year to cool the recovery.  The krona lost 0.3 percent against the euro to trade at
9.0877 at 9:57 a.m. in Stockholm. Against the dollar, the krona
declined as much as 0.6 percent to 6.3587.  Confidence Above Average  Swedish business confidence remained “considerably above
the historic average,” the National Institute of Economic
Research said yesterday even as sentiment dropped. “Industrial
firms are optimistic about the third quarter and forecast strong
order and output growth. Employment is also expected to rise
considerably.”  SKF AB (SKFB) , the world’s largest maker of ball bearings,
reported a 21 percent gain in second-quarter net income on July
15, saying demand for its products will be “significantly
higher” this quarter than a year earlier.  Swedish retail sales beat economist estimates in June and
consumers’ confidence in their personal finances improved for a
fourth month in July as worries of losing their jobs fell
“sharply,” NIER said.  Finance Minister Anders Borg said this month developments
in the  U.S. economy  and the European debt situation have led to
an increased risk of a slowdown. The ministry forecast in April
that the economy will expand 4.6 percent this year, 3.8 percent
in 2012 and 3.6 percent in 2013.  “With weaker-than-expected indicators abroad, the
uncertainty about growth going forward has increased,” Jonsson
said. The Riksbank will announce its next rate decision on Sept.
7.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Johan Carlstrom in  Stockholm  at 
 jcarlstrom@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  