-- 
SNB Loses $13.5 Billion on Currencies After Euro Plunge, Gold Valuations

-- B y   K l a u s   W i l l e
-- 
2011-07-29T17:29:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-29/swiss-national-bank-posts-13-5-billion-first-half-loss-on-declining-euro.html
The Swiss central bank saw its
first-half loss nearly quadruple from a year earlier on the
declining value of its international reserves, reviving
criticism of its president, Philipp Hildebrand.  The Zurich-based  Swiss National Bank  posted a loss of 10.8
billion Swiss francs ($13.5 billion) compared with a 2.78
billion-franc shortfall in the first half of 2010, it said in an
e-mailed statement today. Exchange-rate-related losses amounted
to 11.7 billion francs and the bank lost 1.55 billion francs on
its gold holdings.  The central bank came under criticism as it amassed foreign
currencies in the 15 months ending June 2010 in a bid to stem
the Swiss franc’s gains and counter the risk of deflation. That
left the bank’s balance sheet vulnerable to currency swings. The
franc’s advance against the euro contributed to a 21 billion-
franc loss in 2010.  “Today’s figures are the result of the SNB’s breakneck
intervention policy,” Martin Baltisser, secretary general of
the  Swiss People’s Party , the largest in the lower house of
parliament, said by telephone. “The central bank shouldn’t have
intervened, because it couldn’t prevent the franc from
appreciating anyway. Philipp Hildebrand and the government that
elected him have to decide whether he is the right person to be
the president.”  Gains Versus Euro  Hildebrand became chairman of the SNB’s governing board on
Jan. 1, 2010.  In the second quarter, the SNB posted a loss of 12.7
billion francs. The loss on foreign-currency positions, which
includes valuation losses, amounted to 11.4 billion francs and
the loss on gold holdings was 1.56 billion francs.  The Swiss currency advanced 1.3 percent to 1.1331 per euro
as of 6:59 p.m. in Zurich, after reaching an all-time high of
1.1298 today. The franc was little changed against the dollar at
78.78 centimes after it reached a record 78.54 today.  The bank’s accumulation of foreign-currency reserves
sparked a debate in  Switzerland , with politicians and economists
lined up on both sides of the issue.  Susanne Leutenegger Oberholzer , a Social Democrat lawmaker,
said the central bank should have “intervened more decisively”
to weaken the franc and deter speculators.  ‘Huge Losses’  “In that case they might have stopped the franc’s
appreciation early and they wouldn’t have posted these huge
losses,” Leutenegger Oberholzer, a member of the Committee for
Economic Affairs and Taxation in the National Council, the lower
house of parliament, said by telephone. “In addition, exporters
wouldn’t have to cope with the franc’s strength now.”  The government last month lowered its forecast for 2012
economic growth to 1.5 percent from 1.9 percent, saying the
franc represents “a burden on Swiss exports.” The projection
for 2012 export growth was cut to 3 percent from 4.7 percent.  SNB Vice President Thomas Jordan said on July 13 that he
was “very concerned” about recent currency developments. Asked
whether the central bank would be willing to intervene again, he
said that “if there was a situation with a deflation threat,
then we’d have the possibility to act.”  “It’s the job of a central bank to ensure  price
stability ,” said David Marmet, an economist at Zuercher
Kantonalbank in Zurich. “In order to achieve that, they can
even accept losses on a temporary basis. In addition, the euro-
area fiscal crisis has wrong-footed policy makers.”  The SNB is a  joint-stock company  in which public
shareholders including Swiss cantons and cantonal banks have a
controlling stake. Individuals hold the remainder. The national
government has no shares.  The stabilization fund, which was set up to support UBS AG,
the country’s largest bank, had a profit of $1.33 billion in the
first half, the SNB said.  The central bank’s loan to the fund declined to $9.4
billion from $12.6 billion at the end of December, according to
the statement. The SNB’s potential loss from the stabilization
fund, which includes the loan itself and possible losses mainly
from derivatives, fell to “about” 10 billion francs from
“almost” 14 billion francs at the end of December, the central
bank said in its statement.  The fund, set up in 2008 during the financial crisis to
enable UBS to offload toxic assets, is being managed by the
central bank. It’s financed through the SNB’s loan and an equity
injection by UBS.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Klaus Wille in Zurich at 
 kwille@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  