-- 
British Gilts Rise as Consumer Sentiment Drops, U.S. Debt Concern Grows

-- B y   A n c h a l e e   W o r r a c h a t e   a n d   L u k a n y o   M n y a n d a
-- 
2011-07-29T15:26:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-29/u-k-pound-drops-versus-dollar-as-report-shows-consumer-sentiment-declined.html
U.K. government bonds rose as a drop
in  consumer confidence  fueled bets the Bank of England will
delay raising  interest rates  and concern that the U.S. won’t
resolve its debt-ceiling deadlock fueled demand for a haven.  Gains pushed the 10-year yield down to within eight basis
points of a record, after dropping this month by the most since
August. An index of sentiment slipped five points from June to
minus 30, London-based research group GfK NOP Ltd. said today.
Bank of England policy maker  David Miles  on July 27 said
attempts to slow inflation too quickly risk stalling the
recovery. The pound weakened against the franc and the yen.  “The recent weak data and the delay in U.S. resolution on
the debt ceiling really put the market on edge,” said  Sam Hill ,
a fixed-income strategist at  RBC Capital Markets  in London.
“Ten-year gilt yields are not too far away from the record low,
and that’s a sign that people increasingly see them as a safe
haven amid what’s going on in the  euro zone  and the U.S.”  The yield on 10-year gilts fell 10 basis points to 2.87
percent as of 4:18 p.m. in London. The yield touched a record
low of 2.79 percent on August 25, 2010. The 3.75 percent
security maturing in September 2020 rose 0.79, or 7.9 pounds per
1,000-pound ($1,644) face amount, to 107.01. Two-year yields
fell three basis points to 0.64 percent, down seven basis points
this week.  Pound Falls  U.K. bonds outperformed their German and U.S. counterparts
this month, handing investors 2.8 percent compared with 2.6
percent from German securities and 1.2 percent from Treasuries,
according to indexes compiled by Bloomberg and the European
Federation of Financial Analysts Societies.  The pound fell 0.1 percent to 127.03 yen and declined 1.2
percent to 1.2960 Swiss francs. It appreciated 0.6 percent to
$1.6470 after falling as much as 0.7 percent. Against the euro,
sterling was little changed at 87.47 pence, up 0.7 percent since
July 22.  Sterling rose versus the dollar after a report showed the
 U.S. economy  expanded at a slower-than-forecast pace in the
second quarter.  U.S. gross domestic product climbed at a 1.3 percent annual
rate following a 0.4 percent gain in the prior quarter that was
less than earlier estimated, Commerce Department figures showed
today in  Washington . The median forecast of economists surveyed
by Bloomberg News called for a 1.8 percent increase. Household
purchases, about 70 percent of the economy, rose 0.1 percent.  U.K. Economy  Sterling has fallen 7.7 percent in the last 12 months,
making it the second-worst performer among 10 developed-market
currencies after the  U.S. dollar , according to Bloomberg
Correlation-Weighted Currency Indexes.  “Recent data suggested the U.K. economy is growing below
trend, and some people in the market are scaling back their
rate-hike expectations further,” said  Lee Hardman , a currency
strategist at Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ Ltd. “That is likely
to keep the pound under pressure. Heightened concern about the
U.S. debt ceiling also fuels risk aversion, which is not going
to benefit the pound.”  Gilts benefited from demand for safer assets after Moody’s
Investors Service today said it may downgrade  Spain  as its
regional governments struggle to cut budget deficits.  Today’s confidence report followed a survey by the
Confederation of British Industry yesterday that showed a
measure of retail sales reached a 13-month low in July.  Deficit Plan  The U.K. economy expanded 0.2 percent in the second quarter
after stagnating over the previous six months, the  Office for
National Statistics  said on July 26. Even with the economic
recovery under pressure, Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  said the same day he’ll stick to his deficit-reduction
program, the biggest since World War II.  The  Bank of England  will keep its benchmark rate on hold
for the rest of the year, according to a weighted average of 20
forecasts compiled by Bloomberg.  U.S. House Speaker  John Boehner , falling short of the votes
within his own party needed to increase the nation’s debt limit
after a night of one-on-one appeals to members, canceled a vote
on a plan that Senate leaders pledged to defeat.  The Obama administration will brief the public no earlier
than after financial markets close on priorities for paying the
nation’s bills if the $14.3 trillion debt ceiling isn’t raised,
a Democratic Party official said. Treasury Secretary  Timothy F.
Geithner  has said options to prevent a default will run out on
Aug. 2 if the limit isn’t increased.  U.S. Disaster Risk  Former Bank of England Deputy Governor John Gieve said U.S.
officials’ delay in agreeing on a deal to raise the debt limit
runs the risk of a disaster that would echo the collapse of
 Lehman Brothers  Holdings Inc.  “The problem with this kind of brinkmanship is, as we saw
around Lehman -- after all, the Treasury wanted to save Lehman -
- if you leave it to the last minute, that something can go
wrong, something practical goes wrong, and you run out of
time,” he said in an interview with Francine Lacqua on
Bloomberg Television’s “The Last Word” yesterday. “I’m sure
both sides fully expect to do a deal, but they’re running it
very fine.”  Gieve was deputy governor for financial stability at the
U.K. central bank when Lehman Brothers filed for bankruptcy in
September 2008.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anchalee Worrachate in  London  at 
 aworrachate@bloomberg.net ;
Lukanyo Mnyanda in Edinburgh News at 
 lmnyanda@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  