-- 
U.K. House Prices Rise in July on Weak Supply, Nationwide Says

-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 
2011-07-29T06:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-29/u-k-house-prices-rise-in-july-on-weak-supply-nationwide-says.html
U.K. house prices unexpectedly rose
in July as a “gradual” increase in the supply of properties
for sale helped to support values,  Nationwide Building Society 
said.  The average cost of a home increased 0.2 percent to 168,731
pounds ($275,600) from June, when it was unchanged, the
customer-owned lender said in an e-mailed report today. The
median forecast in a Bloomberg News survey of 10 economists was
for a 0.2 percent decline. From a year earlier, values were down
0.4 percent.  “Sluggish demand for homes, combined with only a gradual
rise in the supply of available properties, has helped to keep
property prices relatively stable,” said  Robert Gardner , chief
economist at Swindon, England-based Nationwide. “As the
economic outlook brightens, labor-market conditions strengthen
and housing affordability becomes less stretched, so demand for
housing should improve.”  The U.K. economy barely grew in the second quarter, while
data today showed  consumer confidence  fell in July. Nationwide
said there has been a decline in the share of home ownership due
to affordability and tighter lending conditions and it’s not
clear if a trend toward renting will reverse as the recovery
strengthens.  U.K. consumer sentiment fell more than economists forecast
this month as Britons became more pessimistic about the economic
outlook, a separate report by GfK NOP showed. A sentiment index
dropped to minus 30, the lowest since April, the research
company said in an e-mailed report. That compares with a median
forecast of 19 economists for minus 26 in a Bloomberg survey.  The  Bank of England  left its benchmark  interest rate  at a
record low of 0.5 percent this month and held the bond-purchase
plan at 200 billion pounds ($327 billion).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Hamilton in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  