-- 
U.K. Factory Power Costs May Rise Up to 58% by 2030, DECC Says

-- B y   C a t h e r i n e   A i r l i e
-- 
2011-07-29T11:52:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-29/u-k-factory-power-costs-may-rise-up-to-58-by-2030-decc-says.html
Britain’s policies to curb emissions
and spur investment into nuclear and wind to secure power
supplies may raise electricity prices for factories by as much
as 58 percent by 2030, according to a government study.  The U.K.’s Department of Energy and Climate Change
published today an initial estimate of the costs of its policies
on so-called energy-intensive users such as steel factories,
cement works and paper mills. The biggest rise would come a
scenario whereby natural- gas prices  fall, the  analysis  on the
government website shows. Price rises would be curbed to as
little as 7 percent should gas prices remain unchanged,
according to the analysis.  Natural gas is used to produce about half Britain’s
electricity, so its cost is used as a proxy for power prices.
The government is overhauling the  electricity market  and
studying measures such as long-term contracts to give price
certainty and help attract funds for offshore  wind turbines ,
nuclear reactors and  carbon capture  and storage projects. A tax
on emissions from fossil fuels, under the so-called carbon
floor, is planned from 2013 as well as programs to drive  energy
efficiency  such as its Carbon Reduction Commitment.  “There are some wholly implausible assumptions about the
pass-through of carbon and renewable subsidy costs,” Jeremy
Nicholson, London-based director of the Energy Intensive Users
Group, said by telephone. “The analysis confirms that
significant compensation would be needed to offset the impact of
these policies. Our suspicion is that DECC has massaged the
figures to make the impacts look less severe.”  Large industrial users faced electricity price increases of
45 percent from 2007 to 2009, according to the analysis.
Government policy is aimed at cutting power sector emissions and
the U.K.’s dependence on fossil fuels, according to the report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Catherine Airlie in London at 
 cairlie@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  