-- 
U.S. Commodities Day Ahead: Chile Copper Mine Strike Prolonged

-- B y   S t u a r t   W a l l a c e
-- 
2011-07-29T11:58:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-29/u-s-commodities-day-ahead-chile-copper-mine-strike-prolonged.html
The following are the top stories on
metals, agriculture and shipping.  
TOP STORY:  BHP Chile Workers Vow to Prolong Strike at Biggest Copper Mine  Workers at BHP Billiton Ltd.’s Escondida unit in Chile
pledged to extend a weeklong strike that has halted shipments
from the world’s biggest copper mine and helped push up prices
of the metal.  COMMODITY EXCLUSIVES:  Eveready May Raise Battery Prices, Start New Products Sales (1)  Eveready Industries Ltd.,  India ’s biggest maker of
batteries, plans to raise prices and sell new products to
reverse four straight quarters of profit decline.  Biggest Pig Farmer to Sell First Bond in 4 Years: Russia Credit  Miratorg, Russia’s largest pork producer, is planning its
first bond sale since 2007 this month as the biggest grain
harvest in four years lures investors to higher-yielding
agricultural debt.  India Refiners Said to Open Bank Accounts to Pay Iran Via Turkey  Indian refiners, seeking to end an impasse over payments
for Iranian crude oil, opened accounts with state-owned Union
Bank of India Ltd. to route money through a lender in Turkey,
two people with direct knowledge of the matter said.  African Wind, Hydro, Cook Stoves May Benefit From New CO2 Rule  Wind turbines , hydro-electric dams and efficient cooking
stoves in Africa and other countries may attract up to $1
billion in investment, according to ClimateCare after the United
Nations agreed on new carbon market rules that may grant such
projects more emissions credits.  McDonald’s to Open a Restaurant a Day in China in Four Years (1)  McDonald’s Corp., the world’s largest restaurant chain,
should open an outlet a day in China as it challenges Yum!
Brands for dominance in Asia’s largest economy as rising
salaries boost spending on fast food.  Sugar Exports From India at Four-Year High May Cool Prices (1)  Sugar exports from India, the second-biggest producer, may
surge to the highest level in four years next season as output
exceeds domestic demand, potentially cooling a rally in global
prices.  Nickel Surplus to Narrow on  China ’s Demand, Sumitomo Says (1)  A global nickel surplus may narrow on increasing stainless-
steel demand from China and as new mining projects have stalled,
limiting a decline in prices, said Sumitomo Metal Mining Co.,
 Japan ’s top producer.  China Gold Demand May Surpass India This Year, Goldcorp Says (1)  Demand for physical gold in China may exceed consumption in
India by the end of this year, said Chuck Jeannes, chief
executive officer of Goldcorp Inc., the world’s No. 2 producer
of the metal by market value.  INDUSTRIAL METALS:  Copper May Fall on Concern About Potential U.S. Debt Default  Copper may fall in  London , trimming a second monthly gain,
on concern about a potential U.S. default after lawmakers failed
to reach agreement on raising the debt ceiling.  Copper Inventories in Shanghai Rise Third Week; Aluminum Drops  Copper stockpiles monitored by the Shanghai Futures
Exchange increased for a third week, while aluminum inventories
declined to a 23-month low.  MINING:  Ukraine Coal Miners Trapped by Deadliest Blast Since 2007 (3)  Ukrainian authorities are working to free nine workers
trapped after an explosion at a coal mine owned by the country’s
richest man, Rinat Akhmetov, which killed 17 in the deadliest
such accident since 2007.  Exxaro to Close Unprofitable Zincor Refinery, Fire Workers (1)  Exxaro Resources Ltd., the second-biggest South African
coal producer, plans to close the Zincor refinery in the country
and may fire workers at the plant after failing to turn a profit
or find a buyer.  Anglo American’s Profit Rises 41%; CEO Sees Cost ‘Headwinds’ (2)  Anglo American Plc, part-owner of the world’s biggest
platinum and diamond producers, said first-half profit rose 41
percent, missing estimates, as it confronts “very strong
headwinds” on costs.  Mitsubishi Says Will Meet Profit Target, Sojitz May Exceed  Mitsubishi Corp., Japan’s largest trading company, said it
will meet its annual profit target even after lower coal sales
contributed to a 18 percent cut in first quarter profit.  Vedanta Quarterly Profit Climbs to Record as Prices Advance (1)  Vedanta Resources Plc, the largest copper producer in
India, said fiscal first-quarter profit rose 33 percent to a
record as commodity prices increased.  Anglo American First-Half Profit Rises 41% on Metal Gains (1)  Anglo American Plc, part-owner of the world’s biggest
platinum and diamond producers, said first-half profit rose 41
percent as metal and gem prices gained.  PRECIOUS METALS:  Gold May Fall in London as Rally to Record Spurs Investor Sales  Gold may decline in London as a rally to a record this week
on debt concerns in the U.S. and  Europe  prompts some investors
to sell the metal.  AGRICULTURE:  Palm Oil  Drops on Concern U.S. Debt Stalemate May Lower Demand  Palm oil had its first weekly loss in four on speculation
that the stalemate in the U.S. over raising the debt limit to
avoid a default may hurt global demand for commodities.  Corn Drops on Speculation U.S. Rainfall Will Curb Crop Stress  Corn dropped in Chicago, paring the first monthly gain in
three, on speculation rainfall in U.S. growing areas will curb
stress caused by heat and dryness.  Soybeans Gain on Optimism China Demand May Expand on Feed Use  Soybeans advanced for the first time in three days on
expectation that demand in China, the world’s biggest importer
and consumer, may increase as the country’s hog herds expand,
boosting consumption of  animal feed .  Sugar Falls as Surplus May Become Available; Coffee Advances  Sugar fell for a third day in London to the lowest level in
more than a week on speculation a projected surplus for the
coming season will soon be available. Coffee advanced.  Japan Buys 9,050 Tons of Food Wheat From Australia in Tender (1)  Japan bought 9,050 metric tons of food wheat from Australia
in a tender today, the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and
Fisheries said in a statement.  Rubber Drops for Second Day as U.S. Debt Impasse Curbs Demand  Rubber declined for a second day, paring a monthly advance,
as U.S. lawmakers failed to make progress on a deal to raise the
nation’s debt ceiling, curbing investor appetite for the
commodity used to make tires.  SHIPPING:  Supertankers Storing Oil Rise by One to Six, ICAP Shipping Says  The number of “international” supertankers storing  crude
oil  rose by one to six, ICAP Shipping International Ltd. said in
a report today. Another of the vessels that has been booked to
store gasoil off  Singapore  has yet to start doing so, it said.  Tropical Storm Don May Strengthen Before Texas Landfall (1)  Tropical Storm Don may experience “some strengthening”
before making landfall on the Texas coast later today, the
National Hurricane Center said.  Pirates Took 1,090 Sailors Hostage Last Year, Ship Flaggers Say  Pirates took 1,090 sailors hostage last year, the world’s
three biggest flag states that register vessel ownership said.  Crude Tanker Sails From Offshore Libya to Sardinia, Data Show  The Captain X. Kyriakou, an oil tanker able to haul about 1
million barrels of crude, is now off Sardinia, having previously
signaled its position off Libya, according to ship-tracking data
compiled by Bloomberg.  ECONOMIES:  HSBC Recommends Buying Chinese Stocks as Inflation May Ease (1)  Chinese stocks will outperform the rest of  Asia  this year
as inflation slows in the world’s second- biggest economy and
the political stalemate over U.S. debt ends, according to HSBC
Holdings Plc.  China Should Buy U.S. Stocks Over Treasuries, Economist Xie Says  China should buy U.S. stocks instead of Treasuries as they
may be safer investments amid concerns about a U.S. debt default
or credit-rating downgrades, according to  Andy Xie , an
independent economist.  Auction Demand Weakest in a Year on Cash Crunch: China Credit  Demand at China’s government debt sales was the weakest in
at least a year this month as higher reserve-requirement ratios
left financial companies with fewer funds to invest in the
securities.  Treasury May Adopt ‘Risky’ Payment Plan as U.S. Deadline Nears  The U.S. is approaching the moment it may have to decide
which bills to pay, a prospect Treasury Secretary  Timothy F.
Geithner  has called “unacceptably risky and unfair” to
Americans.  U.S. Contingency Plan Said to Give Priority to Bondholders (2)  The  U.S. Treasury  will give priority to making interest
payments to holders of  government bonds  when due if lawmakers
fail to reach an agreement to raise the debt ceiling, according
to an administration official.  German Retail Sales Surged in June as Unemployment Declined (1)  German retail sales surged the most on record in June as
falling unemployment boosted household purchasing power.  OTHER MARKETS:  Stocks Fall, Franc Gains on House Vote Delay; Default Risk Rises  Stocks fell, the Swiss franc and yen strengthened and the
cost of U.S. default insurance rose to the highest since March
2009 as American lawmakers called off a vote to increase the
debt limit.  Yen, Franc Gain on U.S. Debt Limit, Euro Drops on Spain Rating  The yen and Swiss franc rose versus most of their currency
peers as Moody’s Investors Service said it may cut Spain’s
credit ranking and U.S. lawmakers delayed voting on a plan to
raise the debt limit to avert a default.  Asian Currencies Strengthen This Week on Rising Interest Rates  Asian currencies completed a second weekly gain, led by the
Philippine peso and India’s rupee, on speculation the region’s
growth outlook and rising interest rates will attract foreign
funds.  European Stocks Retreat as U.S. Lawmakers Cancel Debt-Limit Vote  European stocks slid, extending the Stoxx Europe 600
Index’s monthly drop, as U.S. lawmakers called off a vote on a
Republican plan for raising the nation’s debt ceiling. Asian
shares and U.S. index futures declined.  Company Debt in Europe Will Slide to 1996 Low: Chart of the Day  European corporate indebtedness will slide to the lowest
level in 16 years in 2012, a signal that the two-year-old rally
in the region’s stocks will extend its gains, according to
Societe Generale SA.  Oil Falls, Heads for Weekly Drop, on U.S. Debt Ceiling Dispute  Oil fell, headed for the first weekly decline in five, on
concern a failure to reach a deal on raising the U.S. debt limit
may cause the nation to default, threatening the economy of the
world’s biggest crude consumer.  House Bids to Salvage Boehner Bill as Aug. 2 Deadline Nears (1)  House Republican leaders, four days before a threatened
U.S. default and facing stiff resistance within their ranks to
raising the U.S. debt ceiling, plan to make a second try at
passing legislation that is headed for a Senate roadblock.  Berlusconi Survives Confidence Vote as Italian Yields Surge (2)  Italian Prime Minister  Silvio Berlusconi  survived a
confidence vote on a bill critics say will help shield him from
prosecution, ending a week of turmoil after bond yields rose on
speculation Finance Minister  Giulio Tremonti  may quit.  UN Tribunal Reveals Identity of Suspects in Hariri Killing (1)  The  United Nations  tribunal investigating the 2005 killing
of former Lebanese Prime Minister  Rafiq Hariri  eased the
confidentiality of its indictment by naming the four men charged
in the case.  SPORTS:  Inter Milan  Preparing $65 Million Tevez Bid, Sun Says: Roundup  The following is a roundup of soccer stories from U.K.
newspapers, with clickable links to the Web.  DiBenedetto Group’s Takeover of Roma Club Said to Be Delayed  A group of U.S. investors led by Boston Red Sox partner
Thomas DiBenedetto and UniCredit SpA will extend the deadline to
purchase Italian soccer club AS Roma, according to two people
familiar with the matter.  Tiger Woods Resumes Pursuit of Nicklaus, Returns at Bridgestone  Tiger Woods will return to tournament play at next week’s
World Golf Championships event in Ohio, more than two months
after withdrawing from the Players championship with knee and
ankle injuries.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stuart Wallace in London at 
 swallace6@bloomberg.net  