-- 
U.S. Stocks Pare Losses Amid Signs of Progress on Debt Impasse

-- B y   N i k o l a j   G a m m e l t o f t
-- 
2011-07-29T16:35:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-29/u-s-stocks-drop-as-gdp-growth-trails-forecasts-default-concern-remains.html
U.S. stocks pared an earlier loss
amid signs House Speaker  John Boehner ’s revised plan to raise
the debt ceiling is gaining support, bolstering optimism that
lawmakers will reach a compromise to avoid a federal default.  DuPont Co. lost 1 percent as the U.S. reported weaker-than-
forecast gross domestic product. Merck & Co. dropped 1.9 percent
as the drugmaker said it plans to slash its workforce by an
additional 12 to 13 percent by 2015.  Starbucks Corp. (SBUX)  rose 1.1
percent after reporting third-quarter earnings that exceeded
analysts’ forecasts as customer traffic increased in the U.S.
Financial stocks rose 0.2 percent as insurers MetLife Inc. and
 Genworth Financial Inc. (GNW)  reported better-than-estimated earnings.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index fell 0.4 percent to
1,296.15 at 12:32 p.m. in  New York  after tumbling as much as 1.4
percent. The benchmark for U.S. equities is headed for its third
straight month of losses, the longest slump since 2008. The  Dow
Jones Industrial Average  fell 69.78 points, or 0.6 percent, to
12,170.33 after slumping as much as 157 points.  “The market is on hold with a slight negative bias as we
await an outcome in  Washington ,” Tim Hoyle, director of
research at Radnor, Pennsylvania-based Haverford Trust, which
manages $6 billion, said in a telephone interview. “Today’s GDP
number is a bigger concern to us as long-term investors than
when a bill is going to get passed in Congress, but this mess is
hurting business and consumer confidence.”  The S&P 500 has tumbled 3.6 percent this week as concern
mounted that lawmakers will fail to agree to increase the U.S.
debt ceiling by the Treasury Department’s Aug. 2 deadline.  Support for Plan  The U.S. House plans to vote on Republicans’ two-step debt-
limit plan today, and lawmakers said it will have enough votes
to pass. Representative Patrick Tiberi, a Republican from  Ohio ,
said more members of the House were supporting Boehner’s plan to
raise the debt ceiling and Mo Brooks, an Alabama Republican,
said he now supports Boehner’s plan and believes it has enough
votes to pass.  Republicans led by Boehner were forced to scrap action on
his measure late last night.  Equities extended losses today as the Commerce Department
reported GDP rose at a 1.3 percent annual rate in the second
quarter following a 0.4 percent gain in the prior quarter that
was less than previously estimated. The median forecast of
economists surveyed by Bloomberg News called for a 1.8 percent
increase. Household purchases, about 70 percent of the economy,
climbed 0.1 percent.  In a separate report, the Institute for Supply Management-
Chicago Inc. said today its business barometer fell to 58.8 in
July, lower than forecast, from 61.1 the prior month. Figures
greater than 50 signal expansion.  Earnings Season  The  S&P 500  has declined 4.9 percent from an almost three-
year high in April amid speculation that the sovereign debt
crisis in  Europe  is spreading and concern that U.S. lawmakers
will fail to reach a deal on raising the nation’s debt limit
before the Aug. 2 deadline.  The standoff in Washington has overshadowed an earnings
season that has seen per-share profit top analyst estimates at
about 78 percent of the 305 companies in the S&P 500 that
released results since July 11, data compiled by Bloomberg show.
Net income has grown 20 percent and sales have increased 15
percent for the group, the data show.  “Earnings look good, but macro uncertainty remains. The
macro data has to turn,” Binky Chadha, Deutsche Bank AG’s chief
U.S. equity strategist in New York, said in a telephone
interview. “This market hasn’t moved up since the low in March
2009 unless the two key boxes of earnings and macro are
checked.”  Newmont Mining Corp. (NEM)  fell 2.6 percent to $56.24. The
largest U.S. gold producer reported second-quarter profit that
trailed analysts’ estimates as mining costs increased.  Starbucks, Yahoo  Merck dropped 1.9 percent to $34.27 for the biggest decline
in the Dow. The second-largest U.S. drugmaker said it plans to
slash its workforce by an additional 12 to 13 percent by 2015,
expanding a restructuring program to save as much as $4.6
billion a year.  Columbia Sportswear slipped 6.1 percent to $57.83 as it
reported a 40-cent-per-share loss for the second quarter.  Starbucks rose 1.1 percent to $40.42. The world’s largest
coffee-shop operator reported third-quarter earnings that
exceeded analysts’ estimates as customer traffic increased in
the U.S. Profit was 36 cents a share, compared with the average
estimate of analysts surveyed by Bloomberg of 34 cents.  Yahoo, Insurers  Yahoo! Inc. sank 2.2 percent to $13.20, after rising as
much as 4.2 percent. Alibaba Group Holding Ltd. reached an
agreement with its largest shareholders Yahoo, ending a four-
month spat over how to compensate investors after an
ownership change in  China ’s most-popular online-payment service.  MetLife Inc. (MET)  increased 3 percent to $41. The biggest U.S.
life insurer posted second-quarter results that beat analysts’
estimates as profit climbed outside its home market. MetLife has
freed up $1 billion in capital by selling operations in
 Venezuela  and  Taiwan  and portions of the businesses in  Japan  and
the U.K., Chief Executive Officer Steven Kandarian said.  Genworth Financial Inc. rose 5.8 percent to $8.28. The
mortgage guarantor and life insurer reported second-quarter
sales of $2.66 billion, beating the average analyst estimate of
$2.63 billion in a Bloomberg survey.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nikolaj Gammeltoft in New York at 
 ngammeltoft@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  