-- 
U.S. Stock Futures Sink, Treasuries Rally on GDP

-- B y   M i c h a e l   P .   R e g a n
-- 
2011-07-29T12:47:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-29/u-s-stock-index-futures-extend-losses-as-gdp-data-cast-doubt-on-recovery.html
U.S. stock-index futures extended
losses and Treasuries rallied after gross domestic product grew
less than estimated in the second quarter, adding to concern the
economic rebound is slowing as the federal government inches
closer to default. Gold gained.  Futures on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index expiring in
September tumbled 0.9 percent to 1,285.2 at 8:45 a.m. in  New
York . Dow Jones Industrial Average futures sank 120 points, or 1
percent, to 12,073. Ten-year Treasury yields slid seven basis
points to 2.88 percent, while gold futures climbed 0.5 percent
to $1,625.00 an ounce.  "It’s coming from all sides today,"  Richard Sichel , who
oversees $1.6 billion as chief investment officer at
Philadelphia Trust Co., said in telephone interview. “The
economy is not moving along at a robust pace, the consumer is
not spending and overshadowing all of this is the uncertainty in
Washington,” he said. "We need more confidence for people to buy
risky assets such as stocks."  Gross domestic product rose at a 1.3 percent annual rate
in the second quarter following a 0.4 percent gain in the prior
quarter that was less than previously estimated, Commerce
Department figures showed today in  Washington . The median
forecast of economists surveyed by Bloomberg News called for a
1.8 percent increase. Household purchases, about 70 percent of
the economy, climbed 0.1 percent.  Weekly Slide  The S&P 500 has tumbled 3.3 percent this week, the largest
weekly retreat in almost a year, as concern mounted that
lawmakers will fail to agree to increase the U.S. debt ceiling
by the Treasury Department’s Aug. 2 deadline. House Speaker  John
Boehner  fell short of the votes within his own party needed to
increase the borrowing limit after a night of one-on-one appeals
to members. President  Barack Obama  had threatened to veto the
House’s plan.  Senate Democrats plan to break the impasse by devising a
strict enforcement mechanism to guarantee future deficit
savings, according to Democratic officials. The talks center on
setting up automatic spending cuts or tax increases, or some
combination of the two, if the government fails to stay within
the debt limit.  The standoff in Washington has overshadowed the second-
quarter earnings season. Per-share profit has topped analysts’
estimates at about 77 percent of the 299 companies in the  S&P
500  that have released results since July 11, data compiled by
Bloomberg show. Net income has grown 17 percent and sales have
increased 13 percent for the group, the data show.  The S&P 500 is headed for a decline of 1.5 percent in July,
its third straight month of losses.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael P. Regan at 
 mregan12@bloomberg.net  