-- 
U.S. Company Credit Risk Climbs as Market Waits on Debt Deal

-- B y   W i l l   R o b i n s o n
-- 
2011-07-29T21:36:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-29/u-s-corporate-credit-risk-climbs-as-economic-recovery-falters.html
The cost of protecting U.S.
corporate debt from losses climbed to almost the highest level
in two weeks as President  Barack Obama  said bipartisanship is
needed to turn a “rough agreement” on raising the debt limit
into a plan he and a majority of lawmakers can support.  The Markit CDX North America Investment Grade Index, which
investors use to hedge against losses on corporate debt or to
speculate on creditworthiness, rose 0.4 basis point to a mid-
price of 96.3 basis points as of 5:07 p.m. in  New York . That’s
the highest since 96.5 basis points on July 19.  Obama said in a televised speech that avoiding default by
raising the debt ceiling requires cooperation between political
parties. Before he spoke, concerns that sluggish spending and a
weak economic recovery may boost corporate debt risk drove the
index up. Gross domestic product in the second quarter grew at a
1.3 percent annual rate, Commerce Department figures released
today showed, less than the 1.8 percent median forecast of 84
economists surveyed by Bloomberg News.  “For the most part, people still don’t think there is
going to be any kind of a default,” said  Adrian Miller , fixed-
income strategist at Miller Tabak Roberts Securities LLC in New
York. Economic concerns are weighing on the market, he said, as
today’s data indicate the U.S. “is somewhat near stall speed.”  Credit-default swaps on Treasuries fell 2.3 basis points to
62.1 basis points, according to data provider CMA. That’s the
biggest drop since July 8.  Rating Risk  The benchmark credit index typically rises as investor
confidence deteriorates and falls as it improves. It has climbed
from 92.4 on July 21 on concern that the U.S. may lose its AAA
credit rating or miss interest payments if lawmakers don’t reach
an agreement to raise the federal debt ceiling by next week. The
index is still below its highest level this month of 99 basis
points on July 18.  “The CDX indices work as a shock absorber to sentiment,”
Miller said. “There were many themes going on within this two-
week space and that has whipped the index around,” he said.  Credit swaps pay the buyer face value if a borrower fails
to meets its obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt.
A basis point equals $1,000 annually on a contract protecting
$10 million of debt.  Global corporate defaults this year rose to 21 this week as
 Overland Park , Kansas-based transportation provider YRC
Worldwide Inc. restructured its debt and a receiver was
appointed for New Zealand-based lender NZF Money Ltd.,  Standard
& Poor’s  said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Will Robinson in New York at 
 wrobinson11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  