-- 
U.S. Stocks Drop as GDP Growth Trails Forecasts, Default Concern Remains

-- B y   N i k o l a j   G a m m e l t o f t
-- 
2011-07-29T18:44:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-29/u-s-s-p-500-futures-retreat-as-mccarthy-says-no-vote-on-debt-plan-tonight.html
U.S. stocks sank, pushing the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index toward its biggest weekly loss in a
year, after gross domestic product grew less than estimated in
the second quarter and investors awaited the outcome of
negotiations to avoid a federal default.  Energy and materials stocks led losses in the S&P 500 as
the GDP report sent the gauge tumbling as much as 1.4 percent.
 Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM)  and DuPont Co. dropped at least 0.7 percent.
Merck & Co. fell 2 percent as the drugmaker said it plans to
slash its workforce by an additional 12 to 13 percent by 2015.
Insurers  MetLife Inc. (MET)  and  Genworth Financial Inc. (GNW)  gained more
than 3.8 percent on better-than-estimated earnings.  The S&P 500 fell 0.1 percent to 1,298.95 at 2:40 p.m. in
New York. The benchmark for U.S. equities is headed for its
third straight month of losses, the longest slump since 2008.
The  Dow Jones Industrial Average  lost 40.15 points, or 0.3
percent, to 12,199.96 after slumping as much as 157 points.  “The market is on hold with a slight negative bias as we
await an outcome in  Washington ,” Tim Hoyle, director of
research at Radnor, Pennsylvania-based Haverford Trust, which
manages $6 billion, said in a telephone interview. “Today’s GDP
number is a bigger concern to us as long-term investors than
when a bill is going to get passed in Congress, but this mess is
hurting business and consumer confidence.”  The  S&P 500  has tumbled 3.4 percent this week as concern
mounted that lawmakers will fail to agree to increase the U.S.
debt ceiling by the Treasury Department’s Aug. 2 deadline.  Support for Plan  President  Barack Obama  said Republicans and Democrats are
in “rough agreement” on their plans to raise the U.S. debt
limit with just four days before a threatened U.S. default and
the time for compromise is “now.”  House Republicans said they have secured the votes to pass
House Speaker John Boehner’s plan today. Obama opposes that
plan. Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid  said he will take action
to move to a vote on his competing plan, and at the same time
held out hope for a deal with Republican leaders.  “If we don’t come to an agreement, we could lose our
country’s AAA credit rating, not because we didn’t have the
capacity to pay our bills -- we do -- but because we didn’t have
a AAA political system to match our AAA credit rating,” Obama
said at the White House.  Equities extended losses today as the Commerce Department
reported GDP rose at a 1.3 percent annual rate in the second
quarter following a 0.4 percent gain in the prior quarter that
was less than previously estimated. The median forecast of
economists surveyed by Bloomberg News called for a 1.8 percent
increase. Household purchases, about 70 percent of the economy,
climbed 0.1 percent.  ‘Moving Parts’  In a separate report, the Institute for Supply Management-
Chicago Inc. said today its business barometer fell to 58.8 in
July, lower than forecast, from 61.1 the prior month. Figures
greater than 50 signal expansion.  “There are a lot of moving parts to this market from
economic reports to this drama over the debt ceiling,”  Mike Shea , a managing partner and trader at Direct Access Partners
LLC in  New York , said in telephone interview. “Investors and
traders seem to feel confident that a deal will get done in
Washington.”  Investors last week pulled more money from money-market
mutual funds than any week this year as U.S. lawmakers failed to
resolve the impasse over raising the debt ceiling.  Withdrawals reached $37.5 billion, with about 70 percent of
the redemptions coming from institutional funds that invest in
U.S. government securities, according to data from the
 Investment Company Institute , a Washington-based trade group.  ‘Macro Uncertainties’  The S&P 500 has declined 4.7 percent from an almost three-
year high in April amid speculation that the sovereign debt
crisis in  Europe  is spreading and concern that U.S. lawmakers
will fail to reach a deal on raising the nation’s debt limit.
The gauge has rallied 93 percent since reaching a 12-year low in
March 2009.  “Earnings look good, but macro uncertainty remains. The
macro data has to turn,” Binky Chadha, Deutsche Bank AG’s chief
U.S. equity strategist in New York, said in a telephone
interview. “This market hasn’t moved up since the low in March
2009 unless the two key boxes of earnings and macro are
checked.”  The standoff in Washington has overshadowed an earnings
season that has seen per-share profit top analyst estimates at
about 78 percent of the 305 companies in the S&P 500 that
released results since July 11, data compiled by Bloomberg show.
Net income has grown 20 percent and sales have increased 15
percent for the group, the data show.  Merck, Newmont  Merck dropped 2 percent to $34.24 for the biggest decline
in the Dow. The second-largest U.S. drugmaker said it plans to
slash its workforce by an additional 12 to 13 percent by 2015,
expanding a restructuring program to save as much as $4.6
billion a year.  Newmont Mining Corp. (NEM)  fell 3.7 percent to $55.58. The
largest U.S. gold producer reported second-quarter profit that
trailed analysts’ estimates as mining costs increased.  The S&P 500 Energy Index fell 0.5 percent as oil futures
tumbled.  Southwestern Energy Inc., the biggest natural-gas producer
in Arkansas’ Fayetteville Shale, fell the second-most in the S&P
500, slumping 5 percent to $45.10 after production declined at
some of its wells in the second quarter.  Exxon Mobil, the largest U.S. oil company, slipped 1.4
percent to $80.32 as the price of oil fell, heading for the
first weekly drop since June.  Yahoo Sinks  Yahoo! Inc. sank 2.3 percent to $13.19, after rising as
much as 4.2 percent. Alibaba Group Holding Ltd. reached an
agreement with its largest shareholders Yahoo, ending a four-
month spat over how to compensate investors after an ownership
change in  China ’s most-popular online-payment service.  Starbucks Corp. (SBUX)  rose 1.1 percent to $40.43. The world’s
largest coffee-shop operator reported third-quarter earnings
that exceeded analysts’ estimates as customer traffic increased
in the U.S. Profit was 36 cents a share, compared with the
average estimate of analysts surveyed by Bloomberg of 34 cents.  Insurance companies gave a boost to financial stocks, which
rose the most among 10 S&P 500 groups.  Genworth Financial rose 5.5 percent to $8.25. The mortgage
guarantor and life insurer reported second-quarter sales of
$2.66 billion, beating the average analyst estimate of $2.63
billion in a Bloomberg survey. Chief Executive Officer Michael Fraizer also said he is weighing a split of the company and the
possibility of share buybacks.  MetLife Jumps  MetLife increased 3.8 percent to $41.34. The biggest U.S.
life insurer posted second-quarter results that beat analysts’
estimates as profit climbed outside its home market. MetLife has
freed up $1 billion in capital by selling operations in
 Venezuela  and  Taiwan  and portions of the businesses in  Japan  and
the U.K., Chief Executive Officer Steven Kandarian said.  Real estate investment trusts that buy mortgage debt
tumbled the most in more than a year on concern the markets that
finance them will be roiled if the U.S. government defaults on
its debt.  A Bloomberg index of the shares of 32 mortgage REITs,
including New York-based  Annaly Capital Management Inc. (NLY)  and
Atlanta-based Invesco Mortgage Capital Inc., dropped 2 percent
after falling as much as 8.5 percent, the most since May 2010.  The companies fell as the cost of overnight  repurchase
agreements , or repo, financing for government-backed mortgage
securities jumped 0.09 percentage point to 0.2 percentage point
as of 9:35 a.m., the highest since Jan. 19, according to data
from ICAP Plc.  Newell, Expedia  Newell Rubbermaid gained 7.1 percent to $15.39. The maker
of Sharpie pens and Rubbermaid containers reported second-
quarter profit excluding some items of 46 cents a share, 9
percent higher than the average analyst estimate, Bloomberg data
show.  Expedia Inc. (EXPE)  climbed 12 percent to $32.42 for the biggest
gain in the S&P 500. The online travel site reported second-
quarter earnings excluding some items of 55 cents a share,
beating the average analyst estimate by 12 percent, Bloomberg
data show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nikolaj Gammeltoft in New York at 
 ngammeltoft@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  