-- 
UBS Said to End Talks to Move to NYC’s World Trade Center

-- B y   D a v i d   M .   L e v i t t   a n d   C h r i s t i n e   H a r p e r
-- 
2011-07-29T22:39:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-29/ubs-is-said-to-end-negotiations-on-moving-to-new-york-s-world-trade-center.html
UBS AG (UBSN) , Switzerland’s biggest
lender, is no longer in negotiations to lease space at lower
Manhattan’s World Trade Center, according to a person with
knowledge of the situation.  The company called off talks yesterday, said the person,
who asked not to be named because the discussions were private.
UBS had been considering a plan to move the staff of its U.S.
investment bank unit from Stamford, Connecticut, to the site, a
person with direct knowledge of the matter said in June.  “UBS has been conducting a review of its real estate
requirements in the tri-state area,” the Zurich-based bank said
in an e-mailed statement today. “Part of this review involved
discussions with World Trade Center management in downtown
Manhattan. These discussions have been productive, but we are
focused on Midtown alternatives at the present time.”  The decision takes away a leading candidate to anchor 3
World Trade Center, one of three  office  towers planned by
developer  Larry Silverstein  along the eastern side of the 16-
acre (6-hectare) trade center site. It was prompted in part by
the bank’s 49 percent drop in second-quarter net income, led by
a slump in investment-bank earnings, two people familiar with
the situation said.  Midtown Sites  The Midtown options don’t involve any other skyscraper
developments, eliminating Related Co.’s Hudson Yards site,
 Brookfield Properties Corp. (BPO) ’s Manhattan West and  Vornado Realty
Trust (VNO) ’s Hotel Pennsylvania sites, said the people, who declined
to be identified because the talks are private.  Christiaan Brakman, a UBS spokesman based in  New York ,
declined to comment beyond the statement.  The called-off discussions were reported by Reuters earlier
today.  UBS’s withdrawal won’t negatively affect the outlook for
leasing Trade Center offices, said Bud Perrone, a Silverstein
spokesman.  “It’s unfortunate that UBS has been forced to re-evaluate
its real estate strategy,” Perrone said in an e-mailed
statement. “They are a great company and a big factor in the
city’s economy.”  UBS leases more than 3 million square feet of  office space 
for various operations in the New York,  New Jersey  and
Connecticut region, Torie von Alt, a spokeswoman, said in June.  To contact the reporters on this story:
David M. Levitt in New York at 
 dlevitt@bloomberg.net ;
Christine Harper in New York at 
 charper@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  