-- 
Uganda Little League World Series Team Denied U.S. Entry Visas

-- B y   C u r t i s   E i c h e l b e r g e r
-- 
2011-07-29T18:09:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-29/ugandan-little-league-world-series-team-is-denied-entry-visas-for-u-s-.html
The first youth baseball team from
Africa to advance to the  Little League World Series  has been
denied visas to enter the U.S.  The U.S. Department of State said the  Uganda  team’s
documentation contained discrepancies and informed officials at
Little League headquarters in South Williamsport,  Pennsylvania ,
that their decision was final, league spokesman Steve Barr said
in a telephone interview.  State Department spokesman Mark Toner said today at his
daily news briefing that denying the visas was “a very
difficult situation, but our consular officials are committed to
holding up U.S. law.” He said he couldn’t discuss individual
cases.  “I can assure you that consular officers examined each of
these individuals and accorded them every consideration under
the law,” Toner said.  Toner said each player’s application was examined
individually and they were each interviewed. He said he didn’t
believe that consulate officials were concerned the Ugandan
players would try to stay after their visas expired.  The Rev. John Foundation Little League team from  Kampala ,
Uganda, won the Middle East and Africa regional tournament with
a 6-4 win over the Arabian American Little League team from
Dhahran,  Saudi Arabia , on July 16.  “It is unfortunate, as we were very much looking forward
to welcoming the first African team to the Little League
Baseball  World Series ,” Stephen D. Keener, president of Little
League Baseball and Softball, said in a statement. “We are
going to have to take a few days to evaluate all our options,
and decide how best to move forward.”  The World Series begins in South Williamsport on Aug. 18
and concludes Aug. 28.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Curtis Eichelberger in Washington at 
 ceichelberge@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  