-- 
Rovi Sues Hulu Over Patents for Interactive TV Functions

-- B y   P h i l   M i l f o r d
-- 
2011-07-29T15:42:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-29/hulu-sued-by-rovi-for-infringement-of-patents-for-interactive-television.html
Rovi Corp. (ROVI) , a provider of digital
home-entertainment products, sued online video service Hulu LLC
alleging infringement of patents for interactive television
functions and seeking unspecified damages.  Rovi, formerly known as Gemstar-TV Guide International
Inc., contends that Los Angeles-based Hulu is wrongly using
protected technology for electronic programming guides,
according to a complaint filed yesterday in federal court in
Wilmington, Delaware.  “Rovi invests significant resources” in development of
its guides and related inventions for digital video streaming
technologies, the Santa Clara, California-based company said in
court papers.  Elisa Schreiber, a Hulu spokeswoman, declined to comment on
the suit. Hulu, which has put itself up for sale, is co-owned by
 Walt Disney Co. (DIS) ,  News Corp. (NWSA)  and  Comcast Corp. (CMCSA)   Rovi was formed when Macrovision Corp. acquired Gemstar-TV
Guide in 2008, according to the complaint. Rovi reported
$541.5 million in sales last year, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg News.  The company “leads the digital entertainment industry in
the development and improved functionality of guidance systems
for TVs, recorders, set-top boxes and other devices,” according
to the complaint.  Rovi fell $1.26, or 2.3 percent, to $53.48 at 11:03 a.m.
New York time in Nasdaq Stock Market trading. The shares
declined 12 percent this year before today.  The case is Rovi Corp. v. Hulu LLC, U.S. District Court,
District of Delaware (Wilmington).  To see the patents, click: 6,396,546; 7,103,906; and
7,769,775.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Phil Milford in Wilmington,  Delaware , at 
 pmilford@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 