-- 
Hungary Debt Is Better Choice Than Stocks on Tax, ING Says

-- B y   A n d r a s   G e r g e l y
-- 
2011-07-29T15:26:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-29/hungary-debt-is-better-choice-than-stocks-on-tax-ing-says-1-.html
Hungary ’s five-year bonds are a
better investment than the country’s stocks as companies see
their profit eroded by special taxes to cut the government
deficit, according to ING Groep NV.  The Economy Ministry yesterday pledged to meet its target
of narrowing the  budget deficit  to less than 3 percent of gross
domestic product in 2011 and to 2.5 percent in 2012 despite an
adverse European Union court ruling on the nation’s value-added
taxes. The government sold 45 forint billion ($238 million) of
bonds at an auction yesterday, meeting its target. ING said the
auction produced a “relatively strong result” as investors
seemed “comfortable with buying into longer tenors.”  “We hold on to our long recommendation in the five-year
domestic-bond segment, and continue to prefer the fixed-income
story to the equity story, given taxation dynamics and
government priorities,” Simon Quijano-Evans, an economist at
ING in  London , wrote in a research report today.  Hungarian bonds returned as much as 23 percent in dollar
terms in the first half of this year, the biggest gains
worldwide, according to Bloomberg data, after Orban pledged to
reduce the biggest debt burden among the EU’s eastern members by
cutting welfare payments and drug subsidies. The benchmark BUX
index of shares is up 1.4 percent in 2011. Prime Minister  Viktor Orban ’s government last year imposed extra taxes on energy,
financial, retail and telecommunications companies.  The special levies, originally set to last three years, cut
profit at Hungary’s biggest publicly traded companies, OTP Bank
Nyrt. and refiner Mol Nyrt., and hurt foreign retailers such as
 Tesco Plc. (TSCO)  Hungary may reduce the taxes while extending them
beyond 2012, Janos Lazar, head of the ruling Fidesz party’s
parliamentary group, said in a July 12 interview.  VAT Implication  “The government is likely to keep up heavy taxation of the
corporate sector simply because the domestic story remains
weak,” Quijano-Evans said.  The ministry is assessing the budgetary impact of the EU
court’s VAT ruling and the Cabinet will consider selling part of
its stake in Mol to ensure that revenue is on target in 2012, it
said.  “These statements are another sign that confirms the
determination of the government to achieve the fiscal
consolidation, while retaining a market friendly stance,”
analysts at BNP Paribas led by Bartosz Pawlowski in London,
wrote in a note to clients today.  The forint weakened 0.2 percent to 269.4 per euro as of the
5 p.m. end of trade in Budapest, paring its gains so far this
year to 3.4 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andras Gergely in Budapest 
 agergely@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at   gserkin@bloomberg.net  