-- 
Tunisia Central Bank Head Says Economic Recovery Slowed by Libya Conflict

-- B y   C a m i l l e   L e   T a l l e c   a n d   C a r o l i n e   A l e x a n d e r
-- 
2011-07-30T23:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-29/tunisia-central-bank-governor-disputes-s-p-says-growth-not-collapsing-.html
Tunisia’s efforts to restore
stability following the January ouster of President Zine El Abidine Ben Ali are being hampered by the economic impact of the
conflict in  Libya , the central bank governor said.  Fighting in Libya between Muammar Qaddafi’s forces and
rebels has cost Tunisia $1 billion to $2 billion this year in
lost tourism revenue and trade with its North African neighbor,
Mustapha Kamel Nabli said July 29 in an interview in his office
in his nation’s capital, Tunis. Tourism may recover within six
months, or next year, depending when peace returns, he said.  “We are in the middle of it and we are concerned,” Nabli
said. “What can you do? Just try to help and hope a political
solution will be found and the conflict stops.”  Nabli disputed Standard & Poor’s July 28 negative
assessment of  Tunisia ’s economic outlook, saying growth “is not
collapsing.” S&P downgraded the country’s outlook to negative
from stable on concern a prolonged political transition may lead
to a drag on growth and public finances. S&P kept Tunisia’s
foreign currency rating at BBB-, the lowest investment grade.  “The capacity of Tunisia to reimburse its debt is much
stronger than it was six months ago,” Nabil said. “The
political track is well defined; the economy has a low growth
rate but the fundamentals continue to be strong.”  Aside from tourism and phosphate production, many Tunisian
industries are expanding, including manufacturing and exports,
he said.  Growth Outlook  Growth is expected to be between 0.5 percent and 1 percent
this year, and Tunisia’s current-account deficit will be about 3
percent to 3.5 percent of gross domestic product, Nabli said.
S&P said Tunisia’s current-account deficit will worsen to more
than 6 percent of GDP in 2011, and that it expects economic
expansion of 1 percent this year and a gradual return to growth
of about 5 percent by 2014.  A caretaker government has been trying to restore stability
since Ben Ali was forced from power by protests over
unemployment, high food prices and political repression.
National elections were postponed until October from this month
to allow more time to organize the vote.  Ben Ali, whose ouster helped inspire uprisings across the
 Middle East  and North Africa, was sentenced July 28 in absentia
by a Tunisian court to 16 years in prison on charges that
include the abuse of power. The ex-president is in  Saudi Arabia .  The central bank chief said Tunisia is recovering from
economic damage done under Ben Ali. Six percent of the credit in
the banking system was going to companies linked to the former
president, Nabli said.  ‘Handicapped Economy’  “They handicapped the economy,” Nabli said. “Now those
companies are returning to the ownership of the state and we
hope this will open new avenues for growth.”  The central bank cut the benchmark  interest rate  last month
by 50 basis points to 4 percent.  “We think this level is appropriate now,” Nabli said.  He said Tunisia won’t be seeking assistance from the
 International Monetary Fund . Nabli said last month that the
country had secured about $1.4 billion from multinational
organizations this year and needs another $1 billion. Among the
funding pledges were $500 million from the  World Bank  in May and
$500 million from the  African Development Bank  in April.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Camille Le Tallec through the Cairo newsroom at
;
Caroline Alexander in  London  at 
 calexander1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Louis Meixler at 
 lmeixler@bloomberg.net . 