-- 
Erdogan Closer to Civilian Control of Turkish Military After Generals Quit

-- B y   S t e v e   B r y a n t   a n d   E r c a n   E r s o y
-- 
2011-07-30T12:26:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-29/turkey-s-top-four-generals-resign-amid-dispute-with-erdogan-lira-weakens.html
Turkish Prime Minister  Recep Tayyip Erdogan  moved closer to controlling NATO’s second-biggest army
as he replaces four top generals who quit in an unprecedented
spate of resignations.  The prime minister, re-elected in June to a third term with
nearly half the popular vote, late yesterday accepted the
resignations of Chief of General Staff Isik Kosaner and the
heads of the army, navy and airforce. The lira fell on the news
and Kosaner derided the government for treating the secularist
military “like a criminal gang” in trials of senior officers
accused of plotting a military coup, in a letter published by
state news agency Anatolia.  Erdogan, 57, has reduced the armed forces’ power over
Turkish politics since he first won office in 2002. His party
was formed a year earlier, after the closure of an Islamist
movement he belonged to. More than 40 serving generals, or about
a tenth of the senior ranks of the army, are under arrest after
prosecutors alleged they planned bombings to attack Erdogan’s
administration.  “The armed forces are having difficulty understanding the
clear message Erdogan is sending: you are answerable to civil
power,” Ozer Sencar, head of Ankara-based polling company
MetroPOLL Strategic and Social Research, said by phone. “In a
world that no longer approves of coups, there’s little they can
do to resist a government that has 50 percent popular backing.”  ‘Serious Breakdown’  President  Abdullah Gul  appointed Necdet Ozel, 61, formerly
head of the military police, as chief of the army and acting
chief of the general staff, according to a statement on the
website of Erdogan’s office that thanked the resigning generals
for their service.  The opposition, which supports the army’s secularist stance,
criticized the departures of the four generals. The development
marks “a serious breakdown in relations between organs of
state,” Emine Ulker Tarhan, a deputy chairman of the main
opposition  Republican People’s Party , said in a televised
statement. “It raises the suspicion that the government is not
interested in civilian control, it’s interested in removing
anyone who opposes it.”  Turkey ’s lira was yesterday the worst performer among 178
countries excluding Gambia falling as much as 1.3 percent. The
currency closed down 0.7 percent against the dollar. Credit-
default swaps rose 10 basis points to 193, data provider CMA
said. Stock and bond markets were closed.  ‘Unfortunate Juncture’  “This came at an unfortunate junction for markets,” Tunc Yildirim, director at broker Standard Unlu in Istanbul, said in
an e-mailed comment. Erdogan “will try to get things under
control fast this weekend and try to emphasize that the
relations between a democratically elected government and the
military will proceed like in western countries,” he said.  The Supreme Military Council, the half-yearly meeting of
the prime minister and the armed forces to decide promotions,
will go ahead as planned Aug. 1, the Prime Minister’s office
said in the statement. In the last two years, Erdogan has
challenged the generals’ power to determine their own careers,
sometimes rejecting or modifying their proposals.  While the resignations were “extraordinary,” there’s no
crisis and replacements will be appointed through existing
mechanisms, President Gul said.  Ataturk  The departures come as Erdogan tries to keep intact an
economic boom that swept him back to power, putting him on
course to become the longest serving Turkish leader since
national founder Mustafa Kemal Ataturk.  Recent data indicate the economy is facing some imbalances.
The country’s trade deficit swelled to a record $10.2 billion in
June, the statistics office said yesterday, and the lira fell to
the lowest in more than two years this week.  Erdogan campaigned for June 12 elections on a pledge to
rewrite the constitution that was drafted under military rule
after a coup in 1980. That would cement his victory over the
generals, who accuse him of imposing Islamic values.  The armed forces have deposed four governments in the past
four decades and see themselves as guardians of the secular
state Ataturk established in 1923.  Erdogan has chipped away at the powers of the military
since his  Justice and Development Party  was elected with a
mandate to press for European Union membership. In 2003, he
ended army control over the National Security Council, the body
on which politicians and general meet to discuss security
threats. In the same year he ignored the generals’ objections to
a United Nations plan for the reunification of Cyprus. The army
failed to block the appointment of Erdogan ally Gul as president
in 2007 after Erdogan called elections.  Scores Jailed  Courts in Istanbul have jailed scores of former and current
military officers, as well as journalists and academics, on
charges that they conspired to weaken Erdogan’s government
through violent attacks designed to create instability. The
defendants say the cases, which focus on plans allegedly drawn
up soon after Erdogan’s party was elected in 2002, are based on
forged documents.  Kosaner said the trials breach international law and are
being used to “provoke our great nation against their own armed
forces,” according to the resignation note published by
Anatolia. He said he was quitting because he was unable to
protect the rights and freedoms of his personnel.  “The fact that Kosaner, who had a relatively better
relationship with the Erdogan’s party than his predecessors, was
the one to pull the trigger, reflects the depth of tensions,”
Kaan Nazli, director of emerging markets at Medley Global
Advisors in  New York , said in e-mailed comments. “In recent
weeks a series of new indictments were unveiled that implicated
more officials, directly impacting the process of appointments
at the Supreme Military Council.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ercan Ersoy in Istanbul at 
 eersoy@bloomberg.net 
Steve Bryant in Ankara at 
 sbryant5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net .
 John Fraher  at 
 jfraher@bloomberg.net . 