-- 
Turkey’s Top Four Generals Resign Amid Dispute With Erdogan; Lira Weakens

-- B y   S t e v e   B r y a n t   a n d   E r c a n   E r s o y
-- 
2011-07-29T19:39:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-29/turkish-military-chief-of-staff-kosaner-service-commanders-quit-ntv-says.html
Turkey ’s top four generals stepped
down, the first such mass resignation in the country’s history,
amid tensions with Prime Minister  Recep Tayyip Erdogan  over
alleged military plots to undermine his government.  Chief of General Staff Isik Kosaner asked to leave because
he “deemed it necessary,” state news agency Anatolia reported
in Ankara today, citing no one. The chiefs of the army,  air
force  and navy resigned soon after, NTV news channel reported.
Those three were due to retire at the end of August, NTV said.
The lira fell as much as 1.3 percent and credit-default swaps
rose 10 basis points to 193, data provider CMA said.  Erdogan, re-elected in June, has reduced the secularist
armed forces’ power over Turkish politics since he came to power
in 2002. His party was formed after the closure of an Islamist
movement he belonged to. More than 40 serving generals, or about
a tenth of the senior ranks of NATO’s second-largest army, are
under arrest after prosecutors alleged that they planned bomb
attacks to undermine Erdogan’s administration.  “This will be managed with no tanks on the street,” Tim Ash, head of emerging-market research at Royal Bank of Scotland
Group Plc in  London , said in an e-mailed comment. “But this
increases risk perceptions of Turkey and comes at a bad time
given concern over the economy overheating. The lira will come
under more short-term pressure.”  President Abdullah Gul appointed Necdet Ozel as the new
land forces chief after a hastily arranged meeting with Erdogan
at his palace in Ankara, CNN Turk news channel said.  Lira Slides  Turkey’s lira, the worst performer today among 178
countries excluding Gambia, fell 0.7 percent against the dollar
at 9:58 p.m. in Istanbul. It has lost 4.4 percent this month.
Bond and stock markets were closed.  Erdogan campaigned for June 12 elections on a pledge to
rewrite the constitution that was drafted under military rule
after a coup in 1980. That would cement his victory over the
generals, who accuse him of imposing Islamic values.  The armed forces have deposed four governments in the past
four decades and see themselves as guardians of the secular
state established by national founder Mustafa Kemal Ataturk in
1923.  “The balance of power has shifted decidedly in favor of
the government over the recent years, which could limit the
fallout from the resignations,”  Inan Demir , chief economist at
Finansbank AS in Istanbul, said in an e-mailed comment. Still,
the resignations are “unprecedented” and “the situation is
extremely fluid.”  Ataturk  The departures come as Erdogan tries to keep intact an
economic boom that swept him back to power last month in a
victory that put him on course to be the longest serving Turkish
leader since Ataturk. The country’s trade deficit swelled to a
record $10.2 billion in June, the statistics office said today,
and the lira last week fell to the lowest in more than two
years.  Erdogan has chipped away at the powers of the military
since his  Justice and Development Party  was elected with a
mandate to press for European Union membership. In 2003, he
ended army control over the National Security Council, the body
on which politicians and general meet to discuss security
threats. In the same year he ignored the generals’ objections to
a United Nations plan for the reunification of Cyprus. The army
failed to block the appointment of Erdogan ally  Abdullah Gul  as
president in 2007 after Erdogan called elections.  “Tension has become unpreventable and unmanageable since
the government took control of the judiciary and now set its
eyes on the armed forces,” nationalist opposition leader Devlet Bahceli said in a statement on his party’s website.  Jailed Suspects  Courts in Istanbul have jailed scores of former and current
military officers, as well as journalists and academics, on
charges that they conspired to weaken Erdogan’s government
through violent attacks designed to create instability. The
defendants say the cases are based on forged documents.  “The fact that Kosaner, who had a relatively better
relationship with the Erdogan’s party than his predecessors, was
the one to pull the trigger, reflects the depth of tensions,”
Kaan Nazli, director of emerging markets at Medley Global
Advisors in  New York , said in e-mailed comments. “In recent
weeks a series of new indictments were unveiled that implicated
more officials, directly impacting the process of appointments
at the Supreme Military Council.”  Generals are appointed by the Supreme Military Council, a
bi-annual meeting of the prime minister and the armed forces.
Final approval lies with the president.  Trials  Today’s resignations followed a meeting in Ankara between
Kosaner, Erdogan and President Abdullah Gul to discuss
promotions of senior military staff that are due to be decided
at a Supreme Military Council that starts Aug. 1.  Erdogan was pushing to block the promotions of the generals
and admirals who were jailed as part of the coup plot trials and
force their retirement, according to a report in Cumhuriyet
newspaper on July 5. None of them have been convicted.  The resignations were the general’s “way of expressing
their response to the government’s arbitrary decisions,” Gursel
Tekin, a deputy head of the main opposition  Republican People’s
Party , said in a telephone interview.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ercan Ersoy in Istanbul at 
 eersoy@bloomberg.net 
Steve Bryant in Ankara at 
 sbryant5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 