-- 
US Airways Sues Pilot Union to Halt Alleged Illegal Slowdown on East Coast

-- B y   E d v a r d   P e t t e r s s o n   a n d   M a r y   S c h l a n g e n s t e i n
-- 
2011-07-29T23:34:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-29/us-airways-sues-pilot-union-to-halt-alleged-illegal-slowdown-on-east-coast.html
US Airways Group Inc. (LCC)  sued its
pilots union, seeking a court order to halt an alleged illegal
slowdown the carrier says is disrupting its operations in
 Charlotte , North Carolina, and other East Coast hubs.  The US Airline Pilots Association’s campaign is designed to
cause flight delays and cancellations that will pressure US
Airways in contract negotiations with the union, the carrier
said in a complaint filed today in federal court in Charlotte.  “Today’s filing contains overwhelming evidence of illegal
activity by USAPA including a consistent pattern of statements
from the labor union’s leadership encouraging its members to
slow down the operation,” Chief Executive Officer Doug Parker
said in a memo to employees.  James Ray, a spokesman for the union, didn’t immediately
return a call for comment on the filing.  Airline labor relations are governed by the  Railway Labor
Act , which makes it illegal for unions to strike or stage work
slowdowns or sickouts unless they have been released from
contract talks by the National Mediation Board. Work slowdowns
have resulted in court orders prohibiting employees from taking
part in such actions and in fines against unions.  US Airways has been unable to negotiate a single contract
covering its pilots since the 2005 merger of America West
Holdings Corp. and US Airways because of disagreements over how
the pilots from the carriers should be placed on a merged
seniority list.  Two Contracts  Pilots that flew for the stand-alone US Airways are
concentrated in the eastern U.S., while former America West
pilots operate primarily in the west. The two pilot groups
continue to operate under separate contracts with different pay
rates and work and scheduling rules.  United Airlines  won an appeals court ruling in March 2009
barring pilots from a work slowdown that led to 329 canceled
flights over two months. The United pilots union testified that
an increased number of sick calls during that period was
“purely a coincidence” and not a coordinated effort.  In February 1999, American Airlines pilots called in sick
over 11 days to protest plans to add pilots from Reno Air Inc.
to their seniority list. American was forced to cancel 6,600
flights, costing parent  AMR Corp. (AMR)  $250 million and snarling U.S.
air traffic. A federal judge later ordered the  Allied Pilots
Association  to pay American $45.5 million in damages.  The case is US Airways v. US Airline Pilots Association,
11-00371, U.S. District Court, Western District of  North
Carolina  (Charlotte.)  To contact the reporters on this story:
Edvard Pettersson in  Los Angeles  at 
 epettersson@bloomberg.net ;
Mary Schlangenstein in Dallas at 
 maryc.s@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net ;
Ed Dufner at   edufner@bloomberg.net . 