-- 
USAA Joins Partnership to Recapitalize Midtown Manhattan Office Tower

-- B y   D a v i d   M .   L e v i t t
-- 
2011-07-29T19:48:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-29/usaa-joins-partnership-to-recapitalize-midtown-manhattan-office-tower.html
An affiliate of USAA Real Estate Co.
joined a partnership that recapitalized 340 Madison Ave., a
midtown Manhattan office tower, expecting its value to rise.  USAA, a commercial-property management unit of San Antonio-
based United Services Automobile Association, will share control
of the property with Broadway Partners and RXR Realty LLC, the
companies said in a statement. RXR, based in Uniondale,  New
York , and run by investor Scott Rechler, bought a 49 percent
interest in the building last year, in a deal that valued it at
$570 million.  The transaction gives the partners “the opportunity to
invest additional capital alongside USAA to facilitate the de-
leveraging of the property to an appropriate level,” Rechler
said in the statement.  Manhattan office prices rose 27 percent in the 12 months
ended June 30, Green Street Advisors Inc., a  Newport Beach ,
California research firm, said in a July 7 report. Broadway
Partners, led by Chief Executive Officer Scott Lawlor, has sold
some buildings and brought in partners on others after the low-
cost financing it used for acquisitions dried up during the
credit crisis in 2008.  Among the buildings Lawlor forfeited was Boston’s John
Hancock Tower,  New England ’s tallest skyscraper. In May, he sold
a majority interest in 280 Park Ave. to Vornado Realty Trust and
SL Green Realty Corp., while keeping a stake.  ‘Long-term Value’  “We chose to remain invested in this asset on behalf of
our investors through the recent market downturn because we
firmly believed in its long-term value,” Lawlor said of 340
Madison in today’s statement.  The partnership received a new 12-year mortgage from
Cornerstone Real Estate Advisers LLC, according to the
statement. Terms weren’t disclosed. When Rechler bought his
stake, the property had about $460 million of debt.  The tower is 92 percent leased and tenants include the law
firm McDermott Will & Emery LLP and the U.S. Office of the
Comptroller of the Currency.  USAA Real Estate, whose parent company provides insurance
to military families, had been looking at the property since it
was marketed last year, Chief Executive Officer Pat Duncan said
in the statement. He said he expects the long-term leases and
location a block east of Grand Central Terminal “will continue
to enhance the property’s value.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
David M. Levitt in New York at 
 dlevitt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel in New York at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  