-- 
Vale Plans $3 Billion Dividend as Profit Misses Estimates

-- B y   J u a n   P a b l o   S p i n e t t o
-- 
2011-07-29T12:52:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-29/vale-plans-3-billion-dividend-as-net-income-misses-estimates.html
Vale SA (VALE5) , the world’s largest iron-
ore producer, posted second-quarter profit that missed analysts’
estimates and said it will pay an extra dividend of $3 billion
as it seeks to boost returns to shareholders.  Net income rose to $6.45 billion, or $1.22 a share, from
$3.71 billion, or 70 cents, a year earlier, Vale said yesterday
in a regulatory filing. Vale was expected to post profit on an
adjusted basis of $1.39 a share, the average of 13 estimates
compiled by Bloomberg. The result came in below Espirito Santo
Investment Bank’s $1.28 forecast, the lowest of the estimates.  “It’s still a reasonably strong earnings figures, but we
are at a stage where costs are raising faster than revenue,”
Tony Robson, an analyst at BMO Capital Markets Ltd., said
yesterday in a telephone interview from Toronto.  A weaker dollar combined with rising engineering and
construction costs prompted Vale to boost its capital-
expenditure budget for three projects, the company said late
yesterday. The company increased planned spending by 12 percent
to $3.17 billion for its Onca Puma nickel mine, 29 percent to
$2.33 billion for its Salobo copper project and 25 percent to
$878 million for its Estreito hydroelectric plant.  “We continue to face challenges to implement our projects,
such as delays in environmental licensing, project development
and civil engineering works,” Vale said yesterday.  Extra Dividend  The Rio de Janeiro-based company, which also announced in a
separate statement yesterday it will pay an extra dividend of
57.7 cents a share, is joining rivals BHP Billiton Ltd. and  Rio
Tinto  Group in returning capital to investors. Vale plans as
much as $11 billion of buybacks and dividends in 2011.  In the first six months of the year, Vale spent about 28
percent of the record $24 billion it planned to invest in 2011.  “It looks to be that they won’t spend anything like $24
billion for this year,” BMO’s Robson said. “They are returning
cash to shareholders instead, but it also suggests that some of
the projects are continuing at a slower pace.”  The company will make a $3.8 billion legal payment in
Brazil related to a tax dispute with the government, Vale said
in yesterday’s statement, adding that the charge won’t hurt
profit as it was previously set aside.  Vale is profiting from higher iron-ore prices as  China , the
biggest consumer of the steelmaking raw material, invests in
projects including low-income housing. Chinese demand and
startup production difficulties at iron-ore projects will cause
a market imbalance for as many as seven years, Vale Chief
Financial Officer Guilherme Cavalcanti said July 5.  New CEO  Chief Executive Officer Murilo Ferreira, 58, replaced  Roger Agnelli  on May 22 after the Brazilian government criticized the
company over the past two years for not spending more on
domestic steel projects and for buying ships in China when the
country was setting up its own yards. Since taking over,
Ferreira scrapped a plan to sell shares of the fertilizer unit
in an initial public offering and cut its long-term  iron-ore 
output forecast by 10 percent.  Net sales surged 55 percent to $15 billion in the quarter,
helped by iron-ore, nickel and copper output increases, Vale
said. Vale produced 80.3 million metric tons of iron ore in the
three months through June 30, 5.8 percent more than a year
earlier. Nickel production climbed by more than half to about
56,000 tons and copper output rose 57 percent to 63,000 tons.  ‘Disappointed’ With Prices  Prices for iron-ore sold by Vale averaged $145.30 a ton in
the period, an increase of 58 percent from 2010. The price of
ore with 62 percent iron content delivered to China, which has
almost doubled in the past two years, rose 0.1 percent to $175.5
a ton today, according to Steel Business Briefing Commodities
Research.  “We were disappointed with the iron-ore price realization
in the quarter,” Leonardo Correa, an analyst at  Barclays
Capital  in  Sao Paulo , said in a note to clients late yesterday.
“Negative carryover effects, mix and quality adjustments should
explain the difference.”  BHP, the world’s largest mining company, boosted its iron-
ore output by 14 percent to 35.5 million tons in the quarter,
the company said July 20. Rio Tinto, the world’s third-largest
mining company by market value after BHP and Vale, said July 14
that its iron-ore output climbed 12 percent to 48.9 million tons
in the quarter.  Vale’s common depositary receipts, which represent one
share, closed up 0.2 percent at HK$255.40 in  Hong Kong  today.
The company gained 42 centavos, or 0.9 percent, to 46.27 reais
in Sao Paulo trading yesterday.  The earnings report was released after the close of trading
in  Brazil  yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Juan Pablo Spinetto in  Rio de Janeiro  at 
 jspinetto@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net . 