-- 
Vale Postpones Spending, Boosts Dividend on Project Delays

-- B y   J u a n   P a b l o   S p i n e t t o
-- 
2011-07-29T20:41:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-29/vale-delays-investments-and-boosts-dividend-as-costs-for-projects-increase.html
Vale SA (VALE3) , the world’s largest iron-
ore producer, said it will postpone some of its planned $24
billion of investments for this year into 2012 and return more
cash to investors as projects face delays.  Vale will complete the investment plan for 2011 by the end
of the first quarter of next year after straying “very far”
from its targeted spending, Chief Executive Officer Murilo
Ferreira said today on a conference call with investors. The
company said late yesterday that its second-quarter net income
rose 74 percent, less than analysts expected.  “We don’t worry about supply overcoming demand in the next
five years for sure,” Ferreira said in his first earnings
conference call since replacing  Roger Agnelli  as CEO on May 22.  In the first six months of the year, Vale spent about 28
percent of the record $24 billion investment program for 2011.
The company, which also announced in a separate statement
yesterday it plans an extra dividend of $3 billion, is joining
rivals BHP Billiton Ltd. and Rio Tinto Group in returning
capital to investors as it faces projects delays and cost
increases. Vale plans as much as $11 billion of buybacks and
dividends in 2011.  Vale’s investments will still disappoint in the second half
because the company is unlikely to spend more than $10 billion,
Banco BTG Pactual SA analysts led by Edmo Chagas in  Rio de
Janeiro  said in a note to clients today. “Vale would probably
return more cash to shareholders if it refrains from entering
into any major M&A deals,” they wrote.  Quarterly Profit  Net income rose to $6.45 billion, or $1.22 a share, from
$3.71 billion, or 70 cents, a year earlier, Vale said late
yesterday in a regulatory filing. The company was expected to
post profit on an adjusted basis of $1.39 a share, the average
of 13 estimates compiled by Bloomberg. The result came in below
Espirito Santo Investment Bank’s $1.28 forecast, the lowest of
the estimates.  A weaker dollar combined with higher engineering and
construction costs prompted Vale to boost its capital-
expenditure budget for three projects, the company said. Vale
increased planned spending by 12 percent to $3.17 billion for
its Onca Puma nickel mine, 29 percent to $2.33 billion for its
Salobo copper project and 25 percent to $878 million for its
Estreito hydroelectric plant.  Project ‘Challenges’  “We continue to face challenges to implement our projects,
such as delays in environmental licensing, project development
and civil engineering works,” Vale said.  Vale fell 66 centavos, or 1.4 percent, to 45.61 reais in
 Sao Paulo  trading today, its lowest level almost in three weeks.
The stock has fallen 6 percent so far this year, less than the
15 percent loss for the Brazilian benchmark Bovespa index.  The company will make a $3.8 billion legal payment in
Brazil related to a tax dispute with the government, Vale said
in yesterday’s statement, adding that the charge won’t hurt
profit as it was previously set aside.  Vale is profiting from higher  iron-ore  prices as  China , the
biggest consumer of the steelmaking raw material, invests in
projects including low-income housing. Chinese demand and
startup production difficulties at iron-ore projects will cause
a market imbalance for as many as seven years, Vale Chief
Financial Officer Guilherme Cavalcanti said July 5.  Government Criticism  CEO Ferreira, 58, replaced Agnelli after the Brazilian
government criticized the company over the past two years for
not spending more on domestic steel projects and for buying
ships in China when the country was setting up its own yards.
Since taking over, Ferreira scrapped a plan to sell shares of
the fertilizer unit in an initial public offering and cut its
long-term iron-ore output forecast by 10 percent.  It’s “extremely important” for Vale to regain market
share in  Brazil  and investing in steel projects in the Latin
American country can create “captive demand” for its products,
Ferreira said in the call today.  “Steel producers in Brazil are not doing any investments
in steel, they are trying to be a mining company,” he said,
adding that the authorities “are not happy” with the
situation. “With the lack of investments in steel, we can see
good opportunities in the future.”  Net sales surged 55 percent to $15 billion in the quarter,
helped by iron-ore, nickel and copper output increases, Vale
said. Vale produced 80.3 million metric tons of iron ore in the
three months through June 30, 5.8 percent more than a year
earlier. Nickel production climbed by more than half to about
56,000 tons and copper output rose 57 percent to 63,000 tons.  ‘Disappointed’ With Prices  Iron-ore prices may increase in the fourth quarter after
remaining stable in the third quarter due to a seasonable
increase in demand, Jose Carlos Martins, director for marketing
and sales, said today on the same call.  “We don’t see big changes in the market in the second
half,” he said.  Prices for iron-ore sold by Vale averaged $145.30 a ton in
the period, an increase of 58 percent from 2010. The price of
ore with 62 percent iron content delivered to China, which has
almost doubled in the past two years, rose 0.1 percent to $175.5
a ton today, according to Steel Business Briefing Commodities
Research.  “We were disappointed with the iron-ore price realization
in the quarter,” Leonardo Correa, an analyst at  Barclays
Capital  in Sao Paulo, said in a note to clients late yesterday.
“Negative carryover effects, mix and quality adjustments should
explain the difference.”  BHP, the world’s largest mining company, boosted its iron-
ore output by 14 percent to 35.5 million tons in the quarter,
the company said July 20.  Rio Tinto , the world’s third-largest
mining company by market value after BHP and Vale, said July 14
that its iron-ore output climbed 12 percent to 48.9 million tons
in the quarter.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Juan Pablo Spinetto in Rio de Janeiro at 
 jspinetto@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net . 