-- 
Volunteer Towns Sought for Nuclear Waste Sites, Panel Says

-- B y   B r i a n   W i n g f i e l d
-- 
2011-07-29T21:07:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-29/volunteer-towns-sought-to-accept-u-s-nuclear-waste-by-obama-panel.html
U.S. communities should be
encouraged to vie for a federal nuclear-waste site as a way to
end a decades-long dilemma over disposing of spent radioactive
fuel, a commission established by President  Barack Obama  said.  A “consent-based” approach will help cut costs and end
delays caused when the federal government picks a site over the
objections of local residents, the  Blue Ribbon Commission  on
America’s Nuclear Future said today in a draft report to Energy
Secretary Steven Chu.  “This means encouraging communities to volunteer to be
considered to host a new nuclear-waste management facility,”
the commission said in an executive summary of its draft report.  The 15-member commission set up by Obama in 2010 is
weighing options for disposing of waste from U.S. nuclear power
plants. Chu named the panelists after Obama canceled plans to
build a permanent repository at  Nevada ’s Yucca Mountain, about
100 miles (161 kilometers) north of  Las Vegas . The Yucca site
was opposed by politicians from the state, led by Senate
Majority Leader  Harry Reid , a Democrat.  The panel recommended that a new federal corporation run
the disposal program, taking over the task from the Energy
Department. It also called for designating permanent and interim
storage sites, supporting research and overhauling the Nuclear
Waste Fund, which has $24.6 billion from fees paid by utilities.  The record of the Energy Department and the government
“has not inspired confidence or trust in our nation’s nuclear-
waste management program,” the report found.  ‘Workable Solution’  The commission’s report is a “strong step toward finding a
workable solution” to storing and disposing of spent fuel,
Damien LaVera, an Energy Department spokesman, said in a
statement today. The Obama administration is committed to
“restarting the American nuclear industry,” he said.  The panel, led by former Indiana Representative Lee Hamilton, a Democrat, and Brent Scowcroft, a national security
adviser to Republican presidents Gerald Ford and  George H.W.
Bush , includes representatives of industry, universities and
government. Chu named John Rowe, chairman and chief executive
officer of  Exelon Corp. (EXC)  of  Chicago , former Nuclear Regulatory
Commission Chairman Richard Meserve and physics professor Ernest
Moniz of the  Massachusetts Institute of Technology .  Japan ’s nuclear disaster this year focused new attention on
the issue. Tokyo Electric Power Co.’s Fukushima Dai-Ichi plant
suffered meltdowns and radiation leaks after a March 11
earthquake and tsunami, prompting concerns about the safety of
spent fuel in cooling pools. In the U.S., about 65,000 metric
tons of radioactive fuel rods are stored at 76 sites in 35
states.  ‘Damaging, Costly’  “This nation’s failure to come to grips with the nuclear
waste issue has already proved damaging and costly and it will
be more damaging and more costly the longer it continues,” the
commission said in the report.  The U.S. should quickly act to build at least one
consolidated interim storage facility as well as a permanent
geologic-disposal site, the commission recommended.  “We will need a new disposal site even if we open up Yucca
Mountain,” Philip Sharp, a member of the commission and a
former Democratic representative from  Indiana , said in an
interview yesterday.  The proposals on sites, a new organization and financing
are “sensible, desirable and, given time, achievable,” Alex
Flint, senior vice president for government affairs at the
 Nuclear Energy Institute , said in a statement today.  Support for Yucca  The Washington-based industry group also supports reviving
the Yucca Mountain review process.  Two Republican lawmakers said the panel’s report validated
their criticism of the Obama administration’s moves to end the
Yucca Mountain project. “There is no more glaring indictment”
than the recommendation to give authority over nuclear waste to
“an independent body overseen by scientists instead of
political yes-men,” House Energy and Commerce Committee
Chairman Fred Upton of  Michigan  and Representative  John Shimkus 
of Illinois said in a statement today.  The states of Washington and  South Carolina , along with
Aiken County in South Carolina, filed a lawsuit today in the
 U.S. Court of Appeals  for the  District of Columbia , seeking to
compel the  Nuclear Regulatory Commission  to make a decision on
the Energy Department’s license application for the Yucca
repository. The administration wants to withdraw the
application.  The states and county are currently storing spent nuclear
fuel and radioactive waste pending the opening of a repository.  New Mexico  ‘Success’  Earlier this month, the appeals court dismissed a lawsuit
from the same plaintiffs, ruling it didn’t have jurisdiction
until the commission makes a final decision.  The Blue Ribbon Commission cited as a “success” the U.S.
 Waste Isolation Pilot Plant  near Carlsbad, New Mexico, which has
accepted and disposed of some defense-related nuclear waste for
more than a decade. The defense-waste plant shows that “nuclear
wastes can be transported safely over long distances and placed
securely in a deep, mined repository,” the report said.  With the right incentives, “there will be a great deal of
support” for a waste site near the New Mexico facility, former
Senator Pete Domenici, a Republican from the state and panel
member, said in an April 19 interview. A nuclear waste disposal
industry has already sprouted near the plant in the Chihuahuan
desert, he said.  The new organization should be led by a presidentially
appointed board that is confirmed by the Senate and establish,
license, build and operate storage facilities, the panel
recommended.  The commission’s final report is due in January.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Wingfield in  Washington  at 
 bwingfield3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net  