-- 
Zapatero Calls Early Spanish General Election for Nov. 20 Amid Debt Crisis

-- B y   E m m a   R o s s - T h o m a s   a n d   C h a r l e s   P e n t y
-- 
2011-07-29T14:01:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-29/zapatero-calls-early-spanish-elections.html
Spanish Prime Minister Jose Luis Rodriguez Zapatero called early elections as austerity measures
erode support for his Socialist Party and the country seeks to
convince investors it can control the budget deficit.  Elections will be moved forward to Nov. 20 from March,
Zapatero said in  Madrid  today. With polls showing the Socialists
trailing the opposition People’s Party led by  Mariano Rajoy ,
Zapatero has said he won’t seek a third term at the helm of the
euro area’s fourth-largest economy.  “The decision to announce the election calendar today is
to project political and economic certainty for the next few
months: about what must be done, what we’re going to do and
about the date of elections,” Zapatero said.  Europe’s debt crisis forced Zapatero to ditch pledges for
more social spending and replace them with public-sector wage
cuts as he struggled to tackle unemployment of more than 20
percent. Adding to the pressure, Moody’s Investors Service put
 Spain ’s credit rating on review for possible downgrade today as
 Greece ’s bailout last week increases the prospect bondholders
will have to contribute to more rescues.  “The election adds an extra element of near-term
uncertainty,”  Holger Schmieding , chief economist at Joh.
Berenberg Gossler & Co. in London, said in a note to investors.
“But in the longer run, the result could be positive. A fresh
government with a fresh mandate could strengthen rather than
weaken the reform momentum in Spain.”  Euro Gains  The euro rose against the  U.S. dollar , gaining 0.2 percent
to 1.4369 at 3:43 p.m. Frankfurt time.  Spanish 10-year bonds fell for a third straight day,
pushing the yield on the securities four basis points higher to
6.1 percent as of 2:43 p.m. in  London . The additional yield
investors demand to hold the securities instead of benchmark
German bunds rose 15.5 basis points to 355.6 basis points.  In its note today, Moody’s said “challenges” remain for
Spain to its achieve “long-term budget balance” because of
subdued economic growth and lack of spending discipline by some
regional and local governments. The latest rescue plan for
Greece is likely to increase pressure on Spain as it has
“signaled a clear shift in risk for bondholders of countries
with high debt burdens or large budget deficits,” Moody’s said.  ‘Extra Efforts’  Zapatero said the government would make “extra efforts”
to reach deficit targets and reduce unemployment. His government
is set to pass a decree on Aug. 19 that will improve the
corporate tax take and cut pharmaceutical spending, he said.  “I believe that the basis for economic recovery and the
foundations of a new stage of growth in Spain have been laid,”
Zapatero said, adding that it would still take time for the
recovery to gather the desired pace.  Zapatero may be counting on an improvement in unemployment
numbers in coming months that will reflect seasonal hiring for
the  tourism industry , said  Javier Diaz-Gimenez , an economics
professor at the University of Navarra’s IESE business school.  “The good news is that bringing forward the elections
helps to create a new macro-economic scenario for the country,”
said Diaz-Gimenez. “It’s an opportunity to create an economic
platform to address Spain’s problems of weak growth and very
high unemployment.”  Austerity Program  Zapatero, who leads a minority government, pushed through
Spain’s biggest austerity program in at least three decades and
had pledged to serve out his four-year term to see the plan
through. Alfredo Perez Rubalcaba, the Socialist candidate to
succeed him as premier, proposes taxing the wealthiest and
making banks hire young Spaniards, who are struggling under a 44
percent unemployment rate and have held protests across the
nation.  “The government will continue to exercise all its
constitutional faculties with all intensity in order to protect
the economic recovery, the reforms that have been approved and
to control the public deficit, a fundamental task,” Zapatero
said.  The  People’s Party  has promised austerity measures and new
labor rules, even though it voted against Socialist legislation
to cut spending and raise the  retirement age . It says Spain
needs further labor-market changes to spur growth.  The PP would win 43.1 percent of the vote if elections were
held now, compared with 36 percent for Zapatero’s party, a July
27 poll by the state-run Center for Sociological Research
suggested. The Socialists still reduced the People’s Party’s
lead to 7.1 percentage points from more than 10 points in April.
The poll of 2,475 people had a margin of error of plus or minus
2 percentage points.  Francisco Gonzalez , chairman of Banco Bilbao Vizcaya
Argentaria SA, Spain’s second-biggest bank, said Zapatero had
made the right decision in calling early elections.  “Spain needs a strong government that takes decisions that
place it back on the same level as the most important countries
of  Europe ,” Gonzalez said in a statement e-mailed by the bank.  ----With assistance from Tony Czuczka and Patrick Donahue in
Berlin, Sharon Smyth, Manuel Baigorri and Angeline Benoit in
Madrid and Paul Dobson in London. Editors: Alan Crawford, Eddie Buckle  To contact the reporter on this story:
Emma Ross-Thomas in Madrid at 
 erossthomas@bloomberg.net 
Charles Penty in Madrid at 
 cpenty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  