-- 
Zoellick Says U.S. Default Would Be a ‘Financial Calamity’

-- B y   S a n d r i n e   R a s t e l l o
-- 
2011-07-29T18:15:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-29/zoellick-says-u-s-default-would-be-a-financial-calamity-1-.html
World Bank  President  Robert Zoellick 
said politicians are “playing with fire’ by squabbling over the
U.S. debt limit and warned that a default would be both a
‘‘financial calamity’’ and an ‘‘embarrassment’’ for the country.  ‘‘This is taking place in a context where you still have
the euro zone in serious difficulties,’’ Zoellick said in
 Washington  today, also citing problems in the Japanese economy.
‘‘Whatever one’s logic about the tactics, it’s a very dangerous
environment.”  House Republican leaders, four days before a threatened
U.S. default and facing stiff resistance within their ranks to
raising the U.S. debt ceiling, are planning a second try at
passing legislation that is headed for a Senate roadblock and
threatened veto by President  Barack Obama .  Zoellick said that the World Bank, which raises money to
make loans to developing countries by selling bonds on financial
markets, is working on “contingency plans” to anticipate the
effects the U.S. stalemate could have.  “The World Bank is a big and sophisticated financial
institution and we, like all others, have to look at various
scenarios and try to understand how events, whether default or
change in rating grades or events in the eurozone, affect us,”
Zoellick later told reporters. That ranges from the types of
securities the bank owns in trust funds to swap arrangements, he
said, adding that the bank is in a “very secure” position.  Borrowing Authority  The Obama administration says the Treasury’s borrowing
authority runs out Aug. 2 and that it may not be able to pay all
of its bills after that date unless the nation’s $14.3 trillion
debt limit is raised.  “For people in the  developing countries  that I work with,
it’s a little bit of a disappointment and frightening” said
Zoellick, who spoke today at a conference in Washington
organized by the Society for International Development.  As policy makers around the world seek to devise new rules
for the world economy amid growing influence from emerging
markets, “to see the U.S. sideline itself is a troublesome
prospect, whether you’re in Africa, or  China , or  India ,” he
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sandrine Rastello in Washington at 
 srastello@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  