-- Macy’s Leads Industrywide Shoe Expansion on 50% Margins
-- B y   C o t t e n   T i m b e r l a k e
-- 2012-08-14T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-14/macy-s-leads-industrywide-shoe-expansion-on-50-margins.html
Retailers are going shoe-mad.  Macy’s Inc. (M)  is opening what it calls the world’s largest
women’s shoe department at its  New York  flagship store beginning
this month. Barneys New York Inc. just opened a unisex shoe
floor, and  Saks Inc. (SKS)  is expanding its 10022-SHOE concept at its
main store and rolling it out to more branches.  Retailers are expanding and enhancing their shoe
departments because the footwear business has become so
lucrative, with sales per square foot and profit margins that
top other categories.  A new generation of designers such as Tabitha Simmons is
driving demand, following predecessors including  Christian Louboutin , who made designing shoes cool, said Saks President
Ronald Frasch. High fashion is coming into ladies’ shoes at
prices as low as $100, and the most extreme designs are being
adapted for mass consumption by reducing heels to 2 1/2-inches
from 5 inches, said Deborah Rudinsky, a footwear-market analyst
for Doneger Group, a New York-based trend forecasting firm.  “The shoe can take the center stage and lead the outfit,”
said Robert Burke, founder of a namesake luxury-goods consulting
firm in New York. “The interest level has continued to grow. I
would say it is here to stay.”  The trend was born in the late 1990s and early 2000s, when
 HBO ’s “Sex and the City” made designers Louboutin, Manolo Blahnik and Jimmy Choo household names. Blahnik’s open-toed
Sedaraby d’Orsay pumps and the red soles on Louboutin’s covered
platform shoes became icons beyond the New York fashion world.  Recognizable Details  “It became visually apparent from 50 feet that someone was
wearing Louboutin,” Burke said in a telephone interview. “It
was a detail recognizable not just to the fashionistas, but the
husband of the fashionista and the general public.”  Designers Roger Vivier, Walter Steiger and Giuseppe Zanotti
helped stretch notions of how to marry form and function, paving
the way for new designer names, including Simmons, Alexandre
Birman and Nicholas Kirkwood. Jeffrey Campbell and Sam Edelman,
who sell fashion shoes at $100 to $200, have helped make the
trend more affordable.  Sales of women’s fashion footwear grew 1.1 percent to $21.9
billion in the 12 months ended in June, according to  Port
Washington , New York-based market research firm NPD Group Inc.
While that lags behind the recent growth rates of 4.2 percent
for apparel and 7 percent for handbags and luggage, shoes
perform well in terms of store productivity and profitability.  “There is no question that shoes are the most productive
in terms of sales per square foot,” Muriel Gonzalez, a Macy’s
executive vice president, said in an interview, while declining
to provide figures. The Saks flagship’s shoe floor in New York
is surpassed in productivity only by the main floor, Frasch said
in a telephone interview.  Shoe Margins  Shoes and handbags have gross margins as wide as 50 percent
at luxury department stores, while women’s apparel has a maximum
of 45 percent, according to Kurt Salmon, a New York-based retail
consulting firm.  Improving the chains’ profitability through shoe sales may
boost their shares’ relative values. Macy’s shares trade at a 40
percent discount to the 32-company Standard & Poor’s 500
Retailing Index on a price-to-earnings basis, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Saks’s premium to the index has shrunk to
32 percent from this year’s high of 72 percent in January.  The retailers are pulling out the stops to make the shoe
shopping experience what Frasch calls more “emotional.”  Macy’s is adding a Champagne and chocolate bar in the shoe
department at its Herald Square flagship and is hiring runners
to bring shoes to sales associates wielding handheld devices.
Saks is adding a camera that will be pointed at shoppers’ shoes
and display the images on a screen. Barneys New York has added
more obscure designers who appeal to shoe fetishists.  300,000 Pairs  Macy’s 63,000 square-foot selling and stock space on the
store’s second floor will carry 300,000 pairs of shoes, feature
a designer shoe salon, bigger shop-in-shops for brands such as
Coach and  Michael Kors  and include shoe closets inspired by New
York neighborhoods such as the Upper East Side and SoHo. Women’s
shoes had commanded 54,000 square feet on the fourth and fifth
floors.  “We see a high degree of passion among our customers for
shoes,” said the Cincinnati-based chain’s Gonzalez. “We wanted
an opportunity to pull it all together in one cohesive
statement.”  Saks, based in New York, is adding 7,000 square feet of
selling space to its Fifth Avenue flagship’s 8th floor women’s
shoe area and has created such 10022-SHOE departments at 11 of
its stores with a plan to expand that to 15.  Women’s shoes accounted for 12 percent of Saks’s  sales  last
year, compared with a combined 8.5 percent for men’s and women’s
footwear in 2006, the year before the retailer opened its first
10022-SHOE department, named after the special New York zip code
Saks obtained for it.  Barneys Department  Barneys New York  in mid-July opened its new combined 22,000
square-foot, fifth-floor designer shoe department, adding 350
styles and increasing women’s space by almost 60 percent and
men’s by almost 40 percent.  Shoes are less prone to markdowns because footwear is
increasingly season-less -- women now even wear boots in the
summer -- and ageless, with styles appealing to teenagers and
older customers alike, Rudinsky said. Shoes also are easier to
fit than clothes and can be worn more often.  Shoes are so prominent now that women increasingly are
buying outfits to go with their shoes, rather than vice versa,
Frasch said. Fashionistas, for example, have been pairing
neutral clothes with currently popular neon shoes.  Designers are expressing themselves with bows and other
embellishments, animal faces, signature heels, exotic skins and
unusual combinations of materials, Burke said.  “It’s not just the stores that are a lot more open-
minded,” said Simmons, the 39-year-old New York-based, U.K.-
born designer whose shoes are known for corset-inspired lace-up
backs. “The consumer wants to try new things.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cotten Timberlake in  Washington  at 
 ctimberlake@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  