-- Africa Israel Cedes Control of New York’s Apthorp Complex
-- B y   O s h r a t   C a r m i e l
-- 2012-08-14T23:20:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-14/africa-israel-cedes-control-of-new-york-s-apthorp-complex.html
AREA Property Partners LP gained
control of  Manhattan ’s landmark Apthorp apartment building from
 Africa Israel USA (AFIL) , billionaire Lev Leviev’s U.S. real estate
unit, after a recapitalization.  AREA replaced all representatives from Africa Israel on the
board of the condominium, according to an amended condo offering
plan filed this month with the office of New York State Attorney
General Eric Schneiderman. AREA executives including North
America Chief Executive Officer  Richard Mack  and global CEO Lee Neibart will join the board.  As a condition of the recapitalization, AREA assumed
control of Apthorp Associates LLC, the entity that owns the
project, New York-based AREA said yesterday in a statement. AREA
will now be responsible for overseeing the sale of 110 unsold
condo units at the former rental building, according to the
offering plan. Sales for the 163 units at the Apthorp began in
2008, according to property-listings website StreetEasy.com.  “AREA put more money in the deal and now they carry more
risk in the project,” Tamir Kazaz, CEO of Africa Israel USA,
said in a telephone interview. “Therefore, they wanted more
control rights.”  AREA was a mezzanine lender to the project before the
recapitalization, according to the statement.  Africa  Israel  was part of a joint venture that purchased
the Upper West Side apartment building in 2007 for about $391
million, according to commercial-property research firm Real
Capital Analytics Inc. The property, built by the Astor family
in the early 20th century, occupies a full city block on
Broadway between 78th and 79th streets.  ‘Same Interest’  Africa Israel retains a 50 percent equity stake in Apthorp
Associates, Kazaz said. That means they will recover funds only
after all creditors have been paid, he said.  “We and AREA share the same interest here -- to maximize
the return,” Kazaz said. “We trust that AREA will work hard to
achieve it.”  The senior loan on the property was retired as part of the
recapitalization, AREA said in the statement. It was replaced by
a $125 million first mortgage from  Macquarie Group Ltd. (MQG)  and a
senior mezzanine loan of $60 million, according to the condo
offering plan.  AREA Real Estate Finance Corp., a debt fund of AREA
Property, holds a majority stake in the new senior mezzanine
loan, the company said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Oshrat Carmiel in  New York  at 
 ocarmiel1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  