-- Agrium CEO Said to Plan Jana Meeting
-- B y   K a t i a   D m i t r i e v a ,   J e s s e   R i s e b o r o u g h   a n d   Z a c h a r y   R .   M i d e r
-- 2012-08-15T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-14/agrium-ceo-said-to-plan-jana-meeting.html
  Agrium Inc. (AGU)  Chief Executive Officer
Mike Wilson will meet with Jana Partners LLC today after
rejecting the hedge fund’s proposal for the Canadian company to
spin off its farm retail unit, two people familiar with the
situation said.  Jana has been in talks with Calgary-based Agrium since at
least May, said the people, who declined to be identified
because the meetings are confidential. New York-based Jana
pushed for the return of capital to shareholders, before
Agrium’s Aug. 3 announcement of a share buyback, according to
another person familiar with the situation.  Jana, the activist hedge fund run by  Barry Rosenstein , said
yesterday in a statement that it’s “disappointed” by Agrium’s
response, and the separation of the retail business would
“unlock significant long-term value.” Agrium, which also runs
a wholesale unit producing fertilizers, said its board decided
unanimously that a spinoff “would expose Agrium shareholders to
substantial risk with no sustainable benefit.”  “Without a retail division, the company won’t know what
farmers want,”  Raymond Goldie , an analyst at Salman Partners
Inc. in Toronto who recommends buying the stock, said in a
telephone interview from Toronto. “Agrium is better to have an
integrated company.”  Agrium hired Morgan Stanley as an adviser, one of the
people said. Richard Downey, an Agrium spokesman, declined to
comment.  ‘Acquisition Binge’  Agrium rose 0.4 percent to C$95.93 yesterday in Toronto.
The stock has climbed 40 percent this year, valuing the company
at C$15.2 billion ($15.3 billion).  Agrium bought U.S. agricultural vendor UAP Holding Corp.
for $2.69 billion including debt in May 2008. That was the start
of a $4 billion “acquisition binge” and since the UAP deal
Agrium shares have trailed those of U.S. competitor  CF
Industries Holdings Inc. (CF) , Jana said.  “Many of these operational issues result from the lack of
retail distribution experience on the board,” Jana said. “This
lack of expertise has resulted in suboptimal capital allocation
and underperformance in retail with respect to managing costs
and working capital.”  Agrium  generated 63 percent of its sales from retail
operations last year while the wholesale business accounted for
34 percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  U.S. Drought  Retail had $769 million in earnings before interest, taxes,
depreciation and amortization, or 27 percent of total ebitda,
while wholesale accounted for 72 percent.  Agrium said Aug. 3 it planned to repurchase a C$900 million
of its shares.  Jana oversees about $3 billion in investments and
commitments and has proposed similar plans to McGraw-Hill Cos.
and Marathon Petroleum Corp. The fund said yesterday in a filing
it acquired a 4.1 percent stake in the second quarter, making it
the largest shareholder according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Jana has almost 5 percent, according to the Wall Street Journal,
which first reported the fund’s proposal.  Jana started building its stake in Agrium before the
Midwest U.S. drought pushed corn and soybean prices to records,
the people said. Agrium said July 18 its outlook was “very
positive” because of the drought.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Katia Dmitrieva in  New York  at 
 edmitrieva1@bloomberg.net ;
Jesse Riseborough in London at 
 jriseborough@bloomberg.net ;
Zachary R. Mider in New York at 
 zmider1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net ;
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  