-- Agrium Says It Won’t Spin Off Unit After Hedge Fund Call
-- B y   J e s s e   R i s e b o r o u g h
-- 2012-08-14T13:27:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-14/agrium-says-it-won-t-spin-off-retail-unit-after-jana-urges-split.html
Agrium Inc. (AGU) , the largest farm
retailer in the U.S., said it won’t spin off its retail business
following a report that shareholder Jana Partners LLC wants to
separate the unit from the more profitable wholesale operations.  “Agrium’s board has carefully evaluated the idea of
spinning off retail and has unanimously determined that it is
contrary to the best interests of the company and its
shareholders,”  Michael Wilson , Calgary-based Agrium’s
president, said today in a statement. “Spinning off retail
would expose Agrium shareholders to substantial risk with no
sustainable benefit.”  Jana, run by  Barry Rosenstein , is an event-driven hedge
fund, meaning it generally invests in companies undergoing
changes such as mergers, spinoffs and bankruptcies. The firm,
founded in 2001, oversees about $3 billion in investments and
commitments and has proposed similar plans to McGraw-Hill Cos.
and Marathon Petroleum Corp.  Jana owns almost 5 percent of Agrium, the Wall Street
Journal reported yesterday. The fund acquired 6.5 million shares
of Agrium as of June 30, according to a filing with the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission. Charles Penner, a spokesman
for Jana in  New York , declined to comment.  Agrium rose 2.3 percent to $98.45 at 9:21 a.m. before the
start of regular trading in New York. The shares gained 43
percent this year through yesterday, compared with a 3.5 percent
decline in the BI Global Fertilizer Peers Index.  Higher Dividend  Agrium, with a market value of about $15 billion, generated
63 percent of sales from retail operations last year while its
wholesale business accounted for 34 percent, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Retail had $769 million in earnings
before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization, or 27
percent of total Ebitda, while wholesale accounted for 72
percent.  A breakup “is not the right thing for this company,”
Charles Neivert, analyst at Dahlman Rose & Co., the top-ranked
Agrium analyst according to Bloomberg News rankings, said in a
phone interview from New York. “People bought Agrium for
certain reasons, they knew what they were buying -- the full
combination of businesses.”  Agrium has increased its dividend ninefold since December
and recently announced a C$900 million ($908 million) share
buyback, it said in today’s statement. On July 18, the company
said second-quarter profit was 15 percent higher than forecast
and its outlook was “very positive” as drought in the U.S.
Midwest drives up grain prices.  U.S. Drought  The worst U.S. drought in decades has affected farmers from
 Arkansas  to  Ohio , prompting the government to pare harvest
estimates. U.S. fertilizer producer  Mosaic Co. (MOS) , which jointly
sells potash with Agrium, said last month that farm economics
remain “compelling” and rising crop prices mean  China  is more
likely to agree to higher prices for its next potash supply
accord.  “We are in close contact with our shareholders and take
their views seriously,” Agrium’s Wilson said today in the
statement. “We are confident the vast majority understand and
support our strategy.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jesse Riseborough in London at 
 jriseborough@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amanda Jordan at 
 ajordan11@bloomberg.net  