-- Hamburg Harbor Hurt as Europe Debt Crisis Hits China
-- B y   N i k l a s   M a g n u s s o n   a n d   J a n - H e n r i k   F o r s t e r
-- 2012-08-15T08:57:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-14/hamburg-harbor-hurt-as-europe-debt-crisis-hits-china.html
Growth in Hamburg is stalling as
 Europe ’s fiscal crisis spreads into China and other Asian
countries, threatening the recovery of  Germany ’s biggest port.  Hamburger Hafen und Logistik AG , which handles two thirds
of containers in Hamburg, cut its forecast for 2012 on July 25,
saying it now sees container throughput at the same level as
last year, compared with an earlier 5 percent growth estimate.
Such an increase would have led to volumes exceeding the record
7.3 million standard containers handled in 2008, the year before
the global financial slump prompted a 33 percent drop.  “The port of Hamburg’s Asian exposure is close to 60
percent, and obviously the euro crisis is now having an impact
on the Asia-Europe trade line,” said Christian Cohrs, an
analyst at M.M. Warburg & Co. KGaA in Hamburg, who has a sell
recommendation on shares of  Hamburger Hafen , also known as HHLA.
“With throughput growth of almost 5 percent in the first
quarter and 1.5 percent in the second quarter, the guidance cut
assumes nearly a 3 percent decline in volumes in the second half
of this year.”  Germany, Europe’s largest economy, is cooling as the euro
area, its biggest export market, heads toward recession.
Hamburg’s port, on which 275,000 people rely for jobs, largely
had been shielded from Europe’s fiscal woes because of expanding
trade with China and the Baltic Sea countries. Now these nations
are feeling the impact of the debt crisis, and in the three
months through June, Hamburg saw its first quarterly drop in
container volumes in nine quarters as trade with  China  slumped.  Falling Shares  HHLA shares have dropped  16 percent  in  Frankfurt  trading so
far this year, compared with a  24 percent  advance in Germany’s
MDAX index, which includes the port operator. HHLA closed up 5.6
percent at 19.22 euros ($23.68) on Aug. 14.  China’s gross domestic product expanded  7.6 percent  in the
second quarter from a year earlier, the lowest in three years
and sixth straight deceleration, as Europe’s debt crisis
constrained exports. Industrial-output growth in the world’s
second-largest economy unexpectedly slowed to a three-year low
of 9.2 percent in July from a year earlier, missing all 32
analysts’ forecasts in a Bloomberg News survey. Export growth
collapsed, with outbound shipments up 1 percent last month
compared with an 11 percent increase in June.  China is Hamburg’s biggest trading partner, accounting for
33 percent of the 9 million standard boxes it handled in 2011.
 Russia  is No. 2, with 6.6 percent, followed by Singapore at 6
percent and  Finland  at 3.7 percent.  South Korea , the U.S.,
Sweden, Poland, Malaysia and  Brazil  are also in the top 10.  Hamburg today reported a 6 percent slump in first-half
container trade with  Asia  to 2.4 million standard boxes and said
that “declining demand in Europe, especially, is leaving its
mark on container throughput in the China trade” of the German
port. Hamburg forecasts container throughput to increase by
between 1 and 2 percent in the full year 2012, compared with a
 14 percent advance  in 2011 and a 13 percent increase in 2010.  Russian Impact  “I am cautious regarding the full year outlook for HHLA,”
said Finn Henning Breiter, an analyst at Hauck & Aufhaeuser AG
in Hamburg, adding that he estimates container volumes at the
port operator will decline 1 percent this year. “Of course
Hamburg is affected when exports decrease to Asia, and imports
from Asia are decreasing. The question is what Eastern Europe is
doing, as Russia has significant impacts” on the port.  Russia expanded 4 percent in the second quarter, the
slowest pace in a year, as weakness in China and Europe’s debt
crisis curbed demand for its commodities exports. Growth is
projected to ease to an annualized 3.2 percent in the third
quarter and 3 percent in the last three months of 2012,
according to the median estimate in a survey of 12 economists by
Bloomberg News between July 19 and July 25.  Still, Hamburg reported a 9.5 percent increase in container
trade with the nations around the  Baltic Sea , including Russia,
to 1 million standard boxes in the first half of this year.  Still Recovering  Hamburg, located by the River Elbe in northern Germany,
suffered a 21 percent drop in total seaborne goods, including
containers, it handled in 2009. The harbor still hasn’t
recovered fully or reached the record 140 million tons for both
2007 and 2008, with volume in 2011 at 132 million tons.  Kuehne + Nagel Group (KNIN) , the biggest sea-freight forwarder,
said in its second-quarter earnings  report  published on July 16
that “muted consumption in all parts of the world” hit the
global logistics market in the first half of this year.  “Softened demand affected in particular the trades from
Asia to Europe and  North America  and slowed down volume
development in sea-freight and air-freight,” said the Swiss
group, which organizes shipments of goods for companies. On
Asia-to-Europe trades, Kuehne + Nagel was “affected by the weak
market demand, and volumes stagnated,” the company said.  The number of containers handled in the port of
Bremerhaven, Hamburg’s German rival, also has been falling in
recent months, according to Michael Skiba, marketing chief of
Bremenports GmbH & Co. KG, which manages Europe’s No. 4
container harbor.  Partial Blame  “You can blame this, to a certain extent, on the
sovereign-debt crisis within the  euro zone ,” Skiba said.
“Exports are slowing.”  HHLA yesterday reported container-volume growth of 3
percent in the first half of this year, the slowest advance for
the period since 2009. That compares with a 30 percent expansion
in the six months through June in 2011 and a 4.7 percent advance
in the first quarter of this year.  That adds to evidence that Germany’s economy is slowing.
While exports grew 4.2 percent in May compared with April, they
dropped 1.5 percent in June. Industrial production also fell, by
0.9 percent from May, when it gained 1.7 percent, and factory
orders declined more than twice as much as economists had
forecast, government data showed.  Germany’s gross domestic product growth will slow to 0.5
percent in the third quarter from a year earlier, according to
the median estimate of 15 economists in a survey by Bloomberg
News between Aug. 3 and Aug. 8. In the three months through
June, the economy grew 1 percent from the same period in 2011.  Lowered Forecast  Cohrs lowered his forecast on July 25 for throughput at
HHLA this year to 7.17 million 20-foot standard containers, or
TEU, which would represent an increase of only 1.1 percent from
2011. The analyst also confirmed Warburg’s  sell rating  on HHLA,
partly because of “a lack of clarity” on its “operational and
financial prospects, given Europe’s debt crisis and cost
overruns at the modernization of the Burchardkai terminal.”  When HHLA lowered its forecast, the company said it is
reviewing the “scalability of  capital expenditures ” as a
result of “the looming economic slowdown” and “unusually high
uncertainty” from the European crisis. HHLA now sees earnings
before interest and taxes of 170 million euros to 190 million
euros, compared with a previous estimate of at least 200 million
euros.  “HHLA expected stronger results for the second half, which
seemed realistic at the beginning of the year, but now the macro
environment has changed,” said  Jochen Rothenbacher , an analyst
at Equinet AG in Frankfurt.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Niklas Magnusson in Hamburg at 
 nmagnusson1@bloomberg.net ;
Janhenrik Forster in Frankfurt at 
 jforster14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at 
 acullen8@bloomberg.net  