-- Hamptons Fantasy Tennis Stars Williams, Spadea at $250
-- B y   P h i l i p   B o r o f f
-- 2012-08-14T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-14/hamptons-fantasy-tennis-stars-williams-spadea-at-250.html
Vince Spadea, who in an 18-year up-
and-down pro tennis career had wins over  Pete Sampras ,  Andre Agassi ,  Rafael Nadal  and  Roger Federer , stood at net at  East
Hampton ’s  Buckskill Tennis Club  feeding balls side-to-side to a
winded amateur.  “Tennis is doing two or three things extremely well,
extremely often,” Spadea, 38, said while trying to upgrade my
running forehand and backhand into high-speed topspin weapons.  In Southampton the next day, on a quick-drying court made
of plastic modules,  Venus Williams  rallied with journalists and
admirers to publicize a line of tennis outfits she designed.
Four years after her original retailing partner, Steve & Barry’s
LLC, filed for  Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection , she’s re-
introducing her  EleVen  brand.  Likewise, I’m trying to reboot my tennis game, a lifelong
obsession that has suffered amid fulltime employment and
addictive theatergoing. Spadea, who peaked at No. 18 in the
world and retired from the tour in 2010, and Williams, the 32-
year-old winner of seven Grand Slam singles titles, seemed like
ideal advisers.  Spadea has been teaching in the Hamptons since June, for
$250 an hour. He said he’s involved with a few ventures,
including instructional videos and a Los Angeles-based talent-
management firm.  “There are different forks in the road for me and I
haven’t merged onto one,” he said.  His career prize money exceeded $5 million. While he
declined to discuss his finances today, he said after hotels,
airfare and other expenses, a pro typically saves about a
quarter of his prize money. His exhibition and endorsement
income was about $2 million, he said.  Like Steffi  In my lesson, he began hitting from the backcourt and
immediately compared my slice backhand with Steffi Graf’s, a
compliment I recognized as outlandish and treasured.  Then he went to work. My old-fashioned groundstrokes were
fine, he said, but I’d get more spin, power and control by
manipulating the wrist, combining “old school and new school.”  He said that in today’s fast game, racket position trumps
body position, and I could hit a decent shot even when my body
wasn’t lined up by paying close attention to backswing and the
angle of the racket face. He encouraged me to accelerate the
swing, and demonstrated by hitting a graceful one-handed
backhand that seemed to fly down the line at 150 miles an hour.  Hit topspin at least two feet over the net, he said, for
more consistency. And I was to slice the backhand lower than I
had previously, for more force. Two exhausting drills helped
instill the adjustments: one hitting while running side to side
that he said is favored by Federer, and another while running
forward and back that’s popular among Spanish stars.  Split Personality  The touring pro who churned through coaches and rapped in
press conferences was a cerebral and effective teacher.  “I’m always hearing people haven’t seen that side of me,”
Spadea said. “It’s a little bit of a split personality.”  Demand outstripped supply at the Williams event, with
dozens seeking to hit and one Venus, who looked fresh six days
after winning the Olympic gold medal in doubles with her sister,
Serena. A brief rain shower gave her time to evaluate, at my
invitation, my protective all-white outfit -- full-length Fila
tennis pants and long-sleeve Coolibar collared shirt.  “I like the top and bottom,” she said, adding that the
Prince hat with 3 1/2-inch brim didn’t mesh with what she called
a 1920s vibe. “The hat is good for sun protection.”  Under Pressure  When my turn came to hit the single ball I was allotted, I
bounced on my feet and hit my strokes by wide margins over the
net. I didn’t miss and neither did she, although she was
striking at 20 percent pace and I was hitting normally. We got
in about 20 strokes before she netted a volley.  “You have variety, you’re at ease, you just need match
play,” Williams said at the net, a spot-on assessment as I tend
to tense up under tournament pressure.  I asked her about her tennis longevity. She’s in her 19th
year playing pro tournaments despite being diagnosed last year
with an autoimmune disease. Preventing injuries is key, she
said.  “Get strong in the gym and stay strong,” she said.  Perhaps her best advice was what she told a local
television reporter who struggled to keep the ball in play.  “I think you need a little more practice,” Williams said.
“Less time in the newsroom.”  Muse highlights include  Mark Beech  on music,  Andrew Dunn  on
 books .  To contact the reporter of this story:
Philip Boroff in  New York  at 
 pboroff@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in New York at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 