-- An $8.5 Billion IPO Looks Like the Next Facebook
-- B y   W i l l i a m   P e s e k
-- 2012-08-14T21:00:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-14/an-8-5-billion-ipo-looks-like-the-next-facebook.html
Japan  Airlines Co. owes me something
as it plans an $8.5 billion initial public offering: a thank
you. Not because I’m a frequent flier, but a Japan taxpayer.  In the euphoria over the  carrier  emerging from bankruptcy,
aren’t we forgetting the jumbo-jet-sized role of the state? A
$4.5 billion government-orchestrated bailout and even bigger
subsidies that let it avoid billions of dollars in future tax
payments.  So next month, when JAL attempts the most ambitious IPO
since  Facebook Inc. (FB) , it should do so with humility and full
knowledge of how its trajectory is another blow to Japan’s
status as a meritocratic economy. The goodies JAL is using to
resurface as a public company are weighing on rival All Nippon
Airways Co., an outfit that actually tries to run itself as a
for-profit enterprise.  JAL’s IPO is being held up as a good-news story of rebirth,
reform and fresh opportunities -- when it’s anything but. You
can understand the desire for a promising turnaround tale. The
past year has been a dismal one for Japan Inc. From Tokyo
Electric Power Co.’s incompetence to scandals at Olympus Corp.,
not to mention Daio Paper Corp., Nomura Holdings Inc. and AIJ
Investment Advisors Co., examples of weak corporate governance
abound. It’s only in contrast to this wreckage that JAL can look
like a success story.  Public Coddling  In reality, the public coddling JAL enjoys as it returns to
the stock market is emblematic of so much of what ails Japan.
All Nippon rebounded to profit in the first quarter as air
traffic recovered from disruptions caused by the Japanese
tsunami and nuclear crisis of March 2011. The airline succeeded
on its own in a turbulent global environment, not because of a
government lifeline.  Now, All Nippon’s outlook is in jeopardy. JAL’s unfair,
taxpayer-supported leg up on All Nippon will inhibit competition
and further delay the creation of a viable budget-airline
industry. JAL hasn’t come up with a low-cost carrier strategy,
and its advantage will slow All Nippon’s full embrace of a trend
that has long benefitted consumers in  Europe , America and other
parts of  Asia . Japan’s “budget” carriers are cheap in name
only.  The unseen costs of publicly financed corporate favoritism
riddle Japan’s  economy . Investors forget that when Japan grows 3
percent a year it’s only because of an endless cycle of fiscal
stimulus, deficit spending and zero  interest rates , which have
distorted the nation’s credit system. If JAL’s IPO is a roaring
success, few will pause to consider the artificial stimulants
that make it so.  Such cosseting of national  champions  doesn’t get the
attention it deserves. The post-tsunami nuclear crisis that
almost caused the evacuation of Tokyo was a direct result of
Tepco’s incompetence and the company’s government enablers.
Decades of lax safety policies were ignored by bureaucrats
looking for cushy post-retirement gigs in the power industry.
Tepco’s pervasive influence explains Prime Minister  Yoshihiko Noda ’s decision to allow the restart of reactors closed after
the March 2011 disaster, defying the public backlash against
nuclear power.  Someday Japan will have a finance minister with the courage
to tell companies to stop bellyaching about the strong currency
and learn to adapt the way the Germans did. The current occupant
of that position, Jun Azumi, isn’t that man. He should spend
less time threatening to intervene in markets and more working
to make Japan more competitive.  Ways to Thrive  Azumi hasn’t devised ways for Japan to thrive without
massive borrowing or free money. He has spent little time
figuring out how Japan will flourish as the population ages,
save for championing a doubling of the 5 percent consumption
tax. He has done nothing to increase female participation in the
shrinking, male-dominated  labor force .  To its credit, JAL has done some heavy lifting since its
2010 bankruptcy. It slashed thousands of jobs, cut debt and
retired older, less fuel-efficient aircraft. But at what price?
Its bankruptcy wiped out shareholders. And even if JAL repays
the government-backed Enterprise Initiative Turnaround Corp. of
Japan, which financed the airline’s bailout, Japan will still be
giving away untold billions of dollars in tax breaks.  Nor is it clear that JAL has learned the right lessons
after at least four bailouts in the past decade. Knowledge that
the government is always at the ready as a backup removes the
urgency to make the wrenching, but needed, reforms. Thanks to
the latest rescue, consumers and businesses will continue
overpaying for flights and have fewer scheduling options.  The other question is whether the market will give JAL the
Facebook treatment. The social-networking company and JAL share
something in common in the hype department. Facebook’s buyers
bought into the mania and have regretted it ever since as the
shares slide. JAL’s supporters, rather than trying to ride the
next big thing, will be domestic retail investors desperate for
a feel-good business story.  If JAL really is a happy tale, it will probably end once
its executives hit up taxpayers for another handout.  (William Pesek is a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today's highlights: the editors on how the private sector can
help  reduce unemploymen t and on why a  carbon tax  still makes
sense; Clive Crook on  Paul Ryan  and America's  bad marriage ;
 William Dudley  on why  money-market funds  should restrict
redemptions by investors; Adam Kirsch on the  Tea Party  and 
the novel "Burr."  To contact the writer of this article:
William Pesek in Tokyo at 
 wpesek@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  