-- Angie’s List Plunges After Lockup Ends on Insider Sales
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   K u c e r a
-- 2012-08-14T20:39:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-14/angie-s-list-plunges-to-record-after-lockup-expiration.html
Angie’s List Inc. (ANGI) , the consumer-
review website that went public in November, plunged to a record
low after a ban was lifted on stock sales by some of the
company’s biggest investors.  Angie’s List  retreated  16 percent to $11.17 at the close in
New York, the lowest since the company’s initial public offering
on Nov. 16. The shares have slumped 14 percent since the IPO.  Investors holding 44 percent of common shares are eligible
to sell stock as of today, the company said in regulatory
 filings . The Indianapolis-based company shows user reviews of
plumbers, electricians and other service providers. Angie’s List
shares may be pulled down by the results of  Groupon Inc. (GRPN) , which
also relies on local businesses and has fallen 62 percent since
its IPO the same month.  “Groupon took a tumble,”  Sameet Sinha , a San Francisco-
based analyst at B. Riley & Co., said in an interview. “It is
seeing a sign of slowdown, and people are correlating that with
a general slowdown in companies in the local business market.”  Groupon, the largest daily-deal website, plunged to a
record low today after the company reported second-quarter
revenue that missed estimates as economic weakness in Europe
curbed online coupon sales. The shares retreated 27 percent to
$5.51 at the close in New York, the biggest decline since the
company’s November IPO.  Angie’s List raised $114 million in an IPO after pricing
shares at $13 apiece, the top of the proposed range, and held a
secondary offering May 15. Investors who sold stock in the
follow-on offering include affiliates of  Battery Ventures  and
 Angie Hicks , who started Angie’s List in 1995, regulatory
filings show.  Cheryl Reed, a spokeswoman for Angie’s List, declined to
comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Kucera in  San Francisco  at 
 dkucera6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  