-- Hapag-Lloyd Posts Second-Quarter Net Loss After Fuel Costs Soar
-- B y   N i k l a s   M a g n u s s o n
-- 2012-08-14T06:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-14/hapag-lloyd-posts-second-quarter-net-loss-after-fuel-costs-soar.html
Hapag-Lloyd AG,  Europe ’s fourth-
largest container-shipping line, reported a second-quarter loss
after soaring fuel costs offset increases in freight rates.  The net loss narrowed to 7.3 million euros ($9 million),
from  10.6 million euros  reported a year earlier. Operating
profit rose 18 percent to 30.8 million euros in the three months
through June, the Hamburg-based company said in an e-mailed
statement today.  The world’s biggest container lines, including  A.P.
Moeller-Maersk A/S (MAERSKB)  and CMA CGM SA, made losses last year because
of a jump in fuel costs, an oversupply of ships and a price war
on routes between  Asia  and Europe. While shipping lines have
since raised freight rates, the increases haven’t fully offset
the rising energy prices and further increases are therefore
“unavoidable,” Hapag-Lloyd said today.  “High bunker prices in particular cause our expenses to
increase dramatically -- they are by far the biggest cost factor
for our business,” Chief Executive Officer Michael Behrendt
said in the statement. “Further rate increases are crucial to
compensate for these elevated external costs. The cargo on board
our vessels has to cover the cost of transportation.”  The company’s transport expenses rose 26 percent, or by 330
million euros, in the second quarter compared with a year
earlier, after the average fuel price jumped 14 percent to $694
per ton, Hapag-Lloyd said. The weighted average freight rate in
the second quarter increased 7.4 percent to $1,594 when compared
with the first three months of this year and was 4.1 percent
higher than in the second quarter of 2011.  Earnings Target  Hapag-Lloyd fared better than its main competitors last
year and was the only major container shipping company that
reported an operating profit in all four quarters of 2011,
Behrendt said on March 20. The German company “is striving to
post positive operating earnings again for the current financial
year, provided that there is no fundamental escalation of the
risks and assuming it proves possible to implement further rate
increases in the course of 2012,” Hapag-Lloyd said today.  TUI AG (TUI1) , owner of Europe’s largest travel company, has sold
a 17.4 percent stake in Hapag-Lloyd to investor group  Albert
Ballin  for 475 million euros to focus on tourism. TUI may divest
its remaining 22 percent holding in an initial public offering
or sell the stake to third-party investors, it said on Feb. 14.
The company postponed a planned IPO for Hapag-Lloyd last year
because of turmoil in global equity markets.  Albert Ballin, which comprises the city-state of Hamburg’s
government, Klaus-Michael Kuehne, Signal Iduna, Hanse-Merkur,
M.M. Warburg & Co. and HSH Nordbank AG, is Hapag-Lloyd’s
majority shareholder and owns 78 percent of the company.  Hapag-Lloyd’s sales advanced 21 percent to 1.8 billion
euros in the second quarter, while transport volumes increased 2
percent to 1.36 million standard containers.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Niklas Magnusson in Hamburg at 
 nmagnusson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at 
 acullen8@bloomberg.net  