-- Approval of Congress Again Hits Record Low of 10 Percent
-- B y   K a t h l e e n   H u n t e r
-- 2012-08-14T20:44:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-14/approval-of-congress-again-hits-record-low-of-10-percent.html
Public approval of the U.S.
Congress’s performance fell to 10 percent, tying a record low
set in February, according to a Gallup poll.  The poll, released today, found that 83 percent of
Americans disapprove of the way Congress is doing its job, the
latest in a string of poor marks that the legislative branch of
government has received. The 10 percent approval rating, down
from 16 percent in July and 17 percent in June, ties the lowest
ranking registered for Congress since Gallup began measuring
congressional approval 38 years ago.  “Generally, when people think of Congress, what they think
of now is gridlock and polarization,” said  Julian Zelizer , a
history and public affairs professor at  Princeton University  in
 New Jersey . “People never love Congress, but clearly now we’ve
reached an all-time low.”  The greatest decline in approval was among Democrats. Nine
percent approved of the institution’s performance in August,
down from 18 percent in July, according to the survey.  The poll found equal disdain for Congress across political
groups, with 10 percent of Republicans and 11 percent of
independents saying they approved. The Aug. 9-12 telephone
survey of 1,012 adults has a margin of error of plus or minus
four percentage points.  Congress’s approval rating, which reached a record high of
84 percent in October 2001, after the Sept. 11 terrorist
attacks, hasn’t exceeded 20 percent in Gallup’s monthly survey
since May 2011.  With the Nov. 6 election dominating lawmakers’ attention,
neither party has an incentive to break the legislative logjam,
Zelizer said. Both sides think their negotiating posture on
fiscal and other matters will be strengthened if they win seats
in Congress or their party wins the White House in the election.  ‘No Reason’  “There’s no reason for Congress to act differently at this
point,” Zelizer said. “This is the Congress that pretty much
we’re going to have.”  Zelizer cautioned that congressional disapproval doesn’t
necessarily translate into an anti-incumbent sentiment,
particularly in presidential election years, when the contest
for the White House often overshadows congressional races.  As of Aug. 14, Congress had sent 79 bills to President
 Barack Obama  for his signature this year. Many of them name post
offices and convey land parcels, and most of the rest simply
extend previously approved programs.  This year’s slow pace of legislating is reminiscent of last
year’s, when lawmakers sent to Obama 90 bills that eventually
became law. The 2011 output barely topped that of 1995, when 88
bills were signed into law, fewer than at any time since the
Congressional Record started keeping track in 1947.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kathleen Hunter in Washington at 
 khunter9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  