-- Marijuana Runner Had No Phone GPS Privacy Right, Court Says
-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 2012-08-14T17:40:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-14/marijuana-runner-had-no-phone-gps-privacy-right-court-says-1-.html
A man convicted of marijuana
trafficking had no reasonable expectation of privacy with the
mobile phone he was using when apprehended, a U.S. appeals court
ruled.  Federal agents tracked Melvin Skinner to Abilene,  Texas ,
using the global positioning signals emitted by his mobile
phone, found him in possession of more than 1,100 pounds (498
kilograms of marijuana and arrested him in July 2006, the court
said in its 2-1 ruling today.  Skinner appealed his convictions for trafficking and other
federal crimes as well as a lower court ruling that the GPS
tracking was lawful and that evidence found in the ensuing
search was admissible.  “If a tool used to transport contraband gives off a signal
that can be tracked for location, certainly the police can track
the signal,” U.S Circuit Judge John M. Rogers wrote. “The law
cannot be that a criminal is entitled to rely on the expected
untrackability of his tools.”  Rogers’s ruling, joined by U.S. Circuit Judge Eric L. Clay,
distinguished this case from a U.S. Supreme Court decision in
January that curbed the ability of police to track people using
GPS devices.  Need Warrant  In a fragmented ruling addressing the affixing of a GPS
device to a suspect’s car without a warrant, the high court
majority said police in many cases will need a warrant to track
suspects using those means.  U.S. Supreme Court Justice  Antonin Scalia  faulted the
police for encroaching upon “a protected area.”  “No such physical intrusion occurred in Skinner’s case,”
Rogers and Clay said in their ruling today.  Dissenting in part, U.S. Circuit Judge Bernice Donald said
the discovery of Skinner’s location by using a mobile phone
constituted a search as defined by the U.S. Constitution,
requiring federal agents to obtain a warrant or explain why they
should be granted an exception.  Donald concurred in Skinner’s ultimate conviction on other
grounds.  “We do not mean to suggest there was no reasonable
expectation of privacy because Skinner’s phone was used in the
commission of a crime,” Rogers and Clay said in a footnote to
their opinion. “On the contrary, an innocent actor would
similarly lack a reasonable expectation of privacy in the
inherent external locatability of a tool that he or she
bought.”  The case is U.S. v. Skinner. 09-6497, U.S. Circuit Court of
Appeals for the Sixth Circuit (Cincinnati).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Harris in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Dunn  at   adunn8@bloomberg.net . 