-- Arsenal, United Set for $34.5 Million Van Persie Deal: Roundup
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2012-08-14T06:30:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-14/arsenal-united-set-for-34-5-million-van-persie-deal-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of soccer
stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable Internet links.  Serious Talks  Arsenal is ready to begin “serious talks” with  Manchester
United  over the sale of  Robin van Persie  that may result in a 22
million-pound ($34.5 million) transfer, the  Sun reported .  The Gunners had been demanding 25 million pounds for the
Netherlands striker, though will now settle for less rather than
keep a player who doesn’t want to be at the club and could
become a hate figure for fans, the Sun added.  Ferguson Plea  United manager  Alex Ferguson  has gone directly to Arsenal
counterpart Arsene Wenger to try and get the deal completed
before the new Premier League season starts this weekend, the
 Daily Mirror reported .  United is set to come back in the next 48 hours with a bid
of at least 20 million pounds for van Persie, who has a year
remaining on his contract, the Mirror added.  Welbeck’s New Contract  England striker  Danny Welbeck  will sign a new five-year
contract with United worth 75,000 pounds a week, ending
protracted talks over a new agreement, the  Daily Mail reported .  Welbeck, 21, had been reluctant to sign another long-term
deal until his salary reflected his growing status as a regular
starter having made 30 Premier League appearances last season,
the newspaper added.  City Vs. United  Manchester City  wants to hijack Manchester United’s
proposed 4 million-pound deal to sign Chilean prospect Angelo
Henriquez, the  Mirror reported .  Although United has an option to sign the 18-year-old
striker when he has the chance of obtaining a U.K. work permit,
Henriquez is open to offers, the newspaper said.  Llorente to Leave  Athletic Bilbao striker  Fernando Llorente  put the two
Manchester clubs on another collision course by saying he wants
to quit the Spanish team, the  Daily Express reported .  The 27-year-old Llorente, who has one year left on his
contract, is viewed by United and City as an alternative to van
Persie, the Express added.  Tello Target  Liverpool manager  Brendan Rodgers  is trying to make
Barcelona winger Cristian Tello his third signing since being
hired in June, the  Sun reported .  Although a season-long loan and then transfer next year is
the favored deal, interest from Arsenal, Malaga, Benfica and
Ajax in Tello may force Rodgers into a permanent deal that would
cost about 5 million pounds, the newspaper added.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  