-- Las Vegas Marriott Loan Suit Dismissed by New York Judge
-- B y   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h
-- 2012-08-14T18:29:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-14/las-vegas-marriott-loan-suit-dismissed-by-new-york-judge.html
An investor lawsuit over the
securitization of a $160 million mortgage loan on a Marriott
hotel in  Las Vegas  was dismissed by a  New York  state judge.  A group of investors in commercial-mortgage backed
securities including Angelo Gordon & Co. and Winthrop Realty
Trust sued a junior lender and other parties in New York State
Supreme Court in December, alleging a “brazen scheme” to steal
more than $60 million from bondholders.  Justice Melvin Schweitzer dismissed the lawsuit because the
plaintiffs failed to comply with a clause in a pooling agreement
that required them to notify a trustee before suing, according
to a ruling dated July 26 and posted yesterday. The “no
action” clause requires the holders of 25 percent of the
participation interests of each class in the pact to notify the
trustee of the pool before filing a lawsuit, he said.  The case involves the securitization of a $160 million
mortgage loan on the JW Marriott Summerlin Hotel, Resort, Spa &
Casino, a  resort  with more than 540 rooms on 55 acres about 15
minutes from the  Las Vegas Strip , according to Schweitzer.  The loan was divided into a $150 million senior interest
and a $10 million junior interest. The senior participation was
pooled with 10 other mortgage loans and sold according to an
agreement, according to Schweitzer’s ruling.  Junior Interest  The original holder of the junior interest in the loan in
February 2011 transferred it to Citadel Securities Trading LLC,
which then transferred the interest to Galante Holdings Inc. for
$10 million, Schweitzer’s ruling said.  The lenders sent the loan’s borrower, HotSpur Resorts
Nevada Ltd., two maturity notices last year anticipating a
default, yet the master servicer, KeyCorp Real Estate  Capital
Markets , reported last August that HotSpur intended to seek
“suitable financing” and pay the loan in full by the maturity
date of November 2011, according to Schweitzer’s ruling.  In September 2011, HotSpur notified Galante that it would
be unable to make payment and Galante appointed TriMont Real
Estate Advisors as special servicer to administer the loan and
supervise any restructuring or remedies in connection with a
default.  The loan went into default on Nov. 9, 2011, and Galante
told TriMont and the master servicer that it was planning to buy
the senior interest under an option in the pooling agreement,
according to Schweitzer.  The plaintiffs told the trustee on Dec. 22 that they were
opposing Galante’s efforts to close on the purchase of the
senior interest. The trustee “refused to take immediate
action” and the plaintiffs sued on Dec. 28.  The case is Cedarwoods CRE CDO II Ltd. v. Galante Holdings
Inc., 11-653624, New York State Supreme Court in  Manhattan  (New
York County).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Dolmetsch in New York at 
 cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Dunn  at   adunn8@bloomberg.net  