-- Treasuries Drop, Commodities Rise After Retail Sales Data
-- B y   S t e p h e n   K i r k l a n d   a n d   I n y o u n g   H w a n g
-- 2012-08-14T20:13:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-14/asian-stocks-rise-before-u-s-retail-data-grains-kiwi-advance.html
Treasuries fell and commodities rose
after data on U.S. retail sales and Germany’s economy topped
forecasts and France unexpectedly averted a contraction. Spanish
bonds rallied, while U.S. stocks erased gains in the last hour
of trading.  Ten-year Treasury yields climbed six basis points to 1.73
percent as of 4 p.m. in  New York , while Spanish rates slid 11
basis points. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index fell less than 0.1
percent to 1,403.97, erasing an advance that reached 0.4
percent. The euro was little changed at $1.2324. The yen slid
against 15 of its 16 major peers as the Bank of  Japan  signaled
it may take steps to revive growth. Cocoa and natural gas added
more than 1.7 percent to lead commodities higher.  Retail sales jumped 0.8 percent in July, compared with a
0.3 percent increase estimated by economists in a Bloomberg
survey. German gross domestic product expanded 0.3 percent in
the second quarter from the first, compared with the 0.2 percent
predicted in a Bloomberg survey. French GDP was unchanged in the
quarter, better than the 0.1 percent decline forecast by
economists.  “Today’s data points are indicative of an improving
economic backdrop,”  Ted Harper , who helps manage about $8
billion for Frost Investment Advisors LLC in Houston, said in a
telephone interview. “The fact that we’ve gotten a little
relief on some fronts is constructive and underpins the more
favorable tone in the market of late.”  U.S. Stocks  The  S&P 500  retreated for a second day after advancing for
six straight days, its longest rally since 2010. Raw-material
producers and technology shares led the decline today.  About 5.1 billion shares changed hands on all venues, an
increase from yesterday, when U.S. equity volume reached the
lowest level since at least 2008 excluding holidays. The Chicago
Board Options Exchange Volatility Index, known as the VIX,
increased 8.3 percent to 14.83, rebounding from a five-year low
reached yesterday.  The Federal Reserve chairman will have a chance to talk
more about monetary options when he speaks to economists and
central bankers at the Kansas City Fed’s conference in  Jackson
Hole ,  Wyoming , Aug. 30 to Sept. 1. His speech at the 2010
conference set the stage for a second round of large-scale asset
purchases, which the committee started in November that year.  Bernanke will also hold a press conference after the
September FOMC meeting, when Fed officials publish updated
forecasts for growth, unemployment, inflation and  interest
rates .  Estee Lauder  Estee Lauder Cos. gained 9.3 percent after quarterly profit
beat analysts’ projections.  Home Depot Inc. (HD)  climbed 3.6 percent
after reporting second-quarter earnings that topped estimates
and raising its forecast for this year.  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) 
rallied 0.8 percent, pacing gains in financial stocks.  Three shares advanced for each that retreated on the  Stoxx
600. (SXXP)  Aker Solutions ASA climbed 5.7 percent after the Norwegian
oil-services company posted second-quarter profit and sales that
beat analysts’ estimates.  CRH Plc (CRH)  plunged 4.8 percent as the
 building-materials company  said like-for-like sales in  Europe 
will drop in the second half of the year.  The euro strengthened against seven of 16 major peers. The
euro-area economy contracted 0.2 percent in the second quarter,
in line with the median forecast of 35 economists in a Bloomberg
survey.  ‘Not Collapsing’  “While not great in any way German and French GDP numbers
were better than expected, which adds to the scenario that there
is no risk of an imminent euro break up,” said Alexander Kraemer, a cross asset strategist at Commerzbank AG in
 Frankfurt . “It shows global growth is not collapsing, which
also helps reduce investment risks.”  The yen fell 0.6 percent versus the dollar. Some  Bank of
Japan (8301)  board members said policy makers shouldn’t dismiss any
options in combating risks to the economy from the European
sovereign debt crisis, a record of last month’s meeting showed.  The yield on benchmark 10-year German bunds climbed seven
basis points to 1.47 percent and the rate on similar-maturity
French debt added two basis point to 2.11 percent.  The yield on Italy’s two-year note fell five basis points,
reversing an earlier advance.  Spain ’s two-year rate decreased
six basis points to 4.21 percent.  ‘Open Mind’  The Spanish government is considering a request for a
sovereign bailout,  European Economic  and Monetary Affairs
Commissioner  Olli Rehn  signaled in a Bloomberg Television
interview. Spain has an “open mind,” Rehn said today in New
York. No decision has been taken by Prime Minister  Mariano
Rajoy ’s government, he said. “We stand ready to act if there is
a request,” Rehn said.  Rajoy reiterated earlier he will act in the best interests
of his country. Rajoy said today he won’t make a decision on
whether to seek support from the ECB and a rescue fund until he
has more details about how it works.  The U.K. is pressing for the ECB to share power with
national regulators as it takes over euro-area bank supervision,
according to policy planning documents obtained by Bloomberg
News. The ECB should have a core set of central powers to
oversee all banks in the 17-nation currency bloc while
delegating some tasks to individual countries, under one option
favored by the U.K. and European Union economic policy
officials.  Greece  sold 4.06 billion euros ($5.02 billion) of three-
month bills, exceeding its 3.125 billion-euro target. Yields on
Greece’s bonds due in February 2023 increased 15 basis points to
24.49 percent.  The Markit iTraxx Europe index of credit-default swaps
linked to 125 companies with investment-grade rankings dropped
two basis points to 145 basis points, the lowest since May 7.  Oil Gains  The S&P GSCI gauge of 24 commodities gained 0.3 percent.
Crude oil increased 0.8 percent to $93.43 a barrel in New York,
advancing for the first time in three days. Crude inventories
probably declined 1.5 million barrels last week, according to
the median response in a Bloomberg survey before an Energy
Department report tomorrow.  The MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index added 0.4 percent, erasing
most of yesterday’s retreat. Egypt’s EGX 30 Index increased 1.3
percent after the military council signaled it won’t oppose
President Mohamed Mursi’s decision to retire the nation’s two
top generals.  The Hang Seng China Enterprises Index of mainland companies
advanced 1 percent and South Korea’s Kospi Index climbed 1.3
percent. India’s Sensex rose 0.5 percent after inflation eased
more than estimated in July. Russia’s Micex Index gained 0.8
percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stephen Kirkland in London at 
 skirkland@bloomberg.net ;
Inyoung Hwang in New York at 
 ihwang7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  