-- Asia’s Oldest Bourse Plans IPO as Third India Rival Opens
-- B y   G a n e s h   N a g a r a j a n   a n d   S a n t a n u   C h a k r a b o r t y
-- 2012-08-14T07:03:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-14/asia-s-oldest-bourse-plans-ipo-as-third-india-rival-opens.html
BSE Ltd. ,  Asia ’s oldest stock
exchange, plans to sell shares in an initial public offering in
the next eight months as competition intensifies with a third
Indian bourse planning to start operations.  The bourse, formerly known as the Bombay Stock Exchange and
backed by  Deutsche Boerse AG (DB1) , will offer 25 percent of its
shares in the sale, interim Chief Executive Officer Ashishkumar
Chauhan said yesterday in Chennai. The exchange’s board has set
up an IPO committee to complete the transaction, he said, while
declining to give details on the specific timing and pricing.  National Stock Exchange of India Ltd., BSE’s main rival in
India’s $1.1 trillion equities market, handles twice the amount
of shares of its 136-year-old competitor and controls 90 percent
of the nation’s $28 billion stock-derivatives market.
Competition for the BSE, which started an incentive program to
lure derivatives traders last year, is set to intensify when the
MCX Stock Exchange Ltd. becomes the third bourse to trade local
equities this year.  “There will be lot of interest from investors in a listed
exchange as it is a new concept in  India ,” R.K. Gupta, managing
director at Taurus Asset Management Co., which had about $673
million in assets at the end of June, said by phone from  New
Delhi  today. “Introduction of new products and segments will
help BSE have an early advantage over the new competitor MCX
Stock Exchange.”  Commodity Trading  Jignesh Shah, vice chairman of the MCX bourse, said on July
11 the company will start trading currency options followed by
equity and equity derivatives in the next two months.  Multi Commodity Exchange of India Ltd ., which owns a 5
percent stake in MCX Stock Exchange, in March became the first
Indian bourse to sell shares. The sale was oversubscribed 54
times as investors bet the exchange will gain from expanding
trade in bullion, metals, crude oil and agriculture contracts.  MCX shares fell 0.1 percent to 1,159.4 rupees at 12:24 p.m.
today. The stock has risen 12 percent from its the offer price
of 1,032 rupees.  BSE’s proposed IPO comes amid record purchases of Indian
equities by offshore funds this year. Foreigners have pumped in
a net $11.3 billion into local equities since Jan. 1, a record
for the period and the highest flows this year among 10 Asian
markets tracked by Bloomberg. The benchmark  BSE India Sensitive
Index (SENSEX)  has advanced 14 percent year-to-date, after plunging 25
percent in 2011, its second-worst annual decline.  Chauhan took charge of the BSE when former CEO Madhu Kannan
left in May.  Enhanced Profile  The BSE last year started a 1 billion-rupee ($18 million)
program to lure brokers to trade derivatives and win back share
from the National Stock Exchange. The incentive plan has helped
increase the value of derivatives contracts more than 3,000
times since it started in September, according to the bourse.  The BSE has “ventured into new products and segments such
as derivatives recently and that may have made them confident
about tapping the market at a time when many investors expect a
rebound in stocks later this year,” D.K. Aggarwal, chairman of
SMC Investments & Advisors Ltd., which has about $100 million in
assets, said from New Delhi. “A listing could help them enhance
their brand and profile.”  The MCX Stock Exchange controlled 44 percent of the local
currency-futures market, compared with the NSE’s 39 percent in
the year ended March 31, according to an MCX factsheet.  Multi
Commodity Exchange  was the world’s third-largest commodity-
futures bourse by volume last year, its  website  said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ganesh Nagarajan in Chennai at 
 gnagarajan1@bloomberg.net ;
Santanu Chakraborty in Mumbai at 
 schakrabor11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  