-- Syrian Regime ‘Collapsing,’ Says Former Prime Minister
-- B y   F i o n a   M a c D o n a l d   a n d   D a v i d   L e r m a n
-- 2012-08-15T08:39:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-14/assad-s-soldiers-should-abandon-enemy-of-god-ex-premier-says.html
The Syrian regime is “collapsing
emotionally and politically,” former Prime Minister Riad Hijab
said in his first public appearance since defecting to Jordan.  In  Washington , U.S. Defense Secretary  Leon Panetta 
predicted the fall of Syrian President Bashar al-Assad despite a
“growing presence” in Syria of Iranians providing Assad’s
forces with training and other assistance. He said  Iran  has been
helping develop the Shabiha militia, the pro-regime Alawite
thugs that rebels blame for atrocities against civilians
including systematic rapes and the murder of children.  “We are seeing a growing presence by Iran and that is a
deep concern,” Panetta said yesterday at a news conference.  In Amman, Hijab made a public appeal for Syrian troops and
officials still loyal to Assad to join the opposition and
abandon the “enemy of God.”  Calling on the opposition to unite against a government
that is killing its own people, Hijab told journalists yesterday
that ‘the regime is collapsing emotionally and politically” and
now controls no more than 30 percent of Syria. He added that he
is innocent of the acts committed by Assad’s administration.  Hijab is the most senior defector since the uprising
against the Assad government began last year and spoke hours
before the  Organization of Islamic Cooperation  met in the Saudi
Arabian city of Mecca to consider further isolating Syria though
exclusion from the 57-member group. Iran has set the scene for a
diplomatic showdown by pledging to oppose the move.  Iranian Objections  Iranian Foreign Minister  Ali Akbar Salehi  told reporters in
Jeddah that his country would oppose the suspension of Assad’s
government, which has been recommended by the group’s foreign
ministers.  “Suspending does not mean that the problem will be
solved,” he said. “With such a reaction, you just erase the
problem.”  The meeting is being attended by Iranian President  Mahmoud Ahmadinejad  together with leaders from other Muslim states who
are being asked to agree the move as a response to 17 months of
civil conflict that has killed more than 21,000 people,
according to estimates from the opposition Syrian Observatory
for  Human Rights . Syria was suspended from the  Arab League  in
November.  Iran “wouldn’t agree to the plan for the exclusion of
Syria,” Foreign Ministry spokesman  Ramin Mehmanparast  told
reporters yesterday.  The OIC helps to safeguard “the true values of Islam and
the Muslims” and works to resolve the settlement of conflicts,
according to its website.  ‘Courageous Steps’  The U.S. Treasury Department lifted sanctions imposed on
Hijab last month, according to an e-mailed statement yesterday.  “The United States encourages other officials within the
Syrian government, in both the political and military ranks, to
take similarly courageous steps to reject the Assad regime and
stand with the Syrian people,” David S. Cohen, undersecretary
for terrorism and financial intelligence, said in the statement.  State television reported today that an explosion struck
near a military compound in the capital, Damascus, injuring
three people. Explosives placed in an oil truck blew up in a
parking space, it said. Al Jazeera television broadcast footage
of black smoke billowing over the center of the city.  Syrian opposition fighters Aug. 13 said they’d shot down a
government MiG-23 on a bombing run over eastern  Syria . The
state-run Syrian Arab News Agency said the warplane crashed due
to a “technical problem” during a training mission.  No-Fly Zone  Establishing a no-fly zone over Syria, sought by rebel
leaders, is “not a front-burner issue for us,” Panetta said.  Panetta said the U.S. is focusing its efforts on providing
humanitarian aid to Syrians, monitoring the regime’s chemical
weapons stockpiles, and providing non-lethal assistance to rebel
fighters. Persian Gulf countries are providing “more aggressive
assistance,” Panetta said in a confirmation they are supplying
weapons.  All those efforts are having an impact as shown by
defections and problems withing the Syrian military, he said.  “I think that it is a matter of time before we’re going to
be successful in bringing Assad down and allowing the Syrian
people to determine their future,” he said.  A United Nations-arranged cease-fire, agreed to in April,
has failed to halt fighting. Syrian government forces killed at
least 83 people yesterday according to  Al Arabiya , which cited
information from the Syrian Network for Human Rights.  Germany’s Foreign Minister  Guido Westerwelle  called for an
intensification of planning for a Syria without Assad in a phone
call Aug. 13 with U.S. Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton ,
French Foreign Minister Laurent Fabius, U.K. Foreign Secretary
 William Hague  and Turkish Foreign Minister  Ahmet Davutoglu .  The Syrian president’s special envoy, Buthaina Shaaban, was
in Beijing for talks with Chinese Foreign Minister  Yang Jiechi ,
 China ’s Foreign Ministry spokesman Qin Gang said in a statement
posted on the ministry’s website. China is also considering
inviting Syrian opposition groups to visit the country, Qin
said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Fiona MacDonald in Kuwait at 
 fmacdonald4@bloomberg.net ;
David Lerman in Washington at 
 dlerman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Shaji Mathew at 
 shajimathew@bloomberg.net ;
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  