-- Aussie, N.Z. Dollars Fall Versus Majors After U.S. Retail Data
-- B y   L i n d s e y   R u p p
-- 2012-08-14T21:06:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-14/aussie-n-z-dollars-fall-versus-majors-after-u-s-retail-data.html
The Australian dollar fell for a
third day against its U.S. counterpart as data showed U.S.
retail sales increased for the first time in four months.  The Australian and  New Zealand  dollars declined against the
majority of their 16 most-traded counterparts as investors
sought haven assets. The South Pacific nations’ currencies
depreciated as the euro-area economy contracted 0.2 percent in
the second quarter.  “Maybe it’s time for a little risk-off as we head into
September, as the reality is none of the real fundamental issues
have been solved,” Firas Askari, head currency trader in
Toronto at  Bank of Montreal (BMO) , said in a telephone interview.
“The market might refocus on the negative as opposed to the
positive.”  The Aussie declined 0.3 percent to $1.0489 yesterday in  New
York , extending its longest losing streak since July 25. The
currency rose 0.3 percent to 82.59 yen.  New Zealand’s dollar, nicknamed the kiwi, fell a third day,
dropping 0.5 percent to 80.54 U.S. cents. It climbed 0.1 percent
to 63.41 yen.  The currencies gained earlier after a private survey showed
Australian business confidence advanced from a 10-month low, and
a New Zealand government report showed retail sales increased
more than economists forecast during the second quarter.  The New Zealand dollar will likely fall to 78.41 cents and
may decline as low as 74.89 cents against the  U.S. dollar  after
descending from the top of its yearlong contracting range,
according to Bank of America Corp., citing technical analysis.  The kiwi had an “impulsive break” to 80.67 cents to the
greenback that confirmed a top and turn lower,  MacNeil Curry ,
head of foreign-exchange and interest-rates technical strategy
in New York at Bank of America Merrill Lynch, wrote yesterday in
a research report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lindsey Rupp in New York at 
 lrupp2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  