-- Aussie, N.Z. Dollars Stay Lower Before U.S. Output Data
-- B y   M o n a m i   Y u i
-- 2012-08-15T06:11:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-14/australian-n-z-dollars-stay-lower-before-u-s-production-data.html
The Australian and New Zealand
currencies stayed lower amid speculation U.S. data will weaken
the case for the  Federal Reserve  to expand monetary easing that
debases the dollar.  The so-called Aussie touched a one-week low after the  extra
yield  on Australia’s 10-year  government bonds  over comparable
Treasuries declined yesterday. Reports due today are forecast to
show U.S. industrial production increased and regional
manufacturing expanded. Demand for Australia’s currency was also
tempered after a private survey showed the nation’s  consumer
confidence  fell amid prospects the  Reserve Bank  will keep
 interest rates  unchanged.  “Market participants are reducing bets that the Fed will
do QE3,” said Junichi Ishikawa, an analyst at IG Markets
Securities Ltd. in  Tokyo , referring to a third round of asset
purchases known as quantitative easing. “Good U.S. data are
pushing U.S. yields higher and supporting the dollar. That
creates some downward pressure for the Aussie and kiwi.”  Australia’s dollar touched $1.0465, the lowest level since
Aug. 3, before trading at $1.0475 at 4:09 p.m. in Sydney, down
0.1 percent from the close in New York yesterday.  New Zealand ’s
dollar, known as the kiwi, was little changed at 80.52 U.S.
cents following a 0.5 percent drop yesterday.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index of shares fell 0.5 percent,
sapping demand for higher-yielding currencies.  U.S.  output  at factories, mines and utilities probably rose
0.5 percent last month after gaining 0.4 percent in June,
according the median estimate of economists in a Bloomberg News
survey ahead of today’s data. Manufacturing in the New York
region may have grown in August with the Fed Bank of New York’s
general economic  index  at 7, a separate poll showed. Readings
greater than zero signal expansion.  Yield Spread  The yield on 10-year government bonds in Australia climbed
three basis points, or 0.03 percentage point, to 3.33 percent
today. The rate spread to  U.S. debt  narrowed to 1.57 percentage
points yesterday, the least since Aug.3.  The sentiment index for August declined 2.5 percent to
96.6, a  Westpac Banking Corp. (WBC)  and Melbourne Institute survey
taken Aug. 6-10 of 1,200 consumers showed today in Sydney. A
number below 100 indicates pessimists outnumber optimists.  Reserve Bank of Australia Governor  Glenn Stevens  paused
rate reductions at the past two meetings after lowering the
benchmark by 1.25 percentage points from November to June to the
current 3.5 percent to bolster parts of the economy struggling
with a strong currency.  Lower Rates  “Today’s report provides some gentle support for the
prospect that lower interest rates may be needed,”  Bill Evans ,
Westpac’s chief economist, said in a statement. It was the sixth
consecutive month the index registered below 100, a stretch
Evans described as “unusual.”  New Zealand’s dollar may extend a decline to a more than
two-month low after descending from the top of its year-long
contracting range, according to Bank of America Corp., citing
technical analysis.  The currency had an “impulsive break” to 80.67 cents to
the greenback that confirmed a top a turn lower,  MacNeil Curry ,
head of foreign-exchange and interest-rates technical strategy
in New York at Bank of America Merrill Lynch, wrote yesterday in
a research report. The kiwi may decline to as low as 74.89 U.S.
cents, according to Curry, a level unseen since June 1.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Monami Yui in Tokyo at   myui1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  