-- Biden Says Romney Would Put Middle Class ‘Back in Chains’
-- B y   K a t e   A n d e r s e n   B r o w e r
-- 2012-08-14T20:03:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-14/biden-says-romney-would-put-middle-class-back-in-chains-.html
Vice President  Joe Biden ’s remarks
today that presumptive Republican nominee  Mitt Romney ’s
regulatory policies would put middle-income Americans “back in
chains” opened a war of words between the two campaigns.  Biden said to laughter and boos from a crowd in Danville,
Virginia, that Romney would “let the big banks once again write
their own rules -- unchain Wall Street. They’re going to put you
all back in chains.”  Biden also told the crowd that Romney would keep tax breaks
for companies that outsource jobs and that Republicans want to
slash entitlements and social services.  The Romney campaign said the remarks show that President
Barack Obama’s re-election campaign wants to steer voters away
from concerns about the economy.  “Whether it’s accusing Mitt Romney of being a felon,
having been responsible for a woman’s tragic death or now
wanting to put people in chains, there’s no question that
because of the president’s failed record he’s been reduced to a
desperate campaign based on division and demonization,” said
Andrea Saul, a Romney spokeswoman said in a written statement.  The Obama campaign’s deputy campaign manager,  Stephanie Cutter , defended the vice president’s remarks, saying that
Wisconsin Representative  Paul Ryan , Romney’s running mate, and
House Speaker  John Boehner , both Republicans, “have called for
the ‘unshackling’ of the private sector from regulations that
protect Americans from risky financial deals and other reckless
behavior that crashed our economy.”  ‘Devastating Impact’  In a statement, Cutter said Biden’s comments “were a
derivative of those remarks, describing the devastating impact
letting Wall Street write its own rules again would have on
middle-class families.”  Biden spoke at The Institute for Advanced Learning and
Research in Danville as part of a three-day campaign swing
through the battleground states of  North Carolina  and Virginia.
In 2008, Obama won Virginia with 53 percent compared with
Republican challenger Senator  John McCain ’s 47 percent, and he
won North Carolina by just one percentage point. Biden is
visiting Durham, North Carolina and Danville, Wytheville and
Blacksburg, Virginia.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kate Andersen Brower in Washington at 
 kandersen7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  