-- Aresco Takes Over Big East Commissioner’s Job as TV Talks Near
-- B y   C u r t i s   E i c h e l b e r g e r   a n d   S c o t t   S o s h n i c k
-- 2012-08-15T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-14/big-east-said-to-hire-cbs-vice-president-aresco-as-commissioner.html
The  Big East Conference  hired  CBS
Sports  executive Mike Aresco as its commissioner ahead of
television contract talks.  The CBS executive vice president of programming, Aresco was
the unanimous choice of the league’s university presidents,
according to yesterday’s  statement  on the  Big East  website.  Aresco , 62, has been with CBS since 1996 and was
responsible for college programming at CBS Sports and the CBS
College Sports Network. He also managed the division’s college
sports properties, including negotiating contracts for the NCAA
men’s basketball championship.  “We had many outstanding candidates, but we are fortunate
to have Mike Aresco as our new commissioner,” University of
Cincinnati President Greg Williams, who headed the search
committee, said in the statement. “His breadth of experience
and depth of knowledge in intercollegiate athletics will
continue to move the Big East forward on a successful path.”  The Big East enters negotiations with Walt Disney Co.’s
ESPN on a new television contract Sept. 1 and needed an
executive with media experience to replace former commissioner
John Marinatto, who resigned last spring. Joe Bailey has filled
the job on an interim basis.  Multi-Part Hiring  Sean McManus , chairman of CBS Sports, said Aresco was
“uniquely qualified” for the job and that it would be “short-
sighted” to assume the hiring was based solely on the
television negotiations.  Aresco has spent more than three decades developing
relations with “everyone from conference commissioners to
athletic directors and coaches,” McManus said in a telephone
interview.  “He understands what drives TV, certainly, and that’s an
important part of the Big East’s future, and I’m sure he’ll
increase revenue a lot,” McManus said. “But he was hired to
figure out strategically what the conference needs to do over
the long run to grow and retain teams and add teams and how they
can strengthen those relationships.”  The conference, based in Providence,  Rhode Island , is
losing members including founder  Syracuse University  and gaining
schools such as  Temple University  and the U.S. Naval Academy as
college sports ranks are shuffled in a search for the most
lucrative league lineups. The Big East will have eight schools
in football’s top tier this season.  The conference is seeking to at least double revenue in its
next television contract, Rutgers Athletic Director Tim Pernetti
said this year without disclosing a dollar figure. The Big East
rejected a $155 million annual deal with ESPN last year.  Negotiating Help  The Big East also hired Bevilacqua Helfant Ventures as the
lead negotiator in its television negotiations, the conference
said in a statement.  Co-founder Chris Bevilacqua led the media negotiations for
the Rose Bowl game this year and for the Pac-12 Conference,
which will be launching its own 24-hour network.  Prior to forming Bevilacqua Helfant Ventures with partner
 Adam Helfant , Bevilacqua was chairman and chief executive
officer of  Creative Artists Agency ’s Sports Media Ventures.
Before that, he founded CSTV, the first 24-hour cable television
network dedicated to college and amateur sports, which was later
bought by CBS and turned into the CBS Sports Network.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Curtis Eichelberger in Washington at 
 ceichelberge@bloomberg.net ;
Scott Soshnick in  New York  at 
 ssoshnick@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  