-- Biggest Python Found in Everglades Amid Snake Invasion
-- B y   G i l l i a n   W h i t e
-- 2012-08-14T16:43:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-14/biggest-python-found-in-everglades-amid-snake-invasion.html
A 17-foot-7-inch Burmese python
found in the  Florida  Everglades set a state record for both its
size and the 87 eggs the snake was carrying, according to an
official at the national park.  The 164.5 pound (74.6 kilogram) serpent was found, tagged
and released in March as a part of a program to study invasive
species in the Everglades. Scientists at the Florida Museum of
Natural History on the University of Florida’s Gainesville
campus recaptured the python in April, euthanized it and
discovered the eggs during a necropsy last week, said Linda
Friar, public information officer for Everglades National Park.  “One of the important facts about this animal is its
reproductive capability,” said Skip Snow, a park wildlife
biologist, in a statement. “There are not many records of how
many eggs a large female snake carries in the wild. This shows
they’re a really reproductive animal, which aids in their
invasiveness.”  Female Burmese pythons can lay as many as 100 eggs but
typically carry between 12 and 36, according to the Invasive
Species Specialist Group, an international scientific
organization. The snakes have a gestation period of less than
three months and can live as long as 25 years.  Snake State  A species is found to be invasive if it causes economic
damage, environmental harm or threatens human health, according
to the U.S. Agriculture Department. The Burmese python was
deemed an injurious species this year by the U.S. Fish and
Wildlife Service. The designation prohibits importation and
interstate transportation of the animal without a permit.  Florida’s invasive reptile and amphibian crisis is the
world’s worst, according to the statement. Burmese pythons are
known to feed on large animals, including alligators and deer.  The snakes are indigenous to  Southeast Asia  and are
believed to have entered the Everglades through both intentional
and accidental pet releases, according to the statement. About
 50 Burmese pythons  have been removed from in and around
Everglades National Park in 2012.  “This snake has adapted to this ecosystem and is
reproducing,” given the large area covered by the Everglades,
chances of eradicating the species are not good, said Friar.
“There’s no clear strategy.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gillian White in  New York  at 
 gwhite46@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at   smerelman@bloomberg.net  