-- Boeing Doesn’t See Stretched 787 Until Late in Decade
-- B y   S u s a n n a   R a y
-- 2012-08-14T21:55:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-14/boeing-doesn-t-see-stretched-787-until-late-in-decade.html
Boeing Co. (BA) , feeling no pressure from
airlines for an immediate decision on the stretched version of
its 787 Dreamliner, said the plane wouldn’t reach customers
until late this decade.  The “end of the teens” is the likely target for the new
Dreamliner’s entry into commercial service, should Boeing commit
to offer the model, Mike Sinnett, chief project engineer on the
plane, said today in an interview.  “We’re not in a hurry to come up with an answer” on
developing the 787-10, Sinnett said. “We’re not even to the
point that we’re telling the board, ‘We’re going to come talk to
you by the end of the year.’”  The 787, the first jetliner built of composite plastics
rather than traditional aluminum, was delivered to its initial
customer in September after a three-year delay as Boeing
struggled with new materials and suppliers. Boeing plans to
raise production to 10 a month by the end of 2013 from 3.5 now
as it works to convert a backlog of 850 of the jets to cash.  A Dreamliner being delivered to Ethiopian Airlines was
checked by Chicago-based Boeing for any issues with a part in
its  General Electric Co. (GE)  engines called the fan mid-shaft, which
was implicated in a July 28 malfunction before a test flight
with another 787 in  South Carolina .  Boeing’s inspection of the carrier’s jet found no
irregularities, Ethiopian Airlines Chief Executive Officer
Tewolde Gebremariam said in Everett,  Washington , as that 787 was
delivered today. Boeing builds the Dreamliner in Everett and its
plant in North Charleston, South Carolina.  Ethiopian Airlines has an “active interaction” with
Boeing and GE about the matter,  Gebremariam said. “We don’t
think that’s a problem for our airplane. We think it’s limited
to that particular engine.”  The Addis Ababa-based airline will be the third operator of
the Dreamliner, after  All Nippon Airways Co. (9202)  and  Japan Airlines
Co. (9201)   To contact the reporter on this story:
Susanna Ray in Seattle at 
 sray7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  