-- BofA Bids Were Made to Rig Muni Prices With UBS, Witness Says
-- B y   E m i l y   G r a n n i s
-- 2012-08-15T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-14/bofa-bids-were-made-to-rig-muni-prices-with-ubs-witness-says.html
A prosecution witness who claims he
conspired to rig bids on municipal bonds with three former  UBS
AG (UBSN)  employees denied bids he made were legitimate as a defense
attorney sought to characterize them as simply hurried.  Doug Campbell, who worked in  Bank of America ’s municipal
reinvestment and municipal interest-rate hedging group from 1998
until 2002, was asked yesterday by Gregory L. Poe, a lawyer for
Michael Welty, one of the UBS defendants, whether the low bids
he submitted were intentional or a result of being distracted.  “You put in bids but didn’t have time to model them
properly, right?” Poe asked Campbell on his second day of
testimony in federal court in  Manhattan , focusing on one trade
for Anchorage,  Alaska . “You in fact wanted to win the
transaction but didn’t have time, isn’t that right?”  “That is not true,” Campbell said.  On a recorded phone call Poe played, Campbell said that
“in hindsight,” the Anchorage deal came “quickly” and he had
been very busy.  Campbell is testifying against Michael Welty and Gary
Heinz, former UBS vice presidents, and Peter Ghavami, the former
head of UBS’s municipal derivatives group. The three men face
charges that they conspired to defraud municipal-bond issuers
and U.S. tax authorities.  Later in the afternoon, Jonathan Halpern, a lawyer for
Heinz, asked Campbell about his connection to a previous
witness, Mark Zaino. Zaino worked on the bond desk at UBS and
testified against Ghavami, Heinz and Welty last week.  Working Relationships  Halpern showed the jury a series of e-mails between
Campbell and Zaino, suggesting Zaino was the member of the UBS
staff helping Campbell rig bids. Campbell said he had working
relationships with the defendants in this case.  Earlier in the day, Campbell had said he “had a
relationship with all the members of the UBS/PaineWebber desk.”  Campbell pleaded guilty in September 2010 to restraint of
trade, conspiracy to defraud municipal issuers and wire fraud.
He faces as much as 35 years in prison and several million
dollars in financial penalties, he told jurors yesterday. He’s
testifying as part of a cooperation agreement with the
government. Zaino also testified as part of a plea agreement
with the government.  The case is U.S. v. Ghavami, 10-cr-1217, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Emily Grannis in New York at 
 egrannis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Dunn  at   adunn8@bloomberg.net . 