-- BP Said to Seek $7.9 Billion Selling Gulf of Mexico Fields
-- B y   C a t h y   C h a n ,   M a t t h e w   C a m p b e l l   a n d   B r i a n   S w i n t
-- 2012-08-14T23:23:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-14/bp-said-to-seek-7-9-billion-selling-gulf-of-mexico-oilfields.html
BP Plc (BP/)  is seeking as much as $7.9
billion before tax payments for a group of Gulf of Mexico
oilfields as it unloads assets following its 2010 spill in the
region, two people with knowledge of the matter said.  The oil producer, Europe’s biggest after  Royal Dutch Shell
Plc (RDSA) , has prepared preliminary information for prospective buyers
of assets including the Horn Mountain, Holstein, Diana Hoover
and Ram Powell fields, said the people, who asked not to be
identified because the sale process is confidential.  Because of taxes payable by the eventual buyer, the maximum
proceeds BP can expect from the fields will probably be $5
billion to $6 billion, one of the people said. The fields, which
hold proven reserves of about 120 million barrels of oil,
produced about 58,000 barrels a day in the first quarter, the
person said.  BP rose 0.9 percent to 450.9 pence in London.  Chief Executive Officer Bob Dudley plans to sell $38
billion of  assets  by the end of next year, shrinking BP after
the accident at its Macondo well, the worst offshore spill in
U.S. history, wiped out a third of its market value. The London-
based company said in May that it plans to sell some “non-
strategic” assets in the Gulf.  “We’re progressing the planned divestments” in the region
“to really focus our  Gulf of Mexico  footprint,” Dudley said on
a July 31 conference call.  ‘Ongoing Commitment’  BP does not comment on speculation about the value of
assets it’s selling, Brett Clanton, a BP spokesman, said in an
e-mail today.  “But no one should confuse our effort to sell these older,
non-strategic assets, which we announced months ago, with our
ongoing commitment to the Gulf of Mexico,” he said. BP intends
to continue investing at least $4 billion annually in the Gulf
over the next decade, Clanton said in the e-mail.  BP’s output in the Gulf of Mexico is some of the most
profitable in its portfolio, and Dudley has said he wants to
focus more on the production hubs of the Thunder Horse,
Atlantis, Mad Dog and Na Kika fields. The company has six rigs
working in the region and plans to have eight by the end of the
year, the most ever.  Competitors including Norway’s  Statoil ASA (STL)  are also looking
to expand in the region, which offers relatively low taxes and
easy access to the U.S. energy market.  Two of the fields being sold by BP, Holstein and Horn
Mountain, are already operating, and two are still in
development, the people said. Bidders are likely to include U.S.
companies such as  Chevron Corp. (CVX)  and  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM) , and it’s
unlikely that all the fields will go to one buyer, one of the
people said.  Yesterday, BP announced an agreement to sell its Carson oil
refinery in California and 800 gasoline stations to  Tesoro Corp. (TSO) 
for about $2.5 billion, bringing its total divestitures to about
$26.5 billion since the beginning of 2010.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Cathy Chan  in Hong Kong at 
 kchan14@bloomberg.net ;
Matthew Campbell in London at   mcampbell39@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Jacqueline Simmons  at   jackiem@bloomberg.net ;
Chitra Somayaji at   csomayaji@bloomberg.net ;
 Will Kennedy  at  wkennedy3@bloomberg.net . 