-- Brazil’s Rousseff Said to Set Retirement Age to Cap Spending
-- B y   R a y m o n d   C o l i t t
-- 2012-08-14T17:43:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-14/brazil-s-rousseff-said-to-set-retirement-age-to-cap-spending.html
Brazilian President  Dilma Rousseff 
plans to set a minimum retirement age for private sector
employees to limit its future pensions deficit, said a
government official with knowledge of her decision.  Rousseff will set the age at 65 years for men and 60 years
for women. The rule would apply to future, not current,
contributors to the government’s social security institute, or
 INSS , said the official requesting not to be named because the
information was confidential. Currently, workers can retire once
they contribute a minimum of 35 years for a full pension or 15
years for a partial pension, in the case of men.  Brazil ’s pension fund for private sector employees had a
deficit of 37.5 billion reais ($18.5 billion) in the 12 months
through June, according to the INSS website. Part of the deficit
is due to benefits to rural workers who contribute little or
nothing to the fund.  The proposed changes would reduce long-term expenditures on
social security, and could partially offset higher costs
stemming from proposals under debate in Congress to ease
retirement requirements for current private industry employees.
Rousseff may attach the proposed  retirement age  changes to the
bill under debate in Congress or send a separate bill after
municipal elections in October, the official said.  Brazil’s economy will grow 1.8 percent this year, according
to the latest central bank survey, down from 7.5 percent in 2010
and 2.7 percent last year. The slowing economy caused  tax
revenue  in June to fall from a year earlier for the first time
since November 2010.  In March, Congress approved a bill that capped pension
payments for civil servants, whose fund had a deficit of 34.6
billion reais in 2011, according to the finance ministry.  Rousseff, a career civil servant and trained economist, has
also ordered studies on ways to merge the so-called PIS and
Cofins social security taxes and lower their overall tax level,
the official said. With falling  tax revenue  and a series of tax
breaks the government has granted this year, the  finance
ministry  is hesitant to cut the PIS and Cofins, the official
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Raymond Colitt in Brasilia Newsroom at 
 rcolitt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Sanders at 
 psanders@bloomberg.net  