-- Brazil’s Domestic Sugar Sales Seen More Profitable Than Exports
-- B y   I s i s   A l m e i d a
-- 2012-08-14T10:01:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-14/brazil-s-domestic-sugar-sales-seen-more-profitable-than-exports.html
Sugar sales in the domestic market
in Brazil, the world’s largest producer, were more profitable
than exports last week for the first time in more than two
months, according to Cepea, a University of  Sao Paulo  research
group.  Local sales were on average 2.7 percent more profitable
than exports in the week ended Aug. 10 as international prices
dropped, Cepea said in a report yesterday. Exports were 0.4
percent more profitable than shipping the sweetener a week
earlier and 5.3 percent more advantageous in the week ended July
27, Cepea data showed. Raw sugar traded in  New York  slid 5.7
percent last week as the harvest in Brazil gathered pace.  “After more than two months with exports showing more
advantage than the domestic market, Cepea figures indicate that
this scenario inverted last week,” Heloisa Lee Burnquist, an
analyst at Cepea, said in the report.  Sugar cane processing in  Brazil ’s center south, the
country’s main growing region, rose 11 percent to 46.3 million
tons in the second half of July, data from industry group Unica
showed. Above-average rains in May and June had delayed the
progress of the 2012-13 crop under way there.  “The decrease of international prices continues to be
related to advances of the harvesting and the crushing of sugar
cane in Brazil,” Burnquist said. “Due to favorable weather
conditions in July, producing companies operated without
interruptions.”  Crystal Sugar  Local prices for crystal sugar slid 1.9 percent to 57.91
reais ($28.72) a 50 kilogram (110 pound) bag last week, Cepea
data showed. Mills in Sao Paulo, the biggest sweetener producing
state, are prioritizing delivery to pre-signed contracts instead
of selling in the open market, Cepea said.  Sugar sales in the domestic market were 41 percent more
profitable than anhydrous ethanol, the kind used to blend into
gasoline, and 61 percent more advantageous than hydrous ethanol,
used in flex-fuel cars, it said. Both the sweetener and the
biofuel are made from raw material sugar cane.  Crystal sugar, used in Brazil’s domestic market, has an
International Commission for Uniform Methods of Sugar Analysis
level of between 130 and 180, according to the Cepea website. A
lower level corresponds to a higher degree of whiteness. The
refined variety traded on NYSE Liffe calls for an ICUMSA level
of 45.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Isis Almeida in London at 
 Ialmeida3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 Ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net . 