-- Breast Implant Scandal Spurs U.K. Cosmetic Surgery Review
-- B y   K r i s t e n   H a l l a m
-- 2012-08-15T15:11:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-14/breast-implant-scandal-spurs-u-k-cosmetic-surgery-review.html
Nose jobs and cosmetic procedures
face increased scrutiny in the U.K. after at least 490 British
women were forced to undergo surgery to  remove  faulty French
breast implants.  The  Department of Health  is reviewing the cosmetic surgery
industry and may tighten rules, according to an e-mailed
statement from the government. National Health Service Medical
Director Bruce Keogh will lead the effort, which will examine
whether people have the right amount of information before
undergoing procedures and how to ensure patients get appropriate
care after surgery, the department said.  French authorities pulled breast implants made by Poly
Implant Prothese SA from the market in 2010 after discovering
higher rupture rates and last year recommended that all PIP
implants be removed after a woman died. As many as 47,000 women
in the U.K. received PIP implants, about 95 percent of them from
private providers, according to the state-run  NHS .  “The recent problems with PIP breast implants have shone a
light on the cosmetic surgery industry,” Keogh said in the
statement. “Many questions have been raised, particularly
around the regulation of clinics, whether all practitioners are
adequately qualified, how well people are advised when money is
changing hands, aggressive marketing techniques, and what
protection is available when things go wrong.”  Nose Jobs  The review will consider a range of procedures, including
nose jobs, breast enlargement or reduction, facelifts,
liposuction and anti-wrinkle treatments. A national implant
register for products including breast implants will also be
considered, the department said in the statement.  The  British Association of Aesthetic Plastic Surgeons  said
it would welcome the establishment of a national register and
suggested that the government consider restricting
advertisements to protect patients.  “The BAAPS has been campaigning for many years for better
regulations of the cosmetic surgery sector,” the group said in
an e-mailed statement. “We very much would like the review to
look at the issue of advertising of cosmetic surgery that is
widely used to prey on the vulnerability of patients who seek
cosmetic surgery for psychological reasons.”  A panel of eight experts will assist Keogh, including a
plastic surgeon, a psychologist and a patient advocate on PIP
implants. Keogh’s team will make recommendations to the
government by March.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kristen Hallam in London at 
 khallam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kristen Hallam at 
 khallam@bloomberg.net  