-- California Sells $2.3 Billion in Notes to Raise Cash
-- B y   M i c h a e l   B .   M a r o i s   a n d   J a m e s   N a s h
-- 2012-08-15T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-14/california-offers-10-billion-in-notes-at-yields-up-to-0-55-.html
  California  sold almost a quarter of
$10 billion in notes to individual investors with yields of as
much as 0.55 percent in the state’s largest short-term borrowing
in two years, according to Treasurer Bill Lockyer’s office.  While individuals scooped up 23 percent of the issue,
that’s less than half the 57 percent sold on the first day of
the state’s last such sale. That $5.4 billion offering in
September carried yields of 0.38 percent to 0.4 percent.  “We’re looking forward to getting back in the ring
tomorrow,”  Tom Dresslar , a Lockyer spokesman, said after the
sale results were known yesterday. He said he couldn’t account
for the difference in first-day orders compared with the
September sale.  The revenue-anticipation notes sold yesterday offer yields
ranging from 0.3 percent to 0.4 percent for those coming due in
May and 0.4 percent to 0.55 percent for June maturities,
according to a pricing memo e-mailed by Dresslar. The range is
almost 12 basis points to about 37 basis points higher than
yesterday’s  0.18 percent  yield on benchmark AAA one-year tax-
exempt debt, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. A basis
point is 0.01 percentage point.  Borrowing costs for the most-populous U.S. state have
declined as Governor  Jerry Brown , a Democrat, has taken measures
to curb borrowing and reduce the state’s reliance on fiscal
maneuvers such as internal loans and delaying payments owed to
schools and local governments. Both  Standard & Poor’s  and
Moody’s Investors Service gave the notes top ratings.  Raising Cash  State and local governments typically sell short-term debt
to raise cash until the bulk of tax receipts arrive later in the
fiscal year, which in California ends June 30. The revenue-
anticipation notes must repaid in the fiscal year they are sold.  JPMorgan Chase & Co. and Wells Fargo & Co. are joint senior
managers and Los Angeles-based bond firm De La Rosa & Co. is co-
managing the sale. The state will take orders from individual
investors again today, and complete the offering tomorrow.  Following the September sale, California, the most indebted
state, had to borrow $1 billion more in February after tax
collections fell short and spending topped expectations.  In the September sale, two-thirds of the debt was sold to
individual investors. A portion that matured in May was priced
at 0.38 percent, while the bulk of the bonds, which came due in
June, were offered at 0.4 percent.  Those yields at the time were about 17 basis points  higher 
than yields on AAA rated tax-exempt debt maturing in a year,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael B. Marois in Sacramento at 
 mmarois@bloomberg.net ;
James Nash in  Los Angeles  at 
 Jnash24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  