-- California Schools Barring Taxes Push Bills to 2051: Muni Credit
-- B y   J a m e s   N a s h
-- 2012-08-14T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-14/california-schools-barring-taxes-push-bills-to-2051-muni-credit.html
California  school districts are
financing projects by pushing debt payments as far as 40 years
into the future, defying a warning from the Los Angeles County
treasurer while incurring interest that dwarfs principal by 10-to-1 or more.  Last year, 55 school districts were among local authorities
selling bonds that mature in more than 25 years, the most since
2007, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The practice is
akin to state and local governments raising pension benefits
without funding them, said John Hallacy, head of municipal
research at Bank of America Merrill Lynch. Increased retirement
costs helped push Stockton and San Bernardino into  bankruptcy
court  this year.  “It’s not so much kicking the can down the road as it is
burying a drum of toxic waste in the back of the school,” said
Jonathan Fiebach, a partner at Grant Williams LP, a Philadelphia
investment advisory firm.  Agencies, including the Poway Unified School District in
San Diego County, modernized and expanded campuses using zero-coupon bonds that mature a generation or more into the future.
Poway is deferring all payments on $105 million in  bonds  issued
last year until 2033 after officials promised voters four years
ago that the securities wouldn’t raise taxes. By the time all
the bonds mature in 2051, the district will pay $1 billion in
interest, the data show.  The practice persists in California,  Illinois  and other
states, even though  Michigan  outlawed the bonds in 1994 and  Los
Angeles  County Treasurer Mark Saladino last year counseled
California school officials against issuing them.  Future Taxpayers  “You don’t want to saddle future taxpayers with the debt
for facilities that are being built and used today,” Hallacy
said in a phone interview from  New York . “In some ways, it’s
like adding pension benefits without finding a way to pay for
them.”  Many California school districts are doing just that. Since
May 2011, according to Bloomberg data, 11 districts have issued
capital-appreciation bonds maturing in 40 years -- the longest
term allowed under California law. The notes provide cash for
classrooms, libraries and athletic fields at a time when
stagnant property values limit short-term borrowing, school
finance officials said. State law caps bonded indebtedness at
$30 for each $100,000 of property value.  Highest Yields  Tax-exempt capital-appreciation debt is similar to so-called zero-coupon bonds, except that the investment return on
the principal is reinvested at a compound rate until maturity.
The securities usually yield more than coupon bonds to
compensate investors for the longer holding period before they
receive any income.  Zero-coupon bonds are offering some of the the highest
yields compared with benchmark municipals since at least October
2001, when Bloomberg Fair Value data begins. Yields on an index
of zero-coupon bonds maturing in 30 years and rated AA-,
 Standard & Poor’s  fourth-highest grade, were 1.46 percentage
points more than top-rated munis with similar maturity
yesterday, Bloomberg Fair Value data show. The yield spread
between the two indexes was as wide as 1.53 percentage points on
July 30.  Property Assessments  Property in the most populous state was  assessed  at $4.53
trillion in the year ended June 30, still  below  the $4.7
trillion three years earlier, according to the state
controller’s office.  Declines in property taxes may induce more districts to
pursue longer-term bond deals, said  Marilyn Cohen , founder of
Envision Capital Management Inc. in Los Angeles, who has $195
million of munis under management.  “I’m sure California is the worst offender,” Cohen said
in a telephone interview. “Property taxes have gone to hell in
a hand basket in California.”  Declining property taxes and increased pension costs have
squeezed school districts and cities across California. The
California Public Employees Retirement System was listed as the
largest unsecured creditor in Chapter 9 bankruptcy filings by
the cities of Stockton and San Bernardino.  California schools could lose as many as three weeks of the
academic year if voters reject Governor  Jerry Brown ’s ballot
measure to temporarily raise sales taxes and income taxes on
higher earners. Brown built $5.5 billion in cuts to education
into the $91.3 billion California budget this year if voters
turn down the proposal in November. Those reductions would apply
to operating costs such as teacher salaries rather than
construction projects.  Treasurer’s Warning  State law allows districts to issue bonds maturing as long
as 25 years into the future on their own; greater maturities
require approval from county treasurers.  Saladino wrote an open letter in May 2011 counseling
finance officials throughout the state against deferring debt
more than 25 years. Extending maturities beyond that point
results in a “significantly higher debt burden,” Saladino
wrote.  None of the 11 tax-exempt bonds maturing in 40 years was in
his county. Six were in San Diego County, the state’s second-most-populous behind Los Angeles.  “When the housing market stalled and retreated as it did,
districts were counting on a certain level of assessed
valuation, and when it went away, they couldn’t raise the
capital they needed,” said Glenn Byers, Los Angeles County’s
assistant treasurer, in a telephone interview. “So they turned
to this abusive tactic.”  California Treasurer Bill Lockyer hasn’t taken a position
on these bonds, said Joe DeAnda, a spokesman.  Michigan Ban  In 1994, Michigan lawmakers banned the use of long-term,
zero-coupon bonds for school construction after newspaper
articles documented their ultimate costs.  In San Diego County, the Santee Unified School District
sold $3.5 million in bonds last year with no payments due until
2026. The largest, $40.3 million, is payable in 2051. In all,
the district will pay almost $65 million to satisfy the debt,
the Bloomberg data show. Voters in Santee, which borders the
Poway district,  approved  $60 million in bonds in 2006 to
modernize the district’s nine campuses with library technology
centers, athletic fields and other facilities.  By pushing most of the debt burden far into the future,
Santee was able to “leverage scarce resources” to enlarge a
school system pressured by  population growth  while staying
within the state-mandated debt limit, said Karl Christensen, the
district’s chief business officer, in an e-mail.  ‘Outrageous Proposition’  San Diego County Treasurer Dan McAllister said many
districts are struggling to come up with funding for much-needed
expansion and modernization projects, causing them to turn to
nontraditional instruments. McAllister has approved the longer-term bonds even though debt service on some “is a pretty
outrageous proposition,” he said.  “We are under advisement that to stop or impede the
process, if it were to cause fiscal harm to the school district,
it could cause litigation against the county,” McAllister said
in a telephone interview.  The Poway and Santee bond sales were managed by Stone &
Youngberg LLC, which was acquired last year by St. Louis-based
 Stifel Financial Corp. (SF)  Stifel’s media-relations department
didn’t return phone messages left last week and yesterday.  Three of the 11 districts with capital-appreciation bonds
maturing in 2051, including Poway, were advised by  Dolinka Group
LLC , a consultancy in  Irvine , California, that has worked for
more than 250 school districts, community college districts and
county offices of education, according to its website.  Chicago Case  Declines in property taxes, as well as the cap on
indebtedness, have deprived districts of revenue for building
and modernizing facilities, Benjamin Dolinka, the consultancy’s
president, said in an e-mailed statement responding to
questions. Without the long-term bonds, school districts would
have to either scale back their construction efforts or
“substantially” increase property taxes, Dolinka said.  “This would lead to inequality in schools -- the ’have’
facilities and the ’have-nots’ -- greater deterioration of
existing school facilities, overcrowding of existing school
facilities, and a significant increase in costs due to inflation
associated with improvements being done in multiple phases,”
Dolinka said.  Capital-appreciation bonds aren’t unique to California, nor
to schools. The  Metropolitan Pier and Exposition Authority ,
which owns the Navy Pier and McCormick Place in  Chicago , in June
sold $75 million of such bonds maturing in 2051 to help fund an
expansion of the McCormick Place convention center. The
authority needed the money to make up for the loss of taxes on
hotels, restaurants and car rentals because of the recession
that began in 2008, said Richard Oldshue, the chief financial
officer.  By the time the final payments come due in December 2051,
the authority will have paid $591 million, more than eight times
the principal amount, Bloomberg data show.  Following are pending sales:  CHICAGO’S BOARD OF EDUCATION plans to issue $500 million of
revenue bonds as soon as today for school construction,
Bloomberg data show. The bonds are secured by state aid revenue
and property-tax collections, according to bond documents.
Moody’s Investors Service rates the sale A1, its fifth-highest
grade. (Added Aug. 14)  NEW YORK STATE THRUWAY AUTHORITY is set to borrow $550
million of bonds backed by personal-income taxes as soon as next
week, Bloomberg data show. Standard & Poor’s rates the credit
AAA, its highest grade. (Updated Aug. 14)  ENERGY NORTHWEST, which provides electricity to 1.5 million
customers in  Washington , plans to borrow $777 million of
electric-revenue bonds, including taxable debt, as soon as Aug.
15, Bloomberg data show. Proceeds will help finance fuel
purchases and capital upgrade, according to bond documents.
Standard & Poor’s rates the bonds AA-, its fourth-highest grade.
(Updated Aug. 14)  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Nash in Los Angeles at 
 jnash24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  