-- Canadian Natural Abides Prices Instead of LNG
-- B y   R e b e c c a   P e n t y   a n d   J e r e m y   v a n   L o o n
-- 2012-08-14T14:13:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-14/canadian-natural-abides-prices-instead-of-lng.html
Canadian Natural Resources Ltd. (CNQ) , the
country’s worst-performing major energy stock this year, is
sitting on its shale-gas reserves until the price rebounds
rather than joining the race to export the fuel to  Asia .  “We’ll continue to be patient and when gas prices come
back, then we’ll be prudent and develop the gas assets,”  Steve Laut , president of the Calgary-based company, said in a
telephone interview on Aug. 9. Developing a liquefied natural
gas export terminal is “not an option” because the company
favors more spending on oil production, Laut said.  Canadian Natural is the second-largest landholder in
British Columbia’s  Montney gas  region, which holds an estimated
49 trillion feet of gas near the Pacific Coast.  Encana Corp. (ECA)  and
Royal Dutch Shell Plc lead companies proposing at least eight
LNG projects to export the gas to Asian buyers who are paying as
much as nine times the domestic price, which is near decade
lows.  Backing an LNG terminal doesn’t make sense as Canadian
Natural has “enough projects” on its plate, including an
expansion of its Horizon oil-sands project north of Fort
McMurray,  Alberta , Laut said. Costs tied to the expansion, about
755 kilometers (470 miles) northeast of Calgary, account for 23
percent of Canadian Natural’s 2012 budget while gas spending in
 North America  makes up 8 percent.  The company, Canada’s second-largest natural gas producer,
has cut the number of wells it plans to drill this year to 35
from 71 and is  reducing  North American gas spending to C$515
million ($519 million) from a May 3 target of C$625 million
after second-quarter net  income  fell 19 percent.  LNG Race  Encana, Canada’s largest gas producer, is planning an LNG
project with partners  Apache Corp. (APA)  and  EOG Resources Inc. (EOG) , both
headquartered in Houston,  Texas , using its Montney and Horn
River assets to attract the higher prices Asian countries are
willing to pay.  Canadian Natural, with 262,000 hectares (647,416 acres) in
the Montney region, is the only major gas producer that has
excluded the option of building or operating an LNG export plant
as a way to capture higher prices.  Progress Energy Resources
Corp. (PRQ) , subject of a C$5.16 billion takeover bid by Petroliam
Nasional Bhd, is the biggest stakeholder in the Montney.  Canadian Natural shares dropped 21 percent this year
through yesterday, the most among Canada’s largest fossil-fuel
producers with a market value of more than C$10 billion, and
more than the 3.5 percent decline for the  S&P/TSX Energy Index (STENRS) 
over the same period. Canadian Natural rose 1.4 percent to
C$22.30 at 9:58 a.m. in Toronto.  Arbitrage Strategy  The share decline is “far more than its oil-oriented
peers,” Thomas Driscoll, a New York-based research analyst with
Barclays Plc investment bank unit, wrote in a note to clients on
Aug. 10. Encana gained 16 percent this year through yesterday,
while Apache has declined 2.9 percent and Shell is down 5.1
percent.  By not buying into an LNG export project, Canadian Natural
may be foregoing an opportunity to sell its gas at the premiums
that competitors pursuing the arbitrage strategy are banking on,
said Bill Gwozd, senior vice president of gas services at
Calgary-based gas advisory company Ziff Energy Group.  Asian buyers of LNG currently pay  oil-linked prices , which
averaged $16.62 per million British thermal units of gas during
the first quarter. After paying for liquefaction and
transportation to Pacific Rim markets, Canadian LNG projects
could offer profits of $6 to $7 per million Btu, said Gwozd.  Decade Low  Canada  could be a “super-player” in a global LNG market
poised to grow to 50 billion cubic feet per day by 2020, from
the current 30 billion, said Gwozd. “Price is the No. 1
upside,” he said in a phone interview.  “Leaders such as Shell, Apache, Encana, EOG, have seen the
light, have seen the true potential,” Gwozd said. “If they can
lock up the long-term contracts and manage the contract costs,
they think the upside here is significant.”  Gas futures in  New York  touched a 10-year low of $1.902 per
million British thermal units in April, and averaged $2.50 per
million Btu in the first quarter, settling at $2.77 per million
Btu on Aug. 10. Spot gas prices at Canada’s AECO hub, which
trade at a discount to U.S. Henry Hub prices, hit a low of $1.52
per million Btu in April and closed at $2.28 per million Btu on
Aug. 10.  To counter low commodity prices, Canadian Natural is
shifting spending to oil from gas, Laut said. The company
operates its Horizon bitumen mining plant in Alberta’s oil-sands
region.  Cost Creep  An LNG project would be a time-consuming, complicated and
expensive “distraction” for Canadian Natural, which has more
expertise as an producer or driller of gas rather than as an
integrated player which refines fuel,  Timothy Parker , portfolio
manager for natural resource strategies at T. Rowe Price
International Inc., said in a phone interview from Baltimore.  “There’s every chance these LNG projects are going to be
more expensive than you think,” said Parker, who oversees about
$6.5 billion at T. Rowe Price and owns Canadian Natural shares.
“LNG projects are extremely expensive. History would tell you
that prices rebound over time.”  At the same time, the economics for heavy oil “have been
strong” and are poised to get stronger, Laut said on an Aug. 9
conference call with analysts.  Unlike other producers reliant on gas production, Canadian
Natural can develop its oil and leave gas in the ground while
North American  gas prices  are low, said Peter Howard, president
of the Calgary-based  Canadian Energy Research Institute .  “Canadian Natural wants to pour all their money into the
oil-sands operations, which right now and for the foreseeable
future, have a good-looking financial picture,” Howard said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rebecca Penty in Calgary at 
 rpenty@bloomberg.net ;
Jeremy van Loon in Calgary at 
 jvanloon@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  