-- Canadian Dollar at 3-Month High as U.S. Retail Sales, Oil Rise
-- B y   L i n d s e y   R u p p
-- 2012-08-14T21:20:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-14/canadian-dollar-at-3-month-high-as-u-s-retail-sales-oil-rise.html
Canada’s dollar traded at an almost
three-month high after  crude oil  gained and a report showed U.S.
retail sales rose, boosting optimism demand for exports to the
nation’s largest trading partner will increase.  The currency, often referred to as the loonie because of
the waterfowl on the one-dollar coin, has rallied for five
consecutive weeks on speculation global growth will sustain
demand for natural resources such as oil, the nation’s biggest
export. It has traded stronger than parity versus its U.S.
counterpart for six straight trading days.  “You’ve seen oil come off its lows, that’s obviously
providing a bit of Canadian dollar strength,” Andrew Dilz, a
currency trader at Tempus Consulting Inc., said in a telephone
interview from  Washington . “Retail sales helped as well.”  Canada’s currency appreciated 0.1 percent to 99.23 cents
per  U.S. dollar  at 5 p.m. in Toronto. One Canadian dollar buys
$1.0076. It reached 99.07 cents, close to the three-month high
of 99.05 cents reached yesterday.  The loonie may test 98 cents even with investors showing
“indecision” about pushing the currency higher when it trades
around 99 cents, according to Toronto-Dominion Bank, which cited
technical analysis. Charts don’t indicate a clear sign of the
trend reversing,  Shaun Osborne  and  Greg Moore , currency
strategists at TD Securities in Toronto, wrote in a note to
clients today.  In technical analysis, investors and analysts study charts
of trading patterns and prices to forecast changes in a
security, commodity, currency or index.  Five-Year Sale  Canadian  government bonds  declined, pushing yields on the
benchmark 10-year note up six basis points, or 0.06 percentage
point, to 1.86 percent, the highest since May 29. The price of
the 2.75 percent securities due in June 2022 declined 53 cents
to C$107.97.  Canada’s government will auction C$3.4 billion ($3.43
billion) in five-year notes tomorrow. The securities carry a 1.5
percent coupon and mature in September 2017.  The 0.8 percent advance in U.S.  retail sales  followed a 0.7
percent decrease in June that was weaker than first reported,
Commerce Department figures showed. Economists  projected  a 0.3
percent rise in July, according to the median forecast in a
Bloomberg survey.  The Canadian dollar is “guilty by association to what’s
perceived as some OK numbers out of the States,”  Dean Popplewell , head analyst in Toronto at the online currency-
trading firm Oanda Corp., said in a telephone interview.  Consumer Spending  Today’s report showed the retail sales category used to
calculate gross domestic product, which excludes sales at auto
dealers, building material stores and service stations,
increased 0.9 percent after a 0.2 percent decrease in June. Last
quarter, U.S. household spending grew at the slowest pace in a
year.  Consumer purchases, about 70 percent of the economy,
expanded at a 1.5 percent annual rate from April to June,
according to Commerce Department data. Popplewell said the
downward revision in June “doesn’t necessarily paint a rosy
picture for third-quarter GDP.”  “I do not think that once the market really reads into
these numbers, it can become overly bullish with respect to
risk,” Popplewell said. “I think we will start seeing further
opportunities to sell the loonie again.”  The euro rose against most its major counterparts as German
growth slowed less than economists forecast and  France 
unexpectedly avoided a contraction. European Economic and
Monetary affairs Commissioner  Olli Rehn  said the euro zone’s
foundations have to be rebuilt.  Market Focus  Weak data from the euro-area may weigh on risk sentiment,
hurting the Canadian dollar, Firas Askari, head currency trader
in Toronto at  Bank of Montreal (BMO) , said in a telephone interview.
Askari said he expects flat growth at best in  Europe  for the
next year to two years.  “There’s still a fair bit of uncertainty, the market might
refocus on the negative as opposed to the positive,” he said.  Oil for September delivery advanced 0.8 percent to $93.43 a
barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange . Prices are up 20
percent from this year’s intraday low.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lindsey Rupp in  New York  at 
 lrupp2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  