-- Carbon Taxes Cut Debt, Cool Planet
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2012-08-14T22:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-14/carbon-taxes-cut-debt-cool-planet.html
Absent some profound shift in our
penchant for burning coal, oil and gas, the Earth is  expected  to
warm as much as 11.5 degrees Fahrenheit over the next 100 years,
causing more weather-related  destruction .  It’s only responsible to force a shift away from fossil
fuels by enacting a carbon tax. The U.S., which  accounts  for
about 19 percent of global emissions today, should take the lead
in doing so as part of broader  tax reform .  The benefits of such a tax are clear: It would raise
immediate revenue for a strapped nation, curtail the use of
fossil fuels and, as a result, drastically lower emissions. A
carbon tax of $15 a ton that rises at 4 percent above inflation
annually would raise $310 billion by 2050 and cut emissions 34
percent (or 2.5 billion metric tons), according to a recent
 report  by the  Brookings Institution . The biggest hit would come
from gas prices, which would initially rise by about 13 cents a
gallon and increase gradually from there, according to  other 
estimates.  To avoid one of the biggest downsides of a carbon tax --
slower economic growth -- as much as 50 percent of the revenue
should be used to lower corporate tax rates for all companies.
Such an offset could boost economic output by giving business a
bigger incentive to invest and hire, research by Brookings and
others shows. The remaining revenue should be used to help
reduce the federal deficit and make the  tax code  more
progressive, easing some of the bite from higher electricity and
gas prices.  The basic concept of a carbon tax enjoys support from a
 majority  of Americans, including many Republicans. Former
Representative Bob Inglis, a South Carolina Republican, recently
started a  think tank  to build support for a carbon tax, and the
conservative  American Enterprise Institute  has  joined  Brookings
and the  International Monetary Fund  in an initiative to explore
one. Greg Mankiw of  Harvard University  and  Glenn Hubbard  of
 Columbia University , two top economic advisers to presumptive
Republican presidential nominee  Mitt Romney , have been vocal
 proponents , along with  Arthur Laffer , a former economic adviser
to President  Ronald Reagan .  The economic case is compelling: Climate change is the
“greatest  market failure  the world has ever seen,” as former
World Bank economist  Nicholas Stern  put it, because the hefty
environmental costs from burning fossil fuels are borne by
society, not by those who emit  greenhouse gases . With no
economic reason to limit pollution, there’s every incentive to
overproduce. So-called Pigovian taxes -- carbon taxes and
cigarette taxes, for example -- raise the price of things that
drive up costs to society.  There’s no longer any doubt that rising carbon-dioxide
levels are  tied  to temperature increases. Since the Industrial
Revolution, atmospheric concentrations of carbon dioxide have
 increased  roughly 35 percent, and the Earth and ocean surface
have warmed accordingly. Even climate skeptics recently
 confirmed  a solid link between  carbon emissions  and a warmer
climate. And just last week, an analysis of worldwide
temperatures over the past 60 years found that the growing
warmth is responsible for extreme heat waves like those in Texas
and Oklahoma last year.  To understand the danger look no further than the Plains
states, where a crippling drought is withering corn, soybeans
and other crops. The U.S. Agriculture Department has declared
more than half the counties in the U.S. natural-disaster areas,
allowing them access to federal aid.  Further economic fallout will come in the form of record
crop-insurance payments to  drought-stricken  farmers, which this
year will exceed government-subsidized premiums for the first
time since 2002, according to a Bloomberg Government analysis.
U.S. property and casualty insurers have seen catastrophe-
related losses soar. The  Congressional Budget Office  warned that
warming of 7 degrees by 2100 could lower gross domestic product
by 3 percent and an 11 degree increase could result in a 5
percent hit to U.S. GDP and a 10 percent loss in global output.  Enacting a stand-alone carbon tax has long been difficult
because of competing political views about how best to structure
one, and because of opposition from lawmakers in coal states,
which produce and consume more carbon and would be harder hit by
a tax. Regional resistance may abate somewhat given the
abundance of natural gas, which burns cleaner and is slowly
replacing coal.  Congress’s now urgent need to address expiring federal-tax
breaks, automatic spending cuts and the debt ceiling may offer
an opportunity for some type of broad tax reform. A carbon tax
could be a crucial piece of a simpler, pro-growth tax system
that lowers rates for corporations and individuals while also
reducing the federal deficit.  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on how the private sector can
help  reduce unemployment ; Clive Crook on  Paul Ryan  and America’s
 bad marriage ; William Pesek on Japan Airlines Co.’s $8.5 billion
 initial public offering ;  William Dudley  on why  money-market
funds  should restrict redemptions by investors; Adam Kirsch on
the Tea Party and  the novel “Burr.”   To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 