-- Carlyle Group Said to Be Leading Bidder for Getty Images
-- B y   C r i s t i n a   A l e s c i   a n d   J e f f r e y   M c C r a c k e n
-- 2012-08-15T01:42:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-14/carlyle-group-said-to-be-leading-bidder-for-getty-images.html
Carlyle Group LP (CG)  has taken the lead
in bidding for Getty Images Inc., the photo archive being sold
by private-equity firm Hellman & Friedman LLC, according to
people with knowledge of the situation.  CVC Capital Partners Ltd., which is also bidding, has so
far declined to top Carlyle’s offer, said one of the people, who
sought anonymity because the talks are private. CVC could come
back and raise its bid later, said this person. Getty is likely
to sell for about $3.3 billion to $3.4 billion, less than the $4
billion that Hellman & Friedman had been seeking, another one of
the people said.  A sale at that price would probably generate a profit for
San Francisco-based Hellman & Friedman, which paid $2.4 billion
to take  Getty Images  private four years ago and took out
dividends of at least $950 million. Seattle-based Getty Images,
the No. 1 distributor of archived photos, paid $96 million to
 buy  smaller competitor JupiterImages in February 2009, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Getty Images hired  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and  JPMorgan
Chase & Co. (JPM)  a few months ago to examine a possible sale or
public stock offering, according to another person with
knowledge of the matter.  Getty Images was founded in 1995 by Mark Getty and Jonathan
Klein, and was the first stock-photo business to license images
online, according to its website. Competitors include Seattle-
based Corbis Corp., owned by  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  co-founder  Bill
Gates .  Dividend Payments  Officials for Washington-based Carlyle Group, CVC, Goldman
Sachs, Hellman & Friedman and JPMorgan declined to comment.  Getty Images in March raised $350 million with a term loan
as part of a $455 million dividend to Hellman & Friedman,
Moody’s Investors Service said at the time. In November 2010,
the company raised $1.27 billion in debt to recapitalize and pay
Hellman & Friedman a dividend estimated at $495 million by
Moody’s.  Carlyle, which oversees 94 funds and 63 funds-of-funds, has
been an active buyer. In the past month, the company agreed to
buy a unit from United Technologies Corp. and a majority stake
in TCW Group Inc. the $131 billion asset manager founded by
 Robert Day  in 1971.  The purchases have helped Carlyle deploy 80 percent of the
capital from its flagship buyout fund, bolstering its pitch for
fresh capital as it markets a successor pool.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cristina Alesci in  New York  at 
 calesci2@bloomberg.net ;
Jeffrey McCracken in New York at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jeffrey McCracken at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net ;
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  