-- Carl Icahn Hands Son Brett $3 Billion to Prove His Mettle
-- B y   M i l e s   W e i s s
-- 2012-08-14T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-14/carl-icahn-hands-son-brett-3-billion-to-prove-his-mettle.html
Carl Icahn  agreed to allocate as
much as $3 billion to a management duo composed of his son Brett
and David Schechter, expanding their role in running the 76-
year-old’s investments.  Under a 46-page legal agreement filed with federal
regulators last month, Brett Icahn and Schechter will get to
invest their boss’s capital in companies with stock market
values between $750 million and $10 billion. The deal may free
the elder Icahn, who still has final say over many aspects of
the portfolio, to focus on larger targets for shareholder
activism.  Brett, who turns 33 this month, along with Schechter has
been running $300 million for his father, who owns more than 90
percent of  Icahn Enterprises  LP, a holding company with $24
billion in assets including activist investing partnerships as
well as the Tropicana casinos, an oil refiner and an auto-parts
maker. The arrangement expires after Carl turns 80 in 2016,
giving Brett the chance to both prove his mettle as a successor
and develop a track record to start his own hedge fund.  “It’s a pretty nice gesture by the old man,” said Michael McAllister, a partner at Satterlee Stephens Burke & Burke LLP in
 New York  who specializes in employment law within the securities
industry. “If the son doesn’t meet the standard Carl is looking
for, it gives Brett an opportunity to go out and earn his own.”  After hiring Brett as an investment analyst a decade ago,
Icahn allocated the $300 million to his son and Schechter in
April 2010 to invest in loans and securities of companies with
less than $2 billion in equity value. Their investments,
internally dubbed the Sargon portfolio, generated a gross
cumulative gain of 96 percent by the end of June, according to a
July 27 filing with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.  ‘Can’t Complain’  Schechter joined the firm in 2004 after working at a
Citigroup Inc. unit that used the bank’s capital to invest in
distressed companies. Schechter, who earned an economics degree
from the  University of Pennsylvania , serves on the boards of
several companies in which Icahn holds stakes, including  WebMD
Health Corp. (WBMD)  and auto-parts supplier  Federal-Mogul Corp. (FDML)   “These two guys doubled our money over the last two
years,” the elder Icahn said in an interview. “You can’t
complain about that.” Brett didn’t return an e-mail seeking
comment.  The filing included a new accord that Icahn reached on July
24 with Brett and Schechter. Icahn Enterprises will allocate as
much as $2.4 billion in its investment unit to the duo,
including the money they already have under management, while
High River LP, one of the elder Icahn’s personal investment
vehicles, will chip in $600 million.  The agreement stipulates that Carl will set the investment
strategy and maintain oversight of the managers, who must get
their boss’s approval for certain investments.  Hedging Tools  The two can hedge their investments using futures and
options on the  Standard & Poor’s 500 (SPX)  and Russell 2000 Indexes,
and enter into short sales on securities they already hold. Such
hedges are limited to $80 million of invested capital on any one
security or index, and their total short positions can’t exceed
the combined value of their investments, or long positions.
Short sales, used to profit from or protect assets against
market declines, involve borrowing a stock or bond and then
selling it in anticipation of a price decline.  When the agreement expires, Brett Icahn and Schechter will
be able to disclose the track record they’ve established at
Sargon to “market a permitted fund,” according to the  SEC
filing . Should they decide to start their own fund, Icahn
Enterprises and High River would be entitled to receive 15
percent of their gross management and incentives fees “in
perpetuity,” in return for an investment of at least $20
million in the fund.  Cohen, Robertson  “You see this in the larger investment houses,” said Gary Goldstein, the chief executive officer of New York-based Whitney
Group LLC, an executive search firm that focuses on financial
services. “ Steven Cohen  does a very similar construct and
 Julian Robertson  had a very similar concept,” Goldstein said,
citing two hedge-fund managers known for hiring young traders
who go on to form their own firms.  Under terms of the new Icahn agreement, the managers are
entitled to a lump-sum payment equaling 7.5 percent of any
profits that exceed an annual 4 percent compounded hurdle rate.  Icahn Enterprises’ investment unit had net assets of about
$5.6 billion as of June 30, including $1.3 billion in cash,
according to a Form 10-Q that the holding company filed Aug. 7
with the SEC. Icahn ran it as an activist hedge fund until 2011,
when he returned the capital he had received from outside
clients.  Activist Strategy  Icahn primarily takes stakes in companies he deems under-
performing and then lobbies management to take steps to boost
their share prices, such as stock buybacks, asset divestitures,
or putting the entire enterprise up for sale. His previous
targets have included Time Warner Inc., Motorola Inc.,  Biogen
Idec Inc. (BIIB)  and Yahoo! Inc.  Brett also has served on the boards of several companies
that Icahn invested in, including  Take-Two Interactive Software
Inc. (TTWO)  and  Hain Celestial Group Inc. (HAIN)  He is a graduate of  Princeton
University , where his father earned a philosophy degree.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Miles Weiss in Washington at 
 mweiss@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  