-- Celesio First-Half Profit Rises After Writing Down Units
-- B y   A l l i s o n   C o n n o l l y
-- 2012-08-14T07:53:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-14/celesio-says-operating-profit-rose-10-after-units-were-revalued.html
Celesio AG (CLS1) , a German drug
wholesaler, said first-half operating profit rose after writing
down units sold and those still to be disposed and stuck to its
forecast for the year after adjusting year-ago figures.  First-half operating profit rose to 283.5 million euros
($351 million) from 257.5 million euros a year earlier, the
Stuttgart, Germany-based company said in an e-mailed statement
today. Celesio defines operating profit as earnings before
interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization excluding
restructuring charges and adjusted for revaluation and tax
effects. Sales increased to 11.25 billion euros from 11.06
billion euros.  Celesio reiterated a  forecast  that Ebitda this year,
excluding one-time items, will at least match the 2011 level,
which was restated as 549.7 million euros. Prior to the
adjustments, Celesio reported profit Ebitda last year of 578.3
million euros.  “The underlying business is doing very well compared with
the rest of the health-care industry,” said Martin Brunninger,
an analyst with Nomura International Plc. “It’s all about the
core business, and I think that’s been blurred over the last few
years.”  Shares Gain  Celesio rose 3.6 percent to 14.65 euros at 9:36 a.m. in
Frankfurt trading, giving the company a market value of 2.49
billion euros.  The writedowns were necessary and the forecast is still
conservative given the first-half earnings growth rate,
Brunninger said. He forecasts Ebitda this year will be 584
million euros.  The company booked a 228 million-euro charge for the sale
of the Movianto logistics and Pharmexx customer support
divisions and writedowns on planned divestments of mail-order
pharmacy DocMorris and the Irish wholesale business. Celesio
also said it will sell its Czech wholesale and retail business
to Penta Investments for 84.5 million euros.  The net loss for the period widened to 183.9 million euros
compared with a loss of 30.2 million euros a year earlier. The
company is selling businesses with low growth prospects and
boosting investment in emerging economies, including  Latin
America  and the  Middle East , and increasing its focus on the
wholesale and retail pharmaceutical market. Celesio agreed in
July to sell Movianto to U.S. medical-supplies distributor  Owens
& Minor Inc. (OMI)  and Pharmexx to  United Drug Plc. (UDG)   “The sale of Movianto, Pharmexx and the activities in the
 Czech Republic  all happened earlier than expected,” Chief
Executive Officer Markus Pinger said in the statement. “We can
now focus on accelerating growth in our core business.”  The 35 million-euro disposal of Pharmexx is targeted for
completion on Aug. 31, pending regulatory approval, according to
Celesio.  Adjusted net income rose to 106 million euros from 88.7
million euros, the company said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Allison Connolly in Frankfurt at 
 aconnolly4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kristen Hallam at 
 khallam@bloomberg.net  