-- Chesapeake Energy Asset Sales Plug Cash Drain: Corporate Finance
-- B y   B r o o k e   S u t h e r l a n d
-- 2012-08-14T15:13:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-14/chesapeake-energy-asset-sales-plug-cash-drain-corporate-finance.html
Three months after  Chesapeake Energy
Corp. (CHK)  said it may fail to meet debt obligations next year,
credit market investors are speculating increased asset sales
will help the company plug a $22 billion funding  shortfall .  Chesapeake bond yields have fallen to 6.48 percent on
average from 6.76 percent on April 30, the day before the
company said it may face a cash crunch in 2013, even as yields
for speculative-grade peers rose, Bank of America Merrill Lynch
index data show. Chesapeake last week raised its projection for
2012 asset sales to as much as $14 billion.  The company needs divestitures of $7 billion this year to
avoid a credit  downgrade  after a wrong-way bet on natural gas
prices left its cash flows exposed to a glut-driven slump,
according to Moody’s Investors Service. Chesapeake replaced more
than half its board at the urging of its second-largest
shareholder,  Carl Icahn , after disclosures of potential conflict
of interests by Chief Executive Officer Aubrey McClendon.  Divestitures will help take “the near-term liquidity risk
off the table,” Kristopher Keller, a senior high-yield bond
analyst at Principal Global Investors, which owns Chesapeake
bonds and oversees $260 billion in assets, said in a telephone
interview. “They still need to sell a lot of assets.”  Best Quarter  Chesapeake had $13.3 billion in net debt as of June 30,
according to the Oklahoma City-based company’s second-quarter
earnings statement, up from $9.9 billion a year earlier.
Chesapeake is  rated  Ba2 by Moody’s with a “negative” outlook
and had its credit grade cut May 15 to one level lower at BB- by
 Standard & Poor’s  on concerns about its debt load.  Michael Kehs, a Chesapeake spokesman, declined to comment
beyond statements made during the company’s second-quarter
earnings announcement and teleconference with investors and
analysts.  Chesapeake last week reported the highest quarterly profit
in the company’s history, as asset sales boosted net income by
91 percent to $972 million. The  second-largest  natural gas
producer agreed in June to sell its pipeline interest in
Chesapeake Midstream Partners LP to Global Infrastructure
Partners for $4.08 billion and said on Aug. 6 it would sell some
of its Permian Basin oilfield assets in  Texas  and  New Mexico  to
EnerVest Ltd. for an undisclosed price.  ‘More Comfortable’  Chesapeake, which said it’s negotiating sales of two other
packages of Permian Basin assets, now expects to earn $7 billion
from divestitures by the end of the third quarter, McClendon
said during an Aug. 7 teleconference to discuss second-quarter
results with investors and analysts. It sees $13 billion to $14
billion of dispositions the end of this year, he said.  The progress on selling assets is making investors “more
comfortable,” Peter Speer, a New York-based analyst at Moody’s,
said in a telephone interview. “The fact that they’ve got bids
in hand is certainly better than just saying they have the
assets and are selling.”  Chesapeake’s asset-sales agreements come as natural  gas
prices  climb 45 percent from a 10-year intraday low of $1.902
per million British thermal units on April 19, allowing the
company to boost its 2012  cash flow  projections. Gas traded at
$2.767 at 10:58 a.m. in  New York , after reaching $3.214 on July
30, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Risk Falls  “In terms of the operating environment for Chesapeake,
it’s very good right now with the rebound in natural gas
prices,” Scott Carmack, a  money manager  at Leader Capital Corp.
in  Portland ,  Oregon , said in a telephone interview last week.
“This is a much better market” and “that’s fortunate for the
company.”  Average yields on Chesapeake bonds are down 28 basis
points, or 0.28 percentage points, since April 30 and have
fallen 2.21 basis points since climbing above 8.6 percent on May
17, Bank of America Merrill Lynch index data show. Yields for
all speculative-grade energy companies have climbed 11 basis
points to 7.05 percent over the same period, the data show.  Chesapeake’s $1.3 billion of 6.775 percent notes maturing
in March 2019, which traded as high as 100.75 cents on the
dollar in February, closed at 99.25 cents on the dollar to yield
6.92 percent yesterday, according to Trace, the bond-price
reporting system of the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority.
The debentures plunged to 91 cents on the dollar on May 17.  Bond prices may never fully recover “just because
investors will continue to wonder if there are any additional
skeletons in the closet,” Carmack said. “I don’t think, at
least for us, that  Aubrey McClendon  has regained any trust.”  ‘A Nightmare’  The cost to guard against  losses  on the debt of Chesapeake
using credit-default swaps slipped 0.1 percentage point to 6.8
percent upfront today, compared with 5.3 percent on April 30,
according to data provider CMA, which is owned by McGraw-Hill
Cos. and compiles prices quoted by dealers in the privately
negotiated market. That’s in addition to 5 percent a year,
meaning it would cost $680,000 initially and $500,000 annually
to protect $10 million of Chesapeake’s debt for five years.  Swaps tied to Chesapeake jumped to a four-year high of 13.7
percent upfront on May 18, the day the company cut the pay for
its directors and revoked their personal use of corporate
airplanes after the disclosure that McClendon used stakes in
company wells to secure more than $800 million of personal loans
fueled calls for better corporate governance.  “For a bondholder, Aubrey McClendon is kind of a
nightmare,” said Carmack of Leader Capital, which considered
buying Chesapeake bonds before deciding the risk tied to
 management  concerns was too great.  Gas Prices  Chesapeake has outspent its  cash flow  in 19 of the last 21
years as McClendon waged an aggressive drilling-lease purchasing
campaign that turned the company into the producer of more U.S.
gas than any competitor other than  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM)  That
funding gap widened to as much as $15 billion for 2012 and $7
billion for 2013, according to estimates in May from Alembic
Global Advisors, after McClendon exited commodity hedges in
2011, leaving his company vulnerable to the plunge in natural
gas prices.  “We thought we had received a gift, a downdraft that was
unrelated to fundamentals in the U.S. gas market, and we thought
we would take advantage of that,” McClendon said during a May 2
conference call to discuss first-quarter results with analysts
and investors. “If we had to do it all over again with the
hindsight of winter, we would have obviously done something
different.”  The depression in natural gas prices contributed to a $71
million  loss  in the first quarter, forcing Chesapeake to seek a
$4 billion bridge loan to avoid violating covenants on its $4
billion revolving credit facility as it raced to complete asset
sales needed to compensate for reduced cash flow.  Loan Rate  The  term loan  from  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and affiliates
of  Jefferies Group Inc. (JEF)  can be paid off early without penalty
until 2013 and the interest rate of 8.5 percent increases by
three percentage points if it isn’t.  “If Chesapeake sells $7 billion in assets by September 30,
it should have enough cash to fund third-quarter  capital
expenditures  and repay its $4 billion term loan, while ending
the quarter with its $4 billion revolving credit facility fully
undrawn and having some cash on the balance sheet,” Moody’s
Speer wrote in an Aug. 9 note.  “It all hinges on delivering the asset sales,” he said in
a telephone interview.  ‘Right Direction’  McClendon, who co-founded Chesapeake in 1989, was replaced
by Archie Dunham, former ConocoPhillips chairman, as the head of
the company’s board in June as the U.S. Internal Revenue Service
and the Securities & Exchange Commission investigate his
financial transactions. Icahn and Chesapeake’s largest
shareholder, Southeastern Asset Management Inc., also succeeded
in swapping four other board members for directors of their
choosing.  Chesapeake’s stock has risen 41 percent through yesterday
from a more than three-year low of $13.55 on May 17. The shares,
which climbed 8 cents to $19.14 at 10:55 a.m. in New York, are
down 14.5 percent this year through yesterday.  “There were positive incremental steps taken by the
company and the new board members, we think, are certainly a
step in the right direction,” Principal’s Keller said.
“Liquidity, at least for now, it’s no longer a real concern.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brooke Sutherland in New York at 
 bsutherland7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  