-- China Planning More Women, Youth at Leadership-Shift Conference
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-08-14T07:10:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-14/china-planning-more-women-youth-at-leadership-shift-conference.html
China said women and young people
will be better represented at its Communist Party Congress,
widening efforts to bolster the legitimacy of a leadership
transition clouded by the ouster of Politburo member Bo Xilai.  Of the 2,270 delegates elected to attend the 18th congress,
521 are women, 76 more than in 2007, Wang Jingqing, Vice
Minister of the Organization Department in the party, said at a
briefing today in Beijing. There is a 1.9 percentage-point
increase in the number of people under the age of 35 who will be
attending, Wang said.  Outgoing party chief  Hu Jintao  and his colleagues are
seeking to maintain Communist dominance of a society that’s been
transformed in the three decades since the nation embraced
economic opening. By shining a light on cronyism and corruption,
the scandal surrounding Bo has highlighted the need for the
party to bolster public backing.  “They are trying to provide some kind of confirmation that
everything is going on smoothly regardless of the Bo Xilai
affair,” said Bo Zhiyue, senior research fellow at the  National
University  of  Singapore ’s East Asia Institute. “For a long time
there’s been no information on the 18th party congress and there
are so many rumors.”  Wang didn’t give a date for when the party congress will be
held. The date for the 2007 Congress, which convened in mid-
October, was announced at the end of August that year. The six
party congresses since 1982 have all been held between September
and November.  The earliest start was in 1982 when the congress began
Sept. 1, while the latest one commenced Nov. 8, 2002. All except
the 2002 congress started before November.  Boost Young Members  While the number of women delegates to the congress is
increasing, there is currently only one woman on the 25-member
Politburo, State Councilor Liu Yandong, and four women on
Premier Wen Jiabao’s 35-member state council. There are no women
on the Politburo Standing Committee, the country’s supreme
decision-making body.  The growing number of young delegates signals an effort by
the party to ensure its long-term survival. Party leaders have
been trying to boost the number of young members, using social
media and online games to reach out to  China ’s 538 million
Internet users.  Wang said more than two-thirds of delegates to this year’s
congress were party members who had joined after November 1976,
following the death of  Mao Zedong , which was a 20.5 percentage
point increase over 2007.  “The party members who joined the party after China’s
reform and opening up constitute the major part of the delegates
to the 18th National Party Congress,” Wang said.  Leadership Turnover  Congress delegates will elect the members of the  Central
Committee , which selects the Politburo and the Politburo
Standing Committee.  The Politburo Standing Committee’s nine members may be
reduced to seven, according to an Aug. 7 Barclays Plc research
note. Only Vice President  Xi Jinping  and Vice Premier  Li Keqiang , who are in line to succeed Hu and Premier Wen Jiabao
respectively, will retain their positions on the Standing
Committee, the note said.  The turnover in the country’s most powerful bodies,
including the Central Military Committee, which controls China’s
military, may be the biggest in three decades, said Cheng Li, a
scholar at the  Brookings Institution  in  Washington , who focuses
on Chinese elite politics. About 70 percent of the members in
the top ruling bodies will be replaced mainly due to their age,
Cheng said.  Bo Scandal  The trial of Bo’s wife, Gu Kailai, is the latest chapter in
a scandal that led to his ouster as Chongqing party chief in
March and sparked the most serious leadership upheaval since the
 Tiananmen Square  protests in 1989.  Gu was tried last week for the murder of a British
businessman. The state-run Xinhua News Agency said she confessed
to poisoning Neil Heywood because she feared he posed a threat
to her son.  The completion of the one-day trial, held Aug. 9 in the
eastern city of Hefei, may have helped the leadership firm up
details for the party congress, said Steve Tsang, director of
the China Policy Institute at the University of Nottingham in
the U.K.  China’s new leaders will face a series of challenges,
including slowing growth in the world’s second-biggest economy
and transforming the country’s export-driven growth model into
one that is powered by domestic consumption.  China’s economy  grew 7.6 percent in the second quarter from
a year earlier, the weakest pace since the global financial
crisis as export demand from  Europe  weakened. China needs to
rebalance its economy away from a reliance on investment for
growth by reducing its savings rate and boosting domestic
consumption, the  International Monetary Fund  said in May.  “Whoever is going to be running China in the next 10 years
is going to require far better skills, far better capacity to
act, and far better insight than the previous generation of
leaders,” said Tsang.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Kevin Hamlin in Beijing at 
 khamlin@bloomberg.net ;
Yidi Zhao in Beijing at 
 yzhao7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  