-- China Reluctance on Reserve Cut Signals Inflation Concern
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-08-15T05:46:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-14/china-reluctance-on-reserve-cut-signals-inflation-concern.html
China ’s slower-than-forecast cuts in
banks’  reserve requirements  show authorities are reluctant to
shake their concern inflation will quicken, three months after
Premier  Wen Jiabao  shifted priorities to boosting growth.  China has left the reserve ratio for the biggest banks at
20 percent since mid-May while lowering  interest rates  in June
and July, bucking forecasts from HSBC Holdings Plc and Societe
Generale SA that the government would build on three ratio
reductions since Nov. 30. Industrial-production and loan data
for July that missed estimates last week fueled further
speculation the People’s Bank of China would cut the ratio as
soon as Aug. 10.  The hesitation risks increasing the odds that  growth  will
decelerate for a seventh quarter just as Communist Party leaders
gather for a once-a-decade power handover. The PBOC said this
month that price gains may rebound after August and a newspaper
published by the institution said more reserve-ratio cuts would
backfire by increasing inflation expectations.  “The central bank is still concerned about a rebound in
inflation, and it is reluctant to loosen too much on the
liquidity side,” said Xu Gao, an economist with Everbright
Securities Co. in Beijing who previously worked for the  World
Bank . “The key problem now is that banks have money but the
money can’t be channeled to the real economy.”  Ratio Tighter  China has kept its reserve ratio proportionately tighter
than interest rates. The ratio is 7 percent below the record
21.5 percent, while the one-year  lending rate  is a fifth lower
than its peak in the past decade of 7.47 percent in 2008. That’s
before even considering that the PBOC last month allowed banks
to offer discounts of as much as 30 percent from benchmark rates.  Economists had forecast in March that the ratio would drop
to 19.5 percent by June 30 for the largest banks, based on the
median estimate in a Bloomberg News survey.  “The most significant economic event of 2012 just failed
to occur,”  Glenn Maguire , principal at consultant Asia Sentry
Advisory Pty Ltd. in North Sydney,  Australia , and former Societe
Generale chief Asia economist, said in a research note today.
“The end result of newfound policy prudence may be a more
sustainable medium-term outlook.”  China’s  consumer prices  rose 1.8 percent in July from a
year earlier, below the government’s target of 4 percent for the
year. Producer prices fell 2.9 percent. At the same time, the
worst U.S. drought in 56 years has sent soybean and corn prices
soaring, risking higher costs for pork, a staple meat in the
Asian nation.  Pumping Funds  The PBOC has stepped up the use of another tool to pump
temporary funds into the financial system. The central bank has
injected 826 billion  yuan  ($130 billion) since late June by
offering seven- and 14-day reverse-repo contracts, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. The previous reserve-ratio cut of 50
basis points probably released 450 billion yuan into the
financial system, according to Goldman Sachs Group Inc.  The actions have failed to produce a sustained increase in
credit. New local-currency  loans  tumbled 41 percent last month
to 540.1 billion yuan, the lowest since September, missing all
30 estimates in a Bloomberg News survey.  China’s seven-day  repo rate , a money-market benchmark, has
increased over the past week from 2.65 percent on Aug. 7. The
rate rose 8 basis points to 3.43 percent at 1:33 p.m. in
 Shanghai  today. The yuan has weakened about 1 percent against
the dollar this year.  Bad Loans  Separately today, Chinese banks’ bad loans increased for a
third straight quarter for the first time in eight years, a
report from the China Banking Regulatory Commission showed. Bad
loans surged at all types of banking institutions, including the
largest state-owned lenders, rural banks and foreign banks, the
regulator said.  Barclays Plc, Deutsche Bank AG and Bank of America Corp.
cut their forecasts for third-quarter growth, while Morgan
Stanley lowered its outlook to 8 percent expansion for 2012,
down from 8.5 percent.  “The central bank is trying to calm down  market sentiment 
a little bit as the two interest-rate cuts have in fact
generated some panic about  China’s economy ,” said  Liu Dongliang ,
an analyst with China Merchants Bank in Shenzhen. “Also, a
lower required-reserve ratio may fail to boost bank loans when
banks are very cautious about lending.”  Power Handover  China is preparing for its 18th Communist Party Congress,
with officials widening efforts to bolster the legitimacy of a
leadership transition clouded by the ouster of Politburo member
Bo Xilai. Of the 2,270 delegates elected to attend the meeting,
521 are women, 76 more than in 2007, Wang Jingqing, a vice
minister of the Organization Department, said at a briefing
yesterday in Beijing.  Wang didn’t give a date for the party congress. The six
meetings since 1982 have all been held between September and
November.  Past monetary actions aren’t necessarily a guide to future
ones, and China adjusts reserve ratios and interest rates
without warning or adhering to a meeting schedule as other
central banks do.  The government’s stimulus actions have also included
accelerated approvals of investment projects, while cities
including Changsha are pursuing billions of yuan of
infrastructure building that may give the economy a boost. At
the same time, officials are signaling they will maintain
property controls to curb home-price gains.  Looser Policy  “China’s policy has already been loosened quite a lot in
June and in July,” Zhang Zhiwei, the chief China economist for
Nomura Holdings Inc. in  Hong Kong , said on a conference call
with reporters yesterday. The effects of reverse repos in
providing money for the banking system can be similar to
reserve-ratio cuts and the tool is more flexible, Zhang said.  Authorities haven’t lowered the reserve ratio since May
“probably because of uncertainty on capital flows,” Zhang said
in a separate interview. Government figures this month showed a
$71.4 billion capital-account gap last quarter, the widest in
quarterly data going back to 1998. Zhang said in a note last
week that the July loan figures were “offset by very strong
bond issuance.”  Even so, the central bank is still likely to cut the ratio
in the next one or two months, Zhang said.  Injecting temporary funds into the market can’t replace
reserve-ratio cuts in the long run, said E Yongjian, a Shanghai-
based economist with Bank of Communications Co., the country’s
fifth-largest lender by assets.  “The delay in cutting the reserve-requirement ratio can
push up money costs and weaken policy-loosening effects,” E
said. “To encourage bank lending, cutting the RRR is not a
sufficient condition but a necessary one.”  --Zhou Xin. With assistance from  Judy Chen  in Shanghai,
Brendan Murray in Sydney and Lily Nonomiya in  Tokyo . Editors:
Scott Lanman, James Mayger  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Zhou Xin in Beijing at 
 xzhou68@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  