-- China ‘Golden Years’ Are Gone as Growth Slows, Vale Says
-- B y   J u a n   P a b l o   S p i n e t t o   a n d   P e t e r   M i l l a r d
-- 2012-08-14T20:39:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-14/china-golden-years-are-gone-as-growth-slows-vale-says.html
China ’s “golden years” are gone as
economic growth at the world’s second-biggest economy slows,
said an official at  Vale SA (VALE5) , the top iron-ore producer.  Vale, which shipped about 44 percent of its iron ore and
pellets to Chinese steelmakers in the second quarter, expects
the country to start to recover by the end of the year, said
Roberto Castello Branco, the Rio de Janeiro-based company’s
director of  investor relations . Vale sees some “early signals”
of recovery, which are still “very weak,” he said.  “We are not going to see the spectacular growth rates of
10, 12 percent per year,” Castello Branco said at the Bloomberg
Brazil Economic Summit in Rio today. “The golden years are
gone.”  Iron-ore prices dropped to the lowest since Dec. 2009
yesterday on slower growth in China, the biggest user of the
steelmaking ingredient, and a weaker outlook for the global
economy. Vale said on July 25 that second-quarter profit
plummeted 59 percent, missing analysts’ estimates for the fourth
time in the past five quarters, after prices for minerals and
metals declined.  Chinese policy makers cut their expansion target to 7.5
percent from the 8 percent goal in place since 2005, Premier  Wen
Jiabao  said on March 5. Wen, 69, is trying to reduce China’s
reliance on exports and boost consumption as he hands power to a
younger generation of leaders this year. The economy grew 7.6
percent in the second quarter, the slowest pace since 2009.  “We are not pessimistic about China, but we are not over-
bullish,” Castello Branco said. “We are just realistic.”  Ore Rises  The price of ore with 62 percent iron content for immediate
delivery to the Chinese port of Tianjin  rose  0.4 percent to
$113.30 a ton today, according to a  price index  compiled by The
Steel Index Ltd. The price, which rose to as much as $191.90 per
ton last year, lost 18 percent during 2012.  Vale is “very negative” about the prospects for growth in
 Europe , Castello Branco said. Europe bought about 20 percent of
Vale’s iron ore and pellets shipments in the second quarter.  Vale will remain the “undisputed” global iron-ore leader
as it develops projects including its $8.04 billion Serra Sul
expansion at the Carajas mine, in northern Brazil, Castello
Branco said. Serra Sul, which will add 90 million metric tons of
capacity starting in the second half of 2016, will allow Brazil
to recover iron-ore market share lost to  Australia  in recent
years, he said.  Vale shares  dropped  3.8 percent to 36.24 reais at the close
of trading in  Sao Paulo  today, the biggest fall since July 24.
The stock declined 7.5 percent in the past 12 months.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Juan Pablo Spinetto in  Rio de Janeiro  at 
 jspinetto@bloomberg.net ;
Peter Millard in Rio de Janeiro at 
 pmillard1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net  