-- China’s Great Wall Motor Says It’s Investigating Asbestos Report
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-08-14T19:47:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-14/china-s-great-wall-motor-says-it-s-investigating-asbestos-report.html
Great Wall Motor Co. (2333)  said it’s
investigating a report by the Sydney Morning Herald that said
its cars sold in  Australia  contained banned asbestos.  About 21,500 Great Wall vehicles and 2,250 made by Chery
Automobile Co. may be recalled after asbestos was found in
engine and exhaust gaskets, the newspaper reported yesterday.
Ateco Automotive Pty, the importer of both brands, is working
with government agencies including the Australian Competition
and Consumer Commission and an announcement is expected within
days, according to the report, which cited the company.  Shang Yugui, a spokesman for Great Wall, said the company
is “aware of the report and trying to get more details.” Chery
spokesman Jin Yibo didn’t answer two calls to his mobile phone.
Two calls each to Ateco and the consumer commission outside of
regular business hours weren’t answered.  Carmakers in  China  are expanding overseas to help offset
slowing domestic sales as more plants open and local demand
cools. Vehicle exports may rise about 50 percent this year,
extending record shipments in 2011, according to the China
Chamber of Commerce for the Import & Electronic Products.  Australia has banned all asbestos products since 2003, the
newspaper said. The material, which is known to cause cancer,
was previously commonly used in car components such as brake
pads and various gaskets, according to the report.  Russia was the biggest export destination for China-made
vehicles last year, while shipments to  Brazil  grew the fastest,
according to the trade body.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Bonnie Cao in Shanghai at 
 bcao4@bloomberg.net ;
Liza Lin in Shanghai at 
 llin15@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  