-- China’s Bear Market Lures Foreign Bids as Locals Pull Funds
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-08-15T08:12:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-14/china-bear-market-lures-record-foreign-bids-as-locals-pull-funds.html
International money managers are
lining up to buy  stocks  in mainland  China  at a record pace, even
as a third year of equity losses spurs local investors to empty
trading accounts like never before.  While overseas firms were granted $6.9 billion of quotas to
purchase mainland securities since December, more than in any
full year since the government program began, the number of
Chinese  stock accounts  containing funds dropped by 788,000 to
56.3 million in the year to Aug. 3, the most for a 12-month
period. A record 110 million are empty or frozen, according to
regulatory data compiled by Bloomberg.  Foreign funds from Taiwan Life Insurance Co. to Shinhan BNP
Paribas Asset Management Co. say the 54 percent discount for
companies in the  Shanghai  Composite Index to their 10-year
average, and the lowest valuations  relative  to MSCI Inc.’s
developing-nations  measure  make China shares irresistible. Local
individuals, companies and institutions, which hold about 99
percent of mainland shares, are turning more bearish as the
world’s second-largest economy slows.  “The value story is clearly emerging in China,” Kim Jun Sung, the chief investment officer for equities at Samsung Asset
Management Co., which oversees about $100 billion and received a
$150 million quota to buy mainland securities in 2010, said in
an Aug. 7 interview in Seoul. “The economic outlook continues
to be negative so the catalyst for growth is not yet there.”  State Support  At least 41 overseas institutions gained access to mainland
stocks this year as China eased capital restrictions before a
once-in-a-decade leadership transition in the ruling Communist
Party. China Securities Regulatory Commission Chairman  Guo Shuqing  expanded the qualified foreign institutional investor,
or QFII, program as part of a plan to restore confidence in the
$2.8 trillion stock market.  The Shanghai Composite has tumbled 32 percent from its
November 2010 high through yesterday, the most among benchmark
equity gauges in 21 developing nations tracked by Bloomberg.
PetroChina Co., the nation’s largest energy company, and
 Industrial & Commercial Bank of China Ltd. , the biggest lender
by market value, contributed  most  to the Shanghai Composite’s
631-day bear market, the  longest  in its two-decade history.  The gauge fell 1.1 percent to 2,118.95 at the 3 p.m. local-
time close, extending its drop this year to 3.7 percent.  “We are keen on entering” China’s equity market, Chen Tai-shan, a Taipei-based vice-president at Taiwan Life, said by
phone on Aug. 7. His company received a $100 million QFII quota
in March and plans to invest as much as 60 percent of the money
in stocks, favoring retailers and railways. “Shares have
reached a bottom.”  Selling Out  The Shanghai Composite’s price-to- earnings (SHCOMP)   ratio  has
dropped to 11.5 from an average 25 during the past decade and a
2007 high of 46, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The
 MSCI Emerging Markets Index (MXEF)  is valued at 12 times profit while
the Bovespa index in Brazil, the second-biggest emerging market
after China, trades for 14.6 times.  Falling valuations aren’t enough to entice Yao Lina, a 32-
year-old accountant in Shanghai who sold all her stock holdings
in February and withdrew 80,000  yuan  ($12,580) from her trading
account. She has no plans to invest in equities, saying the
government may take as long as five years to fix “structural”
challenges in the economy that have curbed growth.  “I have no confidence in the stock market,” Yao said by
phone on Aug. 8.  Slowing Economy  Policy makers cut their expansion target to 7.5 percent
from the 8 percent goal in place since 2005, Premier  Wen Jiabao 
said on March 5. Wen, 69, is trying to reduce China’s reliance
on  exports  and boost consumption as he hands power to a younger
generation of leaders this year.  Gross domestic product  rose 7.6 percent in the second
quarter, the slowest pace since 2009. Retail sales growth fell
to the lowest level since February 2011 last month, while
industrial  production  expanded at the weakest rate in three
years. The 1 percent increase in exports reported by the
nation’s customs bureau on Aug. 10 trailed all 32 economist
estimates in a Bloomberg survey.  Chinese industrial companies’  earnings  fell for a third
month in June, according to the government. Beijing-based  Air
China Ltd. (601111) , the world’s second-biggest carrier by market value,
said last month its first-half profit probably dropped more than
50 percent, while Tianjin-based  China Cosco Holdings Co. (601919) , the
nation’s largest listed shipping firm, reported a loss.  Empty Accounts  As economic growth has slowed, the number of Chinese equity
accounts that contained assets fell for 11 straight weeks
through Aug. 3, the longest stretch of declines on record,
according to the China Securities Depository & Clearing Corp.  Investors opened 322,851  new accounts  to trade shares last
month, the fewest since the clearing house began publishing the
weekly data five years ago and down from a peak of 4.1 million
in the four weeks to Sept. 21, 2007. The 110 million empty or
frozen accounts are equivalent to about 8.5 percent of China’s
1.3 billion  people  and exceed the populations of Germany and the
Philippines.  A gauge of sentiment towards Chinese stocks compiled by
Credit Suisse Group AG, Switzerland’s second-biggest bank, sank
for a third month in July, according to an Aug. 6 report. Seven
percent of the 200 people surveyed said they invested in
equities last month, compared with 27 percent who planned to
purchase property.  Alternative Investments  Chinese real estate and fixed-income securities are luring
residents from stocks as home prices rally and inflation slows.
Yao used the proceeds from her share sales to help pay for a
400,000 yuan apartment.  Carrie  Pan , a 29-year-old accountant in Shanghai who hasn’t
purchased equities since April, plans to increase her 300,000-
yuan holding of wealth-management products. The investments,
comprised mostly of bonds and money-market securities, are
arranged by banks and provide an average annual return of 4
percent, Pan said.  Wealth-management products in China were valued at 10.4
trillion yuan at the end of the second quarter, according to
 Fitch Ratings . The amount is about 60 percent of Chinese
companies’ market value, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Prices for Chinese homes rose for a second straight month
in July, marking a “ turning point ” in the  property market 
after nine months of declines, SouFun Holdings Ltd., the
country’s biggest real estate website owner, said on Aug. 1.  Shifting Assets  An index of local-currency debt in China compiled by
JPMorgan Chase & Co. has returned 2.6 percent this year as
consumer price increases slowed to a 30-month low of 1.8 percent
last month. The benchmark one-year savings  deposit rate  is 3
percent, the highest versus inflation since December 2009.  Pan is waiting for the Shanghai Composite to fall to 2,000,
about 7 percent below yesterday’s closing level, before she
considers adding to holdings.  Some local individuals and companies are moving assets
overseas, Hao Hong, the Hong Kong-based managing director for
research at Bocom International Holdings Co., said in an Aug. 7
phone interview.  China reported a capital-account deficit of $71.4 billion
in the second quarter, the widest gap since at least 1998.
Residents with at least 10 million yuan of assets surveyed by
the Hurun Report have 19 percent of their holdings overseas,
while more than 60 percent have emigrated or plan to leave the
country in the near future, according to a July 31 statement
from the Shanghai-based firm, which tracks China’s rich.  QFII Boost  “Local investors are seeing things the foreigners are
not,” said Hong, the only strategist among 13 brokerages
surveyed by Bloomberg at the start of the year to forecast
declines for Chinese stocks in 2012. “There are structural
issues in the economy that are hard to resolve.”  Policy makers are taking steps to revive confidence in the
stock market and boost economic growth. Guo, the chairman of the
CSRC, has reduced transaction fees on equity trades by 20
percent, urged listed companies to pay more cash  dividends  and
changed how initial public offerings are priced. The government
also more than doubled allotments under the QFII program in
April to $80 billion from $30 billion.  “During the application, the government encouraged
investors to put more into stocks,” said Stan Lee, the head of
financial and investor relations at Taipei-based Shin Kong
Financial Holding Co., which received a $100 million quota to
invest in China in March. Shin Kong plans to put as much as 70
percent of the money in equities, Lee said by phone on Aug. 7.  Looser Restrictions  About 75 percent of total QFII assets are invested in yuan-
denominated stocks, known as A shares, with the rest in bonds
and deposits, according to a CSRC  statement  in April. There are
176 foreign firms with approval to buy securities under the QFII
scheme, which was set up in 2002. Of those, 147 have been given
a combined quota of $28.5 billion, State Administration of
Foreign Exchange  data  as of July 20 show. That’s about 1 percent
of locally-listed Chinese equities’ total  market value ,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “In the medium to long term, we believe the Chinese market
is going to do very well,”  Mark Mobius , the executive chairman
of Templeton  Emerging Markets  Group, said in an e-mailed
response to questions yesterday. Templeton has a $300 million
QFII quota, according to SAFE data.  China has also loosened restrictions on the yuan, doubling
its daily trading band in April. The government is promoting
greater use of the currency in international trade and
investment. Sales of yuan-denominated bonds in  Hong Kong  climbed
25 percent to 121.9 billion yuan this year, after quadrupling in
2011, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Growth Outlook  China’s central bank cut  interest rates  in June and July,
the first reductions since 2008, and lowered lenders’ reserve
requirement ratios three times since November to boost lending
and support growth.  The economic expansion will accelerate in the second half
of this year and into 2013 as the government’s stimulus efforts
take effect, Goldman Sachs Group Inc. economists including Hong
Kong-based Cui Li said in a research report this month. The
measures will increase foreign confidence in the stock market,
Shin Kong Financial’s Lee said.  China’s leaders have adopted “pro-growth” policies as
they seek a smooth political transition following the suspension
of former Chongqing Communist Party Secretary Bo Xilai from the
ruling Politburo in April, Bill McCahill, a managing director at
Religare Capital Markets in Beijing, wrote in an Aug. 2 report.  Murder Trial  Bo was stripped of his post after his former police chief
fled to the U.S. consulate in Chengdu in February with evidence
implicating Bo’s wife in the murder of a British businessman,
according to U.S. officials briefed on the matter. Gu Kailai
confessed to the crime during a seven-hour trial on Aug. 9, the
state-run Xinhua News Agency reported. The court has yet to
announce its ruling.  GDP will increase at an average annual pace of about 8.7
percent during the next five years, the second-fastest rate
among the 70 largest economies after Iraq, according to April
estimates from the  International Monetary Fund . China has $3.2
trillion of foreign exchange reserves, the world’s biggest
holdings, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  “China has a lot of firepower to respond to threats to
long-term growth,” Julie Dickson, a London-based product
manager for equities at Ashmore Investment Management Ltd.,
which has $60 billion of assets in emerging markets, said in a
phone interview on Aug. 10. Ashmore has a $250 million QFII
quota, according to Dickson.  Profit Projections  The Shanghai Composite may rally 25 percent in the next 12
months, according to more than 3,000 share-price estimates for
companies in the index compiled by Bloomberg. Earnings will
probably jump 32 percent during the period, compared with an 18
percent gain for the MSCI emerging-markets index, projections
compiled by Bloomberg show.  ICBC, which traded at a record-low of 5.9 times reported
earnings last month, may advance 23 percent in Shanghai,
according to the average of seven analysts’  estimates .
 PetroChina (601857) , Asia’s largest company by market value, is poised to
gain 14 percent, projections compiled by Bloomberg show. Both
companies are based in Beijing.  “Most of the negatives are already priced in, and chances
of further decline from the current level are low,” said Park
Jae Wu, a Hong Kong-based fund manager at Shinhan BNP Paribas
Asset Management, which received a $100 million QFII quota in
March and favors consumer companies. “Once the Chinese
government announces more aggressive measures to support the
economy, the market’s recovery trend will set in.”  Pan, the Shanghai accountant, said she isn’t so sure after
the value of her equity investments lost 30 percent since last
year. “Stocks have never halted declines.”  --Richard Frost, Weiyi Lim, Zhang Shidong,  Michael Patterson ,
Saeromi Shin and Allen Wan. With assistance by Jun Luo in
Beijing. Editor: Darren Boey  To contact the Bloomberg News staff on this story:
Richard Frost in Hong Kong at 
 rfrost4@bloomberg.net ;
Weiyi Lim in Singapore at 
 wlim26@bloomberg.net ;
Zhang Shidong in Shanghai at 
 szhang5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at   dboey@bloomberg.net  