-- Chinese Estates Says Macau Annuls Land Sale for La Scala
-- B y   J o s h u a   F e l l m a n
-- 2012-08-15T00:52:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-14/chinese-estates-says-macau-chief-executive-annuls-land-transfer.html
Chinese Estates Holdings Ltd. (127) ,
controlled by Hong Kong billionaire Joseph Lau, said Macau
declared a land concession invalid, affecting HK$3.8 billion
($490 million) of home sales.  A unit of Chinese Estates, Moon Ocean Ltd., can object to
the cancellation within 15 days of the decision’s publication in
a government gazette and can also appeal to the courts, Chinese
Estates said in a Hong Kong stock exchange filing yesterday.  Lau will go on trial in Macau starting Sept. 17 on charges
of bribery and money laundering. The avid art collector was
named in April in the corruption trial of Ao Man-long, Macau’s
former secretary of transportation and public works, in relation
to the March 2006 land purchase that was just canceled.  “The group is currently taking legal advice on the
decision notice and the appropriate actions to be taken,” Hong
Kong-based Chinese Estates said in the statement.  Shares of Chinese Estates  are down  26 percent this year,
compared with the 10 percent gain in the benchmark  Hang Seng
Index . Lau, who  controls  almost 75 percent of the HK$17.7
billion developer, has denied allegations that he or his company
might have given bribes to Ao.  Chinese Estates has collected HK$384 million of deposits on
HK$3.8 billion of contracted apartment sales made for the La
Scala project being built on the site, according to a filing in
June. The company said then that the city government had revised
the land concession for the development in March 2011 with
knowledge of the investigation of the land transfer.  Tycoon Ties  Lau’s trial adds to the recent scrutiny of ties between
Hong Kong tycoons and officials. The Hong Kong government in
March arrested the co-chairmen of  Sun Hung Kai Properties Ltd. (16) ,
the city’s biggest developer, and has charged them with
conspiring to provide a former chief secretary with payments and
loans for unspecified favors.  Chinese Estates said in March that one of La Scala’s 7,000
square-foot (650 square-meter) penthouse units had been sold for
HK$83.8 million. The Chinese territory has seen a building boom
on the back of a surge in casino revenue.  Macau’s casino revenue grew to more than four times that of
the  Las Vegas Strip  after the government allowed the entry of
overseas operators in 2002, including  Las Vegas Sands Corp. (LVS)  and
Wynn Resort Ltd., ending billionaire  Stanley Ho ’s four-decade
monopoly. Visitors from the mainland fueled a 42 percent jump in
gambling revenue last year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joshua Fellman in  New York  at 
 jfellman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  