-- Cisco Margins Threatened as VMware Sparks Startup Buyouts
-- B y   P e t e r   B u r r o w s
-- 2012-08-14T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-14/cisco-margins-threatened-as-vmware-sparks-startup-buyouts.html
Cisco Systems Inc. (CSCO) , the largest
maker of computer-networking gear, faces fresh threats to its
profit margins from a new breed of software that’s helping
customers handle data traffic with fewer switches and routers.  Technology from startups such as  Arista Networks Inc. ,  Big
Switch Networks Inc.  and  Cyan Inc.  is designed to help
businesses run their  computer networks  more efficiently,
lessening the need for the kinds of devices that make up most of
Cisco’s revenue.  Demand for cheaper ways to manage a rising flood of
information over networks will propel software-related
networking revenue to $17 billion worldwide by 2016, from $6
billion last year, according to Pacific Crest Securities.  Oracle (ORCL) 
Corp. and VMware Inc. have used acquisitions to make forays into
the market, fueling concern that Cisco’s profit margin -- which
slipped to 61 percent in fiscal 2011 from a peak of 70 percent
about a decade ago -- will come under further pressure.  “It’s a healthy shift,” said Erez Yarkoni, chief
information officer at wireless carrier T-Mobile USA Inc., in an
interview. “I don’t think Cisco keeps those 60 percent margins
unless they start selling more software themselves.”  Cisco, which is scheduled to report fiscal fourth-quarter
results tomorrow, will have a  gross margin  of 62 percent for the
year, according to the average of analysts’ estimates compiled
by Bloomberg.  VMware (VMW)  is projected to generate a margin of 88
percent this year, while analysts estimate Oracle will have an
80 percent margin for its 2013 fiscal year, which ends in May.
Among peer companies on the Russell 1000 Index, Cisco has had
the smallest average profit-margin growth over five years, data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  Nascent Technology  Chief among Cisco’s challenges is a nascent technology
called software-defined networking, which lets customers program
networks from one central console and do more jobs with fewer
switches and routers. VMware made a foray into the market last
month when it bought  Nicira Inc.  for $1.26 billion. Oracle
announced plans a week later to buy Xsigo Systems Inc.  Wireless carriers that once deployed technicians to adjust
cables on machines as traffic shifted can use SDN to reconfigure
networks with a few clicks of a mouse, T-Mobile’s Yarkoni said.  “Increasingly, it’s less about chips and hardware, and
more about software,” said Arista Chief Executive Officer
Jayshree Ullal, a former Cisco executive. “We saw that happen
in servers and in storage, but it’s taken decades for networking
software to evolve. Now, you’re seeing the next wave.”  Open Source  Arista, based in  Santa Clara ,  California , makes most of its
money from high-speed switches used by  AT&T Inc. (T)  and EBay Inc.
to rapidly handle Internet traffic and by many Wall Street firms
to trim microseconds from their high-frequency trading programs.
The company uses open-source technologies that other developers
can use to write applications for its hardware, a feature
recently adopted by Cisco.  Ullal said the company has been profitable for the past six
quarters and is searching for a new chief financial officer,
often a precursor to an initial public offering. Arista is on
track to bring in sales of $100 million to $200 million this
year, according to two people familiar with the matter who asked
not to be named because the information isn’t public.  Software-Centric  Cisco, recognizing the value of software, said in March
that it will acquire NDS Group Ltd. for about $5 billion, adding
programs that run cable set-top boxes, power digital video
recorders and enforce copyright restrictions that prevent
piracy. Chief Executive Officer  John Chambers  said at the time
that Cisco is “moving to a more software-based model.”  The company  announced  plans in June to publish instructions
for developers to write programs running on its equipment. Cisco
also said it will  introduce  an open-source central console
capable of running hardware from other companies.  “We not only want to participate in this market, we want
to lead,” said David Yen, manager of Cisco’s data-center group,
in an interview.  Cisco also was in talks to acquire Nicira, and was outbid,
two people with knowledge of the matter said.  Even as Cisco expands in software, Padmasree Warrior, chief
technology officer, has downplayed the potential for networking
startups to curb demand for switches and routers.  Software innovations “are not going to commoditize the
underlying networking infrastructure,” Warrior said in an Aug.
2  blog  post. “These architectures actually place more demands
on the core infrastructure.”  Optical Gear  The technology can also provide alternatives to Cisco’s
hardware. Cyan focuses on phone carriers that need to keep pace
with soaring  Internet traffic . Cyan’s machines combine routing
features in optical gear that transports data within cities, so
traffic such as e-mail between neighbors doesn’t need to go
through a router to reach its destination. The Petaluma,
California-based company also makes stand-alone software that
customers can run on other suppliers’ routers.  Cyan’s revenue will approach $100 million this year,
according to two people familiar with the matter. Mike Hatfield,
founder and president, declined to provide sales figures, though
he said revenue has doubled in each of the past three years.  “We’re at the scale that we can be a public company,”
Hatfield said in an interview. “We’re going to monitor when the
right time is.”  Fewer Routers  TDS Telecommunications Corp., a phone provider in rural
U.S. communities, has been using Cyan’s gear for more than two
years, said Ken Paker, vice president of engineering and
architecture.  “We’re not putting routers into places we otherwise would
have,” Paker said. “People talk about replacing routers. We
talk about avoiding putting more in.”  Omar Baldonado , another former Cisco executive, heads
product management at Big Switch, a  Palo Alto , California-based
provider of open-source tools for making networks faster and
more affordable to operate. Its programs act as a central
console, so data center operators can easily control hundreds or
thousands of separate pieces of networking hardware.  Nicira makes technology to help networks run more
efficiently, helping companies cut hardware costs. Xsigo gives
Oracle technology to simplify cloud-based computing over the
Internet and let customers connect any server to any network,
reducing hardware needs. Oracle paid about $200 million for the
company, a person familiar with the transaction said.  Potential Suitors  Big Switch, the closest competitor to Nicira, is likely to
be acquired soon, said Brent Bracelin, an analyst at Pacific
Crest Securities. Potential suitors include International
Business Machines Corp., Oracle and Dell Inc., he said.  Arista could be bought for more than $1 billion, drawing
interest from the same companies that might consider Big Switch,
Bracelin said.  Cisco, for its part, might snap up storage companies such
as NetApp Inc., he said. Cisco could also deal with competition
by pushing into the same kind of networking software offered by
startups, said  Simona Jankowski , an analyst at Goldman Sachs
Group Inc., in a research report.  Networking software could spark the development of
thousands of powerful new ways for companies to get more out of
their networks. Since software is much more profitable than
hardware, “this could be phenomenal news for Cisco,” said T-
Mobile’s Yarkoni.  “Now they have to pick up the ball and run with it.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Burrows in  San Francisco  at 
 pburrows@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  