-- Colombia May Double Daily Dollar Buying, Central Banker Says
-- B y   M a t t h e w   B r i s t o w   a n d   O s c a r   M e d i n a
-- 2012-08-14T15:19:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-14/colombia-may-double-daily-dollar-purchases-central-banker-says.html
Colombia ’s central bank is studying
the possibility of doubling its daily dollar purchases to $40
million to curb the world’s second-biggest currency rally,
central bank co-director Cesar Vallejo said.  Policy makers could also extend the current round of daily
dollar purchases beyond the scheduled end date in November,
Vallejo said in an interview in Bogota yesterday.  “If we change, it would be from $20 million to $40
million, for an announced time frame,” Vallejo said. “The
other alternative would be, instead of stopping in November, to
keep buying until December 31, or until February.”  The peso has strengthened 7.7 percent this year, the most
of 170 currencies tracked by Bloomberg after the Chilean peso,
as oil and mining projects continue to attract near-record
levels of foreign investment, even amid  Europe ’s debt crisis.
The central bank has so far ignored repeated calls from
President  Juan Manuel Santos  and Finance Minister Juan Carlos Echeverry to step up its purchases of dollars to weaken the
currency to help exporters such as coffee and flower growers.  The peso weakened 0.37 percent to 1,800.18 per  U.S. dollar 
at 9.55 a.m. in Bogota, the biggest drop among seven Latin
American currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  ‘Clear Evidence’  Vallejo’s remarks are “very clear evidence” that the
central bank is considering increasing its dollar purchases,
said Camila Estrada, head analyst at Helm Bank.  “Until now we hadn’t heard anything this concrete from any
board member other than the finance minister,” Estrada said in
a telephone interview from Bogota.  The bank isn’t considering Santos’s proposal to increase
foreign currency reserves by $13 billion, which would
“completely distort” local credit markets, Vallejo said. The
amount of debt the bank would need to sell to mop up liquidity
from the dollar purchases would be “brutal,” and could attract
foreign capital that would fuel the peso’s rally, he said.  Colombia had foreign currency reserves of $34.7 billion as
of July.  The argument for increasing currency intervention would be
stronger if the peso appreciates further, Vallejo said. At the
same time, there would be no point in incurring the cost of
buying dollars if the currency weakened because of the
international crisis, Vallejo said.  Academic Study  A study by Colombia’s Finance Ministry, which found that
the optimum level of reserves for the Andean nation is $54
billion, “is of no more than academic use,” central bank chief
Jose Dario Uribe said last week. The economic model contained in
the July report is very sensitive to the assumptions programmed
into it, making it of little practical use, he said.  The central bank last month cut  interest rates  for the
first time since 2010 and trimmed its growth forecasts after
industrial output fell for a third straight month in May on a
year-on-year basis. Growth is being affected by a slowdown in
the global economy, which is curbing demand for the country’s
exports, the central bank said in the minutes to its July policy
meeting.  The “key” determinant of interest rate moves is whether
gross domestic product is growing faster or slower than its
long-term potential rate, and whether it is accelerating or
slowing, Vallejo said.  The central bank last month cut its forecast for 2012 GDP
growth to between 3 percent and 5 percent, from 4 percent to 6
percent, and predicted growth of 2 percent to 5 percent next
year. Uribe said last month that the economy’s long-term
potential growth rate is between 4 percent and 5 percent.  Rate Forecast  The central bank will cut its benchmark interest rate a
quarter point to 4.75 percent at its Aug. 31 policy meeting,
according to 10 of 11 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  Last month’s rate cut marked the end of a “phase of
stability” in interest rates and the start of a “phase of
reduction,” Echeverry, who sits on the bank’s seven-member
policy committee, said in a speech in Cartagena last week.  Colombia’s annual  inflation  slowed to 3.03 percent in July,
lower than all but one forecast in a Bloomberg survey of 24
analysts, and down from 3.73 percent at the start of the year.
Colombia targets inflation of 3 percent, plus or minus one
percentage point.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Matthew Bristow in Bogota at 
 mbristow5@bloomberg.net ;
Oscar Medina in Bogota at 
 omedinacruz@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Sanders at 
 psanders@bloomberg.net . 