-- Commonwealth Bank Posts Record Profit as Bad Debt Charges Fall
-- B y   A n g u s   W h i t l e y
-- 2012-08-14T22:51:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-14/commonwealth-bank-posts-record-profit-as-bad-debt-charges-fall.html
Commonwealth Bank of Australia , the
nation’s biggest bank by market value, reported record full-year
profit as lending income rose and charges for soured loans fell.  Net income in the 12 months ended June 30 surged 11 percent
to A$7.09 billion ($7.4 billion), the Sydney-based bank said in
a statement today. Commonwealth Bank was expected to report
profit of A$7.15 billion, according to the average of 10
analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Commonwealth Bank Chief Executive Officer Ian Narev, who
took over in December, and his local rivals are trimming
expenses as higher funding costs squeeze profit margins and
fragile consumer and business confidence weigh on loan demand.  “Revenue growth was subdued reflecting ongoing caution
from both our retail and corporate customers,” Narev said in
the statement. “It is difficult to see the catalyst for
alleviating the uncertainty which will continue to affect
consumer and corporate confidence. So, in the near term, we
expect current revenue trends to continue.”  Commonwealth Bank  stock  has climbed 13 percent this year,
trailing the 18 percent advance by  Westpac Banking Corp. (WBC)  and the
16 percent gain by  Australia & New Zealand Banking Group Ltd. (ANZ) 
 National Australia Bank Ltd. (NAB) , the smallest of the country’s four
biggest lenders by market value, has risen 5.7 percent.  Commonwealth Bank’s net interest margin, a measure of the
profitability of the lending business, declined 3 basis points
over the year to 2.09 percent, the company said. Net interest
income grew 4 percent to A$13.2 billion, while operating
expenses rose 3 percent to A$9.2 billion, the bank said.  Loan impairment expenses fell 15 percent to A$1.09 billion,
according to the statement.  National  Australia  Bank yesterday said third-quarter profit
was unchanged at A$1.4 billion as lower revenue was offset by a
decline in bad debts. CEO Cameron Clyne said business and
 consumer confidence  was “subdued” and affecting the domestic
economy.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Angus Whitley in Sydney at 
 awhitley1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  