-- Confidence Among Small U.S. Companies Falls to Nine-Month Low
-- B y   C a r o l i n e   F a i r c h i l d
-- 2012-08-14T11:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-14/confidence-among-small-u-s-companies-falls-to-nine-month-low.html
Confidence among U.S. small
companies dropped in July to its lowest point in nine months as
owners became more concerned about future earnings and sales.  The  National Federation of Independent Business ’ optimism
 index  fell to 91.2 from 91.4 in June. Three of its 10 components
contributed to the index’s third-straight decline, the
Washington-based group said.  “We can expect very sluggish growth for the balance of the
year,”  William Dunkelberg , the group’s chief economist, said in
a statement. “The job creation picture remains weak.”  The decline is sentiment may further slow the economic
recovery as small companies cut back. Gross domestic product,
the value of all goods and services produced, rose at a 1.5
percent annual rate in the second quarter as household
purchases, which account or about 70 percent of GDP, grew at the
slowest pace in a year.  A net minus 27 percent of businesses reported positive
earnings trends, a decline of 5 points from June and the lowest
level since November. A measure of whether business owners
expected  sales  to improve dropped 1 point to minus 4 percent
this month, the fifth consecutive decline.  The percent of owners reporting that it was hard to fill a
job opening held at 15 percent after falling five points in
June. Payrolls rose more than forecast in July even as the
 unemployment rate  climbed to a five-month high, figures from the
Labor Department showed this month.  Capital Spending  The share of company owners last month that said they would
invest in new equipment was little changed, according to today’s
report. A gauge of whether small firms thought inventories would
increase fell 1 point to minus 1 percent.  The survey’s net figures are calculated by subtracting the
percent of business owners giving a negative answer from those
with a positive response and adjusting the results for seasonal
variations.  The NFIB report was based on responses from 1,803 small-
business owners through July 29. Small companies represent more
than 99 percent of all U.S. employers, according to the U.S.
Small Business Administration. A small business is defined as an
independent enterprise with no more than 500 employees.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Caroline Fairchild in  Washington  at 
 cfairchild2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  