-- Convertibles Redeemed as Dollar Costs at Year Low: India Credit
-- B y   A n u r a g   J o s h i   a n d   R a j h k u m a r   K   S h a a w
-- 2012-08-14T04:25:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-14/convertibles-redeemed-as-dollar-costs-at-year-low-india-credit.html
The lowest Indian dollar borrowing
costs in a year will help as companies from  Tata Steel Ltd. (TATA)  to
 Jaiprakash Associates Ltd. (JPA)  refinance $1.2 billion of convertible
debt due this quarter.  The  extra yield  investors demand to buy dollar-denominated
Indian bonds over U.S. Treasuries fell to 448 basis points on
Aug. 10, the lowest since August 2011, HSBC Holdings Plc indexes
show. That’s higher than the 335 basis points for Chinese notes
and 289 for Indonesian issuers.  Suzlon Energy Ltd. (SUEL) ,  JSW Steel
Ltd. (JSTL)  and  Rolta India Ltd. (RLTA)  all used bank loans to redeem $887
million of debt in the past six weeks.  Indian companies sold $2.25 billion of dollar bonds this
quarter, 16 times the preceding three months’ issuance, as
global central banks ensure ample cash supply to counter slowing
economic growth. Companies defaulted on $315 million of debt
this year after the 22 percent slump in the benchmark  Sensitive
Index (SENSEX)  from its peak in November 2010 pushed shares below levels
at which the notes could be converted to equity.  “It’s a better environment for companies to borrow
overseas because global rates are at record lows and there’s
comfortable liquidity around the world,” Raj Kothari, a London-
based fixed-income trader at Sun Global Investment Ltd. said in
an Aug. 10 telephone interview. “Refinancing is the only option
for companies to repay this convertible debt.”  Borrowing Costs  International borrowing costs have declined after monetary
authorities from the  European Central Bank  to the People’s Bank
of China cut benchmark  interest rates  this quarter, and the  Bank
of England  increased the size of its asset-purchase program. The
 Federal Reserve  said this month it will provide additional
accommodation as needed.  The  average yields  on dollar bonds of Indian issuers
touched 5.08 percent yesterday, the least since Aug. 5, 2011,
according to HSBC indexes. The lowest overseas borrowing costs
in a year and rupee  interest rates  at the highest level among
the biggest  emerging markets  are attracting dollar-denominated
issuances.  State Bank of India  and Export-Import Bank of  India  last
month sold the first dollar debt by local companies since
February.  Indian Overseas Bank (IOB)  sold $500 million of 5 1/2-year
notes yesterday, according to to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “Spreads have narrowed on expectations of more monetary
easing globally,” Atul Gharde, a Hong Kong-based credit analyst
at SJS Markets Ltd., said in phone interview yesterday. “This
will be positive for companies that enjoy top credit ratings to
borrow overseas, but fears of a sovereign downgrade linger.”  Downgrade Risk  Ten-year borrowing  costs  for companies rated AAA by Crisil,
the Indian unit of  Standard & Poor’s , fell one basis point to
9.48 percent on Aug. 10. Yields have declined from about 9.60
percent on April 4, the highest level in 2012.  S&P lowered India’s sovereign credit outlook to negative
from stable on April 25, saying there is a one-in-three
likelihood of a rating downgrade to junk status because of
slower investment and economic growth.  Fitch Ratings  cut its
outlook on June 18, citing limited progress in paring the  budget
deficit . Both companies rank India’s debt BBB-, the lowest
investment grade.  Credit-default swaps on  State Bank , which investors
consider a proxy for the sovereign, fell 70 basis points in 2012
to 325 in New York, according to data provider CMA. The
contracts pay the buyer face value in exchange for the
underlying securities or the cash equivalent should a borrower
fail to adhere to debt agreements.  Bonds, Rupee  The yield on the benchmark 10-year sovereign bonds has
fallen about 33 basis points this year. The yield on the 8.15
percent note due June 2022 rose three basis points to 8.23
percent as of 9:30 a.m. in Mumbai, according to the central
bank’s trading system.  The rupee, which declined 8.6 percent in the quarter
through June in the worst performance in the region, fell 0.5
percent to 55.6250 per dollar today.  Indian companies are redeeming a record $5.3 billion of
convertible debt this year, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The debt was sold in the three-year period from 2005
to 2007, when the Sensitive Index tripled in value.  Jaiprakash and Tata Steel, the South Asian nation’s largest
maker of the alloy, account for 83 percent of the notes maturing
by Sept. 30, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Tata Steel has $471 million of debt maturing on Sept. 5.
The Mumbai-based company’s shares are at 403.4 rupees, 45
percent less than its conversion price of 730.5 rupees.  Tata Steel  “We do not plan to raise debt,” Tata Steel Spokesman
Charudatta Deshpande said in an e-mail yesterday. “We have
adequate liquidity.”  Jaiprakash, developer of India’s only Formula One track,
has $524 million of zero-coupon dollar notes maturing Sept. 12.
The construction company’s shares closed at 75.15 rupees
yesterday compared with its conversion price of 165.17 rupees.  “We will pay mainly by internal accruals much before the
due date,” a spokesman for Jaiprakash Associates said in an e-
mail yesterday.  Suzlon, India’s largest wind-turbine maker, borrowed $300
million from 11 lenders including  State Bank of India (SBIN)  to repay
its dollar-denominated convertible debt last month, a person
with direct knowledge of the matter said on July 27. The company
redeemed $360 million of debt, Chief Financial Officer Kirti Vagadia said in a statement the same day. Mumbai-based JSW Steel
redeemed $392 million of debt, while Rolta repaid $135 million
of bonds, according to stock exchange filings.  JSW Steel, Rolta  JSW Steel had made funding arrangements for the repayment,
Chief Financial Officer Seshagiri Rao by telephone on June 22,
without elaborating. Rolta said in a March 26 statement that it
had arranged a loan to redeem the debt due in June.  “It’s a comfort for those companies that operate in a
dollar environment to borrow,” Taina Erajuuri, a  money manager 
at FIM Asset Management, which oversees about $1.2 billion in
Helsinki, said in a phone interview yesterday. “There are high
expectations on central banks globally and future issuances will
depend on how the euro-zone crisis plays out.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anurag Joshi in Mumbai at 
 ajoshi53@bloomberg.net ;
Rajhkumar K Shaaw in Mumbai at 
 rshaaw@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Shelley Smith  at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net ;
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  