-- Cosan Shifting to Gas Raises Stock Forecasts: Corporate Brazil
-- B y   N e y   H a y a s h i   a n d   L u c i a   K a s s a i
-- 2012-08-14T15:27:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-14/cosan-shifting-to-gas-raises-stock-forecasts-corporate-brazil.html
Cosan SA Industria & Comercio, co-
owner of the world’s biggest sugar-cane processor, is forecast
by analysts to extend a rally after expanding its fuel-
distribution network to cushion earnings from food-price swings.  Analysts have raised Cosan’s 12-month share-price estimate
by an average 8.8 percent since mid-February, the most among
biofuel companies rated by at least three analysts and with
annual revenue above $50 million, data compiled by Bloomberg
show. The average price estimate for U.S. ethanol producer Green
Plains Renewable Energy Inc. was cut by 51 percent in the
period, more than any other company, the data show.  Cosan, whose 43 percent gain in the past year before today
is four times the increase for  Brazil ’s benchmark Bovespa index,
is shifting away from sugar and ethanol in favor of distribution
as harvesting delays contributed to its first loss in three
years last quarter. The company in May agreed to buy control of
Cia. de Gas de Sao Paulo, Brazil’s biggest natural-gas
distributor, and is bidding for part of railway operator ALL
America Latina Logistica SA.  “They are the most extreme example of diversification
among sugar-cane processors,” Pedro Herrera, an analyst at HSBC
Holdings Plc. who rates the stock the equivalent of buy, said in
a telephone interview from  New York . “Before the
diversification process unfolded, shares oscillated with sugar
prices. Now they have more stable earnings and it makes it
easier for investors to perceive value in the company.”  Target Price  Sao Paulo-based Cosan rose 0.3 percent to 31.59 reais at
12:22 p.m. in Sao Paulo. The stock is expected to rise to 36.92
reais, according to the median 12-month  target price  of nine
analysts. Of a total of 13 analysts with a rating on the stock,
nine recommend buying, three say hold and one has a sell rating.  Profit at the fuel-distribution unit has climbed since
Cosan started branching out from sugar-cane crushing with its
2008  purchase  of Exxon Mobil Corp.’s Brazilian unit. In 2010,
Cosan agreed to combine some assets including service stations
and sugar and ethanol mills with Royal Dutch Shell Plc’s
Brazilian unit to create the world’s biggest cane processor.  The distribution unit’s earnings before interest, taxes,
depreciation and amortization more than doubled from a year
earlier to 367.4 million reais ($182 million) in the fiscal
first quarter ended June 30, while the sugar-cane crushing
business posted a drop in Ebitda of 21 percent to 323.5 million
reais. Raw sugar prices have declined 26 percent in the past
year as global output is expected to exceed demand for a third
straight year, Morgan Stanley said in an Aug. 3 e-mailed report.  ‘Diversification’ Benefits  “The fiscal first quarter was a good example of the
benefits of diversification,” Cosan’s Investor Relations
Manager Guilherme Machado said in an Aug. 9 telephone interview
from  Sao Paulo . “Strong results in the fuel distribution unit
offset the underperformance of the sugar and ethanol business.
Diversification is generating value for our shareholders.”  Cosan  traded  at 43.7 times reported earnings, the most
expensive level among major biofuel producers after Leipzig-
based Verbio AG, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Cosan agreed in May to pay $1.8 billion for a controlling
stake in the fuel distributor known as Comgas. The company also
agreed to pay $100 million for Exxon’s Comma Oil and Chemicals
in March and $522.8 million for a stake in ALL in February.  Exxon, Shell  “They have managed to do a very good job by buying Exxon
distribution assets and later by merging them with Shell’s,”
Auro Rozenbaum, an analyst with Banco Bradesco SA, said by phone
from Sao Paulo. “The benefits of ALL are clear, as Cosan is
already in the logistics business.”  While Cosan’s strategy will make the company less
vulnerable to swings in sugar and ethanol prices, there’s
concern the company’s recent acquisitions may not provide
“significant” cost-cutting gains for its main business, said
Henrique Koch, an analyst with Banco do Brasil SA.  “There is always the risk, although minimum from my point
of view, that the company goes over the top with the
diversification process,” Koch, who rates the stock the
equivalent to buy, said in a telephone interview from Sao Paulo.  After buying eight companies in the past four years, Cosan
has no immediate plans for further acquisitions, Chief Executive
Officer Marcos Lutz said in an Aug. 9 conference call with
journalists.  “Our portfolio is complete now,” Lutz said. “Now we will
focus on profitability and synergy gains.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ney Hayashi in Sao Paulo at 
 ncruz4@bloomberg.net ;
Lucia Kassai in Sao Paulo at 
 lkassai@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jessica Brice at 
 jbrice1@bloomberg.net ;
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  