-- Deadly Cantaloupe Outbreak Probed by U.S. Prosecutors
-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   A r m o u r
-- 2012-08-14T15:12:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-14/deadly-cantaloupe-outbreak-probed-by-u-s-prosecutors.html
Jensen Farms, the U.S. cantaloupe
processor linked to the  listeria outbreak  last year that killed
at least 30 people, is the subject of a criminal investigation
by the federal government, according to a lawyer for victims.  Bill Marler , a lawyer at Marler Clark LLP, sent an e-mail
on Aug. 12 to clients alerting them that the U.S. Attorney’s
Office in  Colorado  had started a probe, which he said is unusual
for foodborne illness incidents. The listeria outbreak, which
also sickened 146 people, was the deadliest in almost 90 years,
according to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.  A congressional investigation found the incident may have
been avoided if Granada, Colorado-based Jensen Farms had
followed U.S.  food-safety  guidelines. The company, which filed
for bankruptcy in Denver this year, has $2.5 million from
liability insurance set aside in a trust for victims, Marler
said. Some family members have called for a criminal
prosecution.  “The investigators were here three weeks ago and we turned
over all the files on death cases to them,” Marler, a Seattle-
based lawyer who represents 42 victims of the outbreak,
including the families of about 20 people who died, said in an
interview. “It’s an ongoing investigation.”  Prison Time  The probe focuses on the actions of brothers Eric and Ryan
Jensen, owners of Jensen Farms, which produced the cantaloupe,
Marler said. James Markus, a lawyer in Denver representing
Jensen Farms, didn’t return an e-mail or telephone call placed
yesterday seeking comment. An attempt to reach Markus today was
also unsuccessful, as were efforts to locate the Jensen
brothers.  Jeff Dorschner, a spokesman for the Denver-based U.S.
Attorney’s Office, declined to comment.  Putting tainted food into the marketplace violates the U.S.
 Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act , and can lead to prison time of not
more than a year for a misdemeanor and as many as three years
for a felony, Marler said.  Marler said $5 million total is being put into a trust for
victims. The money includes funds from Jensen Farms, Pepper
Equipment Corp. of Colorado, which sold equipment to Jensen, and
Rio Hondo, Texas-based BioFood Safety Inc., a subcontractor
hired to do a third-party audit, which helps assure food safety,
of the operation.  The amount that may swell to $20 million, Marler said.
Lawsuits also are pending against retailers such as  Wal-Mart
Stores Inc. (WMT)   To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephanie Armour in Washington at 
 sarmour@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  