-- Deere Poised for Profit Boost as Drought Seen Affecting 2013
-- B y   S h r u t i   D a t e   S i n g h
-- 2012-08-14T20:16:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-14/deere-poised-for-profit-boost-as-drought-seen-affecting-2013-1-.html
Deere & Co. (DE) , the largest maker of
agricultural equipment, may post a 37 percent gain in earnings
on higher farm income and foreign sales while the worst U.S.
drought in five decades weighs on performance next year.  Deere will probably say tomorrow that fiscal third-quarter
profit rose to $2.32 a share, according to the average of 17
analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg. The Moline, Illinois-
based company is effectively sold out of large  farm equipment 
for the financial year ending Oct. 31 and the implications of
the drought in the period are “limited,” Andy Kaplowitz, an
analyst for Barclays Plc, said in a report yesterday.  “It should be a good quarter,” Larry De Maria, a New
York-based analyst for William Blair & Co. who has a hold rating
on the shares, said in an interview yesterday. “The
deteriorating sentiment on the drought would likely have more of
an effect on 2013 than 2012.”  Deere Chief Executive Officer Sam Allen is still reaping
the benefits of U.S. farmers’ record $98.1 billion in net income
last year, which has helped them to upgrade tractors and
combines. His strategy of trying to boost sales outside the U.S.
and  Canada , the company’s largest source of revenue, will become
even more important in 2013 as a poor harvest in the Midwest may
cut farmers’ domestic spending power.  Deere’s earnings have grown more than analysts’ projections
for 10 consecutive quarters as U.S. farm receipts and income
climbed for two years through last year.  Combine Sales  The company’s tractor and combine sales in June outpaced
the industry as a whole, Deere said in its latest monthly  audio
report  on its website. Row-crop tractor sales for June were up
“considerably more” than the 25 percent industrywide increase
while combine sales rose by “triple digits” compared with an
overall 33 percent gain, Deere said.  Shares of Deere rose 0.4 percent to $80.13 at the close in
 New York . They have climbed 3.6 percent this year. A dozen
analysts recommend buying the company, eight have a hold rating
and two recommend selling it, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Ken Golden , a Deere spokesman, declined to comment ahead of
the earnings due before the start of trading tomorrow.  Deere will probably post a 16 percent increase in sales to
$9.61 billion in the three months through July, according to the
average of 14  analysts’ estimates . Per-share earnings will
increase 24 percent to $8.25 a share in the current fiscal year
and 5.6 percent to $8.71 in fiscal 2013, estimates show.  USDA Forecast  U.S. net farm income will drop to $91.7 billion this year,
the second-highest total, the  U.S. Department of Agriculture 
said in February. The USDA will update its forecast on Aug. 28
to reflect the drought that began hurting crops around June.  While the hottest July since 1936 has seen corn and soybean
prices surge to records, the weather also means damaged crops
and distress for the worst-affected farmers.  Corn production in the U.S., the largest grower and
exporter, will drop 13 percent to a six-year low, the USDA said
Aug. 10. The upcoming harvest is estimated at 10.779 billion
bushels (273.8 million metric tons), compared with 12.358
billion in 2011.  Crop insurance programs may help support equipment sales.
As many as 80 percent of U.S. farmers have some form of the
protection, which may “help dampen the magnitude” of a
slowdown even in 2013, said Kaplowitz, who recommends buying
Deere shares.  Brazilian Farmers  While farmer income from the U.S. harvest will drive
agricultural  capital spending  in 2013, longer-term factors such
as rising demand for higher-quality diets globally will give
Deere a “bright future,”  Joel Levington , the managing director
for corporate credit at Brookfield Investment Management Inc.,
said in an e-mail yesterday.  Deere’s sales outside the U.S. and Canada climbed to 39
percent in fiscal 2011, from 29 percent five years earlier. That
trend may soften any blow from the U.S. drought as farmers in
countries such as  Brazil  respond to record corn prices with
increased planting.  Foreign farmers “could respond to higher global commodity
prices by planting even more acres of corn (and other cash crops
including soybeans) next year, which ultimately could drive
increased equipment demand in 2013 and beyond,” Kaplowitz said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shruti Date Singh in  Chicago  at 
 ssingh28@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at   scasey4@bloomberg.net . 