-- Diana’s Versace Dress Lures Crowds to Updated Kensington Palace
-- B y   F a r a h   N a y e r i
-- 2012-08-14T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-14/diana-s-versace-dress-lures-crowds-to-updated-kensington-palace.html
A low-cut Versace dress that
Princess Diana wore to a 1995 film premiere is drawing crowds to
the museum in her  London  ex-home, which has reopened in the year
of Olympic and Paralympic Games after a 12 million pound ($19
million) makeover.  The black silk cocktail dress -- featuring medusa-head
buttons -- was sold at a 1997 Christie’s International auction
in  New York , and is one of five outfits in the exhibition
 “Diana: Glimpses of a Modern Princess.”  Another is a black
silk taffeta Emanuel gown that Diana wore on her first official
engagement as Prince Charles’s fiancee in March 1981.  “The princess had a strong sense of the power of
clothes,” says curator Deirdre Murphy of  Historic Royal
Palaces , the charity that manages five royal abodes in London.
“She developed her own unique style, particularly after the
early period, when she was wearing naive, girly clothes.”  Many of her 1990s outfits are classic and wouldn’t be out
of place today, Murphy says.  Kensington Palace has drawn swarms of visitors since
Diana’s death in a 1997 Paris car crash. It may draw even more
next year when Diana’s son  Prince William  and his wife  Catherine Middleton  move into the wing once occupied by the late Princess Margaret (Queen Elizabeth II’s sister). Work is being done to
remove asbestos and upgrade the wiring and other amenities.  Discovering Victoria  The palace museum offers a choice of four tours, including
the Diana fashion exhibition and another on Queen Victoria, who
was born and raised on the spot.  “We want visitors to get to know the woman behind the
crown, and to feel that she’s not just the old lady in black who
reputedly said ‘We are not amused,’” says Murphy.  The palace has lost the high railings and foliage screening
it had while Diana and Margaret were alive. A tree-lined path
now leads up to it. There’s a spacious ticketing area in a
former courtyard, a quaint family cafe with an outdoor terrace,
and a shop with trinkets for all budgets.  The “ Victoria Revealed ” permanent exhibition brings to
life Britain’s longest-serving monarch, who was awakened at the
palace one morning in June 1837 to be told -- at age 18 -- that
she was queen.  The show opens in the room where Victoria held her first
privy council -- previously the museum’s ticket hall. On the
carpet is a quote from her journal: “I went in of course quite
alone.” On display are the tiny dress she wore that day, and
the document she and the more than 90 privy councilors signed.  Royal Jitters  Some of them found her nervous. “She was in a room full of
men,” explains Murphy. “They were a lot older than her, much
more experienced.”  The next room illustrates her courtship with Albert before
their 1840 wedding. You can see the bracelet and fan that he
sent her from Coburg,  Germany ; the diamond garter she gave him
as a wedding present; and her ivory silk wedding gown.  Further along are the couple’s piano -- they were both good
musicians -- and the music they played together. Victoria drew
well, too; sketches and a paint box are on display. Her doll
collection highlights her knack for costume design: She dressed
up dolls that she named after famous stage performers.  Albert’s sudden death in 1861 plunged Victoria into
lifelong grief. The novel that was being read to him when he
died -- “Peveril of the Peak” by Walter Scott -- is marked
with a piece of mourning paper where the reading stopped.  The grieving is remembered through the black outfits she
and her children wore, a bust of Prince Albert she commissioned
shortly after his death, and photographs.  Dancing Queen  The show ends on a happier note: an audiovisual
reconstitution of her 1897 diamond jubilee, and an array of pre-
mourning accessories -- jewels from Albert, her Tartan sash, and
her dancing slippers.  “It’s to remind people that, before she became a widow,
the queen’s wardrobe was luxurious and vibrant,” says Murphy.
“She loved dancing and staying up until 4 o’clock in the
morning.”  Kensington Palace was originally a country home, bought for
20,000 pounds in 1689 by King William III and Queen Mary II; the
king was asthmatic and wanted something less damp than
Whitehall. Architect Christopher Wren built new wings, and the
royal couple moved in at the end of 1689. Kensington was the
royals’ main home for seven decades until  Buckingham Palace 
replaced it in 1760.  “Diana: Glimpses of a Modern Princess” is at Kensington
Palace through Oct. 28. Information:  http://www.hrp.org.uk .  To contact the writer on this story:
Farah Nayeri, in London  at
 Farahn@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 