-- Dollar Near One-Month High Versus Yen Before U.S. Data
-- B y   S h a r o n   C h e n   a n d   K r i s t i n e   A q u i n o
-- 2012-08-15T05:49:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-14/dollar-near-one-month-high-versus-yen-before-u-s-data.html
The dollar was 0.2 percent from an
almost one-month high against the yen before data today that may
add to signs of economic recovery in the U.S., curbing the
chances of further monetary easing from the  Federal Reserve .  The greenback held gains versus most major peers with
reports forecast to show improvements in the manufacturing
industries of the world’s biggest economy. Demand for the euro
was limited after figures yesterday showed gross domestic
product contracted in  Europe ’s 17-nation currency bloc. The
Australian dollar touched a one-week low after a report
indicated  consumer confidence  fell by the most in five months.
Malaysia’s ringgit slid before GDP figures due today.  “The  U.S. economy  is growing slowly, and I view that as a
positive,” said Hans Kunnen, chief economist at St. George Bank
Ltd. in Sydney. The expansion is “at a sufficient pace for the
Fed to hold fire. This lends support to the dollar.”  The dollar rose 0.1 percent to 78.79 yen as of 6:45 a.m. in
 London . It touched 78.93 yesterday, the strongest since July 18.
The U.S. currency was little changed at $1.2326 per euro. The
euro traded at 97.12 yen from 97.02.  Industrial production in the U.S. probably rose 0.5 percent
last month after a 0.4 percent gain in June, according to the
median forecast of economists in a Bloomberg News survey before
today’s data. The  New York  Fed’s  general economic index  is
predicted to be at 7 in August, a separate poll indicated.
Readings greater than zero signal expansion in the region and
the last negative reading was in October.  Commerce Department figures yesterday showed July retail
sales expanded by more than economists expected.  Fed Policy  U.S. central bank officials refrained from boosting
monetary stimulus at the conclusion of their last meeting on
Aug. 1. The Fed bought $2.3 trillion of mortgage and Treasury
debt from 2008 to 2011 in two rounds of so-called quantitative
easing to cap borrowing costs. Policy makers have held the
bank’s key rate in a range of zero to 0.25 percent since 2008
and plan to keep it there at least through late 2014.  The dollar has had the biggest gain in the past year among
10 major currencies tracked by Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted
Indexes, rising 8.1 percent. The euro dropped 9 percent, making
it the second-worst performer. The yen has advanced 3.4 percent.  GDP in the euro bloc fell 0.2 percent in the three months
through June from the first quarter, when it stagnated, the
European Union’s statistics office in Luxembourg said yesterday.
Separate reports showed  Germany ’s expansion was faster than
expected, while  France  avoided a contraction in the same period.  Technical Resistance  Europe’s shared currency “seems to have hard technical
resistance around $1.2450 and it will likely take much better
data than modestly better-than-feared GDP results to break it,”
 Greg Anderson , the North American head of Group of 10 currency
strategy at Citigroup Inc. in New York, wrote in a report
yesterday. The level was last seen on July 5, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Resistance is an area where orders to
sell may be clustered.  The euro has weakened in the past 12 months as concern
increased that the region’s fiscal turmoil is deepening, damping
demand for the shared currency. Five of the euro bloc’s 17
states have sought international aid to cope with their debt.  Spain ’s government is considering a request for a sovereign
bailout after earlier accepting aid to shore up the nation’s
banks, European Economic and Monetary Affairs Commissioner  Olli Rehn  signaled yesterday.  “The Spanish government has an open mind on this issue,
but no decision has been made,” Rehn said in a Bloomberg
Television interview in New York yesterday. “We stand ready to
act if there is a request.”  Australian Confidence  The Australian dollar slid versus its U.S. counterpart
after a report today showed a consumer sentiment index published
by  Westpac Banking Corp. (WBC)  and the Melbourne Institute declined
2.5 percent to 96.6 in August. A number below 100 indicates
pessimists outnumber optimists. The so-called Aussie fell 0.1
percent to $1.0475 after earlier dropping to $1.0465, the lowest
since Aug. 3.  Malaysia’s economy, the third-largest in  Southeast Asia ,
probably grew 4.6 percent in the second quarter from a year
earlier, compared with 4.7 percent in the previous three-month
period, economists in a Bloomberg survey said before an official
report due today. That would be the nation’s slowest expansion
in a year.  The ringgit declined 0.3 percent to 3.1285 per dollar and
fell against all its major Asian counterparts, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sharon Chen in Singapore at 
 schen462@bloomberg.net ;
Kristine Aquino in Singapore at 
 kaquino1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  