-- Dollar Strengthens to 1-Month High Against Yen on Retail Sales
-- B y   A l l i s o n   B e n n e t t   a n d   J o s e p h   C i o l l i
-- 2012-08-14T21:24:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-14/dollar-to-1-month-high-versus-yen-on-retail-sales-peso-gains.html
The dollar rose to an almost one-
month high versus the yen as the first increase in U.S. retail
sales in four months sent Treasury yields to the highest since
May, boosting the allure of dollar-denominated assets.  The Japanese currency weakened against all but one of its
16 major counterparts as stocks rallied and minutes of the  Bank
of Japan (8301) ’s July meeting signaled policy makers are considering
expanding stimulus. Sweden’s krona advanced as industrial
production in June rose more than analysts estimated.  “The numbers haven’t materially affected what people
expect from the  Federal Reserve ,” said Brian Kim, a currency
strategist at Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc in  Stamford 
Connecticut, referring to the central bank’s potential for
further economic stimulus. “But dollar-yen liked it, and the
dollar got a little support on the data versus the rest of the
currencies.”  The dollar rose 0.5 percent to 78.74 yen at 5 p.m. in  New
York . It touched 78.93, the strongest since July 18. The yen
fell 0.5 percent to 97.02 versus the euro. The U.S. currency
rose 0.1 percent against the euro to $1.2322.  The benchmark 10-year yield climbed eight basis points, or
0.08 percentage point, to 1.74 percent, according to Bloomberg
Bond Trader prices, the highest since May 29. The  premium 
investors receive versus a similar maturity Japanese security
increased to 94 basis points, the most since May.  IntercontinentalExchange Inc. (ICE) ’s Dollar Index was 0.1
percent stronger at 82.530.  Real, Peso  Brazil’s real declined 0.3 percent to 2.0262 per  U.S.
dollar , its third consecutive loss, on speculation the
acceleration of  inflation  will be short-lived, allowing the
central bank to sustain the pace of cuts in borrowing costs.  “There’s a very explicit decision by the government” to
keep the real weak, Standard & Poor’s analyst Sebastian Briozzo
said at a Bloomberg Link event in Rio de Janeiro.  Brazil’s currency is this year’s worst performer among the
world’s major currencies.  Colombia’s peso fell the most in two weeks after central
bank co-director Cesar Vallejo said policy makers are
considering doubling daily dollar purchases to $40 million to
curb the currency’s rally which threatens to undermine local
industry and farmers.  The peso slid 0.5 percent to 1,803.19 per U.S. dollar.  Sweden’s krona gained 0.3 percent to 8.2555 against the
euro and was 0.2 percent firmer at 6.6997 versus the dollar.  Swedish industrial output rose an annual 1.1 percent and a
monthly 0.4 percent in June. Analysts surveyed by Bloomberg
expected annual production would fall 1.1 percent and predicted
a monthly decline of 1 percent.  ‘Open Mind’  The euro rose against most of its major peers after
 European Economic  and Monetary Affairs Commissioner  Olli Rehn 
signaled in a Bloomberg Television interview that the Spanish
government has an “open mind” on requesting a sovereign
bailout. “We stand ready to act if there is a request,” he
said.  The shared currency gained against the dollar earlier as
German growth slowed less than economists forecast and  France 
unexpectedly avoided a contraction.  “The market had priced in the weak data coming from
 Europe , so I’m not expecting it to react too much,” said  Ian Stannard , head of European foreign-exchange strategy at Morgan
Stanley in London. “The euro will extend its recovery in the
near term as risk assets continue to perform reasonably well and
European equity markets recover ground.”  The euro may climb to $1.2445 in the next week, which could
prompt more gains toward $1.26, Stannard said.  ‘Modest Spike’  The shared currency has had the biggest decline this year
among 10 major currencies tracked by Bloomberg Correlation-
Weighted Indexes, falling 5.6 percent. The dollar has lost 0.1
percent and the yen slipped 2.7 percent. The  New Zealand dollar 
climbed 4 percent while its Australian peer rose 3 percent.  “Within the broad sweep of data that we’ve seen over the
course of the last month, it’s just a modest spike of light,”
said  Simon Derrick , chief currency strategist at  Bank of New
York Mellon Corp. (BK)  in London. “There’s potential for further
flight from the euro.”  The euro may end 2012 at about $1.17 or $1.18, Derrick
said. That’s more bearish than the $1.22 median of 52 analyst
and economist predictions compiled by Bloomberg.  “Investors are steadily losing confidence in the euro
area,” Thomas Kressin, head of European foreign exchange at
Pacific Investment Management Co., said in a Bloomberg
Television on “Last Word” with Manus Cranny. There is a “high
level of uncertainty” in the  euro zone , he said.  Retail Sales  The 0.8 percent retail sales advance, the first gain in
four months, followed a 0.7 percent decrease in June that was
weaker than first reported, Commerce Department figures showed
today in  Washington . Economists projected a 0.3 percent rise,
according to the median forecast in a Bloomberg survey.  “The U.S. data on the surface is stronger than expected
and is leading the yield curve to rise and the dollar to
strengthen,” said  Sebastien Galy , a senior foreign-exchange
strategist at Societe Generale SA in New York. “We live in a
fixed-income universe and you can see the reaction, particularly
in dollar-yen.”  The dollar may strengthen against the yen to its highest
level in more than a month after breaking near-term resistance
levels,  Tom Fitzpatrick , chief technical analyst at Citigroup in
New York, said in a telephone interview. The greenback could
appreciate to 80 to 80.50 versus the Japanese currency, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Allison Bennett in New York at 
 abennett23@bloomberg.net ;
Joseph Ciolli in New York at 
 jciolli@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  