-- Drivers Twice Limit Involved in Most Drunk-Driving Deaths
-- B y   A n g e l a   G r e i l i n g   K e a n e
-- 2012-08-14T16:15:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-14/drivers-twice-limit-involved-in-most-drunk-driving-deaths.html
Most drunk drivers causing fatal
crashes in the U.S. have consumed about twice as much alcohol as
laws allow, the top U.S. auto-safety regulator said.  Requiring ignition-interlock devices, which are designed to
prevent drunk drivers from starting their cars, for first-time
offenders is the “best overall policy,”  David Strickland , head
of the U.S. National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, said
today at a press conference in Washington. It’s up to states to
implement that requirement, he said.  More than 70 percent of deaths in crashes involving drunk
drivers in 2010 involved a driver with blood-alcohol content of
.15 or higher, NHTSA said today. The legal limit in the U.S. is
.08.  “They are getting deeply intoxicated before getting behind
the wheel,” Strickland said.  Strickland commented at a demonstration of ignition-
interlock devices by agency and law enforcement officials.
Seventeen states have laws  requiring  ignition interlocks for
first-time DUI offenders who want to regain the privilege of
driving, according to the Governors Highway Safety Association.  Missouri and Virginia are the two most recent states to add
interlock laws, Jonathan Adkins, the group’s deputy executive
director, said. States determine what blood-alcohol content
drivers using interlocks can have. They can, and do, set them to
activate at levels lower than .08. Drivers pay for the devices
that are installed in their cars.  Interlock Incentives  A national surface-transportation law passed this year that
takes effect Oct. 1 will give states extra highway money if they
have interlock laws for convicted drunk drivers. In 2010, 10,228
people died in the U.S. in alcohol-related accidents, meaning
there was one such death every 51 minutes, according to NHTSA.  The Insurance Institute for Highway Safety has estimated
about 7,000 lives could be saved annually in the U.S. if no one
drove with a blood-alcohol content higher than .08.  The American Beverage Institute, a Washington-based group
representing beverage suppliers and restaurant chains, opposes
interlock laws, saying they could punish patrons who are barely
over the legal limit or instill fear into potential purchasers
of alcoholic beverages.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Angela Greiling Keane in  Washington  at 
 agreilingkea@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  