-- Mears to Expand Care Division Despite Government Funding Risks
-- B y   S o f i a   H o r t a   e   C o s t a
-- 2012-08-14T08:21:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-14/mears-to-expand-care-division-despite-government-funding-risks.html
Mears Group Plc. (MER) , which operates
low-income housing for the U.K. government, said it intends to
make more acquisitions to broaden its social care business by
the end of the year.  “Our aspirations are to make acquisitions in mobility,
nursing, and physiotherapy,” Chief Executive Officer  David Miles  said in a phone interview today. As well as organically
growing existing assets, the company expects the additional
services, which require higher expertise, to raise
operating margins, he said.  Mears reported group sales of 307.2 million pounds ($482.5
million) in the six months to June, up 5 percent from a year
earlier, according to a regulatory statement. Sales in its care
division increased 8 percent to 56.1 million pounds.  Miles said there are risks in expanding into a politically
led market. The government’s care and support  White Paper 
introduced in July has “good ideas” but needs clearer thinking
on funding, according to Miles. Mears expects a review of the
bill within three years, he said.  “My main concern is the demographic time-bomb in care,
budgets are growing but that is not in line with the number of
people who are living longer,” Miles said. “A significant
funding increase will be required to deliver high quality
care.”  Shares rose 2.1 percent, the most in three weeks, to 266
pence as of 8.30 a.m in London trading. The company announced an
interim dividend of 2.3 pence per share payable Nov. 5,
according to the regulatory statement.  Mears provides over 160,000 hours of care to 20,000 people
each week, according to the statement. It offers maintenance and
repairs services covering more than 10 percent of U.K. social
housing.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sofia Horta e Costa in London at 
 shortaecosta@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Lytle at 
 dlytle@bloomberg.net  