-- Hedge Fund Manager Denies Trading on Insider Tip
-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 2012-08-15T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-14/hedge-fund-manager-denies-trading-on-insider-tip.html
Whitman Capital LLC’s Doug Whitman
told jurors that he refrained from trading the stock of  Polycom
Inc. (PLCM)  when he first suspected that  Roomy Khan , a key government
witness in his prosecution, was getting illegal inside
information.  Whitman, 54, testified yesterday for a second day at his
insider-trading trial in  Manhattan  federal court. He told the
jury that he became suspicious during a telephone conversation
with Khan in April 2006 that she was getting confidential
revenue figures from inside the company.  “I wasn’t sure, but I was suspicious that she might have
gotten improper information,” Whitman said. “So I was trained
to refrain from trading.”  Whitman is charged with trading on illegal inside
information about Polycom,  Google Inc. (GOOG)  and  Marvell Technology
Group Ltd. (MRVL)  He disputed Khan’s testimony that she passed him
Polycom tips she received from Sunil Bhalla, a senior vice
president at the Pleasanton, California-based company. Khan, who
testified earlier in the trial, said that Whitman often
“hounded” her to get information from Bhalla.  Revenue Figures  Whitman is the first defendant to testify at a trial in the
government’s nationwide crackdown on  insider trading  at  hedge
funds . Prosecutors said they expect to spend about three hours
cross examining him after he finishes his direct testimony
today.  During his testimony yesterday, the hedge  fund manager  said
he never thought Khan had inside Polycom information before the
April 2006 conversation. He said that conversation made him
think Khan had tricked Bhalla into disclosing Polycom’s revenue
figures.  “She told me she knew what the numbers were going to be,”
Whitman said. “I don’t remember the numbers she told me, but
she had very specific numbers.”  Khan pleaded guilty in 2009 and is cooperating with the
government’s insider trading investigation. Steven Mark Bauer,
an attorney with Latham & Watkins LLP in  San Francisco  who
represented Bhalla in a civil suit brought by the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission, didn’t immediately return a
call seeking comment on the testimony.  Deposition Testimony  Bhalla in September agreed to pay $85,000 and was barred
from serving as an officer or a director of a public company for
five years to settle the SEC suit. U.S. District Judge Jed Rakoff, who is presiding over the trial, denied a defense
request to admit Bhalla’s deposition testimony from the SEC case
in the Whitman trial. Whitman’s lawyers claim Bhalla repeatedly
testified that he never shared confidential information with
Khan.  Whitman’s lawyer,  David Anderson , yesterday showed jurors
trading information that indicated Whitman Capital bought
Polycom shares earlier in April 2006, before the call with Khan.
The firm didn’t make any Polycom trades in the days after the
conversation with her, Whitman said.  Whitman claimed he traded on legitimate research on
Polycom, including “color,” or non-confidential anecdotal
information received from company employees.  Anderson also showed Whitman transcripts of phone
conversations he had with Khan, which were recorded without his
knowledge.  Anderson asked about a call on Aug. 22, 2008, in which
Whitman said he was joking with Khan about Marvell.  “Oh, you wanna use my inside information?” Whitman asks
Khan in the call.  “Just fooling around with her,” Whitman testified
yesterday.  Other Claims  Whitman also denied trading in Google put options based on
information from Khan in July 2007. Prosecutors claim Khan
provided him tips about Google revenue, which she received from
Shammara Hussain, a former employee of Market Street Partners,
an investor-relations consulting firm that worked for the
search-engine company.  Whitman testified that Khan told him she had an
unidentified “contact” with Google’s outside firm. She didn’t
provide him with specific revenue figures and only agreed with
the conclusion he’d already reached that “the quarter was going
to be slightly light,” he testified.  At the time, Whitman testified, he believed Khan was
mirroring what he was telling her and thought she was lying
about her source.  “I thought she was making the story up,” Whitman told
jurors.  Improper Information  Later, when Khan told Whitman her source wanted to be paid
for the information, Whitman said, he suspected Khan was getting
improper information.  “I told her she’d be crazy to do it and that she shouldn’t
do it,” Whitman said.  Hussain agreed in June 2011 to settle SEC claims against
her for $48,000. She hasn’t been charged criminally. Robert
Knuts, who represented Hussain in the SEC case, didn’t
immediately return a voicemail seeking comment on the testimony.  In addition to Khan, jurors have heard testimony from two
other witnesses who pleaded guilty and are cooperating with the
government: Karl Motey, a consultant hired by Whitman, and
Wesley Wang, a consultant and former Whitman Capital intern.  Whitman’s testimony covered recorded conversations he had
with both men. He provided innocent explanations for discussions
in which Motey and Wang testified Whitman knew he was getting
inside information.  If convicted, Whitman faces as long as five years in prison
on each conspiracy charge and 20 years on each securities fraud
charge.  The government rested its case against the fund manager
yesterday after presenting almost two weeks of testimony.  The judge told lawyers he expects the jury will begin
deliberations by the end of this week.  The case is U.S. v. Whitman, 12-cr-00125, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Van Voris in Manhattan federal court
at   rvanvoris@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Dunn  at   adunn8@bloomberg.net . 