-- Heebner Buys Polaris, Sherwin-Williams, Sells Whirlpool
-- B y   L u   W a n g
-- 2012-08-14T16:15:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-14/heebner-buys-polaris-sherwin-williams-sells-whirlpool-1-.html
Kenneth Heebner, who ranked as
America’s No. 1 stock picker before losing his touch and most of
his main fund’s assets, bought a stake in  Polaris Industries
Inc. (PII)  during the second quarter while selling  Whirlpool Corp. (WHR)   Heebner’s Capital Growth Management LP purchased 1.44
million shares of Polaris during the three-month period that
ended June 30, according to a filing with the Securities and
Exchange Commission. The Boston-based money manager bought
735,000 shares of  Sherwin-Williams Co. (SHW)  and sold out its stakes
in Whirlpool and Cummins Inc.  Polaris, a snowmobile maker, climbed 3.6 percent since the
end of June through yesterday while paintmaker Sherwin-Williams
advanced 6.5 percent. Heebner, who is known for a willingness to
shift directions quickly, exited Whirlpool, the world’s largest
appliance maker, and diesel-engine maker Cummins as the stocks
tumbled 20 percent and 19 percent, respectively, during the
second quarter. Both companies were new holdings in the previous
three months.  Heebner, whose  CGM Focus Fund (CGMFX)  topped all diversified U.S.
stock mutual funds in the decade through 2007, lost an annual
6.8 percent in the past five years, trailing an average gain of
1.9 percent by the same group, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The fund’s assets plunged to $1.48 billion at the end
of July from the June 2008 peak of $10.3 billion.  Capital Growth’s stakes in financial companies rose the
most during the second quarter as Heebner bought shares in
 JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  Energy had the
biggest decrease as the money manager sold out shares of
 National Oilwell Varco Inc. (NOV) , the biggest U.S. maker of oilfield
equipment. National Oilwell, Capital Growth’s fifth-biggest
holding by market value at the end of March, slumped 19 percent
from April through June.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Lu Wang  in New York at   lwang8@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  