-- Ellsworth Kelly Casts His Cold Eye on Art Market, Peers
-- B y   J a m e s   T a r m y
-- 2012-08-14T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-14/ellsworth-kelly-casts-his-cold-eye-on-art-market-peers.html
Ellsworth Kelly  sits in his studio
and tells me about the glistening white sculpture mounted
outside.  “I don’t say that I’m taking things away. What I’m doing is
not putting them in,” he says, leaning forward in his chair.  Kelly has spent the last six decades reducing shape, color
and line to their purest forms.  In his current show at  New York ’s  Metropolitan Museum of
Art , “Ellsworth Kelly Plant Drawings,” some of the images are so
austere that they’re drawn with a single, unbroken pencil line.  I visited him in his Hudson Valley studio -- full of
artwork in various stages of completion -- which sits on several
manicured acres dotted with his own sculptures.  We spoke at length as Kelly, 89, led me on a tour of the
works and grounds.  Tarmy: Where does drawing fit in your creative process?  Kelly: All of my sculptures, all of my paintings, start
with drawings. De Kooning or Pollock find the painting by doing
it -- by making it. They do and they stop.  We used to say that the good painters always had someone
behind them with a hammer to hit them at the right time: “That’s
finished now!”  It’s a different kind of painting from what I do: I have to
solve it first.  Pondering Plants  Tarmy: You’ve been drawing plants for over 60 years. Why
plants?  Kelly: I chose plants because I could always find them. One
of the first drawings I did in Paris -- I wasn’t thinking of
doing drawings, but somehow or other, I kept drawing -- I bought
a hyacinth flower with a lot of leaves, just to make me feel
like spring.  So I did a lot of drawings of it, and it just started that
way. Then I went out to Brittany for the summer, lived on a
little island, and I drew seaweed. Wherever I went, I did
drawings of plants.  Tarmy: Have they always sold?  Kelly: I sold them for about a thousand dollars in the
’70s, but now my gallerist,  Matthew Marks , wants a lot for them.  Tarmy: How long does it take you to draw one?  Quick Study  Kelly: My drawings have to be quick. If they don’t happen
in 20 minutes or a half hour, then they’re no good.  Matisse can’t do a line without it being a Matisse. I’m not
that way. I do a lot of mediocre stuff, and if they’re not good,
they go out.  Tarmy: Do you withhold much of your own work?  Kelly: I like to hold onto one from each group and live
with it a while. You know, people think of artists doing things
automatically to sell -- sometimes you just don’t want to give
things up.  Tarmy: Do you collect other artworks?  Kelly: Drawings, mostly. My earliest drawing is a supposed
Carracci. It wasn’t very expensive, I guess, because they don’t
know if it’s a real Carracci. But it has all these seals on it
of people who’ve owned it, and one of the great portrait
painters of  England , Reynolds, had owned it, so that’s the
earliest.  But then I have more contemporary work, like de Kooning
drawings, I have a Kirchner -- I like the Expressionists -- I
have a small Picasso, and a small Matisse, and an Agnes Martin,
who was a very good friend.  Tarmy: Do you like any contemporary artists?  Painting Vomit  Kelly: I only like artists older than myself. Time is so
important. It’s always been the same way I guess.  Have you heard Picasso’s comments about Bonnard? He said
something like, “He’s a great artist, but why does he have to
paint vomit?”  The young artists always have to kill the older.  Tarmy: Do you follow the art market?  Kelly: Not really -- I feel the art world is chaotic.
People like to make money with paintings, and they use them that
way -- they corner the market.  That’s why Koons and people like that get such enormous
prices.  Tarmy: Your art sells for millions, too.  Cold Eye  Kelly: You have to buck that market -- I had to work
against it. When I came back from Paris, no one would look at my
work because I’m not a gestural painter. I’m not an
expressionist painter, though I love expressionism.  But I had to continue anyway. Because what the hell was I
going to do? I had to do what I wanted to do because I really
paint in order to please my eye, and my eye is a very cold eye,
and it doesn’t really belong to me.  You ever feel that? That your eye is so dispassionate, it
says “no” or “yes?”  Tarmy: Honestly? No.  Kelly: I think you use your mind more. If you put your mind
to rest, just forget about the mind and look, everything becomes
sort of abstract.  And I like to investigate that. I like to play with space,
color and form. That pleases me.  “Ellsworth Kelly Plant Drawings” runs through Sept. 3 at
the  Metropolitan Museum  of Art, 1000 Fifth Ave. Information: +1-
212-535-7710;  http://www.metmuseum.org .  (James Tarmy writes for Muse, the arts and culture section
of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are his own.)  Muse highlights include  book  and  dining  reviews.  To contact the writer on the story:
James Tarmy in New York:  Jtarmy@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 