-- Emerging Stocks Snap Two-Day Retreat Before U.S. Data
-- B y   M i c h a e l   P a t t e r s o n   a n d   S r i d h a r   N a t a r a j a n
-- 2012-08-14T21:21:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-14/emerging-stocks-snap-two-day-retreat-before-u-s-data.html
Emerging-market stocks rose for the
first time in three days as better-than-estimated data from the
U.S., India and Europe boosted confidence in the global economy.  The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index (MXEF)  advanced 0.5 percent to
977.25.  Samsung Electronics Co. (005930) , South Korea’s biggest exporter
of consumer electronics, climbed 1.5 percent after  Standard &
Poor’s  raised its credit outlook. ICICI Bank Ltd. advanced 2.2
percent in Mumbai, the most in two weeks. Brazil’s Bovespa stock
 index (VXEEM)  slumped the most in two weeks.  Gol Linhas Aereas
Inteligentes SA (GOLL4) , Brazil’s second-biggest airline by market
share, led the declines.  U.S.  retail sales  rose 0.8 percent, topping the 0.3 percent
estimate in a Bloomberg survey. India’s inflation fell to a 32-
month low, spurring speculation among some investors that the
central bank may cut  interest rates . German growth slowed less
than economists forecast in the second quarter, while France’s
economy unexpectedly avoided a contraction.  “We have had a couple of data points which have not
disappointed expectation and that’s helped boost the mood a
little bit,”  Nick Chamie  , global head of foreign-exchange
strategy and head of  emerging-markets  research at Royal Bank of
Canada, said by phone from Toronto. “Sentiment has been beaten
up sufficiently over the last year that investor hopes of
eventually finding a bottom in the data remain strong.”  EM ETF Gains  The iShares MSCI Emerging Markets  Index (EGX30)  exchange-traded
fund, the  ETF (EEM)  tracking developing-nation shares, was little
changed at 40.36. The Chicago Board Options Exchange Emerging
Markets ETF Volatility Index, a measure of options prices on the
fund and expectations of price swings, rose for the first time
in six days, increasing 1.4 percent to 22.54.  The Bovespa index dropped 1.8 percent, the most since July
31. Gol dropped the most since July 2011 after second-quarter
net loss almost doubled. Brazilian homebuilder Gafisa SA decline
7.9 percent, the most since May 22.  The 0.8 percent rise in U.S. retail sales, the first gain
in four months, followed a 0.7 percent decrease in June that was
weaker than first reported, Commerce Department figures showed
today in Washington. Economists projected a 0.3 percent gain,
according to the median forecast in a Bloomberg survey. Sales
excluding automobiles also climbed 0.8 percent.  China, South Korea  The Hang Seng  China  Enterprises  Index (HSCEI)  increased 1 percent,
the most in a week, while South Korea’s Kospi climbed 1.3
percent to a three-month high. The BSE India Sensitive Index
rose 0.5 percent, rebounding from earlier losses after the
inflation report. Russia’s Micex Index increased 0.7 percent as
oil climbed for the first time in three days in  New York . OAO
Gazprom added 1 percent.  Egypt’s EGX 30 Index jumped 1.3 percent after the military
council signaled it won’t oppose President Mohamed Mursi’s
decision to retire the nation’s two top generals.  The MSCI emerging-markets gauge trades at 10.8 times
estimated earnings, compared with 12.9 for the MSCI World Index
of developed-nation shares, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Germany ’s gross domestic product rose 0.3 percent from the
first quarter, when it increased 0.5 percent, the Federal
Statistics Office said today. Economists predicted a 0.2 percent
gain, according to the median of 40 estimates in a Bloomberg
News survey. French GDP was unchanged in the quarter, better
than the 0.1 percent decline economists had predicted.  Samsung Electronics  The 21 nations in the MSCI gauge send about 30 percent of
their exports to the European Union on average, data compiled by
the World Trade Organization show.  Samsung Electronics advanced after S&P raised its outlook
to positive from stable, saying the company will continue to
improve its operating performance.  Hyundai Motor Co. (005380) , South
Korea’s biggest carmaker, rallied 1.6 percent, while LG Display
Co., the world’s second-largest maker of liquid-crystal
displays, gained 2.1 percent, leading exporters higher.  Citic Securities Co. (600030) , China’s biggest listed brokerage,
dropped to a six-month low in Shanghai, as the  Securities Times 
reported the company had denied speculation of “huge” losses
on overseas investments. The shares lost 1.6 percent, following
a 9.1 percent retreat yesterday.  The extra yield investors demand to own emerging-market
bonds over U.S. Treasuries fell seven basis points, or 0.07
percentage point, to 316, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s
EMBI Global  Index. (SENSEX)   To contact the reporters on this story:
 Michael Patterson  in London at 
 mpatterson10@bloomberg.net ;
Sridhar Natarajan in New York at 
 snatarajan15@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Tal Barak Harif at 
 tbarak@bloomberg.net ;
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  