-- EnQuest Profit Jumps as North Sea Investment Gives Tax Break
-- B y   B r i a n   S w i n t
-- 2012-08-14T15:44:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-14/enquest-profit-jumps-as-north-sea-investment-generates-tax-break.html
EnQuest Plc (ENQ) , the North Sea oil and
gas producer, said profit almost doubled in the first half as
new investments allowed the company to reduce its  tax rate .  Profit after tax climbed to $129 million from $69 million a
year earlier, while tax losses increased to about $580 million,
the company said in a statement in  London  today. The company’s
effective tax rate will be 31.5 percent this year, compared with
a typical rate of about 70 percent, Chief Financial Officer
Jonathan Swinney said in an interview.  Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  promised to
increase tax allowances for smaller oil and gas fields to
encourage investment after he introduced a surprise tax increase
on oil production profits in 2011. EnQuest said today it’s on
track to increase production 20 percent a year through 2014.  “We’re pleased with the small fields allowance, it’s added
to incentives to invest,” Chief Executive Officer Amjad Bseisu
said in an interview. “We’re confident in the future.”  Output in the first half slipped 20 percent to 20,253
barrels of oil equivalent a day as the company had to replace a
well in the Don fields. Production will pick up in the second
half, it said. The Heather/Broom field was hit by the closing of
the Ninian pipeline, which has since reopened, it said.  The shares slipped 1 percent to 114.9 pence in London. The
stock has gained 24 percent this year.  Kildrummy Discovery  EnQuest increased its stake in the Kraken discovery to 60
percent in the first half, which it is developing with  Cairn
Energy Plc. (CNE)  It will also start appraisal drilling on the
Kildrummy discovery in the fourth quarter.  Bseisu said the company’s production targets don’t take
into account any potential output from undeveloped discoveries.
EnQuest will seek more acquisitions after making six in the
first half, he said. The company also sold a 35 percent stake in
the Alma/Galia field to Kuwait Foreign Petroleum Exploration Co.
in May.  “We continue to look for opportunities,” Bseisu said.
“We had a busy first half, but I can’t predict what will happen
in the second half.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Swint in London at 
 bswint@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  