-- Mercedes, Lexus, Audi Sedans Earn Poor Crash-Test Ratings
-- B y   A n g e l a   G r e i l i n g   K e a n e
-- 2012-08-14T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-14/mercedes-lexus-audi-sedans-earn-poor-crash-test-ratings.html
Most mid-sized luxury cars scored
“marginal” or “poor” in an insurance industry group’s new
frontal-crash test that differs from the U.S. government’s tests
and simulates a particularly deadly type of accident.  Of the 11 models the  Insurance Institute for Highway Safety 
tested, only the Volvo Car Corp. S60 and Honda Motor Co.’s Acura
TL earned “good” ratings in a test simulating a so-called
small-overlap crash, in which the front corner of a car hits a
tree, utility pole or another vehicle. The Nissan Motor Co.
Infiniti G scored “acceptable.” Volvo is owned by China’s
Zhejiang Geely Holding Group Co.  The Acura TSX,  Bayerische Motoren Werke AG (BMW)  3 Series,  Ford
Motor Co. (F)  Lincoln MKZ and  Volkswagen AG (VOW)  CC scored “marginal.”
 Daimler AG (DAI) ’s Mercedes-Benz C-Class,  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203) ’s  Lexus 
IS 250/350 and ES 350 and Volkswagen’s Audi A4 scored “poor.”  “Nearly every new car performs well in other frontal crash
tests conducted by the institute and the federal government, but
we still see more than 10,000 deaths in frontal crashes each
year,” Institute President Adrian Lund said in the statement.
“Small-overlap crashes are a major source of these
fatalities.”  The test is the first of its kind done by an outside auto-
safety evaluator in the U.S. or  Europe , the insurance group said
today in an e-mailed statement.  The Volkswagen CC’s driver door sheared off its hinges in
the test, the first time the institute had a car completely lose
its door during a crash test.  Severe Crashes  The insurance group found in a 2009 study that in vehicles
rated “good” for front-crash protection, small-overlap crashes
accounted for nearly a quarter of the frontal accidents that
caused serious injury or death to front-seat occupants.  In 2011, 32,310 people died on U.S. roads, according to a
preliminary estimate the  National Highway Traffic Safety
Administration  released in May.  The test involves 25 percent of a car’s front end on the
driver’s side hitting a 5-foot-tall rigid barrier at 40 miles
(64 kilometers) per hour. The test is different from NHTSA’s
front-impact crash test, which simulates a 35-mph crash into a
rigid barrier that’s hit by the full front of the vehicle.  “These are severe crashes, and our new test reflects
that,” Lund said. “Most automakers design their vehicles to
ace our moderate overlap frontal test and NHTSA’s full-width
frontal test, but the problem of small-overlap crashes hasn’t
been addressed. We hope our new rating program will change
that.”  The institute said it started the new test with  luxury
vehicles  because they’re most likely to come equipped with the
latest safety technologies. It plans to test moderately-priced
mid-sized cars next, including the Ford Fusion, Honda Accord and
 Toyota Camry .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Angela Greiling Keane in Washington at 
 agreilingkea@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  