-- Heroin Immune Cell Seen as Hope for 21 Million Abusers
-- B y   J a s o n   G a l e
-- 2012-08-14T21:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-14/heroin-immune-cell-seen-as-hope-for-21-million-abusers.html
Getting high on heroin doesn’t just
stimulate the brain’s electrical wiring. It also fires up the
immune system, according to scientists who say they found a way
to help the 21 million people who may abuse opiates globally.  Immune receptors’ primary purpose is to trigger the body’s
protective mechanisms into action to fight off disease. Now, an
immune receptor in the brain has been found to stimulate the
reward response to heroin and morphine that makes  opioids 
addictive, researchers at the  University of Colorado  and
University of Adelaide in  Australia  said. As a result, it may be
possible to prevent dependence by blocking the immune receptor,
while at the same time amplifying the medical benefits of opioid
painkillers.  “It is fundamentally paradigm shifting,”  Linda R.
Watkins , a professor in the University of  Colorado ’s psychology
and neuroscience department and study co-author, said in an e-mail. “You can’t find a way to solve the problem of addiction
if you don’t know there is a key missing player in all the
models,” she said.  The finding, published today in the  Journal of
Neuroscience , offers an alternative approach to tackling drug
abuse, which the National Institute on Drug Abuse says costs
 $181 billion  a year in the U.S. alone. Previous models of
addiction were focused exclusively on the impulse-conducting
neurons, overlooking the immune contribution, Watkins said.  Killer Drugs  Finding better approaches to treating and preventing
addiction could curb a growing public health problem. There were
359,000 heroin-dependent people in the U.S. in 2010, 68 percent
more than in 2002, according to a  2011 report  by the Substance
Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration.  Heroin, cocaine and other illicit drugs kill about 200,000
people globally each year, the United Nations Office on Drugs
and Crime said in its  2012 World Drugs Report . An estimated 13
million to 21 million people use opiates, particularly heroin.
Cocaine and opioid use may account for  0.7 percent  of the global
burden of disease, the  World Health Organization  estimated.  Studies by Watkins and colleagues in rats and mice
identified a protein called toll-like receptor 4 (TLR4) as the
key component of the immune signaling in drug reward. The
researchers say they were able to block the receptor cells,
which are found on glia, the brain’s neuron-supporting white
matter. The blocking agent is called plus-naloxone, a variant of
Narcan, the  Daiichi Sankyo Co. (4568)  drug given to patients to counter
opiate overdose.  Analgesic Effect  “The most interesting thing about the study is the
suggestion that the addition of plus-naloxone may increase the
analgesic effect of the opioid while reducing its rewarding
effects,” said Wayne Hall, deputy director at the University of
Queensland Centre for Clinical Research in  Brisbane , Australia.
Hall has studied addiction and treatment for about 20 years.  Patient studies combining plus-naloxone with drugs such as
morphine to prevent opioid addiction may start in 18 months,
said  Mark Hutchinson , the first author of the paper and a
researcher at the  University of Adelaide  in  South Australia .
Shutting down the immune pathway also has another beneficial
effect: it improves the pain-relieving potential of opioids.  The researchers performed four experiments to test brain
mechanisms and preference responses of rats and mice given
various regimens of opioids, cocaine, and plus-naloxone as a
TLR4 blocker. The authors found a heightened analgesic response
from the painkillers remifentanil and oxycodone when it was
given with plus-naloxone.  Alcohol Too?  Heroin-dependent rats had their cravings suppressed when
TLR4 was blocked, Watkins said, suggesting it could help prevent
relapse to drug abuse. While the research, which was supported
by the  National Institutes of Health , focused on the potential
to help injecting drug users and abusers of prescription
painkillers, it may have broader application, Hutchinson said.  “If we try to give plus-naloxone to a mouse and try to get
it drunk, it doesn’t get drunk anymore,” he said.  Drugs of abuse tap a reward system in the brain called
dopamine. When they also bind with TLR4, they produce a cascade
of inflammatory chemicals that amplify the dopamine response,
Hutchinson said.  “It raises a lot of interesting questions about where
plus-naloxone works and how it’s doing that, because we really
don’t know that,” said Mark Connor, professor of pharmacology
at Macquarie University in Sydney, who wasn’t involved in the
research. It’s possible plus-naloxone works elsewhere in the
brain and changes preference behavior without necessarily
blocking the addictive properties of opioids, he said.  ‘It’s going to provoke a lot of debate in the opioid
field,’’ said Connor. “There are going to be people rushing to
repeat these experiments.’”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jason Gale in Melbourne at 
 j.gale@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jason Gale at 
 j.gale@bloomberg.net ;
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  