-- European Stocks Rise on German GDP Report
-- B y   P e t e r   L e v r i n g
-- 2012-08-14T15:57:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-14/european-stock-futures-rise-on-boj-minutes.html
European stocks  gained, rebounding
from a two-day decline, as a report showed German growth slowed
less than forecast, while minutes revealed that several  Bank of
Japan  policy makers are prepared to stimulate the economy.  Standard Life Plc (SL/)  rallied 8.1 percent as first-half profit
at Scotland’s biggest insurer rose 15 percent. A.P. Moeller-
Maersk A/S advanced 3.2 percent after increasing the full-year
forecast for its container-shipping unit.  CRH Plc (CRH)  plunged 4.8
percent after saying a European sales decline will worsen.  The  Stoxx Europe 600 Index (SXXP)  gained 0.7 percent to 270.54 at
the close. The gauge has  rallied 16 percent from this year’s low 
on June 4 as European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  said
that he will do anything to protect the 17-nation currency.  “While not great in any way, German and French GDP numbers
were better than expected, which adds to the scenario that there
is no risk of an imminent euro break up,” said Alexander Kraemer, a cross-asset strategist at Commerzbank AG in
 Frankfurt . “It shows global growth is not collapsing, which
also helps reduce investment risks.”  The volume of shares changing hands in companies listed on
the Stoxx 600 was 35 percent lower than the average of the last
30 days, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  German GDP  Germany’s economic growth  slowed less in the second quarter
than economists had forecast as exports and household spending
helped to fend off the impact of the sovereign-debt crisis on
 Europe ’s largest economy.  Gross domestic product rose 0.3 percent from the first
quarter, the Federal Statistics Office said in Wiesbaden today.
Economists had predicted a 0.2 percent increase, according to
the  median of 40 estimates  in a Bloomberg News survey.  France’s GDP was unchanged in the quarter, better than the
0.1 percent decline that economists had predicted. The euro-area
economy as a whole contracted 0.2 percent in the three months to
the end of June. That matched estimates.  National benchmark indexes advanced in 15 of the 18
western-European markets today. The U.K.’s FTSE 100 gained 0.6
percent, while  Germany ’s DAX rose 0.9 percent. France’s CAC 40
added 0.7 percent. Ireland’s ISEQ Index slid 1.1 percent.  In  Tokyo , minutes of the BOJ’s last meeting showed several
board members said the central bank should not dismiss any
policy options in combating risks to the economy.  BOJ Minutes  “A few members said that  Japan ’s economy could be
adversely affected through various channels if, for example, a
substantial risk materialized, stemming from the European debt
problem,” the bank said in  the minutes  of the July 11-12
meeting. “These members continued that the bank should
therefore stand ready to take appropriate actions without ruling
out any options in advance.”  A U.S. Commerce Department release showed that  retail sales 
rose in July more than economists had predicted. They climbed
0.8 percent, their first advance in four months, exceeding the
0.3 percent  median estimate of economists  polled by Bloomberg. A
report tomorrow may show output at U.S. factories, mines and
utilities climbed 0.5 percent in July. It increased 0.4 percent
in June.  Standard Life surged 8.1 percent to 277.4 pence as
 operating profit  climbed to 302 million pounds ($474 million)
from 262 million pounds a year earlier. That beat the 263
million-pound  median prediction  of six analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg due to increased sales of fee-based savings products
and lower acquisition costs.  Standard Life  “We are well prepared for the regulatory and market
changes on the horizon, and have invested to make sure we are
even better placed to meet the needs of our customers and their
advisers,” Chief Executive Officer David Nish said.  Maersk advanced 3.2 percent to 41,880 kroner after
reporting that its container business, the world’s largest,
returned to profit in the second quarter as freight rates
jumped. The company predicted a modest full-year profit for the
unit. It had projected a “negative to neutral” result.  Aker Solutions ASA (AKSO)  climbed 5.7 percent to 101.50 kroner.
The Norwegian oil-services company reported second-quarter
profit and sales that beat estimates.  Galp Energia SGPS SA (GALP)  rose 1.3 percent to 11.72 euros after
Portugal’s biggest oil producer said tests confirmed the
presence of good quality crude at a well off the coast of  Brazil 
known as Carcara. Galp holds a 14 percent stake in the
consortium exploring the Carcara well.  CRH slid 4.8 percent to 14.76 euros in Dublin after the
 building-materials group  said that comparable sales will drop
more than 5 percent in the second half of this year.  Hochtief AG (HOT)  declined 2.3 percent to 40 euros as Germany’s
largest builder said that its profit targets for the year have
become more challenging. The company set aside money for a
delayed concert-hall project. It posted a  second-quarter net
loss  of 15 million euros.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Levring in Copenhagen at 
 plevring1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  