-- Euro-Area Economic Output Contracted on Spain: Economy
-- B y   S i m o n e   M e i e r
-- 2012-08-14T14:25:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-14/euro-area-economy-contracted-in-2nd-quarter-on-italy-spain-1-.html
The euro-area economy shrank in the
second quarter after the worsening debt crisis and tougher
budget cuts forced at least six nations into recessions.  Gross domestic product  in the 17-nation currency bloc fell
0.2 percent from the first quarter, when it stagnated, the
European Union’s statistics office in Luxembourg said today.
That’s in line with the  median estimate  of 35 economists in a
Bloomberg survey. The contraction was softened by stronger-than-
forecast growth in  Germany , the region’s largest economy.  Europe ’s slump is deepening as governments struggle to
restore investor confidence and companies eliminate jobs. While
Germany’s economy helped to support the euro region in the first
half, surveys are weakening, with a gauge of  investor confidence 
dropping in August. The  Bank of Japan (8301)  today cited the euro
turmoil among risks to its economy.  “The ongoing recession in  large parts  of the periphery
will continue to hold back euro-zone growth,” said Martin Van Vliet, an economist at ING Bank in Amsterdam. “Any recovery
will likely remain sluggish and fragile. There are a lot of
things that could go wrong on the crisis resolution that could
derail the envisaged recovery.”  Stocks Rise  The euro advanced 0.1 percent against the dollar and traded
at $1.2345 as of 3:20 p.m. in  London .  Stocks rose after data showed Germany’s economy grew 0.3
percent in the second quarter and U.S. retail sales increased
more than forecast in July. The  Stoxx Europe 600 Index (SXXP)  gained
0.4 percent, while Germany’s DAX Index jumped 0.7 percent. The
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index added 0.2 percent.  The second-quarter expansion in Germany compared with
economists’ forecast for growth of 0.2 percent. While  France ’s
economy stalled for a third straight quarter, that was also
better than the 0.1 percent contraction economists had
predicted.  Italy’s economy contracted for a fourth straight quarter,
shrinking 0.7 percent. In  Spain , which received external aid
earlier this year, GDP dropped 0.4 percent from the first
quarter, when it fell 0.3 percent.  Portugal ’s economy contracted
1.2 percent in that period and Cyprus also remained in a
recession.  The statistics office didn’t release quarterly data for
Ireland and Malta. Both economies contracted in the first
quarter.  Greece ’s GDP is set to drop for a fifth straight year.  From a year earlier, overall euro-area GDP dropped 0.4
percent in the second quarter.  Economic Outlook  Recent indicators suggest the  economic slump  may deepen in
the current quarter. Euro-area services and manufacturing output
contracted for a sixth month in July and  unemployment  held at a
record of 11.2 percent in June. German investor confidence fell
to the lowest this month since December 2011.  “The German economy has been softening throughout the
second quarter,” said Evelyn Herrmann, an economist at BNP
Paribas in London. Surveys “signal that more softening in
growth is to come in the third quarter, as the resilience of the
German economy to euro-zone stress is waning.”  Deutsche Bank, Germany’s largest lender, said on July 31
that it will eliminate 1,900 jobs by the end of the year,
including 1,500 in the investment bank and support areas, as
part of an effort to lower costs.  PSA Peugeot Citroen (UG) , Europe’s
second-biggest carmaker, has announced 8,000 job cuts and  RWE
AG (RWE) , Germany’s second-largest utility, said today it will
eliminate 2,400 further positions.  U.S. Retails  Elsewhere,  retail sales  in the U.S. rose 0.8 percent, the
first gain in four months, the Commerce Department in  Washington 
said. Economists projected a 0.3 percent increase, according a
Bloomberg survey. Sales excluding automobiles also climbed 0.8
percent.  In a separate report today, the EU statistics office said
that euro-area  industrial production  fell 0.6 percent in June
from the previous month, when it advanced 0.9 percent.
Economists in a Bloomberg survey had forecast a drop of 0.7
percent. Output fell 2.1 percent from a year earlier.  Heinrich Hiesinger, chief executive officer at  ThyssenKrupp
AG (TKA) , Germany’s largest steelmaker, said on Aug. 10 that customers
are showing a “high level of caution.” Commerzbank AG,
Germany’s second-biggest bank, said last week profit will fall
“significantly” in the second half.  “We still do not expect the macroeconomic and market
environment to stabilize in the second half of 2012,”
Commerzbank Chief Financial Officer Stephan Engels said.  Policy Response  With the fiscal crisis weighing on sentiment and eroding
growth prospects, policy makers have been under pressure to step
up stimulus measures. The U.S. Federal Reserve pledged earlier
this month to take new policy steps as needed to promote
stronger growth and employment. The  Bank of England  held its key
rate at 0.5 percent and its bond-purchase target at 375 billion
pounds ($589 billion).  Some Bank of  Japan  board members said the central bank
should not dismiss any policy options in combating risks to the
economy from the European sovereign debt crisis, the minutes
released in  Tokyo  showed today. The central bank should “stand
ready to take appropriate actions without ruling out any options
in advance,” they said, according to the minutes.  European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  said on Aug. 2
that the ECB may purchase  government bonds  in tandem with
Europe’s rescue funds to fight the crisis. The central bank in
July cut its benchmark  interest rate  to 0.75 percent, a record
low, and has injected more than 1 trillion euros ($1.24
trillion) of cheap three-year loans to encourage lending.  The ECB’s quarterly survey of professional forecasters
showed the euro-area economy may contract 0.3 percent this year
instead of a previously projected 0.2 percent. The economy will
expand 0.6 percent and 1.4 percent in 2013 and 2014, it said.  The euro region’s statistics office is scheduled to publish
a breakdown of euro-area second-quarter GDP next month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simone Meier in Zurich at 
 smeier@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  