-- Euro Climbs Second Day on German GDP as Yen Drops Versus Peers
-- B y   L u k a n y o   M n y a n d a   a n d   E l e a n o r   L a w r i e
-- 2012-08-14T12:03:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-14/euro-climbs-a-second-day-as-german-gdp-slows-less-than-forecast.html
The euro rose for a second day
against the dollar and the yen as German growth slowed less than
economists forecast and  France  unexpectedly avoided a
contraction.  The shared currency stayed higher even after reports showed
euro-area gross domestic product shrank and investor confidence
fell in  Germany . The yen weakened at least 0.3 percent against
its 16 major counterparts as stocks rallied and minutes of the
 Bank of Japan (8301) ’s July meeting signaled policy makers are
considering expanding stimulus. The krona gained as Swedish
industrial production in June rose more than analysts estimated.
The dollar slipped amid bets retail sales climbed last month.  “The market had priced in the weak data coming from  Europe 
so I’m not expecting it to react too much,” said  Ian Stannard ,
head of European foreign-exchange strategy at Morgan Stanley in
 London . “The euro will extend its recovery in the near term as
risk assets continue to perform reasonably well and European
equity markets recover ground.”  Europe’s 17-nation currency rose 0.5 percent to 97.07 yen
at 7:56 a.m.  New York  time, adding to yesterday’s 0.4 percent
increase. That’s the first time the euro has gained versus its
Japanese counterpart on consecutive days since July 27. The euro
appreciated 0.1 percent to $1.2350. The yen fell 0.4 percent to
78.64 per dollar.  The euro may climb to $1.2445 in the next week, which may
prompt more gains toward $1.26, Stannard said.  Growth Data  German GDP rose 0.3 percent in the second quarter, data
from the Federal Statistics Office in Wiesbaden showed today,
beating the 0.2 percent median prediction of 40 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg News. French GDP was unchanged in the
quarter, better than the 0.1 percent decline economists had
predicted, according to data from Insee, the national statistics
office in Paris.  The euro-area economy contracted 0.2 percent from the first
quarter, in line with analyst estimates.  The ZEW Center for European Economic Research in Mannheim
said its index of investor and analyst expectations, which aims
to predict economic developments six months in advance, declined
to minus 25.5 from minus 19.6 in July. A Bloomberg survey
predicted a gain to minus 19.3.  The  Stoxx Europe 600 Index (SXXP)  of shares rose for the first
time in three days, climbing 0.4 percent. U.S. index futures
also advanced, reducing demand for the dollar and the yen as
havens from financial turmoil.  ‘Modest Spike’  The euro has had the biggest decline this year among 10
major currencies tracked by Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted
Indexes, falling 5.6 percent. The dollar has lost 0.3 percent
and the yen slipped 2.7 percent. The  New Zealand dollar  climbed
4.2 percent while its Australian peer rose 3.1 percent.  While Germany defied the debt crisis in the first half of
the year as unemployment at a two-decade low and rising wages
bolstered domestic spending, the worsening turmoil is starting
to take its toll. Demand for German goods is waning in its
biggest export market amid recessions in countries including
Italy and  Greece .  “Within the broad sweep of data that we’ve seen over the
course of the last month it’s just a modest spike of light,”
said  Simon Derrick , chief currency strategist at  Bank of New
York Mellon Corp. (BK)  in London. “There’s potential for further
flight from the euro.”  BOJ Decision  The euro may end 2012 at about $1.17 or $1.18, Derrick
said. That’s more bearish than the $1.22 median of 52 analyst
and economist predictions compiled by Bloomberg.  Declines by the European common currency below its 21-day
moving average may signal a drop to 94.12 yen,  Citigroup Inc. (C) ’s
Tokyo-based currency strategist Osamu Takashima wrote in a
report published today. The level was last seen on July 24 and
was the least since November 2000, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. “The downside risk for the pair must obviously be
larger than the upside,” Takashima wrote.  The BOJ avoided adding stimulus at its July meeting,
expanding its asset-purchase program to 45 trillion yen from 40
trillion, while cutting its loan facility to 25 trillion yen
from 30 trillion yen.  A few board members said the BOJ shouldn’t rule out any
options in advance, while one said price gains without economic
improvement are not good, minutes of the gathering showed today.
The BOJ established an inflation goal in February.  The  Dollar Index  slipped for a third day as demand for the
American currency as a haven waned before the  retail sales  data.  The 0.3 percent increase in purchases would follow a 0.5
percent drop in June, according to the  median  forecast of 85
economists surveyed by Bloomberg News. Another report may show
prices paid by producers rose last month.  IntercontinentalExchange Inc. (ICE) ’s Dollar Index fell 0.1
percent to 82.376.  Sweden’s krona gained 0.4 percent to 8.2435 against the
euro and was 0.5 percent firmer at 6.6759 versus the dollar.  Swedish industrial output rose an annual 1.1 percent and a
monthly 0.4 percent in June. Analysts surveyed by Bloomberg
expected annual production would fall 1.1 percent and predicted
a monthly decline of 1 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lukanyo Mnyanda in Edinburgh at 
 lmnyanda@bloomberg.net ;
Eleanor Lawrie in London at 
 elawrie@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at   dtilles@bloomberg.net  