-- Texas Instruments Courts Windows RT Partners as Toshiba Wavers
-- B y   I a n   K i n g
-- 2012-08-14T22:31:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-14/texas-instruments-courts-windows-rt-partners-as-toshiba-wavers.html
Texas Instruments Inc. (TXN)  said it’s in
talks with electronics manufacturers other than  Toshiba Corp. (6502) 
that can help it land processors in computers running  Microsoft
Corp. (MSFT) ’s Windows RT operating system.  The Dallas-based chipmaker needs new potential partners
after Toshiba canceled plans to make two machines that run
Windows RT. The Japanese company said it may reconsider the
decision in the future.  The new operating system represents a push by Microsoft to
encourage electronics makers to develop handheld devices that
might erode  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s dominance of the market with its iPad
tablet.  “Toshiba’s decision by no means signals the end of the
road for TI’s work on Windows RT, or the focus on the mobile
computing market,” said Melissa Haddad, a spokeswoman for Texas
Instruments. “We have a long view on successes in Windows RT,
and continue to be excited about our work there.”  Texas Instruments also will keep working with Toshiba on
possible Windows RT devices, Haddad said. The company is in
talks with “other customers” about Windows RT devices, she
said. She declined to identify the other companies or give
details on why Toshiba abandoned its plans to make a tablet and
laptop computer based on Texas Instruments’ OMAP processor.  Microsoft on Aug. 13 said Dell Inc., Samsung Electronics
Co., Lenovo Group Ltd. and Asustek Computer Inc. will make
computers and tablets using Windows RT, which will be released
on Oct. 26. The new operating system works on chips based on ARM
Holdings Plc technology.  Toshiba said it will concentrate on the alternative Windows
8 software that works on Intel Corp. technology and had stopped
work on RT devices because unspecified components weren’t going
to be ready in time.  “For confidentiality reasons we cannot reveal which
component was delayed,” Jared Leavitt, a U.S.-based spokesman
for Tokyo-based Toshiba, said yesterday.  Mark Martin , a spokesman for Microsoft, declined to
comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ian King in  San Francisco  at 
 ianking@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  