-- Facebook Director Thiel Gets More Flexibility to Sell
-- B y   B r i a n   W o m a c k
-- 2012-08-15T20:40:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-14/facebook-director-thiel-gets-more-flexibility-for-selling-shares.html
Facebook Inc. (FB)  director Peter Thiel,
who sold more than 16 million shares in the company’s initial
public offering, has given himself added flexibility to sell
more of his holdings, a regulatory filing shows.  Thiel, one of Facebook’s earliest investors, converted more
than 9 million shares to Class A from Class B, according to a
 document  filed Aug. 10 with the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission. Thiel, a venture capitalist and hedge-fund manager
whose proceeds from the IPO topped $630 million, holds a stake
worth more than $590 million.  Class A shares are more easily traded publicly, said  Erik Gordon , a professor at the Ross School of Business at the
 University of Michigan . The status change could add to
speculation that big investors -- such as Thiel and Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. -- will sell shares when restrictions on sales
are lifted. That, plus concern over advertising-sales growth,
has dragged down Facebook shares 44 percent this year.  “It’s certainly not a vote of confidence when a guy who
knows as much about it as  Peter Thiel  knows about it wants to
get the rest of his stock into a position so that he can sell it
quickly,” Gordon said.  Thiel holds about 27.9 million Facebook shares and most
already carry Class A status, according to  regulatory filings .
Other early holders, such as venture capital firm  Accel
Partners , hold mostly Class A shares. Of those held by Accel and
its affiliates, 135.7 million are Class A, while 7.9 million are
Class B, according to regulatory filings.  Lockup Expiring  Because Class B shares give holders greater voting power
than Class A stock, Thiel also is surrendering some of his
control over the company.  Facebook raised $16 billion on May 17 in the largest-ever
technology IPO. Investors have been shunning the stock on
concern over the company’s ability to make money from mobile
users.  The lockup on shares held by investors begins to expire on
Aug. 16. The move by Thiel doesn’t necessarily suggest that he’s
bearish on the company’s prospects or that he’ll sell
immediately, said Michael Pachter, an analyst at Wedbush
Securities Inc.  Jonathan Cain, spokesman for Thiel, declined to comment, as
did Ashley Zandy, a spokeswoman for Facebook.  Facebook, based in  Menlo Park ,  California , increased 4
percent to $21.20 at the close today in  New York .  Cashing Out  Thiel co-founded PayPal Inc. and served as chief executive
officer until the company was bought by  EBay Inc. (EBAY)  for $1.5
billion in 2002. Thiel, as a member of the so-called “PayPal
Mafia,” used his fortune to start hedge fund Clarium Capital
Management and to invest in startups.  One of those startups was Facebook, a social-networking
service devoted to college campuses at the time of the
investment in 2004. Thiel invested $500,000 in Facebook and the
following year co-founded a venture-capital firm called the
Founders Fund. That firm is among the investment arms that have
converted Class B shares to Class A.  Other Founders Fund investments include Spotify Ltd.,
 Europe ’s largest legal online music site, Yammer Inc., a social-
networking service for businesses that was sold to  Microsoft
Corp. (MSFT)  earlier this year. The firm also invested in Elon Musk’s
Space Exploration Technologies Corp., or SpaceX.  While his investments have given him attention, Thiel has
also gained notoriety in the field of education. He now uses
some of his wealth in his 20 Under 20 Thiel Fellowship program,
which pays students as much as $100,000 each, over two years, to
leave college and pursue startups.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Womack in  San Francisco  at 
 bwomack1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  