-- Fed’s Dudley Backs Overhaul of Money Fund Rules
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   C o n d o n
-- 2012-08-15T13:26:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-14/fed-s-dudley-backs-money-fund-rules-to-guard-u-s-economy.html
William C. Dudley, president of the
 Federal Reserve Bank of New York , said new rules are needed to
protect the financial system from a run on money-market mutual
funds, lending his support to a regulatory overhaul proposed by
U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission Chairman  Mary Schapiro .  “A glaring vulnerability exists with money-market mutual
funds,” Dudley wrote today in a Bloomberg View column. “Money
funds should have capital buffers and modest limits on investor
withdrawals. Such reforms are necessary to protect the economy
from financial instability in the future.”  Capital cushions and redemption restrictions are part of
Schapiro’s plan to bolster money-fund regulation. She has so far
failed to win enough backing among her four fellow
commissioners, who may vote as early as this month on whether to
ask for public comment or kill the proposal.  Any of 105 U.S. money funds with combined assets of about
$1 trillion could have been forced below its $1 share price by a
single default among its 20 biggest borrowers, Dudley wrote in
the column, citing Treasury data.  The number of vulnerable funds increased to 219 if a
default occurred among any fund’s top 10 borrowers, according to
the annual report of the Treasury’s  Office of Financial Research 
published last month. The study assumed 40 percent recovery on
all unsecured lending and full recovery on a fund’s repurchase
agreements.  Industry Opposition  Federal Reserve Bank of Boston President  Eric Rosengren  has
also publicly supported Schapiro’s plan. Other prominent
supporters include Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner ; his
predecessor,  Henry Paulson ; and former Fed Chairman  Paul Volcker .  They are opposed by the funds industry, which has lobbied
against the proposal; the U.S. Chamber of Commerce; and
lawmakers including Senator Patrick Toomey, a Pennsylvania
Republican.  Regulators have worked to make money funds more stable
since the September 2008 collapse of the $62.5 Reserve Primary
Fund. Its closing after its share price “broke the buck” by
falling below $1 triggered a wider run on funds that helped
freeze global credit markets. The withdrawals abated after the
Treasury Department guaranteed shareholders against losses for a
year and the  Federal Reserve  began buying securities at face
value to help funds meet redemptions.  Withdrawal Limits  Schapiro’s plan would force funds to abandon their fixed $1
share price or introduce withdrawal limits and capital buffers,
a move industry executives say would destroy the $2.5 trillion
product. Floating net-asset values would be a “significant
improvement” over the stable $1 share price because “it would
reduce the incentive for shareholders to get out early in times
of stress,” Dudley said. “But it wouldn’t eliminate the
incentive to run altogether.”  The SEC passed rules in 2010 that introduced liquidity
minimums, new disclosures and shorter maturity limits. Congress
has since prohibited the Treasury from acting similarly again
and restricted the Fed’s ability provide emergency liquidity.  Regulators say they worry that money funds, the biggest
source of short-term credit in the U.S., remain vulnerable to
investor runs and could again further destabilize markets during
a crisis.  “Contrary to what some in the industry suggest, run risk
didn’t end when the SEC sensibly tightened rules on money-fund
holdings in 2010,” Dudley wrote.  Doubting ‘Demise’  He also disputed the industry’s contention that Schapiro’s
plan would destroy the appeal of money funds and deprive
companies, cities and states of a valuable source of funding.  “I seriously doubt that the reforms I propose would lead
to the demise or even the radical restructuring of the money-
market-fund industry,” he wrote.  Moody’s Investors Service said today that the credit
profiles of money funds denominated in U.S. dollars, British
pounds and euros deteriorated in the second quarter due to
“credit pressures on financial institutions in both Europe and
the U.S.”  About 8 percent of the underlying investments by U.S.
dollar funds shifted to A2 from A1 or higher rated securities
“mostly due to the credit deterioration of banks and securities
firms with global capital markets operations,” the rating
company said in a statement. Euro-denominated funds saw a
similar shift in 20 percent of investments.  Aguilar’s Vote  Schapiro’s plan is supported by commissioner Ellise B.
Walter and opposed by  Troy Paredes  and Daniel M. Gallagher. Luis A. Aguilar has signaled his opposition without saying whether he
would kill it before inviting public comment.  Money-market funds are regulated by the SEC. If the agency
doesn’t pass additional rules, the Financial Stability Oversight
Council, a panel created by 2010’s Dodd-Frank Act, could subject
them to direct oversight by the Fed. Charged with identifying
threats to the financial stability of the U.S., the FSOC is
headed by the Secretary of the Treasury and its nine other
voting members include the Fed chairman and heads of the SEC and
Federal Deposit Insurance Corp.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Condon in Boston at 
 ccondon4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  