-- First Reserve Said to Be in Talks to Buy Chemical Maker TPC
-- B y   J e f f r e y   M c C r a c k e n   a n d   Z a c h a r y   R .   M i d e r
-- 2012-08-14T16:42:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-14/first-reserve-said-to-be-in-talks-to-buy-chemical-maker-tpc.html
First Reserve Corp., a private-
equity firm focused on energy and natural resources, is in
exclusive talks to buy chemical maker  TPC Group Inc. (TPCG) , said a
person with knowledge of the matter.  The companies are weeks away from an agreement, said the
person, who asked not to be named because the discussions are
private. The deal could fall through, the person said. A buyout
of Houston-based TPC may fetch about $40 a share, or more than
$600 million, not including  debt , a person familiar with the
talks said last month.  A deal for TPC could represent a bet by First Reserve that
natural-gas prices will remain low, leading to a scarcity of
butadiene, a component of synthetic rubber of which TPC is the
largest producer. Low gas prices have prompted producers to use
the fuel to make ethylene, a process that creates less butadiene
as a byproduct than other methods.  Sara Cronin, a TPC spokeswoman, and Lisa Cradit, a
spokeswoman for Greenwich, Connecticut-based First Reserve,
declined to comment.  Previous negotiations to acquire TPC, which included
chemical makers and buyout firms, collapsed earlier this year
after the company’s stock price jumped, people familiar with the
matter said last month. TPC fell 0.1 percent $38.62 at 12:40
p.m.  New York  and had advanced 66 percent this year through
yesterday.  First Reserve, founded in 1983 and led by Chairman and
Chief Executive Officer William Macaulay, typically focuses on
buyouts in the oil and gas, power, infrastructure and mining
industries. Some of its biggest deals include the acquisition of
Abbot Group Ltd., the Scottish oil-services firm, and an
investment in  Glencore International Plc (GLEN) , the Swiss commodities
trader.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeffrey McCracken in New York at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net ;
Zachary R. Mider in New York at 
 zmider1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeffrey McCracken at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net  