-- Fisker Hires Former GM Volt Chief Posawatz as CEO
-- B y   A l a n   O h n s m a n
-- 2012-08-14T18:55:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-14/fisker-hires-former-gm-volt-chief-posawatch-as-ceo.html
Fisker Automotive Inc., a maker of
luxury plug-in hybrid cars backed by U.S. government loans,
hired the former head of  General Motors Co. (GM) ’s rechargeable Volt
program as its new chief executive officer.  Tony Posawatz , 52, who was vehicle line director for the
Chevrolet Volt from 2006 until this year, succeeds Tom LaSorda
as CEO of Fisker, the Anaheim, California-based company said
today on a conference call. Posawatz left GM in July.  Posawatz’s “depth of knowledge and experience in this
innovative field of new technology means that he is one of the
world’s most experienced leaders in vehicle electrification
technology,” Henrik Fisker, co-founder of the startup carmaker,
said today in an e-mailed statement.  Fisker is changing leadership as it works to improve its
sales and finances and after losing access last year to a
portion of a $529 million low-interest loan awarded by the U.S.
Energy Department in 2009. The company said yesterday it’s also
reviewing a fire involving a $103,000 Karma that occurred Aug.
10 in Woodside,  California , the second such incident this year.  Fisker in February stopped work at a Wilmington, Delaware,
factory where it planned to build a second car model after being
cut off from the funds. The company said today it had no new
developments to report related to that project.  Leonardo DiCaprio  Closely held Fisker has delivered about 1,900 Karmas,
 Henrik Fisker  said today on the conference call. The company
counts actor  Leonardo DiCaprio  as a customer and investor.  The Karma is able to travel as far as 50 miles (80
kilometers) on  lithium-ion batteries  before a gasoline engine is
activated. The Chevrolet Volt, using similar technology, goes 38
miles per charge before the engine powers the vehicle.  “There’s not many companies developing electric vehicles
with extended range,” Posawatz said on the call. “I happen to
know a little bit about that area.”  Posawatz will work improve Fisker’s Karma business as well
as bring the Atlantic, the company’s second model, to market
smoothly, said Henrik Fisker, who also holds the title of
executive chairman.  “Tony’s got more experience than anyone other than Henrik
in the whole electrified space of range-extended vehicles,”
said LaSorda, 58, who will remain an adviser to Fisker.  LaSorda previously was president of the predecessor of
Chrysler Group LLC. He was Fisker’s CEO from Feb. 28 until
today, succeeding Henrik Fisker. His departure from the CEO post
makes Posawatz the third executive to hold the job this year.  LaSorda also worked at the former General Motors Corp.
until 2000.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alan Ohnsman in  Los Angeles  at 
 aohnsman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  