-- Focus Media Call Volume Surged Before LBO Announcement
-- B y   N i c k   G e n t l e   a n d   K a n a   N i s h i z a w a
-- 2012-08-14T16:40:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-14/focus-media-call-volume-surged-before-lbo-announcement.html
Trading in bullish  Focus Media 
Holding Ltd. options reached the highest level since November
before the Chinese advertising company announced a leveraged
buyout by private-equity firms including  Carlyle Group LP. (CG)   More than 29,000 calls to buy the stock changed hands on
Aug. 10, five times the four-week average and the highest since
Nov. 21, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The shares
jumped 7.6 percent that day, the most since Feb. 1. Focus Media
surged 8.9 percent to $25.45 in  New York  yesterday after the
Shanghai-based company said bidders made a “non-binding” offer
of $27 for each American depositary share.  Traders speculating on takeovers may use  call options  that
convey the right to acquire shares for a given price by a
certain date because they usually offer higher returns than
stock. The surge follows regulatory scrutiny of a similar jump
in bullish contracts before Cnooc Ltd. bid $15.1 billion for
 Canada ’s  Nexen Inc. (NXY)  That incident prompted the U.S. Securities
and Exchange Commission to allege insider trading against people
connected to the Chinese company.  “There was probably some leaking, and some people knew the
news,” said  Alex Wong , asset-management director at Ample Asset
Management Ltd. in Hong Kong. “This is suspicious but I don’t
think all the people trading the calls knew the news. There were
probably some followers using the monitoring system.”  Three phone calls to Jing Lu, a spokesman for Focus Media,
were unanswered. Judith Burns, a spokeswoman for the SEC,
declined to comment.  Muddy Waters  The bid for Focus Media values the company, which trades on
the Nasdaq Stock Market, at about $3.5 billion, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. The deal is priced higher than where
Focus’s shares were in November, when short seller  Carson Block ’s  Muddy Waters  LLC began targeting the stock.  In addition to Washington-based Carlyle, the bidders for
Focus Media are Chinese firms FountainVest Partners, Citic
Capital Partners, CDH Investments and  China Everbright Ltd. (165) , the
company said in the statement. Joining the group is Jason Nanchun Jiang, Focus Media’s chief executive officer.  September call options with strike prices at $22 had the
biggest increase in ownership between Aug. 9 and yesterday,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. August calls with $24
and $23 strikes had the second- and third-largest increases
respectively. Total open interest in Focus Media call options
jumped 12 percent on Aug. 10, the data show. Ownership of puts
rose 3.6 percent.  Bullish Trading  “It looks like there was bullish trading ahead of the
news,” Frederic Ruffy, a senior options strategist at
WhatsTrading.com, said in an Aug. 13 interview. “There were no
news to explain the relative strength in the Chinese media
company on Friday.”  Carolyn Lim, a spokeswoman for  Singapore  Exchange Ltd.,
which hosts American depositary receipts of Focus Media, did not
immediately respond to e-mailed questions. Angelina Fernandez, a
spokeswoman for the Monetary Authority of Singapore, the city-
state’s regulator, also didn’t immediately respond to e-mailed
questions.  The U.S. SEC obtained a second emergency court order this
month to freeze assets of traders who allegedly profited from
insider knowledge of Cnooc’s bid for Nexen. The SEC said the
traders opened a U.S. brokerage account through Hong Kong-based
CSI Capital Management Ltd. a week before the Cnooc-Nexen deal.  On July 27, the SEC announced it suspected  insider trading 
on the deal with a court order to freeze the assets of traders
who allegedly reaped more than $13 million from illegal trading.
Bloomberg data showed trading in bullish Nexen  contracts  reached
the highest level since 2008 before Cnooc announced it would buy
the energy company.  Nexen’s stock rose more than 50 percent on July 23 after
Beijing-based Cnooc said it would pay $15.1 billion in cash to
acquire the Calgary-based company.  “Seeing movements in stock prices in the lead up to an
acquisition has been going on for years and you see it many
jurisdictions,” said Jonathan Foster, Singapore-based based
director of Global Special Situations at Religare Capital
Markets Ltd., who advises on mergers and acquisitions. “It’s
not something that’s confined to Chinese companies.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nick Gentle in  Hong Kong  at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net ;
Kana Nishizawa in Hong Kong at 
 knishizawa5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  