-- Global Food Crisis May Hit Us ‘Very Soon,’ IFPRI’s Fan Says
-- B y   L u z i   A n n   J a v i e r
-- 2012-08-14T06:49:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-14/food-crisis-may-hit-us-very-soon-ifpri-s-fan-says.html
A global  food  crisis may “hit us
very soon” as a drought ravages corn crops in the U.S., the
world’s largest grower, the  International Food Policy Research
Institute  said.  Governments must act to prevent the crisis, Shenggen Fan,
director-general of the institute, said today. The U.S. should
end its biofuel program that uses 40 percent of its corn output,
to boost supplies to meat producers, Fan said. The Washington-
based institute, supported by governments and international
organizations, is part of the Agricultural Market Information
System formed by the  United Nations  to monitor food costs.  “The major problem is policy,” Fan said today in an
interview with Susan Li on Bloomberg Television’s “First Up”.
“Biofuel production has to be stopped. That actually pushed
global food prices higher and many poor people, particularly
women and children, have suffered.”  The price of corn, used in everything from food to
livestock feed to sweeteners, surged to a record $8.49 a bushel
on Aug. 10 and is up 57 percent since June 15. That helped drive
up global food inflation tracked by the UN’s Food & Agriculture
Organization 6.2 percent in July from a month earlier, the
biggest monthly jump since November 2009.  Corn gained as the worst Midwest drought in half a century
cut yields in a nation that produced 36 percent of the 2011-2012
world harvest and accounted for 39 percent of global trade in
the grain, according to the  U.S. Department of Agriculture .  Ethanol Mandate  Jose Graziano da Silva, director-general of the FAO, called
for a suspension of U.S. government-mandated ethanol production
to allow more of the crop to be used for food and livestock
feed, the Financial Times reported Aug. 10.  Twenty-five U.S. senators and 156 members of the  House of
Representatives  have called on the Environmental Protection
Agency to halt or lower the mandate on how much ethanol the
country must use this year and the next.  About 4.5 billion bushels (114.3 million metric tons) of
corn was to be used in U.S. ethanol production in the year
beginning Sept. 1, the USDA estimates. That’s almost as much as
the combined forecast output in Argentina, Brazil and Ukraine,
the three biggest shippers after the U.S., and more than global
imports of 90.86 million tons estimated by the USDA for the year
beginning Oct. 1.  Countries including India and  China  must release their food
stockpiles to help the poor cope with rising costs, and
governments must refrain from imposing export bans to prevent a
repeat of the global food crisis in 2008, Fan said.  U.S. and French officials plan to hold a conference call in
the last week of August to decide whether to organize a meeting
of the Group of 20 officials to discuss surging grain and
soybean prices, the French Agriculture Ministry said yesterday.  “If we don’t take urgent quick action, another crisis will
hit us very soon,” Fan said. “Governments, the global
institutions like the FAO, the  World Bank , and the G-20 need to
monitor the situation, the prices, production, trade and certain
policies.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Luzi Ann Javier in Singapore at 
 ljavier@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  