-- For Stability’s Sake, Reform Money Funds
-- B y   W i l l i a m   C .   D u d l e y
-- 2012-08-14T22:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-14/for-stability-s-sake-reform-money-funds.html
The crisis in the euro area is a
reminder that threats to financial stability are never far away.
While progress has been made on financial reform over the past
two years, more must be done to ensure that the financial system
is robust enough to absorb shocks and still provide the credit
needed for economic growth and  job creation .  A glaring vulnerability exists with money-market mutual
funds. I believe changes along the lines proposed by  Mary Schapiro , the chairman of the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission, are essential. In particular, money funds should
have capital buffers and modest limits on investor withdrawals.
Such reforms are necessary to protect the economy from financial
instability in the future.  Let me explain why. In our modern financial system, most of
the credit to consumers, businesses and governments is supplied
through the  capital markets . This supply of credit depends on
activities that are financed with short-term IOUs issued to
money funds and other institutional investors.  For example, the ability of a car buyer to obtain an auto
loan on good terms rests on the ability of the dealer’s
financing arm to issue commercial paper to fund its inventory of
loans. Likewise, corporations and the government can issue debt
at a reasonable price because of the willingness of securities
dealers to make markets in notes and bonds, and the dealers in
turn rely on their ability to issue short-term debt to finance
their holdings.  Money-market mutual funds are the biggest source of this
type of finance, which economists call short-term wholesale
funding. Money funds finance about 40 percent of the $480
billion financial-sector commercial paper market and about one-
third of the $1.8 trillion tri-party repo market, in which
financial firms borrow against their inventories of securities.  Highly Unreliable  But we discovered in 2007 and 2008 that this type of
funding is highly unreliable in a crisis. We saw that, when
there is stress, money funds and other providers of short-term
wholesale funds are prone to “run,” or to pull back on
financing.  When this happens, credit to the economy suddenly contracts
and financial firms must sell assets at fire-sale prices. These
sales push them toward bankruptcy and generate mark-to-market
losses for other firms holding similar assets. This contagion
further amplifies the contraction of credit, which radiates
broadly through the economy, causing widespread business
failures and job losses.  Runs in the wholesale funding markets, analyzed in the work
of economists such as Gary Gorton and Andrew Metrick, both
finance professors at the  Yale School of Management , and  Darrell Duffie , a finance professor at Stanford’s Graduate School of
Business, are the contemporary equivalent of the depositor runs
that plagued the U.S. banking system 80 years ago. As with old-
fashioned depositor runs, wholesale funding runs can have
devastating consequences for the real economy.  Making our financial system more robust and less vulnerable
to funding runs requires a number of steps, including forcing
banks to rely less on cheap, short-term borrowing and
strengthening the infrastructure of the markets in which
wholesale funding takes place. But money-fund reform has to be
part of the mix.  Money funds are particularly prone to run at times of
stress because the funds themselves are highly exposed to runs
from their own investors. This is due to shortcomings both in
design and regulation. They are marketed as offering stable net-
asset values. Investors who put a dollar in believe they can
always take a dollar out. But this hasn’t always been true, and
it won’t necessarily always be true in the future. Money funds
take risks, and sometimes these risks turn sour.  Tremendous Incentive  When money-fund investors perceive any danger that a fund
could “break the buck,” meaning that it doesn’t have enough
money left to repay investors in full, they have a tremendous
incentive to head for the exit. After all, if they are first in
line, they can get out while the fund can still pay out dollar-
for-dollar, leaving other investors to suffer all the losses.
Large sophisticated investors tend to run first, leaving small
investors behind.  It is true that fund sponsors have in the past often
stepped up to cover such losses. The frequency with which this
has been necessary is hardly reassuring. Most important, sponsor
support may not always be available on a sufficient scale in a
financial crisis.  Consider the experience of 2008. When Lehman Brothers
Holdings Inc. went bankrupt, many money funds suffered
significant losses. Sponsors supported all but one fund, and
that single money fund -- the  Reserve Primary Fund  -- broke the
buck. This triggered a stampede of withdrawals across the sector
that threatened severe consequences for the economy and for
millions of investors. The stampede was halted only when the
 U.S. Treasury  stepped in to guarantee the value of the money
funds, at taxpayer risk, and the Federal Reserve put in place
additional emergency programs to backstop credit markets.  Congress has prevented Treasury from putting a money fund
guarantee of that sort in place again. The 2010 Dodd Frank
financial-reform law also narrowed the scope for future Fed
interventions. This makes it even more essential to fix the
underlying problem.  Contrary to what some in the industry suggest, run risk
didn’t end when the SEC sensibly tightened  rules  on money-fund
holdings in 2010.  Analysis  by the U.S. Treasury’s Office of
Financial Research showed that, as of April this year, no fewer
than 105 money-market funds with more than $1 trillion in assets
were at risk of breaking the buck if any one of their top 20
borrowers were to default.  Redemption Restrictions  The SEC’s Schapiro would address run risk by requiring
money funds to move to floating net-asset values (like most
other mutual funds) or to adopt capital buffers, possibly along
with redemption restrictions.  Floating net-asset values would be a significant
improvement over stable net-asset values. It would reduce the
incentive for shareholders to get out early in times of stress.
But it wouldn’t eliminate the incentive to run altogether. Fund
managers faced with large redemption requests typically sell
their most liquid assets first, leaving the remaining investors
with a riskier, less-liquid portfolio and a greater risk of
loss.  As explained in a  recent paper  by  Federal Reserve 
economists, combining small capital buffers with a requirement
that investors who withdraw funds must maintain a small balance
for a short period to absorb near-term losses would make the
system safer by creating a disincentive to run. The modest
withdrawal restrictions, which create a “minimum balance at
risk,” might be set at 5 cents on the dollar, based on the high-
water mark of recent holdings.  Crucially, the minimum balance retained by those who had
pulled money out would be put in the first-loss position for
about 30 days. This would protect those who remain in the fund
from losses caused by others’ redemptions. Exemptions for small
investors, who are least likely to run, could be considered. For
instance, the first $50,000 of an investor’s redemptions could
be exempt from first loss. Small investors would share
proportionately in any fund losses instead.  A minimum balance would increase market discipline.
Corporations and other sophisticated investors would have an
incentive to monitor risk taking more carefully, rather than
rely on their ability to get out first when trouble
materializes.  Even with such reforms, investors would have instant access
to 95 percent of their money at a fixed-asset value. They would
be able to get the remaining 5 percent 30 days later. This seems
to be a small price to pay for greater financial stability.  I seriously doubt that the reforms I propose would lead to
the demise or even the radical restructuring of the money-
market-fund industry. The funds would still offer a very high
level of liquidity and convenience, but without implicit public
subsidies or features that put the  U.S. economy  at risk.  (William C. Dudley is president of the  Federal Reserve Bank
of New York . The opinions expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View columns, editorials
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on how the private sector can
help  reduce unemployment  and on why a  carbon tax  still makes
sense; Clive Crook on  Paul Ryan  and America’s  bad marriage ;
William Pesek on Japan Airlines Co.’s $8.5 billion  initial
public offering ; Adam Kirsch on the  Tea Party  and  the novel
“Burr.”   To contact the writer of this article:
William C. Dudley at  general.info@ny.frb.org   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
 Paula Dwyer  at  pdwyer11@bloomberg.net  