-- Ford Reviews Product Lineup to Stem Losses in Europe
-- B y   K e i t h   N a u g h t o n
-- 2012-08-14T20:06:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-14/ford-reviews-product-lineup-in-effort-to-stem-losses-in-europe.html
Ford Motor Co. (F) , projecting losses of
more than $1 billion in Europe this year, is examining the
competitiveness of its vehicle lineup and brand in the region as
it draws up a turnaround plan.  “Our results in the last 12 months in Europe are not
acceptable and we need to address that situation,” Stuart Rowley, Ford’s controller, said today at a JPMorgan Chase & Co.
auto conference in  New York . “We are looking at our plan and
will address all aspects of our business, looking at our
structural costs, our product portfolio and our brand.”  Analysts such as Morgan Stanley’s Adam Jonas have been
suggesting that Ford close one or more factories in Europe. The
automaker is using just 63 percent of its production capacity in
the region, according to Morgan Stanley. Ford’s second-quarter
 net income  fell 57 percent to $1.04 billion as operating losses
in Europe widened to $404 million.  “Cost alone cannot get us to where we need to be,” Rowley
said. “Look at our North American business, that’s a good
guide. We continued to invest in our product plan.”  The economic crisis in Europe is denting the revival Chief
Executive Officer  Alan Mulally  has engineered at Ford. The
Dearborn, Michigan-based automaker last month lowered its
outlook for full-year profit, saying it no longer expected to
equal last year’s pretax operating profit of $8.8 billion.  The economy in Europe, which accounts for about a quarter
of Ford’s revenue, is worse than the company anticipated at the
start of 2012 and will stay challenging for at least five more
years, Chief Financial Officer Bob Shanks has said.  ‘Maintaining Margins’  Ford is not cutting prices in Europe as aggressively as
others, Rowley said.  “There’s a lot of discounting,” he said. “We think it’s
very important to focus on maintaining margins as we address our
issues in  Europe .”  Ford rose 0.4 percent to $9.44 at the close in New York.
The  shares  have fallen 12 percent this year.  The company’s European sales fell 10 percent in the first
half, while industrywide deliveries dropped 6.3 percent.  The challenges in Europe, where industry sales have fallen
22 percent since 2007, aren’t simply the result of a cyclical,
recessionary decline, Rowley said. The cost structure of the
European  auto industry , which includes factory capacity, is to
blame for the crisis all carmakers face there, he said.  “We view the issues to be more structural and we need to
consider our plans in that context and we’ll develop them
accordingly,” Rowley said. “We certainly don’t think muddling
along will work.”  In  North America , where Ford generates most of its sales
and profit, second-quarter pretax operating income rose to $2.01
billion, from $1.9 billion last year. The company said North
American operating margin was 10.2 percent.  Higher Debt  Ford has more debt than  General Motors Co. (GM)  and Chrysler
Group LLC because it borrowed $23.4 billion in late 2006 and
avoided the bailouts and bankruptcies that befell the
predecessors of those competitors in 2009. Ford put up all major
 assets  as collateral, including its blue oval logo.  Ford recovered those assets May 22 when Moody’s Investors
Service became the second major rating company, after  Fitch
Ratings , to raise the automaker to investment grade.  Standard &
Poor’s , which rates Ford  one step  below that level, raised its
outlook on the automaker Aug. 10 to “positive” from
“stable.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Keith Naughton in Southfield, Michigan, at 
 knaughton3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  