-- Ford Says Fiesta Vital to Lineup Despite Sales Slump
-- B y   A n g e l a   G r e i l i n g   K e a n e
-- 2012-08-14T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-14/ford-says-fiesta-vital-to-lineup-despite-sales-slump.html
Ford Motor Co. (F) ’s Fiesta subcompact
car will remain an important part of the automaker’s product
line even after U.S. sales slid 25 percent this year, said  Erich Merkle , Ford’s U.S. sales analyst.  Sales of the Fiesta, the smallest car in Ford’s lineup,
have fallen as purchases of the compact Focus have risen 31
percent through July 31 in the U.S. Volatile  gasoline  prices
will help sales of both models, Merkle said.  “The small-car segment, given its size, the largest in the
industry, is large enough for two vehicles,” Merkle said
yesterday in an interview in Washington. The Fiesta is the
second-best selling vehicle globally for Ford, based in Dearborn,
 Michigan , after the Focus.  The company’s U.S. market share declined to 15.6 percent
this year through July from 16.9 percent a year earlier as its
5.1 percent sales gain lagged the industry’s 14 percent increase,
according to researcher Autodata Corp. Ford’s North American
unit earned $2.01 billion in pretax operating profit last
quarter while the company lost money in  Europe  and other markets.  Ford’s F-series pickups will post a sales increase this
year despite last month’s 0.4 percent gain from a year earlier,
Merkle said. Pickup truck sales normally increase in the second
half of the year, he said. F-Series sales rose 12 percent in the
first seven months.  An improvement in the housing industry would help those
sales along, he said. New U.S. home construction rose to the
highest level in almost four years in June.  Housing starts  rose
6.9 percent that month to an annual pace of 760,000, according
to the Commerce Department.  Ford, the second-largest U.S. automaker, sees U.S. vehicle
sales on pace for the low end of its forecast of 14.5 million to
15 million vehicles this year, Merkle said. The figures include
medium- and heavy-duty trucks. Confidence among U.S. consumers
rose in July following four months of declines, the Conference
Board’s  index  showed.  Ford shares rose 0.5 percent to $9.40 at the close in  New
York . The shares have fallen 13 percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Angela Greiling Keane in  Washington  at 
 agreilingkea@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  