-- Fracking Hazards Obscured in Failure to Disclose Wells
-- B y   B e n j a m i n   H a a s ,   J i m   P o l s o n ,   P h i l   K u n t z   a n d   B e n   E l g i n
-- 2012-08-14T22:26:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-14/fracking-hazards-obscured-in-failure-to-disclose-wells.html
Seeking to quell environmental
concerns about the chemicals it shoots underground to extract
oil and natural gas,  Apache Corp. (APA)  told shareholders in April
that it disclosed information about “all the company’s U.S.
hydraulic fracturing jobs” on a website last year.  Actually, Apache’s transparency was shot through with
cracks. In  Texas  and Oklahoma, the company reported chemicals it
used on only about half its fracked wells via  FracFocus.org , a
voluntary website that oil and gas companies helped design amid
calls for mandatory disclosure.  Energy companies failed to list more than two out of every
five fracked wells in eight U.S. states from April 11, 2011,
when FracFocus began operating, through the end of last year,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The gaps reveal
shortcomings in the voluntary approach to transparency on the
site, which has received funding from oil and gas trade groups
and $1.5 million from the U.S. Department of Energy.  “FracFocus is just a fig leaf for the industry to be able
to say they’re doing something in terms of disclosure,” said
U.S. Representative Diana DeGette, a Colorado Democrat. DeGette,
along with Pennsylvania Senator Robert Casey, introduced
legislation in March 2011 that would require companies to
disclose fracking chemicals. The bills haven’t advanced in
either the House or Senate.  With FracFocus, “companies that want to disclose can do it
but the other ones don’t have to,” DeGette said.  85% Fracked  Bloomberg compared oil and gas well records from eight
states -- Arkansas, Colorado, Louisiana, Montana, Oklahoma,
Texas, Utah and Wyoming -- against disclosures that companies
made for those states on FracFocus. While the state data didn’t
reveal whether wells were fractured, regulators in each state
said that at least 85 percent of their wells were fracked. The
 Congressional Research Service  puts the national estimate at
more than 90 percent.  In the eight states, companies told regulators that 18,158
wells were readied for production or were newly producing from
April 11, 2011 through Dec. 31, 2011. They disclosed 8,555 of
them on FracFocus. If 85 percent of the total wells were
fracked, that means 45 percent of the fracks weren’t disclosed
on the website.  Bloomberg’s analysis, covering states that accounted for 64
percent of U.S. gas  production  in 2010, shows the difficulty of
getting a full picture of the industry’s transparency. Because
there’s no official national database of fracked wells,
Bloomberg chose states that had reliable records on when gas and
 oil  wells started producing or were completed -- that is, made
ready to flow -- and thus were candidates for posting on
FracFocus.  No Reports  Oil and gas companies have gotten better at listing their
fractured wells on the website over time, said Dan Whitten, a
spokesman for America’s Natural Gas Alliance, one of two
industry groups that help pay operational costs for the website.
Some states now require companies to make disclosures on
FracFocus, he said.  “ANGA operators are committed to transparency, and support
public disclosure of the additives used in the hydraulic
fracturing process,” Whitten said in an e-mail. “If you were
to look at a complete timeframe of FracFocus, you would see a
progressively higher rate of participation.”  Companies participating in the voluntary system agree to
disclose information about wells on the website once they have
been fractured, which is the start of the completion process.
Data from three other leading states --  New Mexico , North Dakota
and Pennsylvania -- are incomplete or don’t list well-completion
dates. For Texas, Bloomberg used the date companies submitted
completion reports, which are supposed to be filed within 30
days.  Half Unreported  More than half of new wells went unreported on FracFocus in
each of three states: Texas, Oklahoma and Montana. In all, 1,126
companies had at least one well in the analysis period. While
it’s possible that some companies didn’t use hydraulic
fracturing, the data show that 1,038 of them, or 92 percent,
didn’t report any wells on the website.  In hydraulic fracturing, companies blast millions of
gallons of water, sand and chemicals deep underground to break
up rock formations and free oil and gas. The technique has
unlocked vast new sources of energy. At the same time, concerns
center on the hundreds of chemicals -- including known
carcinogens -- used in the process.  Contamination Concerns  Homeowners in Pennsylvania, Texas and Wyoming have
complained that their well water was contaminated with chemicals
or methane gas from nearby frack jobs. The U.S. Environmental
Protection Agency last year linked the method to contaminated
drinking water in Pavillion, Wyoming; the agency is now
retesting some of those findings. The EPA has little authority
to regulate fracking; Congress in 2005 stripped it of most such
power.  States have responded in various ways. Pennsylvania
officials require that companies disclose chemicals within 60
days after fracking.  New York  has a moratorium on the practice
until its environmental impact can be determined. Vermont has
banned it outright. Texas began mandating disclosure of fracking
chemicals this year, after officials  determined  that operators
were voluntarily reporting about half their fracked wells to
FracFocus, according to the Texas Railroad Commission, which
regulates oil and gas wells.  Oil and gas executives say the FracFocus website helps
eliminate the need for any new federal oversight that might
unify the regulatory approach.  ‘Positive Thing’  “Rome wasn’t built in a day,” said Cal Cooper, manager of
special projects for Apache. “This is a positive thing. It
shows industry can get its act together and make things happen
in a short amount of time.”  Apache hadn’t reported some wells in Texas that received
only minor frack treatments, Cooper said -- though he said they
should have been disclosed on the site. The company also
struggled to get some of its contractors to disclose their
chemicals, he said. Both issues have been addressed, he said.  “We certainly expect to post all of our 2012 frack jobs in
the U.S. on FracFocus,” he said. The company is updating its
2011 disclosures on the site as well, “and we fully expect to
reach our goal of 100 percent disclosure from Jan. 1, 2011,”
Cooper said.  Some of the largest oil and gas companies posted more
complete data to the site. For example,  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA) ,
Europe’s top oil producer, disclosed fracking chemicals for 107
wells in the eight states during the analysis period. The
company reported 115 wells to state regulators, records show.
Shell reported all its fracked wells to the website, said Kelly
Op De Weegh, a Shell spokeswoman, indicating that eight of the
wells weren’t fractured.  Chesapeake’s Reporting  For the same period in 2011,  Chesapeake Energy Corp. (CHK) , the
second-biggest U.S. gas producer, disclosed information on 85
percent of the 1,148 wells listed for it in the eight states.
Most of the missing wells were fractured before Feb. 15, 2011,
when the company started reporting to FracFocus, said Michael Kehs, a company spokesman.  Chesapeake’s own records show it has withheld FracFocus
reports on 10 wells fracked since it began disclosing on the
website, Kehs said. In each case, there are unresolved
discrepancies in information provided by contractors that did
the fracking, he said.  “Chesapeake has reported 99 percent of our wells to
FracFocus since the initiative was launched,” Kehs said.  Companies’ Choice  While FracFocus was designed to display all wells fracked
in 2011, its voluntary approach allows companies to choose when
they want to begin reporting.  ConocoPhillips (COP) , the largest
independent oil and gas producer by market value, decided to
report only wells fracked after April 30, 2011, said Davy Kong,
a company spokeswoman. That decision left 86 wells from the
period Bloomberg examined that were fracked prior to May 2011
unreported, according to data the company provided.  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM) , the biggest  oil company  by market value,
didn’t publish 28 percent of the 856 wells listed in records for
the eight states. Rex Tillerson, the CEO of the Irving, Texas-
based company, has praised the website and called for extending
its voluntary approach to disclosure overseas.  Exxon focused on training staff to file the necessary data
during the first half of last year, said Jeff Neu, an Exxon
spokesman. In the year’s second half, the company reported more
than 80 percent of its fracked wells, and it expects to report
all of them going forward, he said.  “Today, we have monitoring tools in place that show we are
meeting that expectation,” Neu said.  Lowest Rates  Among the largest operators, the companies with the lowest
rates of disclosure in the eight states were Midland, Texas-
based  Concho Resources Inc. (CXO) , which reported none of its 160
wells to the website, and  SandRidge Energy Inc. (SD) , which didn’t
disclose 84 percent of its 779 wells.  QEP (QEP)  Resources Inc.
reported 74 of 153 wells listed in state records. Apache was
fourth lowest.  Concho executives wanted to wait until various state
regulators finalized their own reporting requirements before it
began disclosing its chemicals, said Steven H. Pruett, the
company’s senior vice president of corporate development. As of
February, 2012, when Texas and New Mexico began mandating
disclosures, the company has reported all its chemicals on frack
jobs, he said.  SandRidge, based in Oklahoma City, began reporting all its
frack jobs in Texas to FracFocus on Jan. 1, 2012, and those in
Oklahoma and Kansas on March 1, 2012, Kevin White, a spokesman,
said in a telephone interview. The company made only a few
earlier reports, he said. SandRidge doesn’t drill in other
states.  “We’re comfortable that we weren’t doing anything to the
environment whether you had filing or not,” he said.  All Completions  QEP began submitting reports to FracFocus in the third
quarter of last year, said Noel Ryan, a spokesman for the
Denver-based company. “QEP currently registers all new well
completions on this database,” he said.  Continental (CLR)  Resources Inc. didn’t report 54 of its 64 wells
in the eight-state group. The company didn’t immediately require
staffers to list wells on FracFocus, said Mike Cantrell, the
Oklahoma City-based company’s vice president for government and
regulatory affairs.  Cantrell initially said Continental began disclosing all
its wells on Nov. 1, 2011. Data show the company reported only
six out of 20 wells it completed in November and December 2011.
In a subsequent e-mail, Cantrell said that three of those 20
wells weren’t fracked, and said the company didn’t begin
reporting fracks in its south region, which includes Oklahoma,
until January 2012.  Missing Third  Of 22 companies with at least 150 wells in the eight states
from April 2011 through December 2011, 11 didn’t disclose a
third or more of them on FracFocus, the data show.  “The data is so incomplete, it doesn’t help,” said Shane
Davis, research manager for the Rocky Mountain chapter of the
 Sierra Club , which supports stronger state and federal
regulation of fracking. Davis said he has studied more than
1,000 drilling-related spills in Colorado.  For members of the public, the website can be frustrating.
Wendy Leonard wanted to know about wells in her area after she
saw one being drilled near her children’s school in Erie,
Colorado. She asked state regulators, who referred her to
FracFocus, she said.  Found Nothing  “And then I’d go home and wouldn’t find anything,” she
said. Leonard and her family ended up moving to a town an hour
away because of health concerns related to fracking, she said.  FracFocus is operated by two groups: the  Groundwater
Protection Council , a group of state water officials; and the
Interstate Oil and Gas Compact Commission, an association of
states that produce the fuels. The council’s own analysis shows
that about half the wells that have been fracked in the U.S.
have been reported through the site, said Mike Nickolaus,
special projects director for the GWPC.  “Companies can take it or leave it where it’s voluntary,
but we see more and more companies using FracFocus to say, ‘This
is a good mechanism for us to get our information out there and
be transparent,”’ Nickolaus said.  The website’s operational costs, which total “a few
hundred thousand dollars” a year for server space and site
maintenance, according to Mike Paque, executive director of the
GWPC, are paid for partly by  America’s Natural Gas Alliance  and
the  American Petroleum Institute , two Washington-based industry
groups.  Industry Benefit  “We’re unapologetic about the industry cost-sharing on
FracFocus because they get a big benefit from the website,”
Paque said in a telephone interview. There’s no penalty for
failing to participate, he said.  Public money helped create FracFocus. From 2009 to 2011,
the U.S. Department of Energy gave grants totaling $3.84 million
to the GWPC, records show. About $1.5 million of that sum was
used to develop the website, according to Paque. The government
plans additional grants for the GWPC totaling $2.12 million
through 2014, Energy Department documents show.  Since the website’s inception, seven states, including
Texas, Pennsylvania and Colorado, have either allowed or
required companies to use FracFocus to fulfill disclosure
mandates. The federal Bureau of Land Management, which oversees
oil and gas rights on 700 million acres -- more than four times
the size of Texas -- is considering adopting FracFocus as the
basis for chemical disclosures by companies operating on its
land.  Trade Secrets  Gaps remain on the website even when wells are disclosed.
Companies skip naming certain chemicals when they decide that
revealing them would give away what they consider  trade secrets .
Many of the wells that are listed on FracFocus have at least one
or two chemicals marked confidential. Others have far more.  Nine undisclosed chemicals were pumped into  Marathon Oil
Corp. (MRO) ’s Cherry Bilsky well in Gonzales County, Texas, between
San Antonio and Houston, according to the website. The company
also withheld the amounts of eight other chemicals used in the
well. The purpose of one product, identified only as “EXP-
F1008-10,” is listed as “experimental.”  “Marathon Oil provides the fullest amount of information
that has been provided by our suppliers for each fracturing
job,” said  Lee Warren , a spokeswoman for the company, in an e-
mail. Some suppliers consider detailed listings of certain
chemicals or specific ratios proprietary, she said.  Information Requirements  All operators are required by law to keep detailed product
information for each additive, and make it available to first
responders and medical providers in cases of emergency, Warren
said.  In May, Pennsylvania regulators issued violations after a
pit for holding waste fluid from fracked wells in Tioga County
leaked into the vicinity of the Rock Run stream and the
surrounding landscape. The Responsible Drilling Alliance, an
activist group that tried to figure out what was in the fluids,
was stymied when it checked FracFocus, said Ralph Kisberg, the
group’s cofounder.  That’s because  EQT Corp. (EQT) , the Pittsburgh-based company that
operates the Tioga wells, omitted some information about its
chemicals. Of five wells it disclosed in the county, one didn’t
include any identification numbers for the chemicals, and four
others provided no information about the quantities of chemicals
used.  ‘PR Effort’  “There are mistakes; some of the data is incomplete,”
said Kisberg, of Williamsport, Pennsylvania. “We see FracFocus
as a PR effort to placate people.”  EQT staffers made some errors in manually transferring data
into the FracFocus system, said Natalie Cox, the company’s
director of communications. After Bloomberg News asked about the
incomplete disclosures, EQT fixed the errors, Cox said. The
company is committed to fully disclosing its fracking fluids,
she said.  States that require companies to disclose on FracFocus are
adopting the website’s limitations. In North Dakota, where
fracking has turned the state into the biggest U.S. oil-
producing state after Texas,  regulators  mandate disclosure on
the website within 60 days of a well’s completion.  “We require whatever FracFocus requires,” said Alison
Ritter, a spokeswoman for the state Department of Mineral
Resources’ Oil and Gas Division. “Whatever their rules are,
those are our rules in terms of reporting.”  Private Database  The website isn’t searchable by chemical, or by date. State
regulators who wish to check whether companies are making their
required disclosures face a time-consuming task. The website
doesn’t make its underlying database available to the public.  Improvements are planned for this autumn that will allow
users to search by chemical name, chemical abstract number and
date. The groups that maintain the website are talking with
industry representatives and state officials about how to give
regulators in states that require posting on FracFocus access to
the database, said Nickolaus, the GWPC’s special projects
director.  It remains unclear whether the database will ever be
downloadable for the general public. Nickolaus said that’s “not
a specific goal of the system.”  Not releasing the database was a prerequisite that
companies insisted on before they’d participate, he said.  To contact the reporters responsible for this story:
Benjamin Haas in New York at 
 bhaas7@bloomberg.net 
Jim Polson in New York at 
 jpolson@bloomberg.net 
Phil Kuntz in New York at 
 pkuntz1@bloomberg.net 
Ben Elgin in  San Francisco  at 
 belgin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at +1-214-954-9455 or  susanwarren@bloomberg.net 
Gary Putka at +1-617-410-4625 or  gputka@bloomberg.net  