-- France Unexpectedly Avoids GDP Contraction
-- B y   M a r k   D e e n
-- 2012-08-14T06:27:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-14/france-unexpectedly-avoids-gdp-contraction.html
France ’s economy unexpectedly
avoided its first quarterly contraction in more than three years
as both companies and government increased spending.  Gross domestic product  was unchanged in the second quarter
from the first, national statistics office Insee in Paris said
today in an e-mailed statement. Economists forecast a 0.1
percent decline, according to the median of 26 estimates in a
Bloomberg News survey. GDP rose 0.3 percent from a year earlier.  The figures offer some respite to President  Francois Hollande  as he seeks to cut France’s budget deficit in the face
of recessions in neighboring Italy and  Spain . France’s three-
year economic expansion has set it apart from its southern
neighbors, where  Europe ’s sovereign debt crisis has driven up
borrowing costs. In  Germany , GDP rose 0.3 percent in the second
quarter from the first, a report showed today.  “Investment by non-financial corporations is recovering
after having dropped at the beginning of the year,” Insee said.
“In the public sector, investment is rising, returning to
normal after being hurt by harsh weather in the first quarter.”  Gross fixed capital formation rose 0.6 percent in the
second quarter from the first, when it dropped 0.8 percent,
today’s data showed. Public sector expenditure advanced 0.5
percent and exports increased 0.2 percent from the previous
three months. Imports jumped 1.8 percent in the second quarter.  French household spending fell 0.2 percent in the second
quarter from the first, when it advanced 0.2 percent.  “ Consumer spending  fell back slightly,” Insee said.
“This is notably about a decline in purchases of textiles and
leather goods, though spending on services also declined, mainly
on housing and restaurants.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Deen in Paris at 
 markdeen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  