-- GE’s Immelt Seen Beating Dimon in Credit-Swaps Market
-- B y   T i m   C a t t s
-- 2012-08-14T14:44:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-14/ge-s-immelt-seen-beating-dimon-in-credit-swaps-market.html
General Electric Capital Corp. is
poised to become a better risk than  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  in the
$24.8 trillion credit-default swap market for the first time in
more than four years, according to Barclays Plc.  “The fact that GECC isn’t a derivatives player and doesn’t
have the swings of trading businesses provides investors with
some comfort,” said Brian Monteleone, a Barclays credit analyst
in New York. “When you think about the direction of the two
business models, investors are increasingly concerned about the
derivatives and investment-banking businesses.”  Protecting debt issued by GE’s finance arm from losses with
credit-default swaps cost 25 basis points more yesterday than
debt from JPMorgan, the biggest  U.S. bank  by assets, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. The gap was 107 basis points at
the start of 2012 and as wide as 820 basis points in March 2009.  GE Capital  is gaining favor as parent company Chief
Executive Officer  Jeffrey Immelt , 56, shrinks the unit and exits
businesses including European mortgage lending, Monteleone said
in a telephone interview.  At the same time, investor concerns that Wall Street firms
are vulnerable to trading slumps were compounded by JPMorgan’s
disclosure of at least $5.8 billion in losses on a botched
derivatives bet, he said.  The cost to protect the debt of GE Capital with credit-
default swaps was 144 basis points yesterday, compared with 119
basis points to insure debt from New York-based JPMorgan,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. A basis point equals
$1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10 million of debt.  Swaps Process  Default swaps typically rise as investor confidence
deteriorates and fall as it improves. They pay the buyer face
value if a borrower fails to meet its obligations, less the
value of the defaulted debt.  GE Capital may come to be seen as a less-risky investment
than JPMorgan in as few as six months, Monteleone said. Credit-
default swap prices on their debt came within less than 1 basis
point of converging on June 12, a day before 56-year-old CEO
Jamie Dimon testified about JPMorgan’s trading loss at a Senate
Banking Committee hearing.  Russell Wilkerson , a spokesman for  Stamford , Connecticut-
based GE Capital, and  Jennifer Zuccarelli , a spokeswoman for
JPMorgan, declined to comment.  Falling below the JPMorgan swap cost would be a milestone
in GE’s recovery from the 2008 financial crisis. Swaps
protecting against a GE Capital default covered a net $10.3
billion of the unit’s obligations as of Aug. 3, the most of any
corporate issuer, according to Depository Trust & Clearing Corp.  Lehman Fallout  Traders punished GE Capital in the aftermath of Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc.’s bankruptcy in 2008, pushing its default
swaps to an all-time high of 1,000 basis points on March 5,
2009, prices compiled by Bloomberg show. JPMorgan swaps traded
at 180 basis points that day, the prices show.  GE Capital swaps last traded lower than those of JPMorgan
in January 2008, prices compiled by Bloomberg show.  Credit losses at GE Capital reached about $32 billion
during the financial crisis, the company has said, and both
Moody’s Investors Service and  Standard & Poor’s  stripped it of
its top  credit ratings  in 2009. Immelt halted payouts from the
unit to its parent, raised $15 billion from investors including
 Warren Buffett  and cut GE’s dividend for the first time since
1938 to shore up liquidity.  Living Wills  While GE shares gained 17 percent this year through
yesterday to $21.04, they haven’t reached the $22.25 strike
price on $3 billion of warrants Buffett received along with his
capital infusion. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index advanced 12
percent through yesterday.  GE’s commitment to support its finance business contrasts
with the so-called living wills required of banks including
JPMorgan by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. and  Federal
Reserve  to assist in shutting them down without taxpayer aid,
Monteleone said.  Big banks were required under the 2010 Dodd-Frank Act to
plan for how they would be liquidated through bankruptcy without
federal bailouts. The Fed and FDIC posted the public portion of
wills for nine large banks last month.  “In a downside scenario you’ve got more protection with
GECC, given explicit support from its industrial parent, and on
an ongoing basis, people are viewing the business model as being
lower risk,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tim Catts in  New York  at 
 tcatts1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  