-- German ESM Ruling Unlikely to Be Delayed, Court Spokeswoman Says
-- B y   R a i n e r   B u e r g i n   a n d   J a n - H e n r i k   F o r s t e r
-- 2012-08-14T11:01:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-14/german-esm-ruling-unlikely-to-be-delayed-court-spokeswoman-says.html
A ruling by  Germany ’s highest court
on the euro-area’s permanent financial backstop probably won’t
be delayed by a complaint from plaintiffs led by German
Professor Markus Kerber, a court spokeswoman said.  Kerber’s group said yesterday it filed a complaint asking
the Federal Constitutional Court to await a  European Court  of
Justice ruling on the planned rescue fund, the European
Stability Mechanism, before issuing its own opinion. The
complaint has been received by the German court, deputy
spokeswoman Friederike Lange said by phone today.  “As far as we can tell from the documents, we don’t see
any delay for the Sept. 12 date” on which the ruling is due to
be made, Lange said. “As of now, I don’t see it being necessary
to wait for the European Court of Justice’s ruling.”  Markets are awaiting the establishment of the 500 billion-
euro ($617 billion) ESM, which is on hold pending a decision by
the German court. Kerber, who proposes the introduction of a so-
called guldenmark in euro countries running current-account
surpluses, according to his  group’s website , says that Germany’s
public finances could be crushed by debt as high as 3.7 trillion
euros as a result of commitments toward troubled euro countries.  Irish lawmaker Thomas Pringle, who challenged legislation
on the permanent backstop, was referred to the European court
after Ireland’s  Supreme Court  ruled that it can’t block the
government from ratifying domestic legislation on the ESM.  Germany’s top court is unlikely to allow proceedings at the
European court to sway it from the deadline it has set itself
next month, Handelsblatt newspaper cited constitutional law
expert Joachim Wieland from the School of Administrative Science
in the town of Speyer as saying in today’s edition.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rainer Buergin in Berlin at 
 rbuergin1@bloomberg.net ;
Janhenrik Forster in Frankfurt at 
 jforster14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  