-- German Growth Slowed Less Than Forecast in Second Quarter
-- B y   G a b i   T h e s i n g   a n d   M a r k   D e e n
-- 2012-08-14T10:30:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-14/german-growth-slowed-less-than-forecast-in-the-second-quarter.html
The German and French economies
slowed less than forecast in the second quarter, fending off a
debt crisis that has dragged at least six of their euro-area
neighbors into recession.  In  Germany ,  gross domestic product  rose 0.3 percent from
the first quarter, when it gained 0.5 percent, the Federal
Statistics Office in Wiesbaden said today. Economists predicted
a 0.2 percent increase, according to the median of 40 estimates
in a Bloomberg News  survey . French GDP was unchanged in the
quarter, better than the 0.1 percent decline economists had
predicted.  While the euro region’s two largest economies defied the
debt crisis in the first half of the year, the worsening turmoil
is starting to take its toll by eroding demand for their
exports. Italy and Spain are in recession and euro-area GDP
dropped 0.2 percent in the three months through June, the
European Union’s statistics office in Luxembourg said today.  “For Germany, the outlook remains pretty robust,” said
 Christian Schulz , an economist at Berenberg Bank in  London .
“For  France , the outlook is less rosy as a number of the
components that have prevented it from contracting will be hit
by austerity measures, plus the country is losing
competitiveness.”  The euro rose after the reports and traded at $1.2357 at
12:20 p.m. in  Frankfurt , up 0.2 percent today. European stocks
gained, with the  Stoxx Europe 600 Index (SXXP)  climbing 0.6 percent.  ‘Remarkable’ Germany  In Germany, second-quarter expansion was driven by
consumption and net trade, with exports rising more than
imports, the statistics office said. That compensated for a
decline in company investment, particularly in plant and
machinery. From the same quarter last year, the economy grew a
work-day adjusted 1 percent.  “The latest German GDP data are remarkable,” said  Andreas Rees , chief Germany economist at UniCredit Bank AG in Munich.
“One is inevitably tempted to ask whether the German economy
can continue its decoupling action from the rest of the monetary
union in the second half. Keep in mind that about 40 percent of
all German exports are shipped to euro-zone countries.”  The Italian economy contracted 0.7 percent in the second
quarter, extending a recession that started last year, while
Spanish GDP fell 0.4 percent. Portugal’s recession deepened,
with GDP dropping 1.2 percent for its seventh straight decline.  Aaa Rating  The European Commission forecasts a 0.3 percent contraction
for the 17-nation euro economy this year. By contrast, the
Bundesbank in June raised its 2012 growth forecast for Germany
to 1 percent from 0.6 percent, citing domestic consumption.  Still, Moody’s Investors Service on July 23 lowered the
outlook on Germany’s Aaa credit rating to negative, citing the
risk that  Greece  could leave the euro and an “increasing
likelihood” that countries such as Spain and Italy will require
support.  Governments are struggling to restore investor confidence
in their ability to plug budget gaps. Spanish and Italian
borrowing costs have soared, euro-area economic confidence
dropped to the lowest in almost three years in July and some of
the region’s largest companies, including Germany’s Deutsche
Bank AG, announced job cuts.  German investor confidence unexpectedly fell for a fourth
month in August, the ZEW Center for European Economic Research
in Mannheim said today.  Global Slowdown  The global economy is also cooling, undermining some German
companies’ push into  emerging markets  like  China . The
 International Monetary Fund  on July 16 cut its global growth
forecast for 2013 to 3.9 percent from a 4.1 percent estimate in
April.  In the U.S., growth slowed to a 1.5 percent annualized pace
in the second quarter from 2 percent in the first. In  Japan , GDP
advanced an annualized 1.4 percent in the three months through
June, down from 5.5 percent in the previous quarter.  Bank of America Corp. this week cut its 2012 economic
growth forecast for China to 7.7 percent from 8 percent.  Daimler AG (DAI) , the world’s third-largest maker of  luxury
vehicles , last month reported a 13 percent decline in second-
quarter operating profit.  Volkswagen AG (VOW) ,  Europe ’s largest car
maker and owner of the Audi brand, reported slowing earnings
growth as the impact of the debt crisis weighed on demand in its
home region.  Rising Unemployment  While Germany’s  jobless rate  remains at 6.8 percent, a two-
decade low, the number of people out of work has risen in each
of the past four months.  RWE AG, Germany’s second-largest utility, said today that
first-half profit was unchanged as power sales fell and
announced plans to cut 2,400 further jobs.  The  European Central Bank  has cut  interest rates  to a
record low, easing financing conditions for households and
companies, and pumped over 1 trillion euros ($1.24 billion) into
the banking system to avert a credit crunch.  In France, company and government spending helped the
economy avoid contraction, national statistics office Insee said
in Paris.  “The biggest surprise was the rebound in fixed
investment,” said Joost Beaumont, an economist at  ABN Amro  in
Amsterdam. “Looking forward the outlook remains bleak,” he
said, with rising unemployment and budget cuts likely to cause a
contraction in the third quarter before the economy starts to
gain traction again. “However, the recovery is likely to be
more modest than in Germany.”  Germany’s statistics office will publish a detailed
breakdown of second-quarter GDP on Aug. 23.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gabi Thesing in London at 
 gthesing@bloomberg.net ;
Mark Deen in Paris at 
 markdeen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Matthew Brockett at 
 mbrockett1@bloomberg.net  