-- Spanish Bonds Gain on Bailout Speculation as Greece Sells Bills
-- B y   L u c y   M e a k i n   a n d   A n c h a l e e   W o r r a c h a t e
-- 2012-08-14T16:16:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-14/german-bunds-decline-after-economy-slows-less-than-estimated.html
Spain ’s bonds rose on speculation
the nation is moving closer to asking European policy makers to
buy its debt after Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy  repeated he will
act in the best interests of his country.  The bonds along with Italian debt also climbed after  Greece 
raised more than its maximum target at an auction of bills.
Rajoy said he won’t make a decision on whether to seek support
from the  European Central Bank  and a rescue fund until he has
more details about how the program would work. German bunds fell
for a second day after a report showed gross domestic product in
 Europe ’s largest economy slowed less than forecast in the three
months through June.  “There’s talk in the market about a bailout request from
Spain and that’s probably why yields fell,” said  Luca Jellinek ,
head of European interest-rate strategy at Credit Agricole
Corporate & Investment Bank in London. “It’s far from being a
done deal. But  market sentiment  seems to be that another bailout
is a matter of when and not if.”  The yield on 10-year Spanish bonds dropped 10 basis points
to 6.75 percent at 4:49 p.m. London time. The 5.85 percent
security due January 2022 jumped 0.635, or 6.35 euros per 1,000-
euro ($1,233) face amount, to 93.84. The rate rose to a euro-era
high of 7.75 percent on July 25.  The extra yield investors demand for holding the securities
instead of benchmark German debt dropped 17 basis points to 527
basis points, or 5.27 percentage points. Two-year note yields
fell six basis points to 4.21 percent.  Italian 10-year bond yields declined seven basis points to
5.83 percent, after rising to 5.95 percent.  Spanish Lenders  A report today showed Spanish lenders’ net borrowings from
the ECB rose to a record 376 billion euros in July. Rajoy said
on Aug. 3 he’ll need to analyze the details of the ECB’s plan to
bring down borrowing costs before deciding whether to request
more aid as he waits for the first installment of a 100 billion-
euro bank bailout.  German GDP rose 0.3 percent from the first quarter, when it
gained 0.5 percent, the Federal Statistics Office in Wiesbaden
said today. Analysts predicted a 0.2 percent increase, according
to the median of 40 estimates in a Bloomberg News survey. The
euro-area economy shrank 0.2 percent, another report showed.  The ZEW Center for European Economic Research in Mannheim
said its index of investor and analyst expectations, which aims
to predict German economic developments six months in advance,
declined to minus 25.5 in August from minus 19.6 in July.
Economists forecast a gain to minus 19.3, according to the
median of 28 estimates in a Bloomberg News survey.  ‘Mixed’ Data  “Economic reports today are mixed for  Germany , but overall
they still show a picture of the two-speed economy in the  euro
zone ,” said  Christoph Rieger , the head of interest-rate
strategy at Commerzbank AG in  Frankfurt . “Yields are probably
underpinned today by the GDP data, but they are most likely to
stay range-bound in the near term.”  The yield on 10-year German bunds rose seven basis points
to 1.47 percent, while two-year note yields increased one basis
point to minus 0.036 percent.  Spanish and Italian bonds also outperformed German debt as
the Athens-based Public Debt Management Agency said Greece sold
4.06 billion euros of three-month bills, exceeding its 3.125
billion-euro target.  Treasury bill sales are the only source of private finance
Greece relies on after two rescue packages. The country won the
second package in March, after private creditors wrote down
about 100 billion euros of their bond holdings.  Bill Sale  “The Greek bill sale today provided some support for
Italian and Spanish bonds,” said  Nick Stamenkovic , a fixed-
income strategist at broker RIA Capital Markets in Edinburgh.
“Any improvement in risk sentiment is going to be limited as
there’s still a lot of uncertainty ahead for Greece in terms of
further help that it needs.”  Volatility on Finnish bonds was the highest in developed
markets today, followed by Germany and the Netherlands,
according to measures of 10-year debt, the spread between two-
year and 10-year securities and credit-default swaps.  German bonds returned 3.4 percent this year through
yesterday, according to indexes compiled by Bloomberg and the
European Federation of Financial Analysts Societies. Spanish
securities lost 4.5 percent, while Italy’s debt earned 9.3
percent and French bonds made 8.2 percent, the indexes showed.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lucy Meakin in  London  at 
 lmeakin1@bloomberg.net ;
Anchalee Worrachate in London at 
 aworrachate@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  