-- German Stocks Climb as GDP Growth Beats Estimates
-- B y   T o m   S t o u k a s
-- 2012-08-14T15:52:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-14/german-stocks-climb-as-gdp-growth-beats-estimates.html
German stocks  rose, snapping four
days of losses, as economic growth in  Europe ’s largest economy
slowed less than economists had forecast.  Merck KGaA (MRK)  advanced 4.2 percent after it raised its full-
year earnings forecast.  Hochtief AG (HOT)  lost 2.3 percent after
saying profit targets for the year have become more challenging.  The  DAX Index (DAX)  gained 0.9 percent to 6,974.39 at the close
of trading in  Frankfurt . The DAX has  rallied 17 percent from
this year’s low on June 5  as central banks around the world took
steps to bolster economic growth. The broader HDAX Index also
added 0.9 percent today.  “In light of the fairly weak data seen in recent months
which has suggested that the German economy is finally feeling
the pinch from the European financial crisis, the GDP figures
are very respectable and proving once again just how resilient
the German economy is,” said Markus Huber, head of German sales
trading at ETX Capital in  London .  German economic growth slowed less in the second quarter
than economists had forecast.  Gross domestic product  rose 0.3
percent from the first quarter, when it gained 0.5 percent, the
Federal Statistics Office said.  Economists had predicted  a 0.2
percent increase, according to the median of 40 estimates in a
Bloomberg News survey.  France ’s GDP was unchanged in the quarter, better than the
0.1 percent decline that economists had forecast.  Investor Confidence  A measure of  German investor sentiment  unexpectedly dropped
for a fourth consecutive month, sliding to its lowest level
since December.  The ZEW Center for European Economic Research in Mannheim
said its index of investor and analyst expectations, which aims
to predict economic developments six months in advance, fell to
minus 25.5 from minus 19.6. Economists had forecast a reading of
minus 19.3, according to the median of 28 estimates in a
Bloomberg News survey.  A U.S. Commerce Department release showed that  retail sales 
rose in July more than economists had estimated.  Merck gained 4.2 percent to 86 euros. The German maker of
the cancer drug Erbitux raised its full-year forecast after
second-quarter profit rose 14 percent.  For 2012, earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization, excluding one-time items, will reach 2.85 billion
euros ($3.5 billion) to 2.95 billion euros, Merck said. That
compares with a previous prediction of 2.8 billion euros to 2.9
billion euros.  Wirecard, TUI  Wirecard AG rose 1.1 percent to 15.88 euros, snapping a
four-day retreat. The maker of electronic-payment and risk-
management software reported second-quarter profit of 17.2
million euros from 13.1 million euros during the same period
last year.  TUI AG (TUI1)  jumped 4.4 percent to 5.64 euros, rising for a
fourth day. The owner of Europe’s largest travel company boosted
the full-year forecast for its hotel unit after lifting prices
and lowering costs.  Celesio AG gained 1.7 percent to 14.39 euros. The German
drug wholesaler said first-half operating profit rose after
writing down units sold and those still to be disposed and stuck
to its forecast for the year after adjusting year-ago figures.  Conergy AG surged 5.7 percent to 50.4 euro cents. The
German solar-energy company posted its first operating profit in
almost two years.  Hochtief declined 2.3 percent to 40 euros.  Germany ’s
largest builder said profit targets for the year have become
more challenging after it set aside money for a delayed concert-
hall project and its loss widened in the second quarter.  The volume of shares changing hands on DAX companies was 36
percent lower than the average of the past 30 days, data
compiled by Bloomberg showed.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Stoukas in Athens at 
 astoukas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  