-- Giants’ Shaun Rogers Will Miss Season With Blood Clot in Leg
-- B y   M a s o n   L e v i n s o n
-- 2012-08-15T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-14/giants-tackle-shaun-rogers-is-treated-for-blood-clot-in-leg.html
New York Giants defensive tackle
Shaun Rogers will miss the National Football League season
because of a blood clot in his left calf.  Rogers, a 12-year NFL veteran who was signed by the Giants
in April, was seen in New York by the Giants’ doctor, Russell
Warren, and vascular surgeon John Karwowaki, the team said in a
news release. Giants coach  Tom Coughlin  told reporters yesterday
that the condition was season-ending because it will require
blood-thinning drugs that will preclude Rogers from contact.  “You can’t take a chance on some kind of bleeding that is
undetected, so it’s just a sad thing,” Coughlin said.  Rogers, 33, played all 16 games last season for the  New
Orleans Saints , making four starts. He had 14 tackles and no
sacks. A three-time Pro Bowl selection, Rogers played his first
seven seasons with the  Detroit Lions  and three with the
 Cleveland Browns  before joining the Saints.  Defensive tackle Martin Parker has a herniated disc in his
back that will require surgery, the Giants also said. Parker
missed last season because of a foot injury.  Defensive tackle Chris Canty, who started every game for
the Giants last season as they beat the  New England Patriots  to
win the  Super Bowl , is on the physically unable to perform list
following offseason knee surgery.  Canty told reporters yesterday he was unsure when he will
return to action.  “We knew this was going to be a long process,” he said.
“Obviously, I didn’t think it was going to be this long, but I
think we’re being smart about it, taking the right approach.
It’s important for me to do everything that I can do physically
to make sure that when I do get the clearance to step out there
on the field, I’m ready to go.”  Defensive tackle Marvin Austin also was in New York
yesterday to have a back issue examined, according to the team.  “I thought we were as deep there as we were at any
position on the team and it’s not that way right now,” said
Coughlin, who added that the Giants were looking for other
defensive tackles to bring into camp.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mason Levinson in  New York  at 
 mlevinson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  