-- Gillard Refugee Backflip Wins Australia Opposition Support
-- B y   J a s o n   S c o t t
-- 2012-08-14T12:14:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-14/gillard-refugee-backflip-wins-australia-opposition-support-1-.html
Australia is poised to reopen an
asylum-seeker processing center in Nauru after the opposition
said it supports the policy backflip by Prime Minister  Julia Gillard , who’s betting the move will help her boost flagging
poll ratings before elections due next year.  “The government has backed down,” opposition immigration
spokesman Scott Morrison told Australian Broadcasting Corp.
radio as Parliament resumes after a six-week break. “We’ve been
asking the prime minister to do this for four years.”  Gillard said yesterday she plans to legislate this week to
allow refugees to be processed on the South Pacific island of
Nauru and in  Papua New Guinea  after a report she commissioned
backed such a move. The nation’s first female prime minister is
trying to end a parliamentary stalemate over the issue that has
deflected her minority  Labor Party ’s attempts to promote a new
carbon tax and a planned increase in education spending.  “Getting the laws through will be a circuit-breaker and
gives the government a chance to move onto other issues it wants
to sell,” said Zareh Ghazarian, a political analyst at  Monash
University  in  Melbourne . “Whether voters want to listen to this
government anymore is another matter.”  While a poll published Aug. 7 showed support for her Labor
government rose to the highest level in six months, Gillard is
still tracking toward defeat in next year’s elections. Labor’s
primary vote increased five points to 33 percent from two weeks
before, while support for opposition leader  Tony Abbott ’s
Liberal-National coalition dropped one point to 45 percent, the
Newspoll for the Australian newspaper showed.  Refugee Deaths  Processing refugees in Nauru, an island nation with about
10,000 residents, would mark a return to former Prime Minister
 John Howard ’s so-called Pacific Solution that was scrapped after
Labor won office in 2007. Since then, hundreds of asylum seekers
have died at sea as an increasing number of refugees pay
smugglers in  Indonesia  to ferry them in overcrowded boats to
Australia.  “The time for politics is over, the time for action is
here,” Gillard told reporters in Canberra, where the lower
house adjourned today without the laws being passed. The
government is seeking approval for the legislation in parliament
by the end of the week, she said. It is seeking to start
offshore processing at temporary facilities in the Asian
nations, which have agreed to the proposals, within a month,
Gillard said.  Angus Houston, a former defense force chief who compiled
the report backing the move, said more than 600 asylum seekers
have died trying to reach  Australia  since October 2009 and that
to do nothing was “unacceptable.”  Report’s Recommendations  Gillard said she backs all 22 recommendations in Houston’s
report, including increasing Australia’s refugee intake to
20,000 and seeking discussions with  Malaysia  to create an
offshore processing center there.  The report also recommended refugees who arrived on boats
be prevented from sponsoring family members to join them in
Australia -- similar to a previous coalition policy overturned
by Labor.  Abbott today said the opposition wouldn’t support a center
in Malaysia because it isn’t a signatory to the United Nations
Refugee Convention.  “I welcome the prime minister’s last-minute conversion to
common sense,” Abbott told reporters in Canberra. “It should
have come much, much earlier than it has and I think the fact
that the prime minister has held out for so long against what
was obviously common sense will raise, yet again, questions
about her judgment.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jason Scott  in Canberra at 
 jscott14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  