-- Goldman Bought Knight Capital Stock Before Malfunction
-- B y   L a u r a   M a r c i n e k
-- 2012-08-15T04:00:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-14/goldman-bought-knight-capital-stock-before-malfunction.html
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and
Vanguard Group Inc. increased holdings in  Knight Capital Group
Inc. (KCG)  during the second quarter before the market-making firm
lost $440 million on a computer malfunction this month.  Brokerage and asset-management units at Goldman Sachs
increased their stakes in Knight Capital by 73 percent to 2.39
million shares, valued at $28.5 million at the end of June,
according to a regulatory filing yesterday by the New York-based
bank. The subsidiaries’ convertible-debt holdings climbed by
$2.5 million to $60.5 million, the filing shows.  Vanguard and Dimensional Fund Advisors LP in Austin, Texas
also added shares of Knight during the quarter, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. They and Goldman Sachs all rank
among Knight’s top 10  shareholders , the data show.  Knight, whose market-making unit executes 10 percent of
U.S. equity volume, has  plunged  more than 70 percent since a
computer malfunction bombarded the market with errant orders
Aug. 1. The firm turned to Goldman Sachs that day to buy it out
of trading positions, a person with knowledge of the matter said
last week.  Vanguard was among financial firms that temporarily avoided
processing brokerage orders through Knight in the days after the
incident.  Money managers who oversee more than $100 million in
equities must file a Form 13F with the Securities and Exchange
Commission within 45 days of each quarter’s end to show their
U.S.-listed stocks, options and convertible bonds. The filings
don’t show non-U.S. securities or how much cash the firms hold.  Spokesmen for Goldman Sachs, Dimensional and  Valley Forge ,
Pennsylvania-based Vanguard, declined to elaborate on the
quarterly filings.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laura Marcinek in  New York  at 
 lmarcinek3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  