-- Goldman, Blankfein Win Dismissal of Investor MBS Lawsuit
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 2012-08-14T20:59:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-14/goldman-blankfein-win-dismissal-of-investor-mbs-lawsuit.html
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and Chief
Executive Officer  Lloyd Blankfein  won dismissal of a suit in
which investors said the bank knew mortgage-backed securities 
it sponsored didn’t comply with underwriting standards.  U.S. District Judge William Pauley in New York said in a
ruling today that plaintiffs’ allegations were “conclusory”
and lacked specifics.  The plaintiffs in the so-called consolidated derivative
suit include Michael Brautigam and the Retirement Relief System
of the City of Birmingham, Alabama. Those also named as
defendants included current and former Goldman Sachs executives.  The plaintiffs said Goldman Sachs breached its fiduciary
duty when it accepted Troubled Asset Relief Program, or TARP,
funds then failed to comply with conditions for accepting it.  Goldman Sachs sponsored $162 billion worth of residential
mortgage-backed securities, knowing that the loans underlying
the securities were troubled, the plaintiffs claimed. The bank
then sold $1.1 billion worth of the securities to Fannie Mae and
 Freddie Mac , knowing the underlying loans were troubled.  Goldman Sachs was also accused of knowing the securities
didn’t comply with underwriting standards because the banking
and securities firm had conducted due diligence on the loans.  Michael DuVally , a spokesman for Goldman Sachs, declined to
comment on the ruling.  Goldman Sachs fell 35 cents to $103.26 at 4:15 p.m. in New
York Stock Exchange composite trading.  The case is In Re. Goldman Sachs Mortgage Servicing
Shareholder Derivative Litigation, 1:11-cv-04544, Southern
District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in New York
at   pathurtado@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Dunn  at   adunn8@bloomberg.net . 