-- Goldman, Richard Perry; Ranch Hand Stevenson: Scene
-- B y   A m a n d a   G o r d o n
-- 2012-08-14T15:14:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-14/goldman-sachs-richard-perry-ranch-hand-stevenson.html
The lawn was filled with  Goldman
Sachs (GS)  Group Inc. partners dressed in pink looking out on a pink
sunset.  Rows of Moet & Chandon Champagne bottles stood chilled. On
the buffet were dishes from Toy Restaurant in  Manhattan  and
Tutto Il Giorno in nearby Sag Harbor.  Plum TV LLC -- brought back into business by  LXTV  founders
Morgan Hertzan and Joseph Varet -- was filming. DJ Cassidy,
founder of DJs for Obama, was spinning.  It wasn’t the first time hedge-fund manager Richard Perry
and his designer wife, Lisa, opened their home in North Haven
for a cause. Still, their first paddle-board race and party to
benefit  Breast Cancer  Research Foundation already looked like
one of the most fun benefits on the East End.  “I’m a little surprised that this got traction,” said
Lisa Perry standing next to her pool in vintage Pucci. “We
thought maybe we’d raise $200,000 and we’re close to $550,000. I
think it’s a combination of people being curious about North
Haven -- they want to see the property -- and it’s BCRF and
Maria Baum.” In the end the party raised more than $615,000.  Baum, a former trader, had the idea for the event over
dinner with the Perrys a year ago.  Richard Perry  had introduced
her to paddle-boarding last summer. Baum wound up going out on
the water almost every day as she went through chemotherapy for
breast cancer.  Bays’ Beauty  “I’d be really angry, and then I’d get absorbed in the
beauty of the bays,” Baum said. “I would come back so peaceful
and so energized that most people didn’t realize what I was
going through.”  Maria and Larry Baum and the Perrys became the event co-
chairmen. Maria Baum tapped her contacts in finance, including
Goldman Sachs partners Heather Shemilt, Rebecca Shaghalian,
Stacy Bash-Polley and Michele Docharty, who designated Goldman
Sachs Gives as a lead sponsor and member of the host committee.  This backing early in the planning process helped set the
ambitious scope of the event, said Myra Biblowit, president of
the Breast Cancer Research Foundation.  Knight Capital Group Inc. (KCG)  and Southfield Capital Advisors
LLC also supported the event.  At the party,  Estee Lauder (EL)  Inc. Chairman William Lauder
chatted with Harvard Business School professor  Robert Kaplan ,
while designers  Donna Karan  and Reed Krakoff caught up near the
Champagne bar. Darcy Miller, editorial director of Martha
Stewart Weddings, talked with Clifford Hudis of Memorial Sloan-
Kettering Cancer Center, who is the chairman of the BCRF
Scientific Advisory Board.  The paddle-board race had 60 competitors, many of them new
to the sport.  ‘I Fell’  Mary Scheerer, president of Sag Harbor Industries Inc.,
finished first in one of the races.  “There was a lot of wind coming across the bay,” Scheerer
said. “I fell 10 feet from the finish line, but my closest
competitor fell more.”  The Perrys’ home, which they call “The Beach House,”
wasn’t open, though one could steal a peek at the brightly
colored modern art inside. The grounds offered a Calder
sculpture, a Robert Indiana “Love” mosaic, large red and
yellow rings by Zhu Jinshi and a pink paddle board propped
against the poolside cabana, where the Perrys’ daughter,
Samantha, was seen talking with friends.  Ranch Hand  Navigator Group Inc. president Charles Stevenson’s son
Ryland Stevenson is back in the Hamptons after working as a
ranch hand, he said at a party he attended with his stepmom,
writer Alex Kuczynski.  Days at Middle Fork Lodge in Challis,  Idaho , started at 6
a.m. and included lugging around hoses and sprinklers and
bailing hay. “I listened to lively things to keep me going,”
the  University of San Francisco  sophomore said, “Stevie Ray
Vaughn, boogie music, Johnny Lang.” As for the future: “I’d
like to be a sports lawyer.”  Meanwhile the guest of honor at the party, Gigi Levangie
Grazer, had just sat down with a psychic, who was on hand to
help Grazer celebrate her new novel, “The After Wife,” about a
44-year-old  Santa Monica ,  California , widow.  “The book is going to be a complete success and I’m going
to have five more children,” said Grazer, who’s divorced from
film producer  Brian Grazer ; they had two boys, 8 and 12. “And
five more marriages, one for each child.”  She added: “Every book will be made into a movie starring
 Brad Pitt ,  George Clooney  or Robert Pattison.”  Christopher Burch, CEO of J. Christopher Capital, hosted
the party at his Southampton home, less than a mile from the C.
Wonder store in the village. Burch’s firm created the chain.  ( Amanda Gordon  is a writer and photographer for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. Any opinions
expressed are her own.)  Muse highlights include  Mark Beech  on music,  Andrew Dunn  on
 books .  -- Editors: Jeffrey Burke, Lili Rosboch.  To contact the writer on this story:
Amanda Gordon at  agordon01@bloomberg.net  or on
Twitter @amandagordon.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 