-- Google Can Appeal Group Status of Digital-Book Case
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 2012-08-14T18:38:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-14/google-can-appeal-group-status-of-digital-book-case.html
Google Inc. (GOOG)  can appeal the class-
action status granted to a lawsuit over digital books, a federal
appeals court in New York said today.  U.S. Circuit Judge  Denny Chin  in New York, sitting as a
federal trial judge in the case, in May granted class-action or
group status to a series of plaintiffs, including the Author’s
Guild and the American Society of Media Photographers in
lawsuits over electronic books.  Chin also granted a request for three individual plaintiffs
to represent a nationwide class of copyright holders in the
Author’s Guild suit.  The appeals court today granted Google leave to appeal the
class-action ruling while the case is still pending before Chin.  “Upon due consideration, it is hereby ordered that the
petition is granted,” said Richard Wesley and  Peter Hall , both
judges on the  U.S. Court of Appeals  for the Second Circuit in
New York.  In July, Google asked Chin to dismiss the Authors Guild
case, arguing that authors benefit from the project because
their books can be more readily found, bought and read, while
the public gains “increased knowledge.” Google also argued
that the display of snippets of text is fair use under copyright
law and that the authors haven’t been harmed by the display.  Arguments Rejected  In his May ruling, Chin also rejected Google’s arguments
that the groups lacked standing to sue over claims the search
engine company’s digital scanning of millions of books infringed
the copyright owners’ rights.  Maggie Shiels, a spokeswoman for Google, declined to
comment on the court’s ruling.  The suits stem from Google’s plan, announced in 2004, to
digitally scan books from public and university libraries to
provide short excerpts of text to people who use its Internet
search engine. The Authors Guild, individual authors and
publishing companies sued in 2005, claiming the  Mountain View ,
California-based company hadn’t sought authorization from the
owners of the works.  Google has argued that the display of snippets of text is
fair use under copyright law. Chin asked Google today why it was
important at this stage of the case to determine the ownership
of the copyrights.  Digitizing Books  Google said in a February court filing that it has scanned
more than 20 million books, and that Web users can see excerpts
in English from more than 4 million of them. The project began
with the digitizing of books from the libraries of the
 University of Michigan ,  Harvard University ,  Stanford University ,
Oxford University and the  New York Public Library .  The judge last year declined to approve a proposed
settlement, saying it was “an attempt to use the class-action
mechanism to implement forward-looking business arrangements
that go far beyond the dispute before the court.”  The authors’ case is Authors Guild v. Google, 05-08136; the
visual artists’ case is American Society of Media Photographers
v. Google, 10-02977; U.S. District Court, Southern District of
New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in New York at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Dunn  at 
 adunn8@bloomberg.net  