-- Gore Vidal’s ‘Burr’ Is Antidote to Tea Party Myths
-- B y   A d a m   K i r s c h
-- 2012-08-14T22:31:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-14/gore-vidal-s-burr-is-antidote-to-tea-party-myths.html
After winning control of the House
in 2010, Republicans opened the next session of Congress by
 reading  the Constitution. They were drawing on the widespread
conservative sense that the U.S. under President  Barack Obama 
was drifting from the principles of its founding leaders and
documents.  The  Tea Party , named for the most famous anti-tax revolt in
American history, was the clearest expression of this
Revolutionary nostalgia, and for many voters this year, 2012
will be an election about returning to what they see as the
values of 1787.  In  “All the King’s Men,”  however, Willie Stark learns to
dismiss the idealized portraits of the Founding Fathers in
American history textbooks: “I bet things were just like they
are now. A lot of folks wrassling round,” he scoffs. That line
could serve as the epigraph to one of the most entertaining
novels ever written about American politics,  Gore Vidal ’s
“Burr.” Vidal, who died July 31 at the age of 86, published what
many regard as his best novel in 1973, when  Vietnam  and
Watergate were dealing Americans’ confidence in their government
a series of blows from which it has yet to recover.  Exceptionalism Debunked  “Burr” delights in subverting everything we think we know
about how the country was built. With his characteristic
patrician sarcasm, Vidal casually scraps the enduring notion of
American exceptionalism, the idea that our politics, unlike
those of the corrupt Old World, are founded on ideals of
democratic equality and public virtue. If the  Tea Party  today
looks back to the founders with reverence, “Burr” suggests, that
is only because they did such a good job mythologizing
themselves and mesmerizing posterity.  The very choice of Aaron Burr as a subject -- and, for much
of the book, a narrator -- makes a statement about Vidal’s view
of American history. Burr was the third vice president, but he
is best remembered as the man who killed  Alexander Hamilton  in a
duel on the bluffs of Weehawken,  New Jersey . His reputation
ruined, the usual story goes, Burr turned traitor, working on a
far-fetched scheme to detach the new Western states from the
union and unite them with Spanish  Mexico , with himself as king.
His plans thwarted by President  Thomas Jefferson , Burr escaped
conviction for treason but spent the next several decades in
exile, before dying a forgotten man.  In the novel, on the other hand, we get an Aaron Burr
created in the image of  Gore Vidal  himself -- aristocratic,
ironic, skeptical of all patriotic pieties and received truths.
If he was unprincipled and ambitious, Vidal suggests, that did
not make him any different from George  Washington , who appears
in the novel as the consummate political general, useless on the
battlefield but skilled at dominating Congress, and Thomas
Jefferson, who was quite unscrupulous about seizing territory
for the young U.S.  Much of the work of cutting the legends down to size is
done by simple mockery. In Vidal’s telling, Washington is broad-
bottomed and dull-witted, while Jefferson’s famous inventions
never work. The novel’s Burr ends up on the wrong side of
history because he was too good a man to hold his own against
such enemies -- or, at least, too grandly unwilling to stoop to
political intrigue.  The novel opens in the 1830s, in the last year of the
Andrew Jackson administration, with Burr in his late 70s.
Before he dies, he allows Charlie Schuyler, the novel’s
inexperienced young narrator, to write down his memoirs. The
sections of the novel set in the “present” allow Vidal to re-
create the rude spectacle of  New York  City in the 1830s: a time
like the 1970s, it turns out, full of ethnic riots, political
corruption and sensational tabloid murders.  No Angels  Schuyler himself, while naive, is no angel: He agrees to
use his intimacy with Burr to try to confirm the rumor that
Martin van Buren, the current vice president, is actually Burr’s
illegitimate son. (Anyone who was appalled by the “birther”
slanders against Obama can take at least this much consolation
from “Burr”: The politics of personal destruction aren’t the
invention of our own time.)  It is in the chapters that ventriloquize Burr’s memoirs,
however, that Vidal is at his most cutting. Aaron Burr first
achieved fame early in the Revolution, when he distinguished
himself in the American siege of  Quebec , under the headstrong
general Benedict Arnold. As seen through Burr’s eyes, this
campaign was a mere botch, a series of bad decisions by Arnold
leading to a pointless loss of hundreds of American lives -- a
miniature Vietnam.  The same thing is true, on a grander scale, of the
Revolutionary War as a whole. Historians credit  George
Washington  with keeping his army intact in the face of
overwhelming British superiority; to Vidal’s Burr, this matters
less than his failure ever to win a pitched battle against the
British. If Washington had been replaced by General  Horatio
Gates  or General Charles Lee, he opines, the war might have been
over years sooner.  After independence, Burr moves to New York and makes his
fortune as a lawyer and politician. Politics in the early
republic, Vidal suggests, were a simple matter of patronage and
party infighting; Burr rises because of his skill at playing off
factions against one another. The high point of his career came
in the election of 1800, when he tied in the Electoral College
with Thomas Jefferson. The election was sent to the House, where
the majority of state delegations chose Jefferson the victor.
From then on, Vidal suggests, Jefferson was determined to crush
Burr. Indeed, Vidal’s Jefferson reminds the reader of no one so
much as  Richard Nixon : Both are vindictive and paranoid, willing
to run roughshod over the Constitution to get at their enemies.  Founders’ Audacity  What makes “Burr” unique among major American political
novels is not just its debunking of American legend as its sheer
insouciance. “I sense nothing more” in the early republic,
Vidal’s Burr says to Hamilton, “than the ordinary busy-ness of
men wanting to make a place for themselves ... it is no
different here from what it is in  London  or what it was in
Caesar’s  Rome .”  Americans’ usual belief in their country’s uniqueness, and
in the unique wisdom of its founders, becomes in Vidal’s hands a
fairy tale that no grown-up could possibly credit in the first
place. What is left to admire is the sheer audacity and energy
of the founders, their 18th-century scale and scope. They may
have been scoundrels, Vidal suggests, but the country doesn’t
even make scoundrels like that anymore.  (Adam Kirsch is a senior editor at The New Republic and a
columnist for Tablet magazine. He is the author of “Why Trilling
Matters.” The opinions expressed are his own. Read  Part 1 ,  Part 
2 ,  Part 4  and  Part 5  of his series on classic political novels.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on how the private sector can
help  reduce unemployment  and on why a  carbon tax  still makes
sense; Clive Crook on  Paul Ryan  and America’s  bad marriage ;
William Pesek on Japan Airlines Co.’s $8.5 billion  initial
public offering ;  William Dudley  on why  money-market funds  should
restrict redemptions by investors.  To contact the writer of this article:
Adam Kirsch at  adam.kirsch@hotmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Katy Roberts at   kroberts29@bloomberg.net . 