-- Gree Forecasts Profit Gain on New Games After Feature Ban
-- B y   N a o k o   F u j i m u r a
-- 2012-08-14T09:43:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-14/gree-forecasts-profit-gain-on-new-games-after-feature-ban.html
Gree Inc. (3632) , the social network run by
Japan’s youngest billionaire, forecast profit will rise as much
as 8.4 percent this fiscal year as new games help replace
revenue lost after abandoning a feature the government banned.  Net income  will probably be between 46 billion yen ($585
million) and 52 billion yen for the 12 months ending June 30,
compared with 48 billion yen last year, the Tokyo-based company
said in a statement today. That compares with the 50.8 billion
yen average of 20 analysts’  estimates  compiled by Bloomberg.  Gree President and founder Yoshikazu Tanaka said today the
company plans to offer its games in 12 more languages, including
Korean and Chinese besides Japanese and English, as it invests
in expansion outside  Japan . Social-network operators including
Gree need to replace revenue lost because a sales-generating
“comp gacha” feature was abandoned after the government
likened it to gambling.  “The end of comp gacha doesn’t mean the end of social
games,” in Japan, Justin Weiss, an analyst at JI  Asia  in Tokyo,
said before Gree’s earnings announcement. “In fact, these
companies may find themselves on a healthier and more
sustainable growth basis.”  Gree’s larger Japanese rival DeNA Co. said last week the
government’s ban on comp gacha had little effect on its earnings
and that it plans to expand abroad and add new social games
features.  Development Delays  Dealing with “comp gacha” issues “delayed development of
new games,” Tanaka told reporters today in  Tokyo .  Gree and its biggest competitors plunged in Tokyo trading
in May after the nation’s consumer agency said it would
investigate comp gacha, a system that charges players about 300
yen apiece for virtual items that can be collected and converted
into a rarer digital token once a complete set is acquired.  Gree gained 0.1 percent to 1,457 yen at the close of Tokyo
trading, paring its decline to 45 percent this year, compared
with a 3.3 percent drop for DeNA and a 5.6 percent gain in the
benchmark Nikkei 225 Stock Average.  Gree is also using overseas acquisitions and alliances to
fuel growth. The company bought Funzio Inc. in May for $210
million in its biggest acquisition to add games for mobile
phones including “Crime City.” Gree also intends to offer two
“Moshi Monsters” games this year through its partnership with
Mind Candy, a London-based developer, it said in May.  Overseas Business  Gree’s “sales outlook looks bullish,”  Eiji Maeda , a
senior analyst at SMBC Nikko Securities Inc., said today by
phone. “I want to see if the company’s overseas business is
growing steadily.”  Revenue from overseas accounts for about 10 percent of the
total, Jin Akiyama, senior vice president of Gree’s corporate
department, said today in Tokyo. The  company  offers games in 169
countries, it said.  Sales may rise to between 195 billion yen and 205 billion
yen from 158 billion yen, Gree said in the statement today.
 Operating profit  may total as much as 84 billion yen, up 1.5
percent from last fiscal year, Gree said.  Net income rose to 12.3 billion yen in the three months
ended June 30, the company said today, compared with from 5.7
billion yen a year earlier, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Sales jumped 90 percent in the quarter to 40.1
billion yen, the company said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Naoko Fujimura in Tokyo at 
 nfujimura@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  