-- Greece Praised as Merkel Signals Progress in Crisis Fight
-- B y   T o n y   C z u c z k a
-- 2012-08-14T14:08:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-14/greece-wins-praise-as-merkel-signals-progress-in-crisis-fight.html
Europe’s response to the financial
crisis has advanced in the past two months with  Greece ,  Italy 
and  Spain  making major efforts to restore investor confidence, a
German government official said.  Chancellor Angela Merkel , who is due to meet with Canadian
Prime Minister  Stephen Harper  in Ottawa on Aug. 16, will tell
him that Europe has made progress in addressing the crisis since
the two last met at a Group of 20 summit in Mexico in June, the
German official told reporters in Berlin today on condition of
anonymity because the talks will be private.  Merkel’s message to Harper follows her backing for European
Central Bank President  Mario Draghi ’s Aug. 2 proposal to buy
 government bonds  to help lower borrowing costs for Spain and
Italy. With details still to be fleshed out and a German supreme
court ruling on Europe’s permanent bailout fund pending, Canada
and the U.S. are pressing Merkel to limit the crisis fallout.  By the time the court rules on Sept. 12, “the critical
question will be whether Italy and Spain have made that very
important decision to call for help or not,”  Jacques Cailloux ,
chief European economist at Nomura International Plc, said in an
interview with Francine Lacqua on Bloomberg Television. “It’s
very difficult to see how these countries can return to a
sustainable or stable financial market environment, and so
international or external help seems to be needed.”  ‘Reasonable’ for Spain  Spanish Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy  left open the
possibility that he would ask the ECB to buy sovereign bonds,
while indicating he won’t decide before the central bank works
out the mechanism’s details.  Spain, the euro area’s fourth-largest economy, sought a
European bailout for its banks of as much as 100 billion euros
($123 billion) in June “because it seemed reasonable,” Rajoy
said in Madrid today. “And now, if it seems reasonable, we will
do the same,” he said. “As is logical, until we know what we
are talking about, we aren’t going to take any decisions.”  German praise for Greece contrasts with a joint statement
by German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  and U.S. Treasury
Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  on July 30. Then, they commended
Ireland, Portugal, Spain and Italy and backed a commitment by
European leaders to do what’s needed to defend the euro area
without mentioning its weakest link, Greece.  Greek Slump  Greece’s  economic slump , now in its fifth year, slowed in
the second quarter as gross domestic product shrank 6.2 percent
from the same period last year, compared with 6.5 percent in the
first, according to government data released yesterday.
Industrial production rose on an annual basis for the first time
in four years in June and Greece beat its 2012 state budget-
deficit goal for the period through July, according to
preliminary Finance Ministry data published Aug. 10.  Greece’s debt agency raised the most at an auction in more
than a year today to pay for a bond redemption later this month,
even as finance costs rose.  Michael Meister, deputy parliamentary leader of Merkel’s
Christian Democratic Union party, said in an interview on Aug. 7
that  Germany  has “a certain flexibility” in its insistence
that Greece meet austerity targets under its bailout program to
which Germany is the biggest single country contributor.  “We made a lot of good progress,”  Poul Thomsen , the
International Monetary Fund’s envoy in  Athens , said on Aug. 5
after talks between Greece’s government and its international
creditors. Talks are due to resume in Athens in early September.  Draghi Offer  Draghi’s offer for the ECB to help -- if governments act
first by buying sovereign bonds through Europe’s bailout funds -
- is another attempt by euro-area leaders to stem the crisis
that began with Greece’s revelation of spiraling debt in 2009.  The 17-nation euro-area economy shrank 0.2 percent in the
second quarter compared to the previous quarter, while German
gross domestic product increased 0.3 percent and France
unexpectedly avoided a contraction with GDP unchanged, according
to national and European Union data released today.  Europe needs to use “overwhelming” force to tackle the
crisis and stronger action by the ECB is only part of the
solution, Canadian Finance Minister  Jim Flaherty  said on Aug. 1.  “It is clear that both the European Union and, I dare to
say, the ECB are ready to take action once certain conditions
are met, and if there is a request by some member state to go
into a primary-market purchases program,” EU Economic and
Monetary Affairs Commissioner  Olli Rehn  said in an interview
with CNBC today. All countries “have to decide themselves”
whether to request bond purchases or other aid, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony Czuczka in Berlin at 
 aczuczka@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  