-- Libor’s Risks Emerged From Clubby London Banking Culture
-- B y   S e a n   V a n a t t a
-- 2012-08-14T20:58:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-14/libor-s-risks-emerged-from-clubby-london-banking-culture.html
With central bankers and market
participants rushing to find an alternative to the  London 
Interbank Offered Rate (or Libor), the interest-rate index that
sets borrowing costs for consumers and multinational
corporations, it’s a good time to ask where Libor came from. And
to ask how the midmorning estimates of a handful of London-based
bankers came to play such an outsized role in the modern, quant-
driven financial system.  Libor represents the cost of one large bank borrowing
unsecured funds from another, in various currencies and at
varying maturities, in the London market. Each day, the  British
Bankers’ Association  asks a panel of market participants, “At
what rate could you borrow funds, were you to do so by asking
for and then accepting inter-bank offers in a reasonable market
size just prior to 11 a.m.?” The answers are then compiled and
published by  Thomson Reuters  Corp. (Bloomberg LP, the parent of
Bloomberg News, competes with Thomson Reuters in selling
financial and legal information and trading systems.)  In recent months it has become clear that many bankers
misreported rates, either to benefit trading positions or
provide a false picture of stability to regulators, undercutting
the market function Libor was meant to perform.  Global Benchmark  This system was developed by the BBA in 1985, but the
interbank rate in London, which has been referred to as Libor
since the early 1970s, first became a significant global
benchmark in the early ’60s. London was then becoming the center
of a growing market for dollar deposits and dollar loans --
known as Eurodollars -- which were held by individuals and
institutions outside the U.S. and were thus free from oversight
by American regulators.  In the early ’60s, the fragility of the Bretton Woods
system of fixed exchange rates pushed U.S. policy makers to
restrict international bank lending originating within the U.S.
The  Federal Reserve , along with the Kennedy and Johnson
administrations, feared that dollar outflows linked to
international lending would endanger U.S. dollar reserves and
thus the global financial system.  This fear, most now agree, was unfounded, and ironically
domestic regulation simply pushed American bankers and
multinational corporations to relocate these functions offshore.
London banks had been lending Eurodollar since the early 1950s,
and the city’s tradition as a haven for transnational finance
made it a logical site for a market in unregulated dollars.
Large corporations seeking to finance international operations,
as well as nations looking for dollars to help make up balance-
of-payments deficits, turned to the London Eurodollar market
through the ’60s and ’70s.  The structure of this market brought Libor to the fore.
Eurodollar deposits at London banks were usually made on a
short-term, fixed interest-rate basis. To match their loan and
deposit maturities, banks lending Eurodollar structured their
loans to roll over, usually every six months. If, in the
meantime, a lending bank’s dollar deposits moved to another
institution, the lending bank would seek to reacquire dollars by
borrowing them from other banks in the London interbank market.  This system created significant interest-rate risk for
lending banks. So to protect themselves from rate fluctuations,
they would charge Eurodollar borrowers a percentage above the
 interbank rate  commensurate with the borrower’s credit standing.
In 1970, for instance, the electronics company Philips arranged
a $250 million loan at 0.75 percent over Libor, while in 1975
the  Soviet Union  borrowed $300 million at 1.25 percent over. To
handle loans of such size, banks formed syndicates to spread the
risk; the Philips deal involved a group of more than 50 banks.  Manipulations  At the time, however, there was no uniform index for
determining the true interbank rate, or reference rate, for
these loans -- the function Libor is now meant to serve.  Banks involved in syndicated loans could expect to borrow
in the market at slightly different rates. For each loan, then,
reference banks that were deemed representative of a cross
section of the syndicate -- or, for more neutrality, banks
outside the syndicate -- were chosen by the parties. The rates
at which these reference banks could borrow would be aggregated
to form the “interbank rate” for the purpose of the loan.  This method was cumbersome, and offered multiple
opportunities for manipulation. This was especially true in
London, where an older banking culture of gentlemanly capitalism
prevailed, and where favors and family connections were still
central to a bank’s success.  First, large banks could increase their yields by bringing
smaller, slightly less creditworthy firms into a loan syndicate,
raising the  reference rate  for the group as a whole, while the
large bank’s borrowing costs remained low.  More worrisome were gentlemen’s agreements intended to
squeeze a few extra basis points from the quoted Libor. This
method was described by the Financial Times in 1974: “whereby
Bank A agrees to quote a slightly above realistic Libor for the
purposes of fixing the rate payable by a customer of Bank B --
on the understanding that Bank B will do the same for Bank A
when the time comes.”  In the context of London’s banking culture, such
arrangements were accepted practice -- keep calm and carry on.  Whether rigged or not, the use of the interbank rate
shifted interest-rate risks to borrowers, and in the turbulent
climate of the late 1970s financial institutions developed new
tools to offset these risks. The most important of these was the
interest-rate swap, a form of derivatives contract that allowed
a party to hedge differences in short- and long-term  interest
rates .  Swap Shops  Unlike Eurodollar loans, which were unique agreements
between set parties and usually not salable in a secondary
market, swaps were intended to be liquid, so that firms could
adjust their risk portfolio as the interest-rate market changed.
Here, the multiplicity of possible Libors made the development
of a transparent market difficult, because each swap contract
might have different terms and be linked to different reference
banks. Nonuniformity was a significant problem in a market
already estimated to be worth several trillion dollars in the
mid-1980s.  The rise of the  derivatives market  generally, and interest-
rate swaps in particular, thus created the need for a more
systematic index. In 1985, the BBA published its Recommended
Terms for Interest Rate Swaps, which was meant to bring
uniformity to the derivatives markets as well as systematize the
Libor-setting process. Although most of these terms were
rejected in favor of standards created by the  International Swap
Dealers Association , the legacy of this effort was the
rationalized Libor system still in place today.  But rationalization did not -- as the global market is
increasingly discovering -- free Libor from the clubby London
banking networks that had made the interbank rate subject to
manipulation in the first place. As the Libor scandal continues
to unfold, we shouldn’t be surprised if we hear more of
history’s echoes.  (Sean Vanatta is a graduate student at  Princeton University .
The opinions expressed are his own.)
Read more Echoes columns  online .  To contact the writer of this post: Sean Vanatta at
 svanatta@princeton.edu .  To contact the editor responsible for this post: Timothy Lavin
at   tlavin1@bloomberg.net . 