-- Michael Kors Surges After Raising Annual Profit Forecast
-- B y   S a p n a   M a h e s h w a r i   a n d   C o t t e n   T i m b e r l a k e
-- 2012-08-14T20:17:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-14/michael-kors-soars-after-raising-annual-profit-forecast.html
Michael Kors Holdings Ltd. (KORS) , the
luxury-goods company founded by the designer of that name,
soared the most in six months after raising its profit forecast
because of better-than-expected sales at existing stores.  The  shares  added 16 percent to $49.33 in New York, for the
biggest gain since Feb. 14. The stock has more than doubled
since the Hong Kong-based company’s initial public offering in
December.  Profit this year will be as much as $1.34 a share, up from
a previous forecast of as much as $1.12, the company said in a
statement today. That topped analysts’ average estimate of
$1.13, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “The company is in the midst of the critical and lucrative
transformation from fashion designer to authentic global
lifestyle brand, and it is precisely during such evolutions when
shareholders are most rewarded for taking risk investing in this
type of ‘brandsformation’ stock,” Omar Saad, an analyst with
International Strategy & Investment Group LLC, wrote in a note
to clients today.  Saad, who’s based in  New York , recommends buying the
shares.  Sales including licensing revenue rose 71 percent to $414.9
million in the first quarter ended June 30, driven by
comparable-store sales and shops within department stores, the
company said.  “We saw continued strength in each of our retail,
wholesale and licensing segments and across geographies,” John Idol, the company’s chairman and chief executive officer, said
in the statement.  Retail Sales  Retail net sales rose 76 percent to $215 million in the
quarter, driven by a 37 percent increase in sales at stores open
for at least a year, or comparable-store sales. The company
opened 76 stores from the same period last year and operated 253
retail stores as of June 30.  First-quarter  net income  more than doubled to $68.6
million, or 34 cents a share, from $24.1 million, or 13 cents a
year earlier.  The company also raised its profit outlook for the second
quarter of fiscal 2013 to as much as 35 cents a share, topping
analysts’ average estimate of 28 cents.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sapna Maheshwari in New York at 
 sapnam@bloomberg.net ;
Cotten Timberlake in Washington at 
 ctimberlake@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  