-- Hickory Argentine Bond Case Sent Back to Trial Judge
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 2012-08-14T17:37:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-14/hickory-argentine-bond-case-sent-back-to-trial-judge.html
A U.S. appeals court in  New York 
directed that a class-action suit brought against the Republic
of  Argentina  by Hickory Securities Ltd. be sent back to a lower
court for further consideration to calculate the amount
bondholders can collect.  Argentina defaulted on $95 billion in debt in late 2001,
the biggest default in history. In 2005, then-President  Nestor Kirchner  offered holders of defaulted debt 30 cents on the
dollar. Holders of about $20 billion in bonds rejected that
deal.  U.S. District Judge Thomas Griesa in New York issued eight
judgments in January 2009 ordering Argentina to make payments
between $95 million and $543 million to the noteholders,
including interest that has accumulated since 2001. The awards
at the time added up to $2.2 billion. Griesa also granted class-
action, or group, status in each action and aggregate classwide
relief.  Griesa concluded the class consisted of bondholders who
purchased Argentine bonds prior to the filing of the suit for
each respective bond series and who held such bonds continuously
until entry of judgment by the district court.  Argentina challenged class certification and aggregate
relief, arguing the amounts were improperly based on estimates
of the total amount each class might recover, without accounting
for bondholders who might not have held bonds continuously
during the class period.  ‘Likely Inflated’  The  U.S. Court of Appeals  in New York upheld Griesa, ruling
in May 2010 that he had properly granted class status to the
plaintiffs. The court also reversed Griesa, saying he had erred
in basing judgments on estimates of Argentina’s liability that
resulted in classwide awards that were “likely inflated.”  The appeals court remanded the case back to Griesa on
aggregate-wide class relief and to consider alternative
approaches to calculating damages.  After the case was initially sent back to Griesa, he ruled
in May 2011 that the bond series in three of the eight actions
that hadn’t yet matured were deemed accelerated. Argentina again
challenged the calculation, arguing the lower court had erred in
granting aggregate class-wide relief and that he’d failed to
account for bonds purchased in the secondary market after the
start of the class period.  Classwide Judgments  The appeals court ruled today that Griesa erred in granting
aggregate classwide judgments without sufficiently accounting
for non-continuous bondholders.  The court also directed Griesa to conduct a hearing to
consider evidence with respect to the volume of bonds purchased
in the secondary market after the start of the class period that
weren’t tendered in the debt exchange offers or are currently
held by opt-out parties or litigants in other proceedings.  The circuit also directed Griesa to make findings as to a
“reasonably accurate non-speculative estimate” of that volume
based on the evidence provided by the parties and account for
such volume in any damage award would “roughly reflect” the
loss of each class.  If no reasonably accurate non-speculative estimate can be
made, then Griesa was directed to determine how to proceed with
the awarding of damages on an individual basis.  ‘Without Merit’  The appeals court also rejected Argentina’s arguments
against class certification as being “without merit” and
“disingenuous” noting Argentina defaulted on these bonds and
conceded before Griesa that “it had no intention of resuming
payments.”  “As Argentina acknowledges, it ceased servicing this debt
in 2001,” the panel said today.  Carmine Boccuzzi, a lawyer with  Cleary Gottlieb Steen &
Hamilton LLP  representing Argentina, and Howard Sirota, a lawyer
for the plaintiffs, didn’t immediately return calls seeking
comment on the ruling.  The case is Hickory Securities Ltd. v. Republic of
Argentina, 04-cv-936, U.S. District Court for the Southern
District of New York ( Manhattan ); the appeals case is 11-
cv-3317, 2nd U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals (New York).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in New York at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  