-- IMF Says Agreement Reached on Romania’s Precautionary Loan
-- B y   A n d r a   T i m u   a n d   I r i n a   S a v u
-- 2012-08-14T09:58:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-14/imf-says-agreement-reached-on-romania-s-precautionary-loan-1-.html
The  International Monetary Fund 
completed a review of  Romania ’s loan accord, saying the economy
may expand slower than earlier forecast because of a prolonged
drought and political turmoil before elections this year.  The IMF and Romania reached a staff-level agreement to
unlock the next tranche of the country’s precautionary 5
billion-euro ($6.2 billion) loan, the fund’s Mission Chief Erik de Vrijer said in Bucharest today. The Balkan nation hasn’t
drawn any money so far from the loan.  Romania’s economy will probably expand 0.9 percent in 2012,
down from the earlier forecast of 1.5 percent, the Washington-
based lender said, maintaining a previously agreed target for
the  budget deficit  to remain below 3 percent of gross domestic
product.  The international lender is assessing the government’s
progress on meeting fiscal targets and planned state-asset sales
after a political conflict between Prime Minister Victor Ponta
and suspended President Traian Basescu undermined investor
confidence, pushing the country’s currency to record lows and
boosting borrowing costs.  ‘Significant Risk’  “The overlap of the political uncertainties with increased
market stress poses significant risk to the economy,” de Vrijer
said. “It is important for the government to keep strict
spending discipline and not have additional spending before
elections.”  For the IMF’s board to approve disbursing of the loan
tranche, Ponta’s government must cut overdue debt owed by local
authorities, increase gas prices and offer for sale by September
a 15 percent stake in  Transgaz SA (TGN) , the country’s natural-gas
grid operator and a majority holding in chemical company Oltchim
SA, de Vrijer said.  The IMF urged Ponta’s government to impose “discipline”
on spending policy by local authorities before parliamentary
polls in November or December after some of the state’s arrears
started to increase.  De Vrijer said on Aug. 7 that he was a “little bit
worried” about the impact the political turmoil was having on
the economy, which rebounded in the second quarter and posted an
annual growth of 1.2 percent, after declining in the previous
two quarters.  Ponta’s government, the country’s third this year, pledged
to comply with the terms of the precautionary loan agreement
with the IMF and the European Union. It arranged an additional 1
billion euros from the  World Bank  this year, though it hasn’t
yet drawn any money.  The government secured the amounts it needs to restore
public wages to the level before a 25 percent cut in 2010,
Finance Minister Florin Georgescu said on Aug. 2. Georgescu also
said the Cabinet predicts economic growth will reach 1.2 percent
this year.  A new joint mission of the IMF and the EU will return to
the country “soon after parliamentary elections” when the
details of the 2013 budget will be outlined, de Vrijer said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andra Timu in Bucharest at 
 atimu@bloomberg.net ;
Irina Savu in Bucharest at 
 atimu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  