-- IMG Golf Settles Lawsuit Against Luke Donald’s Former Agent
-- B y   M i c h a e l   B u t e a u
-- 2012-08-14T16:34:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-14/img-golf-settles-lawsuit-against-luke-donald-s-former-agent.html
IMG’s golf management division
reached an agreement on a breach-of-contract lawsuit against
former agent Jon Wagner, who left the company in April,
according to court documents.  A docket entry on Aug. 8 in  Ohio ’s Cuyahoga County Common
Pleas Court said a stipulated permanent injunction order had
been granted in the case, with the contents sealed.  Wagner agreed to pay New York-based IMG an undisclosed sum
to settle the suit, which was filed on July 6, according to a
statement from IMG.  Neither Wagner nor Benjamin Cooke, his attorney,
immediately returned telephone messages seeking comment.  As part of the settlement, the company said, Wagner, who
had represented U.S. PGA Tour players  Luke Donald ,  Sean O’Hair 
and Trevor Immelman while at IMG, agreed not to hire former IMG
agents Jeff Stacy and Kevin Lynch for one year or sign any IMG
golfers for two years. Stacy and Lynch left IMG soon after
Wagner departed.  Wagner was co-managing director of IMG Golf’s North
American business with Clarke Jones before leaving to form
Milestone Sports Management in  Cleveland , Ohio.  Donald, No. 2 in the Official World Golf Ranking behind
Rory McIlroy, remains with IMG, while O’Hair and Immelman are no
longer represented by the company.  “As we’ve proven here, we have and will continue to take
all appropriate steps to protect our rights and assets and to
ensure fair competition and a level playing field in the
marketplace,” IMG spokesman  Jim Gallagher  said in a statement.  The case is IMG Worldwide Inc. v. Jon Wagner, CV-12-782092,
Cuyahoga County, Ohio, Court of Common Pleas.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mike Buteau in Atlanta at 
 mbuteau@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  