-- Immigrant-Owned U.S. Companies Said to Generate $775 Billion
-- B y   H e n r y   G o l d m a n
-- 2012-08-14T15:10:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-14/immigrant-owned-u-s-companies-said-to-generate-775-billion.html
Immigrant-owned businesses employ
one in 10 U.S. workers in private companies and contribute more
than $775 billion of revenue to the  U.S. economy , according to
the  Partnership for a New American Economy .  The businesses generate about $125 billion in payroll,
the nonpartisan advocacy group of 450 mayors and business
leaders said in a report to be presented in Chicago and Boston
today by the group’s founders,  News Corp. (NWSA)  Chief Executive
Officer Rupert Murdoch and  New York  Mayor  Michael Bloomberg .  Chicago and the Boston area, the respective campaign
headquarters of Democratic President Barack Obama and Republican
challenger  Mitt Romney , are appropriate locations to present
forums on immigration policy, Bloomberg said.  “Immigration is what built this country, immigration is
what kept this country going for the past 235 years and now we
seem to have walked away from it,” Bloomberg said today in
Chicago. “Both candidates have been supportive of immigration
when they were running earlier, appeared to be in favor of
making changes and yet -- nothing.”  He called for visa laws that would make it easier for
educated medical and technical workers as well as low-wage and
seasonal farm laborers to gain entry to the U.S. Easing those
laws has been a signature issue for Bloomberg, who in June 2011
said the U.S. wouldn’t remain a global superpower “if we
continue to close our doors to the people who want to come here
and work hard.” The mayor has described restrictive immigration
laws as “national suicide.”  Failed Policies  “Washington has failed to enact immigration policies that
acknowledge the role of immigrants in our economic successes, or
consistently support the employment needs of America’s
businesses,” Murdoch said in a statement.  The day’s first forum, at the Economic Club of Chicago,
featured a conversation between Bloomberg and former White
House Chief of Staff  William Daley  moderated by Andrea Mitchell
of  MSNBC . Murdoch will join Bloomberg in a second forum in
Boston moderated by Gerald Seib of the Wall Street Journal’s
Washington bureau, the partnership said in a news release.  The report, written by  Robert Fairlie , an economics
professor at the  University of California ,  Santa Cruz , analyzed
U.S. Census data, including national population and business-
owner surveys, to conclude that immigrants, who account for 12.9
percent of the population, started 28 percent of all new U.S.
businesses in 2011. In 1996, immigrants founded 15 percent of
all new businesses, the report said.  Immigrants are more than twice as likely to start a
business as the native-born, according to the report. In 2011,
the immigrant business-formation rate was 550 new businesses per
month for every 100,000 immigrants, while the native-born rate
was 270 for every 100,000, according to the report.  The mayor is founder and majority owner of Bloomberg News
parent Bloomberg LP.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Henry Goldman at   hgoldman@bloomberg.net  or  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  