-- Indian ‘Magic Flute’ Generates Profits for Impresario
-- B y   W a r w i c k   T h o m p s o n
-- 2012-08-14T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-14/indian-magic-flute-generates-profits-for-impresario-interview.html
The challenge of how to make money
from opera has taxed impresarios from the early 17th century
until our time. One man is solving it in his own way.  Nicholas Heath , a former member of the Royal Opera chorus
in London, has founded  Regents Opera  out of his own pocket --
from his savings and the income from performances -- to tour
chamber-size productions of popular works.  His superbly sung production of “The Magic Flute,” set in
the unlikely surroundings of a colonial-era Indian hospital, is
making a profit for the company, Heath says. The production
starts a week’s run at the  Theatre Royal in Windsor  on Aug. 20.  I caught up with Heath, 52, after a trio of performances of
the Mozart opera at St. Sepulchre-Without-Newgate in central
London a few weeks ago. He’s an ebullient figure with an
infectious laugh, as an impresario should be, and tells me how
he’s making opera pay.  “Only use good singers,” says Heath. “They’re the key.”
And keep a tight rein on expenditure.  “I have to,” he says. “It’s my neck on the line. I’ve
read about chief executives of large companies going around
their offices and turning  light bulbs  off, and I say good for
them. Whatever size company you’re running, the responsibility
should be as if it’s your own money coming out of your own bank
account. Any chief executive who forgets that is not doing a
good enough job.”  Corporate Clients  Heath also stresses the benefits of diversifying. In 1993,
while still a tenor with the Royal Opera, he founded his first
company,  Opera a la Carte , to put on small productions and
deliver corporate entertainment projects.  The Opera a la Carte stagings grew to such a size -- I saw
a thrilling film-noir-style “Tosca” two years ago -- that he
decided to split the organization.  Now Regents Opera, which has bass-baritone  John Tomlinson 
as a patron, will concentrate on larger events, while the older
company will go back to its roots as a smaller, flexible outfit
for bespoke work.  The history of the “Magic Flute” production stems from
the earlier incarnation of Opera a la Carte. In 2002, the wife
of pianist Murray Perahia came to see one of Heath’s events. She
was so impressed that she asked if he could put on a special
version of the Mozart piece for her husband.  Murray’s Hand  “It was a thank-you gift for the surgeon who had operated
on Murray’s hand so successfully,” Heath says. “Because I knew
a lot of doctors would be coming to the performance, I thought
it would be a good idea to set the story in a hospital, and
place the elements of freemasonry within a medical hierarchy.
Murray enjoyed it, and he has been back to see other
performances. Now, I’ve re-thought it and enlarged it for
Regents Opera.”  Heath, who is of Indian heritage, thought that the era of
the Raj would be a good setting for the power struggles in the
opera. One of his boldest strokes is to present Papagena, who
usually appears in the guise of an old crone, as an Indian
leper. (She’s tastefully swathed in bandages and veils.) Later,
true to the story, she reveals herself as an attractive young
woman.  Another coup de theatre is the appearance of the officious
Three Ladies: Here they’re an amusing trio of bossy boots
nurses, choreographed with comic precision.  In  London , the opera was accompanied by an excellent 12-
piece ensemble, conducted by music director Susanna Stranders.
In Windsor, the forces will be a wind quartet and piano.  Fixed Fee  Heath says he makes his money both from hiring out the
production to venues for a fixed fee and from performances he
has funded himself. He usually charges 6,200 pounds ($9,675) per
performance plus valued added tax (VAT).  In its first year of 23 performances, the venture is
bringing in profit of about 5 percent on his investment after
startup costs and contingencies. Heath plans to enlarge the
number of performances next year, and increase the profit margin
to nearer 10 percent.  He also plans to continue his program of student workshops
and master classes. “The company is a bridge between college
and the larger opera houses, and I think it’s vital to support
young singers,” he says.  Does Heath think there are links between his business side
as general director of the company, and his artistic side as the
director who creates shows?  “There’s a huge amount of overlap,” he says. “Both are
all about teamwork, and inspiring people to work toward a common
goal. As artistic director, you have to make sure that every
performer understands their character’s journey, and you must
give them a vision of the whole piece. You have to have the same
sense of vision in business too, and know where you’re heading
and where you aim to be.”  “The Magic Flute” is at the Theatre Royal Windsor, Aug.
20-25. Information:  http://www.theatreroyalwindsor.co.uk  or
+44-1753-853888. For more about Regents Opera,
 http://www.regentsopera.com .  Muse highlights include  Ryan Sutton  on  New York  dining and
 Jeremy Gerard  on New York theater.  (Warwick Thompson is a critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
his own.)  To contact the writer on this story:
Warwick Thompson, in London, at  warwicktho@aol.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 