-- Indian Inflation Eases More Than Estimated to a 32-Month Low
-- B y   U n n i   K r i s h n a n
-- 2012-08-14T12:24:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-14/indian-inflation-moderates-more-than-estimated-to-a-32-month-low.html
Indian inflation eased more than
estimated in July to a 32-month low, in a sign that faltering
economic growth may be cooling price pressures.  The benchmark wholesale-price  index  increased 6.87 percent
from a year earlier, after climbing 7.25 percent in June, the
Commerce Ministry said in New Delhi today. The median of 29
estimates in a Bloomberg News survey was 7.2 percent.  Reserve Bank  of  India  Governor Duvvuri Subbarao refrained
from joining a wave of rate cuts from  China  to  Europe  last month
as he tackles what is still the fastest inflation among the
biggest  emerging markets . The slowest economic growth in nine
years may help counter the climb in costs, which has been fanned
by a weaker rupee, food prices and gaps in infrastructure
underscored in July by the nation’s worst power outages.  “On the surface, this number increases the scope for a
rate cut but it is not a game changer as  core inflation  has
moved up and pressures still exist like food prices spiking up
later, oil remaining high, the rupee remaining weak,” said
 Vishnu Varathan , an economist at Mizuho Corporate Bank Ltd. in
 Singapore . Varathan added he is looking for no more than a 25
basis points interest-rate cut in September.  The yield on the 8.15 percent government bond due June 2022
rose to 8.22 percent from 8.20 percent yesterday. The BSE India
Sensitive Index climbed 0.5 percent, while the rupee weakened
0.6 percent to 55.66 per dollar. The currency has tumbled more
than 18 percent in the past year.  BRIC’s Fastest  Non-food manufactured goods prices, a measure of core
inflation, rose 5.45 percent in July from a year earlier
compared with 4.89 percent in June, according to calculations by
Bloomberg.  Food articles climbed 10.06 percent last month, today’s
statement showed, less than the previously reported 10.81
percent rise in June. Fuel and power increased 5.98 percent,
compared with 10.27 percent in June.  “It’s too early to celebrate,” said Brinda Jagirdar, an
economist at  State Bank  of India in Mumbai. “The headline
inflation number is lower but core inflation, which is mainly
manufactured products, has moved up.”  The pace of headline price increases remains the fastest in
the BRIC group of largest emerging markets, which also includes
Brazil, Russia and China.  Export Slide  Separately, Director General of Foreign Trade Anup Pujari
said in New Delhi today that Indian exports fell 14.8 percent in
July from a year earlier to $22.4 billion, while imports slid
7.61 percent to $37.9 billion, leaving a trade deficit of $15.5
billion.  Subbarao said yesterday a below-average monsoon may stoke
expectations of higher costs. He has previously said headline
inflation exceeds a “threshold” level of about 5 percent.  The Reserve Bank left its benchmark  repurchase  rate
unchanged at 8 percent for a second meeting on July 31 while
reducing the amount of deposits lenders must keep in  government
bonds  to try and spur credit. It lowered borrowing costs by 0.5
percentage point in April, the first cut since 2009.  Asia ’s third-largest economy  expanded  5.3 percent in the
first quarter, the least since 2003, hurt by the global slowdown
and infighting in India’s ruling coalition that has set back
Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh ’s efforts to revive investment.  The weakest monsoon rains in three years threaten to
exacerbate the moderation in growth by crimping rural incomes
while pushing up food costs by hampering farm output.  Government Spending  The Reserve Bank has also indicated that  government
spending  is adding to price pressures, and that the need to
raise fuel prices to pare energy subsidies and narrow the widest
BRIC fiscal deficit may stoke inflation.  Indian Oil Corp. (IOCL) , the state-owned supplier of about 40
percent of the fuels consumed in the country, reported a loss of
224.5 billion rupees ($4.04 billion) in the three months ended
June 30, the biggest by any company in the country, after it
sold products including diesel and kerosene below cost.  The subsidy compensation pending for the company highlights
the case for raising administered energy prices. At the same
time, the government is under pressure to protect the purchasing
power of the poor in a nation where the  World Bank  estimates the
majority of people still live on less than $2 per day.  Forecasters from Goldman Sachs Group Inc. to Citigroup Inc.
this month lowered predictions for Indian economic expansion
while raising inflation estimates and scaling back expectations
for interest-rate reductions by the Reserve Bank.  Goldman cut its growth outlook for the 12 months through
March 2013 to 5.7 percent from 6.6 percent and said wholesale
prices may climb 7.2 percent, up from an earlier estimate of 6.5
percent. Citigroup said Indian gross domestic product may rise
as little as 4.9 percent in 2012-2013 if a drought takes hold.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Unni Krishnan in  New Delhi  at 
 ukrishnan2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  