-- Inflation Expectations Increase on Commodities: Santiago Mover
-- B y   S e b a s t i a n   B o y d
-- 2012-08-14T19:33:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-14/inflation-expectations-increase-on-commodities-santiago-mover.html
Chilean inflation expectations
climbed to a four-month high on bets higher commodity costs
would push up prices.  The one-year breakeven rate rose 16 basis points to 3.10
percent, climbing above 3 percent for the first time since May.
The rate, a measure of wagers on average price increases implied
by the gap between inflation-linked and fixed swap rates, has
increased 136 basis points, or 1.36 percentage point, in a
month.  BNP Paribas on July 24 recommended betting breakeven
inflation would rise because of higher commodity prices. The
Bloomberg Crops Three-Month Price index has soared 32 percent
since mid-June while the price of West Texas Intermediate crude
has risen 20 percent since June 28.  Chile  relies on imports for
almost all its oil and gas needs.  “It’s commodity inflation in a country with a tight labor
market,” said  Diego Donadio , a strategist at BNP Paribas SA in
 Sao Paulo . “The Chilean economy is the most open in  Latin
America  and the most susceptible to the impact of commodity
prices on local inflation. Food and energy commodities were
rising faster than the Chilean peso and the level of commodity
prices in Chilean peso terms was not being properly priced in.”  Chile’s central bank will leave its benchmark rate
unchanged at 5 percent this week, according to all 17 economists
 surveyed  by Bloomberg.  Prices in the forwards market for unidades de fomento,
Chile’s inflation-linked accounting unit, show that traders
expect prices to rise 2.11 percent this year, up from 1.98
percent yesterday. Traders expected 1.53 percent inflation as
recently as Aug. 1, before the National Statistics Institute
reported prices  were unchanged  in July from June, surprising
economists and traders who had expected them to fall.  The peso weakened 0.2 percent to 482.93 per  U.S. dollar .
The currency has depreciated 1.7 percent in three sessions.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sebastian Boyd in Santiago at 
 sboyd9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  