-- Lionless $160 Menu Draws Few Protesters to Wichita Dinner
-- B y   R y a n   S u t t o n
-- 2012-08-15T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-14/lion-chops-provoke-outrage-as-wichita-chef-rethinks-menu.html
The lions slept Tuesday night. It
was less pleasant for certain kangaroos, big bunnies and
crocodiles.  Taste & See, the Latin-fusion restaurant in Wichita,
 Kansas , planned to serve the king of beasts at a $160 per person
exotic-game tasting menu on Tuesday evening but thought better
of it in the wake of protests.  A petition on  Change.org  to cancel the dinner had listed
nearly 11,000 electronic signatures.  “We had some protestors, although they did not interfere
with the evening,” Steven Bacci, a spokesperson for the
restaurant, wrote via e-mail.  The sold-out event “was tremendously successful on many
levels,” Bacci added.  Lieutenant Doug Nolte of the Wichita Police Department said
that he was “not aware” of a police response, as any
demonstrations were probably “nothing that rose to the level
that would cause us to come in and do anything.”  Kangaroo was on the bill of fare, along with Scottish hare,
crocodile, alpaca, water buffalo, antelope and foie gras. The
Change.org petition still called for the meal’s cancellation
because of the presence of such “exotic animals.”  Taste & See declined to name the source or supplier of the
lion meat.  “Due to the extreme response and threatening nature of
some, I do not wish to subject anyone else to the barrage of
anger that we have endured,” Bacci wrote in an earlier e-mail.  Exotic Meats, an  online purveyor , currently lists its lion
meat supplies as “out of stock.”  The website for  Czimer’s Game & Seafood , an Illinois-based
butcher, advertises African lion legs, loins, steaks, ribs and
burgers, ranging in price from $9.95 to $24.95 a pound.  Muse highlights include  Jason Harper  on cars and Lance
Esplund on art.  To contact the writer of this column:
Ryan Sutton in  New York  at  rsutton1@bloomberg.net  or
qualityrye on  http://twitter.com/qualityrye   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 