-- Iran Says It’s Ready to Take Foreign Aid After Earthquakes
-- B y   L a d a n e   N a s s e r i   a n d   Y e g a n e h   S a l e h i
-- 2012-08-14T13:07:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-14/iran-says-ready-to-receive-foreign-aid-for-quake-survivors-1-.html
Iran  said it is ready to accept
foreign aid to assist survivors of two earthquakes in the
northwest after initially declining offers of help.  “Our country has, on various occasions, provided help to
victims of accidents in other countries,” Iranian Vice
President Mohammad Reza Rahimi said, according to the state-run
 Mehr  news agency. “In the current context, we are ready to
receive foreign assistance.”  Two earthquakes that struck the northwestern province of
East Azerbaijan on Aug. 11 destroyed dozens of villages, killing
at least 306 people and leaving thousands homeless, Iranian
officials have said. The northwest is home to Azeris, who speak
a Turkic language and are the country’s largest ethnic minority.  In the aftermath of the quakes, Interior Minister Mostafa Mohammad-Najjar said that Iran had declined offers from abroad
and would be relying on its “domestic potential” for the
relief work. The U.S.,  Russia  and  Switzerland  are among the
nations that have expressed their readiness to provide
humanitarian aid.  The government announced it was ending rescue operations
less than a day after the quakes struck, saying aid workers had
dug out all the survivors from beneath the rubble. The change of
decision concerning foreign aid followed criticism from some
local politicians as to how relief efforts had been carried out.  Delayed Assistance  Parliamentary member Allahverdi Dehghani criticized the
delayed arrival of assistance, saying local people had no choice
but to take charge of emergency rescue efforts themselves,
according to a report in the  Shargh  newspaper today.  Another lawmaker, Massoud Pezeshkian, who represents
Tabriz, the capital of the quake-hit province, said rescue
efforts had been patchy and not efficiently carried out in more
remote areas. Pezeshkian cited “mismanagement” as one of the
main cause behind the loss of lives, according to the Tehran-
based newspaper.  The Iranian government has provided emergency accommodation
to 16,000 people and set up 5,600 tents, Mahmoud Mozafar, head
of relief and rescue at Iran’s Red Crescent Society, was cited
as saying in a  state television  report yesterday.  Images on Iranian state television showed people in the
region sleeping outside in streets and parks, without tents or
supplies. More than 55 aftershocks were recorded in the province
in the past two days alone, according to the Tehran-based
 Iranian Seismological Center .  Makeshift Centers  Out of the 4,500 people who were injured, about 1,200 were
transferred to hospitals mostly in Tabriz and the rest treated
in ambulances and makeshift treatment centers, Gholamreza
Masoumi, a Health Ministry official and head of the  emergency
services , said yesterday, according to the state-run  Fars  news
agency.  Masoumi said he was concerned about a shortage of makeshift
toilets and bottled drinking water that could lead to a spread
of disease. The corpses of farm animals, some of which were
found lying near water sources, could also contribute to an
outbreak, he said.  Iran sits on several  fault lines  and is frequently hit by
earthquakes. An estimated 40,000 people were killed in 2003 when
a temblor flattened the city of Bam in the southern province of
Kerman.  The  U.S. Geological Survey  said the quakes hit within 11
minutes of each other in the late afternoon. The first had a
magnitude of 6.4 with an epicenter 12 miles (20 kilometers)
west-southwest of  Ahar . It was followed by a 6.3-magnitude
temblor 19 miles west-southwest of the area. Both occurred at a
depth of less than 6.2 miles, the USGS said in advisories on its
website.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ladane Nasseri in Dubai at 
 lnasseri@bloomberg.net ;
Yeganeh Salehi in Tehran via Dubai at   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  