-- Israeli Opposition to Iran Military Strike Declining, Poll Shows
-- B y   G w e n   A c k e r m a n
-- 2012-08-14T14:16:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-14/israeli-opposition-to-iran-military-strike-declining-poll-shows.html
Israeli opposition to a military
strike aimed at halting  Iran’s nuclear program  is declining as
Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu  steps up warnings that the
country faces a potential threat to its existence.  Some 46 percent of Israelis are against a strike on Iran
without U.S. support, according to a poll by the Dialog
Institute reported on Channel 10 on Aug. 12. That compares with
58 percent opposed to such a move in a survey by Dialog
published March 8 in the  Haaretz  newspaper. Both surveys
questioned 500 Israeli adults.  A poll in the daily  Ma’ariv  on Aug. 10 found that 35
percent believed that Israel should attack Iran alone if
necessary, compared with 19 percent in a July 20 poll. All the
polls had a margin of error of 4.5 percentage points.  Netanyahu said on Aug. 12 that the Iranian threat to  Israel 
“dwarfs” all others. The same day the Home Front Command
announced that it was testing a nationwide text-messaging system
to alert the public of incoming missiles. The Haaretz newspaper
reported Aug. 10 that Netanyahu and Defense Minister Ehud Barak
are considering a strike on Iran before U.S. elections on Nov.
6. Iranian officials have said that any attack against the
country’s nuclear program would prompt retaliation.  Talk of possible conflict “is spreading everywhere,” said
Yoram Meital, chairman of Ben Gurion University’s Herzog Center
for Middle East Studies in Beersheba. “The discourse over the
strike is much larger and deeper than at any other time in the
past.”  “Public support is growing for a strike because they are
increasingly convinced by Netanyahu that it is either an attack
or Auschwitz,” Meital said.  The poll in Ma’ariv found that 37 percent of Israeli Jews
believe that if  Iran  is allowed to gain atomic weapons a second
Holocaust is probable.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gwen Ackerman in Jerusalem at 
 gackerman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  