-- Italian Lenders Want Valuation of Central Bank Stakes Boosted
-- B y   S o n i a   S i r l e t t i
-- 2012-08-14T08:25:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-14/italian-lenders-want-valuation-of-central-bank-stakes-boosted.html
Italy’s banking lobby vice chairman,
Giovanni Berneschi, is urging the government to review the  Bank
of Italy ’s equity as a way of boosting their own capital.  The Bank of Italy, which is owned by domestic lenders, is
now valued at a symbolic 156,000 euros ($193,000), and may be
worth as much as 10 billion euros, or about half of the Rome-
based central bank’s assets, Berneschi said. Raising the equity
of the country’s central bank would help lenders that need
capital by boosting the value of their stakes.  “Today more than ever an adequate evaluation of the Bank
of Italy’s net worth is necessary, in the light of the
introduction of stricter European rules that will require higher
capital levels,” Berneschi, who’s also chairman of  Banca Carige
SpA (CRG) , a Genoa, Italy-based bank, said in e-mailed answers to
questions. Increasing the valuation of the central bank is a way
of giving an “adequate value” to investments originally made
in 1936, the banker said.  Italy’s five biggest banks have a 10 percent core Tier 1
ratio on average, compared with an average 8.7 percent for other
Italian lenders, Bank of Italy Governor Ignazio Visco said in a
speech July 11.  Raising the equity value of the Italian central bank
through a free stock issue would allow banks to boost capital by
8 billion euros to 8.5 billion euros, net of taxes, Berneschi
said. Banca Carige, which owns about a 4 percent stake in the
central bank, would have its capital increased by as much as 340
million euros if the central bank carried out the plan.  The Bank of  Italy ’s stakes held by domestic lenders has
raised questions about the central bank’s independence for
several years. In 2005 the Italian government approved
legislation requiring lenders to sell their stakes in the
central bank within three years, though it was never implemented
because rules governing the disposals weren’t adopted.  “The dialogue with the government is always open,” Visco
told newspaper la Repubblica in an interview published Aug. 5.
“The issue must be resolved.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sonia Sirletti in Milan at 
 ssirletti@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net  