-- Jana Partners Took Stake in Agrium, Exited Marathon
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C o l l i n s
-- 2012-08-14T14:53:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-14/jana-partners-took-stake-in-agrium-exited-marathon.html
Jana Partners LLC, the hedge fund
run by  Barry Rosenstein , took a stake in  Agrium Inc. (AGU)  and exited
 Marathon Petroleum Corp. (MPC)  last quarter, according to a regulatory
filing today.  The fund acquired 6.5 million shares of Agrium, the largest
U.S. farm retailer, valued at $575 million as of June 30,
according to a filing with the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission. That makes the Calgary-based company Jana’s largest
U.S.-listed stock holding as of the second quarter, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. The firm also held 280,500  call
options  in Agrium valued at $24.8 million, the filing shows.  Agrium said in a statement today that it won’t spin off its
retail operations following a report in the Wall Street Journal
that Jana wants the unit split from its more profitable
wholesale business. Jana Partners has proposed similar plans to
holdings including  McGraw-Hill Cos. (MHP)   New York-based Jana sold its stake in Marathon Petroleum,
the firm’s largest holding as of March 31, in the second
quarter. The Findlay, Ohio-based crude refiner filed with the
SEC on July 2 a proposed initial public offering of its  MPLX LP (MPLX) 
unit to form a master-limited partnership for pipeline assets.  Jana is an event-driven fund, meaning it generally invests
in companies undergoing changes such as mergers, spinoffs and
bankruptcies. The firm oversees about $3 billion in investments
and commitments.  Charles Penner, a Jana spokesman, declined to comment.  Google, AOL  The value of the hedge fund’s investments in materials
companies rose 27 percent during the quarter and information
technology companies rose by 1.9 percent, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Jana took a new position in Mountain View, California-based
 Google Inc. (GOOG)  with 110,016 shares valued at $63.8 million as of
June 30. The firm had sold its stake in the world’s largest
search-engine operator during the first quarter. Jana also added
2.8 million shares valued at $79.7 million of  AOL Inc. (AOL) , the
online publisher based in New York.  The firm took a new stake in  Phillips 66 (PSX) , the Houston-based
refiner, adding about 2.6 million shares valued $85.1 million,
according to the filing.  Jana owned 2.7 million shares of McGraw-Hill valued at
$121.6 million as of the end of the second quarter, making it
the firm’s third-biggest holding. Jana has taken an activist
role in the New York-based publisher, proposing a plan last year
to break it up. McGraw-Hill said in September it will split into
two by the end of this year, with one company focused on
financial information and the other on educational publishing.  Money managers who oversee more than $100 million in U.S.
equities must file a  Form 13F  within 45 days of the end of each
quarter to list their holdings in stocks that trade on U.S.
exchanges, as well as options and convertible debt.  Hedge funds are lightly regulated pools of capital whose
managers can invest in any asset and share in annual profits.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Margaret Collins in  New York  at 
 mcollins45@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  