-- JPMorgan Bank to Hold Collateral After Futures Firms’ Losses
-- B y   M a t t h e w   L e i s i n g
-- 2012-08-14T17:44:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-14/jpmorgan-to-house-client-collateral-in-bank-after-futures-losses.html
JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  will allow
customers to house excess swaps and futures collateral in a
separate bank account as it seeks to reassure investors after
losses at  MF Global Holdings Ltd. (MFGLQ)  and Peregrine Financial Group
Inc.  The new service will allow clients to automatically
aggregate excess margin at JPMorgan Chase Bank N.A., the firm’s
insured deposit-taking unit, Emily Portney, head of agency
clearing, collateral and execution at the New York-based bank,
said in a telephone interview.  “It’s certainly in response to client queries and more
emphasis on safekeeping of client money,” Portney said. “The
key is safety, operational efficiency and more choice for
clients” in how their funds are protected and invested, Portney
said.  Futures brokerage customers at MF Global are still missing
$1.6 billion in segregated funds after the firm filed for
bankruptcy in October after bets on European sovereign debt,
credit ratings downgrades and the worst quarterly loss in the
company’s history unnerved investors. About $220 million in
segregated client money is unaccounted for at Peregrine after
founder and Chief Executive Officer Russell Wasendorf Sr. was
arrested July 13 after a suicide attempt and a signed confession
that he defrauded customers for 20 years.  Under Attack  JPMorgan’s decision shows how the brokerage model is under
attack, said Craig Pirrong, a finance professor at the
 University of Houston . Benchmark  interest rates  near zero since
2008 had already put earnings pressure on the firms, also known
as futures commission merchants, or FCMs, and the missing money
at MF Global and Peregrine has jarred investors who thought
their assets were protected by segregation requirements under
the Commodity Exchange Act, he said.  “It’s another illustration of the impending end of the FCM
model,” Pirrong said. Futures brokerages earn money on customer
collateral by lending it out at higher rates than they pay to
the investor or by buying securities with it. “Everything is
tilting against that old model,” Pirrong said.  At MF Global and Peregrine, the excess customer money held
at the brokerages is what disappeared. Collateral backing trades
of MF Global customers that was held by  CME Group Inc. (CME) , as well
as Peregrine customer assets maintained by Jefferies Group Inc.,
were protected.  Margin Calls  Investors who trade futures or clear swaps often leave
extra collateral in their accounts to have it available if
needed for a margin call. This money exceeds what the
 clearinghouse  and the brokerage demand to keep the trades
active.  The JPMorgan service will draw unneeded money and
securities from however many clearing brokers an investor uses,
Portney said. “It’s clearing-broker agnostic,” she said.  The collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. in 2008
prompted many derivatives users to spread their clearing
business among several banks or broker-dealers to lessen the
risk of having to move all their accounts at once or open a new
one in a time of stress.  JPMorgan  rose  0.9 percent to $37.33 as of 12:53 p.m. in  New
York .  The new collateral treatment will also allow investors to
choose how to invest their excess margin because it’s held in a
depository bank account that the client will control, Portney
said. That’s different than in the current futures model, where
investment decisions are made by the brokerage and not the
investor, Pirrong said.  CME Plan  “Banks are looking for services to sell to people, and
this can be one of them,” he said.  CME Group, the world’s largest futures market, said last
month it’s considering a plan to hold all customer funds at
clearinghouses or other depositories in response to MF Global
and Peregrine. The exchange operator and clearinghouse owner
said any interest earned by the customer money would be returned
to the futures brokerages to maintain a key feature of how the
firms earn revenue, according to a letter to customers from
Executive Chairman  Terrence Duffy  and Chief Executive Officer
Phupinder Gill.  Duffy, testifying before Congress after the idea was
announced, said it “will be controversial and perhaps have
disruptive consequences.” He later said the proposal wasn’t
meant to disrupt how the futures industry works.  JPMorgan has combined clearing services across securities,
swaps and futures along with collateral management solutions and
agency execution under one unit. Previously, several different
parts of the bank had responsibility for the various asset
classes and products, Portney said.  The move is meant to help customers on both the buy side
and sell side deal with new requirements introduced by the Dodd-
Frank Act in the U.S. and similar regulations being developed in
 Europe , she said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Leising in New York at 
 mleising@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Alan Goldstein  at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net . 