-- Junk-Bond Buyers Plot Escape in Debt Gap: Credit Markets
-- B y   L i s a   A b r a m o w i c z
-- 2012-08-14T15:27:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-14/junk-bond-buyers-plot-escape-in-debt-gap-credit-markets.html
Junk-bond buyers are giving up the
most yield in seven months to own the biggest, most-easily
traded securities as they increasingly hedge their bets that the
three-month rally will continue while the global economy slows.  Investors are accepting 1.2 percentage points less in yield
to own bonds from bigger, newer U.S. high-yield offerings that
are more actively traded and easier to dispose of than older,
smaller issues, according to  Barclays Plc (BARC)   data . The gap, which
is benefiting larger junk issuers such as Sprint Nextel Corp.
and  Community Health  Systems Inc., is the most since January and
six times the 0.2 percentage-point average since August 2007.  High-yield fund managers investing a record $44.9 billion
of deposits this year are selecting bonds they can sell more
easily if investors start withdrawing the money. Even as the
 Standard & Poor’s  500 index returned 3.4 percent since the end
of June, typically a benefit to the riskiest debt, the highest-
rated junk bonds have outperformed the lowest-ranked by 0.4
percentage point, Bank of America Merrill Lynch index data show.  “Investors are right to be nervous about holding less-
liquid paper,” said Michael Kessler, a Barclays credit
strategist in  New York , using market vernacular for bonds that
are more difficult to sell when buyer appetites wane. “What’s
different now is that it’s happening during a pretty significant
rally.”  Goading Investors  The Federal Reserve’s outlook that it will hold  interest
rates  near zero through at least late 2014 has goaded investors
to funnel cash toward riskier assets, even as Chairman  Ben S.
Bernanke  warns Europe’s fiscal turmoil is creating “spillover
effects” in the rest of the world. The average yield on
speculative-grade bonds in the U.S. was 7.42 percent yesterday,
0.2 percentage point from the record-low 7.19 percent reached in
May, Bank of America Merrill Lynch index data show.  The divergence between the most and least liquid bonds
shows buyers are holding on to some caution after Wall Street’s
biggest banks, responding to tougher capital rules that make
trades costlier, retreated from their previous role of acting as
buyers to buffer against plummeting prices.  While demand for higher-yielding bonds spurred a record
July volume of new junk-debt sales, dealers  traded  an average 62
percent fewer bonds during the month compared to 2007 as they
shrank their  corporate debt  holdings by 82 percent, data from
the Fed show.  ‘Be Prepared’  “As a trader, you have to be prepared to quickly adjust to
market conditions,” said Arthur Tetyevsky, a credit strategist
at Jefferies Group Inc. in New York. “You want to make sure you
have enough liquid positions so as to allow yourself to get down
risk when it’s required.”  Elsewhere in credit markets,  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA)  plans to
raise funds with the first bond offering by Europe’s largest oil
producer in two years. UniCredit SpA raised 750 million euros
($924 million) by selling the first covered bonds from an
Italian borrower this year. The cost to protect against U.S.
corporate defaults fell to the lowest since May 8.  A  unit  of Royal Dutch Shell plans to sell debt with five-,
10- and 30-year maturities. Shell International Finance, which
last issued dollar obligations due in three decades in March
2010, will use proceeds for general corporate purposes, The
Hague-based  company  said today in a regulatory filing.  Benchmark Deal  The sale will be of benchmark size, typically at least $500
million, and the bonds may be rated Aa1 by Moody’s Investors
Service, its second-highest grade, according to a person
familiar with the offering who asked not to be identified
because terms aren’t set.  UniCredit, Italy’s largest bank, sold the covered bonds due
in 2018 to yield 290 basis points, according to a person with
direct knowledge of the deal. That compares with a spread of 368
basis points that investors demanded to hold the Italian
government’s 4.5 percent bonds with a similar maturity,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Covered bonds typically get higher ratings than unsecured
debt because they’re backed by mortgages or public sector loans
and guaranteed by the issuer.  The U.S. two-year interest-rate swap spread, a measure of
debt market stress, was little changed, falling 0.06 basis point
to 19.94 basis points as of 11:06 a.m. in New York. The measure,
which has declined from a four-month high of 39.13 on May 15,
narrows when investors favor assets such as corporate bonds and
widens when they seek the perceived safety of  government
securities .  Credit Swaps  The Markit CDX North America Investment Grade Index, a
credit-default swaps benchmark that investors use to hedge
against losses or to speculate on creditworthiness, dropped 0.7
basis point to a mid-price of 102 basis points, according to
prices compiled by Bloomberg.  In  London , the  Markit iTraxx Europe Index  of 125 companies
with investment-grade ratings fell 3.7 to 145.5.  The indexes typically fall as investor confidence improves
and rise as it deteriorates. Credit swaps pay the buyer face
value if a borrower fails to meet its obligations, less the
value of the defaulted debt. A basis point equals $1,000
annually on a contract protecting $10 million of debt.  Bonds of New York-based JPMorgan Chase & Co. were the most
actively traded dollar-denominated corporate securities by
dealers today, with 83 trades of $1 million or more as of 11:25
a.m. in New York, according to Trace, the bond-price reporting
system of the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority.  The biggest  U.S. bank  by assets raised $2.5 billion
yesterday selling five-year debt at its lowest fixed rate on
record for the maturity.  Junk Divide  The yield on U.S. speculative-grade bonds issued in lots of
more than $500 million within the past 18 months was 6.12
percent on Aug. 7, Barclays data show. Bonds smaller than $250
million and offered more than 18 months ago yielded 7.31
percent, the data show.  “Investors continue to put a premium on liquidity, which
helps to explain the demand for newly-priced bonds,” Jefferies’
Tetyevsky said.  The money investors have poured into funds that buy
speculative-grade bonds this year is more than three times
inflows from the same period last year as measured by Cambridge,
Massachusetts-based EPFR Global. The investments have fueled a
4.6 percent gain in dollar-denominated  junk bonds  since May and
returns of 9.7 percent this year, Bank of America Merrill Lynch
index data show.  The divide is favoring some of the biggest issuers in the
U.S. junk bond market.  ‘Fragile Recovery’  Franklin, Tennessee-based hospital chain Community Health’s
$1.6 billion of six-year notes sold Aug. 8, the third-most
actively traded debt recorded by Trace the past 10 days, yielded
4.7 percent in trading yesterday. That compares with an average
5.7 percent yield on other bonds rated in the BB tier, Bank of
America Merrill Lynch index data through Aug. 10 show.  Overland Park , Kansas-based Sprint Nextel’s $1.5 billion of
eight-year bonds sold on Aug. 9, the sixth-most active during
the same period, yielded 6.9 percent yesterday, compared with an
average 7.36 percent for other B rated notes.  Buyers remain guarded as Bernanke said in a speech to
teachers last week that the U.S. “economy is still in a fragile
recovery” and the central bank works to lower the nation’s
 unemployment rate , which has held at 8 percent or higher for 42
straight months. U.S. forecasters cut their outlook for growth
and see weaker labor market conditions, according to the  Federal
Reserve  Bank of Philadelphia’s Third Quarter Survey of
Professional Forecasters released on Aug. 10.  Dealer Positions  “People are definitely wary of a sudden leg down,”
Barclays’s Kessler said. “People know lower-quality high yield
needs economic growth.”  While the highest-rated junk bonds have gained 2.7 percent
since the end of June, the lowest-rated notes, which usually
outperform during a rally, returned 2.35 percent, Bank of
America Merrill Lynch index data show.  Regulations from  U.S. Congress  to the  Basel Committee on
Banking Supervision  have prodded the biggest banks to shrink the
amount of their capital they devote to buying and selling bonds.  The 21 primary dealers that trade directly with the Fed
have cut their  holdings  of corporate securities due in more than
a year to $41.7 billion as of Aug. 1 from a peak of $235 billion
in October 2007, Fed data show. Their average weekly trading
volumes in July were $95.5 billion, compared with $254.6 billion
during the same period five years ago, according to the  data .  “Dealers are pulling back inventory,” said Jason Rosiak,
head of  portfolio management  at Pacific Asset Management, the
 Newport Beach , California-based affiliate of Pacific Life
Insurance Co. “That’s affecting trading across the board. It’s
a challenge for larger firms to rotate their portfolios to exit
and enter positions. It’s more of an artful craft these days.”  When buyers decide to sell bonds, they can’t reliably get
rid of $10 million or $20 million chunks by going to a dealer as
they did before the credit crisis, said Brian Machan, a  money
manager  with Aviva Investors North America in  Des Moines ,  Iowa ,
who helps oversee $433 billion.  “There’s going to be a bigger difference between on-the-
run and off-the-run bonds,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lisa Abramowicz in New York at 
 labramowicz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  