-- Kazakh Economy Expanded 5.6% as Waning Demand Stalled Growth
-- B y   S v e t l a n a   A n t o n c h e v a
-- 2012-08-14T12:14:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-14/kazakh-economy-expanded-5-6-as-waning-demand-stalled-growth-1-.html
Kazakhstan’s economic growth
stagnated in the first six months as deteriorating global demand
eroded sales of its commodities exports.  Gross domestic product  expanded 5.6 percent in the first
half from a year earlier, unchanged from the first quarter, the
Astana-based State Statistics Agency said in an e-mailed
statement today. The median  estimate  of three economists
surveyed by Bloomberg was for a 5.2 percent advance.  Slowing economic growth in China and  Russia , Kazakhstan’s
largest trade partners, and the deepening  European debt crisis 
are testing the resilience of the biggest energy producer in
central  Asia . The government of President  Nursultan Nazarbayev 
is counting on domestic consumption to balance shrinking export
revenue as it targets growth of about 7 percent this year and
seeks to safeguard that pace of expansion until 2015.  “The slowdown in economic growth is first of all related
to weak statistics in the natural resources extraction sector,”
Sergei Konygin, an economist at Troika Dialog, said by e-mail
today. “We don’t expect any acceleration in output, primarily
because of a constantly weakening global demand for raw
materials.”  Industry Slumps  Kazakh  industrial output  unexpectedly shrank in July for a
second month as production of metals slumped, dropping 0.5
percent from a year earlier after a 1.7 percent decrease in
June. Production fell 3.5 percent in July on a monthly basis.  Kazakhstan  doesn’t have outstanding foreign-currency bonds
after redeeming its last notes in 2007, so investors speculate
on its creditworthiness by trading credit-default swaps. The
cost of protecting Kazakh debt against nonpayment for five years
using CDS dropped 117 basis points from this year’s high in
January to 201 in  London  today, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  An industry slowdown is a drag on the broader economy even
as the country’s oil output remains stable, said Sara
Alpysbayeva, head of the Astana-based macroeconomic and applied
mathematics center at the Institute of Economic Studies. The
rate of growth in the metals and mining industry is easing, she
said.  A poorer grain harvest is also constraining growth, said
Gennadiy Babenko, an analyst at  Renaissance Capital  in Moscow.
Kazakhstan cut its crop forecast by more than 50 percent to 12.8
million metric tons this year because of unfavorable weather
conditions. The country harvested a record 26.9 million tons of
grain in 2011, according to the State Statistics Agency.  Oil, Zinc  Prices of the country’s main exports such as crude oil,
copper and zinc retreated in June by an average 4.7 percent from
May, dropping by 7.6 percent from a year earlier, statistics
agency data show. The Kazakh unit of  ArcelorMittal (MT)  said output
was “worse than expected” in the second quarter as production
of liquid and rolled-steel products shrank.  With a population of less than 17 million, Kazakhstan’s
reserves of oil, coal, uranium and other raw materials rank it
among the world’s best-endowed nations, according to Troika
Dialog. Its mineral wealth is equivalent to about $300,000 per
capita, twice the level of Russia and more than  Australia ,
Troika estimates. Kazakhstan holds about 3 percent of the
world’s oil reserves according to  BP Plc. (BP/)   Outpacing Others  The  International Monetary Fund   estimates  Kazakhstan’s
economy will gain 5.9 percent in 2012 and 6 percent the
following year, surpassing the pace of growth in  emerging
markets  as a group, according to its World Economic Outlook
released July 16. The Economic Development and Trade Ministry in
February downgraded its projection for GDP growth this year to 6
percent from 6.9 percent.  The Kazakh central bank this month reduced it benchmark
refinancing rate for a fourth time this year, following emerging
economies from Brazil to India in lowering borrowing costs. The
rate was cut to a record 5.5 percent after inflation eased for a
second month, bringing price growth further below the
regulator’s target range of 6 percent to 8 percent.  The IMF praised Kazakh authorities for policies that
“yielded a strong economic recovery and helped rebuild external
buffers,” according to a June 22  report .  The lender’s “directors appreciated the preparation of
plans to deal with a possible protracted global slowdown and a
decline in  oil prices ,” the IMF said. “Macroeconomic policy
making would benefit from improved medium-term frameworks and
policy coordination.”  The second-largest oil producer in the former  Soviet Union 
after Russia was upgraded one step to BBB at  Fitch Ratings  in
November with a positive outlook. The move followed  Standard &
Poor’s  decision the same month month to boost Kazakhstan’s debt
rating to BBB+, the third-lowest investment grade, pushing it
ahead of Russia. S&P said the rating had a stable outlook.  “Despite the uncertainty in the world economy and on
external markets, Kazakhstan’s economic development shows
positive dynamics,” Nazarbayev  said  at a July 13 government
meeting in the capital, Astana.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Svetlana Antoncheva in Astana, Kazakhstan at 
 santoncheva1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Hellmuth Tromm at 
 htromm@bloomberg.net  