-- Knight $440 Million Loss Sealed by Rules on Canceling Trades
-- B y   N i n a   M e h t a
-- 2012-08-14T16:10:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-14/knight-440-million-loss-sealed-by-new-rules-on-canceling-trades.html
Regulations put in place to protect
investors after $862 billion of market value was briefly erased
on May 6, 2010, were the same rules that almost ruined  Knight
Capital Group Inc. (KCG)  this month.  Knight, whose market-making unit executes 10 percent of
U.S. equity volume, lost $440 million on Aug. 1 and its  stock 
has plunged 73 percent after a computer malfunction bombarded
the market with errant orders that exchanges declined to cancel.
A decade ago, the firm suffered almost no  consequences  in a
similar breakdown when officials agreed to void trades after
Knight unintentionally sold 1 million of its own shares.  The refusal to let  Jersey City , New Jersey-based Knight out
this time shows that brokers face increasing risks from
technology errors after regulators toughened rules following the
so-called flash crash two years ago. Knight, which mistakenly
bought and sold exchange-traded funds and  New York Stock
Exchange (NYX)  companies, was forced into a rescue that ceded most of
the firm to six investors led by Jefferies Group Inc.  “This is really a wake-up call,” David Whitcomb, founder
of Automated Trading Desk LLC, a Knight rival bought by
Citigroup Inc. for $680 million in 2007, said in a telephone
interview. “They made one obviously terrible mistake in
bringing online a new program that they evidently didn’t test
properly and that evidently blew up in their face.”  Erroneous Trades  Knight has been upended by computer errors before. On June
2, 2002, three days after Thomas Joyce started work as chief
executive officer and president, its stock tumbled more than 50
percent intraday when a software flaw caused its computers to
spew out orders to sell the company’s shares. The  Nasdaq  Stock
Market and Cincinnati Stock Exchange canceled the transactions
and Knight later pared the loss to 7 percent.  The May 2010 flash crash inaugurated reforms aimed at
reducing the discretion exchanges have to cancel trades. The  Dow
Jones Industrial Average  tumbled almost 1,000 points in 20
minutes that day before rebounding after the automated sale of
 stock futures  helped trigger waves of selling, according to a
report by the Securities and Exchange Commission and Commodity
Futures Trading Commission on Sept. 30, 2010.  Rules Stiffened  Rules formalizing the treatment of erroneous trades were
adopted amid criticism by investors after exchanges and the
Financial Industry Regulatory Authority voided transactions
totaling 5.6 million shares on May 6, 2010. Regulators added
guidelines governing when sales or purchases of stock could be
canceled after market makers said confusion about which trades
would stand prevented them from acting during the rout.  The rules had their biggest effect earlier this month after
Knight’s unintended orders caused  volume  suddenly to surge and
prices to swing in dozens of securities just after trading
began. Executives at the  New York  Stock Exchange canceled
transactions that were 30 percent or more away from their price
at the start of trading, a decision that applied to six
securities out of 140 that were reviewed.  Unwanted transactions occurred in ETFs listed on NYSE Arca
and in companies on the Big Board, Knight said in a regulatory
 filing  Aug. 9. It previously hadn’t said its mishap affected
ETFs. An update to software made in preparation for an NYSE
program to lure more individual investors to the Big Board
caused the mistaken orders starting at 9:30 a.m. New York time.  Fixing Error  Knight’s loss stemmed from old software that was
inadvertently reactivated when the new program was installed,
two people briefed on the matter said. Once triggered, the
dormant system started multiplying stock trades by one thousand,
according to the people, who requested anonymity because the
firm hasn’t commented publicly on what caused the error.
Knight’s staff spent 45 minutes looking through eight sets of
software to determine what happened, the people said.  “It was a new application,” Joyce, now chairman and CEO,
said in a phone interview with Bloomberg News Aug. 6. “It was
certainly a technology issue that had been engineered to allow
us to better interact with the retail liquidity program at the
New York Stock Exchange, and it was obviously a greatly flawed
application.” Joyce asked the SEC to give NYSE more flexibility
to cancel trades because they were “one big error,” he said.  Preventing Injury  Even as Knight suffered, the changes prevented its mishap
from injuring market participants, Matthew Andresen, co-CEO of
quantitative trading firm Headlands Technologies Inc., said.  “The  market  handled it well,” Andresen, a former Citadel
LLC executive, said in a phone interview. “The harmonization of
the clearly erroneous policy worked very well and the plumbing
worked very well. Unfortunately for Knight, they ended up making
a $440 million donation to the marketplace.”  Securities professionals are still attempting to dissect
what went wrong at Knight, whose incident followed the
cancellation of an initial public offering by Bats Global
Markets Inc. on March 23 and the May 18 IPO by  Facebook Inc. (FB)  on
Nasdaq OMX Group Inc., which was marred by technology failures
and delayed trade confirmations.  While preparations for the NYSE’s retail liquidity program
led to the error, Knight’s loss didn’t occur within the program,
nor did it originate with its market-maker group on the NYSE
trading floor, according to a person with direct knowledge of
the matter who declined to be identified because the information
isn’t public. Joyce said the error that led to Knight’s loss was
an “infrastructure problem” in an interview with Bloomberg
Television on Aug. 2.  Profits, Losses  Such an issue may involve bad software that leads a company
to trade in ways it doesn’t expect, according to George Hessler,
former CEO of Stock USA Execution Services Inc. who was also an
executive at Lime Brokerage LLC, trading firms that specialize
in high-frequency electronic transactions. Malfunctioning
controls may also have prevented systems from updating the
firm’s profits and losses based on messages sent back by the
exchange, he said.  “A software problem could have made the firm not aware of
their own positions,” according to Hessler, who said in a phone
interview he had no first-hand knowledge of Knight’s situation.
“But good programming discipline also means there should be
last-ditch backstop mechanisms to shut down trading when too
many orders are going out or orders aren’t getting updated the
way they should be.”  Bid, Ask  Knight appeared to repeatedly send orders “where they were
buying at the offer and selling at the bid, and some were on
stocks with wide bid-ask spreads,” Manoj Narang, CEO of
Tradeworx Inc., a high-frequency firm and technology provider
based in  Red Bank ,  New Jersey , said in a phone interview.  “It was a slow, painful, 15-cents-at-a-time death by small
cuts, only it was happening every fraction of a second because
computers are fast,” he said.  His automated trading firm experienced a similar mishap
earlier this year in a broker’s dark pool, or private venue, he
said. Firms supplying liquidity generally do so at the bid and
offer prices. While Tradeworx’s issue occurred because of system
changes the firm didn’t know about, the strategy was programmed
to shut off after it lost $5,000, which took less than a minute,
Narang said.  “What is confusing virtually everybody, including me, is
why Knight didn’t have an automated stop loss in their
strategies,” he said. “It was the first day of NYSE’s RLP
program so there should have been multiple layers of risk
controls. In addition to having automated stop losses there
should have been humans watching the strategy like a hawk.”  ‘Within Minutes’  NYSE Euronext was in touch with Knight “within minutes”
after identifying the source of the errant trades on Aug. 1, the
exchange’s CEO,  Duncan Niederauer , said on a conference call two
days later. Knight participated in user testing associated with
the start of NYSE’s retail liquidity program, he said, calling
the problem that befell the member firm a “routing error.”  NYSE held a call with other  stock exchanges  and Finra from
10:30 a.m. until about 4 p.m. on Aug. 1, according to people
with direct knowledge of the matter who declined to be
identified because the discussion was private. The Big Board
talked separately to the SEC and Knight, one of the people said.  Early in the call, exchange officials discussed whether the
Knight trades could be treated individually instead of as a
group event for determining when transactions could be canceled
and at what price, according to one of the people. The threshold
for voiding trades in an incident involving 20 or more
securities is 30 percent.  Individual Events  Defining the errors as individual events may have spared
Knight from greater losses because it means more trades are
eligible for cancellation. In most cases, trades that occur 10
percent or more away their previous price can be voided when the
error involves a single security. Officials from NYSE Arca and
Nasdaq argued against this, one of the people said.  Robert Madden, a spokesman for Nasdaq OMX Group Inc., and
 Richard Adamonis , a spokesman for NYSE Euronext, declined to
comment. Joyce said Aug. 2 the mishap was Knight’s fault.  Knight will hire an outside adviser to investigate what led
to the losses, Kara Fitzsimmons, a spokeswoman, said Aug. 10.
She declined to comment about what happened Aug. 1 beyond what
the company already disclosed.  NYSE announced just before 3 p.m. it would cancel trades
that occurred before 10:15 a.m. with price movements of at least
30 percent from their opening levels. Niederauer and  Mary Schapiro , the chairman of the SEC, said in separate comments on
Aug. 3 that the exchanges followed the thresholds laid out after
the 2010 plunge.  “Technology people at trading firms are probably thinking,
’There but for the grace of god go I,’” said James Angel, a
professor at  Georgetown University ’s business school in
 Washington . “Every chief technology officer is thinking they
don’t know what’s buried in some line of code or what
unanticipated change will lead to failure. When unanticipated
problems occur, operations people may face situations they’ve
never seen before and don’t know what to do. It’s scary.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nina Mehta in New York at 
 nmehta24@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson in New York at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net . 