-- Knight Trading Loss Said to Be Linked to Dormant Software
-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   R u h l e ,   C h r i s t i n e   H a r p e r   a n d   N i n a   M e h t a
-- 2012-08-14T22:23:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-14/knight-software.html
Knight Capital Group Inc. (KCG) ’s $440
million trading loss stemmed from old computer software that was
inadvertently reactivated when a new program was installed,
according to two people briefed on the matter.  Once triggered on Aug. 1, the dormant system started
multiplying  stock trades  by one thousand, according to the
people, who requested anonymity because the firm hasn’t
commented publicly on what caused the error. Knight’s staff
looked through eight sets of software before determining what
happened, the people said.  “Whenever there’s software involved, there’s always a
danger of something going wrong,” Sang Lee, managing partner at
research firm Aite Group LLC in  Boston , said in a phone
interview. Lee had no first-hand knowledge of Knight’s
situation, he said. “It’s a risk everyone lives with, not just
in the financial services world.”  Knight, based in  Jersey City ,  New Jersey , hasn’t explained
in detail what caused the trading loss, which depleted its
capital and led to a $400 million rescue that ceded most of the
company to a group of investors led by  Jefferies Group Inc. (JEF)  The
45-minute delay in shutting down the malfunction has confused
some securities professionals, who say that trading programs can
typically be disabled instantly.  ‘Infrastructure Problem’  “This software problem was an infrastructure problem,”
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Thomas Joyce, 57, said in
an Aug. 2 interview with Bloomberg Television’s “Market
Makers.” “It was more of a networking problem as opposed to
using quantitative tools to trade.”  Knight’s computers bombarded the market with unintended
orders just after trading began on Aug. 1, causing volume to
surge and prices to swing in dozens of  securities . NYSE Euronext
canceled trades that were 30 percent or more away from the price
at the start of trading, a decision that applied to six
securities out of 140 that were reviewed.  The company was updating software in preparation for an
NYSE plan aimed at luring more individual investors to the
exchange, Joyce said in the Aug. 2 interview, without offering
details. The Big Board’s so-called retail liquidity program,
designed to attract smaller investors by giving them superior
prices, was being implemented that day.  Market Making  The company, whose market-making unit executes about 10
percent of U.S. share volume, will hire an outside adviser to
investigate what led to the losses. The company is conducting an
in-depth review, Kara Fitzsimmons, a Knight spokeswoman, said in
an e-mailed statement.  “As previously stated, on Aug. 1, 2012, Knight experienced
a technology issue at the opening of trading related to Knight’s
installation of software for its NYSE-listed market making
business,” she wrote. “We have been working with clients
continually and we are gratified to see the return of order flow
to the company.”  Knight stock increased 5.3 percent to $2.99 today.  Rules formalizing the treatment of erroneous trades were
adopted amid criticism by investors after exchanges and the
Financial Industry Regulatory Authority voided transactions
totaling 5.6 million shares in the market crash of May 6, 2010.
Regulators added guidelines governing when sales or purchases of
stock could be canceled after market makers said confusion about
which trades would stand prevented them from acting.  Investor Group  Getco LLC , an automated trading firm,  Blackstone Group LP (BX) ,
brokerages  Stifel Nicolaus & Co. (SF)  and  TD Ameritrade Holding Corp. (AMTD) 
and the investment banks  Stephens Inc.  and Jefferies paid $400
million on Aug. 6 for preferred stock that will convert into 267
million common shares. Knight, which closed at $10.33 the day
before the trading error, ended yesterday’s session at $2.84.  The accidental trading at Knight follows the cancellation
of an initial public offering by Bats Global Markets Inc. on
March 23 and the May 18 IPO by  Facebook Inc. (FB)  on Nasdaq OMX Group
Inc., which was marred by technology failures and delayed trade
confirmations.  The growth of electronic trading over the last 15 years has
transformed markets, first for Nasdaq stocks and later for NYSE-
listed companies. Racks of computers usurped or joined human
traders unable to analyze real-time data and market conditions
quickly enough to act in split seconds. There are more than 50
venues on which to trade, often making decisions about where to
send orders and at what price too complex for individuals.  High-frequency firms and market makers like Knight compete
for computer science experts, software and network engineers,
system administrators, and staff to conduct quality assurance
tasks, according to Anthony Dostellio, managing partner at
Objective Paradigm, a technology recruiting firm in  Chicago  that
works with trading companies.  Programming Language  High-speed programs that funnel orders to markets need
software engineers who can write code in the programming
language known as C++ and for a  Linux operating system , he said
in a phone interview. They also need rigorous testing and risk
controls to prevent potentially harmful outcomes from their
trading strategies, he said.  “All the software they develop, for the most part, is
proprietary,” Dostellio said. “They’re trying to attract the
best talent that’s out there because that’s their competitive
advantage.”  U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission Chairman  Mary Schapiro  called Knight’s problem “unacceptable.” The agency
will assess the need for additional regulations related to the
so-called market access rule aimed at reducing the risk of
trading disruptions, including from rogue algorithms and
unsupervised executions, according to an Aug. 3 statement.  Risk Checks  The rule, adopted in 2010, directed brokers starting last
year to employ credit and capital risk checks and filters to
ensure a firm’s aggregate financial position doesn’t exceed its
specified limits. It required brokers to have controls to avoid
jeopardizing their own financial condition and the integrity of
trading on U.S. securities markets.  The Managed Funds Association, a trade group for the hedge
fund industry, said the SEC should re-evaluate the market-access
rule in light of Knight’s mishap. Regulators should consider
requiring brokers to employ risk controls on an order-by-order
basis before trade requests are sent to a market, it said in a
letter to Schapiro today. Brokers could also have a technology
advisory group conduct risk assessments, it said.  ‘Kill Switch’  At least one trading official should be authorized to
operate a “kill switch” to turn off trading programs at all
times, the hedge fund group said. The SEC may also want to issue
guidelines requiring a technical manager to certify to the
company’s executives that proper testing and “appropriate
market simulations” were done and the broker has complied with
its own policies for software installations, the group said.  The regulation also mandated that brokers have systems to
prevent duplicative or erroneous orders from entering the
market, and obey rules such as those prohibiting manipulative
activity or requiring shares to be located for short sales, or
bearish trades. The goal was to make sure orders are vetted
before they’re sent to markets.  Knight’s episode underscores the challenges that Wall Street
firms have faced updating and maintaining their computer
systems. After Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. collapsed in 2008,
bankruptcy examiner Anton Valukas from law firm Jenner & Block
LLP found that Lehman had “maintained a patchwork of over 2,600
software systems and applications.”  “The Examiner’s financial advisers ultimately requested
access to 96 of the most relevant systems,” Valukas wrote in a
 report  published in March 2010. “Many of Lehman’s systems were
arcane, outdated or non-standard.”  Technology Staff  Goldman Sachs Group Inc.’s technology staff accounted for
27 percent of its employee base in 2010, up from 16 percent in
2000, Chief Financial Officer David A. Viniar told investors at
a conference in February 2011.  Small technical changes can “trigger downstream effects”
that spiral out of control, Rick Lane, chief technology officer
at Trading Technologies International Inc., a Chicago-based
company that offers an execution platform for derivatives
markets, said in a phone interview.  Software alterations to accommodate new features or order
types offered by exchanges must be rigorously tested and “run
through the wringer” to make sure the systems operate properly,
he said in a phone interview.  “When you throw your trading strategy into a sea of other
trading strategies, there’s no way to perfectly understand the
consequences,” Lane said. “Identifying and quickly quelling
these scenarios when they happen is important. It’s surprising
something like this could last potentially 45 minutes. The
ability to quickly identify a problem and take action is where
innovation is sorely needed.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Stephanie Ruhle  in  New York  at 
 sruhle2@bloomberg.net ;
 Christine Harper  in New York at 
 charper@bloomberg.net ;
Nina Mehta in New York at 
 nmehta24@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 David Scheer  at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net .
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  