-- N.J. Governor Christie Will Keynote Republican Convention
-- B y   T e r r e n c e   D o p p   a n d   J u l i e   H i r s c h f e l d   D a v i s
-- 2012-08-14T11:28:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-14/n-j-governor-christie-will-keynote-republican-convention-2-.html
Chris Christie , the  New Jersey 
governor who last year spurned pleas from fellow Republicans to
make a bid for the White House, will be the keynote speaker at
the  Republican National Convention , Republican National
Committee Chairman Reince Priebus said.  “As governor of New Jersey, Chris Christie has proven how
bold Republican leadership gets results,” Priebus said in a
statement. “He has fearlessly tackled his state’s most
difficult challenges, while looking out for hardworking
taxpayers.”  In an interview with  USA Today  in advance of the formal
announcement, Christie said he would  “try to tell some very
direct and hard truths to people in the country about the
trouble that we’re in and and the fact that fixing these
problems is not going to be easy for any of them.” USA Today
earlier reported his selection as keynote speaker.  Previously announced speakers at the Aug. 27-30 convention,
where former Massachusetts governor  Mitt Romney  and
Representative  Paul Ryan  of Wisconsin will be nominated as the
party’s presidential and vice presidential candidates, include
Senator  John McCain  of  Arizona , former Secretary of State
 Condoleezza Rice  and former Pennsylvania senator and
presidential contender  Rick Santorum . Senator Marco Rubio of
 Florida  said today on his Twitter feed that he will be
introducing Romney on the convention’s last night.  ‘Jersey-Style’ Confrontations  Christie, 49, became a national political figure for
raising public employee contributions to pensions and benefits,
resisting tax increases against millionaires and leveling
insults at critics during “Jersey-style” confrontations.  New Jersey’s first-term governor has campaigned across the
nation for Romney and other Republican candidates. He is in
demand as a public speaker, and more than half of all registered
voters in his home state, where Democrats outnumber Republicans,
approve of the job he is doing as governor.  Christie is a provocative figure on YouTube, where he has
his own  channel  and his videos have been viewed more than 5
million times, and where he can be seen battling with opponents.  The governor has called union leaders “political thugs.”
A Navy veteran who argued with him at a town-hall meeting was an
“idiot” and a Democratic lawmaker was an “arrogant S.O.B.’  Christie has called other opponents a ‘‘joke,’’ a ‘‘jerk’’
and ‘‘numbnuts,’’ and was filmed in July calling a heckler
‘‘tough guy’’ on the Seaside boardwalk. Last year, he urged
reporters to ‘‘take the bat out’’ on a 76-year-old female
senator for collecting both a public pension and a paycheck as a
legislator while knocking others for similar practices.  Attacks Democrats  Christie has directed verbal attacks at Obama as well. He
has called the president a ‘‘bystander in the Oval Office’’ and
‘‘the most ill-prepared person to assume the presidency in my
lifetime.’’  The governor has said that voters appreciate that he is not
a ‘‘scripted politician.’’  Christie had a health scare in July 2011 when he was taken
to a hospital after being treated for symptoms related to
chronic asthma. The governor, who has acknowledged being
overweight, said in early 2011 interviews that he was on a diet
and that his motivation for losing weight was his children.  In a January interview with  Oprah Winfrey , Christie said he
felt guilty about being overweight and wished for his family’s
sake he could get his size under control. The governor said
during that interview that the weight issue hurt him more when
he was younger and that he has ‘‘developed a bit of a shell’’
about it in public life because it’s talked about more.  Ousted Corzine  The first Republican elected chief executive of his state
in 12 years, Christie ousted incumbent  Jon Corzine  in November
2009 after voters rejected the one-term Democrat’s handling of a
recession that left the state with the highest  unemployment rate 
in three decades. He became New Jersey’s 55th governor in
January 2010, pledging to lower taxes and add jobs  Faced with a record $10.7 billion deficit in his first
budget, and a Democratic-controlled legislature, Christie
reduced funding for schools and towns, cut property-tax rebates
and skipped a $3 billion payment into the state’s pension fund.
In June 2011, he signed legislation to raise government workers’
contributions to health care and retirement benefits.  His campaign to control New Jersey spending was rebuffed in
May 2011 by the state’s highest court, which ordered him to
restore some of his school-aid reductions. Christie has accused
the court of ‘‘legislating from the bench” and battled with
Democrats over his judicial appointments.  National Star  Christie’s tussles helped make him a star among some
national Republicans. Party leaders and donors including Kenneth Langone, the co-founder of Home Depot Inc.; hedge-fund manager
 Paul Singer  and industrialist  David Koch  urged Christie to run
for the White House. The governor often joked that he’d “have
to commit suicide” to convince people he wouldn’t seek higher
office in 2012.  Christie spurned those calls to run in October, saying he
couldn’t “walk away” from his commitment to New Jersey voters.
His decision dashed the hopes of some Republicans who had sought
an alternative to Romney.  “New Jersey, whether you like it or not, you’re stuck with
me,” he said during the news conference called to end
speculation about a presidential run. A week later he endorsed
Romney, and has been a key surrogate for him during the
campaign.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Terrence Dopp in Trenton  at 
 tdopp@bloomberg.net ;
Julie Hirschfeld Davis in  Fort Lauderdale , Florida at  jdavis159@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
William Glasgall at 
 wglasgall@bloomberg.net  