-- North Korea Wins China Pledge of Faster Economic-Zone Growth
-- B y   S a n g w o n   Y o o n
-- 2012-08-15T03:24:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-14/n-korea-wins-china-pledge-for-faster-economic-zone-development.html
The uncle of North Korean leader Kim Jong Un met Chinese Commerce Minister Chen Deming in Beijing
yesterday, with  China  pledging support for increased economic
and trade activity between the two countries.  Chen met with Jang Song Thaek, who is married to late
leader  Kim Jong Il ’s younger sister, the Chinese Commerce
Ministry said yesterday in a statement on its website. The
nations operate joint economic zones in the North Korean border
city of Rason, and on the islands of Hwanggumphyong and Wihwa on
the Yalu river.  Jang, 66, may meet Chinese President  Hu Jintao  and Premier
 Wen Jiabao  before returning to Pyongyang on Aug. 18, Yonhap News
reported yesterday, citing unidentified diplomatic officials in
Beijing. He will also visit China’s Liaoning and Jilin
provinces, which share borders with North Korea, the  China Daily 
reported, citing people it didn’t identify.  Jang is the most senior member of the North Korean
government to visit China since Kim Jong Un took power in
December, following his father’s death. Kim has listed economic
development as the country’s top policy agenda as the nation
seeks to overcome chronic food shortages.  The two sides will “speed up infrastructure construction
in the zones” to attract more companies to invest in the
projects, according to the Commerce Ministry statement. China
should support the expansion of corporate economic and trade
cooperation with  North Korea , Chen Jian, China’s vice commerce
minister, wrote in yesterday’s People’s Daily.  ‘Quickly Start’  Chen and Jang discussed plans to develop the Rason zone and
rebuild ports and railways there as well as the need “to
quickly start” development in Wihwa, KCNA said today. Jang
requested $1 billion in long-term loans to boost North Korea’s
economic development, the Chosun Ilbo newspaper said, citing
unidentified sources in Beijing.  It was too early for Kim Jong Un to step onto the global
stage and Jang made the trip to China on his behalf, said Lee
Seung Yeol, senior research fellow at the Seoul-based Ewha
Institute of Unification Studies.  “North Korea wants to open up its economy to the outside
world without undertaking reforms, and that means economic
development centered around special economic and trade zones and
sending its domestic  labor force  abroad to earn foreign
currency,” Lee said. “Chinese companies have not been
investing in the western islands and North Korea hasn’t been
able to build the infrastructure that will attract business.”  There has been little progress since North Korea created a
joint venture investment committee in 2010 to attract Chinese
business to these zones, according to Lee.  Food Shortages  Heavy rains and floods in July further compounded food
shortages and malnutrition after more than 160 North Koreans
died, 400 went missing and about 212,000 were left homeless, the
official Korean Central News Agency reported on Aug. 5. The
monsoon season this year came after the country’s worst drought
in a century damaged wheat, barley and potato harvests.  North Korea hoped Wihwa and Hwanggumphyong islands would be
developed into an industrial complex for Chinese companies, Cho Bong Hyun of the Seoul-based IBK Economic Research Institute
said. Rason is being developed into a hub for foreign trade and
offers landlocked Chinese provinces in the region access to
ports, said Koh Yu Hwan, a professor of North Korean studies at
 Dongguk University  in Seoul.  China is North Korea’s main benefactor, accounting for 89
percent of the nation’s foreign trade.  The U.S. canceled a February deal to provide 240,000 metric
tons of food aid in exchange for a halt to nuclear weapons and
missile tests, after Kim Jong Un launched a long-range rocket.
The  United Nations Security Council  responded by widening its
sanctions against North Korea.  About 16 million of North Korea’s 24 million people suffer
from chronic food insecurity, high malnutrition rates, and deep-
rooted economic challenges, Jerome Sauvage, the UN resident
coordinator in Pyongyang, said in a June 12 statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sangwon Yoon in  Seoul  at 
 syoon32@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  