-- New York Times Names Cost-Cutting BBC Chief Thompson as New CEO
-- B y   E d m u n d   L e e
-- 2012-08-15T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-14/new-york-times-names-bbc-director-general-mark-thompson-as-ceo.html
New York Times Co. (NYT)  named  Mark Thompson  as its next chief executive officer after a nine-month
search, turning to a leader who steered the British Broadcasting
Corp. through belt tightening and job cuts.  Thompson, who was the  BBC ’s director general, will relocate
to New York and report to Chairman Arthur Sulzberger Jr. in his
new role, the company said yesterday in a statement. Thompson,
55, started at the BBC in 1979 as a production trainee.  “Our board concluded that Mark’s experience and his
accomplishments at the BBC made him the ideal candidate to lead
the Times Co. at this moment in time when we are highly focused
on growing our business through digital and global expansion,”
Sulzberger said in the statement.  Times Co. is counting on Thompson to reignite sales growth
and accelerate a shift to the Internet. Online subscriptions at
its flagship newspaper propelled a 73 percent gain in
circulation in the six-month period ended in March, while print
readership declined. Still, Web advertising and subscriber fees
haven’t been enough to offset years of shrinking sales.  Thompson announced plans in March to step down from the
BBC. Under his leadership, the commercial-free network, funded
by fees from U.K. television viewers, has cut jobs and moved
some offices and production outside  London  in recent years after
its funding was frozen. The BBC has undergone spending cuts of
more than 1 billion pounds ($1.6 billion) since 2008.  ‘Global Authority’  While the nonprofit BBC has a very different model from
Times Co., they are both considered preeminent news
organizations, said  Ken Doctor , a  Santa Cruz , California-based
analyst at Outsell Inc., a research firm focused on the
publishing industry.  “They’re both news companies with incredible global
authority and also both are known for being a bit of a stick in
the mud,” Doctor said in an interview.  Times Co. has adopted a strategy of offloading businesses
and tightening its focus on its flagship newspaper. It sold its
stake in Fenway Sports Group, owner of the  Boston Red Sox , for
$93 million this year and completed the sale of its regional
newspaper division for $143 million. The publisher still owns
the Boston Globe and Worcester Telegram & Gazette newspapers.  Times Co. said last week that it had entered talks to sell
About.com, aiming to salvage a portion of its bet on the
informational website. A person with knowledge of the deal said
the  New York  Times is trying to sell the Web property to
Answers.com for $270 million. Times Co.  bought it  for $410
million in 2005.  The  shares  climbed less than 1 percent to $9.09 yesterday
in New York. They have risen 18 percent this year.  Family Control  In addition to coping with a declining print-news industry,
Thompson faces the challenge of working within a family
business. The Ochs-Sulzberger family controls the company
through an eight-member family trust, which elects two-thirds of
the Times Co. board through its Class B shares.  The remaining one-third of directors are elected by  owners 
of the more commonly traded Class A shares. The dual-stock
system is meant to preserve editorial independence and insulate
the company from the vagaries of public markets.  The end result is the CEO has less power than the chairman,
said Alex Jones, author of “The Trust: The Private and Powerful
Family Behind the New York Times.”  Deceptive Title?  “The position of CEO is a little bit deceptive at the
Times because the operational head of the company is the
chairman, and that’s Arthur Sulzberger,” Jones said in an
interview. “The CEO’s job will be whatever Arthur decides it
should be.”  Times Co. has been without a CEO since Janet Robinson was
ousted in December. In searching for a replacement, the company
had emphasized candidates with Internet experience. Paul Sagan,
Akamai Technologies Inc.’s CEO, and Google Inc. Chairman  Eric
Schmidt , were discussed, according to people familiar with the
search.  While Thompson doesn’t come from a technology company, he’s
credited with helping to transform the BBC into a more digitally
focused media service. He oversaw a global news website and
introduced iPlayer, which lets people in the U.K. watch BBC
programs on computers and mobile devices.  Thompson also has clashed with News Corp. CEO  Rupert
Murdoch , who has opposed TV license fees -- the BBC’s main
source of revenue. Since the New York Times competes with News
Corp.’s Wall Street Journal, Thompson’s skirmishes with Murdoch
probably earned him points, Doctor said.  “That’s the icing on the cake,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edmund Lee in New York at 
 elee310@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at   nturner7@bloomberg.net  