-- New York’s A.G. Probes Nonprofits’ Political Spending
-- B y   D a v i d   V o r e a c o s   a n d   D a v i d   M c L a u g h l i n
-- 2012-08-14T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-14/new-york-s-a-g-probes-nonprofits-political-spending.html
New York Attorney General Eric Schneiderman is investigating whether non-profit groups known to
be active in politics are spending more than permitted by tax
rules to influence the elections in November.  Schneiderman, a Democrat, asked two dozen non-profits to
explain how they raise and spend political money, a person
familiar with the matter said. They include Crossroads GPS,
formed by former George W. Bush political adviser  Karl Rove , and
Priorities USA, which backs President  Barack Obama , according to
the person, who isn’t authorized to speak publicly on the
subject.  By opening the probe based on his power to regulate
charities in New York, Schneiderman has waded into a growing
controversy over whether the groups may violate U.S. Internal
Revenue Service regulations. The groups, which operate under
section 501(c)(4) of the  tax code , don’t have to identify their
donors, leading critics to argue the so-called social welfare
organizations are helping corrupt the political process.  “It’s certainly aggressive,” said Kenneth Gross, a
specialist in political law at Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher &
Flom LLP in  Washington . “They’re stepping into a very complex
area of the law. At the same time, we’re seeing the use of c4s
more aggressively than ever before for electioneering
activity.”  More Disclosure  Two nonpartisan groups that are pushing for more disclosure
of campaign financing, Democracy 21 and Campaign Legal Center,
called in July 2011 for the IRS to change its rules. The fund-
raising groups have generally said that they may maintain their
tax-exempt status if they keep their political activity to less
than 50 percent of overall expenses.  “Political operatives are using ‘social welfare’
organizations as conduits for injecting secret money into
federal elections by attempting to exploit what they claim to be
purported ambiguities in existing IRS standards,” the advocacy
groups said in a letter to the agency last month.  “The IRS is aware of the current public interest in this
issue,” Lois Lerner, the agency’s director for exempt
organizations, wrote in a July 17 letter to the groups. “These
regulations have been in place since 1959. We will consider
proposed changes in this area.”  Schneiderman, who took office in January 2011, regulates
charities that raise or spend more than $25,000 in  New York 
state. He could revoke a group’s ability to operate in the state
or determine it made false claims about its activities and make
a referral to the IRS, according to the person.  Investigative Letters  Other organizations that received investigative letters
include American Action Network, which says on its website it
supports limited government, and American Future Fund, which
says it promotes free-market ideals, the person said. American
Bridge 21st Century, which identifies itself as “progressive,”
and America Votes, which says its partners include labor unions
and environmental groups, also got letters, according to the
person.  America Votes got its letter on July 24 and responded on
July 27, John Neurohr, a spokesman for the group, said in an e-
mail. Chris Harris, a spokesman for American Bridge, said in an
e-mail that the group is reviewing the letter. Jonathan
Collegio, a spokesman for Crossroads GPS, said the group hasn’t
responded to the attorney general’s office.  Phone calls or e-mails to the other groups seeking comment
on the letters weren’t immediately returned.  Schneiderman doesn’t have the ability to declare these
groups ineligible for tax-exempt status,  Fred Wertheimer ,
president of Democracy 21, said in a telephone interview.
Whether they qualify for 501(c)(4) status is an issue for the
IRS, he said. If the attorney general believes the groups aren’t
entitled to tax-exempt status, he may argue they’re raising
money under false pretenses, he said.  A state attorney general “typically wants to be assured
that non-profit groups raising money from citizens are bona fide
organizations that are not defrauding or cheating citizens of
the state,” said Lee E. Goodman, a lawyer at LeClair Ryan in
Washington who advises clients on election law.  “He generally would not have license to look into the
political affairs of these organizations,” Goodman said. “The
political activities of an organization are within the purview
of the IRS and the  Federal Election Commission .”  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Voreacos in  Newark ,  New Jersey , at 
 dvoreacos@bloomberg.net ;
 David McLaughlin  in New York at 
 dmclaughlin9@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net . 