-- New U.S. Nuclear Regulator Says Spent Fuel a Top Priority
-- B y   K a s i a   K l i m a s i n s k a
-- 2012-08-14T21:37:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-14/new-u-s-nuclear-regulator-says-spent-fuel-is-top-priority.html
The new chairman of the U.S. Nuclear
Regulatory Commission said she plans to concentrate on the
disposal of spent atomic fuel, an issue that is holding up
decisions on power-plant licenses.  Allison Macfarlane , in her first news conference since
taking over at the NRC on July 9, today also called on Congress
and the White House to identify a permanent disposal site for
spent fuel from the nation’s 104 nuclear reactors.  The NRC this month suspended final decisions on licenses
for power plants until it completes a reassessment of risks
related to storing spent atomic fuel. U.S. plants keep used fuel
rods on site, in water pools or dry casks, because of a lack of
permanent storage. Yucca Mountain in  Nevada , an initial
candidate for a permanent nuclear-waste dump, was rejected by
the Obama administration following opposition from Senate
Majority Leader  Harry Reid , a Democrat from Nevada.  “We are paying more attention to spent nuclear fuel,”
Macfarlane told reporters. “We know this is a pressing issue.”  The  U.S. Court of Appeals  in Washington ruled on June 8
that the NRC’s rules on permanent storage of nuclear waste
failed to fully evaluate risks and new standards must be
drafted.  The spent fuel, whether kept in pools or dry storage
containers, is managed safely and securely,  Steve Kerekes , a
spokesman for the Washington-based trade group Nuclear Energy
Institute, said in an e-mail.  License Reviews  Following the court ruling, the NRC put the final decisions
on licenses on hold, as it keeps reviewing applications
including  Entergy Corp. (ETR) ’s one to renew a license for the Indian
Point power plant north of  New York  City and  Duke Energy Corp. (DUK) ’s
application for construction and operation of reactors in Levy
County, Florida.  Macfarlane, a geologist and a former environmental-science
professor at  George Mason University  in Fairfax,  Virginia , said
the commission is assessing a report by its staff on waste-
disposal options and promised to act promptly on the proposals.
It is also researching an expanded use of dry-cask storage,
something the industry opposes. She cited waste disposal, along
with improved communication with the public, safety, and
geological issues, including earthquake risks, as her top
priorities.  Geology ‘Matters’  “Geology clearly matters,” she said today. “If that
wasn’t the main lesson of Fukushima, I don’t know what was.”  U.S. nuclear  power plants  started reassessing the risks
related to seismic hazards before the meltdown of three reactors
at the Fukushima plant in Japan, triggered by an earthquake and
tsunami, on March 11, 2011. The disaster led the NRC to require
additional analysis of power plants in the U.S.  The outcome of those assessments may lead to additional
costs for the operators, according to the new chief.  “You can make a lot of adjustments to plants to upgrade
seismic stability and flooding stability,” she said. “You can
take measures to make sure that you mitigate the potential risks
that are coming.”  Results of the seismic risk analyses are expected in the
second half of 2013, according to Kerekes of the  Nuclear Energy
Institute .  Safety Margins  “We do know that our facilities are designed and built
very robustly and that they have considerable safety margins in
place,” Kerekes said.  Macfarlane praised the performance of  Dominion Resources
Inc. (D) ’s North Anna power station in Virginia during a 5.8-
magnitude temblor on Aug. 23.  “The North Anna plant actually rode out that earthquake
very well,” she said. “It did that because it had additional
safety margins.”  Macfarlane recalled the picture of helicopters spraying
water over the spent fuel pools at the Fukushima plant after the
2011 earthquake, to prevent the water levels from falling and
triggering radiation release. She said the accident encouraged
her to look closer at using a system of dry casks instead of
water pools to store spent fuel at plants.  “One of the Fukushima activities that the NRC is taking on
is doing another look at this issue: Should there be an
accelerated transfer of spent fuel from the pools to the dry
casks?” she said. “The industry has said, well, if you push
this, there will be more  radiation exposure  to workers. We have
to understand that.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katarzyna Klimasinska in Washington at 
 kklimasinska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  