-- NHL Players’ Union Offers to Cut Share of Hockey-Related Revenue
-- B y   M i c h a e l   B u t e a u
-- 2012-08-15T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-14/nhl-players-union-offers-to-take-cut-in-hockey-related-revenue.html
The  NHL Players’ Association  is
offering to cut its share of hockey-related revenue by as much
as $800 million over the next three seasons as part of a plan to
secure a new labor agreement with team owners.  The amount may be as low as $465 million, depending on
league growth, the union said. The proposal doesn’t include an
elimination of the cap on salaries and increases revenue sharing
to as much as $250 million a year as a means to help less
financially stable clubs.  The plan “can produce a stable industry and one that,
going forward, can give us a chance to move beyond the recurring
labor strife that has plagued the NHL for the last two
decades,” Donald Fehr, executive director of the union, told
reporters after yesterday’s meeting in Toronto.  Players and the  National Hockey League  are trying to reach
agreement on a new collective bargaining agreement and avoid a
work stoppage that may affect games next season.  The current deal was reached after the 2004-05 season was
wiped out as owners shut down the league. If a new agreement
isn’t reached by Sept. 15, there’s no legal requirement for a
lockout and the league and players can continue to operate under
the old accord.  After an Aug. 10 meeting in  New York , NHL Commissioner Gary Bettman said the sides had a “wide gap to bridge” on a number
of issues and that owners weren’t prepared to operate the 2012-
13 season under the current deal.  League Review  Fehr said the union’s proposal is an “alternative” and
not a direct response to the league’s offer. Bettman said the
league will review the plan and expects the sides to meet again
today.  “It’s clear to me that they didn’t put it together in an
hour or two and, as a result, we’re going to need to take a
little bit of time to evaluate it,” Bettman told reporters.  League revenue, buoyed by a 10-year, $2 billion television
contract with  Comcast Corp. (CMCSA) ’s NBC, rose to an estimated $3.2
billion last season from $2.2 billion in 2006, according to the
NHL. The league hasn’t said how much of this year’s record
revenue is profit.  “Regardless of how you view the industry as a whole, there
are some individual franchises in cities which need some
attention,” Fehr said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mike Buteau in Atlanta at 
 mbuteau@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  