-- Nigeria Agency Wants Chevron to Pay $3 Billion for Fire
-- B y   E l i s h a   B a l a - G b o g b o
-- 2012-08-14T15:48:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-14/nigeria-agency-wants-chevron-to-pay-3-billion-for-fire.html
Nigeria’s  oil spill  agency said it
wants  Chevron Corp. (CVX) , the world’s fourth-largest energy company,
to pay a $3 billion penalty for a rig explosion that caused a
46-day fire.  “Having looked at the relevant literature and what happens
in other countries, we recommended a fine of $3 billion for
Chevron,”  National Oil Spill Detection and Response Agency ’s
Director-General Peter Idabor said in an interview in Abuja, the
capital, yesterday. For now, the planned penalty is only a
suggestion and “still not conclusive” as it requires the
approval of lawmakers and President Goodluck Jonathan’s
government, he said.  Chevron was drilling a gas-exploration well at Funiwa,
about six miles (9.6 kilometers) off Nigeria’s delta coast, when
it exploded Jan. 16, killing two workers. The fire that followed
stopped on March 2 after the flow of natural gas dried up, the
company said in a statement. The accident was caused by
equipment failure, the oil spill agency known as NOSDRA, said.  Chevron “respects and complies with the laws in the
countries in which it operates,”  Kurt Glaubitz , a  San Ramon ,
California-based company spokesman, said today in an e-mailed
statement.  Worst Spill  NOSDRA is also investigating a seven-week gas leak that
started on March 20 at the Obite field operated by  Total SA (FP) ’s
Nigerian unit to determine appropriate penalty, Idabor said. The
agency had suggested to the government in July that  Royal Dutch
Shell Plc (RDSA)  pay a $5 billion fine for an oil leak in December from
its offshore Bonga field that caused the country’s worst spill
in more than a decade. Shell said less than 40,000 barrels
leaked.  “NOSDRA’s actions indicate willingness to act in defense
of the environment,” said Nnimmo Bassey, executive director of
 Environmental Rights Action , an affiliate of  Friends of the
Earth . “The companies must be held accountable for their
actions; pollution must be punished and polluters must pay.”  Shell,  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM) , Chevron, Total SA and  Eni SpA (ENI) 
operate joint ventures with state-owned Nigerian National
Petroleum Corp. that pump more than 90 percent of the crude
output of Africa’s top oil producer. Shell is the biggest
operator in the West African country by number of  oil fields ,
followed by Exxon Mobil and Chevron.  Emergency Response  Exxon Mobil today said an oil spill from an unknown source
was sighted along the coast near Ibeno, in the southern Akwa
Ibom state.  “An emergency response team was immediately dispatched to
the shoreline and samples of the substance collected for
fingerprinting to determine its source,” Nigel Cookey-Gam, a
Lagos-based spokesman, said today in an e-mailed statement.
Exxon Mobil operates a facility in the area.  Until Shell’s Bonga spill, the worst on record in  Nigeria 
happened in January 1998, when a pipeline linking Exxon Mobil’s
Idoho platform to its Qua Iboe export terminal failed, spewing
about 40,000 barrels into the sea, the company said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elisha Bala-Gbogbo in Abuja at 
 ebalagbogbo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dulue Mbachu at 
 dmbachu@bloomberg.net  