-- Crude Oil Rises Before Expected U.S. Inventory Decline
-- B y   B e n   S h a r p l e s
-- 2012-08-14T06:55:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-14/oil-trades-near-one-week-low-before-report-on-u-s-inventories.html
Oil climbed, snapping two days of
losses in  New York  on speculation that inventories declined for
a third week in the U.S., the world’s biggest crude consumer.  Futures rose as much as 0.6 percent before a government
report tomorrow forecast to show U.S. fuel and crude stockpiles
fell last week as refiners operated near the highest rates in
five years. U.S. retail sales probably expanded last month, the
first increase since March, a separate survey showed before a
Commerce Department report today.  “U.S. retail sales will be an interesting figure because
it’ll provide an insight into whether the improvement that we
saw in employment growth is in fact an indication of improving
confidence levels,” said Ric Spooner, a chief market analyst at
CMC Markets in Sydney.  Oil for September delivery advanced as much as 55 cents to
$93.28 a barrel in electronic trading on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange  and traded at $93.19 at 2:53 p.m. in  Singapore . It slid
0.2 percent yesterday to $92.73, the lowest close since Aug. 6.
Prices are down 5.7 percent since the start of the year.  Brent crude  for September settlement, which expires Aug.
16, rose 29 cents to $113.89 a barrel on the London-based ICE
Futures Europe exchange. The October contract was up 24 cents at
$111.96 a barrel. The European benchmark’s premium to West Texas
Intermediate was at $20.71 after closing yesterday at $20.87,
the widest since April 4.  U.S. Stockpiles  U.S. crude stockpiles probably fell by  1.75 million barrels 
last week, according to the median response in a Bloomberg News
survey before an Energy Department report tomorrow. The  American
Petroleum Institute  will release separate inventory data today.  U.S. refiners may have  operated  their plants last week at
92.3 percent of capacity, down 0.3 percentage points, according
to the survey. That’s still up from 89.1 percent a year earlier.
Processing rates reached 93 percent in the week ending July 20,
the highest in about five years.  Gasoline inventories  probably slid 2.13 million barrels, or
1 percent, to 203.9 million in the week ended Aug. 10, the
survey showed.  Sales at U.S. retailers probably rose 0.3 percent in July
after a 0.5 percent drop in June, easing concern that the
world’s biggest economy is faltering, according to the median
forecast of 65 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News before the
government report today.  Fire Extinguished  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA)  extinguished a fire at a unit in the
light-oil processing area of its Martinez refinery in northern
 California , a week after an incident at  Chevron Corp. (CVX) ’s nearby
Richmond refinery that shut the plant’s only crude unit. Spot
gasoline prices in  San Francisco  have risen 27 cents a gallon
against futures on the Nymex since then, data compiled by
Bloomberg shows.  The Shell incident started at about 2 p.m. local time,
Kayla Macke, a Houston-based spokeswoman for the company, said
in an e-mailed statement yesterday. Shell evacuated workers from
the unit and refinery fire crews put out the blaze, she said.  Gasoline for September delivery gained 0.5 percent to
$3.0049 a gallon on the Nymex.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Sharples in Melbourne at 
 bsharples@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  