-- Oil Rises as U.S. Retail Sales Beat Forecasts
-- B y   M o m i n g   Z h o u
-- 2012-08-14T20:48:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-14/oil-rises-for-first-time-in-three-days-on-retail-german-gdp.html
Crude snapped a two-day decline in
 New York  on better-than-expected economic reports from the U.S.
and  Germany .  Prices climbed 0.8 percent after the Commerce Department
said U.S. retail sales increased for the first time in four
months. The German economy slowed less than forecast in the
second quarter, the Federal Statistics Office in Wiesbaden said.  “The decent retail sales number is another signal that
U.S. economic growth is a little bit better,” said  Chris Barber , a senior analyst at Energy Security Analysis Inc. in
Wakefield,  Massachusetts . “At this point, oil investors are
looking for any sort of positive news.”  Oil for September delivery advanced 70 cents, or 0.8
percent, to settle at $93.43 a barrel on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange . Prices are up 20 percent from this year’s settlement
low of $77.69 on June 28.  Prices reduced gains after the  American Petroleum Institute 
reported oil inventories increased 2.78 million barrels to 367.1
million last week. The September contract rose 55 cents, or 0.6
percent, to $93.28 a barrel at 4:31 p.m. in electronic trading.
The contract was at $93.42 before the API report was released at
4:30 p.m. in  Washington .  Brent crude  for September settlement, which expires Aug.
16, gained 43 cents, or 0.4 percent, to end the session at
$114.03 a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures Europe
exchange, the highest level since May 3.  The October contract increased 43 cents, or 0.4 percent, to
$112.15 a barrel. The European benchmark’s premium to West Texas
Intermediate, based on September prices, narrowed to $20.60 from
yesterday’s $20.87, the widest gap since April.  Consumer Purchases  Retail sales increased 0.8 percent last month, more than
the 0.3 percent estimate by economists polled by Bloomberg. The
pickup in July retail sales followed a quarter in which
household spending grew at the slowest pace in a year. Consumer
purchases, about 70 percent of the economy, expanded at a 1.5
percent annual rate from April to June, according to Commerce
Department data.  “Retail is always an important economic barometer and
traders hinge on these numbers on a daily basis,” said Rich Ilczyszyn, chief market strategist and founder of Iitrader.com
in  Chicago . “It’s important for today’s price action. Everybody
is kind of watching the economic data now.”  European Economy  Germany’s  gross domestic product  rose 0.3 percent from the
first quarter. Economists predicted a 0.2 percent advance.
Second-quarter expansion was driven by consumption and net
trade, with exports rising more than imports, the statistics
office said.  French GDP was unchanged in the quarter, better than the
0.1 percent decline economists had predicted.  The economic data eased concern that weaker growth will
reduce demand for oil. The U.S. and European Union accounted for
37 percent of global demand in 2011, according to  BP Plc (BP/) ’s
Statistical Review of World Energy, released in June.  Crude also rose with equities and commodities and on
speculation that U.S inventories fell last week. The Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index increased as much as 0.4 percent. It erased its
gain after Nymex floor trading closed. The S&P’s GSCI Index of
24 commodities rose 0.3 percent.  Crude stockpiles probably declined  1.5 million barrels , or
0.4 percent, to 368.4 million barrels last week, according to
the median response in a Bloomberg survey before an Energy
Department report tomorrow.  Gasoline supplies  probably slid 2 million barrels, or 1
percent, to 204.1 million in the week ended Aug. 10, the survey
showed.  Oil also gained on concern that escalating tension in the
 Middle East  will disrupt supplies from a region responsible for
about one-third of world production. Prices have climbed 6.1
percent this month.  Israel, Iran  Israeli opposition to a military strike aimed at halting
 Iran’s nuclear program  is declining as Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu  stepped up warnings that the country faces a potential
threat to its existence. Iran supplied 2.8 million barrels a day
of oil in July, according to the Energy Department.  Some 46 percent of Israelis oppose a strike on Iran without
U.S. support, according to a poll by the Dialog Institute
reported on Channel 10 on Aug. 12. That compares with 58 percent
opposed to such a move in a survey by Dialog published March 8
in the  Haaretz  newspaper.  “The Middle East tension is the main reason why oil has
been rising,” said  James Williams , an economist at WTRG
Economics, an energy-research firm in  London ,  Arkansas .
“Economic data were a little better than expectation but it’s
Iran that’s pushing oil higher.”  Electronic trading volume on the Nymex was 415,539
contracts as of 4:33 p.m. in New York. Volume totaled 579,642
contracts yesterday, 5.5 percent above the three-month average.
Open interest was 1.46 million.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Moming Zhou in New York at 
 mzhou29@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  