-- Oil Rises for First Time in 3 Days on Likely Supply Drop
-- B y   G r a n t   S m i t h
-- 2012-08-14T12:40:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-14/oil-rises-for-first-time-in-3-days-on-likely-supply-drop.html
Oil advanced, snapping two days of
losses in  New York  on speculation that inventories declined for
a third week in the U.S., the world’s biggest crude consumer.  Futures rose as much as 0.9 percent before a government
report tomorrow forecast to show that U.S. crude stockpiles fell
last week as refiners operated near the highest rates in five
years. U.S.  retail sales  probably expanded last month, the first
increase since March, a separate survey showed before a Commerce
Department report today.  Brent crude  rose to more than $115 a
barrel yesterday after a U.S. Navy ship collided with an oil
tanker in the  Persian Gulf .  “The general positive tone in financial markets, plus
supply risks and geopolitical tensions, is supporting oil,”
said  Carsten Fritsch , an analyst at Commerzbank AG in  Frankfurt 
who estimates that crude prices are higher than market
conditions justify. “The oil price increase is dangerous
because it isn’t driven by demand.”  Oil for September delivery advanced as much as 80 cents to
$93.53 a barrel in electronic trading on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange  and traded at $93.37 at 1:37 p.m. in  London . It slid
0.2 percent yesterday to $92.73, the lowest close since Aug. 6.
Prices are down 5.6 percent this year.  Brent crude for September settlement, which expires Aug.
16, rose 42 cents to $114.02 a barrel on the London-based ICE
Futures Europe exchange. The October contract was up 49 cents at
$112.21 a barrel. The European benchmark’s premium to West Texas
Intermediate was at $20.62 after reaching $21.32 yesterday, the
most since April.  U.S. Stockpiles  U.S. crude stockpiles probably fell by  1.75 million barrels 
last week, according to the median response in a Bloomberg News
survey before an Energy Department report tomorrow. The  American
Petroleum Institute  will release separate inventory data today.  The nation’s refiners may have  operated  their plants last
week at 92.3 percent of capacity, down 0.3 percentage points,
according to the survey. That’s still up from 89.1 percent a
year earlier. Processing rates reached 93 percent in the week
ending July 20, the highest in about five years.  Gasoline inventories  probably slid 2.13 million barrels, or
1 percent, to 203.9 million in the week ended Aug. 10, the
survey showed.  Sales at U.S. retailers probably rose 0.3 percent in July
after a 0.5 percent drop in June, easing concern that the
world’s biggest economy is faltering, according to the median
forecast of 65 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News before the
government report today.  “U.S. retail sales will be an interesting figure because
it’ll provide an insight into whether the improvement that we
saw in employment growth is in fact an indication of improving
confidence levels,” said Ric Spooner, a chief market analyst at
CMC Markets in Sydney.  The U.S. Navy said on Aug. 12 that one of its guided-
missile destroyers collided with an oil tanker near the  Strait
of Hormuz  in the Persian Gulf.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Sharples in Melbourne at 
 bsharples@bloomberg.net 
Grant Smith in London at 
 gsmith52@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss on   sev@bloomberg.net  