-- How the Private Sector Can Reduce Unemployment
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2012-08-14T22:30:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-14/how-the-private-sector-can-reduce-unemployment.html
About 13 million Americans are
looking for work. An additional 8 million have settled for part-
time jobs. Yet almost half of U.S. employers  have said  they have
difficulty filling positions.  What gives?  There is a  skills gap  in the U.S., and it is expected to
widen over the next decade. Addressing it will take the
concerted efforts of both government and -- especially given
strained federal and state budgets -- private industry.  A paper  issued last week  by the  National Bureau of Economic
Research  attributes roughly one-third of the recent rise in the
 unemployment rate  to a mismatch between vacant jobs and
unemployed workers. Those who bore the brunt of job losses --
including construction and manufacturing workers -- are either
not looking for jobs in sectors that are hiring (such as health
care) or are unqualified to get those jobs because they lack the
necessary skills. Left unaddressed, this “sectoral mismatch”
could result in worsening long-term unemployment.  The federal government spent about $18 billion in 2009 on
47 separate job training programs, although there is  some
question  about their effectiveness. President  Barack Obama ’s
2013  budget proposal  allots $8 billion for a Community College
to Career Fund, which will provide money to establish community
college partnerships with employers and expand job training
programs for skilled careers.  The private sector should take a more active role in
training the workers it needs, particularly in skilled trades,
information technology and health care. The health-care industry
successfully addressed last decade’s nursing shortage in part by
offering scholarships and tuition reimbursement programs to
encourage people to enter the profession. It is expected to face
another nursing shortage after 2020.  As competition for skilled workers intensifies as the gap
grows, employers will need to take advantage of “upskilling” -
-the practice of training their existing workforce for more
highly skilled labor. Upskilling benefits employers by boosting
productivity, and it allows workers to reap the wage premium
that comes with greater skills.  Employers may even find that it pays to train workers for
jobs in other industries.  Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN) , for example,
announced last month it will pay as much as 95 percent of the
cost for some employees to pursue training in vocations that pay
well and are in high demand, such as aircraft mechanics, nursing
and computer-aided design. Amazon is betting that the program
will attract motivated employees and help to retain them until
they complete their studies.  But U.S. training programs should be more than ad hoc. In
 Germany , for example, the vocational education training is
funded by public and private sources and trains apprentices for
a wide range of occupations, helping them to adapt to a dynamic
labor market. Germany lost a smaller share of its knowledge-
intensive manufacturing jobs from the 1970s to 2007 than the
U.S. did, according to a  McKinsey & Co. report  released in June.  State budget cuts have left students with a larger share of
the bill for higher education, keeping many out of school.
Decreased access to higher education widens the skills gap,
which is too large for the market alone to close.  The magnitude of the skills gap requires an all-hands-on-
deck approach. Community colleges need support from government,
private industry and retraining organizations to build a
globally competitive workforce. Using community colleges to
train workers isn’t a radical idea: They emerged in the early
20th century to build a skilled workforce, and they tend to know
the local labor market well.  With unemployment still above 8 percent, these programs can
make workers competitive for skilled jobs that are unfilled,
which often carry significant wage premiums. Increasing workers’
skills benefits not only the workers and their employers, it’s
also good for  less-skilled workers , the  economy  and -- click on
the link, it’s true! --  democracy itself .  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View columns, editorials
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on why a  carbon tax  still makes
sense; Clive Crook on  Paul Ryan  and America’s  bad marriage ;
William Pesek on Japan Airlines Co.’s $8.5 billion  initial
public offering ;  William Dudley  on why  money-market funds  should
restrict redemptions by investors; Adam Kirsch on the  Tea Party 
and  the novel “Burr.”   To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 