-- ‘Window Is Still Open” to Avoid Iran Strike, Panetta Says
-- B y   T o n y   C a p a c c i o   a n d   D a v i d   L e r m a n
-- 2012-08-14T20:15:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-14/panetta-says-window-is-still-open-on-iran-diplomatic-solution.html
 The “window is still open” for
diplomacy to resolve the dispute with  Iran  over its nuclear
program, U.S. Defense Secretary  Leon Panetta  said.  Panetta’s remarks to reporters today at the Pentagon
follows comments from Israeli officials that time has about run
out to avert military strikes.  Israel ’s ambassador to the U.S.,
 Michael Oren , wrote August 7 in the Wall Street Journal that the
window of opportunity for negotiations “is now almost shut.”  Panetta said he thinks Israel hasn’t made a decision “at
this time” to attack Iranian nuclear sites, and that
international sanctions are increasing pressure on Iran to make
concessions.  The negotiations essentially have stalled as global powers,
led by the European Union foreign policy chief  Catherine Ashton ,
await signs of movement from Iran before agreeing to a new round
of high-level talks. Iran is the No. 3 oil producer in OPEC,
following  Saudi Arabia  and  Iraq , according to data for July
compiled by Bloomberg.  “From our point of view, the window is still open to try
to work toward a diplomatic solution,” Panetta said.  Israel’s Haaretz newspaper reported Aug. 10 that Prime
Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu  and Defense Minister Ehud Barak are
considering a strike on Iran before U.S. elections on Nov. 6.
Iranian officials have said any attack against the country’s
nuclear program would trigger retaliation. The U.S. and Israel
say Iran is working toward being able to produce nuclear bombs
and should give up some or all of its enrichment equipment and
uranium stockpiles.  Immunity Zone  Israeli officials say there is time pressure to act because
of Iran’s growing capabilities at its Fordo enrichment facility,
whose location deep under a mountain near the holy city of Qom
makes it difficult to destroy with the weapons. Iran is
approaching within months a “zone of immunity,” Barak has
said.  Army General Martin Dempsey, chairman of the Joint Chiefs
of Staff, said at the Pentagon news conference today that an
Israeli strike on Iran “could delay but not destroy Iran’s
nuclear capabilities,” based on his review of Israel’s military
arsenal.  That arsenal includes non-stealthy F-16 and F-15 fighter
jets and an unspecified number of large, deep-penetrating, U.S.-
supplied GBU-28, 5,000-pound bunker-buster bombs.  Panetta said in November 2011 that he “certainly shares”
views expressed by predecessor  Robert Gates  and former Joint
Chiefs of Staff Chairman Admiral Michael Mullen that a bombing
campaign would set Iran back three years at most.  Israeli Opinion  Israeli public support for a military strike is growing as
the government steps up its rhetoric on Iran.  Netanyahu said on Aug. 12 that the Iranian threat
“dwarfs” all others. On the same day, Israel’s Home Front
Command announced it was testing a nationwide text-messaging
system to alert the public to incoming missiles.  About 46 percent of Israelis now oppose a strike on Iran
without U.S. support, down from 58 percent in March, according
to a poll by the Dialog Institute reported on Channel 10 on Aug.
12.  A poll in the daily Ma’ariv on Aug. 10 found that 35
percent believed that Israel should attack Iran alone if
necessary, compared with 19 percent in a July 20 poll. All the
polls had a margin of error of 4.5 percentage points.  Nuclear talks with Iran resumed in Istanbul in April after
an interval of more than a year. The last high-level discussions
involving members of the so-called P5+1 -- U.K., U.S., China,
Russia, France and  Germany  -- were held in Moscow in June.  The gap remains wide, a U.S. official said Aug. 2, speaking
on condition of anonymity because the talks were private. Ashton
delivered a tough message to Iranian negotiator Saeed Jalili,
the official said by e-mail.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tony Capaccio in Washington at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net ;
David Lerman in Washington at 
 dlerman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  