-- Paulson, Soros Add Gold as Price Declines Most Since 2008
-- B y   D e b a r a t i   R o y
-- 2012-08-15T13:32:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-14/paulson-soros-add-to-gold-hoard-as-prices-drop-most-since-2008.html
Billionaire investors  George Soros 
and  John Paulson  increased their stakes in the biggest exchange-
traded fund backed by gold as prices posted the largest
quarterly drop since 2008.  Soros Fund Management  more than doubled its investment in
the SPDR Gold Trust to 884,400 shares as of June 30, compared
with three months earlier, a U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission filing for second-quarter holdings showed yesterday.
Paulson & Co. increased its holdings by 26 percent to 21.8
million shares.  Gold slumped 4 percent in the second quarter, the biggest
such loss since Sept. 30, 2008. Prices fell as European Central
Bank President  Mario Draghi  and Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S.
Bernanke  failed to increase stimulus measures, damping the
outlook for global growth and demand for the metal as a hedge
against inflation. The price fell 0.1 percent since June 30
through yesterday.  “It’s all about easing, and people are especially waiting
for the Fed since investors expect prices will rise,” if the
central bank announces more bond purchases, said Walter “Bucky” Hellwig, who helps manage $17 billion of assets at
BB&T Wealth Management in Birmingham,  Alabama . “People are
willing to hold on to gold to see what the Fed will say.”  The metal surged 70 percent from the end of December 2008
to June 2011 as the Fed kept borrowing costs at a record low and
bought $2.3 trillion of debt in two rounds of so-called
quantitative easing.  Paulson’s Fund  Paulson, 56, who became a billionaire in 2007 by betting
against the U.S. subprime mortgage market, lost 23 percent in
his Gold Fund through July as lower bullion prices and slumping
mining stocks contributed to declines.  Holdings in the SPDR Gold Trust are Paulson’s largest
position. He also bought shares of  NovaGold Resources Inc. (NG)  last
quarter and sold other stocks, leaving his $21 billion hedge
fund with more than 44 percent of its U.S. traded equities tied
to bullion.  Paulson’s U.S.-listed holdings peaked at $34.3 billion at
the end of March 2011, with about $7.7 billion of that amount,
or 23 percent, invested in gold related stocks. He had 33
percent of his U.S. stock holdings in gold-related securities at
the end of the first quarter and 25 percent a year ago.  Armel Leslie , a spokesman for Paulson, declined to comment.
 Michael Vachon , a spokesman for Soros, declined to comment.  Erased Gains  Gold erased its gains this year in May as investors favored
sovereign debt and the dollar as economic growth slowed. The
U.S. currency gained 3.3 percent against a basket of currencies
last quarter.  Hedge funds  have cut their  net-long  position, or bets on
higher prices, by 66 percent from a record in August 2011. Their
holdings fell to 85,510 futures and options on Aug. 7, according
to the U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission.  Still, prices have rallied for 11 consecutive years,
gaining more than sevenfold, as investors snapped up the metal
after government and central bank stimulus programs boosted
speculation that inflation would accelerate. The metal is up 2.2
percent this year.  Vinik, Mindich  Vinik Asset Management, the Boston-based hedge fund founded
by Jeffrey Vinik, who formerly ran the  Fidelity Magellan Fund (FMAGX) ,
cut its entire stake in the gold ETF. On March 30, the fund held
2.3 million shares, SEC data show. Eric Mindich’s Eton Park
Capital also sold all of its 739,117 shares last quarter, a
filing showed.  Jonathan Gasthalter, a spokesman for Eton Park, declined to
comment.  Moore Capital Management LP acquired 120,000 shares of SPDR
Gold Trust in the second quarter, a filing showed yesterday. The
hedge fund held no shares in the gold fund as of March 31.  Global holdings  in exchange-traded products rose to a
record 2,417.3 metric tons on Aug. 10, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Central banks and the  International Monetary Fund  are the
largest bullion owners with 29,500 tons at the end of last year,
or 17 percent of all mined metal, World Gold Council data show.
Central banks have been net buyers for two straight years, the
council said. Purchases this year will probably exceed the 456
tons added in 2011, the WGC estimates.  Holding On  “People expect prices to rise in the third quarter since
historically it has been proved that it’s one of the best
periods for gold, and investors who see easing coming in from
various central banks are either increasing or holding on to
their positions,”  Donald Selkin , the New York-based chief
market strategist at National Securities Corp., which manages
about $3 billion of assets, said by telephone.  Money managers who oversee more than $100 million in
equities must file a Form 13F with the SEC within 45 days of
each quarter’s end to show their U.S.-listed stocks, options and
convertible bonds. The filings don’t show non-U.S. securities or
how much cash the firms hold.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Debarati Roy in  New York  at 
 droy5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  