-- Pennsylvania Eyes Pension Cutoff for Felons Post-Sandusky
-- B y   R o m y   V a r g h e s e
-- 2012-08-14T19:54:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-14/pennsylvania-eyes-pension-cutoff-for-felons-post-sandusky.html
Pennsylvania  should bolster pension-forfeiture rules for public employees, according to Frank Fina,
the chief deputy state attorney general who helped convict Jerry Sandusky on child sex-abuse charges.  Public employees only lose taxpayer-funded pensions if
they’re convicted of a crime in which they used their office to
help commit it under current law. In addition, the victims of
school employees must be students and not all of the 68-year-old
Sandusky’s victims were, Fina told a state legislative hearing
today.  “Given the grave betrayal of the public trust that such
criminal conduct represents, it is critically important that
this oversight be corrected,” Fina said. Lawmakers convened the
meeting to discuss pension-related bills.  Sandusky, a former Pennsylvania State University assistant
football coach, was convicted in June on 45 criminal counts tied
to the abuse of 10 boys over a 15-year period, including attacks
in the school’s athletic facilities. He played and coached for
more than 30 years before retiring in 1999 with a pension of
almost $59,000 a year, according to the Harrisburg Patriot-News.  House Bill 2469 was introduced in June and wouldn’t be
retroactive if passed, according to its current  language . Any
public employee or public official convicted of a felony would
automatically lose his or her pension under the legislation.  “As currently written, Pennsylvania’s Public Employee
Pension Forfeiture Act fails to revoke the pensions of those who
commit the most heinous crimes,” Representative Fred Keller, a
Middleburg Republican who introduced the bill, said in a June 14
 statement .  His measure “will guarantee that any public employee or
official who violates the public trust will automatically
forfeit his or her taxpayer-funded pension,” Keller said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Romy Varghese in Philadelphia at 
 rvarghese8@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net . 