-- Penn State Gets Accreditation Warning After Scandal
-- B y   O l i v e r   S t a l e y
-- 2012-08-14T16:25:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-14/penn-state-gets-accreditation-warning-after-child-abuse-scandal.html
Pennsylvania State University 
received a warning that its accreditation is “in jeopardy”
following the child sex abuse scandal involving former assistant
football coach Jerry Sandusky.  There is insufficient evidence that  Penn State  is in
compliance with several accreditation standards, according to
the Middle States Commission on Higher Education. The university
said yesterday it was notified of the  warning  on Aug. 8.  Middle States said it issues a warning when it believes a
university can bring itself into compliance. Penn State may be
violating government regulations and commission standards of
leadership, governance and integrity, according to Philadelphia-
based Middle States, which has requested a monitoring report
from the school and will make a visit later this year. The
university remains accredited while on warning.  “I’m not aware of any major research university in the
U.S. losing its accreditation,” said Judith Eaton, president of
the  Council for Higher Education Accreditation , a Washington-
based group that oversees the nonprofit accrediting bodies. “It
would be extraordinary if it happened.”  When a university loses accreditation, it becomes
ineligible for federal funds for  student loans  and research.
Last year, 94 of the about 7,800 colleges and universities in
the U.S. lost their accreditation, Eaton said.  Federal Support  Penn State received $477 million in federal research
 support  in 2011. The flagship campus, in  State College ,
 Pennsylvania , received $44.8 million in need-based  financial
aid , according to the school.  If the Middle States Commission isn’t satisfied that Penn
State has taken the right steps, the university could also be
placed on probation. Given its size and resources, Penn State
should be able to maintain its accreditation, Eaton said.  “Penn State is a very, very strong institution in many
ways,” Eaton said. “It has the resources, it has the will, it
has the commitment to sustain its accreditation.”  The university has until Sept. 30 to provide documentation
that it is in compliance with the requirements, the school said
in a  statement  on its website.  “This action has nothing to do with the quality of
education our students receive,” Penn State Vice Provost
Blannie Bowen said in the statement.  Penn State was sanctioned last month by the  National
Collegiate Athletic Association  and fined $60 million for its
failure to prevent the sexual abuse by Sandusky, 68, who was
convicted in June on 45 criminal counts tied to the abuse of 10
boys over a 15-year period.  Former FBI Director  Louis Freeh  issued a report last month
saying university officials tried to conceal the abuse to
protect the school from bad publicity.  A voicemail left with the Middle States Commission wasn’t
immediately returned.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Oliver Staley in London at 
 ostaley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lisa Wolfson at 
 lwolfson@bloomberg.net  