-- Philippine Bonds Too Expensive for Julius Baer: Southeast Asia
-- B y   L i l i a n   K a r u n u n g a n   a n d   Y u m i   T e s o
-- 2012-08-15T08:08:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-14/philippine-bonds-too-expensive-for-julius-baer-southeast-asia.html
Philippine dollar bonds, the best
performing in  Asia  over the past year, are expensive compared
with higher-rated debt from Persian Gulf nations, according to
Bank Julius Baer & Co. Ltd.  The securities have returned 16.5 percent in the past 12
months, an HSBC Holdings Plc index shows, amid speculation the
Southeast Asian nation will win investment-grade credit ratings.
The yield on the  Philippines ’ 4 percent notes due January 2021
rose four basis points to 2.72 percent as of 4 p.m. in  Manila ,
compared with 3.01 percent for Qatar’s 4.5 percent dollar bonds
due January 2022, according to prices compiled by Bloomberg.
Qatar is ranked nine levels higher than the Philippines by
Moody’s Investors Service.  “Philippine sovereign dollar bonds look rich to us,” Neo Teng Hwee, the head of  portfolio management  for Singapore at the
Swiss wealth manager, which oversees more than 179 billion Swiss
francs ($184 billion), said in an interview yesterday. “On a
rating-adjusted basis notes from the Gulf Cooperation Council
countries look relatively attractive.”  Near-zero  interest rates  in advanced economies have
prompted global funds to seek high yields in developing nations.
Emerging-market debt funds attracted $19.1 billion this year
through Aug. 9, compared with $7.9 billion for the whole of 2011,
according to Morgan Stanley, citing data from U.S. research firm
EPFR Global. The yield premium on Philippines’ dollar notes over
Treasuries reached 155 basis points on Aug. 9, the least since
July 2011, according to an  index  compiled by JPMorgan Chase & Co.  Remittances Rising  The GCC comprises  Saudi Arabia ,  United Arab Emirates , Qatar,
Bahrain, Oman and  Kuwait . The average yield on GCC bonds,
including sovereign and corporate securities, was 3.86 percent
yesterday, according to the HSBC/Nasdaq Dubai GCC Conventional
US Dollar Bond Index.  Standard & Poor’s  raised the Philippines debt rating to BB+,
one step below investment grade, in July, citing the strong
external position and growth prospects. Moody’s Investors
Service, which still ranks the $225 billion economy at the
second-highest junk level, boosted its outlook to positive in
May, while  Fitch Ratings  raised its assessment to one step below
investment grade last year. Barclays Plc said last month it
would take the Philippines 12 to 18 months to become investment
grade.  Money sent home by the more than 9.4 million Filipinos
living abroad rose 5.1 percent in the first half of 2012 from a
year earlier, official data released today show. Remittances,
which make up about 10 percent of the economy, increased 4.2
percent in June from a year earlier. Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas
Governor Amando Tetangco said yesterday a 5 percent growth
forecast for remittances this year is “realistic” despite the
global slowdown.  ‘Structurally Expensive’  Philippine dollar bonds rallied 4.4 percent in July, the
most since August 2010, as the increasing amount of money sent
home by overseas workers prompted local banks to invest in the
notes, making them “structurally expensive,” Neo said.  Gross domestic product  increased  6.4 percent in the first
quarter from a year earlier, the most among  Southeast Asia ’s
five biggest economies. The peso has strengthened 3.7 percent
this year, the second-biggest gainer among Asia’s 11 most-traded
currencies after the  Singapore dollar , as foreign funds pumped a
net $2.2 billion into the nation’s stocks, exchange data show.
President  Benigno Aquino  increased state spending to a record in
2012 to help achieve a 6 percent expansion target this year and
7 percent in 2013.  Export growth slowed to 4.2 percent in June from a year
earlier, following a 19.7 percent increase the previous month,
official data show. A slowdown in  China’s economy  may hurt
overseas sales, which have recovered this year after dropping in
each of the eight months through December 2011, central bank
Governor Tetangco said yesterday.  China  is the Philippines’
third-largest export market after Japan and the U.S.  U.S. Monetary Easing  Credit Agricole CIB recommended that clients sell the
Philippine peso against  Malaysia ’s ringgit, given the peso’s
“excessive outperformance” and weakening fundamentals,
according to a research note written by Hong Kong-based
strategists Mitul Kotecha and Dariusz Kowalczyk. Equity inflows,
a key driver of this year’s appreciation of the peso, may end or
at least slow, according to the note released today.  The government plans to narrow the budget  deficit  to 2
percent of GDP by 2013 from a target of 2.6 percent this year.
The Philippines plans to repurchase “high-coupon” dollar-
denominated bonds to rein in costs, Finance Undersecretary
Rosalia de Leon said on June 1.  Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco President  John
Williams  said the central bank should begin a third round of
bond purchases amid signs U.S. growth is slowing, the San
Francisco Chronicle reported on Aug. 10. Speculation the U.S.
will ease monetary policy should support Philippine debt, said
Smith Chua, a Manila-based portfolio manager at Bank of the
Philippine Islands, which oversees more than 700 billion pesos
($16.6 billion).  Shift Funds  “Investors are looking for alternatives that are safe but
have a higher yield, which leads you to the Philippines,” said
Chua. The plan to buy back the dollar debt, which may take place
in the next few months, could drive the price of Philippine
dollar notes higher because of their “scarcity value,” he said.  Credit-default swaps on five-year Philippine government
debt dropped 57 basis points this year to 135 yesterday,
according to data provider CMA, which is owned by McGraw-Hill
Cos. and compiles prices quoted by dealers in the privately
negotiated market.  The contracts pay the buyer face value in exchange for the
underlying securities should the issuer fail to adhere to debt
agreements. A basis point equals $1,000 annually in a contract
protecting $10 million of debt.  “Philippine dollar debt has been particularly attractive
due to its improving credit, making it a bit expensive,”
Takahide Irimura, the Tokyo-based head of emerging-market
research at Kokusai Asset Management Co. that oversees about $43
billion, said in an interview yesterday. “It’s quite possible
some investors will shift funds to other countries or to
corporate bonds.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lilian Karunungan in  Singapore  at 
 lkarunungan@bloomberg.net ;
Yumi Teso in Bangkok at 
 yteso1@bloomberg.net . 