-- Pickens Fund Sells Entire $20 Million Stake in BP
-- B y   E d w a r d   K l u m p   a n d   M a r k   C h e d i a k
-- 2012-08-15T02:13:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-14/pickens-fund-sells-entire-20-million-stake-in-bp.html
Billionaire investor  T. Boone Pickens  sold his energy equity fund’s stake in BP Plc during the
second quarter, exiting its largest holding by market value.  Pickens’s Dallas-based BP Capital Management LP sold
452,111 of the company’s American depositary receipts, or ADRs,
in the three months ended June 30, according to a filing with
the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission yesterday. The stake
in London-based BP had been valued at more than $20 million at
the end of March.  The oil and natural-gas producer’s ADRs, which trade on
U.S. markets and represent six ordinary shares,  fell  9.9 percent
during the quarter. The company reported a $1.4 billion net loss
for the April-to-June period, compared with profit of $5.7
billion a year earlier, as it wrote down the value of U.S.
assets and output dropped.  Pickens began acquiring a stake in  BP (BP/)  after its Macondo
well in the Gulf of Mexico exploded in April 2010, resulting in
the biggest offshore oil spill in U.S. history.  The value of Pickens’s equity holdings fell 25 percent to
$130.7 million as of June 30, from $174.5 million at the end of
the first quarter, according to the filing.  The fund added stakes in several U.S. oil and gas producers
during the past quarter, including  McMoRan Exploration Co. (MMR) ,
Anadarko Petroleum Corp., Apache Corp.,  EOG Resources Inc. (EOG) ,
Pioneer Natural Resources Co., Quicksilver Resources Inc. and
Southwestern Energy Co.  Cutting Stakes  Pickens sold stakes in the world’s two largest oilfield
service companies,  Schlumberger Ltd. (SLB)  and  Halliburton Co. (HAL) , and
reduced holdings in  National Oilwell Varco Inc. (NOV)  and  Weatherford
International Ltd. (WFT)  He also sold all of BP Capital’s stakes in
power utility owner Exelon Corp. and Canadian oil company  Suncor
Energy Inc. (SU)   The fund’s stake in SandRidge Energy Inc. was cut to
278,479 shares from about 1.2 million. The U.S. energy
producer’s chairman and chief executive officer,  Tom Ward , was a
co-founder of  Chesapeake Energy Corp. (CHK) , which Pickens exited
completely during the second quarter.  Pickens said in May he had sold his remaining stake in
Chesapeake amid a plunge in gas prices and after potential
management conflicts were raised about CEO Aubrey McClendon.  Money managers who oversee more than $100 million in
equities must file a Form 13F with the U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission within 45 days of each quarter’s end to show
their U.S.-listed stocks, options and convertible bonds. The
filings don’t show non-U.S. securities or how much cash the
firms hold.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Edward Klump in Houston at 
 eklump@bloomberg.net ;
Mark Chediak in  San Francisco  at 
 mchediak@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  