-- PNE Wind Surges After Selling Projects to Dong: Frankfurt Mover
-- B y   S a l l y   B a k e w e l l
-- 2012-08-14T17:13:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-14/pne-wind-surges-after-dong-offshore-wind-sale-frankfurt-mover.html
PNE Wind AG (PNE3)  jumped the most in more
than three years in Frankfurt trading after selling three German
wind-power projects to Dong Energy A/S for 157 million euros
($194 million).  PNE Wind rose 18 percent to close at 1.60 euros, the
biggest one-day advance since November 2008. The gain trims its
decline this year to 14 percent.  Dong paid 57 million euros upfront for the Gode Wind I, II
and III offshore wind ventures and will make additional payments
of as much as 100 million euros through 2015, PNE said today in
a statement. The sale is the biggest transaction in its history,
according to the Cuxhaven, Germany-based company.  The deal marks a change in fortunes for PNE, which failed
to sell Gode Wind II late last year to Brancor Capital Partners
as the Danish investor couldn’t meet contractual obligations.
Acquisitions in the renewable-energy industry have fallen as
credit-markets tighten, and  Germany ’s offshore wind developers
have also suffered delays in connecting projects to the grid.  “Markets got a bit jittery as to whether they were going
to be able to sell these parks,” Karsten von Blumenthal, an
analyst at First Berlin Equity Research GmbH, said by phone.  The Gode Wind ventures, not yet built, will have a combined
capacity of as much as 900 megawatts. Their North Sea location
is about 30 kilometers (19 miles) northwest of the island of
Norderney, according to Fredericia, Denmark-based Dong.  Transaction Value  Today’s deal amounts to about 245,000 euros a megawatt for
permitted projects I and II, according to Bloomberg New Energy
Finance. That’s less than the 317,000 euros a megawatt Brancor
had offered for Gode Wind II last year, according to the London-
based researcher.  The I and II projects have been assured grid connection
from network operator TenneT TSO GmbH, as well as construction
and operation licenses, according to Dong.  “We are very confident that our fully confirmed grid
connection by TenneT will be there in time,” Martin Billhardt,
PNE Wind’s chief executive officer, said today by phone.  Completion of the Gode Wind III sale is dependent on it
getting all relevant permits by the end of January 2014,
according to Dong. No investment decisions have yet been made
for the three wind ventures, the company said.  PNE plans to sell more offshore wind projects, which it
develops to the ready-to-build stage, Billhardt said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sally Bakewell in London at 
 Sbakewell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  