-- U.K. Inflation Expectations Rise After Prices Accelerate
-- B y   E m m a   C h a r l t o n
-- 2012-08-14T16:47:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-14/pound-weakens-for-second-day-versus-euro-before-inflation-report.html
U.K. bond-market  inflation
expectations  climbed to the highest in more than a month after a
report showed the pace of consumer-price increases in Britain
unexpectedly accelerated last month.  The pound touched the lowest level against the euro since
Aug. 9 as a report showed U.K. house prices fell in July to the
least in a year, underscoring the weakness of the nation’s
economy. The  Bank of England , which kept its bond-buying program
unchanged this month, is due to publish the minutes from the
meeting when the decision was made tomorrow.  “The inflation data today is the primary catalyst for the
move” in the so-called break-even rate, said Jamie Searle, a
fixed-income strategist at Citigroup Inc. in London. “There was
an upside surprise and so that market is repricing its near-term
inflation profile. There’s still room for the rate to widen
further.”  The yield difference between five-year U.K. nominal bonds
and index-linked securities of the same maturity, a market gauge
of inflation expectations known as the break-even rate, widened
three basis points to 2.11 percentage points at 5:20 p.m. London
time, the widest since July 5.  Consumer prices increased 2.6 percent from a year earlier,
compared with 2.4 percent in June, the  Office for National
Statistics  said today in London. Economists forecast a reading
of 2.3 percent, according to the median estimate in a Bloomberg
News survey. Inflation from transport rose, with airfares
surging 22 percent in the month, the data showed.  Rail fares will jump as much as 6.2 percent in January,
based on today’s inflation data, lobby group Passenger Focus
said.  Home Prices  The pound was little changed at 78.61 pence per euro, after
reaching 78.85 pence. The U.K. currency was at $1.5681.  A U.K. home-price gauge fell to minus 24 from minus 22 in
June, the London-based  Royal Institution  of Chartered Surveyors
said in a report today. A reading below zero means more
surveyors saw price declines than gains last month. Measures of
newly agreed sales tumbled to a four-year low.  “It’s clear that the U.K. economy is in a very fragile
state,” said  Chris Walker , a currency strategist at UBS AG in
London. “We see some downside for the pound, but we are not
looking for a huge selloff. The inflation data was driven by
temporary factors. I don’t think there’s a particularly high
hurdle for more stimulus.”  Britain’s currency has declined 3.2 percent in the past
three months, according to Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted
Indexes, which track 10 developed-nation currencies. The dollar
slipped 0.4 percent in the period and the yen rose 1.1 percent.  ‘More Action’  Policy makers started a program this month to boost the
flow of credit as they seek to revive growth. The economy shrank
0.7 percent in the three months through June, the third
consecutive quarter of contraction.  “I shouldn’t imagine that these numbers will overly
concern the central bank,” said Michael Derks, chief strategist
at FxPro Group Ltd. in London, said about the inflation data.
Policy makers “are poised to undertake more action if it’s
needed,” he said.  The minutes of this month’s Bank of  England  meeting will
show how officials voted when they kept their bond-purchase
target on hold at 375 billion pounds. The central bank increased
the target by 50 billion pounds in July in a program that’s due
to run until early November.  U.K. government bonds declined after data showed retail
sales in the U.S. rose more than forecast in July, sapping
demand for the safest assets. Sales advanced 0.8 percent,
Commerce Department figures showed today in  Washington .
Economists projected a 0.3 percent increase, according to a
Bloomberg survey.  The yield on the 10-year gilt climbed four basis points, or
0.04 percentage point, to 1.60 percent.  U.K. bonds returned 3.7 percent this year, according to
indexes compiled by Bloomberg and the European Federation of
Financial Analysts Societies. German bunds earned 3.4 percent
and U.S. Treasuries rose 2 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Emma Charlton in  London  at 
 echarlton1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  