-- Rajoy Says Spain Would Seek More Aid ‘If It Seems Reasonable’
-- B y   E m m a   R o s s - T h o m a s
-- 2012-08-14T13:21:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-14/rajoy-says-spain-would-seek-more-aid-if-it-seems-reasonable-.html
Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy  said he
would ask the  European Central Bank  to buy Spanish bonds “if it
seems reasonable,” as he moved to extend unemployment subsidies
for some of the nation’s 5.7 million jobless.  Rajoy’s only criterion will be “defending the general
interests of Spaniards,” he told reporters today in Palma de
Mallorca after meeting King Juan Carlos. The day before an
extraordinary jobless subsidy was set to expire, Rajoy also said
the government will extend payments for another six months amid
a jobless rate of 25 percent.  Spanish 10-year bond yields rose to a euro-era high of 7.62
percent on July 24, exceeding the threshold that prompted full
sovereign bailouts in Greece, Portugal and Ireland. Yields have
fallen since ECB President  Mario Draghi  said on Aug. 2 the bank
would buy sovereign bonds if countries applied for similar
support from Europe’s rescue fund and accepted strict conditions
in return.  The government sought a European bailout for its banks of
as much as 100 billion euros in June “because it seemed
reasonable,” Rajoy said. “And now, if it seems reasonable, we
will do the same,” he said. “As is logical, until we know what
we are talking about, we aren’t going to take any decisions.”  Draghi said that details of how the mechanism will work
will be thrashed out by ECB committees. The ECB would focus on
shorter-dated securities as that’s within the remit of monetary
policy and would only intervene in tandem with the bailout funds
to which euro-region governments contribute, he said.  Rajoy, who met Italian Prime Minister  Mario Monti  in Madrid
as Draghi was announcing his crisis plan, will make a return
visit to  Rome  on Sept. 20-21, he said. German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  visits Madrid on Sept. 6, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Emma Ross-Thomas in Madrid at 
 erossthomas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  