-- Treasury Yields Near 2-Month High as German GDP Beats Forecasts
-- B y   N e a l   A r m s t r o n g   a n d   W e s   G o o d m a n
-- 2012-08-14T11:19:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-14/treasuries-decline-after-german-gdp-grows-faster-than-forecast.html
Treasury 10-year note yields were
six basis points from a two-month high after the German economy
expanded in the second quarter at a faster pace than analysts
forecast, damping demand for  U.S. government debt .  Treasuries were little changed before a report that
economists said will show U.S.  retail sales  rose in July.
Treasuries underperformed stocks after the French economy
unexpectedly avoided a contraction in the second quarter. Euro-
area gross domestic product shrank 0.2 percent in the three-
month period, the European Union’s statistics office in
Luxembourg said.  “The data has been OK today and we can be relatively
optimistic in the near term,” said  Padhraic Garvey , head of
developed markets debt at  ING Groep NV (INGA)  in Amsterdam. “It’s
entirely conceivable” Treasury yields could rise, he said.  Ten-year notes  yielded  1.67 percent at 7:14 a.m. London
time, according to Bloomberg Bond Trader data. They reached 1.73
percent last week, the highest since May 30. The 1.625 percent
security due August 2022 traded at 99 19/32.  The  Federal Reserve  is scheduled to buy $4.5 billion to
$5.5 billion in Treasuries with maturities of eight to 10 years
today, according to the Fed Bank of  New York  website. The
purchases are part of the central bank’s effort to support the
economy by putting downward pressure on long-term  interest
rates .  Volatility dropped for a third session yesterday. Bank of
America Merrill Lynch’s MOVE index, which measures price swings
based on options, slid to 67.2 from 2012’s high of 95.4 in June.
The average over the past decade is 101.14.  Retail Sales  German GDP rose 0.3 percent in the second quarter from the
first, the Federal Statistics Office said in Wiesbaden today.
Economists predicted a 0.2 percent increase, based on a
Bloomberg survey before the report.  Economic growth in  France  was unchanged in the second
quarter from the first, the national statistics office in Paris
said today in an e-mailed statement.  Retail sales in the U.S. rose in July for the first time in
four months, according to analyst estimates before the data is
published today.  The 0.3 percent increase in purchases would follow a 0.5
percent drop in June, according to the median forecast of 85
economists surveyed by Bloomberg News. Another report may show
prices paid by producers rose last month.  “The main factors behind the lower interest rate
environment -- the sluggish pace of the recovery, easing by the
Federal Reserve, and the European crisis -- have not
meaningfully changed,”  Zach Pandl , the Minneapolis-based senior
interest-rate strategist at Columbia Management, wrote on the
company’s website yesterday.  The U.S. central bank has held its target for overnight
bank lending in a range of zero to 0.25 percent since 2008 and
plans to keep it there at least through late 2014 to stimulate
the world’s biggest economy. The Fed also bought $2.3 trillion
of mortgage and Treasury debt from 2008 to 2011 in two rounds of
so-called quantitative easing.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Wes Goodman in Singapore at 
 wgoodman@bloomberg.net ;
Neal Armstrong in London at 
 narmstrong8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  