-- Treasuries Little Changed Before Europe GDP Report
-- B y   M a r i k o   I s h i k a w a   a n d   W e s   G o o d m a n
-- 2012-08-14T06:34:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-14/treasuries-snap-decline-before-european-gdp-reports.html
Treasuries were little changed
before data analysts said will show the euro area’s economy
contracted in the second quarter, supporting demand for the
relative safety of U.S. government securities.  While benchmark 10-year yields last week climbed to the
highest level since May, they are still within 29 basis points
of the record low. Columbia Management Investment Advisers LLC,
which oversees $331 billion, said the increase in rates probably
won’t lead to sustained weakness in the market.  “Treasuries seem a little bit oversold,” said Ali Jalai,
who trades  U.S. debt  in  Singapore  at Scotiabank, a unit of  Bank
of Nova Scotia (BNS) , one of the 21 primary dealers authorized to deal
with the  Federal Reserve . “Over the next day, I expect yields
to drop. European growth is going to be weaker.”  Ten-year  yields  held at 1.67 percent as of 7:28 a.m. in
 London , according to Bloomberg Bond Trader data. The price of
the 1.625 percent security due in August 2022 was 99 19/32.  The rate was as high as 1.73 percent last week, climbing
from the all-time low of 1.38 percent set July 25. The 30-year
bond yield added one basis point to 2.76 percent.  Japan ’s 10-year rate rose 1/2 basis point to 0.79 percent.  Volatility dropped for a third session yesterday. Bank of
America Merrill Lynch’s MOVE index, which measures price swings
based on options, slid to 67.2 from 2012’s high of 95.4 in June.
The average over the past decade is 101.14.  Europe Shrinking  Gross domestic product  in the euro area probably contracted
0.2 percent in the three months through June 30 after being
unchanged in the first quarter, according to the median forecast
of economists in a Bloomberg News survey. The European Union’s
statistics office is scheduled to report the data today.  German  gross domestic product  rose 0.3 percent in the
second quarter from the first, the Federal Statistics Office
said in Wiesbaden today. Economists predicted a 0.2 percent
increase, based on a Bloomberg survey before the report.  France ’s gross domestic product was unchanged in the second
quarter from the first, the national statistics office in Paris
said today in an e-mailed statement.  The Fed is scheduled today to buy as much as $5.5 billion
in Treasuries with maturities of eight to 10 years, according to
the  website  of the central bank’s  New York  branch. The purchases
are part of the Fed’s effort to support the economy by putting
downward pressure on long-term  interest rates .  ‘Sluggish Pace’  “The main factors behind the lower interest rate
environment -- the sluggish pace of the recovery, easing by the
Federal Reserve, and the European crisis -- have not
meaningfully changed,”  Zach Pandl , the Minneapolis-based senior
interest-rate strategist at Columbia Management, wrote on the
company’s  website  yesterday.  The U.S. central bank has held its target for overnight
bank lending in a range of zero to 0.25 percent since 2008 and
plans to keep it there at least through late 2014 to stimulate
the world’s biggest economy. The Fed also bought $2.3 trillion
of mortgage and Treasury debt from 2008 to 2011 in two rounds of
so-called quantitative easing.  Signs of improvement in the  U.S. economy  have the potential
to send yields higher, said Andy Cossor, a Hong Kong-based
market strategist at DZ Bank AG,  Germany ’s fourth-largest
lender.  Retailing, Inflation  Sales at U.S. retailers probably increased 0.3 percent last
month, according to a Bloomberg survey of economists before
today’s Commerce Department data. That would follow a 0.5
percent slide in June.  A report today on producer prices and data tomorrow on
consumer prices may show costs increased in July, separate
surveys showed.  The  difference  between yields on 10-year notes and same-
maturity Treasury Inflation Protected Securities, a gauge of
trader expectations for consumer prices over the life of the
debt, was 2.25 percentage points. The average over the past
decade is 2.15 percentage points.  “I wouldn’t be surprised to see the recent trend in higher
yields in Treasuries being extended if the U.S. data come in
little bit better than expected,” Cossor said.  The U.S. added 163,000 jobs in July, a government report
showed Aug. 3, more than the 100,000 projected by analysts.  The data helped send Treasuries to a 0.7 percent loss this
month as of yesterday, based on returns compiled by Bank of
America Merrill Lynch.  The  MSCI All-Country World Index (MXWD)  of stocks handed investors
a 2.2 percent gain in the period, including reinvested
dividends, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Commodities
as measured by the S&P GSCI Total Return Index climbed 3
percent.  Ten-year yields will be 1.66 percent by Sept. 30, little
changed from today’s level, according to a Bloomberg survey of
economists, with the most recent projections given the heaviest
weightings.  To contact the reporter on this story: Mariko Ishikawa in Tokyo
at   mishikawa9@bloomberg.net ; Wes Goodman in
Singapore at   wgoodman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story: Rocky Swift at
   rswift5@bloomberg.net  