-- REC Energy Plans Bankrupcy for Norway Solar Unit
-- B y   S t e p h e n   T r e l o a r
-- 2012-08-14T13:30:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-14/rec-to-file-for-bankruptcy-of-norway-wafer-unit-on-overcapacity.html
Renewable Energy Corp. ASA (REC) , a
Norwegian solar company, will stop funding and file for
insolvency for its only manufacturing unit in the country after
halting production of silicon wafers there.  REC Wafer Norway AS’s liabilities exceeded its assets by
about 1.2 billion kroner ($203 million) at the end of July,
making a solvent winding-up of the unit dependent on more money
from REC, the Sandvika, Norway-based group said in a statement
today. The company that said in April it would close the unit
expects about 400 million kroner of costs from the bankruptcy.  REC is suffering with the strength of the krone along with
a slump in prices for the raw material used in solar cells. The
shutdowns already have resulted in the the firing of 700
employees. Most of the remaining 600 staff at the wafer unit
will lose their jobs in the second half of the year.  The bankruptcy of REC Wafer Norway won’t affect REC’s solar
and silicon units, it said today. The company will continue
manufacture polysilicon in the U.S., where it is able to produce
at a lower cost than competitors. It also makes solar modules in
 Singapore .  ‘Positive’  “Although we had looked for potential savings of up to
about 1 billion kroner, we believe the news is positive as REC
has been somewhat vague when discussing this topic in the
past,” Pareto Securities ASA said in a note to clients. The
move will save REC about 800 million kroner, it said.  The wafer unit has already been removed as guarantor from
REC’s  bond-loan agreements  and wasn’t included in a new bank
loan agreement which came into effect earlier this month, REC
said.  REC, whose shares have slumped  97 percent  since listing six
years ago, rose as much as 5.4 percent and traded 3.4 percent
higher at 2.01 kroner as of 2:43 p.m. in Oslo.  European solar-component makers are under pressure from
Chinese rivals that expanded capacity just as demand slowed,
causing wafer and cell prices to plummet. Demand also shrank as
France, Italy and  Germany  reduced subsidies to cap booming
installations.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephen Treloar in Oslo at 
 streloar1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Wienberg at   cwienberg@bloomberg.net  