-- Retail Sales in U.S. Probably Rose First Time in Four Months
-- B y   A l e x   K o w a l s k i
-- 2012-08-14T08:09:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-14/retail-sales-in-u-s-probably-rose-for-first-time-in-four-months.html
Retail sales  in the U.S. probably
rose in July for the first time in four months, alleviating
concern that the expansion was foundering, economists said
before a report today.  The 0.3 percent increase in purchases would follow a 0.5
percent drop in June, according to the  median  forecast of 85
economists surveyed by Bloomberg News. Another report may show
prices paid by producers rose last month.  Improved sales at merchants such as Gap Inc. and TJX Cos.
indicate American households are looking beyond the global
economic slowdown as hiring improves. At the same time,
joblessness in excess of 8 percent is keeping consumer spending
from surging, consistent with the  Federal Reserve ’s view that
economic growth will “remain moderate over coming quarters.”  “Consumers are cautious,” said Kevin Cummins, an
economist at UBS Securities LLC in  Stamford ,  Connecticut .
“Despite a better report than the prior couple of months, you
can’t get too excited about spending because the third quarter
is still starting off at a pretty slow pace.”  The Commerce Department will release the figures at 8:30
a.m. in Washington. Economists’ estimates ranged from a decline
of 0.2 percent to a gain of 0.7 percent.  The report will also show the retail sales category used to
calculate gross domestic product, which excludes sales at auto
dealers, building material stores and service stations, rose 0.5
percent in July compared with a 0.1 percent decline the prior
month, according to the economists surveyed.  Spending Cools  The pickup in retail sales last month follows a quarter in
which household spending grew at the slowest pace in a year.
Consumer purchases, about 70 percent of the economy, expanded at
a 1.5 percent annual rate from April to June, according to
Commerce Department data.  In July, same-store sales at the more than 20 companies
tracked by Retail Metrics Inc. rose 4.4 percent, almost four
times analysts’ estimates, after a 0.3 percent gain in June.  Sales at Gap, the biggest U.S. specialty-apparel retailer,
climbed 10 percent last month from the same period in 2011.
Macy’s Inc., the owner of its namesake and Bloomingdale’s
department stores, posted a 4.1 percent increase.  “This month we saw broad-based strength across the U.S.,”
Sherry Lang, spokeswoman for TJX, said during an Aug. 2 sales
conference call. Same-store sales at the owner of the Marshalls
and T.J. Maxx chains rose 7 percent in July.  Retail Shares  Retail shares have outperformed the broader market this
year. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Supercomposite Retailing Index
has climbed 19 percent since Dec. 30, compared with a 12 percent
gain in the  S&P 500 .  Underpinning the stronger sales, payrolls increased by
163,000 in July, the most in five months, according to Labor
Department figures. While the improvement eased fears the U.S.
labor market may continue stumbling following the second-quarter
slowdown, the jobless rate rose to 8.3 percent.  Economic growth slowed to a 1.5 percent annualized pace in
the second quarter from 2 percent in the first.  “As we head into the much larger second half of the year,
we are mindful that the macro environment remains pressured and
uncertain,” Harlan Kent, chief executive officer of Yankee
Candle Co. Inc., which sells its products to retailers like
Macy’s and Target Corp., said on an Aug. 9 conference call. “We
expect cautious  consumer spending .”  Fed policy makers said on Aug. 1 they are prepared to take
additional action if necessary to boost growth and reduce a
jobless rate that’s been stuck at 8 percent or higher for more
than three years.  Also today, an 8:30 a.m. report from the Labor Department
will show an index of producer prices increased 0.2 percent in
July from a month earlier, according to the survey median.  
To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Kowalski in  Washington  at 
 akowalski13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  