-- Retail Sales in U.S. Jumped More Than Forecast: Economy
-- B y   A l e x   K o w a l s k i
-- 2012-08-14T20:18:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-14/retail-sales-in-u-s-increased-more-than-forecast-in-july.html
Retail sales  in the U.S. rose more
than forecast in July, reflecting broad-based gains that ease
concern elevated unemployment will cause consumers to retrench.  The 0.8 percent advance, the biggest since February and
first gain in four months, followed a 0.7 percent decrease in
June, Commerce Department figures showed today in  Washington .
Economists projected a 0.3 percent rise, according to the  median 
forecast in a Bloomberg survey. Purchases climbed in all 13
categories, the first time that’s happened since 2005.  Improved sales at merchants such as  Gap Inc. (GPS)  and  TJX Cos. (TJX) 
indicate American households are looking beyond the global
economic slowdown as hiring improves. At the same time,
joblessness in excess of 8 percent is keeping consumer spending
from surging, consistent with the  Federal Reserve ’s view that
economic growth will “remain moderate over coming quarters.”  “The consumer hasn’t exactly thrown in the towel, which is
encouraging because they’ve been battered and bruised in recent
months with very slow job growth,” said  Millan Mulraine , senior
U.S. strategist at TD Securities Inc. in New York. “We’re off
to good a start in the third quarter. I do question the
sustainability of the current level of spending. It can only be
sustained if employment growth accelerates beyond July.”  Stocks erased gains, sending the Standard & Poor’s 500
Index lower for a second day, as a slump in technology and
financial shares reversed an earlier increase on the sales
figures. The  S&P 500  fell less than 0.1 percent to 1,403.93 at
the close in New York.  Treasury securities  dropped, sending the
yield on the benchmark 10-year note up to 1.73 percent from 1.67
percent late yesterday.  Growth Estimates  Today’s report showed the retail sales category used to
calculate gross domestic product, which excludes sales at auto
dealers, building material stores and service stations,
increased 0.9 percent, the biggest gain since January, after a
0.2 percent decrease in June.  Economists at Morgan Stanley in  New York  raised their
tracking estimate for growth in the third quarter to a 1.9
percent annual rate after today’s report from a previous
estimate of 1.7 percent. Their counterparts at Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. boosted it to 2.3 percent from 2.2 percent.  Other reports today showed wholesale prices climbed more
than forecast in July and inventories at U.S. companies rose in
June at the slowest pace in nine months.  Elsewhere, the euro-area economy shrank in the second
quarter after the worsening debt crisis and tougher budget cuts
forced at least six nations into recessions.  India Inflation  In  Asia ,  India ’s inflation rate unexpectedly reached a 32-
month low in July, signaling that the nation’s weakest economic
growth in almost a decade is containing prices.  U.S. retail sales were projected to rise following June’s
previously reported 0.5 percent drop, according to the Bloomberg
survey. Estimates from the 85 economists surveyed ranged from a
decrease of 0.2 percent to a gain of 0.8 percent.  The pickup in retail sales last month followed a quarter in
which household spending grew at the slowest pace in a year.
Consumer purchases, about 70 percent of the economy, expanded at
a 1.5 percent annual rate from April to June, according to
Commerce Department data.  The gains last month were led by a 0.8 percent increase at
auto dealers, a 0.6 percent rise at department stores that was
the most since September, and a 0.9 percent advance at
electronics and appliance outlets.  Spending increased 0.8 percent at clothing stores and 0.7
percent at general merchandise stores. Health and personal care
sales jumped 1.1 percent, the most since May 2011.  Apparel Sales  Sales at Gap, the biggest U.S. specialty-apparel retailer,
climbed 10 percent last month from the same period in 2011.
Macy’s Inc., the owner of its namesake and Bloomingdale’s
department stores, posted a 4.1 percent increase.  “This month we saw broad-based strength across the U.S.,”
Sherry Lang, spokeswoman for TJX, said during an Aug. 2 sales
conference call. Same-store sales at the owner of the Marshalls
and T.J. Maxx chains rose 7 percent in July.  Underpinning consumer demand, payrolls increased by 163,000
in July, the most in five months, according to Labor Department
figures. While the improvement eased fears the U.S. labor market
may continue stumbling following the second-quarter slowdown,
the jobless rate rose to 8.3 percent.  “As we head into the much larger second half of the year,
we are mindful that the macro environment remains pressured and
uncertain,” Harlan Kent, chief executive officer of Yankee
Candle Co. Inc., which sells its products to retailers like
Macy’s and Target Corp., said on an Aug. 9 conference call. “We
expect cautious  consumer spending .”  Fed’s View  The Fed remains cautious about the recovery’s resilience as
well. Central bank policy makers said on Aug. 1 they will pump
new stimulus if necessary to boost growth and reduce a jobless
rate that’s been stuck at 8 percent or higher for more than
three years.  A deceleration in inflation is a sign the global economic
slowdown is limiting price pressures and giving Fed policy
makers leeway to take more action.  Wholesale prices climbed 0.5 percent in July from the same
month last year, the smallest year-to-year increase since
October 2009, the Labor Department reported. Compared with the
prior month, companies paid 0.3 percent more. The median
estimate in a Bloomberg survey of 78 economists called for a 0.2
percent gain.  “We’re not terribly worried about inflation at the moment
given the general weakness in the economy,” said Jeremy Lawson,
senior U.S. economist at BNP Paribas in New York. The Fed’s
view, “which will remain so after this data, is inflation is
more likely to fall short of their target in the next couple
years than exceed it,” Lawson said.  Inventories at American companies rose 0.1 percent in June
following a 0.3 percent gain in May, Commerce Department data
showed. A 1.1 percent drop in sales, the biggest decrease since
March 2009, prompted companies to keep stockpiles lean.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Kowalski in Washington at 
 akowalski13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  