-- Romney Defends Medicare Proposal to Anxious Ohio Seniors
-- B y   M a r k   N i q u e t t e   a n d   J u l i e   H i r s c h f e l d   D a v i s
-- 2012-08-14T19:44:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-14/romney-defends-medicare-proposal-to-anxious-ohio-seniors.html
As  Mitt Romney  campaigns in  Ohio 
today, he’s facing undecided voters like Doug Phelps who worry
the Republican presidential candidate and his newly chosen
running mate will make big changes to a program they cherish.  Without Medicare, Phelps, a 69-year-old barber from
suburban Columbus, could never have afforded the $171,000 heart
surgery he had last year -- his coverage combined with his
wife’s health insurance allowed them to pay less than $50 for
the procedure. Now, Phelps wants to know more details about both
Romney’s and President  Barack Obama ’s plans for Medicare.  “It works,” Phelps said of the program in an interview at
the Village Squire Barbershop in Grandview Heights. “I don’t
know how people are going to get by if it’s not there.”  Even though current seniors such as Phelps wouldn’t be
affected by Republican overhaul proposals, it’s a key issue for
them and one at the forefront of the presidential race following
Romney’s decision to name Representative  Paul Ryan  of  Wisconsin 
as his vice presidential running mate.  Ryan, the House Budget Committee chairman, is the architect
of a fiscal plan that includes steep spending cuts and the
eventual transformation of Medicare into a federal subsidy for
private coverage. Ryan’s plan wouldn’t affect current recipients
or those 55 years and older.  Future Generations  Democrats say Ryan’s proposal would amount to scrapping
Medicare for future generations, and that it would increase
costs or reduce benefits for many seniors.  Romney, visiting Ohio on the final day of a four-day tour
of electoral battleground states, is working to define and
defend his position on Medicare before the Democratic narrative
can take hold. He says the Republican push to revamp Medicare
would offer greater choice and opportunity to future retirees,
while charging that Obama is weakening the program with cuts.  At a  coal mine  in Beallsville, Ohio, Romney charged that
Obama had “raided” the Medicare trust fund by using more than
$700 billion of savings from the program to finance the new
health-care law.  “When he ran for president, he said he’d protect Medicare,
but did you know that he has taken $716 billion out of the
Medicare trust fund,” Romney told a crowd that included dozens
of hardhat-wearing coal miners at the Century Mine. “He’s used
it to pay for Obamacare, a risky unproven federal government
takeover of health care. And if I’m president of the  United
States , we’re putting the $716 billion back.”  New Ad  His campaign, working to turn a potential liability into an
asset, also released a new television advertisement defending
the Medicare plan Romney and Ryan have espoused.  “The Romney-Ryan plan protects Medicare benefits for
today’s seniors and strengthens the plan for the next
generation,” its narrator says.  Ryan said the issue is a winning one for the Republican
ticket “because we’re the ones who are offering a plan to save
Medicare.”  In a Fox News interview to air tonight, Ryan said: “This
is a debate we want to have, and that’s a debate we’re going to
win.”  Obama’s campaign said the Republican plan would hurt
seniors. It “radically restructures Medicare,” Obama campaign
spokesman  Ben LaBolt  told  CNN  last night. “It turns it into a
voucher program, increases the out-of-pocket cost for seniors by
thousands of dollars each year. And the president is committed
to its preservation,” LaBolt said.  Ohio Seniors  The debate could affect the campaign’s outcome in Ohio,
where 17 percent of the electorate in the 2008 presidential were
older than 65, and 39 percent were between 45 and 64 years of
age, according to exit polls. Ohio, with 18 electoral votes, has
voted for the winner in every presidential election since 1964,
and no Republican has won the White House without carrying the
state.  “It is going to enliven a critical vote in the state,
given the age of the state population,” said William Binning,
former Mahoning County Republican chairman and a political
scientist at Youngstown State University.  Binning said while the impact of the Medicare debate could
only be on the margins, Republicans face a more challenging task
in explaining their plans for the program than Democrats do
criticizing it as “ending welfare as we know it.”  Gladys Diamond, 71, of Columbus, said she couldn’t afford
health-care coverage without Medicare. An Obama supporter, she
is worried about cuts to the program if Romney is elected,
especially with the addition of Ryan to the ticket.  ’Doesn’t Care’  “He’s a millionaire, he doesn’t care for a poor woman like
me,” Diamond, a volunteer at the Gillie senior center in
Columbus, said of Romney. Ryan is “worse the Romney” because
he “wants to cut everything,” she said.  Republicans need to emphasize the choice between saving
Medicare for future generations compared with Obama cutting the
program, said Mark Weaver, an Ohio Republican consultant.  “There’s no doubt that the Democrats will have a demagogic
advantage because if the people aren’t paying attention, they
might believe the lie that Republicans want to do away with
Medicare,” Weaver said in a telephone interview. “Luckily,
Ohio voters are smart enough to see through that charade.”  Romney Backer  Joyce Rankin, 70, a retired administrative assistant at
 Ohio State University  who supports Romney, said that while she
loves Medicare, changes are needed to preserve the program for
younger people. She likes Romney’s selection of Ryan for that
reason, Rankin said.  “Americans are ready to address this issue,” she said in
an interview while sipping iced tea outside a coffee shop in
suburban Columbus. “I’m glad we’re finally addressing it.”  Even so, Ryan’s proposal to cut Medicaid, the health-care
program for the poor, would hit many seniors now. The program
provides care to poor children, pregnant women, the disabled --
and some 6 million seniors who rely on it for nursing-home care,
home health aides and other services.  Ryan’s budget would cut the program beginning next year,
with the reductions totaling about $800 billion over the next
decade. That’s about one-third of projected spending on the
program.  There’s a double standard when it comes to protecting
Medicare and Medicaid beneficiaries from cuts, said Howard Gleckman, a resident fellow at the Washington-based  Urban
Institute . That’s because Medicaid beneficiaries are much
poorer, and the program tends to be less well understood, he
said.  “The very poor, frail elderly aren’t very good at lobbying
for themselves, and neither are their family members, and it’s
very easy to forget about these people,” Gleckman said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mark Niquette in Columbus at 
 mniquette@bloomberg.net ;
Julie Hirschfeld Davis in Miami, Florida at 
 jdavis159@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net  