-- Romney-Ryan See Fed QE as Inflation Risk Amid Low Prices
-- B y   J e f f   K e a r n s   a n d   J o s h u a   Z u m b r u n
-- 2012-08-15T01:15:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-14/romney-ryan-see-fed-qe-as-inflation-risk-amid-low-prices.html
Representative  Paul Ryan , writing
less than a month after the  Federal Reserve  announced a new
round of bond-buying in 2010, said the move to purchase another
$600 billion in securities risked stoking inflation and pushing
down the dollar.  Since that  prediction  by Ryan, who has been chosen by
presumptive Republican presidential nominee  Mitt Romney  to be
his running mate, the dollar has risen against major currencies
and inflation has stayed below the Fed’s goal of 2 percent.  While off target so far, the warning by Ryan parallels
Romney’s criticism of the unprecedented Fed program known as
quantitative easing to spur growth by purchasing a total of $2.3
trillion in securities. Romney and Ryan oppose the policy even
as Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  says he stands ready to provide more
accommodation if necessary to achieve a steady decline in the
8.3 percent U.S. unemployment rate.  A Fed led by a Romney-Ryan administration appointee “would
be less inclined to frequently fiddle with the knobs” of
economic policy, said  Stephen Stanley , chief economist for
Pierpont Securities LLC in  Stamford , Connecticut. “There would
be a strong sense in the markets that a different strategy is
probably forthcoming,” with higher odds the Fed would raise
 interest rates  and a lower probability it would buy more bonds.  Spending Cuts  By selecting Ryan on Aug. 11, Romney enlisted the architect
of Republican congressional plans on spending and entitlements.
As chairman of the House Budget Committee, Ryan, of Wisconsin,
has promoted a plan calling for $5 trillion in cuts over the
next decade from programs including Medicare, Medicaid,  farm
subsidies ,  food stamps  and Pell college tuition grants.  Ryan’s budget envisions $800 billion in cuts to Medicaid
over the next decade, which would be a one-third reduction in
projected spending for the government program that provides
health benefits to 70 million poor and disabled Americans.  Romney, 65, has endorsed Ryan’s budget and talked generally
about a fiscal plan that shares much in common with it,
including slashing federal spending by $500 billion by 2016. The
former Massachusetts governor hasn’t yet provided specifics
about what  government spending  he would cut.  Ryan, 42, and Stanford University Economics Professor  John Taylor  wrote in a November 30, 2010,  opinion piece  in Investor’s
Business Daily that the Fed’s record stimulus, including
expansion of its balance sheet, amounts to an attempt to “bail
out” U.S. fiscal policy.  ‘Predictable Manner’  The Fed combated the financial crisis by keeping the main
interest rate close to zero beginning in December 2008 and
through two rounds of quantitative easing. In the first round
starting in 2008, the central bank bought $1.25 trillion of
mortgage-backed securities, $175 billion of federal agency debt
and $300 billion of Treasuries. In the second round, announced
in November 2010, the Fed bought $600 billion of Treasuries.  “If the money created to finance these asset purchases is
not withdrawn in an expedient and predictable manner, the Fed
risks higher inflation and a depreciated currency,” Ryan and
Taylor wrote.  “While consistent with the ‘sugar-high economics’
practiced in  Washington  of late, quantitative easing marks a
further departure from the foundations for prosperity and
another step toward an increasingly politicized  central bank ,”
they wrote.  Dollar Index  From the date of the editorial until yesterday, the Dollar
Index, which tracks the U.S. currency against those of six major
U.S. trading partners, advanced 1.53 percent.  The core personal consumption expenditures index, which
excludes volatile food and energy costs, hasn’t exceeded 2
percent since November 2008. It rose 1.8 percent in June from a
year earlier, and has averaged 1.5 percent since November 2010.
So-called  core inflation  will end the year at 1.8 percent,
according to the median estimate in a Bloomberg News survey.  Taylor, a Treasury undersecretary under Republican
President  George W. Bush , didn’t return an e-mail and a phone
call to his office seeking comment.  Lanhee Chen, policy director for Romney, declined to
comment on Ryan’s statements on the central bank.  The ties of Taylor to Ryan may increase the Stanford
Professor’s chances of being appointed to replace Bernanke when
the Fed chief’s term expires in January 2014, said  David Kotok ,
who helps oversee $2 billion as chief investment officer at
Cumberland Advisors Inc. in Sarasota,  Florida .  “John Taylor is a very influential person in the Romney-
Ryan group and if they are elected he may become the next
chairman,” Kotok said.  Staggered Terms  Fed governors are appointed to staggered 14-year terms
while the chairman and two vice-chairmen are appointed to four-
year terms. If he were to be elected president, Romney would be
able to appoint the Fed’s chairman, vice chairman of the board
and governors as their terms expire. The Fed also has a slot for
a vice-chairman of supervision, created by the Dodd-Frank
financial reform law, that has never been filled.  Ryan has also missed the mark with his forecast a year ago
that the U.S. government’s loss of its AAA credit rating by
 Standard & Poor’s  would increase the cost of mortgages. Bernanke
has aimed through the bond purchases to reduce borrowing costs.  The yield  on the 10-year U.S. Treasury note fell to a
record low of 1.39 percent on July 24 from 2.56 percent on
August 5, 2011, when S&P downgraded  U.S. debt . The yield was
1.74 percent as of 5 p.m. in New York.  Mortgage Rates  Mortgage rates  have fallen lower since the downgrade as
well. The average 30-year mortgage rate was 4.39 percent the
week of the downgrade. It fell as low as 3.49 percent on July 26
before rising to 3.59 percent last week.  While Democrats may “jump all over” Ryan’s forecasts
during the campaign, the risks he identified for inflation and
the dollar remain, said  Robert Brusca , president of Fact &
Opinion Economics and a former New York Fed economist.  “I wouldn’t judge him so harshly even though he was
wrong,” said Brusca, who is based in New York and doesn’t
belong to a political party. “The concerns that he raised when
he said these things are still in play.”  Romney has also found fault with Bernanke’s effort to spur
growth. In a Sept. 8 debate with other Republican presidential
contenders, he said he would “be looking for somebody new” as
Fed chairman after Bernanke’s four-year term expires on Jan. 31,
2014.  ‘Desired Effect’  Romney said on June 17 the second round of quantitative
easing was ineffective while potentially causing inflation and
undermining the dollar. A third round would pose the same risks,
he said.  “QE2, as it’s called, which was a monetary stimulus, did
not have the desired effect,” the former Massachusetts governor
said in an interview on CBS’s “Face the Nation.” “It was not
extraordinarily harmful, but it does put in question the future
value of the dollar, and will, obviously, encourage some
inflation.”  “A QE3 would do the same thing,” Romney said. “But the
potential threat down the road in inflation is something which
we have to be aware of, and the last QE2, the last monetary
stimulus, did not put Americans back to work, did not raise our
home values, did not bring jobs back to this country or
encourage small businesses to open their doors.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeff Kearns in Washington at 
 jkearns3@bloomberg.net ;
Joshua Zumbrun in Washington at 
 jzumbrun@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  