-- Romney Campaign Ad Hits Obama on Character After Bain Attacks
-- B y   J u l i e   H i r s c h f e l d   D a v i s
-- 2012-08-14T09:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-14/romney-campaign-ad-hits-obama-on-character-after-bain-attacks.html
Mitt Romney, his character under
assault by Democrats for his record as an executive at the Bain
Capital LLC private-equity firm, is questioning President  Barack Obama ’s integrity in a new campaign advertisement.  “What does it say about a president’s character when his
campaign tries to use the tragedy of a woman’s death for
political gain?” the presumed Republican nominee’s ad says.
“Doesn’t America deserve better than a president who will say
or do anything to stay in power?”  The commercial released today by the campaign is a response
to one last week from a pro-Obama super-political action
committee that tied Romney to the death of a woman whose husband
lost his job and health insurance after the closing of the Bain-
owned plant where he worked.  In the ad by Priorities USA Action, former steelworker Joe
Soptic describes losing his wife to cancer and casts Romney as
an uncaring businessman who values profits over people. “I do
not think  Mitt Romney  realizes what he’s done to anyone,”
Soptic says in the ad, which has attracted media attention even
though it hasn’t aired yet. “And furthermore, I do not think
Mitt Romney is concerned.”  Romney, who founded Bain, had left the firm before the
plant closed, and Soptic’s wife, who died five years later, had
kept her own job and health insurance for a period of time after
her husband lost his position, according to a Washington Post
fact-check, which gave the Priorities USA ad “four
Pinocchios,” its worst rating for truthfulness.  Romney is ramping up his bid after naming Representative
 Paul Ryan  of Wisconsin as his vice-presidential running mate.
The former Massachusetts governor is increasingly making the
case that his is the campaign of ideas and optimism while
Obama’s is one of distortions and petty charges.  “Mr. President,” Romney shouted at an Aug. 12 homecoming
rally for Ryan in Waukesha,  Wisconsin . “Take your campaign out
of the gutter!”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julie Hirschfeld Davis in Washington at 
 jdavis159@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net  