-- Ruble Snaps Three Days of Declines as Oil Advances
-- B y   L y u b o v   P r o n i n a   a n d   M i c h a e l   P a t t e r s o n
-- 2012-08-14T16:18:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-14/ruble-snapst-three-days-of-declines-to-dollar.html
The ruble strengthened for the first
time in four days against the dollar and bonds gained as oil
rallied and better-than-expected economic data in  Europe ’s
largest economies boosted the outlook for Russian exports.  The Russian currency appreciated less than 0.1 percent to
31.8350 per dollar as of 7 p.m. in Moscow. The ruble gained 0.2
percent to 39.2405 per euro and rose 0.2 percent against the
central bank’s euro-dollar basket. The yield on the government’s
ruble debt due March 2014 fell one basis point, or 0.01
percentage point, to 6.66 percent.  “Oil has gained and volatility has declined, helping the
ruble to strengthen,”  Alexander Morozov , the chief economist
for  Russia  at HSBC Holdings Plc in Moscow, said by e-mail today.  Oil, the country’s main revenue earner, added as much as
$1.19 to $93.92 a barrel in  New York . The U.S. Commerce
Department reported retail sales advanced 0.8 percent, the first
gain in four months and more than the 0.3 percent estimated by
economists polled by Bloomberg.  Germany ’s gross domestic product
rose 0.3 in the second quarter, beating estimates.  Investors pared bets on the ruble falling further, with
non-deliverable forwards showing the currency slipping to
32.3325 in three months, versus 32.3765 per dollar yesterday.  ‘Risk Rally’  While oil is a supportive factor for the ruble, the Russian
currency hasn’t matched the rally in the commodity, Vladimir Kolychev, head of research at Societe Generale SA’s OAO  Rosbank (ROSB) 
unit in Moscow, said by e-mail today.  This “probably speaks for the overall investor
cautiousness toward the sustainability of the risk rally” in
the ruble, he said. “In this context the ruble is likely to
stay in close range near 35 against the by-currency basket with
the European news flow remaining the major driver for the local
currency.”  The extra yield investors demand to own Russia’s dollar
bonds over U.S. Treasuries fell six basis points, or 0.06
percentage point, to 222, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s
EMBI Global Index.  The finance ministry today said that it plans to sell 15
billion rubles of five-year OFZ bonds tomorrow with a yield
between 7.57 percent and 7.62 percent.  “It was only logical to go for a shorter maturity given
the slow mode of the holiday season and uncertain risk sentiment
globally,” Kolychev said. “The yield guidance is close to
where the market is at the moment.”  Kolychev said that placing up to two-thirds of the debt
would be a good outcome for the auction.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lyubov Pronina in London at 
 lpronina@bloomberg.net ;
 Michael Patterson  in London at 
 mpatterson10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  