-- Rupiah Forwards Decline Amid Current-Account Deficit Concern
-- B y   L i l i a n   K a r u n u n g a n
-- 2012-08-14T08:48:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-14/rupiah-forwards-decline-amid-current-account-deficit-concern.html
Indonesia ’s rupiah forwards fell to
the lowest level in more than two weeks on speculation measures
announced last week will do little to narrow the nation’s widest
current-account deficit in at least five years.  Bank Indonesia  said on Aug. 10 it was allowing overseas
investors to hedge their foreign-exchange transactions for as
short as one week and raised the minimum deposit facility rate
by 25 basis points to 4 percent to help curb the shortfall. The
current-account deficit was $6.9 billion in the second quarter,
official data show.  “In the near term, it’s hard to see the current-account
deficit narrow significantly,” said Irene Cheung, a currency
strategist at  Australia & New Zealand Banking Group Ltd. (ANZ)  in
 Singapore . “We are bearish on the rupiah.”  The currency’s twelve-month non-deliverable forwards
declined 0.1 percent to 9,995 as of 3:17 p.m. in Jakarta, a 5.1
percent discount to the spot rate, data compiled by Bloomberg
showed. The contract reached 10,015 today, the weakest level
since July 26. Forwards are agreements to buy or sell assets at
a set price and date. Non-deliverable contracts are settled in
dollars.  The rupiah was unchanged at 9,485 per dollar, according to
prices from local banks compiled by Bloomberg. It has weakened
4.4 percent this year, the second-worst performance among  Asia ’s
11 most-active currencies. One-month implied volatility, which
measures exchange-rate swings used to price options, dropped 35
basis points, or 0.35 percentage point, to 7.15 percent.  ‘High Risk’  “We see the current-account deficit persisting early in
the third quarter, with a high risk of the trade deficit
breaching $2 billion in July, after the record $1.3 billion in
June,” Chua Hak Bin, an economist at Bank of America Corp.’s
Merrill Lynch division in Singapore, wrote in a report
yesterday. “Our forecast is for the current-account deficit to
remain at about 3 percent of GDP in the third quarter, despite
the current set of measures.”  The yield on the government’s 6.25 percent bonds due April
2017 was little changed at 5.48 percent, according to prices
from the Inter Dealer Market Association.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lilian Karunungan in Singapore at 
 lkarunungan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  