-- Rusal Beating Metal as Reserves Are Elusive: Commodities
-- B y   A g n i e s z k a   T r o s z k i e w i c z   a n d   M a r i a   K o l e s n i k o v a
-- 2012-08-15T15:57:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-14/rusal-beating-metal-as-near-record-reserves-elusive-commodities.html
Aluminum company shares are poised
to return more than the metal they make as financial contracts
mask a glut by limiting supplies and raising costs for buyers.  United Co. Rusal, the biggest producer, will climb 29
percent in  Hong Kong  trading and Oslo-based Norsk Hydro ASA, 27
percent, the average of as many as 18 analyst estimates shows.
The projected 22 percent gain for Alcoa Inc., the largest in the
U.S., would extend this year’s 0.5 percent advance, compared
with aluminum’s 8.6 percent drop. The metal will gain 20 percent
to $2,200 a metric ton on the  London  Metal Exchange in 12
months, the median of 15 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  Production of 45 million tons this year will exceed
consumption of 44.6 million tons, while another 11.4 million is
currently stored in warehouses, according to Morgan Stanley.
About 65 percent of inventories is locked away in financial
contracts, enough metal to supply the U.S. for two years.  “You cannot access this stuff because it’s tied up in
inventory financing deals,” said  Peter Richardson , chief metals
economist at Morgan Stanley in  Melbourne . “Given the scale of
the material that’s around and the volume tied up in these
deals, you are inevitably going to get a tighter market.”  Aluminum tumbled into a  bear market  in September and
retreated another 15 percent since Sept. 30 to $1,839, as
output rose to the highest ever and the global economy slowed.
The  LMEX (LMEX)  index of six industrial metals dropped 2 percent since
the end of September as the Standard & Poor’s GSCI gauge climbed
12 percent, led by crops as drought parched fields from the U.S.
to  Australia . The MSCI All-Country World Index of equities rose
15 percent and Treasuries returned 1.7 percent, a Bank of
America Corp. index shows.  Forward Sales  Futures are in contango out to 2022, the typical
relationship that means prices will rise throughout the period,
data compiled by Bloomberg shows. Metal is locked in financing
deals that typically involve a simultaneous purchase for nearby
delivery and a forward sale for a later date. The transaction is
profitable so long as the difference between the two exceeds
costs including storage, insurance and debt. Investors are
getting annual returns of 6 percent to 9 percent, Credit Suisse
Group AG estimates.  Buyers in  Europe  and the U.S. are paying record premiums on
top of the LME price to obtain aluminum. Rusal estimates about
65 percent of stockpiles monitored by the London Metal Exchange
are in financing deals and the wait to withdraw metal from
some storage depots extends to more than a year.  Premiums Outlook  Premiums in the U.S. will reach 13 cents a pound within a
year and those in Europe $240 a ton, both gains of about 20
percent, according to the median of 11 estimates from analysts
and traders of physical metal compiled by Bloomberg. The
estimates don’t include duties in Europe. Quarterly premiums in
 Japan  rose to a record of as much as $210 a ton in July,
according to five officials with knowledge of the talks.  While locked-up stockpiles and warehouse waits are helping
boost premiums, any increase in the amount of available metal
may drive fees lower. Inventories in warehouses monitored by the
LME rose almost sixfold to 4.9 million tons in a decade. That’s
about what  North America  will produce this year, Credit Suisse
estimates. Morgan Stanley figures the combined global reserves
at 11.4 million tons.  The LME changed its rules in April to increase the minimum
amount that must be  delivered  daily, after getting complaints
about delays since at least 2009. Waits at the Dutch port of
Vlissingen are as long as 56 weeks and those at Detroit 49
weeks, data compiled by Bloomberg show. Premiums may drop if the
so-called load-out rates are raised again, said Nick Madden, the
chief supply chain officer at Atlanta-based Novelis Inc.  ‘Decent Returns’  “The premium is high, but I don’t think it’s really
offsetting the low LME price,” said  Vladimir Zhukov , HSBC
Holdings Plc’s head of research in Moscow. “The aluminum price
has to go higher for companies to start making more decent
returns than they are making now.”  Rusal, based in Moscow, reported an 84 percent decline in
first-quarter net income and Rio Tinto Group, the second-biggest
producer, said first-half earnings at its Alcan unit dropped 93
percent. Both companies cited low aluminum prices. Aluminum
accounted for about 18 percent of London-based Rio’s sales last
year, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Profit is expected to rebound next year as central banks
stimulate economies and consumption expands. Global growth will
rise to 3.9 percent in 2013, from 3.5 percent in 2012, according
to the  International Monetary Fund .  China , the biggest aluminum
consumer, will accelerate for at least the next three quarters,
according to the median of as many as 26 economist estimates
compiled by Bloomberg. Worldwide demand will rise 6.2 percent
next year, from 5.2 percent, Barclays Plc predicts.  Hong Kong  That will help Alcoa earn $828.3 million in 2013, from
$192.5 million this year, the mean of 10 estimates shows. Shares
of the New York-based company will reach $10.63 in 12 months,
according to the average of 15 predictions. Rusal’s profit will
rise 52 percent to $1.18 billion as its shares advance to
HK$5.45 in Hong Kong trading, based on the average of as many as
19 projections.  Hydro, with stakes in smelters from  Canada  to Qatar, will
report net income of 3.06 billion kroner ($518 million) in 2013,
from a loss of 845.1 million kroner, the mean of 13 estimates
shows. Its shares are expected to advance to 31.97 kroner in
Oslo trading in 12 months.  Hydro’s Jump  The last time  producers  outperformed aluminum in any
calendar year was in 2009 when the metal gained 45 percent and
Hydro jumped 75 percent. Last year, aluminum fell 18 percent and
Hydro declined 35 percent, Rusal dropped 59 percent and  Alcoa (AA) 
retreated 44 percent.  While prices make it “difficult for the industry to
deliver decent returns to the shareholders,” the  premiums  are
aiding smelters, Hydro CEO Svein Richard Brandtzaeg said in an
interview in London on July 24. The regional fees also helped
Alcoa’s primary metal production, Alcoa Chief Financial Officer
Charles McLane told analysts on a conference call on July 9.  Rusal expects premiums to keep rising for 12 to 18 months,
said Steve Hodgson, Rusal’s director for international sales.  Smelters also have been helped by declining costs. The
price of Australian alumina fell to $314.50 a ton, from as much
as $418.33 last year, Metal Bulletin Plc data show. It takes
about two tons of bauxite to make a ton of alumina, which in
turn yields about half a ton of aluminum. Crude oil last traded
at $115.13 a barrel in London, down from $126.22 in March.
Energy and alumina each account for about 36 percent of
expenses, Credit Suisse estimates.  Record Production  Rising premiums are limiting plant closings even as
prices drop, Barclays estimates. Global production reached a
record 125,500 tons a day in June, data from the London-based
International Aluminium Institute show. About 1.84 million tons
of aluminum capacity was shut this year, Alcoa estimates. That
compares with as much as 8 million tons closed in 2009 after
prices dropped, according to Barclays.  Smelters are also getting support from governments
concerned about jobs, Morgan Stanley says. That includes power
subsidies in China, where producers will expand production 9.4
percent next year as global output rises 8 percent to 48.6
million tons, the bank estimates.  “At the moment the market is relatively tight,” said
Andrew Shaw, head of base metals research at Credit Suisse in
 Singapore . “There is a fair amount of inventory, but a large
amount of that inventory is tied up and is likely to be tied up
and not available for consumption for quite a while to come.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Agnieszka Troszkiewicz in London at 
 atroszkiewic@bloomberg.net ;
Maria Kolesnikova in London at 
 mkolesnikova@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  