-- Russian Industrial Growth Probably Accelerated to 2.5% in July
-- B y   S c o t t   R o s e
-- 2012-08-14T20:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-14/russian-industrial-growth-probably-accelerated-to-2-5-in-july.html
Russian  industrial-production  growth
probably accelerated in July as homegrown demand for cars helped
offset weaker metals exports.  Output at factories, mines and utilities expanded 2.5
percent from a year earlier, according to the median of 15
estimates in a Bloomberg  survey . That would be faster than
June’s 1.9 percent growth. The Federal Statistics Service in
Moscow will release the data today or tomorrow.  The economy of the world’s largest energy exporter is
weathering the debt crisis in the euro area, which accounts for
about half of trade, with domestic demand powering growth of 4
percent from a year earlier in the second quarter. Indicators of
sentiment among Russian producers and consumers remain “fairly
positive,” the central bank said Aug. 10.  “Domestic demand remains exceptionally strong, mainly
because budget policy served as a stimulus at the start of the
year,” said Alexey Pogorelov, an economist at Credit Suisse in
Moscow.  The Micex Index of 30 stocks has advanced 4.3 percent so
far this year, lagging behind the MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index’s
6.8 percent advance. Urals crude,  Russia ’s main export earner,
has surged 31 percent from a June low to $114.63 a barrel.  Car Sales  Sales of cars and light commercial vehicles grew 14 percent
in July, matching the fastest pace since February, according to
the Association of European Businesses in Russia. Foreign brands
such as those made by  General Motors Co. (GM) ,  Volkswagen AG (VOW)  and
 Toyota Motor Corp. (7203)  posted the biggest advances, while OAO
AvtoVAZ’s Lada had a 7 percent decline in sales from a year ago.  Still, OAO GMK  Norilsk Nickel , Russia’s largest miner,
reduced second-quarter output of nickel by 8 percent from the
previous quarter, the company said July 30 in a statement. U.S.
steelmaker Alcoa predicted last month that growth would be
slower in Russia as European demand remains uncertain and prices
are low.  Economic output in the euro region contracted 0.2 percent
in the second quarter. That, together with slowing growth in
China, will constrain Russian industry, said Vladimir Miklashevsky, a Helsinki-based economist at  Danske Bank A/S. (DANSKE)   “The only support may come from manufacturing industries
which are oriented toward domestic consumers,” he said by e-
mail before the release. Companies such as carmakers and food
producers focused on the local market will probably be the
strongest performers, he said.  The central bank left  interest rates  unchanged for an
eighth month on Aug. 10, saying monetary conditions had
tightened and factors outside its control were spurring
inflation.  Policy makers said in their statement a slowdown in
industrial production last month doesn’t pose a risk of a
broader economic deceleration because second-quarter
manufacturing growth was strong.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Rose in Moscow at 
 rrose10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  