-- RWE Announces 2,400 More Job Cuts as Power Demand Slumps
-- B y   T i n o   A n d r e s e n
-- 2012-08-14T16:30:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-14/rwe-say-profit-steady-as-sales-drop-announces-more-job-cuts.html
RWE AG (RWE) ,  Germany ’s second-largest
utility, will cut 2,400 jobs to reduce costs as plunging demand
for power and natural gas left first-half profit stagnant.  Job cuts “are essential to maintaining the market
competitiveness of RWE,” Chief Executive Officer Peter Terium,
who took the helm on July 1, said today in a statement.
“Mounting state intervention in the energy sector, shrinking
power plant margins and fierce competition in electricity and
gas supply are all challenges.”  Recurrent net income, the measure used to calculate RWE’s
dividend, was 1.67 billion euros ($2.1 billion), the same as a
year earlier, the Essen-based company said. That missed the
average estimate of 1.71 billion euros from 11 analysts surveyed
by Bloomberg. Sales slid 1.3 percent to 27.1 billion euros as
sales of gas fell 11 percent and electricity declined 8 percent.  RWE and  EON AG (EOAN)  are cutting costs and selling assets after
German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  ordered the permanent halt of
all nuclear reactors by 2022 following  Japan ’s Fukushima atomic
meltdown. RWE’s earnings were hurt by lost sales after two
atomic plants were taken off line in the first wave of
shutdowns. It had already announced plans to eliminate 5,000
positions and cut 3,000 further workers through divestments.  RWE rose 0.6 percent to 33.14 euros by the Frankfurt close.  Further Economies  Two-thirds of job will be lost in Germany, Alwin Fitting, a
management board member, said on a call. Terium wouldn’t rule
out further cuts, saying economies were needed after 2014.  “RWE will always have to work on efficiency, and labor
costs are one component,” Thomas Deser, a portfolio manager at
Union Investment GmbH responsible for the fund’s 93 million-euro
stake in RWE, said today by phone from  Frankfurt .  The utility plans to set up a company to manage the
conventional power plants of RWE Power, RWE Npower in the U.K.
and Essent in Germany from the start of next year, led by
Matthias Hartung, chief executive officer of RWE Technology
GmbH. It will be based in the state of North Rhine-Westphalia,
Annett Urbaczka, a spokeswoman, said today by phone from Essen.  RWE, which confirmed its full-year target of stable
recurrent net income and operating profit, has begun a cost-
cutting program seeking to boost earnings by 750 million euros
next year and an annual 1 billion euros by the end of 2014. The
dividend will probably hold at 2 euros for 2012, Deser said.  RWE said it renegotiated more than half its oil-indexed gas
contracts and has yet to reach an agreement with OAO Gazprom.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tino Andresen in Dusseldorf at 
 tandresen1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  