-- Ryan Opposed Debt Reduction Plan Romney Used as a Model
-- B y   H e i d i   P r z y b y l a
-- 2012-08-14T20:53:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-14/ryan-opposed-debt-reduction-plan-romney-used-as-a-model.html
Representative  Paul Ryan  was a
pivotal figure in killing the 2010 Bowles-Simpson agreement,
which Republican presidential candidate  Mitt Romney  now points
to as a model for putting America’s fiscal house in order.  The 18-member panel needed 14 votes to send a 10-year plan
for trimming the debt to the  U.S. Congress  for a vote. As his
party’s top member on the House Budget Committee, Ryan led a
bloc of three  House Republicans  who denied the additional votes
needed.  All three Senate Republicans on the panel backed the plan
and one of them, former New Hampshire Senator  Judd Gregg , said
he thinks the House Republicans who rejected it were beholden to
an anti-tax-increase pledge sponsored by Americans for  Tax
Reform  President  Grover Norquist , who opposes the plan’s tax
blueprint that raises revenue by ending popular expenditures.  “All of the House Republicans were disproportionately
affected by the Norquist group on the issue of tax reform,”
said Gregg, now a senior adviser at New Mountain Capital LLC.
Ryan “clearly was the leader” of the House Republicans in
setting terms of a grand debt bargain, said  Andy Stern , a panel
member and Democrat.  Debt Reduction  Ryan, now Republican Mitt Romney’s vice presidential
running mate, was joined by Republican Representatives David Camp of Michigan and  Jeb Hensarling  of Texas and four Democrats
in opposing the panel’s blueprint. It would have reduced the
federal debt by $3.8 trillion through a 3-to-1 mix of spending
cuts and tax revenue increases.  Ryan’s support probably would have drawn a vote from Camp
and possibly Hensarling and made it almost impossible for the
president to reject a plan created by his self-appointed
commission.  Brendan Buck , a Romney campaign spokesman, said in an e-
mail that Obama is the one who ignored his panel’s
recommendations. “While Congressman Ryan has worked tirelessly
to solve these challenges, President Obama has racked up record
debt and deficits, and under his failed leadership America saw
an unprecedented credit decline,” Buck said.  The efforts by the commission, composed of 12 members of
Congress and six other officials, set the stage for a series of
failed attempts over the next year by the White House and
Congress to reach a bipartisan deal to address the debt. That
included an ill-fated try late last year by a congressional
supercommittee that ended in deadlock.  Midterm Election  Illinois Representative  Jan Schakowsky , a Democrat on the
panel who opposed its plan because of cuts in Social Security
benefits, said she thinks Ryan was less inclined to compromise
after the November 2010 election that handed Republicans control
of the next U.S. House session and put him in line to push his
plan to overhaul Medicare as House Budget Committee chairman.  “As his perception of the politics became clearer, I don’t
think he felt any need to go with anything less than he would
propose,” she said.  That view of Ryan’s role on the debt panel stands in
contrast to the profile the Romney campaign is advancing that
the 42-year-old lawmaker from Wisconsin is an intellectual
leader on economic policy who is immune to the politics that
affect many other members of Congress.  Schakowsky was one of four Democrats who opposed the plan,
joining Stern, Senator  Max Baucus  of  Montana  and Representative
 Xavier Becerra  of  California . Each acted on their own objections
to the plan, rather than voting as the bloc that Ryan led.  Leads With Chin  Oklahoma Senator  Tom Coburn , a Republican commission member
who voted for the Bowles-Simpson plan, called “nonsense” any
claim that Ryan acted out of political expediency.  “Paul Ryan doesn’t do things politically, he goes out and
leads with his chin,” Coburn said.  The House Republicans’ “price for a grand bargain was ‘do
something on health care,’” Coburn said.  In a Dec. 3, 2010 statement explaining his vote, Ryan said
he didn’t support the plan’s blend of defense and non-defense
spending cuts, that it “relies too heavily on revenue
increases,” and “facilitates an explosive growth of health
care spending.”  The Bowles-Simpson plan would have reduced the  deficit  by
$870 billion in 2020, from a projected $1.15 trillion without
action.  Tax Overhaul  It also would have reversed the growth of the debt held by
the public from 71.5 percent of gross domestic product in 2013
to 60 percent by 2023 by limiting domestic and defense spending
and overhauling the  tax code . It would have eliminated itemized
deductions and replaced some with refundable tax credits while
reducing income tax rates.  In an Aug. 2 Fox News interview, Romney, who has criticized
Obama for not embracing the debt reduction package, said “my
plan is very similar to the Simpson-Bowles plan.” The two plans
have significant differences, including the fact that Romney’s
proposal wouldn’t raise new revenue.  Alan Simpson , the panel co-chairman who continues to
promote the budget plan, said he met with Ryan, Camp and
Hensarling immediately after the December 2010 vote on it.  “I said ‘I’m going to tell you something, if you guys
voted against this because you’re afraid of Grover Norquist,
I’ve lost all respect for all three of you,’” said Simpson, a
former Republican senator from  Wyoming .  Medicare Objections  The three explained that their opposition was instead
grounded in the plan’s failure to address revamping the nation’s
Medicare health program for the elderly, said Simpson. He said
he believes that rationale.  Coburn said he opposed many parts of the plan and that he
voted for it to “get it on the floor of the Senate” and keep
the debate over the national debt alive.  Norquist, the anti-tax advocate, said the House Republicans
understood that the plan amounted to a tax increase, and he
noted that the Bowles-Simpson plan would have taken  taxes  from
about 18 percent of gross domestic product to 21 percent.  “The House Republicans intuitively understood that a $5
trillion tax increase is a bad idea, and two, they’d all signed
a commitment to their voters,” he said. “They took that pledge
seriously.”  Hensarling and Camp, through their spokesmen, David Popp
and Sarah Swinehart, declined to comment.  Political Prospects  As it became clear that Republicans had a strong chance of
taking control of the U.S. House, Ryan began in September 2010
to reject main components of the emerging plan and to push his
proposal to convert Medicare to a voucher program, according to
two former commission aides familiar with the meetings.  “He was very aggressive in carrying the position that we
needed fundamental reform in our entitlement accounts,” said
Gregg, the former New Hampshire senator.  There was no chance the Ryan plan, which is now a flash
point in the presidential campaign, could win approval on the
commission; and even if it did, the president would have surely
vetoed it. “The instruction for Bowles and Simpson was to leave
health care alone,” Coburn said. “Obama didn’t want it
touched.”  Stern, the former president of the  Service Employees
International Union , said he recalled “two Paul Ryans” on the
commission. “There was the pre-November-election Ryan and the
post-November-election Ryan,” he said.  Ryan, Camp and Hensarling were in line for leadership
positions following the 2010 election, with Ryan as budget
committee chairman, Camp at the helm of the tax-writing Ways and
Means Committee and Hensarling as chairman of the House
Republican Conference.  “After the election the House members became more
interested in their own leadership and the opportunities to be
significant leaders in their own caucus,” Stern said. Signing
on to the plan would have invited Republican criticism, he said.
“That took priority over the commission.”  To contact the reporter on this story: Heidi Przybyla in
Washington at   hprzybyla@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net  