-- Ryan Starts a Great Debate on the Wrong Subject
-- B y   C l i v e   C r o o k
-- 2012-08-14T22:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-14/ryan-starts-a-great-debate-on-the-wrong-subject.html
Finally, the American political
class agrees.  Mitt Romney ’s choice of  Paul Ryan  as his running
mate on the Republican presidential ticket has delighted
Democrats and Republicans alike.  Their respective news media claques are ecstatic. They hope
the House Budget Committee chairman will help turn the election
into a substantive debate on the future of the country.  Maybe. A fight over ideas would be better than the exchange
of insults we’ve had up to now. Problem is, the debate is all
too likely to focus on the wrong subject.  The country’s actual challenges -- how to rescue a
faltering recovery and balance  the government’s books  over the
coming years -- don’t really lend themselves to a Great Debate.
They’re too small and easily dealt with. Instead of having that
discussion, the U.S. will be arguing about whether it wants to
be  Europe , or believes in fairness, or individual
responsibility, or markets, or governments. When the election
has settled that quarrel for a day or two, the faltering
recovery and looming fiscal breakdown will still be there.  America reminds me of a broken marriage. The spouses fight
over everything on principle. There’s no such thing as a trivial
disagreement. They fight over whether to set the thermostat at
72 or 76. They could compromise on 74, but they know
temperature’s not the real issue. The same goes for balancing
the checkbook and loading the dishwasher. Deeper questions about
the purpose of the marriage and the history of all previous
grievances need to be confronted every time an empty milk carton
is put back in the fridge.  Avoiding Divorce  If you’re in a broken marriage you can always get a
divorce. In the case of an entire country, that’s a highly
undesirable outcome. A Great Debate doesn’t always help,
especially if it’s between enemies rather than friends.  It shouldn’t be hard for Democrats and Republicans to agree
on critical aspects of short-term and long-term fiscal policy.
In fact, they already did. The Bowles-Simpson commission issued
its  recommendations  with a bipartisan majority, albeit not the
supermajority that would have triggered congressional action.
Its approach was sensible: Support the recovery by maintaining
fiscal ease in the short run, while making credible plans now to
curb borrowing in the longer term.  My suggestion would be to extend all the Bush tax cuts and
maintain elevated levels of public spending for at least another
year. Then balance the books by boosting revenue (reversing all
the Bush tax cuts or undertaking a comprehensive base-broadening
tax reform) and cutting spending (in part by raising the
 retirement age ).  Such a deal should be easy to reach, given a particle of
goodwill on both sides and any desire to solve the twin fiscal
problems rather than inflame them for political purposes. As it
happens,  Barack Obama ’s administration has rejected the Bowles-
Simpson recommendations, and so has the Republican leadership.
Ryan, who was a member of the commission,  voted against its
findings.   Ryan’s arrival on the Republican ticket does advance the
prospects of a useful discussion in at least one area. The
centerpiece of his budget plan is Medicare reform. It’s well
understood that Medicare spending needs to be contained lest its
growth, under the pressures of demography and new medical
technologies, crowd out other public spending or push taxes way
up.  The Obama administration aims to curb Medicare spending
without radically recasting the program. The Affordable Care Act
has many provisions aimed at improving the incentives for cost
control. It has started test projects to see what might work.  More Drastic  Ryan’s plan calls for something more drastic: a shift to
“premium support,” in which beneficiaries get a payment that
lets them choose between private plans and a public option
(that’s right: what many Democrats wanted the ACA to provide).
It’s a hybrid of the “defined benefit” and “defined
contribution” models, because it would guarantee a payment large
enough to buy an approved plan. Beneficiaries would pay extra
only if they chose a more expensive option.  Ryan’s plan relies on competition among insurers to curb
costs, Obama’s on more effective central control. Each has its
pros and cons. I prefer Ryan’s approach, but in any event this
is the kind of disagreement where debate can shed light on
choices and get a better result. The crucial thing is that both
sides agree that Medicare must be reformed, and that the
question is how.  When you turn to fiscal policy more broadly, there’s no
such starting point.  As the Great Debate begins, the administration’s only
nonnegotiable priority is to reverse the Bush tax cuts for the
rich. The White House says it’s willing to do this even if it
means going over the fiscal cliff and raising everybody’s taxes.
So much for supporting the recovery. Meanwhile, Obama still
hasn’t got around to a plan for long-term deficit control.  The Republicans are just as bored by fiscal balance. Their
proposals have nothing to do with fiscal conservatism, which is
about matching revenue to spending. They simply want to cut both
spending and taxes as quickly as possible. A Romney-Ryan White
House would leave deficits in place for decades and add
trillions more to the U.S. public debt.  In the battle of big ideas, the Democrats stand for
justice. Justice comes first, so they might have to take a
chance with the recovery. The Republicans’ big idea is freedom.
You don’t trade freedom for temporary stimulus and sound public
finance.  Well, let’s debate this by all means. What fun. I’m as
excited as the next guy that this election will finally bring
closure on balancing freedom and justice. I just wish in the
meantime we could have a recovery that isn’t crushed by short-
term spending cuts and tax increases, and a long-term public
debt profile that doesn’t lead to ruin.  (Clive Crook is a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View columns, editorials
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on how the private sector can
help  reduce unemployment  and on why a  carbon tax  still makes
sense; William Pesek on Japan Airlines Co.’s $8.5 billion
 initial public offering ;  William Dudley  on why  money-market
funds  should restrict redemptions by investors; Adam Kirsch on
the  Tea Party  and  the novel “Burr.”   To contact the writer of this article:
Clive Crook at  clive.crook@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Mark Whitehouse at   mwhitehouse1@bloomberg.net . 