-- Ryan Energy Views Seen Easing Conservatives’ Worries
-- B y   J i m   E f s t a t h i o u   J r .
-- 2012-08-14T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-14/ryan-energy-views-seen-easing-conservatives-worries.html
Representative  Paul Ryan  is
skeptical that humans are changing the earth’s climate and
supports tax breaks for oil producers, positions that will ease
concerns among conservatives over  Mitt Romney ’s record on energy
and the environment, according to a Republican energy analyst.  Ryan, whom Romney picked to be his vice presidential
running mate, is “in the mainstream” of Republican thinking on
energy and environmental issues, said  Mike McKenna , an oil
industry lobbyist and president of MWR Strategies Inc. in
Washington. Romney has shifted positions on whether power plant
and car emissions are warming the planet, questioning climate
change and challenging government support for developing
renewable energy.  “The folks who think about energy and environment issues
had, as recently as six months ago, some pretty serious
reservations about Romney,” McKenna said in an interview.
“What was a problem six months ago is pretty solidly shored up
now among the folks on the right.”  Ryan, a Wisconsin Republican, voted in 2011 against
measures to enhance public health and environmental protection
97 percent of the time, according to the  League of Conservation
Voters , a Washington-based environmental group. He supports a
10-year, $40 billion tax break for oil and natural gas producers
and has criticized government subsidies for renewable energy
championed by President  Barack Obama .  Environmentalist Reaction  Ryan will “do whatever he can to cut investments to the
clean  energy industry , trying to smother wind and solar before
they take off,” Navin Nayak, senior vice president for
campaigns with the League of Conservation Voters, said in an
interview.  Nayak called tax breaks supported by Ryan for oil and gas
producers a “gift” to the industry that is no different from
tax breaks for wind projects he has said should end.  “Unlike President Obama, Governor Romney and Congressman
Ryan support a true all-of-the-above energy approach,”  Brendan
Buck , a spokesman for the Romney campaign, said in an e-mail.
“Congressman Ryan supports comprehensive  tax reform , which
means that everything should be considered in the context of how
to make the tax code fairer and simpler and our businesses more
competitive. This couldn’t be more different from President
Obama’s approach, which is to single out the oil and gas
industry with a targeted and punitive tax hike.”  Romney has backed renewable energy in the past. In 2003 as
Massachusetts governor, he touted the state’s support for clean-
energy companies such as Konarka Technologies Inc., a solar-
technology company.  Konarka Closes  Konarka, based in Lowell, Massachusetts, shut its doors on
June 1 after receiving at least $6.5 million in state aid. The
company collapsed one day after Romney visited the Fremont,
California, headquarters of Solyndra LLC, which won a $535
million U.S. loan guarantee two years before it collapsed.
Romney said Solyndra’s shuttered factory symbolized Obama’s
failed efforts to revive the economy.  Romney has also shifted position on global warming. Last
June, Romney said that humans are contributing to global
warming. In October, he said it’s unclear what is causing
 climate change  and that the government shouldn’t be regulating
 greenhouse gases .  In a 2009 guest  editorial  published by the Journal Times of
Racine, Wisconsin, Ryan said scientists had manipulated data to
support the position that man-made emissions are warming the
planet.  A number of scientific panels, including the National
Academy of Science’s  Research Council  and the United Nation’s
Intergovernmental Panel on  Climate Change , have concluded that
the planet is probably warming due to human activity.  Ryan has proposed cutting government funding for  energy
efficiency  and renewable energy, ending an Energy Department
program to support the development of plug-in hybrid electric
vehicles and cutting support for projects to make the electric
transmission grid more efficient.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Efstathiou Jr. in  New York  at 
 jefstathiou@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  