-- Samsung Witness Says Apple Goods Infringe Photo Patents
-- B y   J o e l   R o s e n b l a t t
-- 2012-08-14T22:50:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-14/samsung-witness-says-apple-products-infringe-photo-patents.html
Samsung Electronics Co. (005930)  moved from
attacking the validity of  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s intellectual property in
a trial over smartphones and tablet computers to claiming the
iPhone maker infringes Samsung patents.  Samsung today made the tactical shift on the second day of
presenting its case, in the third week of a  jury trial  in  San
Jose , California, by calling  Woodward Yang , a Harvard University
professor of electrical engineering, who testified that versions
of Apple’s iPhone, iPod and iPad infringe three of the Suwon,
South Korea-based company’s patents.  Yang focused on one patent that allows a user to scroll
through photographs and send an e-mail with photographs
contained in the messages. He pointed to Apple’s iPhone 3G,
iPhone 3GS, iPod Touch fourth generation, and the iPad2 as
infringing products. Apple products also infringe a Samsung
photo indexing patent and another for methods used in mobile
devices to play MP3 music files, the engineering professor said.  Apple, based in Cupertino,  California , sued Samsung in
April 2011, accusing it of copying patented and trademarked
designs, and Samsung countersued. The dispute is the first to go
before a federal jury in a battle being waged on four continents
for dominance in a smartphone market valued by Bloomberg
Industries at $219.1 billion.  During cross-examination, Apple’s lawyer, William Lee,
displayed a chart showing that technology covered by the photo
scrolling patent that Yang described wasn’t used in 65 different
Samsung smartphones manufactured in the last three years.  ‘Very Important’  “Samsung did not even claim to use this very important
patent that you heard about this morning in any of these
products, is that right?” Lee asked.  Yang confirmed that was correct.  Yesterday, Samsung called two computer scientists to attack
Apple’s claimed originality of its software patents at issue in
the multibillion-dollar trial.  The testimony was aimed at countering a series of witnesses
Apple called over the last two weeks who testified that Samsung
has copied the design and technology of its iPhone and iPad.  Samsung returned to playing defense this afternoon by
calling a company designer to testify about her role in creating
application icons and planning their layout on a grid for the
first Galaxy smartphones. Designer Jeeyuen Wang, who spoke
through an interpreter translating Korean, was asked about
Apple’s assertions that Samsung copied application icons from
the iPhone.  Three Hours  “Not at all,” she said. She described a three-month work
period working with a design team during which she averaged
three hours of sleep a night and lost the ability to lactate for
her baby.  An ex-designer for Apple, Susan Kare, had testified that an
icon on Samsung’s Fascinate phone resembled Apple’s -- an image
of a “retro” telephone against a green background. Wang
countered that Samsung has used an older telephone icon referred
to at the company as the “dumbbell” phone since before she
joined the company in 2002.  Apple is claiming at least $2.5 billion in damages for
patent and trademark infringement. Apple also wants to make
permanent a preliminary ban it won on U.S. sales of a Samsung
tablet, and extend the ban to Samsung smartphones.  Apple’s Infringement  Samsung is trying to persuade the jury to find Apple’s
patents invalid and to award unspecified damages for Apple’s
infringement of its patents.  U.S. District Judge Lucy Koh has limited each side to 25
hours to present their cases.  Koh yesterday granted a request by Samsung to exclude
infringement claims related to three of its phones -- the Galaxy
S i9000, the Galaxy Ace and the Galaxy S II i9100 -- on grounds
that they weren’t manufactured to be exclusively sold in the
U.S. Apple’s claims remain intact against more than 20 other
Samsung devices.  The case is Apple Inc. v. Samsung Electronics Co. Ltd., 11-
cv-01846, U.S. District Court, Northern District of California
(San Jose).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joel Rosenblatt in  San Francisco  at 
 jrosenblatt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Dunn  at 
 adunn8@bloomberg.net  