-- Samsung Witness Says Apple Knew of His ‘Tablet’ Long Before IPad
-- B y   J o e l   R o s e n b l a t t
-- 2012-08-15T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-14/samsung-witness-says-apple-saw-his-tablet-years-before-ipad.html
Apple Inc. (AAPL)  saw a prototype for a
tablet computer more than a decade before the iPad was released
in 2010, said a news technology developer called as a trial
witness by  Samsung Electronics Co. (005930)   Videotaped testimony by  Roger Fidler , who heads the digital
publishing program at the  University of Missouri , was shown
yesterday to the jury in Samsung’s multibillion-dollar
intellectual property dispute with Apple over smartphones and
tablets.  Fidler said in a written declaration he started working on
a tablet design in 1981 and that “Apple personnel were exposed
to my tablet ideas and prototypes” during a period in the
mid-1990s when the company collaborated with Knight-Ridder
Inc.’s information design laboratory in  Colorado .  “My feeling was that it should be something that’s
lightweight, portable, with a flat screen that had an ability to
use a touch screen,” Fidler testified, referring to the first
mock-up of his tablet from the early 1980s.  Apple, based in Cupertino,  California , sued Suwon, South
Korea-based Samsung in April 2011, accusing it of copying
patented designs, and Samsung countersued. The case is the first
to go before a federal jury in a battle being waged on four
continents for dominance in a smartphone market valued by
Bloomberg Industries at $219.1 billion.  Samsung’s use of Fidler’s testimony, as with other
witnesses the company has called, is intended to discredit
Apple’s claims of originality behind the patented technology
used in the iPad and the iPhone.  Newspaper Industry  Fidler, who began his career in the newspaper industry in
1961, had a longstanding interest in developing “interactive,
easy to read, portable electronic tablets,” he said in his
declaration. He wrote an essay in 1981 in which he envisioned
how newspapers might look in the year 2000, suggesting they may
appear on “portable flat-screen displays.” Since then, he has
discussed and displayed his tablet designs at media conferences
worldwide and on radio and TV programs, he said.  Fidler testified that a later version of his tablet, built
in 1994, featured “rounded corners” and slots for memory
cards, again with a “flat touchscreen.”  “My original assumptions were that it would be a
touchscreen without a stylus,” he said.  In a session without the jury present, Samsung lawyer
Charles Verhoeven, defending the company’s attempt to show the
testimony, told U.S. District Judge Lucy Koh it was central to
the company’s case and that Apple had successfully blocked
Fidler from testifying in person. He didn’t explain how or why.
The jury didn’t see any videotape recording of Apple’s lawyers
questioning Fidler.  $2.5 Billion  Apple is claiming at least $2.5 billion in damages for
patent and trade dress infringement. Apple also wants to make
permanent a preliminary ban it won on U.S. sales of a Samsung
tablet, and extend the ban to Samsung smartphones.  Samsung is trying to persuade the jury to find Apple’s
patents invalid and to award unspecified damages for Apple’s
infringement of its patents.  Koh has limited each side to 25 hours to present their
cases. The trial is expected to conclude late this month.  The case is Apple Inc. v. Samsung Electronics Co. Ltd.,
11-cv-01846, U.S. District Court, Northern District of
California ( San Jose ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joel Rosenblatt in  San Francisco  at 
 jrosenblatt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Dunn  at 
 adunn8@bloomberg.net  