-- Smith & Nephew, ‘Fierce Five,’: Intellectual Property
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 2012-08-14T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-14/smith-nephew-fierce-five-intellectual-property.html
Smith & Nephew Plc (SN/)  lost an appeals
court ruling in which it was accused of infringing two Wake
Forest University patents over wound-care treatments.  The  U.S. Court of Appeals  for the Federal Circuit in
 Washington  said yesterday that a trial judge erred in ruling the
two patents invalid, and remanded the case to the lower court.
The university, which licensed its inventions to Kinetic
Concepts Inc., can seek to reinstate a jury verdict it won
against Smith & Nephew.  Wake Forest developed the technology that uses a type of
suction, or negative pressure, to close large wounds instead of
relying on staples or sutures. The Winston-Salem, North
Carolina-based school presented testimony that devices with its
inventions have been used on more than 3 million patients, and
changed the way surgeons treat serious wounds, according to the
ruling.  Mike Barger, a spokesman for closely held  Kinetic Concepts ,
said the company is no longer a party to the case.  A federal jury in March 2010 sided with Wake Forest and
Kinetic Concepts that Smith & Nephew’s Renasys-F dressing kit
infringed the patents. The jury rejected Smith & Nephew’s claims
that the patents covered obvious variations of earlier research.  The Federal Circuit said U.S. District Judge Royal Furgeson
should have given more deference to the jury’s findings before
he ruled the patents invalid.  Smith & Nephew, which gets almost a quarter of its revenue
from advanced wound management, can raise other invalidity
arguments when the case is sent back to a federal court in  San
Antonio , where Kinetic Concepts is based, the appeals court said
in the ruling posted on its website.  Smith & Nephew said it is considering its next step,
including a possible petition to have the case heard before the
all active judges of the Federal Circuit, which specializes in
 patent law .  The company’s wound-treatment products “remain on the
market and continue to be readily available to our customers,”
Smith & Nephew said in an e-mail statement. “We are determined
to defend the right of customers to access a full range of
negative-pressure wound-therapy products from Smith & Nephew.”  The case is Kinetic Concepts Inc. v. Smith & Nephew Inc.,
2011-1105, U.S. Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit
(Washington.) The lower court case is Kinetic Concepts Inc. v.
Bluesky Medical Corp., 08-00102, U.S. District Court for the
Western District of  Texas  (San Antonio).  For more patent news, click here.  Trademark  ‘Fierce Five’ Gymnasts Face Hurdle in Landing Nickname Trademark  USA Gymnastics is preparing a trademark filing for the term
“Fierce Five,” which was attached to the gold medal-winning
women’s gymnastics team at the London Olympics, spokeswoman Luan
Peszek said in an e-mail.  NBC announcers during the games repeatedly referred to the
team as the “Fab Five,” which previously was used to describe
the University of Michigan’s basketball draft class of 1991 that
included Jalen Rose, Chris Webber and Juwan Howard. Rose was
granted a trademark for the term last year.  Peszek has said the team, including Gabby Douglas, the
first black gymnast to win the all-around, preferred Fierce Five
to Fab Five.  A  California  man, Paolo Mazza, filed for a “Fierce Five”
trademark on Aug. 8, according to the U.S. Patent and Trademark
Office website. No attorney was listed on the filing, which
provided only a post-office box in Millbrae, California, as an
address. There is no telephone listing available.  A Paolo Mazza with the same post-office box in February
applied to trademark the term “lin-sational.” A number of
puns, including “lin-sanity,” were spawned by the success of
National Basketball Association player Jeremy Lin, who has moved
to trademark anything associated with his name.  Darren Heitner, a sports and entertainment lawyer with
Wolfe Law Miami in  Florida , said Mazza’s application has little
chance of being approved.  “Many pronouncements were made that the girls have no
interest in Fab Five and instead plan to use the Fierce Five
designation for commercial purposes,” Heitner said in a
telephone interview. “The USPTO will look at this person’s
history, note that he also filed a similar application with
Jeremy Lin, and quickly recognize that this person is nothing
more than a squatter.”  The “Fierce Five” term was trademarked by DreamWorks
Animation and abandoned in 2009.  Douglas and her Olympic teammates will make a base salary
of more than $100,000 each for participating in the 40-city
Kellogg’s Tour of Gymnastics Champions that begins Sept. 8 in
 San Jose , California, and ends Nov. 18 in  Brooklyn ,  New York .  Douglas already has an endorsement agreement with  Kellogg
Co. (K) , which put the gymnast on the cover of its cornflakes box.
The Battle Creek Enquirer  reported  that the entire women’s
gymnastics team will also appear together on a cornflakes box
cover to come out in September.  Chattanooga Won’t Go After ‘Chattanoogaville’ for Use of Name  The city of Chattanooga,  Tennessee , won’t challenge the use
of its name for a reality television program promoting
conservative political views, the Chattanooga Times Free Press
 reported .  The “ Chattanoogaville ” program features members of the
 Tea Party , who travel around the country to confront politicians
from both major political parties on conservative values,
according to the newspaper.  A spokesman for Chattanooga Mayor Ron Littlefield told the
newspaper that potential trademark conflicts with the show’s
producers aren’t “worth putting much time in.”  Producer  Melanie Tipton , herself a Chattanooga native,
wrote on the newspaper’s Facebook page that the show was “not
going to take video shots of Chattanooga and make the town look
like hillbillies” because she is proud of the city and “will
never make this wonderful place look bad.”  FDNY Tells Remembrance Rescue Project to Quit Using Logo  An  Illinois  group that bought at auction two fire trucks
formerly used by the Fire Department of New York has received a
cease-and-desist letter from the city, Firehouse.com  reported .  The Remembrance Rescue Project of Schaumburg, Illinois,
which was formed to honor the memory of the New York
firefighters killed on 9/11, and to use the old trucks for
educational purposes, told Firehouse.com that its in-house
design firm is working on a way to design new logos that the
Fire Department of New York won’t find objectionable.  The Illinois group has also placed a notice on its website
disavowing any connection with the Fire Department of New York,
and has covered up the FDNY logos on the rigs, Firehouse.com
reported.  The New York fire department told Firehouse.com that it
wasn’t questioning the legitimacy of the Remembrance Rescue
Project, and that its cease-and-desist letter was sent in
response to queries it had received from the public about
whether the groups were affiliated.  Brown-Forman Sends ‘World’s Most Polite Cease-and-Desist Letter’  Patrick Wensink , author of the novel “ Broken Piano for
President ,” has received what has been widely characterized as
“ the world’s most polite cease-and-desist letter ” from Brown-
Forman Corp.’s Jack Daniel’s unit.  Wensink posted the letter, signed by Brown-Forman trademark
attorney Christy Susman, on his  website .  In the letter, Susman said that the while the company was
“flattered” by Wensink’s affection for the Jack Daniel’s
brand, the cover of his book too closely mimics the style of the
beverage’s label design.  If the company permitted such uses “we run the very real
risk our trademark will be weakened. As a fan of the brand, I’m
sure that is not something you intended or would want to see
happen,” Susman wrote.  She then made an offer because “you are both a Louisville
‘neighbor’ and fan of the brand” that the company would
contribute “a reasonable amount” toward the cost of changing
the cover design when the book is reprinted.  Susman said that if Wensink agreed to this “you will help
us to ensure that the Jack Daniel’s brand will mean as much to
future generations as it does today.”  In closing she said the company wished Wensink “continued
success with your writing.” The letter has received wide news
coverage in the U.S. and  U.K.   Wensink said of the letter that “if it wasn’t signed by
some lawyer, I’d imagine ol’ Gentleman Jack penning it himself,
twirling his bushy mustache.” He won’t take Louisville,
Kentucky-based Brown-Foreman up on the offer, however.  He said he and his publisher -- Lazy Fascist Press -- are
“proudly independent and don’t need any of that sweet corporate
booze money to redo the cover.”  For more trademark news, click here.  Copyright  Elton John  Says His ‘Nikita’ Song Doesn’t Infringe Copyright  Elton John has responded to a copyright infringement case
that claimed he stole the lyrics to his pop sing “ Nikita ” from
a South African resident.  Guy Hobbs sued John in federal court in  Chicago  in April,
claiming his 1992 song “Natasha” was hijacked by John and used
as the basis for Nikita. Hobbs claimed he registered the
copyright and circulated it to a number of performers and music
publishers, including John’s publisher Big Pig Music Ltd.  John responded in an Aug. 7 court filing, asking that the
case be dismissed because Hobbs “has no cognizable claim for
copyright infringement.”  In a second filing John said that “the suggestion that the
Grammy-award-winning composer/lyricist team of Elton John and
Bernie Taupin -- who have collaborated on over 30 albums, sold
over 250 million records and have more than 50 “Top 40” hits
-- would need to copy these commonplace elements from plaintiffs
lyrics is not only baseless and absurd, but also misses the
essential legal point -- i.e. that none of the similarities
perceived by Hobbs constitutes a basis for a claim of copyright
infringement.”  Taupin is a co-defendant with John.  The case is Guy Hobbs v. Elton John, 1:12-cv-03117, U.S.
District Court, Northern District of Illinois (Chicago).  For more copyright news, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in Oakland, California, at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 