-- Spain Has ‘Open Mind’ on Sovereign-Aid Effort, Rehn Says
-- B y   J a m e s   H e r t l i n g   a n d   S a r a   E i s e n
-- 2012-08-15T08:05:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-14/spain-has-open-mind-on-sovereign-aid-request-eu-s-rehn-says.html
Spain’s government is considering a
request for a sovereign bailout, European Economic and Monetary
Affairs Commissioner  Olli Rehn  signaled.  “The Spanish government has an open mind on this issue,
but no decision has been made,” Rehn said in a Bloomberg
Television interview in New York yesterday. “We stand ready to
act if there is a request.”  Rehn’s remarks came after Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy  said
he would ask the  European Central Bank  to buy Spanish bonds “if
it seems reasonable,” as he moved to extend unemployment
subsidies for some of the nation’s 5.7 million jobless.  Rajoy’s only criterion will be “defending the general
interests of Spaniards,” the premier told reporters yesterday
in Palma de Mallorca after meeting King Juan Carlos. The day
before an extraordinary jobless subsidy was set to expire, Rajoy
said the government will extend payments for another six months
amid a jobless rate of 25 percent.  Spanish 10-year bond yields rose to a euro-era high of 7.62
percent on July 24, exceeding the threshold that prompted full
sovereign bailouts in Greece, Portugal and Ireland. Yields have
fallen since ECB President  Mario Draghi  said on Aug. 2 that the
bank would buy sovereign bonds if countries applied for similar
support from Europe’s rescue fund and accepted strict conditions
in return.  Unhealthy Yields  The yield on Spain’s 10-year notes dropped 3 basis points
today to 6.67 percent as of 9:45 a.m. in  Madrid . Investors paid
to lend Belgium money for three months yesterday as the country
sold three-month bills at a so-called negative yield.  “Negative bond yields are not a healthy phenomenon,” Rehn
said. “They’re not good for  Germany  or Finland or Belgium. They
are a sign that the euro-zone economy is not doing well.”  The Finnish commissioner said the key is to restore
competitive balance in the 17-nation currency union.  In  Spain , the government sought a European bailout for its
banks of as much as 100 billion euros ($123 billion) in June
“because it seemed reasonable,” Rajoy said. “And now, if it
seems reasonable, we will do the same. As is logical, until we
know what we are talking about, we aren’t going to take any
decisions.”  ECB committees will thrash out details of how the mechanism
will work, Draghi said. The ECB would focus on shorter-dated
securities as that’s within the remit of monetary policy, and
would only intervene in tandem with the bailout funds to which
euro-region governments contribute, he said.  Monti, Merkel  Rajoy, who met Italian Prime Minister  Mario Monti  in Madrid
as Draghi was announcing his crisis plan, will make a return
visit to  Rome  on Sept. 20-21, he said. German  Chancellor Angela Merkel  will visit Madrid on Sept. 6, he said.  Markets are firmly focused on September,  Jacques Cailloux ,
chief European economist at Nomura International Plc, said in a
Bloomberg Television interview yesterday with Francine Lacqua.
Germany’s supreme court will rule on the permanent rescue fund
on Sept. 12, the same day the Netherlands holds elections, while
also that month Greece’s international creditors will announce
the country’s progress in meeting bailout targets and the ECB is
due to spell out the details of Draghi’s bond-buying proposals.  “By then the critical question will be whether Italy and
Spain have made that very important decision to call for help or
not,” Cailloux said. Resistance is understandable “because of
the political and economic costs attached,” he said. Still,
“it’s very difficult to see how these countries can return to a
sustainable or stable financial market environment, and so
international or external help seems to be needed.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
James Hertling in Paris at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net ;
Sara Eisen in  New York  at 
 seisen2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  