-- Spanish Banks’ ECB Loans Rise as Rajoy Mulls Second Bailout Call
-- B y   B e n   S i l l s
-- 2012-08-14T09:20:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-14/spanish-banks-ecb-loans-rise-as-rajoy-mulls-second-bailout-call.html
Spanish lenders’ net borrowings from
the  European Central Bank  rose to a record 376 billion euros
($465 billion) in July as investors shunned the country’s banks
pushing Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy  toward a second bailout.  Net average ECB borrowings climbed from 337 billion euros
in June, the Bank of  Spain  in Madrid said today. Gross borrowing
was 402 billion euros, up from 365 billion euros in June,
accounting for 33 percent of borrowing in the euro region.  Rajoy said on Aug. 3 he’ll need to analyze the details of
the ECB’s plan to bring down borrowing costs before deciding
whether to request more aid as he waits for the first
installment of a 100 billion-euro bank bailout to be paid out.  “These banks clearly are having to borrow more from the
ECB so that they can continue to buy the debt and this can only
go on for so long,”  Peter Chatwell , a fixed-income strategist
at Credit Agricole Corporate & Investment Bank in  London , said
in a telephone interview.  Spanish lenders are tapping the ECB to finance purchases of
government debt as foreign investors dump the bonds binding the
sovereign and the banks together. Domestic lenders increased
their holdings of sovereign bonds by 84 billion euros in the
first six months of the year while foreign institutions reduced
their investments by 78 billion euros, according to the Spanish
treasury.  ‘Pressure’  “While the pressure still exists on the Spanish government
market these banks are likely to be increasing their holdings,”
Chatwell said.  Spain is slipping deeper into recession even as the euro
region’s biggest economies weather the financial crisis. German
output rose 0.3 percent in the second quarter and French gross
domestic product was unchanged compared with forecasts for a 0.1
percent decline, their statistics offices said today. The
Spanish economy shrank by 0.4 percent in the period while the
currency union as a whole contracted by 0.2 percent.  The country’s 10-year benchmark bond yield rose to 6.86
percent at 10:28 a.m. today in  Madrid , compared with 6.84
percent yesterday.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ben Sills in Madrid at 
 bsills@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  