-- Standard Chartered CEO in New York, May Attend Hearing
-- B y   D a k i n   C a m p b e l l
-- 2012-08-14T07:48:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-14/standard-chartered-ceo-in-new-york-may-attend-hearing.html
Standard Chartered  Plc Chief
Executive Officer  Peter Sands  is in New York and prepared to
attend a hearing this week as the London-based bank faces money
laundering allegations from state regulators.  Sands traveled to the city to work with the company’s
lawyers, Julie Gibson, a spokeswoman for  Standard Chartered (2888) ,
said in a phone interview today. Sands has been there for “a
couple days,” she said.  “If there is a hearing on Wednesday, he will participate
in that,” the New York-based spokeswoman said.  Benjamin Lawsky , the state’s banking superintendent,
alleged this month that Standard Chartered flouted U.S. banking
laws by helping launder about $250 billion in Iranian funds. He
set an  Aug. 15  hearing at which the bank must persuade him not
to revoke its license to operate in  New York .  Sands, 50, said the vast majority of wire transfers
identified by Lawsky complied with federal law. Standard
Chartered said the allegations pertain to less than 1 percent of
the 60,000 Iranian wire transfers asserted by Lawsky.  “He hasn’t gone personally to negotiate with regulators or
specifically to attend the meeting,” Melissa Cheah, a
Singapore-based spokeswoman for the bank, said in an e-mail.
“He is willing to do so if appropriate.”  Standard Chartered rose 1.8 percent to 1,357 pence at 8:45
a.m. in London, trimming the stock’s decline since the
investigation was announced on Aug. 6 to 13 percent.  Reputational Damage  The CEO’s presence in New York was reported earlier by the
Telegraph newspaper. The Telegraph said that Sands was in New
York to personally intervene in negotiations and win a
settlement.  Loss of the New York license could result in a 40 percent
drop in  earnings , according to Chirantan Barua, an analyst at
Sanford Bernstein Research in  London . Barua has had an
underperform rating on the stock since at least March, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The reputational damage alone from the regulator’s
allegations is  credit negative  for the bank, Moody’s Investors
Service said yesterday.  The cost of insuring Standard Chartered Bank debt from non-
payment declined 4.6 basis points to 145 basis points yesterday,
according to data provider CMA. The contracts have ranged
between 122.7 and 195 this year, CMA data show.  Regulator’s Discretion  Lawsky is said to seek as much as $700 million to settle
the investigation, according to a person familiar with the case.
Standard Chartered has already agreed to a New York Department
of Financial Services demand that the bank hire an outside
monitor to ensure compliance with anti-money laundering laws,
another person familiar with the matter said.  The regulator has grounds to shut Standard Chartered in the
state even if he accepts the firm’s argument that it illegally
laundered only a fraction of the $250 billion he claims.  As the state’s top banking regulator, Lawsky has power to
act in his discretion against any financial institution he deems
untrustworthy, according to the charter of his year-old
department.  The potential settlement figure he is said to be
considering would match the amount  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  set aside
last month to resolve allegations of similar behavior.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dakin Campbell in  San Francisco  at 
 dcampbell27@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  