-- Standard Chartered Accuser, Cleary, Willkie: Business of Law
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 2012-08-14T11:48:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-14/standard-chartered-accuser-cleary-willkie-business-of-law.html
Little more than a year before he
was criticized for breaking ranks with regulators for being the
first to accuse  Standard Chartered Plc (STAN)  of laundering Iranian
money,  Benjamin Lawsky , New York’s top banking official, was
insisting on his own brand of justice at a charity carnival
game, Bloomberg News’ Greg Farrell reports.  In May 2011, just after he learned New York’s Democratic
Governor  Andrew Cuomo  would nominate him to head the state’s
fledgling Department of Financial Services, Lawsky brought his
young child to the St. Mark’s fair in New Canaan, Connecticut,
one of the New York area’s wealthiest suburbs.  Lawsky’s child approached a shooting gallery, which
rewarded the best marksman with a selection of colorful stuffed
toys. It soon became clear to Lawsky that the weapon his child
had chosen was a dud, and that a different gun seemed to win
every time, no matter who was at the trigger.  Rather than take the easy path of placing his child at the
sure-fire rifle, Lawsky pointed out the imbalance to the game’s
operator, who fixed it.  These days, Lawsky has a much larger challenge to right
what he sees as a wrong, given the criticism leveled at him by
 Mervyn King , head of the  Bank of England , and  Peter Sands , chief
executive of London-based  Standard Chartered , which Lawsky
accused of illegally laundering $250 billion in Iranian money.  On Aug. 6, Lawsky, whose office declined to comment or
cooperate for the article, stunned both bank executives and
federal regulators who have been investigating Standard
Chartered’s wire-transfer activities for several years. In a
formal order, he  scheduled a hearing  for tomorrow at which the
bank must persuade him not to revoke its license to operate in
New York state. One analyst estimated loss of the license could
result in a 40 percent drop in earnings.  The order angered U.K. officials, who viewed Lawsky’s
broadside as an attack on London’s status as a financial center.
At home, U.S. regulators, including the Treasury Department, the
 Federal Reserve  and the Manhattan  District Attorney , complained
privately in published reports that Lawsky’s order was a
publicity stunt that disrupted their own probes of the matter.  Lawsky’s new role as the center of attention in an
international-enforcement case has thrust him into an unusual
position. In the past decade, the 42-year-old former prosecutor
established himself as a no-nonsense law enforcer happy to allow
superiors, such as Cuomo, bask in the attention generated by his
work.  For more, click here.  OCC Chief Counsel Williams to Step Down Next Month  Julie Williams, chief counsel at the U.S. Office of the
Comptroller of the Currency, will step down on Sept. 30 and
plans to retire from government service at the end of the year,
the agency said yesterday in a  statement .  “In her 19 years at the OCC, her contributions to the
agency and her role in the world of financial services
regulation have been extraordinary,” Comptroller of the
Currency Thomas J. Curry said in the statement. “In my few
months as Comptroller, Julie played an integral role in my
transition and has played an indispensable role in my leadership
team.”  Williams twice served as acting Comptroller of the
Currency, first from April 1998 through December 1998 and then
from October 2004 through August 2005. She served as chief
counsel for four different comptrollers -- Eugene A. Ludwig,
John D. Hawke Jr., John C. Dugan and Thomas J. Curry.  Before working for the government, she was an attorney at
the  law firm  now known as Fried, Frank, Harris, Shriver &
Jacobson LLP in Washington from 1975 to 1983.  Deputy Chief Counsel Daniel P. Stipano will serve as acting
chief counsel from Oct. 1 through the end of the year and Deputy
Chief Counsel Karen Solomon will serve from Jan. 1 through March
31, while the OCC looks for the next chief counsel.  Philippine Panel Recommends 8 for Top Judge Post, Bars De Lima  A Philippine panel nominated eight people from whom
President  Benigno Aquino  will select the nation’s next chief
justice, according to congressman and Judicial and Bar Council
member Niel Tupas.  The council nominated Supreme Court justices Antonio
Carpio, Roberto Abad, Arturo Brion, Maria Lourdes Sereno and
Teresita de Castro, Tupas told reporters yesterday. Also
recommended were Solicitor General Francis Jardeleza, former
Executive Secretary Ronaldo Zamora and lawyer Cesar Villanueva,
he said. Justice Secretary Leila de Lima, who’s facing
disbarment cases, was disqualified, Tupas said.  Aquino has until the end of the month to appoint the top
judge, who will replace Renato Corona, whom the Senate ousted in
May for illegally concealing his wealth.  Deals  Julius Baer Agrees to Acquire Merrill Non-U.S. Wealth Units  Julius Baer  Group Ltd., the Swiss  money manager  established
in 1890, agreed to pay about 860 million Swiss francs ($880
million) for  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) ’s Merrill Lynch wealth
management business outside the U.S.  Cleary Gottlieb Steen & Hamilton LLP  is advising Bank of
America Merrill Lynch. Linklaters LLP is advising Julius Baer.  Leading the Cleary Gottlieb team are New York partner Paul Shim and London partner Simon Jay.  Linklaters corporate partners Casper Lawson, Matthew Bland
and Dan Schuster-Woldan worked on the deal.  Nina Epper is the in-house counsel at Julius Baer,
Linklaters said in an e-mail.  The cost of the transaction is 1.47 billion francs,
including 312 million francs of after-tax integration costs and
incentives to retain Merrill bankers and 300 million francs to
maintain regulatory capital, Zurich-based Julius Baer said
yesterday. Julius Baer shares fell the most in three months.  Julius Baer, which is building its business as a crackdown
on  tax evasion  pushes customers to repatriate funds from Swiss
offshore accounts, said purchasing the Merrill units will boost
assets by about 40 percent. While Julius Baer said it expects
the acquisition to add to earnings from 2015, it said profit may
be “somewhat volatile” over the next two years.  The transaction price equates to 1.2 percent of assets
under management and assumes the transfer of 72 billion francs
of client funds over a two-year integration period, Julius Baer
said. That’s almost 89 percent of the 81 billion francs of
assets managed by the Merrill units as of June 30.  Julius Baer, which canceled a proposed share buyback, plans
a 750 million-franc rights offer to help fund the purchase of
the Merrill business. The capital increase is subject to
shareholder approval at an extraordinary meeting on Sept. 19,
the bank said.  The cash and share deal will leave Bank of America with a
stake of about 3 percent in the Swiss wealth manager, Julius
Baer Chief Financial Officer Dieter Enkelmann said on a
conference call. The two companies also entered a cooperation
agreement under which Bank of America will provide global equity
research and structured and advisory products to Julius Baer.  For more, click here.  Shearman Advises Sun Pharmaceutical on Takeover of Taro  Shearman & Sterling LLP is advising  Sun Pharmaceutical
Industries Ltd. (SUNP) , India’s biggest drugmaker by market value, on
its merger agreement with  Taro Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. (TARO)   Upon completion of the merger, Taro will become a closely
held company that will be wholly owned by affiliates of Sun
Pharma, and its ordinary shares will no longer be traded on the
New York Stock Exchange.  Willkie Farr & Gallagher LLP served as U.S. legal counsel
to the special committee of Taro’s board. The deal was handled
by partners Steven Seidman and Laura Delanoy. The special
committee was also advised by Goldfarb Seligman & Co. as its
Israeli legal counsel.  Shearman’s team for Sun included partner  Peter Lyons .  Gibson, Dunn & Crutcher LLP represented Citigroup Global
Markets Inc. as financial adviser to the Taro special Committee.
The Gibson Dunn deal team was led by New York corporate partners
Barbara Becker and Dennis Friedman.  The transaction will give Sun full control of a business
selling prescription skin-care creams and ointments in the U.S.
that’s more profitable than generic drugs.  The company directly owns 66.3 percent of Taro, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. Legal disputes have marred
attempts by Dilip Shanghvi, Sun’s billionaire founder, to gain
control of Taro since 2008.  For more, click here.  Moves  Milbank Adds Caddy as Leveraged Finance Partner in London  Milbank, Tweed, Hadley & McCloy LLP announced the addition
of Neil Caddy as a partner in the firm’s global leveraged
finance group, based in London. Caddy joins from Mayer Brown
LLP, the firm said in a statement on its website.  “We are extremely pleased to welcome Neil as a partner
into our practice as it continues to grow in line with client
demand, particularly for bank -- bond and trans-Atlantic
financing work,” Marc Hanrahan, head of Milbank’s global
leveraged finance group, said in the statement.  Caddy is the third partner to join Milbank’s London office
in the past two months, according to the statement.  Russell Jacobs, managing partner of Milbank’s London
office, said the firm will continue to grow in that city “at
partner and associate levels.”  Milbank has 575 lawyers in 11 offices in the U.S., Europe,
Asia and Brazil.  Simpson Thacher Hires Ex-Goldman Sachs Derivatives Practitioner  Jonathan Lindabury, a former  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) 
associate general counsel, joined Simpson Thacher & Bartlett LLP
as a senior counsel in the firm’s New York office, where he will
work in the global derivatives practice.  Lindabury has experience structuring and negotiating
complex derivative and equity-linked capital market
transactions, according to a statement on the law firm’s
website.  “Jonathan’s background and extensive experience with
equity derivatives and structured products complements our
growing derivatives practice,” Art Robinson, head of the firm’s
capital markets group, said in the statement.  Simpson Thacher, based in New York, has more than 850
lawyers in 10 offices.  Venable Adds Real Estate Finance Partner in New York  Venable LLP said Michael Peskowitz joined the firm’s New
York office as a partner in its real estate practice group.  Peskowitz, previously a partner at Sidley Austin LLP,
specializes in commercial real estate finance, representing
borrowers and lenders in debt and equity investments related to
the development, ownership and management of real estate
projects, according to a statement on the Washington-based law
firm’s website.  He and a Sidley associate are the 10th and 11th attorneys
to join Venable’s New York real-estate group this year. Other
arrivals this year include a six-person group from now-defunct
Dewey & LeBoeuf LLP.  Litigation  Goldman Sachs Demands Lawyers’ Fees for Helping Lehman Case  Goldman Sachs Group Inc., a creditor of a Lehman Brothers
Holdings Inc. affiliate, said the estate should pay $3.3 million
in “reasonable professional fees” incurred by its law firm,
Cleary Gottlieb Steen & Hamilton LLP.  Goldman Sachs, part of a group that proposed a rival
liquidation plan for the defunct investment bank, made a
“substantial contribution” to the bankruptcy proceedings,
Goldman Sachs said in a federal court filing in Manhattan.  Other creditors of Lehman affiliates have filed similar
demands, saying that they shouldn’t have to pay their own
lawyers just because they increased their own payout in making
their contribution to the case.  Only the U.S. Trustee who supervises bankruptcy for the
 Justice Department  has objected to the Lehman estate
remunerating their lawyers, creditors of Lehman Brothers
Treasury Co. told the judge.  The Lehman holding company Chapter 11 case is In re Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc., 08-13555, while the liquidation
proceeding under the Securities Investor Protection Act for the
brokerage operation is Securities Investor Protection Corp. v.
 Lehman Brothers Inc ., 08-01420, both in U.S. Bankruptcy Court,
Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in Brooklyn, New York, at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Dunn  at   adunn8@bloomberg.net  