-- Standard Life Rises Most Since 2009 on First-Half Profit
-- B y   K e v i n   C r o w l e y
-- 2012-08-14T15:54:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-14/standard-life-rises-most-since-2009-on-first-half-profit.html
Standard Life Plc (SL/) ,  Scotland ’s
biggest insurer, rose the most in more than three years after
first-half profit beat estimates because of increased sales of
fee-based savings products and lower acquisition costs.  The stock  rose 8.1 percent to 277.4 pence in  London , the
most since March 2009 and was the biggest climber in the FTSE
100 index. Operating profit climbed 15 percent to 302 million
pounds ($474 million) beating the 263 million-pound median
prediction of six analysts  surveyed  by Bloomberg, the Edinburgh-
based firm said today in a statement.  Standard Life, which manages 204 billion pounds of assets,
is midway through a three-year plan to turn the firm into a
provider of long-term savings rather than a traditional life
insurer. The company has invested about 500 million pounds since
2010 on technology, betting U.K. regulatory changes to pensions
and investment advice this year will lead to greater inflows
into fee-based savings products.  “We can now add assets and new customers without needing
to reinvest into the operation,” Finance Director Jackie Hunt
said on a call with reporters. “This is as much about growth in
revenues and that’s because we’re adding assets.”  The insurer raised its first-half  dividend  6.5 percent to
4.9 pence a share, beating estimates of 4.83 pence.  Net income climbed 28 percent to 254 million pounds. U.K.
profit climbed 62 percent to 141 million pounds on sales of fee-
based savings products and pensions. Earnings in  Canada  dropped
29 percent as the  European debt crisis  pushed down yields on
Canadian corporate and sovereign bonds, seen as a safer
alternative to European  government bonds .  Technology Investment  The cost of selling new products fell 18 percent to 144
million pounds because of savings in the U.K. business and its
investment in technology, which allows it to increase assets
without a corresponding increase in administration, Hunt said.  “The beat appears to be driven by a very strong U.K.
performance where the benefits of the cost-reduction program are
coming through to a much greater extent than we and the market
had anticipated,” wrote  Barrie Cornes , a London-based analyst
at Panmure Gordon & Co., who raised his recommendation to buy
from hold today in a note to clients.  The U.K. government starts its auto-enrollment program this
year, which will require employees to opt out of their
employers’ retirement plan should they not wish to join.
Standard Life has said it expects to gain about 200,000 savers
through its existing company pensions and win more mandates.  The firm has said it expects to gain from a retail
distribution review, which bans independent financial advisers
from taking commissions from life insurers and fund managers.
Standard Life is better prepared than rivals because it stopped
paying commissions to IFAs in 2006, according to  Kevin Ryan , a
London-based analyst at  Investec Plc (INVP)  with a buy rating on the
stock. Instead the firm has invested in online portals for IFAs
for which it charges savers a monthly fee.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kevin Crowley in London at 
 kcrowley1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net ; 