-- Suzlon Plans Job Cuts, Bond Sale, CFO Says; Shares Drop
-- B y   N a t a l i e   O b i k o   P e a r s o n
-- 2012-08-14T11:44:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-14/suzlon-plans-job-cuts-bond-sale-cfo-says-shares-drop.html
Suzlon Energy Ltd. (SUEL) ,  India ’s largest
wind-turbine maker, may cut jobs and sell bonds this year after
reporting its second-biggest quarterly loss since at least 2007
as costs rose. The company’s shares fell to a record.  Suzlon plans to pare fixed costs by 20 percent this fiscal
year by “reducing manpower and operational expenditures,”
Chief Financial Officer Kirti Vagadia said in a phone interview
today. The company’s shares closed down 4 percent at 17 rupees.  Suzlon, which has lost money for three consecutive years,
faces repaying debt and boosting orders as industry competition
grows. Demand for turbines is forecast to flag in  China  and the
U.S., the world’s largest wind markets, and a global supply glut
has driven down the price of machines by 23 percent since 2009,
according to  data  compiled by Bloomberg.  The Pune-based company plans a foreign currency-
denominated, high-yield bond issue of as much as $500 million in
the third quarter, Vagadia said. The company must redeem $142.2
million of convertible notes maturing on Oct. 11, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  “We’re bringing more efficiency to the organization,”
Vagadia said from Mumbai, declining to identify how many jobs
may be cut or from which division. A lack of working capital
constrained Suzlon’s ability to carry out orders in the first
quarter ended June 30, Suzlon said yesterday after reporting a
quarterly loss of 8.5 billion rupees ($153 million).  Debt Obligations  The chief financial officers at the Suzlon group and the
company’s German Repower Systems SE unit quit earlier this year,
leaving Vagadia and another internal hire to fill the positions.  To meet debt obligations, Suzlon has borrowed $300 million
from banks and liquidated non-critical assets, including two
Indian wind farms in April and a Chinese factory. The company
redeemed $360 million of convertible notes on July 27, the last
day of a 45-day extension it had requested of bondholders while
it raised money from lenders.  Suzlon has “already identified” sources of funds to meet
its October bond obligations and expects to raise working
capital this quarter, Vagadia said.  Other asset sales may include “certain component
manufacturing businesses,” he said. Suzlon’s SE Forge Ltd. unit
makes metal castings and forgings used in  wind turbines .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Natalie Obiko Pearson in Mumbai at 
 npearson7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  