-- Swedish July Inflation Slows as Krona Strength Damps Prices
-- B y   J o h a n   C a r l s t r o m
-- 2012-08-14T09:08:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-14/swedish-july-inflation-slows-as-krona-strength-damps-prices.html
Swedish  inflation  slowed to its
lowest level in more than two years in July as the strengthening
krona damped prices in the largest Nordic economy.  Consumer price growth slowed to an annual 0.7 percent from
1 percent a month earlier,  Statistics  Sweden  said today.
Inflation was seen abating to 0.8 percent, according to the
median estimate in a Bloomberg survey of 12 economists. Prices
fell 0.4 percent on the month.  Adjusted for mortgage costs ,
inflation slowed to an annual 0.8 percent.  “We predict a continued very low inflation pressure”
because of the strong krona and low consumer demand, said Anna Raman, a senior economist at Nykredit Bank A/S in Copenhagen.
Consumer prices won’t start to accelerate until next year as the
European and Swedish economies improve, she said.  The krona has strengthened more than 8 percent against the
euro since the start of the year as investors buy Swedish assets
as a haven from the  European debt crisis . The currency gained
0.2 percent to 8.2581 per euro as of 11:06 a.m. in  Stockholm .  A strong krona shouldn’t be “overdramatized” and it’s too
early to say whether it’s become a haven currency, Swedish
Finance Minister  Anders Borg  said on Aug. 9. Sweden has scope to
stimulate the  economy  after annual growth of 2.3 percent in the
second quarter exceeded estimates, he said.  Sweden’s central bank last month delayed plans for its next
rate increase until the second half next year after cutting
twice since December.  Consumer sentiment  has weakened in the
Nordic country since last year as exports, which account for
about half of economic output, have been hit by slowing demand
from  Europe  where countries are cutting spending to reduce debt.  “Inflation pressures continue to be very subdued and are
an important reason why we expect the Riksbank to cut the repo
rate during the autumn,” said Olle Holmgren, an analyst at SEB
AB in Stockholm in a client note.  Rent and mortgage costs rose in the year, while prices for
electricity and home electronics fell,  Statistics Sweden  said
today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Johan Carlstrom in Stockholm at 
 jcarlstrom@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonas Bergman in Stockholm at 
 jbergman@bloomberg.net  