-- Swiss Stocks Advance After German GDP Report
-- B y   C o r i n n e   G r e t l e r
-- 2012-08-14T15:56:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-14/swiss-stocks-advance-as-german-growth-beats-estimates.html
Swiss stocks  advanced for the first
time in three days as reports showed that German economic growth
slowed last quarter less than forecast, while U.S. retail sales
rebounded in July.  Geberit AG (GEBN) , Europe’s biggest maker of toilet-flushing
systems, rose 3 percent to its highest price since February, on
better-than-estimated second-quarter earnings. Galenica AG
increased 3.1 percent as the drug wholesaler raised its 2012
profit outlook.  Julius Baer (BAER)  Group Ltd. lost 3.8 percent.  The benchmark  Swiss Market Index (SMI)  rose 0.6 percent to
6,505.98 in Zurich. The gauge has  climbed 14 percent  from its
lowest level this year on June 4 as central banks took steps to
bolster the global economy. The broader Swiss Performance Index
also gained 0.6 percent today.  “Slightly better-than-expected economic data in Europe is
supporting investors’ cautiously positive sentiment in the short
term,” said Alessandro Fezzi, senior market analyst at LGT
Capital Management AG in Pfaeffikon,  Switzerland . “The moderate
risk-on sentiment is carried by expectations of further central-
bank measures in the near future. But the question remains if
additional stimulus will be able to kick start the economies.”  The volume of shares changing hands on SMI-listed companies
was 41 percent lower than the average of the last 30 days,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  German Growth  In  Germany , second-quarter  gross domestic product  rose 0.3
percent from the first quarter, when it gained 0.5 percent, the
Federal Statistics Office said. Economists had predicted a 0.2
percent increase, according to the median of 40 estimates in a
Bloomberg News survey. French GDP was unchanged in the quarter,
better than the 0.1 percent decline economists had forecast.  In the U.S., a Commerce Department report showed that
 retail sales  rose in July more than economists had predicted.
The 0.8 percent increase in purchases followed a 0.7 percent
drop in June that was weaker than first reported. Economists had
projected a 0.3 percent gain, according to the median estimate
of 85 economists in a Bloomberg News  survey .  “Economic data will probably continue to show a mixed
picture, confirming a continuously modest growth trend for the
global economy,” Fezzi said.  Geberit, Galenica  Geberit advanced 3 percent to 198.50 Swiss francs, its
highest price since Feb. 20. The company reported second-quarter
earnings before interest and taxes of 132.4 million francs ($136
million), exceeding the  average projection  by analysts for 122.8
million francs.  Galenica (GALN)  climbed 3.1 percent to 577 francs, after
increasing its full-year profit forecast. The company said in
March that 2012 profit would be unchanged. First-half net income
rose 13 percent to 119.6 million francs, and sales advanced 2.2
percent to 1.62 billion francs.  GAM Holding AG (GAM) , the asset manager that split from Julius
Baer Group Ltd. almost three years ago, rose 3.1 percent to 11.5
francs.  First-half profit climbed  as the company booked a lower
charge on its stake in Artio Global Investors Inc.  Logitech International SA (LOGN) , the world’s largest maker of
computer mice, climbed 0.8 percent to 8.46 francs.  China Daily 
 reported  that the chief executive officer of Logitech China,
Quin Liu, said sales in the business market may reach 25 percent
of total revenue within three years.  Julius Baer  lost 3.8 percent to 31.57 francs after Deutsche
Bank AG cut the stock to hold from buy. Vontobel Holding AG
downgraded the shares to reduce from hold and cut its price
estimate by 16 percent to 27 francs.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Corinne Gretler in Zurich at 
 cgretler1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  