-- U.K. Inflation Unexpectedly Accelerates on Clothes, Airfares
-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 2012-08-14T08:51:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-14/u-k-inflation-unexpectedly-accelerates-on-clothes-airfares-1-.html
U.K. inflation  unexpectedly
accelerated in July for the first time in four months as
airfares increased and there was some unwinding of early summer
discounting by clothing stores.  Consumer prices rose 2.6 percent from a year earlier,
compared with 2.4 percent in June, the  Office for National
Statistics  said today in  London . Economists forecast a reading
of 2.3 percent, according to the median of 35 estimates in a
 Bloomberg News survey . While clothes prices fell on the month,
it was the smallest drop for a July since records began in 1996.  The Bank of  England , which kept its  bond-purchase target 
unchanged this month, has forecast that inflation will ease to
below its 2 percent goal next year, indicating there may be a
need for more stimulus. Still, wheat, corn and  oil prices  have
risen in the past month, which may slow the pace of cooling.  It’s “disappointing, but it is likely to be just a
temporary blip,” said  Vicky Redwood , an economist at Capital
Economics Ltd. in London. “Admittedly, the near-term outlook
for inflation has worsened slightly on the back of the renewed
rise in petrol prices and the rise in agricultural prices. But
despite these factors, inflation still looks likely to drop
below its 2 percent target” within the next few months.  The pound extended its advance against the dollar after the
data and was trading at $1.5725 as of 9:33 a.m. in London, up
0.2 percent on the day. U.K. government bonds stayed lower, with
the yield on the 10-year gilt rising 3 basis points to 1.59
percent.  Weather, Confidence  Consumer prices rose 0.1 percent in July from June,
according to today’s report. Clothing and footwear prices
dropped 2.6 percent after a 4.2 percent drop in June, a record
for that month. The statistics office said there was anecdotal
evidence that stores had brought forward summer sales.  British stores brought forward discounting amid the wettest
June on record to lure shoppers whose confidence is being
undermined by a double-dip recession and the euro-area debt
crisis. The economy shrank 0.7 percent in the three months
through June, the third consecutive quarter of contraction.  In addition to clothing, there was an upward impact on
inflation from transport, particularly airfares, which surged 22
percent on the month, the biggest July increase since 2004.  Core annual inflation , which excludes alcohol, food,
tobacco and energy prices, accelerated to 2.3 percent in July
from 2.1 percent in July, the statistics office said. Retail-
price inflation, a measure used in wage negotiations, quickened
to 3.2 percent from 2.8 percent. The retail-price index
excluding mortgage-interest payments rose an annual 3.2 percent.  BOE Forecasts  In a separate report today, the statistics office said U.K.
house prices rose 2.3 percent in June from a year earlier.  The  Bank of England  forecast on Aug. 8 that inflation will
slow to its 2 percent goal by about the middle of next year and
to about 1.6 percent in two years. Producer-price inflation
cooled to 1.7 percent in July, the slowest since October 2009,
the statistics office said last week.  Still, there may be upward pressure on food prices as
droughts damage crops from the U.S. to  Russia . An  index of 55
food items  tracked by the  United Nations ’ Food & Agriculture
Organization jumped 6.2 percent in July, the biggest increase
since November 2009.  The Bank of England will tomorrow release the minutes of
this month’s policy meeting, showing how officials voted when
they kept their bond-purchase target on hold at 375 billion
pounds ($589 billion). The central bank increased the target by
50 billion pounds in July in a program that’s due to run until
early November.  In an article in the Mail on Sunday newspaper published
Aug. 12, Bank of England Governor  Mervyn King  said the economy
is “not at full fitness right now” and policy makers will do
all they can to bolster growth.  “The conditions are in place for a recovery, and the Bank
of England is, and will carry on, doing all we can to help bring
it about,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Hamilton in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Matthew Brockett at 
 mbrockett1@bloomberg.net  