-- U.K. Water Company United Utilities Climbs on Breakup Bid Report
-- B y   R a n d a l l   H a c k l e y
-- 2012-08-14T17:42:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-14/u-k-water-company-united-utilities-climbs-on-breakup-bid-report.html
United Utilities Group Plc (UU/) , the
U.K.’s largest publicly traded water company,  rallied  today in
London to almost a four-year high following a report that the
utility may be the subject of an overseas breakup bid.  United Utilities surged as much as 18 percent and closed up
4.9 percent to 722.50 pence, the highest since November 2008,
after The  Daily Mail  reported on speculation that a consortium
including the Ontario Teachers pension plan and Qatari and Abu
Dhabi funds may be working on a breakup bid for the Warrington,
England-based company.  The Mail didn’t cite any sources late yesterday and Helen
Wilson, a spokeswoman for United Utilities, told Bloomberg News
today that the company doesn’t comment on speculation.  Pennon Group Plc (PNN)   rose  4.2 percent, the most since October
2010, while Severn Trent Plc, the U.K.’s second-largest water
company, added 3.4 percent, its biggest gain in four months.
United Utilities was the leading gainer today on the 17-member
Bloomberg World Water Index, which advanced 1.5 percent.  “These assets are attractive to foreign infrastructure
funds and in the long run we see it as likely that the remaining
pure-play U.K. water companies could pass into private hands,”
Guillaume Redgwell, an analyst at Liberum Capital Ltd. in
London, wrote in a note today.  Credit Suisse Securities analyst Guy MacKenzie considers
“a large-scale takeover in the U.K. water sector unlikely,”
and said in a note from  London  that if an acquisition did take
place, United Utilities may be “the least likely candidate in
the U.K. water sector.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Randall Hackley in Zurich at 
 rhackley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Randall Hackley at 
 rhackley@bloomberg.net  