-- Ethanol Maker Ensus to Restart Output After 15-Month Halt
-- B y   W h i t n e y   M c F e r r o n
-- 2012-08-14T13:37:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-14/u-k-ethanol-maker-ensus-to-restart-output-after-halt-correct-.html
Ensus Ltd., a U.K. producer of
ethanol from wheat, is planning to restart production at its
plant in Teesside,  England , after a 15-month halt, the company
said in an e-mailed statement.  The plant,  Europe ’s largest biorefinery, will reopen later
this month, the Yarm, England-based company said today. U.K.
biofuel has become more price competitive since the European
Union tightened  regulations  on foreign imports, improving profit
prospects for the plant, the company said. Market conditions
also have improved since the U.S. ended an ethanol subsidy last
year, Ensus said. The plant has capacity to convert 1 million
metric tons of feed-grade wheat into ethanol annually.  “Everyone is absolutely delighted that things are moving
in the right direction once again and we are in a position to
restart,” Peter Sopp, chief executive officer of the company,
said in the statement. “It has been a very difficult time for
everyone connected with the business.”  The plant, which has about 100 employees, expects to be
fully operational within the next two months, according to the
statement. Ensus can produce about 400 million liters (106
million gallons) of ethanol annually and is a  supplier  to Shell
Oil Co. It gets wheat from  Glencore International Plc (GLEN)  and yields
about 350,000 tons of livestock feed a year from ethanol
byproducts, according to the company’s website.  Denatured ethanol futures have climbed 24 percent since the
end of May on the Chicago Board of Trade as the worst U.S.
drought in 50 years damaged crops in the Midwest. In the U.S.,
ethanol is mostly made from corn and is blended with gasoline.
In  London , feed wheat futures gained 0.8 percent to 196 pounds
($308) a ton today on NYSE Liffe. The most-active contract is up
14 percent since May 31.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Whitney McFerron in London at 
 wmcferron1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  