-- U.S. Credit Swaps Hold at 3-month Low as Retail Sales Increase
-- B y   B r o o k e   S u t h e r l a n d
-- 2012-08-14T21:15:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-14/u-s-credit-swaps-fall-as-retail-sales-rise-more-than-forecast.html
A gauge of U.S. company debt risk
held at about a three-month low after data showed U.S.  retail
sales  rose the most since February, while  Germany ’s economy grew
more than estimated and France averted a contraction.  The Markit CDX North America Investment Grade Index, a
credit-default swaps benchmark used to hedge against losses on
corporate debt or to speculate on creditworthiness, increased
0.2 basis point to a mid-price of 102.9 basis points at 4:34
p.m. in New York, according to prices compiled by Bloomberg.
Contracts tied to  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and  Citigroup Inc. (C)  fell
to the lowest in more than three months.  Better-than-forecast economic conditions may ease investor
concern that global financial weakness will pollute corporate
balance sheets and hamper companies’ ability to meet debt
obligations. U.S. retail sales climbed 0.8 percent in July,
signaling  consumer spending  is improving even as  unemployment 
remains more than 8 percent for a 42nd month.  The underlying economic data is pointing to a  U.S. economy 
that isn’t “as bad as we once thought,”  William Larkin , a
fixed-income  money manager  who helps oversee $500 million at
Cabot Money Management Inc. in Salem,  Massachusetts , said in a
telephone interview. The corporate  bond market  “is going to
benefit from stronger or better economic data and also from a
stronger economy because the default-rate assumptions fall.”  Economists had called for a 0.3 percent rise in retail
sales, according to the median estimate in a Bloomberg News
survey. July’s retail sales mark the first increase in four
months.  European GDP  The euro-area  economy  contracted in the second quarter,
slipping 0.2 percent, after stalling in the first three months
of the year, the European Union’s statistics office in
Luxembourg said today. In Germany, GDP rose 0.3 percent in the
second quarter, beating the 0.2 percent gain called for by the
median estimate of economists in a Bloomberg News survey.
France’s economy stalled in the second quarter, avoiding the 0.1
percent decline forecast by economists.  European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  is pushing a
plan to tame soaring borrowing costs in Spain and Italy through
sovereign debt purchases. The U.S. Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  has also said the central bank is ready to unleash
new growth-boosting measures, including large-scale asset
purchases, if the labor market fails to improve.  Data signaling improvement in the U.S. economy may dissuade
the Fed from initiating more stimulus, a good thing for bond
investors, according to Larkin.  Fed Lifelines  “It’s unlikely for them to act unless there’s an emergency
because they don’t have a lot of lifelines left,” he said.
“From the bond market, we like stability” and “don’t like the
volatility. When the Fed starts to enact policies, that creates
lots of volatility.”  Credit-default swaps tied to JPMorgan slipped 5 basis
points to 114.2 basis points, the lowest since the contracts
closed at 111.2 on May 10, at 4:42 p.m. in New York, Bloomberg
prices show. The cost to guard against losses on the debt of
Citigroup dropped 4.9 to 227.7, the lowest since the contracts
closed at 222.5 basis points on May 3.  Credit swaps tied to the debt of  MGIC Investment Corp. (MTG) 
dropped 2.1 percentage points to 34.8 percent upfront, according
to data provider CMA, which is owned by McGraw-Hill Cos. and
compiles prices quoted by dealers in the privately negotiated
market.  MGIC Swaps  That’s in addition to 5 percent a year, meaning it would
cost $3.48 million initially and $500,000 annually to protect
$10 million of the company’s debt for five years. Credit-default
swaps typically fall as investor confidence improves and rise as
it deteriorates.  The default premium on the Markit CDX North America High
Yield Index, a measure of U.S. speculative-grade corporate debt
risk, was little changed at a mid-price of 553.9 basis points,
Bloomberg prices show.  In  London , the  Markit iTraxx Europe Index  of 125 companies
with investment-grade ratings decreased 4.1 to 145.1, the lowest
since May 7.  Credit swaps pay the buyer face value if a borrower fails
to meet its obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt. A
basis point equals $1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10
million of debt.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brooke Sutherland in  New York  at 
 bsutherland7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  