-- UBS Sues Billionaire Olenicoff for Filing Failed Tax Suit
-- B y   D a v i d   V o r e a c o s
-- 2012-08-14T16:19:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-14/ubs-sues-billionaire-olenicoff-for-filing-failed-tax-suit.html
UBS AG (UBSN) , the largest Swiss bank, sued
California billionaire  Igor Olenicoff  for malicious prosecution
over his failed legal claim that the company defrauded him into
believing the tax crimes he confessed to were lawful.  Olenicoff, who built his fortune as the chief executive
officer of  Newport Beach , California-based Olen Properties
Corp., pleaded guilty in 2007 to filing a false  tax return . He
admitted that he failed to disclose about $200 million in
offshore accounts to the  Internal Revenue Service .  After his plea, Olenicoff sued UBS in federal court in
 Santa Ana , California, claiming the Zurich-based bank committed
fraud by not telling him he owed taxes. U.S. District Judge
Andrew Guilford dismissed that case on April 10. He said
Olenicoff swore in his guilty plea that “he was not an innocent
dupe” and he could have pleaded not guilty if UBS misled him.
The bank repeatedly cited Guilford’s ruling in its lawsuit,
filed Aug. 7 in state court in Orange County,  California .  “In order to pursue his claim of fraud, he disavowed the
sworn statements he made in the criminal case acknowledging his
own active deceit, and instead claimed he actually had been
unaware that he had lied on his tax returns,” UBS claimed in
the complaint. “This change of his story was done for the
purpose of pursuing a false claim of fraud against UBS.”  ‘Publicity Stunt’  Olenicoff said today in an e-mail that he couldn’t comment
on the lawsuit because he hadn’t seen the complaint and his
lawyers hadn’t been served with it.  “However it is clear this is some sort of a publicity
stunt to chill anyone else’s plans to sue UBS,” he said.  After his guilty plea, Olenicoff was sentenced to two
years’ probation and ordered to pay $52 million in back taxes,
fines and penalties. He admitted that from 1998 to 2004, he
filed false returns that hid accounts in  Switzerland ,
Liechtenstein,  England  and the Bahamas.  Olenicoff also unsuccessfully sued his former UBS banker,
Bradley Birkenfeld, who was recently released from federal
prison after pleading guilty to conspiracy. Birkenfeld was a
whistle-blower whose evidence helped lead to criminal charges
against UBS in 2009.  UBS avoided prosecution by paying $780 million, admitting
it helped thousands of Americans evade taxes and disclosing to
U.S. authorities the names of 250 American clients. UBS later
revealed 4,450 more accounts of U.S. clients.  ‘Huge Amount’  In its complaint, UBS claimed that because of Olenicoff’s
lawsuit, the bank “was forced to expend a huge amount of time
and internal resources, and incurred millions of dollars in
legal fees and related costs.” The bank also said it “suffered
harm to its reputation and business interests.”  UBS seeks “special damages” of more than $3 million,
including attorneys’ fees. It also seeks unspecified general
damages, attorneys’ fees and punitive damages.  The bank claims that Olenicoff falsely accused UBS of
mismanaging his accounts, resulting in no profit to him.  “This too was false, as Olenicoff was himself directly
involved in the accounts and regularly apprised of the activity
in his accounts, and he made a net profit of over $14 million,
not $0,” according to the complaint.  Olenicoff and his company, Olen, also falsely claimed it
was damaged by UBS even though it never had an account or any
transactions with the bank, according to the complaint.  Olen Loans  They claimed that “because of Olen’s association with
Olenicoff, it had been unable to secure a single loan after
Olenicoff’s criminal conviction, and this failure to obtain a
loan resulted in damage to Olen of $1.5 billion to
$1.7 billion,” according to the complaint.  “In fact, it was a lie that Olen could not get a loan,
because it had in fact secured two loans aggregating in excess
of $300 million,” UBS claimed.  The complaint cited Guilford’s order, which said the denial
of those loans by Olenicoff and Olen was a “coordinated blatant
lie.”  The UBS case is UBS AG v. Olenicoff, 30-2012-00589134-CU-MC-CJC, Superior Court of California, County of Orange. The
earlier case is Olenicoff v. UBS AG, 08-cv-1029, U.S. District
Court, Central District of California (Santa Ana).  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Voreacos in Newark,  New Jersey , at 
 dvoreacos@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Dunn  at   adunn8@bloomberg.net . 