-- Umbrella Sales Boom as U.K. Retailers Suffer Soggy Summer
-- B y   S a r a h   S h a n n o n
-- 2012-08-15T09:36:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-14/umbrella-sales-boom-as-u-k-retailers-suffer-soggy-summer.html
In anticipation of warmer weather to
come, British retailers spent the spring stocking up on T-
shirts, swim wear, barbecues and garden furniture. What they got
has been record rainfall and soaring sales of umbrellas.  The soggy climate has forced shopkeepers such as  Marks &
Spencer Group Plc (MKS) , John Lewis, and Next Plc to discount unsold
summer merchandise and has spurred many of them to look for ways
to adapt to increasingly unpredictable weather.  Sales for the summer may be “very disappointing,” said
 Bryan Roberts , an analyst at Kantar Retail in London. “It has
been so unseasonal that any semblance of normal trading has gone
out the window,” said Roberts.  The lousy summer has compounded the troubles of British
retailers already contending with the double-dip recession. The
Bloomberg Europe Retail Index, which includes the likes of
Inditex SA and Hennes & Mauritz AB, trades at 18 times earnings
while the FTSE 350 General Retailers Index of U.K. shop owners
trades at 12.6 times. Earnings estimates for companies in the
latter index have fallen by 2.3 percent in the past month,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Clothing stores in particular have struggled to recover
since April, when the wettest weather on record led to declines
of 52 percent in sales of shorts and 38 percent in sandals,
researcher  Planalytics Inc.  estimates. In contrast, umbrella
sales that month surged 175 percent from a year earlier.  Retail Suffering  “There are no magic levers, you have to take the pain”
caused by unfavorable weather, Simon Wolfson, chief executive
officer of clothing retailer Next Plc, said in a phone
interview.  To diversify away from products whose sales are affected by
weather, Wolfson said, Next is expanding its selection of goods
such as bedding, tableware and lamps. As part of that effort,
the chain last year opened 14 new locations selling only
homewares, for a total of 43 such stores -- about 9 percent of
its British and Irish outlets.  Kantar  estimates that up to 80 percent of U.K. fashion
chains are offering discounts to clear unsold summer inventory
at a time of year when stores would normally be bulking up with
merchandise for the fall. On average, retailers have 10 percent
more items to clear than last year, according to the researcher.  Marks & Spencer CEO Marc Bolland said his company’s
clothing unit had been hit particularly hard as it has about 28
percent of the market for clothing made from summery linen.  Staying Put  The unsettled summer means people are “less out, they’re
more at home,” Bolland said on a conference call with reporters
last month.  U.K. retail same-store sales barely rose in July, according
to the  British Retail Consortium , as  consumer confidence  was
undermined by the double-dip recession and the euro-area debt
crisis. Shoppers prioritized spending on essential items such as
food, the BRC said.  In anticipation of a less stable climate over the long
haul, the George clothing business of Wal-Mart Stores Inc.’s
Asda supermarket chain is seeking suppliers closer to home.  “The weather has been volatile this year and last year, so
rather than sitting back and saying it’s tough we’re trying to
organize our supply chain and buying process to recognize this
is the new norm,” said Andrew Moore, managing director of
George. “We’re focusing on shorter lead times so we don’t have
a great build-up of stock and we can respond to sales trends
rather than predict them.”  Wellington Boots  The retailer, which relies on Bangladesh and  China  for most
of its supplies, bought its Turkish sourcing division in May.
George has made more use of the unit in recent months, getting
items such as hooded tops, zipped cover-ups and wellington boots
into stores in as little as six weeks -- three weeks less than a
year ago, Moore said.  Britain’s largest department-store chain,  John Lewis ,
typically cuts back on  Barbour  jackets and wellington boots in
February. This year it boosted supplies of those goods after the
April rains caused demand to double. With the uncertain weather,
the chain is also changing the goods it features depending on
the forecast.  “If we know it’s going to be a hot weekend we will expand
space for picnic-wear and barbecues,” said Andrea O’Donnell,
commercial director of the retailer. Still, “there is a lot of
risk if weather doesn’t play to your advantage,” she said.  Army Jacket  O’Donnell said the company is expanding its online
offerings to capture stay-at-home shoppers, with its website
highlighting more out-of-season goods such as winter coats in
summer.  That strategy should work well with shoppers such as Ulla
Helenius. The self-confessed fashionista said she’s buying
“loads more” online this summer.  “I’m finding more I want there,” such as Hunter rain
boots, an army-style jacket and jeans, said the 27-year-old
 London  retail worker. “I spend half my spare time in Topshop
and Zara, but this year they just didn’t have as much as what I
wanted. Summer wasn’t here.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Shannon in London at 
 sshannon4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  