-- Hungarian Economy Slips Into Second Recession in 4 Years
-- B y   Z o l t a n   S i m o n
-- 2012-08-14T07:32:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-14/hungarian-economy-slips-into-second-recession-in-4-years.html
Hungary ’s economy entered its second
recession in four years before a resumption in talks over an
 International Monetary Fund -led bailout loan.  The economy  contracted  a preliminary 0.2 percent in the
second quarter from the previous three-month period, when it
shrank a revised 1 percent, the Budapest-based statistics office
said today. Gross domestic product fell 1.2 percent from a year
earlier, compared with the 1.3 percent median forecast of 13
economists in a Bloomberg survey.  Hungary joined the  Czech Republic  in recession as  Romania 
returned to growth after two consecutive quarters of decline.
Hungary resumed talks with the IMF and the European Union in
July after a seven-month delay as it seeks about 15 billion
euros ($18.2 billion) to reduce financing costs and protect
against contagion from the euro area’s debt crisis.  “The figures aren’t surprising,” the  Economy Ministry 
said in an e-mailed statement today, citing the slowdown in
Hungary’s export markets which caused a “temporary loss of
momentum.”  IMF and EU officials are focusing on untangling policies
that contributed to the downgrade of Hungary’s credit to junk as
recessions in the euro region sap demand for the country’s
exports. They include the flat personal income tax, which cut
revenue without lifting consumption and prompted the Cabinet to
close budget holes using extraordinary industry taxes that
reduced investment and halted economic growth.  Forint Rate  The forint, which fell 15 percent in the second half of
last year, the most in the world, has gained 13 percent in 2012
as investors speculate that Hungary will obtain an IMF loan. The
currency strengthened 0.1 percent to trade at 279.25 per euro by
9:10 a.m. in Budapest.  Prime Minister  Viktor Orban  needs to move away from “ad
hoc” taxes to close the  budget deficit  and should create a more
“business friendly” environment, the IMF said July 26 after a
week of “constructive” talks in Budapest.  The IMF and the EU disagreed with Hungary’s growth forecast
at the start of aid talks, the government’s chief negotiator
Mihaly Varga told the Figyelo newspaper July 19. The Cabinet’s
2013 forecast for 1.6 percent growth exceeds the 1 percent
estimate in a Bloomberg survey of 23 economists.  Second-quarter growth data may help convince the IMF of the
soundness of the government’s economic forecast, Varga told
Figyelo. The Cabinet has said IMF talks will resume next month.  German Growth  The European Commission forecasts a 0.3 percent contraction
for the euro economy this year. Growth in  Germany ,  Europe ’s
largest economy and Hungary’s biggest export market, was 0.3
percent in the second quarter from the previous three months as
exports and household spending helped to fend off the sovereign
debt crisis.  Hungary’s economy contracted even as Daimler AG’s Mercedes-
Benz factory started deliveries of its B-Class compact cars from
the central city of Kecskemet in April. Daimler, which produces
about 200 cars a day, won’t stop production in the summer, the
state-run MTI news service reported July 3.  “Production is stagnant or dropping basically across the
economy,” statistician Peter Szabo told reporters today, adding
that a decline in agricultural output in the second quarter
contrasted with the significant increase last year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Zoltan Simon in Budapest at 
 zsimon@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  