-- Verizon, Comcast Said Agree to U.S. Demands on Airwaves
-- B y   S a r a   F o r d e n   a n d   T o d d   S h i e l d s
-- 2012-08-15T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-14/verizon-comcast-said-agree-to-u-s-demands-on-airwaves.html
Verizon Wireless  and  Comcast Corp. (CMCSA) 
have agreed in principle with U.S. antitrust officials to limit
joint ventures as a condition for buying airwaves from cable
companies, making it likely the deal will be approved early next
month, people with knowledge of the negotiations said.  The remaining terms of cross-marketing agreements between
Verizon Wireless, the largest U.S. mobile provider, and the
cable companies led by Comcast may be hammered out within the
next week, allowing the U.S.  Justice Department  to approve the
transaction, three people said yesterday.  Federal Communications Commission Chairman  Julius Genachowski , a Democrat, may ask his four fellow commissioners
next week to approve the deal, one person close to the matter
said. The transaction needs a majority vote from the commission,
which regulates airwaves use.  U.S. officials are seeking conditions that would preserve
competition in a telecommunications market characterized by
locally exclusive cable companies and a wireless sector
dominated by four players, with 60.7 percent of the market held
by Verizon and No. 2  AT&T Inc. (T)   For Verizon Wireless to win approval for its $3.6 billion
purchase of unused airwaves from cable companies, it had to
agree with Comcast,  Time Warner Cable Inc. (TWC)  and other cable
providers to restrictions on the duration and geographic reach
of cross-marketing accords, said the people, who declined to be
identified because they weren’t authorized to speak publicly
about the matter.  Charles Miller , a spokesman for the Justice Department and
Neil Grace, an FCC spokesman, declined to comment in e-mails.  ‘Constructive Conversations’  “We continue to have constructive conversations at both
the FCC and  Department of Justice  and anticipate approval later
this summer,” said Richard Young, a Verizon spokesman. John Demming, a Comcast spokesman, didn’t immediately return a phone
call seeking comment.  The sides are close to an agreement to bar cross-marketing
in areas served by Verizon’s FiOS high-speed Internet, telephone
and television service, three of the people said. One person
said the ban extends to areas where Verizon plans to extend the
service.  Verizon Wireless in 2009 decided it wouldn’t increase its
planned deployment of FiOS, according to a company  filing  at the
FCC.  Under the tentative conditions, the companies must return
to federal authorities after a period of about four or five
years for permission if they wish to continue to sell each
other’s products, two of the people said.  Reviewing Deal  The FCC, which has an Aug. 21 target date for finishing its
review, is vetting the deal along with the Justice Department.  The  Communications Workers of America  has asked regulators
to bar cross-marketing everywhere Verizon offers service over
wires, and to require that the company continue building the
high-speed FiOS network.  Verizon Chief Executive Officer Lowell McAdam in a June 28
meeting urged Genachowski to approve the deal, and said the
transaction would help meet surging demand for high-speed
wireless service, according to a filing posted July 3 on the
agency’s website.  Verizon Wireless, based in Basking Ridge, New Jersey, is 55
percent owned by New York-based Verizon and 45 percent-owned by
 Vodafone Group Plc (VOD) , based in Newbury, England.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sara Forden in Washington at 
 sforden@bloomberg.net ;
Todd Shields in Washington at 
 tshields3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net ;
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net . 