-- VimpelCom Beats MTS on Emerging-Market Revenue: Russia Overnight
-- B y   H a l i a   P a v l i v a
-- 2012-08-14T22:03:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-14/vimpelcom-beats-mts-on-emerging-market-revenue-russia-overnight.html
VimpelCom Ltd. (VIP)  is outperforming its
Russian competitor OAO Mobile TeleSystem by the most ever this
month on speculation its emerging-market sales are growing and
that shareholders are close to resolving an antitrust dispute.  American depositary receipts of the world’s sixth-largest
mobile-phone provider gained 1.1 percent yesterday in New York,
extending its advance this month to 12 percent. The rally has
surpassed the 2.2 percent increase by Mobile Telesystem,
Russia’s biggest mobile phone company. The  Bloomberg Russia-US
Equity Index (RUS14BN)  of the most-traded Russian stocks listed in the
U.S. rose 0.1 percent to 94.39 yesterday. The  RTS stock-index
futures  expiring in September lost 0.5 percent to 143,375.  VimpelCom will probably say today that second-quarter
revenue increased 3.1 percent to $5.7 billion, according to the
mean estimate of four analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. Revenue in
 Russia ,  Asia  and  Africa  will show a rise, UralSib Financial
Corp. said in an e-mailed report yesterday. The Russian
government is trying to reach an out-of-court settlement by
October with Telenor ASA involving the company’s purchase of a
stake in VimpelCom, the Anti-Monopoly Service said on Aug. 1.  “We prefer VimpelCom over MTS at these levels and believe
it’s the right time to buy,” Konstantin Belov, an analyst at
UralSib Financial said by phone from Moscow yesterday. “The
company is heading in the right direction. There are signs that
the conflict between shareholders may be solved and it will be
able to benefit from growth in Russia and other  emerging
markets .”  Russia ETF Gains  The  Market Vectors Russia ETF (RSX) , the biggest U.S.-traded
exchange-traded fund that holds Russian shares, rose 0.4 percent
to $27.87. The RTS Volatility Index, which measures expected
swings in the index futures, advanced 1.5 percent to 30.17.  VimpelCom will probably report a sales increase in Russia,
Ukraine, Asia and Africa, that will offset a revenue slump in
 Europe  and  North America , UralSib said. The company’s net income
is expected to rise 23 percent to $291 million, according to the
mean estimate of three analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  The company, which became the world’s sixth-largest
wireless operator by subscribers last year after merging with
Italy’s Wind Telecom SpA, probably lost as much as $165 million
after the ruble and the euro weakened against the dollar in the
second quarter, OAO Nomos Bank said.  Russia’s ruble, the worst performer among 25 emerging-
market currencies in the second quarter, weakened by 9.5 percent
against the dollar in the period, while the euro lost 5.1
percent.  ‘Even Be Higher’  “The numbers would be rather good and could even be higher
if it was not for the depreciation of currencies in its largest
countries of operation,” Evgeny Golosnoy, analyst at  Nomos
Bank, said by phone yesterday from Moscow. “We expect the stock
to be more affected by the resolution of ownership issues
between its two largest shareholders.”  Russia’s Anti-Monopoly Service is disputing Oslo-based
Telenor’s right to increase its stake in VimpelCom after the
Nordic company bought an 11.3 percent stake from Egyptian
billionaire  Naguib Sawiris ’s Investments II SARL in February.
Russia’s FAS, as the agency is known, said it didn’t give
permission to Telenor to increase its stake in VimpelCom, a
claim that Telenor rejected. The first hearing on the merits of
the regulator’s claim was originally scheduled for Oct. 17.  Telenor owns a 35.7 percent stake in VimpelCom, Sawiris’s
Weather Investment’s has an 18.8 percent and  Alfa Group ’s Altimo
owns  a 31.4 percent stake, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  RusHydro Gains  VimpelCom rose to $9.38 yesterday, sending valuations to
8.98 times estimated earnings. Mobile TeleSystem, known as MTS,
gained 0.9 percent to $19.37, trading at 11.47 times estimated
earnings.  OAO  RusHydro (RSHYY) , Russia’s largest hydropower company, advanced
2.7 percent to $2.70 in New York yesterday and was the biggest
gainer on the Bloomberg-Russia US Index. The  stock  rose 2.4
percent to 88.32 kopeks in Moscow, or 2.8 U.S. cents. Each ADR
represents 100 ordinary shares.  OAO Surgutneftegas (SGTPY) , Russia’s fourth-biggest oil producer,
was the second-biggest gainer on the Bloomberg Russia-US Equity
Index as the stock rose 1.6 percent to $6.33 yesterday. Shares
rose 1.5 percent to 20.23 rubles, or 63 U.S. cents in Moscow.  OAO Gazprombank, the country’s third-largest lender, cut its
recommendation on the stock to hold from buy after the company
completed a secondary offering.  Oil Climbs  Urals crude, Russia’s chief export blend, increased 1.1
percent to $114.56 per barrel, the highest since May 2. Russia
depended on revenue from oil and gas for 50 percent of its 2011
budget.  Crude for September delivery rose 0.8 percent to $93.43 a
barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange  yesterday. Brent oil
for September settlement, which expires on Aug. 16, gained 0.4
percent to $114.03 a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures
Europe exchange.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Halia Pavliva in  New York  at 
 hpavliva@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tal Barak Harif at 
 tbarak@bloomberg.net  