-- Australia Keeps Barnes for Rugby Championship as Pumas Name Team
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2012-08-14T16:43:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-14/wallabies-keep-barnes-omit-cooper-for-rugby-championship-opener.html
Australia  retained Berrick Barnes
at fly-half and omitted Quade Cooper for this week’s Rugby
Championship opener against world champion  New Zealand . Juan
Martin Hernandez will make his first start in more than three
years for  Argentina ’s tournament debut in  South Africa .  Barnes kept his starting spot at No. 10 after consecutive
man-of-the-match performances against  Wales  in June.  Dave Dennis 
will make his second start at blindside flanker in a back-row
shuffle that moves  Scott Higginbotham  to No. 8. Anthony Fainga’a
was picked at inside center in place of the injured  Pat McCabe .  “Berrick played very well through June,” Wallabies coach
 Robbie Deans  said in a televised news conference. “Quade isn’t
at the top of his fitness yet, but he’s back in the game which
is great. He’s working hard. He was obviously an option, but in
the end it was pretty straightforward.”  Cooper, who helped Australia break its decade-long title
drought in the Tri-Nations last year, has had limited match time
since returning in May following a seven-month layoff with a
knee injury sustained at the  Rugby World Cup  in October.  The Aug. 18 game at Sydney’s ANZ Stadium will be the teams’
first meeting since the All Blacks’ 20-6 win in the World Cup
semifinal. As well as kicking off the expanded annual southern
hemisphere championship, the game doubles as the first of three
Bledisloe Cup Tests between the neighbors in 2012.  The Wallabies last won a Bledisloe Cup series outright in
2001 and this year is the first best-of-three contest for the
trophy since 1998, having been played over two or four matches
in the time since.  Valuable Experience  Winger  Drew Mitchell , who was sidelined for most of the
Super Rugby season because of an ankle injury, was included on
the bench and may play his first Test for Australia since
injuring his hamstring in the World Cup group stage.  “We needed cover in the outside backs,” Deans said of the
decision to include Mitchell. “In terms of his best state he’s
not there, but he’s well under way and his experience in this
sort of cauldron is very valuable.”  Australia, New Zealand and South Africa, who had faced each
other in the Tri-Nations since 1996, will this year be joined by
Argentina, which had previously been the only  top-10 ranked team 
that didn’t play in an annual international tournament.  Argentina coach Santiago Phelan today named his team for
the Pumas’ opener against the Springboks on Aug. 18 in Cape
Town. Back-rower Juan Martin Fernandez Lobbe will captain a
starting 15 featuring 12 players from last year’s  World Cup  in
New Zealand.  Hernandez was chosen at fly-half for his first start since
playing the last of his 32 Tests against  England  in June 2009.
He’s been hampered by injuries including a damaged ligament in
his right knee that required surgery.  Nicknamed “El Mago,” or the Magician, the 30-year-old
Hernandez was shortlisted for the International Rugby Board’s
Player of the Year award after helping the Pumas finish third at
the 2007 World Cup.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  