-- Wells Fargo Pays $6.5 Million to Resolve SEC Broker Claims
-- B y   G r e g o r y   M o t t
-- 2012-08-14T17:58:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-14/wells-fargo-pays-6-5-million-to-resolve-sec-broker-claims-1-.html
Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC)  will pay more than
$6.5 million to resolve U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission
claims that a brokerage unit and former employee sold complex
securities without disclosing risks to investors.  The brokerage now known as Wells Fargo Securities
improperly sold asset-backed commercial paper structured with
mortgage-backed securities and collateralized debt obligations
to municipalities, non-profits and other customers during 2007,
the SEC said today in a statement announcing the settled
 administrative proceeding . The San Francisco-based bank didn’t
get sufficient information about the securities and relied
almost exclusively on credit ratings, the SEC said.  “Broker-dealers must do their homework before recommending
complex investments to their customers,” Elaine C. Greenberg,
chief of the SEC Enforcement Division’s Municipal Securities and
Public Pensions Unit, said in the agency’s statement.
“Municipalities and other non-profit institutions were harmed
because Wells Fargo abdicated its fundamental responsibility as
a broker to have a reasonable basis for its investment
recommendations to customers.”  Wells Fargo, which resolved the SEC’s claims without
admitting or denying wrongdoing, will pay $65,000 in
disgorgement and $16,751.96 in interest in addition to a $6.5
million fine, the SEC said.  “These issues occurred more than five years ago and
pertain to a part of the firm that was completely revamped,”
Ancel Martinez, a Wells Fargo spokesman, said in an e-mail. “We
are pleased to put this matter behind us.”  Shawn Patrick McMurtry, a former Wells Fargo Securities
vice president who left the company in June, will pay a $25,000
penalty and received a six-month suspension, the SEC said.  A phone message left at a listing for McMurtry in  St. Paul ,
 Minnesota , wasn’t immediately returned.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gregory Mott in Washington at 
 gmott1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gregory Mott at 
 gmott1@bloomberg.net  