-- Wells Fargo Challenges Ally With Expanded Auto-Loan Plan
-- B y   D a k i n   C a m p b e l l
-- 2012-08-14T16:04:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-14/wells-fargo-challenges-ally-with-expanded-auto-loan-plan.html
Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC)  is expanding loans
to customers of  General Motors Co. (GM) , threatening to take business
from  Ally Financial Inc. (ALLY)  as the bailed-out auto lender seeks a
turnaround.  GM, the biggest U.S. automaker, already had chosen Wells
Fargo, the bank with the biggest branch network, to provide
financing to Chevrolet, Buick, GMC and Cadillac dealers and
customers in its U.S. west marketing region. The agreement has
since broadened to include the south central region, and San
Francisco-based Wells Fargo wants more, said Tom Wolfe, who
heads the unit that oversees auto and credit-card loans.  “We like the relationship, so we’d certainly like to think
about expanding it,” Wolfe said in an Aug. 10 interview. It’s a
program “we can offer to other manufacturers,” he said.  Wells Fargo, last year’s No. 2 auto lender, is pushing
deeper into a market that was dominated in 2011 by Ally, the
Detroit-based firm once owned by GM. Banks are pursuing auto
financing after the category  performed better  than most other
consumer debt during the financial crisis, and U.S. sales of
cars and light trucks climbed 14 percent this year through July.  The GM accord allows Wells Fargo to bid on “subvented”
loans, made to consumers at below-market rates for the
automaker’s marketing campaigns, Wolfe said. It also allows
Wells Fargo to provide commercial services such as treasury or
wealth management to GM dealers, he said. On subvented loans,
the automaker pays the lender to make up the difference.  ‘Captive Offerings’  “Wells Fargo continues to complement our captive offerings
through GM Financial, our extensive relationship with Ally, and
our leasing program with  U.S. Bank (USB) ,” Dave Roman, a GM
spokesman, said in an e-mail.  GM’s subvented business accounted for 18 percent of Ally’s
total U.S. originations in the second quarter, compared with 7
percent for Chrysler Group LLC, the carmaker controlled by  Fiat
SpA (F) , according to a presentation.  “We have continued to broaden and diversify our business
and have reduced reliance on the subvented business,” said  Gina Proia , an Ally spokeswoman. “The auto-finance business has seen
significant levels of competition for some time now as many
banks have tried to find growth. We compete in the market every
day, and in the second quarter Ally posted its second-highest
level of U.S. consumer originations in five years.”  Ally’s Goals  Ally Chief Executive Officer Michael Carpenter, 65, is
searching for ways to repay U.S. bailouts exceeding $17 billion
that left the U.S. Treasury Department with a 74 percent stake,
and to refocus his firm on auto lending and online banking.  “Our objective in life is pretty straightforward,”
Carpenter said during an Aug. 1 conference call. “It’s to
continue building the auto business, to continue to build the
bank, and it’s to get the U.S. government completely out of
their shareowner position.” The latter goal has been delayed by
the May bankruptcy of Ally’s Residential Capital mortgage unit.  Ally has a contract to be GM’s preferred lender through
Dec. 31, 2013. Wolfe said that while Wells Fargo would like to
do more with the automaker, the decision is “really up to GM
and what their timelines and goals are.”  Wells Fargo rose 22 cents, or 0.6 percent, to $34.18 at
11:45 a.m. in  New York . The shares have gained 24 percent this
year, compared with the 19 percent return for the 24-company KBW
Bank Index.  Potential Bidders  Wells Fargo, run by CEO  John Stumpf , 58, extended $20.2
billion in indirect auto loans through about 11,900 dealers in
2011, according to a May  presentation . The bank also provides
commercial services for more than 850 dealers, the presentation
showed.  The lender also may seek to do more financing for Chrysler,
which has an arrangement with Ally expiring next year. The
agreement entitles Ally to finance a minimum percentage of
vehicles sold with subvented loans, generating about $50 billion
in annual originations.  Wells Fargo is among banks such as Santander Holdings USA
Inc., General Electric Capital Corp., U.S. Bancorp and  JPMorgan
Chase & Co. (JPM)  that have negotiated with Chrysler about its auto-
financing needs, three people familiar with the talks said in
February. Wolfe declined to comment on any talks with Chrysler.  “As those things become available, we would be interested
in them,” Wolfe said. “The difference for us now is three
years ago, we didn’t have the capabilities to compete.”  Wells Fargo’s auto loans rose 18 percent to a record $6.6
billion in the second quarter from a year earlier, according to
a bank statement. The company doesn’t disclose how much it makes
from the GM relationship.  GM said yesterday its lending arm made a bid in July for
Ally’s international operations, which, if successful, could
more than double the unit’s consolidated assets. Ally is seeking
to divest more than $30 billion of assets in  Canada ,  Mexico ,
 Europe  and  Latin America .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dakin Campbell in  San Francisco  at 
 dcampbell27@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 David Scheer  at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net . 