-- Westfield Seeks Development Partners, Explores New Markets
-- B y   N i c h o l a   S a m i n a t h e r
-- 2012-08-15T06:49:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-14/westfield-net-income-climbs-31-4-as-westfield-retail-sees-drop.html
Westfield Group (WDC) , the world’s biggest
shopping mall operator by assets, is seeking joint-venture
partners for developments and expansion in  Brazil  and  Asia  after
a 69 percent surge in project income helped boost first-half
earnings.  Westfield’s  net income  jumped 31 percent in the six months
ended June 30, the Sydney-based company said in a statement to
the Australian stock exchange. The company is looking for more
partnerships for developments and plans to earn about A$200
million ($209 million) a year managing the projects, Peter Lowy,
co-chief executive officer of Westfield, said.  “We’re concentrated on bringing in joint venture partners,
decreasing the amount of capital we have in the assets,” Lowy
said in a telephone interview in Sydney today. “We see
opportunities to grow in western  Europe ,  South America  and Asia,
to do projects of the caliber of Westfield London, the World
Trade Center in  New York , Sydney central business district.”  Westfield in 2010 shifted its focus to higher-return
activities including development after spinning off the
domestically-focused Westfield Retail Trust. Peter and Steven Lowy, who took over the helm of the company from their father
Frank in May 2011, have since announced moves into New York
city, Brazil and Milan, in partnership with local companies and
started joint ventures with groups including APG Algemene
Pensioen Groep NV and the Canada Pension Plan Investment Board.  New Malls  Westfield Group  shares  climbed 0.5 percent to A$9.63 at the
close of trading in Sydney today. They’ve jumped 23 percent in
2012, compared with a 5.5 percent gain in the benchmark S&P/ASX
200 index.  Westfield is looking at using its venture in Brazil, where
it owns 50 percent of mall operator Almeida Junior Shopping
Centers SA, to expand further in the country,  Peter Lowy  said
today. It is also considering moving into Asia and developing
individual malls in European cities, he said, without providing
further details.  “You could see us just have the mall in Milan, or a mall
in Paris or in  Germany ,” Peter Lowy said. “Just one mall, a
site-specific strategy, not a country strategy.”  Westfield today said  net income  rose to A$800.1 million in
the six months ended June 30, from A$608.7 million a year
earlier. Funds from operations rose to A$751.2 million, compared
with a forecast of A$760.3 million, according to the median of
three analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg News.  ‘No Surprises’  Westfield’s net property income in the U.K. grew 15
percent, driven by strong performance at its Stratford City
center, adjacent to the site of the London Olympics, Peter Lowy
said. In  Australia , property income increased 4 percent and in
 New Zealand , income climbed 6 percent.  “Westfield’s result was in line with expectations,”
Winston Sammut, managing director of Maxim Asset Management,
said in an e-mailed response to questions. “No surprises, and
guidance for the full year is unchanged, and development starts
are on track.”  Westfield Group expects to start more than A$500 million of
projects in the second half, of which the company will fund
between A$100 million and A$200 million, it said.  Westfield Retail  Westfield Retail Trust reported a 5.3 percent drop in net
income to A$416.9 million. The trust, which owns interests in
Westfield’s Australian and New Zealand malls, reported first-
half distributable earnings of A$282.7 million, compared with
A$274.9 million a year earlier. The forecast was for A$286.7
million, according to the median of four analyst estimates
compiled by Bloomberg News.  The shares slipped 1.3 percent to A$2.99, paring its
advance this year to 20 percent.  Westfield Retail will pay out all its distributable
earnings for the full year in a dividend of 18.75 Australian
cents a share, it said.  The trust, which plans as much as A$300 million in
developments a year, will fund them by raising gearing -- the
proportion of debt to equity capital -- from its current 21.8
percent, managing director Domenic Panaccio said in a telephone
interview from Sydney. It will also sell some assets, he said,
declining to identify potential divestments.  Capital Recycling  “Our strategy is to recycle capital, to continually
improve our existing portfolio and get incremental returns,” he
said. “Given our strong balance sheet and low gearing, we have
plenty of capacity to maintain our distribution.”  Westfield Retail will pay 9.25 cents a share for the half,
it said. Westfield Group will pay a dividend of 24.75 Australian
cents a share for the half, and expects funds from operations in
the year ending Dec. 31 to be 65 cents a share, it said.  Westfield Group and  Westfield Retail Trust (WRT)  this week said
they’re in talks with AMP Ltd. on a possible restructure of
their joint venture, following a report in the Australian
newspaper on Aug. 10 that they will divide up about A$6 million
of jointly-held malls in Sydney, Melbourne and Brisbane. Peter
Lowy declined to comment on the talks with AMP.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nichola Saminather in Sydney at 
 nsaminather1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  