-- Wholesale Prices in U.S. Climbed More Than Forecast in July
-- B y   L o r r a i n e   W o e l l e r t   a n d   A l e x   K o w a l s k i
-- 2012-08-14T13:11:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-14/wholesale-prices-in-u-s-climbed-more-than-forecast-in-july.html
Wholesale prices in the U.S. climbed
more than forecast in July, reflecting higher costs for
automobiles, cigarettes and pharmaceuticals.  The  producer price index  rose 0.3 percent after an increase
of 0.1 percent in June, the Labor Department reported today in
Washington. The median estimate in a Bloomberg survey of 78
economists called for a 0.2 percent gain.  Core inflation , which
excludes volatile food and energy prices, climbed 0.4 percent,
the most since January.  Compared with last year, the pace of core inflation cooled,
a sign the global economic slowdown is limiting price pressures
and giving Federal Reserve policy makers leeway to take more
action if needed to spur growth. At the same time, a recent
rebound in fuel costs and higher agriculture prices will
probably prevent input costs from receding further.  “We’re not terribly worried about inflation at the moment
given the general weakness in the economy,” said Jeremy Lawson,
senior U.S. economist at BNP Paribas in  New York . The Fed’s
view, “which will remain so after this data, is inflation is
more likely to fall short of their target in the next couple
years than exceed it,” Lawson said.  Another report showed retail sales rose more than forecast
in July, easing some concern consumer spending, the biggest part
of the economy, was foundering. The 0.8 percent advance, the
first gain in four months, followed a 0.7 percent decrease in
June, Commerce Department figures showed. Economists projected a
0.3 percent rise, according to the median forecast in a
Bloomberg survey.  Shares Rise  Stock-index futures climbed after the reports. The Standard
& Poor’s 500 Index rose 0.4 percent to 1,407.6 at 9:10 a.m. in
New York.  Treasury securities  fell, sending the yield on the
benchmark 10-year note up to 1.72 percent from 1.67 percent late
yesterday.  Economists’ estimates for producer prices ranged from a
decline of 0.2 percent to an increase of 0.6 percent.  Core wholesale prices were projected to rise 0.2 percent
for a fifth month, the Bloomberg survey showed. About 40 percent
of the increase in the core last month was attributable to a 1.6
percent jump in the cost of light motor trucks, the report said.  Compared with a year ago, companies paid 0.5 percent more
for goods, the smallest increase since October 2009, after a 0.7
percent rise. The core index increased 2.5 percent in the 12
months ended in July, the smallest gain since June of last year.  Fuel Prices  Fuel costs fell 0.4 percent from the prior month, the fifth
straight decline.  The cost of finished consumer foods rose 0.5 percent for a
second month.  Prices of passenger cars increased 1.1 percent, the most
since June 2009, while light trucks climbed 1.6 percent, the
biggest gain since November 2009.  Costs of cigarettes climbed 2.1 percent in July, the
biggest increase in a year. Pharmaceutical preparations cost 0.9
percent more in July than a month earlier, the most in six
months.  Expenses for intermediate goods decreased 0.9 percent, and
those for crude goods rose 1.8 percent.  The producer price index is one of several inflation
measures monitored by the  Federal Reserve . Another, the  consumer
price index , due tomorrow, is expected to increase by 0.2
percent, according to the median estimate in a Bloomberg survey
of economists.  Federal Reserve  Fed officials anticipate inflation to grow “at or below”
their goal of 2 percent, the  Federal Open Market Committee  said
on Aug. 1. Subdued inflation could give the central bank more
latitude to attempt to stimulate growth by injecting more
liquidity into the economy when they meet next month.  Corporate customers remain sensitive to price increases,
said Bill DeLaney, president and chief executive officer of
Sysco Corp., a Houston-based food distributor.  “Until this economy shows more consistent improvement and
until our customers participate in that, there’s going to
continue to be a lot of pricing pressure out there,” DeLaney
said on an Aug. 13 earnings call.  “As we’ve talked about
margin pressure over the last 12 to 18 months, we’ve attributed
a lot of that to the challenges of passing along mid- to high-
single-digit rates of inflation in a marketplace that’s still
pretty fragile.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lorraine Woellert in  Washington  at 
 lwoellert@bloomberg.net ;
Alex Kowalski in Washington at 
 akowalski13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  