-- Wilmar Profit Falls 70% on Oilseeds, Grains, Plantations
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   Y u n
-- 2012-08-14T12:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-14/wilmar-second-quarter-profit-falls-70-on-oilseeds-losses.html
Wilmar International Ltd. (WIL) , the
world’s biggest palm-oil processor, said its second-quarter
profit dropped 70 percent following losses at its oilseeds and
grains business and on lower earnings from its plantations.  Net income  fell to $117.1 million in the three months ended
June 30 from $393.1 million a year earlier, the Singapore-based
company said today in a statement. That missed the $316.5
million average of three analyst estimates in a Bloomberg
survey. Sales rose 4.3 percent to $11 billion.  Wilmar’s profit dropped a second straight quarter as higher
soybean prices, combined with escalating competition hurt
crushing margin for companies. Its oilseeds and grains division
posted a pretax loss of $40 million in the quarter because of
negative crushing margin and depreciation of the  yuan  against
the  U.S. dollar , Wilmar said today.  “It’s quite disappointing,”  Ben Santoso , an analyst at
DBS Group Holdings Ltd. in Singapore, said by phone. “We still
have some concern on the overcapacity in Chinese crushing
capacity as well as recent rise in soybean prices, which would
impact feedstock prices.” Santoso said he will review his full-
year earnings forecast for Wilmar.  The stock gained 1.8 percent to S$3.39 at the close in
Singapore today, before the earnings announcement. Wilmar has
declined 32 percent this year, making it the  worst performing
member  on the benchmark Straits Times Index.  Poor Performance  Wilmar also recorded a pretax loss of $34.6 million,
compared with a profit of $34.9 million a year earlier, at its
non-core businesses on lower fertilizer and shipping profits and
higher losses from investments in securities.  “The poorer performance was largely due to losses at
oilseeds and grains from a continued difficult operating
environment in  China  and lower plantation profits and prices, a
drop in production yield and higher production cost,” Wilmar
said in the statement.  China Agri-Industries Holdings Ltd. (606) , the Hong Kong-listed
unit of China’s largest grains trader Cofco Ltd., said June 28
first-half profit fell as grain and soybean prices rose while
demand for starch and rice was sluggish and China’s oilseeds
crushing capacity continued to expand.  Soybean futures traded in  Chicago  averaged $14.03 a bushel
in the quarter, compared with $13.61 a bushel a year earlier,
and reached a record $16.915 a bushel on July 23 as the U.S.
endures its worst drought in a half century.  Palm Oil Mills  Pretax profit from Wilmar’s plantations and palm oil mills
fell 45.3 percent to $79.2 million in the quarter. Production
yield dropped 15 percent due to low crop in Malaysian states
Sabah and Sarawak and after effects of dry weather.  The palm and laurics processing business posted a 4.6
percent gain in pretax profit even though sales volume rose 17
percent. The drop in margins is due to lower prices for
oleochemicals and biodiesel products, Wilmar said.  Pretax loss at its sugar business widened to $60.3 million,
from $7.1 million a year earlier, due to wet weather in
 Australia  and higher maintenance costs.  Wilmar’s consumer products business posted a 7 percent gain
in sales volume and margin improved after the company increased
edible  oil prices  in China in March.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Yun in  Hong Kong  at 
 myun11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rebecca Keenan at 
 rkeenan5@bloomberg.net  