-- All Blacks Beat France to Seal Rugby Series; England, Japan Win
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2013-06-16T00:32:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-15/all-blacks-beat-france-to-win-rugby-series-japan-upsets-wales.html
New Zealand  shut out  France  30-0 to
win their three-Test rugby series with a match to spare.  England 
secured back-to-back victories in Argentina for the first time
and Japan upset Wales.  World champion New Zealand, which won last week’s opener
23-13, got tries from Julian Savea,  Ben Smith  and Beauden
Barrett at AMI Stadium in Christchurch last night, while fly-half Aaron Cruden kicked 15 points. It was the first time France
failed to score in a Test since a 21-0 loss to  Scotland  in 1990.  The top-ranked All Blacks, who have only lost once in their
past 21 games, will seek a 3-0 series sweep when the teams meet
again June 22 in New Plymouth.  In Buenos Aires, winger Marland Yarde scored two tries in
his Test debut as England overpowered Argentina 51-26 to win
their two-match contest 2-0. Freddie Burns, Rob Webber and Kyle
Eastmond also touched down for England, which was awarded two
penalty tries.  The victory gave England its first away series win against
the Pumas for 32 years following a 32-3 triumph in the opener.  Japan  defeated Six Nation champion Wales 23-8 in Tokyo
yesterday to tie their two-match contest at 1-1. It was Japan’s
first victory in the nine meetings between the teams.  The home team outscored Wales by two tries to one as inside
center Craig Wing and flanker Michael Broadhurst touched down.
Full-back Ayumu Goromaru also kicked 13 points.  South Africa and Samoa made the final of the Castle Lager
Series four-nation tournament next weekend after beating
Scotland and Italy in a double-header at Nelspruit’s Mbombela
Stadium last night.  The Springboks came back from 17-6 down in the second half
to beat Scotland 30-17, while Samoa defeated Italy 39-10.  After two rounds of the series,  South Africa  top the
standings ahead of Samoa because of a better points difference
and the two will play for the title at Loftus Versfeld in
Pretoria on June 22. Scotland and Italy, who remain winless,
will contest the early match.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  