-- Asian Stocks Decline for Fifth Week on Stimulus Concern
-- B y   A d a m   H a i g h
-- 2013-06-15T00:52:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-15/asian-stocks-decline-for-fifth-week-on-stimulus-concern.html
Asian  stocks  outside Japan fell for
a fifth week, the longest streak of losses in two years, amid
concern central banks are losing an appetite for more stimulus.
Japanese stocks rebounded the final day of the week as Nomura
Holdings Inc. and Fidelity Worldwide advised buying shares.  Newcrest Mining Ltd. fell a third week amid after the
 Australia ’s biggest gold producer said it will write down the
value of its assets by as much as $5.7 billion. Nomura Holdings
Inc., Japan’s largest brokerage, climbed 1.3 percent with the
Topix index little changed after a fourth week of swings.
Chinese shares in Hong Kong capped a record losing streak.  The  MSCI Asia Pacific excluding Japan Index  dropped 1.3
percent this week to 440.07, extending this year’s loss to 6.6
percent. A  gauge  that includes Japanese shares added 0.3 percent
for the week. The Hang Seng  China  Enterprises Index fell for a
record 12 straight days through June 14 amid concern that growth
is slowing in the world’s No. 2 economy.  “There’s lots of confusion around the world at present
about what central bank policy means for the outlook of the
global economy, earnings and valuations,” Matthew Sherwood, the
Sydney-based head of investment market research at Perpetual
Ltd., which manages about $25 billion, said by e-mail. “The Fed
is likely to continue to be ambiguous about its next step,
probably because it’s not sure. This will see markets continue
to be volatile.”  More than $1 trillion was wiped from the value of the Asia-Pacific benchmark equities gauge from May 20 through June 13.  Unwinding Stimulus  Investors have sold shares amid concern that global central
banks won’t inject more funds in the event that the U.S. Federal
Reserve decides to begin winding back its record stimulus
program. Investors pulled $8.5 billion from global equity funds
in the week to June 12, according to Citigroup Inc.  The Bank of  Japan  kept its policy unchanged June 11 and
refrained from allowing longer fixed-rate loans to banks to stem
debt market volatility, even after spikes in Japanese government
bond yields.  Investors will scrutinize discussions among policy makers
at the U.S. central bank when they meet next week after Fed
Chairman Ben S. Bernanke said May 22 that the central bank could
scale back stimulus should the job market show “sustainable
improvement.”  “People are still trying to assess the prospects,
likelihood and timing of tapering from the Federal Reserve,”
Chris Green, an Auckland-based strategist at First NZ Capital
Ltd., a brokerage and wealth management firm, said. “Markets
want stability in the economy but they also want unlimited
stimulus. The two can’t continue to exist together.”  Emerging Outflow  Overseas investors unloaded a net $2.7 billion from the
Thai, Indonesian and Philippine stock markets so far this month,
the biggest eight-day outflow since Bloomberg began compiling
the data in March 1999. The three countries had led the four-year rally in global stocks through last month, and are now
among the biggest losers.  Hong Kong’s  Hang Seng Index (HSI)  fell 2.8 percent this week, a
fifth week of declines, making it the worst performer among the
world’s developed equity markets, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The Hang Seng China Enterprises gauge fell 5.1
percent, taking the decline to 21 percent, and pushing the so-called H-shares into a bear market.  China’s Shanghai Composite Index retreated 2.2 percent,
dragging valuations for the benchmark index to a six-month low.  Australia’s S&P/ASX 200 Index added 1.1 percent, while New
Zealand’s NZX 50 Index lost 0.4 percent. South Korea’s Kospi
Index slipped 3.9 percent and  Taiwan ’s Taiex index fell 2
percent.  Singapore ’s Straits Times Index lost 0.7 percent.  Friday Rally  Japanese shares rallied the final day of the trading week
after Nomura Holdings Inc. and Fidelity Worldwide said the
country’s market would climb to new highs. The gains weren’t
enough to recoup losses from earlier in the week.  The Topix index sank 0.1 percent this week, a fourth week
of losses following on from its worst three-week decline since
the the global financial crisis in 2008. The Nikkei 225 Stock
Average dropped 1.5 percent, falling into a bear market after
retreating more than 20 percent from a May 22 high.  Even after a 17 percent fall from last month, the Topix has
climbed 23 percent this year, making it the best-performing
major equity gauge in the developed world.  With more than $500 billion wiped from Japan’s equity
markets from the May high through June 13, brokerages and
investors are seeing buying opportunities.  ‘Bullish Stance’  “Assuming that Abenomics has not been defeated, we see no
reason to become bearish on Japanese stocks, and recommend a
bullish stance,” analysts led by Hiromichi Tamura at Nomura
wrote in a report June 13. The brokerage increased its year-end
estimate for the Topix to 1,500 from 1,350, while boosting the
outlook for earnings per share to 82.5 from 75.  Analysts say  earnings  for Topix companies will jump 53
percent this fiscal year to 78.85 yen a share. After retreating
18 percent since May 22, the gauge is trading at 13.4 times
estimated earnings, compared with 16.6 in May and the three-year
average of 14.6. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index, where earnings
are expected to rise 11 percent this year, trades for 14.8 times
forecast profit.  “There are reasons to be optimistic that further weakness
will be temporary and that the peak is not behind us,” Alex Treves, head of equities Japan for Fidelity Worldwide, which
manages about $248 billion, said by e-mail. “The key drivers of
the rally remain intact, valuations are still reasonable and
earnings are projected to recover to 2007 highs.”  China Stocks  ICBC as the world’s biggest lender is known, dropped 3.2
percent to HK$5.07 as data pointed to slowing economic growth in
China and the World Bank cut its outlook for global expansion.
Aluminum Corp. of China, the nation’s No. 1 producer of the
light metal, tumbled 10 percent to HK$2.60. Zijin Mining Corp.,
China’s No. 1 gold miner, plunged 13 percent to HK$1.81.  Newcrest Mining slid 6.3 percent to A$11.57, among the
worst performers on the Asia-Pacific benchmark this week. Bank
of America Corp. cut its recommendation on shares of the gold
producer, citing risks of a capital-raising should the price of
the precious metal fall below $1,200 an ounce. The write downs
and a plan to cut about 250 jobs were “painful,” though a
necessary response to gold’s decline, Chief Executive Officer
Greg Robinson told analysts on a conference call June 7.  ASX Ltd. (ASX)  posted the biggest weekly loss in 3 1/2 years,
falling 6.1 percent to A$33.15, amid a A$553 million ($530
million) capital raising at the operator of Australia’s main
stock exchange to ensure its clearing business complies with new
regulations.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Haigh in Sydney at 
 ahaigh1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  