-- Tax Havens Linked to U.K. Sign Up to Extended Transparency Code
-- B y   R o b e r t   H u t t o n
-- 2013-06-15T15:58:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-15/tax-havens-linked-to-u-k-sign-up-to-extended-transparency-code.html
Britain’s network of overseas
territories and dependencies agreed to Prime Minister  David Cameron ’s request that they sign up to extended transparency
rules aimed at preventing  tax evasion .  The islands around Britain known as the Crown Dependencies
-- Jersey, Guernsey and the  Isle of Man  -- joined the British
Virgin Islands, Bermuda,  Cayman Islands , Gibraltar, Anguilla,
Montserrat and the Turks and Caicos Islands in agreeing to
support an automatic tax information exchange begun by the U.K.,
Germany, France, Italy and Spain.  They also agreed to join the Multilateral Convention on
Mutual Administrative Assistance on Tax Matters, and to publish
action plans how they they’d force companies to reveal
“beneficial ownership” -- the details of who is really behind
a firm. Cameron has put securing wider agreement on these
matters at the heart of his agenda for the Group of Eight summit
he’s hosting in Northern Ireland June 17-18.  “It is important we are getting our house in order,” the
prime minister said in a statement after the talks at his office
in  London . “It is a very positive step forward and it means
that Britain’s voice in the G-8 and the campaigning on this
issue around the world for proper taxes, proper companies and
proper laws will be stronger.”  The U.K. will establish its own register of beneficial
ownership, Cameron said.  “We need to know more about who owns which company --
beneficial ownership -- because that is how a lot of people and
a lot of companies avoid tax, using secretive companies in
secretive locations,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Hutton in London at 
 rhutton1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  