-- BP Shareholders Seek to Sue as Group Over 2010 Gulf Spill Losses
-- B y   L a u r e l   B r u b a k e r   C a l k i n s   a n d   M a r g a r e t   C r o n i n   F i s k
-- 2013-06-15T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-15/bp-investors-seek-class-status-over-2010-gulf-spill-losses-1-.html
BP Plc (BP/) ’s U.S. investors asked a
federal court to grant class action, or group, status for their
lawsuit claiming the company misled them before and after the
2010 spill in the  Gulf of Mexico .  The investors, led by the  New York  and Ohio pension funds,
sued BP and certain officers in 2010, alleging violations of
U.S. securities laws. The investors also claim the company
publicly proclaimed a commitment to safety improvement while
internally cutting budgets and rejecting employees’ concerns
about safety.  The investors are seeking permission to sue in two groups.
The larger group, comprised primarily of institutional
investors, includes all buyers of BP’s American depositary
receipts from Nov. 8, 2007, to May 28, 2010. A subgroup,
claiming to represent about 900,000 individual investors,
purchased BP ADRs from March 4, 2009, to April 20, 2010, the
date BP’s Macondo well blew out, unleashing the largest offshore
spill in U.S. history.  All the investors contend the depositary receipts “were
artificially inflated as a result of defendants’ dissemination
of materially false and misleading statements and material
omissions,” the investors’ attorneys said in a filing yesterday
in federal court in Houston.  “All suffered losses when the truth surrounding those
misstatements and material omissions were revealed to the market
and BP’s stock price declined,” they said.  Market Value  BP  shares  fell about 40 percent in the weeks after the
explosion, investors said in court papers. The drop eliminated
billions of dollars in the company’s market value, which hasn’t
fully recovered.  Scott Dean , a spokesman for London-based BP, declined to
comment on the filing.  “It’s been over three years now, and we’re looking forward
to a trial in August of next year,” Richard Mithoff, the
Houston attorney representing individual investors in the case,
said in a phone interview. “We believe we’ll be able to recover
substantial losses on behalf of shareholders who have suffered
enormously.”  The investors also sued BP’s former Chief Executive Officer
 Tony Hayward  and  Doug Suttles , ex-chief operating officer of
BP’s exploration unit, over statements the men made in
connection with the spill.  Hayward allegedly misled investors about how thoroughly BP
had improved its safety practices and was prepared to handle a
large spill in ultra-deep water, according to the complaint.
Both men allegedly lied publicly about the size of the spill in
order to prop up BP’s stock price, the investors claim.  Explosion, Sinking  Investor  securities-fraud  suits were among hundreds of
claims filed in U.S. courts after the explosion and sinking of
the Deepwater Horizon drilling rig off the Louisiana coastline
in April 2010. Eleven rig workers were killed in the blast,
which sent more than 4 million barrels of oil into the Gulf.  Ellison refused in March to dismiss the bulk of the
investors’ securities-fraud claims. He previously limited
participation in the litigation to investors who bought shares
on the U.S. stock exchange.  BP has denied fraud or any lack of attention to safety in
court filings. Investors are trying to “transform a matter
involving allegedly negligent processes into an action for
securities fraud,” the company said in court papers. “A
commitment to safety is not a guarantee that no future accidents
will occur.”  SEC Claim  BP agreed to pay $525 million to settle a U.S. Securities
and Exchange Commission claim that the company underestimated
the size of the spill. The company also pleaded guilty to a
felony count of obstruction of Congress related to its spill
size estimate.  The plea was part of a $4 billion settlement of criminal
charges brought by the U.S. against BP over the incident. The
company also pleaded guilty to 11 other felony counts related to
the rig workers’ deaths and two misdemeanor environmental law
violations.  BP is currently between phases of a different trial in
federal court in  New Orleans , where another judge is weighing
liability for the spill between BP and its contractors,
including  Transocean Ltd. (RIG) , which owned the rig, and  Halliburton
Co. (HAL) , which provided cementing services.  Testimony in the liability phase of that trial concluded in
April, and no decision has been announced. The second trial
phase will focus on the size of the spill, which will affect the
size of the fine BP would pay for violating the U.S. Clean Water
Act. That phase is scheduled to begin in September before the
New Orleans judge.  The case is In Re BP Plc Securities Litigation, 4:10-md-2185, U.S. District Court, Southern District of  Texas 
(Houston).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Margaret Cronin Fisk in Detroit at 
 mcfisk@bloomberg.net ;
Laurel Brubaker Calkins in Houston
at  laurel@calkins.us.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  