-- Cheers for Neymar, Jeers for Dilma as Brazil Beats Japan 3-0
-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 2013-06-16T12:03:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-15/cheers-for-neymar-jeers-for-dilma-as-brazil-beats-japan-3-0.html
Neymar needed just three minutes in
the opening match of the Confederations Cup to end concerns over
whether a nine-game goalless run was eroding his confidence.  The 21-year-old striker smashed a 25-meter (27-yard) shot
into the top corner of the net at the $750 million Mane
Garrincha stadium in Brasilia as  Brazil  began the soccer
competition with a 3-0 victory over Asian champion Japan.  Neymar, who this month completed a 57 million-euro ($76
million) move to Spanish champion Barcelona, is Brazil’s main
hope as it seeks to win a record-extending sixth World Cup on
home soil next year. In the build-up to yesterday’s game, the
former Santos striker had to defend himself from claims he was
suffering because of his barren run.  “This is Neymar,” Brazil defender  David Luiz  said in an
interview after the game. “When you speak about him he just
replies on the pitch. That’s why he’s a fantastic player.”  While Neymar was cheered by the 67,423 crowd, Brazil
President  Dilma Rousseff  and  Sepp Blatter , head of soccer’s
governing body FIFA, were jeered and whistled as they made
remarks to open the two-week tournament, a warm-up event for the
World Cup.  The booing intensified when Blatter admonished the crowd
for not showing “fair play” and “respect” to Rousseff.
Brazilians have protested projects linked to the World Cup,
including the 7 billion reais ($3.3 billion) in public money
being spent on 12 stadiums.  Pele’s Plea  Police had earlier used tear gas to break up a
demonstration outside the stadium after protestors blocked the
main access road for a second straight day. Banners said money
earmarked for the World Cup would be better spent on social
programs to ease inequality in the world’s sixth-largest
economy.  Inside the stadium, one of several whose long-term
sustainability has been questioned, Brazil dominated to earn
support from a crowd that hasn’t always been behind the team in
recent months.  Three-time  World Cup  winner Pele, Brazil’s all-time leading
goal scorer, this week urged supporters to back the team after
it was jeered during two of its past three exhibition games. A
loss of form has seen the team plummet to a record low of 22nd
in FIFA’s world rankings.  “The team has been improving game by game,” said Luiz.
“We can understand more about the philosophy of our coach
Felipao. Game by game we can improve and do better things.”  Medical Attention  Neymar, whose image was pasted onto a giant poster on a
high-rise building close to the stadium by one of his 12
sponsors, made his impact within minutes of an emotionally
charged rendition of the national anthem that had goalkeeper
Julio Cesar in tears.  After strike partner Fred laid the ball off with his chest,
Neymar hit a half-volley beyond Eiji Kawashima.  “It all happened in a flash,” Neymar said. “Fred
collected the ball and laid it off, I connected full on and
happily the ball found the target.”  The  Japan  goalkeeper prevented Brazil extending its lead
with a save at full stretch from Fred’s low shot.  Paulinho doubled Brazil’s lead three minutes after halftime
when Kawashima allowed the midfielder’s shot to slide under his
body. Neymar, who received medical attention following a
collision with an opponent, was replaced by Paris Saint-Germain’s Lucas Moura with 15 minutes to go. Substitute Jo
completed the scoring for the host nation in injury time at the
end of the game.  Group A rivals Mexico and  Italy  meet today in Rio de
Janeiro when world champion  Spain  opens its tournament against
Uruguay in Recife in Group B.  Nigeria  and Tahiti, the remaining
teams in the competition, play tomorrow in  Belo Horizonte .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tariq Panja in  Rio de Janeiro  at 
 tpanja@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  