-- Czech Ruling Parties to Meet With Necas on Brink Amid Spy Affair
-- B y   P e t e r   L a c a
-- 2013-06-15T22:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-15/czech-ruling-parties-to-meet-with-necas-on-brink-amid-spy-affair.html
The  Czech Republic ’s three ruling
parties will meet today to discuss the future of the government,
with a scandal over spying and bribery throwing the fate of
Prime Minister Petr Necas into question.  Necas’s position eroded yesterday after the junior
coalition party TOP09 stopped short of backing him, while saying
the Cabinet should continue until the 2014 elections. The
premier has refused to resign, prompting the poll-leading
opposition to call a no-confidence vote for June 18, with hopes
of forcing a snap ballot.  The government of Necas, 48, has been rocked by a scandal
that erupted on June 13 after nighttime police raids resulted in
the detention of eight people including Jana Nagyova, the head
of his office. She is charged with abuse of power in ordering
the illegal surveillance of three people and is linked to a
bribery case, in which prosecutors say former members of
parliament were offered jobs at state-controlled companies.  “Everything is possible in life, as you know,” Karel Schwarzenberg, the head of TOP09 who also serves as foreign
minister, told reporters yesterday. “We first need to discuss
details with our coalition partners how the government of fiscal
responsibility should look like. We created this government, and
we have to finish our work until the election term ends.”  Necas is entering his fourth year in power after quelling a
revolt over austerity in his  Civic Democratic Party  to become
the longest-serving Czech premier in a decade. Nagyova can’t
stay in her job after a court ordered her to remain in detention
following charges of abuse of power, he said in a statement
yesterday.  Koruna Drops  The koruna weakened 0.2 percent to 25.743 per euro on June
14, after losing 0.5 percent on June 13, the biggest retreat
among the world’s 31 major currencies tracked by Bloomberg,
after the raids on government offices took place. The benchmark
PX stock index fell for a fifth day to close the week 3.1
percent lower at a 10-month low.  Nagyova, who has worked with Necas since at least 2006, was
charged along with seven other people including the former and
current heads of military intelligence. During the raids,
officers from the organized crime police unit seized as much as
150 million koruna ($7.8 million) in cash and some gold after
raiding 31 homes.  To survive the no-confidence vote, Necas needs to rally the
support of at least half of the deputies in the 200-member
parliament. The three-party ruling coalition controls 97 seats
and has been relying on support from its former deputies who
defected their parties.  ‘Very Difficult’  The executive council of Necas’s party on June 14 voted to
back his premiership. The body voted by a ratio of two-to-one
for the decision, Necas said.  “The situation is very hard, very difficult, and the fact
that there were both positive and negative voices is natural in
this situation,” Necas said after the meeting, adding that the
voting showed “decent support” for him.  The Czech Republic, a former communist country, ranked 54th
of 174 countries in  Transparency International’s  2012 corruption
perception index, tied with Latvia, Malaysia and  Turkey . In the
27-member European Union, only Slovakia, Romania, Italy,
Bulgaria and  Greece  did worse.  Civil servants and military officials were charged with
abuse of power, while other detainees were charged with bribery
and corruption, prosecutor Ivo Istvan said. In the bribery case,
ex-lawmakers were offered jobs in state-owned companies,
according to Istvan.  ‘Private’ Matter  Nagyova illegally asked intelligence officers to spy on a
person in a “private” matter, Istvan said, without identifying
the victim. He didn’t elaborate on other victims. She faces as
much as five years in prison if convicted, according to Robert
Slachta, the head of the police organized crime unit. Nagyova
will appeal the court decision to keep her in custody, CTK
reported, citing her attorney Eduard Bruna.  “I never decided on, and I wasn’t informed about the
alleged following of people whose names are being mentioned in
the media,” Necas said in a statement. “Even though I wasn’t
aware of this action, I am deeply sorry about it and I apologize
to all who were to be affected.”  Prosecutors suspect that one of the detainees, a former
head of military intelligence service, was involved in spying on
Necas’ wife, which was ordered by Nagyova, CTK reported, citing
attorney Tomas Sokol. Necas, who is separated from his wife,
said in a statement on June 11 that the couple had agreed to an
uncontested divorce.  The  Social Democrats , the largest opposition party that
leads in opinion polls a year before elections, joined the
Communist Party in calling for Necas’s resignation.
Parliamentary Speaker Miroslava Nemcova set the preliminary date
for a vote against the Cabinet for June 18 in a special session
that starts at 2 p.m.  President Milos Zeman, a critic of the government and a
Social Democratic prime minister from 1998 to 2002, said the
charges are “very serious” and are backed by sufficient
evidence, CTK quoted him as saying yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Laca in Prague at 
 placa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  