-- Mellanox Premium Grows as Hours Expand: Israel Overnight
-- B y   B e l i n d a   C a o
-- 2013-06-15T21:00:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-15/mellanox-premium-grows-as-hours-expand-israel-overnight.html
Mellanox Technologies Ltd. (MLNX)  shares
traded in New York outperformed their local counterparts last
week, creating the highest premium among the most-traded Israeli
companies in the U.S. before the Tel Aviv Stock Exchange begins
its first week of operations with extended hours.  Mellanox, the Yokneam Elit, Israel-based maker of equipment
that speeds electronic data transfers, slipped 1.1 percent to
$50.32 on June 14 in New York, leaving the stock 4.3 percent
higher than shares traded in Tel Aviv. The Bloomberg Israel-US
Equity Index of the biggest Israeli companies traded in the U.S.
lost 0.7 percent, for a 0.5 percent drop in the week.  Allot
Communications Ltd. (ALLT)  advanced 5.7 percent as  Gazit-Globe Ltd. (GZT) 
posted the biggest decline, losing 7.7 percent.  Trading hours will be extended by an hour Mondays through
Thursdays beginning this week in a bid by the  Tel Aviv  Stock
Exchange to more closely align its day with foreign markets and
increase volume on the bourse, which dropped 44 percent from the
beginning of 2010 to the end 2012. The exchange may struggle to
bolster trading after MSCI Inc., whose equity indexes are
tracked by investors with about $7 trillion in assets, chose not
to recommend Israeli stocks for inclusion in its  Europe  Index
last week, according to William Scholes at Aberdeen Asset
Management Plc.  “The European Index would have been a huge bonus for the
market in terms of the volumes,” Scholes, assistant investment
manager at Aberdeen in  London , which manages a $72 million fund,
said in a telephone interview June 14. “ Israel  is no longer an
emerging market, nor does it belong to the indices of the
classic EMEA developed markets. It’s a tough position and that
has consequences for not just liquidity, but market
efficiency.”  MSCI Reclassification  MSCI Inc. (MSCI)  decided against including Israel in its Europe
Index last week, a change that Tel Aviv Stock Exchange head
Ester Levanon said June 6 would have lured as much as $2 billion
in foreign capital. Institutional investors consulted “are not
supportive of an inclusion of the MSCI Israel Index” in the
European gauge, the New York-based index provider said in a
statement June 11.  Trading will be stretched to 5:30 p.m. on the TASE, as the
exchange is known. The move is the latest step the bourse has
taken as it seeks to lure international investors after MSCI
Inc.’s 2010 reclassification of the market as developed reduced
flows. Volumes on the index  fell  7.8 percent in the first five
months of this year, according to data provided by the Tel Aviv
Stock Exchange.  “It seems like a fairly small measure,” Scholes said of
the trading hour extension. “If you talk to the local brokerage
houses, the liquidity going through the market daily is not
exactly putting a strain on the exchange, so a few hours on the
side is by no means a surefire way of offsetting not being
included in Europe. It’s hard to say what other measures are at
the exchange’s disposal.”  Underlying Value  Shares of Mellanox slumped 0.8 percent in the week,
outperforming a 5.6 percent tumble in Israel. The  New York 
share’s premium over the Tel Aviv stock was the biggest on the
Bloomberg Israel-US gauge. Shares of the Yokneam Elit, Israel-based company have slipped 10 percent since it said on May 30
that it will be delisted from the Tel-Aviv Stock Exchange on
Sept. 1. The shares will be replaced on bourse benchmarks
beginning today.  “The delisting doesn’t change the underlying value of
Mellanox, it remains a very differentiated leader in the area,”
Alex Gauna, a San Francisco-based analyst at JMP Securities LLC.
“We recommended that investors use this delisting pressure
that’s emerged in the stock as an opportunity to buy it.”  Gauna rates Mellanox “market outperform” or buy, with a
price target of $70.  Organic Growth  Listing just on the  Nasdaq  is “easier and cheaper,”
Mellanox’s Chief Executive Officer Eyal Waldman said in an
interview with Bloomberg Television in London June 13. Some 20
percent to 25 percent of Mellanox shares are held in Israel, UBS
AG said in a May 31 note.  Waldman said the company plans to grow organically and no
acquisitions are planned. The company said on May 15 that it
agreed to acquire Monterey Park, California-based Kotura Inc., a
developer of advanced silicon photonics optical interconnect
technology, for $82 million. Earlier this month, Mellanox said
it was buying Roskilde, Denmark-based Iptronics, a distributor
of electrical equipment.  Allot, which makes technology used by telecommunications
providers to track wireless traffic, posted the best weekly gain
in a month, while Gazit-Globe, a real estate company based in
Tel Aviv, had the steepest decline since 2011.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Belinda Cao in New York at 
 lcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Brendan Walsh  at 
 bwalsh8@bloomberg.net  