-- Facebook Releases Information on Security Data Requests
-- B y   B r i a n   W o m a c k   a n d   S y l v i a   W i e r
-- 2013-06-15T14:24:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-15/facebook-releases-information-on-security-data-requests.html
Facebook Inc. (FB)  and  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) 
said they received thousands of warrants for data from
government entities in the U.S. during the second half of 2012.  Facebook received 9,000 to 10,000 requests, while Microsoft
got 6,000 to 7,000, their legal executives said in blog posts
yesterday. The companies, seeking to reassure users that
authorities don’t have unfettered access to personal details,
said the numbers are a “tiny fraction” of their user bases.  Google Inc. (GOOG) , Facebook and Microsoft asked the U.S.
government for more leeway this week to report aggregate numbers
of data requests, following reports that the U.S. National
Security Agency is collecting millions of residents’ telephone
records and the Web communications of foreigners under court
order. While the companies have denied giving authorities direct
access to their systems, thousands of technology, finance and
manufacturing businesses are swapping intelligence with security
agencies, four people familiar with the process said.  “With more than 1.1 billion monthly active users
worldwide, this means that a tiny fraction of one percent of our
user accounts were the subject of any kind of U.S. state, local,
or federal U.S. government request” during the six months, Ted Ullyot, Facebook’s general counsel, said in a  blog post . “We
hope this helps put into perspective the numbers involved, and
lays to rest some of the hyperbolic and false assertions in some
recent press accounts about the frequency and scope of the data
requests that we receive.”  Data Disclosure  Facebook, based in  Menlo Park ,  California , said it complied
with 79 percent of the requests. Inquiries sent to Facebook
covered between 18,000 and 19,000 accounts and included
everything from local governments to NSA requests, according to
the company.  Microsoft said the data-security warrants affected 31,000
to 32,000 consumer accounts.  “This only impacts a tiny fraction of Microsoft’s global
customer base,”  John Frank , Microsoft’s deputy general counsel
wrote in a  blog post . “We continue to believe that what we are
permitted to publish continues to fall short of what is needed
to help the community understand and debate these issues.”  Both companies said they will push to release more
information to restore public confidence in the security of
their data.  Google’s Data  Google, based in  Mountain View , California, is also holding
discussions with authorities to disclose more information about
national-security requests, two other people with knowledge of
the matter said. The world’s biggest search provider said it has
“nothing to hide,” according to an  open letter  to Attorney
General Eric Holder and  Federal Bureau  of Investigation Director
 Robert Mueller  released this week.  “Google’s numbers would clearly show that our compliance
with these requests falls far short of the claims being made,”
 David Drummond , chief legal officer at Google, wrote on a June
11  blog post .  Google, in response to Facebook and Microsoft’s
disclosures, said it’s pushing authorities to let it
differentiate between varying types of government requests.  “Our request to the government is clear: to be able to
publish aggregate numbers of national security requests,
including FISA disclosures, separately,” the company said in an
e-mailed statement, referring to the Foreign Intelligence
Surveillance Act.  Greater Transparency  Andrew Ames, a spokesman for the  Justice Department , said
the U.S. had “reached agreements with certain providers” to
allow the publication of additional data pertaining to
government requests for user data -- part of a continued effort
to work with data providers “to afford greater transparency to
the public while preserving confidentiality required for  law
enforcement  or national security reasons.”  “These aggregate totals include all instances in which a
government entity has served lawful process on the providers –-
be it a grand jury subpoena or search warrant in a criminal
matter, a national security letter, a court order under FISA, or
another type of request pursuant to statutory authorization,”
Ames said in a statement.  AllThingsD reported the Web companies’ talks with the
government yesterday.  PRISM Program  The role of private companies has come under scrutiny since
Edward Snowden, a computer technician who did work for the NSA,
disclosed this month that the agency is collecting data under a
U.S. government program code-named PRISM. The project traces its
roots to warrantless domestic-surveillance efforts under former
President  George W. Bush . According to slides provided by
Snowden, PRISM gathers e-mails, videos and other private data of
foreign surveillance targets through arrangements that vary by
company, overseen by a secret panel of judges.  The technology companies said they hand over data to the
government only when compelled by law to do so. AOL Inc.,  Apple
Inc. (AAPL)  and Paltalk.com released statements saying they’ve never
heard of PRISM and don’t give authorities access without a court
order.  Google is seeking to disclose requests within the rules of
national security laws, including FISA. The three-decade-old law
lets intelligence agencies monitor the communications of non-U.S. citizens reasonably believed to be located outside the U.S.
and involved in terrorist activities or other crimes.  Along with the NSA, the Central Intelligence Agency, the
 Federal Bureau of Investigation  and branches of the U.S.
military have agreements with companies to gather data that
might seem innocuous yet could be highly useful in the hands of
U.S. intelligence or cyberwarfare units, according to the
people, who have either worked for the government or are in
companies that have these accords.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brian Womack in  San Francisco  at 
 bwomack1@bloomberg.net ;
Sylvia Wier in  New York  at 
 swier@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  