-- Finra Regulator Resigns After 1993 Bingo Fraud Is Leaked
-- B y   D a v e   M i c h a e l s
-- 2013-06-15T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-15/finra-regulator-resigns-after-1993-bingo-fraud-is-leaked.html
A top official for the Financial
Industry Regulatory Authority resigned after the agency was
informed he was indicted for felony theft and charitable bingo
fraud in 1993, the year he joined the agency.  Mitchell C. Atkins, a senior vice president who managed
Finra’s work in 11 states, quit after spending 20 years with the
brokerage industry self-regulator and its predecessor. A
Wisconsin broker who was the target of enforcement actions
overseen by Atkins wrote Finra about the indictment on May 21.  Nancy Condon, a Finra spokeswoman, confirmed that Atkins,
42, resigned. She declined to answer other questions, including
when he resigned and whether the regulator knew about his
indictment before he was hired. Atkins did not return a phone
message seeking comment.  Atkins joined the National Association of Securities
Dealers, Finra’s predecessor, in 1993, according to a statement
released when he took over the organization’s Florida office.
He oversaw a staff of 160 people regulating 850 brokerages,
according to his Finra  biography .  David Evansen, a Wisconsin-based broker who is appealing a
Finra decision to bar him from the industry, said Atkins’ past
probably would disqualify him from working in the brokerage
industry.  Evansen’s Letter  “It is well-established that the theft of funds, in any
context, results in an absolute bar to the privilege of working
at any member of Finra,” Evansen wrote to Finra Chief Executive
Officer Richard Ketchum and Executive Vice President Susan Axelrod on May 21.  Atkins and his father, Wilbur D. Atkins Jr., were indicted
and charged with felony theft and charitable bingo fraud in
March 1993 for misusing the proceeds of bingo games, according
to a copy of the indictment obtained from the Supreme Court of
Louisiana. Atkins’ father was stripped of his law license over
his role in the matter, according to the Louisiana Attorney
Disciplinary Board.  An investigation by the Louisiana State Police found a
health-care corporation formed by Atkins’ father reaped more
than $58,000 in bingo proceeds in 1991 and 1992, and that “no
money was received by any charitable organization,” according
to the disciplinary board’s summary of the probe. The company
had more than $1 million in debt at the time and hadn’t done any
business since 1988, the board’s record states.  License Rules  Holders of charitable gaming licenses can be prosecuted if
they use gaming proceeds for reasons other than “educational,
charitable, patriotic, religious or public-spirited purposes,”
Michael Legendre, director of the Louisiana Office of Charitable
Gaming, said in a telephone interview. Legendre wasn’t involved
in the Atkins investigation.  Atkins conceived the idea for holding bingo games and
leased a facility to hold them, according to the disciplinary
board’s record. More than $54,000 in proceeds were “funneled”
from the health-care company, which had a license to conduct
bingo, to a corporation operated by Atkins, according to the
record, which cites a Louisiana prosecutor’s statement.  In November 1993 Atkins agreed to plead guilty to
charitable bingo fraud, a misdemeanor, and prosecutors dropped
the felony theft charge, according to minutes of court
proceedings from Louisiana’s East Baton Rouge Parish. The
conviction was “set aside” after Atkins showed that he carried
out the terms of his sentence, including 100 hours of community
service and a $500 payment to the United Way, according to the
minutes.  Father’s Plea  Atkins’ father also pleaded guilty to charitable bingo
fraud. In moving to disbar Atkins’ father, a hearing committee
of the disciplinary board found he helped Mitch Atkins “commit
a criminal act.” The father violated his public duty by
knowingly misusing two companies “to divert funds from any
charitable or benevolent purpose,” the committee wrote.  Evansen said he looked into Atkins’ past after he decided
Atkins and his staff weren’t considering his communications
about an enforcement case against him. Finra banned Evansen from
the industry in 2011 after it said he failed to provide
information related to a customer’s claims of unsuitable
investment recommendations, unauthorized trades and excessive
trading, according to a record available on Finra’s website.  Evansen contends that the discipline was retaliation for a
whistle-blower complaint he made about a large brokerage and
clearing firm. Evansen was based in South Florida at the time.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dave Michaels in Washington at 
 dmichaels5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Maura Reynolds at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  