-- Mickelson Seeks U.S. Open Birthday Gift With Final-Day Lead
-- B y   M a s o n   L e v i n s o n   a n d   M i c h a e l   B u t e a u
-- 2013-06-16T16:33:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-15/mickelson-heads-into-u-s-open-weekend-tied-atop-leaderboard-2-.html
Phil Mickelson  is the only golfer
under par during today’s final round of the  U.S. Open  and is
confident he’ll snap a run of five runner-up finishes at the
event.  “I feel better equipped than I have ever felt heading into
the final round of a U.S. Open,” Mickelson said yesterday after
an even-par round at Merion Golf Club in Ardmore,  Pennsylvania .
“My ball striking is better than it’s ever been. My putting is
better than it has been in years, and I feel very comfortable on
this golf course. I love it.”  Today, on Mickelson’s 43rd birthday, he’ll begin his final
round at 1-under par, a stroke ahead of fellow Americans  Hunter Mahan  and  Steve Stricker  and South African Charl Schwartzel.
Mickelson and Mahan will tee off as the day’s final group at
3:20 p.m. local time. There’s a 60 percent chance of
thunderstorms later this afternoon, according to the  National
Weather Service .  Mickelson shot an even-par 70 yesterday, bogeying the 18th
hole. He’s held or shared the lead after each round and has a
chance to win his fifth major title and first U.S. Open.  Mahan and Schwartzel, the 2011 Masters Tournament champion,
each bogeyed their final two holes to finish with 1-under
rounds. Stricker had an even-par round with two birdies that
offset a double-bogey at the ninth hole.  The 46-year-old Stricker has never won a major title and
entered only six tournaments this year, opting to spend more
time with his family.  ‘Good Place’  “I’m in a good place mentally, I feel like I’m doing the
right thing by not playing,” Stricker said after his round.
“I’m enjoying my time at home, so it all makes sense in my mind
and I guess that’s the most important thing.”  Englishman Luke Donald, playing with Mickelson, fell out of
the lead yesterday when he bogeyed the 17th hole and Mickelson
made birdie at the long par-3.  Donald then double-bogeyed the 18th to drop to 1 over, tied
for fifth place with countryman  Justin Rose  and American Billy
Horschel, who shared the lead with Mickelson at 1 under at the
beginning of the round.  “I’ll take the positives out of today, a really solid 16
holes of golf that I played and I’m only two back,” 35-year-old
Donald said. “I got to No. 1 in the world and I’ve won a great
amount of tournaments around the world, but I would dearly love
to win one of these.”  After rain delayed the first two rounds, 68 golfers
returned to the course yesterday morning to finish the second
round. The cut for weekend play was at 8-over par, with 73
players advancing.  Woods Falters  Tiger Woods , the top-ranked player in the Official World
Golf Ranking, struggled to a third round of 76 on the par-70
course outside Philadelphia. He’s 8 over for the week after
beginning today’s final round with a birdie. Woods played
yesterday with second-ranked Rory McIlroy of  Northern Ireland ,
who finished at 8 over after a round of 75.  Mickelson flew back to the East Coast hours before his
first round after attending a middle-school graduation ceremony
for his oldest daughter in  California . He shot a 3-under 67 to
lead the tournament and he’s been in contention ever since.  Mickelson has won three of the four previous times he
entered the final round of a major as the leader. He won the
2004 and 2006 Masters and the 2005  PGA Championship , while
failing to win the 2006 U.S. Open at Winged Foot Golf Club,
finishing tied for second after a final-round 74.  Today he’ll have the chance to celebrate his birthday -- on
Fathers’ Day -- by winning an ever-elusive U.S. Open title.  “It’s got the makings to be something special, but I still
have to go out and perform and play some of my best golf,”
Mickelson said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mason Levinson in  New York  at 
 mlevinson@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Buteau in Ardmore, Pennsylvania at 
 mbuteau@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  