-- Lions Beat Waratahs in Second-Last Tuneup for Rugby Series
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2013-06-16T01:35:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-15/lions-beat-waratahs-in-second-last-game-before-facing-australia.html
Leigh Halfpenny scored 30 points as
the British and Irish Lions beat the New South  Wales  Waratahs
47-17 in their next-to-last game before taking on  Australia  in a
three-match rugby series. The touring team today drafted former
Wales winger  Shane Williams  for its final tuneup.  The Lions ran in five tries to the hosts’ two at Sydney’s
Allianz Stadium last night to maintain their 100 percent record
through five of 10 games. Full-back Halfpenny touched down twice
and kicked four conversions and four penalties. The win was
soured by a hamstring injury to inside center  Jamie Roberts  that
forced the Lions to finish the match with only 14 players.  “It was a tough match for us,” Lions head coach Warren Gatland said in a news conference. “The Waratahs had talked
about taking it to us physically, they tried to do that and I
thought the guys responded to that physicality. In the end we
were just too big and powerful for them.”  The combined squad from the U.K. and Ireland has one more
game, against the Australian Conference-leading ACT Brumbies
Super Rugby team on June 18, before the best-of-three contest
against Australia starts four days later in Brisbane. The
Wallabies won 2-1 when the teams last met in 2001.  Gatland is scheduled to name his lineup for the series
opener on June 20, by which time he’ll know if players including
winger  George North  and center Manu Tuilagi have recovered from
injuries. Welsh center Roberts, who was named the Lions’ player
of the series against  South Africa  four years ago, injured his
right leg with 12 minutes remaining last night.  ‘Fingers Crossed’  “He’s going to get a scan,” Gatland said of Roberts.
“The medics thought it might have been a hamstring, but he said
he has never pulled a hamstring before. He’s not kind of sure,
so he’s got his fingers crossed that it may not be that. So we
just have to see what happens.”  The Lions said today that Wales’s record try-scorer
Williams, who quit international rugby in 2011, will fly in from
 Japan  to bolster the squad against the Brumbies in two days. The
36-year-old winger, who played on the Lions’ 2005 and 2009
tours, will feature in a team that also includes  England  backs
Christian Wade and Brad Barritt, who were called up as injury
cover overnight.  England’s Billy Twelvetrees, another recent reinforcement
to the original 37-man squad that left  London  last month, will
form the starting center pairing with Barritt, who had been on
vacation in the U.S. when he got the call up. Ireland hooker
Rory Best will captain the tourists in Canberra.  Win Against Waratahs  In front of a crowd of 40,805 last night, fly-half  Jonathan
Sexton , flanker  Tom Croft  and center  Jonathan Davies  also scored
tries for the Lions, while Owen Farrell added a conversion. Tom
Carter scored a try in each half and Brendan McKibbin kicked
seven points for the Waratahs, who were without eight Wallabies
players and three other injured internationals.  The Lions took a 23-10 halftime lead through converted
tries from Sexton and Halfpenny, who added three penalties for a
100 percent record with all five kicks at goal in the opening
half.  The Waratahs scored a converted try from center Carter, who
was sent clear by Peter Betham after the winger had taken
Bernard Foley’s cross-field kick and passed inside. McKibbin
also added a first-half penalty for the home team.  Halfpenny got his second try three minutes after halftime
after being put into space by Davies and converted to make it
30-10. Carter then busted through two tacklers close to the line
and McKibbin added the extra points to pull the Waratahs within
13 points.  Halfpenny’s Boot  Halfpenny booted his fourth penalty of the match before an
intercept by Davies helped create a try for Croft that was
converted from the sideline by Halfpenny, who has now landed 22
of his 23 shots at goal on tour so far.  “Previous Lions tours and World Cups have been won on
goalkicking,” Gatland added. “Apart from his goalkicking, I
thought some of his lines of running and his positional play
defensively and kicking out of hand were excellent. He is
playing at the top of his game.”  Gatland made seven changes with about 20 minutes remaining
to rest players including Halfpenny, Croft, Sexton and scrum-half  Mike Phillips  ahead of next week’s opening Test.  With fellow Welshman Roberts hobbling off on the opposite
side of the pitch, Davies scooted down the line with eight
minutes left to make it 45-17 and Farrell converted to close the
scoring.  “Even at the end there when we were down to 14 men we
controlled the game without being under too much pressure,”
Gatland added. “In fairness to the Waratahs they took it to us.
I thought the guys responded magnificently. I thought the
discipline was excellent, so I’m very pleased.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  