-- Iran’s Rohani on Pace for Surprise First Round Win
-- B y   L a d a n e   N a s s e r i ,   K a m b i z   F o r o o h a r   a n d   Y e g a n e h   S a l e h i
-- 2013-06-15T15:47:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-15/iran-s-rohani-on-pace-for-surprise-first-round-win.html
Hassan Rohani, the lone reformist-backed candidate in  Iran ’s presidential election, took a clear
lead in preliminary results, possibly capturing enough votes to
avoid a run-off.  Rohani won 51 percent of the 32 million ballots counted so
far, followed by Tehran Mayor Mohammad Baqer Qalibaf with 15.8
percent, according to the  Interior Ministry . Nuclear negotiator
Saeed Jalili and Former Revolutionary Guards commander Mohsen Rezai both had about 11 percent.  The unexpected margin of his lead puts him on track to win
four years after a clampdown on hundreds of thousands of
protesters undermined the legitimacy of Mahmoud Ahmadinejad’s
re-election over Mir Hossein Mousavi, who is still under house
arrest. Whoever the next political chief is will still need to
seek approval to improve relations with the West and take
measures to turn the economy around from Supreme Leader Ali Khamenei, Iran’s ultimate authority.  Rohani’s showing suggests a “shift of historic
significance in Iran,” wrote Suzanne Maloney, a senior fellow
at the  Brookings Institution ’s Saban Center for Middle East
Policy in  Washington , in a blog after the vote-counting began.
“Rohani is an ideal candidate to spearhead a new initiative to
wrest Iran from its debilitating battle with the international
community over the nuclear issue.”  Rohani, 64, needs to win more than half the total ballots
cast yesterday to avoid a second round, according to the
Interior Ministry. About 50 million Iranians were eligible to
vote.  Election Momentum  Support for Rohani swelled in the final days of the
campaign after former presidents Ali Akbar Rafsanjani and
Mohammad Khatami joined forces to endorse him.  In recent years, Iranian politics has become a contest
between reformists, led by Khatami, who favor social and
political freedoms and the so-called principlists, who advocate
protecting the ideological principles of the  Islamic
Revolution ’s early days. Within Iranian politics, a principlist
refers to the ultraconservative supporters of the Supreme Leader
and a broad coalition of the group has a majority in the
parliament. Iran’s state-run Press TV has called Rohani a
reformist.  Addressing a packed Tehran stadium last week, Rohani, who
campaigned on the slogan “prudence and hope,” urged his young
supporters to overcome political apathy and their frustration
over the lack of jobs and vote for him. Rohani waved a giant key
at his rallies as a symbol that he will unlock closed doors.  End Sanctions  “If you want Iranian officials to stop presenting
inaccurate economic data, if you want the rial to regain its
value, if you want the Iranian passport to be respected again,
come to the ballot boxes,” Rohani told 9,000 people at a June 8
rally.  The winner will inherit an economy hurt by inflation and
falling oil exports. Voters want the next president to secure
the lifting of international sanctions imposed to halt  Iran’s
nuclear program , according to opinion polls.  The nuclear agenda is the prerogative of Khamenei, who has
authority over foreign policy and advocates resisting Western
pressure. While all candidates backed Iran’s right to a civilian
nuclear program, Rohani said technological progress shouldn’t
come at the expense of public wellbeing.  Israel has threatened military action to ensure the Shiite
Muslim-led state doesn’t obtain nuclear weapons should diplomacy
fail, and the U.S. has also signaled it’s ready to use force.
Rohani has criticized Jalili for his intransigence in
negotiations over the nuclear work. Iran maintains the work is
needed for civilian purposes, such as generating electricity and
for medicine.  ‘Still Prevail’  “Though hardliners remain in control of key aspects of
Iran’s political system, the centrists and reformists have
proven that even when the cards are stacked against them, they
can still prevail due to their support among the population,”
 Trita Parsi , author of “A Single Roll of the Dice: Obama’s
 Diplomacy with Iran ” and president of the National Iranian-American Council in Washington, wrote in an e-mail.  Long lines at polling stations yesterday led to voting
being extended several times, to 11 p.m. local time. State-run
Press TV estimated voter turnout at about 80 percent.  The departure of Mohammad Reza Aref from the campaign on
June 10 meant Rohani had the reformist platform to himself
against a field of five conservatives who failed to agree on a
unity candidate.  Purple Campaign  Supporters attending the June 8 Rohani rally were handed
purple wrist ribbons, the color of his campaign. The move may be
inspired by Mousavi’s 2009 campaign, which became so associated
with the color green that the opposition born out of post-vote
protests became known as the Green Movement.  “If this result stands, the Western narrative stating that
 Ayatollah Ali Khamenei  and the IRGC are all-powerful needs to be
revisited,” Parsi said, referring to Iran’s Revolutionary
Guards. “The dismissal of the Green Movement as dead was
premature and misguided.”  Rohani has spoken in favor of increased freedom for the
press and non-governmental organizations. He has also called for
the easing of social restrictions, criticizing the government’s
“unwarranted interventions” in Iranians’ lives.  Economy ‘Critical’  In April, Rohani promised that his government would pursue
“dialogue and interaction with the world.” He also said the
economy is in a “critical” situation and that sanctions can’t
be blamed for the country’s “weaknesses.”  Still, he said sanctions must be tackled for the economy to
take a new direction away from a 30 percent inflation rate and
unemployment that left a quarter of Iranians age 15 to 29
without jobs in the year ended March 20.  Rohani is the only cleric among the candidates. His careful
grooming contrasts with Ahmadinejad’s, whose unkempt appearance
and casual dress initially connected him to some voters. Rohani
trained as a lawyer and serves on the Assembly of Experts, the
top religious body, which nominates the supreme leader. He’s
also head of the Center for Strategic Research at the Expediency
Council, an advisory panel headed by Rafsanjani.  Rohani’s election, if early results hold up, would help
ease relations between the U.S. and Iran, Maloney said.  “The Obama administration isn’t likely to offer too much
too quick and any new president in Iran will have to proceed
carefully before signing onto a deal,” Maloney said. “But it
should dramatically alter the discussion and deflate the sense
of urgency to some degree.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ladane Nasseri in Dubai at 
 lnasseri@bloomberg.net ;
Kambiz Foroohar in  New York  at 
 kforoohar@bloomberg.net ;
Yeganeh Salehi in Tehran at 
 yalehi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  