-- Liverpool Executive Said to Scrap Brazil Trip to Sign Mkhitaryan
-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 2013-06-15T23:00:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-15/liverpool-executive-said-to-scrap-brazil-trip-to-sign-mkhitaryan.html
Liverpool Managing Director  Ian Ayre 
scrapped a trip to Brazil this weekend to try to complete the
signing of Shakhtar Donetsk attacker Henrikh Mkhitaryan for 20
million pounds ($31 million), according to a person with direct
knowledge of the situation.  Ayre was scheduled to be on a panel at a conference in  Rio
de Janeiro  tomorrow to discuss economic opportunities for soccer.
Instead he’s staying in Europe to negotiate with three-time
Armenian player of the year Mkhitaryan, 24, according to the
person, who declined to be identified because the deal isn’t
complete.  Liverpool, an 18-time English champion, is trying to
rebuild under Boston Red Sox owner Fenway Sports Group, which in
2010 bought the team from banks after its previous owners
defaulted on loans. Last season Liverpool finished seventh in
the Premier League under new manager  Brendan Rodgers , meaning it
won’t be playing in European competition during the next
campaign. Ayre didn’t respond to an e-mail seeking comment.  Mkhitaryan, who plays as an attacking midfielder, scored a
record 25 goals in the Ukraine’s top division last season.
Liverpool faces competition from teams in  Germany , Spain and
 France  for the player, who could join by the end of next week if
the bid is successful, according to the person.  Shakhtar is ready to sell the player, who still needs to be
convinced to sign a contract with the Reds, the person said.
Shakhtar didn’t respond to an e-mail requesting comment during
non-business hours.  The signing would be a lift for the Reds, who may lose top
scorer  Luis Suarez . The Uruguayan said he wants to leave after
getting a 10-game ban for biting Chelsea’s Branislav Ivanovic at
the end of last season. He also served an eight-match suspension
in 2012 for racist remarks toward Manchester United’s Patrice Evra.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tariq Panja in Brasilia at 
 tpanja@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  