-- Nigeria’s MEND Attacks Two Gasoline Trucks, Threatens Industry
-- B y   E l i s h a   B a l a - G b o g b o
-- 2013-06-15T11:36:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-15/nigeria-s-mend-attacks-two-gasoline-trucks-threatens-industry.html
Nigeria’s Movement for the
Emancipation of the Niger Delta said it attacked two gasoline-laden trucks and threatened more action against the downstream
petroleum industry of Africa’s largest oil producer.  MEND, as the group is known, used military-grade timed
magnetic explosives on the trucks that were queued outside a
fuel depot operated by the state-owned Nigerian National
Petroleum Corp. in Abaji, about 77 kilometers (48 miles) south
of Abuja, the capital, spokesman  Jomo Gbomo  said in an e-mailed
statement.  “From today, every tanker vehicle we find distributing
petroleum products including propane gas has become a legitimate
target in our war against injustice, corruption, despotism and
oppression,” he said. MEND said drivers who continue to drive
these trucks do so at their risk and warned the public to keep a
safe distance from such vehicles as “they can explode anytime
and anywhere.”  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA)  of the Netherlands, Irving, Texas-based  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM) ,  Chevron Corp. (CVX)  of San Ramon, California,
France’s Total SA and Italy’s  Eni SpA (ENI)  run joint ventures with
the state-owned oil company also known as NNPC that pump more
than 90 percent of the nation’s oil. MEND, the main rebel group
in the oil-rich Niger River delta, on April 3 said it is
resuming assaults on the West African nation’s oil industry
after its suspected leader,  Henry Okah , was imprisoned in South
Africa. The campaign was codenamed “Hurricane Exodus.”  Attacks such as kidnappings and bombings of oil
installations by groups including MEND cut more than 28 percent
of Nigeria’s oil output between 2006 and 2009, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The violence subsided after thousands of
fighters accepted a government amnesty offer in 2009 and
disarmed.  MEND said the attacks will continue until Okah, his brother
Charles, and others jailed or facing trial for a 2010
Independence Day bombing in Abuja are released
“unconditionally.” Okah was on March 26 sentenced to 24 years
in jail by a South African court on 13 counts of terrorism,
including the Independence Day attack that killed 12 people. The
group listed among other demands the resignation of Petroleum
Minister Diezani Alison-Madueke.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elisha Bala-Gbogbo in Abuja at 
 ebalagbogbo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mike Harrison  at 
 mharrison5@bloomberg.net  