-- Hong Kong Civic Groups Plan March in Support of Snowden
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-06-15T03:17:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-15/hong-kong-civic-groups-plan-march-in-support-of-snowden.html
Hong Kong civic groups will today
march in support of Edward Snowden, the former National Security
Agency contractor who is at risk of extradition from the city
after he revealed a secret U.S. surveillance program.  About 200 people are expected to attend the demonstration,
the South  China  Morning Post reported today, citing one of the
organizers. “We ask the U.S. government not to seek extradition
of Snowden because he isn’t an offender,” Leung Kwok-hung, a
Hong Kong lawmaker and chairman of the League of Social
Democrats, said this week.  Snowden has said he was the source for Guardian and
Washington Post newspaper reports last week on the NSA’s
collection of telephone and Internet data, prompting U.S. House
Speaker John Boehner to call the 29-year-old a traitor. The
revelations sparked a debate on the extent of state surveillance
of citizens, while raising the prospect the U.S. will seek
Snowden’s extradition and prosecution.  The people of Hong Kong have “a spirited commitment to
free speech and the right of political dissent,” Snowden told
the Guardian, explaining why he fled to the city from the U.S.
before revealing himself as the source. He separately told the
 Washington  Post that he intends to ask for asylum from “any
countries that believe in free speech and oppose the
victimization of global privacy.”  The march will start at 3 p.m. at Chater Garden in Central
district, proceeding to the U.S. consulate and Hong Kong
government headquarters, the English-language Post newspaper
said. Heavy rain  forecast  by the government observatory may put
a damper on the protest.  U.S. Investigation  Following his disclosures, the Senate Intelligence
Committee will consider legislation to limit government
contractors’ access to sensitive data, panel Chairman Dianne
Feinstein said after a closed briefing with Director of National
Intelligence James Clapper. House Intelligence Committee leaders
meanwhile are examining whether Snowden had foreign help,
Michigan Republican Mike Rogers, the committee chairman, said on
June 13.  Snowden said in an interview with the Guardian that while
he expects to see retribution that could include prosecution for
his actions he went public to spark a broader debate about
privacy in an age of terrorism.  “I don’t want to live in a society that does these sorts
of things,” Snowden said. The Guardian has  reported  he checked
out of his Hong Kong hotel and may be hiding at a safe house
after leaving the U.S. May 20.  China  Hong Kong Chief Executive Leung Chun-ying said in an
interview with Bloomberg Television the city will handle the
case according to the law. He declined to elaborate on Snowden’s
situation, or respond on whether China may make a decision on
whether to send him back to the U.S.  “Hong Kong has no say whatsoever,” Hong Kong lawmaker
Ronny Tong said on Bloomberg Television yesterday. “That’s why
you see our chief executive not saying anything at all. He is
waiting instructions from Beijing. I think Beijing is sitting
back, probably enjoying the moment, before deciding what they
want to do next.”  Snowden’s disclosures about the NSA’s collection of
telephone and Internet data provoked charges of hypocrisy among
Chinese state media after President  Barack Obama ’s
administration accused China in recent months of being behind a
series of hacker attacks. The revelations may result in China
seeking concessions if it’s to cooperate with any extradition
request as part of a U.S. Justice Department probe into Snowden.  “China is going to cooperate with the U.S., but not for
free,” said Jean-Pierre Cabestan, a political science professor
at Hong Kong Baptist University. “China would like to get
something in exchange.”  Snowden’s Case  Since taking back control of Hong Kong from the U.K. in
1997, China has allowed the city to maintain broad autonomy and
permits protests and dissent that would be stifled in the
mainland. While Hong Kong would decide on any U.S. request to
extradite Snowden, China can refuse the transfer if it’s related
to defense and foreign affairs.  China is following developments in Snowden’s case, Foreign
Ministry spokeswoman Hua Chunying said at a briefing in Beijing
yesterday. She declined to comment when asked how China would
respond to any U.S. extradition attempt.  “What cyberspace needs is not war or hegemony, not
irresponsible attacks, but regulation and cooperation,” Hua
said. She said China looks forward to more dialogue with the
U.S. on cybersecurity.  Not Banned  Keywords related to Snowden’s name haven’t been banned on
Sina Corp.’s Twitter-like Weibo microblog service, according to
GreatFire.org, which monitors censored posts on the Internet.  Snowden was a former technical assistant for the Central
Intelligence Agency and had worked for the National Security
Agency in the past four years for contractors including  Booz
Allen Hamilton Holding Corp. (BAH) , according to the Guardian and the
Washington Post. In an interview with the Hong Kong-based South
China Morning Post, Snowden said the U.S. had been hacking
computers in Hong Kong and mainland China since 2009.  Hong Kong lawmakers will request a debate over
cybersecurity when the Legislative Council meets next, on June
19, according to proceedings of the legislature’s House
Committee broadcast on Cable TV yesterday.  Counterintelligence and criminal investigators in the U.S.
are examining whether Snowden might have been recruited or
exploited by China. The U.S. is working on “a thorough scrub”
of Snowden’s possible ties to China, Representative Rogers told
reporters in Washington yesterday.  While China probably doesn’t want Snowden to enter the
mainland, it probably wants to talk to him, said Liu Weidong, a
scholar at the Institute of American Studies at the Chinese
Academy of Social Sciences in Beijing.  ‘Good Opportunity’  “It’s a good opportunity to learn something, to know
something,” Liu said in a telephone interview yesterday. “They
will want to know some detailed information from him.”  Snowden’s revelations put the U.S. in an embarrassing
situation and have fueled a debate over the balance between
personal freedom and national security, the Chinese Communist
Party’s flagship People’s Daily newspaper said yesterday. In its
editorial, the Global Times, also controlled by the party, said
the Snowden case may test bilateral ties, adding that his
revelations “upgraded our understanding of cyberspace.”  “The Chinese government should acquire more solid
information from Snowden if he has it, and use it as evidence to
negotiate with the U.S.,” the editorial said. “Snowden is a
political offender against the U.S. but what he is doing
benefits the world.”  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Simon Lee in Hong Kong at 
 slee936@bloomberg.net ;
Alan Wong in Hong Kong at 
 awong478@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ben Richardson at 
 brichardson8@bloomberg.net  