-- BTG Boosts Oil Investments With $1.5 Billion Petrobras Venture
-- B y   R o d r i g o   O r i h u e l a   a n d   J u a n   P a b l o   S p i n e t t o
-- 2013-06-17T00:31:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-15/petrobras-sells-1-8-billion-in-assets-to-esteves-btg-cemig.html
Grupo BTG Pactual SA (BBTG11) , the Brazilian
bank led by billionaire  Andre Esteves , agreed to pay $1.5
billion to form a joint venture in Africa with Petroleo
Brasileiro SA as part of an incursion into the oil industry.  Under terms of the agreement, BTG will take a 50 percent
stake in Petrobras’s assets in Angola,  Benin , Gabon,  Namibia ,
Nigeria and Tanzania and the two companies will form a venture
to explore and produce oil and gas, according to a June 14
regulatory filing by the Sao Paulo-based bank.  The sale by  state-controlled  Petrobras is part of a plan to
divest $9.9 billion as it seeks to focus on the development of
oil reserves off the coast of Brazil. For BTG, which held a
$1.93 billion initial public offering last year, the partnership
is the latest step in diversifying investments. Last year, the
bank announced the creation of a $1 billion public equity fund
focused on Africa.  BTG signed on March 6 a so-called strategic agreement with
billionaire  Eike Batista ’s holding company EBX Group Co., whose
biggest unit is oil producer OGX Petroleo e Gas Participacoes
SA. The agreement includes credit, financial agreements and
future joint investments. BTG also owns stakes in Sete Brasil
SA, an rig provider to Petrobras, and in Brasbunker
Participacoes SA, an offshore transportation and oil and gas
company.  Petrobras last week also agreed to sell a 49 percent stake
in hydroelectric generator Brasil PCH SA to Cia Energetica de
Minas Gerais for 650 million reais ($302 million), according to
a separate June 14 statement distributed after the close of
trading.  Petrobras this year lowered its divestiture program from an
original $14.8 target because the company has traditionally been
a buyer rather than a seller and overestimated demand, Chief
Executive Officer Maria das Gracas Foster said March 15.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rodrigo Orihuela in  Rio de Janeiro  at 
 rorihuela@bloomberg.net ;
Juan Pablo Spinetto in Rio de Janeiro at 
 jspinetto@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Charles Siler at 
 csiler@bloomberg.net  