-- Iran Reformist Rohani Leads Presidential Vote
-- B y   K a m b i z   F o r o o h a r ,   L a d a n e   N a s s e r i   a n d   Y e g a n e h   S a l e h i
-- 2013-06-15T13:57:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-15/reformist-rohani-leads-in-early-iran-presidential-vote-tally.html
Hassan Rohani, the lone reformist
candidate in Iran’s presidential election, took an unexpectedly
clear lead in preliminary results, possibly avoiding a run-off.  Rohani, 64, won 51.5 percent of the 27.6 million ballots
counted so far, followed by Tehran Mayor Mohammad Baqer Qalibaf
with 15.8 percent, according to totals given by Hassan Ali
Nouri, head of the elections office at the  Interior Ministry ,
and broadcast on state television. Former Revolutionary Guards
commander Mohsen Rezai had 11.3 percent and nuclear negotiator
Saeed Jalili 11.5 percent.  Rohani needs to win more than half the total ballots cast
yesterday to avoid a second round, according to the Interior
Ministry. About 50 million Iranians were eligible to vote.  His strong showing suggests a “shift of historic
significance in Iran,” wrote Suzanne Maloney, a senior fellow
at the  Brookings Institution ’s Saban Center for Middle East
Policy in  Washington , in a blog after the vote-counting began.
“Rohani is an ideal candidate to spearhead a new initiative to
wrest Iran from its debilitating battle with the international
community over the nuclear issue.”  The winner will inherit an economy hurt by inflation and
falling oil exports. Voters want the next president to secure
the lifting of international sanctions imposed to halt  Iran’s
nuclear program , according to opinion polls. President  Mahmoud Ahmadinejad  wasn’t eligible to run for a third consecutive term.  Unlocking Doors  Israel has threatened military action to ensure the Shiite
Muslim-led state doesn’t obtain nuclear weapons should diplomacy
fail, and the U.S. has also signaled it’s ready to use force if
Iran’s atomic program leads to a bomb. Rohani has criticized
Jalili for his intransigence in negotiations over the nuclear
work.  The sanctions are aimed at curbing the nuclear program,
which the U.S. and many of its allies allege may be intended for
weapons production. Iran maintains the work is needed for
civilian purposes, such as generating electricity.  Support for Rohani swelled in the final days of the
campaign after former presidents Ali Akbar Rafsanjani and
Mohammad Khatami joined forces to endorse him.  Addressing a packed Tehran stadium last week, Rohani, who
campaigned on the slogan “prudence and hope,” urged his young
supporters to overcome political apathy and their frustration
over the lack of jobs and vote for him. Rohani waved a giant key
at his rallies as a symbol that he will unlock closed doors.  Popular Support  “Though hardliners remain in control of key aspects of
Iran’s political system, the centrists and reformists have
proven that even when the cards are stacked against them, they
can still prevail due to their support among the population,”
 Trita Parsi , author of “A Single Roll of the Dice: Obama’s
Diplomacy with Iran” and president of the National Iranian-American Council in Washington, wrote in an e-mail.  Long lines at polling stations yesterday led to voting
being extended several times, to 11 p.m. local time. State-run
Press TV estimated voter turnout at about 80 percent.  The departure of Mohammad Reza Aref from the campaign on
June 10 meant Rohani had the reformist platform to himself
against a field of five conservatives who failed to agree on a
unity candidate.  Rohani has spoken in favor of increased freedom for the
press and non-governmental organizations. He has also called for
the easing of social restrictions, criticizing the government’s
“unwarranted interventions” in Iranians’ lives.  Economy ‘Critical’  In April, Rohani promised that his government would pursue
“dialogue and interaction with the world.” He also said the
economy is in a “critical” situation and that sanctions can’t
be blamed for the country’s “weaknesses.”  Still, he said sanctions must be tackled for the economy to
take a new direction away from a 30 percent inflation rate and
unemployment that left a quarter of Iranians age 15 to 29
without jobs in the year ended March 20.  The nuclear program is the prerogative of Supreme Leader
Ali Khamenei, who has authority over foreign policy and
advocates resisting Western pressure. While all candidates
backed  Iran ’s right to a civilian nuclear program, Rohani said
technological progress shouldn’t come at the expense of public
wellbeing.  Rohani is the only cleric among the candidates. His careful
grooming contrasts with Ahmadinejad’s, whose unkempt appearance
and casual dress initially connected him to some voters. Rohani
trained as a lawyer and serves on the Assembly of Experts, the
top religious body, which nominates the supreme leader. He’s
also head of the Center for Strategic Research at the Expediency
Council, an advisory panel headed by Rafsanjani.  Rohani’s election, if early results hold up, would help
ease relations between the U.S. and Iran, Maloney said.  “The Obama administration isn’t likely to offer too much
too quick and any new president in Iran will have to proceed
carefully before signing onto a deal,” Maloney said. “But it
should dramatically alter the discussion and deflate the sense
of urgency to some degree.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kambiz Foroohar in  New York  at 
 kforoohar@bloomberg.net ;
Ladane Nasseri in Dubai at 
 lnasseri@bloomberg.net ;
Yeganeh Salehi in Tehran at 
 yalehi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  