-- Rothschild’s Salz Is Knighted With Moritz in Queen’s Honors List
-- B y   P a t r i c k   G o w e r
-- 2013-06-15T13:10:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-15/rothschild-s-salz-is-knighted-with-moritz-in-queen-s-honors-list.html
Anthony Salz, the Rothschild Vice
Chairman, was knighted by Queen Elizabeth II, together with
Sequoia Capital Chairman Michael Moritz and  John Lewis 
Partnership Plc Chairman Charlie Mayfield.  Salz, 62, who led a review of Barclays Plc’s business
practices that published recommendations in April, was named
today on a list of awards to mark the Queen’s birthday. Moritz
is a venture-capital investor who was an early backer of Google
Inc. and LinkedIn Corp., while Mayfield has been chairman of
John Lewis, the U.K. department-store chain owner, since 2007.  People working in industry and the economy accounted for 10
percent of the total  honors list , according to a breakdown
published by the Cabinet Office in London. The awards are
bestowed in the name of the queen and are recommended by an
independent panel, which considers suggestions from government
departments and political parties as well as from the public.  BAE Systems Plc (BA/) ’s outgoing Chairman Dick Olver and former
Trades Union Congress General Secretary  Brendan Barber  also won
knighthoods.  Drax Group Plc (DRX)  Chief Executive Officer Dorothy Thompson, National Savings & Investments Chief Executive Officer
Jane Platt and Invesco Perpetual fund manager Neil Woodford
became Commanders of the Order of the British Empire, or CBE.  Adele, who won an Oscar for her song for the James Bond
movie “Skyfall,” became a Member of the Order of the British
Empire, or MBE. Tony Robinson, who played Baldrick in BBC
Television’s “Blackadder,” received a knighthood and his co-star Rowan Atkinson, also known for his character Mr. Bean,
became a CBE.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patrick Gower in London at 
 pgower@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Dobson  at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net  