-- Saudi Arabian Shares Drop Most in Two Years on Syria Escalation
-- B y   D e e m a   A l m a s h a b i   a n d   G l e n   C a r e y
-- 2013-06-15T15:15:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-15/saudi-arabian-shares-plunge-amid-escalating-regional-tensions.html
Shares on  Saudi Arabia ’s  stock
exchange , the Arab world’s biggest, had the largest drop in
almost two years, led by banks and telecom companies, amid
concern that fighting in Syria may escalate.  Al Rajhi Bank (RJHI) , the biggest Saudi lender by market value,
slid the most since August 2011, while  Etihad Etisalat Co. (EEC) ,
known as Mobily, also tumbled.  Saudi Basic Industries Corp. (SABIC) , the
world’s biggest petrochemical maker, known as Sabic, fell to the
lowest level since May 15.  The  Tadawul All-Share Index (SASEIDX)  declined 4.3 percent to
7,294.38, the biggest slump since August 2011, at the 3:30 p.m.
close in Riyadh, the capital. The gauge has gained 7.3 percent
this year.  “Today’s decline in the Saudi  stock index  is mainly linked
to the geopolitical tensions in Syria and how it may impact the
region overall,” Mohammed Al-Omran, president of the Gulf
Center for Financial Consultancy in Riyadh, said today in a
phone interview. “There are diplomatic movements by
international leaders to arm Syrian rebels, and the sudden
return of  King Abdullah  following such news alarmed people.”  King Abdullah interrupted his vacation in Morocco yesterday
and returned to Jeddah because of “escalating concerns relating
to events in the region,” the state-owned  Saudi Press Agency 
said. The same day, Saudi Sheikh Saud al-Shuraim, an Imam at the
Grand Mosque in Mecca, denounced in a sermon what he referred to
as “tyranny” in Syria under President Bashar al-Assad.  Proxy War  The conflict in Syria, which has killed at least 93,000
people based on a  United Nations ’ study, is threatening to
become a larger regional proxy war as the U.S. steps up its
involvement in the conflict.  President  Barack Obama  decided to send light weapons to the
Syrian opposition as the Assad regime made military gains on the
battlefield. Regime forces supported by fighters from the
Iranian-backed Hezbollah have moved north after defeating rebels
in al-Qusair, a setback that triggered concern in Washington
that Iran and its Lebanese ally are tipping the balance in favor
of Assad.  The U.S. has located 300 Marines in northern Jordan near
the border with Syria along with a Patriot anti-aircraft missile
system, the London-based Times reported. The deployment north of
Al-Mafraq is being described as a military training exercise but
it will remain in place for several months, the newspaper said.  “The king returned to Saudi Arabia perhaps because of what
is coming up in Jordan regarding the Syrian civil war,” Ted Karasik, director of research at the Institute for Near East and
Gulf Military Analysis in Dubai, said in a phone interview.
“What is going to happen is that some Arab nations,
particularly Saudi Arabia, are going to ask the Free Syrian Army
to move to the south in safe haven that perhaps may contain a
no-fly zone.”  Al Rajhi  slid 4.5 percent to 68.75 riyals, while Mobily
lost 4.1 percent to 77 riyals. Sabic dropped 2.1 percent to
91.75 riyals.  Saudi Arabia’s stock exchange is the only Persian Gulf
bourse operating on Saturdays.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Deema Almashabi in Riyadh at 
 dalmashabi@bloomberg.net ;
Glen Carey in Riyadh at 
 gcarey8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shaji Mathew at 
 shajimathew@bloomberg.net  