-- Snowden Leak ‘Bad News’ for U.S. Businesses, Hayden Says
-- B y   K a t h l e e n   H u n t e r
-- 2013-06-15T18:00:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-15/snowden-leak-bad-news-for-u-s-businesses-hayden-says.html
Leaked information on U.S.
government surveillance programs has “punished American
business,” which has complied with court orders, said  Michael Hayden , former director of the National Security Agency and the
Central Intelligence Agency.  Hayden said former National Security Agency contractor
Edward Snowden’s disclosure of details about the NSA’s
collection of telephone and Internet data to the U.K. Guardian
and  Washington Post (WPO)  newspapers will have a “harmful” impact on
U.S. businesses and on the government’s ability to combat
terrorism.  “There will be some operational fallout,”  Hayden said in
an interview with  CNN ’s “Fareed Zakaria GPS” airing tomorrow.
“We will have reminded our enemies how good and comprehensive
we are at this.”  Snowden, 29, fled to Hong Kong with classified materials he
allegedly stole from the NSA. He’s worked for NSA contractors
including McLean, Virginia-based  Booz Allen Hamilton Holding
Corp. (BAH) , his most recent employer.  Snowden’s actions are “bound to be bad news” for the
international business of U.S. companies that cooperated with
the NSA “at the direction of a U.S. court,” as well as for
U.S. credibility abroad, Hayden said.  “A country or a source that might be thinking of
cooperating with the  United States  should have almost no
confidence in our discretion or in our ability to keep a
secret,” he said.  The Senate Intelligence Committee will consider legislation
to limit government contractors’ access to sensitive data, panel
Chairman  Dianne Feinstein  said last week.  Feinstein, a California Democrat, also said she has asked
Director of National Intelligence James Clapper to propose
revisions in management of intelligence programs if he thinks
they are needed.  About 1.4 million Americans held top secret security
clearances as of October, including about 483,000 who worked for
contractors, according to the Director of National
Intelligence’s office. Snowden held a top secret/sensitive
compartmented information clearance, a classification above top
secret.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kathleen Hunter in Washington at 
 khunter9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net ;
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  