-- Southern African Leaders Urge Zimbabwe to Postpone July Election
-- B y   W i l l i a m   F e l i m a o   a n d   K a m l e s h   B h u c k o r y
-- 2013-06-15T18:54:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-15/southern-african-leaders-urge-zimbabwe-to-postpone-july-election.html
Southern African leaders urged
 Zimbabwe  to postpone elections scheduled for next month until
conditions are created for the vote to be free and fair.  The government should request that the country’s
Constitutional Court “seek more time beyond the July 31
deadline for holding elections,” Tomas Salamao, secretary-general of the 15-nation Southern African Development Community,
told reporters after a summit today in Maputo, the Mozambican
capital.  “The summit urged the three parties in the government to
undertake immediate measures to create a conducive environment
for holding peaceful, credible and free and fair elections,” he
said.  Zimbabwean President Robert Mugabe on June 13 announced
that elections in the southern African nation will be held July
31. The proclamation was made to comply with a deadline set by
the Constitutional Court, he said. Opponents of Mugabe,
including Prime Minister Morgan Tsvangirai’s Movement for
Democratic Change party, say the time-frame isn’t sufficient to
complete voter registration and the nomination of potential
lawmakers.  Tsvangirai has instructed lawyers to file an urgent court
application to oppose the decision, which he said was “unlawful
and unconstitutional.”  Mugabe’s Zimbabwe African National Union-Patriotic Front
and Tsvangirai’s party have shared power since disputed
elections in 2008. Mugabe, 89, has been president of Zimbabwe
since December 1987.  Finance Minister Tendai Biti said yesterday the country,
which has the world’s second-biggest platinum and chrome
reserves, doesn’t have enough money to fund elections.  Salamao said the SADC leaders didn’t discuss financing for
the vote at today’s meeting.  To contact the reporters on this story:
William Felimao in Maputo at 
 wfelimao@bloomberg.net ;
Kamlesh Bhuckory in Johannesburg at 
 kbhuckory@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Thiel at 
 sthiel1@bloomberg.net  