-- Syrian Army Takes Damascus Suburb Near International Airport
-- B y   G l e n   C a r e y   a n d   H e n r y   M e y e r
-- 2013-06-15T16:18:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-15/syrian-army-captures-damascus-suburb-near-international-airport.html
Syrian forces loyal to President
Bashar al-Assad captured a suburb of Damascus near the
international airport, the official  Syrian Arab News Agency 
reported.  Syrian troops killed rebels and destroyed their positions
in Ahmadiyeh in the Eastern Ghouta area, the official news
service said today, citing an unidentified government official.
Government forces clashed with rebels in neighborhoods in Aleppo
as they tried to retake the city, the Coventry, U.K.-based
opposition Syrian Observatory for  Human Rights  said on its
Facebook page today.  Regime forces supported by fighters from the Iranian-backed
Hezbollah have extended battlefield gains against rebels trying
to topple Assad in the more than year-long conflict. Regime
forces have moved north after defeating rebels in al-Qusair, a
setback that triggered concern in  Washington  that Iran and
Hezbollah are tipping the balance in favor of Assad.  U.S. President  Barack Obama  decided to send light weapons
to the Syrian opposition as the Assad regime made military
gains. The London-based Times reported today that the U.S. has
located 300 Marines in northern  Jordan  near the border with
 Syria  along with a Patriot anti-aircraft missile system.  No-Fly Zone  The U.S. is resorting to “vulgar methods” to justify
Obama’s decision to arm the Syrian opposition, SANA reported
yesterday. The Syria opposition welcomed the U.S. decision to
provide weapons as a “good” step that should be implemented as
soon as possible, Abdelbaset Sieda, a senior member of the
Syrian National Coalition, said yesterday.  In addition to arming the Syrian rebels, the U.S. is
considering a limited no-fly zone inside Syria along the
Jordanian border to protect refugees and rebels based there, the
 Wall Street Journal  reported on June 13. The no-fly zone would
be enforced from Jordan, the newspaper said.  Russian Foreign Minister  Sergei Lavrov  rejected the notion
of a no-fly zone over a portion of Syria as a violation of
international law.  “You don’t need to be a big expert to understand that this
is a violation of international law,” Lavrov said today after
meeting his Italian counterpart Emma Bonino, according to the
Russian Foreign Ministry’s website. “We really hope that our
American colleagues will concentrate all their practical steps
toward the joint Russian-U.S. initiative to host a conference.”  Russia , which maintains its only Mediterranean naval
facility in the Syrian city of Tartous, and the U.S. have
proposed holding an international peace conference on Syria next
month in Geneva.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Glen Carey in Riyadh at 
 gcarey8@bloomberg.net ;
Henry Meyer in Moscow at 
 hmeyer4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  