-- Erdogan’s Final Warning Drives Crackdown on Turkish Protesters
-- B y   B e n j a m i n   H a r v e y   a n d   S e l c u k   G o k o l u k
-- 2013-06-15T23:41:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-15/turkish-protesters-plan-to-continue-resistance-against-erdogan.html
Riot police drove protesters from a
central Istanbul square and nearby Gezi Park after Turkish Prime
Minister  Recep Tayyip Erdogan  said he wanted to clear the area
before his party meeting in the city today.  Clouds of tear gas hung over the area and at least 44
people were injured after the police moved into the park for the
first time in more than two weeks. Protests had begun in Gezi
over plans to redevelop the park, and broadened into a wider
movement targeting Erdogan’s government after images emerged of
police tear-gassing a small group of demonstrators.  Erdogan said at a rally in Ankara yesterday that he was
issuing his final warning to protesters to leave the area,
saying the country would express its will at elections in eight
months. In a speech before tens of thousands of supporters, he
accused the protesters of insulting his police, drinking alcohol
in a mosque and attacking headscarved women. He also said he’d
reveal proof that the protests were coordinated by “a network
of treachery” inside and outside  Turkey .  “We have a meeting in Istanbul tomorrow,” Erdogan said,
referring to a “Respect the National Will” rally planned
today. “I’m saying this very clearly, if Taksim Square is not
emptied out, this country’s security forces know how to empty it
out.”  Gas Masks  Police wearing gas masks and riot gear warned protesters to
leave at around 8 p.m., then formed cordons to block some of the
main streets leading into Taksim Square adjoining Gezi Park.
They sprayed pressurized water cannons to drive crowds away from
the square before entering Gezi Park, where thousands of people
have gathered each night to protest. Protesters had set up a
community of tents to prevent the park’s redevelopment.  Construction machines started removing barricades around
the square and municipal trucks cleared up debris, including
some of the remaining tents. Journalists trying to enter Gezi
Park during the operation were slapped by plainclothes police
and pushed away. Later, police fired tear gas at groups of
journalists to keep them from re-entering Taksim Square.  Protesters fleeing the park took refuge in front of the
Divan Hotel, owned by  Koc Holding (KCHOL) , the group of companies run by
Turkey’s wealthiest family. Some people were seen being
stretchered toward ambulances, one with a head injury. Police
encircled a group of demonstrators in front of the hotel who
were singing the national anthem, dousing them with water as
tear gas was fired to disperse others down adjacent streets.  Taksim Solidarity  The Taksim Solidarity group, representing the protesters,
had earlier rejected Erdogan’s order to leave and demanded that
all protesters arrested during demonstrations that began May 31
be released. At least four people have been killed in clashes
with the police during the rallies. The Turkish Medical
Association says almost 7,500 have sought medical treatment.  Istanbul Governor Huseyin Avni Mutlu said in a press
conference after the raid that 44 people were injured in
yesterday’s crackdown, none of them seriously. Skirmishes, which
were continuing into the early morning, would be finished by
tomorrow, he said.  Erdogan stormed out of discussions with representatives of
the protesters on June 14 after being told that in addition to
the Taksim project, the protests were also about sociological
issues, according to Cem Tuzun, a spokesman for the Taksim
Solidarity group. Erdogan said that he won 50 percent of the
vote at elections in 2011 and didn’t need to be taught
sociology, Tuzun said in an interview in Istanbul yesterday.  Autocratic Style  The unrest has presented Erdogan with one of the biggest
challenges since he took office more than 10 years ago, as
protesters denounce what they say is the pro-Islamist leader’s
autocratic style. The spectacle of tens of thousands of people
marching in Istanbul and the capital, Ankara, and police using
tear gas, water cannons and truncheons against them, has pushed
Turkish stocks and bonds down and prompted condemnation from the
U.S. and EU.  The government has said there’ll be no redevelopment of
Gezi Park until a court rules on the issue, and after that only
if the plan is approved in a public vote.  Erdogan says he wants to reconstruct an Ottoman-era
barracks near Gezi Park, as well as a new opera house in Taksim
in the place of the current Ataturk Cultural Center. An Istanbul
court order on June 1 stopped construction of a sidewalk around
the park.  The demonstrators say Erdogan’s Islamist-rooted government
has been emboldened by three successive electoral victories to
ignore the views of more secular-oriented Turks who didn’t vote
for them. The ruling party received about 50 percent of the vote
in 2011, and Erdogan says the rallies that began yesterday are
the start of his party’s campaign for next year’s municipal
elections.  Turkey’s EU Minister  Egemen Bagis  said that anyone entering
Taksim Square would be treated by police as a terrorist,
according to a report in Hurriyet Daily News today.  Taksim Solidarity said in a statement that tens of
thousands of people would march to Taksim. It said yesterday’s
police action occurred after the group had met with Erdogan and
as it was debating how to continue the protest movement in a
democratic and open way.  “It’s not possible to stop this march by the people,” the
group said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Selcuk Gokoluk in Istanbul at 
 sgokoluk@bloomberg.net ;
Benjamin Harvey at 
 bharvey11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benjamin Harvey at 
 bharvey11@bloomberg.net  