-- Yen Rallies Most Since July 2009 as BOJ Stimulus Faces Scrutiny
-- B y   J o h n   D e t r i x h e
-- 2013-06-15T04:00:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-15/yen-rallies-most-since-july-2009-as-boj-stimulus-faces-scrutiny.html
The yen rallied the most since July
2009 amid the highest volatility in a year as investors reassess
the  Bank of Japan ’s monetary stimulus measures that pushed the
currency to a four-year low last month.  Japan ’s currency gained against all its most-traded peers
as BOJ Governor Haruhiko Kuroda held back from extending the
maturity of loans to banks as part of its unprecedented easing
program. The Dollar Index fell for the longest streak since
September as the  International Monetary Fund  said it sees the
 Federal Reserve  maintaining monthly bond purchases until at
least the end of this year. U.S. central-bank policy makers
announce their next interest-rate decision on June 19.  “Markets might be questioning whether the BOJ is willing
to continue to be aggressive on increasing accommodation,” said
Brian Daingerfield, a currency strategist at Royal Bank of
Scotland Group Plc’s RBS Securities unit, by phone from
 Stamford ,  Connecticut .  The yen strengthened 3.3 percent this week to 94.31 per
dollar in  New York  and touched the strongest level since April
4. It reached 103.74 on May 22, the weakest since Oct. 3, 2008.
Japan’s currency appreciated 2.6 percent to 125.60 per euro. The
euro gained 1 percent to $1.3347.  Price Swings  The JPMorgan Global FX Volatility Index rose to 11.43
percent June 13, the most since June 2012. The gauge has climbed
from 7.05 percent in December, which was the lowest since July
2007, and was at 10.58 percent yesterday.  Brazil ’s real lost 0.9 percent versus the dollar while
South Korean’s won dropped 0.8 percent as the biggest weekly
losers. After the yen, the biggest gainer was  New Zealand ’s
dollar, which added 2 percent.  Hedge funds  and other large speculators  decreased  their
bets that the yen will decline against the  U.S. dollar , figures
from the Washington-based Commodity Futures Trading Commission
show.  The difference in the number of wagers on a decline in the
yen compared with those on a gain -- so-called net shorts -- was
72,906 on June 11, compared with net shorts of 82,744 a week
earlier. Net shorts had reached an almost six-year high last
month.  Euro Rally  Europe ’s 17-nation common currency rallied against its U.S.
counterpart for the fourth-straight week, the longest stretch
since September.  The euro-area economy may shrink 0.6 percent in the third-quarter and grow 0.1 percent in the last three months of the
year, according to a Bloomberg survey. Gross domestic product in
the currency union is estimated to contract 0.9 percent in the
second quarter.  “We do think here that the  euro zone  is going look a
little less worse in the second half of the year, but I think
the market already has that priced in with the euro up at these
levels,” Robert Sinche, global strategist at Pierpont
Securities Holdings LLC in Stamford, Connecticut, said in a
telephone interview.  Futures traders reduced net euro shorts to 7,533 on June 11
from 51,621 a week earlier, CFTC data show.  Fed Policy  Fed policy makers meet on June 18-19 after Chairman  Ben S.
Bernanke  said on May 22 the central bank could reduce its
monthly purchases of $45 billion of Treasuries and $40 billion
of mortgage-backed securities, known as quantitative easing, if
the employment outlook shows sustainable improvement.  Unwinding a policy of record-low  interest rates  and bond-buying known as quantitative easing will be challenging even
though the Fed has “a range of tools” to withdraw the
stimulus, the IMF staff wrote in its annual assessment of the
 U.S. economy .  The Dollar Index, which Intercontinental Exchange Inc. uses
to monitor the greenback against the currencies of six U.S.
trade partners, fell 1.3 percent this week to 80.617, the fourth
straight decline, and touched 80.50 on June 13, the lowest since
Feb. 20.  The measure is forecast to rally to 85.7 by the end of the
year, according to the median estimate of economists and
strategists surveyed by Bloomberg.  Secret Plan  “The secret is out that at some point the Fed is going to
begin to slow their purchases,” said Pierpont Securities’
Sinche. “What the markets have come to realize is that at some
point, whether they talk about it next week or September or
December, tapering is going to happen.”  The yen has climbed 7.5 percent in the past month, the best
performer among 10 developed-market currencies tracked by
Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes. The dollar was down 2.1
percent and the euro has risen 1.5 percent.  Japanese markets have gyrated since the currency initially
weakened when Kuroda on April 4 outstripped economist forecasts
by pledging to double monthly bond purchases.  The  yield  on Japan’s benchmark 10-year bond fell for a
second week to 0.82 percent. It has swung from an all-time low
of 0.315 percent to as much as 1 percent since April 4. The
Nikkei 225 Stock Average dropped into a  bear market  on June 13
as all shares on the gauge fell for the second time this year.  The BOJ this week kept unchanged its plan for a 60
trillion-yen ($640 billion) to 70 trillion-yen annual increase
in monetary base, the central bank said after a two-day meeting
ended today.  “The BOJ opted to not change monetary policy,”
Daingerfield said. “That might have caught markets a bit off
guard expecting the Bank of Japan to be a bit more aggressive to
try and combat volatility in their domestic markets.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Detrixhe in New York at 
 jdetrixhe1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  