-- 
Asian Currencies Gain as Interest Rate Outlook May Attract Funds to Region

-- B y   L i l i a n   K a r u n u n g a n
-- 
2011-02-19T03:09:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-19/asian-currencies-have-weekly-gains-as-rate-outlook-draws-funds.html
Asian currencies gained this week,
led by  South Korea ’s won, on speculation investors will pour
more funds into the region as interest rates are raised to stem
gains in consumer prices.  The yuan had its biggest weekly advance in a month on
speculation China’s inflation fight will lead to faster
appreciation sought by major trading partners including the U.S.,  Brazil  and  India . Finance chiefs from the Group of 20 nations
will today meet for a second day in Paris to discuss imbalances
that pose a risk to the global economy. The Philippine peso had
its best week in five months after a central bank report showed
citizens living overseas sent record funds home last year.  “Inflation pressure is forcing Asian central banks to
tighten monetary policy,” said Ho Woei Chen, an economist at
United Overseas Bank Ltd. in Singapore. “Higher  interest rates 
are driving inflows and Asian currencies higher. The yuan is
another factor ahead of the G-20 meeting.”  The won strengthened 1.5 percent this week to 1,112.10 per
dollar in Seoul, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The
peso rose 1.4 percent to 43.33,  Indonesia ’s rupiah climbed 1
percent to 8,860 and India’s rupee appreciated 1.1 percent to
45.21. The Singapore dollar advanced 0.8 percent to S$1.2748.  China, India, Indonesia, South Korea and Thailand have all
boosted borrowing costs this year, widening the gap with the  Federal Reserve ’s near-zero benchmark rate, as  Asia  leads a
global economic recovery. Developing economies in the region
will expand 8.4 percent this year and next, double the average
4.2 percent pace of Latin America and more than triple the 2.5
percent annual growth in industrialized nations, the  International Monetary Fund  estimated last month.  Stronger Yuan    China ’s central bank raised its reference rate for the yuan
to 6.5781 per dollar yesterday, the strongest level since a
dollar peg ended in July 2005. The currency, which is allowed to
trade up to 0.5 percent on either side of the daily fixing,
yesterday touched 6.5721, the highest since official and market
exchange rates were unified at the end of 1993.  Data this week showed inflation accelerated to 4.9 percent
in January from 4.6 percent the previous month, exceeding the
government’s goal of keeping the rate within 4 percent this year.
U.S. Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  reiterated on Feb.
11 that China needs to allow the yuan to strengthen to manage
inflation, a week after refraining from labeling the nation a
currency manipulator in a report to Congress.    Korea  Rates  The won had its biggest weekly gain this year on
speculation the central bank will boost interest rates next
month to curb inflation. The Bank of Korea unexpectedly kept its
benchmark rate at 2.75 percent at a policy meeting this month,
even after inflation breached the central bank’s 4 percent
ceiling to reach 4.1 percent in January. It raised borrowing
costs in January for the third time since June and the next
monthly review is scheduled for March 10.  “Inflation is a hot topic and one of the reasons for the
won gains is that Bank of Korea may raise rates next month as
they didn’t do it in February,” said Ko Yun Jin, a currency
trader at Kookmin Bank in  Seoul .  Finance Minister Yoon Jeung Hyun said on Feb. 9 that the
government needs to act “preemptively” to curb inflation as
price gains can weaken the foundation of a stable economy.  The peso hit a three-month high of 43.27 per dollar
yesterday. Remittances increased 8.1 percent from a year earlier
to $1.69 billion in December and totaled $18.8 billion in 2010,
the central bank said Feb. 15.  Elsewhere, Thailand’s baht advanced 0.9 percent this week
to 30.59 against its U.S. counterpart and Malaysia’s ringgit
advanced 0.8 percent to 3.034, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Taiwan’s dollar fell 0.6 percent to NT$29.408.  To contact the reporter for this story:
Lilian Karunungan in  Singapore  at  at
 lkarunungan@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net . 