-- 
Australia May Miss Export Target on Rain, Queensland Sugar Says

-- B y   T h o m a s   K u t t y   A b r a h a m
-- 
2011-02-19T21:12:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-19/australia-may-miss-export-target-on-rains-cyclone-queensland-sugar-says.html
Sugar shipments from  Australia , the
third-largest supplier, may be less than forecast after record
rainfall and a cyclone ravaged cane crops,  Queensland Sugar Ltd. 
Chairman Alan Winney said.  Exports by the company may be 2.2 million metric tons in
the 2011-2012 season, little changed from a year ago when it
fell to the lowest in 20 years, Winney said in an interview
before an industry conference in Dubai. On Dec. 23, he said
overseas sales may be 2.7 million to 2.8 million tons.  Lower supplies from Australia may help sustain sugar prices
near their highest level in three decades, worsening global food
costs that reached a record in January according to the United
Nations World Food Price Index. Raw sugar has doubled since the
end of May on speculation that global supplies will trail demand
for a third year after weather disruptions to crops in Australia
and  Russia  crimped harvests.  “We’re still in the middle of the cyclone season and the
uncertainty on the crop outlook isn’t over yet,” said Winney,
who is due to speak at the conference today. “Because of the
damage to the cane crop, Queensland Sugar’s supply to the world
market will be restricted.”  Queensland accounts for more than 90 percent of Australia’s
overseas sales of sugar. Output won’t return to normal levels of
4.2 million to 4.5 million tons until the 2012-2013, he said.  Tropical Cyclone Yasi hit northern Queensland, a region
growing a third of Australia’s cane, cutting output potential in
the area by about half,  Canegrowers , a producers’ group, said
Feb. 4. Australia’s sugar exports may be 2.5 million tons, less
than a previous forecast of 3.2 million, researcher Sucden said
on Feb. 10.  Supply Commitment  Queensland Sugar will meet some of its supply commitments
to traditional buyers in  Southeast Asia  next season by buying
sugar from alternative origins, Winney said. The company may
trade about 1 million tons in calendar 2011, he said.  The cyclone and record rainfall in parts of Queensland have
damaged some mills and an export terminal in Lucinda, and it
isn’t clear whether the plant will be repaired in time to ship
sugar from June, he said. The terminal handles about 300,000
tons of the commodity annually, he said.  Raw sugar soared to 36.08 cents per pound on ICE Futures
U.S. in  New York  on Feb. 2, the highest since 1980. White, or
refined, sugar reached $857 a ton in  London  on the same day, the
highest intraday level since at least January 1989.  “Sugar will trade above 20 cents in foreseeable future,”
Winney said. “The ‘new normal’ for sugar will be 20 cents to 30
cents, as we have seen quick bounce backs from below that levels
in the past 18 months.”  Global demand is “fairly strong” as some governments have
subsidized supplies, and a drop in prices may prompt buyers to
build stockpiles, Winney said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Thomas Kutty Abraham in Dubai at 
 tabraham4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  