-- 
Australia’s Swan Says G-20 Must Focus on Supporting Growth

-- B y   S c o t t   R o s e   a n d   S a r a   E i s e n
-- 
2011-02-19T12:28:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-19/australia-s-swan-says-g-20-must-focus-on-supporting-growth.html
The Group of 20 nations should
concentrate on promoting global economic growth instead of
focusing on a “debate about particular policies in particular
regions,” Australian Treasurer Wayne Swan said.  “Fundamental structural reforms will differ between
developed economies and developing economies,” Swan told
Bloomberg Television in an interview at a G-20 meeting in Paris
yesterday.  China  is “involved in a discussion about the need for
structural change across all economies, including their own.”  Policy makers in the U.S. and other countries have urged
China to allow a more rapid appreciation of its currency to help
counter global imbalances. Chinese officials have “openly
acknowledged” the need to spur domestic consumption and improve
social-safety nets, Swan said.  “They’re all important structural reforms that are going
on in China right now,” he said.  Countries including Russia and China have objected to
proposals from other G-20 nations to include the size of
currency reserves as an early indicator of global financial
imbalances.  “If the U.S. and the U.K. will put an amount of reserves as
a kind of indicator, that’s our biggest concern,” Russian Deputy
Finance Minister  Dmitry Pankin , whose country has the third-
largest reserve pile, told reporters in Paris yesterday.  The G-20 is a group consisting of the 27-member European
Union as well as Argentina, Australia, Brazil, China, France,  Germany ,  India , Indonesia, Canada, Japan, South Korea, Mexico,
Russia, Saudi Arabia,  South Africa , Turkey, the U.K. and the
U.S. Federal Reserve Chairman Ben S. Bernanke, European Central
Bank President Jean-Claude Trichet and China’s central bank
Governor Zhou Xiaochuan were among the participants.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Scott Rose in Paris at  rrose10@bloomberg.net ;
Sara Eisen at  seisen2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at  cstirling1@bloomberg.net  