-- 
BHP’s CEO Kloppers Has M&A on List Even After Investment Pledge

-- B y   A n g u s   W h i t l e y
-- 
2011-02-20T13:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-19/bhp-may-consider-m-a-within-a-year-sees-oil-gas-opportunities-ceo-says.html
  BHP Billiton Ltd . Chief Executive
Officer  Marius Kloppers  said he’s still interested in takeovers
even after setting aside $80 billion for BHP’s own projects.  Regulatory concerns are impeding iron-ore acquisitions by
the world’s largest mining company, though BHP’s potash, copper,
and oil and gas businesses aren’t constrained in the same way,
Kloppers told the Australian Broadcasting Corp.  Reporting record first-half profit, Kloppers last week
unveiled a program to develop BHP’s mines and oil fields after
three investments totaling more than $100 billion were knocked
back in the past four years. He said on yesterday’s program that
while surging commodity prices have led to some “very high”
asset valuations, those conditions may not last.  “Cycles change,” Kloppers said on the ABC’s “Inside
Business” program. “In six months’ time or a year’s time,
something else may come up. The oil and gas market is a very
large one where there may be opportunities going forward.”  Kloppers, after failing last year to buy Potash Corp. of
Saskatchewan Inc., said his view that asking prices are inflated
is based on “prevailing prices that we see today.” Mining
takeovers reached a near-record $144.5 billion in 2010,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg, pushing up sellers’
expectations.  BHP stock has gained 22 percent in the past six months and
closed at A$46.56 on Feb. 18, valuing the Melbourne-based
company at A$240 billion. The benchmark S&P/ASX 200 index
climbed 11 percent in the same period.  Profit Forecasts  Metal prices in London almost doubled in the past two years
as the global economy rebounded. In the last three months alone,
the LMEX  London  Metals Index of six metals including copper,
aluminum and lead has surged 18 percent.  BHP has $16.1 billion of cash on hand, it said Feb. 16. The
company is expected to generate net income of $21.7 billion for
the year ending June 2011, according to the average of 17
analysts estimates compiled by Bloomberg.    Anadarko Petroleum Corp ., the Texas oil company with a
market value of $40 billion, and  Woodside Petroleum Ltd ., the
Australian oil and gas producer valued on the stock exchange at
A$33 billion, have been named as possible targets for BHP.  Anadarko surpassed a two-year high in New York trading in
December after the  Daily Mail  reported BHP may make a bid.
Woodside and closely held coal producer Drummond Co. were other
possible targets, UBS AG said in November. BHP is considering
takeovers in the  energy industry , J. Michael Yeager, head of the
company’s oil and gas unit, said in September.  ‘Very Good’  Supply, rather than demand, is dictating the price of some
BHP products, Kloppers told Inside Business.  India  isn’t
exporting  iron ore  and during the financial crisis many
companies shelved investments to expand production capacity, he
said.  The outlook for some BHP products, particularly iron ore,
“looks very, very good” over the next nine months, he said.  “Over the next 12, 18 months, perhaps two years, there’s
not a substantial amount of new capacity coming on,” Kloppers
told the program. “I feel very comfortable we’re going to have
healthy margins.”  Rio Tinto Group, the world’s third-largest mining company,
on Feb. 14 forecast high copper prices will continue amid rising
demand. The global copper supply deficit will reach 822,000
metric tons in 2011, more than double last year’s shortfall,  Barclays Capital  said on Jan. 20.  Demand for iron ore, copper and aluminum is expected to
double in the next 15 to 20 years, Harry Kenyon-Slaney,  Rio
Tinto ’s chief executive officer of the diamonds and minerals
unit, said Feb. 8.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Angus Whitley in Sydney at 
 awhitley1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  