-- 
BP Says Feinberg Fund ‘Exceeds’ Law Requiring Spill Payments

-- B y   L a u r e l   B r u b a k e r   C a l k i n s   a n d   A l l e n   J o h n s o n   J r .
-- 
2011-02-19T05:32:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-19/bp-says-feinberg-fund-exceeds-law-requiring-spill-payments.html
  BP Plc ’s $20 billion oil-spill
damages fund, run by  Kenneth Feinberg , “far exceeds” the
company’s legal obligations to compensate victims of the worst
offshore  oil spill  in U.S. history, company lawyers said in a
court filing.  U.S. District Judge  Carl Barbier  of New Orleans, who is
overseeing more than 350 lawsuits seeking damages for economic
and personal injuries from the BP oil spill, asked for opinions
on whether the company is doing enough to satisfy a U.S. law
requiring a party responsible for an oil spill to compensate
victims.  BP is doing everything it’s legally required to do and
more, through Feinberg’s Gulf Coast Claims Facility, the
company’s lawyers said yesterday in a filing.  “That there may be different ways to run a claims process
does not mean that the GCCF’s chosen methods fail to comply”
with the law, Don Haycraft, one of BP’s lawyers, said in the
filing. The statute “does not give claimants, or the  attorneys
general , any right to demand judicial involvement in or
modification of the claims process.”  The BP claims process isn’t working, public officials from
Gulf Coast states and lawyers suing the company said in opposing
filings with the court.  Mississippi  Attorney General Jim Hood
asked Barbier in a filing yesterday to appoint the Gulf Coast
state attorneys general or other independent watchdogs to
monitor Feinberg’s claims-payment facility, which Hood said “is
operating without sufficient oversight.”  ‘Avoid Court Oversight’  BP has used Feinberg’s claims-payment facility to “avoid
court oversight and to evade adherence to the mandates” of the
Oil Pollution Act of 1990, which governs payment for offshore
spill damages, Hood said in the filing.  “From the outset, Mr. Feinberg has acted as though he was
a law unto himself -- free to ignore the requirements of OPA,”
Hood said.  Earlier this month, Barbier ruled Feinberg isn’t truly
independent, as Feinberg and BP have claimed. The judge ordered
Feinberg to tell spill claimants that he’s acting in BP’s
interest and they should consult independent lawyers before
signing away their rights to sue BP or other companies for
spill-related damages.  In January, Feinberg unveiled protocols that would give
spill victims immediate cash settlements -- $5,000 for
individuals and $25,000 for businesses - if they agreed not to
sue over future spill damages. Victims can also apply for
immediate final cash settlements, based on their documented past
losses and estimated future losses, if they release BP and other
companies from future liability.  Dissatisfied Victims  Feinberg said spill victims dissatisfied with the
settlements offered by the claims fund can apply every three
months to receive interim payments for documented losses from
the spill. No interim damage payments have been processed since
November, and Feinberg wasn’t clear on when those payments would
resume, officials for  Louisiana ,  Florida ,  Alabama  and
Mississippi said in court filings.  “Payments have not been prompt, the rules are not uniform
and understandable, and the process does not comply with OPA,”
Louisiana’s Governor Bobby Jindal and Attorney General  Buddy Caldwell  said in papers filed Feb. 17.  If Feinberg doesn’t promptly begin paying interim claims,
Jindal and Caldwell asked the judge to “order emergency
payments be resumed immediately and continued until the court
provides the protocols.” They also said the law requires BP to
pay interest on damage claims once they are processed, which
they said Feinberg hasn’t done.  ‘Financially Desperate’  “Financially desperate” fishermen, property owners and
small businesses feel pressured to take quick, cheap settlements
because they can’t survive on Feinberg’s interim payment plan,
Hood said.  Feinberg’s requirements that victims provide documentation
of their losses or demonstrate proximity to a contaminated beach
to receive payment has “improperly increased the burdens of
proof” from what OPA originally established, Hood said.
Feinberg has denied or underpaid claims without adequate
explanation, he said.  Stephen Herman and James Roy, speaking for lawyers
representing victims suing BP, Halliburton Energy Services,  Transocean Ltd . and other companies involved in drilling the
well that caused the spill, asked Barbier in a separate filing
yesterday to void all releases signed by claimants who didn’t
have independent attorneys at the time.  Hood said Barbier should prohibit all releases and force
Feinberg to stop making final settlements. All claims should be
treated as interim claims, as OPA requires, he said.  ‘Game of Chance’  “OPA does not envision nor permit its mandated claims
process to be converted into a game of chance in which claimants
are asked to bet on what the future will bring,” Hood said.  Justice Department lawyers, in papers filed yesterday,
didn’t support or oppose BP’s claim that it is satisfying its
OPA obligations through Feinberg’s claims-payment process.  “As the  United States  has said from the outset, the
success of the GCCF can only be measured by whether the people
of the Gulf feel fairly treated,” government attorneys said in
the filing.  BP’s lawyer, Haycraft, said in yesterday’s court filing
that placing Feinberg under court supervision would subvert the
reason Congress established the OPA claims process.  “While BP has great respect for this court,’’ Haycraft
said, placing Feinberg under court supervision would create a
process “that provides parties and nonparties alike the
opportunity to review and second guess claims decisions and
subject every aspect of the process to litigation, delay and
disruption -- precisely what Congress sought to avoid under that
act.’’  The case is In Re. Oil Spill by the Oil Rig Deepwater
Horizon in the  Gulf of Mexico  on April 20, 2010, MDL-2179, U.S.
District Court, Eastern District of Louisiana   New Orleans ).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Laurel Brubaker Calkins in Houston at 
 laurel@calkins.us.com ;
Allen Johnson Jr. in New Orleans at 
 allenmct@gmail.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at   jpickering@bloomberg.net . 