-- 
Canadian Dollar Touches Highest Level Since March 2008 as Crude Oil Gains

-- B y   C h a r l e s   M e a d
-- 
2011-02-19T05:00:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-19/canadian-dollar-touches-highest-level-since-march-2008-as-crude-oil-gains.html
Canada’s dollar reached its highest
level in almost three years versus its U.S. counterpart as crude
oil,  Canada ’s biggest export, increased on concern political
protests in the Mideast will disrupt supplies.  The loonie pared weekly gains and was one of the biggest
losers among the most-traded currencies as annual inflation
slowed in January, discouraging speculation the Bank of Canada
will resume boosting  interest rates . Retail sales stalled in
December, a report is forecast to show next week.  “Consumer inflation remains fairly tame,” said  Joe Manimbo , a market analyst in  Washington  at Travelex Global
Business Payments, a currency-exchange network. “The Bank of
Canada might be in no hurry to tighten monetary policy. We have
seen elevated oil prices.”  The loonie, as Canada’s dollar is also known for the image
of the aquatic bird on the C$1 coin, traded at 98.68 cents
versus the greenback yesterday, compared with 98.74 cents on
Feb. 11. It appreciated on Feb. 17 to 98.16, the strongest level
since March 2008. One Canadian dollar buys $1.0134.  Consumer prices increased 2.3 percent last month from a
year earlier after a 2.4 percent annual rate of advance in
December, Statistics Canada reported yesterday. The median
forecast of 23 economists in a Bloomberg News survey was for the
pace to stay at 2.4 percent.  “There’s still minor inflationary pressure seeping into
Canada, and it’s likely to push out expectations for  Bank of
Canada  rate hikes,” said  Camilla Sutton , a Bank of Nova Scotia
currency strategist in Toronto.  Benchmark Rate  The central bank left its key rate at 1 percent on Jan. 18,
where it has been since September. Canada led the Group of Seven
nations with three interest-rate increases last year on signs of
economic recovery.  The rate on June 2011 bankers’ acceptance contract dropped
0.04 percentage point this week to 1.49 percent, the lowest
level since Feb. 10. So-called Bax contracts have settled an
average of about 20 basis points above the central bank’s target
rate since 1992, Bloomberg data show.  Canadian retail sales were unchanged in December after
rising 1.3 percent in the previous month, according to the
median forecast of 21 economists in a Bloomberg News survey.  Statistics Canada  is due to release the figures Feb. 22.  The government reported last week the nation’s first
positive balance of trade in 10 months. The C$3 billion ($3
billion) surplus in December followed a revised November deficit
of C$115 million.  ‘Good Results’  “We’re seeing some very good results out of Canada for the
beginning of 2011,” said  John Curran , a senior vice president
in Toronto at CanadianForex Ltd., an online foreign-exchange
dealer. “If that continues, you may see the bank start to put
on their thinking caps in terms of rate hikes.”  The Canadian currency is likely to strengthen as traders
focus more on  Brent crude  oil at more than $100 a barrel in  London  and less on lower U.S.  oil prices , according to Deutsche
Bank AG.  “The widening spread between West Texas Intermediate and
Brent crude oil prices has been distorting perceptions of the
trend in oil,” Deutsche Bank foreign-exchange strategists led
by Bilal Hafeez in London wrote in an investor report Feb. 17.
“Most global oil trade is referenced off Brent, so its trends
reflect the true trend.”  Brent crude for April settlement gained for a fourth week,
rising 2.1 percent to $103.03 a barrel on the ICE Futures Europe
exchange. Crude oil for April delivery on the  New York
Mercantile Exchange  advanced 0.9 percent to $89.90 a barrel.  Oil Futures  The difference between April contracts in London and  New
York  was $13.12 a barrel yesterday, compared with a record
spread of $15.94 on Feb. 16.  Canadian  government bonds  were mixed this week, with the
yield on the 10-year benchmark down less than one basis point,
or 0.01 percentage point, to 3.46 percent after rising on Feb.
16 to 3.53 percent, the highest level since May 13. The price of
the 3.50 percent security maturing in June 2020 advanced 7 cents
to C$100.33. The two-year note yield fell two basis points to
1.88 percent.  Global imbalances are re-emerging, threatening the economic
recovery, Bank of Canada Governor  Mark Carney  said in a paper
for the Bank of France’s financial stability review that was
published yesterday.  “The imbalances and financial vulnerabilities that plagued
the global economy before the crisis have begun to re-emerge,”
said Carney, in Paris for a meeting of Group of 20 finance
ministers and central bankers.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Charles Mead in New York at 
 cmead8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  