-- 
China Raises Fuel Prices After Crude Oil Climbs Above $100

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-02-21T09:19:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-19/china-increases-retail-fuel-prices-as-oil-price-climbs-update1-.html
  China ,  Asia ’s biggest oil consumer,
increased retail gasoline and diesel prices for the first time
this year, aiding state refiners under pressure from $100 crude.  Shares in  China Petroleum & Chemical Corp ., the nation’s
biggest refiner, climbed 1.4 percent in Shanghai. The company’s
Hong Kong-listed shares dropped 2.3 percent as analysts said the
increase in government-controlled prices won’t be enough to
offset refining losses.  “The price hike will offset some of the cost pressure on
state refiners,” Yin Xiaodong, chief oil analyst at Citic
Securities Co., said by telephone from Beijing. “The government
should increase fuel prices by 500 yuan or more based on how
much crude has gained.”  Gasoline and diesel yesterday rose by 350 yuan ($53) a
metric ton, or as much as 4.6 percent, the National Development
and Reform Commission, the top economic planner, said on its
website on Feb. 19. The retail price of 90-octane gasoline is
now $1.018 a liter in Beijing and $1.016 a liter in  Shanghai .
The average cost of gasoline in the U.S. is 84 cents a liter.  The government boosted prices after crude in  London  rose
above $100 a barrel as civil unrest in the Middle East threatens
supplies. China last increased prices, by 4 percent, on Dec. 22.  Brent crude  on the ICE Futures Europe exchange has climbed 9.5
percent since then, reaching a 2 1/2-year high last week.  Further Increases  The NDRC said in its statement that it  limited the fuel
price increase  in consideration of social affordability, forcing
refineries to absorb some gains in crude costs.  “This isn’t enough if we benchmark against how crude has
risen. We’ll need another price increase,” Brynjar Eirik Bustnes, an analyst at JPMorgan Chase & Co., said by telephone
from  Hong Kong . “This one will allow refiners to avoid bigger
losses but certainly it’s not going to give them profits.”  Based on a mechanism introduced in December 2008, the NDRC
can revise fuel prices when crude costs change by more than 4
percent over 22 working days.  China may raise gasoline and diesel prices by 20 percent
this year to preserve Sinopec’s refining margins, according to
Mirae Asset Securities Co, which rates the stock a ‘buy’ and
today raised its target price for the Hong Kong shares by 37.5
percent to HK$11.  Sinopec fell to HK$8.34 by the close in Hong Kong today.
The shares climbed to 9.27 yuan in Shanghai.  Higher gasoline and diesel prices may strain drivers who
barely two years ago paid less than Americans to fill their
tanks. China is the world’s biggest new-car market.  Rising fuel prices also risk boosting consumer-price
inflation, which accelerated to 4.9 percent in January from 4.6
percent in December. The latest increase may add 8 basis points
to the  consumer price index  in February,  Lu Zhengwei , a
Shanghai-based economist at Industrial Bank Co., said in an e-
mailed note yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Clyde Russell at 
 crussell7@bloomberg.net  