-- 
Commonwealth Bank Returns Fire on National Australia in Customer Battle

-- B y   A n g u s   W h i t l e y
-- 
2011-02-19T01:25:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-19/commonwealth-bank-returns-fire-on-national-australia-bank-in-client-battle.html
  Commonwealth Bank of Australia 
responded to a  National Australia Bank Ltd . advertising campaign
to lure customers by offering cash to clients who switch banks.  Australia’s largest lender is offering as much as A$1,400
($1,415) to National  Australia  Bank customers who switch to
refinance a home loan, open an account and sign up for a  credit
card , according to an internal Feb. 18 note sent to Bloomberg
News today.  “If they want to play games with price, I’m happy to
compete,” Ross McEwan, head of retail banking at Commonwealth
Bank, said in a separate note to employees. “We’ll use the
opportunity to target their customers.”  The counterattack follows a Feb. 12 offer by National
Australia Bank to pay the A$700 fee for customers who leave
Commonwealth Bank and  Westpac Banking Corp . for a National
Australia Bank mortgage. Record banking profits have unleashed
public anger in Australia and Treasurer Wayne Swan in December
unveiled plans to make it easier for users to switch banks.  Together with  Australia & New Zealand Banking Group Ltd .,
Australia’s main banks are dubbed the “four pillars” after a
law preventing takeovers among them. Between them, they control
88 percent of outstanding home loans sold by Australia’s banks,
according to December data from the  Australian Prudential
Regulation Authority .  Alongside the cash incentives to sign up rivals’ customers,
National Australia Bank, which trails Commonwealth Bank and
Westpac in the mortgage market, has attempted to distance itself
from its closest competitors.  On Feb. 15, the bank published a mock relationship breakup
letter to the three lenders. “It’s over between us,” started
the letter, which appeared in full-page advertisements in
newspapers nationwide.  According to local media, the campaign also featured a
piano player outside ANZ Bank’s Melbourne offices, actors in
restaurants playing out bust-ups over bank fees, and helicopters
over the headquarters of Commonwealth Bank and Westpac trailing
signs saying: “You’re dumped.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Angus Whitley in Sydney at 
 awhitley1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  