-- 
U.S. Said to End Criminal Investigation of Mozilo

-- B y   E d v a r d   P e t t e r s s o n
-- 
2011-02-19T20:53:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-19/criminal-probe-of-countrywide-ex-ceo-mozilo-is-ended-person-familiar-says.html
The  U.S. Justice Department  has
ended a criminal investigation of former Countrywide Financial
Corp. Chief Executive Officer  Angelo Mozilo  and won’t bring
charges, a person familiar with the investigation said.  The person asked not to be identified because the
investigation hadn’t been made public.  The  Federal Bureau of Investigation  started a probe of
possible  securities fraud  at the mortgage lender in 2008, people
familiar with the case said at the time. Mozilo, 72, last year
agreed to pay $67.5 million to settle a U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission lawsuit accusing him of misleading
investors.  Brendan Sullivan, a lawyer for Mozilo, didn’t immediately
return a call to his office outside regular business hours.  The SEC sued Mozilo and two other former Countrywide
executives in June 2009. The agency said the three publicly
reassured investors about the quality of Countrywide’s loans
while knowing that the lender was fueling its growth at least
since the beginning of 2005 by letting its underwriting
guidelines deteriorate, and by originating an increasing number
of risky subprime loans.  Mozilo’s penalty was the biggest ever to be paid by a
senior executive of a publicly traded company in an SEC
settlement, the agency said last year.  Loan Defaults  The SEC alleged that Mozilo sold $140 million in
Countrywide shares from November 2006 through October 2007 at an
inflated price because he hadn’t disclosed the increasing risk
he knew the company faced from defaulting mortgages.  Mozilo, along with former Countrywide Chief Operating
Officer David Sambol, also agreed to a $6.5 million settlement
to resolve a predatory lending lawsuit filed by California,
state Attorney General Kamala Harris said Feb. 2 in a statement.  Money from the California settlement would be used for a
relief fund to aid foreclosures and mortgage delinquencies,
Harris said in the statement. Mozilo denied in court and
continues to deny the allegations in that case, his lawyer,  David Siegel , said in an e-mailed statement at the time. Siegel
said the settlement would be paid by Countrywide and required no
payment from Mozilo.  Mozilo was the most prominent executive targeted by U.S.
regulators examining the subprime mortgage crisis. He co-founded
Countrywide in 1969 and built it into the nation’s biggest
mortgage lender. Mounting loan defaults made it impossible for
the lender to raise funds to issue new mortgages, prompting its
sale to  Bank of America Corp . in 2008.  The  Los Angeles  Times reported on the end to the
investigation yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edvard Pettersson in Los Angeles at 
 epettersson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at   jpickering@bloomberg.net . 