-- 
Del Monte Seeks Competing Bids as KKR Acquisition Is Delayed

-- B y   M a t t h e w   B o y l e   a n d   Z a c h a r y   R .   M i d e r
-- 
2011-02-19T05:00:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-19/del-monte-hires-perella-weinberg-to-seek-bidders-as-kkr-takeover-postponed.html
  Del Monte  Foods Co., the maker of
pet foods Meow Mix and Milk Bone, will solicit takeover offers
after a judge postponed a $5.3 billion deal with KKR & Co. and
suggested adviser  Barclays Plc  engaged in misconduct.  Perella Weinberg Partners LP was hired to canvass potential
bidders, San Francisco-based Del Monte said yesterday in a
regulatory filing. “This is an expected development based on
the court’s preliminary ruling,” Brandon Ashcraft, a spokesman
for London-based Barclays, said in an e-mail.    Delaware  Chancery Judge J. Travis Laster said in an opinion
that Barclays, hired to handle the original auction, had a
conflict of interest because it also helped finance the KKR-led
group’s offer. Del Monte was sued in December by a shareholder
seeking more than the $19 a share offered. A buyout would give
New York-based KKR access to Del Monte’s pet-food business,
which has more than doubled sales in the past four years.  “We would obviously be receptive to a superior proposal
should one emerge,” Brandy Bergman, a Del Monte spokeswoman,
said in an e-mailed statement.  Del Monte fell 3 cents to $18.94 yesterday in  New York 
Stock Exchange composite trading. It has surged 53 percent in
the past year.    Barclays Capital  strongly disagrees with
characterizations that are based on an incomplete factual
record,” Ashcraft said. “Throughout the sales process, we
approached 53 potential buyers in an extensive, robust, and
public sale that yielded no higher price.”  Vote Postponed  Laster’s ruling, made public on Feb. 15, postponed a
shareholder vote of the KKR deal until March 7. The judge also
rejected a plan to block Del Monte from seeking other bids. The
ruling followed a Feb. 11 hearing in Wilmington, Delaware.  “By failing to provide the serious oversight that would
have checked Barclays’ misconduct, the directors breached their
fiduciary duties,” Laster wrote in a 55-page opinion.
Shareholders “have established a reasonable probability of
success” on their claims, based on preliminary pretrial
information, he said.  The case is In re  Del Monte Foods Co . Shareholder
Litigation, CA6027, Delaware Chancery Court (Wilmington).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Matthew Boyle in New York at 
 mboyle20@bloomberg.net ;
Zachary R. Mider in New York at 
 zmider1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at   rajello@bloomberg.net . 