-- 
Three Opposition Leaders Detained Amid Protests in Djibouti Are Released

-- B y   W i l l i a m   D a v i s o n
-- 
2011-02-19T21:35:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-19/djibouti-opposition-says-one-leader-detained-two-more-sought-amid-clashes.html
Djiboutian authorities released
three opposition leaders as opponents of President Ismail Guelleh clashed with police in the second day of protests
against his rule, a party head said.  Mohamed Daoud Chehem, head of the Djibouti Party for
Development; Ismael Guedi Hared, president of the Union for a
Democratic Alternative; and Aden Robleh Awaleh, leader of the  National Democratic Party , were detained yesterday morning,
Awaleh said in a telephone interview from the capital,  Djibouti .  “There was no explanation, no charge, no problem,” Awaleh
said, adding that he was released at 6 last night. “The others
have also been released.”  Opposition leaders will meet today to discuss their next
moves, Awaleh said. At least four demonstrators died and 50 were
injured, he said. Government reports say one demonstrator and
one police officer have been killed.  Anti-government protests have spread from  Algeria  to Yemen
since January after popular uprisings ousted the presidents of
Egypt and Tunisia. In Djibouti, the Horn of  Africa  nation that
hosts the only U.S. military base on the continent, Guelleh’s
People’s Rally for Progress party has ruled since independence
in 1977.  The 63-year-old leader, first elected in 1999, amended the
constitution in March to allow him to extend his rule by two
more six-year terms.  Opposition supporters began a protest Feb. 18 that led to
clashes with the police. One policeman was killed and a second
one is in a coma after being stoned by protesters, according to
 Djibouti24 , a Djibouti-based website.  Guelleh  Chehem said Feb. 18 that as many as 20,000 people had
joined the protest against Guelleh. The country has a population
of about 865,000, according to the  World Bank .  Several calls over the last two days to Ali Boumede, a
spokesman for the president, Foreign Minister Mahmoud Ali
Youssuf, the president’s office and president’s residence either
weren’t answered or didn’t connect, or Bloomberg was told the
officials weren’t available.  Djibouti ranks 148th out of 169 countries in the United
Nations Development Program’s  Human Development Index , which
measures life expectancy, education and  living standards .  Last month, opposition leader Abdourahman Boreh called for
elections scheduled for April to be delayed by as much as a year
and for international monitors to oversee an electoral roll that
includes 130,000 to 140,000 of the population.  Elections  Boreh was the chairman of the Djibouti Port and Free Zone
Authority from 2000 to 2009, when he left the country following
a dispute with the government. He was subsequently given a 15-
year prison sentence following accusations he was involved in a
grenade attack in Djibouti. Boreh denied all charges and said
the case was politically motivated.  “We’re closely monitoring, keeping an eye on developments,
especially as they relate to any forces we may have in the
region,” a Pentagon spokesman, Marine Corps Colonel David
Lapin, told reporters Feb. 18.  The U.S has had a  base  in Djibouti since 2001, while former
colonial power  France  also has a military base and 3,000 troops
stationed in the country, which is smaller than the U.S. state
of  Massachusetts . The republic borders the  Red Sea  and the  Gulf
of Aden  and is seen as a strategic location in the U.S.-led
fight against terrorism and piracy.  To contact the reporter on this story:
William Davison in  Addis Ababa  via Nairobi at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 