-- 
Dollar Drops Versus Euro on Speculation Federal Reserve Won't Raise Rates

-- B y   C a t a r i n a   S a r a i v a   a n d   A l l i s o n   B e n n e t t
-- 
2011-02-19T05:00:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-19/dollar-drops-versus-euro-on-speculation-fed-won-t-increase-interest-rates.html
The dollar fell against the euro for
the first week in almost a month as the  Federal Reserve  signaled
its dissatisfaction with job growth, bolstering speculation it
will be slow to increase interest rates.  The greenback dropped against most of its major peers as
lower-than-forecast retail sales and a rise in jobless claims
damped demand. The Swiss franc surged as investors sought safety
amid Middle East turmoil, while the pound rose against the
dollar and euro on speculation the  Bank of England  will raise
interest rates. The U.S. economy grew faster in the last quarter
of 2010 than first estimated, data next week may show.  “The Fed reiterated that they will maintain a high bar for
rate raises,” said  Aroop Chatterjee , a currency strategist at
Barclays Plc in  New York . “Diminished expectations for rate
hikes have been U.S. dollar negative.”  The dollar fell 1 percent to $1.3693 per euro in New York,
the first weekly loss since Jan. 21, from $1.3554 on Feb. 11.  Europe ’s shared currency rose a second week versus the yen,
gaining 0.7 percent to 113.90 and touching 113.92, the strongest
level since Jan. 27. The yen had its first five-day advance
against the dollar since Jan. 28, gaining 0.3 percent to 83.18.  The euro gained yesterday against most major counterparts
after a European Central Bank Executive Board member, Lorenzo Bini Smaghi, said policy makers may need to raise interest rates
as global inflation pressures mount.  ‘Degree of Accommodation’  “As the economy gradually recovers and global inflationary
pressures arise, the degree of accommodation of monetary policy
has to be monitored and, if needed, corrected,”  Bini Smaghi 
said in an interview with the daily newsletter Bloomberg Brief:
Economics.  The ECB has held its benchmark interest rate at 1 percent
since May 2009.  U.S. policy makers “continued to express disappointment in
both the pace and the unevenness of the improvements in labor
markets,” while also judging the recovery to be on a “firmer
footing,” the  Federal Open Market Committee  said in minutes of
its Jan. 25-26 meeting, released Feb. 16. They were divided over
whether further evidence of recovery would warrant slowing or
reducing $600 billion in U.S. debt purchases to spur growth.  The central bank has left its key rate at zero to 0.25
percent since December 2008 to support the economy. Analysts
forecast the rate will rise to 0.5 percent by year-end,
according to the weighted average in a Bloomberg News survey.  The dollar had the biggest loss this week, 1.4 percent,
among 10 developed-nation currencies in the Bloomberg
Correlation-Weighted Currency Indexes.  Krone, Franc Gain  Norway’s krone, a currency linked to oil exports, and the
Swiss franc, considered a haven currency, gained the most, the
indexes showed. They rose 2.1 percent and 1.9 percent as unrest
surged in the Mideast and  oil prices  climbed.  Egyptian state television said yesterday  Iran  won
permission to sail two naval ships through the  Suez Canal  in a
move  Israel  called a “provocation.”  “The warships can increase tensions potentially between
Iran and Israel, and since Israel is one of the U.S.’s closest
strategic allies, that can weigh on the dollar,” said  Joe Manimbo , a market analyst in  Washington  at Travelex Global
Business Payments, a currency-exchange network.  Crude oil for March delivery increased 0.7 percent, the
most in five weeks, to $86.20 a barrel in New York on concern
supplies may be disrupted.  The franc gained for the week versus 15 of its 16 most-
traded peers. It rose 3 percent, the most since Dec.3, to 94.46
centimes per dollar and was up 1.9 percent to 1.2935 per euro.  Top Performer  Norway’s krone was No. 1, climbing 3.2 percent to 5.6684
per dollar and touching 5.6654, the strongest in 13 months. It
appreciated 2.2 percent to 7.7609 to the euro.  The 17-nation currency rose against the greenback on Feb.
17 as Labor Department data showed applications for  unemployment
benefits  rose to 410,000 in the week ended Feb. 12, exceeding
the 400,000 median forecast in a Bloomberg survey.  Retail purchases in the U.S. rose 0.3 percent last month,
Commerce Department data showed on Feb. 15, the least since a
drop in June. A Bloomberg survey forecast a 0.5 percent gain.  The  U.S. economy  expanded at a 3.3 percent annual rate from
October through December, according to the median estimate in a
Bloomberg survey before Commerce Department data due Feb. 25.
The rate was estimated in January at 3.2 percent. It was 2.6
percent in the third quarter and 1.7 percent in the second.  Yields Fall  The yen strengthened versus the dollar this week as
investors sought the safety of U.S. Treasuries, driving yields
down and dimming the attraction of dollar-denominated assets.
Yields on U.S. two-year notes decreased nine basis points, the
most since the five days ended Sept. 17, to 0.75 percent.  Sterling climbed as pressure increased on the Bank of
England to raise its key rate from a record low of 0.5 percent.
A Feb. 15 report showed inflation accelerated to double the
central bank’s 2 percent target. Bank Governor Mervyn King said
the next day inflation will peak this year and ease in 2012. The
pound strengthened 1.5 percent to $1.6253.  “Most commentators are at least mildly bullish on the
pound,” said  John McCarthy , director of  currency trading  at ING
Groep NV in New York. “I’m not sure if it’s justified, because
it’s based on rate expectations and King moderated that.”    China ’s yuan reached a 17-year high versus the dollar on
speculation the nation will allow faster appreciation to tackle
inflation and appease trading partners who say it’s undervalued.  The yuan gained 0.21 percent to 6.5732 per dollar as Group
of 20 finance ministers and central bankers opened a summit in
Paris yesterday in an effort to agree on a common approach to
global economic imbalances.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Catarina Saraiva in New York at 
 asaraiva5@bloomberg.net ;
Allison Bennett in New York at 
 abennett23@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  