-- 
ECB Doesn't Exclude Possibility of Euro-Zone Inflation Risk, Trichet Says

-- B y   S i m o n e   M e i e r
-- 
2011-02-19T18:28:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-19/ecb-doesn-t-exclude-possibility-of-euro-zone-inflation-risk-trichet-says.html
European Central Bank President  Jean-Claude Trichet  said the central bank isn’t discounting the
possibility that the euro-region may face a greater risk of 
inflation.  “In our own judgment there was a balance between risks of
the  price stability  in the medium run but we did not exclude
that the future of this balance is unbalanced on the upside,”
Trichet said at a press conference after a meeting of Group of
20 nations in Paris today. He also said that the ECB’s rate-
setting policy is independent from unconventional measures.  Trichet last month toughened his tone on inflation as labor
unions use strengthening economic growth to justify pay demands
and companies pass on higher energy costs. Euro-region inflation
in January accelerated to 2.4 percent, the fastest since October
2008, and Volkswagen AG,  Germany ’s biggest automotive employer,
earlier this month agreed to raise compensation for 100,000
workers by 3.2 percent to avert strikes.  The ECB is looking “very, very carefully” at  oil prices ,
Trichet told reporters after the briefing. “No second-round
effects,” that “is our motto.”  Crude oil prices have surged 14 percent over the past six
months, eroding households’ purchasing power and adding pressure
on companies to protect their earnings through price increases.
Trichet said that G-20 ministers also “noted inflationary
pressures” and that they “were to be taken seriously.”  The Frankfurt-based ECB, which aims to keep annual gains in
consumer prices just below 2 percent, in December forecast
inflation to average about 1.5 percent in 2012. It will release
its latest inflation forecasts next month.  ECB governing council member Axel Weber also noted that
“the upward pressure is increasing” on inflation.  “I think this is the best characterization of what we see
in  Europe ,” he told reporters. “I’ve already said in the past
that we’re above 2 percent now, with a tendency to increase. I
think that the turnaround in inflation developments might not
come as soon as we expected in the past. So, clearly, there are
risks to the upside.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simone Meier in Paris at  smeier@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  