-- 
Everton Knocks Chelsea Out of F.A. Cup; Manchester United Beats Crawley

-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 
2011-02-19T19:53:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-19/everton-knocks-chelsea-out-of-f-a-cup-manchester-united-beats-crawley.html
Everton defeated Chelsea 4-3 in a
penalty shootout to knock the defending champion out of English
soccer’s F.A. Cup, as Manchester United battled to a 1-0 win
over non-league Crawley Town.  Phil Neville scored the winning kick as Everton made its
final four shootout attempts of the fourth-round replay at
Stamford Bridge in west London.  Nicolas Anelka  and  Ashley Cole 
missed for Chelsea, which was seeking its third straight F.A.
Cup title.  “I’m just smiling and feeling really good that we’ve
beaten Chelsea,” Everton manager David Moyes said on the club’s
website. “The players were right on the money today. They were
right at it from the off.”  Premier League leader Manchester United was pushed to the
limit by Crawley Town in a fifth-round match. Crawley, which
plays in the fifth tier of English soccer, almost tied the game
in stoppage time as Richard Brodie’s header hit the crossbar.  “The lads put a great shift in,” Crawley’s Pablo Mills
told ITV. “It’s one of the biggest teams in the world, so you
can’t complain. It’s an experience we’ll never forget.”  In other fifth-round matches, Premier League clubs
Birmingham and Stoke scored 3-0 home wins over third-division
teams to move into the quarterfinals.  Extra Time  Chelsea and Everton went to extra time after a goalless 90
minutes.  Frank Lampard  then gave Chelsea the lead in the 104th
minute, before Leighton Baines equalized with a free kick 15
minutes later to force penalties.  Lampard made the first kick of the shootout and Baines’s
effort was stopped by  Petr Cech . After each team made its second
attempt, Everton’s  Tim Howard  made a one-handed stop of Anelka’s
attempt and  Mikel Arteta  scored to tie the shootout.  Chelsea’s Michael Essien and Everton’s Johnny Hietinga both
converted before Cole put the Blues’ fifth attempt over the
crossbar. Neville’s kick into the top corner then sent Everton
to a fifth-round home meeting with Reading on March 1.  Marouane Fellaini had appeared to score a late winner for
Everton, but was judged to have been offside when he netted the
rebound of Baines’s shot in the 89th minute and the game went to
extra time.  The teams tied 1-1 at Everton on Jan. 29 to set up today’s
replay. Chelsea was trying to become the first team to win three
straight F.A. Cups since Blackburn’s run between 1884 and 1886.  Crawley Town  Crawley Town, the first team from outside the top four
divisions of English soccer to reach the final 16 since
Kidderminster in 1994, made things tough for  Manchester United 
at Old Trafford.  Wes Brown headed in Darron Gibson’s cross in the 28th minute
to give United the lead. Crawley Town then held United at bay
and almost got a late tying goal, which would have forced a
replay, as Brodie’s looping header went off the bar.  Stoke got first-half goals from  John Carew , Jon Walters and
Ryan Shawcross to beat League One leader Brighton and move into
the final eight. Jean Beausejour, Obafemi Martins and  David
Murphy  scored in Birmingham’s victory over Sheffield Wednesday.  Manchester City hosts Notts County in a fourth-round replay
tomorrow, while Bolton visits Fulham and Arsenal is at Leyton
Orient in fifth-round matchups. West Ham meets Burnley in two
days.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in  London  at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  