-- 
G-20 Agrees on Yardsticks for Imbalances as U.S. Seeks Leverage on Yuan

-- B y   J a m e s   G .   N e u g e r   a n d   M a r k   D e e n
-- 
2011-02-20T00:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-19/g-20-agree-to-closer-monitoring-of-economic-imbalances-to-prevent-crises.html
Group of 20 finance officials agreed
to closer monitoring of global economic imbalances, in a step
toward smoothing the trade and investment distortions that
plunged the world into crisis.  Yardsticks such as the current account and public and
private debt will make up a scoreboard that, while not binding,
may give the U.S. and Europe leverage to push for an
appreciation of China’s currency.  With the world recovery entering a second year, yesterday’s
G-20 sparring match over early warning indicators reflected the
determination of emerging countries to challenge the West’s
formula for managing the international economy.  “It wasn’t easy, there were obviously diverging
interests,” French Finance Minister  Christine Lagarde  told
reporters after chairing the Paris meeting. The goal is “to
test economic policies and determine to what extent they are
favorable for all countries together and not just the basis of
domestic economic policy.”  China will remain the world’s fastest-growing major economy
in 2011, with a 9.6 percent expansion, the  International
Monetary Fund  predicts. The Washington-based lender sees 3
percent growth in the U.S. and 1.5 percent in the 17-nation euro
area.  ‘Strengthening’ Recovery  “The global recovery is strengthening but is still uneven
and downside risks remain,” the G-20 finance ministers and
central bankers, representing 80 percent of world output, said
in a statement. “While most advanced economies are seeing
modest growth and persisting high unemployment, emerging
economies are experiencing more robust growth, some with signs
of overheating.”  On the eve of the meeting,  China  sought to ease the
Beijing-Washington tension by raising bank-reserve requirements
for the eighth time in a year and indicating that it will fight
domestic inflation by extending a four-month-old cycle of
interest-rate increases.  Higher reserve standards are not “the only method that
we’ll use to battle inflation, it’s about using all means
including rates and currency,” People’s Bank of China Governor
Zhou Xiaochuan said in an interview in Paris on Feb. 18. “One
method doesn’t exclude the other.”  The yuan’s advance to 6.5732 per dollar on Feb. 18, the
highest since late 1993, left U.S. and European policy makers
calling for further gains to spur Chinese imports of western
goods.  Currency Language  “China’s currency remains substantially undervalued, and
its real effective exchange rate -- the best measure to judge
its currency against all of its trading partners -- has not
moved much in this latest period of  exchange-rate  reform,” U.S.
Treasury Secretary  Timothy Geithner  said.  Hammered out in two days of talks, the G-20 statement
didn’t delve into currencies, beyond echoing a November pledge
to enhance exchange-rate flexibility and strive to avoid
“disorderly movements in exchange rates.”  China blunted western calls for the roster of indicators to
include its $2.8 trillion in foreign-exchange reserves, the
export-led symbol of its blossoming into the world’s second-
largest economy.  The use of reserves to judge whether countries are
importing enough from the rest of the world was also a sore
point with  Brazil ,  Russia  and  India , which together with China
make up the “BRIC” cluster of developing economies.  ‘Deft Diplomacy’  China also objected that the use of the current account,
the widest measures of trade, as a benchmark would give the West
an opening to force up the yuan.  In what Geithner called “deft diplomacy,” the French
hosts massaged the statement to include the current account’s
components -- trade and investment income -- while labelling it
the “external imbalance” to appease Chinese sensitivities.  “The impact of reserves through the current account is
very much included,” Bank of Canada Governor  Mark Carney  said.
“The substance of it is there. It’s just wording.”  The next step, at the G-20’s meeting in mid-April, will be
to turn the mathematical yardsticks into the basis for a
voluntary set of guidelines for national economic policy.  Ebbing Imbalances  In any event, imbalances are ebbing. The IMF predicts that
China’s current-account surplus will narrow to 5.1 percent of
gross domestic product in 2011 from as high as 10.6 percent in
2007, while the U.S. shortfall slims to 2.6 percent from 5.1
percent.  There was little discussion of binding China more closely
into the world economy by adding the yuan to the IMF’s synthetic
currency basket, known as special drawing rights. Created in
1969 and last reweighted in November, the SDR is a composite of
the dollar, euro, Japanese yen and British pound, though its
role in markets is minimal.  Current SDR rules would require China to first make the
yuan fully convertible, a step that would put it on the upward
track desired by the U.S. and  Europe . The SDR’s future is on the
agenda of a lower-level working group.  “Some conditions have to be met before the Chinese
currency is ready,” German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble 
said. “The Chinese know this. This goal won’t be reached this
year.”    France , with close ties to North Africa, also got the
ministers to pledge support for Egypt and  Tunisia , though the
statement didn’t mention the popular revolts that unseated
autocrats there and have spread to other Arab countries.  To contact the reporters on this story:
James G. Neuger in Paris at 
 jneuger@bloomberg.net ;
Mark Deen in Paris at   markdeen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  