-- 
G-20 May Stick With 2010 Currency Accord as Divisions Persist

-- B y   M a r k   D e e n   a n d   R a i n e r   B u e r g i n
-- 
2011-02-19T08:23:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-19/g-20-may-stick-with-2010-currency-accord-as-divisions-persist.html
Finance ministers from the Group of
20 are likely to agree on a statement of foreign-exchange policy
that repeats their 2010 accord to “refrain from competitive
devaluations.”  The language was accepted and not a subject of debate among
finance officials in the meeting that wraps up today in Paris, a
G-20 official who briefed reporters late yesterday said.  “We will move toward more market-determined exchange rate
systems and enhance exchange rate flexibility to reflect
underlying economic fundamentals and refrain from competitive
devaluation of currencies,” the G-20 leaders said after their
November summit in  Seoul . “In circumstances where countries are
facing undue burden of adjustment, policy responses in emerging
market economies with adequate reserves and increasingly
overvalued flexible exchange rates may also include carefully
designed macro-prudential measures.”  China has faced pressure to let its currency strengthen and
resisted efforts to include its $2.8 trillion of currency
reserves in the basket of early warning indicators of imbalances
in the global economy. As of late last night, there was no deal
on any measures, which is the main goal of the gathering, the
official said.  German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  told reporters
today that he has “the impression that China is aware of
its responsibility,” citing talks with his Chinese counterpart
last night. The G-20 must “fight exaggerations” in foreign
exchange rate fluctuations, he said.  SDR Pressure  Moves are afoot to bind  China  more closely into the world
economy by adding the yuan to the International Monetary Fund’s
synthetic currency basket, known as special drawing rights.  Created in 1969 and last reweighted in November, the SDR is
a composite of the dollar, euro, Japanese yen and British pound,
though its role in financial markets is minimal. Current SDR
rules would require China to first make the yuan fully
convertible, a step that would put it on the upward track
desired by the U.S. and  Europe .  “We will discuss ways to enlarge the SDR basket,” German
Deputy Finance Minister Joerg Asmussen said in a Bloomberg
Television interview yesterday. “One might think of adapting
the rules in order to ease the way for more currencies to be
part of the SDR.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mark Deen in Paris at 
 markdeen@bloomberg.net ;
Rainer Buergin in Paris at  rbuergin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  