-- 
G-20 Country Ready to Support Egypt, Tunisia After Revolts

-- B y   R a i n e r   B u e r g i n   a n d   S c o t t   R o s e
-- 
2011-02-19T15:47:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-19/g-20-country-ready-to-support-egypt-tunisia-after-revolts.html
The Group of 20 nations are ready to
help the people of  Egypt  and Tunisia carry out reforms and
strengthen their economies after popular revolts let to the
overthrow of dictators in both countries.  “We stand ready to support Egypt and Tunisia, with
responses at the appropriate time well coordinated with the
international institutions and the regional development banks to
accompany reforms designed to the benefit of the whole
population and the stabilization of their economies,” the G-20
said today in their statement after a two-day meeting in Paris.  The statement did not mention the current unrest in the
Middle East and North Africa that has spread to other countries
including Libya and Bahrain.  U.S. Treasuries rose as investors sought the world’s safest
assets after pro-government forces shot at protesters in  Bahrain , Yemen, Libya and Djibouti. Authoritarian rulers in the
region aim to suppress calls for political change that
originated in Tunisia and Egypt.  Swap contracts for G-20-member  Saudi Arabia , used as a
measure of confidence although the country has no debt to
insure, jumped 13.5 basis points to 140, the highest since July
2009, on concern the unrest may spread to the world’s biggest
oil exporter, which neighbors Bahrain.  In Libya, groups of people set fires in the streets of the
capital, Tripoli, and the office of internal security was set
ablaze in Benghazi, the British Broadcasting Corp. reported
yesterday.  European Union Home Affairs Commissioner Cecilia Malmstroem
told  Corriere della Sera  that unrest in Libya is “concerning”
and could lead to more immigration from the region. French
President Nicolas Sarkozy at the Elysee palace yesterday asked
the G-20 to offer its support to Tunisians and Egyptians on
their road to democracy.  The G-20 is a group consisting of the 27-member European
Union as well as Argentina, Australia, Brazil, Canada, China,
France, Germany, India, Indonesia, Japan,  South Korea , Mexico,
Russia, Saudi Arabia,  South Africa , Turkey, the U.K. and the
U.S.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rainer Buergin in Paris at  rbuergin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  