-- 
G-20 Ministers Say Global Economic Recovery Is `Uneven,' Still Faces Risks

-- B y   T h e o p h i l o s   A r g i t i s
-- 
2011-02-19T18:09:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-19/g-20-ministers-say-global-economic-recovery-is-uneven-still-faces-risks.html
Group of 20 finance officials said
the global economic recovery remains “uneven” and imbalances
risk hurting growth without further efforts to coordinate
policies.  The recovery “is strengthening but is still uneven and
downside risks remain,” G-20 finance ministers and central
bankers said in a statement after a meeting in Paris today. “We
reaffirm our willingness to ensure a consistent and coordinated
response to the challenges we face, address the root causes of
the crisis and restore global economic growth on a sounder
basis.”  Disparities in growth between emerging economies like China
and debt-laden regions like the U.S. and some European nations
are fueling clashes over policies needed to erase global
imbalances and sustain the recovery. The U.S. and other
developed economies are pushing  China  to allow its currency to
appreciate to help counter global imbalances.  Governments of emerging economies including China have said
that the U.S. and European monetary policy is flooding their
economies with capital, threatening to inflate asset bubbles.
China has rejected policy prescriptions that fault its exchange-
rate regime and policy of accumulating reserves.  “Some conditions have to be met before the Chinese
currency is ready,” German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble 
told reporters in Paris today. “The Chinese know this. This is
a process that has started. This goal won’t be reached this
year.”  China will remain the world’s fastest-growing major economy
in 2011, with a 9.6 percent expansion, the  International
Monetary Fund  forecast last month. The Washington-based lender
projects growth of 3 percent in the U.S. this year and 1.5
percent in the 17-nation euro area.  “Most people see a world in which the emerging world’s
growing 5 percent, 6 percent -- we’re growing between 3 percent
and 4 percent, Europe and Japan somewhere between 1 percent and
2 percent,” U.S. Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  said in
Paris yesterday. “That seems a reasonable forecast.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Theophilos Argitis in Paris at 
 targitis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  