-- 
Libyan Opposition Warns of ‘Bloodbath,’ Calls for Intervention

-- B y   C a r o l i n e   A l e x a n d e r
-- 
2011-02-19T22:10:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-19/libyan-opposition-warns-of-massacre-calls-for-intervention.html
Libyan protests demanding an end to
the four-decade rule of  Muammar Qaddafi  may end in a
“bloodbath” unless the international community intervenes, a
leading member of an exiled opposition group said.  Libyan special security forces are preparing attacks on
Benghazi and other cities in the eastern part of the country
that have been taken over by protesters, Mohammed Ali Abdallah,
deputy secretary general of the National Front for the Salvation
of  Libya , said in a telephone interview yesterday.  “We are expecting a massacre,” Ali Abdallah said. “We
are sending an SOS to the international community to step in.”
Without international efforts to hold back Qaddafi, “there were
be a bloodbath in Libya in the next 48 hours.”  Demonstrators entered their fourth day of rallies against
the regime, which has responded with “brutality and violence,”
Ali Abdallah said. Government forces have killed at least 84
people in the unrest,  Human Rights Watch  said in a statement on
its  website .  The government has refused requests by doctors to replenish
medical supplies to treat the wounded, he said.  Demonstrators took over most of the major cities east of
Benghazi, where some army officers and police sided with the
people in the street, Ali Abdallah said. Protest camps were set
up in Benghazi and Beida, he said. Pockets of protest in and
near Tripoli, the capital, were quickly quashed.  Change “is inevitable,” he said. “It is very close.”  The demonstrators are calling for the creation of a
constitutional democracy and an end to a ban on political
parties. Inspired by the unrest in Tunisia and  Egypt , protesters
in Libya have organized rallies on the Internet and through
social media sites such as Facebook.  “Unlike those two countries, the protests in Libya aren’t
necessarily a youth movement,” Ali Abdallah said. “There are
lots of lawyers, doctors, judges taking part. This is unique to
the Libyan movement.”  The NFSL was founded with no specific ideology by former
diplomats and Libyan businessmen, Ali Abdallah said. At first
underground, the movement went public in 1981, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Caroline Alexander in  London  at 
 calexander1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at   barden@bloomberg.net  