-- 
Iranian Film ‘A Separation’ Wins Golden Bear at Berlin Festival

-- B y   C a t h e r i n e   H i c k l e y
-- 
2011-02-21T00:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-19/iranian-film-a-separation-wins-golden-silver-bears-at-berlin-festival.html
An Iranian drama about a couple
whose marriage disintegrates swept three awards at the Berlin
Film Festival.  “Nader and Simin, A Separation” won the Golden Bear award
for the best film, and two Silver Bears for the cast on Feb. 19.
Sarina Farhadi, Sareh Bayat, Leila Hatami and Merila Zerei
shared the award for best actress for their roles. Babak Karimi,
Peyman Moadi and Ali-Asghar Shahbazi shared the best actor
Silver Bear.  The movie, one of 16 in competition at the  film festival ,
tells the story of a woman who wants to leave Iran with her
husband and daughter. Her husband decides against emigrating
because of his father, who is suffering from  Alzheimer’s
disease . The wife files for divorce at a family court.  “I thought it might be too much of an Iranian film, that
the communication to the outside world might be difficult,”
director Asghar Farhadi said at a news conference after the
award ceremony. “Obviously, that is not the case. It’s a
portrait of our country, an image that doesn’t come over in the
media.”  A six-member jury, led by Isabella Rossellini, picked the
winning movies. A seventh member, Iranian director Jafar Panahi,
was jailed in  Iran  shortly after accepting his seat on the jury
and was represented at the festival by an empty chair.  “I spoke to him on the phone before I came to Berlin,”
said Farhadi, whose film “About Elly” won a Silver Bear award
in 2009. “It is very regrettable that he cannot do his work. I
hope very much that we are here, talking together, next year. It
would be very bad if he could not be here next year.”  ‘Sleeping Sickness’  The Silver Bear award for best director went to Ulrich
Koehler for his film “Sleeping Sickness,” about a German
doctor working in development in Cameroon who finds himself
unable to leave  Africa  to return home with his wife and daughter
when the time comes.  A Silver Bear runner-up award went to “The Turin Horse”
by veteran Hungarian director Bela Tarr, telling the story of
demented philosopher Friedrich Nietzsche, a horse and a hansom
driver.  A Silver Bear for best script went to Joshua Marston and
Andamion Murataj for “Forgiveness of Blood,” an Albanian
language film about a family paralyzed and isolated by a blood
feud with neighbors after a man is killed in a fight over a
piece of land.  The Argentine movie “The Prize,” which explores the
impact of dictatorship on a young girl living in hiding with her
mother, won awards for production and camerawork.  Andres Veiel’s first feature film “If Not Us, Who,”
dealing with the origins of German terror group the Baader-
Meinhof gang, won a prize for innovative film-making.  For more information on the Berlin Film Festival, go to
 http://www.berlinale.de/en .  (Catherine Hickley is a writer for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. Opinions expressed are her
own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Catherine Hickley in Berlin at 
 chickley@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 