-- 
Ivory Coast Forces Loyal to Gbagbo Fire on Pro-Ouattara Rallies in Abidjan

-- B y   P a u l i n e   B a x
-- 
2011-02-19T17:56:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-19/ivory-coast-security-forces-keep-outtara-backers-from-rallies.html
Ivory Coast’s security forces used
teargas and live ammunition to prevent supporters of President-
elect  Alassane Ouattara  from attending rallies in the commercial
capital Abidjan.  “We were setting up the stage when the security forces
arrived and we heard shots being fired,” Adama Kone, a senior
opposition official in the suburb of Abobo, said by phone.
“They set the stage on fire.”  Ouattara, internationally recognized as the winner of the
Nov. 28 elections, today called for protests in 11 towns to
demand the departure of incumbent President  Laurent Gbagbo , who
refuses to leave office, according to the private radio station
Liberte FM.  Ivory Coast, the world’s biggest cocoa producer, has been
divided into a government-run south and a rebel-held north since
a 2002 revolt. The New Forces rebel movement controlling the
northern half of the country is loyal to Ouattara.  The United Nations peacekeeping mission in  Ivory Coast  sent
armored vehicles to the two suburbs where protests were planned,
Amidou Bachirou, a UN military spokesman, said by phone.  Didier Houldesso, an opposition official, said police
trucks blocked protesters who were marching on Inch’Allah Square
in the Koumassi neighborhood. The pro-Ouattara supporters
reacted by setting fire to several trucks and setting up
barricades. At least five people were wounded by police gunfire,
he said.  Gunshots rang out in several neighborhoods known as
opposition strongholds in Abidjan, including Treichville,
resident Philippe Yao said by phone.  Teargas, Gunshots  “The police dispersed people with teargas and gunfire,” he
said. “It appears calm right now.”  Gbagbo, who is supported by the security forces, has
imposed a three-day nighttime curfew, army spokesman Hilaire
Babri Gohourou said on state television late yesterday.  Ouattara’s rival government today called on the security
forces to ignore the decree, his defense ministry said in a
statement today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Pauline Bax in Johannesburg at 
 ebowers1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  