-- 
NBA Targets All-Star Access With New Hospitality Partnership for Fans

-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 
2011-02-19T05:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-19/nba-targets-all-star-access-with-new-hospitality-partnership-for-fans.html
National Basketball Association fans
don’t have to be VIPs to live like ones at this year’s All-Star 
Game in  Los Angeles .  The NBA for the first time is allowing fans to buy tickets
and amenities once reserved for the league’s top sponsors or
those connected to a player or team.  Following the  National Football League  and horse racing,
the NBA has joined with  QuintEvents  as its official hospitality
provider. The  Charlotte , North Carolina-based event-planning
company sold full-service packages for the three-day  All-Star
festivities  at the Staples Center in Los Angeles for prices
ranging from $1,599 to $8,299.  “It’s a great way to improve the fan experience and
provide a one-stop shop for the fans so they can get all the
tickets, parties, in-stadium hospitality, hotel accommodations,
airfare, etc., all in one place,” QuintEvents Chief Executive
Brian Learst, 49, said in a telephone interview.  Tedd Alexander, the founder of  Credo Capital Management  in
Baltimore, saw the NBA’s new partnership as a way to give his
son Teddy a special 16th birthday gift.  Alexander and his two teenage sons not only got tickets to
see players such as  Kobe Bryant  of the  Los Angeles Lakers  and  LeBron James  of the  Miami Heat  in the All-Star Game tomorrow.
They’ll also attend events like the rookie challenge, slam dunk
and three-point contests, which started yesterday.  They’ll stay in a hotel across the street from the  Staples
Center , have access to special in-arena hospitality areas before
and after the game where all food and drink is included, and get
to spend time with celebrities and meet ex-NBA players including
Darryl Dawkins and Robert Horry.  Client Relations  “This is a first time for me,” said Alexander, 49, who
manages about $650 million for institutional clients. “I’m very
much looking at it not only from a personal experience, but
because events like this we’ve talked about particularly for
some of our clients.”  That’s part of the plan for the NBA and QuintEvents --
offering the opportunity for smaller businesses not affiliated
with the league to take clients, potential clients or top
salespeople to major events  “A lot of the bigger corporations have their own event
departments and they manage this kind of thing for them,” said
Learst, who founded closely held QuintEvents 10 years ago. “A
small or midsize company probably doesn’t have that kind of
luxury, so this allows them to be able to do it in a first-class
way.”  Jennifer Tilden, national director of corporate sponsorship
at  Time Warner Cable Inc. , used QuintEvents to get an 18-person
suite for All-Star weekend, seeing it as an opportunity to
entertain and strengthen relationships with clients in the Los
Angeles area.  ‘All-Inclusive’  “Having something that’s turn-key where we buy a package
that’s all-inclusive and custom-designed to fit the needs we
have, it’s hugely helpful,” Tilden said in a telephone
interview. “I can’t go and seek out dependable vendors for all
these moving parts that we’d need to pull off a weekend program
like this.”  Peter Fink, the NBA’s vice president of events and
attractions, said the partnership offers legitimacy to fans and
consumers at a time when ticket sales on the secondary market
are booming and some companies are trying to piecemeal off-site
hospitality packages.  QuintEvents also coordinates hospitality packages for the
NFL’s Super Bowl and Pro Bowl, and for horse racing’s  Kentucky
Derby  at Churchill Downs in Louisville,  Kentucky .  Known Commodity  ‘We know we’re getting what we’re paying for,” said
Tilden, who declined to say how much Time Warner paid for the
suite. “We’re not going through some online broker, we’re not
getting scalped, we know that if we buy a ticket at this level
and section we’re getting what we paid for.”  EBay Inc.’s  Stubhub  said it’s selling All-Star Game tickets
for an average of $1,121 a seat. The face value is $750 for
lower-level tickets and $500 for upper level, league spokesman
Tim Frank said in an e-mail.  Alyson Dutch, chief executive of  Brown + Dutch Public
Relations  in Malibu,  California , said she paid about $7,000 to
get a full two-person ticket and travel package for all three
days and on-site VIP hospitality. Dutch, a product launch
specialist, used the package as a prize to drive website traffic
for a new basketball shoe from  Ektio  that’s designed to prevent
ankle sprains.  “To get a real person to come to one of these events has
been almost impossible,” Dutch said by telephone. “Even if
you’re in the industry, to try to get tickets for one of these
events is no easy task.”  Father, Son  Dutch’s contest winner is Thurston Porter, a 55-year-old
retired New York City corrections officer who lives in Tampa,  Florida . Porter took his 19-year-old son, Travis, to All-Star
weekend and said it’s a “once in a lifetime opportunity.”  QuintEvents got “several hundred” tickets from the NBA
this year for packages at the 18,997-seat Staples Center. That
may grow in the future for other NBA events.  “There might be a nice business model there to expand it
to other events we do,” the NBA’s Fink said from Los Angeles.
“We just wanted to try it out for All-Star weekend, see how the
reaction was from the consumer and kind of evaluate it after
that. So far it’s going well.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  