-- 
Obama Says Creation of ‘Next Google’ Rests on Better Education

-- B y   K a t e   A n d e r s e n   B r o w e r
-- 
2011-02-19T11:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-19/obama-says-creation-of-next-google-rests-on-better-education.html
President  Barack Obama  said creation
of the “next Intel, the next Google, or the next Microsoft” in
the U.S. will depend on improving the education system so that
workers have the best training.  In his weekly radio and  Internet   address , Obama said that
over the next 10 years almost half of all new jobs will demand a
degree beyond high school and employers will be seeking out
students who excel in math and science.  “We’ve got to have the best trained, best skilled
workforce in the world,” he said in the address, which he
recorded after visiting an  Intel Corp . semiconductor
manufacturing facility yesterday in Hillsboro,  Oregon . “That’s
how we’ll ensure that the next Intel, the next Google, or the
next Microsoft is created in America, and hires American
workers.”  Obama is promoting his budget priorities following release
of his $3.7 trillion spending blueprint on Jan. 14. While
cutting spending in areas such as energy, transportation and
housing, Obama proposes shifting some of the savings to fund
programs supporting education and research. He faces a fight
with congressional Republicans who want deeper cuts devoted to
reducing the deficit, which the administration forecasts will
hit a record $1.6 trillion this year.  Obama argues that spending on education will bolster U.S.
economic competitiveness, and he used the example of  Santa Clara ,
California-based Intel, the world’s largest chipmaker.  Competing  “Companies like  Intel  are proving that we can compete”
and “make things in America and sell them around the globe,”
Obama said. Yet because the U.S has fallen behind other
countries in math and science “companies like Intel struggle to
hire American workers with the skills that fit their needs,” he
said.  “We have everything we need to compete: bold entrepreneurs,
bright new ideas, and world-class colleges and universities,”
he said. “All we have to do is tap that potential.”  The night before his visit to the Intel facility, Obama
dined in Woodside,  California , with leading technology
executives including Apple Inc.  Chief Executive Officer  Steve Jobs , Facebook Inc. founder  Mark Zuckerberg  and  Google Inc .
Chief Executive Officer  Eric Schmidt , to discuss innovation and
his economic policies.  After emphasizing education and the role technology
companies can play in future growth this week, Obama will pivot
to focus on small businesses. The president said he’ll meet with
owners of small businesses Feb. 22 in  Cleveland  to talk about
how the government can help their companies expand.  Republican Address  In the Republican  address , Georgia Representative  Tom Price 
said the president’s fiscal 2012 budget “destroys jobs by
spending too much, and borrowing too much, and taxing too
much.”  Price, who is chairman of the  House Republican Policy
Committee , said that Obama’s plan continues “Washington’s
spending binge,” which he said must end to “reduce uncertainty,
to boost confidence, and to encourage private investment in our
economy.”  He said the president’s budget “punts on all of the tough
choices” because it doesn’t offer ideas to overhaul Medicare,
Medicaid or Social Security, the entitlement programs that
represent about 40 percent of the federal budget and are primary
drivers of long-term deficits.  Cutting Spending  Price, who is also a member of the  House Budget Committee 
and the  Ways and Means Committee , said that House Republicans
are working on a bill that would cut discretionary spending by
$100 billion over the last seven months of this fiscal year. He
said they are “exceeding” the promises they made to their
constituents to cut spending.  House Republicans and Senate Democrats must come to an
agreement on fiscal 2011 spending to keep the government
operating past March 4, when current funding authorization
expires.  House Republicans are looking at ways to eliminate
“crushing government regulations” and will be working on
legislation that would make cuts to mandatory spending, he said.  Republican  Paul Ryan  of Wisconsin, the Republican chairman
of the House Budget Committee, will take the lead on a separate
budget for fiscal year 2012 to be released in the spring which
will include entitlement reform, Price said.  “There’s no way that we can protect programs like Social
Security for the future and get our debt under control unless we
begin to honestly address entitlements,” he said.  Price said Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid of Nevada is
one of the Democratic lawmakers who does not understand the
severity of the crisis caused by dwindling funds for social
security. “Now for the president, leadership requires telling
friends like  Harry Reid  the truth, even if it’s politically
difficult.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kate Andersen Brower in  Washington  at 
 njohnston3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:  Mark Silva  in Washington at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net . 