-- 
Mogadishu Fighting Kills Six as Government Battles Islamists

-- B y   H a m s a   O m a r
-- 
2011-02-19T15:31:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-19/mogadishu-fighting-kills-six-as-government-battles-islamists.html
At least six people were killed and
two dozen others wounded in the Somali capital Mogadishu as
government forces backed by African Union troops battled
Islamist insurgents.  The battle began early today when the government forces
with the African Union Mission in Somalia attacked Al-shabaab
entrenchments in the Wardigley and Howlwadag districts and the
Sayid junction near the presidential palace.  “Our troops are advancing towards their strong positions”
Abdullahi Ali Anod, a commander for presidential forces, told
journalists today. “We have lost one soldier, and six others
have sustained injuries. We have launched a planned attack
towards their positions this morning.”  Both sides exchanged fire from artillery, mortar and
rocket-propelled grenades. Residents and witnesses said the
fighting is continuing.  “The causalities are not confirmed exactly because the
stray bullets and mortars have hit several people in different
locations,” Ali Muse Sheikh, director of Mogadishu ambulances
services, said in an interview today. “Until now, six civilian
corpses have been collected and 16 others wounded.”  Witnesses and residents said that heavily armed Al-shabaab
troops have joined the battle.  The fighting has resumed again this afternoon as civilians
were wounded or killed by stray mortars from areas that are far
from the battle including Bakara market, HamarJajab and
Hamarweyne district.  “Five Christians from Ugandan troops and seven apostate
soldiers (a reference to government soldiers) have been killed
in the battle, and their corpses are still in the street,”
Sheikh Abdul Aziz Abu Musab, an army spokesman for Al-shabaab,
said on a conference call with reporters today. “They have
failed in their attack.”  To contact the reporter on this story:  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net 
-0- Feb/19/ :31 GMT 