-- 
OPEC Oil Exports Fall 2% as Saudi Shipments Decline

-- B y   W a e l   M a h d i
-- 
2011-02-19T18:00:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-19/opec-s-december-oil-exports-fall-2-as-shipments-from-saudia-arabia-drop.html
OPEC’s oil exports fell 2 percent in
December from a month earlier as  Saudi Arabia , the world’s
largest exporter, reported a decrease of 4.9 percent.  Total exports by the Organization of Petroleum Exporting
Countries, excluding  Algeria  and the  United Arab Emirates , fell
by 387,000 barrels a day to 19.4 million barrels a day, the
Joint Data Initiative  website , which compiles data supplied by
governments in an attempt to improve transparency, showed today.  Saudi Arabia’s exports fell to 6.05 million barrels a day
in December from 6.36 million in November even as Saudi
production rose to a two-year high of 8.37 million barrels a
day, JODI said.  “This is a huge difference,” said John Sfakianakis, Chief
Economist at Riyadh-based Banque Saudi Fransi, noting the 2.32
million barrel per day difference between what Saudi Arabia
produced and its exports.  “It’s not clear if Saudi Arabia consumed the full 2.32
million barrels locally during that month, but what’s clear is
that rise in local consumption is becoming eminent,” he said.  Energy demand in the kingdom will increase to more than 8
million barrels of oil equivalent a day by 2028, Hashim Yamani,
president of King Abdullah City for Atomic and  Renewable Energy ,
said at a conference in Riyadh on Jan. 23. That compared with
3.4 million barrels of oil equivalent a day last year.  Total world output fell 14 percent in December from a month
earlier to 55.5 million barrels a day, the lowest since 2002,
mainly due to a in non-OPEC production, particularly in Latin
America, according to the incomplete JODI data.  JODI is under the supervision of the Riaydh-based
 International Energy Forum  and its data goes back to 2002. JODI
data is not complete since not all countries supply information.  Oil ministers and energy officials from 90 countries,
including members of OPEC and the IEA, will sign a charter for
the  Forum  in  Riyadh  on Feb. 22, host nation Saudi Arabia said
yesterday.  The agreement is aimed at finding ways to stabilize oil
markets and improve the collection and dissemination of supply,
demand and price data.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Wael Mahdi in London at 
 wmahdi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  