-- 
Portuguese, Greek Government Bonds Drop; German Polls May Derail Agreement

-- B y   L u k a n y o   M n y a n d a
-- 
2011-02-19T07:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-19/portuguese-greek-bonds-drop-german-polls-may-derail-agreement.html
Portuguese bonds declined for a
second week, leading securities of high-deficit countries lower,
before German elections that may derail attempts to reach an
agreement on extending the European Union’s rescue fund.  German 10-year bunds posted their first gain in three weeks
as concern over its weaker euro-region neighbours stoked demand
for the safest assets. Bunds pared their advance yesterday after
European Central Bank Executive Board member Lorenzo Bini Smaghi
said the bank may need to raise  interest rates  to combat
inflation. Greek bonds slumped as a report showed economy
contracted for a 10th quarter. Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s party
will likely be defeated in tomorrow’s election in Hamburg, polls
showed.  Portugal ’s 10-year yield has stayed above 7 percent the
last 11 trading days.  “There’s a risk to peripheral bonds, if  Germany  is seen
not to be displaying support for the countries that are in
trouble,” said  Orlando Green , assistant director of capital-
markets strategy at Credit Agricole Corporate & Investment bank
in London. “The market would have been hoping that a deal would
have been struck already” before the elections, he said.  Portugal’s 10-year bond yield rose 18 basis points this
week to 7.50 percent as of 4:53 p.m. in  London  yesterday. The
yield difference, or spread, over similar maturity German bunds
widened 23 basis points to 424 basis points, after reaching 439
basis points, the most since November.  Greece ’s 10-year yield
rose 20 basis points to 11.72 percent.  Comprehensive Plan  Merkel is negotiating a comprehensive EU plan to stem the
debt contagion as German voters resist handouts to indebted
nations. The spread between 10-year Spanish securities and
similar bunds has widened 23 basis points since Feb. 4, the last
trading day before a European summit that failed to resolve
differences over a bailout fund created to help member states
service their deficits.  “The periphery issue is still on the agenda,” said Viola Stork, an economist at Helaba Landesbank Hessen-Thueringen in  Frankfurt . “They’ve started implementing austerity measures,
but it still remains to be seen how these will be put through
and what effect they will have on growth.”  The German 10-year bund yield increased seven basis points
to 3.25 percent yesterday, still four basis points lower than on
Feb. 11. The two-year yield was at 1.40 percent, down from 1.41
percent last week.  German bonds may decline next week before a report that
economists say will show European confidence in the economic
outlook increased this month, strengthening the case for higher
interest rates from the ECB. The refinancing rate is at a record
low of 1 percent.  ‘Pre-Emptive Action’  “As the economy gradually recovers and global inflationary
pressures arise, the degree of accommodation of monetary policy
has to be monitored and, if needed, corrected,”  Bini Smaghi 
said in an interview with daily newsletter Bloomberg Brief:
Economics. Commodity-price increases will “have an unavoidable
impact” and “it is a key challenge for monetary policy to
avoid spillovers and maintain inflation expectations in check,”
he said. “This requires the ability to take pre-emptive actions
if needed.”  German  government bonds  lost investors 1.4 percent this
year through Feb. 17, while French debt lost 1.2 percent,
according to indexes compiled by Bloomberg and the European
Federation of Financial Analysts Societies. Greek debt returned
investors 3.1 percent, with Spanish bonds gaining 1.5 percent,
the indexes show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lukanyo Mnyanda in Edinburgh at 
 lmnyanda@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  