-- 
Pound Gains as Inflation Surge Boosts Rate-Increase Speculation

-- B y   G a r t h   T h e u n i s s e n
-- 
2011-02-19T07:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-19/pound-gains-as-inflation-surge-boosts-rate-increase-speculation.html
The pound strengthened against the
dollar and euro this week after a surge in inflation and retail
sales boosted speculation the Bank of England will increase  interest rates  this year faster than previously anticipated.  Sterling also advanced against a basket of nine developed-
nation peers tracked by Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Currency
Indexes. Reports in the past week showed consumer-price
inflation accelerated to double the central bank’s 2 percent
target in January while retail sales surged by almost four times
the amount forecast by economists, adding to speculation the
central bank will be forced to respond.  “The probability of a rate hike coming sooner rather than
later is increasing,” underpinning gains in the pound, said  Adam Cole , head of global currency strategy at Royal Bank of
Canada in London. “The onus is on the economic numbers to argue
against a rate hike and they don’t seem to be putting up any
barriers against those calls.”  The pound rose 1.4 percent in the past week to $1.6237 and
strengthened 0.5 percent versus the euro to 84.23 pence at 5:30
p.m. in  London  yesterday. Gilts rose for the first time in three
weeks, with 10-year yields falling six basis points to 3.81
percent and two-year yields sliding three points to 1.53
percent.  U.K. inflation accelerated to 4 percent in January, a Feb.
15 report showed, forcing Bank of England Governor  Mervyn King 
to write a fifth letter to the Chancellor to explain the bank’s
monetary-policy stance. King dismissed the spurt in inflation in
his letter, saying raising rates quickly would hurt the economy,
which unexpectedly shrank by 0.5 percent in the fourth quarter.  Hawkish Camp  Sterling also posted a weekly gain versus 12 of its 16
most-actively traded peers after policy maker  Andrew Sentance 
said in a speech in London that the central bank should raise
rates to boost the pound as a means of curbing inflation. Policy
makers can’t be “relaxed” about the pound’s exchange rate, as
a modest appreciation in the currency would help curb rising
prices, Sentance said on Feb. 17.  “There is a feeling in the market that the hawkish camp is
trying to get more support, and that King’s argument that
inflation will be temporary is losing more and more appeal,”
said  Ulrich Leuchtmann , head of foreign-exchange strategy in  Frankfurt  at Commerzbank AG. “There are good arguments for
joining the hawks,” said Leuchtmann, adding that he remains
“bullish” on sterling.  BOE Minutes  Money markets signal the  Bank of England  may boost its  bank
rate  by about 75 basis points by year-end, according to the
Sterling Overnight Interbank Average, or Sonia, Tullett Prebon
Plc data shows. The implied yield on the December short-sterling
futures contract rose three basis points in the last week to
1.74 percent, indicating traders added to bets that borrowing
costs in the U.K. will rise.  The minutes of the central bank’s last meeting will be
published on Feb. 23. Policy makers have been split three ways
since October, with  Adam Posen  calling for an expansion of the
bank’s bond-purchase plan, and Andrew Sentance voting for an
increase in the benchmark rate by 25 basis points to 0.75
percent. Sentance was joined by  Martin Weale  at the central
bank’s last rate decision on Jan. 13.  Six speeches are planned by U.K. policy makers next week,
including Sentance and Posen on 22nd, and Weale on 24th.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Garth Theunissen in London 
 gtheunissen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  