-- 
Treasuries Rise as Middle East Protests Increase Demand for Safety Assets

-- B y   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s   a n d   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r
-- 
2011-02-19T05:00:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-19/treasuries-rise-as-middle-east-protests-increase-demand-for-safety-assets.html
Treasuries rose, with two-year notes
climbing the most since September, as concern of spreading
unrest in the Middle East boosted demand for the relative safety
of  U.S. government debt .  Ten-year note yields fell as  Egypt  approved a request from  Iran  to send two naval ships through the  Suez Canal  on their way
to  Syria , which ratcheted up regional tensions and drove  oil
prices  higher as  Israel  called it a “provocation.” The Federal
Reserve purchased $24 billion of Treasuries and TIPS during the
week, as part of its efforts to sustain the economic expansion.
The Treasury will sell $99 billion of notes next week.  “Geopolitical risk remains and there is a lot of
uncertainty about the possibility of it spreading, which has
given Treasuries a bid,” said  Suvrat Prakash , an interest-rate
strategist in New York at BNP Paribas, one of the 20 primary
dealers required to bid at Treasury auctions. “With Fed
purchases continuing and global unrest, Treasuries have
support.”  Two-year note yields fell nine basis points to 0.75 percent
in  New York , according to BGCantor Data, the most since the week
ending on Sept. 17, from 0.84 percent on Feb. 11. The price of
the 0.625 percent securities maturing in January 2013 was 99
24/32. Ten-year note yields dropped five basis points to 3.58
percent from 3.63 percent.  Flight to Bills  Three-month bill rates traded as low as 0.0821 percent
yesterday, the least since June 17. One-month bill rates were
little changed at 0.0659 percent.  “Anytime there is civil unrest anywhere people will flock
to Treasury bills,” said  Michael Franzese , head of Treasury
trading at Wunderlich Securities Inc. in New York. “Investors
feel they can wait out in bills the uncertainty with regard to
what is going on with  Federal Reserve  monetary policy and the
direction of long-term Treasury yields.”  Treasuries pared a weekly gain yesterday after a European
Central Bank official said it may need to raise  interest rates 
as global inflation pressures mount while the Fed maintains its
target of almost-zero short-term rates. ECB Executive Board
member Lorenzo Bini Smaghi said the “degree of accommodation of
monetary policy has to be monitored and, if needed, corrected,”
in an interview with the daily newsletter Bloomberg Brief:
Economics.  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke ’s speech text in Paris
yesterday didn’t address the U.S. monetary policy that central
bank policy makers maintained last month along with plans to buy
$600 billion of Treasuries through June. Paris is hosting the
Group of 20 meetings of central bankers and finance ministers
this weekend.  Fed Views  Minutes of the Fed’s meeting last month showed policy
makers regarded the U.S. recovery as being on a “firmer
footing.” The central bank raised projections for economic
growth this year and made little change to forecasts after 2011
or for unemployment and inflation. They were divided about
whether further evidence of a strengthening recovery would
warrant slowing or reducing the Treasuries buying.  “People were expecting the minutes to mention some sort of
exit plan, but the Fed signaled that they are more concerned
about growth, which lets the market know that they are inclined
to stay accommodative,” BNP Paribas’s Prakash said.  The difference between yields on two-year notes and
Treasury Inflation Protected Securities, which tracks the
outlook for consumer prices during the life of the debt,
expanded to 2.04 percentage points, the widest gap since July
2008.  Economic Reading  Government economic reports showed housing starts climbed
15 percent in January to a 596,000 annual rate and the  consumer
price index  increased 0.4 percent in January, exceeding the 0.3
percent median estimate of economists surveyed by Bloomberg
News, figures from the Labor Department showed. Year-on-year
inflation accelerated to 1.6 percent, the highest since May.  “The fundamentals look good, and are bearish for
Treasuries, but the market can’t ignore geopolitical risk like
this,” said James Caron, head of U.S. interest-rate strategy at
Morgan Stanley in New York, a primary dealer.  President  Barack Obama  sent Congress a $3.7 trillion budget
that projects the federal deficit will exceed $1 trillion for
the fourth consecutive year in 2012 before falling to more
“sustainable” levels by the middle of the decade.  Deficit Politics  The deficit for the current fiscal year is forecast to hit
a record $1.6 trillion -- 10.9 percent of gross domestic product
-- up from the $1.4 trillion the administration estimated
previously. It would be $1.1 trillion in 2012, 7 percent of GDP.
By 2015 it would decline to $607 billion, or 3.2 percent of GDP.  The U.S. plans to sell $35 billion in two-year notes on
Feb. 22, the same amount of five-year debt the following day and
$29 billion in seven-year securities on Feb. 24.  Treasuries have handed investors a 1 percent loss in 2011,
while inflation-linked Treasuries decreased 0.8 percent,
according to indexes compiled by Bank of America Merrill Lynch.  “No one wants to be short going into a long weekend that
could expose the market to a lot of event risk,” said  Thomas Tucci , managing director and head of rates trading at Royal Bank
of Canada in New York. “Any selloff will be limited given the
potential for more geopolitical headlines.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cordell Eddings in New York at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net ;
Susanne Walker in New York at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  