-- 
China Networking Site Renren Said to Plan $500 Million U.S. IPO

-- B y   S e r e n a   S a i t t o   a n d   B r i a n   W o m a c k
-- 
2011-02-20T16:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-19/renren-china-s-largest-social-networking-site-is-said-to-plan-u-s-ipo.html
Renren.com,  China ’s largest social-
networking service, is seeking to capitalize on strengthening
demand for the nation’s Internet stocks with a U.S. initial
public offering.  Renren.com is preparing an IPO of about $500 million this
year, according to three people with knowledge of the plan. The
banks handling the IPO are Morgan Stanley, Deutsche Bank AG and
Credit Suisse Group AG, according to the people, who declined to
be identified because the matter isn’t public. The offering
could come by June, two of the people said.  “It’s good timing to go for a listing,” said Jim Tang, a
telecommunications analyst at Shenyin Wanguo Securities Co. in  Shanghai . “It definitely will be able to lure many
international investors. It should be using the IPO proceeds to
develop and promote its technology and products.”  Renren.com has more than 160 million registered users,
according to Analysys International in Beijing. The site could
use the IPO proceeds to woo more visitors as it competes with
local rivals  Tencent Holdings Ltd . and Baidu Inc. in the world’s
most-populous nation. Renren -- a name that means “everyone”
in Chinese -- has similar features as Facebook Inc., which is
blocked in China.  No U.S. social-networking sites have gone public, even as
their popularity and advertising revenue soar. That’s created
pent-up demand among investors. LinkedIn Corp., which announced
plans last month to raise $175 million in an IPO, could become
the first to list.  Tencent, Baidu  Shares of Hong Kong-listed Tencent, China’s biggest
Internet company, have risen 23 percent to HK$208.20 this year.
U.S.-listed Baidu, which fields 80 percent of China’s Web
queries and is the nation’s second-largest Internet company,
jumped 31 percent to $126.80.  At Renren, advertising has more than doubled each year
since the site started selling space in 2008, the company said
in a statement. The online advertising market will triple to
almost $13 billion in China by 2014, estimates Susquehanna
International Group LLP.  Lillian Wang, a public-relations manager at Renren in
Beijing, didn’t immediately return calls to her office and
mobile phone seeking comment after working hours.  Pen Pendleton, a spokesman for Morgan Stanley, declined to
comment, as did Credit Suisse’s  Duncan King . Deutsche Bank’s
Scott Helfman didn’t immediately respond to a request for
comment.  ‘Inside School’  Renren traces its roots back to 2005, when graduates of  Tsinghua University  in Beijing founded Xiaonei.com, or “Inside
School.” That was the year after  Mark Zuckerberg , chief
executive officer of Facebook, created his service for fellow  Harvard University  students.  In 2006, Xiaonei was acquired by closely held Oak Pacific
Interactive Corp., which renamed the service Renren in 2009.  Softbank Corp ., Japan’s fastest-growing mobile-phone carrier, is
the biggest shareholder in Beijing-based Oak Pacific.  Facebook does have some Chinese users, who circumvent
censors through so-called virtual private networks, according to
data compiled by Socialbakers.com, a site dedicated to analyzing
Facebook statistics.  Facebook, the world’s biggest social-networking site, will
start reporting financial results by April 2012, even if it
doesn’t go public, according to a document sent to prospective
investors. The company would be forced to make disclosures
because it expects to have at least 500 shareholders by the end
of this year, a threshold that makes reporting results necessary
under U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission rules, a person
who reviewed the document said last month.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Serena Saitto in New York at 
 ssaitto@bloomberg.net ;
Brian Womack in  San Francisco  at 
 bwomack1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net ;
Jennifer Sondag at   jsondag@bloomberg.net  