-- 
Saudi Stocks Drop for a Fifth Day on Growing Unrest

-- B y   M o u r a d   H a r o u t u n i a n
-- 
2011-02-20T09:07:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-19/saudi-stocks-drop-for-a-fifth-day-on-growing-middle-east-unrest.html
(Corrects sixth paragraph to show credit default swaps at
highest since July 2009. Story originally moved Feb. 19.)  Saudi Arabian shares retreated for
the fifth day on concern political unrest in neighboring
countries may hurt the Arab world’s largest economy.  The  Tadawul All Share Index  dropped 1.6 percent to
6,383,88, the lowest level since Feb. 1, at the 3:30 p.m. close
in Riyadh.  Saudi Basic Industries Corp ., the world’s largest
petrochemical maker, slumped 1.7 percent.  Al Rajhi Bank , the
kingdom’s largest publicly traded lender by market value,
declined the most in three weeks.  “With geopolitical tensions rising in neighboring
countries, sentiment has turned negative,” said Fuad Aghabi,
investment director at Ajeej Capital in Riyadh. “While
fundamentals which still remain strong have taken a back seat,”
traders await clarity on the political situation.  Arab governments are cracking down on pro-democracy
activists as uprisings that toppled leaders in Tunisia and Egypt
spread to Libya, Algeria, Yemen and Bahrain. Egypt yesterday
approved a request by Iran to send two warships through the Suez
Canal on their way to Syria, a move that boosted  oil prices .  A member of Saudi Arabia’s royal family warned on Feb. 17
that the kingdom may see protests unless King Abdullah Bin Abdul
Aziz introduces reforms, according to BBC Arabic TV. Prince Talal Bin Abdul Aziz told the London-based broadcaster that
“what happened and is still happening in some Arab countries,
including  Bahrain , could spread to  Saudi Arabia , even worse.”  Credit Insurance  The cost of protecting Saudi Arabian debt against default
for five years soared to the highest since July 2009 yesterday.  “The market is reacting to possible contagion fear
following the unrest in Bahrain,” said Asim Bukhtiar, an equity
analyst at Riyad Capital in Riyadh. “The rising risk premium
coupled with downgrades in regional outlook is depressing equity
valuations.”  Saudi Basic, also known as Sabic, retreated to 99.50
riyals, the lowest level since Jan. 31.  Al Rajhi  dropped for the
sixth day by 1.9 percent to 77.25 riyals, the lowest since Nov.
28.  Etihad Etisalat Co ., the second-largest phone company by
market value, fell 2.4 percent, the most in three weeks, to
51.50 riyals.    Kingdom Holding Co . declined the most in at least four
years after it said it hasn’t reached an agreement with Mobile
Telecommunications Co. to buy the Kuwait-based company’s 25
percent stake in Zain Saudi Arabia. Kingdom tumbled 9.8 percent,
the maximum fluctuation allowed in a trading session, to 9.20
riyals. Zain Saudi dropped 4.3 percent to 7.75 riyals.  Crude for March delivery settled at $86.20 a barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange  yesterday. Earlier, it touched
$87.88. Futures gained 0.7 percent this week. Saudi Arabia holds
about 20 percent of the world’s proven oil reserves.  Credit-default swaps on Saudi Arabia, used as a measure of
confidence in the country although they reference no debt,
jumped 11.5 basis points to 138, the highest since July 2009,
according to CMA prices.  “As the rest of regional markets open tomorrow, the extent
of fear will be revealed,” said Riyad’s Bukhtiar.  Saudi Arabia’s stock exchange is the only Gulf Arab bourse
open on Saturdays.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mourad Haroutunian in  Riyadh  at 
 mharoutunian@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shaji Mathew at 
 shajimathew@bloomberg.net  