-- 
Shell to Divest About $1 Billion of Refining, Marketing Assets in Africa

-- B y   M a r i a   E r m a k o v a
-- 
2011-02-19T18:17:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-19/shell-agrees-to-sell-african-refining-marketing-assets-for-1-billion.html
  Royal Dutch Shell Plc ,  Europe ’s
biggest oil company, will sell its retail fuels business in 14
African countries for $1 billion as part of a plan to streamline
its marketing operation worldwide.  Vitol Group and Helios Investment Partners LLP, an Africa-
focused private equity firm, will form a joint venture to take
control of most of Shell’s fuel marketing operations on the
continent, Geneva-based Vitol said in a statement today. Shell
may put assets from five more countries into the venture.  “We will significantly reduce our capital exposure in line
with our strategy to concentrate our global downstream
footprint” while continuing to provide products under the Shell
brand to customers in  Africa , Mark Williams, Shell’s downstream
director, said in the statement.  Hague-based Shell is targeting asset sales of as much as $5
billion this year, Chief Executive Officer Peter Voser said an
earnings report on Feb. 3. The company has sold about $30
billion of assets worldwide over the last five years.  Vitol, the world’s largest independent oil trader, and
Helios will take control of Shell’s business fueling retail,
commercial, aviation and marine customers as well as lubricants
and liquefied petroleum gas in the countries. Shell will hold a
20 percent stake in the new company.  ‘Growth Opportunities’  “Combining Vitol’s world class supply expertise and
Helios’ deep understanding of the African operating environment
with the Shell brand will create significant new growth
opportunities,” Tope Lawani, managing partner of Helios, said
in the statement.  The agreement covers Shell’s businesses in  Morocco ,
Tunisia, Ivory Coast, Egypt, Burkina Faso, Ghana, Senegal, Mali,
Guinea, Cape Verde,  Kenya , Uganda, Madagascar and Mauritius. The
Egypt operations exclude lubricants.  Another venture, in which Shell will hold a 50 percent
stake, will run Shell’s lubricants blending plants in seven
countries.  Shell is considering whether to sell to the venture its
businesses in  Namibia , Botswana, Togo, Tanzania and La Reunion
may be sold to Vitol and Helios in the future, according to the
statement.  The agreement, subject to regulatory approval, would be
implemented in phases by the end of the first half of 2012.  Not included in the agreement are Shell’s fuels unit in  South Africa , its lubricants business in  Egypt , its oil
exploration programs, its trading operation and its liquefied
natural gas assess.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maria Ermakova in London at 
 mermakova@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Maria Ermakova at 
 mermakova@bloomberg.net  