-- 
Six Charged in Insurance Scam Over Fatal Boat Sinking

-- B y   L a u r e l   B r u b a k e r   C a l k i n s
-- 
2011-02-19T00:45:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-19/six-charged-in-insurance-scam-over-fatal-boat-sinking-update2-.html
Six men were charged with conspiring
to sell fake insurance policies to operators of the Ethan Allen,
a tour boat that sank on  New York ’s  Lake George  in 2005, killing
20 elderly tourists.  The alleged conspiracy, which included participants in  Texas ,  Arizona , Canada and the Caribbean, also sold fraudulent
liability coverage to nursing homes, assisted living centers,
and other residential complexes and hospitality businesses,
according to a revised indictment unsealed today in federal
court in Houston.  The men “backdated documents after the Ethan Allen
accident to make it appear that Shoreline Cruises had not
purchased coverage while the vessel was operating on Lake George
when, in fact, Shoreline had purchased exactly that type of
insurance policy,’’ U.S. Attorney Jose Angel Moreno in Houston
said in a statement.  The defendants allegedly falsified financial records sent
to Shoreline and buyers of other insurance policies “to create
the false appearance that its insurers had financial strength,’’
Moreno said in the statement.  None of the insurers involved in the Ethan Allen’s
insurance policy had the financial ability to pay the claims,
according to the indictment. The cruise line later pleaded
guilty to a misdemeanor for not having enough crew members on
board when its boat capsized and sank Oct. 2, 2005, during a
fall-foliage excursion, according to the indictment.  Six Defendants  Charged in the alleged scheme are: Christopher Purser, 49,
of Houston; Malchus Irvin Boncamper, 56, of St. Kitts and Nevis
in the West Indies; Marc-Thibaud Duchesne, 49, a British citizen
formerly residing in Houston; William Ballachey, 64, of
Brossard,  Canada ; Edmund Hugh Benton, 52, of Scottsdale,
Arizona; and Robert  Steve Mills , 55, formerly of Dallas and Ft.
Myers, Florida.  Joseph Gibson Jr., Boncamper’s lawyer, declined to comment
today, saying only that his client was in custody and en route
to Houston after being arrested at the Miami airport on Jan. 14.  Angela Dodge, Moreno’s spokeswoman, said Purser wasn’t able
to enter a plea at his arraignment before a magistrate in
Houston federal court today as he hasn’t yet obtained a lawyer.
He will remain in custody until he can make another court
appearance on Feb. 22.  Duchesne is now a fugitive after escaping Jan. 16 from a
British prison, where he was awaiting possible extradition to
the U.S., Dodge said. The whereabouts of Ballachey and Benton
are unknown, and both are considered fugitives, she said.  Mills was arrested Jan. 10 in  Florida , after he was charged
with trying to influence his daughter to give false testimony to
a grand jury, Dodge said. He was taken into temporary custody
and moved to Houston, where a magistrate will schedule a bond
hearing, Dodge said.  The case is U.S. v. Boncamper, 10-cr-814, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of Texas (Houston).  To contact the reporter on the story:
Laurel Brubaker Calkins in Houston at 
 laurel@calkins.us.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at   jpickering@bloomberg.net . 