-- 
South Korea Suspends Four Savings Banks for Six Months in Liquidity Crunch

-- B y   E u n k y u n g   S e o
-- 
2011-02-19T01:39:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-19/south-korea-suspends-for-savings-banks-for-six-months-in-liquidity-crunch.html
South Korea’s  Financial Services
Commission  suspended the business of four local savings banks
for six months from today due to a liquidity crunch.  The four banks are Bohae Mutual Savings & Finance Co. and
three subsidiaries of Busan Savings Bank -- Jungang Busan
Savings Bank, Busan II Savings Bank, and Jeonju Savings Bank,
the financial watchdog said in a statement today.  “They have suffered a bank run” after the recent
suspension of two other banks, the FSC said in a statement after
a meeting at 7:30 a.m. today. “We concluded that they will not
be able to meet demand for withdrawals, eventually hurting
depositors’ interests and credit order.”  Busan Savings Bank and Daejeon Mutual Savings Bank were
ordered to halt operations for six months from Feb. 17 due to
soured construction project loans. The commission is tightening
scrutiny of smaller mutual savings banks, with a plan to buy as
much as 3.5 trillion won ($3.1 billion) worth of deteriorating
loans made to builders and developers.  State-run Korea Finance Corp. and other big commercial
lenders in the country are prepared to provide 2 trillion won in
credit to the mutual banks to prevent a potential liquidity
crunch, and the government may secure as much as 10 trillion won
together with Korea Deposit Insurance Corp., the commission’s
chairman, Kim Seok Dong, said on Feb. 17.  Combined assets at  South Korea ’s 105 savings banks totaled
86.5 trillion won as of September 2010, accounting for about 3
percent of total assets held by the country’s financial
institutions, according to the FSC’s data.  State-run Korea Deposit Insurance guarantees clients’
deposits and interest up to 50 million won in case a financial
institution becomes unable to repay clients.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eunkyung Seo in Seoul at 
 eseo3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  