-- 
Spilker Gets $49 Million in Stock, Option Compensation From Apollo Global

-- B y   M i l e s   W e i s s
-- 
2011-02-19T05:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-19/spilker-gets-49-million-in-stock-option-compensation-from-apollo-global.html
Marc Spilker, the former Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. executive who joined Apollo Global Management
Group LLC last year as president, received almost $49 million in
compensation for 2010, the private-equity firm said.  Spilker was granted 2.5 million restricted shares with a
market value of $20.7 million, according to an amended
registration statement filed yesterday with the U.S. Securities
and Exchange Commission. Under his employment contract, signed
in November, he also received options to purchase 5 million
Apollo common shares at $8 each, a grant valued at $28.1
million, the company said.  James Zelter, Apollo’s managing director of capital
markets, earned $25.8 million last year, according to the
filing. That includes $5.4 million that Zelter, 48, received
under an employment contract entitling him to a portion of
Apollo’s management and incentive fees, along with $19.1 million
from a carried-interest allocation that he gets from one of
Apollo’s buyout funds.  Apollo, based in New York, is filing with the SEC to
register stock on behalf of investors who purchased shares from
the company through private transactions in 2007. Apollo also
plans to raise money for its own coffers through an initial
public offering, after which its shares will trade on the  New
York  Stock Exchange.  Spilker, 46, spent 20 years at Goldman, most recently as
the New York-based bank’s co-head of  investment management .
Apollo, co-founded and run by  Leon Black , named Spilker to the
newly created position of president on Nov. 29.  $2 Million Salary  The former Goldman executive is the only top officer at
Apollo to receive an options grant on its Class A shares,
according to today’s filing. The size of the grant was based in
part “on his level of responsibility and historic compensation
at his prior employer.”  In addition to the equity awards, Spilker will receive an
annual salary of $2 million under his employment agreement,
which runs until Dec. 31, 2012. Both the option and restricted
stock grants vest over six years, meaning he could forfeit some
of the award upon leaving before the end of 2016.  Spilker, who retired from Goldman last May, joined the bank
in 1990 and was named partner in 1996. He graduated with a
bachelor’s degree in economics from the Wharton School of the  University of Pennsylvania .  Black, 59, earned a total of $8.9 million last year,
including a $7.4 million stock award.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Miles Weiss in Washington at 
 mweiss@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  