-- 
Surgeons May Be Operating Too Much When Breast Biopsy Needed, Study Finds

-- B y   P a t   W e c h s l e r
-- 
2011-02-19T00:26:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-19/surgeons-may-be-operating-too-much-when-breast-biopsy-needed-study-finds.html
Doctors are choosing to operate on
women who need breast biopsies more often than recommended by
national guidelines rather than perform a safer, cheaper needle
biopsy, a university study found.  Almost one-third of the 172,342 biopsies done in the state
of Florida from 2003 to 2008 were done surgically, even though
national guidelines recommend 10 percent or less should rely on
this more costly procedure, according to a study published today
by doctors at the University of  Florida  in Gainesville. Instead,
physicians should be relying on needle biopsies when breast
abnormalities are detected, the report said.  Women who received surgical biopsies may have been able to
avoid any operation had doctors chosen the needle technology,
said  Stephen R. Grobmyer , senior author of the study appearing
in the American Journal of Surgery. About 70 percent to 80
percent of biopsies don’t uncover cancer, he said. The
“overused” surgical biopsy technique is costing Florida more
than $37 million a year in unnecessary charges, the study found.  “There’s a pretty clear advantage to using needle
biopsies, which is less expensive and better for the patient,”
Grobmyer, medical director of the university’s breast center,
said in a telephone interview. The study showed needle biopsy
charges to be as much as half the cost of surgical procedures,
he said.  Breast biopsies are performed to investigate whether
abnormalities uncovered by mammograms and other imaging
technology are cancerous. About 1.6 million  breast  biopsies are
performed nationally every year.  For at least five years, professional medical guidelines
have recommended that needle biopsies be used for 90 percent to
95 percent of the procedures. Needle biopsies are often
performed by radiologists.  Fewer Infections  The needle biopsies are as effective in diagnosing cancer,
result in fewer operations and have lower infections and
complications rate, the study found. Many surgical biopsies that
uncover a malignancy require follow-up surgery to make sure the
entire cancer is removed, particularly when the lymph nodes are
involved.  “This may suggest that more education is needed for both
doctors and patients,” Grobmyer said. “An opportunity to cut
costs and make things better for patients is being missed.”  An estimated 207,000  breast cancer  cases were diagnosed in
2010 and the disease killed about 40,000 women, according to the  National Cancer Institute .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Pat Wechsler in New York at 
 pwechsler@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale in New York at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  