-- 
Uganda’s Museveni Leads as Vote Counting Continues

-- B y   S a r a h   M c G r e g o r   a n d   F r e d   O j a m b o
-- 
2011-02-19T13:57:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-19/ugandan-president-museveni-leads-in-presidential-election-with-72-of-vote.html
Ugandan President Yoweri Museveni
leads the East African country’s presidential election with
votes at about half of polling stations counted,  Electoral
Commission of Uganda  Chairman Badru Kiggundu said.  Museveni won 70.62 percent support, while Kizza Besigye of
the opposition Forum for Democratic Change took 23.26 percent,
Kiggundu told reporters today in Kampala, the capital. Six other
contenders, as well as null or spoiled ballots, accounted for
the remainder. Ballots have been tallied at 12,706 of the 23,968
polling stations, he said.  A victory for Museveni, in power since 1986, would keep him
in control of an economy on the cusp of an oil boom.  Tullow Oil
Plc  will probably start pumping oil and gas from the Lake Albert
Basin in 2012 and a new oil-licensing round this year or next
may reveal further resources. At present, Uganda has an
estimated 2.5 billion barrels of oil, with about 1 billion
barrels already proven, according to Tullow.  Besigye has vowed to tally his own election results and
bypass the courts in resolving electoral disputes, after the  Supreme Court  failed to annul the last two votes, even after
finding irregularities in how they were conducted.  ‘Reject’ Results  The four-party Inter-Party Coalition, led by Besigye, may
decide at a meeting today to “reject” the electoral
commission’s verdict on the presidential vote, Sam Njuba, the
group’s electoral committee chairman, said by phone today from
Kampala.  Police will arrest anyone who declares independent results,  Electoral Commission  Chairman Badru Kiggundu said on Feb. 17.  Museveni expects crude output to help lift Uganda to
middle-income status by 2016, almost  doubling  annual per capita
gross domestic product to $800. The International Monetary Fund
 forecasts  that growth in  Africa ’s largest producer of robusta
coffee will accelerate to 6.1 percent this year from 5.8 percent
in 2010.  The 66-year-old president’s re-election would provide
“continuity” for companies involved in developing the
country’s oil industry, Nicholas Sengoba, a Kampala-based
independent political analyst, said in a phone interview today.  “Now that the election has come to a close it will give
Museveni and the  oil companies  a stable environment in which to
make long-term decisions,” Sengoba said. “They can now be sure
they’re dealing with the same person for the next five or 10
years.”  Accelerated Exploration  The hunt for oil and gas should accelerate around  Lake
Albert , where three-quarters of the area has gone unexplored,
after draft oil legislation is approved by lawmakers, probably
by late-May, Philippe de Pontet, a Washington D.C.-based
director of Africa for Eurasia Group, said in an e-mailed note
to clients on Feb. 17.  Museveni ranks as one of Africa’s longest serving leaders
along with Muammar al-Qaddafi of  Libya ,  Zimbabwe ’s Robert Mugabe
and until earlier this month,  Egypt ’s  Hosni Mubarak .  A lack of transparency over how oil revenue will be managed
raised concern that the new-found wealth may be misused,
according to analysts including Yvette Babb at Standard Bank
Group Ltd. in Johannesburg. Uganda, which ranks 127th out of 178
nations on the Berlin-based  Transparency International’s 
corruption perceptions index, has kept oil contracts secret.  Tullow said last year that it plans to partner with China
National Offshore Oil Corp. and Total SA once a tax dispute with
the government is resolved.  Uganda  has five production-sharing
contracts: one each with Dominion Petroleum Ltd. and Tower
Resources Plc; and three with Tullow, Bill Page, a partner at
Deloitte & Touche LLP’s Ugandan unit, said by e-mail on Feb. 11.  The final results of the election are scheduled to be
announced by 5 p.m. tomorrow. The outcome of a parliamentary
vote also held yesterday is being unveiled individually at the
district level.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah McGregor in Kampala at 
 smcgregor5@bloomberg.net ;
Fred Ojambo in Kampala via the Johannesburg newsroom at 
   pmrichardson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Sanders at 
 psanders@bloomberg.net . 