-- 
Yale Shifts Aid From Wealthier Families to Help Poor Students

-- B y   O l i v e r   S t a l e y   a n d   J a n e t   L o r i n
-- 
2011-02-19T00:16:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-19/yale-shifts-aid-from-wealthier-families-to-help-poor-students.html
  Yale University  is redistributing
its financial aid to give more to low-income students and less
to those from wealthier families, as it increases its total aid
budget by 8 percent.  Beginning with students who enter this August, parents who
earn between $130,000 and $200,000 a year will be asked to pay
an average of 15 percent of their income, up from 12 percent for
the previous three years, said Caesar Storlazzi, Yale’s chief
financial aid officer, in an interview. Yale will also increase
the income cap for families who pay nothing to $65,000 from
$60,000.  Yale, in  New Haven ,  Connecticut , will charge $52,700 for
tuition, room and board before aid next year. In 2007 and 2008,
Yale joined  Harvard University , in Cambridge, Massachusetts, in
raising financial aid to students from families making as much
as $200,000 as endowments reached record highs. Now Yale is
rethinking how it is allocating its aid as parents struggle
financially, Storlazzi said.  “Hard times demand a hard look at what we were doing,”
Storlazzi said. “Yale’s mission is to be accessible, especially
to low-income families.”  Yale said its financial aid budget is expected to be $117
million next year. About 57 percent of students receive
financial aid.  The programs that enhanced financial aid for wealthier
families were created to allow colleges to keep up with one
another, Michael McPherson, president of the Chicago-based
Spencer Foundation, which funds education research, said in a
phone interview.  “Competing acts of increasing generosity were not really
warranted relative to other plausible priorities for these
universities,” McPherson, an economist and former president of
Macalester College in  St. Paul , Minnesota, said. “I’m glad that
they had the courage to say we overreached and were pulling back
somewhat. Nobody promised these policies would last forever.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Oliver Staley in  New York  at 
 ostaley@bloomberg.net 
Janet Lorin in New York   jlorin@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonathan Kaufman at 
 jkaufman17@bloomberg.net  