-- 
Yandex, Renren, HomeAway Said to Plan IPOs Worth $1.8 Billion

-- B y   S e r e n a   S a i t t o ,   B r i a n   W o m a c k   a n d   D o u g l a s   M a c M i l l a n
-- 
2011-02-22T05:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-19/yandex-is-said-to-pick-banks-to-handle-1-billion-ipo-update1-.html
Yandex , Renren.com and HomeAway.com
Inc., a trio of Internet startups, are planning to raise a total
of $1.8 billion in U.S. initial public offerings this year, 
people briefed on the proposals said.  Morgan Stanley and  Deutsche Bank AG  will handle all three
deals, which are likely to happen by the end of June, said the
people, who asked not to be identified because the plans haven’t
been made public.  JPMorgan Chase & Co . and  Goldman Sachs Group
Inc . are also working with HomeAway, while  Credit Suisse Group
AG  will help manage Renren’s IPO, they said.  HomeAway, Renren and Yandex are betting that investors will
snap up shares of Internet companies after the worst two-year
stretch for IPOs in at least 38 years ended in 2010. Yandex,
which plans to raise about $1 billion, may become one of the
largest technology IPOs in 2011, along with chipmaker Freescale
Semiconductor Inc. Renren, aiming to raise about $500 million,
would be one of the first social networks to list shares.  “Now is the time to strike and get out there on the front
end of the pent-up demand rather than farther down the
pipeline,” said  Greg Sterling , an  analyst  at Opus Research in
San Francisco. “The overall economy is better. The Internet is
an area where there’s growth. This is one of the few sectors
where people are expecting big things still.”  ‘Blockbuster IPOs’  Representatives of Moscow-based Yandex, a search engine,
and Renren, the largest social-networking site in  China , didn’t
respond to requests for comment. Eileen Buesing, a spokeswoman
for Austin, Texas-based HomeAway, which lists vacation rentals
online, declined to comment. Representatives of  Morgan Stanley ,
Deutsche Bank, JPMorgan, Goldman Sachs and Credit Suisse also
declined to comment.  The coming 12 months may become a breakthrough year for
technology IPOs, Dick Kramlich, a 42-year veteran of the
venture-capital industry, said in an interview last week.  “Over the next 12 months, we’re going to see something we
haven’t seen in the last 10 years, which is the evidence of
blockbuster IPOs,” said Kramlich, co-founder of  New Enterprise
Associates  in  Menlo Park ,  California .  Internet startups Facebook Inc., Groupon Inc. and Zynga
Inc. have reached multibillion-dollar valuations in the private
secondary market. The business-networking site LinkedIn Corp.,
which is valued at $2.5 billion on secondary exchange  SharesPost
Inc. , filed to go public in January. Pandora Media Inc., the
biggest Internet-radio company, announced plans for a $100
million IPO this month.  Russian Search Leader  Yandex may file its offering with the U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission in weeks and plans to trade on the Nasdaq
Stock Market. Yandex had planned to go public in 2008, but
postponed the offering because of the global economic crisis.  Yandex’s websites attracted the largest number of online
unique visitors in  Russia  in August 2010, according to research
firm  ComScore Inc. , placing it ahead of sites from  Google Inc .
and Microsoft Corp. Websites of Mail.ru Group Ltd., which raised
$912 million in a London IPO last November, attracted the
country’s second-largest online audience, ComScore said.  In December 2010, Yandex controlled 55.5 percent of the
Russian search market, up from 52.4 percent in the year-earlier
month, according to ComScore.  Renren.com, meanwhile, has more than 160 million registered
users, according to Analysys International in Beijing. The site
could use IPO proceeds to step up competition with local rivals  Tencent Holdings Ltd . and Baidu Inc. Renren -- a name that means
“everyone” in Chinese -- has similar features as Facebook,
which is blocked in the country.  Ad Growth  At Renren, advertising has more than doubled each year
since the site started selling space in 2008, the company said
in a statement. The online advertising market will triple to
almost $13 billion in China by 2014, estimates Susquehanna
International Group LLP.  Renren traces its roots to 2005, when graduates of Tsinghua
University in Beijing founded Xiaonei.com, or “Inside School.”
That was the year after  Mark Zuckerberg , chief executive officer
of Facebook, created his service for fellow  Harvard University 
students.  In 2006, Xiaonei was acquired by closely held Oak Pacific
Interactive Corp., which renamed the service Renren in 2009.  Softbank Corp ., Japan’s fastest-growing mobile-phone carrier, is
the biggest shareholder in Beijing-based Oak Pacific.  Founded in 2005, HomeAway has gained users and expanded
internationally even as vacation-rental rivals such as  Airbnb
Inc.  have emerged. It plans to raise as much as $300 million
through an IPO.  HomeAway has received about $500 million in private capital
from  Austin Ventures , also based in Austin, and Redpoint
Ventures in Menlo Park, which first invested in HomeAway in
2005. Redpoint, along with Palo Alto, California-based
Technology Crossover Ventures and Institutional Venture
Partners, invested  $250 million  in 2008.  HomeAway has more than 540,000 rental listings in 120
countries, according to its website. Homeowners pay an annual
fee of about $300 to list, and the site is free for renters. In
addition to HomeAway.com, the company runs Vacation Rentals by
Owner, or  VRBO.com , and VacationRentals.com.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Serena Saitto in New York at 
 ssaitto@bloomberg.net ;
Douglas MacMillan in  San Francisco  at 
 alevy5@bloomberg.net ;
Brian Womack in San Francisco at 
 bwomack1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:  Tom Giles  at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net . 