-- 
Zain Board Said to Reject Batelco's Offer for Its 25% Stake in Zain Saudi

-- B y   F i o n a   M a c D o n a l d
-- 
2011-02-19T19:23:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-19/zain-board-said-to-reject-batelco-s-offer-for-its-25-stake-in-zain-saudi.html
Mobile Telecommunications Co.,  Kuwait ’s biggest phone operator known as Zain, turned down an
offer from Bahrain Telecommunications Co. to acquire its 25
percent stake in Zain  Saudi Arabia , a person familiar with the
talks said today.  Batelco’s offer was below the book value of the stake, the
person said, declining to be identified because the decision
hasn’t officially been announced yet.  Batelco, Bahrain’s largest phone company, said Feb. 9 it
submitted an offer to acquire Zain Group’s stake in Zain Saudi.
Zain’s board met today to decide on the offer, the person said.
The meeting followed an announcement by  Kingdom Holding Co . that
it has not reached an agreement with Zain to buy its stake in
Zain Saudi. Kingdom Holding, controlled by Saudi billionaire
Prince Alwaleed bin Talal, made an offer on Jan. 31.  Zain Saudi shares today fell 4.3 percent in  Riyadh  to 7.75
riyals, valuing the company at 10.9 billion riyals ($2.9
billion). The stock has declined 22 percent in the past year.  Zain’s board decision may thwart a bid by Emirates
Telecommunications Corp. to buy a 46 percent controlling stake
in Zain. Etisalat, as  Emirates Telecommunications  is known, is
in talks with Zain shareholders to buy a majority stake in the
Kuwaiti company and has said Zain needs to sell its stake in the
Saudi unit in a “timely fashion” for the deal to proceed.  Etisalat is making “good progress” with its due diligence
of Zain after missing a Jan. 15 deadline to reach an accord on
its $12 billion offer, Abu-Dhabi based Etisalat said Jan. 29.  Zain also received an offer for its Zain Saudi stake from
Riyadh Group and its partners, Zain said Feb. 15.  Kuwait’s Kharafi Group is Zain’s second-biggest shareholder
with a 12.7 percent stake and is leading the stake sale to
Etisalat. The Kuwait Investment Authority sovereign-wealth fund
owns 24.6 percent, Bloomberg data show.  Etisalat announced its offer on Sept. 30. Excluding
treasury stock, the holding would amount to 51 percent of share
capital and  voting rights , according to a preliminary agreement
that Etisalat reached in November with Al-Khair National for
Stocks and Real Estate Co., owned by Kharafi.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fiona MacDonald in Kuwait at 
 fmacdonald4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shaji Mathew at 
 shajimathew@bloomberg.net  