-- Manchester United Unbeaten Streak Ended by Last-Place Wolves; Arsenal Draw
-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 2011-02-05T20:31:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-05/manchester-united-unbeaten-streak-ended-by-last-place-wolves-arsenal-draw.html
  Wolverhampton Wanderers  beat  Manchester United  2-1 to hand the Red Devils their first loss of
the season in English soccer’s Premier League.  George Elokobi and Kevin Doyle scored the goals as last-
place Wolves ended United’s 24-game unbeaten run this season and
29-match streak dating back to last season.  “No one, I’m sure, had much hope for us tonight,” Doyle
said in an interview with ESPN. “To come back and win, that
shows the spirit we have.”  United still tops the standings by four points over
Arsenal, which squandered a four-goal lead in drawing 4-4 at
Newcastle. The Magpies scored all of their goals in the final 22
minutes after Arsenal’s Abou Diaby received a red card.  “It was an unbelievable day,” Newcastle manager Alan Pardew told  Sky Sports . “Arsenal are a team that can embarrass
you. We weren’t going to be embarrassed today.”    Manchester City  gained ground on both Manchester United and
Arsenal by beating West Brom 3-0. City now have 49 points, five
behind United and one less than Arsenal.  Louis Saha scored four times to help Everton beat Blackpool
5-3. Stoke and Tottenham both won with late goals, Wigan beat
Blackburn 4-3 and Fulham drew 2-2 at  Aston Villa .  Manchester United looked ready to extend its undefeated run
to a club-record 30 games after Nani opened the scoring in the
third minute at the Molineux stadium.  Elokobi then tied game seven minutes later with a header
and Doyle put Wolves in front five minutes before halftime by
getting his head to Nenad Milijas’s free kick.  Long Run  Wolves remains last in the standings with 24 points, the
same number as Birmingham and West Ham, the other teams in the
three relegation places.  “We’re disappointed,” United manager  Alex Ferguson  told
ESPN after his club’s first league loss since a 2-1 defeat to
Chelsea on April 3. “It’s been a long run for us.”  Arsenal jumped out to a 4-0 lead over Newcastle after just
26 minutes on goals from Theo Walcott and Johan Djourou and two
scores from  Robin van Persie .  But the Gunners’ fortune changed when Diaby was sent off
three minutes into the second half after pushing Joey Barton to
the ground in reaction to a challenge from the Newcastle
midfielder.  Barton then scored a 68th-minute penalty after Leon Best
was pulled down by  Laurent Koscielny . Best had a goal disallowed
in the 74th minute after being ruled offside, but struck a
minute later.  Newcastle was awarded another penalty in the 83rd minute,
which Barton again converted to make it 4-3. Cheicke Tiote
completed a remarkable comeback with a volley from outside the
area with three minutes remaining.  Hat Trick    Carlos Tevez  scored a first-half hat trick to lead
Manchester City to the easy win over West Brom. Saha scored
twice in each half as Everton sent Blackpool to its fifth
straight league loss.    Robert Huth  scored twice after the 83rd minute to give
Stoke a 3-2 home win over Sunderland, while Niko Kranjcar’s goal
in stoppage time lifted Tottenham past Bolton 2-1.  Benni McCarthy scored twice as Wigan beat Blackburn to end
a seven-game winless run and moved out of the relegation places.  Clint Dempsey ’s goal with 12 minutes left earned Fulham the away
draw with Aston Villa.  West Ham hosts Birmingham and Liverpool is at Chelsea in
tomorrow’s games.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in London at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  