-- Arsenal Loses Four-Goal Lead to Tie Newcastle 4-4 in Premier League
-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 2011-02-05T17:45:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-05/arsenal-loses-four-goal-lead-to-tie-newcastle-4-4-in-premier-league.html
Arsenal squandered a four-goal lead
as Newcastle staged a second-half comeback in English soccer’s
Premier League to secure a 4-4 draw against the 10-man Gunners.  Arsenal led 4-0 after 26 minutes at St. James’ Park before
the hosts scored all of its goals in the final 22 minutes after
Abou Diaby received a red card for the north London side. The
draw leaves Arsenal four points behind first-place  Manchester
United , which plays at Wolverhampton in the day’s late match.  “It was an unbelievable day,” Newcastle manager Alan Pardew told  Sky Sports . “Arsenal are a team that can embarrass
you. We weren’t going to be embarrassed today.”  Third-place  Manchester City  moved within a point of Arsenal
with a 3-0 win over West Bromwich, while Louis Saha scored four
times to help Everton beat Blackpool 5-3. Stoke and Tottenham
both won with late goals, Wigan beat Blackburn 4-3 and Fulham
drew 2-2 at  Aston Villa .  Theo Walcott gave Arsenal the lead after just 42 seconds
and Johan Djourou followed with a header two minutes later.  Robin van Persie  then scored in the 10th and 26th minutes to put
the Gunners 4-0 in front.  But Arsenal’s fortune charged when Diaby was sent off three
minutes into the second half after pushing  Joey Barton  to the
ground in reaction to a challenge from the Newcastle midfielder.  Barton then scored a 68th-minute penalty after Leon Best
was pulled down by  Laurent Koscielny . Best had a goal disallowed
in the 74th minute after being ruled offside, but struck a
minute later.  Easy Win  Newcastle was awarded another penalty in the 83rd minute,
which Barton again converted to make it 4-3. Cheicke Tiote
completed a remarkable comeback with a volley from outside the
area with three minutes remaining.    Carlos Tevez  scored a first-half hat trick to lead
Manchester City to the easy win over West Brom.  Saha scored twice in each half as Everton sent Blackpool to
its fifth straight league loss. Jermaine Beckford also scored
for the Toffees, while Alex Baptiste, Jason Puncheon and  Charlie
Adam  had the Blackpool goals.  Robert Huth scored twice after the 83rd minute to give
Stoke a 3-2 home win over Sunderland, while Niko Kranjcar’s goal
in stoppage time lifted Tottenham past Bolton 2-1.  Benni McCarthy scored twice as Wigan beat Blackburn to end
a seven-game winless run and moved out of the three relegation
places at the bottom of the standings. Clint Dempsey’s goal with
12 minutes left earned Fulham the away draw with Aston Villa.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in London at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  