-- Bank of America to Pay $410 Million to Settle Overdraft Manipulation Claim
-- B y   D a v i d   E .   R o v e l l a
-- 2011-02-05T15:56:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-05/bank-of-america-to-pay-410-million-to-settle-overdraft-case.html
  Bank of America Corp ., the largest
U.S. lender by assets, agreed to pay $410 million to settle
lawsuits alleging deceptive practices in the management of
customer accounts that led to excessive fees for overdrafts.  The settlement was dated Jan. 27, according to a court
filing by Bank of America and lawyers for consumers. Overdraft
class actions, unified in 2009 from across the country in Miami
federal court, alleged breach of contract, unjust enrichment and
usury by more than two dozen banks. Institutions including  Citigroup Inc .,  JPMorgan Chase & Co . and  Wells Fargo & Co . were
named in related lawsuits.  Miami resident Ralph Torres described in his suit against
Bank of America how he opened an account in 2000 after seeing
advertisements for “free checking.” Torres alleged he was
tricked into believing he had more money in his account than was
the case, and that Bank of America debited his funds in a way
that made it more likely he would incur overdraft fees.  “The bank actively provides false or misleading balance
information to these customers, including plaintiff, that in
turn deceives these customers into making additional
transactions that, in turn, will generate even more overdraft
fees for the bank,” Torres’s lawyers wrote in the complaint.    Federal Reserve  Rules  Last year, the Federal Reserve imposed rules prohibiting
lenders from automatically charging fees when consumers have
insufficient funds for electronic or debit transactions. Last
month, Bank of America introduced four new accounts where users
pay fees unless they keep minimum balances, make regular
deposits, use credit cards or take advantage of  online  services.  In his complaint, Torres said the bank mixed up the order
and delayed the timing of debits and transactions to maximize
the possibility customers will overdraft accounts.  “These ‘held-back transactions’ are not always reflected
in customers’ available balance, thereby giving the customer the
false impression that there is more money in his or her account
than there actually is, and encouraging the customer to continue
making transactions,” according to the complaint.  Bruce Rogow, an attorney for the customers, declined to
comment. Christopher Tarbell, an attorney for the bank, didn’t
return an e-mail seeking comment.  Anne Pace, a spokeswoman for  Charlotte , North Carolina-
based Bank of America, said the bank has already made changes to
its overdraft policies, including the elimination of overdraft
fees for debit card transactions and reduced fees for customers
who overdraw their accounts.  Small Transactions  “Our customers do not face the risk of overdraft fees on
small dollar debit card transactions,” Pace said in an e-mailed
statement today. She added that the bank has “fully accrued
funds for the settlement.”  Bank of America, with $633 billion in retail deposits as of
September, has said overdraft, credit and debit-card fee limits
may squeeze annual revenue by $4 billion starting this year.  The bank has said it expects to move all customers to the
new accounts it announced in January starting in 2012.  In November, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. issued new
rules requiring banks to warn customers who begin to accumulate
hefty fees through an automated overdraft program. The rules,
scheduled to become mandatory on July 1, will impose daily
limits on overdraft fees charged to customers and ensure
programs aren’t structured to maximize fees for banks.  The case is In Re Checking Account Overdraft Litigation,
09-02036, U.S. District Court for the Southern District of  Florida  (Miami).  To contact the reporter on this story:
David E. Rovella in  West Hartford ,  Connecticut ,
at   drovella@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 