-- Bank of England to Hold Rate as Officials Fight Over Inflation, Recovery
-- B y   J e n n i f e r   R y a n
-- 2011-02-05T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-05/bank-of-england-may-maintain-stimulus-as-inflation-accelerates.html
The  Bank of England  will probably
maintain emergency stimulus for the economy next week as policy
makers assess whether a 13-month bout of above-target inflation
will become entrenched in the economy.  The nine-member Monetary Policy Committee, led by Governor  Mervyn King , will leave the benchmark interest rate at a record
low of 0.5 percent, according to all 62 economists in a
Bloomberg News survey. They’ll also keep their bond purchase
plan at 200 billion pounds ($322 billion), said all 38
economists in a separate poll.  Inflation jumped to an eight-month high of 3.7 percent in
December, and surveys of services and manufacturing indicated
the recovery restarted in January after the economy contracted
in the fourth quarter. The panel may prefer to keep policy loose
as the government steps up its fiscal squeeze to reduce the  budget deficit , and the euro area, Britain’s biggest export
market, battles to contain a debt crisis.  “The data have been encouraging, but it’s still early
days,” said  Brian Hilliard , an economist at Societe Generale in  London  and a former central bank official. “They’ll also be
nervous on tightening policy while the eurozone seems fragile.”
Still, “They can’t wait forever.”  The bank, which targets a 2 percent inflation rate, will
announce the decision at noon in London on Feb. 10. King will
present the results of the bank’s latest quarterly forecasting
round at a press conference on Feb. 16.  The panel split three ways last month.  Martin Weale  joined
Andrew Sentance’s push to raise the key rate a quarter point to
control prices, while  Adam Posen  continued a drive he started in
October to expand bond purchases to support growth.  “We are at emergency settings now and they’ll need to give
a signal that they’ve got one foot on the accelerator back to
normal,” said Hilliard, who forecasts the central bank to begin
rate increases in August. “Once the cracks start to appear on
the MPC, they tend to widen very quickly.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jennifer Ryan in London at 
 jryan13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  