-- Cameron Says Europeans Must Wake Up to Homegrown Islamist Radical Threat
-- B y   T h o m a s   P e n n y
-- 2011-02-05T12:57:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-05/cameron-says-europe-must-wake-up-to-homegrown-islamist-radicals.html
U.K. Prime Minister David Cameron
today called on European leaders to “wake up” to the
radicalization of young Muslims in their own countries and
tackle extremist ideology at home with “muscular liberalism.”  Cameron told the  Munich Security Conference  that
governments should abandon multiculturalism and the tolerance of
“unacceptable views and practices” within their societies and
promote the benefits of western values. Instead, governments
should aim for “a clear sense of shared national identity.”  “A genuinely liberal” country “believes in certain
values and actively promotes them,” Cameron said. “Freedom of
speech, freedom of worship, democracy, the rule of law, equal
rights regardless of race, sex or sexuality. It says to its
citizens, this is what defines us as a society. To belong here
is to believe in these things.”  While the U.K. will maintain its status as the fourth
highest spender on defense, the biggest threat to its security
comes from young men who follow an extremist interpretation of
Islam, Cameron said. Fifty-two people were killed by four
British-born suicide bombers in  London  in July 2005 and the
security services have halted a number of terrorist attacks
being planned by young British men.  “We need a lot less of the passive tolerance of recent
years and much more active, muscular liberalism,” Cameron said.
“We won’t defeat terrorism simply by the actions we take
outside our borders.  Europe  needs to wake up to what’s happening
in our own countries.”  In his speech, Cameron committed his government to
continuing to support the NATO mission in  Afghanistan  and to
reinforcing the U.K.’s military capability.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Thomas Penny in London at 
 tpenny@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  