-- Chrysler's Marchionne Says Calling Loans `Shyster Rates' Was Inappropriate
-- B y   D a n   H a r t
-- 2011-02-05T20:20:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-05/chrysler-s-marchionne-says-he-regrets-loans-comment-update1-.html
Chrysler Group LLC Chief Executive
Officer  Sergio Marchionne  says a remark he made yesterday in
reference to  interest rates  being charged on loans provided by
the U.S. and Canadian governments was “inappropriate.”  “I regret the remark,” Marchionne said in a  statement 
posted on Chrysler’s website. “As the only parties willing to
underwrite the risk associated with Chrysler’s recovery plan,
the two governments levied interest rates that, although
appropriate at the time, are above current market conditions.”  Chrysler is paying “shyster rates” to government lenders
of last resort because banks reduced credit during the recession
in 2008 and 2009, Marchionne said. He made the remark yesterday
during an interview at the J.D. Power & Associates International
Automotive Roundtable in  San Francisco .  The automaker, operated by  Fiat SpA , is preparing for an
initial public offering in the second half of this year. The
timing will depend on market conditions, Chrysler’s financial
results and its ability to refinance the government loans,
Marchionne said.  “Because of these changed market conditions as well as the
improvements in our performance and outlook, made possible
through the support of the U.S. and Canadian governments,
Chrysler intends to repay these loans in full at the earliest
opportunity,” Marchionne said in today’s statement.  The closely held automaker based in  Auburn Hills , Michigan,
earlier this week posted a $652 million loss for 2010.  Fiat boosted its ownership in Chrysler to 25 percent in
January after Chrysler met one of three performance milestones.
Marchionne has said he wants to meet the other two goals to
increase Turin-based Fiat’s stake by an additional 10 percentage
points this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Hart in Washington at 
 dahart@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sylvia Wier at   swier@bloomberg.net  