-- Drop in Jobless Rate May Not Deter Fed From Carrying Out Stimulus Program
-- B y   J o s h u a   Z u m b r u n   a n d   S h o b h a n a   C h a n d r a
-- 2011-02-05T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-05/drop-in-jobless-rate-may-not-deter-fed-from-carrying-out-stimulus-program.html
The surprising drop in the U.S.
jobless rate to the lowest level in 21 months probably won’t
deter Federal Reserve policy makers from carrying out their
program to pump $600 billion into the economy, economists said.  Unemployment declined to 9 percent in January from
December’s 9.4 percent, the Labor Department said yesterday in
Washington. Employers added 36,000 workers, short of the 146,000
median gain projected in a Bloomberg News surveyed of
economists, as winter storms deterred hiring.  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  and his colleagues are placing
less emphasis the  unemployment rate  and taking a broader look at
the health of the labor market, economists said. Employers added
fewer than 100,000 workers a month to payrolls on average in
2010, and 6.2 million people have been looking for a job for
more than half a year, underscoring the need for faster hiring.  “My sense is they’ll be on hold, waiting for more
information,” said Roberto Perli, who until July was a member
of the Fed Board’s Monetary Affairs Division staff. While
Bernanke in a speech this week talked about stronger job
creation, “we certainly did not get a sense that’s what’s going
on from the report” for January, Perli said.  Bernanke said on Feb. 3 that he needs to see “a sustained
period of stronger  job creation ” before he deems the recovery
firmly established. The Fed’s Jan. 26 statement said the
recovery “has been insufficient to bring about a significant
improvement in labor market conditions,” expanding its focus
beyond the jobless rate.  Shifting Rhetoric  “They shifted their rhetoric because they don’t want to be
hung out on the unemployment rate,” said  Vincent Reinhart , the
Fed’s chief monetary policy strategist from 2001 until September
2007.  The drop in unemployment from November’s 9.8 percent rate
represented the biggest two-month decline since 1958, the Labor
Department report showed. The January jobless rate was the
lowest since April 2009.  Treasuries fell for a fifth day and the dollar gained after
the report. U.S. benchmark stock gauges returned to the highest
levels in more than two years.  Payrolls in construction and transportation, industries
most affected by bad weather, declined in January, while factory
employment rose the most since August 1998. Private hiring,
which excludes government agencies, rose 50,000 in January.  “We’ve got at least 12 months ahead of us before the Fed
feels comfortable in terms of a sustained period of job creation
because that’s really what they require,”  Bill Gross , manager
of the world’s largest bond fund at Pacific Investment
Management Co., said in an interview yesterday on “Bloomberg
Surveillance” with  Tom Keene .  Sustained Gains  “Unless we see that sustained level, that virtuous circle
that basically he spoke to, the Fed’s not going to raise  interest rates ,” Gross said, referring to Bernanke’s speech.  Last month’s gain in employment followed a 121,000 rise in
December that was larger than initially reported.  Fed officials who want to end the Fed’s program to buy $600
billion in  Treasury securities  through June will point to the
unemployment rate as a justification, said Reinhart, now a
resident scholar at the  American Enterprise Institute  in  Washington . Advocates of the program, called quantitative
easing, will point to payrolls, he said.  “An employment report like this is a Rorschach test,”
said Reinhart.  Joblessness rose above 9 percent in May 2009, beginning the
longest period of unemployment at that level or higher since
monthly records began in 1948.  Payroll Revisions  Revisions to previous figures showed the economy lost 8.75
million jobs as a result of the recession. For all of 2010, the
U.S. added about 909,000 jobs.  In November, policy makers expected the unemployment rate
to fall to 8.9 percent to 9.1 percent in the fourth quarter of
2011. Average hourly earnings rose 0.4 percent in January, the
highest since November 2008.  In his Feb. 3 speech in Washington, Bernanke said job gains
at companies last year “were barely sufficient to accommodate
the inflow of recent graduates and other new entrants to the  labor force  and, therefore, not enough to significantly reduce
the overall unemployment rate.”  “With output growth likely to be moderate for a while and
with employers reportedly still reluctant to add to their
payrolls, it will be several years before the unemployment rate
has returned to a more normal level,” Bernanke said.  Central bankers likely remain wary about improvements in
the jobless rate as other aspects of the employment report, such
as the share of the population in the labor force, remain grim,
James Glassman, senior U.S. economist at  JPMorgan Chase & Co .,
said yesterday on “Bloomberg Surveillance.”  “If you’re sitting at the Fed, you’re not going to be
happy with this kind of trend because it’s yet another indirect
sign that there’s not enough going on in the job market to keep
people in or pull people in,” Glassman said.  -- With assistance from Bob Willis and Alex Kowalski
in Washington and Tom Keene in  New York . Editors:  Carlos Torres , Christopher Wellisz  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joshua Zumbrun in Washington at 
 jzumbrun@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  