-- Egyptian Gas to Israel, Jordan May Halt for Two Weeks
-- B y   N a y l a   R a z z o u k   a n d   O l a   G a l a l
-- 2011-02-06T12:30:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-05/egypt-gas-pipeline-feeding-israel-explodes-in-sinai-desert-arabiya-says.html
Egyptian natural gas exports to
Israel and Jordan may be halted for as long as two weeks after
an explosion damaged a pipeline in the Sinai Desert yesterday,
Egyptian Oil Minister  Sameh Fahmy  told state television.  The incident at El Arish in the northeastern Sinai was an
act of “terror” carried out by “foreign hands,” state TV
said, while the Oil Ministry said a gas leak caused the blast.
It may take one to two weeks to repair the pipeline, Fahmy told
state TV.    Ampal-American Israel  Corp. and Merhav Group of Companies,
the Israeli partners in East Mediterranean Gas Co., which
operates the section to Israel, said the pipeline from El-Arish
to Ashkelon is intact, and wasn’t damaged. The supply to Israel
has been interrupted by a fire in a facility not related to EMG
and is expected to resume within a week, Ampal said today.  The disruption to the pipeline has political and symbolic
ramifications beyond the impact on fuel supplies to Egypt’s
neighbors, particularly for Israel. President  Hosni Mubarak ’s
30-year rule has been shaken by almost two weeks of popular
demonstrations, prompting questions about what political
orientation a successor government might have.  Mubarak has warned that an early departure for him would
leave  Egypt , the first Arab country to sign a peace treaty with
Israel in 1979, in chaos.  Israel’s Electricity  Israel’s Ministry of National Infrastructure said in a
statement yesterday that it doesn’t foresee any interruptions to
the country’s electricity supply. About 16 percent of the
electricity produced by Israel Electric Corp., the country’s
power monopoly, is derived from gas imported from Egypt, the
company’s spokeswoman said. About 40 percent of Israel gas
consumption comes from Egypt.  “Israel is prepared for such situations and
has the possibility of immediately switching to alternative
energy sources,” Israel’s Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu
said at a cabinet meeting today. “Due to these advance
preparations, no problems are expected in the supply of gas to
the State of Israel.”  Billionaire Isaac Tshuva’s  Delek Energy Systems Ltd .,  Ratio
Oil Exploration 1992 LP  and Avner Oil Exploration-LP are energy-
related stocks that have found gas fields off Israeli waters.
Delek Energy jumped 5.8 percent to 1,409 shekels as of 2:09 p.m.
in  Tel Aviv , Avner gained 4.3 percent to 2.47 shekels and Delek
Group rose 4.4 percent to 871.30 shekels.    Ampal-American Israel  Corp., based in Herzliya, is Israel’s
biggest supplier of natural gas. Its shares dropped as much as
8.2 percent and recovered to trade 0.5 percent higher at 7.555
shekels, bringing the decline to 22 percent since Jan. 27.  Jordan, Israel  The Sinai incident occurred on a part of the natural-gas
network before it divides into branches serving Jordan and  Israel , Marwan Bqaeen, head of the natural-gas unit at the
Jordanian Energy Ministry, said in a telephone interview.
Egyptian gas exports to Jordan may be halted for about a week,
Petra news agency reported yesterday, citing Ghaleb al-Maabira,
general director of Jordan’s state electricity company.  Egypt has halted gas supplies “as a safety precaution,”
and Jordan has “resorted to back-up fuel,” Bqaeen said.  Egypt has natural-gas reserves of 77 trillion cubic feet
(2.18 trillion cubic meters) and is the main producer of the
hydrocarbon in the eastern Mediterranean, according to the U.S.
Energy Department. The country exported 650 billion cubic feet
of gas in 2009, 30 percent by either the Arab  gas pipeline  to
Jordan, Syria and Lebanon, or to Israel through the El-Arish-
Ashkelon line, according to the U.S. department’s figures.  The line to Israel has operated since 2008 and can supply
up to 7 billion cubic meters a year, according to Israel’s
Department of Natural Infrastructure. Israel imported 60 billion
cubic feet of gas in 2009, U.S. Energy Department data show.  Egypt supplies Israel with gas under a 15-year contract and
is likely to eventually deliver almost 1 trillion cubic feet.
Israel imports about 85 percent of its energy.  Gas Reserves  Israeli National Infrastructure Minister Uzi Landau said
Feb. 1 that events in Egypt should heighten concern over the
supply of natural gas to Israel, and the country should move
quickly to develop its own gas reserves.  The disruption in gas supplies from Egypt to Israel may
result in an increase of 10 percent to 20 percent in electricity
prices, Israel Electric Corp. Deputy Chief Executive Officer
Moshe Bachar told Israel’s Army Radio today.  Jordan, which imports almost all its energy supplies, aims
to increase imports of Egyptian gas for use in its  power plants 
to 330 million cubic meters in 2011, from 240 million cubic
meters last year, then Energy Minister Khalid Irani said in an
interview on July 14.    Syria  imported 679 million cubic meters from Egypt in 2010,
making up about 8 percent of the country’s needs, according to
government figures. The country doesn’t expect any disruption in
its power supply as it can switch to alternative fuels, Al-Watan
said today, citing Oil Minister Sufian Alao.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nayla Razzouk in Amman at 
 nrazzouk2@bloomberg.net ;
Ola Galal in Cairo at 
 ogalal@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  