-- Mets Bayou Accord May Be Model for a Madoff Suit Deal
-- B y   L i n d a   S a n d l e r   a n d   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 2011-02-05T17:08:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-05/mets-owners-may-follow-bayou-accord-in-any-settlement-deal-with-picard.html
The owners of the  New York Mets 
baseball team, subject to a demand by the trustee liquidating  Bernard Madoff ’s firm to pay $1 billion to end a fraud lawsuit,
may model any settlement on a deal they struck over their
involvement in the Bayou Group LLC’s Ponzi scheme.  In the Bayou settlement, the Mets owners gave up all fake
profits they made in that $400 million fraud plus 44 percent of
their principal after a judge ruled their initial investment
could be pursued because of “red flags” they saw about the
possibility of a fraud.  Trustee Irving Picard had said in court papers that he
wants to recover about $300 million in alleged phony profits
from Madoff’s scheme made by Sterling Equities Inc., which owns
the Mets baseball team, Mets Chairman Fred Wilpon, Mets
President Saul Katz and Chief Operating Officer  Jeff Wilpon , and
other related parties. Picard also demanded an unspecified
amount of principal back from the Sterling defendants.  Today, Picard lawyer David Sheehan said the trustee is
seeking a total of $1 billion from the defendants. To recover
the additional $700 million, the trustee must prove, “using the
red flags and other evidence,” that the Sterling defendants had
enough information that they should have discovered the fraud,
Sheehan said in an e-mail.  The Wilpons said they are exploring the possibility of
selling as much as 25 percent of the Mets to deal with any
“uncertainty” generated by Picard’s suit. Such a sale might
produce no more than $215 million, based on estimated valuations
of the team. The amount of principal Picard recovers through
settlement or trial might require selling more assets.  Wilpons Investment  Picard didn’t specify in the complaint how much principal
he wants, saying that would be determined at trial or before.
The Wilpons and their lawyers didn’t say how much the owners had
invested with Madoff, saying only that there was $500 million in
their accounts when the fraud was revealed. Picard said Madoff
took in a total of $20 billion in principal from clients who
thought they had $68 billion in their accounts.  In the Bayou hedge-fund case, the bankruptcy judge said
investors who saw “red flags” indicating a fraud can be forced
to give back principal as well as profits.  Picard’s 373-page complaint cites “many red flags” that
should have warned the Sterling partners that Madoff was a fraud.  Merrill Lynch & Co., now part of  Bank of America Corp ., was
a 50 percent partner with an entity affiliated with Mets owners.
It had “a long-standing prohibition” against investing with
Madoff, and told Saul Katz in 2007 that Madoff wouldn’t pass
Merrill Lynch’s “due diligence protocols,” according to
Picard’s complaint.  Warnings    Howard Wohl , co-founder of  Ivy Asset Management LLC , warned
Saul and  David Katz  and Arthur Friedman about Madoff at a
meeting in early 2002 to discuss the formation of the Merrill-
owned entity, Sterling Stamos, a hedge fund partnership of
Sterling and Peter Stamos, Picard said.  Former New York Attorney General  Andrew Cuomo  sued Ivy,
Wohl and Ivy Chief Executive Officer Lawrence Simon in May.  Cuomo, now New York’s governor, claimed Ivy and the
executives hid their doubts about Madoff from their own
customers, who lost $227 million while the firm reaped
$40 million over 10 years for Madoff-related work.  Ivy has denied any wrongdoing in the case and is fighting
the lawsuit.  Saul Katz and Richard Wilpon heard in their positions at
the Brooklyn College Foundation that its investment committee
chairman believed Madoff’s firm wasn’t “legitimate,” Picard
said. Katz is honorary governor of the foundation and Wilpon is
a trustee, according to the complaint.  Red Flags  The Mets owners learned about red flags, “similar in kind
to Madoff,” from the Bayou  Ponzi scheme , which was orchestrated
by the hedge fund’s co-founder, Samuel Israel III, Picard said.  Sterling Stamos put money into funds managed by Bayou
Superfund LLC in October 2003, redeeming its investments in
March 2005 “because of concerns identified during its extensive
due diligence process,” Picard said.  The Bayou red flags identified by Sterling Stamos included
an operation overly dependent on one man, the use of a “non-
traditional” audit firm, a  fund manager  who wasn’t receptive to
Stamos’ questions, stable positive returns, non-standard legal
documentation, an incompetent back office, and “a huge jump in
the amount of assets under management,” Picard said.  After Bayou collapsed, the bankruptcy trustee sued Sterling
Stamos in September 2006, and settled in May 2009 for
$12.9 million, including all of Sterling Stamos’s profit and
almost half the principal it took out “just months before it
was revealed to be a Ponzi scheme,” Picard said.  ‘In Too Deep’  With Madoff, the Mets owners “were simply in too deep --
having substantially supported their businesses with Madoff
money -- to do anything but ignore the gathering clouds,”
according to Picard’s complaint. “Sterling performed no
diligence on Madoff in response to any of the various red flags
to which it was exposed.”  “The trustee’s lawsuit is an outrageous ‘strong arm’
effort to try to force a settlement by threatening to ruin our
reputations and businesses which we have built for over 50
years,” Fred Wilpon and Saul Katz said yesterday in a statement.  They called the allegations in the complaint “abusive,
unfair and untrue.”  The Sterling partners had more than $500 million in their
Madoff accounts at the time of his failure, their lawyers said
in a statement yesterday. Wilpon and Katz said that none of the
Sterling partners ever suspected Madoff was running a fraud.  Madoff Profits  According to the complaint, the Mets used $90 million in
Madoff profits to help fund the team’s day-to-day operations.  Sterling also used Madoff profits to meet capital
commitments for its real estate funds, Picard said in the filing.
Madoff profits also provided  cash flow  for Sterling’s internal
bank, “a clearing house” for funds and obligations among
Sterling partners, their families and trusts, he said.  The Mets were the third-highest-valued team in  Major League
Baseball  at $858 million, behind the  New York  Yankees, at
$1.6 billion, and the  Boston Red Sox , at $870 million, Forbes
magazine said in April 2010.  A sale of 20 percent to 25 percent, as outlined by the
Wilpons, would be worth $171.6 million to $214.5 million, based
on the Forbes figures.  The Wilpons said any sale wouldn’t involve  Citi Field ,
their home stadium, or SportsNet New York, their regional sports
network. That unit was created by Sterling Entertainment
Enterprises, Time Warner Inc. and Comcast Corp. in 2006,
according to the network’s website.  Fred Wilpon and Nelson Doubleday purchased the Mets for
$80.8 million in 1986, after Doubleday & Co. was purchased by
Bertelsmann AG. The co-owners’ relationship deteriorated and
Wilpon bought Doubleday’s share of the team for $131 million in
August 2002, according to the New York Times.  The case is Picard v. Katz, 10-05287,  U.S. Bankruptcy Court ,
Southern District of New York   Manhattan ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Linda Sandler in New York at   lsandler@bloomberg.net  and;
Bob Van Voris in New York federal court
at   rvanvoris@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drvoella@bloomberg.net . 