-- European Stocks Gain After Two Weeks of Losses; BHP Billiton, Rio Advance
-- B y   J u l i e   C r u z
-- 2011-02-05T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-05/european-stocks-gain-after-two-weeks-of-losses-bhp-billiton-rio-advance.html
European stocks rose this week,
snapping two weeks of losses, as reports showed manufacturing in
the U.S., China and  Europe  expanded and the U.S. unemployment
rate unexpectedly declined in January.  Basic-resource shares posted the best performance among 19
industry groups as a report showing that Chinese manufacturing
expanded last month boosted metal prices. EFG Eurobank Ergasias
SA and Alpha Bank SA led gains as Credit Suisse Group AG
upgraded its stance on Greece. ARM Holdings Plc surged 13
percent this past week after posting fourth-quarter revenue that
beat analysts’ estimates.  The benchmark Stoxx Europe 600 Index advanced 1.9 percent
to 285.9 this week. The gauge has gained 3.7 percent so far this
year as reports suggested the global economy continues to
recover and investors speculated that European leaders will
increase their efforts to contain the region’s debt crisis.  “We had really good manufacturing numbers that helped the
market this week,” said Markus Huber, the head of German sales
trading at ETX Capital in  London . “Payrolls rose less than
estimated, but this was due to the weather and job numbers are
overall good with unemployment decreasing. Americans are
negotiating to solve issues in Egypt, but tensions could be a
concern for equity markets if they spread to other countries.”  In the U.S., a report showed manufacturing increased at the
start of the year at the fastest pace since May 2004. The  Institute for Supply Management ’s factory index jumped to 60.8
in January from 58.5 in December. Readings greater than 50 mean
that manufacturing expanded. Economists had forecast a reading
of 58 for the gauge, according to the median projection in a
Bloomberg News survey.  Chinese Manufacturing  In  China , a purchasing managers’ index released by the
country’s logistics federation gave a reading of 52.9 for
January, exceeding the 50 level dividing expansion and
contraction. A PMI from HSBC Holdings Plc and Markit Economics
climbed to 54.5 from 54.4.  In Europe, manufacturing expanded more rapidly than
estimated in January, accelerating to the fastest pace in nine
months because of stronger output in Germany. A gauge of
manufacturing in the euro area rose to 57.3 from 57.1 in
December, Markit Economics said.  A separate report this week showed the U.S. jobless rate
unexpectedly fell in January to the lowest level since April
2009, even as payrolls rose less than forecast because of winter
storms. Another report in the U.S. showed  consumer spending 
climbed more than forecast in December, concluding consumers’
strongest quarter in more than four years.  Egyptian Protests  All week, Egyptians protested in the cities of Cairo,
Alexandria and Suez, demanding that President  Hosni Mubarak  step
down immediately. The demonstrations continued even after
Mubarak said he would not stand in September’s presidential
election. The Egyptian goverment said that Hosni’s son,  Gamal Mubarak , would not seek election either. European stocks limited
gains on concern that the protests could move to other Arab
states and some investors speculated that violent unrest could
affect trade through the  Suez Canal .  Per-share earnings have topped analysts’ estimates at 39 of
the 70 companies in the Stoxx 600 that reported results since
Jan. 10, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  National benchmark indexes rose in 14 of Europe’s 18
western markets.  France ’s CAC 40 Index gained 1.1 percent, the
U.K.’s FTSE 100 Index rose 2 percent, while Germany’s DAX Index
advanced 1.6 percent.  Greece ’s ASE Index soared 4.4 percent.    BHP Billiton , Rio  BHP Billiton Ltd., the world’s largest mining company,
gained 6 percent, pulling a gauge of basic-resource producers to
the biggest gain among the Stoxx 600’s 19 industry groups. Rio
Tinto Group, the world’s third-largest mining company, climbed 5
percent, while Anglo American Plc jumped 10 percent.  EFG Eurobank Ergasias and Alpha Bank surged 15 percent and
11 percent, respectively. Credit Suisse upgraded its stance on
Greece to “benchmark” from “underweight,” saying “Greek
equities look cheap.”  “The Greek equity market starts looking interesting given
that Greece is the cheapest of the peripheral markets,” Credit
Suisse analysts led by London-based Andrew Garthwaite said in a
note.  ARM Holdings Plc soared 13 percent as the designer of
semiconductors used in most smartphones, including Apple Inc.’s
iPhone, said fourth-quarter revenue rose 34 percent to 113.9
million pounds ($183.3 million). Analysts had estimated revenue
at 105.8 million pounds in a Bloomberg survey.  Deutsche Bank Gains  Deutsche Bank AG climbed 6 percent as  Germany ’s biggest
bank said higher revenue from fixed-income and equities trading
lifted fourth-quarter earnings at its investment bank.  Pretax profit at the division rose to 625 million euros
($848.4 million) from 398 million euros in the year-earlier
period, according to a statement. Revenue from sales and trading
climbed 30 percent to 2.44 billion euros, helped by a rebound in
asset values, the Frankfurt-based company said.  TUI Travel Plc lost 7.2 percent after Europe’s largest tour
operator said that canceled holidays in Egypt and  Tunisia  and
the cost of repatriating some customers may cut second-quarter
profit by as much as 30 million pounds.  Thomas Cook Plc slid 5.1 percent after its German brands,
including its namesake unit, Neckermann Reisen, Bucher Last
Minute and Oeger Tours, said they have stopped tours to  Egypt 
until at least Feb. 14.  To contact the reporter on this story:  Julie Cruz  in  Frankfurt  at 
 jcruz6@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:  David Merritt  at 
 dmerritt1@bloomberg.net . 