-- Ex-Cyclone Yasi Triggers Storm, Flood Warnings in Australian Outback Areas
-- B y   J a s o n   S c o t t
-- 2011-02-05T03:49:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-05/ex-cyclone-yasi-triggers-storm-flood-alerts-in-australia-s-outback-region.html
Ex Tropical  Cyclone Yasi , which
battered towns in  Australia ’s Queensland state with winds
stronger than  Hurricane Katrina , is now making its presence felt
in Outback areas about 2,000 kilometers (1,240 miles) away.  Severe thunderstorm and flood warnings have been issued for
the areas in the north of South Australia state, including the
towns of Coober Pedy and Port Augusta, the Bureau of Meteorology
said in a  statement  today on its  website . Yasi is now a deep
tropical low about 200 kilometers southeast of the Northern
Territory town of Alice Springs, which has also been issued with
a flood alert, it said.  Australia’s southern and eastern states have been swamped
by flashfloods, rain and swollen rivers for the past two months,
leaving 35 people dead and a damage bill that economists say may
reach A$20 billion ($20 billion). Yasi cut a destructive path
through sugar- and banana-producing areas in Queensland earlier
this week.  About 120,000 homes and businesses remain without power in
Queensland, less than half of Ergon Energy Corp. customers in
the cyclone-affected area, Rod Rehbein, a Brisbane-based
spokesman for the energy retailer, said in a phone interview
today. Some areas may be without power for “weeks,” he said.  Torrential rains have caused flooding in  Melbourne , the
capital of Australia’s second most populous state, and other
areas of Victoria, the Bureau of Meteorology said.  Flood and severe weather warnings are in place for much of
the state, the bureau’s website shows. Some areas of Melbourne
received more than 150 millimeters (5.9 inches) of rain in 24
hours, it said, with the heavy rain expected to ease later today.  The state’s emergency services have received 3,234 calls
for help and 84 people had to be rescued from houses and cars
inundated by the floods, The Australian newspaper said.  To contact the reporters for this story:
Jason Scott in Perth at 
 Jscott14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  