-- Australia's Gillard Eyes Budget Cuts to Meet Cost of Flood, Cyclone Damage
-- B y   J a s o n   S c o t t
-- 2011-02-06T02:30:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-05/gillard-says-her-govenment-s-flood-tax-levy-will-remain-at-a-1-8-billion.html
  Australia , facing a damage bill that
economists say may reach $20 billion after two months of floods,
will need to make budget cuts after a cyclone last week
exacerbated damage, Prime Minister  Julia Gillard  said.  “We will go through the budget and we will make some
choices,” Gillard told Channel Ten’s “Meet The Press” program
today. “There are no easy choices left now, so in making
further budget cuts, there is going to be some pain.”  Destruction to Australia’s roads and crops may add to the
burden on economic growth and inflation, leading to the
government to reassess its budget due on May 10, Finance
Minister  Penny Wong  said Feb. 4. Tropical Cyclone  Yasi  tore
through Queensland’s sugar- and banana-producing areas earlier
this week, adding to the rain and flooding that left 35 people
dead and disrupted coal mining.  The government on Jan. 27 announced a A$1.8 billion ($1.8
billion) levy on middle- and high-income earners as well as
A$2.8 billion in budget cuts and A$1 billion in delayed
infrastructure projects to pay for the rebuilding.  The government won’t increase the levy, Gillard said today,
even as the aftermath of Yasi triggered flood warnings in four
states.  Floods, Thunderstorms  Flood warnings are in place in areas of Queensland, New
South  Wales  and Victoria, while regions of South Australia state
have been issued with alerts for severe thunderstorms, the
Bureau of Meteorology said on its website. Several towns in
Victoria were evacuated overnight because of flash flooding,
Lachlan Quick of Victoria’s State Emergency Service said in a
phone interview today.  Loans of up to A$100,000 should be made available to
businesses in declared disaster areas that aren’t eligible for
existing relief loans and have experienced a significant
financial burden due to the floods, opposition leader  Tony
Abbott  said in a statement today.  The cost of rebuilding after Yasi will be “considerably
higher” than A$2 billion,  Stephen Roberts , senior economist at
Nomura Australia Ltd., wrote in a Feb. 3 report. Yasi will trim
economic growth 0.6 percentage points in the first quarter and
mean higher banana, beef and sugar prices, he wrote.  The government remains committed to delivering a surplus in
the financial year ending June 30, 2013, Wong said Jan. 4.  “It’s clear that severe damage was done to crops,
buildings and infrastructure,” Treasurer Wayne Swan said in a
statement today. “The region impacted by the cyclone
contributes around A$1 billion of agricultural production
annually, and initial reports suggest at least half of that has
been wiped out this year, including around 80 percent of the
state’s banana crop.”  Queensland contributes about 19 percent of Australia’s
economic output, producing about 80 percent of the country’s
coking coal, and is responsible for 10 percent of its exports,
Treasurer  Wayne Swan  said last month.  To contact the reporters for this story:
Jason Scott in Perth at 
 Jscott14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  