-- Obama Says Businesses Have Responsibility to `Make Their Mark in America'
-- B y   K a t e   A n d e r s e n   B r o w e r
-- 2011-02-05T11:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-05/obama-says-u-s-businesses-must-make-their-mark-in-america-.html
President  Barack Obama  said he will
tell members of the  U.S. Chamber of Commerce , the nation’s
largest business lobbying group, on Feb. 7 that they have a
responsibility to “make their mark in America.”  In his weekly radio and Internet  address , Obama said that
while the government has an “obligation to make sure that
America is the best place on earth to do business,” heads of
companies must focus their investment in this country.  “Government and businesses have mutual responsibilities,”
he said. “If we fulfill these obligations together, it benefits
us all. Our workers will succeed. Our nation will prosper.”  Obama’s planned appearance is the latest effort by the
White House to mend fences with the chamber, which represents
more than 3 million businesses. The chamber opposed the
president on revamping financial-services regulations and the
health-care system last year.  The president said his message to business leaders will be
“set up shop here,” hire American workers, and pay them fair
wages in return for the government’s investments in innovation.  Obama said the jobs report released by the  Labor Department 
yesterday shows that while the economy is growing stronger, more
needs to be done to stimulate growth and hiring. According to
the report, the  unemployment rate  fell 0.4 percentage point to 9
percent in January, the lowest level since April 2009. The
number of new jobs rose 36,000, less than the 146,000 expected
in a Bloomberg News survey.  State of the Union  In his radio address, Obama repeated themes from his Jan.
25 State of the Union message, calling on the government to
“out-educate, out-innovate and out-build the rest of the
world” through investments in education and innovation.  “In today’s global, competitive economy, the best jobs and
newest industries will take root in the countries with the most
skilled workers, the strongest commitment to research and
technology,” he said.  Obama talked about his Feb. 3 visit to Penn State
University in  State College ,  Pennsylvania , where he visited labs
working on energy-efficiency technology. He said academics there
are “taking up the challenge we’ve issued to scientists and
engineers all across the country: if you assemble teams of the
best minds in your field, and focus on tackling the biggest
obstacles to providing America with clean, affordable energy,
we’ll get behind your work.”  He said he plans to go on Feb. 10 to Marquette,  Michigan ,
where businesses have grown because of broadband access, part of
his directive to open airwaves to help foster innovation and
create jobs.  Republican Address  In the Republican  address , Texas Representative Jeb Hensarling said the president’s economic policies have created
deficits that are “unsustainable and unconscionable.”  “We need to end the spending binge in  Washington  and get
government out of the way,” said Hensarling, chairman of the
 House Republican Conference . The U.S. has “reached a tipping
point where we are firmly on the course to be the first
generation in America’s history to leave the next generation
with less freedom and a lower standard of living,” he said.  Hensarling repeated Republicans’ stance that Obama must
make more spending cuts before they will agree to increase the
federal debt limit.  At a Feb. 2 Bloomberg Breakfast in Washington, White House
Chief of Staff  William Daley  said a failure by lawmakers to
raise the legal limit on U.S. borrowing could be “very
dangerous” and have “enormous potential negative impacts on
the markets.”  End of May  The government will reach the $14.29 trillion debt limit by
the end of May, a little later than initially projected because  tax revenue  has been more robust than expected, the Treasury
Department said in a Feb. 2  statement .  “While I appreciate the president’s ‘can-do’ rhetoric, his
job-destroying policies won’t do,” Hensarling said.  Hensarling said that since Republicans took control of the  House of Representatives  last month they voted to repeal the
health-care overhaul, which he said would lower the deficit by
$700 billion and reduce spending by more than $2.6 trillion. He
said lawmakers outlined a budget proposal that would make
billions of dollars of spending cuts, and also cut their own
budget by 5 percent “because you’ve got to lead by example.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kate Andersen Brower in Washington at 
 njohnston3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:  Mark Silva  in Washington at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net . 