-- Sarah Palin Says Reagan Would View Health-Care Overhaul Law With `Outrage'
-- B y   L i s a   L e r e r
-- 2011-02-06T16:12:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-05/palin-says-reagan-would-view-health-care-law-with-outrage-.html
Sarah Palin, a potential 2012
presidential candidate, said the U.S. is at a “crisis point”
as the Obama administration pursues policies that will lead to
“decline and defeat.”  “If President Reagan were alive today” the hills in
California “would echo with his outrage” over the enactment of
President Barack Obama’s health-care overhaul, she said at the
Reagan Ranch Center in Santa Barbara,  California .  The 2008 Republican vice-presidential nominee and former
Alaska governor gave the keynote address Feb. 4 at a  Young
America’s Foundation  tribute to the centennial of former
President Ronald Reagan’s birth on Feb. 6, 1911.  Palin, 46, focused on a speech Reagan gave in 1964 on
behalf of Republican presidential candidate Barry Goldwater, in
which he discussed the dangers of high taxes and government
regulations.  “We face the same choices now as we did then, only now we
are in even worse shape,” she said. She urged cutting federal
spending, overhauling entitlement programs for future recipients
and reducing government regulation.  “Government created the problem, now government presents
itself as the solution trying to convince us that we can win the
future,” Palin said, referring to a theme of Obama’s Jan. 25
State of the Union address.  Decline and Defeat  “We must look over the horizon like Reagan did,” she
said. “We must see where these unsound policies will ultimately
end and that’s in decline and defeat.”  In an  interview  with the Christian Broadcasting Network
released yesterday conducted after the speech, Palin called the
crisis in  Egypt  the “3 a.m. White house phone call,” a
reference to a campaign ad questioning Obama’s national security
credentials run by then-opponent  Hillary Clinton , now secretary
of state, during the 2008 Democratic primary campaign.  “It seems that call went right to the answering machine,”
Palin said. “We need to know what it is that American stands
for so we know who it is that America will stand with. And we do
not have that information yet.”  Palin left the door open to a 2012 presidential bid, saying
in the interview that if she ran she would “continue down that
same path” of fighting for “commonsense conservative
Americans.”  Kinship With Reagan  Like many Republican politicians, Palin said she felt a
kinship with Reagan.  “As an Alaskan, I probably consider myself a western
conservative in the spirit of  Ronald Reagan ,” she told the
audience of about 200 foundation donors.  Republican strategist Frank Donatelli, a former Reagan
White House adviser, said Republican politicians “all profess
that Reagan is an important element in their political
upbringing.” Reagan, who died in 2004, “was a successful
conservative president in a way that previous Republican
presidents weren’t,” he said.  Since running with Arizona Senator  John McCain  on the
Republican presidential ticket, Palin has become a favorite of
the Tea Party movement, a loose-knit coalition of fiscally
conservative voters.  Palin was Republican voters’ second choice for the party
nod in a Jan. 13-16  Washington  Post-ABC News  poll , receiving 19
percent of respondents and trailing former Arkansas Governor
Mike Huckabee by only 2 points. In an NBC/Wall Street Journal
 poll  of Republican and independent voters conducted the same
week, Palin placed third, 4 points behind Huckabee and 5 behind
former Massachusetts Governor Mitt Romney’s 19 points.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lisa Lerer in  Santa Barbara  at 
 llerer@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:  Mark Silva  in Washington at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net . 