-- U.K. Pound Gains Versus Euro, Gilts Decline, on Rate-Increase Speculation
-- B y   G a r t h   T h e u n i s s e n
-- 2011-02-05T07:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-05/pound-gains-versus-euro-gilts-decline-on-rate-increase-bets.html
The pound strengthened against the
euro for the first week in four and gilts fell after better-
than-expected economic data boosted speculation the  Bank of
England  may have room to increase  interest rates  this year.  Sterling appreciated against all but two of its 16 most
actively traded currencies monitored by Bloomberg while the
yield on two-year notes climbed to a 20-month high. Purchasing
managers’ surveys this week showed Britain’s services and
construction industries grew in January, while manufacturing
expanded at a record pace. Inflation in December accelerated to
equal the highest level since 2008.  “The market is going through a phase of fretting over U.K.
interest rates on the back of U.K. inflation fears,” said  David Page , a fixed-income strategist at Lloyds TSB Corporate Markets
in London. “Any signs of strength in the economy, particularly
with the dramatic rebounds we’ve seen in the construction and
services PMIs, have added to sterling strength.”  The pound appreciated 1.6 percent in the week to 84.43
pence per euro as of 5:02 p.m. in  London . Britain’s currency
climbed 1.4 percent to $1.6088 in the period.  Two-year government note yields climbed 26 basis points,
the biggest gain since the five days ending Nov. 12, to 1.52
percent, the most since June 11, 2009.  Indications that the U.K.’s economic recovery is intact may
add momentum to Bank of  England  official  Andrew Sentance ’s drive
for higher interest rates to tame inflation as policy makers
prepare to meet ahead of their next rate decision on Feb. 10.
Monetary Policy Committee member  Martin Weale  joined Sentance in
voting for a rate increase at the group’s Jan. 13 meeting on
concern that inflation may become entrenched.  ‘Damaging Credibility’  Accelerating price growth may be damaging the Bank of
England’s credibility, former policy maker  Kate Barker  said late
yesterday at an event hosted by Anglia Ruskin University in
Chelmsford, England.  “There’s a perception in business as well as in financial
markets that the committee has perhaps been behaving in a
different way coming out of the crisis and has tolerated
inflation more than you might have expected,” said Barker.  Inflation reached 3.7 percent in December, equal to April’s
reading and the most since November 2008.  The U.K. 10-year breakeven rate, an indication of
investors’ inflation expectations derived from the yield gap
between conventional and index-linked bonds, fell one basis
point to 3.25 percent, within three basis points of the highest
level since September 2008.  Short-sterling futures slumped, raising the implied yield
on the contract expiring in December by 26 basis points in the
week to 1.72 percent. A rise in the yield, which is used to
gauge central bank rate expectations, indicates investors are
adding to bets that policy makers will increase borrowing costs
by year-end.  -- With assistance from Emma Charlton, Svenja O’Donnell and  Jennifer Ryan  in London. Editors: Matthew Brown,  To contact the reporter on this story:
Garth Theunissen in London 
 gtheunissen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  