-- Primary Global Consultant Passed Tips to Hedge Funds, SEC Says
-- B y   D a v i d   G l o v i n
-- 2011-02-05T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-05/primary-global-consultant-passed-tips-to-hedge-funds-sec-says.html
A  Primary Global Research LLC 
consultant facing federal insider-trading charges spoke with at
least 11 hedge funds over 14 months and leaked stock tips to
some of them, regulators said.  Walter Shimoon, a former  Flextronics International Ltd .
manager who worked as a consultant for Primary Global, was among
six people sued Feb. 3 by the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission. All six were previously arrested and two have
pleaded guilty.  The SEC complaint sheds new details on the alleged insider-
trading scheme at Primary Global, highlighting the scope of
Shimoon’s hedge fund contacts.  “From December 2008 to January 2010, Shimoon spoke with
representatives of at least 11 different hedge funds,” the SEC
said in its complaint filed in federal court in New York.
“Brokerage records show that the hedge funds used the inside
information that Shimoon provided during these calls to trade
the securities of at least Flextronics and Omnivision,” a
reference to Omnivision Technologies Inc.  Others sued by the SEC include two former Primary Global
employees -- James Fleishman, a former sales manager, and Bob Nguyen, an ex-technology analyst -- and three Primary Global
consultants, Mark. A. Longoria, Daniel L. DeVore and Winifred Jiau. Nguyen, 32, and DeVore, 46, pleaded guilty and are
cooperating with prosecutors.  Also on Feb. 3, prosecutors unsealed an indictment against
Fleishman charging him with one count each of conspiracy to
commit  securities fraud  and conspiracy to commit  wire fraud .  Leaks  Federal investigators are probing what they say are leaks
of inside information from employees of public companies who
also moonlighted as consultants for  Mountain View , California-
based Primary Global. Their tips allegedly helped investors reap
at least $5.9 million in illegal profits, the SEC said.  In its complaint, the SEC said Shimoon, 39, provided tips
to Nguyen about Flextronics and its customers including  Apple
Inc ., Omnivision and  Research in Motion Ltd . Nguyen and
Fleishman allegedly made summaries of Shimoon’s tips available
to Primary Global clients. Shimoon also held four to six calls a
month with Primary Global clients, in which he provided similar
tips, the SEC said.  The agency doesn’t identify the hedge funds.  On Nov. 23, 2009, “Shimoon had a 42-minute call with the
analyst at Hedge Fund No. 2 during which Shimoon conveyed
material nonpublic information” about Apple, according to the
complaint.  Shimoon’s lawyer, Henry Mazurek, didn’t immediately return
a call seeking comment.  ‘Regular Communications’  Elsewhere, the SEC refers to an unidentified hedge fund
that allegedly got tips from Longoria, 44. The SEC said Longoria
had “regular communications” with an analyst at that hedge
fund and a research analyst and portfolio manager at another
hedge fund.  Longoria’s lawyer, Jonathan Marks, didn’t immediately
return a call. Jiau’s lawyer, Frederick Hafetz, declined to
comment.  The case is Securities and Exchange Commission v. Longoria,
U.S. District Court, Southern District of  New York    Manhattan ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Glovin in New York at 
 dglovin@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 