-- Sanofi, Genzyme Boards Said Near to Approving Takeover at About $74-Share
-- B y   A l b e r t i n a   T o r s o l i ,   J a c q u e l i n e   S i m m o n s   a n d   M e g   T i r r e l l
-- 2011-02-05T23:09:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-05/sanofi-genzyme-boards-said-near-to-approving-takeover-today-at-74-share.html
  Sanofi-Aventis SA  and  Genzyme Corp .
are likely to approve a takeover of the U.S. biotechnology
company today and are discussing a price of about $74 a share
plus potential additional payments tied to the performance of a
Genzyme drug, said four people with knowledge of the plan.  A so-called contingent value right, a tradeable contract
tied to Genzyme’s experimental multiple sclerosis drug Lemtrada,
may be valued at about $3 when it begins trading and have a
higher nominal value, said three people, who declined to be
identified because the process is confidential.  The companies’ boards are scheduled to vote on the deal
today and may make an announcement on Feb. 7, said the people.
Sanofi is still working on its review of Genzyme’s business, an
agreement hasn’t been reached, and terms could still change, the
people said.  “As we have previously said, we’ve signed a confidentiality
agreement with Genzyme and are continuing to review non-public
information,” Jean-Marc Podvin, a spokesman for Paris-based
Sanofi, said in a telephone interview. “Those talks continue to
progress. We have no further comment.”  Bo Piela, a spokesman for Cambridge, Massachusetts-based
Genzyme, declined to comment.  Excluding the CVR, a deal may value Genzyme at about $19.2
billion. Genzyme rose 14 cents, or 0.2 percent, to $73.40 in
Nasdaq Stock Market trading on Feb. 4. Sanofi gained 30 cents,
or 0.6 percent, to 50.30 euros in Paris.  ‘Good Deal’  Acquiring Genzyme, the world’s largest maker of medicines
for rare genetic disorders, would help Sanofi Chief Executive
Officer Chris Viehbacher offset revenue losses as some of
Sanofi’s biggest-selling products face competition from generic
versions. Sanofi would gain treatments for Fabry, Gaucher and
Pompe diseases.  “Genzyme is a good deal for Sanofi,” Frederic Aubel, a
sales trader at Global Equities in Paris, said in a telephone
interview. “It seems as if they will be paying a good price,
and the CVR will protect them from potential bad surprises.”  Genzyme has projected peak annual sales of as much as $3.5
billion for Lemtrada, known as Campath when used for blood
cancer. Sanofi said in October that analysts’ estimates of about
$700 million were a valuation “probably closer to the reality
of the product.” Lemtrada is in the final stages of testing and
Genzyme expects data from those trials this year.  Merck-Schering  The acquisition would be the biggest industry takeover
since Merck & Co. bought rival Schering-Plough Corp. for about
$47 billion in November 2009, according to Bloomberg data.  Viehbacher began pursuing Genzyme last year when the U.S.
company was focused on fixing manufacturing snags that cut into
sales of its biggest products after a virus contamination at a
Boston-area factory.  Shire Plc  took market share from Genzyme,
and Genzyme’s stock sank as much as 43 percent from a 2008 high,
causing unrest among shareholders.  The Sanofi chief told Genzyme CEO Henri Termeer, 64, of his
interest in acquiring Genzyme in a May 23 conversation,
according to a filing with the Securities and Exchange
Commission last year. Sanofi announced a $69-a-share, $18.5
billion cash bid on Aug. 29 after Termeer refused to negotiate.
The French company went directly to shareholders with a hostile
tender offer on Oct. 4 after Genzyme continued to spurn the
offer as too low.  Starting Talks  Sanofi said the offer allowed Genzyme shareholders to cash
out after “quite a lengthy period” when the stock
underperformed. Genzyme fired back that the offer was
“inadequate and opportunistic.” The company already had been
targeted by activist investors Ralph Whitworth of Relational
Investors LLC and Carl C. Icahn, who gained four of 13 board
seats last year in compromises brokered with Genzyme to avoid a
proxy battle.  The companies later began negotiations over the proposal
and said Jan. 31 that they had started due diligence. Genzyme
said it would provide data such as profit margins and customer
lists, which Sanofi agreed not to divulge. The $69-a-share
tender offer is set to expire Feb. 15.  Genzyme’s top-selling medicine, which garnered $722 million
in sales in 2010, is Cerezyme, a mass-produced version of a
human enzyme missing in patients with the inherited illness
Gaucher disease. The medicine had sales of more than $1 billion
in 2007 and 2008 before shortages caused by the plant
contamination.  Genzyme’s Drugs  Fabrazyme, used to treat the genetic illness  Fabry disease ,
and Myozyme and Lumizyme for Pompe disease, similarly provide
patients with enzymes their bodies fail to make or produce
adequately on their own.  Unlike the pills produced by traditional drug companies,
Genzyme’s medicines are made using biological processes and
can’t be readily copied by generic-drug makers. Genzyme garners
premium prices from insurers and government payers because the
therapies provide life-saving benefits.  Genzyme , founded in 1981, has about 10,000 employees and 12
manufacturing facilities worldwide, according to the company’s
website. Its products are available in almost 100 countries.  Genzyme is being advised by  Credit Suisse Group AG  and  Goldman Sachs Group Inc . Sanofi is advised by  Evercore Partners
Inc .,  JPMorgan Chase & Co . and  Morgan Stanley .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Albertina Torsoli in Paris at 
 atorsoli@bloomberg.net ;  Jacqueline Simmons  in Paris at 
 jackiem@bloomberg.net ;
Meg Tirrell in  New York  at 
 mtirrell@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  