-- Cameron Says U.K. Banks Must Cut Bonuses, Notes `Real Anger' Among Public
-- B y   V i n c e n t   D e l   G i u d i c e
-- 2011-02-06T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-05/u-k-s-cameron-in-cnn-interview-says-banks-must-cut-bonus-pool.html
Prime Minster  David Cameron  says he’s
taking “a common sense attitude” on overhauling the U.K.
banking industry by pressing bankers to take smaller bonuses and
pay higher taxes in the aftermath of the global financial
crisis.  “Everyone involved in the banking industry has to
understand the very real anger there still is amongst the public
that the banks were partly responsible for the mess that we are
in,” Cameron said in an interview scheduled to be aired on
CNN’s “Fareed Zakaria GPS” today.  “Let us have a settlement where we actually see what we
want to see in Britain,” Cameron said. “Let’s see the banks
pay more in taxes, and they will. Let’s see the banks do more in
lending, and they should. And let’s see the bonus pools come
down, as I think they ought to.”  In the Jan. 28 interview taped in Davos,  Switzerland ,
Cameron also said the U.K. and U.S. militaries are making
progress on plans to leave  Afghanistan  in several years.  “The ticket for President Obama and for me to bring our
troops home is the training of the Afghan army and the police,
which is going well,” Cameron said. “I believe those things
can be done, and we will be able to do, as I say, to meet our
deadline of not having combat troops or troops in large number
by 2015.”  Regarding this year’s royal wedding, Cameron said the
government “pay for certain parts of it, and the royal family
pay for other -- other parts.”  Cameron also said, referring to the budget for the wedding,
“I obviously have weekly meetings with the -- with Her Majesty,
the Queen. They are absolutely secret, so I’d have to kill you
if I told you anything we discussed. But, I know it’ll be a huge
success.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Vincent Del Giudice in Washington at 
 vdelgiudice@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at   msilva34@bloomberg.net  