-- Adoboli Talked Slush Fund at UBS in Chats, Records Show
-- B y   L i n d s a y   F o r t a d o
-- 2012-10-08T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-08/adoboli-talked-slush-fund-with-ubs-colleague-in-chats.html
A colleague of Kweku Adoboli at  UBS
AG (UBSN)  discussed a “slush account” with him in online chats after
the former trader told him he was holding profits off the bank’s
trading books.  Darren Bailey, a trader in the cash-equities group who has
worked at the bank for 13 years, testified yesterday at a London
criminal court that he didn’t remember the exchanges and was
“genuinely shocked” by message transcripts that showed they
discussed the so-called umbrella account. Bailey said last week
he couldn’t recall discussing a slush fund with Adoboli.  Adoboli is on trial, charged with fraud and false
accounting, for allegedly causing a $2.3 billion trading loss at
Zurich-based UBS. Prosecutors say he created an internal account
while working on the bank’s exchange-traded funds desk in  London 
where he parked trading profits to cover future losses. Adoboli,
32, has pleaded not guilty and his lawyers have sought to show
the jury that others knew about the account.  Paul Garlick , one of Adoboli’s attorneys, yesterday read
out chats between the traders where Adoboli told Bailey he was
holding back some proprietary trading profits “for a rainy
day.” In another chat from March of last year, Bailey asked
Adoboli if he’d used the “slush account.”  “You’ve been caught out, haven’t you?” Garlick asked
Bailey. “If you’re doing something which is illegal, which is
dishonest within the bank, then you’d want to keep it secret.”  Trading Ban  Bailey, who still works for UBS, again said he didn’t
recall the chats. He testified last week that he was once banned
from trading futures for three months after he asked Adoboli to
“warehouse” a trade for him, meaning that he’d book a trade
for Bailey and keep it on his book overnight.  Another former colleague of Adoboli, John Ossell, testified
on Oct. 5 that a reference in a chat to “Adoboli Fund Ltd.”
wasn’t about the umbrella account. Ossell, a sales trader on the
equity-traded derivatives desk, said he never knew about the
umbrella and the reference was “work banter.”  “I suggest to you that you certainly knew about the
umbrella fund and that you weren’t at all surprised,” Garlick
said to him during the Oct. 5 hearing.  Adoboli was arrested in September 2011 after admitting that
he had risked $5 billion on Standard & Poor’s 500 futures and a
further $3.75 billion in the German futures market.  In messages to Bailey and Ossell in June 2011, Adoboli
expressed concern about the direction of the market. Garlick
said Adoboli was under pressure by others at UBS to change his
position from bearish to bullish.  Niggling Feeling  In a message to Ossell, Adoboli said he “can’t escape the
niggling feeling there is a shock on the horizon.”  Ossell advised him in one message to placate his bosses by
changing his position.  “Yeah, but then we all lose,” Adoboli said. “I would
rather take their wrath and make money they can share than
follow the lemmings.”  Henry Chu, a former trade support analyst at UBS, was read
a chat transcript by Garlick in which he told Adoboli to cancel
and rebook a trade to change the settlement date. Garlick said
Chu must have known it was a fake trade.  “If it were a genuine transaction, you couldn’t rebook and
just move the settlement date, and you knew that,” Garlick
said.  Chu denied the accusation and said he just wanted to remove
discrepancies in the trading system.  “I thought it was just a messy desk,” Chu testified via
video-link from  Hong Kong . “We’re working 12, 13 hours a day,
all we want is that our work is done, our e-mails replied to and
the breaks resolved.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lindsay Fortado in London at 
 lfortado@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  