-- Air France Brings Etihad Into Orbit With Seat-Sale Accord
-- B y   C h r i s   J a s p e r
-- 2012-10-08T10:37:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-08/air-france-brings-etihad-into-orbit-with-seat-sale-accord.html
Air France-KLM Group (AF)  secured an
alliance agreement with  Etihad Airways , the third-biggest Gulf
carrier, extending a trend for Middle Eastern airlines to end an
isolationist policy and seek accords with older operators.  Based around code-shares which will allow the companies to
sell tickets on each other’s flights beyond Paris, Amsterdam and
Abu Dhabi, the pact is intended to be the first phase of a “much
larger strategic partnership,” Etihad said in a statement.  Today’s deal brings Etihad closer to Air  France ’s SkyTeam
alliance a month after  Qantas Airways Ltd. (QAN)  of  Australia , a
founder member of the rival Oneworld group, dropped a 17-year
pact with  British Airways (IAG)  in favor of an accord with Dubai-based
Emirates, the biggest Gulf carrier. Regional No. 2 Qatar Airways
Ltd. is also looking at alliance options, it said last week.  “Whether Etihad will join SkyTeam isn’t clear, because they
can do well enough adding code-shares and buying stakes here and
there, but this is the start of bigger things with Air France,”
said Donal O’Neill, an analyst at  Goodbody Stockbrokers  in
Dublin. “We’ve gone from a phase of quite outrageous competition
from the Gulf carriers to the beginnings of cooperation.”  Air Berlin Boost  The agreement provides Air France and KLM with five Asian
or Australian connections apiece on Etihad flights via  Abu
Dhabi , while the Gulf carrier can sell tickets to 10 European
cities beyond Paris and Amsterdam, the carriers said today.  Air Berlin Plc (AB1) , 29 percent-owned by Etihad, is also
included. Passengers with the German carrier, which has been
unprofitable since 2007, will be able to fly to seven cities in
France through Paris and three U.K. airports via Amsterdam. Air
France passengers can connect with four Air Berlin flights from
Berlin or Dusseldorf, and KLM with three via Berlin.  Air France-KLM rose  as much as 2.4 percent and was trading
1.5 percent higher at 5.49 euros as of 11:24 a.m. in Paris. Air
Berlin was priced up 1.2 percent at 1.58 euros in Frankfurt.  “It is an important move,” Air France-KLM Chief Executive
Officer Jean-Cyril Spinetta said in a statement, adding that
Etihad and Air Berlin will offer its customers “a range of new
attractive destinations.” Europe’s largest airline has forecast
a loss this year as the sovereign-debt crisis hurts the economy.  Deeper Accord  Etihad was already the most active Persian Gulf carrier in
seeking outside links, with the Air France-KLM accord marking
its 40th code-share agreement. The United Arab Emirates operator
agreed its investment in Air Berlin last year and also owns
minority stakes in  Aer Lingus (AERL)  Group Plc and Air Seychelles Ltd.  The deal announced today starts on Oct. 28 and will also
entail Etihad attaching its code to KLM flights from Abu Dhabi
to Amsterdam, with Air France doing likewise on Etihad’s
services from Paris Charles de Gaulle to Abu Dhabi.  Other areas of potential cooperation include integrated
frequent-flier programs, joint procurement, collaboration on
maintenance and repair and other measures aimed at delivering
economies of scale, the Gulf carrier said.  Etihad spokesman Tom Clarke declined to comment on whether
the accord was a step toward the carrier joining SkyTeam, or if
the Air France-KLM tie-up will extend to joint pricing, sales
and scheduling in the manner of the Emirates-Qantas agreement.  Qatar Question  For Air France-KLM, today’s announcement is a step toward
recovery following a “torrid” few years, according to Goodbody’s
O’Neill, who rates the stock “buy.” The Paris-based company is
seeking to pare headcount and rationalize short-haul and
regional routes and has effectively reined in capacity, he said.  Qatar Air may now be more likely to link up with British
Airways in Oneworld, O’Neill said. Joining the group would offer
a “much better deal” than would alliance entry for Etihad
because the Doha-based company has fewer code-shares, he said.  Oneworld will hold a press briefing in  New York  today at
which it will give details of a “significant membership
development,” according to an invitation issued on Oct. 1. The
news conference is due to be attended by  Willie Walsh , CEO of BA
parent International Consolidated Airlines Group SA, and  Tom Horton , his counterpart at AMR Corp.’s  American Airlines. (AAMRQ)   Qatar Air could immediately be reached today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Jasper in London at 
 cjasper@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at   cthomas16@bloomberg.net ;
David Risser at   drisser@bloomberg.net  