-- Allscripts Said to Get Bids From Blackstone, Carlyle
-- B y   J e f f r e y   M c C r a c k e n   a n d   A l e x   W a y n e
-- 2012-10-08T20:05:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-08/allscripts-said-to-get-first-round-bids-from-blackstone-carlyle.html
Allscripts Healthcare Solutions Inc. (MDRX) ,
the electronic health-records company considering a leveraged
buyout, received first-round bids from private-equity firms
including  Blackstone Group LP (BX) ,  Carlyle Group LP (CG)  and Silver Lake
Management LLC, people familiar with the talks said.  The company, looking to be taken private after a  board
shakeup  and a legal fight with its second-biggest shareholder
this year, wants second-round offers within three to four weeks,
said the people, who asked to remain anonymous because the
discussions are private. Allscripts, which is using Citigroup
Inc. to run the sales process, has been interviewing other banks
to add a second financial adviser, said one of the people.  Allscripts has struggled to increase new business following
its 2010 acquisition of Eclipsys Corp., and in April, the
Chicago-based company fired Chairman Phil Pead and saw three
directors leave with him in protest. Loss of a bid last month to
manage records systems for New York City public hospitals also
may have increased pressure for a sale, Leo Carpio, an analyst
at Caris & Co. in New York, said Oct. 1.  Peter Rose , a spokesman for Blackstone, and  Chris Ullman , a
Carlyle spokesman, declined to comment. Gemma Hart also declined
to comment for Silver Lake, as did Ariana Nikitas, an Allscripts
spokeswoman.  The company may fetch $15 in a sale, according to Bret Jones, an analyst at Oppenheimer & Co. in New York. Its shares
rose 3.9 percent to $13.85 at 4 p.m. New York time, giving the
company a market value of about $2.37 billion.  HealthCor Management LP, which held 7.4 percent of the
common stock outstanding as of June 30, sued Allscripts in May
after the board shakeup. New York-based HealthCor dropped the
lawsuit a month later when Allscripts agreed to nominate three
independent directors to the board.  New York Contract  Allscripts lost a bid for a $302 million contract to supply
its technology to  New York City ’s public hospitals on Sept. 27.
The next day,  Bloomberg News  reported that the company had hired
Citigroup Inc. to advise it in talks with private equity buyers.  Allscripts is the  worst performer  of 33 companies in the
Standard and Poor’s Midcap Health Care Index this year, falling
30 percent. It climbed 14 percent Sept. 28 after Bloomberg News
reported the possibility of a sale.  Some of Allscripts’ challenges date to its acquisition of
Eclipsys, which brought Pead and two other directors to the
board. The company, which specialized in records systems for
doctors’ offices, bought Eclipsys to help expand into software
and equipment for hospitals and health-care systems. President
 Barack Obama ’s 2009 economic stimulus law made available as much
as $27.4 billion to help hospitals and physician practices buy
new equipment to collect and share medical records.  ‘Delayed Commitments’  Instead, Allscripts said in April that customers had
“delayed commitments as they wait for us to introduce new
releases and demonstrate more robust integration” of Eclipsys.  New York City Health and Hospitals Corp.’s board voted
Sept. 27 to authorize the agency to negotiate a contract worth
as much as $302 million with Epic Systems Corp. of Verona,
 Wisconsin . Closely held Epic will install its systems in the
city’s 11 public hospitals and more than 70 community health
clinics.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeffrey McCracken in  New York  at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net ;
Alex Wayne in Washington at 
 awayne3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net ;
Jeffrey McCracken at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net  