-- Almarai Net Misses Estimates as It Fails to Gain From Costs
-- B y   Z a h r a   H a n k i r   a n d   G l e n   C a r e y
-- 2012-10-08T14:51:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-08/almarai-net-misses-estimates-as-it-fails-to-gain-from-costs-1-.html
Almarai Co. (ALMARAI) , the Saudi Arabian
company that operates a joint venture with  PepsiCo Inc. (PEP) , revised
its 2012 profit forecast as third-quarter earnings  missed
analysts’ estimates.  The company reduced its profit growth forecast for 2012 to
7 percent from as much as 10 percent due to a delay in poultry
plant building and the effect of commodity prices, Chief
Financial Officer Paul Gay said in a conference call today.
Third-quarter profit advanced 4.7 percent to 450 million riyals
($120 million) from 430 million riyals a year earlier, the
company said in a statement to the Saudi bourse today.  The  mean estimate  of nine analysts was for a profit of 472
million riyals, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Operating profit rose 6.6 percent to 509 million riyals, while
sales increased 27 percent.  “While revenue for the quarter stood in line with our
projection,” earnings before interest and taxes were 12 percent
below estimate,  Shuaa Capital (SHUAA)  analysts including Asjad Yahya
said in an e-mailed note today. It suggests “the positive
impact of reduced commodity prices on margins was lower than we
had anticipated,” the analysts wrote.  Almarai was poised to benefit from a drop in feedstock
costs, Riyad Capital said in a note last month. Crops including
corn and soybeans comprise nearly a third of Almarai’s material
costs, according to NCB Capital Co. The average price of corn
fell 2.4 percent in the first six months of 2012 from the year
earlier, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Bakery and Poultry  Profit was boosted by “the strong performance in all
sectors, especially bakery and poultry, as well as the
consolidation of International Dairy & Juice Ltd. for this
period,” Almarai said. Sales were also helped by “the seasonal
impact of summer and the holy month of Ramadan.” Almarai and
PepsiCo jointly operate International Dairy & Juice.  Gay said today the company may raise as much as 1.3 billion
riyals from the sale of Islamic bonds this year as it seeks
financing to increase production and make acquisitions.  Six analysts  recommend buying Almarai shares, while 10 say
hold and one says sell, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
The company’s shares have surged 19 percent in 2012, compared
with an advance of 6.1 percent for the benchmark  Tadawul All
Share Index (SASEIDX)  and 34 percent for  Savola Al-Azizia United Co. (SAVOLA) ,
which processes food and manufactures packaging.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zahra Hankir in Dubai at 
 zhankir@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  