-- AmEx Enlists Wal-Mart to Bolster Sales of Bluebird Card
-- B y   S u s a n n a   P a k
-- 2012-10-08T12:04:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-08/amex-enlists-wal-mart-to-bolster-sales-of-bluebird-card.html
American Express Co. (AXP) , the biggest
U.S. credit-card issuer by customer purchases, reached a deal
with  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT)  to expand sales of the lender’s
Bluebird reloadable prepaid card.  Consumers can load money onto the cards at Wal-Mart
locations or electronically through their bank accounts, and use
them as they would a debit card where American Express is
accepted, the lender said today in a statement. Bentonville,
Arkansas-based Wal-Mart, the world’s biggest retailer, began
testing the product at some stores last year.  The agreement may help New York-based American Express,
which doesn’t issue debit cards, expand beyond its core credit-
and charge-card business and drive more spending to its global
payments network. Targeting Wal-Mart customers also contrasts
with AmEx’s traditional focus on affluent consumers.  “Bluebird is our solution to help consumers who currently
may be poorly served by traditional banking products,” Dan
Schulman, group president of AmEx’s enterprise growth business,
said in the statement. “In an era where it is increasingly
‘expensive to be poor,’ we have worked with Wal-Mart to create a
financial-services product that rights many of the wrongs
that plague the market today.”  The partnership also may threaten sales at Monrovia,
California-based  Green Dot Corp. (GDOT) , a prepaid-card firm that
derived 64 percent of its revenue through Wal-Mart in the first
half of 2012, according to an Aug. 9 regulatory filing.  Green Dot rallied 9.6 percent to $24.25 on July 2 after
Ramsey El-Assal, a Jefferies Group Inc. analyst, said Wal-Mart
was winding down the AmEx pilot and that Bluebird sales were
“significantly weaker” than Green Dot products. The stock has
plunged 47 percent since then and closed at $12.85 on Oct. 5.
Wal-Mart was among Green Dot’s biggest shareholders as of March
31, with a 6.2 percent stake,  data  compiled by Bloomberg show.  American Express closed last week at $58.56 a share and has
gained 24 percent this year,  outpacing  the 11 percent advance
for the Dow Jones Industrial Average.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Susanna Pak in  New York  at 
 spak10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net 
Dan Kraut at 
 dkraut2@bloomberg.net  