-- Amil Leads Health Firms Luring Bids on Brazil Growth
-- B y   N e y   H a y a s h i   a n d   A l e x   N u s s b a u m
-- 2012-10-08T17:02:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-08/amil-lures-unitedhealth-as-brazil-s-sales-outpace-u-s-.html
Amil Participacoes SA (AMIL3) ’s ability to
boost revenue at five times the pace of its biggest U.S. peers
is prompting  UnitedHealth Group Inc. (UNH)  to make a $4.9 billion
takeover bid for Brazil’s largest managed-health provider.  UnitedHealth, the No. 1 U.S. health insurer, said today it
agreed to buy 90 percent of Rio de Janeiro-based Amil. It plans
to first buy 60 percent of the Brazilian company from
controlling shareholders as soon as the fourth quarter, then buy
an additional 30 percent in the first half of 2013.  U.S. insurers have been expanding overseas as they brace
for more taxes and regulations under the health-care overhaul
signed by President  Barack Obama  in 2010. The market in  Brazil ,
the world’s second-largest emerging economy, is expanding as
rising incomes and unemployment near a record low allow more
people to leave the public health system, which serves about 75
percent of the population, for the care of private providers.  “The outlook for the health-care industry in Brazil is
very positive, as demand for those type of services have a high
correlation with income and employment levels,” Rodolfo Amstalden, an analyst at equity consulting firm Empiricus
Research, said in a phone interview from Sao Paulo. “Amil has
very experienced managers and a strong market position to
benefit from this favorable outlook.”  Separately  CareFusion Corp. (CFN) , a U.S. medical technology
company, said today it agreed to buy Intermed Equipamento Medico
Hospitalar Ltda., a respiratory technology company based in  Sao
Paulo , according to a statement distributed by PRNewswire. The
financial terms weren’t disclosed.  Sales Growth  Brazil’s five biggest health-care and insurance providers
by market value have increased sales by an average of 29 percent
annually in each of the past three years, with Amil posting a 29
percent gain to 9 billion reais last year. That compares with an
average expansion of 5.7 percent for the five biggest in the
U.S., including UnitedHealth.  Amil’s shares jumped 14 percent to 28.94 reais at 1:48 p.m.
in Sao Paulo, extending this year’s advance to 76 percent. The
stock trades at 36.8 times estimated earnings for the next four
quarters. That compares with a ratio of 13.4 times for the
benchmark Bovespa index, which has climbed 4 percent this year.
UnitedHealth has gained 13 percent in New York this year.  Diagnosticos da America SA , the Barueri, Sao Paulo-based
medical-diagnostics firm known as Dasa, advanced 6.9 percent to
13.89 reais in Sao Paulo, poised for its biggest one-day gain
since December 2011. Amil’s Chief Executive Officer Edson Bueno
is also Dasa’s controlling shareholder.  Amil’s smaller competitor  Tempo Participacoes (TEMP3)  SA trades at
a ratio of 15.8 times analysts’ earnings forecasts, while the
ratio for  Odontoprev SA (ODPV3) , Brazil’s largest provider of dental-
care plans, is 30.9.  Jobless Rate  The jobless rate in Brazil fell to a record low of 4.7
percent in December and was 5.3 percent in August, versus 7.5
percent in May 2010, according to the Rio de Janeiro-based
national statistics agency. Unemployment has remained close to
historic lows as President Dilma Rousseff’s administration
reduced  interest rates , cut payroll taxes and increased
subsidized credit to businesses to spur economic growth.  The jobs created in Brazil have helped boost the health-
care industry in the past few years because most employers
sponsor health plans for employees, said Thomas Chang, an
analyst at UM Investimentos brokerage.  “It’s been a positive thing in the past, but the jobless
rate doesn’t have much room to keep falling,” Chang, who rates
Amil a hold, said by phone from Sao Paulo. “To keep growing,
companies such as Amil will have to start focusing more on
selling plans for individuals, which is much harder than selling
corporate plans.”  ‘Comfortable Place’  Brazil’s relatively strong private-health sector may be
more enticing than other countries where governments place more
control on the market, said  Sheryl Skolnick , a CRT Capital Group
analyst who follows UnitedHealth.  “It might be a more comfortable place for an expansion for
a company like United, which may want to have less of a
government presence and more of a desire to do things in the
private sector,” Skolnick said in a telephone interview.  Brazil’s integrated-care model, where insurers also own
hospitals and physicians’ practices, is another attraction, said
the analyst, who is based in  Stamford ,  Connecticut . Unlike in
the U.S., where the two sides are often at odds, a blended
system can lead to more coordinated care for patients and better
cost controls, she said.  “Ultimately, if you want to squeeze costs out of the
system, you have to integrate the system, at least in some
areas,” she said.  ‘Good Time’  UnitedHealth, like rival insurers, has seen its costs drop
in the U.S. as Americans cut back on medical care amid a weak
economic recovery. That’s left the companies flush with cash to
do expansions, said Paul Keckley, executive director of the
Deloitte Center for Health Solutions in  Washington .  UnitedHealth had $14.4 billion in  cash  and short-term
investments as of June 30, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  “You’ve got cash, you’ve got good currencies and you’ve
got a stock that’s doing pretty well,” he said in a phone
interview. “It’s a pretty good time for these deals.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ney Hayashi in Sao Paulo at 
 ncruz4@bloomberg.net ;
Alex Nussbaum in  New York  at 
 anussbaum1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net ;
Jessica Brice at 
 jbrice1@bloomberg.net  