-- BP Sells Texas Refinery to Marathon for $598 Million
-- B y   B r a d l e y   O l s o n
-- 2012-10-08T20:31:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-08/marathon-petroleum-to-pay-598-million-for-bp-s-texas-plant-1-.html
BP Plc (BP/)  agreed to sell its  Texas  City
refinery, site of one of the deadliest U.S. industrial accidents
in 20 years, to  Marathon Petroleum Corp. (MPC)  for at least $598
million in cash, less than BP planned for the deal last year.  Marathon Petroleum may pay as much as $700 million more
during the next six years depending on the plant’s
profitability, the Findlay, Ohio-based refiner said in a
statement today. With the $1.2 billion paid for inventories of
oil and other products at the 451,000 barrel-a-day refinery,
London-based BP may eventually collect a total $2.5 billion in
the transaction.  Excluding the value of pipelines and a power generation
facility, the base price paid for the Texas City refinery
represents the lowest plant valuation since at least 1993,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg Industries. The plant
was expected to fetch more than the 10-year-average of $6,000 a
barrel, or $2.85 billion, BP’s head of refining and marketing,
Iain Conn said in 2011.  “Marathon is picking this up for a song,”  Gianna Bern ,
president of risk-management consultant Brookshire Advisory and
Research, Inc. in  Chicago , said today in a telephone interview.
Marathon Petroleum rose 5.6 percent to a record $57.92 at the
close in  New York .  Guilty Plea  Buyers were probably turned off by the plant’s history,
Bern said. In 2005, 15 workers were killed and hundreds injured
at the refinery when a unit used to boost octane in gasoline
overflowed as it was being restarted, igniting a blast that
shattered windows five miles away.  BP pleaded guilty to a violation of the  Clean Air Act  and
paid a $50 million fine. The company also paid $2.1 billion in
settlements with blast victims and spent $1 billion upgrading
the refinery. Three years of criminal probation for the company
over the accident ended March 12. BP agreed to retain liability
from any pending litigation and to pay any fines from
regulators, Marathon Petroleum Chief Executive Officer Gary Heminger said today in a conference call.  The company, which was spun off last year from  Marathon Oil
Corp. (MRO) , will buy the refinery, three pipelines originating at the
plant, four terminals, a shipping agreement, retail marketing
contract agreements and a cogeneration facility, which can lower
costs by generating power from the steam the refinery produces.  The transaction is expected to close in early 2013, pending
regulatory approvals.  Immediate Boost  Marathon Petroleum expects the refinery to immediately
boost its profit, reaping $700 million to $1.2 billion in
earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization.
Marathon already owns an 81,500 barrel-a-day refinery in Texas
City, Texas, about 40 miles (65 kilometers) from Houston.  The company will pay for the transaction with cash on hand,
according to the statement. The $700 million provision requires
Marathon Petroleum to pay BP half of the refinery’s annual
profits above a threshold of $1.65 billion a year, with a
maximum of $200 million to $250 million a year over the next six
years.  BP is likely to receive the additional $700 million unless
the refining industry is hit with another collapse in profit
margins similar to the one in 2008 and 2009 caused by the
economic recession, said Brian Youngberg, an analyst at Edward
Jones in  St. Louis .  BP’s Texas City plant, which will become Marathon
Petroleum’s seventh oil refinery, will increase the company’s
presence on the  Gulf Coast . When the deal closes, Marathon will
have the ability to process 1.64 million barrels a day of crude,
about 57 percent of which will be on the U.S. Gulf Coast.  Limited Interest  “Marathon got a very good price on the facility,”
Youngberg said. “There was limited interest out there given its
history, and a lot of other potential buyers have significant
interests in the Gulf Coast already.”  Marathon Petroleum’s other refineries are primarily in the
Midwest, where refiners have earned record profits since 2011 as
lower crude prices in the region allowed them to spend less on
every barrel they purchased to feed their plants.  The sales of BP’s  Texas City  and Carson,  California ,
refineries and $5.55 billion divestiture of its stakes in a
group of Gulf of Mexico fields last week raises to $34 billion
the company’s total asset sales since 2010. The company aims to
raise $38 billion from sales by the end of 2013 after a 2010
explosion at its Macondo well in the Gulf killed 11 workers and
caused the worst offshore U.S. oil spill.  Successful Program  “BP’s asset sales program has gone well,” said Stuart Joyner, an analyst at Investec Securities Ltd. in  London . “I’d
be surprised to see them not hit the $38 billion target ahead of
schedule.”  Joyner said in an interview he expected a price tag of
about $800 million for the refinery.  “BP’s original expectations were pretty lofty, but the
market anticipated a price in the ballpark of what they got
today,” Youngberg, of  Edward Jones , said today in a telephone
interview. “It’s a positive for BP in that they got it sold,
but they definitely sold it at a discount.”  Marathon Petroleum received legal counsel from  Jones Day .
BP was advised by Vinson & Elkins LLP, its primary counsel,
Kirkland & Ellis LLP and Greensfelder, Hemker & Gale.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bradley Olson in Houston at 
 bradleyolson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  