-- Art Market to Get Record $1.5 Billion Test at Frieze, Auctions
-- B y   S c o t t   R e y b u r n
-- 2012-10-08T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-08/art-market-to-get-record-1-5-billion-test-at-frieze-auctions.html
London ’s Frieze Week today starts 
its biggest test of the art market, with more than $1.5 billion 
of art to lure billionaires.  Russian oligarchs, hedge-fund managers and veteran
collectors will be trawling auctions and fairs as the 10-year-
old contemporary art event branches out into the ancient and
modern.  The inaugural  Frieze Masters , a fair in Regent’s Park
devoted to range of pre-21st century works, opens to VIP
visitors today. The event, featuring more than 90 international
galleries, will complement the contemporary art on sale nearby
at  Frieze London , which previews tomorrow. The debut edition of
 Frieze New York  took place in May.  Frieze now competes with  Art Basel  in Switzerland and FIAC
in Paris as an event combining the cutting-edge with classic
modern works and even historical pieces. It was previously known
as  Europe ’s biggest fair specializing in works by living
artists. The addition of Masters could push the value of the
works on offer at Frieze’s two  London  fairs to more than $1
billion, according to preliminary estimates by the insurer
 Hiscox Ltd. (HSX)   “It will bring in more people,” the London-based
contemporary art collector  Judith Greer  said. “Clients who went
to Basel, who thought Frieze too cutting-edge, will now come
along. There’s less of a willingness to gamble now, and interior
designers are mixing the new with the classic modern.”  Pale Background  Frieze Masters will be situated in a 12,500 square-meter
(134,549 square feet) temporary structure in the north of the
park designed by the New York-based  Selldorf Architects . A short
distance from its 22,000 square-meter sister event, it will
avoid comparison with a fair such as TEFAF Maastricht by having
all works presented against pale backgrounds.  “So far there hasn’t been that much crossover buying,”
said the  New York  dealer  Richard Feigen , who will be showing
works from a range of periods at Frieze Masters. “There’s a
huge gulf in price for good works by contemporary and Old Master
artists, and word has got back to collectors. They’ll now have a
chance to compare the markets at the two fairs.”  Feigen will show a mid-14th century Florentine gold-ground
painting of St. Dominic by Bernardo Daddi, priced at $1.8
million.  Mixing Art  At least 40 of the dealers exhibiting at Frieze Masters
(several of whom are also at Frieze London) will be showing 20th-
century works that mix easily with the latest contemporary art.  New York dealer  Edward Tyler Nahem  has a selection of
portraits by artists such as  Jean-Michel Basquiat , Willem de Kooning and  Pablo Picasso , ranging in price from $65,000 to $18
million. Fellow Manhattanite Christophe Van de Weghe will be
offering Picasso’s 1970 painting “Homme et Femme au bouquet”
at $8.5 million.  Frieze London, meanwhile, will feature 175 galleries from
35 countries showing more than 1,000 artists. The 10th
anniversary bespoke temporary structure has been designed by the
architects Carmody Groarke.  “Frieze is the grand dame of cutting-edge fairs,” London-
based art adviser Wendy Goldsmith said in an interview.
“Everyone loves the freshness of the contemporary. The big
galleries now don’t sell art, they place it, so you have major
collectors on waiting lists for works priced at as little as
$6,000.”  Berkeley Square  Contemporary and modern is already a familiar mix at
Pavilion of Art and Design London fair in Berkeley Square.  Now in its six year, the 2012 edition of this commercially-
situated boutique fair will preview today with U.S.-based
newcomers Castelli, L & M Arts, Skarstedt and Paul Kasmin among
60 exhibitors. L & M will be bringing the 1943 Alexander Calder
table sculpture, “Constellation with Red Knife,” priced at
$3.5 million.  For those in search of the Calders of tomorrow, events like
the Sunday Art Fair, at Ambika P3, Marylebone Road, and the
Saatchi Gallery & Channel 4’s “New Sensations” and “The
Future Can Wait” at Victoria House, Bloomsbury, will be showing
works by emerging artists.  Frieze Week also includes auctions of contemporary and
Italian art at Phillips de Pury & Co., Christie’s International
and  Sotheby’s. (BID)  The various day and evening sales have a combined
maximum valuation of 172.5 million pounds ($276.6 million).  Sotheby’s is selling a  Gerhard Richter  abstract belonging
to  Eric Clapton , valued at 9 million pounds to 12 million pounds
on the evening of Oct. 12. Christie’s has the 1992 Martin Kippenberger self-portrait, “Untitled (from the series Hand-
Painted Pictures),” on Oct. 11 and Phillips the 1984 Basquiat
painting, “Big Joy” tomorrow. Both are estimated at 2.5 million
pounds to 3.5 million pounds.  (Scott Reyburn writes about the art market for Muse, the
arts and culture section of  Bloomberg News . Opinions expressed
are his own.)  Muse highlights include  Martin Gayford  on art,  Richard
Vines  on food and  Zinta Lundborg’s  interviews.  To contact the writer on the story:
Scott Reyburn in London at  sreyburn@hotmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 