-- Asian Stocks Drop Before European Finance Ministers Meet
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   B u r g o s
-- 2012-10-08T08:30:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-08/asian-stocks-drop-before-european-finance-ministers-meet.html
Asian  stocks  outside Japan dropped as
 China  resumed trading after a week-long holiday and ahead of a
meeting by European finance ministers today aimed at easing the
region’s debt crisis.  LG Display Co. (034220) , the world’s second-largest maker of liquid-
crystal displays that gets 18 percent of sales in Europe, fell
1.5 percent in  Seoul . CapitaLand Ltd. dropped 3.3 percent,
pacing declines among Singapore builders, after the central bank
restricted home-loan maturities. ZTE Corp. sank 6 percent in
 Hong Kong  after a draft U.S. congressional report said China’s
largest phone-equipment maker poses a security threat.  The  MSCI Asia Pacific Excluding Japan Index (MXAPJ)  declined 1
percent to 440.15 as of 4:28 p.m. in Hong Kong, its first
decline in three days, with almost three stocks falling for each
that rose. Japanese markets are closed for a holiday. The
regional index gained 5.6 percent last month amid speculation
China will add to stimulus measures following moves by central
banks in the U.S. and Japan.  “There’s still a fair amount of skepticism with regard to
how things are going to pan out for China,” said Ng Soo Nam,
Singapore-based chief investment officer at Nikko Asset
Management, which oversees about $165 billion. “A lot will
depend on how policy makers address the economic slowdown. So
far, they’ve been focused on measures aimed at sustainable long-
term growth. Europe is still the biggest concern among
investors. Problems are going to take some time to resolve.”  Hong Kong’s  Hang Seng Index (HSI)  declined 0.9 percent. The Hang
Seng China Enterprises Index of mainland companies, also known
as the H-share index, slid 1.3 percent. China’s Shanghai
Composite Index slipped 0.6 percent as it resumed trading
following a week-long holiday.  Peace Accord  South Korea’s  Kospi Index (KOSPI)  dropped 0.7 percent. Taiwan’s
Taiex Index and Singapore’s Straits Times Index both fell 1
percent. Australia’s S&P/ASX 200 Index lost 0.3 percent.  The Philippine Stock Exchange Index was little changed,
having swung between a gain of 0.2 percent and a loss of 0.4
percent. President  Benigno Aquino  announced a peace accord with
Muslim rebels yesterday, providing the best chance since 2008 to
extinguish a four-decade insurgency that has killed as many as
200,000 people in the mineral-rich south.  Futures on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index lost 0.4 percent
today. The gauge closed little changed on Oct. 5 after a Labor
Department report showed the  unemployment rate  in the U.S.
unexpectedly fell to 7.8 percent in September, the lowest level
since President  Barack Obama  took office in January 2009.  Europe Bailout  Companies that do business in Europe dropped as European
finance ministers meet in Luxembourg today to discuss Spain’s
overhaul effort and closer banking cooperation. Spanish Prime
Minister  Mariano Rajoy  will travel to Paris on Oct. 10 for talks
with French President  Francois Hollande . German  Chancellor
Angela Merkel  will visits  Greece  tomorrow for the first time
since the sovereign-debt crisis erupted.  “Europe isn’t quite finished discussing its policy
response to the crisis,” said  Tim Schroeders , who helps manage
$1 billion at Pengana Capital Ltd. in Melbourne. “There would
be some posturing by countries like Spain and Italy to extract
the best bailout terms. That would generate some negative and
positive headlines. Markets have had a good run and we’ll
probably see some consolidation.”  LG Display fell 1.5 percent to 26,450 won in Seoul.  LG
Electronics Inc. (066570) , the maker of home appliances and mobile phones
that gets about 16 percent of sales from Europe, dropped 2.2
percent to 68,300 won. Cosco Pacific Ltd., which operates a port
in Greece, decreased 2 percent to HK$10.78 in Hong Kong.  Singapore Developers  Singapore developers declined after the Monetary Authority
of Singapore capped the maximum tenure for new residential loans
at 35 years in a bid to curb a housing bubble that has seen
property prices in the city rise to a record.  CapitaLand (CAPL) , Southeast Asia’s biggest homebuilder, dropped
3.3 percent to S$3.29. City Developments Ltd., Singapore’s
second-largest real-estate company, slipped 2.1 percent to
S$11.70. SC Global Developments Ltd. sank 4.9 percent to
S$1.175.  The MSCI Asia Pacific excluding Japan Index advanced 12
percent this year as policy makers boosted stimulus measures to
counter a global economic slowdown and tame Europe’s debt
crisis. The Asian gauge  traded  at 12.5 times estimated earnings,
compared with 13.9 times for the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index and
12.2 times for the Stoxx Europe 600 Index.  DLF Slumps  ZTE declined 6 percent to HK$12.60 in Hong Kong. ZTE and
Huawei Technologies Co., China’s two largest phone-equipment
makers, provide opportunities for Chinese intelligence services
to tamper with U.S. telecommunications networks for spying,
according to a congressional report to be released today.  Executives for Huawei and ZTE, both based in Shenzhen,
China, denied links to Chinese espionage at an intelligence
committee hearing last month, telling lawmakers they aren’t
controlled by the Chinese government.  DLF Ltd. (DLFU) , India’s biggest developer, slumped 7.4 percent to
223.95 rupees in  Mumbai, the largest decline in the MSCI Asian
gauge. Anti-corruption activists on Oct. 5 accused Robert Vadra,
the son-in-law of the Congress Party president  Sonia Gandhi , of
being involved in “illegal land deals” with DLF. DLF said on
Oct. 6 the allegations are “completely baseless and untrue.”  Foxconn Technology Co. declined 3.1 percent to NT$110.5 in
Taipei. The assembler of Apple Inc.’s iPhones had to stop
production for the second time in as many weeks after workers at
one of its plants in China protested against increased pressure.  Among stocks that advanced, QR National Ltd. jumped 5.2
percent to A$3.65 in Sydney after Australia’s No. 1 haulage
company announce a plan to buy back shares.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Burgos in Singapore at 
 jburgos4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  