-- MasterCard Sued by Topshop, 5 Others in U.K. on Card Fees
-- B y   J e r e m y   H o d g e s   a n d   A o i f e   W h i t e
-- 2012-10-08T14:39:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-08/mastercard-sued-by-topshop-5-others-in-u-k-on-card-fees.html
MasterCard Inc., already facing U.K.
lawsuits after European Union regulators outlawed cross-border
card fees, was sued by the owner of the Topshop clothing chain
and five other British retailers.  The separate suits from electrical retailer Comet Group
Ltd., HMV Music Ltd., B&Q Plc and Iceland Foods Group Ltd. were
filed in a London court on Oct. 5.  Home Retail Group Plc (HOME) ’s Argos and Homebase subsidiaries are
claiming damages “arising from restrictive arrangements for
multilateral interchange fees,” by MasterCard, the company said
in an e-mailed statement.  The European Union’s antitrust agency said in 2007 that
MasterCard’s fees for cross-border card payments violated
antitrust rules, unfairly inflating the fees paid by retailers
for processing payments. In May, the Purchase, New York-based
company lost an effort to overturn the EU decision. It’s
appealing the ruling to the EU’s highest court.  The charges are “essential to the operation of the
MasterCard payments system,” Philipp Bruechert, a spokesman for
MasterCard in Brussels, said in an e-mailed statement. They
allow “card issuers, retailers and consumers to each pay for a
fair share.”  EuroCommerce, a group representing European retailers, said
in May that the fees cost stores about 25 billion euros ($32.4
billion) a year. The second-biggest card network, supported by
banks such as  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  and  Royal Bank of Scotland Group
Plc , has said the so-called multilateral interchange fees were
crucial for sharing the costs of debit and credit-card payments.  B&Q, Comet  Spokespeople for HMV and Iceland declined to comment on the
filings, while Topshop owner Arcadia Group Plc, B&Q and Comet
didn’t immediately respond to requests for an interview.  After the EU court ruling in May, MasterCard was sued by
five other U.K. retailers including  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT) ’s Asda
and the U.K.’s fourth largest grocer, William Morrison
Supermarkets Plc, claiming “anti-competitive conduct,”
according to court documents.  The companies sought damages, dating from 1992 across the
European Union and since 2000 in the U.K., for credit-card fees
they said the European Commission had ruled “void and
unenforceable.” Companies are entitled to claim damages once a
regulator has ruled that a competitor or supplier has breached
antitrust rules. All five of the May claims are for damages in
excess of 300,000 pounds ($481,000).  The “unlawful inflation” of charges continues to cause
loss and damage to Asda’s business, lawyers for the grocer said
in court documents dated July 18.  Retailers have long complained about card costs. Unlike for
checks, banks charge interchange fees to process debit and
credit-card payments. Card operators set the amounts, own the
payment networks and pass the money to the lenders. The
retailer’s bank pays the fees to the customer’s card issuer.  Interchange fees “have always been compliant with EU and
U.K. law,” MasterCard’s Bruechert said.  The case is: Arcadia Group Brands Ltd. v.  MasterCard Inc. (MA) ,
High Court of Justice, Queen’s Bench Division, 12-1305  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeremy Hodges in London at 
 jhodges17@bloomberg.net ;
Aoife White in Brussels at 
 awhite62@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  