-- Aussie Dollar Touches 3-Month Low as Rate Cut Bets Climb
-- B y   K r i s t i n e   A q u i n o
-- 2012-10-08T05:41:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-08/aussie-dollar-touches-3-month-low-as-rate-cut-bets-climb.html
Australia ’s dollar slid to the lowest
level in almost three months before a report this week that may
show unemployment increased, fueling speculation that the
 Reserve Bank  will reduce its key rate next month.  The so-called Aussie weakened versus most of its 16 major
counterparts after Treasurer Wayne Swan said yesterday that
reduced  interest rates  will help Australia weather deteriorating
conditions in the world economy. New Zealand’s dollar, nicknamed
the kiwi, remained lower after its biggest weekly drop in more
than four months, as Asian shares declined.  If Australian jobs data due Oct. 11 is weak, that “will
just get the market even more excited about RBA rate cuts,”
said  Joseph Capurso , a Sydney-based strategist at  Commonwealth
Bank of Australia (CBA) , the nation’s biggest lender. “Aussie cross
selling has been going on for quite a while and that’s been
dragging the Aussie lower. The Aussie may test parity this
week” against its U.S. counterpart.  Australia’s dollar fell 0.2 percent to $1.0165 at 4:36 p.m.
in Sydney after earlier touching $1.0150, the lowest since July
13. It declined 0.3 percent to 79.88 yen. New Zealand’s currency
declined 0.1 percent to 81.76 U.S. cents after falling 1.5
percent in the week through Oct. 5, the most since the period
ended May 18. It dropped 0.2 percent to 64.26 yen.  Australia’s  10-year yield  rose three basis points to 3.08
percent.  New Zealand ’s two-year swap rate, a fixed payment made
to receive floating rates, added two basis points to 2.66
percent.  The  MSCI Asia Pacific Excluding Japan Index (MXAPJ)  dropped 0.8
percent. Japan’s markets are shut for a holiday.  Jobless Rate  Australia’s  unemployment rate  probably climbed to 5.3
percent last month from 5.1 percent in August, according to the
median estimate of economists surveyed by  Bloomberg News .
Payrolls probably increased by 5,000 in September from the
previous month, when they fell by 8,800, the survey showed.  Australian jobs  advertised in newspapers and on the
Internet fell in September for a sixth-straight month, declining
2.8 percent, according to an  Australia & New Zealand Banking
Group Ltd. (ANZ)  report released in  Melbourne  today.  Interest-rate swaps  data compiled by Bloomberg show traders
see an 87 percent chance the RBA will lower its overnight cash
rate target by 25 basis points to 3 percent on Nov. 6, following
a quarter-percentage point reduction on Oct. 2. That compares
with an 82 percent probability on Oct. 5. If policy makers
deliver a rate cut next month, that would be the first back-to-
back reduction since June.  Economic Headwinds  “While some parts of our economy are under pressure from
global headwinds, a high dollar and changing consumer behavior,
it’s encouraging that these much lower interest rates have come
at the same time as unemployment is low and economic growth is
healthy,” Swan wrote yesterday in his weekly economic note.  The  World Bank  said today that Asia’s emerging economies
have room to ease monetary and fiscal policies as  China ’s
slowdown drags the region’s growth to an estimated 11-year low
this year. China is Australia’s largest trading partner and New
Zealand’s second-biggest export destination.  Bets on a gain in the Australian currency fell for the
first time in four weeks after the RBA rate decision. The
difference in the number of wagers by  hedge funds  and other
large speculators on a gain in the Australian dollar compared
with those on a decline -- so-called net longs -- was 63,743 in
the period ended Oct. 2, according to figures from the
Washington-based Commodity Futures Trading Commission. That
compares with 89,562 a week earlier, the most since April 2011.  Australia’s dollar has fallen 2.9 percent this year, the
worst performance after the Japanese yen among the 10 developed-
nation currencies tracked by Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted
Indexes. New Zealand’s kiwi dollar gained 3.3 percent.  Home sales in New Zealand rose 8 percent in September from
a year earlier after a 16.2 percent gain in the previous month,
according to data released today by the Real Estate Institute of
New Zealand. The house price index climbed 0.6 percent last
month from August, when it added 1.3 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kristine Aquino in Singapore at 
 kaquino1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  