-- Banks Must Cut Deeper to Help Stock Prices, McKinsey Says
-- B y   C h r i s t i n e   H a r p e r
-- 2012-10-08T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-08/banks-must-cut-deeper-to-help-stock-prices-mckinsey-says.html
Banks must make deeper and more
sweeping cost reductions if they want to restore profitability
levels that are acceptable to investors,  McKinsey & Co.  said in
an annual review of the industry.  “It has to go a lot further,” Toos Daruvala, a director
in the consulting firm’s North American banking practice and a
co-author of the report, said yesterday in a phone interview.
“Banks have done quite a lot on cost-cutting but frankly the
environment has deteriorated over the last year” because of
economic weakness, he said.  Banks globally are failing to produce return on equity -- a
measure of how well they reinvest shareholder money -- that
meets investors’ requirements, McKinsey said in the report.
Higher  capital requirements  imposed by regulators, low  interest
rates  that reduce how much banks earn on loans, slow economic
growth and new rules that eliminate or reduce some fee income
have hurt results, Daruvala said.  “Banks are sort of running to keep in place,” Daruvala
said. “We’re still two to five years out from creating a more
normalized return environment.”  Global banking return on equity, or ROE, fell to 7.6
percent in 2011 from 8.4 percent a year earlier, “well below”
the 10 percent to 12 percent average cost of equity, McKinsey
said in the report titled “The Triple Transformation: Achieving
a Sustainable Business Model.” U.S. banks earned an average ROE
of 7 percent last year and European lenders earned zero -- or 5
percent when excluding the most indebted nations such as Spain
and  Greece , according to the report.  ‘Belt-Tightening’  “I still see a lot of banks do what I would call ‘belt-
tightening’ as opposed to structural, more fundamental cost
reduction,” Daruvala said. “If you look at other industries
that have had to have massive cost-takeout, like the  auto
industry  in the ’90s or the telecom industry, they managed to
cut costs by 30-plus percent.”  For banks that are large, diverse, global and complex,
“one of the big levers on the cost front is massive
simplification,” he said.  That doesn’t mean the biggest, most complex banks must
break up, a measure that some investors and former industry
executives advocate, Daruvala said.  “Breaking up is one answer, the other way is to simplify
as well,” he said. “To me the issue is not so much size as it
is complexity.”  More Financing  European banks in particular could benefit by doing more
financing through the  capital markets , like issuing high-yield
bonds for clients instead of giving them loans that banks hold
on their own balance sheets, Daruvala said. About 19 percent of
total financing in  Europe  is in the form of securitized loans
and corporate debt, compared with 64 percent in the U.S.,
according to the report.  Securitized products were promoted in the late 1980s by
McKinsey consultants including Juan Ocampo and James Rosenthal
in their 282-page book “Securitization of Credit: Inside the
New Technology of Finance.”  “Some forms of securitization would make sense for
Europe,” Daruvala said, referring to the practice of selling
bonds backed by a pool of loans. That depends on “obviously
having learned the lessons of the crisis, and there’s a lot of
lessons to be learned there about what kinds of capital-market
solutions make sense and others that don’t.”  ‘Plain Vanilla’  One solution that does would be “plain vanilla”
securitization such as “a simple mortgage-backed security with
some of the risk held on the originator’s balance sheet,” he
said. “Obviously, I don’t mean those crazier forms of
securitization like CDO-squareds and so forth,” he said,
referring to collateralized debt obligations made up of other
collateralized debt obligations.  Mortgage-backed securities and collateralized debt
obligations, which are bonds backed by pools of debt, were among
products that caused more than $1.5 trillion of losses and
writedowns at banks worldwide from 2007 through 2009, leading to
the biggest-ever government bailout of financial companies.  Global regulators, led by the  Basel Committee on Banking
Supervision , now demand that banks have more capital to buffer
potential losses on such products.  McKinsey alumni have gone on to senior banking jobs. They
include Peter Wuffli, who was replaced as  UBS AG (UBSN) ’s chief
executive officer in July 2007 as credit losses began eroding
profit; Johnny Cameron, who ran Royal Bank of Scotland Plc’s
investment bank until October 2008;  Stephen Green , former CEO
and chairman of  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA) ;  Peter Sands , CEO of Standard
Chartered Plc; and  Morgan Stanley (MS)  Chairman and CEO  James Gorman .  The industry’s position in the economy, measured by banking
revenue as a percentage of gross domestic product, won’t reach
pre-crisis levels before 2020, McKinsey said in its report.  “For the past three decades, the regulated global banking
sector grew faster than underlying national economies,”
according to the report. “This trend has come to a halt.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Christine Harper  in  New York  at 
 charper@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 David Scheer  at  d
 scheer@bloomberg.net . 