-- Basel III Deadline May Be Missed by Some States, Ingves Says
-- B y   B e n   M o s h i n s k y   a n d   A o i f e   W h i t e
-- 2012-10-08T10:49:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-08/basel-iii-deadline-may-be-missed-by-some-states-ingves-says-1-.html
Some nations will miss a January
deadline to start implementing so-called Basel III capital and
liquidity rules, the head of the  Basel Committee on Banking
Supervision  said in a report published today.  “It is clear that not all jurisdictions will be ready in
time,” said  Stefan Ingves , the Basel group’s chairman, in a
statement today. “Still, we see continuing signs of progress.”  Turkey and  Argentina  are furthest behind with rulemaking
among the countries surveyed, according to today’s report by the
global group of central bankers and regulators.  China , Japan and
 Singapore  have already published final rules, while the European
Union and U.S. are also stuck on draft regulations.  Lawmakers are struggling to meet the deadline for
implementing the new standards, which more than triple the core
capital that lenders must have to stave off insolvency and
require banks to build up buffers of easy-to-sell assets. The
Basel group agreed in 2010 that the measures should be phased in
from the start of next year, with full implementation from 2019.  The largest global banks would have needed an extra 374.1
billion euros ($484.4 billion) in their core reserves to meet
Basel III had the standards been enforced at the end of 2011,
according to data published by the committee last month. Nearly
200 billion euros of the collective shortfall was at banks in
the 27-nation EU.  Core Capital  Ingves, who is also governor of  Sweden ’s central bank,
announced last year that the Basel committee would organize peer
review teams to assess how well authorities and banks comply
with Basel III.  For the EU, the peer review said that the bloc’s draft
rules on what counts as core capital are insufficiently detailed
and robust. The review also cited concerns that capital rules
for so-called  bancassurers , lenders with insurance arms,
wouldn’t be as tough as the Basel standards.  Michel Barnier , the EU’s financial services chief, said
that “extensive information and clarifications” provided to
the Basel committee by EU regulators had “only been partly
reflected” in the review on the bloc’s implementation plans.  The Basel group brings together regulators from 27 nations
including the U.S., U.K. and China.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aoife White in Brussels at 
 awhite62@bloomberg.net 
Ben Moshinsky in London at 
 bmoshinsky@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  