-- BAT and Imperial Tobacco Slide on Proposed Russian Tax Boost
-- B y   M a t t h e w   B o y l e
-- 2012-10-08T14:17:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-08/bat-and-imperial-tobacco-slide-on-proposed-russian-tax-boost-1-.html
British American Tobacco Plc (BATS)  and
 Imperial Tobacco Group Plc (IMT)  fell the most in about a month in
London trading after a report that health regulators in  Russia ,
the second-largest tobacco market, proposed raising cigarette
taxes almost eightfold.  BAT, the London-based maker of Dunhill cigarettes,  declined 
as much as 1.8 percent to 3,249 pence, the steepest intraday
drop since Sept. 12. Davidoff maker Imperial Tobacco slid as
much as 2.3 percent to 2,316 pence, the most since Sept. 7.  The Russian Health Ministry proposed the tax increase from
the end of 2012, Finmarket reported today, citing a ministry
document. The move would raise the tax to 4,000 rubles ($128)
per 1,000 cigarettes by the end of 2015 from 510 rubles this
year, according to Finmarket, a subsidiary of the Moscow-based
Interfax news service. Under current policy, excise taxes are
scheduled to increase about 40 percent a year between now and
the end of 2014.  “If the proposal were passed into law, it could slow
profit growth from Russia,”  Erik Bloomquist , an analyst at
Berenberg Bank, said in an e-mail. The move could push Russian
cigarette volumes down by as much as 20 percent in 2015, he
said, compared with his current estimated annual decline of
1 percent to 2 percent.  Russia is also due to submit a law banning smoking in
public places to Parliament by Nov. 1, defying opposition from
leading cigarette makers including Japan Tobacco,  Philip Morris
International Inc. (PM)  and BAT. The Russian government wants to
reduce premature deaths caused by smoking, Deputy Health
Minister Sergei Velmiaikin said Sept. 3.  BAT had 20.8 percent of eastern Europe’s cigarette market
in 2011. Russia accounts for about 8 percent of BAT’s revenue
and 7 percent of operating profit, Barclays analysts estimate.
Russia is the biggest tobacco market after  China .  Imperial Tobacco  controls about 9.4 percent of Russia’s
cigarette market, the company said in May.  Nomura analyst David Hayes today downgraded his outlook on
the tobacco sector to bearish from neutral, citing the risk of
underperformance after three years of outperformance. He cut his
 recommendation  on Imperial Tobacco to reduce from neutral, while
maintaining a buy recommendation on BAT shares.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Boyle in London at 
 mboyle20@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  