-- Best Korean Won Forecaster Sees 1.7% Drop This Quarter
-- B y   J i y e u n   L e e   a n d   L i l i a n   K a r u n u n g a n
-- 2012-10-09T05:03:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-08/best-won-forecaster-sees-1-6-drop-this-quarter-as-growth-slows.html
South Korea ’s won will weaken 1.7
percent by year-end, following its best quarter in two years, as
gains arising from global monetary easing fade and slower growth
crimps exports, the most accurate forecasters say.  The won will decline to 1,130 per dollar by Dec. 31, from
1,111.05 as of 1:53 p.m. today in  Seoul , according to Oversea-
Chinese Banking Corp. and  Westpac Banking Corp. (WBC) , which had the
closest estimates for the past six quarters as measured by
Bloomberg Rankings. That’s more bearish than the median forecast
of 1,120 in a Bloomberg survey.  The currency advanced 3.1 percent last quarter, the most
since the same period in 2010, as bond-buying plans announced by
central banks in Europe, the U.S. and  Japan  fueled investor
appetite for riskier assets. The  Bank of Korea  is forecast to
follow its Australian counterpart in cutting  interest rates  this
week after the World Bank said 2012 growth in developing East
Asian economies will be the slowest in 11 years.  “There’s potential for weakness on the external front,”
Emmanuel Ng, a Singapore-based strategist at OCBC, the top
forecaster, said in an Oct. 4 interview. “Quantitative easing
did channel flows into  emerging markets , but ultimately what’s
going to matter is where the global economy is.”  The won touched an 11-month high of 1,109.57 yesterday and
has rallied 2.1 percent since European Central Bank President
 Mario Draghi  unveiled an unlimited-bond buying plan on Sept. 6.
A week later, the  Federal Reserve  announced a third round of
asset purchases, known as quantitative easing. The  Bank of Japan (8301) 
also stepped up its note-buying program last month.  End of Impetus  “We see a major run up in risk assets on the basis of the
quantitative easing announcement, but there is the combination
of weak real economic activity and the end of that impetus ”
 Huw McKay , a Sydney-based senior international economist at
Westpac, said in an Oct. 4 telephone interview. “Currency gains
tend to come before the actual announcement and a little bit
afterwards, but mature quite quickly.”  The World Bank said yesterday that policy makers in Asia’s
emerging economies have room to provide more fiscal stimulus as
Europe’s sovereign-debt crisis and  China ’s slowdown drag growth
in the region. Expansion in developing East Asia, which excludes
Japan and India, will probably ease to 7.2 percent from 8.3
percent in 2011, the Washington-based lender said in a report.
It had forecast growth of 7.6 percent in May.  Growth in the region will accelerate to 7.6 percent next
year, with China expanding 8.1 percent, as domestic demand is
boosted by accommodative policies, according to the  World Bank .
South  Korea  depends on exports for about half of its gross
domestic product. The government estimated that China accounted
for some 30 percent of overseas sales from Sept. 1 through Sept.
20, making it South Korea’s biggest export destination.  2013 Outlook  Currency forecasters are more upbeat about the won for next
year, with OCBC and Westpac both expecting a 1.5 percent rebound
to 1,113 per dollar by March 31 from the end of 2012. Third-
ranked HSBC Holdings Plc predicts an appreciation to 1,110 in
the first three months of 2013 from 1,120 at year-end.  “Going into next year, the China story will be a bit more
positive,”  Paul Mackel , HSBC’s head of Asia currency research
in  Hong Kong , said in an Oct. 4 telephone interview. “That will
probably lead to some support for other economies which are
quite closely impacted by China, Korea being one of them.”  Forecasters were ranked according to the accuracy of their
estimates in each of six quarters beginning with the three
months ended June 30, 2011. To test long-term accuracy,
Bloomberg added one annual forecast made on September 30, 2011
for September 30, 2012. The average margin for error was 3.66
percent for OCBC’s won forecasts, 3.91 percent for Westpac
Banking, and 4.14 percent for HSBC.  Borrowing Costs  Manufacturing from Europe to China slumped in September as
Europe’s debt crisis clouded global growth prospects. A Chinese
factory index  contracted  for a second month, while euro-area
services and manufacturing output shrank for an eighth month,
figures showed last week.  The Bank of Korea will probably lower the benchmark  rate  by
25 basis points to 2.75 percent at its Oct. 11 policy meeting to
support growth, according to 14 out of 17 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg. “Downside risks” to the economy are rising and the
central bank will aim to restore growth, the monetary authority
said in a report to the National Assembly Oct. 2, a day after
government data showed South Korea’s  exports  fell for a third
month in September.  Rating Upgrade  South Korea’s sovereign credit rating was raised to the
fifth-highest investment grade of A+ by  Standard & Poor’s  on
Sept. 14, following upgrades by Moody’s Investors Service and
Fitch Ratings in the previous three weeks. The move reflects
reduced geopolitical risk on the Korean peninsula following a
“smooth” leadership change in North Korea, which reduces the
likelihood of military confrontations, S&P said in a statement.  Foreign funds increased holdings of South Korea’s local-
currency debt by 5.3 trillion ($4.8 billion) won this year to
88.3 trillion won at the end of last month, data by the
financial regulator showed.  “The upgrade reflects how Korea is increasingly a sound
investment destination,” said Mackel of HSBC. “There is a
solid story for investment flows, which should in turn benefit
the Korean won.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jiyeun Lee in Seoul at 
 jlee1029@bloomberg.net ;
Lilian Karunungan in  Singapore  at 
 lkarunungan@bloomberg.net ;
Yumi Teso in Bangkok at 
 yteso1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net . 