-- BHP Sells First Aussie Dollar Bonds in More Than a Decade
-- B y   S a r a h   M c D o n a l d
-- 2012-10-09T05:28:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-08/bhp-billiton-markets-first-bond-offering-in-australia-since-2001.html
BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP) , the world’s
biggest mining company, sold A$1 billion ($1.02 billion) of
bonds in its first offering of debt in Australian dollars in
more than a decade.  The miner priced the five-year securities to yield 90 basis
points more than the swap rate, according to an e-mailed
statement from  Commonwealth Bank of Australia (CBA) , which managed the
sale with  Australia & New Zealand Banking Group Ltd. (ANZ)  The line of
notes is the largest ever sold in Australia by a company outside
the financial industry, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  The nation’s biggest borrowers have traditionally headed to
deeper markets offshore for most of their bond funding, with
non-financial corporate issuance making up less than 15 percent
of sales in Australia this year. While BHP has $28.9 billion of
outstanding bonds in U.S. dollars, euros and pounds, today’s
offering was its first in the Australian currency since 2001,
according to  data  compiled by Bloomberg.  “BHP is a strong, highly-rated company with good cash
flows,” said  Mark Mitchell , a Sydney-based portfolio manager at
Kapstream Capital, which oversees A$4.9 billion. “Local
investors like the name and are starved for non-financial
issuers.”  The Melbourne-based miner has an A+  credit rating  from
Standard & Poor’s and Fitch Ratings, the fifth-highest grade,
and the equivalent A1 from Moody’s Investors Service.  Antonios Papaspiropoulos, a Melbourne-based spokesman for
BHP, declined to comment when contacted by phone today before
the bond sale priced.  Australian Assets  BHP, the world’s third-biggest shipper of  iron ore  and
biggest shipper of coking coal, owns mines, smelters, ports and
railroads in Australia, where 52 percent of its  long-term assets 
and 42 percent of its employees are located, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  While the company’s Aug. 22 earnings report shows it
approved spending $7.3 billion on new iron ore operations, BHP
has also shelved a number of projects because of rising costs
and lower prices as China, the biggest metals consumer, shifts
its focus from infrastructure to consumer spending.  The miner in August announced it would delay building an
iron ore port expansion at  Port Hedland , estimated to cost $22
billion. Chief Executive Officer  Marius Kloppers  said the
company was spending about $1 billion a month on its iron mines
in Australia, in a teleconference on Sept. 20.  BHP priced the equivalent of $5.4 billion of notes
denominated in euros and British pounds on Sept. 19 in its
biggest-ever sale, driving offerings abroad by Australian
issuers to a record $18.8 billion last month, data compiled by
Bloomberg show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah McDonald in Sydney at 
 smcdonald23@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Shelley Smith  at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  