-- Blackstone Investing in $3 Billion of Africa Power Projects
-- B y   F r e d   O j a m b o
-- 2012-10-08T12:13:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-08/blackstone-investing-in-3-billion-of-african-power-correct-.html
Blackstone Group LP (BX) , the world’s
biggest buyout firm, plans to start investing in energy projects
in Africa worth $3 billion amid increasing demand for power on
the continent.  Blackstone plans to invest in the 360 to 480-megawatt
Ruhudji hydropower plant in southern Tanzania through its Sithe
Global Power LLP unit,  David Foley , senior managing director of
New York-based Blackstone, said yesterday in an interview in
Kampala, the Ugandan capital. It will also invest in Rwanda’s
150-megawatt Ruzizi hydro project that will supply power to
neighboring Burundi and the  Democratic Republic  of Congo.  “As the demand for power increases in Africa, Blackstone
together with Sithe has a number of projects,” he said. The
projects are in the “early stage negotiation and development
phase.”  Africa has 15 percent of the world’s population and
accounts for only 3 percent of energy consumption, according to
a 2011  report  by the  African Union  and other continental
organizations that studied power markets demand over the next
three decades. Demand for electricity is projected to increase
by 5.7 percent annually from 2.4 percent, it said. The
percentage of Africa’s population without access to electricity
is 59 percent, compared with 21 percent in developing nations in
 Asia , according to the study.  Blackstone will invest in hydropower and geothermal
projects, Foley said. The company declined to comment on project
costs.  Ugandan Hydropower  Sithe and Industrial Promotion Services Kenya Ltd., an
affiliate of the Aga Khan Fund for Economic Development SA,
jointly own Uganda’s $900 million 250-megawatt Bujagali
hydropower plant, which reached full capacity in July. Uganda’s
government, which contributed $20 million, is a minority
shareholder in the project, which is being inaugurated today.  “All projects are different, but Blackstone typically
seeks to form public-private partnerships like we did with
Bujagali,” Foley said  The construction of Bujagali, which is Blackstone’s biggest
energy investment in Africa, began in May 2007, and replaced the
nation’s reliance on 100 megawatts of thermal power, while
eliminating a power deficit of 170 megawatts, according to
Blackstone.  Equity financing by shareholders accounted for $200 million
of the funding and the rest came from lenders including the
International Finance Corp., the  African Development Bank , the
 European Investment Bank , the German Development Bank and the
French Development Bank.  The Ugandan plant, located 80 kilometers (50 miles) east of
Kampala and run by Bujagali Energy Ltd., will be transferred to
the government for a token $1 after 30 years, Foley said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fred Ojambo in Kampala at 
 fojambo@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Richardson  on 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net . 