-- Bookies Tout Murakami as Nobels Flirt With Literary Irrelevance
-- B y   H e p h z i b a h   A n d e r s o n
-- 2012-10-08T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-08/bookies-tout-murakami-as-nobels-flirt-with-literary-irrelevance.html
With the 2012  Nobel Prize in
Literature  being awarded on Thursday,  Philip Roth  may be feeling
down in the dumps at the prospect of yet another Swedish snub.  Here’s some trivia to cheer him up. When Johannes V. Jensen
snagged the 1944 award, it was a case of 18th time lucky. The
septuagenarian father of Danish modernism had been nominated
almost every year since 1925.  If Stockholm chooses to spurn the great American novelist
once again come Thursday, there’s additional solace to be had
from the fact that virtually no one outside  Denmark  has heard of
Jensen today.  The Swedish Academy rivals the Vatican for secrecy, keeping
official nominations under lock and key until half a century has
elapsed. This leaves prize-watchers studying lists drawn up by
bookies like  Ladbrokes , which places Roth at 16/1 as of this
writing -- up from last year’s odds of 25/1 though still lagging
some way behind the early favorite, Haruki Murakami at 2/1.  If this isn’t going to be Roth’s year, the jazz-loving
Japanese author of “Norwegian Wood” and “IQ84” would make a
laudable pick. At once intriguingly local and resonantly global,
Murakami’s fiction nets truths about modern life within
narratives that, for all their surreal drollery, can seem
descended directly from Dickens.  China ’s Mo Yan is joint second favorite alongside Hungary’s
Peter Nadas, whose most recent novel took 18 years to write, and
 Canada ’s Alice Munro, who has resisted pressure to publish
anything longer than short stories. So far, there has been only
one Chinese-born literature laureate: Gao Xingjian, who took
French citizenship several years before winning in 2000.  ‘Don’t Speak’  Yan’s fiction is largely historical, as epitomized by his
novel “Big Breasts and Wide Hips.” Blending realism with
folkloric motifs, it is seen by some as guardedly critical of
the Chinese state, though the man himself has also been
criticized for failing to support dissidents. Mo Yan is in fact
a pen name and translates as “don’t speak.”  The odds on last year’s top tip, Syrian poet Adonis, are
languishing at 14/1 this time around. That places him above his
regional competition,  Israel ’s Amos Oz, the fine novelist and
still finer non-fiction writer, yet below  Bob Dylan , who finds
himself sharing third place with William Trevor.  Having opened at 100/1, odds on the 84-year-old Irishman
have now been slashed to 10/1. Eight of the past 10 prizes have
stayed in  Europe  and it would be a pity if Trevor’s nationality
were to count against him. He is, after all, one of the most
accomplished living writers in any language.  African Writers  It’s been almost a decade since J.M. Coetzee won. Should
the Nobel committee decide it’s time to look to  Africa  again,
the bets are that it will go to  Kenya ’s Ngugi wa Thiog’o or
perhaps  Nigeria ’s Chinua Achebe. Algerian novelist Assia Djebar
has also become a fixture on the bookies’ lists.  Among the less well-known names being touted this year is
 Italy ’s Dacia Maraini. The daughter of a mountaineer and a
Sicilian princess, she spent part of her childhood in a
concentration camp in World War II  Japan . Her feminist-inflected
novels such as “The Silent Duchess” are exquisitely observed.
She definitely deserves a wider readership -- but does she
deserve to win?  Toronto’s Margaret Atwood certainly does. While the last
U.S. recipient was Toni Morrison in 1993, the last Canadian was
Saul Bellow in 1976, and his family had left  Quebec  for  Chicago 
when he was still a boy.  Munro, Atwood  According to the bookies, Atwood’s compatriot Munro stands
a better chance of winning. While Munro can be ranked alongside
the greatest short story writers of all time, Atwood electrifies
the written word through fearless and sustained engagement with
the world that may lie just ahead, as well as that which
surrounds us.  A prize is ultimately only as prestigious as its winners.
In the past decade, the Nobel has added Elfriede Jelinek, Jean-
Marie Gustave Le Clezio and Herta Muller to its hall of fame.
Though Coetzee, Doris Lessing and Mario Vargas Llosa have joined
them, it’s hard not to weigh this list against the names of
those who continue to be overlooked -- Murakami, Trevor, Atwood.  And Roth, of course. There is a compelling case to be made
for this award rendering itself meaningless if it continues to
ignore him. Apparently, it’s one competition that could actually
benefit from a referee lockout.  (Hephzibah Anderson is a critic for  Bloomberg News . The
opinions expressed are her own.)  Muse highlights include  Lance Esplund  on art and an
 interview  by Zinta Lundborg.  To contact the writer on the story:
Hephzibah Anderson in London at  hephzibah_anderson@hotmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 