-- Brainless Slime Mold May Point Toward Origin of Memory
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   L o p a t t o
-- 2012-10-08T19:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-08/brainless-slime-mold-may-point-toward-origin-of-memory.html
A single-celled, amoeba-like creature
called a  slime mold  is capable of navigating through a maze to
food, despite lacking a brain.  The slime mold leaves behind a trail of goo as it oozes
along. That trail forms a kind of external memory system,
according to a paper released today in the  Proceedings of the
 National Academy of Sciences . The study showed that creatures
that couldn’t use their slime as a marker spent almost 10-fold
the amount of time exploring a maze to find food.  Slime molds avoid areas where their trail already appears
unless there’s no unslimed area available, the authors wrote.
That suggests the creatures use their goo as a marker for places
they already know. The use of externalized memory may have been
a first step toward the development of recollection in other
organisms, the researchers said.  “Many insects, including species of ants, bees, and wasps,
use landmarks to memorize their route to and from the nest,”
the authors, led by doctoral student  Chris R. Reid  of the
 University of Sydney  in Australia, wrote in the paper. “We go a
step further by showing that even an organism without a nervous
system can effectively navigate complex environments.”  Slime molds, which aren’t actually mold, spend the bulk of
their lives as huge single cells containing many nuclei. This is
called a plasmodium. It searches for food by contracting and
expanding. When foods are nearby, the contractions speed up,
causing the slime mold to flow toward the food. When salt or
light is detected, the contractions slow, allowing the
plasmodium to move away from irritants.  The species used in this experiment,  Physarium
polycephalum , originates in forests and can range in size from a
few millimeters to more than 12 inches across, according to
 Washington University  at  St. Louis .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Lopatto in  New York  at 
 elopatto@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  