-- Brazil Swap Rates Rise on Inflation Outlook; Real Little Changed
-- B y   B l a k e   S c h m i d t   a n d   M a r i s a   C a s t e l l a n i
-- 2012-10-08T21:43:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-08/brazil-swap-rates-drop-for-seventh-day-on-europe-real-declines.html
Brazilian swap rates rose the most in
five weeks as concern that inflation is quickening in  Latin
America ’s biggest economy damped speculation policy makers will
further cut benchmark borrowing costs this week.  Swap rates on the contract due in January 2014 rose six
basis points, or 0.06 percentage point, to 7.45 percent in the
biggest increase on a closing basis since Aug. 30. The real was
little changed at 2.0297 per dollar.  Rates dropped the most since May last week after Luiz Awazu Pereira said that the period of slow global growth will “be
more persistent and last longer.”  “The market exaggerated with the fall in rates after
Awazu’s comments, and today inflation indicators showed an
acceleration that was a bit of a surprise,” Eduardo Velho,
chief economist at Planner Investimentos, said in a phone
interview from  Sao Paulo . “Bets on another 25-basis-point cut
are dominant, but the market will go into the Copom meeting
divided.”  The IGP-DI index of inflation rose 0.88 percent in
September, the Getulio Vargas Foundation reported today. The
median estimate of 28 economists surveyed by Bloomberg was for a
0.83 percent increase. The gauge is composed of 60 percent
wholesale prices, 30 percent consumer prices and 10 percent
construction costs.  Consumer prices as measured by the IPCA inflation index
will end the year 5.42 percent higher, according to the median
forecast of a central bank survey of about 100 economists
published today. The projection last week was for a 5.36 percent
increase.  Brazil  targets inflation of 4.5 percent plus or minus
two percentage points.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Marisa Castellani in em São Paulo at 
 mcastellani7@bloomberg.net ;
Blake Schmidt in Sao Paulo at 
 bschmidt16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  