-- HTC Posts Record Profit Drop as Samsung, Apple Grab Sales
-- B y   T i m   C u l p a n
-- 2012-10-09T02:44:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-08/htc-posts-record-profit-drop-as-samsung-apple-grab-sales.html
HTC Corp. (2498) ,  Asia ’s second-largest
smartphone maker, dropped the most in three months in Taipei
trading after quarterly profit fell by a record as competition
from Samsung Electronics Co. and  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  drove down sales.  HTC declined by the 7 percent daily limit to NT$267 as of
10:24 a.m., headed for the biggest loss since July 5. The stock
has lost 46 percent this year, lagging behind a 7.7 percent
advance for  Taiwan ’s benchmark  Taiex (TWSE)  index.  Third-quarter  net income  dropped to NT$3.9 billion ($133
million), the Taoyuan, Taiwan-based company said in a statement
yesterday. That was a 79 percent decline from a year earlier and
missed the NT$4.43 billion average of eight  analysts’ estimates 
compiled by Bloomberg in the last 28 days.  HTC, maker of the One, Sensation and Desire handsets,
lacked a “sense of urgency” while “bureaucracy crept in,”
Chief Executive Officer Peter Chou said in an e-mail to
employees in August. New models using Microsoft Corp.’s Windows
and Google Inc.’s Android platforms may not be enough to offset
continued gains by Samsung’s Galaxy and Apple’s iPhone models.  “HTC’s newly launched smartphones will not be a game
changer for the company,” Richard Ko, who rates the stock
 underperform  at KGI Securities Co. in Taipei, wrote in a report
yesterday after the announcement. “Competition in the
smartphone space remains intense across all segments. We believe
Apple and Samsung will continue to lead on brand, distribution
channel, scale and cost.”  Revenue Miss  Third-quarter revenue fell 48 percent to NT$70.2 billion,
missing the NT$75 billion average of eight analysts’ estimates
compiled by Bloomberg in the last 28 days. The company on Aug. 3
forecast revenue of NT$70 billion to NT$80 billion. Operating
income declined 76 percent to NT$4.9 billion.  HTC’s share of the global smartphone market by shipments
fell to 5.8 percent in the second quarter from 10.7 percent a
year earlier, according to data compiled by Bloomberg
Industries. The company  released  its first models based on
Windows Phone 8 in September, and last week announced revised
versions of some Android-based devices.  Samsung, the world’s largest maker of mobile phones, last
week reported record third-quarter operating profit, buoyed by
continued gains by its Galaxy phones and tablets. Sales of the
Galaxy S III passed 20 million units in the 100 days after its
debut, the company said in September.  Apple sold 5 million units of its iPhone 5 in the first
weekend after sales commenced in nine countries on Sept. 21, it
 said  at the time. The Cupertino, California-based company began
selling the device in 22 more countries on Sept. 28.  ‘Kill Bureaucracy’  HTC needs to “kill bureaucracy” as “we have people in
meeting and talking all the time but without decision, strategic
direction or sense of urgency,” Chou wrote to workers in an
August e-mail obtained by  Bloomberg News . “Stay firm with the
hero innovations,” he wrote.  HTC’s sales and operating margins may decline further in
the fourth quarter,  Kevin Chang , an analyst at Citigroup Inc. in
Taipei, wrote in a note. Citigroup has a sell rating on the
stock and a price estimate of NT$192.  Fourth-quarter net income may drop to NT$5.2 billion, the
fifth straight decline, on  revenue  of NT$76.5 billion, according
to estimates compiled by Bloomberg in the last 28 days.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tim Culpan in Taipei at 
 tculpan1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Michael Tighe  at   mtighe4@bloomberg.net . 