-- California Death Penalty Foes Focus on Cost of Executions
-- B y   M i c h a e l   B .   M a r o i s
-- 2012-10-08T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-08/california-death-penalty-foes-focus-on-cost-of-executions.html
Advocates of a ballot measure to ban
the death penalty in  California  are focusing their effort on a
financial argument rather than just a moral one: that capital
punishment has become too costly for the deficit-ridden state.  The state with the most prisoners on death row spent $4
billion since 1978 prosecuting capital cases, confining the
condemned and fighting court appeals, executing just 13 in the
period while 900 were convicted, according to a study in the
Loyola of Los Angeles Law Review cited by proponents including
the American Civil Liberties Union.  Polls show voters are split on Proposition 34, which would
abolish the death penalty and change the maximum criminal
punishment to life without parole. The measure on next month’s
ballot would also apply retroactively, meaning those already on
death row would have their sentences commuted to life.
California would join 17 states that abolished the death penalty
since 2007, including New York, New Jersey and  Illinois .  “Opinions on the death penalty are fairly locked in,”
said David Kanevsky, research director at  American Viewpoint ,
which has conducted polls on behalf of the Republican National
Committee. “If this initiative is tied, it’s likely to lose as
undecideds generally break to the ‘no’ side and the fiscal
argument does not move Republicans on the death penalty, as it
moves voters on other initiatives.”  Opponents of the measure include Marc Klaas, whose 12-year-
old daughter, Polly, became a national symbol of missing
children when she was kidnapped, raped and  murdered  in 1993. Her
killer is one of more than  700 inmates  awaiting execution at San
Quentin prison near San Francisco.  ‘Demeans My Daughter’  “The jury was very clear back in 1996 saying that for the
crime Richard Allen Davis committed against my daughter, he
deserved to be executed,” Marc Klaas said in a telephone
interview. “To think that anybody would be advocating on his
behalf, trying to save his life, absolutely appalls me at every
level. It demeans my daughter. It diminishes my daughter in the
eyes of justice.”  The U.S. Supreme Court, which suspended capital punishment
as unconstitutional in 1972, allowed its resumption in 1976.
More than two-thirds of California voters approved reinstatement
of the death penalty in 1978.  Lethal Injection  The state hasn’t conducted executions since 2006, when U.S.
District Judge Jeremy Fogel in San Jose blocked the execution of
Michael Morales, convicted of rape and murder in 1983. Fogel
said the procedure, using lethal injection, was
unconstitutionally cruel. The last to die was Clarence Ray
Allen, who was 76 when he was executed for three murders.  Under existing state law, death penalty verdicts are
automatically appealed to the California Supreme Court, a move
known as a direct appeal. Death penalty cases almost always
result in extensive habeas corpus appeals in which an inmate
asks for his or her conviction to be reviewed, delaying the
sentence for decades.  “I oversaw four executions at San Quentin,” said Jeanne Woodford, who was warden from 1999 to 2004 and is the official
proponent of the measure. “I can tell you as a law-enforcement
officer with 34 years of experience, those executions did not
make any one of us safer. What they did do was consume millions
of dollars in resources that would be better spent on solving
crime.”  Voters Split  A survey by the Field Poll and the Institute of
Governmental Studies at the University of California-Berkeley,
released Sept. 25, showed 42 percent of likely voters would end
the death penalty and 45 percent would keep it. The difference
was within the margin of error of plus or minus 4.3 percentage
points.  A USC Dornsife/Los Angeles Times  poll  released Sept. 30
found 38 percent would eliminate capital punishment, while 51
percent supported it. The margin for error was plus or minus 2.9
percentage points.  “It’s so expensive because we never conclude anything,
they just keep dragging on and on on,” said Kermit Alexander, a
former professional football player for the San Francisco 49ers
and the Los Angeles Rams whose mother, sister and two nephews
were shot to death in south-central Los Angeles during a home
invasion by gang members. The killer, Tiequon Cox, has been on
death row for 26 years.  “It’s an open sore,” Alexander said. “We’ve lost our
loved ones and we depend upon the state to do good by us, but
they don’t seem to, over and over and over again. Once the trial
is over, it seems there are no more rights for the victims. It’s
all about the criminal.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael B. Marois in Sacramento at 
 mmarois@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  