-- CapitaLand, Banks Decline on Mortgage Loan Cap: Singapore Mover
-- B y   P o o j a   T h a k u r
-- 2012-10-08T09:25:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-08/capitaland-leads-developers-lower-on-loan-cap-singapore-mover.html
Singapore developers and banks fell
after the government restricted home-loan maturities in a bid to
curb a housing bubble as property prices in the island-state
rose to a record.  CapitaLand Ltd. (CAPL) , Southeast Asia’s biggest developer,
dropped 3.3 percent to S$3.19 at the close of trading, its
biggest decline in almost five months.  Keppel Land Ltd. (KPLD) , the
developer partly owned by the world’s largest oil-rig builder,
slid 1.7 percent to S$3.50, the biggest drop since July 23.  City
Developments Ltd. (CIT) , Singapore’s second-largest developer, fell
2.3 percent to S$11.67, the biggest slide in two months.  The maximum tenure for new residential property loans will
be capped at 35 years, the Monetary Authority of Singapore said
in an e-mailed statement on Oct. 5. It will also impose tighter
loan-to-value limits for loans exceeding 30 years, it said. The
rules, which became effective Oct. 6, will apply to both private
properties and Housing Development Board flats.  “It’s a knee-jerk reaction to the measures announced,”
 Wilson Liew , Singapore-based analyst at Maybank Kim Eng Holdings
Ltd., said in a phone interview. “The measures are more
preemptive and may weed out marginal buyers in the mass market
segment. I don’t see a significant impact on demand.”  The government has been trying to rein in residential
property prices since 2009. It has barred interest-only loans
for some housing projects, stopped allowing developers to absorb
interest payments, imposed additional taxes on foreigners and
companies buying properties, and moved to curb the increasing
trend of so-called shoebox apartments.  Longer Tenures  Among lenders,  DBS Group Holdings Ltd. (DBS) , Southeast Asia’s
biggest bank, declined 1.5 percent to S$14.25, while Oversea-
Chinese Banking Corp., the second largest, lost 0.4 percent to
S$9.45.  United Overseas Bank Ltd. (UOB) , the third largest, fell 1.3
percent to S$19.58.  With the central bank’s new guidelines,  OCBC (OCBC)  will reduce
its existing maximum home loan tenure of 40 years to 35 years
with immediate effect, Koh Ching Ching, a Singapore-based
spokeswoman for the bank, said in an e-mail Oct. 5.  Over the past three years, the average tenure for new
residential property loans has increased from 25 years to 29
years, the MAS, the island-state’s central bank, said. More than
45 percent of new home loans had durations that exceeded 30
years, it said.  “Presently, the majority of our home loans are below 35
years,” Lui Su Kian, head of deposits and secured lending at
DBS, said in an e-mail Oct. 5. “It will take some time to
ascertain the impact of the new measures while homebuyers assess
the market.”  Singapore  home prices climbed to a record in the third
quarter after developers sold more homes. The island-state’s
private residential property price index rose 0.5 percent to 208
points in the three months ended Sept. 30, according to
preliminary estimates released by the Urban Redevelopment
Authority on Oct. 1. The index advanced 0.4 percent in the
previous quarter, which was also at a record.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Pooja Thakur in Singapore at 
 pthakur@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  