-- Chavez Win Called by BofA Sparks Selloff as Barclays Flops
-- B y   Y e   X i e   a n d   D a n i e l   C a n c e l
-- 2012-10-08T21:22:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-08/chavez-win-called-by-bofa-points-to-bond-rout-as-barclays-flops.html
Venezuelan state-oil company bonds
tumbled after President  Hugo Chavez  won re-election by more than
10 percentage points in a vote that some polls had showed was
too close to call.  Notes due 2017 from Petroleos de  Venezuela  SA, the company
known as PDVSA, fell 1.72 cent to 88.02 cents on the dollar in
 New York , where volume was limited because of a holiday. The
currency slid to a record low in unregulated trading. Chavez
took 55 percent of the votes while opposition candidate Henrique Capriles Radonski received 44 percent, according to results
based on 97 percent of the ballots.  Venezuelan dollar debt had been  Latin America ’s best
performer this year, returning 32 percent on speculation Chavez,
58, would lose the vote or succumb to a two-year cancer battle,
handing power to a government that would roll back his economic
policies. While Chavez’s health remains in doubt, the margin of
victory gives him room to extend government controls in  South
America ’s biggest oil-producing nation, said  Francisco Rodriguez , a senior Andean economist at  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) 
who correctly predicted the election result.  Chavez’s win gives him “significant leeway to push forward
his process of deepening socialism,” Rodriguez, who had
forecast a five-to-eight point margin of victory, said by phone
from New York. He said Chavez could nationalize more companies
and broaden his use of socialist communes. “It weakens the
long-term potential to pay for the country’s debt and lowers the
country’s productivity.”  Underweight Position  Bank of America’s prediction pitted it against  Barclays
Plc (BARC) , which called Capriles the likely winner in an Oct. 5 report
that reiterated its recommendation to buy Venezuelan debt.  Yields on the government’s dollar-denominated debt due in
2027 rose 43 basis points, or 0.43 percentage point, to 10.9
percent, according to the Swiss stock exchange. PDVSA bonds were
the most actively traded dollar-denominated corporate securities
by dealers today, with 71 trades of $1 million or more,
according to Trace, the bond-price reporting system of the
Financial Industry Regulatory Authority.  Rodriguez declined to estimate how big bond losses would be
this week. He and his Bank of America colleague Jane Brauer cut
Venezuelan debt to underweight from marketweight on Oct. 2,
saying the rally overstated Capriles’s chances of victory.  The IBC Index from the Caracas Stock Exchange tumbled 13
percent to 352,663.7, with about $130,000 in shares changing
hands. The index had rallied 31 percent last week.  Oil Output  Chavez, who sits on the world’s largest oil reserves and
has driven away foreign investors with his seizures of
companies, will maintain his “high state intervention” in the
oil industry, Carlos Bellorin, a senior analyst at IHS Inc. in
 London , said in an interview before the election results were
announced.  Oil production has declined 22 percent since Chavez first
took office in 1999 to 2.72 million barrels a day, according to
British Petroleum Statistical Review. The government, which
relies on oil to fund about half its spending, says that the
country is producing about 3 million barrels a day. Crude for
November delivery fell 0.6 percent to $89.33 a barrel in New
York.  HSBC Holdings Plc recommended today that investors cut
their Venezuelan bond holdings to an underweight position “for
the next few days” and buy some back after prices fall. Morgan
Stanley said the selloff will be limited because  oil prices  near
$90 a barrel and the country’s relatively high yields make the
debt attractive even with Chavez staying in office. Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. said losses wouldn’t be “very large” because
most investors were expecting Chavez to win.  BofA, Barclays  Bank of America and Barclays had the most outspoken
positions on the election among major global banks. Barclays
analysts led by  Alejandro Grisanti , the co-head of Latin America
research, wrote in their Oct. 5 report that investors were
underestimating the chances of a Capriles victory.  Both Grisanti and Bank of America’s Rodriguez are
Venezuelan. Both studied economics at Universidad Catolica de
Andres Bello in Caracas in the early 1990s. Rodriguez, who
earned his Ph.D. in economics from  Harvard University  in 1998,
served as an economist in Venezuela’s National Assembly from
2000 to 2004.  Grisanti, who has run unsuccessfully for public office as a
member of Capriles’s Primero Justicia party, said in an Oct. 5
interview that his Venezuelan ties helped give him “insight
into the election” that guided his bond market calls.  Pre-Election Surveys  The Consultores 21 polls that Barclays cited for its
bullish bond calls showed Capriles widening his lead in the
final days of the campaign. A Sept. 27 to Oct. 2 survey by the
Caracas-based polling company gave Capriles a lead of 51.8
percent to 47.2 percent. Chavez had 44.7 percent support against
37 percent for Capriles, according to a Datanalisis poll
concluded on Sept. 18, Credit Suisse AG said in an Oct. 5
report, citing the private survey.  “Definitely this time we misread the country’s dynamics”
as Chavez’s landslide win “was not the scenario we expected,”
Grisanti and Alejandro Arreaza, an Andean region economist at
Barclays, wrote in a note to clients today. “Since the market
has been skeptical about the chance of a victory for the
opposition, we expect a limited selloff” in government and
PDVSA bonds, they wrote.  Bolivar Weakens  Venezuelan bonds account for 9.3 percent of JPMorgan’s EMBI
Global index, giving them the third largest weighting in the
benchmark.  Chavez, a former paratrooper and a self-claimed socialist,
has seized more than 1,000 companies, imposed price caps,
controls on foreign-exchange trading and used rising oil revenue
to fund popular social programs during his 14 years in office.
The policies led to shortages of everything from electricity to
sugar and beef and fueled higher inflation than any country
tracked by Bloomberg after Belarus and  Iran .  In unregulated trading, the bolivar weakened 2.3 percent
today to a record-low 12.58 per dollar, extending its losses
this year to more than 30 percent, according to Lechuga Verde, a
blog that tracks the rate. The government sells dollars to
buyers at two official exchange rates, 4.3 per dollar and 5.3.
People and companies that can’t access those rates turn to the
black market.  Capriles, the 40-year-old former governor of Miranda state,
had vowed to unwind the controls, which he said breed
corruption, while promising to create more private sector jobs
and increase oil production.  An economic pickup that Chavez fueled by boosting
 government spending  30 percent in inflation-adjusted terms in
the first half of the year helped pave the way for his victory,
according to Rodriguez. Growth accelerated to 5.4 percent in the
first six months of the year from 4.2 percent in 2011.  The economic rebound made Chavez’s victory “the logical
scenario to expect,” Rodriguez said. “This justifies our
underweight position. We’re keeping it, at least until we see
the price adjustment we expect to occur.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ye Xie in New York at 
 yxie6@bloomberg.net ;
Daniel Cancel in Caracas at 
 dcancel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  