-- China’s Services Industries Expand at Faster Pace, Survey Shows
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-10-08T02:48:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-08/china-s-services-industries-expand-at-faster-pace-survey-shows.html
China ’s  service industries  expanded
at a faster pace in September as output increased by the most
since May, a private survey indicated.  The  purchasing managers’ index  rose to 54.3 from 52 in
August, HSBC Holdings Plc and Markit Economics said today. A
reading above 50 indicates expansion.  Today’s report may offer investors some comfort that the
nation’s slowdown is stabilizing after the economy's weakest 
expansion in three years in the second quarter. China 
may expand monetary and fiscal easing to support growth after 
a once-a-decade handover of power to a new generation of 
leaders begins next month.  The faster services industry expansion “is likely an
indication of a gradual improvement of domestic economic
conditions due to the earlier easing measures and the stronger
consumption demand in the run-up to the Golden week holiday,”
 Qu Hongbin , Hong Kong-based chief China economist for HSBC, said
in a statement today. A “meaningful turnaround” requires
additional easing, he said.  China’s markets reopened today after a weeklong holiday.
The benchmark  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  of stocks fell 0.2
percent as of 10:41 a.m. local time. In  Hong Kong , the  Hang Seng
Index  declined 0.5 percent.  A government-backed measure of non-manufacturing industries
expanded in September at the weakest pace since at least March
2011. That PMI, released Oct. 3 by the National Bureau of
Statistics and China Federation of Logistics and Purchasing,
fell to 53.7 from 56.3 in August.  New Orders  The HSBC survey today showed new order volumes at services
companies rose at the fastest pace in four months. Service
sector firms also signaled a further increase in employment
levels in September and an acceleration of input price
inflation, the survey showed.  China’s  growth  cooled to a three-year low of 7.6 percent in
the April-June period. The economy may expand 7.4 percent in the
three months through September from a year earlier, based on the
median estimate of 23 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg News from
Sept. 11 to Sept. 18. The statistics bureau is due to release
third-quarter gross domestic product data on Oct. 18.  Service industries account for about 43 percent of the
economy compared with about 90 percent in the U.S. Under China’s
current five-year plan, the government is seeking to raise the
share of services in gross domestic product to 47 percent by
2015, the official Xinhua News Agency said in May.  To contact  Bloomberg News  staff for this story:
Nerys Avery in Beijing at 
 navery2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  