-- China Drywall Firm Fights Order to Pay U.S. Homeowners
-- B y   L a u r e l   B r u b a k e r   C a l k i n s
-- 2012-10-09T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-08/china-s-biggest-drywall-firm-fights-order-to-pay-u-s-homeowners.html
Taishan Gypsum Co. appealed a
September court ruling that ordered the Chinese drywall
manufacturer to pay U.S. homeowners for damages caused by
harmful chemicals in the wallboard.  Taishan Gypsum, which claims on its English-language
website to be the largest manufacturer of gypsum board in  China ,
argued in its appeal that a ruling by U.S. District Judge  Eldon Fallon  should be set aside because the New Orleans-based court
has no jurisdiction over a foreign company.  Taishan Gypsum asked Fallon to halt any court proceedings
against it while the U.S. Court of Appeals in New Orleans
considers the manufacturer’s request to dismiss a $2.6 million
default judgment the judge awarded against Taishan Gypsum on
behalf of seven Virginia homeowners in 2010. Fallon entered the
judgment after the Chinese firm failed to appear to defend
itself in his court where thousands of U.S. damages claims are
consolidated for pretrial processing.  In a 142-page decision handed down last month, Fallon ruled
he does have jurisdiction over the Chinese company. Fallon said
that in addition to Taishan Gypsum’s sales agreement with a
 Virginia  firm, the company also places English-language labels
on its products and gives American nicknames to its salesmen to
encourage U.S. sales.  “TG had more than reasonable knowledge that its products
might end up in Virginia; it knew its products would end up in
Virginia,” Fallon said in the ruling.  Hong Kong  Fallon made that decision after traveling to Hong Kong in
January to witness depositions of Taishan Gypsum executives.
They were asked whether the company intentionally placed its
products into commerce in the U.S. and was thus subject to U.S.
laws, Fallon said in his September ruling.  “We believe Judge Fallon’s order was well-reasoned and
very thorough,” Leonard Davis, with Herman, Herman & Katz and
one of the lead plaintiffs’ lawyers, said in an e-mail. “The
court determined that Taishan is subject to the jurisdiction of
the United States, and as such, Taishan should be held
accountable for the tainted drywall that was placed into
innocent homeowners’ properties. We expect that many more
homeowners will seek full relief from Taishan, as thousands of
suits have been filed.”  Tom Owen, a New Orleans attorney representing Taishan
Gypsum, didn’t immediately respond to a phone message yesterday
seeking comment on the Chinese company’s appeal.  In 2010, U.S. regulators recommended that homeowners remove
all defective drywall and replace gas-service piping, smoke
alarms and other electrical components and wiring that may have
been corroded by chemicals in the wall board. Lawyers claim as
many as 40,000 customers might have been harmed by the defective
Chinese product, which was installed widely in the U.S. Gulf
Coast and southern Eastern seaboard from 2005 through 2009.  The case is In Re: Chinese Manufactured Drywall Products
Liability Litigation, 12-31017, U.S. Court of Appeals for the
Fifth Circuit (New Orleans).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laurel Brubaker Calkins at 
 laurel@calkins.us.com   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  