-- China Home Prices Rise a 4th Month as Sales Rebound, SouFun Says
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-10-08T02:54:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-08/china-home-prices-rise-a-4th-month-as-sales-rebound-soufun-says.html
China’s new home prices rose for a
fourth month as a rebound in property sales eased developers’
funding woes, according to  SouFun Holdings Ltd. (SFUN)   Prices in September climbed 0.17 percent from August to
8,753  yuan  ($1,393) per square meter (10.76 square feet), the
country’s biggest real estate website owner said in an e-mailed
statement today, based on its survey of 100 cities. The city of
Kunshan in the eastern Jiangsu province had the biggest gain,
with prices rising 2 percent.  Home prices have reversed declines since June after the
central bank cut  interest rates  to stem an economic  slowdown  and
some local authorities eased restrictions as land-sale revenues
fell. The central government has pledged it won’t waver from
curbs, including home-purchase restrictions.  Chinese developers’ credit outlook improved as the recovery
in prices eased liquidity pressures and a slowing economy
limited authorities’ incentive to further tighten policy,
 Standard & Poor’s  said in a Sept. 18 report. The credit rating
company may “see some positive rating actions” in the next six
months as defaults by so-called distressed developers, such as
 Greentown China Holdings Ltd. (3900) , are less likely after asset
sales.  The measure tracking property stocks on the Shanghai
Composite Index fell 1.4 percent as of 10:51 a.m. local time,
paring this year’s rally to 6.9 percent.  The government has raised down-payment and mortgage
requirements in its more than two-year effort to curb the
property market. It also imposed a property tax for the first
time in Shanghai and Chongqing, increased construction of low-
cost social housing and enacted home-purchase restrictions in
about 40 cities.  Home prices  fell 1.4 percent last month from a year
earlier, according to today’s statement. The month-on-month gain
was 7 basis points slower than in August.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Zhang Dingmin in Beijing at 
 dzhang14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  