-- China’s Home Prices Increase for a Fourth Month, SouFun Says
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-10-08T04:29:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-08/china-s-home-prices-increase-for-a-fourth-month-soufun-says-1-.html
China’s new home prices rose for a
fourth month as a rebound in property sales eased developers’
funding woes, according to  SouFun Holdings Ltd. (SFUN)   Prices in September climbed 0.17 percent from August to
8,753  yuan  ($1,393) per square meter (10.76 square feet), the
country’s biggest real estate website owner said in an e-mailed
statement today, based on its survey of 100 cities. The city of
Kunshan in the eastern Jiangsu province had the biggest gain,
with prices rising 2 percent.  Home prices have reversed declines since June after the
central bank cut  interest rates  to stem an economic  slowdown  and
some local authorities eased restrictions as land-sale revenues
fell. The central government has pledged it won’t waver from
curbs, including home-purchase restrictions.  “Developers’ incentives to cut prices are gradually
dissipating as sales recover this year,” said Zhao Zhenyi, a
Shanghai-based analyst at Industrial Securities Co. “But
there’s no strong momentum for price gains because inventories
are growing with new projects coming in.”  Chinese developers’ credit outlook improved as the recovery
in prices eased liquidity pressures and a slowing economy
limited authorities’ incentive to further tighten policy,
 Standard & Poor’s  said in a Sept. 18 report. The credit rating
company may “see some positive rating actions” in the next six
months as defaults by so-called distressed developers, such as
 Greentown China Holdings Ltd. (3900) , are less likely after asset
sales.  Property Stocks  The measure tracking property stocks on the Shanghai
Composite Index fell 1.7 percent by the noon break, paring this
year’s rally to 6.7 percent.  The government has raised down-payment and mortgage
requirements in its more than two-year effort to curb the
 property market . It also imposed a property tax for the first
time in Shanghai and Chongqing, increased construction of low-
cost social housing and enacted home-purchase restrictions in
about 40 cities.  Land-sale revenue in the first eight months of this year
 slumped  26.1 percent from a year earlier after the cooling
property market damped demand, the  finance ministry  said last
month, putting pressure on local authorities to boost income.
Guiyang, the capital of southwestern Guizhou province, will give
residence permits to people after their first purchase of homes
or commercial property in the city, Xinhua News Agency reported
Oct. 5.  Policy Challenge  Guiyang’s policy adjustments, which in effect “challenge”
the existing home-purchase restrictions, may be followed by
other regions and may prompt interference from the central
government, Shanghai-based CEBM Group Ltd. analyst Luo Yu wrote
in a report today. Non-local home buyers are barred from
borrowing  mortgage loans , the government  said  in April, 2010.  Home prices  fell 1.4 percent last month from a year
earlier, according to today’s statement. The month-on-month gain
was 7 basis points slower than in August.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Zhang Dingmin in Beijing at 
 dzhang14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  