-- CIBC’s Spector Is Top WTI Oil Forecaster, Ranking Shows
-- B y   A n t h o n y   D i P a o l a
-- 2012-10-08T11:40:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-08/cibc-s-spector-is-top-wti-oil-forecaster-ranking-shows.html
CIBC World Markets Corp., the
wholesale-banking unit of Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce,
was the most accurate forecaster of oil traded in  New York  among
analysts ranked by Bloomberg over the past eight quarters.  Estimates by Katherine Spector, CIBC’s New York-based
analyst, for West Texas Intermediate crude futures were closest
to the actual price from the fourth quarter of 2010 through the
quarter ended Sept. 30, 2012.  “This is a market that is perpetually one unexpected
supply outage away from a sharply higher oil price,” Spector
said by e-mail on Oct. 5. “Supply will continue to be where the
surprises are in the oil balance, whether bullish or bearish.”  Spector expects WTI crude to average $98 a barrel in the
fourth quarter and range from $100 to $108 a barrel next year as
U.S. and European sanctions curb Iranian exports and oilfield
stoppages interrupt supply in some non-OPEC countries. She
worked as global head of energy strategy at JPMorgan Chase & Co.
from 2004 to 2008 before joining CIBC in June 2010.  Pedro Moreno Alonso of  Banco Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria SA (BBVA) 
in  Madrid  and  Scott Hanold  of RBC Capital Markets LLC in
 Minneapolis  were the top forecasters of Brent crude and Henry
Hub  natural gas  futures, respectively, the Bloomberg ranking
survey found.  Oil capped its biggest quarterly increase this year on 
Sept. 30 on concern that escalating tension in the  Middle East 
will disrupt supplies and as gasoline surged to a five-month 
high at the end of the month. WT gained 8.5 percent in New York
in the third quarter, closing at $92.19 a barrel on Sept. 28.  Iran Overtaken  Iran ’s production and exports have declined this year
as economic sanctions targeting its oil, banking and shipping
industries made it harder for the Persian Gulf state to sell and
deliver crude. In June, Iran slipped to third place among
producers within the Organization of Petroleum Exporting
Countries, behind  Iraq . It then dropped to fourth in September
after fellow-member Kuwait boosted output, data compiled by
Bloomberg show.  Saudi Arabia  is OPEC’s biggest producer.  “Oil has traded in a consistent, if wide, range for the
past two years,” Spector said, with variations of roughly $80
to $110 for WTI and $100 to $120 for Brent.  “The Saudis have done a very good job of market management
in that period,” she said. “But the bullish take is that
during a period of very weak global demand growth, it has taken
record Saudi production four months in a row to keep prices from
breaching the upper bounds of that range.”  CIBC was followed by Banco Santander SA, HSH Nordbank AG,
Westpac Banking Corp. and  Wells Fargo Securities LLC  as the most
accurate forecasters of WTI. The following table gives more
details on the rankings for WTI, Brent crude and Henry Hub gas.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anthony DiPaola in Dubai at 
 adipaola@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  