-- Cipla Jumps as Pacts Remain After CEO Leaves: Johannesburg Mover
-- B y   S t e p h e n   G u n n i o n
-- 2012-10-08T09:14:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-08/cipla-jumps-as-pacts-remain-after-ceo-leaves-johannesburg-mover.html
  Cipla Medpro South Africa Ltd. (CMP)  rose
the most in a month as the generic drugmaker said distribution
pacts remain intact after Chief Executive Officer Jerome Smith
resigned before a disciplinary hearing scheduled for today.  The stock advanced as much as 6.1 percent, the biggest
intraday gain since Aug. 31, to 7.17 rand and traded at 7.14
rand by 10:53 a.m. in Johannesburg, paring its loss since Smith
was suspended on Aug. 15 to 15 percent.  Smith’s departure is unlikely to affect agreements in place
with its partner in  India , Cipla Medpro Chairman Sibusiso Luthuli said by phone from Johannesburg.  Cipla Ltd. of India 
entered a supply and manufacturing arrangement with Cipla Medpro
in 2005. It doesn’t own a stake in the South African company.  “We are talking to them on a regular basis and they are
very supportive,” Luthuli said. “There is very strong
management in place; this is not a one-man show. It’s been
business as usual.”  Smith faced more than 20 charges including gross
misconduct, the company said in a statement today. He canceled
his work contract with the company on Oct. 5 and said he would
claim damages. Smith was suspended after claiming bonuses worth
1.6 million rand ($182,000) in 2010 and 2 million rand in 2011
that weren’t approved by the board, it said. Other charges
included dishonesty and breaches of his fiduciary duty.  “I think Cipla Medpro remains a very good business,”
 Ferdi Heyneke , a trader at Afrifocus Securities in Johannesburg,
said by phone today. “They have dropped a lot from the
publicity when the news first hit the market so reassuring
investors is something that could see the shares recover.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephen Gunnion in Johannesburg at 
 sgunnion@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vernon Wessels at 
 vwessels@bloomberg.net  