-- Cisco Ends Sales Partnership With ZTE Amid Spying Concerns
-- B y   J o r d a n   R o b e r t s o n
-- 2012-10-09T02:01:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-08/cisco-ends-sales-partnership-with-zte-amid-spying-concerns-1-.html
Cisco Systems Inc. (CSCO) , the largest maker
of networking equipment, ended a partnership with  ZTE Corp. (763)  amid
concerns over the Chinese company’s alleged sale of equipment to
an Iranian company.  “Cisco has no current relationship with ZTE,” John Earnhardt, spokesman for San Jose, California-based Cisco, wrote
in an e-mailed statement today.  ZTE, along with Huawei Technologies Co., provides
opportunities for Chinese intelligence services to tamper with
U.S. telecommunications networks for spying, according to a U.S.
congressional  report  released today. ZTE refused to answer
questions about its interactions with  China ’s government, as
well as questions concerning sales in Iran and other countries
that are targets of U.S. sanctions, according to the report.  ZTE sold to an Iranian telecommunications company a
surveillance system capable of monitoring landline, mobile and
Internet communications, Reuters  reported  in March.  Shenzhen-based ZTE had been reselling Cisco products as
part of a partnership between the two companies. ZTE’s sales to
 Iran  had included Cisco switches, according to Reuters.  “ZTE is highly concerned with the matter and is
communicating with Cisco,” David Dai Shu, a spokesman for ZTE,
said in an e-mailed statement. “At the same time, ZTE is
actively cooperating with the U.S. government about the probe to
Iran. We believe it will be properly addressed.”  Zhu Jinyun, ZTE’s senior vice president for North America
and  Europe , said at a Sept. 13 congressional hearing that the
company conducts “normal business operations in Iran” and is
“gradually reducing our present operations and we are not
starting any new business operations in Iran.”  Zhu also said that the company hasn’t sold gear to the
Iranian government.  Cisco’s severed ties to ZTE were reported earlier by
Reuters.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jordan Robertson in San Francisco at 
 jrobertson40@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  