-- Coca-Cola, PepsiCo to Post Calorie Counts on Vending Machines
-- B y   D u a n e   D .   S t a n f o r d
-- 2012-10-08T14:28:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-08/coca-cola-pepsico-to-post-calorie-counts-on-vending-machines.html
U.S. soft drink companies led by
 Coca-Cola Co. (KO)  and  PepsiCo Inc. (PEP)  have agreed to put calorie counts
on vending machines and encourage low-calorie drinks as sugary
beverages come under increasing scrutiny.  Starting in 2013, vending machines in government buildings
in Chicago and San Antonio will advise consumers to “Check then
Choose” and “Try a Low-Calorie Beverage,” according to a
statement today by the American Beverage Association, the
industry’s chief trade group. The companies, including  Dr Pepper
Snapple Group Inc. (DPS) , will then expand the plan nationally.  Amid rising obesity rates, lawmakers have proposed taxing
sugary drinks in more than 30 states to curb consumption, an
initiative that has foundered after resistance from the soda
lobby. That prompted  New York  Mayor Michael Bloomberg and the
city’s health board to ban the sale of super-size sugared drinks
in some locations. U.S. soft drink sales have declined for seven
straight years amid lower demand for full-calorie colas as
consumers turn to healthier options.  “It’s the next step in the evolution of public
disclosure,” said Thomas Mullarkey, a Chicago-based analyst for
 Morningstar Inc (MORN) , citing past advances such as nutrition labels
and front-of-package calorie citations. “It helps consumers
while appeasing political powers and regulators, so soft drink
companies are seen as encouraging healthy decisions.”  Under the plan announced today, soft-drink makers will
increase availability of lower-calorie drinks in vending
machines, display messages such as “Calories Count” and add
calorie labels on selection buttons, according to the ABA. The
companies will work with owners of vending machines, including
independent distributors and food service operators, to make the
changes.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Duane D. Stanford in Atlanta at 
 dstanford2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  