-- Company Recalls All Products as Meningitis Kills Eight
-- B y   A n n a   E d n e y   a n d   D a n   H a r t
-- 2012-10-08T21:44:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-08/company-recalls-all-products-as-meningitis-kills-seven.html
New England Compounding Pharmacy,
investigated in connection with a meningitis outbreak that has
killed eight people and sickened 105, yesterday recalled all of
its products.  The outbreak in nine U.S. states has been linked by the
Food and Drug Administration to contaminated steroids used for
back pain sold by the Framingham, Massachusetts-based company.
Also known as New England Compounding Center, the company is
cooperating with probes by the FDA and the Centers for Disease
Control and Prevention, NECC said in a statement.  The steroid, methylprednisolone acetate, was shipped to
facilities in 23 states from July to September, the CDC said
yesterday on its  website .  Meningitis  is an inflammation of the
lining of the brain and spinal cord usually caused by an
infection from a virus or bacteria.  “Epidural injections are generally very safe procedures,
and complications are rare,” the Atlanta-based CDC said in the
statement. “Fungal meningitis is an extremely rare cause of
meningitis overall, including after epidural injections.”  The nine states where the 105 cases have shown up are
 Tennessee ,  Virginia , Florida, North Carolina,  Maryland ,  Ohio ,
 Indiana ,  Michigan  and  Minnesota .  Tennessee has reported the
most cases at 35, followed by Michigan at 21 and Virginia with
23, the CDC said.  Meningitis is an inflammation of the lining of the brain
and spinal cord usually caused by an infection from a virus or
bacteria. The illness linked to the outbreak isn’t contagious
and can be treated with anti-fungal medication, the CDC said.  Operations Shut  The New England Compounding Center has shut operations,
according to a  statement . The list of recalled products from the
closely held company is 71 pages long. Compounding pharmacies
mix versions of medicines that generally aren’t otherwise
available for sale.  Some of the patients have experienced strokes related to
the fungal meningitis, the agency said. The FDA last week  said 
it found fungal contamination in an unopened steroid vial at the
pharmacy and hadn’t yet identified the type of fungus. There
isn’t enough evidence to determine the original source of the
outbreak, the CDC said.  The pharmacy, based in Framingham,  Massachusetts , recalled
17,676 single-dose vials of the steroid, Omar Cabrera, community
health education manager with the Massachusetts Department of
Public Health, said in an e-mail.  The CDC has also posted a  list  online of the 75 health
centers nationwide that received the tainted steroid vials.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anna Edney in Washington at 
 aedney@bloomberg.net ;
Dan Hart in Washington at 
 dahart@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  