-- Cricket Council Investigates Corruption Claims Against Umpires
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2012-10-08T23:04:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-08/cricket-council-investigates-corruption-claims-against-umpires.html
The  International Cricket Council 
said it has begun “urgent investigations” into allegations of
corruption made against umpires from  Sri Lanka , Pakistan and
Bangladesh by an Indian television channel.  Footage broadcast on India TV last night and shown on the
 channel’s website  alleged that the six umpires, including one
from the ICC’s international panel, were willing to give favors
during Twenty20 matches in exchange for money.  During the sting operation, which was conducted in July,
August and September, undercover reporters claimed to belong to
a sports management company. Cricket’s governing body called on
the broadcaster to hand over any information that could help its
investigation.  “The ICC reiterates its zero-tolerance towards corruption
whether alleged against players or officials,” the Dubai-based
council said in a  statement . “The ICC confirms that none of the
umpires named were involved in any of the official games of the
ICC World Twenty20 in Sri Lanka.”  That tournament, the fourth world championship in the
sport’s shortest format, concluded two days ago when West Indies
beat host Sri Lanka in the final.  None of the umpires involved in the sting have been on the
ICC’s so-called Elite Panel, which reports directly to the
governing body. Umpires on the international panel are under the
jurisdiction and control of their national cricket boards.  The same channel broadcast a similar sting earlier this
year, which alleged spot-fixing by five Indian players in
domestic Twenty20 matches. That resulted in suspensions for
those involved.  Last year, Pakistan players Salman Butt,  Mohammad Asif  and
 Mohammad Amir  were jailed in the U.K. after being convicted of
taking bribes to cheat in an elite five-day Test match against
 England  at Lord’s in August 2010. That followed an undercover
sting by defunct U.K. tabloid the News of the World.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  