-- Daiichi Chuo May Cancel Ships, Sell Stock as Rates Tumble
-- B y   C h r i s   C o o p e r   a n d   K i y o t a k a   M a t s u d a
-- 2012-10-09T07:37:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-08/daiichi-chuo-may-cancel-ship-orders-sell-stock-on-rates-slump.html
Daiichi Chuo Kisen Kaisha (9132)  said it may
cancel ship orders, pare its fleet and sell new stock after
getting emergency financing from shareholder Mitsui O.S.K. Lines
Ltd. to help weather a slump in dry-bulk rates.  “We’re considering a drastic reform package,” President
Masakazu Yakushiji said in an Oct. 4 interview at the company’s
Tokyo head office. “We never thought the market would stay this
low for this long.”  The company, which fell in Tokyo trading, is in talks about
canceling or delaying 10 of 60 on-order dry-bulk vessels as it
heads toward a second straight annual loss.  Nippon Yusen K.K. (9101) 
and Mitsui O.S.K.,  Japan ’s largest shipping lines, have also cut
earnings forecasts as the industry contends with expanding
capacity, slowing demand and higher fuel prices.  Daiichi Chuo “needs to announce a restructuring plan
quickly,” said Minoru Matsuno, president of Value Search Asset
Management Co., a Tokyo-based investment adviser. “It also has
to come up with an independent strategy to strengthen earnings
that doesn’t overlap Mitsui O.S.K.”  Turnaround Plan  The ship operator intends to announce a turnaround plan
alongside its first-half results, which are due Oct. 31,
Yakushiji said. Mitsui O.S.K. last week agreed to give the
company a 15 billion yen ($192 million) loan facility until
March 31.  The  company  dropped 4.5 percent, the most since Sept. 24,
to 64 yen at the close. Mitsui O.S.K. tumbled 7.1 percent. Both
companies have fallen almost 40 percent this year. The  Baltic
Dry Index (BDIY) , a benchmark for commodity-shipping rates, has tumbled
56 percent in the past 12 months.  Daiichi Chuo may cut its fleet to fewer than 200 vessels
from about 240, Yakushiji said. It’s also considering selling
preferred stock to raise new funds or a combination with Mitsui
O.S.K., he said.  “We have to think of ways to boost our capital,” he said.
An acquisition by Mitsui O.S.K. “wouldn’t happen soon” because
of the need for due diligence, he said.  Mitsui O.S.K. hasn’t made any decision on its future
relationship with Daiichi Chuo, said Akika Hamakawa, a
spokeswoman for the Tokyo-based company. The shipping line owns
26 percent of Daiichi Chuo, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Daiichi Chuo will probably exceed the 8 billion yen loss it
has forecast for the year ending March, Yakushiji said. The
company lost 9.3 billion yen last fiscal year.  “We can’t avoid bigger  losses ,” Yakushiji said. “We’ve
already reduced costs by almost as much as we can. We’re not
going to get much economic impact from further cuts.”  Ship Orders  The company has arranged financing for 40 of the 60 ships
it has on order, Yakushiji said. He didn’t say which shipyards
the company is discussing cancellations with.  Nippon Yusen probably made a loss of 3 billion yen in the
six months ended Sept. 30 compared with an earlier forecast for
a 7.5 billion yen profit, it said Sept. 28. Mitsui O.S.K. had a
loss of 13.5 billion yen in the period, according to a
preliminary announcement last week. That compared with an
earlier forecast for a 2 billion yen loss.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chris Cooper in Tokyo at 
 ccooper1@bloomberg.net ;
Kiyotaka Matsuda in Tokyo at 
 kmatsuda@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  