-- Dim Sum Yields Fall as Offshore Yuan Strengthens: China Credit
-- B y   F i o n   L i
-- 2012-10-08T03:58:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-08/dim-sum-yields-fall-as-offshore-yuan-strengthens-china-credit.html
Dim Sum bond yields dropped last week
for the first time in almost a month as the  yuan  climbed to a
five-month high in  Hong Kong ’s offshore market.  The  average yield  on yuan-denominated debt in Hong Kong
declined three basis points to 5.04 percent, a Bank of  China  Ltd.
index showed. The currency touched 6.2975 per dollar in the city
today and on Oct. 5, the strongest level since May 2, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. In Shanghai, China’s currency
reached a 19-year high of 6.2812 today, the first trading day
after domestic financial markets shut for a weeklong holiday.  During the trading break, China set a date of Nov. 8 for
its once-a-decade leadership transition, an event that may be
followed by increased stimulus to counter an economic slowdown.
The  Federal Reserve  has pledged to keep its benchmark rate at
near zero through mid-2015 and announced last month a third
round of so-called quantitative easing, while  Europe  and  Japan 
also unveiled bond-buying plans.  “The date has removed a major uncertainty over China and
there’s hope there will be more stimulus measures,” said James Su, who manages $50 million of fixed-income assets at Sinopac
Asset Management Ltd. in Hong Kong. “The weakness in the dollar
due to QE3 and a more stable euro are also supporting the
yuan.”  The yuan fell 0.02 percent to 6.2990 per dollar in Hong
Kong’s offshore market, after climbing 0.06 percent last week.
Twelve-month non-deliverable forwards for the currency gained
0.22 percent last week to 6.3955 per dollar, a 1.7 percent
discount to the 6.2849 level the currency closed at on Sept. 28
in  Shanghai . The contracts were unchanged today as of 11:22 a.m.
in Hong Kong. The euro strengthened 1.4 percent last week.  ‘Conducive’ Environment  The date for China’s 18th Communist Party Congress and the
decision to charge the ousted Politburo member Bo Xilai with
criminal offences, after his wife was convicted of murder, were
announced by the state-run Xinhua News Agency late on Sept. 28.  The government will cut banks’ reserve-requirement ratios
before the Nov. 8 congress to create a “conducive policy
environment” for the power handover, Shen Jianguang, chief Asia
economist at Mizuho Securities Asia Ltd. in Hong Kong, wrote in
an Oct. 3 note.  Australia  and New Zealand Banking Corp. also
said the government could accelerate monetary easing and fiscal
policy implementation with the congress date set.  Manufacturing in China shrank in August and September,
contracting in consecutive months for the first time since 2009,
according to a government-backed  Purchasing Managers ’ Index
published Oct. 1. A separate PMI released by HSBC Holdings Plc
and  Markit Economics  indicated an 11th straight monthly decline.  Data Signals  Gross domestic product probably climbed 7.4 percent in the
third quarter, the least since the first quarter of 2009,
according to the  median estimate  in a Bloomberg survey before
data due on Oct. 18. Exports rose 5 percent in September,
compared with 2.7 percent growth in the previous month,
economists forecast ahead of trade figures scheduled for Oct. 13.  “Investors now see bad data as a sign that the government
has to ease monetary policies,” Su said. “While the yuan might
not gain much beyond the 6.30 per dollar level this year, I see
a chance of one to two more cuts in banks’ reserve ratios.”  Reserve ratios were lowered in May by half a percentage
point for the third time in six months, freeing up funds for
lending in the world’s second-largest economy. Another 50 basis
point reduction is expected “soon,” Liu Li-gang, a Hong Kong-
based economist at ANZ, wrote in a note last week.  Exporters’ Pain  Slowing demand in Europe and the U.S. is taking a toll on
Chinese exporters, who are seeking a weaker yuan to preserve
competitiveness. China’s currency strengthened 4.7 percent last
year to 6.2940 per dollar, before stabilizing at about 6.30 in
the first four months of 2012. It touched 6.3967 in July, the
weakest level since September 2011.  “The room for further yuan gains is limited as a strong
currency could hurt exports, which are already quite weak,”
said Kenix Lai, a foreign-exchange analyst at  Bank of East Asia
Ltd. (23)  in Hong Kong.  Five-year credit-default swaps protecting China’s sovereign
debt dropped six basis points last week to 83 in  New York , the
lowest level since Sept. 19, according to data provider CMA,
which is owned by McGraw-Hill Cos. and compiles prices quoted by
dealers in the privately negotiated market. The contracts pay
the buyer face value in exchange for the underlying securities
or the cash equivalent if a government or company fails to
adhere to its debt agreements.  Disappointing data are a “wake-up call” for Chinese
policy makers, Qu Hongbin, a Hong Kong-based economist at HSBC
Holdings wrote in a report on Oct. 5. The National Development
Reform Committee, the country’s main economic planning body, has
approved “a slew of new infrastructure projects worth close to
1 trillion yuan ($158 billion),” Qu said.  Roads, Railways  Domestic banks have been asked by regulators to increase
lending to railways, roads and other construction projects to
support growth, China Securities Journal reported on Sept. 13,
citing an unidentified banker. The State Council announced
measures last month to alleviate pressure on exporters such as
speeding up tax rebates and expanding financing channels.  “Given the leadership transition is confirmed, local
officials are now more comfortable to step up fiscal spending
and banks will be more willing to lend,” said Banny Lam, a Hong
Kong-based chief economist at CCB International Securities Ltd.
“We see the yuan will appreciate as much as 1 percent by the
end of this year, given a possible rebound in the economy in the
fourth quarter.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fion Li in Hong Kong at 
 fli59@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  