-- E.ON Sells Half of U.S. Wind Parks to PensionDanmark
-- B y   P e t e r   L e v r i n g
-- 2012-10-08T10:26:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-08/e-on-sells-half-of-u-s-wind-parks-to-pensiondanmark.html
EON AG agreed to sell a 50 percent
stake in three U.S. wind farms to Danish pension fund
PensionDanmark as  Germany ’s biggest utility seeks to free up
capital.  Dusseldorf, Germany-based EON is selling the stakes in two
wind farms in  Texas  and a third in  Pennsylvania  to Hilleroed,
Denmark-based PensionDanmark, the companies said in a joint
release obtained by Bloomberg before the official release this
morning. The parties agreed not to disclose the final amount.  PensionDanmark Chief Executive Officer Torben Moger Pedersen  said the transaction was valued at “several hundred
million dollars,” in a phone interview.  For EON, the deal will help “generate more value with the
use of less capital,” Marcus Schenck, chief financial officer
at the German company, said in the statement. “Further
transactions are likely to follow.”  The German utility said in November it was planning to
raise 15 billion euros ($19.4 billion) by the end of 2013 and
use the proceeds to expand outside  Europe . German utilities are
shoring up funds as nuclear earnings decline following a
decision last year by  Chancellor Angela Merkel ’s cabinet to
phase out all local nuclear plants.  EON Deals  In May, EON sold a German network of natural-gas pipelines
to a group led by Macquarie Group Ltd. for 3.2 billion euros ($4
billion). The company in June shelved plans to sell its energy-
from-waste unit after failing to raise more than 1 billion euros
from the sale.  Shares in EON declined 1.3 percent to 18.35 euros at 11:04
a.m. in  Frankfurt  while a  gauge  of European utilities slipped 1
percent and the benchmark  European Stoxx 600 Index (SXXP)  declined 0.8
percent.  EON will retain material ownership and handle day-to-day
operations of the three U.S. wind farms, the statement said. The
turbines were built in 2009 and 2010 and generate 433 megawatts
of electricity, enough to power 120,000 households.  “The annual yield on this kind of infrastructure and
energy investment will be in the area of 6 percent to 8
percent,” Moger Pedersen said. “The return is very similar to
what we can get on listed equities, though with a very limited
downside risk,” thanks to fixed prices negotiated on the power
generated by the turbines over the next 15 years, he said.  Better Returns  PensionDanmark, which manages $22.5 billion, said it plans
to invest a further $2 billion in infrastructure assets over
five years to generate better returns for its savers. The fund
is moving away from low-yielding bond markets as returns are
squeezed out, Moger said.  In 2011, the fund bought a 30 percent stake in the Anholt
wind farm owned by Dong Energy A/S for $680 million. The fund
also holds a stake in Dong’s offshore Nysted park.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Levring in Copenhagen at 
 plevring1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  