-- EADS-BAE Enter Last-Ditch Talks to Persuade Germany
-- B y   J a c q u e l i n e   S i m m o n s ,   R o b e r t   W a l l   a n d   A a r o n   K i r c h f e l d
-- 2012-10-08T23:00:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-08/eads-bae-enter-last-ditch-talks-to-persuade-germany.html
European Aeronautic, Defence & Space
Co. (EAD)  and  BAE Systems Plc (BA/)  are mounting a last-ditch push to gain
government backing for their merger, with less than 48 hours to
meet a regulatory deadline, people familiar with the talks said.  Governments, the companies and advisers negotiated through
yesterday with the aim of convincing  Germany  to join the U.K.
and  France  in sponsoring the deal, said the people, who asked
not to be identified because the talks are confidential. EADS
and BAE are likely to seek an extension of the deadline, though
no final decision has been made, two of the people said.  While gaining time is only a formality, failure to meet the
deadline would reveal the rift that is separating France and the
U.K. from Germany, which is concerned about being left short-
changed by the merger. EADS Chief Executive Officer  Tom Enders 
needs to wrap up negotiations to let him market the deal to
reticent investors, with BAE’s largest shareholder openly
rebelling against the merger’s stated rationale yesterday.  “It seems unlikely that they are going to get an offer on
the table by the deadline,” said Zafar Khan, an analyst for
 Societe Generale (GLE)  SA in  London . Khan said yesterday that he’s not
in favor of the deal and that EADS is being “opportunistic.”  Enders said last week that he doesn’t want to go much
beyond the deadline because he is limited by regulators in what
he can tell investors and employees before a more formal merger
document is produced. EADS stock has fallen 12 percent since
Sept. 11, the day before  Bloomberg News  first reported the
companies were in talks. BAE has shed less than 1 percent.  NATO Meeting  U.K. Defense Secretary Philip Hammond said he will hold
“crucial” three-way talks with his French and German
counterparts at a NATO defense ministers’ meeting in
Brussels today. Hammond also plans to meet with U.S. Defense
Secretary  Leon Panetta  as the U.K. “seeks to establish what the
American red lines” around the planned merger are.  London-based BAE’s largest investor,  Invesco Ltd. (IVZ) ,
questioned the logic of the combination yesterday in a
statement, listing eight financial and strategic reservations
against the deal that would create the largest aerospace and
defense company by revenue, ahead of Chicago-based  Boeing Co. (BA)   Invesco holds 13.33 percent of BAE. The companies would
need to convince 75 percent of BAE shareholders to consummate
the merger. EADS investors would receive 60 percent of the
combined company, and BAE, which is smaller by revenue and
market value, the rest. Some German lawmakers have questioned
that distribution, saying EADS should hold closer to 70 percent.  ‘Universally Negative’  “EADS investors have been universally negative about the
proposed transaction, to the point of having a loss of
confidence in EADS management even if this deal does not
happen,” said Douglas S. Harned, an analyst at Bernstein
Research in  New York   Enders and his BAE counterpart, Ian King, have said the
strategic rationale for the merger will become clearer once they
can provide more details. Until then, Germany represents the
remaining obstacle after France and the U.K. got behind the
deal, people familiar with the talks have said. France has a 15
percent stake that would shrink to about 9 percent under the
combined company, a holding Germany has been allowed to match.  Beyond the stake, Germany is looking for additional
assurances from EADS that jobs and production facilities will
not shift outside the country once the merger takes place. Among
German demands is that one of EADS’s more significant divisions
be based in Germany, two people have said.  EADS’s corporate governance has always sought a balance of
power between Germany and France, with both sides keen to
maintain an equilibrium on factories, key management, worker
representatives and shareholdings. Still, German politicians
have lamented what they perceive as a creeping loss of German
power, with Enders fanning that sentiment by scaling back the
management hub in Munich this year to pool resources in France.  Balancing Act  German interests in EADS are represented by carmaker
Daimler AG, which controls about 22.5 percent of EADS. France
controls a similar amount through a 15 percent government stake
and 7.5 percent held by publishing company  Lagardere SCA. (MMB)   Enders, the 53-year-old German who was promoted to EADS CEO
in June, faces the task of balancing the interests of different
groups whose backing he requires. Caving in to governments would
sabotage his own ambition of limiting political meddling, and
risk alienating investors as well as the U.S. Department of
Defense, BAE’s biggest customer.  Invesco echoed that concern yesterday in its statement,
saying it is “very concerned that the level of state
shareholding in the combined group will heavily impair its
commercial prospects.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Aaron Kirchfeld in London at 
 akirchfeld@bloomberg.net ;
Jacqueline Simmons in Paris at 
 jackiem@bloomberg.net ;
Robert Wall in London at 
 rwall6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  