-- ECB May Need to Cut Rates Given Deflation Risk, IMF Says
-- B y   J e f f   B l a c k
-- 2012-10-08T21:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-08/ecb-may-need-to-cut-rates-given-deflation-risk-imf-says.html
The  European Central Bank  should keep
interest rates low for the foreseeable future and may need to
cut them further given the risk of deflation, the  International
Monetary Fund  said.  Euro-area inflation will slow to 1.6 percent in 2013 “and
risks from domestic wages and profits are to the downside,” the
Washington-based IMF said in its World Economic Outlook today.
“The probability of falling prices is unusually high, reaching
almost 25 percent. This projection gives the ECB ample
justification for keeping policy rates very low or cutting them
further.”  While the Frankfurt-based ECB cut its benchmark  interest
rate  to an historic low of 0.75 percent on July 5 and took its
deposit rate to zero, President  Mario Draghi  signaled last week
that further easing may have only a limited effect on the
economy. The IMF warned that Europe’s sovereign debt crisis, now
in its third year, could escalate and that the economic outlook
has worsened.  The IMF cut its forecast for growth in the euro area next
year to 0.2 percent from its July prediction of 0.7 percent and
said the economy will contract 0.4 percent this year as
governments continue to reduce spending. It lowered its 2013
growth forecast for  Germany , the region’s largest economy, to
0.9 percent from 1.4 percent.  ‘Overly Optimistic’  Unless the ECB’s announcement of an unlimited bond-purchase
plan is “followed up with more proactive policies by others,”
the latest economic projections “may once again prove overly
optimistic and the euro area could slide into the weak policies
scenario, with deleterious consequences for the rest of the
world,” the IMF said.  The ECB’s bond-buying plan, which pledges unlimited support
for countries that sign up to economic reforms as part of a
bailout from  Europe ’s rescue fund, will help transmit monetary
policy to the affected regions, the IMF said.  Still, “the possibility that the euro-area crisis will
escalate remains a major downside risk to growth and financial
sector stability until the underlying issues are resolved,” it
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeff Black in Frankfurt at 
 jblack25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  