-- Coeure Sees ‘Game Changer’ Bank Union Taking Shape in ’13
-- B y   M a t t h e w   B r o c k e t t
-- 2012-10-09T10:58:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-08/ecb-s-coeure-sees-game-changer-bank-union-taking-shape-in-2013.html
European Central Bank Executive Board
member Benoit Coeure said policy makers will start building a
banking union next year that will be a “game changer” for the
euro area.  “The establishment of a banking union is a key factor in
the completion of monetary union, and probably a turning point
in the current crisis, with profound repercussions for the
financial sector and the real economy alike,” Coeure said in a
speech in Frankfurt late yesterday. “We are confident that
implementation will start as planned with the establishment of”
a single supervisory mechanism “in early 2013,” he said.  Euro-area governments agreed in June to establish a banking
union and asked the ECB to assume the role of a single bank
supervisor by Jan. 1. ECB President Mario Draghi told the
European Parliament in Brussels today that while the regulation
for a common supervisor should come into force on time, “one
year will be needed to adapt all the structures for this
supervision.”  Coeure said that in addition to centralized supervision,
the banking union should have a common resolution structure and
shared deposit insurance.  “These three elements, when operational, would effectively
sever the link between banks and sovereigns,” he said. “Banks’
funding costs should start to indicate again their individual
creditworthiness, without the premia that reflect their
sovereign’s fiscal position or redenomination risk.”  ‘As Early as Possible’  While setting up a fully-fledged banking union will take
some time, Coeure said the supervision mechanism should enter
into force “as early as possible in 2013” and proposals for a
resolution structure will also be needed next year.  “For monetary policy to work we need an integrated banking
system, and to have an integrated banking system we need it to
be supervised across the euro area as a whole, which will make
it possible to be backstopped by the euro area as a whole,” he
said.  Coeure said monetary policy transmission is not working,
which is why the ECB plans to buy government bonds when
warranted under its Outright Monetary Transactions program. The
ECB will only intervene if the conditions governments sign up to
under a bailout from  Europe ’s rescue fund are “fully
respected,” he said.  “OMTs would not be carried out while a given program is
under review, but they would resume after the review period once
program compliance has been assured.”  Coeure said the ECB needs to ensure that money is flowing
evenly to all parts of the economy so that it functions
smoothly. At the same time, “liquidity can become destructive
if it gets out of control,” he said.  “The ECB will stand ready to withdraw liquidity when
upward risks to medium-term price stability materialize,” he
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Brockett in Frankfurt at 
 mbrockett1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  