-- Economists Cut 2013 Brazil Inflation Forecast for 2nd Week
-- B y   M a t t h e w   M a l i n o w s k i
-- 2012-10-08T13:04:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-08/economists-cut-2013-brazil-inflation-forecast-for-2nd-week-2-.html
Analysts covering  Brazil ’s economy
trimmed their 2013 inflation forecast for the second straight
week amid expectations that tax cuts will slow the pace of price
increases in the world’s second largest emerging market.  Consumer prices will rise 5.44 percent next year, according
to the median estimate in a central bank survey of about 100
analysts published today. Analysts had forecast inflation of
5.48 percent the previous week.  President  Dilma Rousseff ’s government is working to revive
the economy, which analysts forecast will expand this year at
the slowest pace among major  emerging markets . Since August
2011, policy makers have reduced the benchmark Selic rate 500
basis points to a record 7.5 percent, extended tax cuts for
consumers and pressured banks to lower lending costs. Traders
are betting on an additional 25 point rate cut this week.  As the stimulus measures have taken effect, inflation has
accelerated, spurred by droughts that have driven up the cost of
food. Inflation quickened in September for the third straight
month, to 5.28 percent. Waning food-price increases and the
effects of tax breaks will curb inflation next year, according
to Enestor Dos Santos, senior economist for Brazil at  Banco
Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria SA. (BBVA)   “If we look toward 2013, the market is reducing its
expectations,” he said in a telephone interview from  Madrid .
“This adjustment is related to electricity tax cuts. Economists
are also taking into account the price shocks.”  Industrial Production  Some indicators signal that Brazil’s growth may be picking
up.  Consumer confidence  rose in August for the first time in
five months while retail sales in July beat economists’
forecasts and rose at the second-fastest pace since January.
 Industrial production  rose 1.5 percent in August, the third
straight monthly increase, as car sales benefiting from the tax
cuts soared to a record.  Still, consumer default rates in August remained at the
highest level in almost three years, even as average  interest
rates  on loans fell to record lows. Brazil’s trade surplus in
September also declined to its lowest level in 18 months amid
weaker demand from China and  Europe  for the country’s exports.  Last month, the central bank cut its 2012 growth forecast
to 1.6 percent from 2.5 percent, adding that growth will reach
3.3 percent in next year’s second quarter.  Growth Forecast  In today’s survey economists left unchanged their forecast
for gross domestic product to expand 1.57 percent this year and
4 percent in 2013.  Carlos Hamilton, the central bank’s economic policy
director, said last month that inflation is unlikely to converge
to the bank’s 4.5 percent target until the third quarter of
2013.  In today’s survey, analysts increased their forecast for
2012 inflation for the 13th straight week to 5.42 percent, from
5.36 percent the previous week. Over the next 12 months,
inflation will reach 5.50 percent, the economists predicted,
down from 5.52 percent in the previous week’s survey.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Malinowski in Santiago at 
 mmalinowski@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net . 