-- Hedge Funds Cutting Trading Budgets Amid Slump, Survey Finds
-- B y   J e s s e   W e s t b r o o k
-- 2012-10-08T14:51:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-08/hedge-funds-cutting-trading-budgets-amid-slump-survey-finds.html
Hedge funds  are cutting trading costs
amid a decline in volumes and muted performance for the $2.1
trillion industry, a survey found.  Forty-four percent of hedge funds polled by Greenwich
Associates said they will spend less on their trading desks than
in 2011, according to a statement released by the  Stamford ,
Connecticut-based company today. About 40 percent of hedge funds
said their trading budgets would be unchanged this year, while
17 percent plan an increase, the survey found.  Hedge funds  fell  4.4 percent on average in 2011, making it
the industry’s second-worst year, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The firms, which bet on rising and falling asset
prices, have gained 3.6 percent through September of 2012,
putting them on pace to trail the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index
for the second straight year. Hedge funds cutting jobs include
 Louis Bacon ’s Moore Capital Management LLC, three people with
knowledge of the matter said last month.  Greenwich Associates surveyed 232 traders at asset-
management firms, corporate treasuries, pensions, endowments,
banks, insurers and hedge funds in April, according to the
statement.  Hedge funds reported they are being more aggressive than
other financial companies in reducing costs as just 20 percent
of all firms said they would cut trading expenses this year.
About 50 percent of survey respondents said they would spend the
same amount in 2012 on trading and 30 percent plan to increase
budgets, according to Greenwich Associates.  Hedge funds are planning cost cuts at a time when traders
leave banks due to decreased risk-taking by lenders and smaller
bonuses. Banks that have capped cash bonuses include Barclays
Plc, Deutsche Bank AG and  Morgan Stanley. (MS)   Moore, which manages $15 billion, cut as many as 15
investment jobs as it restructured one of its equity teams, said
the people, who declined to be identified because the
information is private. The New York-based firm had 208
employees involved in investment-advisory roles, including
research, according to a March regulatory filing.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jesse Westbrook in 東京 at 
 jwestbrook1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  