-- Telefonica Germany Said to Seek Valuation Topping Peers
-- B y   M a n u e l   B a i g o r r i ,   C o r n e l i u s   R a h n   a n d   A a r o n   K i r c h f e l d
-- 2012-10-08T21:04:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-08/telefonica-germany-said-to-seek-valuation-topping-peers.html
Telefonica SA (TEF) , the Spanish phone
company divesting assets to avoid a debt-rating cut, is seeking
to sell shares of its German unit at a higher valuation than the
industry average, according to people familiar with the matter.  As investor meetings kicked off this month, Madrid-based
Telefonica’s advisers are testing demand for shares at a
preliminary valuation of 6.5 to 7 times estimated 2013 earnings
before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization at the
high end of the range, the people said, asking not to be
identified because the gatherings are private. At the low end,
the multiples are 5.5 to 6 times Ebitda, they said.  Chief Executive Officer Cesar Alierta plans to sell shares
of  Telefonica Deutschland Holding AG (0614012D)  to help pare a debt pile of
more than 58 billion euros ($75 billion). The valuation he’s
seeking compares with an average enterprise value for European
peers of  5.8 times  2013 Ebitda, and 5.4 times for Telefonica,
data compiled by Bloomberg show.  “I don’t see why I should pay to please Telefonica
management by paying more than the shares are worth,” said
Andrea Puccini, who manages 460 million euros at Fideuram Asset
Management in Dublin. The German unit is valued at slightly more
than 5 times Ebitda, he said.  Telefonica will probably sell additional shares in the
future after the initial public offering, potentially weighing
on the stock, Puccini said. Investors may value the business
higher if they believe in a potential combination with  Royal KPN
NV (KPN) ’s E-Plus unit and the resulting savings, he said.  Valuable Assets  Shares of Telefonica  fell  1 percent to 10.51 euros at the
close of trading in  Madrid . The stock has lost 21 percent this
year, valuing the company at 48 billion euros.  Telefonica referred questions about the IPO to the German
unit. Albert Fetsch, a spokesman for Munich-based Telefonica
Deutschland, declined to comment on the IPO’s valuation.  Alierta is reversing a decade-long expansion strategy and
selling some of Telefonica’s most valuable assets to avoid a
reduction in its BBB rating by  Standard & Poor’s . Alierta also
abandoned his penchant for high shareholder payouts after
halting dividends and canceling share buybacks to save an
estimated 10.2 billion euros.  The company hasn’t confirmed what percentage of the German
business it plans to sell or the amount it wants to raise. It
intends to keep a majority of the unit.  Talanx IPO  The IPO could happen as early as this month and Telefonica
may sell a 20 percent stake for as much as 1.5 billion euros,
valuing the unit at 7.5 billion euros, people familiar with the
matter have said. The division had net debt of about 1.1 billion
euros as of Sept. 30.  A 1.5 billion-euro IPO would be the biggest in  Germany 
since engine maker  Tognum AG (TGM)  raised 1.8 billion euros in 2007.  Talanx AG, Germany’s third-biggest insurer, has risen about
6.6 percent since the stock began trading on Oct. 2.  Telefonica Deutschland, which sells wireless services under
the O2 brand and whose shares will trade in  Frankfurt , plans to
pay about 500 million euros in cash dividends from 2012
earnings. Telefonica forecasts the dividend will increase in
coming years.  “I’m bearish on telecoms, and if they go too aggressive
they risk no one will buy,” said Quirien Lemey, an investment
analyst at Brussels-based Petercam SA, which manages assets
worth as much as 13 billion euros. “That said, Telefonica
Germany is one of the better assets in  Europe , and I think they
can ask for more than would generally be accepted” for phone
companies in the region.  MegaFon Sale  Investors considering taking part in the IPO have another
alternative. OAO MegaFon,  Russia ’s second-largest mobile-phone
operator, may start an IPO in  London  as early as this week to
raise $3 billion, people familiar with the plans said.  Telefonica Deutschland’s second-quarter  operating income 
before depreciation and amortization, or Oibda, rose 12 percent
to 333 million euros. It had wireless-service revenue of 789
million euros in the period, almost the same as E-Plus.
Telefonica Germany, which also offers fixed-line phone and
Internet services, had 18.8 million mobile-phone customers as of
June.  Telefonica Deutschland and E-Plus vie for the position of
the third-largest wireless company in Germany, where  Vodafone
Group Plc (VOD)  and  Deutsche Telekom AG (DTE)  are the leaders.  Vodafone, Telenor  Telefonica said the unit plans to boost its mobile market
share and widen its margins through “efficiency improvements.”
The second-quarter Oibda margin was 25.7 percent.  While carriers such as Vodafone and  Telenor ASA (TEL)  are
expanding outside the stagnating European market, Telefonica
Deutschland relying on one market may hurt its valuation, said
Francisco Salvador, a strategist at FGA/MG Valores in Madrid.  “Those European phone companies that offer higher earnings
growth, such as Vodafone or Telenor, have a premium valuation,”
Salvador said. In a sluggish IPO market, Telefonica Deutschland
investors “could ask for a discount of about 15 percent
depending on transaction details and market environment.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Manuel Baigorri in Madrid at 
 mbaigorri@bloomberg.net ;
Cornelius Rahn in Frankfurt at 
 crahn2@bloomberg.net ;
Aaron Kirchfeld in London at 
 akirchfeld@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  