-- Emerging Stocks Fall as Europe Says Spain Won’t Tap Rescu
-- B y   M a r i a   L e v i t o v   a n d   S r i d h a r   N a t a r a j a n
-- 2012-10-08T22:02:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-08/emerging-stocks-drop-most-in-11-weeks-before-meeting.html
Emerging-market stocks fell, spurring
the biggest decline in the benchmark  index (VXEEM)  in over a week, as
commodities fell and as European leaders said Spain isn’t on the
verge of asking for a rescue.  The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index (MXEF)  lost 1.1 percent to 997.93
at the close of trading in New York, slipping for the first time
in three days. The BSE India Sensitive Index sank the most since
July 26 while the  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  slid 0.6 percent as
China’s markets re-opened after a week-long break. Brazil’s
Bovespa Index rose 1.3 percent with  Vale SA (VALE3) , the world’s largest
producer of iron ore, gaining the most since Sept. 10.  European finance ministers set up a full-time 500 billion-
euro ($648 billion) fund to aid debt-swamped countries while
saying that Spain, its biggest potential near-term customer,
isn’t on the verge of tapping it. Decisions were put off on
Greece’s next aid payment and on an assistance program for
Cyprus. German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  visits Greece tomorrow
for the first time since the crisis erupted.  The 21 nations in MSCI’s developing-nations gauge send
about 30 percent of their exports to the European Union on
average, according to data compiled by the World Trade
Organization. Crude and copper fell amid speculation the
region’s slowdown will curb demand.  “Markets are very nervous regarding the growth outlook and
they are waiting on any information from the political sphere as
a driver,” Michael Ganske, head of emerging-market research at
Commerzbank AG, said by phone from London.  EM ETF Sinks  The iShares MSCI Emerging Markets Index exchange-traded
fund, the ETF tracking developing-nation shares, slid 0.9
percent. The Chicago Board Options Exchange Emerging Markets  ETF (EEM) 
Volatility Index, a measure of options prices on the fund and
expectations of price swings, jumped 2.9 percent.  The Bovespa rose the most in three weeks.  Amil
Participacoes SA (AMIL3) , Brazil’s largest managed-health provider,
surged 15 percent to its highest level.  UnitedHealth Group Inc. (UNH) ,
the biggest U.S. health insurance company, agreed to pay about
$4.9 billion to buy 90 percent of Amil, valuing the Brazilian
company 50 percent more than its price a month ago. Vale gained
2.9 percent. Competitor MMX Mineracao e Metalicos gained 6.7
percent, the most since July 27.  The Sensex declined 1.2 percent and India’s S&P CNX Nifty
Index dropped 1.2 percent. The rupee sank 1.5 percent to 52.6450
per dollar in Mumbai, the biggest drop since Dec. 12. Erroneous
trades sent the gauge down as much as 16 percent on Oct. 5,
briefly erasing $58 billion in value.  China Reopens  The Hang Seng  China Enterprises Index (HSCEI)  fell 1.3 percent and
Taiwan’s Taiex Index slid 1 percent. Vietnam’s VN Index rose 1.4
percent, the most in Asia.  Zijin Mining Group Co. (2899)  had its steepest loss in more than
two months in Hong Kong as gold and copper prices slid.  Hon Hai
Precision Industry Co. (2317)  sank to a one-month low in Taipei after
parent Foxconn Technology Group stopped production as workers
protested.  Posco (005490) , Asia’s third-biggest steelmaker by output,
dropped 1.9 percent in Seoul after SK Telecom Co. cut its stake.  South Africa ’s rand was the second-worst performer among
all the emerging-market currencies tracked by Bloomberg as
strikes in the country’s mining and transportation industries
spread to other parts of the economy.  Aquarius Platinum Ltd. (AQP)  declined 7.2 percent, the most in
three months, in Johannesburg as Chief Executive Officer Stuart Murray quit after a spate of strikes in South Africa.  All 10 industry groups  declined  in the MSCI emerging-
markets index today. The broader measure has climbed 8.9 percent
this year, trailing a 12 percent increase in the MSCI World
Index of developed countries.  Gold, Copper  Zijin Mining, China’s biggest gold producer, sank 4.6
percent as gold dropped for a second day. Copper fell to the
lowest level in more than a week as further signs of a slowdown
in  China  spurred concern that demand growth will weaken in the
world’s biggest user.  Hon Hai lost 1.9 percent. Foxconn Technology, the assembler
of Apple Inc. iPhones, had to stop production for the second
time in as many weeks after a protest by factory-line workers at
one of its plants in Zhengzhou, China.  Posco fell the most since Aug. 30. SK Telecom sold a 1.4
percent stake in Posco at 353,100 won a share, SK Telecom
spokeswoman Irene Kim said by phone.  The Shanghai Composite has fallen 5.7 percent this year on
concern the government isn’t loosening monetary policy or
introducing stimulus policies fast enough to counter the
slowdown in the economy.  DLF Ltd. (DLFU) , India’s biggest developer, fell 7.3 percent in
Mumbai. Anti-corruption activists on Oct. 5 accused Robert
Vadra, the son-in-law of the Congress Party president  Sonia Gandhi , of being involved in “illegal land deals” with DLF.
DLF said on Oct. 6 the allegations are “completely baseless and
untrue.”  The extra yield investors demand to own emerging-market
dollar bonds over U.S. Treasuries was unchanged at 287 basis
points, according to JPMorgan’s EMBI Global Index.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Maria Levitov in London at 
 mlevitov@bloomberg.net ;
Sridhar Natarajan in New York at 
 snatarajan15@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Allen Wan at 
 awan3@bloomberg.net  