-- Lending in Southern Europe Won’t Recover Before 2016, E&Y Says
-- B y   C h a r l e s   P e n t y   a n d   H o w a r d   M u s t o e
-- 2012-10-08T22:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-08/lending-in-southern-europe-won-t-recover-before-2016-e-y-says.html
Bank lending in Southern  Europe  will
remain below 2011 levels for at least the next four years,
worsening the region’s recession, Ernst & Young LLP said.  Lending to consumers will drop by as much as 15 percent in
Spain this year, according to the Ernst & Young Financial
Services Forecast, published today. Total lending in the euro
area will decrease by 262 billion euros ($340 billion), or 2
percent, in 2012 as companies shrink their assets and limit
lending beyond their home markets, the accounting firm said.  Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy  has given up on Spain
resuming growth next year from its second recession since 2009.
At the same time, European regulators are pressing banks to
bolster capital and restrict lending outside their home
markets, according to the firm.  “In response to market conditions and regulation, banks
are beginning to retreat behind national borders, which is
fragmenting the euro zone financial system,” Andy Baldwin, head
of financial services for Europe,  Middle East ,  India  and  Africa 
said in the report. “The retrenchment of the banks is resulting
in lending constraints that will exacerbate recessions in the
peripheral economies.”  Deleveraging by banks will contribute to an 8.8 percent
decline in Spanish  lending  this year, the report said. Deposits
will drop 6.1 percent before outflows are gradually reversed in
2013, it said.  Italy , France,  In Italy, banking assets may fall by 144 billion euros this
year as corporate loans decline 5.1 percent and  consumer credit 
3.3 percent. The non-performing loans ratio may peak in 2013 at
9.2 percent, the highest level since 1999, the report said.  In France, corporate loans will expand by 0.6 percent this
year as consumer credit contracts by 5.2 percent. In  Germany ,
loans to businesses and households will rise 1.6 percent this
year, according to the report.  Bond sales by companies will this year surpass bank lending
in Europe, an unprecedented move in the region, according to the
report.  “This indicates, perhaps for the first time, that the
banking system is being dis-intermediated from the financial
system,” Baldwin said. “This new trend will help larger
corporates, who have access to the bond markets. It will not
assist their small-and medium-sized counterparts, who are
experiencing difficulties in arranging loans and facilities from
a number of banks.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Charles Penty in Madrid at 
 cpenty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net 
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  