-- Merck Acquires License for Experimental Skin-Patch Immunization
-- B y   J a s o n   G a l e
-- 2012-10-08T20:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-08/merck-acquires-license-for-experimental-skin-patch-immunization.html
Merck & Co. (MRK) , the maker of the
Gardasil cervical cancer vaccine, will work with Vaxxas Pty to
develop a skin-patch delivery system for immunizations, the
Brisbane, Australia-based company said.  Merck will pay an undisclosed fee up front and help fund
research evaluating Vaxxas’s Nanopatch, the company said in a
statement today. Merck agreed to make additional payments tied
to the development of the vaccine technology, Vaxxas said.  Vaxxas plans to test the Nanopatch on humans within two
years after tests on mice found it could protect them against
flu with 1 percent of the antigen used in needle-administered
shots, said co-inventor Mark Kendall, a professor of biomedical
engineering at the  University of Queensland . The deal with
Whitehouse Station, New Jersey-based Merck will fund “several”
scientists to conduct the research, he said.  “They really see it as a possibility for changing the game
for their vaccines,” Kendall said in a telephone interview.  Vaxxas was formed last year to commercialize technology
developed at the university in Brisbane, where discoveries last
century led to vaccines against human papillomavirus, the
biggest cause of cervical cancer. Investors include Sydney-based
 OneVentures , Melbourne-based  Brandon Capital Partners , and
HealthCare Ventures LLC, based in Cambridge,  Massachusetts ,
according to the statement.  Less Than $1  The Nanopatch is designed to deliver vaccine to the immune
cells located about the width of human hair below the skin
surface via about 10,000 tiny projections contained on the 1-
centimeter-square patch, Kendall said.  The patch could potentially be self-administered on the arm
or shoulder and produce a protective immune response in seconds
to minutes, he said. It wouldn’t need to be refrigerated and, if
mass-produced, may cost less than $1. In the event of a flu
pandemic, it might be mailed to people, Kendall said.  “A device such as that would significantly benefit the
delivery of vaccines in a scenario, such as a pandemic, where
they’re needed rapidly for a large population,” said Lorena Brown, professor of microbiology and immunology at the
 University of Melbourne , whose lab tested the patch on mice for
immunization against flu.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jason Gale in  Melbourne  at 
 j.gale@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Gale at 
 j.gale@bloomberg.net  