-- Erotic Emin Doodles, Gormley Robot Raise Cash for Royal Academy
-- B y   M a r t i n   G a y f o r d
-- 2012-10-08T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-08/erotic-emin-doodles-gormley-robot-raise-cash-for-royal-academy.html
London ’s  Royal Academy  was founded in
1768, a few years before the U.S. Declaration of Independence.
Nonetheless, it has been edging into the 21st century.  Today, for the first time, Royal Academicians and honorary
associates are participating in something not foreseen in the
reign of George III: an online sale and auction.  Almost everything on view in the exhibition “RA Now” is
for sale (more on the exception below). Some pieces are in a
live auction starting at noon local time today and may raise as
much as 1 million pounds ($1.6 million), according to estimates.  The proceeds will boost the Academy’s current building
project. The artists who have donated work include some
celebrated names: David Hockney, Anselm Kiefer,  Ed Ruscha , Jeff Koons and Frank Stella.  Grayson Perry has contributed a ceramic pot entitled “Bad
Portraits of Establishment Figures 1” (estimated to sell for
50,000 pounds to 70,000 pounds). It contains a number of
depictions of leading artists. Because the likenesses are,
indeed, pretty approximate it is far from clear who’s who.  The consensus is that the new President of the RA,
Christopher Le Brun, features prominently, as does Tracey Emin
and less certainly Hockney. The badness of the portraits is
obviously part of the point, and doesn’t prevent this being a
beguiling little work -- a ceramic love letter to the RA.  “I wanted this pot to be quite jolly,” Perry is quoted as
saying in the catalog, “as that is my experience of being an
RA, lots of fun and drinking.”  Body Paint  Several of the sculptures on display are also surprisingly
light-hearted. Allen Jones’s “Enchanteresse” (60,000 pounds to
80,000 pounds) is a miniature version of one of his trademark,
pop-art female figures. This one is wearing only boots and a
green-blue costume so tight it looks like body paint. It is
deliberately made in the same dimensions as Degas’s “Little
Dancer Aged 14,” another rather politically incorrect
statuette.  Antony Gormley’s “Standing Matter XXXIV” is estimated at
300,000 pounds. Insofar as a standing male figure in rust-
colored cast iron can be fun, it is. This is from a recent
series entitled “Ball Works,” and constructed of differently
sized spheres. The effect is a little like a robot or the
Michelin man made out of bubbles rather than tires.  Those with smaller budgets and broader minds might consider
Emin’s monotype “A Fool” (2,000 pounds to 3,000 pounds),
featuring one of her spikily drawn, splayed legged nudes and the
reflection, “I was a fool most of my life.” While it’s a
slight work, it’s quite inexpensive.  Outshocking Emin  A more conventional and costly feat of draughtsmanship is
Jenny Saville’s “Mother and Child Study II” (100,000 pounds),
depicting a modern, unidealized parent and infant in something
of the manner of Michelangelo or Leonardo. In a way, it’s more
shocking than the Emin.  Personally, I would be tempted by Gary Hume’s “Untitled”
(30,000 pounds to 40,000 pounds), a tree in charcoal and gloss
paint on paper. As Hume grows older, he’s becoming more lyrical
in his interest in subjects such as birds, trees and leaves.  Another image that caught my eye was a spectacular
photograph by the performance artist Marina Abramovic, “Holding
the Lamb,” showing her raising a small sheep above her head in
a misty, Biblical landscape.  This is an interesting departure for the artist, moving
from performing to making still images of her own actions.
Tantalizingly, this is the only work in the exhibition that
isn’t for sale. Then again, one of the rules of buying art is
that you always want what you can’t have.  “RA Now” is at 6, Burlington Gardens, W1J 0BD, through
Nov. 11. Information:  http://www.royalacademy.org.uk  or
+44-20-7300-8000.  The online sale is today and the auction website is
 http://www.ra-now-onlineauction.com . For further details contact
 RA_now@activ.org.uk . Supported by JTI and  Sotheby’s. (BID)  The works
are for sale to raise funds for the Burlington Project, which
will see the RA almost double in size by 2018.  (Martin Gayford is chief art critic for Bloomberg News. The
opinions expressed are his own.)  Muse highlights include  Scott Reyburn  on the art market,
 Richard Vines  on food and  Zinta Lundborg’s  interviews.  To contact the writer on the story:
Martin Gayford in London at  martin.gayford@googlemail.com  or
 http://twitter.com/martingayford .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 