-- EU Got ‘Not Many Indications’ on Carbon Volumes to Be Postponed
-- B y   E w a   K r u k o w s k a
-- 2012-10-08T12:30:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-08/eu-got-not-many-indications-on-carbon-volumes-to-be-postponed.html
European Union  member states  offered
“not many” opinions on the volumes of carbon permits they
think could be delayed at auctions as of 2013 during the first
round of talks on a draft regulation, an EU document showed.  The European Commission, the bloc’s regulatory arm, asked
representatives of national governments at a Sept. 19 meeting in
Brussels to express their views on when it should table an
official proposal to postpone sales of CO2 permits and how many
allowances should be delayed, according to the minutes of the
gathering in Brussels.  “There were not many indications as regards the question
on the volumes that the member states consider should be
backloaded,” the commission said in the document in an EU
database. “A number of member states emphasized that they want
to see the report on structural measures and start the debate on
them soon, before taking a final position.”  The EU, which started its emissions market in 2005, is
considering options to improve the program after prices fell to
a record low in April on a glut of permits that is equal to
almost half of the average annual pollution limit in the so-
called cap-and-trade system. EU permits for December fell 0.6
percent to 7.76 euros ($10.06) on London’s ICE Futures Europe
exchange as of 1:20 p.m.  The commission submitted to national governments in July an
outline of a future measure to curtail the oversupply by
delaying some allowances at auctions at the beginning of the
next trading period from 2013 to 2020, or Phase 3. Under the so-
called backloading plan, which is an amendment to the EU carbon
auctioning regulation, the allowances would be returned to the
market at a later stage of the new phase.  Long-Term  At the same time the commission is working on a report
about potential long-term measures to strengthen the system and
on an assessment of the impact from delaying auctions. The
documents will be published “in the coming weeks,”  Jos Delbeke , director general for climate at the commission, said
Oct. 2.  “In the discussion, most member states requested to the
commission to put forward an actual proposal for an amendment to
the Auctioning Regulation, including specific volumes, and an
impact assessment,” the commission said in the minutes of the
Sept. 19 meeting.  The next meeting of the Climate Change Committee, where a
measure needs a qualified-majority backing from representatives
of national governments to pass, is scheduled for Oct. 17.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ewa Krukowska in Brussels at 
 ekrukowska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at   lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  