-- EU Moves Toward Euro Bank Oversight Amid Disagreement
-- B y   R e b e c c a   C h r i s t i e   a n d   J i m   B r u n s d e n
-- 2012-10-09T11:06:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-08/eu-ministers-move-toward-euro-bank-oversight-amid-disagreement.html
European efforts to pave the way for
direct bank bailouts have foundered because of concerns that
current plans to build a euro-area bank supervisor would hurt
nations outside the common currency.  New proposals are more explicit about how the  European
Central Bank  should coordinate with national supervisors once
joint oversight is in place, according to a document prepared by
the Cypriot presidency of the European Union and obtained by
 Bloomberg News .  The compromise Cypriot text would require the ECB to share
information with local authorities and coordinate closely on
issues that could involve the prospect of closing a bank. It
says non-euro nations who choose to join the bank oversight
regime could leave upon request at any time.  These concessions aren’t enough to reassure countries
outside the 17-nation euro area that their interests will be
protected, ministers from Denmark and  Sweden  said today.  “More steps need to be taken,” Danish Economy Minister
 Margrethe Vestager  said in a Bloomberg Television interview in
Luxembourg. “We would like to have a real choice whether we
should join or not.”  Finance ministers in Luxembourg acknowledged that the EU is
unlikely to launch the new oversight regime by the start of 2013
as initially hoped. Any delays mean a longer wait for  Spain ,
which is looking to hand off its financial-sector rescue to the
euro-area’s 500 billion-euro ($649 billion) firewall fund once
the new system is in place.  ‘Ambitious’ Deadline  “The Jan. 1 deadline is probably ambitious,” Dutch
Finance Minister Jan Kees de Jager said in an interview with
Bloomberg Television, adding that a focus on calendar deadlines
would be a mistake. “We have to do it right, without mistakes
like we have seen in the past with the  euro zone .”  EU leaders in June agreed to create a common bank
supervisor at the ECB as a first step toward banking union amid
disagreement on how the new plan should work. German Finance
Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  said yesterday that those
differences won’t prevent the strategy from taking shape.  ECB Executive Board member Benoit Coeure said yesterday
he’s “confident” that the oversight mechanism will be ready on
schedule “in early 2013.”  “The decisions will be held to,” Schaeuble said.
“Announcing it is easy, but putting it into practice is more
complicated.”  Broad Bailout  Spain may be first in line to test that commitment. Prime
Minister  Mariano Rajoy  so far has resisted calls to request a
broad economic bailout as his nation works through a bank rescue
of as much as 100 billion euros that will be channeled through a
Spanish government agency.  If the ECB assumes the oversight role, Spain could ask the
European Stability Mechanism to take over the bank bailout in
order to remove the debt from the government’s balance sheet.
Ireland also is hoping to refinance bank debt.  French Finance Minister  Pierre Moscovici  said the effort
needs to move ahead at full steam to wrap up negotiations by the
end of 2012, with the aim of helping countries who are currently
weighed down by their banks.  “There’s been no ambiguity,” he told reporters in
Luxembourg. “We think there is a link that needs to be kept
between this supervision and the possibility of proceeding with
direct recapitalization with retroactivity.”  While in Luxembourg, finance ministers also are tackling
bank capital rules and trying to cobble together a financial-
transaction tax among interested nations.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Rebecca Christie  in Luxembourg at 
 rchristie4@bloomberg.net ;
Jim Brunsden in Luxembourg at 
 jbrunsden@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  