-- EU Power, Gas Market Coordination Can Help Cut CO2, Exxon Says
-- B y   E w a   K r u k o w s k a
-- 2012-10-08T13:20:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-08/eu-power-gas-market-coordination-can-help-cut-co2-exxon-says.html
Closer integration of the European
Union’s natural gas and power markets can encourage a shift to
less-polluting fuels in the bloc’s member states and help reduce
carbon-dioxide emissions, according to  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM)   The 27-nation EU needs to make sure that the importance of
natural gas “is not lost” in the debate about the bloc’s
climate and energy policies, Linda DuCharme, director of  Europe ,
 Russia  and the Caspian at Exxon Mobil International Ltd. said in
an interview in Brussels on Oct. 5.  “When Europe is struggling with the challenge of reducing
CO2 emissions and supporting growth in renewables, gas-fired
power generation is an important consideration and really the
only one that can support renewables and continue to keep CO2
emissions down,” DuCharme said.  Her comments came as the European Commission, the EU’s
regulatory arm, is preparing to publish in November a policy
paper urging member states to speed up the enactment of
legislation aimed at breaking down national barriers in natural
gas and power markets by 2014. The creation of a competitive
pan-European gas and power market may add 0.8 percent to EU
gross domestic product by 2020, creating more  jobs  and helping
keep inflation down, according to the commission.  The EU, which wants to lead the global fight against
 climate change , aims to lower greenhouse gas emissions by 20
percent in 2020 compared with 1990 levels and decarbonize its
power sector by 2050. Poland, which relies on coal for around 90
percent of its electricity needs, has said the EU goal would
require a major change to its fuel mix and is possible only with
widespread deployment of  carbon capture  and storage technology.  Climate Policy  The east European country, which buys about 70 percent of
its gas from Russia’s  OAO Gazprom (GAZP) , blocked a political
declaration by EU environment ministers on future climate policy
this year and in 2011. Poland pays Gazprom “more than $500”
per 1,000 cubic meters, compared with a $360 spot price and the
$400 to $420 that German companies pay in long-term contracts,
Treasury Minister Mikolaj Budzanowski said last month.  “Part of the solution comes with improving the
interconnectiveness of the European gas market,” DuCharme said.
“The more the European markets are interconnected the more you
will see the free flow of gas across borders and  Poland  will
have more options from where to get its natural gas than just
from further east.”  DuCharme said Poland might not necessarily have to import
natural gas, but could instead buy electricity from outside the
country that is generated from gas.  ‘Potential Distortion’  DuCharme also said unpredictable regulations make companies
less willing to invest in projects that “have lifespan over
decades.” The EU plan to intervene in the carbon market is a
“potential distortion” and undermines the system’s
credibility, she said.  The commission proposed in July to delay auctions of some
carbon permits in its emissions trading system as of 2013 to
alleviate oversupply in the market and help prices recover after
they slumped to a record low in April. The number of permits to
be delayed hasn’t been determined and the plan requires support
from national governments and the European Parliament to be
enacted.  “If the commission is seen as being able to go in every
couple of years and change the rules of that game, then anybody
who’s trying to make investments in power generation or anything
that has a cost of carbon in their economic analysis is not
going to know what to put in that analysis,” DuCharme said.
“Any bank that is trying to fund these investments is going to
see that as a risky situation.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ewa Krukowska in Brussels at 
 ekrukowska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at   lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  