-- EU Parliament Eyes April 15 Plenary Vote on Carbon Law Fix
-- B y   E w a   K r u k o w s k a
-- 2012-10-08T15:24:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-08/eu-parliament-eyes-april-15-plenary-vote-on-carbon-law-fix-1-.html
The European Parliament set April 15
as the indicative date for a plenary vote on an amendment to the
emissions trading law that would enable curtailing an oversupply
of pollution permits.  The full assembly would decide on the legal change two
months after a vote in its environment committee, according to
the timeline in the Parliament’s legislative database. The
amendment is the first step in a carbon-permit “backloading”
strategy that was proposed by the European Commission in July
and aims to delay sales of some emission allowances as of 2013
to help prices rebound from a record in April.  “It is looking increasingly likely that no backloading
will happen before 2014,” Konrad Hanschmidt, a London-based
analyst at Bloomberg New Energy Finance, said by e-mail.  At stake are prices in the world’s largest cap-and-trade
program, which fell to a record 5.99 euros ($7.77) in April
after the financial crisis hurt industrial production and cut
demand from industry for emission permits. That boosted the glut
of allowances to almost a half of the average annual pollution
limit in the system.  The amendment to the emissions trading law also involves
national governments, which would need to agree a final version
of the amendment with the  parliament  before the plenary vote. EU
ministers could then officially approve the legal change at one
of their meetings following the vote in the parliament.  Some Clarifications  The  amendment  proposed by the commission consists of one
sentence and reasserts the EU regulator’s right to decide about
the timing of auctions to avoid legal uncertainty. While the
region’s governments need “some clarifications,” their backing
for the commission’s plan is possible, Theodoulos Mesimeris, an
official at Cyprus’s  Environment Ministry  said on Oct. 5. Cyprus
holds the EU six-month rotating presidency until the end of this
year before Ireland takes over in January.  The start of carbon-permit supply curbs will also depend on
a separate measure to “backload” allowances, whose outline is
being considered by member states in a parallel process in the
EU Climate Change Committee, composed of climate experts from
national governments.  The commission is yet to put forward an official proposal
and specify a number of permits to be delayed.  At the first meeting of the committee on the draft plan
last month governments offered “not many” opinions on the
volumes of carbon permits they think could be backloaded,
according to the minutes of the gathering. A number of
representatives “emphasized” that they want to see a report on
long-term options to strengthen the EU program before deciding
on their final position, the document showed.  Lengthen Negotiations  “Some member states’ and the parliament’s calls to clearly
set out the longer-term structural measures could further
lengthen the negotiations,” Hanschmidt said. “This could also
delay the critical Climate Change Committee vote, which the
commission wants to have as early as possible.”  EU Climate Commissioner Connie Hedegaard said in July, when
the draft auction delay plan was submitted to member states,
that she aimed for a decision on the backloading measure before
the end of this year. The commission is planning to adopt the
report on long-term carbon market options on Nov. 14, according
to an EU document obtained by Bloomberg.  The Climate Change Committee is scheduled to meet on Oct.
17, Nov. 15 and Dec. 13. It is technically possible that it
could vote on the backloading measure before the parliament’s
decision on the amendment to the emissions law, an EU official
said on Oct. 5. The start of a mandatory three-month scrutiny
period that follows a vote in the committee would then be
delayed until the legal change is approved, the official said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ewa Krukowska in Brussels at 
 ekrukowska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at   lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  