-- Yen Drops as China Stimulus Bets Sap Demand for Haven
-- B y   M a s a k i   K o n d o   a n d   M o n a m i   Y u i
-- 2012-10-09T05:51:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-08/euro-remains-lower-after-imf-cuts-europe-s-2013-forecast.html
The yen declined against most of its
16 major peers amid speculation the People’s Bank of  China  will
act to support growth in the world’s second-biggest economy,
sapping the allure of the relative safety of Japan’s currency.  The yen halted its gain versus the dollar from yesterday
after International Monetary Fund Deputy Managing Director
Naoyuki Shinohara said the fund maintains its view that
intervention can be used to avoid disorderly moves in the
 currency market . Australian’s dollar rallied from a three-month
low reached as Chinese stocks climbed. Gains in the euro were
limited before data from  Italy  tomorrow that economists say will
show the nation’s industrial production dropped.  “Some traders have been noting that PBOC was injecting
lots of liquidity into the market,” fanning speculation China
will introduce more stimulus, said Lee Wai Tuck, currency
strategist at Forecast Pte in  Singapore . “You’d likely see
selling of the yen” should such measures be introduced in
China.  The yen fell 0.2 percent to 101.81 per euro as of 6:35 a.m.
in London from the close yesterday. It slid 0.1 percent to 78.39
per dollar, following a 0.4 percent gain in  New York . The 17-
nation euro added 0.2 percent to $1.2988, after losing 0.6
percent yesterday.  China’s central bank auctioned 165 billion  yuan  ($26
billion) of seven-day reverse repos and 100 billion yuan of 28
day contracts today, according to a trader at a primary dealer
required to bid at the sales. The monetary authority added a net
365 billion yuan using money-market operations in the final week
of September, the most in  data  compiled by Bloomberg going back
to 2008. Chinese markets were closed last week for a holiday.  Aussie Gains  The so-called Aussie dollar climbed 0.4 percent to $1.0231
after it touched $1.0149 yesterday, the weakest since July 13.
The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  of Chinese stocks rose 1.9 percent.
China is Australia’s biggest trading partner.  Industrial production  in Italy dropped 9.7 percent in
August from a year earlier, according to the median estimate of
economists in a Bloomberg News survey. That would be the biggest
decline since October 2009. Italy is the euro area’s third-
largest economy.  Growth in the 17-country euro area will expand 0.2 percent
in 2013, down from the projection of 0.7 percent three months
ago, the Washington-based IMF said in its  World Economic Outlook 
report today. The region’s economy will contract 0.4 percent
this year, the fund forecast.  IMF Outlook  The world economy will grow 3.3 percent this year, the
slowest pace since the 2009 recession and compared with the July
forecast of 3.5 percent, the IMF said. The risk of a serious
global slowdown is “alarmingly high,” the fund said.  “The euro is struggling to strengthen,” said Kengo Suzuki, a currency strategist in  Tokyo  at Mizuho Securities Co.,
a unit of  Japan ’s third-largest bank by market value. “The
economic outlook is not bright in  Europe .”  Finance ministers from all 27 nations in the European Union
will convene in Luxembourg today. Ministers from the euro bloc
yesterday declared the 500 billion-euro ($649 billion) European
Stability Mechanism operational, while saying that Spain, the
permanent rescue fund’s biggest potential near-term customer,
isn’t on the verge of tapping it.  Greece Impresses  Greece , where the  European debt crisis  began, needs to find
spending cuts to maintain access to 240 billion euros in rescue
funds and is trying to reach an agreement with its official
lenders to release the next payment of 31 billion euros.
Luxembourg Prime Minister  Jean-Claude Juncker  told reporters
yesterday he is “impressed” with the Greek government’s
performance.  “The key focus will be on Spain and Greece and, while we
expect positive progress to be made on both accounts, we do not
expect that the event will provide headlines that deliver a
major catalyst for the market,” Michael Sneyd, a currency
strategist at BNP Paribas SA in London, wrote in an e-mailed
note yesterday, referring to the meetings of European financial
chiefs. The euro-dollar may not “move substantially on the back
of this week’s events and short-term investors are likely to
continue to trade the ranges,” he wrote.  The world’s most-accurate foreign-exchange strategists say
the dollar will strengthen even as the  Federal Reserve  debases
it, unlike the previous two rounds of economic stimulus, when
cash injections weakened the currency.  Stronger Dollar  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke ’s $40 billion-a-month of bond
purchases will leave a stronger currency in 2013, say 9 of the
10 forecasters with the lowest margins of error in the six
quarters ended Sept. 28 as measured by Bloomberg. Wells Fargo &
Co. and Westpac Banking Corp., which tied for most-accurate,
expect little damage from efforts to stimulate the economy and
the so-called fiscal cliff of spending cuts and tax increases
scheduled for next year.  While the  Dollar Index (DXY) , which measures the currency against
those of six major trading partners, fell 4.6 percent and 3.9
percent in the first two rounds of Fed stimulus that added $2.3
trillion to the banking system, this time will be different,
forecasters say. Investors will demand the world’s reserve
currency as U.S. growth outpaces its developed counterparts.  “If the  U.S. economy  keeps outperforming, then it
shouldn’t cause the  U.S. dollar  much damage,” given that most
of its trading partners are growing slowly or contracting, said
 Sean Callow , a senior currency strategist in Sydney at Westpac
Banking Corp. Monetary easing is only “a short-term negative
for the U.S. dollar.”  Westpac, which matched Wells Fargo with a 3.34 percent
margin of error in the Bloomberg analysis, expects the dollar to
rally to $1.20 versus the euro by the third quarter of next
year, from $1.3045 at the end of last week, and advance to 80
yen from 78.67. The Dollar Index was little changed at 79.506
today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Masaki Kondo in Singapore at 
 mkondo3@bloomberg.net ;
Monami Yui in Tokyo at 
 myui1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  