-- EU Starts $648 Billion Aid Fund, Rules Out Immediate Use
-- B y   J a m e s   G .   N e u g e r   a n d   S t e p h a n i e   B o d o n i
-- 2012-10-08T16:50:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-08/europe-launches-648-billion-aid-fund-rules-out-immediate-use.html
European governments set up a full-
time 500 billion-euro ($648 billion) fund to aid debt-swamped
countries and, not for the first time in the three-year crisis,
expressed confidence that the extra financial muscle won’t be
needed anytime soon.  Finance ministers from the 17 euro countries declared the
European Stability Mechanism operational, while saying that
 Spain , its biggest potential near-term customer, isn’t on the
verge of tapping it. Decisions were also put off on Greece’s
next aid payment and on an assistance program for Cyprus.  Creation of the ESM “makes the strategy of  member states 
credible and equips the euro area with much better tools to
appropriately respond to future crises,” Luxembourg Prime
Minister  Jean-Claude Juncker  told reporters in Luxembourg today
before a meeting of euro finance chiefs that began at 5 p.m.  The fund’s birth was eased by the  European Central Bank ’s
offer in August to buy bonds of fiscally struggling countries,
which has driven down  interest rates  in Spain and  Italy  and
bought European governments time to address the root causes of
the crisis.  Spanish 10-year bonds yielded 5.71 percent today, down from
a peak of 7.62 percent on July 24. Italian 10-year yields have
fallen to 5.08 percent from 6.60 percent and the euro has risen
7.6 percent to $1.2971 over the same period.  The ESM will replace the temporary European Financial
Stability Facility, which has spent 192 billion euros of its 440
billion euros on loans to Ireland,  Portugal  and Greece. The two
funds will run in parallel until the EFSF is phased out in mid-
2013.  Controlled by euro finance ministers, the ESM can lend
directly to governments, intervene on bond markets, offer credit
lines and provide loans that can be used to recapitalize banks.
It would be authorized to pump capital into banks directly only
once the  euro zone  sets up a central supervisor, possibly in
2013.  The ESM inherited those powers from the temporary fund. For
now, it will go without two other EFSF tools that have yet to be
used: debt-insurance certificates and co-investment vehicles
that were designed to use leverage to multiply their impact.  Finance ministers touted Spain’s economic overhaul,
declined to press the Spanish government for more budget cuts
and said a bank-aid program set up in July will cost far less
than the 100 billion euros allocated for it. Payouts under that
program will be handled by the ESM starting in November.  Regional Elections  “Spain is also suffering under the problem of contagion,
like other countries, from speculation that’s the result of the
uncertainty surrounding the euro area as a whole,” German
Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  said. “But Spain doesn’t
need an assistance program.”  Street protests against austerity and three regional
election campaigns have played into the Spanish government’s
decision to hold off seeking a full aid package. While Spain is
awaiting a clearer sense of what  Europe  would want in return, it
ruled out further budget cuts.  Spanish Economy Minister Luis de Guindos defended the 2013
budget draft against assertions by the Spanish central bank and
some European officials that it relies on optimistic economic
assumptions in order to squeeze the deficit down to a European
target of 4.5 percent of gross domestic product.  “The budget for next year has been put on the table, it is
a significant effort in terms of budget adjustment,” de Guindos
told reporters in Luxembourg.  Asset Sales  Ministers said the next move on Greece is in the hands of
the so-called troika of officials from the European Commission,
ECB and  International Monetary Fund , now in talks with the Greek
government over budget cuts, asset sales and economic reforms.  The holding pattern on Greece comes a day before German
Chancellor  Angela Merkel , the dominant figure in European
bailout politics, makes her first trip to  Athens  since the Greek
government uncovered hidden holes in its budget in October 2009.  Prime Minister Antonis Samaras’s coalition is deliberating
internally and wrangling with the creditors to put together 13.5
billion euros in savings, the condition for tapping the next 31
billion euros in loans. Greece has been promised 240 billion
euros since the crisis erupted.  Greece is undertaking “a lot of efforts, it’s very
difficult down there,” Luxembourg Finance Minister Luc Frieden
said. “If we need to give them additional time, if that does
not require a lot of additional money, we should support  Greece .
However, it’s not a one-way street.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
James G. Neuger in Luxembourg at 
 jneuger@bloomberg.net ;
Stephanie Bodoni in Luxembourg at 
 sbodoni@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  