-- European Stocks Retreat Most This Month; Cookson Sinks
-- B y   A d r i a   C i m i n o   a n d   P e t e r   L e v r i n g
-- 2012-10-08T16:10:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-08/european-stock-futures-retreat-as-chinese-shares-decline.html
European stocks  dropped the most this
month as the  World Bank  cut its East Asian growth forecast and
investors awaited a meeting of euro-area finance ministers for
signs on how they will tackle the debt crisis.  Cookson Group Plc (CKSN)  sank 12 percent as the world’s biggest
maker of ceramic linings for metal smelters said annual results
will miss its forecasts.  KBC Groep NV (KBC)  retreated 5.2 percent as
the bank’s strategy update disappointed investors. Eurobank
Ergasias SA advanced 5.1 percent after a takeover offer from
 National Bank of Greece SA. (ETE)   The  Stoxx Europe 600 Index (SXXP)  lost 1 percent to 271.43 at the
close of trading, the largest decline since Sept. 28. The
measure climbed 2.1 percent last week as the U.S. unemployment
rate dropped to the lowest level since 2009 and stress tests
bolstered confidence in Spanish banks. The gauge has advanced 11
percent in 2012 as the  European Central Bank  approved a plan to
buy bonds of the most-indebted euro-area members and the  Federal
Reserve  unveiled a third round of stimulus measures.  “Europe is still short of showing any indications of
growth,” Jakup Petur Baerentsen and Mikkel Petersen, equity
advisers at Nordea Private Bank in Copenhagen, wrote in a
report. “Any good news this week will most likely have to come
from Spain -- if the nation makes a formal request for a bailout
from the euro zone and the  International Monetary Fund .”  China Stocks  In China, the  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  retreated 0.6
percent on the first day of trading after a weeklong holiday
amid concern the deepening economic slowdown will hurt profits
and as money-market rates rose the most in a month.  The World Bank said growth in developing East Asia, which
excludes Japan and India, will probably ease to 7.2 percent this
year from 8.3 percent in 2011. That is the slowest pace since
2001, according to World Bank data, and lower than a forecast in
May of 7.6 percent.  The International Monetary Fund is set to lower its global
outlook for this year tomorrow at an annual meeting in Tokyo
where officials will tackle a slowdown triggered by Europe’s
sovereign-debt crisis.  National benchmark indexes declined in all of the 18
western European markets, except Iceland. The U.K.’s FTSE 100
Index slipped 0.5 percent, Germany’s DAX lost 1.4 percent and
France’s  CAC 40 (CAC)  dropped 1.5 percent.  The number of shares changing hands in Stoxx 600 companies
was 13 percent lower than the 30-day average, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Spain Discussion  Euro-area finance ministers meet in Luxembourg today to
discuss Spain’s overhaul effort and closer banking cooperation.
Tomorrow, German  Chancellor Angela Merkel  makes her first visit
to Greece since the turmoil began in 2009. The next day, Spanish
Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy  travels for talks with French
President  Francois Hollande  in Paris.  Finance ministers from all 27 nations in the European Union
will meet tomorrow and EU leaders gather for a summit in
Brussels on Oct. 18-19.  German  industrial production  declined in August as the debt
crisis damped economic growth and prompted companies to scale
back investment. Production fell 0.5 percent from July, when it
gained 1.2 percent, the Economy Ministry in Berlin said today.
Economists had forecast a drop of 0.6 percent, according to the
median of 39 estimates in a Bloomberg survey.  Earnings Calendar  Alcoa Inc. (AA)  unofficially starts the U.S. earnings season
with the release of its third-quarter results tomorrow, the
fifth anniversary of the record highs in the  S&P 500  and  Dow
Jones Industrial Average . Earnings at companies in the S&P 500
are projected to fall 1.7 percent in the period, according to
more than 11,000 analyst forecasts compiled by Bloomberg.  Cookson tumbled 12 percent to 539 pence, the largest drop
since February 2009. The company said full-year results will be
“materially” lower than forecast after the Engineered Ceramics
division’s third-quarter performance was weaker than expected.  KBC slid 5.2 percent to 19.61 euros as Belgium’s biggest
bank and insurer by market value said it plans to reduce
operating expenses as a proportion of revenue to 55 percent by
2015. The shares have still more than doubled this year.  “KBC for now isn’t providing investors with a profit goal
or new cost-cutting plans and the targets they do give are no
reason to change our earnings estimates,” said Cor Kluis, an
analyst at Rabobank International in Utrecht.  Eurobank Rallies  Eurobank advanced 5.1 percent to 1.23 euros, the highest
since February, after National Bank of Greece offered to acquire
its domestic rival as Greece’s debt crisis forces a wave of
mergers. National Bank rallied 5.7 percent to 2.21 euros.  Imperial Tobacco Group Plc (IMT)  slipped 2.4 percent to 2,314
pence, the biggest drop in a month, as Nomura Holdings Inc.
downgraded the maker of West and Davidoff cigarettes to  reduce 
from neutral.  JCDecaux SA (DEC) , a French outdoor advertising company,
retreated 4.1 percent to 17.50 euros. Goldman Sachs Group Inc.
cut its recommendation on the stock to  sell  from buy and added
the shares to its “conviction sell” list.  Fiat SpA (F)  slid 4.2 percent to 4.29 euros, snapping a five-
day rally. Il Messaggero said Italy’s market regulator Consob is
investigating the size and purpose of the carmaker’s cash pile,
without citing anyone.  A Consob spokesman declined to comment. Fiat said in a
statement that it’s not “aware” of any investigation by Consob
on alleged irregularities of its cash position.  Diamyd Medical AB (DIAMB)  surged 6.4 percent to 7.5 kronor, the
biggest gain since July, after agreeing to sell its U.S. gene
therapy unit. The Swedish biotechnology company said it will
sell Diamyd Inc. to a Periphagen Holdings Inc., owned by the
U.S. division’s management, for $1 and a 10 percent stake in
Periphagen. Diamyd Medical may also receive milestone and other
payments of as much as $10 million and future royalties.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Adria Cimino in Paris at 
 acimino1@bloomberg.net ;
Peter Levring in Copenhagen at 
 plevring1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  