-- Ex-Anglo Irish Chairman Fitzpatrick Ordered to Stand Trial
-- B y   J o e   B r e n n a n
-- 2012-10-08T13:04:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-08/ex-anglo-irish-chairman-fitzpatrick-ordered-to-stand-trial-1-.html
Former Anglo Irish Bank Corp.
Chairman  Sean Fitzpatrick  was ordered to stand trial, after an
investigation into activities at the now-nationalized bank.  Fitzpatrick, 64, Willie McAteer, the former finance
director and Pat Whelan, a one-time managing director of Anglo
Irish’s Irish unit, were charged in July in relation to the bank
providing loans to 16 clients to buy shares in it in 2008.  Judge Cormac Dunne today sent the three men to trial after
they were they were served with the so-called books of evidence.
The trio, who sat side-by-side in court, were released on bail
and made no comment during the 10-minute hearing today.  The lender bankrolled many of the developers who helped
fuel the real estate bubble that collapsed in 2008. The state
took over the bank in 2009, and sought an international bailout
a year later to help meet the 29.3 billion-euro ($38 billion)
cost of averting its collapse.  Irish police and the nation’s corporate law enforcer began
an investigation into Anglo Irish in February 2009, a month
after the state stepped into save the bank. The Director of
Corporate Enforcement said in June that it had sent a number of
files to the Director of Public Prosecutions.  The book of evidence is “effectively notice of the all of
the evidence that the Director of Public Prosecutions intends to
call at a trial,” said  Shelley Horan , a Dublin barrister, who
lectures in law in Trinity College Dublin, before the three men
appeared in court.  “The defense would ordinarily have a couple of months to
consider the issues and seek further disclosure before
indicating which way they intend to plead,” said Horan, who
declined to comment on this specific case.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Joe Brennan  at 
 jbrennan29@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  