-- Facebook Future Leaves BTIG’s Greenfield ‘Skeptical’
-- B y   T o m   K e e n e   a n d   R y a n   F a u g h n d e r
-- 2012-10-08T20:25:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-08/facebook-cut-to-sell-by-btig-on-mobile-strategy-concerns.html
Facebook Inc. (FB) ’s 2013 earnings will be
“significantly below” analysts’ estimates, said  Richard Greenfield , an analyst at BTIG Research, citing the social-
networking site’s struggles to get revenue from mobile users.  “We’ve been growing increasingly skeptical of some of
their monetization methods,” Greenfield, who cut his rating on
the shares to sell, said in an interview today on “Bloomberg
Surveillance” with Tom Keene.  Facebook’s payments business is “collapsing” as companies
such as game maker  Zynga Inc. (ZNGA)  grapple with lower demand, putting
more pressure on Facebook to increase advertising sales,
Greenfield said. The social-networking company risks annoying
its mobile customers by cluttering the service with ads, the
analyst said.  Shares of the  Menlo Park , California-based company declined
after Greenfield changed his recommendation from neutral. The
analyst lowered his 2012 and 2013 revenue forecasts, as well as
his estimate for earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation
and amortization to $3.05 billion. Analysts predict about $3.5
billion, the average of  estimates  compiled by Bloomberg.  Much of the performance of mobile ads is driven by
accidental clicks, or “fat fingers,” according to Greenfield.  “It feels like Facebook is pushing advertising
monetization harder than they should be, which we believe will
harm user engagement in 2013 and beyond,” Greenfield, who has a
target price of $16 on Facebook shares, wrote in a report.  Facebook fell 2.4 percent to $20.40 at the close in  New
York , the lowest level in 1 1/2 week.  Greenfield, a former Goldman Sachs Group Inc. analyst,
rated Facebook shares  neutral  after they sold for $38 in the May
initial public offering. At the time, seven financial firms
recommended the stock and three rated it a sell, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. The stock has slumped 46 percent
since its debut.  JPMorgan Chase & Co. and Morgan Stanley cut their price
targets for Facebook last week, citing lower expectations for
revenue from the site’s payments business after Zynga cut
forecasts.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Tom Keene  in New York at 
 tkeene@bloomberg.net ;
Ryan Faughnder in New York at 
 rfaughnder@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  