-- Fiat Falls After Report of Watchdog Probe on Cash: Milan Mover
-- B y   T o m m a s o   E b h a r d t
-- 2012-10-08T12:39:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-08/fiat-falls-after-report-of-watchdog-probe-on-cash-milan-mover.html
Fiat SpA (F) , the Italian carmaker which
controls Chrysler Group LLC, fell in Milan trading after a
newspaper report that the country’s market regulator is
investigating the size and purpose of the company’s cash pile.  Fiat fell as much as 4 percent, the worst performer both in
Italy’s benchmark  FTSE MIB (FTSEMIB)  Index and in Bloomberg’s Europe  Autos (BEAUTOS) 
Index. The stock was declining 3.4 percent at 2:18 p.m., giving
the company a market value of 5.4 billion euros ($7 billion).  Market regulator Consob is investigating the size and the
use of Fiat’s cash, Italian daily  Il Messaggero  reported today,
without citing anyone. A Consob spokesman declined to comment.
Fiat, based in Turin, said in a statement that it’s not
“aware” of any investigation by Consob on alleged
irregularities of its cash position,  The Italian carmaker’s total available liquidity rose to
22.7 billion euros at the end of the second quarter from 21.4
billion euros at the end of March. Chief Executive Officer
 Sergio Marchionne  said on a conference call with analysts July
31 that he wants to keep an “abnormally high” level of
liquidity “in the foreseeable future” to weather the crisis in
Europe.  “We regularly receive information requests from Consob,
including on cash,” Fiat said today. “Any insinuation that
Fiat doesn’t have the cash declared in its financial
publications is false.”  Marchionne said July 31 that Fiat will wait for “some
clarity and some resolution” of Europe’s debt crisis, which is
compounding slumping car sales, before bringing cash to normal
levels. The executive, who plans to combine the two
manufacturers to boost sales to more than 100 billion euros by
2014, is relying on profit from  Auburn Hills , Michigan-based
Chrysler as Fiat struggles to end losses in Europe.  Marchionne has said that Fiat may use its cash to finance
the acquisition of the remaining stake in Chrysler. Fiat now
owns 58.5 percent of Chrysler. Marchionne said in a speech Sept.
24 that Consob sent 19 letters to Fiat from April 2010 to
October 2011 to get financial details of Fiat’s investments in
Italy, which prompted the carmaker to suspend any communication
on the so-called Fabbrica Italia plan.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tommaso Ebhardt in Milan at 
 tebhardt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Chad Thomas  at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  