-- Forint Drops After Biggest Rally in 3 Weeks on Growth Concern
-- B y   A n d r a s   G e r g e l y
-- 2012-10-08T15:33:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-08/forint-pares-biggest-rally-in-3-weeks-on-growth-concern-economy.html
The forint weakened after the biggest
rally in three weeks against the euro on concern the global
economy is slowing and as Hungary struggles to recover from a
recession.  The currency depreciated 0.2 percent to 283.37 per euro by
4:42 p.m. in Budapest. Yields on the government’s 10-year bonds
were little changed at 7.247 percent, the lowest in more than
two months.  European stocks dropped the most this month as the  World
Bank  cut its East Asian growth forecast and euro-area finance
ministers meet to discuss the region’s debt crisis. Hungary’s
government sees the economy contracting 1.2 percent in 2012
versus a previously estimated 0.1 percent growth, and expanding
1 percent in 2013 compared with an initial projection of 1.6
percent, it said on Oct. 5.  The forint retreating “can be mostly explained by the
correction on international markets,” Pal Saaghy, a Budapest-
based current trader at broker Equilor Befektetesi Zrt., said by
telephone today. “Bad news came out of  Asia  on the growth
outlook.”  The Hungarian currency jumped 0.7 percent on Oct. 5,
appreciating for a third consecutive day, after the government
scrapped a tax plan that was an obstacle to obtaining aid from
the  International Monetary Fund .  Hungary will impose a higher levy on cash withdrawals,
raise more than previously planned by taxing transactions at the
state treasury and delay a pay increase for teachers to keep the
 budget deficit  within 3 percent of gross domestic product,
Economy Minister  Gyorgy Matolcsy  said at a press conference in
Budapest on Oct. 5. The measures will help it forgo a tax on
central bank deals which threatened to further delay IMF aid
requested by Hungary 11 months ago.  It is uncertain if the government can meet collection
targets for the tax on the state treasury, Saaghy said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andras Gergely in Budapest at 
 agergely@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  