-- Francona Excited for New Challenges as Cleveland Indians Manager
-- B y   E b e n   N o v y - W i l l i a m s
-- 2012-10-08T16:41:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-08/francona-excited-for-new-challenges-as-cleveland-indians-manager.html
Terry Francona  is once again managing
a franchise with a  World Series  drought of more than 60 years.
He said the Cleveland Indians’ smaller payroll won’t affect his
approach that won two championships with the  Boston   Red Sox .  Francona led the Red Sox to a World Series title in 2004,
breaking the team’s 86-year championship drought, and again in
2007. His teams had an average payroll of $137 million during
his eight seasons in Boston, according to a USA Today database.  Today he was introduced as manager of a franchise that
hasn’t won a World Series title in 64 years, the second-longest
spell in  Major League Baseball  behind the  Chicago Cubs ’ 104
seasons, and spent $78 million on payroll in 2012. He said the
Indians, 24-53 after the All-Star break, are ready to compete
now.  “We may not win every game, but we won’t back down from
anybody,” Francona, 53, said in a news conference at
Progressive Field. “The goal here is for me to spend all my
energy trying to ensure that these players play the game
correctly and with respect, so when people are in Cleveland they
say they’re proud to be a Cleveland Indians fan.”  The Indians announced Francona’s hiring on Sept. 6, two
days after his successor in Boston,  Bobby Valentine , was fired
following the franchise’s worst season in almost half a century.  Cleveland was in first place in the American League Central
division through 70 games this year. The team fired Manny Acta
six games before the end of the season and finished 68-94, 20
games behind the  Detroit Tigers  in the division.  The Indians made the playoffs once in the last 11 seasons,
and haven’t won the World Series since 1948.  “Terry is an exceptional leader, he has boundless energy,
he’s a relentless communicator and he brings a winning
attitude,” General Manager Chris Antonetti said.  Boston Firing  Francona was fired by the Red Sox last year after the team
blew a nine-game playoff lead with less than a month to play,
the biggest September collapse in MLB history. He spent this
season as a television analyst for ESPN, and said today that he
needed the year off before managing again.  “To do this job and to do it correctly, you have to be all
in, all the time,” he said. “I was showing some signs of wear
and tear.”  The Indians also interviewed former catcher Sandy Alomar Jr., a six-time All-Star who spent 11 years with the team.
Alomar was 3-3 as interim manager after Acta’s firing.  Francona worked in the Indians’ front office in 2001, and
his father, Tito, played for Cleveland from 1959 to 1964.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eben Novy-Williams in  New York  at 
 enovywilliam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  