-- German Stocks Drop as Chinese Sahres Fall; Daimler Slips
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   M o r g a n
-- 2012-10-08T16:00:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-08/german-stocks-drop-as-chinese-sahres-fall-daimler-slips.html
German stocks  fell as shares in  China 
retreated on the resumption of trading after a weeklong holiday,
and euro-area finance ministers met to discuss the region’s
sovereign-debt crisis.  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  and  Commerzbank AG (CBK) , Germany’s two biggest
lenders, lost at least 2.5 percent.  Daimler AG (DAI)  sank 2.6 percent
as a gauge of automakers was the worst performer of the 19
industry groups on the Stoxx Europe 600 Index.  Evotec AG (EVT)  rose
1.4 percent after it reached a pre-clinical milestone in its
collaboration with Novartis AG.  The  DAX Index (DAX)  tumbled 1.4 percent to 7,291.21 at the close
of trading in Frankfurt. The measures has still  rallied 22
percent  from this year’s low on June 5 as European Central Bank
policy makers approved an unlimited bond-buying program and the
U.S. Federal Reserve started a third round of asset purchases.
The broader HDAX Index also lost 1.4 percent today.  “Whenever China goes down, German carmakers go down as
well because China is one of the most important markets,” said
Markus Huber, head of German sales trading at ETX Capital in
London. “The DAX is following markets in Asia and the U.S.
downwards. In Spain, things are still going back and forth
regarding the terms and conditions of aid and until that
uncertainty goes it is hanging over the markets and needs to be
dealt with.”  The volume of shares changing hands on the DAX was 25
percent lower than the average of the last 30 days, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  slid 0.6 percent today amid
concern the deepening economic slowdown will hurt profits and as
money-market rates rose the most in a month.  Asian Growth  Growth in developing East Asia, which excludes Japan and
India, will probably ease to 7.2 percent from 8.3 percent in
2011, the  World Bank  said in a report today. That is the slowest
pace since 2001, according to data from the Washington-based
lender, and lower than a forecast in May of 7.6 percent.  European finance ministers met in Luxembourg at 5 p.m.
today to discuss issues including Spain’s overhaul effort and
closer banking cooperation. Tomorrow, German  Chancellor Angela Merkel  makes her first visit to Greece since the turmoil began
in 2009. The next day, Spanish Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy 
travels for talks with French President  Francois Hollande  in
Paris. EU leaders gather for a summit in Brussels on Oct. 18-19.  Exports Rise  German  exports  unexpectedly rose for a second month in
August, indicating Europe’s largest economy is weathering the
sovereign debt crisis.  Exports, adjusted for work days and seasonal changes,
jumped 2.4 percent from July, when they gained 0.4 percent, the
Federal Statistics Office in Wiesbaden said today. Economists
forecast a 0.6 percent decline, according to the median of 14
estimates in a Bloomberg News  survey . Imports rose 0.3 percent
from July.  Deutsche Bank and Commerzbank fell 2.5 percent to 32.01
euros and 3 percent to 1.41 euros, respectively.  Daimler, the world’s third-largest maker of  luxury
vehicles , dropped 2.6 percent to 38.28 euros.  Bayerische Motoren
Werke AG (BMW) , the largest maker of luxury vehicles, lost 1.5 percent
to 60.05 euros.  Volkswagen AG (VOW) , Europe’s biggest carmaker dropped 2.2
percent to 145.35 euros after Audi, the company’s main premium
brand, reported slower sales growth in September as car markets
in southern Europe contracted.  Audi’s global sales rose 14 percent from a year earlier to
136,600 cars and sport-utility vehicles, the Ingolstadt,
Germany-based company said today in a statement. That compares
with a 15 percent increase in August. In Europe, where the
industrywide sales are shrinking, Audi sold 7.4 percent more
cars last month, held back by drops in Italy and Spain.  Axel Springer  Axel Springer AG (SPR) , the media company, declined 4 percent to
33.14 euros as HSBC Holdings Plc. cut its recommendation on the
stock to underweight from overweight, meaning investors should
sell the shares, and reduced its price forecast to 30 euros from
44 euros.  Metro AG (MEO) , Germany’s largest retailer, slipped 3 percent to
20.82 euros as Exane BNP Paribas downgraded the shares to
underperform, the equivalent of sell, from outperform. UBS AG
cut its forecast price on the stock to 20.5 euros from 23 euros.  Evotec, which offers drug research, development and
manufacturing services, advanced 1.4 percent to 2.95 euros. The
company said today it reached a pre-clinical milestone in its
collaboration with Novartis, without giving financial details.
Evotec is eligible for pre-clinical and clinical milestone
payments that could exceed $28 million under the terms of the
agreement.  BayWa AG, a German agricultural products and building-
materials maker, rose 5.6 percent, the most in a year, to 33.43
euros.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Morgan in  Frankfurt  at 
 jmorgan157@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  