-- German Exports Unexpectedly Rose for a Second Month
-- B y   G a b i   T h e s i n g
-- 2012-10-08T06:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-08/german-exports-unexpectedly-rose-for-a-second-month.html
German exports unexpectedly rose for
a second month in August, indicating  Europe ’s largest economy is
weathering the sovereign debt crisis.  Exports, adjusted for work days and seasonal changes,
jumped 2.4 percent from July, when they gained 0.4 percent, the
Federal Statistics Office in Wiesbaden said today. Economists
forecast a 0.6 percent decline, according to the median of 14
estimates in a Bloomberg News  survey . Imports rose 0.3 percent
from July.  “The resilience of the German economy and exports in the
face of the crisis keeps on surprising,” said  Carsten Brzeski ,
an economist at ING Group in Brussels. “The safety net is
getting thinner and the economic outlook is quite subdued, but
we don’t believe in a recession.”  Germany’s economy is losing steam as governments and
consumers across Europe reduce spending, damping demand for
German goods. Business confidence fell to a 2 1/2 year low in
September and factory orders declined more than economists
forecast in August. Still, exports to nations outside Europe are
helping to compensate, while rising wages and unemployment at a
two-decade low have helped to bolster domestic demand.  Exports to other euro-area countries fell 3.1 percent in
August compared with a year earlier, while shipments to non-
European Union countries were 13 percent higher, today’s report
showed.  Germany ’s trade surplus narrowed to 16.3 billion euros
($21.2 billion) in August from 16.9 billion euros in July,
today’s report showed. The surplus in the current account, a
measure of all trade including services, was 11.1 billion euros,
down from 11.7 billion euros a month earlier.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gabi Thesing in London at 
 gthesing@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  