-- German Industrial Production Falls as Economy Cools
-- B y   S t e f a n   R i e c h e r
-- 2012-10-08T10:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-08/german-industrial-production-falls-as-economy-cools.html
German industrial production declined
in August as the sovereign debt crisis damped euro-area economic
growth and prompted companies to scale back investment.  Production fell 0.5 percent from July, when it gained 1.2
percent, the Economy Ministry in Berlin said today. Economists
had forecast a drop of 0.6 percent, according to the median of
39 estimates in a  Bloomberg News survey . From a year earlier,
production fell 1.4 percent when adjusted for working days.  Europe ’s largest economy is cooling as the debt crisis
forces governments, companies and consumers across the euro
region to retrench. Factory orders dropped 1.3 percent in
August, the economy ministry said yesterday. At the same time,
exports to nations outside the currency bloc and unemployment at
a two-decade low are helping to limit the slowdown.  “ Germany  has long been successful in isolating itself from
the downward trend,” said Thilo Heidrich, an economist at
Deutsche Postbank AG in Bonn. “ Now this is coming to an end. I
expect the economy to stagnate for the rest of the year.”  Construction activity dropped 2.8 percent in August from
July, today’s report showed. Production of intermediate goods
fell 1.3 percent and investment goods production was unchanged.
Consumer goods production rose 0.3 percent and energy output
gained 1.5 percent.  Economic growth slowed to 0.3 percent in the second quarter
from 0.5 percent in the first, and business confidence fell to
the lowest in more than 2 1/2 years last month.  Investor Confidence  Bayerische Motoren Werke AG (BMW) , the world’s largest maker of
luxury cars, in August reported its first drop in quarterly
profit in almost three years and warned that Europe’s debt
crisis could cast further clouds on the global growth outlook.  Still, investor confidence rose for the first time in five
months in September after the European Central Bank announced an
unlimited bond-buying program and Federal Reserve officials
agreed to expand monetary stimulus by purchasing additional
assets.  German exports unexpectedly rose for a second month in
August, jumping 2.4 percent, the Federal Statistics Office said
earlier today. Economists had forecast a 0.6 percent decline.  The German economy will expand 0.9 percent this year
compared with a 0.5 percent contraction for the euro area as a
whole, the IWH and Kiel Economics research institutes forecast
last month.  “There are some positive signs out there, but only as long
as the crisis in the euro area doesn’t get worse,” said Stefan Muetze, an economist at Helaba in  Frankfurt . “We might see some
growth for the rest of the year, but it will definitely be a
very low number.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stefan Riecher in Frankfurt at 
 sriecher@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  