-- German Bunds Advance on Economic Data as Spain’s Bonds Decline
-- B y   A n c h a l e e   W o r r a c h a t e   a n d   N e a l   A r m s t r o n g
-- 2012-10-08T15:51:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-08/german-10-year-bunds-advance-before-eu-finance-ministers-meeting.html
Germany’s 10-year bonds advanced
after data showing a slowdown in the nation’s manufacturing
added to evidence the euro-area economy is headed for a
recession, boosting demand for the safest securities.  Spanish 10-year securities underperformed all their euro-
region peers as the currency bloc’s finance ministers gathered
to discuss the region’s sovereign debt crisis, while Italian
bonds also dropped. German  two-year  notes snapped two days of
declines as an  index  measuring sentiment in the euro-area
economy increased less than economists estimated this month.  “We appear to be in a risk-off environment, which favors
safe assets such as bunds,” said  Richard McGuire , a senior
fixed-income strategist at Rabobank International in  London .
“The economic backdrop, on the whole, is supportive of core
bonds.”  Germany’s  10-year yield  fell four basis points, or 0.04
percentage point, to 1.48 percent at 4:49 p.m. London time,
after climbing to 1.53 percent on Oct. 5, the highest since
Sept. 26. The 1.5 percent bond due September 2022 rose 0.395, or
3.95 euros per 1,000-euro ($1,297) face amount to 100.21. The
two-year note yield dropped two basis points to 0.04 percent.  German  industrial production  fell 0.5 percent in August
from the previous month, when it gained a revised 1.2 percent,
the Economy Ministry in Berlin said today. Analysts had forecast
a drop of 0.6 percent, according to the median of 39 estimates
in a Bloomberg News survey.  Spanish Bonds  An  index  measuring sentiment in the euro-area economy by
 Germany ’s Sentix research institute increased to minus 22.2 from
minus 23.2 in September, missing the median forecast of 10
economists in a separate survey for a reading of minus 22.  Bunds advanced even as the Federal Statistics Office in
Wiesbaden said today German  exports  jumped 2.4 percent in August
from July, when they gained 0.4 percent. Economists forecast a
0.6 percent decline, according to another Bloomberg  survey .
Imports rose 0.3 percent.  Spanish bonds dropped, with 10-year yields rising three
basis points to 5.72 percent. The rate earlier slid to 5.62
percent, the  lowest  level since Sept 14. The yield fell 25 basis
points last week, the biggest decline since the five-day period
ended Sept. 7, amid speculation the country is moving closer to
requesting an international bailout.  The rate on Italian 10-year bonds increased two basis
points to 5.08 percent.  Finance Ministers  European finance ministers gathered from 5 p.m. in
Luxembourg today to discuss  Spain ’s overhaul effort and closer
banking cooperation. Tomorrow, German  Chancellor Angela Merkel 
makes her first visit to  Greece  since 2009.  The next day, Spain’s Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy  travels
for talks with French President  Francois Hollande  in Paris.
Rajoy has said his government is considering a bailout request,
while damping speculation that it will come soon. Spain has
local elections this month and next.  The  Canary Islands  is among five regions to require
assistance from the Spanish government’s 18-billion euro rescue
fund, Antonio Beteta, deputy minister for public
administrations, told lawmakers today. The regions will be able
to borrow from the state at the Treasury’s cost of financing
plus 30 basis points, he said.  Volatility on Irish  government bonds  was the highest in the
euro-region markets today, followed by  Finland , according to
measures of 10-year or equivalent-maturity debt, the spread
between two- and 10-year securities, and credit default swaps.  German bonds returned 2.8 percent this year through Oct. 5,
according to indexes compiled by Bloomberg and the European
Federation of Financial Analysts Societies. Spanish securities
advanced 2.1 percent, while Italy’s debt earned 16 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anchalee Worrachate in London at 
 aworrachate@bloomberg.net ;
Neal Armstrong in London at 
 narmstrong8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Dobson  at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net  