-- Goldman to Pay $6.75 Million to Settle Options Claims
-- B y   N i n a   M e h t a
-- 2012-10-08T23:24:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-08/goldman-to-pay-6-75-million-to-settle-options-claims.html
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  agreed to
pay $6.75 million to eight U.S. exchanges to settle claims over
the way it handled options trades from January 2004 through May
2010, according to a  document  on the  Chicago Board Options
Exchange ’s website.  The New York-based securities firm mislabeled certain
options orders as originating with customers instead of brokers
or market makers, potentially giving them access to preferential
treatment, according to a letter of consent. Goldman Sachs,
which was censured by the exchanges, neither admitted nor denied
wrongdoing.  The Financial Industry Regulatory Authority, which oversees
more than 4,300 brokers, has been assessing how firms categorize
orders in sweeps it is conducting to ensure they are complying
with rules,  Richard Ketchum , chairman and chief executive
officer of Finra, said at a conference in  Washington  on Sept.
20. Mismarking orders affects the execution priority given to
users, the official audit trail of executions, and the  fees  paid
to exchanges, he said.  “Historically, traders have attempted to get better
pricing from exchanges by representing someone as a customer,”
Stephen Solaka, a former CBOE member who oversees about $60
million including options as co-founder of Belmont Capital Group
in  Los Angeles , said in a phone interview. “The exchanges are
competing for customer order flow and would bend over a little
more for a customer than they would for a market maker.”  Different Categories  Buy and sell requests from market makers, brokers, public
customers and professionals are treated differently by many
exchanges, with those from customers usually executing before
others. The fees exchanges charge may vary based on the type of
company or individual submitting the order. Goldman Sachs
employed two order-entry systems that failed to identify the
source of options orders, according to the disciplinary action.  “We’re pleased to have settled these matters,”  Michael DuVally , a spokesman for Goldman Sachs, said by phone.  The G2 and Stride systems Goldman Sachs employed were
deficient because they didn’t allow users to select different
codes to identify the orders properly, the document said. The
Stride system coded all orders as coming from customers. Some
orders may have received priority in transactions over others
because they were mislabeled, the document said.  Supervisory Systems  Goldman Sachs “failed to maintain supervisory systems and
controls that were reasonably designed to achieve compliance
with exchange rules,” the CBOE document said. The broker also
didn’t immediately fix its coding deficiencies when problems
were identified by its employees on several occasions, the
letter of consent said.  Nasdaq Options Market  said  in its disciplinary action that
Goldman Sachs’s compliance, equity derivative sales and sales
technology groups didn’t communicate adequately about the
development of G2 and Stride. System developers also didn’t
understand the broker’s client base for options, contributing to
deficiencies in the order-entry platforms, it said.  CBOE, the largest U.S. options exchange, will get $3.75
million of the total fine,  CBOE Holdings Inc. (CBOE)  said. The other
exchanges include the  International Securities Exchange , Nasdaq
Options Market, Nasdaq OMX PHLX, NYSE Amex Options, NYSE Arca
Options, Bats Options and BOX Options Exchange, according to the
document. ISE said in a separate notice it will get $1.1 million
of the total amount.  Reimbursement Payments  Goldman Sachs separately reimbursed exchanges for the
difference between the fees it paid to trade on their venues and
what it owed them, CBOE said. ISE said the broker paid almost
$900,000 in uncollected fees for improperly marking orders as
coming from customers instead of brokers or market makers. ISE
in New York is owned by Frankfurt-based Deutsche Boerse AG.  Finra’s focus on the labeling of options orders is part of
a broader review of controls brokers employ to ensure that buy
and sell requests are properly identified. The private-sector
regulator has uncovered a “large number of firms that are
either misreporting positions or not reporting them at all,”
flouting obligations concerning their so-called large-options
positions,  Ketchum  said in September.  The misuse of market-maker exemptions for firms that must
otherwise locate shares before engaging in short sales is
another area of investigation, Ketchum said. Finra is probing
excessive quotation message traffic caused by algorithms and
enhancing its examination and market surveillance programs to
uncover manipulative activity, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nina Mehta in  New York  at 
 nmehta24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson in New York at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net . 