-- Restaurant Where Chefs Fought Rioters Wins U.K.’s Best
-- B y   R i c h a r d   V i n e s
-- 2012-10-09T09:59:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-08/graham-s-ledbury-is-best-u-k-restaurant-for-third-year.html
The Ledbury, which gained
international attention after being invaded by rioters, was
named the U.K.’s best restaurant for the third straight year.  Runner-up in the  National Restaurant Awards  announced last
night was Jason Atherton’s Pollen Street Social, also in  London .
Third place was taken by the Hand & Flowers, Tom Kerridge’s pub
in Marlow. The Square was the next-highest London establishment,
in seventh.  Lima, a new Peruvian venue in London, was named One to
Watch. (Last year’s winner of this award, Hedone, placed No.
52.) The personality of the year award went jointly to Chris Corbin and  Jeremy King , the business partners behind the
Wolseley, who recently opened Zedel and the Colbert.  The chef’s award went to  Philip Howard  of the Square.  Chef  Brett Graham ’s Ledbury, which holds two Michelin
stars, has won many awards since opening in 2005. It is ranked
14th in the World’s 50 Best Restaurants awards. (I head a panel
in those awards and vote in the National Restaurant Awards.) It
is also known for  being attacked  in August 2011 by rioters, who
were challenged by chefs armed with rolling pins.  The two highest new entries were Quo Vadis, at eighth, and
10 Greek Street, which came 12th. Both are in London’s Soho.  The winners are decided by the 150 members of the National
Restaurant Awards Academy, which includes chefs, restaurateurs
and critics. The results were announced at the Old Brewery,
London. Graham, 33, was born in Newcastle,  Australia .  (Richard Vines is the chief food critic for Muse, the arts
and leisure section of  Bloomberg News . He is U.K. and Ireland
chairman of the World’s 50 Best Restaurants awards. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  Muse highlights include  Scott Reyburn  on the art market,
 Martin Gayford  on art and  Zinta Lundborg’s  interviews.  To contact the writer on the story:
Richard Vines in London at 
 rvines@bloomberg.net  or  http://twitter.com/Richardvines .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 