-- Grain Consumers Seen Buying Hand-to-Mouth on High Prices
-- B y   M a r i a   K o l e s n i k o v a   a n d   W h i t n e y   M c F e r r o n
-- 2012-10-08T11:36:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-08/grain-consumers-seen-buying-hand-to-mouth-on-high-prices.html
Buying grains “hand-to-mouth” may
become the new way consumers trade amid higher prices and
slowing economies that reduce demand and availability of funds,
Grain and Feed Trade Association President Patrick Savage said.  Consumers have been buying supplies only to meet their
immediate needs for the past 18 months and will continue this
pattern “for a long time,” Savage said in an interview in
Edinburgh Oct. 5. Corn is trading 42 percent above its five-year
average in  Chicago , while wheat and soybeans are 25 and 30
percent higher, respectively, after dry weather hurt crops from
the U.S. to  Russia .  “Maybe it’s going to be the new way of trading but the
market will still trade forward,” Savage said. “Some countries
are very switched on to buying forward. Others are in very
difficult scenarios. One dollar is a lot when you are buying a
million tons.”  World  food prices  rose to the highest level in six months
in September, the  United Nations ’  Food and Agriculture
Organization  said Oct. 4.  Egypt , the world’s biggest wheat
importer, is seeking as much as $4.8 billion in loans from the
 International Monetary Fund , while Morocco and Jordan have also
sought IMF aid this year.  Egypt’s wheat imports will drop by 23 percent to 9 million
metric tons this season, while Algeria will buy 21 percent less,
the USDA estimates. Seven out of the 10 top wheat-importing
countries will reduce purchases this season, according to the
agency.  France  is likely to dominate in export markets until
American and Australian wheat comes in as exports from the  Black
Sea region  dry up, Savage said.  ‘Magical’ Wand  “You have U.S.,  South America  and  Australia  all at once,”
Savage said. “It’s not so much that there won’t be grain, it’s
that there is very little cover from consumers in some of the
countries. When they do buy they are going to pay a lot more
than they have been paying unless someone’s got a magical
wand.”  Wheat prices in Chicago have rallied 39 percent in the past
12 months and corn gained 24 percent. Milling wheat prices on
NYSE Liffe in Paris, the European benchmark, have climbed 41
percent.  World grain production will fall to 2.29 billion tons this
year from 2.35 billion tons in 2011, according to the FAO, which
cut its previous estimate by 8.8 million tons. High food costs
last year contributed to civil unrest across the  Middle East  and
North Africa, toppling governments in Egypt and  Tunisia .  Global wheat production will decline 5.2 percent this
season to 658.7 million tons and the corn crop will drop 4.1
percent to 841 million tons, the  USDA estimates .  Cautious Consumers  Consumers may be more cautious as, while cereal farmers are
making money, livestock farmers face losses and the food chain
“is dealing with a recession” in addition to surging costs,
Savage said.  Even as loans are becoming more expensive and hard to get,
bigger companies are having no difficulties with financing,
Savage said. Loans to commodity companies are down 35 percent in
the first nine months of the year from the same period in 2011,
data compiled by Bloomberg show.  “Our industry, to be honest, is quite a secure industry,
Savage said. ‘‘You are dealing with human consumption.
Governments won’t let people starve, so they’ll have to give the
money. I don’t hear any big company having any financial
problems.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maria Kolesnikova in London at 
 mkolesnikova@bloomberg.net ;
Whitney McFerron in London at 
 wmcferron1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  