-- Green Dot Shares Drop as AmEx Moves in on Wal-Mart Turf
-- B y   S u s a n n a   P a k
-- 2012-10-08T21:40:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-08/green-dot-shares-drop-as-amex-moves-in-on-wal-mart-turf.html
Green Dot Corp. (GDOT) , the prepaid-card
firm that derives most of its revenue from  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT) ,
plunged after the world’s biggest retailer said it would expand
sales of a competing product from  American Express Co. (AXP)   Green Dot slid 20 percent to close at $10.25 in New York,
the most since July 27. Shares of the Monrovia, California-based
company have  dropped  67 percent this year.  American Express reached a deal to make its Bluebird
reloadable prepaid cards available at 4,000 U.S. Wal-Mart
locations and online beginning next week, the New York-based
lender said today in a statement. The cards will be sold along
with those of Green Dot, which derived 64 percent of its revenue
through Wal-Mart in the first half of 2012, according to an Aug.
9 regulatory filing. Wal-Mart was among Green Dot’s biggest
shareholders as of March 31, with a 6.2 percent stake,  data 
compiled by Bloomberg show.  Wal-Mart’s “equity stake in Green Dot is totally
inconsequential relative to the opportunity to expand the
product category,” said Andrew Jeffrey, an analyst at SunTrust
Robinson Humphrey Inc. “There’s no positive spin that can be
put on” when a vendor loses its role as a dominant  supplier .  The agreement with American Express represents a
“broadening” of Wal-Mart’s card offerings and the company has
no plans to discontinue its deal with Green Dot, said Daniel Eckert, the retailer’s vice president of financial services.  “We’re focused on a different customer segment,” Eckert
said on a conference call with reporters. The card “can be a
substitute or a complement, depending on the customer’s choice,
to an everyday checking and debit service,” he said.  Loading Money  Green Dot has “a great partnership” with Wal-Mart and
supports the retailer’s efforts to offer customers “alternative
financial solutions,” Chief Executive Officer Steve Streit said
in a statement.  “We will continue working together to grow our MoneyCard
business, which we believe will continue to thrive alongside
this new offering,” Streit said.  Consumers can load money onto Bluebird cards at Wal-Mart
locations or electronically through bank accounts, and use them
as they would a debit card where American Express is accepted,
the lender said in the statement. Bentonville, Arkansas-based
Wal-Mart began testing the product at some stores last year.  The agreement may help American Express expand beyond its
core credit- and charge-card business and drive more spending to
its global payments network. Targeting Wal-Mart customers also
contrasts with American Express’s historic focus on affluent
consumers.  ‘Different Segments’  “Now we have the ability to address different segments of
not just the U.S. markets, but frankly across the world as well
as those who might not be traditionally best served through a
charge or credit product,” Dan Schulman, group president of the
firm’s enterprise growth business, said on the call.  American Express gained 0.4 percent to close at $58.82 in
New York. The shares have climbed 25 percent this year, compared
with a 16 percent advance in the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.  Bluebird’s expanded availability benefits both the lender
and the retailer, said James Friedman, an analyst at Susquehanna
International Group LLP.  “American Express is largely branchless, and Wal-Mart has
fixed facilities with substantial traffic,” he said in an e-
mail. “So this is a good use of assets for both sides.”  Susquehanna is a market maker in shares of Green Dot and
American Express.  ‘Incremental Downside’  Green Dot rallied 9.6 percent to $24.25 on July 2 after
Ramsey El-Assal, a Jefferies Group Inc. analyst, said Wal-Mart
was winding down the American Express pilot and that Bluebird
sales were “significantly weaker” than Green Dot products.  In a note released today after the call, El-Assal predicted
that Bluebird will probably gain share at Wal-Mart, given the
card’s “aggressive roll-out schedule,” lower fees and
“enhanced” features like online access.  “We believe today’s announcement represents an incremental
downside surprise for investors,” even after Green Dot lowered
its guidance to account for a potential loss of retail
exclusivity, El-Assal wrote.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Susanna Pak in New York at 
 spak10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  