-- Libor, Set by Fewer Banks, Losing Status as a Benchmark
-- B y   J o h n   G l o v e r
-- 2012-10-08T08:58:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-08/libor-now-set-by-six-banks-losing-status-as-a-benchmark.html
After being rigged by some of the
world’s biggest financial institutions, the London interbank
offered rate, the benchmark for more than $300 trillion of
securities and loans, is now increasingly being set by a smaller
group of banks.  Bank of America Corp.,  Citigroup Inc. (C) , Bank of Tokyo
Mitsubishi UFJ Ltd.,  Royal Bank of Canada , Sumitomo Mitsui
Financial Group Inc. and  Lloyds Banking Group Plc (LLOY) ’s submissions
have been used in setting the rate on an almost daily basis in
the past four months, data compiled by Bloomberg show. Two years
ago, none of the 18 designated lenders made it into every fixing
of the measure, which excludes outliers by stripping out the
four highest and lowest contributions.  “You have a core group setting the rate and that’s a major
concern,” said Bret Barker, a  money manager  at Los Angeles-
based TCW Group Inc., which oversees $128 billion. “It’s going
to be very tough to fix that and very tough to replace Libor.”  While Libor is supposed to represent the interest rates
banks pay each other for short-term loans, the dominance of a
smaller group shows the measure is failing to accurately reflect
the true health of the financial system and borrowing costs.  FSA Recommendations  The U.K.’s Financial Services Authority recommended Sept.
28 that Libor have a broader group of contributors, while
acknowledging that developing an alternative would be too
disruptive to borrowers around the world because the rate is so
embedded in the financial system. Libor’s use stretches from
U.S. adjustable-rate mortgages and floating-rate bonds to over-
the-counter derivatives including  interest-rate swaps .  Traders have said for years that Libor was being rigged.
Those suspicions were confirmed in June, when  Barclays Plc (BARC) ,
Britain’s second-biggest lender by assets, paid a record 290
million-pound ($468 million) fine for manipulating the
benchmark.  Bloomberg News  has found that at least a dozen banks
are being probed by regulators worldwide for allegedly colluding
on Libor submissions to profit from bets on derivatives.  “With Libor being such an intrinsic part of the financial
system, restoring trust in it is an important step towards the
broader task of rebuilding confidence in banking,”  Matthew Fell , the director for competitive markets at the Confederation
of British Industry, said in an e-mail on Sept. 28 after the FSA
and Managing Director Martin Wheatley released their findings of
an investigation into the benchmark.  Small Group  Libor is calculated by Thomson Reuters Corp. on behalf of
the  British Bankers’ Association , with rates published daily for
10 currencies over 15 maturities. Compilers discard the four
highest and lowest quotes and average out the remaining 10.  Three-month dollar Libor, the most commonly used of the
rates overseen by the BBA, ended last week at 0.35125 percent,
down from 0.58250 percent at the start of the year.  Submissions by Bank of America, Citigroup, BTM and RBC were
used in all 87 of the fixings in the four months since June 6,
data compiled by Bloomberg show. Sumitomo’s were used on all but
one day, and Lloyds’s on all bar two, both last week.  Citigroup kept its estimate unchanged at 0.45 percent until
the end of July, when it began reducing it to 0.34 percent as of
Oct. 5. BTM held its submission at 0.46 percent until July 27,
before reducing it to 0.35 percent by last week, while Bank of
America didn’t move its estimate from 0.47 percent until Aug. 2.
It submitted a rate of 0.39 percent on Oct. 5.  Little Movement  Victoria Garrod, a spokeswoman for Bank of America in
London, declined to comment, as did  Jeffrey French  at Citigroup
Lloyds is “assisting various regulators in their on-going
investigations,” London-based spokeswoman Nicole Sharp said.  HSBC Holdings Plc held its submissions for three-month
dollar Libor at 0.25 percent since Sept. 14, and after offering
the lowest estimates since August 2011 hasn’t been included in
the calculation at all over that period, data compiled by
Bloomberg show.  At the top end of the submissions, French lenders  Societe
Generale SA (GLE) , which quotes borrowing costs of 0.46 percent, and
 Credit Agricole SA (ACA)  at 0.495 percent, haven’t been included in
the past four months.  Brendan McNamara , a spokesman at HSBC in London, declined
to comment. Nathalie Boschat, a spokeswoman for SocGen, and
Anne-Sophie Gentil at  Credit Agricole , both in Paris, also
wouldn’t comment.  Drying Up  Unsecured lending between banks -- the activity Libor is
designed to reflect -- has dried up as institutions increasingly
demand collateral before money changes hands or go to central
banks for funds. As a result, banks’ reported borrowing costs
have diverged, meaning the same group of lenders is dominating
the middle ground where the benchmark is set.  The gap between the highest and lowest submissions has
widened from before the scandal, reaching an average 0.32
percentage point in the past four months, compared with 0.1
percentage point in the same period of 2011, data compiled by
Bloomberg show.  The century-old BBA, which represents more than 200 banks
and lobbies policy makers and regulators on their behalf, helped
introduce Libor in January 1986 to cement London’s dominance in
the markets for syndicated loans and interest-rate swaps.  Speculation rose at the height of the financial crisis in
2008 that some panel members were submitting inaccurate
information for Libor to mask their true borrowing costs and
avoid being viewed as troubled.  Libor Alternatives  Proposed alternatives have failed to gain traction.  ICAP
Plc (IAP) , the largest broker of transactions between banks,
discontinued its daily survey of  New York  unsecured funding
rates in August after consistently receiving insufficient
submissions.  Dan Doctoroff , President and Chief Executive Officer of
Bloomberg LP, has offered a measure dubbed the Bloomberg
Interbank Offered Rate, or Blibor. It would use data from a
variety of financial transactions in an effort to better reflect
participating banks’ real cost of credit. Bloomberg LP is the
parent of Bloomberg News.  The BBA should be stripped of the responsibility for
managing the rate and other organizations invited to replace it,
Wheatley said in unveiling the results of his report on Sept.
28. He recommended a code of conduct backed by criminal
penalties for how lenders contribute to the benchmark.  Other measures proposed include encouraging more firms to
put in quotes and allowing the FSA to force uncooperative banks
to make submissions.  ‘Completely Failed’  “Governance of Libor has completely failed,” Wheatley
said. “This problem has been exacerbated by a lack of
regulation and a comprehensive mechanism to punish those who
manipulate the system.”  Financial Secretary to the U.K. Treasury Greg Clark said
the government will move at the “maximum possible pace” to
overhaul oversight of Libor and will give a formal response next
week.  The BBA is focusing on the “ongoing regulatory and
governmental investigations and inquiries,” said  Brian Mairs , a
spokesman for the lobby group. The priority “is to ensure the
provision of a reliable benchmark which has the confidence and
support of all users, contributors and global regulators,” he
said.  “We just might get a better process with less room for
subjectivity,” said Paul Smillie, a global banks analyst in
Singapore at Threadneedle Asset Management, which oversees about
$45 billion of fixed-income assets.  Credit Risk  Elsewhere in credit markets, a gauge of U.S. corporate
credit risk fell every day last week as a better-than-forecast
jobless report boosted optimism about the world’s largest
economy, while  General Electric Co. (GE)  led a 27 percent rise in
corporate bond sales.  The Markit CDX North America Investment Grade Index, a
credit-default swaps benchmark that investors use to hedge
against losses or to speculate on creditworthiness, declined 3.9
basis points in the week to a mid-price of 95.2 basis points,
according to prices compiled by Bloomberg.  The  Markit iTraxx Europe Index  of 125 companies with
investment-grade ratings climbed 1.5 basis points to 128 at 9:55
a.m. in London. In the Asia-Pacific region, the Markit iTraxx
Asia index of 40 investment-grade borrowers outside Japan rose 1
to 130.  First Sale  The indexes typically fall as investor confidence improves
and rise as it deteriorates. The contracts pay the buyer face
value if a borrower fails to meet its obligations, less the
value of the defaulted debt. A basis point equals $1,000
annually on a contract protecting $10 million of debt.  GE, the biggest maker of power-generation equipment, issued
$7 billion of bonds in its first offering in almost five years
through the Fairfield, Connecticut-based parent company,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Hospital chain  Tenet
Healthcare Corp. (THC)  sold $800 million of high-yield bonds as part
of a four-point plan that includes share buybacks.  Telefonica SA (TEF) , Spain’s biggest phone company, and Italy’s
Mediobanca SpA tapped European bond markets amid renewed
investor appetite for securities from the continent’s most
indebted countries.  Corporate bond yields tumbled to a record, with the Bank of
America Merrill Lynch U.S. Corporate & High Yield Master index
dropping to 3.676 percent before paring its decline to end the
week at 3.7 percent.  Labor Department figures on Oct. 5 showed the U.S.
 unemployment rate  fell to 7.8 percent in September, the lowest
since President  Barack Obama  took office and down from 8.1
percent in August.  The U.S. two-year interest-rate swap spread, a measure of
debt-market stress, rose for a third week, increasing 0.31 basis
point to 13.69 basis points. The gauge, which reached a 2 1/2-
year low of 12.31 on Sept. 14, widens when investors seek the
perceived safety of  government securities  and tightens when they
favor assets such as company debentures.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Glover in London at 
 johnglover@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Armstrong at 
 parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  