-- Libyan Lawmakers Weigh Options After Dropping Premier-Elect
-- B y   T a r e k   E l - T a b l a w y   a n d   C h r i s t o p h e r   S t e p h e n
-- 2012-10-08T12:30:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-08/libyan-lawmakers-weigh-options-after-dropping-premier-elect.html
Libyan lawmakers began discussing the
selection of a new premier after rejecting a revised Cabinet
list submitted by Prime Minister-elect Mustafa Abushagur and
removing him from his post with a no-confidence motion.  The meeting in the 200-seat National Congress came hours
after lawmakers rejected a “crisis cabinet” of 10 people to
lead  Libya  presented by Abushagur and then held a no-confidence
motion that pushed the incoming premier from office less than a
month after they had selected him for the post. The move
injected new uncertainty into the political mix in a country
struggling to control militias that played a key role in Muammar Qaddafi’s ouster last year, while also trying to form a stable
government after decades of one-man rule.  In a televised session today, lawmakers began discussing
how to move forward, including whether to elect a new premier
from within the ranks of the legislature or someone from outside
the parliament. Until a new prime minister is chosen, the
government of Abdurrahim el-Keib, who had been appointed by the
then-interim National Transitional Council, remains a caretaker
administration.  Members of congress will debate three proposals this
evening to end the deadlock. The first is to select a new
premier from the parliament. The second would return to the
previous mechanism and elect a new prime minister, while under
the third, political parties and members of parliament would try
to negotiate a candidate.  Militias  “If you can’t even decide who will be the prime minister
and can’t put a Cabinet into place, then by default it’s the
people who’ve got the guns who will call the shots and investors
won’t make long-term investment decisions, if they can’t see
beyond that,” John Hamilton, contributing editor to African
Energy and a Libya analyst with the London-based Cross-border
Information consultancy, said by phone.  Abushagur had faced an already-extended Oct. 7 deadline for
the new Cabinet after the National Congress rejected his earlier
list. Much of the criticism revolved around different groups or
factions looking to secure representation for their regions in
the Cabinet -- a demand Abushagur said undercut his efforts.  “I was going to form a national unity government, not
based on quotas,” he told Parliament in Tripoli yesterday.
“But then there was pressure on me. People wanted ministers
from their regions.”  Abushagur called on lawmakers to work quickly to select a
new prime minister and form a government “so the country is not
left with a political vacuum during this period.”  Regional Issues  The latest rejection and protests by demonstrators who say
their regions are unrepresented in the government reflect
Libya’s fragile political situation since last year’s bloody
uprising. The interim government has pushed to restore order and
revive the economy, efforts stymied by factionalism as militias
refused to disarm and regional interests dominate.  “Anybody who believed that Libya was going to be the
poster child for easy transitions and good governance wasn’t
focused on the tribal and regional divisions that will impede
stability,” said  Aaron David Miller  of the Washington-based
research group Woodrow Wilson Center.  Libya in particular has no experience of self-rule because
of Qaddafi’s “bizarre one-man cult rule,” Miller said. “The
country has too many guns and grievances, militias and
malcontents for that.”  Reflecting the uncertainty in the country, Egyptian Foreign
Ministry spokesman Amr Roshdy said his government was working
with their Libyan counterparts to evacuate roughly 1,000
Egyptians in and around the town of Bani Walid, a former
Qaddafi-era stronghold around which at least a couple of
thousand militiamen have converged.  Kidnapping  The massing of militiamen belonging to an umbrella group
called the National Shield was in response to the death of a
former rebel reportedly kidnapped and tortured by a group in the
city months earlier. The rebel, credited with helping in
Qaddafi’s capture, had died of injuries sustained during
captivity after returning from a hospital in  France .  The build-up also comes after a sharp pushback against
Islamist militias believed involved in the death of the U.S.
ambassador to Libya and three colleagues after the Sept. 11
attack on the American consulate in Benghazi. Chris Stevens’
death spotlighted the challenges the government faced in dealing
with the groups that have resisted disarming or being absorbed
into the armed forces as they jostle for greater power and
services for the various regions or cities from which they hail.
The U.S. has blamed the attack on terrorists.  Abushagur had begun taking on that challenge after the
consulate attack, even as he tried to craft a Cabinet that would
find broad backing in the country.  The lack of government “means that everyone will have to
wait even longer for an administration to be in place to move
things forward -- not just for the oil sector, but security,
construction,” said Hamilton. “Every part of the economy has
been on hold for months and will continue to be on hold.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Christopher Stephen in Tripoli, Libya at 
 cstephen9@bloomberg.net ;
Tarek El-Tablawy in Cairo at 
 teltablawy@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  