-- Lilly Backs Broad Diabetes Range to Challenge Rivals
-- B y   A l b e r t i n a   T o r s o l i
-- 2012-10-08T15:58:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-08/lilly-counts-on-broad-diabetes-range-to-challenge-larger-rivals.html
Eli Lilly & Co. (LLY)  is betting on a
“broad” range of diabetes products including pills, insulins
and a once-a-week treatment to take on bigger competitors, said
Enrique Conterno, president of Lilly Diabetes.  Lilly is working on two experimental long-acting insulins,
including a version of Sanofi’s top-selling Lantus, and
therapies in all the main new classes of diabetes drugs, such as
a GLP-1 agonist and an SGLT2 inhibitor.  “No one that I am aware about has this kind of pipeline,”
Conterno said in an interview in Berlin, where he was attending
the  European Association for the Study of Diabetes  conference.
“Some companies are much more focused on one or two classes,
some are more focused on one product. This will provide us a
competitive advantage. We like where we stand.”  Diabetes afflicted 366 million people worldwide last year,
according to the  International Diabetes Federation . Drugmakers
are developing new products as the market is likely to grow to
more than $58 billion in 2018 from $35 billion now,  Standard &
Poor’s  said in an Oct. 4 report.  Eli Lilly , the maker of the
Humalog and Humulin insulins, lost ground in past years to
 Denmark ’s  Novo Nordisk A/S (NOVOB) , the world’s biggest insulin maker,
and  Sanofi (SAN) , whose Lantus garnered 3.92 billion euros ($5.1
billion) in sales in 2011.  Boehringer Deal  Eli Lilly, based in Indianapolis, reorganized its diabetes
operations almost three years ago, Conterno said. Last year, the
company ended a decade-long diabetes partnership with Amylin
Pharmaceuticals Inc., the maker of Byetta and Bydureon. This
allowed Lilly to focus on its own diabetes pipeline. Many
products are developed with  Germany ’s Boehringer Ingelheim GmbH
as part of a deal struck in 2011 to work on diabetes drugs.  In June, Lilly presented mid-stage trial results for a new
long-acting insulin, dubbed LY2605541. The therapy would
directly compete with Lantus and Novo’s Tresiba, which is
currently being reviewed by the U.S. Food and Drug
Administration.  LY2605541 matched Lantus in blood-sugar control while
helping patients lose weight, unlike all other insulins, the
data showed. However, patients taking the Lilly product had an
increase in liver enzymes, a potential sign of liver damage,
compared with those taking Lantus, the trial results showed.  Lilly also published promising results on the SGLT2
inhibitor empagliflozin and its once-a-week experimental GLP-1
agonist, known as dulaglutide.  Amylin Decision  People suffering from diabetes lack the insulin needed to
convert blood sugar into energy. GLP-1 agonists such as
dulaglutide mimic the function of a digestive hormone that
stimulates the pancreas to produce insulin after meals.  SGLT2 inhibitors reduce glucose reabsorption in the kidney,
leading to excretion of excess glucose via the urine.  “Looks like we’ve made good progress,” Peruvian-born
Conterno said last week. “Our competitors are talking a lot
more about us, and that’s a very good sign.”  The decision to end the Amylin partnership wasn’t easy,
Conterno said.  The move was, “in essence, a bet on dulaglutide,” he
said. “We’ve gotten more and more data and the product so far
looks very, very good. We like what our prospects are.”  Dulaglutide, if approved, would compete with Byetta and
Bydureon, which Eli Lilly is still selling outside the U.S.,
according to Conterno.  Lilly Research  Bristol-Myers Squibb Co. (BMY) , which acquired Amylin for $5.3
billion earlier this year, and partner AstraZeneca Plc will soon
take over the products, he said.  Lilly will ensure the transition for Byetta and Bydureon is
made “in the best way,” Conterno said.  Eli Lilly’s competitors are starting to take notice.
“Lilly really seriously wants to be back in the innovation-
driven space,” Mads Krogsgaard Thomsen, Novo Nordisk’s chief
scientific officer, said in an interview last week in Berlin.
“My eyes are clearly on what Lilly is doing because they are
the ones that have a pipeline in our area of R&D, unlike
others.”  Some aspects of Lilly’s diabetes strategy still raise
questions.  The company is developing its new basal, or long-acting,
LY2605541 alongside a biosimilar version of Lantus, also a long-
acting insulin. If both were approved, the products would
compete with each other.  ‘Game Changer’  It’s still unclear “how Lilly wants to prioritize its
biosimilar version of Lantus,”  Alistair Campbell , an analyst at
Berenberg Bank, said in a telephone interview. If late-stage
results from LY2605541 are good, “they will pretty much
prioritize that, but if that drug falls on the way, then I would
expect them to prioritize the biosimilar much more.”  Eli Lilly plans to move ahead with both projects, Conterno
said. The Lilly version of Lantus would be introduced as soon as
Sanofi loses the patent on the product in 2015, he said.  “Assuming both complete trials successfully, we intend to
launch both,” Conterno said. “Clearly the innovative basal
insulin can be a game changer.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Albertina Torsoli in Paris at 
 atorsoli@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  