-- Lilly Alzheimer’s Drug Slows Mental Decline, Study Finds
-- B y   S h a n n o n   P e t t y p i e c e
-- 2012-10-08T20:15:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-08/lilly-alzheimer-s-drug-slows-mental-decline-study-finds.html
Eli Lilly & Co. (LLY) ’s experimental
Alzheimer’s treatment slowed  memory loss  and cognitive decline
in early-stage patients by about 30 percent, offering the first
evidence that a medication may hamper the course of the ailment,
researchers said.  The benefit, though small, supports further research
targeting a protein called beta amyloid, said Rachelle Doody,
chairwoman of Alzheimer’s disease research at Baylor College of
Medicine who presented the findings today at the  American
Neurological Association  meeting in  Boston .  The independent analysis by Doody and colleagues at the
 University of California ,  San Diego , supported Lilly’s report in
August. At that time, Lilly said the drug, solanezumab, slowed
mental decline in those with mild Alzheimer’s while providing no
benefit to more advanced patients. To market the drug, Lilly may
need to do another study to confirm the findings, said Maria
Carrillo, a vice president of medical and scientific relations
at the  Alzheimer’s Association .  “This isn’t the home run that is going to get you a
medication by the end of the year, but it is very encouraging
because with subsequent studies this could be a viable
therapeutic option,” Carrillo said in an interview. “We need
more options for our patients and families. We are very
encouraged by what this could mean.”  Next Steps  Lilly hasn’t met with the U.S.  Food and Drug Administration 
to discuss the next steps for gaining approval of the drug, said
Eric Siemers, a senior medical director at Indianapolis-based
Lilly.  The improvement may not be enough for regulatory clearance,
according to Alex Arfaei, an analyst with BMO Capital Markets in
New York.  “We continue to believe the absolute difference is only
nominally statistically significant and indicative of a ’hint of
clinical activity,’ but not clinically meaningful, and most
likely not enough to warrant approval,” Arfaei wrote in a note
today.  Lilly rose 5.3 percent to $50.78 at the close of trading in
New York, the company’s  biggest  single-day gain since March
2009, and highest level since April 2008. Shares of Lilly have
increased 22 percent this year.  About 5.4 million Americans have Alzheimer’s, the most-
common form of dementia, and the number is expected to surge to
as many as 16 million by 2050 as the population ages, according
to the  Alzheimer’s Association . Drugs on the market now address
only the symptoms, not the underlying cause, and none has been
shown to slow progression of the disease.  Solanezumab attaches to a protein called beta amyloid that
builds up into clumps in the brains of Alzheimer’s patients.
Lilly’s treatment is designed to prevent those clumps from
forming.  Beta Amyloid  Whether preventing the buildup of beta amyloid will have an
effect on patients has been debated for years by Alzheimer’s
researchers.  Pfizer Inc. (PFE)  and  Johnson & Johnson (JNJ)  stopped late-
stage testing of a drug that also targeted beta amyloid after it
failed to show a benefit to patients. The medicine appeared to
lessen a measure of nerve cell damage in the brain and the
buildup of amyloid plaque, signaling it could show promise for
early use.  Today’s findings add evidence to the argument that
targeting beta amyloid provides a benefit to patients and should
be tested further, Doody said.  The only other therapy in final-stage testing is  Baxter
International Inc. (BAX) ’s Gammagard. The product is an expensive,
scarce treatment derived from donated blood plasma that replaces
antibodies in people whose immune systems can’t protect them
from infection. Results on whether it could slow or stop
Alzheimer’s may be available next year.  Lilly tested its drug in two studies involving a total of
2,000 patients, about two-thirds of whom had the mild form of
the disease. Most patients in the studies were also taking one
of the drugs currently on the market to treat the Alzheimer’s
symptoms, such as  Forest Laboratories Inc. (FRX) ’s Namenda.  Two Studies  In the first study, called EXPEDITION 1, patients with mild
Alzheimer’s had a 42 percent reduction in cognitive decline at
18 months, Lilly said today in a statement. In the second study,
dubbed EXPEDITION 2, there was just a 20 percent reduction. When
the mild patients from both studies were pooled together, Lilly
said they found a 34 percent reduction in cognitive decline.
Doody said researchers typically look for a 25 percent reduction
when designing studies.  In one study, the treatment showed an improvement in daily
activity functioning in patients with mild Alzheimer’s, though
that benefit wasn’t statistically significant in the second
study, Doody said.  None of the studies showed any benefit in the patients with
the moderate stage of the disease.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shannon Pettypiece in  New York  at 
 spettypiece@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  