-- IMF Reduces Latin American Growth Forecast on Global Downturn
-- B y   E r i c   M a r t i n
-- 2012-10-08T21:30:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-08/imf-reduces-latin-american-growth-forecast-on-global-downturn.html
The  International Monetary Fund  cut
its economic growth forecast for  Latin America  and the Caribbean
for this year and next as the global environment deteriorates.  The region will expand 3.2 percent this year and 3.9
percent in 2013, compared with the previous estimates of 3.4
percent and 4.2 percent, the Washington-based lender said today
in its World Economic Outlook. Brazil will expand 4 percent next
year, compared with a 4.6 percent estimate in July, while
Mexico’s forecast was lowered to 3.5 percent from 3.6 percent.  “The main near-term risks relate to an escalation of the
euro area crisis and the U.S. fiscal cliff,” the IMF said,
referring to a possible slump in spending if Congress can’t
agree on more moderate cuts. “Policy makers in the region must
be alert to spillovers from weaker prospects in advanced
economies and major  emerging markets  outside the region,
volatile capital flows, and emerging domestic financial risks.”  Brazilian President  Dilma Rousseff ’s government is working
to revive the economy, which analysts forecast will expand this
year at the slowest pace among major emerging markets. Since
August 2011, policy makers have reduced the benchmark Selic rate
500 basis points to a  record 7.5 percent , extended tax cuts for
consumers and pressured banks to lower lending costs. Traders
are betting on an additional 25 point rate cut this week.  In Mexico, annual inflation has remained above the upper
limit of the central bank’s 2 percent to 4 percent target range
since June as a bird-flu outbreak and drought pushed up egg,
poultry and corn prices. Mexico has left its main  interest rate 
unchanged since 2009, and growth has topped Brazil’s for the
past year as the nation benefited from the recovery in the U.S.,
its largest trade partner.  While inflation is a concern in much of the region,
particularly Venezuela and Argentina, “monetary policy should
be the first line of defense if global growth slows more than
expected, especially in economies with established and tested
inflation-targeting frameworks,” the IMF said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Eric Martin  in Mexico City at 
 emartin21@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net . 