-- IMF Lifts Sub-Sahara Africa GDP Forecast on Commodities
-- B y   A n d r e s   R .   M a r t i n e z
-- 2012-10-09T08:43:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-08/imf-lifts-sub-sahara-africa-growth-forecast-on-commodity-prices.html
The International Monetary Fund
raised its forecast for economic growth in Sub-Saharan  Africa 
next year as the world’s poorest region benefits from rising
commodity prices.  Gross domestic product will expand 5.7 percent in 2013, the
fastest pace after developing nations in Asia, up from 5 percent
this year, the Washington-based lender said in its World
Economic Outlook report. In July, the IMF predicted 5.3 percent
growth for next year.  “Export diversification has reduced exposure to weak
demand from advanced economies,” the IMF said. “High commodity
prices have supported the region’s commodity exporters and
boosted investment in resource extraction.”  The Standard & Poor’s GSCI gauge of 24 commodities has
increased 11 percent in the past four months as central banks
from the U.S. Federal Reserve to the European Central Bank
pledged to keep borrowing costs low and bolster their economies
to prevent another global recession.  While sub-Saharan Africa has become less dependent on
 Europe  and the U.S. to sell its goods, the debt crisis in the
euro-area and slower economic growth still pose a risk to trade,
the IMF said.  “Risks to the outlook remain high, primarily because of
global uncertainties,” it said. “If the euro-area crisis
escalates further and global growth slows further, sub-Saharan
Africa’s prospects will be less favorable.”  South Africa  The IMF’s growth estimate is higher than the World Bank’s
prediction of 5.2 percent expansion in the region in 2013, up
from 4.8 percent this year. Investment in Africa, including
capital flows and foreign direct investment, will probably drop
to $36.6 billion this year from $42.4 billion in 2011, the
Washington-based lender said in its Africa’s Pulse report on
Oct. 4.  Inflation in the region will slow next year to an average
of 7.1 percent from 9.1 percent this year, according to the
report.  South Africa, the continent’s biggest economy, will
probably expand 3 percent next year from 2.6 percent in 2012,
the IMF said. Fiscal and monetary authorities have limited room
to spur economic growth, it said.  Finance Minister  Pravin Gordhan  has pledged to rein in the
budget deficit to 3 percent of gross domestic product by 2015
from 4.5 percent this year. The Reserve Bank’s benchmark
interest rate is at 5 percent, the lowest level in more than 30
years.  Nigeria Expansion  “This constraint is particularly acute on the fiscal side,
where fiscal space will shrink further in a global slowdown,”
the IMF said. “Under such a scenario, the authorities may need
to rely more heavily on countercyclical monetary policy to
cushion the economy against adverse spillovers.”  Nigeria, the continent’s largest oil producer, will
probably expand 7.5 percent next year, the fastest pace among
the region’s petroleum producers, according to the IMF.  Kenya ,
the biggest economy in east Africa, is forecast to grow 5.6
percent in 2013, more than the 5.1 percent estimate for this
year, the lender said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andres R. Martinez in Johannesburg at 
 amartinez28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nasreen Seria at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net  