-- IMF Shakes Austerity Orthodoxy for New Pragmatism
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2012-10-08T22:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-08/imf-shakes-austerity-orthodoxy-for-new-pragmatism.html
Five years ago, the  International
Monetary Fund  was looking for a role. Thanks to the global
recession and its aftermath, it has one.  Today, if the IMF didn’t exist, governments would have to
invent it. At a time of global economic peril, the agency serves
not just as an emergency lender to distressed governments but
also as an indispensable forum for economic collaboration and
accountability.  At the IMF’s annual meeting, which takes place this week in
 Tokyo , finance ministers and central bankers will again explain
their policies to one another and discuss cooperating more
effectively. Just a talking shop, a skeptic might say.  True, real policy coordination is still an ambition more
than a reality, and much more needs to be done (especially in
cross-border financial regulation, to name just one area). Yet
don’t dismiss the value of the IMF as a global economic
secretariat and font of collective knowledge.  Changes in its worldview can shift the terms of the
discussion among governments and exert a subtle pressure on
policy. If investors and opposition politicians paid closer
attention and helped to press the case at the national level,
governments would find the IMF’s advice even harder to ignore,
which would be a good thing.  Severely Conservative  The IMF used to demand a severely conservative orthodoxy in
fiscal and financial affairs. Its officials never saw a  budget
deficit  that wasn’t too big or a financial restriction that
wasn’t choking growth. As a dispenser of aid to governments
under financial duress, the IMF could insist on its way or else,
and rarely flinched from doing so.  That made the IMF controversial, and in some quarters
detested. It was attacked, including by economists with Nobel
prizes, for acting as an instrument of capitalist oppression,
concerned only with the repayment of odious debts and to hell
with the human consequences. Almost always, in fact, the IMF’s
role was merely to explain the facts to government officials who
would prefer not to hear them.  That much, at least, hasn’t changed. But the facts have,
and so has the IMF’s thinking. In the past few years, through
public statements and its many publications, the IMF has moved a
great distance.  On fiscal affairs, its watchword is no longer “austerity
now” but cautious pragmatism. It used to be more fiscally
conservative than the average government. For the moment, it’s
arguably less so, often emphasizing the dangers of too much
fiscal tightening too soon.  On international capital flows, where it once deplored any
and all restrictions, it’s coming around to judicious use of
controls under certain circumstances.  Inflation was previously the spawn of the devil; the new
view says it’s bad, but there can be worse things. When demand
is deficient and fiscal restraint unavoidable, says the IMF’s
new World Economic Outlook, adequate and possibly unorthodox
“monetary accommodation” (which it might once have called
gambling with inflation) is vital.  On all these points, we agree. The recession has thrown
doubt on a lot of supposed certainties -- or should have. With
 interest rates  pinned at zero, fiscal policy must shoulder a
bigger role in countries where public debt isn’t so high as to
rule out stimulus. In today’s accelerated financial markets,
cross-border capital flows can be so disruptive (especially in
developing or undiversified economies) that mild controls,
intelligently applied, might sometimes be better for growth and
stability than laissez faire.  Inflation Tolerant  Digging out from a balance-sheet recession -- one brought
on by excessive debt and prolonged by sustained deleveraging --
may require a bit more tolerance of inflation risk than usual,
if the alternative threatens to be endless recession and
outright repudiation of debt. That trade-off ought to at least
be calmly examined, not ruled out of bounds.  As a member of the “troika” (along with the European
Commission and the  European Central Bank ) policing fiscal reform
in the euro area, the IMF is the one sounding the alarm about
self-reinforcing cycles of austerity and recession.  While insisting, as it should, that plans for better,
medium-term fiscal control in countries with bailout programs
are real, it’s warning against doing too much, too soon -- in
marked contrast to statements from Berlin and other European
capitals.  Addressing the U.S., the IMF implores Congress and the
 Barack Obama  administration to deal as quickly as possible with
the fiscal cliff of abrupt spending cuts and tax increases that
will take effect in January unless legislation is passed.  In each of these debates, the new pragmatic IMF is the
voice of reason. It’s impressive to see such a culturally
conservative institution leading this change, rather than being
reluctantly dragged along. We’ll be even more impressed when
governments start acting on its advice.  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View columns, editorials
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: Today’s highlights: the editors on  why
Romney is half-right  on  Syria ;  Jeffrey Goldberg  on  the
hypocrisies of the Free Gaza Movement ;  Ramesh Ponnuru  on  why
Ryan will win  the vice presidential debate; Betsey Stevenson and
 Justin Wolfers  on  Romney and fiscal responsibility ; Cass R.
Sunstein on  how turncoats make us more open-minded ; Adam
Freedman on the Obama administration’s  attack on property
rights ; Camille Paglia on Jacques-Louis David’s  painting of a
murder victim .  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 