-- In Praise of Turncoats, Richard Nixon to John Roberts
-- B y   C a s s   R .   S u n s t e i n
-- 2012-10-08T22:30:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-08/in-praise-of-turncoats-richard-nixon-to-john-roberts.html
Question: What do Whittaker Chambers,
Richard Nixon, John Roberts, Elena Kagan, Bill Clinton and Bob Dylan have in common?  Easier question: What do Judas, Benedict Arnold,  Chambers ,
Nixon, Roberts, Kagan, Clinton and Dylan have in common?  Answer: All of them have been denounced as turncoats.
A former communist, Chambers repudiated communism. Nixon went to
China. Roberts, nominated by President George W. Bush, voted to
uphold an important provision of Obamacare. Nominated by
President  Barack Obama , Kagan voted to strike down an important
provision of Obamacare. Clinton signed the law that ended
welfare as we knew it. Dylan went electric, abandoning folk
music for rock ’n’ roll.  Disloyalty is not a virtue, and traitors rank among
history’s worst villains. But societies need turncoats. In
authoritarian nations, turncoats may be freedom fighters. In
democracies suffering from a high degree of polarization,
turncoats are indispensable.  We need more  Nixons  going to China. We need more Dylans
going electric.  In politics, turncoats make sensible compromises possible.
If Democrats and Republicans are sharply divided on a question
of economic policy, and no one is willing to break ranks, an
agreement might be unachievable.  Endorsing Reason  The parties might be at loggerheads even if (as is often
the case) some members of both parties privately believe that
the views of the opposing party have merit. A single turncoat,
abandoning the party line, can embolden members of both sides to
say what they really think -- and ultimately spur reasonable
outcomes.  Turncoats also break down  echo chambers . If conservatives
or liberals are listening only to those on their side, they tend
to become more confident, more unified and more extreme. The
most serious problem with self-sorting is that it produces both
error and dogmatism. It can severely impede learning --
especially because those on the other side are so easy to
dismiss.  Because of their own allegiances and history, turncoats are
much harder to disregard. If Nixon goes to  China , and if Clinton
supports welfare reform, they can make people question beliefs
that have been able to persist only for one reason: Inside the
echo chamber, everyone shares them.  Turncoats are often independent thinkers, and they promote
independent thinking in other people. That is a public service
because on hard questions it is tempting to ask not about the
merits, but about the views of your fellow believers -- your
party, your church, your group, your team. And some disturbing
 evidence  shows that Republicans and Democrats are willing to
suspend their own thinking, and to put aside their own
independent views, after they learn about the opinions of their
party. By eliminating internal unanimity, turncoats encourage
people to get off automatic pilot and to think for themselves.  It is true that when Chief Justice Roberts  voted  to uphold
the health-care law, many conservatives dismissed him as a
turncoat and as a coward. But it is likely that at least some of
those who admire him, and usually agree with him, have been
considering the possibility that he was correct.  It goes without saying that leaders shouldn’t betray their
constituents or their colleagues. But in some cases, it is no
betrayal, and it is neither cowardly nor a capitulation, for
leaders to conclude that their constituencies and colleagues are
wrong. Turncoating can be an act of exceptional bravery.  None of this denies that turncoats can be wrongdoers. We
shouldn’t celebrate those who abandon good causes for bad ones.
To separate heroism from villainy, we need to specify the coat
and the turn. We have to identify the view that is being
repudiated and the particular reasons for its repudiation.  Apostates United  Nixon was right to go to China; the U.S. needed to engage
with that nation. Although people continue to disagree about
Clinton’s welfare-reform initiative, it was at least partly
successful, helping to move numerous people from welfare to
work.  Supreme Court  justices need to decide individual questions
on their merits, not to follow any party line. If they are doing
their jobs, they will be characterized as turncoats at least
some of the time.  A few years ago, I attended a  Bob Dylan  concert in
 Illinois . He closed with “Like a Rolling Stone,” the song that
branded him as an apostate in folk music, thus provoking a
famous cry of betrayal from an audience member in 1966: “Judas!”
In the 1960s, “Like a Rolling Stone” was bitter, angry and
contemptuous -- what Dylan himself called “a long piece of
vomit.” But on this evening, the once contemptuous words were
transformed into something joyful and exuberant, an unambiguous
celebration. “How does it feeeel? To be on your own? With no
direction home? Like a complete unknown? Like a rolling stone?”  It was a song of freedom. It was a song for turncoats.  (Cass R. Sunstein, the Felix Frankfurter professor of law
at Harvard University, is a Bloomberg View  columnist . He is the
former administrator of the White House Office of Information
and Regulatory Affairs, the co-author of “Nudge” and, most
recently, the author of “On Rumors: How Falsehoods Spread.” The
opinions expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on  why Romney is half-right  on
 Syria  and on  the end of the austerity era  at the IMF;  Jeffrey
Goldberg  on  the hypocrisies of the Free Gaza Movement ; Ramesh
Ponnuru on  why Ryan will win  the vice presidential debate;
Betsey Stevenson and Justin Wolfers on  Romney and fiscal
responsibility ; Adam Freedman on the Obama administration’s
 attack on property rights ; Camille Paglia on Jacques-Louis
David’s  painting of a murder victim .  To contact the writer of this article:
Cass R. Sunstein at  csunstei@law.harvard.edu .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Katy Roberts at   kroberts29@bloomberg.net . 