-- Indian Oil Decreases Gasoline Prices, Bringing Singh Relief
-- B y   R a k t e e m   K a t a k e y   a n d   T u s h a r   D h a r a
-- 2012-10-08T18:31:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-08/indian-oil-decreases-gasoline-prices-bringing-singh-relief.html
  Indian Oil Corp. (IOCL)  cut gasoline prices
for the first time since June after the rupee appreciated,
giving Prime Minister Manmohan Singh relief from criticism for
raising diesel prices last month.  The  price  will be decreased by 0.56 rupees a liter ($0.1)
in New Delhi starting today, Indian Oil, the nation’s biggest
refiner, said in an e-mailed statement. Rivals  Hindustan
Petroleum Corp. (HPCL)  and  Bharat Petroleum Corp. (BPCL)  usually follow Indian
Oil’s action. Gasoline will cost 67.90 rupees in the capital New
Delhi, according to Indian Oil’s website.  A 14 percent increase in diesel prices was the first of a
number of measures Singh announced to narrow a  budget deficit ,
attract overseas investors and revive an economy that’s growing
at close to the slowest pace in three years. The steps have been
opposed by political parties and resulted in an ally of the
government’s ruling coalition withdrawing support. Singh
promised to unveil more policy changes.  A decline in Brent crude oil prices since Sept. 14, when
the government raised diesel prices, and a 3.2 percent gain in
the rupee allowed Indian Oil to cut gasoline prices. The company
continues to lose money on diesel, kerosene and cooking gas
sales, according to the statement.  Indian Oil  shares  rose 0.4 percent to 260.05 rupees in
Mumbai yesterday before the announcement, compared with a 1.2
percent fall in the benchmark  Sensitive Index. (SENSEX)   Bharat Petroleum 
lost 0.3 percent and Hindustan Petroleum fell 0.5 percent.  The three state-owned companies may lose 1.6 trillion
rupees in the year ending March 31 from selling diesel, kerosene
and cooking gas below cost, according to the statement.  The government reduced excise duty on gasoline by 5.30
rupees a liter on Sept. 14 to reduce refiners’ losses. The
benefit wasn’t passed on to customers. The price of diesel was
raised to 46.95 rupees a liter in New Delhi and the number of
subsidized cooking gas bottles was limited to six a year for
each family.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rakteem Katakey in New Delhi at 
 rkatakey@bloomberg.net ;
Tushar Dhara in  New Delhi  at 
 tdhara1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  