-- India’s GDP Growth to Drop to Lowest in a Decade, IMF Says
-- B y   K a r t i k   G o y a l
-- 2012-10-09T04:31:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-08/india-growth-to-drop-to-decade-low-amid-high-inflation-imf-says.html
Indian growth may weaken to a decade-
low this year after investment stalled, the  International
Monetary Fund  said, as it called for  interest rates  to remain
unchanged until the nation’s high inflation rate eases.  Gross domestic product  will rise 4.9 percent in 2012, the
Washington-based lender said in its World Economic Outlook
report today, less than a July forecast of 6.1 percent. The
expansion will accelerate to 6 percent next year, it said,
helped by improving overseas markets and a boost to confidence
from a recent government policy revamp.  “The outlook for  India  is unusually uncertain,” the IMF
said. “ Monetary policy  should stay on hold until a sustained
decrease in inflation materializes.”  India’s government began the policy overhaul last month to
boost the economy and avert a credit-rating downgrade, snapping
months of political gridlock. The steps to curb expenditure on
subsidies, contain a fiscal deficit and permit more investment
from abroad triggered a surge in the rupee and buoyed  stocks .  “There is an urgent need to reaccelerate infrastructure
investment, especially in the energy sector, and to launch a new
set of structural reforms, with a view to boosting business
investment and removing supply bottlenecks,” the IMF said.
“Structural reform also includes tax and spending reforms, in
particular, reducing or eliminating subsidies, while protecting
the poor.”  Budget Deficit  The government’s recent policy changes are “very
welcome,” the fund also said. Its forecast for economic growth
in 2013 compares with an estimate of 6.5 percent in July.  Indian  inflation  probably accelerated to 7.68 percent in
September, according to a  Bloomberg News survey  before a report
due Oct. 15. The  Reserve Bank  of India has left interest rates
unchanged since a cut to 8 percent from 8.5 percent in April,
the first reduction since 2009.  India’s overall fiscal deficit may widen to 9.5 percent of
gross domestic product in 2012, compared with a projection of
8.3 percent in April, according the IMF’s figures. The shortfall
will be 9.1 percent next year, higher than April’s estimate of
8.2 percent. The gap was 9 percent in 2011, the IMF said.  The government’s policy changes began with a 14 percent
increase in diesel prices announced on Sept. 13 to restrain
expenditure on compensation for below-cost sales. The
administration also said it will pare the supply of subsidized
cooking gas.  While such steps are “significant,” underperforming tax
revenues and demand for more social spending because of a below-
average monsoon season are among obstacles to narrowing the
fiscal shortfall, according to the fund.  “Achieving the downward deficit path laid out in the
2012/13 medium-term budget will require further measures,
including sustainable subsidy reform,” it said.  India’s rupee has strengthened about 6 percent against the
dollar since the nation started the policy revamp, paring its
decline in the past year. The currency climbed 0.7 percent to
52.2675 per dollar as of 9:30 a.m. in Mumbai, while the BSE
India Sensitive Index of stocks advanced 0.8 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kartik Goyal in  New Delhi  at 
 kgoyal@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shamim Adam in Singapore at 
 sadam2@bloomberg.net  