-- Tinkoff Credit Chairman Says Sale of Company Is an Option
-- B y   A m y   T h o m s o n
-- 2012-10-08T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-08/tinkoff-credit-examines-sale-to-google-amid-ipo-delay.html
Tinkoff Credit Systems, a Russian
consumer lender considering an initial public offering, said it
could put itself up for sale to a company such as  Google Inc. (GOOG)   An IPO could raise as much as $500 million and may happen
in the next 24 to 36 months, Chairman Oleg Tinkov said in an
interview yesterday. An alternative exit for Tinkoff Credit,
which started in 2007 with the help of investments from  Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. (GS) , could be a sale to a company trying to expand
in the Russian lending market, he said.  “One possibility is Google,” Tinkov said, without saying
whether Tinkoff Credit is in talks with the  Mountain View ,
California-based search company. “They cannot create local
credit expertise. They’d have to buy.”  The branchless bank of Tinkoff Credit is modeled on  Capital
One Financial Corp. (COF)  in the U.S., a pioneer of card distribution
via direct mail, which Tinkov said he learned about firsthand
while living in  San Francisco . Since it was founded, Moscow-
based Tinkoff Credit has issued more than 2.3 million cards in
 Russia  as of August and it ranks fifth in lending, according to
the company.  A Google representative declined to comment. The search
company said this week it’s starting a credit business to help
clients finance the purchase of online advertising.  London Exchange  Tinkov said that the London stock market is the front-
runner for an IPO because there isn’t enough liquidity in Moscow
and reporting rules are too stringent in the U.S. However, the
company has no plans to expand its services into the U.K., he
said.  Tinkoff Credit said yesterday it would aim to raise $350
million to $500 million in an IPO. The Russian lender previously
said it could raise about $500 million and use the proceeds to
add small business loans and insurance products to its suite of
financial products. In July, Tinkov said his best case scenario
would be to have an IPO in the fourth quarter of 2013 or early
2014.  “We tend to back our winners,” said Julian Salisbury,
managing director of the European special situations group for
Goldman Sachs. “We’ve made subsequent investments, providing
loans and equity, and are in the main very happy shareholders.
We’ll exit together.”  ‘IPO Ready’  Google began offering credit to businesses through its
AdWords offering in the U.K. this week and will extend the
program to the U.S. later this month. The AdWords Business
Credit accounts will help corporate customers pay for their
online advertising.  Google, which controls 26.6 percent of the search market in
Russia, lags local company Yandex with 60.6 percent. Google is
part of a wave of international companies attempting to break
into the Russian market and its more than 70 million  Internet
users .  Tinkoff Credit predicts profit to surge next year, Tinkov
said.  “We have to serve the customer better, we have to gain
market share and net income will be much higher next year,” he
said. “It’s very hypothetical. We are IPO ready today. We have
to deliver the numbers first.”  Tinkoff Credit will report net income of $120 million for
2012, president Oliver Hughes said yesterday. By the end of next
year, the lender may be valued at 12 to 14 times earnings,
Tinkov said.  Consumer Spending   Tinkov, who has created and sold several businesses,
including a frozen-food producer, a retail electronics chain, a
brewery and a string of restaurants, has also created a mobile
ad platform called Tinkoff Digital, which facilitates sales of
online display advertising targeted at Russian customers.  The Siberia-born entrepreneur said he worked in a mine for
a year before moving to  St. Petersburg  in 1988 where he attended
university and started his first businesses.  “I strongly believe that Russia is one of the best places
to be in terms of doing business,” Tinkov said. “One hundred
forty million people, no competition, very fast growing market.
It’s very profitable, there is a lot of cash, and consumers
spend money.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Amy Thomson in London at 
 athomson6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  