-- Intesa, Enel Sell Bonds as Corporate Debt Risk Rises in Europe
-- B y   A b i g a i l   M o s e s
-- 2012-10-08T14:23:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-08/intesa-enel-sell-bonds-as-corporate-debt-risk-rises-in-europe.html
The cost of insuring against default
on European corporate debt rose for the first time in six days
as finance ministers prepared to meet to discuss the sovereign
crisis. Italy’s  Intesa Sanpaolo SpA (ISP)  and  Enel SpA (ENEL)  sold bonds.  The Markit iTraxx Crossover Index of 50 companies with
mostly high-yield credit ratings rose seven basis points to 538
at 3:15 p.m. in London. Italy’s second-biggest bank is selling
1.25 billion euros ($1.62 billion) of seven-year senior
unsecured bonds, while the country’s largest energy producer is
selling 2 billion euros of notes in a two-part deal.  European officials meet in Luxembourg today to discuss
Spain’s finances and closer banking cooperation, while German
Chancellor Angela Merkel visits Greece tomorrow before a summit
next week aimed at easing the three-year-old debt crisis.  Banco
Popolare SC (BP)  is also selling bonds as borrowers from Europe’s
most indebted nations take advantage of investor appetite fueled
by the European Central Bank’s plan to fix the crisis.  “It’s a continuation of the trend of seeing a fairly hefty
amount of issuance in the periphery,” said  Suki Mann , a
strategist at Societe Generale SA in London.  Enel and Intesa’s offerings helped boost bond sales by
banks and non-financial companies to at least 3.8 billion euros,
the busiest day for issuance since Sept. 18 when 5.3 billion
euros was raised, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Enel’s sale is the biggest in euros by a corporate borrower
since Petroleo Brasileiro SA,  Brazil ’s state-controlled oil
producer, raised 2 billion euros of debt in a two-part deal on
Sept. 24.  Price Falls  The company’s securities made up eight of today’s biggest
price fallers in Bank of America Merrill Lynch’s EMU Non-
Financial Corporates index. The utility’s 5 percent bonds due
2022 dropped 0.8 cent to 103.99 cents on the euro, pushing the
yield to a one-week high of 4.57 percent, data compiled by
Bloomberg show.  The average yield on investment-grade corporate bonds in
 Europe  is 2.14 percent, just three basis points more than the
record 2.11 percent reached Sept. 3, according to Bank of
America Merrill Lynch’s index of notes with an average maturity
of five years. The yield relative to the swap rate has shrunk 43
basis points this year to a three-week low of 120 basis points.  Intesa’s 4 percent 2018 bonds slumped 1.18 cent today to
99.77 cents on the euro. That’s pushed the yield 25 basis points
higher to 4.13 percent, the highest in a week.  Credit-default swaps on Intesa rose for the first time in
more than a week, climbing four basis points to 321, and Enel
increased four to 241. Swaps on Banco Popolare fell for a fifth
day, dropping 13 basis points to a more than two-week low of 495
basis points.  The Markit iTraxx Europe Index of 125 companies with
investment-grade ratings rose two basis points to 128. An
increase signals deterioration in perceptions of credit quality.  The Markit iTraxx Financial Index linked to senior debt of
25 banks and insurers rose three basis point to 181 and the
subordinated index increased three to 314.  A basis point on a credit-default swap protecting 10
million euros of debt from default for five years is equivalent
to 1,000 euros a year. Swaps pay the buyer face value in
exchange for the underlying securities or the cash equivalent
should a borrower fail to adhere to its debt agreements.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Abigail Moses in  London  at 
 Amoses5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Armstrong at 
 Parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  