-- Iran Oil Sanctions Boosting Returns for Nordic American: Freight
-- B y   I s a a c   A r n s d o r f
-- 2012-10-09T13:40:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-08/iran-oil-sanctions-boosting-returns-for-nordic-american-freight.html
European sanctions on buying oil from
Iran are turning into a windfall for owners of Suezmax tankers,
shipping the most cargoes in at least nine years as  Saudi Arabia 
and  Iraq  increase supply.  Rates for the vessels, which can sail fully loaded with 1
million barrels through the  Suez Canal  to destinations in the
Mediterranean, will rise 61 percent to an average of $19,000 a
day this quarter, the median of six analyst estimates compiled
by Bloomberg shows. Shares of  Nordic American Tankers Ltd. (NAT) ,
which operates a fleet of 20 carriers, will gain 33 percent in
12 months, based on the average of seven forecasts.  Saudi Arabian output is now within 1 percent of a record
and Iraq is pumping the most since 2000, compensating for Iran,
once OPEC’s second-biggest producer, which is exporting about 50
percent less oil than last year. The 27-nation European Union
imposed an embargo in July over  Iran’s nuclear program . The
extra cargoes are helping to diminish a glut of Suezmaxes that
caused earnings for the ships to drop 59 percent this year.  “The canal trade is becoming a new mainstay,” said Jeff
McGee, the head of marine research and consulting at Poten &
Partners Inc., a shipbroker in  New York . “There was a heavy
appetite in the Mediterranean for Iranian oil, and now they have
to get it from somewhere else.”  Suezmax earnings dropped to $11,810 this year, according to
London-based Clarkson Plc, the world’s largest shipbroker.
Forward freight agreements, handled by brokers and used to bet
on future shipping costs, anticipate a fourth-quarter average of
$13,034, based on data from Marex Spectron Group, which handles
the contracts.  Discharging Cargoes  While Suezmaxes can travel through the Suez Canal fully
loaded, very large crude carriers cannot.  Iran  typically favored
using the larger tankers, discharging cargoes into a pipeline
running alongside the canal. The oil would then be picked up by
smaller vessels at the other end for deliveries throughout the
Mediterranean. Shippers are now using Suezmaxes because they can
deliver directly to refineries.  Shipments from the  Persian Gulf  to  Europe  accounted for 64
percent of growth in Suezmax cargoes last quarter, according to
Poten. The ships carried 42 million barrels of oil through the
120-mile canal in the period, from 22 million a year earlier,
the broker estimates. Global monthly bookings averaged 178.3
million barrels this year, the most since at least 2004, Poten
data show.  Demand Growth  NITC, the Tehran-based tanker company, operates 25 VLCCs
and nine Suezmaxes, according to its website. One of its VLCCs
called at  Egypt ’s Red Sea terminal of Ain Sukhna last quarter,
from 11 a year earlier, ship-tracking data compiled by Bloomberg
show. Iran exported about 1.15 million barrels a day last month,
compared with an average of 2.4 million last year, data compiled
by Bloomberg show.  The increase in cargoes for Suezmaxes isn’t completely
erasing the glut, with the fleet’s capacity projected to expand
8.9 percent this year, the most since 1977, Clarkson estimates.
That compares with anticipated demand growth of 2.4 percent. The
$19,000 predicted for the fourth quarter is still below the
$23,700 that owners need to break even on a five-year-old
vessel, according to Pareto Securities AS, an Oslo-based
investment bank.  Owners ordered too many ships after rates jumped as high as
$155,000 in 2008. The fleet grew 33 percent since the end of
that year, according to data from IHS Inc. Outstanding orders at
shipyards are equal to 19 percent of existing capacity, more
than for any other type of tanker, figures from the Englewood,
Colorado-based research company show.  Energy Agency  Global growth in demand for crude is stalling as the
economic recovery weakens. The  International Energy Agency  cut
its world consumption forecast six times this year and expects
European usage to contract 1.4 percent in 2013. The 17-nation
euro area’s economy won’t expand again until the second quarter
as governments seek to tackle the debt crisis, according to the
median of 24 economist estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  The glut in Suezmaxes extends to most other types of
commodity shipping. VLCC earnings plunged 63 percent to $11,519
a day this year, Clarkson data show. That’s less than the
$23,900 that Frontline Ltd., the biggest operator of the
vessels, says it needs to break even. Rates for Capesizes,
hauling coal and iron ore, dropped 57 percent to $10,414 a day,
according to the  Baltic Exchange  in  London , whose data are used
as benchmarks for about 75 percent of commodity cargoes.  Smaller Ships  Oil companies  favor Suezmaxes for the journeys to Europe
from the Persian Gulf because they cost about 14 percent less
than VLCCs. Shipping a barrel of Persian Gulf oil to the
Mediterranean on a Suezmax costs $1.27, compared with $1.47 on a
VLCC, data compiled by Bloomberg show. The smaller ships can
also call at more ports, with just three in Europe that
regularly receive supertankers.  The EU imported 452,000 barrels a day from Iran in the
first half of 2011, the equivalent of about 14 Suezmaxes a
month, U.S. Energy Department data show. All shipments halted
from July 1 under sanctions designed to pressure Iran into
halting its nuclear research, which the EU and U.S. say is aimed
at creating an atomic weapon. The government in Tehran says it
is for civilian purposes.  The extra Persian Gulf cargoes for Suezmaxes are helping to
compensate for declining imports into the U.S. from West Africa.
Supplies of U.S. oil are the highest since 1996, diminishing the
country’s need to buy African crude. U.S. imports from Angola
and  Nigeria  averaged 660,000 barrels a day this year, the lowest
since 1986, Energy Department data show.  West Africa  The oil is going to  Asia  instead and shippers are favoring
VLCCs over Suezmaxes because the additional journey length makes
the larger tankers more economical. Asian importers will buy
1.59 million barrels from West Africa this month, compared with
1.51 million a year ago, according to loading programs obtained
by Bloomberg.  Nordic American, based in Hamilton,  Bermuda , will report a
net loss of $33.3 million next year, narrowing from $44.9
million in 2012, the mean of seven analyst estimates shows.
Shares of the company dropped 20 percent to $9.56 this year in
New York trading and are projected to reach $12.71 in 12 months.
Chief Executive Officer Herbjorn Hansson declined to comment.  Shares of  Teekay Corp. (TK) , which operates 25 Suezmaxes, rose
21 percent to $32.29 in New York this year and will advance to
$35.25 in a year, the average of eight estimates shows. The
Hamilton-based company also operates other vessel classes, with
Suezmaxes accounting for about 17 percent of its combined
capacity.  While Clarkson expects global demand for Suezmaxes to
expand 2.4 percent this year, it is also projecting a 17 percent
gain in Middle East shipments to the Mediterranean.  “Some of the refineries that used to be supplied by Iran
cannot take VLCCs or don’t want to,” said  Olivier Jakob , the
managing director of Petromatrix GmbH, a research company based
in Zug,  Switzerland . “This issue of replacing Iranian barrels
is supporting Suezmaxes.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Isaac Arnsdorf in London at 
 iarnsdorf@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alaric Nightingale at 
 anightingal1@bloomberg.net  