-- Hit-Man Mitt Shamed By ‘Frontline’; ‘Nashville’: Review
-- B y   G r e g   E v a n s
-- 2012-10-08T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-08/hit-man-mitt-shamed-by-frontline-nashville-review.html
Mitt Romney  declared in last week’s
presidential debate that he’d do away with the Public
Broadcasting Service. Maybe it was because he’d been given an
advance look at “Frontline’s” essential election primer, “The
Choice 2012”.  Killing public television along with federal arts funding
has been on the Republican agenda for years. But Romney was
unusually blunt: Move me into the White House and say goodbye to
“Frontline,” “POV,” “The Civil War,” “Nature,” “American
Masters,” “Sesame Street,” “Live From  Lincoln Center ” and
“Masterpiece Theatre,” among others.  PBS isn’t just Peter, Paul & Mary and  James Taylor  at
telethon time. It’s been part of the fabric of our democracy
ever since President Kennedy’s Federal Communications Commission
chairman Newton Minnow called commercial TV a “vast wasteland.”  And of course it’s been a thorn in the side of politicians
of every stripe, but mostly conservative Republicans.  Consider “The Choice,” which views Romney as a shape-
shifting businessman, “a turnaround specialist” who “crafted
himself to meet the politics of the moment.”  Barack Obama  is an astute, if pie-in-the-sky, politician,
“whose promise to unite the country ran into the harsh reality
of politics.”  Level-Headed  The two-hour documentary could stand as the most concise,
level-headed political biography we’re likely to get this
election season.  Directed by “Frontline” producer Michael Kirk (whose recent
“Money, Power and  Wall Street ” was equally clarifying), “Choice”
begins its dual narratives with notable failures: Romney’s
disastrous 1994 debate for Senate with incumbent  Ted Kennedy ,
and Obama’s 2000 loss to Congressional incumbent Bobby Rush.  Both defeats were formative. Rush publicly dismissed Obama
as “an educated fool,” tapping into perceptions of aloofness and
arrogance that would dog the future president. Kennedy schooled
a flustered Romney on policy.  The program then delves into the early years of candidates,
interviewing family, friends, colleagues and journalists.  “The Choice” finds fascinating nuggets in these well-worn
histories. In his 1972 high school yearbook, Obama thanks a pal
named Ray, the school’s pot dealer, while a young Romney rarely
spoke of his great-grandfather’s five wives and 30 children.  “Frontline,” though, isn’t after the salacious. “Choice”
uses the personal facts to build convincing profiles of
political character.  “He had come to see himself as a White Knight,” says the
narrator, describing Romney’s years at  Bain Capital , when
investor profits in struggling companies often came at the
expense of workers’ jobs. “He could fix almost anything.”  “The Choice 2012” airs Oct. 9 on most PBS stations at 9 p.m.
 New York  time. Rating: ****  ‘Nashville’ Cats  “Thank God for Auto-Tune,” snipes a record producer, as a
sexy country music siren struggles through a song.  “ Nashville ,” ABC’s tasty new backstage drama, needs no such
help. It’s “ Smash ” gone country, with pitch-perfect twang and
credible concert performances free of elaborate music-video
nonsense.  Connie Britton plays Rayna Jaymes, a country singer just
beginning a downward slip after 20 years of superstardom.  Her record label is demanding that she sign on as the
opening act for rising star Juliette Barnes (Hayden Panettiere),
a Taylor Swift type with more looks than talent.  Created by Callie Khouri (who wrote “Thelma & Louise”),
“Nashville” pits the two divas against one another, surrounds
them with entourages, backstabbers and dreamers, and somehow
mostly avoids “Valley of the Dolls” bitchiness.  Mostly.  “My mama was one of your biggest fans,” says the bratty
Juliette upon meeting Rayna. “She’d listen to you when I was
still in her belly.”  “Nashville” airs Oct. 10 on ABC at 10 p.m. New York time.
Rating: ***1/2  ( Greg Evans  is a critic for Muse, the arts and leisure
section of  Bloomberg News . The opinions expressed are his own.)  Muse highlights include  Elin McCoy  on wine and  Craig
Seligman  on books.  To contact the writer on the story: Greg Evans at
 gregeaevans@yahoo.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 