-- LIU Brooklyn Reduces Basketball Suspensions After Campus Arrests
-- B y   E b e n   N o v y - W i l l i a m s
-- 2012-10-08T20:36:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-08/liu-brooklyn-reduces-basketball-suspensions-after-campus-arrests.html
Long Island University Brooklyn 
reduced suspensions for four members of the men’s basketball
team after reviewing the details of a campus fight last month
that resulted in their arrests.  Julian Boyd, Jamal Olasewere and Carl Garner, the team’s
top three scorers last season, and Troy Joseph were barred
indefinitely in September after being charged with assault. The
school announced today in an e-mailed release that the
suspensions had been reduced to two games, and that each player
was placed on probation.  All four will “continue to participate in an anger-
management program and undergo counseling, as well as perform
community service,” provost Gale Stevens-Haynes said in the
release.  The Blackbirds won the  Northeast Conference  championship
the last two seasons, gaining entry each time into the National
Collegiate Athletic Association tournament. The players will be
suspended for the team’s first two conference games this season.  Olasewere, 21, was charged with four counts of assault,
while Garner, 22, Boyd, 22, and Joseph, 21, were charged with
three counts each, according to the  New York  Police Department.  The incident occurred at a back-to-school event in a campus
building at 12:30 a.m. on Sept. 15. A verbal argument escalated
into a fight between members of the basketball team and other
students, according to the NYPD.  The Blackbirds have lost in the NCAA tournament’s Round of
64 each of the last two seasons. They fell to the  University of
North Carolina  in 2011 and to  Michigan State University  this
year.  Boyd averaged 17.4 points and 9.3 rebounds per game last
year, both team highs. Olasewere’s 16.9 points and 7.5 rebounds
were second in both categories, while Garner averaged 12.6
points per game, the only other Blackbird to average 10 or more
points per game.  Joseph didn’t play in 2011-12 due to injury, according to
his bio page in the school’s basketball media guide.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eben Novy-Williams in New York at 
 enovywilliam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  