-- Jay Levy, Part of ‘Dynasty’ That Forecast 2008 Crash, Dies at 90
-- B y   L a u r e n c e   A r n o l d
-- 2012-10-08T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-08/jay-levy-part-of-dynasty-that-forecast-2008-crash-dies-at-90.html
Jay Levy, who worked with his father,
then his son, to publish an economics-forecasting newsletter,
now in its seventh decade, that predicted the collapse in
housing and latest recession, has died. He was 90.  He died on Oct. 4 at Northern Westchester Hospital in Mount
Kisco, New York, according to his son, David. The cause was
pneumonia. A resident of Somers, New York, he had suffered a
series of mini-strokes in recent years.  The Levy Forecast, founded in 1949 as Industry Forecast,
bills itself as the oldest paid newsletter devoted to economic
analysis in the U.S. It is published by the Mount Kisco-based
Jerome Levy Forecasting Center LLC, of which Levy was most
recently senior counsel and managing director. The center
carries the name of his father, Jerome, who died in 1967. Jay
Levy’s son, David Levy, is chairman. They were part of what
Forbes magazine, in 1983, called “a kind of economic dynasty.”  Levy and his son were “right as rain” in predicting the
financial crisis and recession that began in 2007-2008, Alan
Abelson wrote in Barron’s in January 2009.  Among the red flags they had raised was this from the
November 2005 Levy Forecast:  “Just as the last recession was caused by the bursting
stock market bubble, the next recession will be caused by the
deflating housing bubble. This time, however, the financial
sector will be much more exposed.”  Abelson  wrote  of the Levys: “Father and son, they’ve been
at this game a lot of years, and while not infallible (a quality
restricted to popes and financial journalists), they have a
truly extraordinary record of being right.”  Hedge Fund  So sure were the Levys that the next recession would push
interest rates to near zero that they formed a hedge fund in
2004 to bet on options and interest-rate futures, David Levy
said. Though the bet was a bit early, David Levy said yesterday
in an interview that he remembers his father “being extremely
confident in what we were doing.” The investors in what was
called the Levy Forecast Fund scored a 500 percent return over
five years before it was shut in 2009, David Levy said.  Jay Levy’s bullish forecasts in the postwar years helped
drive his younger brother, Leon, to bet big on the growth of
mutual funds as a partner at Oppenheimer & Co., where he founded
OppenheimerFunds Inc. in 1960.  Odyssey Partners, a hedge fund started in 1982 by Leon Levy
and his Oppenheimer colleague, Jack Nash, likewise relied on
Levy forecasts. It capitalized “on major cyclical bond plays
based entirely on Jay’s and his son David’s forecasts,”
according to the forecasting center’s  website .  ‘Simple Equation’  The Levys’ work relies on the so-called profits
perspective, which considers changes in corporate profitability
to be an overlooked, underutilized piece of economics.  “It’s a simple equation based on common sense,” Levy told
the New York Times for a 1988  article . “We all know that large
profits persuade businesses to expand and that skimpy profits
lead business to retrench. Yet almost all other economists
overlook profits in forecasting, while we believe that by
focusing on total business profits you get the most accurate
forecast possible, since profits are what motivate most of the
production in a private-enterprise economy.”  In addition to their newsletter, Levy and his son worked as
consultants to corporations and financial institutions.  They co-wrote “Profits and the Future of American
Society” (1983). Forbes magazine called the book “brilliant”
for showing “why squeezing business profits for the alleged
benefit of the poor or of the working man is a self-defeating
exercise. It leads not to the satisfaction of human needs but to
inflation and unemployment.”  ‘Anticipating Changes’  Describing his work, Levy told the Times:  “Uncertainty about the economy complicates executive
decisions and leads to expensive mistakes -- it reduces
difficult choices to the toss of a coin. Our company is based on
our belief that every executive and money manager can benefit
from a reliable forecast. The ways business can profit by
anticipating changes in the economic climate are limitless and
sometimes astonishing.”  S Jay Levy -- S was his first name -- was born on May 31,
1922, in New York City, the son of Jerome Levy and the former
Sadie Samuelson. He had polio as a child and walked with a limp
his whole life until using a wheelchair in the last several
years, his son said.  Jerome Levy, a merchant and amateur economist who sold much
of his stock before the crash of 1929, introduced Levy to the
notion that corporate profits could foretell economic trends.  City College  Levy immersed himself in the profits-based approach in the
1930s and began making economic predictions. He graduated from
City College of New York in 1942.  With his father, he began Levy Economic Forecasts,
published monthly, in 1949 in  Manhattan . They moved the company
about 40 miles north to Chappaqua, New York, in 1956 to gain
greater distance from and perspective on Wall Street, Levy told
the Times in 1988.  Over the last several years, the newsletter has been
supplied only to the firm’s consulting clients.  Levy was a member of Barron’s investor  roundtable  in the
1970s and 1980s. In 1991, he turned over primary responsibility
for forecasting to his son.  His wife of 63 years, the former Barbara Henly, died in
March. Survivors include their children, Ann, David and Joshua.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laurence Arnold in Washington at 
 larnold4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Charles W. Stevens at 
 cstevens@bloomberg.net  