-- Jets-Texans Tickets Selling for $36 Provide New York Bargain
-- B y   M a s o n   L e v i n s o n
-- 2012-10-08T19:17:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-08/jets-texans-tickets-selling-for-36-provide-new-york-nfl-bargain.html
Fans paid $36 on average over the
past 24 hours for tickets to tonight’s  New York  Jets’ game
against the Houston Texans, a fifth of what resellers got for
the team’s previous contest, according to the ticket-price
aggregator SeatGeek.  As of noon New York time today there were 7,270 tickets
available on secondary markets for the National Football League
game at MetLife Stadium in  East Rutherford ,  New Jersey , between
the Jets (2-2) and the undefeated Texans (4-0), according to
SeatGeek data.  After resales for the Jets’ 34-0 home loss to the  San
Francisco 49ers  on Sept. 30 went for an average of $180, tickets
to tonight’s game began to plummet, hurt by the season-ending
injury to wide receiver Santonio Holmes, according to Will
Flaherty, a spokesman for SeatGeek.  “Last week we started to see prices decline rapidly and
then the day  Santonio Holmes  was lost for the season we really
started to see some value show up,” Flaherty said in a
telephone interview. “Through the weekend, the fall has
continued.”  Tickets are available for  as little as $17  in the upper
deck and $50 in the lower level, according to SeatGeek. The
average price paid for all secondary market tickets to the game
is $100.  Average Price  The average face-value price of a Jets ticket this season
is $117.94, according to Chicago-based Team Marketing Report.  The game in the 82,500-seat stadium is officially a
sellout, allowing it to be telecast in the biggest U.S. media
market. NFL rules generally bar local telecasts if a game isn’t
sold out 72 hours before kickoff.  The Jets denied a report by NFL Network yesterday morning
that said 12,000 tickets for the game were unsold as of Oct. 5,
 according to ESPN .  “The report was inaccurate and all of our home games will
be televised locally,”  Bruce Speight , a spokesman for the Jets,
said in a telephone interview, declining to discuss ticket
prices.  TiqIQ, another aggregator, said prices for the game average
$110 and have sold for $77, Chris Matcovich, a spokesman for
TiqIQ, said in an e-mail. It’s the 29th lowest-price game of the
NFL season, which is finishing its fifth week, Matcovich said.  Resale tickets to see the  New York Giants , who share
MetLife Stadium with the Jets, consistently have sold for a
higher price, according to SeatGeek.  The least-expensive Giants’ game, a Sept. 16 win over the
 Tampa Bay Buccaneers , averaged $190. The highest average sale
price for a Jets’ home game this season is $185 for Nov. 22,
when they take on the  New England Patriots .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mason Levinson in New York at 
 mlevinson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  