-- KBC Shares Drop as Targets Disappoint Investors: Brussels Mover
-- B y   M a u d   v a n   G a a l   a n d   J o h n   M a r t e n s
-- 2012-10-08T10:49:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-08/kbc-shares-drop-as-targets-disappoint-investors-brussels-mover.html
KBC Groep NV (KBC) , the best-performing
banking stock in  Europe  this year, fell the most in almost three
weeks in Brussels trading as investors had anticipated more
aggressive targets in an overhaul of the bank’s organization.  KBC fell as much as 5.7 percent, ending five days of gains,
and traded 1.09 euros lower at 19.59 euros by 12:27 p.m. local
time. The shares have more than doubled since the start of the
year, the best performance among the 38 companies in the
 Bloomberg Europe 500 Banks and Financial Services Index .  The bank plans to reduce operating expenses as a proportion
of revenue to 55 percent by 2015, KBC, based in Brussels, said
today in a statement. That compares with a cost-income ratio of
59 percent in the past four quarters, based on underlying
figures. KBC also targets a combined ratio of 95 percent or
lower in the insurance business.  “KBC for now isn’t providing investors with a profit goal
or new cost-cutting plans and the targets they do give are no
reason to change our earnings estimates,” said Cor Kluis, an
analyst at Rabobank International in Utrecht. “Given the high
expectations built in the KBC stock at the end of last week, we
expect some underperformance today.”  Belgium ’s biggest bank and insurer by market value, KBC has
cut risk-weighted assets by 32 percent since the end of 2008 and
has disposed of more than  20 entities  since 2009. Chief
Executive Officer Johan Thijs, who took over from Jan Vanhevel
in May, is realigning the organization to the bank’s smaller
size, built around its  most profitable  businesses in Belgium and
the Czech Republic.  Banking Subsidiaries  A division called International Markets will include the
banking subsidiaries in Hungary, Slovakia and  Bulgaria  as well
as units still to be divested. KBC will also maintain its
operations in Ireland, where its local bank, KBC Bank Ireland
Plc, will be “managed to maximize its value contribution
through its retail banking business.”  KBC agreed with the European Commission to reimburse 4.67
billion euros ($6.1 billion), net of penalty payments, of the 7
billion euros in state aid received by December 2013. KBC has
until the end of this year to repay a remaining 3 billion euros
of federal government funds before the penalty rate increases to
20 percent from 15 percent.  It reported a second-quarter loss of 539 million euros
after a 1.2 billion-euro reduction in the carrying value of its
stake in Nova Ljubljanska Banka d.d., ZAO Absolut Bank, KBC Bank
Deutschland AG and Antwerp Diamond Bank NV, which are on the
disposal list.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Maud van Gaal in Amsterdam at 
 mvangaal@bloomberg.net ;
John Martens in Brussels at 
 jmartens1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  