-- KKR’s Roberts Says Energy Deals Present Huge Opportunity
-- B y   J a s o n   K e l l y
-- 2012-10-08T20:22:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-08/kkr-s-roberts-says-energy-deals-present-huge-opportunity.html
KKR & Co. (KKR) , the buyout firm run by
Henry Kravis and  George Roberts , is pursuing deals in the energy
industry as it expands beyond traditional corporate takeovers,
Roberts said in an interview.  Energy “is a huge opportunity for us,” Roberts said in
the interview that aired today on Bloomberg Television’s
“MoneyMoves with Deirdre Bolton.” “We’ve been interested in
that for a long period of time, and now seems like a very good
time to be investors in that.”  KKR, which Roberts and his cousin Kravis started in 1976
with Jerome Kohlberg, is pursuing efforts in hedge funds, direct
loans to companies and infrastructure deals as well as energy as
the market for corporate buyouts wanes. Private-equity managers
announced $309.7 billion of buyouts last year, less than half
2007’s record $727 billion, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  The firm has pursued natural-gas investments tied to shale
discoveries and has a group dedicated to energy and
infrastructure transactions headed by Marc Lipschultz.  Buying oil or gas-rich land or existing energy assets, and
financing refineries, is distinct from the corporate LBO world,
where KKR and its competitors negotiate with boards of directors
to take over companies. Earlier this year, KKR formed a $250
million venture with  Chesapeake Energy Corp. (CHK)  to acquire mineral
rights and royalties from owners of oil and gas properties.  ‘An Obligation’  Owning such varied companies as Toys “R” Us Inc. and Del
Monte Foods Co. carries a responsibility that extends beyond its
investors to employees and the environment, Roberts said in the
interview at his Menlo Park, California, office. New York-based
KKR has stakes in 79 companies that generate about $200 billion
in revenue a year, Roberts said. Those companies employ about 1
million workers around the world.  “Those people live and work in communities that are
affected by decisions those companies make,” he said. “We have
an obligation not just to the investors who invest with us, but
to all other stakeholders.”  Private-equity firms including KKR,  Blackstone Group LP (BX)  and
 Carlyle Group LP (CG)  are facing public scrutiny by virtue of the
breadth of their holdings, their decisions to take their own
firms public and the presidential candidacy of  Mitt Romney , the
co-founder of Bain Capital LLC. Romney has faced accusations
from both Republicans and Democrats during the campaign that his
private equity history was characterized by cutting jobs and
closing factories in pursuit of investment returns.  New Jobs  Roberts, 69, said KKR added 25,000 jobs across its
companies in 2010 and 2011.  KKR was among the first private-equity firms to raise money
from public pensions. Roberts in the late 1970s and early 1980s
persuaded pensions in Oregon and  Washington  to invest in KKR
funds. KKR and its competitors have continued to tap such
pensions for money by promising returns to help meet obligations
to retirees.  “We need each other,” Roberts said. “Private equity
needs pension funds to help us fund our business. And they need
us to generate returns.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jason Kelly in  New York  at 
 jkelly14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  