-- Korea Finance Bids for Airplane Deal, Lends to Shipyard
-- B y   S e o n j i n   C h a   a n d   K y u n g h e e   P a r k
-- 2012-10-08T23:03:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-08/korea-finance-bids-for-first-plane-deal-starts-shipyard-funding.html
Korea Finance Corp. has bid for its
first plane-financing deal and started offering loans to
shipbuilders as local companies look for new funding sources
amid reduced lending by European banks.  The state-owned lender began offering working-capital loans
to shipyards last month and it has already agreed to provide as
much as 700 billion won ($629 million) to  STX Offshore &
Shipbuilding Co. (067250) , Executive Vice President Choi Bong Sik said in
an interview yesterday in  Seoul . The financer has also teamed
with state-controlled Korea Development Bank to bid on funding
for four  Korean Air (003490)  Lines Co. Boeing Co. 777 planes, he said.  “We see an opportunity for Korea Finance to fill the gap
left by the European banks,” Choi said. South Korean carriers
will receive 59 planes over the next five years, he said. Korea
Finance only works on deals involving local companies.  Commercial lenders in Asia including Sumitomo Mitsui
Financial Group Inc. and Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group Inc.
have also expanded plane-financing this year as the region’s
rising travel demand spurs aircraft purchases. European banks
are retreating from their traditionally dominant role in funding
planes and ships as part of wider cuts prompted by the Euro zone
debt crisis.  South Korean shipyards are also borrowing more because
slumping demand is forcing them to offer more generous payment
terms, Choi said. The nation’s three biggest shipbuilders have
sold a record amount of bonds this year, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. STX Group said by e-mail that it had been
granted a loan by Korea Finance.  South Korean shipyards won $16.4 billion worth of orders in
the first eight months of this year, compared with $37.8 billion
a year earlier, according to Clarkson Plc, the world’s biggest
shipbroker.  Korea Aerospace  Separately, Korea Finance and partners may also pick a
preferred bidder for a 42 percent stake in  Korea Aerospace
Industries Ltd. (047810)  next month, Choi said. Korean Air and  Hyundai
Heavy Industries Co. (009540)  have both made preliminary offers for the
stake, which is worth $1 billion at market prices. The sellers
plan to complete a deal this year, Choi said.  Korea Finance also intends to raise the equivalent of about
$500 million in bonds denominated in Chinese  yuan  or Japanese
yen by early December as it seeks foreign-currency funds for
loans, Choi said. The sale will complete the bank’s plan to
raise $2 billion in foreign-currency  debt  this year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kyunghee Park in Singapore at 
 kpark3@bloomberg.net ;
Seonjin Cha in Seoul at 
 scha2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net ;
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  