-- Navistar Says Rachesky, Icahn Associate Will Join Board
-- B y   M a r k   C l o t h i e r
-- 2012-10-08T14:28:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-08/navistar-says-rachesky-icahn-associate-will-join-board.html
Navistar International Corp. (NAV) , the
truckmaker trying to end losses, averted a proxy fight with
investor  Carl Icahn  by agreeing to add three new directors. The
shares surged.  The truckmaker added Vincent Intrieri, an Icahn
representative, and investor  Mark Rachesky  as directors. They
will replace Eugenio Clariond and Steve Klinger, the Lisle,
Illinois-based company said in a statement. The truckmaker said
it agreed to add a third director to be designated and agreed
upon by Icahn and Rachesky and their affiliates. The new
directors will stand for election next year.  Last month in a letter to Navistar’s board, Icahn said he
wanted four board seats made available to shareholders
“immediately” and that he would proceed with “protracted
litigation and a proxy fight” if necessary to protect his
investment. Icahn has pressured Navistar’s new management, led
by former  Textron Inc. (TXT)  CEO Lewis Campbell, after the company had
a net loss of $241 million for the first three quarters of its
fiscal year.  “I am glad to have reached an agreement that provides
strong shareholder representation on the board and look forward
to working diligently with the board to enhance value at
Navistar,” Icahn said in the statement.  CEO Ouster  The truckmaker ousted Dan Ustian as CEO in August after an
inquiry from regulators about its accounting and disclosures and
reversed course on an engine strategy that had failed to meet
2010 federal emission standards. Icahn, who holds  14.9 percent 
of Navistar, said large shareholders weren’t consulted about
management changes, including Ustian’s departure.  “They’re on the inside now instead of on the outside,”
 David Leiker , an analyst with Robert W. Baird & Co., said in an
interview. “This is following a fairly predictable path, but
it’s hard to say what the outcome ultimately will be.”  Navistar’s four largest investors hold about  50 percent  of
the shares, including a stake of almost 15 percent held by
Rachesky, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Navistar rose 6.1 percent to $22.50 at 10:24 a.m.  New York 
time after reaching $22.77 for the biggest intraday gain since
Sept. 6. The shares dropped 44 percent this year through Oct 5.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Clothier in Southfield, Michigan, at  mclothier@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  