-- Nazi Propaganda Makes a Comeback on Twitter
-- B y   J e f f r e y   G o l d b e r g
-- 2012-10-08T22:30:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-08/nazi-propaganda-makes-a-comeback-on-twitter.html
The first time I met the anti-Semitic
conspiracy theorist Eustace Mullins was at a conference I was
covering of Holocaust deniers, neo-Nazis and paranoiacs (a
redundancy, I suppose).  Mullins was then in his 70s, and his general affect was
that of an irate eccentric who stands outside government
offices, screaming about the Rothschilds. (He actually accused
me of being a part of the Rothschild “gang.” From your mouth to
God’s ears, I said.) He seemed, in short, to be a self-
marginalizing sort of fascist.  Mullins, who died in 2010, was a protege of Ezra Pound, who
helped him refine his hatred of Jews during their conversations
together at St. Elizabeth’s psychiatric hospital in  Washington ,
where Pound found himself confined after his World War II
exertions on behalf of Hitler. Mullins also did investigative
work for Senator Joseph McCarthy, and, when we met, he wanted to
speak more about his campaign to vindicate McCarthy than he did
about his work on the “Jewish question.”  But the Jewish question was what animated Mullins most, and
longest. He argued that the Jews were a parasite eating at
civilization, that the existence of Jews was a crime against
nature and that Jews drank the blood of “innocent gentile
children” in their secret rituals. Mullins also spun elaborate
theories about collusion between Zionists and Nazis. Hitler,  he
argued , “allied with the Zionist Party, and the mission of the
Nazis was to force the anti-Zionist Jews to accept Zionism, and
this is what the concentration camps were about.” He argued that
the “zi” in Nazi stood for Zionism.  Delegitimizing Israel  This last theory of his was largely forgotten until last
week, when Greta Berlin, a co-founder of the  Free Gaza Movement ,
 published a message  on the group’s Twitter feed: “Zionists
operated the concentration camps and helped murder millions of
innocent Jews.” It contained a link to a video of Mullins
delivering his message.  The  Free Gaza  group, the leading edge of the international
campaign to delegitimize  Israel  and bring about its end as the
national home of the Jewish people, has always argued that it
isn’t anti-Semitic, and is merely trying to break Israel’s
blockade of the  Gaza Strip . The group came to public attention
in May 2010, when it organized a flotilla of ships to attempt to
break the blockade. Israeli commandos boarded the ships and were
set upon by passengers wielding pipes and knives. In a  terrible
overreaction , they responded by opening fire, killing nine. The
incident has nearly destroyed Turkish-Israeli relations, and
helped make the flotilla cause popular across the  Middle East 
and  Europe .  Free Gaza is a hypocritical organization, of course.  Egypt 
shares a border with the Gaza Strip, and is  tightening its own
blockade , but Free Gaza activists seem uninterested. They are
also uninterested in the sins of Hamas, the terrorist
organization that rules Gaza. The Israeli blockade was a
response, in large part, to the unfortunate (and ongoing) Hamas
practice of firing rockets into Israeli villages. But put aside
Hamas’s crimes against Israelis; the Free Gaza website also
makes no mention of a  recent report  from  Human Rights Watch  that
found that Gaza’s Hamas-run criminal-justice system “reeks of
injustice, routinely violates detainees’ rights, and grants
impunity to abusive security services.”  Nevertheless, it was at least semiplausible to argue that
the Free Gaza movement, while scapegoating the Jewish state,
didn’t traffic in overt anti-Semitic stereotypes.  Sharing Propaganda  Then Berlin’s Twitter message  was discovered  last week.
Berlin  said  she posted the video without watching it, and that
the message  was meant  for a private Facebook group. Her critics
pointed out that the private sharing of Nazi propaganda doesn’t
fall into a different moral category than the public sharing of
Nazi propaganda, and so  she then argued  the message was meant to
be part of a broader discussion about the nature of hateful
propaganda. Free Gaza has  officially disowned  the post and taken
it down.  But this isn’t Berlin’s first dalliance with purveyors of
anti-Semitism. She has also endorsed the work of an ex-Israeli
Holocaust revisionist (yes, such a person exists) named Gilad
Atzmon, author of “The Wandering Who?”  Atzmon has argued , among
other things, that it was the Jews who persecuted Hitler, and
that Jews who commemorate the Holocaust are followers of the
“the most sinister religion known to man.”  Berlin  had this to say  about Atzmon’s book: “’The Wandering
Who’ entertains, pushes and irritates us. His painful journey
through what it means to be Jewish, what the consequences are of
carrying that realization around, and his ultimate acceptance of
who he is makes me awfully glad I was raised a Methodist.”  What does this all mean? I’ve been asking for months why
the international left hasn’t shown solidarity with the Syrian
people -- an estimated 30,000 of whom have been killed by the
fascist Baath party -- by launching a flotilla to  Syria ’s
Mediterranean coastline. Gazans have a miserable life, but their
suffering today pales in comparison to that of Syrians. So why
don’t the people behind the Gaza flotillas organize a relief
effort? The answer is simple: If the Syrians were being
slaughtered by Israelis, they would.  I’ve always suspected that many of those on the far left
who express solidarity with Palestinians are less interested in
helping the Palestinians than in scapegoating their Jewish
adversaries. Berlin might have inadvertently helped the world
understand that the extreme left has something in common with
the extreme right: an obsessive interest in demonizing the Jews.  ( Jeffrey Goldberg  is a Bloomberg View columnist and a
national correspondent for The Atlantic. The opinions expressed
are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on  why Romney is half-right  on
Syria and on  the end of the austerity era  at the IMF;  Ramesh
Ponnuru  on  why Ryan will win  the vice presidential debate;
Betsey Stevenson and  Justin Wolfers  on  Romney and fiscal
responsibility ; Cass R. Sunstein on  how turncoats make us more
open-minded ; Adam Freedman on the Obama administration’s  attack
on property rights ; Camille Paglia on Jacques-Louis David’s
 painting of a murder victim .  To contact the writer of this article:
Jeffrey Goldberg at  goldberg.atlantic@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Timothy Lavin at   tlavin1@bloomberg.net . 