-- Neeson Gets Revenge as Fox’s ‘Taken 2’ Leads Weekend Sales
-- B y   M i c h a e l   W h i t e   a n d   J o h n   D e t r i x h e
-- 2012-10-08T21:27:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-08/neeson-gets-revenge-again-as-fox-s-taken-2-leads-weekend-films.html
“Taken 2,” a sequel to the 2009
action film featuring  Liam Neeson , opened as the top-grossing
film at theaters in the U.S. and  Canada , collecting $49.5
million in ticket sales for  News Corp. (NWSA) ’s Twentieth Century Fox.  Among the weekend’s other new films,  Tim Burton ’s
“Frankenweenie” was fifth with $11.4 million in sales for  Walt
Disney Co. (DIS) , researcher Hollywood.com Box-Office said today in an
e-mailed statement.  “Taken 2” is the third Fox film to open in first place
this year, following the science-fiction tale “Chronicle” and
the animated “Ice Age: Continental Drift.” Before this
weekend, the studio was ranked fifth in 2012 domestic revenue
with $860.9 million, according to researcher Box Office Mojo.
 Sony Corp. (6758)  is first with $1.35 billion.  “It’s pretty amazing results for Liam,”  Jeff Bock , an
analyst at Exhibitor Relations Co., said of the film in a
telephone interview. The first version “had legs that nobody
expected,” said Bock. “Fox has a veritable franchise on their
hands here” as the film had the third highest-grossing debut of
any film in October.  In “Taken 2,” Neeson returns as retired CIA agent Bryan
Mills, drawing on his expertise in weapons and spycraft to
rescue his wife, who is kidnapped. The film ties into the first
movie as the kidnappers are linked to those Mills battled to
rescue his daughter in the original version, which took in
$226.8 million worldwide, according to Box Office Mojo.  Maggie Grace and Famke Janssen reprise their roles in the
new picture, which was expected to take in $49 million, the
forecast of Box Office Mojo.  Monster Hotel  “Hotel Transylvania,” from Sony, fell to second from
first with $27.1 million in sales. In the animated film,
featuring the voice of  Adam Sandler , Dracula invites famous
monsters to celebrate his daughter’s birthday. The gathering is
complicated by the arrival of a human who falls for the
vampire’s daughter. The movie has taken in $76.7 million since
it was released on Sept. 28.  “Pitch Perfect” was third with $14.8 million for  Comcast
Corp. (CMCSA) ’s  Universal Pictures  after expanding to more theaters. The
film stars Anna Kendrick as a college student who joins an a
capella singing group. They find success after she pushes to try
new arrangements. Brittany Snow and Anna Camp co-star.  The weekend performance of “Pitch Perfect” is “a huge
score for Universal,” said Bock. “A lot of people are calling
it the next ‘Bridesmaids.’ The word of mouth is really great.”  Time Travel  The time-travel tale “Looper,” also from Sony, fell to
fourth from second with $12.1 million. The film stars Joseph Gordon-Levitt as a hit man working for a mob that operates in
the future, when time travel has become possible. To avoid
prosecution, the mob sends victims back in time to be killed by
a special team of assassins. Gordon-Levitt’s character is
assigned to kill his future self.  Bruce Willis  plays the older
version of Levitt’s character.  Burton’s animated “Frankenweenie,” this week’s fifth-
place finisher, tells the story of a boy who uses his knowledge
of science to bring his dog back to life. It is inspired by the
Frankenstein horror tale and features the voices of Winona Ryder, Catherine O’Hara, Martin Landau and Martin Short.  The police drama “End of Watch” fell to sixth from third
with $4 million. The film, from Open Road Pictures, stars  Jake Gyllenhaal  and Michael Pena as Los Angeles police officers who
run afoul of a vicious gang. The film has taken in $32.9 million
since it opened on Sept. 21.  Curve Balls  Clint Eastwood’s “Trouble with the Curve” from  Time
Warner Inc. (TWX) ’s Warner Bros., was seventh with sales of $3.8
million. Eastwood plays aging professional baseball scout Gus
Lobel, who tries to keep his job while battling failing eyesight
and a trend toward computer-based scouting. His daughter, played
by  Amy Adams , tries to help by accompanying Lobel on an
important scouting trip. Justin Timberlake co-stars as a washed-
up pitcher who is attracted to the young woman.  Ticket sales rose for a second straight weekend, providing
studios with more good news after four consecutive declining
year-over-year comparisons, according to Hollywood.com. Last
month, Ben Mogil, an analyst at Stifel Nicolaus & Co., cut his
estimate for fourth-quarter ticket sales, saying he expects a 3
percent rise. That’s down from an earlier forecast of 5 percent
to 6 percent.  Weekend revenue for the top 12 films climbed 56 percent to
$132.7 million from the year-earlier period, Hollywood.com said.
Domestic film sales this year have risen 3.2 percent to $8.24
billion, with attendance up 2 percent.  The amounts below are based on actual ticket sales from
Oct. 5 to Oct. 7.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michael White in  Los Angeles  at 
 mwhite8@bloomberg.net ;
John Detrixhe in  New York  at 
 jdetrixhe1@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  