-- Netflix Rises to Highest Since July After Stock Upgraded
-- B y   C l i f f   E d w a r d s
-- 2012-10-08T20:07:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-08/netflix-rises-to-highest-since-july-after-stock-upgraded.html
Netflix Inc. (NFLX)  advanced to the highest
price in more than two months after Morgan Stanley upgraded the
stock, saying competition from  Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN) ’s Prime Instant
service is “overblown.”  Netflix  gained  10 percent to $73.52 at the  New York  close,
the highest price since July 24.  Scott Devitt , a New York-based
analyst for Morgan Stanley, upgraded the stock to overweight,
the equivalent of a buy, from equalweight. The shares have
gained 6.1 percent this year.  The video-subscription service is not under direct pressure
from Amazon.com in the U.S., Devitt wrote in an investor note.
Because Amazon.com also uses its Prime Instant Video to promote
rentals and purchases, it’s unlikely the online retailer will
offer a standalone product that competes directly with Netflix,
he said. Amazon would probably have to spend as much $1.2
billion more to match Netflix’s content, Devitt said.  “Previously, we were very concerned about Amazon.com’s
Prime Instant Video offering,” Devitt said. “Prime Instant
Video is all about  value investing  –- finding good content at
low prices and offering more incentive for consumers to buy a
Kindle Fire.”  The value of Netflix’s domestic business “is enough to
support the stock at current levels,” he added.  Customer Satisfaction  The upgrade follows praise for Netflix last week from
Citigroup Inc. for improving its customer-satisfaction rating
after grappling with issues on that front last year.  Netflix, based in  Los Gatos , California, has been acquiring
exclusive content to fend off Amazon.com, Hulu LLC and other
services and has more than 27 million streaming customers
worldwide.The company doesn’t release the amount of content it
has available for instant viewing, spokesman Joris Evers said
today via e-mail.  “We have everything Amazon has - and lots more,”
including exclusive movies from independent studios Relativity
Media, Open Road, Film District and others, Jonathan Friedland,
another Netflix spokesman, said in an e-mail. Netflix viewers
also get exclusive content from the CW Network, AMC Networks and
Walt Disney’s ABC network, including “Revenge,” “Breaking
Bad” and “Mad Men,” Friedland said.  Amazon in August said it had more than 25,000 movies and TV
episodes for free streaming.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Niamh Ring in New York at 
 nring@bloomberg.net ;
Cliff Edwards in  San Francisco  at 
 cedwards28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Kevin Miller at 
 kmiller@bloomberg.net ;
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  