-- Nokia’s Smartphone Marketing Chief Leaves After 15 Years
-- B y   A d a m   E w i n g
-- 2012-10-08T21:00:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-08/nokia-s-smartphone-marketing-chief-leaves-after-15-years.html
Nokia Oyj (NOK1V) ’s marketing executive for
smartphones has left the company a month after misleading
marketing materials about a new Lumia model made headlines.  Ilari Nurmi, head of product marketing for smartphones, has
left Nokia after 15 years, he wrote in an Oct. 7 Twitter
 posting . James Etheridge, a company spokesman, declined to
comment on the reason for Nurmi’s departure or his replacement.
Nurmi couldn’t immediately be reached for comment.  Nokia last month apologized for not making clear that a
promotional video and photos within a promotional clip weren’t
captured with its new Lumia 920 smartphone. The gaffe drew
attention to Nokia’s marketing tactics at a time when the Espoo,
Finland-based company is seeking to revive its business by
challenging  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPhone and handsets running on  Google
Inc. (GOOG) ’s Android software.  “I wish Nokia all the best and look forward to getting
Lumia 920 once available,” Nurmi wrote in the posting.  Nokia is touting its camera technology and the Lumia’s
operating system from  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  as reasons for consumers
to buy its devices.  A video advertisement last month showing off the device’s
camera technology was questioned by The Verge blog hours after
the phone was demonstrated in  New York . The video showed a woman
riding a bicycle down a road and as she passes a parked trailer,
the reflection in a window reveals a large white van with
lighting equipment and a cameraman hanging out of the door
filming.  Image Stabilization  While the video gave the impression that it was shot using
the Lumia 920, Nokia never claimed that was the case. The
company, in a blog posting apologizing for the confusion, said
its aim was to demonstrate what can be achieved using the image-
stabilization technology.  Nokia last year abandoned its home-grown Symbian operating
system and began using the  Windows operating system  from
Microsoft, where Chief Executive Officer Stephen Elop used to
work. On Sept. 5, Nokia introduced Lumia 920 and 820, two new
models that run Windows Phone 8, the newest version of the
program that Nokia is betting on to lure customers away from
Apple and Google. The phones will face off against the iPhone 5,
which was unveiled on Sept. 12 and shattered the first-day sales
of previous versions.  The Finnish company said today  Deutsche Telekom AG (DTE) ’s T-
Mobile USA will exclusively carry the Lumia 810, which features
an 8-megapixel camera and a 1.2-megapixel Skype HD certified
front-facing camera.  Nokia shares were unchanged at 2.04 euros at the close of
trading in Helsinki. The stock has lost 46 percent this year,
valuing the company at 7.6 billion euros ($9.9 billion).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Ewing in Stockholm at 
 aewing5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  