-- Not New York Towers Rise With Embrace of Yield: Mortgages
-- B y   D a n   L e v y
-- 2012-10-08T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-08/not-new-york-towers-rise-with-embrace-of-yield-mortgages.html
Trophy office towers are for sale
across the U.S. as landlords from  Seattle  to Atlanta offer
properties to investors seeking higher returns in second-tier
cities where rents are beginning to rise.  IDS Center, the tallest building in  Minneapolis ; 1201 Third
Ave., Seattle’s second-highest; and Williams Tower, the third-
tallest in Houston, are among the new listings in the past three
months. They join marquee properties in Denver;  Charlotte ,  North
Carolina ; and Austin,  Texas  sold in 2012.  Properties beyond the so-called gateway U.S. cities are
benefiting from “robust” demand and helping to fuel deals,
according to Real Capital Analytics Inc. Secondary and tertiary
markets -- which exclude New York,  San Francisco , Los Angeles,
Washington,  Chicago  and Boston -- made up 31 percent of office
transactions this year through the third quarter, compared with
a 23 percent share in all of 2011, preliminary data from the
research firm show.  “You’re starting to see a healthy rise in volume as
sellers try to take advantage of the recovery,” Greg MacKinnon,
economist and research director at the Pension Real Estate
Association, a trade group for institutional property investors,
said in a phone interview. “It’s spreading to the smaller
markets because yields are pretty thin in the gateway cities.”  The  Federal Reserve ’s policy of keeping its benchmark
 interest rate  near zero has investors seeking higher-yielding
assets. Returns in secondary cities are higher than those in
large markets and Treasury yields, and occupancy gains,
increased financing options, and a dearth of new supply are
bolstering demand, according to data compiled by broker  CBRE
Group Inc. (CBG)  and research firm Green Street Advisors Inc.  Bond Gains  Investor confidence that the  property market  is recovering
is fueling demand for debt tied to skyscrapers and other types
of commercial buildings. An  index  tied to bonds that were
originally given top credit ratings during the market’s peak and
have been cut to junk has risen 16.1 percent this year to 65.7
cents on the dollar.  Total office sales for January through September rose 7.7
percent from a year earlier to almost $48 billion, according to
Real Capital’s preliminary data. Deal volume for all of 2012 may
total more than $70 billion, the highest since the market peaked
at $212 billion in 2007, assuming pending transactions for New
York’s Worldwide Plaza and other trophy properties are
completed,  Dan Fasulo , managing director, said in an interview.  Higher Yields  Investors paid $161 a square foot on average for office
buildings in secondary locations like Philadelphia; Nashville,
 Tennessee ; and Salt Lake City in the first half of 2012, less
than half the cost in primary cities, Real Capital data show.
Capitalization rates in such markets were 7.7 percent on average
during the period, compared with 6.3 percent in major cities,
according to the New York-based firm. Cap rates are a measure of
yield derived by a property’s net operating income divided by
its sales price. In Manhattan, the biggest U.S. office market,
the average cap rate was 5 percent.  “There’s good demand from any investment fund that’s got
an office real estate allocation,” said Jeffrey Bramson, senior
managing director for Holliday Fenoglio Fowler LP and broker for
the 792-foot (241-meter) IDS Center in Minneapolis, a complex
with 1.43 million square feet (133,000 square meters) that was
listed July 19.  Owner  Inland Real Estate Corp. (IRC) , an Oak Brook, Illinois-
based real estate investment trust, is seeking to sell for $300
million, after paying $278 million in 2006 and getting reliable
 cash flow  from the property, Bramson said.  Mary Tyler Moore  Designed by architect  Philip Johnson , IDS Center is
situated on Nicollet Mall, the main downtown shopping area, with
tenants including law firms Briggs and Morgan, which leases
132,000 square feet, and Lindquist & Vennum, which leases
120,000 square feet, said Bramson. Interiors appear in the
opening credits of “The Mary Tyler Moore Show,” where the star
flings her hat toward the sky.  Top-quality buildings, called “trophy” assets because
buyers compete to own them, charge higher rents and have tenants
that can better weather downturns, said Jed Reagan, analyst at
Newport Beach, California-based Green Street. Cash flow tends to
be relatively stable, making them attractive to would-be
investors seeking higher returns without as much risk, he said.  “It’s not a Treasury bond, you won’t get the rent growth
of a gateway city, but those assets have strength through
physical appeal and location and should capture their share of
tenants if the market turns,” said Richard Pink, Los Angeles-
based managing partner for real estate investment firm Clarion
Partners.  CMBS Deals  Office prices in the six primary markets rose 16 percent in
the first half from a year earlier, while fixed-rate loans for
overall office purchases fell 20 basis points to 5.4 percent on
average, according to Real Capital data.  Banks issued about $6.9 billion in securities backed by
commercial property loans in September, the most since December
2007, in another boost for real estate deals, data from Bank of
America Corp. show. CMBS may total about $40 billion for the
year, “adding liquidity to a broader spectrum of markets and
products,” said Chris Ludeman, CBRE’s capital group president.  Trophy sales so far in 2012 include Parkway Properties
Inc.’s $250 million purchase in June of Hearst Tower, fourth-
tallest building in Charlotte; CommonWealth Partners LLC’s $480
million acquisition in April of Russell Investments Center, the
sixth-tallest in Seattle; and Beacon Capital Partners Inc.’s
$250 million acquisition in April of Wells Fargo Center, the
third-tallest in Denver, according to Real Capital.  ‘Crown Jewels’  In Austin, Thomas Properties Group Inc. and the California
State Teachers’ Retirement System paid $859 million last month
for eight office buildings that are “crown jewels” in the
market, according to James Thomas, chairman and chief executive
officer of the Los Angeles-based real estate company.  The sold buildings in these cities are among the most
prestigious office addresses in their respective markets, and
give their new owners “better yields without dilution of
security,” Ludeman said in an interview. CBRE was listing
broker for the Seattle high-rise, formerly known as the
 Washington Mutual , or WaMu, Center, because it was the bank’s
headquarters.  Among listed trophy assets, Houston’s Williams Tower is an
iconic high-rise in the city that’s 95 percent leased, according
to owner Hines Real Estate Investment Trust Inc., which began
marketing the tower in August. Seattle’s 1201 Third Ave. has
award-winning architecture and an “unmatched” downtown
location with views of Puget Sound, said owner Shorenstein
Properties LLC.  ‘Increasingly Vibrant’  In Atlanta, 999 Peachtree St. is up for sale in the
“increasingly vibrant” Midtown area, according to Green
Street.  “There are opportunities in secondary cities that are
inflation-protected over a long duration,” Ralph Rosenberg,
head of real estate at New York-based private-equity firm KKR &
Co., said in a telephone interview. “Net office absorption and
no new supply make the demand balance favorable to where it was
four years ago. These markets are starved for capital but have
high-density populations and checks on new supply.”  KKR’s real estate strategy involves taking more risk than
buying the best buildings in secondary cities, Rosenberg said.
The firm will look at purchases with “lease-up challenges” in
a broad range of markets, and use “nimble, flexible capital”
while rates remain low, said Rosenberg, a former Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. partner, hired to start KKR’s property practice in
March 2011. KKR and Hines last month announced plans to co-
develop a Houston low-rise business park.  Higher Vacancies  Not every second-tier city appears healthy or cheap
compared with major markets, said  Kenneth Rosen , chairman of
Berkeley, California-based Rosen Consulting Group, a real estate
advisory and research firm. Vacancy above 10 percent in cities
with a slow-moving leasing market and fewer regulatory
constraints on new development may be warning sign for buyers,
he said.  In Atlanta, vacancy for the best space, or Class A space,
was 22 percent in the third quarter, down from 23 percent a year
earlier, with average rents up 5.5 percent to $24.16 a square
foot, CBRE data show. Charlotte vacancy fell to 12.4 percent
from 12.9 percent, and prime rents there increased 1.7 percent
to $24.94 a square foot, the Los Angeles-based broker said.  By contrast, San Francisco’s Class A vacancy fell three
percentage points to 7.4 percent and rents soared 28 percent to
$48.52 a square foot. New York vacancy was 8.2 percent, up from
7.9 percent, and rents rose 7.5 percent to $65.11, CBRE said.  ‘Very Careful’  “You can get higher yields in some of the cities, but
there are fewer constraints and a constant need for capital
improvements in any high-rise building,” said Rosen, also
chairman of the Fisher Center for Real Estate and Urban
Economics at the  University of California , Berkeley. “I would
be very careful in my market analysis.”  Lack of new construction may offset slow leasing growth,
said Green Street’s Reagan. Annual office completions in the
U.S. are projected to be less than 1 percent of existing supply
on average over the next five years, well below the 1.8 percent
average from 1988 to 2011, according to the firm’s Aug. 21
forecast. Employment gains through 2015 may be “just good
enough” for would-be landlords.  Sentiment has turned brighter for institutional investors,
according to MacKinnon of the Pension Real Estate Association. A
third-quarter survey showed members expect 2013 office returns
to be 8.1 percent, up from 7.7 percent in the first quarter, as
“slowly improving demand” gives owners pricing power, he said.
The Hartford, Connecticut-based group includes New York-based
 BlackRock Inc. (BLK) , the world’s biggest asset manager, Hines and
Atlanta-based Invesco Ltd.  Next Rung  “They’re going up the next rung of the risk ladder from
core properties in gateway cities,” MacKinnon said. “It’s
coming back, though it’s not the go-go days of five years ago.”  The IDS Center has a 92 percent occupancy rate and more
than half of its leases expire over the next five years,
allowing a new owner to benefit in an improving market, said
Bramson, the listing broker. Minneapolis rents climbed 5 percent
in the third quarter from a year earlier to $26 a square foot,
CBRE said.  “The building has large floor plates, the best location in
the city and has been constantly renovated,” said Bramson,
based in Chicago. “High-rise space in Minneapolis is getting
tight. Rents won’t spike like San Francisco, but they’re
starting to move.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Levy in San Francisco at 
 dlevy13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net ;
Rob Urban at 
 robprag@bloomberg.net  