-- Oil Drops as WTI-Brent Spread Widens to Most in Year
-- B y   M o m i n g   Z h o u
-- 2012-10-08T19:31:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-08/oil-drops-a-second-day-on-asia-economic-slowdown.html
Crude declined in New York, widening
its discount to Brent to the most in almost a year, after the
World Bank said a slowdown in China will curb East Asian growth.  Prices dropped 0.6 percent as the Washington-based lender
predicted expansion in Asia, excluding Japan and  India , will
slide to the lowest level in 11 years in 2012. The euro fell
against the dollar as European finance ministers discussed the
region’s debt crisis.  “There have been a lot of stories warning that Asia is
slowing down, but when the World Bank comes in like that, people
reacted to the confirmation,” said Michael Lynch, president of
Strategic Energy & Economic Research in Winchester,
 Massachusetts . “The European crisis is clearly not over.”  Crude for November delivery dropped 55 cents to settle at
$89.33 a barrel on the New York Mercantile Exchange. Prices are
down 9.6 percent this year.  Brent for November settlement slid 20 cents to $111.82 a
barrel on the London-based ICE Futures  Europe  exchange.  West Texas Intermediate oil on the Nymex reached a $22.49-
a-barrel discount to Brent, the European benchmark, based on
settlement prices. That’s the most since Oct. 20, 2011. The
spread has widened on signs that supply in the U.S. is exceeding
demand.  Surging output from shale-rock formations in the U.S.,
including the Bakken in North Dakota, and  Canada ’s oil sands has
bolstered supplies at Cushing,  Oklahoma , the delivery point for
WTI on the Nymex. Nationwide stockpiles were up 8.4 percent from
a year earlier, the Energy Department reported last week.  U.S. Production  “We have no physical tightness on the U.S. side,” said
Tim Evans, an energy analyst at Citi Futures Perspective in New
York. “U.S. inventories are about 8 percent higher than they
were a year earlier.”  U.S.  crude output  rose to 6.52 million barrels a day in the
week ended Sept. 28, the most since December 1996, the
department said Oct. 3. Oil inventories were 364.7 million.  Total U.S.  fuel demand  fell 0.3 percent to 18.3 million
barrels a day in the four weeks ended Sept. 28, the lowest level
since April.  The U.S. is the world’s largest energy-consuming country,
followed by  China , where slowing economic growth is forecast to
curb fuel demand.  “China’s slowdown this year has been significant,” the
World Bank said today.  Economic growth in East Asia will fall to 7.2 percent this
year, the slowest pace since 2001, according to World Bank data.
The new estimate is lower than a May forecast of 7.6 percent and
the 8.3 percent gain in 2011.  Chinese Growth  China’s economy may grow 7.4 percent in the third quarter
from the same three months last year, according to the median
projection in a Bloomberg survey of 25 economists. In the second
quarter, it  expanded  7.6 percent.  The International Monetary Fund may reduce its global
growth forecast for this year at an annual meeting tomorrow in
 Tokyo , where officials will tackle a slowdown triggered by
Europe’s sovereign-debt crisis.  “Oil opened the week with some greater economic
uncertainty after the World Bank called slower growth in Asia,”
said  Gene McGillian , an analyst and broker at Tradition Energy
in  Stamford ,  Connecticut . “You also have concern about Europe.
The question is are we going to get some positive sentiment on
the economic front, and right now it doesn’t really seem like
it’s there.”  European finance ministers began a meeting at 5 p.m. in
Luxembourg to discuss Spain’s overhaul effort and closer banking
cooperation. A summit will start next week to ease the region’s
three-year-old debt crisis.  Euro Weakens  Oil also dropped as the euro tumbled against the dollar
after a report showed German industrial output fell in August.
Production decreased 0.5 percent in August from July, the
 Economy Ministry  said in Berlin.  The euro declined as much as 0.8 percent to $1.2938 before
trimming the move to 0.5 percent. A weaker euro and stronger
dollar reduce oil’s appeal as an investment alternative.  Electronic trading volume on the Nymex was 352,414
contracts as of 3:31 p.m. Volume totaled 574,256 contracts on
Oct. 5, 9.9 percent above the three-month average. Open interest
was 1.57 million.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Moming Zhou in New York at 
 mzhou29@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  