-- Oil Declines a Second Day as Europe Ministers Meet Amid Slowdown
-- B y   G r a n t   S m i t h
-- 2012-10-08T12:14:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-08/oil-declines-a-second-day-as-europe-ministers-meet-amid-slowdown.html
Crude fell for a second day in New
York before a meeting of European officials amid speculation the
region’s debt crisis and an economic slowdown in  Asia  will curb
fuel demand.  Futures pared losses after sliding as much as 1.9 percent.
Prices capped a third weekly decline on Oct. 5, the longest run
of losses since June. Finance ministers meet in Luxembourg today
to discuss Spain’s finances and closer banking cooperation.
Speculators cut bullish bets on oil in the week ended Oct. 2, a
report showed. Economic growth in developing East Asia,
including  China , will be the slowest since 2001, according to
the  World Bank .  “ Risk aversion  is going to continue to increase in the
short-term,” said  Carsten Fritsch , an analyst at Commerzbank AG
in  Frankfurt , who correctly predicted crude’s rebound at the end
of last month. “A solution to the Euro zone crisis is still far
away.”  Crude for November delivery dropped as much as $1.67 to
$88.21 a barrel in electronic trading on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange  and was at $88.70 at 1:08 p.m. London time. The
contract slipped 2 percent to $89.88 on Oct. 5, capping a 2.5
percent loss last week. Prices are down 10.3 percent this year.  Brent for November settlement on the London-based ICE
Futures Europe exchange fell as much as $1.48, or 1.3 percent,
to $110.54 a barrel. The European benchmark grade crude’s
premium to the New York-traded West Texas Intermediate grade
widened earlier to $22.71 a barrel, the biggest spread since
October 2011.  Bullish Bets  Oil in  New York  is near a long-term technical support level
at $89.83 a barrel, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. On
the weekly chart, that’s the 50 percent Fibonacci retracement of
the drop to $32.40 in December 2008 from an intraday record high
of $147.27 in July that year. Losses tend to accelerate below
chart-support levels.  Prices will decline this week, according to a Bloomberg
News survey. Twenty-one of 38 analysts and traders predicted
crude will decrease through Oct. 12. Thirteen respondents, or 34
percent, said futures will gain and four said there will be
little change in prices.  Hedge-fund managers and other large speculators cut net-
long positions in WTI crude futures and options by 11,590
contracts, or 6.5 percent, from a week earlier, data from the
U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission on Oct. 5 showed.  For Brent, money managers raised bullish bets by 6,422
contracts to 113,549 lots in the week ended Oct. 2, the ICE
Futures Europe exchange said in its weekly Commitment of Traders
report today. That’s the highest level since Sept. 11 and the
biggest weekly gain since Aug. 21, the data showed.  Rescue Conditions  German  Chancellor Angela Merkel  tomorrow will make her
first visit to Greece since the debt crisis began in 2009.
Spanish Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy  travels for talks with
French President  Francois Hollande  on Oct. 10. Leaders have yet
to agree on a plan for rescue conditions and centralized bank
supervision, a month after European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  introduced a proposal to buy bonds to alleviate the
crisis.  Economic growth in developing East Asia, which excludes
Japan and India, will probably ease to 7.2 percent this year,
down from 8.3 percent in 2011 and a May forecast of 7.6 percent,
the World Bank said. The slowdown in China has been
“significant,” the Washington-based lender said.  The U.S. and China are the world’s biggest crude users,
accounting for a combined 32 percent of consumption last year,
according to BP Plc’s Statistical Review of World Energy. The
European Union used 16 percent.  Record Gasoline  The average price of regular unleaded gasoline reached a
record $4.668 a gallon in  California , 22 percent more than the
national average of $3.818, according to data published today by
AAA, the largest U.S. motoring organization. Prices have risen
and producers including Exxon Mobil Corp. and Valero Energy
Corp. have rationed deliveries as refinery halts cut into the
state’s supplies.  “Refinery outages on the West Coast led to significant
swings in gasoline prices, as Tesoro and Valero began to ration
demand, taking gasoline prices in the area back to all-time
highs,” Morgan Stanley said today in a report.  Governor  Jerry Brown  told state regulators to allow
refineries to make an early transition to winter-blend gasoline
to help bring pump prices under control, according to a
statement yesterday. The grade typically isn’t sold until after
Oct. 31 and the end of the smog season because it reduces  air
quality  more than summer gasoline.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Grant Smith in London at 
 gsmith52@bloomberg.net ;
Ben Sharples in Melbourne at 
 bsharples@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  