-- Hollande Faces First Challenge From Base in Union Protest
-- B y   M a r k   D e e n
-- 2012-10-09T15:18:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-08/hollande-confronts-challenge-from-base-as-unions-plan-protests.html
Thousands of French workers
demonstrated today across the country in what is President
Francois Hollande’s first public challenge from his base.  Five months after he was elected, the Socialist president
confronts many of the voters who put him into office as unions
and some lawmakers from his own party take him to task over
 Europe ’s deficit-trimming fiscal pact and pledges to make French
labor more flexible. Protestors marched in eight French cities,
including Paris, Marseille and Bordeaux, after CGT, France’s
biggest union, called for strikes and demonstrations.  “This is a government that was elected largely thanks to
votes of workers,”  Pascal Debay , a CGT director, said in an
interview. “We’re witnessing the destruction of jobs and the
wrecking of French industry. That’s why we’re mobilizing. The
choices the government makes in coming weeks will be followed
very closely.”  The confrontations show how Hollande is increasingly caught
between the realities of governing during a debt crisis and the
demands of his core supporters. Hollande’s approval rating fell
9 points in September to 41 percent, according to a TNS-Sofres
poll published last week. That’s a record low for a French
president at this point in his term and down from 55 percent
when Hollande won office in May.  “Hollande’s looking at a very difficult few months,” said
 Antonio Barroso , an analyst at Eurasia Group in  London . The
Socialist “government is starting to see how hard it is.”  French Credibility  As companies from PSA Peugeot Citroen, Air France and
 Carrefour SA (CA)  fire thousands of workers, the protests today are
being called to “defend jobs and industry,” union officials
said. Ports in Le Havre and Marseille were disrupted, while
Paris transport remained unaffected, Agence France-Presse said.  With the French economy in the midst of five quarters
without  growth , according to national statistics office Insee,
and unemployment at a 13-year high, Hollande has little room to
maneuver.  Having won election on a campaign against “austerity” and
then gaining support from German Chancellor Angela Merkel for
increased activism by the European Central Bank, Hollande now
has to make good on  France ’s commitments to trim its deficit and
sign up to tougher budget rules for the medium term.  At stake are France’s credibility and its ability to sell
debt at some of the lowest borrowing costs the country has paid.  Still, in the National Assembly in Paris today, some
Socialist lawmakers may have voted against the fiscal treaty.
Lawmakers including  Jerome Guedj  and  Pascal Cherki  had said they
planned to vote against it because the belt tightening threatens
to push the country into recession.  Markets’ Mercy  “When you ask too much budgetary effort of a country you
trigger a spiral of lower gross domestic product, then missed
targets and a negative market reaction,” Cherki said in a Le
Figaro newspaper webcast Oct. 4. “There’s never just one policy
option,” which is why “I’m fighting against the treaty.”  The vote passed today with 477 in favor and 70 against,
thanks to the support of former President Nicolas Sarkozy’s UMP
party.  Hollande’s political troubles may be far from over. He and
his ministers have tried to sell the debt-and-deficit-cutting
exercise as a question of regaining sovereign control. The
government has pledged to trim the deficit to 3 percent of GDP
next year from 4.5 percent targeted this year.  “Debt is the enemy of public services,” Finance Minister
Pierre Moscovici said yesterday in Luxembourg. “We have too
many examples of countries that are at the mercy of the markets,
which’ve paid the price in terms of very high interest rates.”  Balancing Act  French borrowing costs have held near historic lows since
Hollande took power in May. The yield on French 10-year debt
dropped to a record of 2 percent on Aug. 3 and France also sold
shorter-term notes at negative yields for the first time in
July. French 10-year bonds yielded 2.25 percent today.  Even so, investor pressure isn’t far away as Europe’s debt
crisis moves into its fourth year. The premium France pays over
 Germany  to borrow for 10 years has increased by almost 25 basis
points since Sept. 14, when it reached a one-year low of 55
basis points.  “Hollande’s balancing act is being put to the test,” said
Nicholas Spiro of Spiro Sovereign Strategy in London. “In his
effort to please everyone, he’s increasingly in danger of
satisfying no one.”  Hollande has already had to back down over plans to
increase capital gains tax on entrepreneurs selling businesses
to as much as 60 percent, instead of 34.5 percent currently. The
higher levy was part of 20 billion euros in tax increases
announced Sept. 28 in the 2013 budget.  Tough Times  Bigger tests are set to come in the weeks and months ahead
as Hollande seeks to convince unions of the need to lower
payroll taxes and make labor rules more flexible.  Business leaders say French labor costs need to be brought
down to boost competitiveness and preserve or create jobs.  PSA
Peugeot Citroen (UG)  Chief Executive Officer Philippe Varin said
yesterday that the country’s largest carmaker’s 4 billion euros
in labor costs need to be cut by 5 percent to 10 percent.  “I don’t see why the workers should have to give more,”
CGT president Bernard Thibault said yesterday on France Inter
radio. “It’s workers who made possible the change in
government, not business. This is about having a government that
listens to its electorate.”  As unions and businesses prepare to lock horns, Hollande
may find himself caught in the middle.  “It’s going to be very difficult for Hollande,” said
 Emmanuel Rivier , a pollster at TNS-Sofres in Paris. “As long as
unemployment remains high, Hollande’s popularity will suffer. A
Socialist government is never going to satisfy its voters by
making good on promises to cut the deficit.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Deen in Paris at 
 markdeen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vidya Root at 
 vroot@bloomberg.net  