-- Monsanto, Dow, Vivendi, Dotcom: Intellectual Property
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 2012-10-08T11:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-08/monsanto-dow-vivendi-dotcom-intellectual-property.html
The U.S. Supreme Court agreed to
consider how patent rules apply to self-replicating
technologies, accepting an appeal from a farmer seeking to
circumvent  Monsanto Co. (MON) ’s planting restrictions on its
genetically modified seeds.  The justices said Oct. 5 they will review a federal appeals
court decision that Vernon Hugh Bowman infringed Monsanto’s
patents when he planted soybeans he had bought from a grain
elevator. Those beans were the product of seeds covered by
Monsanto’s patents, and the St. Louis-based company says its
rights extend to the second-generation beans.  The case centers on a technology that has helped make
Monsanto the world’s largest seed company, with $13.5 billion in
annual revenue, while provoking fights with opponents of
genetically modified food and some farmers. Monsanto’s Roundup
Ready seeds are engineered to be tolerant of herbicides. Farmers
have embraced the technology because it lets them kill weeds
while leaving crops unscathed.  The legal issues stem from Monsanto’s efforts to ensure
that farmers have to buy the genetically modified seeds every
year, rather than planting part of the harvest from the previous
season. Farmers who buy seeds from an authorized dealer must
agree that they won’t use any harvested seeds for planting.  Bowman sought to get around that requirement from 1999 to
2007 by buying less expensive soybeans from a grain elevator.
Because the elevator accepted harvests from farmers using
Monsanto seeds, the second-generation beans proved to be
herbicide-resistant. When Monsanto found out about the practice,
the company sued Bowman.  The  U.S. Court of Appeals  for the Federal Circuit, which
handles patent cases, sided with Monsanto. The panel rejected
Bowman’s contention that Monsanto had “exhausted” its  patent
rights  by the time he bought the seed. The appeals court said
Bowman “created a newly infringing article” by growing a new
generation of soybeans with the seed.  The  Supreme Court  took up the case against the advice of
the Obama administration, which said the Federal Circuit reached
the right conclusion in the case.  The case may undermine a legal doctrine the Federal Circuit
has adopted to extend the rights of patent holders. Under the
so-called conditional sale exemption, patent holders can enforce
their rights even after making a sale of the covered product.
The doctrine has given patent holders the power to enforce
restrictions against downstream purchasers.  The Supreme Court called that doctrine into question in a
2008 ruling. The justices unanimously said  LG Electronics Inc. (066570) 
couldn’t enforce its memory-technology patents against both
 Intel Corp . and the computer makers that install Intel’s chips
in their machines.  The court will hear arguments and rule by June. The case is
Bowman v. Monsanto, 11-796, U.S. Supreme Court (Washington).  Dow Chemical Sued by Akzo Over Paint-Making Process Patent  Dow Chemical Co., the biggest U.S. chemical company, was
sued by a unit of  Akzo Nobel NV (AKZA) , the world’s largest paintmaker,
over a patent for a high-temperature coatings process.  Akzo, based in Amsterdam, contends Midland, Michigan-based
Dow is wrongly using polymer extrusion technology patented in
2004, according to a complaint filed Oct. 4 in federal court in
Wilmington, Delaware.  Akzo deserves “damages, along with permanent injunctive
relief” following a  jury trial , for Dow’s patent infringement,
the plaintiff’s lawyers said in court papers.  The lawsuit targets Dow Chemical’s so-called Bluewave
Process used to make paint, and glass, paper and textile
coatings, Akzo lawyers said in court papers.  Dow spokeswoman Nancy Lamb said the company hasn’t been
served with the complaint and had no immediate comment on the
lawsuit.  In dispute is patent 6,767,956.  The case is Akzo Nobel Coatings Inc. v.  Dow Chemical Co. (DOW) ,
12-cv-1264, U.S. District Court, District of Delaware
(Wilmington).  For more patent news, click here.  Trademark  Australia Tobacco Plain-Pack Law Valid as Country Didn’t Benefit  Australia, the first country to require cigarettes to be
sold in uniform packages, won a legal challenge to the law
because the government didn’t benefit from the removal of
trademarks, the country’s top court said.  The seven-judge panel of the  High Court  of Australia on
Oct. 5 released the reasons for its Aug. 15 ruling that
dismissed claims by  Japan Tobacco Inc. (2914) ,  British American Tobacco
Plc (BATS) ,  Philip Morris International Inc. (PM)  and  Imperial Tobacco Group
Plc (IMT)  that the government illegally seized their  intellectual
property  by barring the display of trademarks on packs.  “On no view can it be said that the Commonwealth as a
polity or by any authority or instrumentality has acquired any
benefit,” Chief Justice Robert French wrote in his reasons for
dismissing the claims.  Intellectual property law grants a “negative right,”
French wrote, citing “The Modern Law of Copyright and
Designs.” Someone owning a copyright on a film can stop others
from showing it in public, but doesn’t have the positive right
to show it himself, French wrote. Trademark law, as a result,
prevents others from copying, he wrote.     “  The Aug. 15 ruling is a victory for a government faced with
A$31.5 billion ($32 billion) in annual health costs from
smoking, a habit it estimates killed 900,000 Australians over
six decades. New Zealand and the U.K. are among countries whose
governments have indicated interest in implementing similar
legislation, which takes effect in Australia Dec. 1.  The Australian law requires cigarettes to be sold in packs
with no company logos and with the same font for all brands on a
dark brown background. Graphic health warnings must cover 90
percent of the back of the package and 70 percent of the front.  Only Justice John Heydon dissented, writing that the
government deprived the tobacco companies of control of their
property and the law gave that control and the benefits to the
Commonwealth.  ‘‘The flame of the Commonwealth’s hatred for that
beneficial constitutional guarantee may flicker, but it will not
die’’ Heydon wrote, referring to protection from having property
acquired by the state without just compensation.  ‘‘That is why
it is eternally important to ensure that that flame does not
start a destructive blaze.’’  The case is British American Tobacco Australia Ltd. v the
Commonwealth of Australia, S389/2011, High Court of Australia
(Canberra).  For more trademark news, click here.  Copyright  Vivendi Label Asks Judge to Shut Used-Music Service ReDigi  Vivendi SA (VIV) ’s Capitol Records told a federal judge that a
new online music service that allows people to buy and sell used
digital songs infringes its copyrights.  The music label argued Oct. 5 in Manhattan federal court
that the service, ReDigi Inc., infringed copyrights by allowing
unauthorized copying of digital music files and should be
closed.  ‘‘It is a reproduction and it is a violation of the
reproduction right of the Copyright Act,’’ Richard Mandel, a
lawyer for Capitol, told the judge, requesting a judgment
without a trial.  U.S. District Judge Richard Sullivan said he would rule
later on motions from Capitol and ReDigi, which asked him to
dismiss the case. Sullivan denied Capitol an injunction in
February that would have put ReDigi out of business.  ‘‘There is no copy involved,’’ ReDigi’s lawyer Gary Adelman
said in court. ‘‘The actual file is being transported. That’s
how the technology works.”  ReDigi, based in Cambridge, Massachusetts, said it made no
unauthorized copies of songs. The company said in court papers
that it provides digital music storage and a marketplace for
tracks legitimately bought from Apple Inc.’s  iTunes .  Capitol said in its suit, filed in January, that ReDigi
allows users to upload tracks to its site, where buyers can
download them for about 79 cents each.  “ReDigi offers a service whose very economic survival
depends on the unauthorized reproduction and distribution of
copyrighted sound recordings,” Capitol said in its motion for
summary judgment.  ITunes charges 99 cents for many tracks, and the music
companies take about 70 cents from each transaction.  The labels receive no revenue from a ReDigi sale. ReDigi
takes a fee of 5 percent to 15 percent of each download,
according to the complaint.  ReDigi said in court papers that it is protected from
liability by the first-sale doctrine, which allows an individual
who has lawfully purchased music to sell it to whomever he
wishes without being liable for copyright infringement.  The label argued that what is being bought is not an
original track acquired on iTunes but rather a digital copy of
it. Capitol is seeking statutory damages of as much as $150,000
for each track infringed.       .  Vivendi is the owner of  Universal Music Group , the world’s
largest recording company. The French company last month
received regulatory approval in the U.S. and Europe to buy
Capitol’s parent, EMI Recorded Music.  The case is Capitol Records v. ReDigi, 1:12-cv-00095, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  WIPO Defers Vote on Pirate Parties’ Observer Status  The  World Intellectual Property Organization , a United
Nations agency, deferred consideration of the Pirate Parties
non-governmental organization’s application for observer-level
membership, the TorrentFreak website  reported .  Requests from the French, Swiss and American WIPO members
caused the postponement of consideration of the anti-copyright
group’s allocation until 2013, TorrentFreak reported.  TorrentFreak, which also opposes copyright laws, said that
while other countries also supported postponement of the Pirate
Parties group’s application, they were reluctant to go public,
given the success of the Pirate Parties in their national
elections.  The U.S. sought a hold until WIPO decides if political
parties should be accredited observers, even though the  Pirate
Parties International  is an association of political parties,
rather than a political party itself, TorrentFreak reported.  Data Owner Allowed to Argue for Return of Megaupload Content  An Ohio resident will get a chance to argue for the return
of his files seized by the government in the criminal copyright
case against Kim Dotcom.  Kyle Goodwin used Dotcom’s Megaupload service to store data
related to his OhioSportsNet business, which reports on high
school sports events in his state. The files were seized when
the government shut Megaupload in January, as part of
proceedings against Dotcom, according to court papers.  Among the data Goodwin said he is missing is footage some
players parents paid for to be submitted to colleges for
recruiting purposes. Also among the data is the raw footage to
be used for a full-length documentary on one school’s girls’
soccer team.  Goodwin filed a petition with the court in March, asking
that court develop a mechanism for the return of non-infringing
content to Megaupload users. He said in his pleadings that he
was expressing no opinion on the legitimacy of the government’s
case against Dotcom.  In an Oct. 2 order, U.S. District Judge Liam O’Grady said
that the court didn’t have enough information to make a decision
on his request. He said an evidentiary hearing would be required
and gave both Goodwin and the government 14 days in which to
submit a brief.  After the judge reads the briefs, he said he will designate
a date for a hearing.  The case is U.S. v. Kim Dotcom, 1:12-cr-00003-LO, U.S.
District Court, Eastern District of Virginia (Alexandra)  For more copyright news, click here.  Trade Secrets/Industrial Espionage  Huawei Poses Security Threat to U.S., Lawmakers Say After Probe  Huawei Technologies Co., China’s largest phone-equipment
maker, poses a security threat to the U.S., leaders of the House
Intelligence Committee said as the panel prepares to issue a
report on its probe of the company.  U.S. companies considering purchases from Huawei should
“find another vendor if you care about your intellectual
property, if you care about your consumers’ privacy, and you
care about the national security of the  United States of
America ,” Representative Mike Rogers, the panel’s chairman,
told  CBS News ’s “60 Minutes,” according to a CBS release about
an interview set for an Oct. 7 airing.  Rogers, a Michigan Republican, and the committee’s top
Democrat, C.A. “Dutch” Ruppersberger, of Maryland, have been
investigating whether expansion in the U.S. by Huawei and ZTE
Corp., another Chinese phone-equipment maker, enable Chinese
government spying and economic espionage, and imperil the U.S.
telecommunications infrastructure.  The intelligence committee is scheduled to release a report
on its yearlong probe at a news conference today.  “Huawei is a globally trusted and respected company doing
business in almost 150 markets with over 500 operator customers
including nationwide carriers across every continent save
Antarctica,”  William Plummer , a Washington-based spokesman for
Huawei, said in an e-mail. “The security and integrity of our
products are world proven. Those are the facts today. Those will
still be the facts next week, political agendas aside.”  Susan Phalen, a spokeswoman for the committee, didn’t
immediately respond to a request for comment.  Executives for Huawei and ZTE, both based in Shenzhen,
China, denied links to espionage during an intelligence
committee hearing last month, telling lawmakers they aren’t
controlled by the Chinese government.  The companies said they favor independent audits of
technology vendors’ hardware and software as a way to ensure
that devices and networks are secure.  The panel’s probe coincides with increased U.S. warnings
about digital spying by China. U.S. counterintelligence
officials called China the world’s biggest perpetrator of
economic espionage in a report last November, saying the theft
of sensitive data in cyberspace is accelerating and jeopardizing
an estimated $398 billion in U.S. research spending.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in Oakland, California, at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 