-- Moody’s Global Junk-Bond Default Rate Rose to 3% Last Month
-- B y   S a r i k a   G a n g a r
-- 2012-10-08T17:35:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-08/moody-s-junk-bond-default-rate-rises-to-3-percent-in-september.html
The global default rate for
speculative-grade debt increased 0.1 percentage point during the
third quarter to 3 percent in September, the highest level in
almost two years, according to Moody’s Investors Service.  The ratings company’s trailing 12-month global speculative-
grade default rate increased from 2.9 percent in the second
quarter and compares with 1.8 percent a year ago, New York-based
Moody’s said today. The rate remains less than a historical
average of 4.8 percent in data going back to 1983 and is the
highest since 3.2 percent in December 2010.  U.S. junk-rated defaults increased to 3.5 percent in
September from a 3.2 percent rate in the second quarter. In
 Europe , the pace of high-yield defaults fell to 2.6 percent last
month from 2.8 percent in the second quarter, Moody’s said.  “The high-yield market has been healthy so far this year
despite continued distress in Europe, slow recovery in the  U.S.
economy , and concerns over China’s growth rate,” Moody’s said
in a report dated Oct. 5. “Spreads have come down recently
along with continued favorable borrowing and liquidity
conditions.”  High-yield global corporate defaults will end 2012
unchanged at 3 percent, before decreasing to 2.9 percent by
September 2013, according to the report. In the U.S., the year-
end rate is expected to be unchanged at 3.5 percent while
decreasing to 2.4 percent in Europe.  The advertising, printing and publishing industries will
lead defaults in the U.S. this year, while companies in the
hotel, gaming and leisure businesses are the most likely to
default in Europe, Moody’s said.  Nine companies defaulted in the third quarter, with seven
in  North America  and two in Europe and  Latin America , bringing
the tally for the year to 46.  High-risk, high-yield bonds are rated below Baa3 by Moody’s
and lower than BBB- by  Standard & Poor’s .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarika Gangar in  New York  at 
 sgangar@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net ; 