-- Top Yuan Forecasters See Dip as Dim Sum Bonds Fall: China Credit
-- B y   Y u m i   T e s o   a n d   A n d r e a   W o n g
-- 2012-10-08T16:01:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-08/top-yuan-forecasters-see-dip-as-dim-sum-bonds-fall-china-credit.html
The most-accurate forecasters for the
 yuan  predict the currency will retreat from a 19-year high this
quarter as China prevents gains that may hurt exports.  The yuan will slip 0.2 percent to 6.3 per dollar in the
three months through December, according to  Credit Agricole  CIB
and BNP Paribas SA, which had the best estimates for the last
six quarters as measured by Bloomberg Rankings. Declines may
curb demand for Dim Sum bonds after the  average yield  on the
notes climbed in each of the last eight weeks, the longest run
of increases in Deutsche Bank AG data going back to January 2011.  Standard Chartered  Plc rates the debt “underweight”
because of the “lack of an appreciation story,” it said in a
research note yesterday. Pacific Investment Management Co.,
manager of the world’s biggest bond fund, sees limited scope for
yuan gains as growth slows in the world’s second-largest economy.
Data next week will show gross domestic product rose 7.4 percent
in the third quarter, the least since March 2009, according to
the median estimate in a Bloomberg survey.  “China seems to be targeting a stable-to-weaker real
 exchange rate  in order to support its exporters,” Dariusz Kowalczyk, a senior strategist at Credit Agricole in  Hong Kong ,
said in an Oct. 4 interview. “We believe that the appreciation
versus the dollar seen since late July has been partly caused by
the desire to placate U.S. pressure.”  Analysts were ranked according to the accuracy of their
estimates in each of six quarters beginning with the three
months through June 2011. To test long-term accuracy, Bloomberg
added one annual forecast made on Sept. 30, 2011 for Sept. 30
this year. Credit Agricole was first, BNP Paribas second and
Westpac Banking Corp. third in making predictions for the yuan.  Near Limit  China’s currency rose 1.1 percent in the last three months
and reached 6.2812 per dollar yesterday, the strongest level
since 1993. That level was 0.98 percent stronger than the
central bank’s reference rate, near to the maximum 1 percent
divergence that is permitted. The daily fixing was weakened 0.03
percent yesterday to 6.3426.  The average yield on Dim Sum bonds, yuan-denominated notes
sold outside of China, fell three basis points, or 0.03
percentage point, to 4.09 percent yesterday, according to a
Deutsche Bank  index . It jumped 36 basis points in the last eight
weeks.  Support for Dim Sum bonds “comes from investors hoping to
gain from currency appreciation rather than credit carry,”
 Stephen Green , head of Greater China research at Standard
Chartered, wrote in the research note. “The lack of a positive
turn in China’s macro data has made investors wary of holding
Chinese risk.”  Outlook Dims  Asian Development Bank  and the  World Bank  cut their 2012
economic growth forecasts for China to 7.7 percent from 8.2
percent in the past week. Outgoing Premier  Wen Jiabao  aims to
stop growth slipping below his 7.5 percent target for this year,
an annual pace that would be the  weakest  since 1990.  “Short-term worry over the economy is larger than the
long-term appreciation hope,” Chen Xingdong, a Beijing-based
analyst at BNP Paribas, said in a phone interview on Oct. 4.
“So, we are not seeing a too strong appreciation now.”  Even so, the cost of insuring  China ’s bonds has declined on
bets the economy will avoid a sharp slowdown. Five-year credit-
default swaps protecting the nation’s sovereign notes dropped
six basis points last week to 83 in  New York , according to data
provider CMA. The contracts pay the buyer face value in exchange
for the underlying securities or the cash equivalent if a
government or company fails to adhere to its debt agreements.  ‘Limited’ Potential  The State Council announced measures last month to
alleviate pressure on exporters such as speeding up tax rebates
and expanding financing channels. While the government said it’s
sticking to its target of 10 percent growth in overall trade
this year,  overseas sales  increased only 2.7 percent in August,
following a 1 percent expansion in July, with inbound shipments
falling 2.6 percent.  Pacific Investment Management said although “the near term
potential for China is more limited,” the yuan is a good
investment that will likely appreciate in coming years. While
China gets used to a “new normal” growth rate of 7 percent,
the economy isn’t facing a hard landing, it also said.  “Chinese productivity growth continues to be higher than
its Western trading partners and China continues to run a  trade
surplus  at a time when the global economy is still in the
process of rebalancing,” Ramin Toloui, Pimco’s global co-head
of  emerging markets  portfolio management, said in an Oct. 3
interview in  Singapore . “Those suggest to us that the yuan is
likely to appreciate in the coming years.”  U.S. Pressure  China recorded a trade surplus of $122 billion for the
first eight months of this year, following an excess of $158
billion in 2011. The U.S. had a deficit of $330 billion this
year through July and  Japan  had a shortfall of 2.87 trillion yen
($37 billion), official data show.  President  Barack Obama ’s administration said China keeps
the yuan undervalued, giving its exporters an unfair advantage
in global trade. Calls for appreciation are heating up before a
 U.S. presidential election  in November.  Obama touted a trade complaint against China last month
over illegally subsidizing exports of automobiles and auto parts.
Republican candidate  Mitt Romney  said he would on his first day
in the White House tell the Treasury Department to list China as
a currency manipulator, paving the way for more duties on
Chinese imports.  Obama Leads  Obama led Romney in a Gallup poll of registered voters
surveyed between Sept. 28 and Oct. 4 at 50 percent versus
Romney’s 45 percent. The margin of error is two percentage
points.  “We expect a continuation of the current U.S. policy
towards the Chinese yuan,”  Huw McKay , senior international
economist in Sydney at Westpac, said in an Oct. 3 interview.
“There are very different views out there and I don’t think
there’s a real consensus on China. We expect domestic demand
will bottom very soon.”  Westpac, the third most-accurate forecaster, predicts the
yuan will weaken 0.6 percent to 6.32 per dollar this quarter.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Yumi Teso in Bangkok at 
 yteso1@bloomberg.net ;
Andrea Wong in Taipei at 
 awong268@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  