-- OraSure HIV Home Test Won’t Stem Disease, Editorial Says
-- B y   N i c o l e   O s t r o w
-- 2012-10-08T21:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-08/orasure-hiv-home-test-won-t-stem-disease-editorial-says.html
OraSure Technologies Inc. (OSUR) ’s OraQuick,
which allows people to screen for HIV at home, won’t help slow
transmissions of the virus, a public health specialist and an
infectious disease doctor said in an editorial.  Routine screening in doctors’ offices and clinics is the
best way to identify people who don’t know they are infected
with HIV, the virus that causes AIDS, and get them to the right
care, according to the editorial published today in the  Annals
of Internal Medicine .  OraSure won U.S. approval for the first rapid, at-home HIV
screening in July. The saliva test gives results within 20 to 40
minutes without a doctor or laboratory. The test won’t lower
barriers to care because of cost and those likely to use it,
said  A. David Paltiel , a professor of public health and
management sciences at  Yale University  in  New Haven ,
 Connecticut , and Rochelle Walensky, an associate professor of
medicine at  Massachusetts General Hospital  in  Boston .  “A $40 home HIV test is not even likely to make an
appreciable dent in the number of undetected HIV infections,”
they wrote in the editorial. “Rather, it will attract a
predominantly affluent clientele composed of persons at low risk
for HIV infection, persons with very recent high-risk exposures,
and persons with known HIV infection seeking to monitor therapy
or to pursue a misperception that treatment has reversed their
seropositivity.”  Home testing may be used by someone who already knows their
HIV status, starts a new sexual relationship and uses OraSure to
reassure a partner, or who doesn’t want an in-office test
because they have confidentiality concerns, they said.  Antibodies Response  The test doesn’t detect HIV, just the body’s response to
the virus. Antibodies aren’t detectable until six weeks after
infection and sometimes as long as three months, so a negative
test result doesn’t always mean someone isn’t positive for HIV.  HIV screening in hospitals or doctors’ offices usually
involves a blood test that screens for HIV antibodies and
provides results in a few days.  OraQuick, which will sell for $39 a test, will be on store
shelves this month, said Ron Ticho, a spokesman for Bethlehem,
Pennsylvania-based Orasure. He said people who have never been
tested or those who want to know their HIV status more
frequently may be among those that use the at-home test.  “Our test is not intended to take the place of testing
that takes place in a doctor’s office or a health care
facility,” he said in an Oct. 5 telephone interview. “Our test
is there as an additional option. It’s important to know your
status.”  In the U.S., 1.2 million people have HIV and 20 percent are
unaware they are infected, according to the  U.S. Centers for
Disease Control and Prevention . About 50,000 Americans become
infected with HIV each year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicole Ostrow in  New York  at 
 nostrow1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  