-- Morgan Stanley Can Be Sued Over Moody’s, S&P Ratings
-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 2012-10-08T18:25:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-08/morgan-stanley-can-be-sued-over-moody-s-s-p-ratings.html
Morgan Stanley (MS)  can’t avoid liability
for any inaccurate ratings on a group of notes backed by
subprime mortgages by saying the information came from  Moody’s
Corp. (MCO)  and Standard & Poor’s, a judge ruled.  U.S. District Judge Shira Scheindlin in Manhattan said Oct.
5 that investors in a structured-investment vehicle named Cheyne
may go forward with claims the bank is responsible for passing
along inflated ratings on the notes.  The investors, which include Abu Dhabi Commercial Bank,
claim Morgan Stanley was negligent in conveying ratings that it
should have know were inaccurate. Scheindlin, applying  New York 
law, rejected Morgan Stanley’s argument that the alleged
misstatements were made by the rating companies, not the bank.  “Morgan Stanley’s conveyance of the inaccurate ratings --
combined with its omission of nonpublic facts that it knew would
undercut the ratings -- represented a breach of its duty to
provide plaintiffs with accurate information,” Scheindlin said
in a written opinion.  In August, Scheindlin denied a request by Moody’s and
 Standard & Poor’s  to dismiss fraud claims against them in the
suit. She also allowed the investors to pursue claims of aiding
and abetting fraud against Morgan Stanley.  Mary Claire Delaney, a spokeswoman for New York-based
Morgan Stanley, declined to comment on the ruling.  August Decision  At the time of her August decision, Scheindlin ordered the
investors to provide arguments for why she shouldn’t dismiss the
negligent-misrepresentation claim against Morgan Stanley.  “A defendant whose duty consisted of an obligation to
provide accurate information to a plaintiff may be liable for
negligently providing inaccurate information even if that
information originated from third parties,” Scheindlin said in
the Oct. 5 opinion.  The case is  Abu Dhabi Commercial Bank (ADCB)  v.  Morgan Stanley &
Co ., 08-CV-7508, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New
York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Van Voris in New York at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  