-- Osborne Invokes Thatcher as He Pledges to ‘Finish’ Austerity Job
-- B y   S v e n j a   O ’ D o n n e l l   a n d   R o b e r t   H u t t o n
-- 2012-10-08T13:36:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-08/osborne-invokes-thatcher-as-he-pledges-to-finish-austerity-job.html
Chancellor of the ExchequerGeorge Osborne pledged to “finish the job” as he rejected calls to
ease the pace of deficit reduction and signalled that deep cuts
to welfare will be needed after the next general election.  The economy’s “healing is taking longer than we hoped,
because the damage was greater than we feared,” Osborne said in
a speech today at the Conservative Party conference in
Birmingham, central  England . “But let the message from this
conference be clear: we will finish the job we have started.”  Osborne compared his task to that of  Margaret Thatcher 
during the early 1980s recession as he vowed he’d neither
increase nor slow his budget-cutting strategy, dismissing
criticism from the Labour opposition that his austerity plan had
plunged the economy into a double-dip recession. He also
rejected calls from his Liberal Democrat coalition partners to
raise more money from the wealthy through a so-called mansion
tax on the most expensive homes.  “Just as we should never balance the budget on the backs
of the poor, so it’s an economic delusion to think you can
balance it only on the wallets of the rich,” Osborne said. “We
won’t have some kind of temporary  wealth tax ” and “nor am I
going to introduce a new tax on people’s homes.”  The chancellor confirmed the government will press ahead
with plans to cut 10 billion pounds ($16 billion) from the
welfare budget in the two years following the 2015 general
election and reduce spending by most other departments as
it extends Britain’s  austerity program  into a seventh year.  Welfare Bill  The Treasury is seeking to extend spending reductions
across government departments as a 2010 effort to rid Britain of
its  budget deficit  by 2015 is pushed back a further two years.
Britain spends more than 200 billion pounds a year on welfare,
accounting for 30 percent of total  government spending .  The Treasury said in March that welfare cuts of 10 billion
pounds are needed by the fiscal year that runs through March
2017 on top of the 18 billion pounds of savings already
announced. The economic slump has left Osborne on course to miss
his self-imposed deadline to start bringing down the burden of
government debt by 2015.  “Osborne’s speech shows he is in complete denial about the
failure of his plan,” Rachel Reeves, who speaks for Labour on
Treasury affairs, said in an e-mailed statement. “The reason
why  George Osborne  has been forced to talk about billions more
cuts into the next Parliament is because his failure to deliver
economic growth means he will break his promise to balance the
books by 2015.”  Taxes on Rich  Rejecting criticism that his government is favoring the
wealthiest, Osborne argued that the rich are paying a greater
share of tax than at any time under the previous Labour
government and defended his decision to scrap the 50 percent top
rate of income tax in his March budget, calling it “cripplingly
uncompetitive.”  “It is a completely phoney conception of fairness that you
stick with a  tax rate  you know raises no money, that you know
drives away jobs and investment, that you know weakens the
economy, just to say you’ve kicked the rich,” he said.  Signaling further cuts to welfare benefits such as housing
support, Osborne said that the government faces “serious
decisions” about what spending decisions to make. He also
pledged a new crackdown on  tax evasion  and aggressive avoidance.  The government’s spending plans have given it “the
credibility that each day earns us record low  interest rates  in
the world’s bond markets,” he said. “We must now take some
very serious decisions about what we do after that.”  Employment Rights  Osborne said the government will introduce new measures to
help support enterprise, including the chance for staff to give
up some of their employment rights in exchange for shares in
their firms.  In plans out for consultation, companies will be allowed to
offer existing employees the chance to waive certain employment
rights in return for between 2,000 and 50,000 pounds of shares.
That holding would then be exempt from capital-gains tax. The
proposed employment rights are protection from unfair dismissal,
redundancy pay, and the right to request flexible working.
Mothers would also be asked to give 16 weeks notice of their
plans to return from maternity leave.  “Get shares and become owners of the company you work
for,” Osborne said. “Owners, workers, and the taxman, all in
it together. Workers of the world unite.”  Osborne also said the Treasury is looking at reducing tax
on shale gas.  “We’re consulting on a generous new tax regime for shale
gas, so that Britain is not left behind as gas prices tumble on
the other side of the Atlantic,” Osborne told the conference.  Osborne began his speech by invoking the Conservative
government of Thatcher in 1981, which two years into office
vowed to stick to its economic policies including deep budget
cuts at a time when unemployment was rising after a two-year
recession.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Svenja O’Donnell in  London  at 
 sodonnell@bloomberg.net ;
 Robert Hutton  in Birmingham, England at 
 rhutton1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  