-- Osborne Faces Small World of BOE as Governor Choice Looms
-- B y   S v e n j a   O ’ D o n n e l l
-- 2012-10-08T06:35:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-08/osborne-faces-small-world-of-boe-as-governor-choice-looms-1-.html
George Osborne  is about to find out
just how many people think they are clever enough to be governor
of the Bank of England.  The chancellor of the exchequer will discover today the
full list of applicants to replace  Mervyn King  at the helm of
the U.K. central bank, managing monetary policy and banking
regulation for a single eight-year term. Candidates have until
8.30 a.m. to express their interest to the Treasury in London.  Bank of England Deputy Governor  Paul Tucker , Financial
Services Authority Chairman  Adair Turner  and Independent
Commission on Banking Chairman  John Vickers  are among favorites
to succeed King when he steps down in June after a decade in the
job. The decision will be announced by the end of 2012.  “It’s going to be a difficult choice to make,” said Grant Lewis, head of research at Daiwa Capital Markets Europe and a
former Treasury official. “Every one of the main candidates is
adequately qualified. In these circles, it’s a small world. The
panel and the candidates know each other. It makes the task of
interviewing them harder.”  Goldman Sachs Asset Management Chairman  Jim O’Neill  said in
an e-mail to  Bloomberg News  today that he had not applied.
Former U.K. civil service chief  Gus O’Donnell  chose not to seek
the position, the Financial Times reported, citing an interview.  Reserve Bank  of Australia Governor  Glenn Stevens  hasn’t
been approached about the Bank of England role, a spokeswoman
said today after the Sunday Times newspaper reported that he is
among the contenders.  Three Inquisitors  Candidates were asked to send a resume, a cover letter and
a questionnaire disclosing prior political activity and
potential conflicts of interest. A panel of officials will draw
up a shortlist and notify those who haven’t made it. They will
then conduct interviews and make a recommendation to Osborne,
with his Liberal Democrat coalition partners also having a say.  The selection panel comprises Treasury Permanent Secretary
Nicholas Macpherson, Second Permanent Secretary Tom Scholar and
David Lees, chairman of the bank’s court of directors. Lawmakers
will also question the new governor before the job commences.  Recent probes over rigging of the London Interbank Offered
Rate, which led in June to Barclays Plc being fined a record 290
million pounds ($468 million), have harmed chances of former
bankers from applying.  John Gieve , a former Bank of England
deputy governor, said last month it would be “very difficult”
for anyone who has recently worked in banking to get the job.  Tucker’s Odds  Tucker, who has spent more than three decades at the
central bank, is still a favorite to succeed King, even after
his questioning by lawmakers in July over his knowledge of Libor
rate-rigging raised concerns about his suitability for the job.  Business Secretary  Vince Cable , a Liberal Democrat, said in
an interview on Sept. 24 that Tucker’s chances hadn’t been hurt
by the  Libor probe  and that the governor needs to be someone who
“understands banking but who isn’t captured by banking.”  “Tucker is the best qualified,” said Shamik Dhar, a
former  Bank of England  economist and head of investment strategy
at Aviva Investors, which oversees $409 billion in London. “If
this wasn’t a quasi-political appointment, he’d get it.”  The government’s desire to appear committed to reforming
the banking industry may favor a candidate with experience of
financial regulation, such as Vickers, said Dhar.  Bank Reforms  Vickers, a professor at Oxford University and a former Bank
of England chief economist, was appointed by the government in
June 2010 to lead the Independent Commission on Banking, an
inquiry designed to promote stability and competition in the
U.K. banking industry. The government has pledged to take action
on the commission’s findings by 2015.  Appointing Vickers “would scare the banks sufficiently, a
way for the government of saying ‘we’re serious about banking
reform, but we’re not downright out to get you,’” said Dhar,
who worked at the central bank when Vickers was chief economist.
“From that perspective, Vickers fits the bill. The question is,
does he have the authority to run a large institution?”  Bookmaker  William Hill Plc (WMH)  has Tucker as favorite at odds
of 7-4, according to odds offered last week, meaning a winning
4-pound bet would yield a 7-pound profit. Bank of Canada
Governor  Mark Carney  was at 5-2, Turner was 3-1 and Vickers was
10-1. O’Donnell, who has now said he’s not applying, was at 5-1.  Other candidates cited by William Hill include former
policy maker DeAnne Julius and former Treasury Permanent
Secretary Terence Burns.  ‘Socially Useless’  Turner, who steps down as FSA chairman next year when the
regulator is split into two agencies, has been the most
outspoken critic of banks among the candidates, saying in 2009
that many of the activities carried out by financial-services
companies were “socially useless.” In July, he signaled his
interest in the job, saying in an interview that he would
“obviously not rule myself out.”  O’Donnell had previously indicated he might send in his
resume.  “When they do advertise it, I’ll make up my mind whether I
want to apply or not,” he said in an interview after he joined
 Toronto-Dominion Bank (TD)  as an adviser in June.  Whoever is appointed will take over a beefed-up institution
with new powers over financial regulation to add to its role
setting monetary policy. The job of the next governor is “near
impossible” and “only superhumans need apply,”  Ed Balls ,
economics spokesman for the opposition  Labour Party , has said.  “The new job is a much bigger role, it requires someone
who has the authority to walk the corridors of government,”
said  Steven Bell , a former Treasury official who is now chief
economist at hedge fund GLC Ltd. in London. “Gus O’Donnell has
very good instincts on monetary policy and is a man of
considerable talent. He’d be a great choice.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Svenja O’Donnell in London at 
 sodonnell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  