-- Osborne Weighs Shale Tax Break as U.K. Likely to Resume Drilling
-- B y   R o x a n a   Z e g a   a n d   R o b e r t   H u t t o n
-- 2012-10-08T12:21:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-08/osborne-weighs-shale-tax-break-as-u-k-likely-to-resume-drilling.html
Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  announced possible tax breaks for shale gas as the
U.K.’s energy secretary said he hoped to let drilling resume.  “We’re consulting on a generous new tax regime for shale
gas, so that Britain is not left behind as gas prices tumble on
the other side of the Atlantic,” Osborne told his  Conservative
Party ’s annual conference today in Birmingham,  England .  Prospects for shale gas have become a political issue in
the U.K. as Conservative lawmakers push the fuel as a way to
mitigate rising energy prices and boost economic growth. Prices
have fallen in the U.S. after production from shale fields made
the country the world’s largest gas producer. In Britain,
reserves could meet 10 percent of demand for a century,
according to a report by the Institute of Directors last month.
Environmental campaigners say the process risks polluting water.  Earlier today Energy Secretary  Ed Davey , who’s a member of
the Liberal Democrats, the smaller party in the governing
coalition, said he hopes “to give a green light to shale.”
Companies are waiting for the results of a government report
that may allow them to restart shale gas exploration.  Britain’s energy department called for an assessment of
hydraulic fracturing, as the process for extracting shale gas is
known, after drilling last year by Cuadrilla Resources Ltd.
caused two earthquakes. The company, which says the shale rock
it’s exploring in northwest England has more gas than all of
 Iraq , suspended operations.  No Apology  “In principle, I’m all in favor of exploiting the
resources,” Davey said at an industry conference in  London . “I
make no apology for being a little more patient than those
excited commentators. Questions about regulatory oversight and
the involvement of local communities need to be answered rather
than simply dismissed.”  Shale gas resources currently fall under the same tax
regime used for the U.K.’s conventional oil and gas reserves in
the  North Sea .  Cuadrilla estimates that the shale gas it is exploring may
contain 200 trillion cubic feet of gas and the company said in
an interview in May this year it hoped to resume work in 2012,
allowing gas production to start as soon as 2014.  The first tremor on April 1 last year measured magnitude
2.3 on the Richter scale. A weaker quake of 1.5 was recorded in
May. The company released a report in November saying that
fracking probably caused the quakes, prompting a government
assessment. and it suspended operations.  Greenhill & Co.  Other companies with shale assets include  IGas Energy Plc (IGAS) ,
which is drilling in Cheshire in northwest England. Earlier this
year, IGas said it may double the 4.6 trillion cubic feet
estimate of its shale gas resource and in June the company
appointed the investment bank Greenhill & Co. to help find an
investor for its U.K. shale discovery.  “The chancellor is right to hail the potential of shale
gas,” the Institute of Directors said in a statement today.
“Shale gas represents a really valuable asset, right on our
doorstep.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Roxana Zega in London at 
 rzega@bloomberg.net ;
Robert Hutton in Birmingham, England at 
 rhutton1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  