-- Pakistan Sukuk Rules, Nifty Index Rout, SEC: Compliance
-- B y   C a r l a   M a i n
-- 2012-10-08T12:48:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-08/pakistan-sukuk-rules-nifty-index-rout-sec-compliance.html
Pakistan has drafted rules to develop
the Islamic capital market as the central bank seeks to increase
assets that comply with religious tenets to 15 percent of the
total in five years.  The “Issuance of Sukuk Regulations 2012” allows companies
to sell Shariah-compliant notes so long as they have no overdue
loans, the  Securities Exchange Commission of Pakistan , said in
an e-mailed statement Oct. 4. The issuer and the underlying
assets should also not be rated lower than BBB-, it said.  Each company must appoint a Shariah scholar to ascertain
that the sukuk meets Islamic principles and assign a fatwa, or
legal ruling, according to the statement. Proceeds should also
be used in accordance with Shariah law, it said. Businesses
involved in activities such as gambling, prostitution, alcohol
and some entertainment establishments are deemed unethical in
the Islamic world.  Pakistan is amending rules as it seeks to boost Shariah
deposits to finance a budget deficit that is 7.4 percent of
gross domestic product, the highest since 2009. The nation aims
to increase Islamic banking assets from the current 8 percent in
five years, the central bank said in a statement on Sept. 4,
citing Deputy Governor Kazi Abdul Muktadir.  Compliance Policy  U.S. Regulator Proposes Uniform System for Mortgage Securities  The U.S. overseer of  Fannie Mae (FNMA)  and  Freddie Mac (FMCC) , planning
for when the companies are eliminated or their role diminished,
is seeking input on a system to standardize the packaging of
home loans into securities.  The plan would create a common method of issuing bonds,
overseeing servicers, making payments to investors, and tracking
loan performance, among other things,  the Federal Housing
Finance Administration  said in a  white paper  released last week.
It would also standardize pooling and servicing contracts
underlying the securities.  The system could be used either by Fannie Mae and Freddie
Mac or by issuers of private-label securities, FHFA said.  The proposal is part of the regulator’s effort to lay the
groundwork for the two government-sponsored enterprises to
shrink or be wound down entirely. Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac
have operated under U.S. conservatorship since 2008. About 75
percent of mortgage securities are created by the two
enterprises.  Neither Congress nor President Barack Obama have moved
forward with plans to overhaul the housing-finance system and
determine the companies’ fate. Washington-based Fannie Mae and
McLean, Virginia-based Freddie Mac dominate the U.S. mortgage
market.  FHFA has been pushing Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac to
standardize their operations to reduce taxpayers’ costs and make
it easier for sellers, servicers and investors to work with the
two companies.  For more, click here.  U.K. Banks May Need $36 Billion of Capital, Morgan Stanley Says  U.K. banks may be driven by regulators to hold as much as
22 billion pounds ($36 billion) of extra capital to guard
against residential mortgage losses, according to Morgan Stanley
analysts.  The Financial Policy Committee will likely require that
banks increase the risk weightings they apply to residential
mortgages, with  Lloyds Banking Group Plc (LLOY)  the most affected, the
analysts including Chris Manners wrote in a report Oct. 5.  The FPC is concerned that banks are allowed to assign
different risk weights to mortgages based on their own internal
models. The group recommended in March that Parliament give it
powers of direction over capital buffers and requirements
relating to areas such as residential mortgages and leverage
ratios.  Compliance Action  Former SEC Watchdog Kotz Violated Ethics Rules, Review Finds  The former internal watchdog for the U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission violated ethics rules by overseeing
investigations that touched on people with whom he had
“personal relationships,” an outside review found.  H.  David Kotz , who resigned as the agency’s inspector
general in January amid questions about his tactics and conduct,
shouldn’t have participated in a probe of the SEC’s office re-
organization because he engaged in “extensive” and
“flirtatious” communications with an employee associated with
the project, according to the review.  Kotz also shouldn’t have opened an investigation related to
R. Allen Stanford’s Ponzi scheme because he was friends with a
female attorney who represented victims of the fraud,
investigators said in the 66-page report.  The outside review of Kotz’s activities was led by  David
Williams , the inspector general of the U.S. Postal Service. He
created a report dated Sept. 17, which was released in response
to a public records request.  Kotz didn’t respond to requests for comment on the review.  Kotz “appeared to have a conflict of interest” when he
opened and supervised an investigation into the court-appointed
receiver in the Stanford case because of his relationship with
Gaytri Kachroo, a Massachusetts attorney, the review found. One
month after beginning the probe, Kotz listed her as a business
reference and a “personal friend,” the report noted.  Kachroo, who declined to be interviewed for the report,
said she was one of many who asked Kotz to probe the Stanford
receiver.  “My understanding is that the investigation of the
Stanford receivership would not have been initiated but for
numerous complaints made before ours,” Kachroo said in an e-
mail. “The request made by my firm was a formal letter request
made on behalf of hundreds of Stanford victims my firm
represents, who have no relationship with Mr. Kotz whatsoever.”  In a response included in the report, Kotz said that he met
with Kachroo after his departure from the SEC in an effort to
“drum up business” for his new job. He indicated that their
meeting didn’t result in a close business relationship or
additional work for his company.  The review also called into question Kotz’s work relating
to the Bernard Madoff Ponzi scheme.  For more, click here.  Swaps Regulator Must Address Dodd-Frank Questions, Chilton Says  The U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission must answer
bank, energy and other firms’ requests for guidance on Dodd-
Frank Act swaps measures before pursuing legal action on rules
taking effect Oct. 12, Commissioner  Bart Chilton  said Oct. 5.  “If we don’t respond, there is no way I can envision the
agency taking an action against them,” Chilton said in a
telephone conference with reporters.  India Eight-Second Stock Rout Brings Trading Paranoia to Mumbai  The plunge and rebound in Indian stocks that pushed the S&P
CNX  Nifty (NIFTY)  Index down 16 percent over eight seconds underscored
concern about financial markets.  Trading in the Nifty and some companies stopped Oct. 4 in
Mumbai for 15 minutes after the 50-stock gauge tumbled as much
as 16 percent. A brokerage that mishandled trades for an
institutional client was to blame, according to the National
Stock Exchange of India.  Regulators around the world are probing market structure
and electronic trading after a series of malfunctions. In May
2010, high-frequency orders worsened the so-called flash crash,
which briefly wiped $862 billion from U.S. stocks. The Nasdaq
Stock Market in May this year was overwhelmed by order
cancellations and trade confirmations were delayed in the public
debut of  Facebook Inc. (FB) , 2012’s largest initial public offering.  Orders entered by Emkay Global Financial Services Ltd. that
led to trades valued at 6.5 billion rupees ($126 million) caused
the drop, NSE spokeswoman Divya Malik Lahiri said from New
Delhi.  The NSE’s systems weren’t at fault, according to the
exchange’s Ravi Varanasi, head of business development at the
exchange in Mumbai. He said the exchange would investigate “an
erroneous quantity in the orders,” of a broker-dealer.  For more, click here.  Pfizer’s U.S. Losses Questioned as International Profit Surges  Pfizer Inc. (PFE) , the world’s biggest drugmaker, was asked by
U.S. regulators how it recorded high profit overseas and losses
at home when 40 percent of its sales were inside the U.S.  In a May 9 letter filed Oct. 5, Securities and Exchange
Commission staff asked New York-based Pfizer to explain why
earnings before taxes outside the U.S. were $15 billion in 2011
while losses within the country were $2.2 billion. By piling up
profit in low-tax jurisdictions overseas, Pfizer has been able
to cut its tax rate reported to investors and boost results.  Pfizer is one of the most aggressive U.S. companies
reporting income in countries with lower tax rates than the U.S.
as a way of reducing their effective tax rate, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The drugmaker had the second-highest
amount of profit kept overseas, $63 billion, behind only General
Electric Co., according to securities filings as of March.  Pfizer is among the companies that have lobbied U.S.
lawmakers for a tax holiday that would allow it to bring some of
the overseas profit back to the country at a lower tax rate. In
its response to regulators, Pfizer wrote that giving more
information about how it distributed its earnings among various
locations wouldn’t be helpful to investors.  “We conduct business in more than 150 countries and face
significant competition from companies located outside the
United States, including many competitors located in lower tax
jurisdictions,” Joan Campion, a company spokeswoman, said in an
e-mail. “At all times and wherever we operate, Pfizer complies
with the appropriate tax law.”  Pfizer said in an Aug. 27 letter that it would add more
disclosure.  The company is not alone in getting these questions from
the SEC. In December, the commission questioned Google about its
earnings in other countries.  Florence Harmon, a spokeswoman for the SEC, declined to
comment.  IOSCO Oil Probe Asks Price Agencies to Adopt Robust Methods  Companies involved in setting price levels used in the oil
market should adopt “robust” controls to protect the
reliability of the benchmarks, according to a commission
appointed by the Group of 20 nations to investigate possible
market manipulation.  The  report , which was published Oct. 5 by the  International
Organization of Securities Commissions , called on price
reporting agencies, including Platts, a unit of  McGraw-Hill
Cos. (MHP) , and Argus Media Ltd., to introduce conflict of interest
policies, provide audit trails to regulators and establish a
formal complaints process.  IOSCO was appointed by the G-20 in November to investigate
the role played by the agencies in oil markets. Platts and Argus
publish so-called assessments that are used in pricing shipments
of crude and refined products such as diesel.  Masamichi Kono, chairman of the IOSCO Board, said he
expects the agencies to adopt the principles globally.  Platts, Argus and ICIS, which is part of Reed Business
Information, issued a draft self-regulatory code in April in
response to a previous report from IOSCO. The Oct. 5
recommendations are “well aligned with Platts’ current
practices,” the company said in an e-mailed statement. Argus
didn’t immediately respond to an e-mail seeking comment.  Bloomberg LP, the parent of Bloomberg News, competes with
Platts, Argus and ICIS in providing energy markets news and
information.  Courts  Ex-LinkBrokers Employees Are Charged With Conspiracy, Fraud  U.S. prosecutors charged three brokers with making millions
of dollars by lying about the prices of securities they bought
and sold for clients.  Marek Leszczynski and Benjamin Chouchane were arrested and
appeared in federal court Oct. 5, according to the office of
U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara in Manhattan. A third man, Henry
Condron, earlier pleaded guilty in the scheme, the government
said.  All three men are former employees of the same brokerage
firm, which prosecutors didn’t identify. Finra records show the
men all worked for LinkBrokers Derivatives Corp., a unit of
London-based  ICAP Plc. (IAP)   Separately, the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission
Oct. 5 filed a suit and claimed the three men and a fourth
former LinkBrokers employee, Gregory Reyftmann, illegally took
$18.7 million from customers by reporting fake execution prices
on more than 36,000 transactions over four years.  Guy Taylor, an ICAP spokesman, had no immediate comment on
the cases.  The criminal cases are U.S. v. Chouchane, 12-mj-2615; U.S.
v. Leszczynski, 12-mj-2614; and U.S. v. Condron; and the SEC
case is SEC v. Leszczynski, 12-cv-7488, U.S. District Court,
Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  Interviews  Mendon’s Schutz Says Dodd-Frank ‘Politically Charged’  Anton Schutz, president of Mendon Capital Advisors,
discussed banking regulation. Schutz talked with Bloomberg’s
Pimm Fox and Courtney Donohoe on Bloomberg Radio’s “Taking
Stock.”  For the video, click here.  Comings and Goings  Osborne Faces Shrinking BOE Pool as O’Neill Withdraws  George Osborne  is about to find out just how many people
think they are clever enough to be governor of the Bank of
England.  The chancellor of the exchequer will discover today the
full list of applicants to replace Mervyn King at the helm of
the U.K. central bank, managing monetary policy and banking
regulation for a single eight-year term. Candidates had until
8:30 a.m. to express their interest to the Treasury in London.  Bank of England Deputy Governor Paul Tucker’s odds on
getting the job narrowed at William Hill Plc today after two
potential candidates,  Jim O’Neill  and  Gus O’Donnell , said they
didn’t apply. Financial Services Authority Chairman  Adair Turner 
and Independent Commission on Banking Chairman  John Vickers  are
among the other favorites to succeed King when he steps down in
June after a decade in the role.  O’Neill, chairman of Goldman Sachs Asset Management, said
in an e-mail to Bloomberg News today that he has an “important
job” and hadn’t applied. O’Donnell, a former head of the U.K.
civil service, said in an interview with the Financial Times
that he also wasn’t seeking the post.  The selection panel comprises Treasury Permanent Secretary
Nicholas Macpherson, Second Permanent Secretary Tom Scholar and
David Lees, chairman of the bank’s court of directors. Lawmakers
will also question the new governor before the job commences.  For more, click here.  JPMorgan’s Zubrow to Retire After Getting New Boss Zames  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ’s Barry Zubrow will retire at the end
of this year.  “Now is the right time in my life” to retire, Zubrow, 59,
wrote to colleagues in a note Oct. 5. “We have learned from the
mistakes of our recent trading losses.” The note was confirmed
by  Joe Evangelisti , a spokesman for the New York-based bank.  Zubrow was chief risk officer from November 2007 until
January, when he became head of corporate and regulatory
affairs. In that role, he lobbied the Federal Reserve and other
regulators for looser controls on proprietary traders in the
chief investment office.  In a management shuffle in July, JPMorgan Chief Executive
Officer  Jamie Dimon  moved Zubrow from reporting directly to him
to reporting to 41-year-old  Matt Zames , who was promoted to co-
chief operating officer.  Dimon said in a separate memo to staff Oct. 5 that he had
benefited from Zubrow’s “thoughtful counsel and analysis.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carla Main in New Jersey at 
 cmain2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this report:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 