-- Paley Pictures Dazzle, Six Cities Seek Renown: SF Art
-- B y   S t e p h e n   W e s t
-- 2012-10-08T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-08/paley-pictures-dazzle-six-cities-seek-renown-sf-art.html
The naked beauty sits on a blue
blanket, a large flowering seed in her hand and a collection of
colorful fruit at her feet, looking like a Venus of the South
Pacific.  William S. Paley bought Paul Gauguin’s portrait of his
Tahitian teenage mistress, and “The Seed of the Areoi” (1892)
now greets visitors to the exhibition of his collection at the
de Young museum in San Francisco.  The son of a Chicago cigar manufacturer who became co-
founder and longtime chairman of  CBS Corp. (CBS) , Paley (1901-1990)
assembled a dazzling array of Post-Impressionist and modern
works, which wound up at the  Museum of Modern Art  in New York.  This exhibition features more than 60 works, including
Pablo Picasso’s “Boy Leading a Horse” (1905-06), a huge canvas
from the artist’s realist “rose” period, and Henri Matisse’s
“Odalisque With a Tambourine” (1925-26), in which an enigmatic
nude lounges in a green-and-yellow striped chair with her left
arm draped over her head.  Luminous Cezanne  Paul Cezanne is well represented by pictures including the
luminous still life “Milk Can and Apples” (1879-80), a fine
“Self-Portrait in a Straw Hat” (1875-76) -- Paley’s first
acquisition -- and the muscular landscape “L’Estaque” (1879-
83), with the green and brown mountains of southern  France 
tumbling down to the blue Mediterranean.  Other highlights include two large and impressive portraits
by Henri de Toulouse-Lautrec and a simple still life of a vase
of flowers by Henri Rousseau that manages to convey some of the
strangeness of his famous jungle pictures.  The show concludes with Andre Derain’s “Bridge Over the
Riou” (1906), a spectacular landscape in which the trees are
rendered in orange and blue, and the three-dimensional space
bends in a weird foreshortening that makes the scene almost
abstract.  World Tour  A group exhibition of contemporary art is normally a hit-
or-miss affair, and “Six Lines of Flight” at the  San Francisco
Museum of Modern Art  is no exception.  The show brings together more than 60 works by 19 artists
in six locales -- ranging from  Beirut  to Ho Chi Minh City. The
underlying theme is that these places support lively art scenes,
and while they may not be New York, Paris or  Shanghai , they’re
not “peripheral” either.  Some of the works are didactic or conceptual or simply
muddled. Others get to the point.  Joana Hadjithomas and Khalil Joreige have produced a
mordant series of faux postcards of the Beirut beachfront --
“The Lebanon Riviera” -- in which the photographs appear to
have been scorched or melted to suggest the buildings are on
fire.  Wilson Diaz in Cali, Colombia contributes a series of
subtle gray photorealist drawings of people in the countryside
who may or may not be involved in the cocaine trade. The work
suggests more than it explains.  Beauty is not the principal goal in most of these works,
though the intricate, hand-colored maps made by Tiffany Chung of
 Vietnam  are lovely abstractions. It’s only when you discover
what the maps represent -- earthquake zones in San Francisco,
the sprawling growth of Cali -- that they take on a more ominous
tone.  “The Paley Collection: A Taste for Modernism” runs
through Dec. 30 at the de Young museum, Golden Gate Park.
Information: +1-415-750-3600;  http://deyoung.famsf.org .  “Six Lines of Flight: Shifting Geographies in Contemporary
Art” runs through Dec. 31 at the San Francisco Museum of Modern
Art, 151 Third St. Information: +1-415-357-4000;
 http://www.sfmoma.org .  (Stephen West is an editor for Bloomberg News. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  Muse highlights include Elin McCoy on  wine  and Greg Evans
on  television .  To contact the writer of this story:
Stephen West in San Francisco at 
 smwest@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 