-- Paschi May Struggle to Find New Investors as Aid Stalls
-- B y   S o n i a   S i r l e t t i
-- 2012-10-09T14:21:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-08/paschi-may-struggle-to-find-new-investors-as-state-aid-stalls.html
Banca Monte dei Paschi di Siena SpA (BMPS) ,
whose shareholders approved a plan to sell stock or bonds today,
may struggle to find new investors because it’s the only bank in
 Italy  that still falls short of the European Banking Authority’s
capital target.  Shareholders of Italy’s third-largest lender gave the go-
ahead for a capital increase of as much as 1 billion euros ($1.3
billion) to strengthen its finances. The world’s oldest bank
approved in June a plan to raise capital within five years by
selling shares or convertible bonds.  “I doubt that Monte Paschi will find new investors in the
short term, considering that the bank is still waiting for state
aid terms,” said Fabrizio Bernardi, a Milan-based analyst at
Fidentiis Equities who has a hold recommendation on the stock.
“Before betting on the bank investors want to know what will be
the role of the government, the role of its main investor and
see results of the new management’s strategy.”  In addition to the 1 billion-euro securities sale, Monte
Paschi is seeking to borrow 3.4 billion euros by selling bonds
to the state to boost capital, after Chief Executive Officer
Fabrizio Viola failed to find private funding to meet EBA
requirements. The bank is also selling assets, buying back
securities and cutting costs.  “Recent initiatives taken by the bank, including the
securities’ buyback at a very low price, are not reassuring
investors and hurt the bank’s reputation,” said Carlo Gentili,
chief executive officer of Nextam Partners, an  investment
company  that owns Monte Paschi stock.  Aid Request  Monte Paschi’s aid request to the government is its second
in three years, after it obtained 1.9 billion euros in 2009
through the issue of so-called Tremonti bonds. That debt would
be converted into the new securities and forms part of the
amount requested.  While the Italian Parliament approved a bill allowing the
aid in August, the terms of the new bonds haven’t been defined
yet because the rules are under review by the European
Commission.  Analysts are concerned the European regulators may rule
that the measure is unfair because it would allow Monte Paschi
to give shares to the Italian Treasury at their book value in
lieu of interest on the debt if the bank reports an annual loss.  “I expect a further delay in the implementation of state
aid because the law approved by the government cannot meet the
EU rules on competition,” said Fabrizio Spagna, managing
director at Axia Financial Research in Padua, Italy. “I expect
the commission will ask for changes.”  Sovereign Debt  Monte Paschi plans to repay about 3 billion euros of the
government aid by 2015. “Asset sales, the planned capital
increase and our profitability will help us to repay the
government,” Chairman  Alessandro Profumo  said June 27. The bank
will wait for better market conditions before selling shares or
bonds, he said today. An ideal new investor would be a “non-
industrial” partner, Profumo said. The bank is not for sale and
wants to remain independent, he said.  The bank’s board may consider removing a rule that limits
shareholders from accumulating voting rights of more than 4
percent if it hampers investors from taking part in the capital
increase, Profumo said.  The bank’s biggest investor, Fondazione Monte dei Paschi di
Siena, backs the capital increase only if it’s necessary,
Chairman Gabriello Mancini said at the meeting. The voting
rights restriction doesn’t apply to the banking foundation,
which owns 35 percent of the lender.  Monte Paschi had a capital shortfall of 1.4 billion euros
at the end of September, compared with 3.3 billion euros a year
earlier, according to a statement Oct. 3, when the bank released
updated figures based on stress tests made by the EBA.  Buying Bonds  The Tuscan bank stumbled when it committed too much of its
money to buying  government bonds . Monte Paschi, which held about
25 billion euros of Italy’s sovereign debt at the end of June,
made a treasury bet that was four times bigger than one by
 UniCredit SpA (UCG)  -- the nation’s top bank -- and lasts three times
longer than  Banco Popolare SC (BP) ’s.  Paschi’s Italian government bond holdings at the end of
June totalled about 380 percent of its tangible capital and the
average maturity of its portfolio was about 10 years, more than
double that of its peers. The bank’s exposure to a single asset
class eroded 5 billion euros of the bank’s capital, according to
Profumo.  Monte Paschi is rated BBB with a “stable” outlook by
 Fitch Ratings , while Moody’s Investors Service and  Standard &
Poor’s  grade it one level lower at Baa3 and BBB-, both with
“negative” outlooks. The bank has about 4 billion euros of
bonds maturing this year, data compiled by Bloomberg show,
rising to 19.6 billion euros in 2013.  Revenue Drop  The bank, which expects revenue to fall 1 percent through
2015, is selling assets, closing 400 branches and eliminating
4,600 jobs as part of its three-year plan. It will proceed with
the job-cut plan even though an agreement hasn’t been reached
with unions, executives said today. So far the bank has sold its
Biverbanca unit to Cassa di Risparmio di Asti SpA and is still
seeking buyers for assets including its leasing and consumer
credit business.  “It’s a hard time to find buyers at decent prices,”
Spagna said. “Banks have no money to spend and are seeking to
deleverage and to reduce risk just like Monte Paschi.”  Monte Paschi, founded in 1472, posted a 1.67 billion-euro
second-quarter loss after a goodwill writedown, allowing the
government to potentially become a shareholder. Viola told
shareholders today that profitability is unsatisfactory and the
bank needs to reduce the ratio of loans to deposits, which now
is 130 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sonia Sirletti in Milan at 
 ssirletti@bloomberg.net 
Elisa Martinuzzi in Milan at 
 emartinuzzi@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net  