-- PG&E Rises on Pipeline Settlement Talks: San Francisco Mover
-- B y   M a r k   C h e d i a k
-- 2012-10-08T20:09:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-08/pg-e-rises-on-pipeline-settlement-talks-san-francisco-mover.html
PG&E Corp. (PCG) , owner of  California ’s
biggest utility, rose the most in four months after saying it
agrees with state regulators that hearings about a pipeline
accident should be suspended to help settlement talks.  PG&E gained 1.9 percent to $43.48 at the close in New York,
the most since June 6.  The safety division staff of the California Public
Utilities Commission proposed the halt “to allow negotiations
to proceed unimpeded” regarding a PG&E gas-line explosion in
2010 that killed eight in San Bruno, California,the CPUC said in
a filing Oct. 5. PG&E supports the proposal, the San Francisco-
based company said in a filing today.  “Anything that starts to resolve the long aftermath of San
Bruno, we think is a positive for shareholders,” Travis Miller,
a Chicago-based utility analyst for  Morningstar Inc. (MORN) , said in a
telephone interview. “This issue has been an overhang for two
years now, and it has kept a lot of investors on the sidelines,
wondering what could come next.”  The CPUC’s safety division called for the suspension in
three separate investigations to remain in effect until Nov. 1
and for the parties to report on the progress of talks within
two weeks,  a filing said . A CPUC judge must still rule on the
motion, according to the filing.  A judge in one of the cases agreed to suspend hearings for
one week, Andrew Kotch, a spokesman for the CPUC, said in a
telephone interview. Judges in the other cases are still
considering the proposal, Kotch said.  Settlement Discussions  Jerry Hill, who represents San Bruno in the state assembly,
said he opposed the suspension and said it would lead to
discussions behind closed doors without public scrutiny.  “How can you have a settlement when you don’t have all the
facts and evidence to evaluate an appropriate, just and fair
settlement?” Hill, a Democrat, said in a telephone interview.  The cities of San Bruno and San Francisco and consumer
advocacy groups will be included in negotiations if they opt to
participate, Terrie Prosper, a spokeswoman for the CPUC, said in
an e-mail statement.  Proposed settlement discussions will also include PG&E’s
$2.2 billion proposal for gas pipeline safety-related work,
according to the filing. PG&E wanted to bill customers for 85
percent of those costs with consumer advocacy groups calling for
the utility’s shareholders to pay for more of the expenses.  The CPUC is investigating the tragedy. Federal and state
investigators found that PG&E’s poor management and safety
practices led to the pipeline explosion. The proceedings will
consider fines and penalties, the CPUC has said.  PG&E has set aside $200 million for potential fines
resulting from the inquiries, according to an Aug. 7 investor
presentation.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Chediak in San Francisco at 
 mchediak@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  