-- Philippine Peso Falls as Weaker Asian Growth Spurs Rate-Cut View
-- B y   C l a r i s s a   B a t i n o
-- 2012-10-08T08:09:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-08/philippine-peso-falls-as-weaker-asian-growth-spurs-rate-cut-view.html
The Philippine peso dropped, snapping
a four-day gain, as the  World Bank  forecast the slowest Asian
growth in 11 years and said regional policy makers have room to
cut borrowing costs.  Government bonds  fell before a price-
setting auction tomorrow.  Expansion in developing  East Asia  will probably cool to 7.2
percent this year from 8.3 percent in 2011, the Washington-based
lender said in a report today. That would be the slowest pace
since 2001 and lower than the 7.6 percent forecast in May.
Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas is not ruling out a further
interest-rate reduction, Governor  Amando Tetangco  said on Oct. 5.
Consumer-price gains have stayed below 4 percent since February
after remaining at or above that level for all of last year,
official data show.  “Another rate cut is possible given that we have tame
domestic inflation coupled with a weak global outlook,” said
Raul Tan, head of the balance-sheet segment at Rizal Commercial
Banking Corp.’s Treasury Group in  Manila .  The peso fell 0.1 percent to 41.47 per dollar as of the 4
p.m. close in Manila, prices from Tullett Prebon Plc show. The
currency advanced 0.7 percent last week. One-month implied
volatility, a measure of exchange-rate swings used to price
options, was unchanged at 5.30 percent.  Bangko Sentral held its overnight borrowing rate at a
record low 3.75 percent in September after three cuts earlier
this year. Policy makers next meet to review rates on Oct. 25.  The yield on the 8 percent debt due July 2031 rose one
basis point, or 0.01 percentage point, to 5.79 percent,
according to midday fixing prices at Philippine Dealing &
Exchange Corp. The Bureau of the Treasury will hold a  price-
setting auction  for 25-year bonds targeting individuals at 1 p.m.
in Manila tomorrow before offering at least 30 billion pesos
($723 million) of the notes from Oct. 9 to Oct. 22.  President  Benigno Aquino  unveiled an agreement with the
Moro Islamic Liberation Front yesterday to end a four-decade
insurgency. The deal will boost investments to mineral-rich
Mindanao, Finance Secretary Cesar Purisima said today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Clarissa Batino at 
 cbatino@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  