-- Polish Rate Cut Must Await Inflation Drop, Zielinska Says
-- B y   D o r o t a   B a r t y z e l
-- 2012-10-08T12:46:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-08/polish-rate-cut-must-await-inflation-drop-zielinska-says.html
Poland , which unexpectedly held off
cutting rates for the first time since 2009 last week, may
refrain again next month as policy makers need to see sustained
disinflation, central banker Anna Zielinska-Glebocka said.  “A cut next month isn’t set” as “the economic slowdown
has failed to contain inflation noticeably so far,” she said in
a phone interview on Oct. 6. “We need to see how strong the
anti-inflation impulse is. I support a deliberate policy,
refraining from radical and sudden changes.”  Zielinska-Glebocka was among eight policy makers on the 10-
member Monetary Policy Council who voted for a quarter-rate
increase in May. The decision made Poland’s central bank the
only one in EU to raise borrowing costs this year. Since then,
Poland’s economy has slowed and pressure is growing for the MPC
to shift its focus to growth from inflation.  Poland’s  inflation rate , the EU’s second-highest, will
remain above the central bank’s 2.5 percent target until early
next year, based on projections published by the bank in July.
That would extend the rate’s stay above policy makers’ target
range for two years. Consumer-price growth rebounded in
September after slowing to 3.8 percent in August, Zielinska
said. Last month’s price data will be released on Oct. 15.  Next Move  The zloty was little changed today at 4.079 per euro at
2:05 p.m. in Warsaw. The five-year government bond yield fell 1
basis point to 4.17 percent.  The MPC will make its next rate decision on Nov. 7 after
examining new inflation and economic-growth projections for
2012-2014, prepared by the central bank’s Economic Institute.  “The September data won’t matter for our rate decision
because it will be the November projection that shows at what
rate inflationary pressure will ease,” Zielinska  said. “One
has to keep in mind though that a rate cut isn’t an obvious
growth stimulus in Poland. We must also take care to maintain
positive real  interest rates  as long as economic conditions
allow.”  Expansion in the EU’s largest eastern economy slowed to 2.4
percent from a year earlier in the second quarter, the lowest
growth rate since 2009. The government is sticking to its 2.5
percent growth forecast for 2012, while trimming next year’s
gross domestic product forecast to 2.2 percent, from its earlier
plan of 2.7 percent.  The  European Central Bank  forecasts a 0.4 contraction this
year for the euro-area economy, the main market for Polish
exports. The 17-nation region’s jobless rate rose to 11.4
percent last month, the highest since the data began in 1995.  Persuading Hawks  “The November projection will, in our opinion, bring a
lower trajectory for GDP and for inflation, with CPI averaging
near the bank’s target in 2013 and GDP below 2 percent,”  Marcin Mrowiec , chief economist at Bank Pekao in Warsaw, said in an e-
mailed note. “Such a set of data will persuade hawkish members
of the council to cut rates in November.”  MPC member  Adam Glapinski , who backed the May rate increase
and last month said rates should be kept on hold until next
year, said today in an interview with PAP newswire that he isn’t
“absolutely against” cutting borrowing costs in November if
the bank’s projections show a “serious” economic slowdown next
year and no threat to its inflation target.  Poland has held off lowering borrowing costs even as policy
makers across the region cut them amid a recession. Last month,
the Czech central bank reduced interest rates to a record-low
0.25 percent, while Hungary lowered its two-week deposit rate to
6.5 percent, its second cut in two months.  Sharp Slowdown  Zielinska said she doesn’t expect Poland will slip into a
recession. “The slowdown may be sharp, though, and if it
produces sustained disinflation, that might prompt policy makers
to consider some moderate rate cuts,” she said.  Forward-rate agreements, used to speculate on interest rate
levels, were 79 basis points below the Warsaw Interbank Offered
rate, signaling bets on three quarter-point  rate cuts  over the
next six months, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Rate decisions take as many as six quarters to fully affect
the economy, according the central bank estimates.  Elzbieta Chojna-Duch, one of two MPC members who opposed
the May rate increase in May and has called for reversing it,
said the central bank should consider a series of rate cuts
after making an initial “radical reduction,” according to
comments broadcast by TVN CNBC today. The slowing economy will
temper inflation pressures, she said.  “Today’s plethora of comments show just how heterogeneous
the MPC is,” Gabor Ambrus, a London-based economist at 4CAST
Ltd., said in a report today. “We still see a cut in November
as very likely.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dorota Bartyzel in Warsaw at 
 dbartyzel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  