-- Porsche Option Data May Not Have Swayed BNP, Court Told
-- B y   K a r i n   M a t u s s e k
-- 2012-10-08T15:17:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-08/porsche-option-data-may-not-have-swayed-bnp-court-told-1-.html
BNP Paribas SA (BNP) ’s 2009 decision to
lend money to Porsche SE may not have been decisively influenced
by all of the details of an option strategy the carmaker used in
its Volkswagen AG takeover bid, a bank official testified.  Juergen Schlangenotto, who led the bank’s negotiations,
said at the Stuttgart loan-fraud trial of ex-Porsche Chief
Financial Officer Holger Haerter that the bank might still have
granted the loan had data supplied by Porsche concerning the
options and prices been different.  “Like a thousand other facts they were a part in the
puzzle we looked at, but they were just one part of many,”
Schlangenotto, a managing director at a German BNP Paribas unit,
told the court today. “It’s impossible to say whether different
numbers would have led to a different decision.”  Haerter is on trial with two other Porsche managers on
charges they downplayed Porsche’s liquidity needs when
negotiating with BNP Paribas about a 500 million-euro ($648
million) share of a 10 billion-euro loan. Prosecutors also claim
they concealed 45 million put options on Volkswagen shares
Porsche sold at the time.  All three rejected the charges on the first day of trial
last month.  The case is part of a broader criminal investigation into
Porsche’s unsuccessful hostile bid for  Volkswagen AG (VOW)  using
derivatives. Stuttgart prosecutors are still probing Haerter and
former Chief Executive Officer Wendelin Wiedeking over
allegations of market manipulation and breach of trust.  Porsche Liquidity  According to prosecutors, Porsche sent a March 19, 2009 e-
mail to BNP Paribas, which Haerter signed and the two other
managers helped to set up. In the document, they understated
Porsche’s liquidity needs by 1.4 billion euros, had all purchase
options the company then held on Volkswagen shares been
exercised, and didn’t mention an extra 45 million put options,
prosecutors said.  Schlangenotto testified about information exchanged in
early 2009 as part of the negotiations.  Haerter asked in the March 19 e-mail whether Schlangenotto
“could live” with Porsche deleting two lines of an earlier
draft that dealt with the average strike purchase prices of call
options of 93 euros per share and left in only the net purchase
price, which was set at 70 euros.  “That was enough for me, and I was happy everybody,
including our risk department, were OK with that text,”
Schlangenotto said. “We didn’t know the structure of the
options and couldn’t calculate anything here anyway.”  4.1 Billion Euros  Schlangenotto understood the e-mail to say that Porsche
needed to spend 4.1 billion euros if it eventually sought to
increase its stake in Volkswagen by 20 percent to 70.8 percent,
he said. That was the amount it needed to raise in the
financing, he said.  “Had the numbers been different, we would have used the
other numbers as part of our decision on the loan,” he said.  Prosecutors say Porsche should have stated that it needed
another 1.4 billion euros, or 5.5 billion euros in total, to get
the extra 20 percent stake.  Porsche spokesman Frank Gaube declined to comment.  Under German law, loan fraud doesn’t require that a
creditor is actually deceived. The law punishes incorrect
statements about the economic situation of a business that seeks
a loan, regardless of the actual effect of the statement on the
creditor.  Porsche and VW agreed to combine in 2009 after Porsche
racked up more than 10 billion euros of debt in its unsuccessful
hostile bid.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karin Matussek in Stuttgart via 
 kmatussek@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  