-- PPR Spinoff of Fnac May Signal Lack of Buyers for Retail Chain
-- B y   A n d r e w   R o b e r t s
-- 2012-10-08T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-08/ppr-spinoff-of-fnac-may-signal-lack-of-buyers-for-retail-chain.html
Since it made the decision to
concentrate on luxury and sporting-goods almost three years ago,
 PPR SA (PP)  has had more than a few distractions.  A simple plan to exit businesses that didn’t meet the
strategy has proved anything but, as the owner of the Gucci
brand has struggled to sell the Redcats online retailing unit
and the Fnac music and electronics chain.  PPR’s board will vote today on a plan to spin off Fnac,
according to an Oct. 7 report in Le Figaro. The separation of
the unprofitable unit would take place as soon as June, the
newspaper said, citing unidentified people. Paul Michon, a
spokesman for PPR, declined to comment.  “PPR may have chosen this solution as it has not yet found
any buyer,” Loic Morvan, an analyst at Bryan Garnier, wrote in
a note yesterday, referring to a possible spinoff of Fnac. He
estimates the unit’s value at 800 million euros ($1.04 billion).  PPR gained 2 percent to 124.15 euros in Paris trading
yesterday on the possibility that Fnac may be spun off.  The shares trade at a discount to luxury peers such as  LVMH
Moet Hennessy Louis Vuitton SA (MC)  and Cie. Financiere Richemont SA
because Redcats and Fnac are less profitable and have weaker
growth prospects. The company’s  estimated price-to-earnings 
ratio for this year is 13.4 times. The ratio of the Bloomberg
European Fashion Index is 18.6 times.  Shoppers Reeling  PPR is betting that rising demand for branded clothing and
accessories in  emerging markets  will help double sales to 24
billion euros by 2020. Yet, after selling furniture retailer
Conforama last year and in July agreeing to dispose of its
remaining stake in African distributor CFAO, the company still
has to resolve the future of its other unwanted assets.  Fnac and other store-based retailers of books, music, film,
video games and hardware such as  Apple Inc.’s (AAPL)  iPad, are reeling
as shoppers increasingly buy those and other goods online and as
 Europe ’s debt crisis weighs on demand. Metro AG, the German
owner of the Media-Saturn electronics business, last week cut
its 2012 profit forecast, saying Europeans are spending less.  “Consumer electronics are among the first categories to
suffer in a recession,” said Boris Planer, a Frankfurt-based
analyst at Planet Retail. “Retailers must invest heavily in
online business as every 15-year-old has a mobile phone and
consumers’ way of shopping is changing.”  Redcats Sale  Fnac sales, which reached 4.16 billion euros in 2011, have
declined every year since 2008. The 58-year-old company gets
more than two-thirds of revenue from  France , which is teetering
on the brink of recession, and more than half from consumer
electronics. Fnac had 159 stores at the end of June, including
in  Belgium ,  Brazil ,  Morocco ,  Portugal , Spain and Switzerland.
The Internet accounted for 12 percent of first-half sales.  Fnac, which reported a 7 million-euro first-half operating
loss as same-store sales fell 1 percent, is facing “profound
difficulties,” said Christian Devismes, an analyst at CM-CIC
Securities.  PPR restated 2010 accounts in February to classify Redcats
and the Italian unit of Fnac as “discontinued operations, sold
or to be sold.” There has been no private-equity interest in
Fnac Italy, leaving only industrial companies as potential
acquirers for the business, PPR managing director Jean-Francois Palus said in February.  A challenging debt market has made Redcats too expensive
for bidders to buy in one block leading PPR to try to sell the
online retailer in pieces, people familiar with the matter told
Bloomberg News in July.  The French company will make an announcement concerning its
disposal of Redcats before it presents third-quarter results on
Oct. 25, Chief Executive Officer Francois-Henri Pinault said
last week. The process is ongoing, he said Oct. 4, declining to
provide further details.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Roberts in Paris at 
 aroberts36@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  