-- Prenatal Mercury Levels From Fish Tied to Attention Issue
-- B y   N i c o l e   O s t r o w
-- 2012-10-08T20:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-08/prenatal-mercury-levels-from-fish-tied-to-attention-issue.html
Children exposed to low levels of
mercury in the womb through their mothers eating fish high in
the metal have an increased chance of developing attention
deficit-related disorders, according to a study that suggests
pregnant women avoid some types of seafood.  The research online today in the  Archives of Pediatrics and
Adolescent Medicine  also showed that pregnant women who ate more
than two servings of fish a week, most likely those low in
mercury such as shrimp, salmon and canned light tuna, have a 50
percent reduced risk of having children with attention deficit
hyperactivity disorder-related behaviors, said senior study
author Susan Korrick.  Today’s findings add to previous research that has shown
that exposure to environmental toxins, including tobacco and
lead, can lead to attention deficit hyperactivity disorder, or
ADHD, said  Bruce Lanphear , who wrote an accompanying editorial
in the journal. Health officials should take greater steps to
keep these toxins from pregnant women and children, he said.  “It is time to convene a national scientific advisory
panel to evaluate environmental influences of ADHD and make
recommendations about what can be done to prevent it,”
Lanphear, a professor of health sciences at Simon Fraser
University in  Vancouver , wrote in the editorial. “This study
and a flurry of new evidence linking environmental contaminants
with ADHD reinforce the urgency of revising the regulatory
framework for environmental contaminants and toxicants.”  Lanphear said lead and tobacco, as well as certain
pesticides and other environmental toxins have been linked to
ADHD. About 8 to 12 percent of children worldwide have been
diagnosed with ADHD, making it one of the most common childhood
disorders.  Brain Chemical  It’s unclear exactly how mercury can lead to ADHD-related
behaviors, Lanphear said. It’s thought that the behavioral
disorder results from an imbalance or a deficiency of the brain
chemical dopamine, and mercury may alter dopamine levels or
change the dopamine receptors, he said.  Researchers in the study analyzed data on a group of
infants born from 1993 to 1998. Mothers had given hair samples
around the time their child was born so their mercury levels
could be tested. The researchers followed up to see if the
children had any ADHD-related behaviors such as a lack of
impulse control or the inability to sit in a classroom at age 8.
The study didn’t diagnose the children with ADHD and it didn’t
look at which fish the women ate during pregnancy, just the
frequency.  The U.S. government recommends pregnant women eat no more
than two, six-ounce servings of fish a week.  Hair Mercury  The researchers found that women with hair mercury levels
of 1 microgram per gram, about what the U.S. government says is
safe to ingest, had children who were more likely to have
attention deficit-related behaviors than those whose hair
mercury levels were less,  Korrick , an assistant professor of
medicine at Brigham and Women’s Hospital and at Harvard Medical
School in  Boston , said in an Oct. 5 telephone interview.  Of the mothers with hair mercury levels of 1 microgram per
gram or greater, every 0.5 microgram per gram increase in
mercury was associated with a 50 percent to 60 percent higher
risk of having a child with attention deficit-related behavior,
she said.  “The fish consumption and hair mercury levels, while
related, are not the same, and depending on the type of fish
women eat and the mercury levels in the fish, you may see a
predominance of beneficial effects from the fish’s nutrient
content or deleterious effects from the mercury content,” she
said.  High Levels  Swordfish, shark and king mackerel are among the fish high
in mercury, according to the U.S. Environmental Protection
Agency.  Korrick said researchers will continue to follow the
children from the study.  “It will be important to think about nutritional
contributors to ADHD-related behaviors and obviously get a
better understanding of the relative role that contaminated
exposures may play in ADHD risk,” she said.  The findings also demonstrate for the first time that
nutrients, like omega-3 fatty acids, in fish may be beneficial
to the developing fetus but only if it’s low in mercury,
Lanphear said in an Oct. 5 interview.  The study “reinforces this idea that fish is a good,
healthy food for us to eat, and in the long term, we need to
find ways to reduce the mercury contamination in fish,” he
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicole Ostrow in  New York  at 
 nostrow1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  