-- Principal to Acquire Chile’s AFP Cuprum for $1.5 Billion
-- B y   Z a c h a r y   T r a c e r ,   E d u a r d o   T h o m s o n   a n d   S e b a s t i a n   B o y d
-- 2012-10-09T14:02:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-08/principal-to-acquire-chile-s-afp-cuprum-in-1-5-billion-deal-1-.html
Principal Financial Group Inc. (PFG)  agreed
to buy Chile’s  AFP Cuprum SA (CUPRUM)  in a $1.5 billion deal, the largest
acquisition for the U.S.-based seller of  life insurance  and
retirement products.  Principal is adding more than 600,000 mandatory-pension
clients with $32.1 billion in assets under management to the
annuity and mutual-fund businesses it runs in Chile. The firm
has sought to buy a pension provider “almost from the start”
of its Chilean business in 1995, Chief Executive Officer Larry Zimpleman said yesterday after the deal was announced.  “This was really the one part of the system we had not
been able to penetrate,” Zimpleman said in an interview. “We
can clearly pursue additional opportunities for contributions
and revenue on the voluntary side, no question.”  Zimpleman is expanding in Latin American nations including
Chile, Brazil and Mexico to capitalize on the increasing role of
private companies in managing retirement funds. Chile pioneered
the private pension system in 1981 to build up the country’s
savings rate, help develop its  capital markets  and reduce the
long-term strain on its budget.  “This acquisition continues our effort to find targeted,
strategic acquisitions that strengthen our competitive position
in the most attractive emerging retirement and long-term savings
markets,” Zimpleman said in a statement. “Cuprum represents
the sixth such  transaction  in the past two years and adds
meaningfully to our fee-based earnings.”  Brazil’s Claritas  Principal announced a deal in March to buy part of Brazil’s
Claritas to expand in mutual funds and asset management after
extending a retirement-product partnership with  Banco do Brasil
SA (BBAS3)  in 2010. The firm agreed last year to buy Mexican pension
provider HSBC Afore SA de C.V.  The Chilean system of individual pension savings accounts
was created during the government of dictator  Augusto Pinochet 
to replace a “pay-as-you-go” program. Similar pension systems
have been started in countries including Russia,  Peru , Colombia,
 Uruguay , Mexico, India and Poland, according to the website of
the International Federation of Pension Fund Managers.  Chile requires workers to contribute a portion of their pay
to a private retirement account, and people with more income can
save additional cash in voluntary accounts. Principal will work
to convince Cuprum customers to invest in the voluntary accounts
it already offers, said Luis Valdes, president of Principal
International.  “You have access to 600,000 clients where you have all the
information that is needed in order to customize your value
proposition for them,” he said by phone. “This is a tremendous
competitive advantage going forward.”  Transaction Price  Principal is paying about 1.76 unidades de fomento,  Chile ’s
inflation-adjusted accounting unit, per share, or about 39,794
pesos, according to a  statement  posted on the website of Chile’s
securities regulator.  Cuprum’s shares  soared  a record 41 percent to 36,880 pesos
at 10:38 a.m. in Santiago trading. Other pension fund managers
also rose, with AFP Provida SA gaining 8.9 percent and AFP
Habitat SA jumping 7.2 percent. Provida’s controller, Spain’s
 Banco Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria SA (BBVA) , said in May it’s studying
the sale of its pension funds businesses in  Latin America .  The deal requires Empresas Penta SA and Inversiones
Banpenta Ltda. to sell their  63 percent stake  pursuant to a
tender offer to include the remaining shares, Principal said.  Principal declined 1.7 percent to $27.31 at 9:47 a.m. in
 New York . The acquisition uses capital that could have been
spent to repurchase shares,  John Nadel , an analyst at Sterne
Agee & Leach Inc., wrote in a research note.  Cuprum Dividend  “We are disappointed in the initial accretion for PFG’s
current shareholders,” he said, using the firm’s ticker symbol.  Principal’s final purchase price will be adjusted for a
dividend of as much as about $130 million that Cuprum will pay
to shareholders before the deal is completed. The U.S. firm
expects to pay about $1.38 billion, Susan Houser, a company
spokeswoman, wrote in an e-mail.  The deal may be completed in the first quarter, Principal
said in the statement. It’s subject to approval by Chile’s
securities and pension regulators, Zimpleman said. The
acquisition may increase Principal’s per-share earnings by about
3 percent next year and 5 percent in 2014, according to a
 presentation  on the company’s website.  Lazard Ltd. (LAZ)  was Principal’s bank on the transaction.
Cariola Diez Perez-Cotapos and Debevoise & Plimpton acted as
legal counsel.  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  provided Cuprum with
financial advice, while Estudio Alcaino Rodriguez was legal
representative.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Zachary Tracer in New York at 
 ztracer1@bloomberg.net ;
Eduardo Thomson in Santiago at 
 ethomson1@bloomberg.net ;
Sebastian Boyd in Santiago at 
 sboyd9@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net  