-- Progress Falls After Saying CEO’s Leaving May Crimp Sales
-- B y   S a r a h   F r i e r
-- 2012-10-08T20:58:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-08/progress-software-ceo-to-step-down-sales-may-slip-this-quarter.html
Progress Software Corp. (PRGS)  shares fell
the most in more than 16 years after Chief Executive Officer Jay Bhatt announced plans to step down and the company withdrew its
revenue forecast, saying sales may slip during the transition.  Progress tumbled 14 percent to $18.52 at the close in New
York, the biggest  decline  since March 1996. Before the drop, the
shares had been up 11 percent this year.  Bhatt, who also served as president and a director, is
leaving to become CEO of a closely held company, Progress said
today in a statement. The company said it wouldn’t reaffirm its
quarterly sales forecast in light of the CEO transition because
Progress “may experience some slippage in revenue growth.”  Bhatt’s departure could mean the board is looking to sell
the company, Mark Schappel, a Benchmark Co. analyst, said in a
note to investors. Bhatt was against selling the company, which
is why he proposed an aggressive plan to refocus it, said
Schappel, who advises buying the shares.  Tom Barth, a spokesman for Bedford, Massachusetts-based
Progress, declined to comment on whether the business is being
sold or what company Bhatt is joining.  “My decision to leave Progress to pursue another
opportunity as the CEO of a privately held corporation in
another segment of the software industry represents the
fulfillment of a lifelong passion of mine and has nothing to do
with my strong belief in the company’s ability to continue
accomplishing its strategic priorities,” Bhatt said in the
statement.  Replacement Search  Progress, which helps businesses manage software
applications on-site or remotely, has hired an executive-search
firm to replace Bhatt, who will leave after Dec. 7. It will be
difficult to recruit someone qualified, said Gabe Lowy, an
analyst with Mizuho Securities in New York.  “You would have to persuade the new CEO to implement
someone else’s strategy, who left six months into it,” Lowy
said in an interview. “He does leave the company in a bit of a
bind.”  In September, Progress had forecast that sales would range
between a decline of 2 percent to a gain of 1 percent in the
fiscal fourth quarter, which ends in November. Lowy said the
board may have used Bhatt’s departure as an excuse to withdraw
guidance.  Progress said it remains committed to a plan to return at
least $350 million to shareholders, potentially by the end of
2013. Still, it won’t be completing an anticipated $150 million
in stock buybacks by the end of fiscal 2012.  Chairman Phil Pead will become Progress’s executive
chairman, the company said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Frier in New York at 
 sfrier1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  