-- Traders Eye Grain Prices Rebound as Supply Set to Tighten
-- B y   W h i t n e y   M c F e r r o n   a n d   M a r i a   K o l e s n i k o v a
-- 2012-10-08T13:14:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-08/traders-eye-grain-prices-rebound-as-supply-set-to-tighten.html
Grain prices that tumbled in recent
weeks may rebound as demand stays robust while global stockpiles
tighten after drought hurt crops from the U.S. to  Russia .  Corn on the  Chicago  Board of Trade, the global benchmark,
has slipped 13 percent since reaching a record $8.49 a bushel on
Aug. 10, and wheat traded in Paris is down 4.8 percent from a
14-month high in July. While farmers are harvesting crops across
the Northern Hemisphere, temporarily inflating supplies, world
corn and soybean stockpiles as a percentage of consumption may
drop to a 37-year low after dry weather in the U.S.,  South
America  and  Europe , U.S. Department of Agriculture data show.  Corn may rally to $10 before this time next year because
cattle and hog producers haven’t culled herds even as feed costs
rose,  Hussein Allidina , head of commodities research at Morgan
Stanley, said Oct. 3 in an interview at Bloomberg News offices
in London. Wheat prices also will be supported as livestock
farmers substitute more of the grain in feed for high-cost corn,
he said. Barclays Plc analyst Sudakshina Unnikrishnan expects
CBOT soybean prices to rally to $18 a bushel, above the all-time
high of $17.89 set Sept. 4.  “It’s a time to keep your nerve and wait for the markets
to rebound, because they probably will,” said David Sheppard,
managing director at Gainsborough, England-based grain exporter
Gleadell Agriculture Ltd. “We’re in the calm before the storm
with world grain markets. Russia and Ukraine are running out of
exportable surpluses.  France  is selling quite aggressively into
recent tenders, and if it carries on at the same rate they’ll
probably be overselling.”  Best Performers  Corn may rise as high as $8.75 a bushel before next year’s
Northern Hemisphere harvest, according to a Bloomberg News
survey of as many as eight traders and analysts at the 52nd
European Commodities Exchange in Edinburgh last week. Wheat may
return to this year’s high near $9.50 a bushel and soybeans may
reach $18, the survey showed.  Crops have been the best performing commodities this year
on the Standard & Poor’s GSCI Index of 24 raw materials, even
after recent price declines. Wheat traded in Chicago, the
biggest gainer, has surged 31 percent, and in July touched
$9.4725 a bushel, the highest price since August 2008. The MSCI
All-Country World Index of equities is up 12 percent this year.  Russian Harvest  Russia, last season’s  third-largest  wheat exporter, may
harvest as little as 40 million tons this year, the  Agriculture
Ministry  said Sept. 6. That’s less than the harvest of 41.5
million tons in 2010, when the country’s worst drought in a half
century spurred a 10-month ban on exports. Economy Minister
Andrei Belousov said Sept. 21 that new export curbs can’t be
ruled out amid dry weather this year, while Deputy Prime
Minister  Arkady Dvorkovich  has said there’s no need to restrict
shipments.  Even if Russia’s government doesn’t officially limit
exports, the country is unlikely to ship much grain after the
end of this year because prices are climbing, said Roger Baker,
a Geneva, Switzerland-based merchant manager with CHS Inc., the
largest U.S. cooperative, which markets 2 billion bushels of
grain and oilseeds a year. Business will initially shift to
European exporters, with U.S. wheat becoming more competitive in
the first quarter, he said.  In Russia, “the market is going to lock the door,” Baker
said in an interview in Edinburgh. “Prices have gone to where
it’s allowed the market to do its job.”  Ukraine Supplies  Ukraine’s supplies are also dwindling. The country may curb
wheat exports from mid-October as sales approach the 3.2
million-ton mark, Sergey Feofilov, director of Kiev-based
researcher UkrAgroConsult, said in Edinburgh. Ukraine exported
2.6 million tons of wheat so far, the Ukrainian Agrarian
Confederation said Oct. 2. Ukraine’s wheat exports will fall to
4 million tons this season from 5.44 million, the USDA
estimates.  Egypt , the world’s largest wheat importer, has purchased
supplies from France in at least four tenders in the past month,
after favoring shipments from the  Black Sea region  for much of
the season. In a tender on Oct. 3, Egypt also bought 60,000 tons
from  Argentina .  European grain stockpiles, including wheat, corn and
barley, may total 26.8 million tons at the end of the 2012-13
season, down 12 percent from a year earlier, according to the
London-based International Grains Council.  Livestock Supplies  Corn has the highest potential for gains, with the market
getting tight in the second quarter, while wheat prices will
likely only follow moves in corn, CHS’s Baker said. Wheat may
advance if the crop in  Australia , the second-biggest exporter,
disappoints, coming in at 19 million to 20 million tons, he
said. Australia cut its output estimate to 22.5 million tons in
2012-13 from a record 29.5 million tons a year earlier, the
Australian Bureau of Agricultural and Resource Economics and
Sciences said Sept. 11.  While grain costs climbed, livestock producers haven’t yet
made large cuts in output, Morgan Stanley’s Allidina said. The
hog herd in the U.S., the world’s biggest pork shipper, was 67.5
million head on Sept. 1, 0.4 percent larger than a year earlier,
the USDA said Sept. 28. Feedlot inventories were 10.637 million
cattle Sept. 1, only 0.6 percent smaller than a year earlier.
Cattle herds globally may shrink by about 0.3 percent this year,
while hog supplies increase 2.6 percent, the USDA estimates.  U.S. corn production may drop to 10.727 billion bushels,
the smallest in six years, while soybean output may be 2.634
billion bushels, a nine-year low, the USDA said Sept. 12. The
agency will update its projections on Oct. 11. Declining output
may send world stockpiles of both crops to 177 million tons by
the end of the marketing year, or about 16 percent of demand,
the tightest since the 1975-76 season, USDA data show.  “Inventories are the tightest they’ve been in my lifetime,
especially when adjusted for demand, and there’s no spare
capacity,” Allidina said. “We can’t afford anything below
trend line yields in Argentina,  Brazil  and the U.S. because
we’re sitting on nothing.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Whitney McFerron in  London  at 
 wmcferron1@bloomberg.net 
Maria Kolesnikova in London at 
 mkolesnikova@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  