-- Redskins Quarterback Griffin Undergoing Tests After Concussion
-- B y   E b e n   N o v y - W i l l i a m s
-- 2012-10-08T19:41:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-08/redskins-quarterback-griffin-undergoing-tests-after-concussion.html
Washington Redskins quarterback
Robert Griffin III is undergoing testing today after leaving
yesterday’s game against the  Atlanta Falcons  in the third
quarter with a concussion.  Griffin, 22, will undergo examinations today with team
physicians and an independent neurologist, Redskins coach  Mike Shanahan  said today in a news conference. If the rookie passes
those tests, he will be able to participate in cardio workouts
tomorrow, and possibly return to practice on a limited basis on
Oct. 10, according to Shanahan.  “He’s feeling good,” Shanahan said. “No dizziness, no
headaches, no vomiting. He feels like he’s done well on the
tests that he’s done so far.”  With six minutes remaining in the third quarter of a tie
game and the Redskins driving inside Atlanta’s five yard-line,
Griffin rushed around the right end and was hit by Atlanta
linebacker Sean Weatherspoon next to the sideline.  Griffin, who appeared to lose his footing before
Weatherspoon’s right shoulder made contact with his helmet,
attempted to get up immediately, but remained down on the field
for a few seconds before being helped to his feet. No penalty
was called and Griffin didn’t return to the game at FedEx Field
in Landover,  Maryland .  “I’m OK and I think after all the testing I will play next
week,” Griffin said on his Twitter feed last night.  The Falcons won 24-17 to stand 5-0 on the season.  Griffin’s Eyes  Griffin remembered the score of the game and the quarter
when he first got to the sideline after the hit but couldn’t
answer the same questions a few minutes later. Shanahan said he
could tell immediately by looking into Griffin’s eyes that
something wasn’t right.  “We should find out in the next few days,” he said.
“Right now it looks good. I’m not really sure if it will stay
that way, but the professionals will monitor his condition and
let us know if he can play.”  The second selection in the 2012  NFL Draft , Griffin is 2-3
as a starter. He’s completed 69 percent of his passes for 1,161
yards, four touchdowns and one interception. He’s also rushed
for 241 yards and four scores.  Rookie Kirk Cousins, selected in the fourth round, took
over for after Griffin’s injury. He threw for 111 yards, one
touchdown and two interceptions, which came on the team’s final
two possessions.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eben Novy-Williams in  New York  at 
 enovywilliam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  