-- Tremonti Calls on Italians to Buy Debt to Counter Speculation
-- B y   L o r e n z o   T o t a r o
-- 2012-10-08T10:21:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-08/tremonti-calls-on-italians-to-buy-debt-to-counter-speculation.html
The Italian Treasury should try to
reduce its dependence on foreign investors and exploit the
private savings of citizens by selling them government debt,
former Finance Minister  Giulio Tremonti  said.  The debt sales “should be voluntary, based on issuances of
new  government securities  with sensible maturities and rates,”
he said in the founding statement of his new “Work and
Freedom” political movement posted over the weekend on the
 website . The bonds shouldn’t be taxable and would have “rates a
little bit lower and maturities a little bit longer than
existing debt, but guaranteed by the priceless safety that we,
Italians, are able to produce by ourselves.”  Italy ’s debt at almost 2 trillion euros ($2.6 trillion) or
 more  than 120 percent of gross domestic product, is the euro
region’s second-biggest. In July, about 65 percent of public
debt was owned locally, up from 57 percent in the same month a
year earlier,  Bank of Italy  data show.  The  extra yield , or spread, investors demand to hold 10-
year Italian bonds instead of German bunds fell to 3.57
percentage points today from a euro-era record of 5.75 points on
Nov. 9, 2011. Still, that’s more than the five-year average of
1.76 percentage points.  “We are forced to suffer both from financial speculation,
marked by the fearful and obsessive siren of the spread, and the
competition with other countries,” Tremonti said. “The real
Save Italy is Buy Italy,” he said in a reference to the name of
the decree passed by Prime Minister  Mario Monti ’s government
last year to contain the country’s debt and meet the commitment
agreed with the European Union of erasing the nation’s
structural deficit by the end of 2013.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lorenzo Totaro in Rome at 
 ltotaro@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  