-- Romney Courts Military, Obama Woos Latinos in Tight Race
-- B y   L i s a   L e r e r
-- 2012-10-09T04:00:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-08/romney-presses-consensus-while-hitting-obama-s-foreign-policy.html
With polls showing the election
tightening,  Mitt Romney  and  Barack Obama  are appealing to core
constituencies, with the Republican challenger using two visits
in  Virginia  to reach out to military voters and the president
wooing Hispanic support.  Romney, buoyed by his victory in the presidential debate
last week, struck an assured tone. “People wonder why it is I’m
so confident we’re going to win,” a soaked Romney told several
hundred supporters standing in the rain at a rally yesterday in
Newport News, Virginia. “I’m confident because I see you here
on a day like this.”  Less than a month before the Nov. 6 election and with early
balloting under way in several competitive states, both
candidates are sharpening the contrasts between their positions
to rally supporters and win over those who are undecided.  “I am pretty competitive,” Obama told a group of donors
in San Francisco yesterday. “I very much intend to win this
election.” The president, criticized for what was generally
regarded as a lackluster debate performance last week, urged his
supporters to be “almost obsessive over the next 29 days” to
help him win re-election.  Romney, in an effort to gain stature as a credible
alternative for independent voters, intensified his foreign
policy attacks on Obama yesterday in a speech at the Virginia
Military Institute, prompting Obama’s campaign to fire back that
Romney is criticizing the president with “swagger and
slogans.”  Fifth Visit  At the rally later, Romney repeated his promises to expand
military spending. He addressed voters at the Victory Landing
Park in Newport News, an area that’s home to the world’s largest
U.S. Navy base and private shipyards, during his fifth visit to
the swing state in the last four weeks.  Obama spent the day in  California , which last voted for a
Republican presidential candidate almost a quarter century ago.
The centerpiece of his visit yesterday, remarks at the
declaration of a national monument at the home of farm organizer
Cesar Chavez, was an official event that carried a political
benefit of appealing to Hispanic voters in states such as Nevada
and Florida.  The president is in  Ohio  today to rally young voters and
encourage early voting. Yesterday, his aides and supporters
stayed focused on Romney, organizing a conference call with
former Secretary of State  Madeleine Albright , who called his
foreign-policy positions “very shallow” and “free of
substance.”  Romney Lead  A poll released yesterday showed Romney taking the lead in
the race after his debate performance on Oct. 3 in Denver.
Romney leads Obama by four percentage points among likely
voters, according to a national  Pew Research Center survey  taken
Oct. 4-7 with a margin of error of plus or minus 3.4 percentage
points.  A Pew poll of likely voters taken Sept. 12-16 gave Obama a
51 percent to 43 percent lead, the widest margin of any nominee
since  Bill Clinton  in 1996.  Both campaigns were preparing for the next round of
debates, with Vice President  Joe Biden  and Romney’s running
mate, Representative  Paul Ryan , facing off on Oct. 11 and the
presidential candidates meeting in Hempstead, New York, five
days later.  Romney’s effort to round out his national security
credentials before the next debate follows a campaign where he
has focused almost exclusively on the domestic economy.  ‘Great Power’  Speaking to white-uniformed cadets yesterday morning,
Romney called for an assertion of U.S. power in the world,
charging Obama with endangering national interests by allowing
long-time alliances to fray and international tensions to
fester.  “It is our responsibility and the responsibility of our
president to use America’s great power to shape history, not to
lead from behind, leaving our destiny at the mercy of events,”
Romney said in Lexington, Virginia. “Unfortunately, that is
exactly where we find ourselves.”  In an address that laid out few new details about what he
would do differently, Romney criticized the president’s handling
of developments in the  Middle East  and North Africa. He declared
that “hope is not a strategy” for dealing with  Iran ’s efforts
to gain a nuclear weapon and the rise of Islamist governments in
the region.  Obama’s campaign sees foreign policy as a major strength
for the president, who can claim credit for the killing of  Osama bin Laden  and is winding down U.S. military involvement in Iraq
and  Afghanistan .  Libya Attacks  Republicans argue that questions about the administration’s
handling of the attacks in  Libya  that killed four Americans,
including U.S. Ambassador Chris Stevens, give Romney an opening
to regain ground on an issue that has traditionally been viewed
as a Republican strength.  Romney played down the importance of Obama’s foreign policy
successes, saying al-Qaeda remains a strong force in the region
even with the killing of  bin Laden  and an increase in U.S. drone
strikes on terrorist targets.  “America can take pride in the blows that our military and
intelligence professionals have inflicted on al-Qaeda,” he
said, yet such operations “ are no substitute for a national
security strategy for the Middle East.”  Forceful Approach  Speaking at the alma mater of the late former Secretary of
State General George C. Marshall, Romney sought to place himself
in line with the bipartisan approach to U.S. foreign policy of
decades past that Marshall personified.  “America has a proud history of strong, confident,
principled global leadership -- a history that has been written
by patriots of both parties,” Romney said. “Unfortunately,
this president’s policies have not been equal to our best
examples of world leadership.”  The speech also promoted a stance more often associated
with former President  George W. Bush , including a call for a
more forceful approach than Obama has taken to developments
overseas and a larger  defense budget  to deter potential
adversaries.  Romney built on his plan to take a tougher line on Iran,
including the imposition of stiffer sanctions than the president
has set and the restoration of permanently stationed aircraft-
carrier task forces in the region.  He also called for U.S. assistance to opposition fighters
in the Syrian civil war, pledging to work with allies to arm
rebels who “share our values” and want to defeat President
Bashar al-Assad.  Syria Aid  “It is essential that we develop influence with those
forces in  Syria  that will one day lead a country that sits at
the heart of the Middle East,” Romney said.  The Obama administration already is providing non-lethal
aid, including communications gear the Syrian government can’t
track, to opposition groups and is supporting Saudi and Qatari
weapons and other military aid, administration officials have
said.  “What exactly are they suggesting we do?” Obama campaign
spokeswoman  Jen Psaki  told reporters traveling with the
president in California. “If they’re going farther, they should
say that.”  In a memorandum circulated by Obama’s campaign with a new
advertisement before Romney’s speech, foreign policy aides said
the Republican challenger hasn’t offered specifics about how he
would end the war in Afghanistan, deal with Iran’s nuclear
ambitions or confront unrest in the Middle East and North
Africa.  Policy Bumbler  Romney, wrote Michele Flournoy and Colin Kahl, has
“repeatedly taken positions outside of the mainstream and often
to the right of even George W. Bush.”  The Obama campaign’s ad portrays Romney as a bumbler on
foreign policy, highlighting criticism he received for his
conduct during a July trip to  Europe  and his haste to attack the
administration after the killing of Ambassador Stevens in
Benghazi on Sept. 11.  “If this is how he handles the world now, just think of
what Mitt Romney might do as president,” the ad says.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lisa Lerer in Washington at 
 llerer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net  