-- Romney Is Half-Right on Syria: the U.S. Should Arm Rebels
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2012-10-08T22:45:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-08/romney-is-half-right-on-syria-the-u-s-should-arm-rebels.html
Republican presidential candidate
 Mitt Romney  sought this week to distinguish the foreign policy
he wants to conduct from that of U.S. President  Barack Obama , in
part by  calling  for rebels in Syria to be armed with whatever it
takes to bring down the Syrian regime.  No one should expect a major foreign policy shift in the
final weeks of a presidential election campaign. On this issue,
however, Romney was right -- even if he wasn’t clear or
forthright enough in making his case.  Events in Syria have deteriorated so badly over the past
two months that many of the concerns behind the U.S. reluctance
to supply the rebels with sophisticated anti-tank and anti-
aircraft weapons have eroded.  Take the potential for the conflict to spill over  Syria ’s
borders. For the past five days,  Turkey  has been lobbing shells
into Syria. At the same time, it is engaged in an escalating
cross-border war with Kurdish insurgents who have bases in  Iran ,
northern Iraq and Syria. The Kurds have been emboldened by the
turmoil, perhaps with encouragement from Syrian President Bashar al-Assad. Turkish Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan doesn’t
appear to be itching to roll tanks into Syria, but the risk of a
cross-border conflict is now significant.  The concern that U.S. weaponry could intensify the
suffering of civilians in Syria, without toppling Assad, also
seems less urgent, because the casualty rate is already soaring.
Syrian activists who have been  tracking  the death toll since the
start of the fighting say that 4,631 people died in September
alone, bringing the total to more than 30,000. That’s about the
same number of fatalities in a single month as in the first nine
months of the uprising combined.  It’s impossible to know how accurate such figures are, but
the trend is inarguable. The fighting has reached a stalemate,
and there’s every reason to believe the bloodshed will continue
on a scale similar to Bosnia in the 1990s, when 100,000 people
were killed over almost four years of civil war.  Syria, moreover, is in a much more volatile and fragile
part of the world. Jihadists are crossing into Syria from  Iraq 
to fight, and a flood of refugees is heading out to Jordan,
Lebanon and Turkey. The office of the United Nations High
Commissioner for Refugees said last month that to date  294,000
refugees  had left Syria for its neighbors, a figure that will
probably rise to 700,000 by the end of the year.  In his speech, Romney specified that arms should be given
only to Syrian rebels who share the values of the U.S. and its
allies in Syria. Given that Qatar, Saudi Arabia and Turkey are
the main U.S. partners in supporting the rebels, it isn’t clear
what values Romney had in mind. He also didn’t commit the U.S.
to distributing the weapons. He should be more precise. The
values that will help Syria are not Saudi ones, and Qatar and
Saudi Arabia may well hand weapons to militant Islamists the
U.S. would want to avoid arming.  As we’ve said before, the U.S. should  distribute the
weapons  itself. It should seek out rebel units that have signed
on to a code of conduct that is already circulating and are
willing to commit to an inclusive regime to follow Assad’s. Six
months ago, the U.S. knew virtually nothing about these people.
Since then, it has been delivering nonlethal aid to the rebels,
and we share the widely held assumption that the unstated
purpose was to get intelligence officers on the ground to find
out more.  Delivering arms would involve a significant escalation of
that covert operation, one that should put special forces from
the U.S. and its European and Turkish allies in Syria to train
rebels to use the weapons. Expanding that distribution network
could begin even before the Nov. 6 U.S. election, with the move
from nonlethal to lethal aid to follow.  Inevitably, the road to further involvement by the U.S. and
its allies would then be open. We remain opposed to creating a
so-called safe zone in northern Syria, but the planning required
should go forward. The Syrian conflict has to be brought under
control and efforts to do so must encompass the potential for a
larger U.S. involvement in Syria.  The question for the U.S. now is whether it wants to become
embroiled in yet another Middle Eastern war -- one with stakes
so high that it could produce a direct confrontation with
 Russia , a nuclear power that runs a naval port in Syria, or an
attempted closing of the Strait of Hormuz by Syria’s allies in
Iran. Even if and when Assad is toppled, U.S. forces would
probably be drawn in.  Once Congress reconvenes, and whoever wins the election, it
would be smart to take any proposals to arm the opposition to
the nation’s legislators for their support. Arming Syria’s
rebels with high-end weaponry is a decision that the U.S. should
take collectively and with eyes wide open as to where it may
lead. A campaign speech won’t suffice for that.  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on  the end of the austerity era 
at the IMF;  Jeffrey Goldberg  on  the hypocrisies of the Free Gaza
Movement ; Ramesh Ponnuru on  why Ryan will win  the vice
presidential debate; Betsey Stevenson and Justin Wolfers on
 Romney and fiscal responsibility ; Cass R. Sunstein on  how
turncoats make us more open-minded ; Adam Freedman on the Obama
administration’s  attack on property rights ; Camille Paglia on
Jacques-Louis David’s  painting of a murder victim .  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 