-- Romney’s Party Isn’t Fiscally Responsible
-- B y   B e t s e y   S t e v e n s o n   &   J u s t i n   W o l f e r s
-- 2012-10-08T22:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-08/romney-s-party-isn-t-fiscally-responsible.html
Presidential candidate  Mitt Romney 
says he will get the U.S. government’s  finances  in order and
make life better for business. It’s a classic Republican pitch,
but to what extent does it correspond to what he might really do
as president?  Not so much, if you believe -- as Republicans traditionally
do -- in the wisdom of markets.  One way to assess the benefits of Republican presidencies
is to look at how markets have responded to them over the years.
The most reliable method is an “event study,” which analyzes the
response of market prices to rapid shifts in the likelihood of a
Republican in the White House. Fortunately, history has blessed
us with many such natural experiments.  Let’s take the 2004 election as a particularly stark case
study. In the middle of Election Day, flawed exit-poll numbers
suggested that  John Kerry  would win in a landslide. For the next
few hours, financial markets believed that there would be a
Democrat in the White House. Then, by late evening, the votes
were counted, and it became clear that President  George W. Bush ,
the Republican, had won re-election.  The incident is a social scientist’s dream. It led
financial markets to believe that the country was switching from
a Republican to a Democratic administration -- a shift in
beliefs that was completely unconnected to other factors, such
as specific political promises or the state of the economy.  Market Response  So how did markets respond? Yields on  government bonds  were
lower during the brief period in which a Democrat was expected
to be president, suggesting investors believed the Republican
would increase the national debt -- a move that, all else being
equal, should push up  interest rates . Indeed, the debt rose
sharply in the following years under President Bush.  This reaction has been typical in recent decades:  A study
of similar events  over previous election cycles -- by economists
 Justin Wolfers , Erik Snowberg and Eric Zitzewitz -- found that
since 1980, bond yields have tended to rise on news that a
Republican will be elected. The pattern held last week, when
interest rates on government bonds increased slightly after
Romney’s strong performance in the first presidential debate.  This record suggests that markets believe the modern
 Republican Party  has abandoned its historical commitment to
fiscal responsibility. They have been right: Presidents  Gerald Ford ,  Ronald Reagan ,  George H.W. Bush  and George W. Bush all
presided over a  rising national debt , in many cases despite
reasonably strong economic growth. By contrast, before the last
recession, debt has fallen as a share of gross domestic product
under every Democratic president since at least  Harry Truman .  It wasn’t always this way. For much of U.S. history,
investors in U.S. government bonds were largely unresponsive to
political news. Only when the national debt rose for the first
time in a generation under President Ford did they start paying
attention.  What about the  stock market ? The same study found that
stocks typically rise a percentage point or two on news that a
Republican will be elected. The effect, while small, has been
quite consistent over the past 120 years. The implication is
that equity investors believe that Republicans will provide a
slightly better climate for businesses, at least for those
listed on the stock market.  The difference is small, and the equity market’s optimism
about Republicans doesn’t necessarily mean investors believe
they will be better for the economy or jobs. Higher share prices
might reflect the expectation that Republicans will favor
capital over labor, big business over small, current companies
over future entrants, or shareholders over bondholders.  No Reward  More important, investors’ preference for Republicans
generally hasn’t been rewarded after presidents take office.
Looking at data since 1927,  a separate study  by economists Pedro
Santa-Clara and Rossen Valkanov found that the stock market
rises more strongly under Democratic presidents. True to this
pattern, the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index has gained more than 80
percent during the tenure of President  Barack Obama .  None of this tells us that Romney will blow out the  budget
deficit , or that stockholders are cheering for him to win. It
does, however, suggest that his clearly articulated plan to cut
tax rates, coupled with vague promises to make up the lost
revenue by eliminating unnamed deductions, should be viewed with
some skepticism.  For Republicans as a whole, the record is clear: Anyone who
persists in believing that they have been the more fiscally
responsible party is swayed by rhetoric, not reality.  (Betsey Stevenson is an associate professor of public
policy at the  University of Michigan . Justin Wolfers is an
associate professor of business and public policy at the
 University of Pennsylvania , and a non-resident senior fellow of
the  Brookings Institution . Both are Bloomberg View columnists.
The opinions expressed are their own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on  why Romney is half-right  on
Syria and on  the end of the austerity era  at the IMF;  Jeffrey
Goldberg  on  the hypocrisies of the Free Gaza Movement ;  Ramesh
Ponnuru  on  why Ryan will win  the vice presidential debate; Cass
R. Sunstein on  how turncoats make us more open-minded ; Adam
Freedman on the Obama administration’s  attack on property
rights ; Camille Paglia on Jacques-Louis David’s  painting of a
murder victim .  To contact the writers of this article:
Justin Wolfers at  jwolfers@umich.edu 
Betsey Stevenson at  betseys@umich.edu   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Mark Whitehouse at   mwhitehouse1@bloomberg.net  