-- Rothko Vandal Pursued by Police; Family Expresses Concern
-- B y   F a r a h   N a y e r i
-- 2012-10-08T15:49:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-08/rothko-vandal-pursued-by-police-painting-removed-from-tate.html
A day after a visitor to  London ’s
Tate Modern vandalized a Mark Rothko canvas by applying paint to
a corner of it, Tate said police were pursuing a suspect, and
Rothko’s children expressed sorrow over the incident.  At 3:25 p.m. local time yesterday, the visitor “defaced
one of Rothko’s Seagram murals by applying a small area of black
paint with a brush to the painting,” according to an e-mailed
 Tate  release.  “The Rothko family is greatly troubled by yesterday’s
occurrence, but has full confidence that the Tate Gallery will
do all in its power to remedy the situation,” said the artist’s
children, Kate Rothko Prizel and Christopher Rothko, in an e-
mailed release from the Pace Gallery (which has represented them
since 1978).  Tate said police “are investigating and following up on
information they have on the suspect.” The museum said it had
“strong security systems in place including physical barriers,
security officers in the galleries, alarms and CCTV.”  The Rothko painting has been removed and taken to the
museum’s conservation team, which will determine the extent of
the damage, Tate said.  The room where the painting normally hangs was cordoned off
early today. Guards were on watch to make sure no one walked in.  An image of the vandalized painting, posted by a Tate
visitor on Twitter yesterday, showed the following words
painted, in dripping capital letters, by the vandal: “Vladimir
Umanets ’12” and “A potential piece of Yellowism.”  Creative Attack  A man named Vladimir Umanets who said he was behind the
incident spoke in a broadcast interview with the  BBC  earlier
today.  “I’m not defacing this,” he told the BBC. “I believe
that the most creative thing you can do in art is just to
abandon this.”  Umanets said he co-founded a movement in 2010 called
Yellowism. He indicated that the movement was aimed at
demystifying established art and glorifying the color yellow.  “Art allows us to take what someone’s done and put a new
message on it,” he was quoted on the BBC website as saying.  Rothko was commissioned in June 1958 to decorate the dining
room of a restaurant inside the Seagram Building on Park Avenue
in  Manhattan .  He produced 30 paintings, though there was space for only
seven, then called the whole thing off, deciding that a
restaurant catering to the wealthy was not the right place for
his art.  In 1969, he donated nine of the Seagram Murals to the Tate
Gallery in London, where they are on permanent display in a room
of their own.  Rothko committed suicide in his  New York  studio in February
1970. He was 66.  Muse highlights include  Warwick Thompson  on London stage,
 Scott Reyburn  on the art market and  Elin McCoy  on wine.  To contact the writer on this story:
Farah Nayeri in London  at
 farahn@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 