-- Ryan’s Hero Ayn Rand Sneered at Disabled Children: Commentary
-- B y   C r a i g   S e l i g m a n
-- 2012-10-08T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-08/ryan-s-hero-ayn-rand-sneered-at-disabled-children-commentary.html
With the ascent of Paul Ryan,
the chain-smoking, Russian-accented, flinty-hearted figure
of Ayn  Rand  has once again elbowed her way into the
American conversation. Will her name come up during the
debate between the vice-presidential candidates on
Thursday?  So far, most of the talk has focused on her 1957
doorstop of a political novel, “ Atlas Shrugged .” But it’s
sent me back to an earlier book, “ The Fountainhead ,” which
(like most of her work) has never been out of print since
it was published in 1943.  Like Ryan, I read Rand as a teenager: I was 13, and my
mother, who adored the book, passed it on to me. It was a
bizarre introduction to the world of adult fiction.  “The Fountainhead” follows the struggles of a modern
architect named Howard Roark. Its theme is the individual
versus the collective. In Rand’s world, a few almost
godlike individuals walk the earth among the dirty mob.  They recognize one another at once and communicate in
gnomic (though by no means brief) utterances. You can spot
the inferiors, typified by the ambitious, incompetent
architect Peter Keating, by their obtuseness.  “I don’t know what you mean,” they’ll say, even when
they’ve just been brutally insulted.  Slimy Critic  Between them stands a third group: the socialists,
represented by the slimy architecture critic Ellsworth M.
Toohey. They recognize the genius of Roark and his ilk and
do everything they can to thwart them.  “The Fountainhead” was Rand’s response to the New
Deal, and it expresses not only her hatred of the left but
her conviction that it knew just how evil it was.  Her paranoia was rooted in her background: She was
born in St. Petersburg in 1905, saw the Bolsheviks rise to
power, and made it out of the Soviet Union only in 1926,
when she was 21. Free at last, she headed for Hollywood.  The place nourished her overheated imagination. Though
“The Fountainhead” is a novel of ideas, my mother loved it
for the same reason she loved “ The Carpetbaggers ” and
“ Valley of the Dolls ”: Its story of high-rolling architects
and a Hearst-like newspaper magnate drips glamour. Every
page feels like it’s written in leopard print.  Sexual Politics  The sexual politics of the book are ghastly even for
1943. The heroine, Dominique Francon, has no interest in
sex until Roark rapes her:  “He did it as an act of scorn. Not as love, but as
defilement. And this made her lie still and submit. One
gesture of tenderness from him -- and she would have
remained cold, untouched by the thing done to her body. But
the act of a master taking shameful, contemptuous
possession of her was the kind of rapture she had wanted.”  Even granting that Rand rejected the “concrete-bound,
journalistic Naturalism” of her contemporaries, that is
terrible writing. And it presents a paradox.  In “The Fountainhead,” bad taste is an ethical
failing. Roark’s detractors aren’t just knaves and fools
but moral idiots. But Rand had terrible taste in prose.  She had no feeling for motivation, either --
psychology wasn’t her thing. Since the characters have to
illustrate concepts, they don’t move freely on the page.  She’s always bullying them around to get her points
across, and as a result their behavior ranges from the
perverse to the truly weird.  Thwarting Roark  For example, Dominique considers the world too mean a
place for Roark’s magnificent buildings, and so, in
collusion with the nefarious Toohey, she uses the influence
of her newspaper column to stop him from getting
commissions -- even though he’s her lover.  When I was 13, the only character I felt any kinship
with at all was Peter Keating -- the weasel. That
familiarity made me wonder about myself; now I understand.
Keating may be envious, conniving, malicious and dim, but
all those qualities make him recognizably human.  Roark is a cold ascetic whose confidence in his
judgment never wavers, who barely notices the hysterical
hatred his work provokes, “a man totally innocent,” as Rand
writes, “of fear.” In other words, a monster.  Probably no actor could have played him convincingly.
Saddled with Rand’s hectoring lectures in King Vidor’s 1949
 film version  of the novel, Gary Cooper gave what was even
for him a wooden performance, and he was 10 years too old.  ‘Vicious Mouth’  Patricia Neal at least looked like Dominique, with her
“air of cold serenity” and her “exquisitely vicious mouth.”
Rand wrote the screenplay under a contract that stipulated,
much like one of Roark’s (“I don’t consult, I don’t
cooperate, I don’t collaborate”), that not a single word be
changed.  Her control was probably a good thing, since if other
writers had been allowed to tone down her batty speeches,
the picture would have come down to us as merely terrible,
rather than as one of the purest examples of camp in the
history of cinema.  There’s irony in its having been made at Warner Bros.,
the most socially conscious of the old studios. The movie
isn’t as confrontational in its disdain for social programs
as the book, though. It leaves out the episode containing
the worst insult to her hero Rand can think of.  ‘Subnormal Children’  One of Roark’s splendid buildings is remodeled into
“The Hopton Stoddard Home for Subnormal Children,” whose
administrators -- “zealous ladies who were full of
kindness” (a word Rand almost always invokes with contempt)
-- admit “only the hopeless cases”:  “There was a 15-year-old boy who had never learned to
speak; a grinning child who could not be taught to read or
write; a girl born without a nose, whose father was also
her grandfather; a person called ‘Jackie’ of whose age or
sex nobody could be certain. They marched into their new
home, their eyes staring vacantly.”  Even if you agree with those conservative Republicans
who think a helping hand will only encourage the poor in
their lack of initiative ... disabled children?  Absolutely, Rand would argue. Although she hated the
Bolsheviks, you can feel in every one of her pulpy
sentences the fanaticism she shared with them.  Worshipping Reason  She worshipped no god but reason (a continuing problem
for Ryan and other Christians inspired by her ideas) and
maintained that the only philosopher she really owed was
Aristotle, the apotheosis of reason.  I’m not so sure. A statement like “One can’t love man
without hating most of the creatures who pretend to bear
his name” sounds more like the world-denying idealism of
Plato. One of Roark’s admirers looks from a sketch of the
architect’s to the view from his window and protests, “Not
this -- and that.” Rand describes the vista:  “There was a poolroom on the corner of the street
below; a rooming house with a Corinthian portico; a
billboard advertising a Broadway musical; a line of pink-
gray underwear fluttering on a roof.”  Her repulsion is clear. But is that laundry line
really such a terrible condemnation? To me it seems more
like a simple fact of life. Beauty would be meaningless
without the everyday banality that sets it off.  It’s easy enough to see how an artist besotted with
ideals of perfection might want to reject the ordinary in
her work. But politicians ply their trade in the only world
we have -- the one that, presumably, they want to improve.  When a novelist who despises the world and the people
in it becomes their guiding star, we sneer at our own risk.  (Craig Seligman is a critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed
are his own.)  Muse highlights include  Elin McCoy  on wine and  Greg
Evans  on TV.  To contact the writer on the story:
Craig Seligman at  cseligman@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in New York at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 