-- Ryan-Biden Smackdown Should Be No Contest
-- B y   R a m e s h   P o n n u r u
-- 2012-10-08T22:31:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-08/ryan-biden-smackdown-should-be-no-contest.html
When  Mitt Romney  defeated  Barack Obama  in their first presidential debate last week, and by
common consent that’s what happened, he raised the pressure on
 Joe Biden  to even the score in the vice presidential debate on
Oct. 11.  Biden will have a tough time doing that. Even though
Republicans will be trying to lower expectations for their
candidate, Representative  Paul Ryan , everyone knows he is a
formidable and unflappable debater. He knows the ins and outs of
domestic policy at least as well as Biden, and speaks more
authoritatively about them. Ryan has also spent more elections
having to win voters outside his party. What’s more, Biden has
some predilections that will make his own job harder.  The vice president seems to believe -- judging by how he
goes on about it -- that he has some special gift for connecting
with middle-class voters. This may lead to overconfidence. Ryan
has been at least as effective as Biden in making a blue-collar
case for his party’s ideas.  Similarly, Biden has a reputation for his foreign-policy
expertise, and Ryan has little experience in this area, so the
vice president may be tempted to try to show up the younger man.
It could backfire, though, since Biden’s reputation is largely
undeserved. His record on  Iraq  -- opposing the first war in the
early 1990s, supporting the second one, opposing the surge and
uniting Iraq’s factions against him by  proposing  to split the
country in three -- doesn’t seem like an advertisement for his
great judgment. Agree with Ryan or not on foreign policy, he is
fluent on it even if it hasn’t been the focus of his career.  More Combative  The Democratic reaction to Obama’s debate loss may also
point Biden in the wrong direction. Among liberals -- and among
some Democratic strategists, too -- the prevailing view is that
Obama lost because he didn’t call Romney on his outrageous lies,
and especially because he didn’t draw a stark contrast on
Medicare and Social Security. Obama even said the two candidates
had a “similar position” on the second program. Democrats will
be urging Biden to be more combative.  The vice president isn’t above demagogic attacks: In his
 convention speech , for example, he claimed “experts” had said
that one of Romney’s tax proposals would create 800,000 jobs,
“all of them overseas, all of them.” In fact, Biden was
referring to a study by one expert, and it didn’t say what he
claimed: It estimated 800,000 jobs would be created overseas,
but it didn’t examine the impact domestically. Yet Biden also
likes to be liked, and has tended to take his hardest shots
before partisan audiences rather than in front of the
Republicans he is criticizing.  And the consensus Democratic view that Obama was too
passive and disengaged probably misunderstands why he lost the
debate. The real problem was that he was less up to speed on the
arguments and counterarguments than Romney was. If Biden
internalizes the Democratic conventional wisdom, he will be more
engaged than Obama was -- but it won’t help unless he is also
better informed. An amped-up yet inadequate response can come
across as bluster.  A few things may work in Biden’s favor.  Jonathan Haidt , a
professor of ethical leadership at  New York  University’s Stern
School of Business (and an Obama supporter), points out that
liberals are more apt to hold inaccurate stereotypes about
conservatives’ values than vice versa. Perhaps this lack of
familiarity with the conservative worldview made Obama less
prepared for the debate than Romney was: Obama didn’t know what
to say when a Republican made an argument that differed from the
straw men the president loves to create. Maybe Biden -- who has
built closer working relationships with conservatives in the
Senate than Obama ever has -- will be prepared with more
effective rebuttals.  Biden’s Gaffes  Democrats also probably don’t need to worry about Biden’s
penchant for gaffes. Yes, he said last week that the middle
class “has been buried the last four years,” which is maybe
not the ideal message for a ticket asking for four more. He also
has a history of making racially insensitive remarks -- about
Indian-Americans as 7-Eleven owners and Obama as “clean” and
“articulate.” As Ryan has pointed out, though, Biden typically
makes such blunders when he is relaxed rather than in high-
pressure situations, such as nationally watched debates. He
didn’t say anything disastrous in his debate with Sarah Palin in
2008, and indeed is generally thought to have won it.  Biden gave a stronger, more tightly focused speech at the
Democratic convention than Obama did. He will have to do better
than Obama again this week. The race is a dead heat, according
to the  most   recent  polls, and the Democrats have been running as
much against Ryan as against Romney. So the stakes are higher
for Biden than they usually are in vice presidential debates.
It’s safe to say that Republicans are looking forward to this
one more than Democrats are.  ( Ramesh Ponnuru  is a Bloomberg View columnist and a senior
editor at National Review. The opinions expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on  why Romney is half-right  on
 Syria  and on  the end of the austerity era  at the IMF;  Jeffrey
Goldberg  on  the hypocrisies of the Free Gaza Movement ; Betsey
Stevenson and  Justin Wolfers  on  Romney and fiscal
responsibility ; Cass R. Sunstein on  how turncoats make us more
open-minded ; Adam Freedman on the Obama administration’s  attack
on property rights ; Camille Paglia on Jacques-Louis David’s
 painting of a murder victim .  To contact the writer of this article:
Ramesh Ponnuru at  rponnuru@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Timothy Lavin at   tlavin1@bloomberg.net . 