-- Saudi Arabia Doubles Tankers to U.S. as Motiva Unit Seen Opening
-- B y   R o b   S h e r i d a n
-- 2012-10-08T13:25:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-08/saudi-arabia-doubles-tankers-to-u-s-as-motiva-unit-seen-opening.html
Saudi Arabian Oil Co. doubled the
number of crude tankers booked to ship oil to the Gulf of Mexico
this month as two people familiar with its U.S. refinery
operations said a damaged crude unit may restart in December.  The company’s shipping unit booked eight very large crude
carriers to load about 16 million barrels in October, compared
with four ships a month so far this year, according to data from
Athens-based Optima Shipbrokers Ltd. Motiva Enterprises LLC,
which the state-controlled oil producer owns with  Royal Dutch
Shell Plc (RDSA) , will open the 325,000 barrels-a-day unit as early as
the first week of December, the people said Oct. 5.  The 600,000 barrels-a-day refinery in  Port Arthur ,  Texas ,
halted the unit in June following contamination that caused
cracks in stainless steel pipes. Repairs may be completed this
month and testing will take place in November, said the people,
declining to be identified because they aren’t authorized to
speak for the refinery.  The tanker charters were arranged by Saudi Arabian Oil’s
Vela International Marine Ltd. unit. A call to Vela was referred
to the parent company, which didn’t immediately reply to an e-
mail and phone call today seeking comment.  Motiva said July 19 it expected to restart the unit early
in 2013. The crude unit began operating in May as part of a $10
billion expansion that pushed the refinery’s crude capacity to
almost 600,000 barrels a day, making it the largest in the U.S.  A one-way journey to the U.S. Gulf from  Saudi Arabia  takes
about 40 days to complete, according to Optima. That implies the
cargoes will probably be discharged in the second or third week
of December. Brokers report tanker bookings when the deals are
provisional and charters are sometimes canceled.  VLCCs hauling Middle East crude to refineries in the  Gulf
of Mexico  are  losing  $22,840 a day, according to data from the
London-based Baltic Exchange.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rob Sheridan in London at 
 rsheridan6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alaric Nightingale at 
 anightingal1@bloomberg.net  