-- Scene in D.C.: Dracula, Vampires Dance to Michael Jackson
-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   G r e e n
-- 2012-10-08T15:13:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-08/scene-in-d-c-dracula-vampires-dance-to-michael-jackson.html
Friday night the fangs were out at
the  National Museum of Women in the Arts .  At the  Washington  Ballet’s Dracula Soiree, glam vamps and
mod monsters were looking for fun, not blood.  “It’s at the cleaners,”  Jack Davies  said of his Count
Dracula cape, a sartorial favorite of many of the other male
guests. Davies is the former president of AOL International, and
served as co-patron of the evening.  The ladies of the night turned out in macabre chic: black
gloves, skeletal accessories and a few love bites on their
necks.  Event benefactor Bruce Lipnick, chairman and CEO of Asset
Alliance Corp., came prepared. He sported pointy teeth. Nothing
to fear, however. He said he was just getting in the spirit to
support his daughter, Olivia, a dancer.  Lipnick compared choppers with Bill Marcus, senior managing
director at Hedgeharbor, in nocturnal eyes and fangs.  Artist Dana Westring opted for the genteel vampire look,
pairing a top hat with his ensemble.  The soiree was held to celebrate the ballet’s fall season,
which will be inaugurated later this month by the company
premiere of “Dracula” at the  Kennedy Center .  The museum was decorated to resemble Dracula’s castle, with
red bats fluttering across the ceiling and creepy creatures on
the cupcakes.  A mini-casket was left ajar, revealing a treasure trove of
chocolates.  Michael Jackson ’s “Thriller” got the zombies moving on
the dance floor.  Also among the 400 guests were former U.S. ambassador to
Morocco Marc Ginsberg, president of Layalina Productions;
Washington Ballet Artistic Director Septime Webre; and Maribeth
Bersani, senior vice president of public policy for the Assisted
Living Federation of America.  ( Stephanie Green  is a writer and photographer for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of  Bloomberg News . Any opinions
expressed are her own.)  Muse highlights include  Elin McCoy  on wine and  Scott Reyburn 
on auctions.  To contact the writer on this story:
Stephanie Green in Washington at  sgreen57@bloomberg.net  or on
Twitter @stephlgreen.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 