-- Scotland’s Salmond Wanted Trump Support for Al-Megrahi Release
-- B y   P e t e r   W o o d i f i e l d
-- 2012-10-08T18:38:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-08/scotland-s-salmond-wanted-trump-support-for-al-megrahi-release.html
Scottish First Minister Alex Salmond
asked  New York  real estate entrepreneur  Donald Trump  to support
him over the decision to free convicted Lockerbie bomber Abdel Basset Ali al-Megrahi in 2009 on compassionate grounds.  Trump, who started building a golf resort in Salmond’s
constituency that year after gaining government approval,
rejected the request on a telephone conference call with
Salmond, George Sorial, the Trump Organization’s head of
international development, said in an interview.  “Salmond felt because he had expressed support for Donald
Trump’s application, it was his turn to support him,” said
Sorial, who participated in the call. “We don’t owe Salmond
anything, we chose to make a significant investment in his
country at a very difficult economic time.”  Trump is at loggerheads with the government over proposals
to build an experimental offshore wind farm in Aberdeen Bay
opposite his course on the Menie Estate. Trump has stalled
development on a 450-room hotel, 500 homes and 950 short-term
rental apartments until the outcome of the planning application
is known.  “As  New Yorkers , it was insulting and offensive,” Sorial
said. “It was unthinkable that he would defend one of the
stupidest political decisions ever made.”  Salmond had been very “forceful” on the conference call
after Trump refused to accede to his request, Sorial said. He
had behaved the same way in an earlier conference call with
Donald Trump Jr. and himself, Sorial said.  ‘Hugely Difficult’  Al-Megrahi, the only person convicted of the 1988 bombing
of Pan Am Flight 103, was released by the Scottish government in
August 2009 on the grounds that he was expected to die within
three months from prostate cancer. He died on May 20, 2012.  Salmond’s special adviser Geoff Aberdein drafted a press
release to be released in Trump’s name, Sorial said.  “I would like to hope that it might help break the cycle
of violence around the world and replace it with reciprocal
gestures,” the draft said. “In any event, it won’t stop my
love affair with the  Scotland  and the Scots.”  The Trump Organization decided to release the e-mail
following the decision by a number of organizations last week to
drop their opposition over several years to the proposed
offshore wind farm subject to environmental protection
conditions, Sorial said. They included the Ministry of Defence,
 National Air Traffic Services  and  Scottish Natural Heritage .  ‘Murky Development’  “Salmond has been out there putting pressure on people who
objected to the application,” Sorial said. “We understand how
he works, it is becoming a pattern of practice with him. There
is a link between the deterioration in the relationship with
Salmond and Donald Trump’s refusal to support the release of a
mass murderer.”  The Scottish government was entitled to hope for support
from international stakeholders, an unidentified spokeswoman
told the Herald newspaper.  “ Alex Salmond  needs to explain without delay what on earth
the Scottish Government was thinking when it took this action,”
Scottish Conservative deputy leader Jackson Carlaw said in an e-
mailed statement. “This is another murky development in a sorry
saga. At the very least both an explanation and a public apology
are required” from Salmond, he said.  The  European Offshore Wind Deployment Centre , a venture
between Vattenfall AB,  Technip SA (TEC)  and Aberdeen Renewable Energy
Group, applied 14 months ago for planning consent to build 11
next-generation offshore wind turbines in Aberdeen Bay. The
turbines are 195 meters (640 feet) high to the tip of the blade
and will be 2.4 kilometers (1.5 miles) out at sea, David Rodger,
a spokesman for the venture, said in April. Since then the
developers have proposed adding another 11 feet to the height of
the turbines.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Woodifield in Edinburgh  at 
 pwoodifield@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Lytle at 
 dlytle@bloomberg.net  