-- Siemens, Areva Say U.K. Policy Move Risks ‘Stranding’ Investment
-- B y   S a l l y   B a k e w e l l
-- 2012-10-08T15:21:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-08/siemens-areva-say-u-k-policy-move-risks-stranding-investment.html
Siemens AG (SIE) ,  Vestas Wind Systems A/S (VWS) 
and  Areva SA (AREVA)  said suggestions the U.K. will change policy on
clean power threaten “stranding” investment in the industry.  The three, along with Gamesa Corp. Tecnologica SA,
Mitsubishi Power Systems Europe Ltd. and  Alstom SA (ALO) , wrote to
Energy Secretary  Ed Davey  saying they had reassessed “political
risk in the U.K.” after delays, reports of government discord
and speculation that preferential tariffs would be rationed.  “These investments have long timescales and carry a risk
of stranding if the present policy focus on decarbonization and
green growth changes,” they said in the letter published today
in the Times. Future investment and tens of thousands of new
jobs depend on a stable long-term policy, the companies said.  The letter adds pressure to the government after potential
investors recently withdrew from low-carbon generation proposals
needed to replace an aging fleet of power stations. Areva last
week pulled out of bidding for a British nuclear venture, while
Vestas in June shelved plans for an offshore wind turbine
factory in  England  that depended on regulatory certainty.  Davey declined to comment on the letter at a European Union
event today in London, saying it was in his “reading pile.”  U.K. plans to overhaul its energy market, set out in draft
in May and including guaranteed contracts for low-carbon power,
were deemed “unworkable” by the Energy and Climate Change
Committee in July and criticized by Scottish Power Ltd. because
of a lack of clarity over the number of contracts available.  Strong Case  The letter published in the newspaper today and dated Oct.
5 said the changes, known as Electricity Market Reform, were
“not enough” to underpin large-scale industrial investments.  The U.K. needs about 110 billion pounds ($176 billion) in
low-carbon investment by 2020 to replace retiring power plants
and upgrade grids, according to the government.  A binding 2030 so-called decarbonization target for the
industry would help reduce political risk associated with long-
term U.K. industrial investment, according to the letter, also
signed by Doosan Power Systems Ltd. The companies said they
employ 17,500 in the U.K. energy industry.  The Aldersgate Group, an environmental alliance, published
 its own letter  to Chancellor of the Exchequer George Osborne
today saying the lack of a target undermines Britain’s low-
carbon plans. The government should use secondary legislation,
allowing it to make changes to the law, to introduce the 2030
goal, according to Aldersgate. Davey said on Sept. 23 there was
a  “strong case ” for a 2030 carbon limit.  Intensity Target  The Committee on  Climate Change  has urged the government to
introduce a target to cut the carbon intensity of generation to
about 50 grams of carbon dioxide a kilowatt-hour by 2030 and
meet its 2050 emissions cutting goals. The U.K. proposes in the
energy bill a 450 gram limit for new fossil-fuel plants to 2045,
which Davey said  in June  the nation was “free to review.”  The Aldersgate Group letter, with signatories including EDF
Energy Plc, Friends of the Earth and Triodos Bank NV, also
warned that government statements outlining plans to keep using
gas generation beyond 2030 were damaging to the low-carbon
transition. Osborne has pushed for natural gas to remain central
to U.K. energy supply and Davey said Oct. 4 gas is “absolutely
central” to efforts to curb emissions while meeting demand.  Davey, a Liberal Democrat, said today at a  London 
conference that the rate of investment in U.K. energy needed to
increase to provide security for consumers and businesses.  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
Sally Bakewell in London at 
 Sbakewell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  