-- Inflation Bonds May Ease Singapore Price Pinch
-- B y   S h a r o n   C h e n   a n d   W e s   G o o d m a n
-- 2012-10-10T08:36:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-08/singapore-tips-pitch.html
(Corrects to remove attribution in 17th paragraph of story
published Oct. 9.)  Singapore  may consider issuing bonds
that protect against inflation after price gains sent the cost
of a public-housing apartment to a record S$1 million ($813,000)
last month and made cars as expensive as U.S. homes.  Singapore’s  consumer price index  rose 3.9 percent in August
from the year before, more than double the 1.7 percent rate in
the U.S., the world’s biggest economy. Inflation in the island
state averaged 5 percent for the past year. With the nation home
to world’s highest proportion of millionaire households, the
central bank said in July it was studying the feasibility of
securities to help savers protect their funds from rising costs.  Assets in inflation-protected bond funds worldwide climbed
to a record $183.8 billion as of Aug. 31, according to EPFR
Global in Cambridge,  Massachusetts . In the  U.S. , the largest
market for the debt at $729.8 billion, bond payments are based
on a principal amount that increases or decreases in line with
the  consumer price index .  Japan ,  South Korea ,  Australia  and Hong
Kong are Asia-Pacific economies that already sell inflation-
linked debt, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “For whoever is looking at managing inflation risks, it
would be a handy tool which has been developed in many other
markets already, particularly those that consider themselves
financial centers,” said  Vishnu Varathan , a Singapore-based
economist at Mizuho Corporate Bank Ltd., part of Japan’s third-
biggest lender by market value. “I think we see a need to go
ahead and say, ‘let’s get this done.’”  Inflation will be within the government’s forecast of 4
percent to 4.5 percent this year, Varathan said.  More Millionaires  An index of debt that protects against rising costs has
returned 5.6 percent in 2012, versus 3.6 percent for sovereign
securities, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch data.
Inflation-linked bonds have beaten conventional debt every year
since 2008, when the global economy was in a recession, the
indexes show.  Singapore’s millionaire households expanded by 14 percent
last year, according to a Boston Consulting Group study
published May 31. The proportion of millionaire homes was 17
percent, the highest in the world, followed by Qatar and  Kuwait .  A public housing apartment sold for a record S$1 million in
September, according to Singapore’s Straits Times  newspaper . The
17-year-old unit was 1,615 square feet (150 square meters),
according to the article.  BMW Cost  The cost of a 5 Series sedan made by Bayerische Motoren
Werke AG starts at S$257,800, according to prices posted on
 SGCarMart.com  by dealer Performance Motors Ltd., or about
$209,000. The price includes the cost of the car plus taxes and
a permit fee imposed by the government. The median  price  of a
U.S. existing home was $187,400 in August, data from the
National Association of Realtors show.  Inflation-protected bonds would follow a series of measures
by Prime Minister Lee Hsien Loong to cope with price pressures.  The government raised taxes on purchases of private
residential property in December, according to the Ministry of
National Development’s website. It announced plans last month to
increase public housing units, according to the Housing Board
 website . Singapore’s central bank said last week it would
restrict home-loan maturities for new residential properties to
a maximum 35 years to avoid a housing bubble.  The Land Transportation Authority  took steps  in May to
increase the supply of driving permits that are auctioned every
two weeks. The government this year  introduced vouchers  to aid
lower- and middle-income people and the elderly in offsetting
the  7 percent sales tax .  ‘Losing Money’  Singapore may follow Hong Kong by selling bonds that are
tailored for individuals and linked to the consumer price index,
said Tan Su Shan, a so-called nominated member of Parliament who
has limited  voting rights  and is appointed by the president. Tan
proposed such a debt plan in Parliament earlier this year.  “Some kind of CPI-linked bonds in the Singapore market,
specifically for the retail market, will be great,” said Tan,
who is also head of  wealth management  at  DBS Group Holdings Ltd. (DBS) ,
 Southeast Asia ’s largest bank. “It’s no secret that the regular
saver is losing money” to inflation, she said.  High inflation rates make the set payments on debt less
valuable over time and can cause bonds to deliver negative
returns. The fixed deposit  rate  for 12 months is 0.32 percent at
Singapore banks, according to the MAS. The so-called real rate
that accounts for inflation is negative 3.58 percent. Yields of
1.36 percent on Singapore’s 10-year government notes are also
less than the rate of price increases in the economy.  Hong Kong Model  The central bank is “studying the feasibility of such
bonds,” Lawrence Wong, a board member at the MAS, said in
Parliament on July 9 in response to Tan’s question. Inflation is
“uncomfortably high,” and the government “is mindful of the
problems such an environment poses to savers and depositors,”
he said.  The MAS hasn’t commented on inflation-linked bonds since
July 9.  Hong Kong  first issued HK$10 billion ($1.3 billion) of the
securities in July 2011, and it sold another HK$10 billion of
bonds in June.  Investors could buy amounts as small as HK$10,000,
equivalent to $1,289, by placing orders through a bank. Both
bonds have three-year maturities, and their  interest rates  are
linked to inflation measured by the composite CPI.  Investors seeking to buy at the second sale in June
submitted orders for HK$49.8 billion of securities, a record for
the local retail  bond market , according to a  statement  from the
Hong Kong Monetary Authority.  Rajeev De Mello, who oversees $7 billion as the Singapore-
based head of Asian fixed-income assets at Schroder Investment
Management, said he would like to add inflation-linked bonds
from the nation to his portfolios.  “The average investor would also be interested,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Wes Goodman in Singapore at 
 wgoodman@bloomberg.net ;
Sharon Chen in Singapore at 
 schen462@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  