-- Sino-Israeli Startup Seeks Place Among 94 Brands in China: Cars
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-10-09T09:06:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-08/sino-israeli-startup-seeks-place-among-94-brands-in-china-cars.html
It’s not easy being No. 94.  Qoros Auto Co., a startup carmaker without a factory, a
model name or an established dealer network, plans to introduce
a sedan in China next year, joining the world’s most competitive
car market, where 93 other brands vie for customers. In Qoros’s
favor is that China is also the biggest market.  “The world does not need another” car brand, Volker Steinwascher, 69, vice chairman of Shanghai-based Qoros and a
former  Volkswagen AG (VOW)  executive, said as he showed off his iPad
loaded with renderings of ideas for his company’s cars. “If
somebody had the idea of doing the same thing outside of China,
I would say it would be very difficult. But the situation in
China is different.”  The slowing pace of auto sales in China and warnings of
overcapacity haven’t deterred Steinwascher and his team,
underscoring the resiliency of China’s appeal for automakers.
Though he’ll compete against giants such as VW,  General Motors
Co. (GM) , and Hyundai Motor Co., Steinwascher insists that a startup
can prosper in China because so many potential customers are
first-time buyers who have no loyalties to brands.  Established as a joint venture between China’s Chery
Automobile Co. and an Israeli holding company, Qoros says it
will invest 16 billion  yuan  ($2.5 billion) through 2015 and
produce about 150,000 units annually at a planned factory in
Changshu, a 90-minute drive northwest of Shanghai.  Chery, the biggest Chinese car exporter and maker of the
hit QQ mini car, teamed up with  Israel Corp. (ILCO) , a Tel Aviv company
with interests in shipping, oil refining, chemicals and
transportation, for the 50-50 joint venture.  Startup Carmaker  Steinwascher was working as a consultant after retiring
from Volkswagen when he was approached by Israel Corp., which
had a previous joint venture with VW. Executives from the
Israeli company asked him to put together a team at Qoros, a
chance he jumped at because, after a few weeks of retirement, he
said, he simply found golf “wrong.”  The venture plans to boost the number of employees in
Shanghai and Changshu to 1,500 over the next two years from the
current team of 450, mostly designers and engineers. The company
plans to unveil its first sedan at the  Geneva Motor Show  in
March and begin sales in the fourth quarter of next year. The
car, yet unnamed, will be sold through about 100 dealerships in
China and be priced lower than comparable Volkswagen models,
Steinwascher said.  ‘European DNA’  Steinwascher, an avowed car enthusiast who drives a black
 Porsche 911 , recruited Mini designer Gert Hildebrand to head the
design team at Qoros. Other hires include BMW’s ex-chief
engineer responsible for vehicle performance at its motorsports
unit, Jaguar Land Rover’s former head vehicle engineer, and
Volvo Car Corp.’s former global product manager. Guo Qian,
Chery’s chief operating officer, serves as chairman and chief
executive of Qoros.  The “European DNA” added by the high-profile hires sets
Qoros apart from other Chinese joint-venture carmakers, said
Klaus Paur, global head of automotive at researcher Ipsos in
 Shanghai .  “It’s an extremely strong team in terms of technology and
know-how,” Paur said. “This is an interesting approach.
There’s no reason why China should not succeed in having a
world-class car manufacturer.”  Improve Quality  Chery, which was embroiled in a trademark dispute with GM
over its $5,000 QQ that was settled out of court, is seeking to
raise its “core competitiveness” and improve product quality
through the tie-up with Israel Corp., said Huang Huaqiong, a
company spokesman. The manufacturer, which widened a recall to
six countries in August after finding potential cancer-causing
asbestos parts in some models, is supplying the engines for
Qoros.  Israel Corp. sees its investment in Qoros as a “very long-
term investment,” and a bet that China’s economic growth and
its  auto industry  will outpace developed economies, said Noam Pincu, an analyst at Psagot Investment House Ltd., who has a buy
 recommendation  for Israel Corp.  Eli Goldschmidt , a spokesman for
Israel Corp., didn’t immediately respond to an e-mail sent over
a public-holiday weekend.  Qoros’s target buyer is 25- to 30-year-olds who want
“quality at an affordable price,” said Steinwascher, who
headed VW’s operations in  North America  from 1995 to 2004.
“Somebody who wants an Audi logo will buy an Audi. That’s not
our target group.”  Biggest Market  China surpassed the U.S. as the world’s largest market for
new vehicles in 2009, boosted by rising incomes and stimulus
measures. While sales growth has stalled the past two years as
the economy slowed, high savings rates and pent-up demand mean
the Chinese market will grow to deliveries of 25.5 million
vehicles annually by 2015, according to the average forecast of
IHS Automotive, Macquarie Equities Research and the Economist
Intelligence Unit.  The biggest obstacle Qoros faces may be its lack of scale,
said Jochen Siebert, managing director at JSC Automotive
Consulting. Automakers need volumes of at least 3 million cars
each year for a business to be sustainable, he said. Chery has
so far said it has no plans to share design, engineering, or
production facilities with Qoros.  “We don’t see a very big chance for them, honestly,” said
Siebert, who is based in Shanghai. “They will sell cars, but
it’s not enough to really make money. They won’t have return on
investment for a long time. They’re too small.”  Auto Sales  By contrast, GM and its affiliates last year sold 2.55
million vehicles in  China  and the VW Group boosted China and
Hong Kong sales to 2.26 million units.  Those companies are among a handful of exceptions in China.
Of the country’s 70 automakers, only 15 sell more than 120,000
cars a year, and 53 sell fewer than 10,000, according to China
Association of Automobile Manufacturers. A total of 93 auto
brands compete for consumers in China, according to industry
researcher J.D. Power & Associates.  Hildebrand, the former Mini designer, who had never set
foot in mainland China before being recruited by Qoros, insists
there will be a place for Qoros. The new car will have “simple
lines,” “maximum stretch” and “a very strong face,” he
said. “When you put a Qoros beside an Audi A4, BMW 3 series, VW
Passat, you feel it belongs to the same class, but we play in a
lower class price-wise.” Hildebrand said. “We’re already
working on the next generation and the next product.”  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Liza Lin in Shanghai at 
 llin15@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  