-- Skadden, Freshfields, Davis Polk, Loeb: Business of Law
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 2012-10-08T11:09:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-08/skadden-freshfields-davis-polk-loeb-business-of-law.html
Skadden Arps Slate Meagher & Flom LLP
was the top adviser on all announced deals worldwide and number
one in the U.S. through the third quarter, according to the
latest League Tables compiled by  Bloomberg News .  “It has been a reasonably strong market for the first nine
months,” Mike Rogan, global co-head of Skadden’s corporate
transactions practices, said in an interview. There has been a
lot going on in health care and some concentration in energy, he
said, but “our deals are pretty broad spectrum, cross-border
and domestic.”  Freshfields Bruckhaus Deringer LLP held the top spot in
market share for announced value of deals in the European,
Middle-Eastern and African region, while Mori Hamada & Matsumoto
was the top  law firm  adviser in the Asia-Pacific region through
the third quarter.  Stock market valuations have risen in the U.S. and U.K.,
though year-to-date global merger and acquisition activity is
down from 2011, Bloomberg’s M&A newsletter reported. Total deal
volume was down 18 percent in the year through Sept. 30 compared
to the same period in 2011. The relative geographic distribution
of targets was largely unchanged in 2012, with similar volume
declines in the four most active regions, according to the
newsletter.  Skadden Arps  had 12.2 percent of the market share worldwide
with $185.4 million in announced value of deals. In U.S. deals,
Skadden had 17.5 percent of the market share with $124.2 billion
in announced value of deals. In its two biggest deals this year,
the firm advised Anheuser-Busch InBev NV on its merger with
Grupo Modelo SAB, and Pfizer Inc., whose infant-nutrition unit
agreed to be acquired by Nestle SA. The firm was fourth in the
European, Middle-Eastern and Africa ranking of advisers and
second in Asia-Pacific deal advisers.  Simpson Thacher & Bartlett LLP was second in U.S. deals
with 15.8 percent of the market share and $110 billion in its
announced value of deals. Wachtell, Lipton, Rosen & Katz and
Kirkland & Ellis LLP were tied at 13.1 percent in market share
for U.S. deals, with the former firm having $91.2 billion and
the latter $90.9 billion in announced value on U.S. deals.
Latham & Watkins LLP was in fifth place, followed by Weil
Gotshal & Manges LLP, Davis Polk & Wardwell LLP,  Jones Day ,
Sullivan & Cromwell LLP and White & Case LLP.  Freshfields had 21.5 percent of the market share as EMEA
legal advisers with $133.5 billion. Linklaters LLP and Clifford
Chance LLP were second and third respectively. Linklaters also
broke into the three figures mark in the EMEA chart, with $121
billion in the announced value of deals. Sullivan, Weil and
White & Case also made the top 10 for EMEA deals.  Among Asia-Pacific legal advisers, Mori Hamada & Matsumoto
had 9.7 percent of the market share and $46.6 billion in
announced value of deals.  Mining and energy deals accounted for four of the top 10
deals in the quarter, including Glencore International Plc’s
increased offer for Xstrata Plc and Cnooc Ltd.’s agreement to
buy Nexen Inc.  Edward Braham, head of global corporate practice at
Freshfields, was optimistic about the future.  “The M&A market hasn’t been plain sailing, particularly as
a result of fragile equity and debt markets denting boardroom
confidence,” he said. “However, absent major shocks we should
see some pickup between now and early next year, especially
where higher growth markets are involved,”  While that may be the case in  Europe , Skadden’s Rogan said
he isn’t optimistic about the fourth quarter in the U.S. because
of the election.  “There’s a little more uncertainty, so people are going to
be cautious.”  Davis Polk Advises Mitsubishi UFJ Lease in Jackson SquareDeal  Davis Polk & Wardwell LLP advised  Mitsubishi UFJ Lease &
Finance Co. (8593)  in its agreement to buy  Oaktree Capital Group LLC (OAK) ’s
Jackson Square Aviation LCC aircraft-leasing company for 100
billion yen ($1.3 billion). Kirkland & Ellis LLP and Paul,
Weiss, Rifkind, Wharton & Garrison LLP represent Oaktree
Capital.  The Davis Polk corporate team includes partner Phillip R. Mills. Additional partners include Juliet Cain, aircraft leasing
and financing; Kyoko Takahashi Lin, executive retention advice;
Kathleen L. Ferrell, tax; and John B. Reynolds III, CFIUS
advice.  Kirkland partner Damon Fisher leads the firm’s team of
lawyers advising Oaktree. Paul, Weiss lawyers were led by
corporate partners Neil Goldman, Ken Schneider and Kaye Yoshino.  Mayer Brown LLP advised JSA and Oaktree Capital on aircraft
regulatory aspects of the transaction. The team included finance
partners Robert Barnard and  George Miller .  The Japanese lessor will complete the purchase of JSA
International Holdings LP, owner of Jackson Square, in December,
according to a statement from Tokyo-based Mitsubishi UFJ Lease
Oct. 4.  Japan ’s financial companies are expanding in aircraft
leasing amid growing aviation in  Asia  and cutbacks by European
banks wrestling with a credit crunch.  Sumitomo Mitsui Financial
Group Inc. (8316) , Japan’s second-largest bank by market value, bought
Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc’s aircraft-leasing unit this
year, while Orix Corp.’s aviation unit plans to increase
customers by 50 percent.  Mitsubishi UFJ Lease is an affiliate of  Mitsubishi UFJ
Financial Group Inc. (8306) , Japan’s biggest publicly traded bank. The
lessor gets business referrals from both Mitsubishi UFJ
Financial and  Mitsubishi Corp. (8058) , the Tokyo-based trading company,
both of which are major shareholders, according to  Standard &
Poor’s .  Firm News  Loeb & Loeb Opens Hong Kong Office, Enters Local Alliance  Loeb & Loeb LLP opened a  Hong Kong  office at the same time
entering into an exclusive association with Hong Kong-based
solicitors’ firm Pang & Co.  Benny Pang, managing partner of Pang & Co., will be joining
Loeb & Loeb’s capital markets department as a partner and
anchoring the new Hong Kong office. Loeb & Loeb partner Lawrence
Venick will move from the firm’s Beijing office to work in the
Hong Kong office.  “Hong Kong has been a key part of our strategic growth
plan in Asia for some time,” Loeb & Loeb Chairman Michael D.
Beck said in a statement. “The Hong Kong office and the
association with Pang & Co. will offer our clients access to an
important business market that is a major player in the global
economy.”  Pang & Co., which will be in the same space as Loeb & Loeb,
has 16 staff that include Hong Kong and U.S. qualified
attorneys, solicitors and paralegals. The team will work in
association with Loeb & Loeb’s Hong Kong office, as well as the
firm’s Beijing and U.S. offices, focusing on capital markets
transactions and regulatory advice in  Greater China , the firm
said. The offices will also handle IPOs in both the Main Board
and the Growth Enterprise Market of the Stock Exchange of Hong
Kong, as well as mergers and acquisitions and general corporate
and commercial transactions.  Pang is a Hong Kong qualified solicitor and focuses on
 equity capital markets  and mergers and acquisitions. He has
worked on a range of corporate transactions with private and
public companies.  Venick’s practice focuses on the representation of both
public and private emerging growth companies, as well as
financial institutions.  Loeb & Loeb’s has more than 300 attorneys with seven
offices in  China  and the U.S.  Buchanan Ingersoll Opens Charlotte Office With New Team  Buchanan Ingersoll & Rooney PC announced that it will open
a  Charlotte ,  North Carolina , office with three banking and
finance lawyers from Kirk, Palmer & Thigpen LLP, including
shareholder Mike Wielechowski, who will lead the office.  “With major clients in the financial services sector, we
have been looking for the right team to run an office in
Charlotte, and Mike was the perfect choice to lead that team at
the right time.” Buchanan’s Chief Executive Officer and
Managing Shareholder Jack Barbour said.  Wielechowski moved to Charlotte from Pittsburgh seven years
ago, after working in-house at PNC Bank, the firm said. In his
private practice, he has handled syndicated loans, midmarket
deals and bilateral deals for clients in the financial services
industry, including PNC Bank and Fifth Third Bank, the firm
said. His primary areas of practice are finance, mergers,
acquisitions and divestitures, general corporate representation
and corporate compliance.  Wielechowski plans to double the number of attorneys in the
office in the next year.  Buchanan Ingersoll has more than 450 attorneys and
government relations professionals in 14 U.S. offices.  Moves  Jefferies Lawyer Joins Stroock & Stroock in Los Angeles  Stroock & Stroock & Lavan LLP hired Frank A. Merola in the
financial restructuring practice group as a partner in the  Los
Angeles  office.  Merola joins Stroock from investment banking firm Jefferies
& Co., where he was a managing director in the Recapitalization
and Reorganization Group. His recent representations included
the Trustees of the Deepwater Horizon Oil Spill Trust; the
Debtors in ATP Oil & Gas, Crusader Energy and Insight Health;
the Official Committees of Unsecured Creditors in Tronox Inc.,
Herbst Gaming, Innkeepers USA Trust and MSR Resorts Golf Course
LLC; and creditor groups in Gateway Casinos and Fontainebleau
 Las Vegas , the firm said.  Prior to Jefferies, Merola was with the Los Angeles
boutique Stutman, Treister & Glatt PC for more than 20 years.  Aisha Hunt Joins Dechert as Financial Services Partner  Dechert LLP hired Aisha Hunt, who joined the firm’s  San
Francisco  office as a partner in the financial services
practice. Hunt was most recently with Cole-Frieman Mallon & Hunt
LLP, where she headed the ’40 Act Practice with a focus on
alternative mutual funds, the firm said.  Hunt advises investment managers and registered funds on
complex investment management issues, including new product
initiatives and risk assessment and mitigation strategies.  Jones Day Hires Douglas Weinstein From Finnegan Henderson  Jones Day hired Douglas Weinstein for its intellectual-
property practice, the law firm said in a  statement .  Weinstein, who joins from  Washington ’s Finnegan, Henderson,
Farabow, Garrett & Dunner LLP, does patent and trade secrets
litigation. He has represented clients in the electrical,
computer and telecommunications industries.  He previously served as the managing partner of Finnegan’s
Taipei office.  K&L Gates Expands in Dubai with Corporate Partner Momany  The Dubai office of K&L Gates LLP hired Omar Momany as a
partner in the corporate practice. Momany joins the firm from
Freshfields Bruckhaus Deringer LLP, the firm said.  His practice includes mergers and acquisitions, corporate
restructurings, corporate governance, arbitration, and joint
ventures both in the UAE and the Middle East region, Momany
advises international and domestic clients, investment funds,
banks, and private and public companies in the real estate,
financial services, transportation, and retail sectors.  K&L Gates’ Middle East corporate practice now has four
partners across the firm’s Dubai and Doha offices.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in Brooklyn,  New York , at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  