-- South Africa’s Credit Rating Cut Amid Mining Strikes
-- B y   S t e p h e n   G u n n i o n
-- 2012-10-08T09:34:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-08/south-africa-s-credit-rating-cut-amid-mining-strikes.html
South African  government bonds  were
the worst performers last week as spreading labor unrest, the
first rating downgrade since apartheid and a widening trade
deficit overshadowed the debt’s inclusion in a benchmark index.  Securities due in a year or longer lost 3.9 percent for
dollar investors, with debt maturing in more than a decade
retreating 4.9 percent, the biggest drop among 26 sovereign bond
indexes compiled by the European Federation of Financial
Analysts Societies and Bloomberg. The yield premium on rand-
denominated notes over U.S. Treasuries rose to a one-month high,
even after the debt was included in  Citigroup Inc. (C) ’s World
Government Bond Index.  Strikes have spread from mines to the road-freight industry
since protests that began Aug. 10 at  Lonmin Plc (LON)  resulted in pay
increases of as much as 22 percent. Port and railway workers may
join, threatening to curb  tax revenue  as the government
struggles to contain  spending  that prompted Moody’s Investors
Service to cut  South Africa ’s debt ratings.  “The negative headlines we have seen have totally
overtaken and offset any possible positive momentum coming from
the WGBI inclusion,”  Benoit Anne , the head of emerging-market
strategy at Societe Generale SA, said by phone from  London  on
Oct. 5. “It’s an unfortunate turn of events. From a markets
perspective, this inclusion into the WGBI, which should have
been celebrated by the market, was in fact a non-event. The
prevailing forces are on the negative side right now.”  Foreign Buying  Foreign investors  bought  42.8 billion rand ($5 billion) of
South African bonds from Sept. 28 to Oct. 4, according to data
supplied by JSE Ltd., operator of the country’s stock and bond
exchanges. An estimated $2.75 billion of the buying through Oct.
2 was by foreign funds with as much as $3 trillion in assets
that track the Citigroup gauge,  Leon Myburgh , the bank’s sub-
Saharan strategist, said in a note to clients on Oct. 4. Net
purchases totaled 8 billion rand through Oct. 4 as some foreign
investors who had bought bonds before their inclusion into the
index, sold the debt.  Foreign investors bought a net 84 billion rand in
government and corporate bonds this year, the most on an
annualized basis since at least 1996, according to JSE data. Net
purchases stood at 17.5 billion rand on April 16, the day before
Citigroup announced South African debt may be eligible for WGBI
inclusion. Buying levels of the bonds were unsustainable,
Reserve Bank Governor Gill Marcus said on Oct. 3.  Sell-Off  “WGBI if anything helped dampen the potential sell-off
because of the amount of money that came into the county,”
Myburgh said in an Oct. 5 phone interview. “The news flow has
been bad and you’ve picked it up in the rand particularly.”  The rand fell as much as 3.8 percent to 8.8465 a dollar on
Oct. 5 and traded 1 percent down at 8.8690 by 11:15 a.m. in
Johannesburg, its weakest on a closing basis since April 23,
2009. The currency has declined 8.8 percent this year.  Yields on the government’s 6.75 percent bonds due March
2021 rose 21 basis points to 6.93 percent, the biggest increase
on a closing basis since September 2011. The yield premium over
10-year U.S. Treasuries increased almost six basis points, or
0.6 percentage point, to 500 basis points on Oct. 5, after
reaching a 502 on Oct. 1, the biggest gap since Sept. 5.  Rating Cut  Moody’s lowered South  Africa ’s credit rating by one level
to Baa1 on Sept. 27 and retained its negative outlook on the
nation’s debt, saying the country’s  budget deficit  is giving it
less fiscal room to stimulate the economy and worsening revenue
prospects among the reasons for its decision.  Standard & Poor’s ,
which also has a negative outlook on the nation’s debt, said in
a statement a day later that news flow from the country hasn’t
been good and risks haven’t eased.  Truck drivers went on strike on Sept. 24, causing a third
of the gasoline stations in Gauteng province, South Africa’s
commercial hub, to run dry last week, an industry body said. A
shortage of fruit trucked from the southwestern region boosted
prices at the Johannesburg Fresh Produce Market, said Paul
Botha, a market agent.  The yield gap between five-year fixed-rate bonds and
similar-maturity inflation-linked notes widened 13 basis points
to 5.6 percentage points on Oct. 5, the widest since Aug. 17, a
signal that investors are increasing bets that consumer prices
will rise. The inflation rate climbed for the first time in four
months in August, accelerating to 5 percent from 4.9 percent in
July.  Deteriorating Fundamentals  The biggest  current-account  deficit in four years is at
risk of widening as exports from Africa’s largest economy
decrease. The shortfall increased to 6.4 percent in the second
quarter and may increase further after the  trade  gap jumped to
the highest in seven months in August. The current account is
the broadest measure of trade in goods and services.  South Africa has “some deteriorating domestic fundamentals
to deal with, starting with a record current-account deficit and
a trade account that has blown out towards record levels
recently,” Quinten Bertenshaw, an analyst at ETM Analytics in
Johannesburg, wrote in an Oct. 5 report to clients. “It would
be ‘‘disingenuous to suggest that all of the rand’s movement was
related to disappointment around the level of WGBI flows.’’  ‘‘The impact of  strike action  on tax revenue cannot be
positive and will increase the probability of the government
missing its fiscal targets,’’  John Cairns  and Josina Solomons,
currency strategists at Rand Merchant Bank in Johannesburg,
wrote in e-mailed comments to clients on Oct. 5.  Debt Pledge  Finance Minister  Pravin Gordhan  is struggling to keep
spending in check to control the budget deficit. He has pledged
to reduce the budget deficit to 3 percent of gross domestic
product by the year ended in March 2015 from 4.6 percent this
year. Gordhan is scheduled to give revised revenue and spending
targets at a mid-term budget on Oct. 24.  The cost of insuring South Africa’s debt using credit
default swaps over five years surged nine basis points to 162 on
Oct. 5, the highest since June 29, indicating a deterioration in
risk perceptions. Similar contracts for  Mexico , which has the
same Moody’s rating, dropped two basis points to 99.5. The
contracts pay the buyer face value in exchange for the
underlying securities or the cash equivalent if the government
fails to adhere to its debt agreements.  South African debt maturing in one to three years lost 3.2
percent in the five days through Oct. 5, compared with a 1.7
percent decline in similar-dated Australian securities, the next
worst performer, according to Bloomberg and EFFAS indexes.  The inclusion in WGBI may have been ‘‘counterproductive”
as investors bought bonds before the event,  Societe Generale ’s
Anne said.  “Now the risk is turning around, with the negative
headlines, you face the risk of capital outflows,” he said.
“It’s a make or break situation right now. I’m still hoping we
are facing a fantastic buying opportunity.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephen Gunnion in Johannesburg at 
 sgunnion@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vernon Wessels at 
 vwessels@bloomberg.net  