-- Sprint Network Disruption Strands Alaska Air Passengers
-- B y   S c o t t   M o r i t z
-- 2012-10-08T22:13:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-08/sprint-network-disruption-strands-alaska-air-passengers.html
Sprint (S)  Nextel Corp.’s service was
disrupted in Northern California,  Oregon  and  Washington  today,
an outage that delayed flights for Alaska Airlines and Horizon
Air and affected more than 6,000 passengers.  The disruption was caused by two severed fiber-optic cables
early this morning, said Crystal Davis, a spokeswoman for
Sprint. The first was near a railroad between Chicago and
Milwaukee, followed shortly afterward by one between Tacoma,
Washington, and  Portland , Oregon, she said. Service was restored
by 1:30 p.m. on the West Coast.  The incident dealt a black eye to Sprint as it tries to
burnish its customer-service record. The Overland Park, Kansas-
based company’s ratings have gone from worst to first in the
industry, according to a report in May by  American Customer
Satisfaction Index , a ranking created by the University of
Michigan’s Ross School of Business.  Alaska Air Group Inc., which owns Alaska Airlines and
Horizon Air, lost its connection to Sabre, the computer system
that lets passengers make reservations, check in and buy
tickets. In a separate statement, the Seattle-based airline said
it lost the connection between 7:30 a.m. and noon local time.
Sabre is operated by closely held Sabre Holdings Corp.  By noon, the airlines had canceled 70 flights, Alaska Air
said. Some flights that did depart left four hours late, the
company said.  “We apologize for this disruption to our customers,”
Alaska Air Chief Executive Officer Brad Tilden said in the
statement. “We’ve been working aggressively with Sprint and
Sabre to get our operations back to normal as quickly as
possible and will maintain our efforts until we get all of our
customers where they need to go.”  Shares of Sprint , which ranks behind Verizon Wireless and
AT&T Inc. in U.S. mobile-phone customers, fell 2.1 percent to
$5.09 today in New York. The stock has more than doubled this
year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Moritz in New York at 
 smoritz6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  