-- Stamps $33 Million, Alpert $6 Million Mark Rise in Giving
-- B y   P a t r i c k   C o l e
-- 2012-10-08T15:40:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-08/stamps-33-million-alpert-6-million-mark-rise-in-giving.html
Two weeks ago, Penelope “Penny” W.
Stamps helped her alma mater,  University of Michigan , with a
pledge of $32.5 million to its School of Art and Design, the
largest gift the school has ever received.  “I feel that I’ve made a big difference,” said Stamps, a
retired interior designer, by phone. “And now its future is
secure.”  Nonprofits can expect to see more giving from wealthy
donors, according to the 2012 Bank of America “Study of High
Net Worth Philanthropy,” published last week.  About 24 percent of the 700 donors surveyed will increase
their giving in the next three to five years. About 52.4 percent
said their giving will remain at current levels, and 9.4 percent
say they’ll give less.  “That’s really very heartening to see,” said Claire Costello, national-philanthropic-practice executive with  Bank of
America Corp .’s U.S. Trust unit. “We’ve also seen a lot of
people structuring their giving. Once you’ve started a
foundation, you’re committed to giving it away.”  Stamps and her husband, retired private-equity specialist
E. Roe Stamps IV, plan to give away more money this decade
through their  Stamps Family Charitable Foundation . The couple
will add 400 high-achieving undergraduate students to their
 Stamps Scholars  program by 2015. It now covers tuition and room
and board costs for 300 students at more than 20 colleges and
universities.  Herb Alpert  Grammy Award -winning trumpeter and composer Herb Alpert,
who has donated more than $120 million since 1988 mostly to arts
charities through his foundation, said he plans to continue to
give more this decade. Last month, Alpert gave $5 million to the
financially troubled  Harlem School of the Arts , the largest
donation in its history. He pledged $30 million to the music
program of the  University of California  at  Los Angeles  in 2007.  “The older you get, the more you want to give,” said
Alpert, 77, who has sold more than 72 million albums during his
five-decade career. “I want to see where my money is going in
my lifetime.”  The study shows that the wealthiest of donors are beginning
to feel more comfortable about giving to charity four years
after the 2008 collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. A 2010
Bank of America biennial survey found that donations from the
wealthy fell 35 percent to $54,016 in 2009.  In a survey this year of 100 clients counseled by the New
York-based  Rockefeller Philanthropy Advisors , 40 percent said
they’re willing to increase their charitable contributions in
2012.  “The people who have the most resources, the true 1
percent, feel that the recession is already behind them, and
they can be more generous,” said  Melissa Berman , chief
executive officer of Rockefeller Philanthropy Advisors.  Consulting Spouses  The Bank of America study defines a high-net-worth
household as having more than $200,000 in annual income or more
than $1 million in net worth, excluding the value of the primary
residence.  The survey also found that 48.4 percent of the sample group
said donation decisions were made jointly with a spouse or
partner, while in 47.5 percent of those surveyed, one individual
was the final decision maker after conferring with a spouse or
partner.  “People in fundraising thought about only approaching one
person in the family for a gift,” Una Osili, professor of
economics and director of research for the Center on
Philanthropy at  Indiana University , said by phone. “Women are
now playing an increasingly important role in philanthropy.”  Stamps said she gets “great advice” on donations from her
husband, a Harvard Business School graduate and co-founder of
Summit Partners LP, a private-equity firm.  “My wife is the voice of reason,” Alpert said about his
wife, the vocalist Lani Hall. “I’m a right-brain person. I
don’t have all the information sometimes, and she points out
things that I didn’t think of.”  Muse highlights include  Elin McCoy  on wine, Frederik
Balfour on  auctions .  To contact the writer on this story:
Patrick Cole in New York at 
 pcole3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in  New York  at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 