-- State Department Says It Didn’t Cut Security in Libya
-- B y   D a v i d   L e r m a n
-- 2012-10-09T04:01:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-08/state-department-says-it-didn-t-cut-security-in-libya.html
The U.S. State Department said there
was no reduction in diplomatic security in Libya in the weeks
before the Sept. 11 attack on the American consulate in
Benghazi.  The department, commenting yesterday in an e-mailed
statement, rebutted a claim made in television interviews by the
former head of a U.S. security team in Libya. Utah Army National
Guard Lieutenant Colonel Andrew Wood said the State Department
removed as many as 34 security personnel from the country in the
six months before the attack that killed U.S. Ambassador Chris Stevens and three other Americans.  Wood, who headed a security team based at the embassy in
Tripoli,  told CBS News  that his 16-member team wasn’t allowed to
extend its deployment past its scheduled departure in August,
about a month before the Benghazi attack.  “We tried to illustrate” how “dangerous and how volatile
and just unpredictable that whole environment was over there,”
said Wood, who is scheduled to testify tomorrow when the House
Oversight and Government Reform Committee conducts a hearing on
the Benghazi attack. “So to decrease security in the face of
that” is “just unbelievable.”  When Wood’s team left Libya at the end of its deployment,
“Diplomatic Security Special Agents were deployed and
maintained a constant level of security capability,” the
department, which also will have representatives testifying,
said in the statement. “So their departure had no impact
whatsoever on the total number of fully trained American
security personnel in Libya generally, or in Benghazi
specifically.”  Security Questions  The Republican-controlled House committee will use this
week’s hearing to quiz Wood and State Department officials on
what they knew of the security threat in Benghazi in the weeks
leading up to the attack and why more security wasn’t provided
to the consulate.  The State Department said Wood’s team initially was sent to
Libya “to support the re-opening of Embassy Tripoli, to help
ensure we had the security necessary as our diplomatic presence
grew.” It said his team was based in Tripoli “and operated
almost exclusively there.”  Wood said in the CBS interview that some of his team would
have traveled to Benghazi to accompany Stevens if they had
remained in the country. He declined to say whether he thought
his team’s presence there would have made any difference on the
day of the attack, according to a separate interview he gave to
ABC News.  “That’s way speculative,” Wood said. “I don’t even know
the facts of what happened” during the attack, he said.  ‘How This Happened’  Republicans have sought to use the Benghazi attack as
evidence that the Obama administration hasn’t been vigilant
enough in guarding against terrorism.  “As the dust settles, as the murdered are buried,
Americans are asking how this happened, how the threats we face
have grown so much worse and what this calls on America to do,”
Republican presidential nominee  Mitt Romney  said yesterday in a
speech to the  Virginia  Military Institute in Lexington,
Virginia.  The House committee will also hear from Eric Nordstrom, a
State Department regional security officer in Libya, and
Charlene Lamb, the deputy assistant secretary for international
programs, who reviews security requests, according to Ali Ahmad,
a committee spokesman.  The State Department has appointed an independent panel
known as the Accountability Review Board, headed by former
Ambassador Thomas Pickering, to investigate the attack.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Lerman in Washington at 
 dlerman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  