-- Stem-Cell Pioneers Gurdon, Yamanaka Win Nobel Prize
-- B y   S i m e o n   B e n n e t t
-- 2012-10-08T13:46:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-08/stem-cell-pioneers-gurdon-yamanaka-win-nobel-prize.html
John B. Gurdon  transferred DNA
between a tadpole and a frog to clone the first animal. Shinya Yamanaka used Gurdon’s concept to turn ordinary skin into potent
stem cells. Both won the Nobel Prize for medicine today.  Gurdon, 79, a researcher at the University of Cambridge in
the U.K., and Yamanaka, 50, a professor at Kyoto University in
 Japan , will share the 8 million-kronor ($1.2 million) prize, the
Nobel Assembly said today in Stockholm. The pair’s findings have
“created new opportunities to study diseases and develop
methods for diagnosis and therapy,” the assembly said in a
 statement .  Gurdon’s feat, in 1962, paved the way in 1996 for the
cloning of Dolly the sheep and, 10 years later, for Yamanaka,
who turned mouse skin cells into stem cells with the potential
to become any cell in the body. That achievement was lauded by
some politicians and religious figures as a more ethical way to
make stem cells because it doesn’t destroy human life.  “This field has had a long history, starting with John
Gurdon,” Yamanaka, who was born the same year Gurdon published
his achievement, said in an interview on the Nobel Assembly’s
website. “I was able to initiate my project because of his
experiments 50 years ago.”  Harnessing Power  Stem cells are found in human embryos and in some tissues
and organs of adults, and have the potential to develop into
different types of cells. That’s spurred scientists to look at
ways of harnessing their power to treat diseases such as
Alzheimer’s, stroke, diabetes and rheumatoid arthritis,
according to the U.S. National Institutes of Health.  Gurdon showed that mature cells from specific parts of an
animal’s body retain all the genetic information they had as
immature stem cells. He took a cell from a tadpole’s gut,
extracted the nucleus, and inserted it into the egg cell of an
adult frog whose own nucleus had been removed. That reprogrammed
egg cell developed into a tadpole with the genetic
characteristics of the original tadpole, and subsequent trials
yielded adult frogs.  Gurdon overturned the prevailing view that as cells
differentiate, they lose genes and their ability to generate
other cells of any kind, said Alan Colman, the executive
director of the Singapore Stem Cell Consortium, who gained his
doctorate under Gurdon at Cambridge.  ’Amazingly Passionate’  “He’s amazingly passionate,” Colman said in an interview
before the award was announced. “He was the sort of supervisor
who you found it difficult to get appointments with, not because
he was flying around the world, but because he was doing
experiments all the time.”  Gurdon was answering e-mails in his laboratory when he
received the call from  Sweden  today about the prize, he said in
an interview on the Nobel Assembly’s website. His first reaction
was, “It’s amazing if it’s really true,” he said. “Could it
be that someone’s pulling your leg? That has happened before.”  Gurdon will celebrate at a reception that his institute is
hosting today, and then he’ll be back to work early tomorrow, he
said at a London news conference today.  Yamanaka’s breakthrough, first announced at a meeting in
Toronto in 2006, stunned the scientific world by showing that
even as cells of the body age, they retain in latent form the
unlimited potential they had as embryonic cells. His feat was
finding the genetic formula that reawakened that potential.  By adding four genes to a mouse skin cell, Yamanaka
returned it to its immature state as a stem cell with the
potential to become any cell in the body. He dubbed them induced
pluripotent stem cells.  ‘Gobsmacked’  “When I first saw his results I was gobsmacked,” Colman
said. “We all knew what he was doing but no one gave him the
slightest chance of succeeding. It was remarkable and remains
remarkable.”  Yamanaka’s achievement also sidestepped the ethical
controversy surrounding human embryonic stem cell research, in
which the cells are extracted from an embryo, which is destroyed
in the process. A father of two daughters, Yamanaka began
hunting for an alternative technique after a friend working at a
fertility clinic showed him an embryo through a microscope.  “As I looked, I thought the differences are very small
between these small cells, embryos, and my daughters,” he said
in a 2009 interview. “I saw that if we could make pluripotent
stem cells without using human embryos, that would be ideal.
That’s the moment I thought about this project.”  Doing Housework  Yamanaka, who said he was doing housework when the call
from  Stockholm  came, started his career as an orthopedic surgeon
and said he retains his desire to help patients.  “It turned out I’m not talented as a surgeon, so I decided
to change my career from the clinic to the laboratory,” he
said. “But I still feel I am a doctor. My goal, all my life, is
to bring this stem-cell technology to bedsides, to patients, to
clinics.”  Last year’s Nobel prize went to Jules A. Hoffmann, Bruce A.
Beutler and Ralph M. Steinman for research illuminating how the
body’s immune system recognizes infection and marshals an attack
against it. Steinman died three days before the award was
announced, without knowing he’d won it.  Annual prizes for achievements in physics, chemistry,
medicine, peace and literature were established in the will of
Alfred Nobel, the Swedish inventor of dynamite, who died in
1896. The Nobel Foundation was established in 1900 and the
prizes were first handed out the following year.  An economics prize was created almost seven decades later
in memory of Nobel by the Swedish central bank. Only the peace
prize is awarded outside Sweden, by the five-member Norwegian
Nobel Committee in Oslo.  The Nobel Prize in Physics will be announced tomorrow.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simeon Bennett in Geneva at 
 sbennett9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  