-- Sun Hung Kai Says H.K. Builders Face China-Led Cost Pressure
-- B y   K e l v i n   W o n g
-- 2012-10-08T08:11:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-08/sun-hung-kai-says-hong-kong-builders-face-double-digit-cost-rise.html
Hong Kong  builders  face increases of
more than 10 percent a year in construction costs because of
competition for workers and materials from projects in China,
according to  Sun Hung Kai (16)  Properties Ltd., the world’s biggest
developer by value.  “We’re seeing double-digit increases every year and we’ll
be seeing this for quite some time,” Victor Lui, deputy
managing director at Hong Kong-based Sun Hung Kai, said in an
interview. “There’re a lot of projects going on in mainland
China and we are competing with them for everything: materials,
workers, even architects, designers and surveyors.”  The city is the world’s most expensive place to buy a home
after  prices  rose more than 90 percent since early 2009 on a
lack of new supply, an influx of buyers from other Chinese
cities and record low mortgage rates. Rising construction costs
may further drive up prices, which have now surpassed the level
in 1997 on the eve of the city’s last major property crash.  Construction costs for most housing developments in  Hong
Kong  range from HK$3,000 ($387) to HK$4,000 per square foot,
with luxury projects costing more, said Lui, who joined the
developer as a trainee in 1977.  “When homebuyers see costs going up at this pace, they
would expect prices to rise in the future,” said Lui.  Sun Hung Kai reported staff costs rose 13 percent to
HK$5.05 billion in the 12 months ended June 30 from a year
earlier, according to its annual report published in September.  Gross Margin  Sun Hung Kai has an  estimated gross margin , a measure of
profitability, of 41.6 percent for the current fiscal year,
compared with 31.8 percent average margin for developers in
mainland China.  The developer’s  shares  fell 0.6 percent to HK$111.80 at the
close of trading in Hong Kong today. They have risen 15 percent
this year, the least among the nine builders in the Hang Seng
Property Index, which has gained 27 percent over the same period.  Lui, 57, was promoted to his current position in July to
assist Thomas and  Raymond Kwok , the company’s co-chairmen
charged by Hong Kong’s anti-graft agency for conspiring to
provide the city’s former No. 2 official with payments and loans
for unspecified favors. Their case will be mentioned in court
again on Oct. 12.  Lui declined to comment on the case and has previously said
operations of the developer won’t be affected.  Accelerating Sales  Sun Hung Kai, which generated the most new home sales among
Hong Kong developers last year, is accelerating its pace of
offerings again, according to Centaline Property Agency Ltd.
Sales from the developer accounted for 22 percent market share
in the first half of 2012, down from 35 percent in the full year
of 2011, figures compiled by Centaline show.  The company aims to complete sales of 95 percent of the
1,075 units at its Century Gateway project in the city’s
northwestern Tuen Mun district by Oct. 15, Lui said.  As many as 20 percent of the buyers of the project are
“permanent Hong Kong residents with businesses in neighboring
Shenzhen,” a city across the border between Hong Kong and
mainland  China  within a 15 minute drive from Tuen Mun, he said.  Mainland Chinese buyers -- major purchasers of Hong Kong
properties since the Chinese government began relaxing travel
visas for its citizens to the city in 2004 -- accounted for only
about 5 percent of the project, Lui said.  Buyers from other Chinese cities accounted for 17 percent
of all Hong Kong home sales by value in the second quarter, the
lowest since the first quarter of 2011, according to Centaline.  Upcoming Sales  “We’re seeing a lot more wealthy Hong Kong families coming
back to the market,” said Lui. “Many of them are shifting more
of their assets from stocks to properties because of the
volatility in the global financial market and also because of
the low interest rate environment.”  Sun Hung Kai plans to start selling homes in at least six
new residential projects and two office projects before the end
of its current financial year in June, he said.  The developer last month reported underlying profit was
little changed in the full fiscal year ended June.  Analysts at Goldman Sachs Group Inc., Standard Chartered
Plc, HSBC Holdings Plc, Macquarie Securities and JPMorgan Chase
& Co. have since raised their price targets for Sun Hung Kai,
citing management’s confidence that home sales will pick up.  Sun Hung Kai sold 479 residential units for HK$10.5 billion
in the first half of 2012, behind Sino Land Co. and  Cheung Kong 
(Holdings) Ltd., according to Centaline.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kelvin Wong in Hong Kong at   kwong40@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  