-- Swiss Consumer Prices Continue Record Slump on Franc
-- B y   S i m o n e   M e i e r   a n d   P a u l   V e r s c h u u r
-- 2012-10-08T07:15:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-08/swiss-consumer-prices-continue-record-slump-on-franc.html
Swiss  consumer prices  extended their
longest slump in at least four decades in September as the
franc’s strength continued to erode costs of imports.  Consumer prices declined 0.4 percent from a year ago after
falling 0.5 percent in August, the  Federal Statistics Office  in
Neuchatel said in an e-mailed statement today. That’s the 12th
straight annual decline, the longest stretch since at least
1971, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Prices rose 0.3
percent in the month.  Prices have continued to fall even after the  Swiss National
Bank  imposed a franc ceiling of 1.20 versus the euro in
September 2011 to fight deflation threats. While the Swiss
currency has weakened about 1 percent in the past month, SNB
Vice Chairman Jean-Pierre Danthine said on Sept. 20 “challenges
of the strong franc haven’t yet been diffused.”  “Swiss deflation is moderating with the base effect of
last year’s franc appreciation slowly fading out,” said
Alessandro Bee, an economist at Bank Sarasin in Zurich, in an e-
mailed note. “However, with stable  oil prices  and weak economic
growth there are absolutely no signs that inflation could pick
up in the near future.”  The cost of Swiss imported  consumer goods  dropped 1.7
percent from a year ago and were up 1.3 percent in the month,
today’s report showed. Prices of domestic goods were little
changed in the year and the month.  The Zurich-based SNB on  Sept. 13  forecast Swiss consumer
prices would drop 0.6 percent in 2012, before increasing 0.2
percent and 0.4 percent in the following two years. Any further
strengthening of the franc would have a “serious impact” on
the economy and price developments, it said on that day.  “The expected depreciation of the franc hasn’t yet
materialized,” Danthine said on Sept. 20. “Based on this, it’s
clear that the SNB will maintain its minimum  exchange rate .”  Under a European Union harmonized method, Swiss  consumer
prices  fell 0.3 percent from a year earlier. Prices increased
0.7 percent in the month.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Simone Meier in Zurich at 
 smeier@bloomberg.net ;
Paul Verschuur in Zurich at 
 pverschuur@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  