-- U.K. House-Price Index Rises to Six-Month High on Credit Plan
-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 2012-10-08T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-08/u-k-house-price-index-rises-to-six-month-high-on-credit-plan.html
A U.K.  house-price index  rose to its
highest in six months in September as measures to boost credit
prompted real-estate agents to become less pessimistic about the
outlook, the  Royal Institution  of Chartered Surveyors said.  The gauge rose to minus 15 from minus 18 in August, London-
based RICS said in an e-mailed report today, citing a monthly
poll of property surveyors. A result below zero means more saw
values drop than increase last month. A measure of price
expectations also climbed to its highest since March.  The  Bank of England  started its Funding for Lending plan in
August to boost credit by giving banks access to cheaper
finance. Still, Britain’s property market remains under pressure
as the economy struggles to recover from a recession and the
euro-area debt crisis undermines  consumer confidence .  “The housing market was relatively flat during September,
but surveyors are optimistic that the run-in to Christmas could
see an increase in activity,” RICS director Peter Bolton King
said “Despite this, problems still exist and more needs to be
done to get the market moving. Although the Funding for Lending
Scheme appears to be improving mortgage availability, those at
the very bottom of the housing ladder are still struggling.”  While prices fell in September, they declined at a slower
rate than previous months, Bolton King said. Sales expectations
increased to their highest level since May 2010, and RICS said
housing transactions may pick up over the coming months.  Retail Sales  In a separate report, the  British Retail Consortium  said 
retail sales  rose the fastest in nine months in September as
colder weather boosted demand for coats, boots and knitwear.  Sales at stores open at least 12 months, measured by value,
gained 1.5 percent from a year earlier, the London-based trade
group said. Including stores open less than 12 months, retail
sales rose 3.4 percent last month from a year earlier.  “After a poor summer for sales, this is a return to growth
rates we’ve come to regard as relatively acceptable in these
relentlessly tough times,” BRC Director General Stephen Robertson said. Still, “customers are still cautious but less
fearful than they were.”  In the three months through September, food sales increased
0.7 percent from a year earlier on a like-for-like basis, while
non-food sales rose 0.3 percent, the BRC said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Hamilton in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  