-- U.K. Liberal Democrats Prepare to Resist Government Exam Plans
-- B y   R o b e r t   H u t t o n
-- 2012-10-08T19:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-08/u-k-liberal-democrats-prepare-to-resist-government-exam-plans.html
Grassroots members of U.K. Prime
Minister  David Cameron ’s coalition partners, the Liberal
Democrats, are preparing to campaign against plans by Education
Secretary Michael Gove to change the school exam system for 16-
year-olds.  Gove, a member of Cameron’s  Conservative Party , and Liberal
Democrat Deputy Prime Minister  Nick Clegg  said Sept. 17 that
beginning in late 2015, the General Certificate of Secondary
Education, which relies heavily on non-exam project work, will
be replaced by a more academically rigorous test based on the
baccalaureate system, a move teachers’ unions say will hurt less
academic students.  Because the proposals aren’t in the 2010 coalition
agreement that both parties signed up to, they could be
torpedoed by Liberal Democrats in the same way that plans to
reorganize the  National Health Service  were in 2011. Then, a
vote at the Liberal Democrats’ spring conference forced the
government to rethink its policy. On that issue, as on the
exams, Clegg had previously agreed to a Tory proposal.  “If he sees this as a compromise, I’m sorry to say it’s
not; it’s a capitulation,” Andrew Bridgwater, the chairman of
the  Liberal Democrat Education Association , said of Clegg in a
telephone interview. “The vast majority of members, and
certainly those involved in education, feel that an exam-only
model doesn’t give the same chances to those with special
educational needs, and those who aren’t brilliant academics.”  Conference Speech  Gove will address the Conservatives’ annual conference in
Birmingham, central England, tomorrow. When he announced the
exam change, he said he wanted to address concerns over so-
called grade inflation. The  GCSE pass rate  rose every year
between the introduction of the exam in 1988 and 2011, fueling a
debate over whether it had become easier. Successive governments
have argued the improvement is the result of better teaching and
children working harder.  Teaching for the new qualification, known as the English
Baccalaureate Certificate, will begin in English, math and the
sciences in September 2015, and other subjects including
history, geography and languages will follow.  There will be one board setting exams in each subject to
end the system of different companies offering rival versions,
which Gove said had led to “a race to the bottom” as schools
sought out the easiest to improve their performance in league
tables. Edexcel Ltd., a unit of  Pearson Plc (PSON) , is the U.K.’s
largest exam body. The new exam will be sat by most students,
with fewer expected to achieve top grades than at present. More
than a fifth of GCSE entries received the top A* or A grades
this year.  Liberal Democrat lawmaker  Stephen Williams  has already
expressed concern. “This is a big moment for a government that
wants to see social mobility and a workforce that can compete
with the best in the world,”  he wrote on his blog . “I want to
be sure that we’re designing a system that recognizes
achievement by every child in a school with a comprehensive
intake. We must value not just those with finely tuned minds but
also those with highly skilled fingers.”  Bridgwater said he was partly annoyed by the lack of
discussion before Gove’s statement. “At the very least, we
would have expected pre-announcement consultation, rather than
post-announcement consultation,” he said. “The whole thing has
been incredibly badly handled.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Hutton in Brimingham,  England  at 
 rhutton1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  