-- U.K. Proposes Canceling EU CO2 Allowances to Raise Prices
-- B y   A l e x   M o r a l e s
-- 2012-10-08T17:04:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-08/u-k-energy-secretary-suggests-canceling-some-eu-ets-allowances.html
U.K. Energy Secretary  Ed Davey  said
he’s pushing for the European Union to cancel some emissions
trading allowances to boost the carbon price by mopping up an
excess of the permits used to reduce pollution.  The EU is debating “backloading,” or delaying some
auctions of carbon permits to industry, in order to lift prices
that this year have fallen to a record, reducing the incentive
for power plants and factories to cut  greenhouse gases . The 27-
nation bloc should go further, Davey said today at the start of
an EU climate campaign in  London .  “In order to deliver certainty to markets and businesses,
we need to go further than backloading,” Davey said. “I am
going to use the current negotiations on the EU ETS to argue for
permanent cancellation of EU ETS allowances, in order to drive
up that carbon price.”  The EU is trying to retain its position as leading the
global fight against  climate change  as it confronts a three-
year-old debt crisis that’s led to bailouts for  Greece ,  Portugal 
and Ireland and emergency funds for banks in  Spain .  “For some people, fixing the climate is not a priority now
that we are all struggling with an economic crisis and record
unemployment,” EU Climate Commissioner  Connie Hedegaard  said in
a speech in London to start the bloc’s ‘A World You Like With a
Climate You Like’ campaign. “Building a low-carbon economy is
not a luxury. It’s an opportunity to boost economic growth and
create jobs.”  ‘Big Mistake’  Hedegaard said continuing on a “business as usual”
trajectory would be a “big, dangerous mistake.” The
environment, health care and communications have been identified
by the European Commission as three areas that can generate a
“substantial amount of new jobs” by 2020, at a time when EU
unemployment is more than 25 million, she said.  Davey said that the U.K. remains committed to raising the
EU emissions reduction target to 30 percent below 1990 levels by
2020 from the present 20 percent. He said he’s working alongside
 Germany  with  Poland , the main opponent of the tougher goal, to
see if a deal can be reached to “deliver greater ambition in
2020.”  “I believe Poland is looking for a way out of their
isolation on the environment in Europe,” Davey said. “I
believe we can find a way forward even during the next six
months.”  Canceling Permits  Canceling 1.4 billion carbon permits would put those
companies that participate in the EU market on track to reduce
their pollution by 30 percent by 2020, Davey said. Canceling 1.8
billion permits would eliminate all the excess certificates that
have depressed prices, he said.  Davey’s comments are encouraging, according to the climate
lobby group Sandbag, which said as many as 2.2 billion tons of
permits need to be taken from the system.  “The commission’s current proposal to ‘backload’
allowances from the start of the next trading period will only
defer the supply crisis facing the scheme unless it is a prelude
to more permanent reforms,” Damien Morris, a policy adviser to
the group, said in an e-mail.  The Emissions Trading System is the cornerstone of EU
climate policy, imposing curbs on discharges at more than 11,000
carbon-emitting factories and  power plants . Carbon permits
touched a record low of 5.99 euros ($7.77) in April as supply
exceeded demand.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Morales in London at 
 amorales2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  