-- UN Regulator May Need Expanded Global Carbon Role: Marcu
-- B y   M a t h e w   C a r r
-- 2012-10-08T10:41:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-08/un-regulator-may-need-expanded-global-carbon-role-marcu.html
The United Nations emissions
regulator in Bonn will probably need expanded authority to
approve new national markets for UN compliance, according the
Carbon Market Forum in Brussels.  With few nations expected to agree on extending the 1997
 Kyoto Protocol  when its targets for industrialized nations
expire this year, national governments will probably take the
lead in creating carbon markets over the next few years,  Andrei Marcu , head of the Centre for European Policy Studies’ Carbon
Market Forum in Brussels, said in an Oct. 5 paper.  The UN coordination would help ensure new markets generate
sufficient trading volume and allocate resources efficiently to
emission projects, he said. The role of the UN’s Clean
Development Mechanism Executive Board should be expanded to
authorize or oversee national markets seeking to make their
permits eligible for international compliance, Marcu said.
Currently the board approves individual projects for eligibility
rather than markets. Countries that don’t want to link with
global markets wouldn’t need more oversight, he said.  “Only those activities which, if not regulated
internationally, would affect the integrity of the international
 climate change  regime, should be regulated internationally,”
Marcu said.  The UN needs to develop the so-called Framework for Various
Approaches under the  UN Framework Convention on Climate Change 
to help oversee domestic programs, Marcu said in the paper.
Climate science shows the planet will be imperiled if it waits
for nations to agree a global treaty, according to the report.
Envoys from almost 200 countries are meeting for another round
of talks starting Nov. 26 in Doha, Qatar.  Two Tracks  Countries wanting to create credits or permits for global
markets could choose one of two tracks to win approval,
according to the Centre for European Policy Studies paper.  Under the first track, a so-called Market Regulatory Board
would review and approve the domestic market for recognition,
allowing its permits or credits to become International
Compliance Units.  Alternatively, the board could set up a peer review of the
domestic market. After the review, which would ensure compliance
with yet-to-be-agreed environmental standards, the market could
be recognized as international and its credits could be
converted to international units.  “It should be underlined that the Clean Development
Mechanism Executive Board is an international regulator that
already exists,” Marcu said. The proposal “does not call for
the creation of new bodies under the UNFCCC, but simply the
transformation, and possible amalgamation, of existing ones.”  Proposed Linking  Plans to link the European Union and Australian greenhouse-
gas-reduction programs also demonstrate an urgent need to make
sure national or regional programs can fit together by meeting
minimum standards, according to the paper. All but the largest
nations will probably need linking rules to achieve enough
trading volume for market liquidity, he said today by phone from
Toronto.  “We do not have the luxury of time,” Marcu said in his
paper. “National systems are evolving rapidly, and they are
starting to link. A failure to react in time will make future
actions to ‘retrofit’ more expensive, when the need for
harmonization becomes evident.”  Australia  said Aug. 28 it will allow its emitters to use
international credits including EU permits and UN Certified
Emission Reductions for as much as half of their compliance
needs, tightening the specific limit on UN offsets to 12.5
percent from 50 percent. The nation would scrap a floor price of
A$15 ($15.24) a metric ton that was set to take effect in 2015.  The two regions will start a partial link of their carbon
markets by July 2015, allowing Australian companies to purchase
European allowances immediately for future compliance.  UN CERs for December dropped 4 cents today to 1.79 euros
($2.34) a ton on the ICE Futures Europe exchange in  London  at
11:35 a.m. They’ve dropped 78 percent in the past year because
of a supply glut.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mathew Carr in London at 
 m.carr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  