-- UnitedHealth to Buy Brazil Insurer Amil for $4.9 Billion
-- B y   A l e x   N u s s b a u m
-- 2012-10-08T20:47:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-08/unitedhealth-will-buy-brazilian-insurer-amil-for-4-9-billion.html
UnitedHealth Group Inc. (UNH) , the biggest
U.S. health insurance company, agreed to pay about $4.9 billion
to buy 90 percent of  Amil Participacoes SA (AMIL3) , a Brazil-based
insurer and hospital chain that gives the American company a
stake in the world’s second-biggest emerging economy.  The deal values Amil at 30.75 reais ($15.13) per share, a
50 percent increase over its price a month ago, said Donald Nathan, a UnitedHealth spokesman, in an e-mail. Amil’s founder,
Edson Bueno, will remain as chief executive officer and chairman
of the Brazil operation and will join UnitedHealth’s board, the
Minnetonka, Minnesota-based insurer said in a statement.  U.S. insurers have been on a buying spree in the past 12
months, snapping up smaller rivals as they prepare for tighter
profit margins under President  Barack Obama ’s health-care
overhaul. In Brazil, private insurance membership has surged 14
percent over three years, even as U.S. enrollments dwindled.  “I like the deal, the structure, and the opportunity,”
said  Sheryl Skolnick , a health-care analyst at CRT Capital Group
LLC in  Stamford , Connecticut, said in an e-mail. “Amil’s
current leadership not only remains in place but adds
diversification to United’s board. It’s a well-thought-out
transaction, in my view, and an exciting one.”  UnitedHealth rose less than 1 percent to $57.60 at the
close of  New York  trading, and has gained 28 percent in the past
12 months. Amil, based in  Rio de Janeiro , climbed 15 percent at
the close of trading in  Sao Paulo  to a record 29.16 reais. The
shares have climbed 70 percent in the past 12 months.  Brazil’s Biggest  Amil is Brazil’s biggest managed-care company, covering 5.9
million people last year with medical and dental plans. It owns
about 20 acute-care and specialty hospitals and 50 clinics, part
of a network of 3,300 hospitals and 55,000 clinics with which it
contracts, according to its  website . The carrier had 9.01
billion reais ($4.4 billion) in revenue in 2011, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  Brazil’s growing middle class and expanding private health-
care market make Amil “the most compelling growth and value
creation opportunity we have seen in years,” UnitedHealth’s
chief executive officer, Stephen Hemsley, said in the statement.  UnitedHealth will buy Amil in a two-step process over the
next year, with Brazilian tax benefits reducing the effective
cost of the acquisition by about $600 million.  Process Steps  In the fourth quarter, following Brazilian regulatory
approval, UnitedHealth will buy about 60 percent of Amil’s
outstanding shares from controlling shareholders and management.
In the first half of next year it will make a public offer for
the remaining 30 percent, according to the release.  Amil’s Bueno, has agreed to invest about $470 million in
UnitedHealth stock and hold the shares for five years, according
to the statement. He and partner Dulce Pugliese will retain the
remaining  10 percent  of Amil for the same period, the companies
said.  The acquisition will add “slightly” to 2013 profits,
UnitedHealth said in the statement. The company also said it had
earnings of at least $1.45 for 2012’s third quarter. That would
beat the average estimate of $1.24 per share from 13 analysts
tracked by Bloomberg.  “This investment is really around growth, the pursuit of a
dramatic new market,” Hemsley said on a conference call with
analysts today. “We will be arguably the market leader in the
 United States  and Brazil and  Latin America .”  On Sidelines  UnitedHealth has stayed on the sidelines as rivals
announced major deals this year to tap the market for
government-backed insurance in the U.S. In July, Indianapolis-
based  WellPoint Inc. (WLP)  paid $4.9 billion for  Amerigroup Corp. (AGP) , the
biggest specialist in Medicaid plans for the poor. A month
later,  Aetna Inc. (AET) , based in Hartford, Connecticut, said it will
spend $5.6 billion for  Coventry Health Care Inc. (CVH) , which offers
Medicare coverage for the elderly and disabled.  UnitedHealth already leads in both categories and may have
decided its best deals would be found overseas, said Skolnick.
The company was already expanding its international business,
announcing partnerships this year to cover expatriate workers in
 Australia  and the  Middle East .  “Of all the health-plan companies, they are probably the
only one that has the capability and the depth of  management  and
expertise to pull off” a big international expansion, Skolnick
said by telephone.  Still, the company may have to persuade investors it can
integrate a purchase as big as Amil, add dozens of hospitals to
its portfolio, and make it all work in a foreign health-care
system, Skolnick said.  Brazil Health  While three-quarters of Brazilians still get care through
 Brazil ’s public health system, the number seeking out private
providers has grown as the economy has improved. The country’s
jobless rate was 5.3 percent in August, versus 7.5 percent in
May 2010, according to the national statistics agency.  Amil’s enrollment has grown 4.5 percent since 2009,
compared with a 14 percent rise for the Brazilian market as a
whole, according to an Aug. 31 research note from Guilherme Assis, a Raymond James analyst in Sao Paulo.  UnitedHealth earned three-quarters of its revenue from
managing benefits last year.  “The acquisition is yet another way UnitedHealth chooses
to diversify its revenue, which is part of what makes it one of
our favorite names,” said  Dave Shove , a BMO Capital Markets
analyst in New York.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Nussbaum in New York at 
 anussbaum1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  