-- Murder in the Bathtub, a Neoclassical Portrait
-- B y   C a m i l l e   P a g l i a
-- 2012-10-08T22:30:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-08/murder-in-the-bathtub-a-neoclassical-portrait.html
Who done it? A bloody kitchen knife,
a smudged letter, a corpse toppling from a bathtub. The viewer
becomes a police inspector sifting clues at a crime scene.  Jacques-Louis David’s shocking painting was no mystery
story when it first went on public display three months after
the assassination of Jean-Paul Marat, a radical populist and
crusading journalist who was already the focus of an emotional
mortuary cult in Paris. Whatever explanatory notes it may need
today, “ The Death of Marat ” still stands on its own as a
powerful image of strange, repellent beauty.  Cherchez la femme: Missing from the picture is Marat’s
murderer,  Charlotte  Corday, a tall, attractive and articulate
25-year-old who had traveled from Normandy to strike this daring
political blow. A fervent supporter of the moderate Girondin
Party, Corday blamed Marat for the carnage then consuming the
French Revolution, as faction warred against faction. Modeling
herself on the heroes of antiquity whom she studied in Plutarch,
she had planned to assassinate Marat, like Julius Caesar, in a
public forum -- the floor of the National Convention. But when
illness made Marat stay home, Corday tracked him to his
apartment and, after several tries, won a private audience.  Marat’s Murder  Because of his “leprous” skin condition (probably arthritic
psoriasis), Marat worked and wrote while bathing his emaciated
body in sulfur salts, a vinegar-steeped rag (to soothe the fiery
itching) wrapping his head. This was how he had received his
friend and ally David just the day before. After conversing with
Marat about the Girondins, whom she pretended to denounce and he
promised to guillotine, Corday stabbed him once in the chest
with a butcher knife she had purchased at a Paris shop. The six-
inch blade pierced his lung and heart, and he was dead within
minutes.  The picture shows none of the tumult that erupted after
Marat’s cry for help. Here time has stopped: The gently smiling
bather seems asleep and pleasantly dreaming. But in the first
angry rush, Corday was knocked to the floor and soon arrested.
She spent four days in prison before her trial, where she never
wavered in her defense of the righteousness of the murder. She
was convicted the same day and immediately sent to the
guillotine. It was said that when her severed head was slapped
on the cheek, the other cheek blushed. Madame Tussauds made on-
site wax death masks of both Marat and Corday.  David, who was a militant Jacobin deputy at the National
Convention, organized the lavish mass spectacle of Marat’s
funeral procession and service. A portrait of Marat was
commissioned from David to adorn the Convention’s great hall,
one of a pair of icons of martyrs of the Revolution framing the
lectern. Coincidentally, on the day “The Death of Marat” was
first shown to the public in the courtyard of the Louvre, Marie Antoinette was guillotined. David sketched the haggard queen as
she rode by in the cart with her hands bound behind her back.
The following year, when David and other partisans of the
regicidal Maximilien Robespierre were arrested, the two martyr
paintings were removed.  After his release from prison, David reacquired “The Death
of Marat” but never showed it again. Indeed, within a few years,
he made a sharp career turn and became a supporter of Napoleon Bonaparte, whom he commemorated in a glamorous series of heroic
portraits. Though he disliked Napoleon’s metamorphosis from
idealistic First Consul to megalomaniacal emperor, David’s
chameleonlike shift opened him, then and now, to the charge of
political opportunism.  Dawning Neoclassicism  David’s breakthrough painting, Oath of the Horatii (1784),
had triggered one of the most momentous shifts in style in the
history of art: Three athletic Roman brothers, blessed by their
father, fling out their arms in a militant salute as they vow to
sacrifice their lives for the nation. The picture symbolized
dawning neoclassicism and electrified everyone who saw it.
Rococo suddenly seemed empty and frivolous compared with this
vigor of assertion, rendered with austere colors and hard
sculptural contours. With this one work, David revived history
painting and contributed to an urgent sense of purpose that
would sweep  France  toward revolution.  Neoclassicism (new classicism) was inspired by the recent
excavations of Herculaneum and Pompeii, ancient Roman resort
towns buried by the eruption of Mount Vesuvius. There was a
sudden craze for antiquity that influenced everything from
fashion to interior decor. “The Death of Marat” has a sharp,
clear neoclassical design. The grisly narrative has been reduced
to simple shapes and blocks of color, anticipating modern
abstract art. The plain background, like the marble wall of a
Roman temple, is daringly diffuse, as if dissolving in the
raking light. (It reproduces not Marat’s bleak apartment but
David’s Louvre studio with its high windows.) The colors are
subdued, except for drips and smudges of blood.  The picture is a parable of frugality and civic devotion:
L’Ami du peuple (Friend of the People) was the newspaper
published by Marat on a printing press in his apartment. The
white sheet lining the tub (to cushion his sores) is old and
patched, while the nicked wooden crate, converted to a humble
side table for ink pot and quills, is rudely studded with nails.
David streaked brown paint over white primer to achieve the
box’s rough yet beautifully glowing surface.  David has reworked the scene. Marat is more muscular here
than in real life, and his raw blisters and scales have been
erased. Distracting objects shelved on the wall are gone, and
the ebony knife handle and boot shape of the tub have been
altered. (Both tub and knife survive in a Paris museum.) Marat
was not nude but wore a dressing gown over his shoulders. Nor
did he die holding Corday’s letter, whose language David has
revised to highlight her treachery and sophisticated cadences,
at odds with the brusqueness of the urban working class (sans-
culottes) whom Marat championed.  Dueling Letters  Seemingly poking from the canvas is a note Marat has just
written, donating money to a widowed mother of five. The
competing letters pit one type of woman against another: the
eloquent elite of the ancien regime versus the voiceless poor
for whom Marat speaks. At first glance, the sight of a naked man
slain in his private quarters might pique suspicions about
romance and revenge. Indeed, the erotic subtext was luridly
dramatized by Edvard Munch in two 1907 versions of this
painting, where the nude Corday has become a warrior-like femme
fatale and the tub a bloody bed cradling a castrated Marat.  David’s beatific treatment of Marat’s body recalls Italian
paintings of the dead Christ being laid in his tomb. But the
heaviness of composition, with everything falling to the bottom,
conveys the finality of mortality. The wood box is like a
tombstone with its maker’s signature and dedication (“To Marat,”
carved in Roman letters), also subtly sinking. The date in tiny
letters (“Year Two”) uses the short-lived Republican calendar,
not yet in effect at Marat’s death.  David’s original title was “Marat at his last breath,”
capturing the fleeting moment between life and death. The quill
still loosely held in Marat’s right hand suggests his words
taking wing and living beyond him. Like the dove of the Holy
Spirit, revolutionary ideas will illumine and inspire. Marat
would one day become a hero of international communism. But it
is an open question whether this ruthless activist, author of so
many massacres, was a saint or a monster.  (Camille Paglia, university professor of humanities and
media studies at the University of the Arts in Philadelphia, is
the author of “Sexual Personae,” “Sex, Art and American Culture”
and “Vamps & Tramps,” among other books. This is the second in a
series of four excerpts from her new book, “ Glittering Images: A
Journey Through Art from Egypt to Star Wars ,” which will be
published by Pantheon Books on Oct. 16. The opinions expressed
are her own. Read  Part 1 ,  Part 3  and  Part 4 .)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on  why Romney is half-right  on
 Syria  and on  the end of the austerity era  at the IMF;  Jeffrey
Goldberg  on  the hypocrisies of the Free Gaza Movement ; Ramesh
Ponnuru on  why Ryan will win  the vice presidential debate;
Betsey Stevenson and Justin Wolfers on  Romney and fiscal
responsibility ; Cass R. Sunstein on  how turncoats make us more
open-minded ; Adam Freedman on the Obama administration’s  attack
on property rights .  To contact the writer of this article:
Camille Paglia at  ask_camille@salon.com   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Mary Duenwald at   mduenwald@bloomberg.net . 