-- Turkey Reinforces Border Amid Artillery Exchanges With Syria
-- B y   S e l c a n   H a c a o g l u
-- 2012-10-08T14:59:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-08/turkey-bolsters-border-units-amid-artillery-exchanges-with-syria.html
Turkey  deployed additional tanks and
missile defense systems to the Syrian border as artillery units
responded to fire from President Bashar al-Assad’s armed forces
for a sixth day.  Turkish batteries fired into Syrian territory, Al Arabiya
television said today, without saying where it got the
information. That followed a Syrian shell landing in a field
while cotton harvesters worked near Hatay, Turkey’s state-run
Anatolia news agency reported, as the Cabinet met to discuss the
issue.  A convoy of military vehicles towing howitzers headed
toward the border town of Reyhanli in Hatay province today and
the army sent reinforcements, including tanks and missile
defense systems, to an area near the border town of Suruc in
Sanliurfa province on Oct. 6, Anatolia said in separate reports.  Tensions between the two countries have risen during the
19-month rebellion against Assad’s government, with Turkey
voicing support for the rebels. These worsened in June, when
 Syria  shot down a Turkish warplane it said was in its airspace
and on Oct. 3, when a Syrian shell fired over the border killed
five Turks and triggered the cross-border exchanges. Last week,
parliament gave the government a one-year mandate to send forces
into Syria if necessary.  ‘Necessary Warning’  “You have to be ready as if you were going to war
anytime,” Prime Minister  Recep Tayyip Erdogan  said yesterday,
according to Anatolia. “If needed, if such a thing happens, if
you are persecuted, then you will do whatever is necessary.”  Foreign Minister  Ahmet Davutoglu  told state-run television
on Oct. 6 that the deaths in the town of Akcakale were caused by
a D30 type, 122mm artillery shell used only by the Syrian army.  The subsequent Turkish threat to enter Syria was a
“necessary warning to the Syrian administration to prevent a
war,” Davutoglu said during an interview with TRT television.  Davutoglu said during the interview that Syrian Vice
President Farouk al-Sharaa had not taken part in massacres and
could serve as interim leader if Assad leaves office. Davutoglu,
meanwhile, confirmed that Sharaa had tried to escape from Syria.
He refused to elaborate, citing risks to Sharaa’s life.  “Eventually, there will be a change, a transition,”
President  Abdullah Gul  said today. “Our wish is that it happens
before more bloodshed and Syria further ruined itself.”  ‘Border Shelling’  Tim Ash, head of emerging market research at Standard Bank
Group Ltd. in  London , downplayed “prospects of an all out
Syrian-Turkish military conflict,” in e-mailed comments today.  “Ankara is responding to cross-border shelling more as a
deterrent,” Ash said. He said the motion passed by parliament
gives Turkey the option to defend itself and “is no way a
precursor to Turkish full-scale intervention” without sanctions
and support from the  North Atlantic Treaty Organization  and the
 United Nations .  UN Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon told a meeting in
Strasbourg today that the situation along the Turkish-Syrian
border was “extremely dangerous,” the  Associated Press 
reported.  Turkish artillery units stationed along the border fired
several salvos yesterday in response to a Syrian shell that
damaged a grain depot in the town of Akcakale and a mortar round
that landed in an empty field near the village of Hacipasa in
Hatay province, authorities said.  Refugee Camp  A refugee camp is located between Hacipasa and the Turkish-
Syrian border. Turkey shelters nearly 100,000 refugees in 15
camps along the frontier while humanitarian groups also
distribute food and other humanitarian supplies at five separate
points along the border, including Akcakale as of yesterday, the
government’s disaster management agency said in a statement on
its website.  Turkey may strike Syrian artillery batteries with F-16
warplanes if Syrian shells cause new casualties, Milliyet
newspaper said today, without citing anyone.  Most schools in Akcakale have been closed due to fears of
shelling. Some residents have begun to leave the town.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Selcan Hacaoglu in Ankara at 
 shacaoglu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  