-- Van Persie May Get 3-Match Violent Conduct Ban: Soccer Roundup
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2012-10-08T06:08:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-08/van-persie-may-get-3-match-violent-conduct-ban-soccer-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of soccer
stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable Internet links.  Elbow Incident  Manchester United’s Robin van Persie may receive a three-
match ban for violent conduct after television pictures captured
him elbowing Newcastle’s Yohan Cabaye in the face during
yesterday’s Premier League match, the  Daily Express reported .  Although referee Howard Webb didn’t see the incident, he is
allowed to look at TV replays and could recommend a charge of
violent conduct to the Football Association, the Express said.
Van Persie was seen to strike a blow toward Cabaye with his
elbow, felling the Frenchman, the newspaper added.  Cole Dropped  England  left-back Ashley Cole is set to be left out of the
team for the Oct. 12 World Cup qualifier against San Marino as
punishment for criticizing the Football Association on Twitter,
the  Daily Mirror reported .  Chelsea will fine Cole two weeks’ wages for breaching the
club’s social media policy and he’ll also be charged by the F.A.
with misconduct and fined about 20,000 pounds ($32,200) by the
governing body, the Mirror added.  Suarez ‘Embarrassment’  Stoke City manager Tony Pulis urged the F.A. to ban Luis Suarez for diving after accusing the Liverpool striker of trying
to trick the referee into awarding a penalty during yesterday’s
0-0 draw between the teams, the  Daily Telegraph reported .  Suarez fell under the challenge of Steven N’Zonzi and Marc
Wilson in the 75th minute, though replays showed the Uruguayan
hadn’t been touched by the Stoke defenders, dropping to his
knees in an appeal to win the spot kick, the newspaper added.  “Luis Suarez should be punished,” the Telegraph cited
Pulis as saying. “The one in the penalty box was an
embarrassment and how he wasn’t booked I don’t know.”  Contract Talks  Arsenal manager Arsene Wenger plans to hold fresh talks
this week about a new contract for England forward Theo Walcott,
the Mirror reported.  With Walcott away on international duty, Wenger will try to
negotiate with his advisers after the player stalled on the
club’s offer of 75,000 pounds a week, the Mirror added.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  