-- Vestas Gains as Denmark Commits to Renewables: Copenhagen Mover
-- B y   F r a n c e s   S c h w a r t z k o p f f   a n d   G e l u   S u l u g i u c
-- 2012-10-08T09:52:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-08/vestas-gains-as-denmark-commits-to-renewables-copenhagen-mover.html
Vestas Wind Systems A/S (VWS) , the world’s
biggest wind turbine maker, topped gainers in Copenhagen as
Danish Prime Minister Helle Thorning-Schmidt said tough economic
conditions shouldn’t deter investment in renewable energy.  Vestas rose as much as 2.9 percent, the biggest increase of
stocks in the benchmark  OMX Copenhagen Index. (KFX)  Shares in Aarhus,
Denmark-based Vestas gained as much as 1.1 kroner and rose 0.59
krone, or 1.6 percent, to 37.91 kroner at 11:01 a.m. local time.  “Even though we’re in an economic crisis, this is the time
to invest in green jobs,” Thorning-Schmidt said in a Bloomberg
Television interview today. Dependency on oil will be
“extremely expensive” in the future, and “that is why we’re
turning to be more dependent on  wind energy  and solar energy.”  Vestas faces declining demand in Europe and the U.S. and
even higher sales in  emerging markets  won’t be enough to make up
for lost revenue in the company’s main markets, Chief Sales
Officer Juan Araluce said Oct. 3. The turbine maker is firing
about 16 percent of its employees worldwide and consolidating
its U.S. research and production in Brighton, Colorado. Vestas
will also close similar facilities in Singapore and Denmark as
part of a global push to trim its operations.  Vestas Chief Executive Officer  Ditlev Engel  said the
company is looking to Asia for growth and sees “good
opportunities” in China,  South Korea  and Japan. Vestas is also
sticking to its guidance to deliver a positive free  cash flow 
this year, Engel said in an interview in Copenhagen today.  The company’s efforts may trigger a gain in the shares,
Michael Friis, analyst at Alm. Brand Markets, said in an Oct. 5
note following Vestas’ capital markets day. Friis upgraded his
 recommendation  to buy from neutral and raised his price target
to 50 kroner from 45 kroner.  “In the short term there are many uncertainties that can
hit Vestas shares,” Friis said. “We see, though, that the
clear focus on further cost-cutting to asset-light will more
than match these.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Frances Schwartzkopff in Copenhagen at 
 fschwartzko1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at   tbrogger@bloomberg.net  