-- Vietnam’s Binh Pledges Crackdown on Bank Shareholder Violations
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-10-08T07:04:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-08/vietnam-s-binh-pledges-crackdown-on-bank-shareholder-violations.html
Vietnam ’s central bank vowed to crack
down on violations stemming from small groups of shareholders
who control Vietnamese banks, calling them the “biggest
obstacle” to reforming the financial system.  “Interest groups” have emerged at all Vietnamese banks
and some lenders are controlled by only one or two individual
shareholders, Governor Nguyen Van Binh said in a television
interview posted on the government website yesterday. At some
banks, 70 percent to 90 percent of outstanding loans are made to
“serve those shareholders,” he said. Some of the groups are
working against the government’s banking reforms, Binh said.  “They may manipulate operations at one bank and affect the
whole system,” Binh said in an interview with state-run Vietnam
Television. “Leaders at the central bank are acutely aware that
group interests are the biggest obstacle in the entire Vietnam
banking system restructuring process.”  The government has pledged to bolster the country’s
undercapitalized banks, saddled with the highest level of bad
debt in  Southeast Asia . Moody’s Investors Service cut Vietnam’s
government bond rating on Sept. 28, citing risks to the state
balance sheet from “weaknesses” in the banking system and
lower growth prospects.  “It’s good to get it officially acknowledged that this is
a major problem,” said Jonathan Pincus, a Ho Chi Minh City-
based economist at the Harvard Kennedy School’s Vietnam program.
“The next step is to act and enforce the existing rules so that
this kind of thing doesn’t happen. Hopefully this means there
will be action.”  Rules Circumvented  Rules to prevent individual shareholders from controlling
banks are widely circumvented, Pincus said. Powerful individuals
and groups who control banks often use the lenders as sources of
credit for their own businesses, he said.  The shareholder groups “have not used funds efficiently
and have caused the loss of bank funds, forcing banks to
restructure,” Binh said.  “They have spread false information, smeared leaders of
the party and state, distorted the facts about the banking
system restructuring process to cause public panic,” he said.  Loose and inefficient monitoring of commercial lenders,
coupled with their fast development, have led to
“consequences” that need to be fixed, including the issue of
group interests, Binh said.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Diep Ngoc Pham in Hanoi at 
 dpham5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  