-- World’s Best Currency Gain Ebbs as Rate Coup Hits Forint
-- B y   A n d r a s   G e r g e l y
-- 2012-10-09T15:52:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-08/world-s-best-currency-gain-ebbs-as-orban-rate-coup-hits-forint.html
The forint, the best-performing
currency of 2012, is paring gains after policy makers appointed
by Prime Minister  Viktor Orban ’s ruling party outvoted central
bank President Andras Simor to cut benchmark borrowing costs.  The forint slumped the most among  Europe ’s emerging
currencies except the Romanian leu after Hungary’s central bank
lowered rates 25 basis points to 6.5 percent on Sept. 25,
following a similar move in August backed by four members
nominated by parliament. Intesa Sanpaolo SpA’s CIB Bank, the
most accurate forint forecaster in the past six quarters based
on Bloomberg Rankings, cut its forecast after the September
decision.  Traders expect as much as 50 basis points of further
reductions after policy makers said they need to counter the
recession even as inflation picks up. Perceptions of central
bank independence shifted after parliament, where Orban’s Fidesz
party has a two-thirds majority, cut Simor’s salary, stripped
him of the right to name rate setters and filled four of seven
Monetary Council seats last year.  “The question of credibility arose for many market players
after the rate decision,” Sandor Jobbagy, a Budapest-based
analyst at CIB, said in a telephone interview on Oct. 3.  Risk Perception  The central bank’s decisions are based on the country’s
economic situation and risk perception and are independent of
the government, the  Economy Ministry ’s communications office
wrote in an e-mailed response to questions from Bloomberg on
Oct. 1. The government doesn’t have a forint target and seeks
“a stable  exchange rate ” that would create a “predictable
environment for economic actors,” according to the ministry.  The forint weakened 0.1 percent to 283.35 against the euro
by 5 p.m. in Budapest in a second day of declines. The retreat
curbed this year’s rally to 11 percent, down from 14 percent
before the August cut and still the best worldwide, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  The forint’s risk reversal rate against the euro stood at
minus 2.3 percent yesterday, compared with minus 2.7 percent
before the rate cuts, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
The forint has the most bearish outlook for emerging-market
currencies after the Brazilian real, the South African rand and
the Polish zloty, the data show. A negative rate signals greater
demand for forint puts relative to calls. Calls grant the right
to purchase a currency, while puts allow for sales.  Bullish Bets  The currency will reach 285 per euro by the end of this
year and stay around that level through the first quarter of
2013, Jobbagy said. CIB has trimmed its forecast in the past
month from 283 by year-end and 281 in the first quarter.  Erste Group Bank AG reversed its bullish year-end
projection for the forint to 292.5 per euro from 282.5 because
of the rate cuts, Orsolya Nyeste and Zoltan Arokszallasi,
Budapest-based analysts at the bank, wrote in an Oct. 3 report.
Yields on the government’s 10-year local-currency bonds, which
fell 180 basis points, or 1.8 percentage points, to 7.25 percent
in the past four months, are likely to end the year at about 7.4
percent, Erste’s analysts wrote.  Forward rate agreements used to bet on borrowing costs in
three months dropped to the lowest since September 2011 on Oct.
5 at 6.02 percent, or 54 basis points below the Budapest
Interbank Offered Rate to which they settle.  Officials on the central bank’s Monetary Council outvoted
Simor and his two deputies on Aug. 28 in what Peter Attard Montalto, a London-based strategist at Nomura International Plc,
described as a “coup” in a research report the same day.  Inflation  The central bank cut the benchmark rate by another 25 basis
points on Sept. 25 to 6.5 percent, still the highest in the
European Union.  Hungary  loosened monetary policy in the same
week as the Czech central bank cut rates by 25 basis points to a
record-low 0.25 percent, while policy makers in  Poland  said last
week they may lower borrowing costs to spur slowing economic
growth next month.  Hungary’s consumer prices rose 6 percent in August from a
year earlier, the biggest increase since January 2010 and the
most in the EU, the Budapest-based statistics office said on
Sept. 11. The central bank increased its projection for price
growth to an average 5 percent in 2013, above its 3 percent
target, from 3.5 percent in June, the bank said on Sept. 25.  “It seems that external members are willing to accept
higher inflation and a weaker forint,” Gergely Tardos and
Levente Papa, Budapest-based analysts at  OTP Bank Nyrt. (OTP) ,
Hungary’s largest lender, wrote in a report on Sept. 28.  Simor said at a conference in Eger, eastern Hungary, the
following day that central bank policy needs to be predictable
and policy makers must show they are committed to slowing
inflation. The central bank’s press office declined to comment
further in response to an e-mail from Bloomberg today.  IMF Talks  Hungary’s negotiations for International Monetary Fund
assistance also have influenced the exchange rate.  The forint strengthened 0.9 percent against the euro last
week, helped by the government’s announcement that it dropped a
plan to impose a tax on central  bank transactions  that was an
obstacle to obtaining IMF aid.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. maintained its forecast for the
forint to weaken to 292 per euro in three months and to 300 in
12 months, citing uncertainty over “difficult and lengthy”
negotiations needed to finalize the IMF deal and government
policies before parliamentary election expected in 2014,
according to a research report on Oct. 5.  The forint will strengthen to 280 per euro by March 31 and
277 by the middle of 2013, according to the median forecast from
a Bloomberg survey of 23 analysts.  Advertising  The outcome of loan negotiations with the Washington-based
lender, which have dragged on for almost 11 months, will have a
bigger effect on the currency than the dynamics of the Monetary
Council, according to HSBC Holdings Plc and Commerzbank AG.  “It’s a worrying signal from a monetary policy
independence point of view but will be overshadowed by the
effect of an IMF agreement,” Carolin Hecht, a Frankfurt-based
strategist at Commerzbank, wrote in e-mailed comments.  The government used full-page advertisements in today’s
newspapers in Budapest to declare it “won’t give in to the
IMF” on austerity measures.  Shrinking Economy  Hungary’s economy shrank 1.3 percent in the second quarter
from a year earlier, after contracting 0.7 percent in the three
months through March. The $140 billion economy sends more than
50 percent of its exports to the euro area, which is expected to
contract this year under weight of bulging public debt and
austerity, according to forecasts by the  European Central Bank .  As  interest rates  fall, so does the attractiveness of
Hungarian debt. The nation’s assets may be the first to be sold
off should global sentiment worsen, Pal Saaghy, a Budapest-based
currency trader at Equilor Befektetesi Zrt., said by phone
yesterday.  “The National Bank of Hungary’s credibility has eroded to
a high extent,” Tardos and Papa at OTP wrote, adding that they
expect two more cuts in the  base rate  to 6 percent by year-end.
“From the aspect of real interest rates, Hungarian assets will
become much less attractive.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andras Gergely in Budapest at 
 agergely@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  