-- Worst U.K. Wheat in Generation Means Hovis Uses More Grain
-- B y   W h i t n e y   M c F e r r o n
-- 2012-10-08T14:09:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-08/worst-u-k-wheat-in-generation-means-hovis-uses-more-grain-1-.html
U.K. wheat millers will demand as
much as 10 percent more grain this year to produce the same
amount of flour, after farmers harvested the worst-quality crop
in decades following the rainiest summer in a century.  The U.K. likely will be a net importer of wheat this year
because wet weather cut grain weights in the domestic crop,
meaning millers can extract less flour from every kernel, said
Gary Sharkey, head of wheat procurement for  Premier Foods Plc (PFD) ,
the maker of Hovis bread and the country’s largest miller and
baker. Weights have been the lowest since 1977, the Agriculture
and Horticulture Development Board said Sept. 21.  “This is the worst harvest we’ve ever known,” Sharkey
said in an interview Oct. 5 at the 52nd European Commodities
Exchange in Edinburgh. “All flour millers have been importing
wheat since early July from different origins, whether it be
increased volumes from North America or other European wheat
from  France ,  Germany  or some of the Baltic states.”  U.K. imports may be 2 million to 2.5 million metric tons
this season, which could spur a backlog for port storage
facilities that are already full with lower-grade feed grain,
said Sharkey, whose company purchases about 1.2 million tons of
wheat annually. Last year, the U.K. imported 908,000 tons and
exported 2.545 million tons, according to the Kenilworth,
England-based farmer levy AHDB’s final  estimates  for the season
released Sept. 20.  Milling wheat prices on NYSE Liffe in Paris, the European
benchmark, have climbed 33 percent this year to 258.75 euros
($335.62) a ton as dry weather hurt grain crops from  Russia  to
the U.S. In London, feed wheat futures are up 30 percent to
198.65 pounds ($318.42) a ton.  Soggy Weather  The U.K. had 371 millimeters (14.6 inches) of  rain  in June,
July and August, marking the wettest summer since 1912,
according to the Met Office. Rainy conditions persisted in
September for northern  England , delaying the planting of winter
crops.  This season, the U.K.’s harvest may be about 13.5 million
tons, said Patrick Savage, the president of the Grain and Feed
Trade Association, a London-based international industry group.
That compares with  production  last season at 15.3 million tons,
according to Department for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs,
which will release estimates for this year’s crop on Oct. 15.  Most shipments from the U.K. this year will be feed-grade
wheat, said Sarah Mann, the manager of British Cereal Exports,
AHDB’s grains trade arm. The group is working to develop new
customers for feed wheat in southern  Europe  and North Africa,
and on maintaining relationships with longstanding milling-grade
buyers that the U.K. probably won’t be able to supply this year,
she said.  Weather ‘Blip’  “We’re communicating to customers that we have got issues,
but that it’s a bit of a blip we hope, and we’re still in the
market,” Mann said in an interview in Edinburgh. “We don’t
want them to think we’re inconsistent.”  Millers domestically will use 7 percent to 10 percent more
wheat this year to produce the same amount of flour, said
Premier Foods’ Sharkey. Last year, U.K. flour  production  totaled
4.8 million tons, according to Defra.  The average price of an 800 gram (1.8-pound) loaf of white,
sliced bread in the U.K. was 1.22 pounds in August, up 1.7
percent from a year earlier while still below the all-time high
of 1.28 pounds recorded in December 2008, according to the
Office of National Statistics.  “We have to face up to higher wheat prices,” Sharkey
said, without commenting specifically on bread costs. “If you
look at the major producing nations, stocks are all dwindling.
We would only need another problem next summer, drought in the
U.S. or problems in Europe or the former Soviet Union.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Whitney McFerron in  London  at 
 wmcferron1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  