-- Yankees Win MLB Playoff Opener; Reds, Tigers Lead Series 2-0
-- B y   R o b   G l o s t e r
-- 2012-10-08T15:42:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-08/yankees-win-mlb-playoff-opener-reds-and-tigers-lead-series-2-0.html
The New York Yankees outlasted the
rain and division rival Baltimore, scoring five ninth-inning
runs to defeat the Orioles 7-2 in the opener of their Major
League Baseball playoff series.  The Detroit Tigers took a 2-0 lead over the Oakland
Athletics in the other American League Division Series, moving
one win from advancing to the AL Championship Series against the
New York-Baltimore winner.  In the National League, the Cincinnati Reds took a two-game
lead in their best-of-five division series against the San
Francisco Giants and the  Washington  Nationals won the opening
game of their series against the defending World Series champion
St. Louis Cardinals.  In Baltimore, Russell Martin led off the ninth with a solo
home run to snap a 2-2 tie. Ichiro Suzuki drove in another run
with an infield single, Robinson Cano added a two-run double and
Nick Swisher capped the Yankees’ outburst with a sacrifice fly.
All five runs came off Orioles relief pitcher Jim Johnson, who
had allowed only one earned run since the end of July.  “It was a well-pitched game on both sides and we were
fortunate enough to get to a very, very good closer,” Yankees
manager Joe Girardi said at a news conference. “Our guys put
some good at-bats on him.”  The start of the game was delayed two hours and 41 minutes
by rain. Game 2 is scheduled for tonight in Baltimore before the
series moves to New York.  The Yankees finished two games ahead of the Orioles in the
AL East this season, clinching the division title on the final
day of the regular season.  Unfortunate Loss  “It’s an unfortunate way to lose this first game,
especially at home,” Johnson said. “We’ve battled all year,
why would we make it easy now? We’re going to come back and
we’re going to play hard.”  The Yankees remained the favorites to win the World Series
at 5-2, down from 7-2 at the start of the division series,
according to the Las Vegas Hotel’s Super Book. The Tigers and
Reds retained the second-best odds at 7-2, down from of 9-2,
with the Nationals improving to 15-4 from 6-1. The Cardinals
dropped to 11-1 from 6-1, following by the Orioles (23-1/14-1),
A’s (25-1/9-1) and Giants at (34-1/9-1).  CC Sabathia came within one out of pitching a complete game
for New York, allowing two runs on eight hits over 8 2/3 innings
with one walk and seven strikeouts. It was the longest
postseason start by a Yankees pitcher since 2003.  “These guys have been playing good lately and they play
good against us,” Sabathia, who improved to 6-1 for the Yankees
in the postseason, told reporters. “For us to come up with some
runs late was huge. You always want the first game.”  Tigers Win  In  Detroit , Don Kelly’s sacrifice fly in the ninth inning
gave the Tigers a 5-4 victory and their second straight win
against the A’s. Game 3 is tomorrow night in Oakland.  The A’s began the season 29th in the major leagues with a
$55 million payroll, compared to fifth-highest Detroit at $132
million, according to USA Today’s annual survey. The Oakland
roster was assembled by General Manager Billy Beane, whose
philosophy of evaluating players was the topic of the book
“Moneyball” by Michael Lewis, a Bloomberg columnist.  In San Francisco, Bronson Arroyo retired the first 14
Giants batters and allowed one hit in seven scoreless innings as
the Reds won 9-0 to move one win from the NL Championship
Series. Game 3 is tomorrow in Cincinnati.  “‘Hopefully we can just keep the pressure on these guys,’’
Arroyo said. ‘‘We know we’re in the driver’s seat, but this game
is very funny and there’s nothing guaranteed. We’ve got a small
ballpark and these guys have a very good lineup.”  Reds’ Runs  Ryan Hanigan had a two-run single in the fourth inning to
give the Reds a 4-0 lead and drove in another run during
Cincinnati’s five-run eighth inning.  In St. Louis, Tyler Moore’s two-run pinch-hit single in the
eighth inning gave the Nationals a 3-2 victory against the
Cardinals. It was the Nationals’ postseason debut since moving
from  Montreal  in 2005 and the first playoff game for a team
based in Washington since 1933.  “To make it through our first postseason game with a win
is crucial,” Nationals outfielder Jayson Werth said. “A lot of
times you see teams in their first game, the first time they’re
there, and they crack or buckle. We definitely gave a little
bit, but we didn’t break.”  Game 2 is today in St. Louis.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rob Gloster in San Francisco at 
 rgloster@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  