-- Guangdong Labor Shortages Signal Stimulus Limits: Economy
-- B y   J u s t i n a   L e e
-- 2012-06-06T06:57:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-05/labor-shortages-in-guangdong-signal-limits-on-stimulus.html
Guangdong’s job market is showing
signs of withstanding  China ’s slowdown as factory owners report
that shortages of workers persist in the southern export hub.  “Before, most of the factories were short about 20 percent
to 30 percent of workers or technicians,” said Stanley Lau,
deputy chairman of the Federation of Hong Kong Industries, whose
members have garment, watch, toy and footwear factories in the
province. “Now, it’s getting better, but still about 5 percent
to 10 percent.”  Strength in the job market may encourage the ruling
Communist Party to limit the scale of the stimulus that’s being
rolled out to support the world’s second-biggest economy. In the
latest sign of concern at the slowdown, a front-page commentary
in the state-run China Securities Journal today said that an
interest-rate cut is becoming “imperative” to boost confidence
and growth.  “Labor conditions are still all right,” said Hong Kong-
based  Wang Tao , chief China economist for UBS AG. “That’s
probably one reason why the government is not so worried that
they feel the need to come up with a big stimulus.”  China’s currency has weakened 1 percent against the dollar
this year, aiding exporters as Europe’s debt crisis constrains
demand. The yuan traded at 6.3648 per dollar as of 2:53 p.m. in
 Shanghai . The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  is up about 5 percent as
investors bet that the government will bolster growth.  While Premier  Wen Jiabao  called last month for a bigger
focus on sustaining growth, Bank of America Corp. economist Lu Ting said yesterday that stimulus is likely to remain “small”
provided exports don’t collapse. Barring a Greek exit from the
euro region, measures are likely to amount to 400 billion  yuan 
($63 billion) or 500 billion yuan, he said.  Stocks Advance  Asian stocks rose for a second day as  Australia ’s growth
exceeded forecasts, the U.S. services industry expanded faster
than expected and a newspaper reported that Europe’s bailout
fund is considering extending money to  Spain . Spain may receive
a precautionary  credit line  from the European Financial
Stability Facility,  Germany ’s Die Welt said, citing unidentified
people familiar with talks about the option.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index added 1.2 percent as of 3:54
p.m. in  Tokyo .  Australia reported today that economic growth accelerated
last quarter from the previous three months. The expansion was
1.3 percent, more than double the median forecast in a Bloomberg
News survey.  ECB Decision  The  European Central Bank  will probably keep  interest rates 
at a record-low 1 percent at its meeting today, economists
predicted in a Bloomberg survey. The ECB will also release its
latest economic projections for this year and next and President
 Mario Draghi  will announce whether the central bank will
continue to lend banks unlimited liquidity at its benchmark
rate. Spain and Germany will release industrial output data for
April.  A U.S. report on mortgage applications is due today from
the  Mortgage Bankers Association , a Washington-based trade
group. The Labor Department will announce revised non-farm
productivity and unit labor costs data for the first quarter,
while the  Federal Reserve  will release its Beige Book survey.  In China, rates should be cut at an appropriate time to
boost confidence and avoid any “excessive” fluctuation in
growth, the securities newspaper said.  Guangdong Outlook  Signs of resilience in the Chinese labor market contrast
with the slump during the financial crisis of 2008 and 2009,
when millions were thrown out of work as factories closed,  Lau, who’s the managing director of Renley Watch Group,
said that while the labor supply is “slightly better than
before” in Guangdong, manufacturers are wrestling with
declining orders from  Europe  and the U.S.  Talking of labor costs, he said that the Guangdong
provincial government postponed a planned increase in the
minimum wage in January after business groups objected and he
predicted that any such move will not be until late this year or
next year.  “Of course, we don’t expect frozen minimum wages
forever,” he added.  The minimum wage in the provincial capital of Guangzhou
rose to 1,300 yuan ($204) a month in March 2011, according to
the local government. The level in the cities of Zhuhai, Foshan,
Dongguan increased to 1,100 yuan, the government said. In
Shenzhen, which is a special economic zone, the minimum wage
rose this year to 1,500 yuan.  Toys, Robots  Hong Kong-listed Kin Yat Holdings Ltd., a maker of toys and
vacuum-cleaning robots that has operations in Guangdong, said
June 4 that it probably swung to a loss for the year ended March
31, 2012. The company cited reasons included falling revenue,
increased minimum wages, raw-material costs, and gains in the
yuan, up about 5 percent against the dollar in 2011.  For the nation as a whole, an employment gauge held above
50 for a third straight month in May in a manufacturing survey
released by the statistics bureau and the logistics federation.
That level is the dividing line between expansion and
contraction.  Besides weakness in  exports , government restrictions on
home purchases are cooling the economy. JPMorgan Chase & Co. has
cut its growth forecast for China twice in a month and now
estimates an expansion of 7.7 percent this year, down from 9.2
percent in 2011.  Subsidies for the purchase of energy-saving home appliances
are among government efforts to stimulate consumption. Policy
makers will take steps to support domestic demand, investment
and trade if growth slows further, according to the state-run
Xinhua News Agency, citing Commerce Minister  Chen Deming .  Exports rose a less-than-forecast 4.9 percent in April from
a year earlier, underscoring the threat to Asian economies from
weakness in global demand.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Justina Lee in  Hong Kong  at 
 jlee1245@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  