-- Ackermann Says Euro Bonds Aren’t Answer for Euro Crisis
-- B y   M e e r a   L o u i s
-- 2012-06-05T17:27:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-05/ackermann-says-euro-bonds-aren-t-answer-for-euro-crisis.html
Josef Ackermann , the former  Deutsche
Bank (DBK)  AG chief, said joint debt sales would force Germany to
assume the funding burden and would take pressure off other
euro-area nations to implement changes as they battle a
worsening crisis.  “I’m against euro bonds,” Ackermann told Bloomberg News
in an interview yesterday in Washington. “If we do it right
now, it allows maybe the funding with Germany guaranteeing up to
27 percent,” and “that would mean that maybe the pressure from
other countries to do the necessary reforms would be taken away
and that would be wrong.”  The European Commission has kept alive the debate over
common borrowing by euro-area governments. German  Chancellor
Angela Merkel  has rejected euro-area debt sharing, telling
members of her party that “under no circumstances” would she
agree to euro bonds. The clash over euro bonds pits better-off
countries led by  Germany  against France, Belgium, Italy,
Luxembourg and peripheral countries relying on European aid or
at risk of needing it.  “The people in Germany would not support that and secondly
there are also some constitutional limits to do it because of
the no bail-out clause,” said Ackermann, who joined  Zurich
Insurance Group AG (ZURN)  as chairman this year. He said euro bonds
would increase burden-sharing and “we can only do that if we
have more fiscal integration.”  Euro Falls  The euro fell, ending two days of gains against the
U.S. dollar, as Spanish Budget Minister Cristobal Montoro said
the nation faces difficulties in accessing capital markets. The
17-nation currency dropped 0.5 percent to $1.2437 at 1:10 p.m.
 New York  time.  The disagreement between  France  and Germany over whether to
jointly sell debt centers on when to introduce the securities
and not whether to sell them, French European Union Affairs
Minister Bernard Cazeneuve told newspaper La Stampa in an
interview published today.  France wants to begin the process now as a way to overcome
the debt crisis, while Germany would back the bonds once
conditions improve as a way to signal that Europe has overcome
the crisis, Cazeneuve said in the interview.  AAA-rated countries such as Germany and Finland have said
that joint borrowing would force up their own interest rates and
give deficit-prone states an incentive to go on spending.  Separately, Ackermann said the  European Central Bank  has
taken adequate measures to stem the crisis. “They have gone far
enough for the time being,” he said.  The ECB has kept interest rates at a record low of 1
percent and flooded banks with more than 1 trillion euros ($1.24
trillion) in cheap three-year loans to keep credit flowing to
the real economy.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Meera Louis in  Washington  at 
 mlouis1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  