-- TAG May Join Mid-Caps Index as Property Owner’s Value Jumps
-- B y   D a l i a   F a h m y
-- 2012-06-05T13:17:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-05/tag-immobilien-may-join-german-mid-caps-index-after-value-jumps.html
TAG Immobilien AG (TEG)  may join  Germany ’s
DAX Mid-Cap Index after the Hamburg-based real-estate manager’s
market value jumped about 64 percent this year.  Deutsche Boerse AG (DB1) , the operator of the Frankfurt exchange,
will announce any changes to the  50-member index known as the
MDAX  after the market closes today.  Deutsche Boerse  decides
which stocks to include in its indexes by considering issues
including each company’s market value and share-trading volume.  “TAG has a good chance of being admitted,” said Frank Neumann, an analyst at Bankhaus Lampe with a hold rating on the
stock. “It’s had a large increase in market capitalization and
trading volume, which not only makes it an important participant
in the real-estate sector, but also in  capital markets .”  TAG’s market value of 754 million euros ($938 million)
compares with 466 million euros for Deutz AG, the smallest
company in the MDAX. A Deutsche Boerse committee meets every
quarter to decide whether to remove or add companies to its
indexes. At the last review on March 5, machinery maker  Duerr AG (DUE) 
replaced  Heidelberger Druckmaschinen AG (HDD)  on the MDAX.  TAG is the largest German real-estate company that’s not
included in the index. Its market value has this year been
lifted by acquisitions and a 127 million-euro share sale.  In March, the company agreed to buy DKB Immobilien AG from
 Bayerische Landesbank  for 160 million euros, almost doubling its
number of homes to about 56,000. TAG also owns office buildings.  The company has  gained about 27 percent  in Frankfurt
trading this year, the third-best performance among stocks
listed in the SDAX index for small companies, which has climbed
almost 4 percent.  On a May conference call, TAG Chief Executive Officer Rolf Elgeti said the company could qualify for the MDAX as early as
June. Gaining entry would be “positive,” spokeswoman Britta Lackenbauer said. “It would put us in another league,” she
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dalia Fahmy in Berlin at 
 dfahmy1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Blackman   ablackman@bloomberg.net . 