-- Thai Democracy Tested as Judges Battle Thaksin: Southeast Asia
-- B y   D a n i e l   T e n   K a t e
-- 2012-06-06T03:30:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-05/thai-democracy-tested-as-judges-battle-thaksin-southeast-asia.html
Thailand’s ruling party warned
democracy is under threat as its highest court moves to stop
lawmakers from changing the  constitution  in a country that has
suffered 18 coup attempts in the past eight decades.  The  Constitutional Court  has no right to prevent Parliament
from voting on an amendment that would create a new body to
rewrite the charter, Deputy Prime Minister Chalerm Yoobamrung
told reporters yesterday. A judicial challenge to the
legislators’ efforts could lead to the disbanding of Prime
Minister Yingluck Shinawatra’s party, the third time courts have
disqualified elected allies of her brother  Thaksin Shinawatra 
since he was ousted by the military six years ago.  “Did they fall asleep and didn’t know we got our power
from the election?” Chalerm said, referring to judges on the
nine-member Constitutional Court. “Don’t go too far. This is
too much and no one can accept this.”  The dispute risks reigniting street protests pitting
Thaksin supporters who have won five straight elections against
opponents who accuse him of undermining the monarchy and
subverting the legal system to allow his return from exile. Thai
 stocks  dropped to a four-month low as  consumer confidence  fell
for the first time in half a year in May because of escalating
political strains and higher costs for food and oil.  “Rising political tension has significantly weakened
sentiment in the Thai stock market, which has already been hurt
by European debt concerns,” Thongmakut Thongyai, chief
executive officer of SCB Securities Co., a brokerage unit of
Siam Commercial Bank Pcl, the country’s third biggest. “The
government will now focus on resolving the political deadlock
rather than on economic policies.”  Foreigners Sell  The SET Index gained 1.1 percent as of 10:09 a.m. local
time, rising in line with regional peers. It has fallen 9.4
percent over the past month, more than benchmarks in the
 Philippines ,  Malaysia  and  Singapore .  Overseas investors sold a net 1.32 billion baht ($41.8
million) of Thai stocks yesterday, extending net sales this
month to $66.7 million. An index measuring consumer sentiment
fell to 67.1 in May from 67.5 in April, the University of the
Thai Chamber of Commerce said yesterday.  The Constitutional Court ordered Parliament last week to
stop considering an amendment that would establish a 99-member
body to rewrite the constitution drafted by an army-appointed
panel after the coup. The Pheu Thai party won a majority in last
July’s elections after campaigning on changing the document to
make it harder to disband political parties. It also sought to
curtail the power of appointed judges, soldiers and bureaucrats.  Public Promise  The court accepted petitions arguing that the process
violated Article 68 of the constitution, which restricts
attempts “to overthrow the democratic regime of government with
the King as Head of State.” The clause allows judges to disband
political parties that contravene the stipulation.  The court can accept petitions directly as well as from the
Attorney General, Pimol Thampitakpong, a spokesman for the
Constitutional Court, said by phone, dismissing criticism from
Pheu Thai lawmakers who accused the judges of acting improperly
in taking up the case. Prosecutors will start a separate
investigation, Vinai Dumrongmongcolgul, a spokesman for the
Attorney General, told reporters yesterday.  The judges wants lawmakers to provide “a promise to the
public” in clarifying whether plans to rewrite the constitution
will change articles related to the monarchy, court President
Wasan Soypisudh said on June 3.  King Bhumibol Adulyadej , 84,
took the throne in 1946 and serves as head of state. Insulting
him can lead to a 15-year jail sentence.  “This will ensure that the constitutional amendments will
not go too far,” Wasan said. “We need to investigate this to
balance the power.”  Impeachment Argument  Robert Amsterdam, one of Thaksin’s lawyers, released a
 paper  yesterday arguing for the impeachment of Constitutional
Court judges. The country can’t have rule of law “so long as
the country’s highest court is composed of judges who make so
little pretense of independence and impartiality, and act with
such blatant disregard for the Constitution they are sworn to
uphold,” according to a statement on his website.  In an interview last week, Yingluck asserted Parliament’s
legitimacy to decide how to rectify injustices since the coup,
including on bills that may provide an amnesty for Thaksin, who
has lived overseas since fleeing a two-year jail sentence in
2008. Lawmakers postponed deliberation on the bills last week
after his opponents blocked entrances to the building.  Delay Push  Opposition leader  Abhisit Vejjajiva  pushed for the
government to end the parliamentary session, telling a
broadcaster affiliated with his party that the constitution
changes and laws dealing with political offenses are not urgent
issues. “We should delay them and the government can go back to
solving the economic and cost-of-living problems.”  The judiciary has played a leading role in determining Thai
political outcomes since 2006, when  King Bhumibol  called on
judges to resolve a pending constitutional crisis. Since then,
courts voided an election won by Thaksin’s party, disqualified
about 200 politicians linked to him, sentenced him to jail and
seized 46 billion baht ($1.5 billion) of his wealth.  The Constitutional Court will probably try to win
assurances in writing that Pheu Thai has no plans to change
articles affecting the monarchy or the independence of the
judiciary, said Kaewsan Atipho, a member of a panel that
investigated Thaksin after the coup and supports the court’s
actions.  ‘Poker Game’  The political maneuverings “are like a poker game where
everybody has a gun in their pocket,” Kaewsan said. “Thai
society is the loser.”  Thaksin’s opponents, known as the Yellow Shirts, seized
government buildings and airports in 2008, ending their protests
when a court disbanded his ruling party for election fraud,
paving the way for Abhisit to take power. The group accused
Thaksin of seeking to reduce the power of the king, whom the
constitution says “shall be enthroned in a position of revered
worship.’  Thaksin’s supporters, the  Red Shirts , began large-scale
demonstrations after Abhisit became prime minister, with some
factions pushing to change laws that shield the king from
criticism. The group’s protests in 2010 ended in a military
assault, arson attacks and more than 90 deaths.  Another ‘‘judicial coup” may take place before street
protests spin out of control, a possible pretext for another
military intervention, according to Paul Chambers, director of
research at the Southeast Asian Institute of Global Studies at
Payap University in  Chiang Mai , a city in northern  Thailand .  “If things continue as they are right now, then Yingluck’s
days are numbered,” he said. “If Pheu Thai steps back and ends
the attempts to change the constitution, then Yingluck can stay
in office perhaps until her term is over.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Daniel Ten Kate in Bangkok at 
 dtenkate@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  