-- Hakkasan Targets London City Area With Restaurant Plan
-- B y   R i c h a r d   V i n e s
-- 2012-06-05T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-05/hakkasan-targets-london-city-area-with-plan-for-two-restaurants.html
Hakkasan Group plans to open two
restaurants in  London ’s City this year as restaurateurs target
the financial district for their expansion plans.  Chrysan will be a Japanese establishment in partnership
with Yoshihiro Murata, the third-generation chef patron of
Kikunoi, which holds three Michelin stars in Kyoto. Chrysan is
scheduled to open in September at  Broadgate West , next door to
HKK, a Chinese restaurant that will open the following month.  Gordon Ramsay and  Jamie Oliver  are among chefs who have
moved into the City, undeterred by the squeeze on bonuses and
expenses that has followed the financial slowdown. The
restaurateur  Russell Norman  plans to add a branch of his Polpo
group in nearby Smithfield on July 30, while Goodman has bought
a site there for its Burger & Lobster chain.  “With the development of East London, the City is becoming
the center of London rather than the  West End ,” Hakkasan Chief
Executive Niall Howard said in an interview. “It’s growing as a
residential area and increasingly there’s an international
crowd. Getting the Broadgate West site clinched the deal.”  Broadgate West is owned by the property developer Peter Marano, who created L’Anima restaurant there in June 2008. He
plans to open L’Anima Cafe, a casual venue with a bar and a
takeaway counter, next door. It will seat about 160 people, the
same as L’Anima, and should open early next year.  Japanese Chefs  Chrysan is Murata’s first overseas venture. He plans to
create a pioneering Japanese restaurant brand for the
international market where local chefs will work alongside
Japanese chefs using mainly local ingredients.  “I visited  Scotland  and tried the local salmon, both
native and farmed, lobsters, and crab, and I was very impressed
by the amazing quality,” he said in a statement. “The salmon
was even better than in  Japan . English pork is very good, too.
There are so many high quality, superb ingredients in the U.K.
so what is the point of sending foodstuff from Japan over to
London?”  Murata is chairman of the  Japanese Culinary Academy , which
promotes Japanese cuisine internationally by mentoring and
inspiring chefs such as Ferran Adria and  Heston Blumenthal . His
chef in London will be Daisuke Hayashi. The menu will include a
set lunch option plus a bento box.  “In the City, we need to be able to get people in and out
in an hour at lunchtime,” Howard said.  Michelin Stars  The Chinese establishment HKK -- a contraction of Hakkasan
Kitchen -- is inspired by the tradition of banqueting, will
offer a single tasting menu of Cantonese delicacies created by
chef Tong Chee Hwee, the Michelin-starred chef of Hakkasan
restaurants.  Also coming up near Broadgate is  Sushisamba , a venue with
bars and restaurants serving Japanese, Brazilian and Peruvian
cuisine on the 38th and 39th floors of the Heron Tower. It’s
scheduled to open in July. The executive chef is Jeffrey Kipp,
who was previously at Daylesford Organic, and  Gordon Ramsay , as
well as at Charlie Trotter’s in  Chicago .  It’s the first European outpost of Sushisamba, which has
sites in New York, Chicago,  Las Vegas  and Miami.  Restaurants that have opened in the City in the past three
years include Galvin la Chapelle, Goodman and Hawksmoor, as well
as Gordon Ramsay’s Bread Street Kitchen and Barbecoa, founded by
Jamie Oliver and the New York chef Adam Perry Lang.  Hakkasan, which is owned by  Abu Dhabi  investors, has
restaurants in New York, Miami, Abu Dhabi, Dubai, Mumbai, In
London, there are two Hakkasan outlets and the group also owns
Yauatcha and Sake No Hana.  (Richard Vines is the chief food critic for Muse, the arts
and leisure section of Bloomberg News. He is U.K. and Ireland
chairman of the World’s 50 Best Restaurants awards. Opinions
expressed are his own.)  Muse highlights include  Ryan Sutton  on  New York  dining.  To contact the writer on the story:
Richard Vines in London at 
 rvines@bloomberg.net  or  http://twitter.com/Richardvines .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 