-- Akzo Nobel’s ICI Loses 91.4 Million-Euro Cartel Fine Appeal
-- B y   A o i f e   W h i t e
-- 2012-06-05T14:10:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-05/akzo-nobel-s-ici-loses-91-4-million-euro-cartel-fine-appeal-1-.html
Akzo Nobel NV (AKZA) ’s Imperial Chemical
Industries lost a court challenge seeking to overturn a 91.4
million-euro ($114 million) European Union cartel fine.  The EU’s General Court dismissed the company’s appeal in a
ruling today, rejecting ICI’s arguments that the European
Commission set the fine too high and should have reduced it
because the company voluntarily submitted evidence to
investigators.  A company statement which “merely corroborates” evidence
already heard by regulators “does not facilitate the
commission’s task significantly” and “is not sufficient to
justify a reduction in the fine for cooperation,” the
Luxembourg-based court said in the ruling.  ICI, which makes Dulux paints, was one of four chemical
makers fined 344.5 million euros by the EU’s antitrust regulator
in 2006 for fixing the price of acrylic glass, used to make
DVDs, car parts and household appliances.  Arkema SA (AKE) , also fined
for participating in the cartel, won a reduction before the same
court in June 2011, cutting its fine to 113.3 million euros from
219.1 million after judges ruled the commission had made
mistakes in its calculation.  Akzo Nobel hasn’t decided whether to appeal today’s court
ruling, Oskar Bosson, a spokesman for the company, said in a
telephone interview. The company has already fully provided for
the fine, he said.  “We’ll have to study the ruling and this will take a
couple of weeks,” Bosson said.  EU regulators welcomed the court’s confirmation that they
calculated the fine correctly and “ICI did not deserve to
benefit from a reduction” under leniency rules for whistle-
blowers, said Antoine Colombani, a commission spokesman.  Akzo Nobel, the world’s largest paint maker, bought London-
based ICI in 2008.  The case is:  T-214/06  Imperial Chemical Industries v
Commission  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aoife White in Brussels at 
 awhite62@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Chapman at 
 pchapman10@bloomberg.net  