-- Alabama Officials File $1.6 Billion Claim Against County
-- B y   E d v a r d   P e t t e r s s o n
-- 2012-06-05T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-05/alabama-officials-file-1-6-billion-claim-against-county.html
State and city officials in
Birmingham,  Alabama , filed a $1.63 billion claim in Jefferson
County’s bankruptcy case on behalf of sewer system ratepayers,
alleging county employees engaged in criminal conduct.  Birmingham City Council President Roderick Royal and
Alabama state legislator Mary Moore were among a group of 14
officials and private citizens who filed the claim yesterday in
 U.S. Bankruptcy Court  in Birmingham on behalf of about 130,000
ratepayers in the county.  The claim is based on “published financial data and other
evidence which establish the cost to the debtor county, and
hence indirectly the ratepayer class, of dishonest, unlawful and
sometimes criminal conduct on the part of employees of the
county, certain private parties and others involved in municipal
finance,” according to the filing.  Jefferson County entered the largest U.S. municipal
bankruptcy in November after local and state officials and
creditors failed to implement an agreement to cut the county’s
sewer debt by about $1 billion. The county owes creditors about
$4.2 billion, including more than $3 billion in bonds related to
the sewer system, according to court records.  The bankruptcy is tied to a sewer refinancing tainted by
political corruption. In 2009,  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  agreed to a
$722 million settlement with the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission over payments its bankers allegedly made to people
tied to county politicians to win business.  Former Jefferson County Commissioner  Larry Langford  was
convicted on charges of accepting bribes. In 2008, a derivative-
laden refinancing set up by JPMorgan unraveled as fallout from
the subprime-mortgage market collapse rippled through  Wall
Street , sending debt costs soaring.  The case is In re Jefferson County, 11-05736, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, Northern District of Alabama (Birmingham).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edvard Pettersson in  Los Angeles  at 
 epettersson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  