-- Malaysia Palm-Oil Stockpiles Seen at 13-Month Low in May
-- B y   R a n j e e t h a   P a k i a m
-- 2012-06-06T11:15:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-05/malaysia-palm-oil-stockpiles-at-13-month-low-set-to-help-prices.html
Palm-oil  inventories in  Malaysia , the
second-biggest supplier, probably dropped to the lowest in more
than a year, a survey showed. Prices of the commodity used in
everything from candy to biofuels climbed as much as 2 percent.  Stockpiles fell 3.8 percent to 1.78 million metric tons,
the lowest since April 2011, from 1.85 million tons a month
earlier, according to the median in a Bloomberg survey of three
plantation companies and two analysts. While  production 
increased 6.3 percent to 1.35 million tons from 1.27 million
tons, it was 22 percent below last year’s 1.74 million tons.
Exports rose 4.5 percent to 1.39 million tons. The Malaysian
Palm Oil Board is scheduled to release the data on June 11.  The price plunged 17 percent from a 13-month high in April,
helping to cut costs for companies such as Unilever, the world’s
second-biggest consumer-goods maker. Futures fell as growth
slowed in  China , the biggest cooking-oils user, and the debt
crisis worsened in  Europe . Exports from top producer  Indonesia 
climbed in May as importers increased purchases before the
Muslim fasting month of Ramadan, a survey showed last week.  A further decline in stockpiles “should be supportive of
prices,” said Alvin Tai, an analyst at OSK Investment Bank Bhd.
“Prices should be bottoming out at this kind of level but we
don’t know about the demand side; with all these crises people
may just hold back purchases.”  Seven-Month Low  The August-delivery contract advanced to as high as 3,026
ringgit ($953) a ton today on the Malaysia Derivatives Exchange
before closing at 3,003 ringgit in  Kuala Lumpur . The most-active
contract, which reached 3,628 ringgit on April 10, closed at
2,953 ringgit on June 4, the lowest level since Nov. 1.  Unilever’s Chief Financial Officer Jean-Marc Huet said
April 26 that commodity costs including those for edible oils
were “stubbornly high” and would be “slightly” more this
year than the increase the company had forecast in February.  Exports from Malaysia gained 2.4 percent to 1.38 million
tons last month, surveyor Intertek said May 31. Sales were 1.33
million tons in April, according to Malaysian Palm Oil Board
data. Indonesian shipments may have gained 9 percent to 1.63
million tons in May from 1.49 million tons in April, last week’s
survey showed. Production probably increased to 2.1 million tons
from 1.9 million tons, while stockpiles were little changed at
1.85 million tons, it showed.  ‘Resilient Demand’  “The gain in exports is due to pre-Ramadan stock-up from
 Bangladesh ,  India  and the  Middle East ,” said Alan Lim Seong Chun, an analyst at Kenanga Investment Bank Bhd. “Despite the
global economic downturn, it shows that demand for palm oil is
still very resilient.” Consumption of staples climbs during
Ramadan as followers break daylong fasts with communal meals.  The lower inventory is “bullish,” but prices could
decline further, depending on the global economy and the price
of crude oil, said Lim. Crude oil gained 1.4 percent today after
tumbling on June 4 to the lowest price in almost eight months.
Crude competes with palm for use in biofuels.  Malaysia’s output may climb in the next two-to-three months
reaching 19 million tons, Minister of Plantation Industries &
Commodities Bernard Dompok said June 4. The country produced a
record 18.9 million tons in 2011, according to the board.  The survey showed that production for the first five months
will be 7.4 percent lower at 6.3 million tons from 6.8 million
tons in the same 2011 period. Output was down 14 percent in
March from a year ago and 17 percent lower in April, data from
the board shows.  El-Nino Impact  “This is another confirmation that for three consecutive
months tree stress is taking its toll on production after a
 bumper crop  in 2011 and lagged effects from El Nino,” Kenanga
Investment Bank’s Lim said. Part of the effect of El Nino is
that trees produce more male flowers than female flowers which
won’t transform into fresh fruit bunches, he said.  Output will be lower in the first half of 2012, compared
with the same period a year earlier,  Dorab Mistry , a director at
Godrej International Ltd., said March 27. From March, production
each month will be less on a year-on-year comparison, and the
low cycle may end in November, according to Mistry, who has
traded the cooking oil for more than three decades.  The oil palm bears fruit all year, with more output in the
second half. Drought, such as the one caused by El Nino in 2010,
can hurt yields. The biological high cycle, which led to last
year’s record output, ended in December, and signs of tree
stress were now apparent, Mistry said March 7.  The productivity of the fully matured trees was affected by
the lagged weather effect, OSK’s Tai said. “Mature trees are
not recovering in terms of production. Usually, at this time of
the year, production is already well on its way up, but this
time around it’s still disappointing.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ranjeetha Pakiam in Kuala Lumpur at 
 rpakiam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  