-- Tall Tales About China’s Banks Hide Economy’s Problems
-- B y   Y u k o n   H u a n g
-- 2012-06-05T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-05/tall-tales-about-china-s-banks-hide-economy-s-problems.html
As  China ’s growth slows, its banking
system is coming under greater scrutiny. The general perception
outside the country is that negative real interest rates are
causing financial instability, repressing consumption and
encouraging excessive investment in capital-intensive
industries.  Amplifying this perception was Premier Wen Jiabao’s much-
publicized recent statement that the big four state commercial
banks --  Industrial & Commercial Bank of China Ltd. , China
Construction Bank Corp., Agricultural Bank of China Ltd. and
Bank of China Ltd. -- have a monopoly position and earn
excessive profits while neglecting small private companies and
catering to the interests of large state enterprises.  Although this storyline has a degree of validity, some
aspects of it are more myth than reality. Those myths risk
diverting attention from the real nature of the banking system’s
problems.  MYTH: Negative real  interest rates  are a problem specific
to China.  REALITY: These days, negative real interest rates are a
global norm. Real interest rates for savers are more negative in
the U.S. (-2 percent) than they are in China (-0.5 percent)
given recent inflation and benchmark one-year deposit rates.  What makes China’s form of financial repression unique is
not negative real interest rates per se but the restricted
investment choices -- reinforced by  capital controls  -- for
household savings. The authorities strictly limit how much cash
individuals can take out, review the purpose and origins of bank
transfers and regulate investment options. As a result,
government can more easily capture household savings for its own
spending.  MYTH: Negative real interest rates explain low consumption
in China.  REALITY: Such rates are a relatively minor factor in
explaining the 15 percentage point decline in the share of
consumption to GDP in China over the past two decades. Most of
this decline is due to the industrialization process as workers
move from agriculture to industry. In the process,  household
income  typically declines relative to GDP, causing the share of
consumption to fall.  The same phenomenon occurred in other rapidly
industrializing economies including  Japan ,  South Korea ,  Taiwan 
and even the U.S. a century ago. In these countries, consumption
as a share of GDP fell by 20 to 40 percentage points over
several decades.  Household consumption in China has notably grown by more
than 8 percent annually over the past two decades. This is
higher than any other major economy. The goal is to maximize
sustainable growth in consumption over time and not its share of
gross domestic product. The concern that consumption has been
repressed is thus  misplaced .  MYTH: China’s big four state commercial banks enjoy a
monopoly position and earn excessive profits.  REALITY: The four banks now command about 45 percent of
banking assets, but this compares with 75 percent two decades
ago. And while reporting high profits, these banks will
inevitably be forced to take major write-offs by the  defaults 
from the 2008 stimulus program.  So the big four neither enjoy more of a monopoly position
nor earn excessive profits. The real problem is the limited
presence of other financial intermediaries and the rudimentary
nature of bond and equity markets, both of which poorly serve
the needs of small private companies and local governments.  MYTH: China’s low interest rates encourage excessive
investment in capital-intensive industries.  REALITY: Given China’s unusually high savings rate of about
50 percent of GDP, interest rates might actually fall in a fully
liberalized financial system. Regardless, the government’s
intentions, and not low interest rates, drive the investment
pattern in China.  In an economy of China’s size and diversity, the industrial
structure would normally span the full range of light to heavy
industries. The buildup in heavy industries has been triggered
not by low interest rates but by an overly ambitious effort to
rapidly rebuild its depleted capital stock in the post-Mao
period.  Despite high investment rates, China’s capital stock in
relation to the size of its economy has been below average for
middle-income East Asian countries. Together with the strategic
push for rapid urbanization, this has driven growth in steel,
cement and heavy construction machinery.  MYTH: Reforms will allow the banking sector to play a more
prominent role in the economy.  REALITY: Bank  deposits  as a share of GDP are abnormally
large in China because the government has been using credit
expansion to drive demand and households have limited investment
options. In a reformed world, the banking footprint will shrink
and other financial services will increase to serve more
diversified interests.  MYTH: Reforming the banking system means improving its
governance and regulatory framework.  REALITY: This thinking misses the point. Weaknesses in the
banking system -- as serious as they may be -- are less
important than the inadequacies of the fiscal system in serving
the needs of a state-driven economy. Government expenditures
account for only 27 percent of GDP in China compared with about
35 percent in other middle-income economies and more than 40
percent in Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development
countries.  When reforms began decades ago, government revenue and the
profits of state enterprises had collapsed and the only feasible
option to secure resources for investment was to tap household
savings deposits. With an increasingly sophisticated economy,
China’s leadership needs to move away from having banks as the
main instrument for funding public expenditures.  Thus the key to reforming the financial sector begins by
getting the fiscal system to take on the responsibilities it
should normally have. This would encourage more accountable and
transparent practices, and reduce the likelihood of waste and
corruption.  (Yukon Huang is a senior associate at the Carnegie
Endowment and a former World Bank country director for China.
The opinions expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View columns, editorials
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the View editors on  Brazil’s economy ;  Susan
Crawford  on  Barry Diller’s new venture ; Clive Crook on the  Fed’s
global leadership ;  Peter Orszag  on the  Congressional Budget
Office’s long-term outlook ; Gary Shilling on  Japan’s deficits ;
Tim Judah on  Syria and Iraq .  To contact the writer of this article:
Yukon Huang at  yhuang@ceip.org .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
James Gibney at   jgibney5@bloomberg.net . 