-- AMR Pilots Distracted by Brakes Said to Lead to Accident
-- B y   A l a n   L e v i n
-- 2012-06-06T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-05/amr-pilots-distracted-by-brakes-said-to-lead-to-accident.html
Speeding down a snowy Wyoming runway
after touchdown at more than 100 miles an hour, devices on the
 AMR Corp. (AAMRQ)  American Airlines jetliner that use engine power to
slow down malfunctioned.  As the pilots struggled with that, they failed to notice an
even more critical failure on the  Boeing Co. (BA)  757: panels on the
wings that are essential for braking hadn’t deployed.  The Dec. 29, 2010, incident, in which a plane carrying 185
people skidded off the runway, highlights how today’s automated,
normally reliable aircraft can breed complacency in pilots, the
U.S. National Transportation Safety Board concluded in a hearing
in  Washington  yesterday.  “This incident demonstrates that experienced pilots can
become distracted during unusual events,” Katherine Wilson, an
NTSB investigator who specializes in human performance, said.  Blame for the accident was divided between the malfunctions
of the braking systems and the American Airlines captain’s
failure to notice that the panels known as speedbrakes had
malfunctioned, the safety board found in a unanimous vote.  Brakes are 60 percent less effective without the
speedbrakes, which push a plane’s wheels into the pavement,
Wilson said. Even with the balky thrust reverser, the plane
would have stopped by the end of the runway had the pilots
manually switched on the speedbrakes, she said.  ‘Like a Sled’  None of the 179 passengers and 6 crew members aboard the
aircraft were injured when it slid off the 6,300-foot runway and
came to rest 730 feet away in a snow-covered field, according to
the NTSB. The flight was from  Chicago ’s O’Hare International
Airport to Jackson Hole Airport.  “The airplane felt like a sled,” co-pilot Todd Brann told
investigators, according to an NTSB  report .  A simultaneous series of events aboard the jetliner
prevented its braking systems from functioning, the
investigation found. Because the plane’s computers momentarily
concluded the aircraft had lifted off again after touchdown, it
blocked the thrust reverser from working, the investigation
concluded.  The design of the reversers prevented the pilots from
reactivating them immediately, an anomaly none of the pilots
interviewed in the investigation had heard of.  It wasn’t until March 31, 2011, when the same jetliner
landed in  San Francisco  and the speedbrakes malfunctioned again,
that investigators realized that the unit on that aircraft
contained a manufacturing error, according to the safety board’s
findings.  American’s pilots are required to check after landing to
ensure the speedbrakes are working. Captain Timothy Kalcevic
could be heard on the plane’s crash-proof cockpit recorder
saying that they were “deployed,” Wilson said.  More Automation  In fact, they hadn’t automatically switched on, the safety
board found. Wilson attributed Kalcevic’s comment to the fact
that he expected them to work as they had in the past.  As jetliners have become more computer-driven, pilots spend
more time monitoring autopilots and other systems, NTSB Chairman
Debbie Hersman said in an interview after the hearing.  “That monitoring is no less important than the hand flying
they once did, and failing to be attentive to the monitoring can
be just as catastrophic,” Hersman said.  Pilots need more time in simulators to practice in
increasingly complex cockpits, Rory Kay, a safety consultant and
airline pilot who authored a report last year on the hazards of
increased automation, said in a phone interview.  “Quality training is the best solution to this,” Kay
said.  Recommendations Issued  The NTSB voted to  recommend  that all airlines develop new
training on the importance of monitoring speedbrakes. A review
of incident reports by the safety board found 11 cases in which
the speedbrakes activated and then deactivated on their own.  The board also recommended that a warning horn be installed
on jetliners to alert pilots if the speedbrakes are not working.
The board doesn’t have authority to implement changes on its
own.  “We’re satisfied that the NTSB took a thoughtful approach
in the investigation and assessment of this incident,” Gregg Overman, a spokesman for the  Allied Pilots Association , the
union representing American’s flight crews, said in an
interview.  American has already added training on speedbrakes, Ed Martelle, a spokesman for the carrier, said in an interview.  The U.S.  Federal Aviation Administration , which regulates
airlines, will review the recommendations, the agency said in an
e-mail statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alan Levin in Washington at 
 alevin24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  