-- Ancestry.com Said to Be Working With Qatalyst to Find Buyers
-- B y   S e r e n a   S a i t t o
-- 2012-06-06T20:45:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-05/ancestry-com-said-to-work-with-qatalyst-partners-to-find-buyers.html
Ancestry.com Inc., the family-history
research website, is weighing a sale and working with  Frank Quattrone ’s Qatalyst Partners LLC to find buyers, according to a
person with knowledge of the situation. The shares surged 11
percent today.  The Provo, Utah-based company probably will attract
interest from private-equity firms, said the person, who
declined to be identified because the process is private.
Ancestry.com has a market capitalization of about $1.1 billion
based on today’s closing share price.  Social-network providers, such as Google Inc. and Facebook
Inc., may see value in adding a family-centric service, said
Susan Etlinger, an analyst at  San Mateo , California-based
Altimeter Group. The Internet giants typically acquire companies
specializing in  emerging markets , and whether a company is
currently profitable is less important, she said.  “Ancestry has to prove that there’s enough growth
potential,” Etlinger said. “This hasn’t been a market that has
been particularly hot.”  Heather Erickson, a spokeswoman for Ancestry.com, declined
to comment. Sally Palmer, a spokeswoman for Qatalyst, didn’t
respond to an e-mail and phone call seeking comment.  The stock closed at $25.06 today in New York. This week,
Bank of America Corp. analysts Justin Post and Nat Schindler
identified Ancestry.com as one of their top four Internet stock
picks for a bad economy.  Stable Revenue  The company’s subscriber base generates more stable revenue
than its peers and is “attractively priced,” the analysts said
in a report dated June 4. Ancestry.com was valued as low as  14.7
times (ACOM)  earnings last month, the cheapest level on record,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg that dates back to June
2010. A $100 million initial public offering in November 2009
valued the company at 33.8 times full-year profit, the data
show.  There have been more than 650 e-commerce services takeovers
worldwide over the past decade, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The median that buyers paid, based on 15 deals over
that period, was about 35 times earnings, the data show.  Ancestry.com was founded in 1983 as a publishing company
and digitized its content in 1996, according to its  website . The
site calls itself the world’s largest online family-history
resource.  Subscribers to Ancestry.com rose 16 percent in the first
quarter to 1.87 million, according to a statement on April 25.
Net income rose 51 percent in the three months ended March 31 as
revenue surged 19 percent to $108.5 million.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Serena Saitto in  New York  at 
 ssaitto@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Katherine Snyder at 
 ksnyder@bloomberg.net  