-- Hanergy to Buy Q-Cells Unit to Expand in German Solar Market
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-06-05T16:06:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-05/hanergy-to-buy-q-cells-unit-to-expand-in-german-solar-market-1-.html
Hanergy Holding Group , a Chinese
renewable-energy operator, agreed to buy the Solibro thin-film
unit of  Germany ’s  Q-Cells SE (QCE)  to expand in the world’s biggest
solar market by installed capacity.  The deal will help Hanergy reach 3 gigawatts in annual
solar-panel volume by the end of the year, the Beijing-based
company said today in a statement in the city, without
disclosing current capacity or the terms of the transaction.  Chinese renewable-energy developers including solar-wafer
maker  LDK Solar Co. (LDK)  are snapping up rivals in Germany, where
subsidy cuts, declining demand and rising overseas supply have
squeezed profit margins. Germany’s Solar Millennium AG,  Solon SE (SOO1) 
and Q-Cells have all filed for insolvency since December.  Hanergy is boosting investments in a technology dominated
by First Solar Inc., the biggest maker of thin-film panels, and
plans thin-film photovoltaic cell plants in Guangdong, Sichuan
and Heilongjiang provinces. In 2010 it purchased a 51.6 percent
stake in  Apollo Solar Energy Technology Holdings Ltd. (566) , a Hong
Kong-listed maker of silicon-based solar modules and cells.  “Hanergy seems to be interested in Solibro’s thin-film
technology,” Heinz Steffen, an analyst at Fairesearch GmbH in
Kronberg, Germany, said by phone. “It’s important for Q-Cells
to get a good price for Solibro to reduce some of its debt.”  Q-Cells Insolvency  Q-Cells  shares  closed unchanged at 13.5 euro cents in
 Frankfurt  after earlier jumping as much as 8.2 percent. The
company filed for insolvency on April 3 following the failure of
a plan to restructure its debt that included about 200 million
euros ($249 million) in bonds.  A thin-film solar cell is made by placing thin layers of
photovoltaic material on a semiconductor wafer. Solibro’s
products are made with copper, indium, gallium and selenium
instead of the silicon that’s used in conventional solar cells.  “We want to adopt advanced technology,” Jason Chow, chief
executive officer of Hanergy Global Investment & Sales,  said
today in an interview. “Thin-film technology has more potential
and room for price reduction.”  LDK, the second-biggest solar-wafer maker, completed its
purchase of a 71 percent stake in Germany’s  Sunways AG (SWW)  in April.  “The industry is obviously in consolidation,” Chow said.
“With more and more companies filing for bankruptcies, mergers
and acquisitions are necessary and will become the norm.”  Government Support  Last November,  China  Development Bank Corp. agreed to give
a 30 billion-yuan ($4.7 billion)  credit line  to Hanergy to work
on solar and hydropower projects and expand abroad. Hanergy says
it’s China’s largest privately owned renewable-energy provider.  The company will finance the Solibro acquisition using its
own overseas funds, and plans to retain the unit’s workforce and
operations. After the deal is completed, Solibro will raise
production to 100 megawatts at its Thalheim plant in Germany,
Alberta Rohardt, a spokeswoman for Q-Cells, said today by phone.  “Hanergy will provide the extensive network, the strong
production capacity and the long-term R&D investment,” Chow
said in the statement. “We’re confident the acquisition will
enhance Solibro’s performance and capacity despite the
industry’s current downturn.”  Increased Chinese output has led to a global glut of solar
equipment supply, driving down solar-panel prices by 49 percent
in the past year.  The oversupply “has little impact on us, as we use our own
cells to build  power plants ,” Chow said.  Solibro GmbH was founded in 2006, began output in 2008 and
added a second  production line  in mid-2010, according to Q-
Cells’ website. The unit employs 400 people in Thalheim and 30
at a research and development facility in Uppsala,  Sweden ,
Rohardt said.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Stefan Nicola in Berlin at 
 snicola2@bloomberg.net ;
Feifei Shen in Beijing at 
 fshen11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  