-- Apple Will Probably Lose German Motorola Mobility Xoom Case
-- B y   K a r i n   M a t u s s e k
-- 2012-06-05T11:19:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-05/apple-will-probably-lose-german-motorola-mobility-xoom-case-1-.html
Apple Inc. (AAPL)  will probably lose its bid
for a sales ban on Motorola Mobility Holdings Inc.’s Xoom tablet
computer in  Germany , a Dusseldorf court said.  The German court that banned Samsung Electronics Co.’s
Galaxy 10.1 tablet sales last year is unlikely to grant Apple
the same victory against Motorola Mobility’s device, Presiding
Judge Johanna Brueckner-Hofmann said at a Dusseldorf hearing.
The assessment is preliminary and may change after today’s
arguments are reviewed. A ruling is scheduled for July 17.  “We don’t think someone sits in a coffee house using the
Xoom and hopes other people will think he owns an iPad,”
Brueckner-Hofmann said.  Apple has been fighting tablet competitors in courts across
the globe for about a year. While the iPad maker scored a
victory in September with the German Samsung Galaxy Tablet 10.1
ban, a U.S. federal appeals court yesterday denied the same
request in  California . Later today Apple will ask a Dusseldorf
appeals court to overturn a ruling denying a ban on Samsung’s
Galaxy Tablet 10.1N, introduced to get around the ban deeming
the earlier model too similar to the iPad.  While Apple can invoke protection for the distinctive
design of the iPad, Motorola Mobility’s Xoom seems sufficiently
distinct not to infringe, Brueckner-Hofmann said. Under German
competition law, developers aren’t prohibited from making
similar products as long as people can tell the difference, she
said.  ‘Useless Protection’  The court’s view on what constitutes an illicit copy is too
narrow, lawyers for Cupertino, California-based Apple argued
today in the case’s second hearing.  “If you are going to rule this way, then only identical
copies can be held illegal,” said Henning Hartwig, an Apple
lawyer. “If companies cannot stop competitors at an early stage
of illicit copying, then such legal protection is useless.”  Google Inc. (GOOG) , based in  Mountain View , California, acquired
Motorola Mobility last month.  The court will probably also reject a counterclaim filed by
Motorola Mobility to invalidate Apple’s European Union design
right protecting the form of the iPad, Brueckner-Hofmann said.  Today’s case is: LG Duesseldorf, 14c O 140/11.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karin Matussek in Berlin at 
 kmatussek@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Chapman at 
 pchapman10@bloomberg.net  