-- Apple Denied Ban on Samsung Tablet Computer Sales in U.S.
-- B y   E d v a r d   P e t t e r s s o n   a n d   J o e l   R o s e n b l a t t
-- 2012-06-05T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-05/apple-denied-ban-on-samsung-tablet-computer-sales-in-u-s-.html
Apple Inc. (AAPL)  was denied its renewed
request for a ban on U.S. sales of Samsung Electronics Co.’s
Galaxy Tab 10.1 tablet computer while the case is still before a
federal court of appeals.  U.S. District Judge Lucy Koh in San Jose, California, said
yesterday that she doesn’t have jurisdiction to issue a
preliminary injunction because the  U.S. Court of Appeals  for the
Federal Circuit in Washington hasn’t issued a mandate yet. The
judge said Apple can renew its request once the court in
Washington issues its ruling.  Koh in December rejected Apple’s initial request, which is
part of a broader patent dispute over smartphones and tablets.
Apple’s renewed request was based on the Federal Circuit’s
finding that it will probably win its patent infringement claim
relating to the Tab 10.1 tablet.  The appeals court said May 14 that Apple can pursue its
efforts to halt sales of the Samsung tablet while the
infringement case is awaiting trial. The appeals court disagreed
with Koh’s finding that Apple failed to show it was likely to
win its case on the merits, according to court filings.  Samsung, based in Suwon, South Korea, said last month that
Apple’s renewed request for the injunction is “premature”
because Samsung would request a rehearing of the appeals court
decision.  Representatives of Cupertino, California-based Apple didn’t
immediately respond to an e-mail after regular business hours
seeking comment on yesterday’s ruling.  The case is Apple Inc. v.  Samsung Electronics Co. (005930) ,
11-01846, U.S. District Court, Northern District of California
(San Jose).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Edvard Pettersson in  Los Angeles  at 
 epettersson@bloomberg.net ;
Joel Rosenblatt in  San Francisco  at 
 jrosenblatt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  