-- Hardware Startups Push Software Tec to Lure Investors
-- B y   M a r k   M i l i a n
-- 2012-06-05T17:02:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-05/hardware-startups-push-software-tec-to-lure-investors-correct-.html
(Corrects to say Andy Miller is based in San Francisco.)  Leap Motion  was able to entice
venture capitalists to invest $14.6 million in its motion-sensor
device for controlling computers using just a wave of some
fingers. The company was luckier than most.  Entrepreneurs aspiring to build technology products that
customers can physically hold are finding it increasingly
difficult to raise money, Bloomberg.com reported on its Tech
Deals blog.  Software startups netted 34 percent of the $11.9 billion
venture capitalists invested in San Francisco Bay-area
technology companies last year, while consumer-electronics
makers received just 0.26 percent, according to the National
 Venture Capital  Association and data compiled by Bloomberg. The
$30.5 million that venture capitalists put toward consumer-
hardware companies was about half the amount they invested in
2010, the association said.  “These are tough businesses to bet on,” said Andy Miller,
a San Francisco-based partner at Highland Capital Partners LLC,
an investor in Leap Motion. “Totally more risk, bigger
reward.”  Michael Buckwald, Leap Motion’s co-founder, said he
downplayed the hardware aspect of the gadget, which consists of
two cameras and several infrared beams, and instead touted its
underlying software code to investors. It’s a strategy that
worked for Apple Inc.’s  Steve Jobs , who referred to the maker of
iPods and iPhones as a  software company .  Apple’s $108.2 billion in sales last year notwithstanding,
hardware companies remain less attractive to investors primarily
because of the expense to make and distribute physical products.
There’s also less cost involved if software developers need to
scrap designs and start over if a concept doesn’t pan out.  Better Days Ahead  “Historically, consumer electronics hasn’t been a forte
area of investment for venture capitalists,” said Charles Chi,
who previously managed investments for  Greylock Partners .  Greylock was the first to invest in Lytro Inc., which makes
a camera shaped like a stick of butter that lets users change
the focus of photographs after they’re taken. Putting some $2
million into a prototype, which started as little more than a
clunky box tethered to a computer when Greylock first invested
in 2008, was a “high-risk bet,” said Chi, who is now the
executive chairman at the  Mountain View , California-based Lytro.  Conditions are improving for hardware startups, venture
capital aside. Low-cost manufacturing facilities in  Asia  are
more accessible to startups in particular, thanks to U.S.
prototyping facilities such as TechShop.  In addition, direct-to-consumer online retailing and
social-media marketing are almost free.  Underestimating Hardware  When Eric Migicovsky was unable to get venture capital for
his product Pebble, which came out of the Y Combinator business
incubator, he turned to Kickstarter.com to tout his prototype
and raised $10.3 million in less than a month. Pebble is a
wristwatch that communicates wirelessly with an iPhone or an
Android device, said Migicovsky, who co-founded the company.  Venture capitalists “underestimate the time, the money,
the management, the manufacturing,” said Tony Fadell, a  Nest
Labs Inc.  co-founder and former Apple executive who helped
design the iPod. “They don’t treat hardware as a really
difficult thing to build and produce and service and maintain.
They under-think it at the beginning because they think, ‘Oh,
we’ll just throw it over the wall to  China , and they’ll make
it.’”  Leap Motion is exploring licensing the technology behind
its $70 computer peripheral, which is being assembled in China,
Buckwald said. The company received financing from firms
including Highland Capital, Founders Fund and Andreessen
Horowitz. Bloomberg LP, the parent of Bloomberg News, is an
investor in Andreessen Horowitz.  ‘Strong Desire’  Once the fundraising was finished, Buckwald said it has
become easy to hire prospective employees with expertise in
hardware. His 20-person company is receiving at least 100 job
applications per week because many engineers are attracted to
the idea of contributing to a shiny product they can hold in
their hands, he said.  “There’s a strong desire to build real things,
particularly with hiring engineers,” Buckwald said. “Hardware
puts us in control of our own destiny.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Milian in  San Francisco  at 
 mmilian@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  