-- Arsenal Negotiates to Sign Argentine Midfielder Biglia: Roundup
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2012-06-05T06:43:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-05/arsenal-negotiates-to-sign-argentine-midfielder-biglia-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of soccer
stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable Internet links.  Arsenal Talks  Arsenal is in talks with Anderlecht midfielder Lucas
Biglia, who’s rated at 8 million pounds ($12.3 million), the  Sun
reported .  The Gunners face competition from Real  Madrid  to sign the
Argentine, who captained Anderlecht to the Belgian league title
last season, the newspaper added.  Swansea Surprise  Former France and Chelsea defender Marcel Desailly is a
surprise contender to replace  Brendan Rodgers  as Swansea
manager, the  Daily Mirror reported .  Desailly, a World Cup and two-time Champions League winner,
has developed close connections to Wales after studying for his
UEFA Pro coaching license at the Football Association of Wales,
the newspaper added.  Suarez Stays  New Liverpool manager Rodgers has told the club’s board
that striker  Luis Suarez  will be staying, the  Sun reported .  Rodgers has spoken to the Uruguayan to gain his confidence
and explain his role in the team’s new system, the Sun said,
citing a person close to the situation it didn’t identify.  Three-Way Fight  Rodgers is ready to compete with  Manchester United  and
Arsenal to sign attacking midfielder Nick Powell from Crewe
Alexandra, the  Mirror reported .  Powell was cleared for talks with United manager  Alex Ferguson  after Crewe accepted a bid of 2 million pounds plus
add-ons that could lift the total to 5 million pounds, the
newspaper said. Arsenal had a higher offer for Powell rejected
by Crewe, the Mirror added.  Monaco Move  Tottenham’s Sebastien Bassong is a target for Monaco and
the defender is keen to leave Spurs to revive his career in
France, the  Guardian reported .  Lokomotiv Moscow  and Rubin Kazan are also interested in
Bassong, who spent the second half of last season on loan at
Wolverhampton Wanderers, the Guardian added.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  