-- Tarullo Says Fed Helping Oversight of JPMorgan Portfolio
-- B y   C r a i g   T o r r e s
-- 2012-06-05T23:12:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-05/tarullo-says-fed-helping-in-oversight-of-jpmorgan-portfolio.html
Federal Reserve  Governor  Daniel Tarullo  said the central bank is helping oversee JPMorgan Chase
& Co.’s management of a portfolio that lost $2 billion in a
credit-derivatives position.  “The Federal Reserve has been assisting in the oversight
of JPMorgan’s efforts to manage and de-risk the portfolio,”
Tarullo said in comments prepared for testimony tomorrow before
the Senate Banking Committee in Washington.  JPMorgan has been under tougher regulatory scrutiny since
Chief Executive Officer  Jamie Dimon  said May 10 that the firm’s
chief investment office suffered the loss. He later called it
“a Risk 101 mistake.” Regulator probes began after traders in
the London office, which manages the bank’s excess cash, made
wrong-way bets on illiquid  credit derivatives .  Shares of the New York-based  company  have fallen about 21
percent since May 10, and several federal agencies, including
the Securities and Exchange Commission and the Office of the
Comptroller of the Currency, are looking into the matter.  Tarullo said the Fed anticipates working with the OCC and
the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. “to identify the changes in
risk measurement, management and governance that will be
necessary to improve risk-control practices surrounding the
firm’s trading activities and to address trading strategies that
led to these losses.”  Fed Looking  “The Federal Reserve has been looking at other parts of
the holding company to determine if governance, risk management
and control weaknesses -- similar to those exposed by this
incident -- are present elsewhere,” he said, adding that the
Fed’s review is not yet complete.  Tarullo, a former law professor and aide to President  Bill Clinton , is the Fed’s lead governor on bank supervision. Since
taking office in January 2009, he has overhauled the Fed’s bank
oversight and piloted the implementation of the Dodd-Frank Act,
the most sweeping change to financial regulation since the
1930s.  The Fed governor has also sharpened the central bank’s
focus on the largest U.S. financial institutions with stress
tests, capital plan reviews, and the creation of the Large
Institution Supervision Coordinating Committee, a multi-
disciplinary  task force  that draws on the central bank’s
economists and quantitative analysts to hunt down systemic risk.  The LISCC “ also has focused its attention on potential
implications for financial stability in the  United States  from
stresses arising in  Europe ,” Tarullo said in his remarks.  Capital Buffers  Tarullo emphasized that large banks must maintain
sufficient capital buffers to absorb losses, and limit their
risk to the overall financial system to avoid a repeat of the
financial crisis that he said was the worst since the 1930s.  “It is critical that we complete the implementation of
capital and other prudential measures to prevent another crisis
and protect taxpayers from having again to recapitalize
financial firms,” he said. The economic recovery “is far from
complete,” he added.  The Fed governor has used the stress tests and capital plan
reviews as a goad to assure banks balance dividend payments and
stock buybacks with plans to boost and maintain capital.  “The best way to safeguard against taxpayer-funded
bailouts in the future is for our large financial institutions
to have capital buffers commensurate with their own risk
profiles and the damage that would be done to the financial
system if such institutions were to fail,” Tarullo said.  ‘High-Quality Capital’  He said “recent events” are a reminder that “substantial
amounts of high-quality capital is the best way to ensure that
significant losses at individual firms are borne by their
shareholders, and not by depositors or taxpayers.”  The 19 largest banks participating in these exams have
increased their tier one common capital levels to $759 billion
in the fourth quarter of last year from $420 billion in the
first quarter of 2009. That raised the ratio of capital to risk-
weighted assets to 10.4 percent from 5.4 percent. The biggest
banks paid out 15 of net income in common dividends in 2011
compared with a payout of 38 percent net income in 2006,
according to the  Fed .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Craig Torres in  Washington  at 
 ctorres3@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  