-- U.S. Stocks Advance on Economy Data as Treasuries Drop
-- B y   M i c h a e l   P .   R e g a n   a n d   R i t a   N a z a r e t h
-- 2012-06-05T20:29:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-05/asian-stocks-euro-oil-rise-on-stimulus-speculation.html
Stocks rose, while Treasuries
retreated, as an increase in U.S. service-industry growth
tempered concern the largest economy was slowing and a report
said  Europe ’s bailout fund was preparing a  credit line  for
Spain. The yen fell as Japan’s finance minister said he’s
concerned about the currency’s rise.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index advanced 0.6 percent to
1,285.5 at 4 p.m. in New York after earlier dipping to its
lowest level since January. Treasury yields rose for a second
day on speculation their slide to record lows last week won’t be
sustained. The euro depreciated 0.4 percent to $1.2449 while the
yen weakened against 15 of 16 major peers. Cocoa, silver and
natural gas led commodities higher while oil was little changed.  The  Institute for Supply Management ’s index of non-
manufacturing businesses, which covers about 90 percent of the
economy, increased to 53.7, topping the median projection of
economists for a reading of 53.4.  Spain  may receive a
precautionary credit line from the European Financial Stability
Facility, Germany’s Die Welt newspaper reported in a preview of
a story that will run tomorrow, citing unidentified people
familiar with talks about the possible option.  “I’d be a buyer of stocks,” John Manley, chief equity
strategist for Wells Fargo Advantage Funds in New York, said in
a telephone interview. His firm oversees $205 billion. “The
 U.S. economy  is doing OK. Obviously there are lots of things
that could go wrong. We’re going to have to see more agreements
in Europe. Yet valuation is attractive, the market is cheap.”  Valuation Watch  The  S&P 500  reversed losses yesterday as the lowest price-
to-earnings multiple in six months overshadowed a drop in
factory orders. The index started the week trading at  12.9 times 
its companies’ reported earnings, the cheapest since November.
The index tumbled 9.9 percent from a four-year high in April
through last week as U.S. economic data trailed estimates while
concern grew about Greece’s future in the euro and Spain’s
deteriorating national finances.  Financial, commodity and technology shares, the groups that
led the S&P 500’s retreat since April, rose at least 0.6 percent
today for the biggest gains among the 10 main groups. JPMorgan
Chase & Co., Bank of America Corp. and Hewlett-Packard Co.
rallied at least 2.9 percent for the best gains in the  Dow Jones
Industrial Average (INDU) , which climbed 26.49 points to 12,127.95.  A gauge of homebuilders in S&P indexes rallied 4 percent,
paced by gains of at least 6 percent in Lennar Corp. and
PulteGroup Inc. Facebook Inc. retreated 3.8 percent to $25.87,
extending its tumble since going public to 32 percent, following
a Reuters/Ipsos poll that showed sagging interest in the site
and a minority of users being influenced by ads and comments
when making purchasing decisions.  ‘Selling Climax’  While the S&P 500 is likely to find support at 1,250,
further losses may extend its drop from an April peak to 15
percent in a “selling climax” that would deplete bears,
according to StockCharts.com Inc.’s Arthur Hill. A “new
cyclical  bear market  appears in place” and investors should
take defensive positions, technical analyst  Louise Yamada  said
in a report. She added that more efforts by the  Federal Reserve 
to boost growth may stop the S&P 500 from reaching the bear
market threshold, commonly defined as a drop of 20 percent from
a recent peak.  John Stoltzfus, chief market strategist at Oppenheimer &
Co. in  New York , said that while the S&P 500 may slip as much as
another 5 percent, he’s sticking with his forecast that it will
reach 1,450 by the end of the year. The estimate implies a 13
percent rally from yesterday’s close.  ‘Soft Landing’  “What will get us to 1,450 is we’ll get some better
economic news as the summer comes across, we’ll get some kind of
resolution in Europe, at least interim, related to Greece,” he
told Bloomberg Television’s “InsideTrack” program today. “In
addition to that,” he said, “we’ll find out that  China  is
indeed headed to a soft landing rather than a hard landing.”  The euro slid against 12 of 16 major peers, with the
currencies of  Brazil  and  South Africa  rallying more than 1
percent. The Dollar Index, which tracks the U.S. currency
against those of six trading partners, climbed 0.3 percent to
82.77. The index had fallen for two days after last week
climbing to the highest level since August 2010.  The euro slumped as a Markit Economics gauge of the
region’s manufacturing and services industries shrank the most
in almost three years and Spain’s budget minister called for
outside help for banks as Europe’s debt crisis remained in
focus.  Finance ministers and central bank governors from the
world’s leading economies agreed to coordinate their response to
Europe’s financial crisis on a Group of Seven nations conference
call that dealt with Spain and Greece. The yen weakened 0.5
percent to 78.76 per dollar after Japanese Finance Minister  Jun
Azumi  indicated G7 nations remain supportive of intervention to
address extreme currency moves.  European Yields  The yield on the  two-year German note  hovered near zero
after falling to minus 0.012 percent at the end of last week.
The yield on the Italian 10-year bond declined two basis points
to 5.64 percent, erasing an earlier increase. Ten-year U.S.
Treasury note rates, which slid to a record below 1.44 percent
last week, rose five basis points to 1.57 percent today.  The Stoxx Europe 600 Index added 0.3 percent, rebounding
from its lowest level since Dec. 19. Spanish stocks rose,
sending the IBEX-35 up 0.5 percent after yesterday rallying 2.9
percent in a rebound from a nine-year low. U.K. markets were
closed for holiday to honor Queen Elizabeth II’s 60 years on the
British throne.  The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index (MXEF)  added 0.6 percent,
rebounding from a six-month low. Benchmark gauges in  South
Korea ,  Indonesia  and  Taiwan  climbed more than 1 percent. The
Shanghai Composite index gained 0.2 percent, while Russia’s
Micex Index fell 0.7 percent.  After 11 weeks of losses sent stocks in  emerging markets  to
the brink of a bear market, dealers have started cutting prices
of contracts to protect against declines.  Puts priced 10 percent below the iShares MSCI Emerging
Markets Index Fund cost 1.34 times calls betting on a 10 percent
gain, down from 1.49 times on May 1, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. The price relationship known as skew for the
security, which tracks companies such as Suwon, South Korea-
based Samsung Electronics Co. and China Mobile Ltd. in Hong
Kong, touched its lowest level since January yesterday.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michael P. Regan in New York at 
 mregan12@bloomberg.net ;
Rita Nazareth in New York at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  