-- Latin America Should Spend $110 Billion to Cut Emissions
-- B y   S t e p h a n   N i e l s e n
-- 2012-06-05T15:22:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-05/latin-america-should-spend-110-billion-to-cut-emissions.html
Latin America  and the Caribbean
should invest $110 billion a year through 2050 to curb
greenhouse-gas emissions, according to the  Inter-American
Development Bank .  The region will need to cut down fewer trees and use more
energy produced from renewable sources to cut emissions to
levels consistent with international efforts to fight global
warming, the Washington-based lender said today in a  statement .  Latin America and the Caribbean are responsible for 11
percent of global emissions. The region is especially
susceptible to variations in the weather because of its reliance
on agriculture, according to the statement.  “It’s especially important for  developing countries  to
make major structural changes now and follow on a low-carbon
path,” Walter Vergara, the IDB’s division chief of climate
change and sustainability, said yesterday in a telephone
interview. “Latin America has all the ingredients for a future
low-carbon economy,”  Countries in the region should seek to cut their per-capita
emissions to 2 tons of carbon dioxide equivalent a year in 2050
from 8.5 tons in 2005, Vergara said.  That’s the global average required to prevent further
climate change-related damage and “avoid crossing biospheric
tipping points,” the IDB said in the statement.  Annual per-capita emissions were about 22.9 tons in the
U.S. in 2005 and the global average was 6.7 tons, Vergara said.  The IDB plans to release a report detailing emission
policies in the region June 20 at the  United Nations Conference
on Sustainable Development  in Rio de Janeiro. It was produced
with the Economic Commission of Latin America and the Caribbean
and the World Wildlife Fund.  Saved Costs  A 2-degree Celsius (3-6 degrees Fahrenheit) increase in
global temperatures from pre-industrial levels may cost the
region about 2 percent of its gross domestic product, according
to the statement. The loss of net agricultural exports may be as
much as $52 billion in 2050.  Brazil and  Mexico , with swathes of low land, will be
vulnerable to rising sea levels, the IDB said.  “Spending $110 billion a year for a region that faces
major development challenges is not an easy proposition,” Pablo
Gutman, director of environmental economics at the Washington-
based environmental group World Wildlife Fund, said in the
statement. “However, this would also bring about major benefits
such as improved food and energy security.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephan Nielsen in  Sao Paulo  at 
 snielsen8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  