-- Mato Grosso Corn Harvest Is Seen at Record by Researcher
-- B y   R u d y   R u i t e n b e r g
-- 2012-06-05T07:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-05/mato-grosso-corn-harvest-is-seen-at-record-by-researcher.html
Brazil ’s Mato Grosso state is
expected to produce a record second-season corn harvest as crops
benefit from late-season rainfall, researcher Soybean & Corn
Adviser Inc. wrote.  Second-season production, known as the safrinha, will jump
to 11.7 million metric tons from 7 million tons last year, the
Hinsdale, Illinois-based consulting company led by Michael Cordonnier wrote in an  online report  today, citing estimates
from the Mato Grosso Institute of Agricultural Economics.  “The state will produce much more corn than what is
consumed domestically, with the excess being shipped to southern
Brazil to supplement a very disappointing full-season crop in
that region, or it will be moved into the export market,”
Soybean & Corn Advisor wrote.  Brazil’s corn exports are expected to exceed 11 million
tons, climbing to a record, the researcher wrote. Shipments
should start to accelerate during July and August as the
safrinha is harvested, and a slowdown in soybean exports at the
same time should free up space in ports, it said.  Some corn in Mato Grosso was harvested during May, the
first time in the state, while many farmers will start
harvesting their corn crop during the second week of June,
according to Soybean & Corn Advisor.  “The vast majority of corn exports from Brazil will come
from the safrinha corn production in Mato Grosso and Parana,”
Soybean & Corn Advisor wrote.  Most of Mato Grosso’s corn will be harvested during June
and July, while farmers in Parana will bring in most of their
crop between late June and early August, the researcher wrote.  “Domestic corn prices in Mato Grosso have been falling
recently with the realization that a record corn crop is under
way,” Soybean & Corn Advisor wrote.  Prices at the end of last week in the state were 13.50
reais ($6.56) to 15.90 reais for a bag of 60 kilograms (132
pounds), falling 27 percent to 37 percent from the end of April,
according to the adviser.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rudy Ruitenberg in Paris at 
 rruitenberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  