-- Australia Pauses Approval for GVK’s $10 Billion Coal Mine
-- B y   E l i s a b e t h   B e h r m a n n
-- 2012-06-05T11:03:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-05/australia-pauses-approval-for-gvk-s-10-billion-coal-mine.html
Australia  halted its federal
environmental review of a $10 billion coal mine owned by  India ’s
 GVK Group (GVKP)  in Queensland’s Galilee Basin because of a
disagreement with the state government.  “I am stopping the clock on the process which has been
given to us by the  Queensland government ,” Tony Burke,
Australia’s federal minister for sustainability and environment,
said, according to a recording provided by his office. He said
he’s seeking further information.  Queensland’s state government and the Australian government
were to have jointly reviewed the project as part of a bilateral
agreement. Queensland on May 29 conditionally approved the
venture, which is 21 percent owned by Asia’s richest woman  Gina Rinehart ’s Hancock Prospecting Pty.  “We have no interest in a slow process and slow time lines
but we are not willing to compromise environmental standards,”
Bourke said.  The Alpha operation includes a thermal  coal mine , a 495-
kilometer (308-mile) railway line and a port expansion at the
port of  Abbot Point .  The federal government “stopping the clock” and seeking
additional information or a clarification is “not at all
unusual,” GVK said in an e-mailed statement today. GVK and the
government are working together to ensure any supplementary
information or clarification is provided, GVK said.  Endangered Reef  Australia’s Great Barrier Reef may be endangered within a
year without better protection from coastal development, the
United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization
said in a June 1 report. The 3,000-kilometer marine park flanks
the coast of Queensland state, the world’s biggest source of
steelmaking coal and the exit route to  Asia  from ports at Abbot
Point and Gladstone.  Unesco urged blocking of new port developments and related
infrastructure that would affect the Great Barrier Reef, saying
the scale of development poses “serious concerns” about the
site’s long-term conservation.  Issues raised by the federal minister were taken into
account in the state’s conditional approval, Queensland Deputy
Premier Jeff Seeney said yesterday in an e-mailed statement. The
federal government should meet its commitment under the state-
federal bilateral pact and make a decision on the mine within a
30-day period, he said, according to the e-mail. The pact was
agreed to approve projects more quickly.  Debt, Equity  Gaining the approval for Alpha will help GVK complete
financing and secure final mining consents in the second half,
GVK Group Chairman GV Krishna Reddy said on May 29. GVK,
controlled by billionaire Reddy, plans to raise $7 billion of
debt to help fund the development, as well as $3 billion by
selling equity stakes in the project.  Vale SA (VALE) , the world’s second-biggest miner, and India’s
 Adani Enterprises Ltd. (ADE)  are also developing thermal coal mines in
the Galilee Basin to meet Asian demand. The Alpha mine will
produce about 30 million metric tons of coal a year, with
construction expected between 2013 and 2016, subject to
approvals.  GVK agreed in September to pay $1.26 billion for a 79
percent stake in two coal projects as well as 100 percent of the
rail and port project from Rinehart’s Hancock Prospecting.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elisabeth Behrmann in Sydney at 
 ebehrmann1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rebecca Keenan at 
 rkeenan5@bloomberg.net  