-- Aussie Rises After GDP Data; Kiwi Gains on Milk Prices
-- B y   M a s a k i   K o n d o
-- 2012-06-06T06:30:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-05/australian-dollar-remains-higher-before-first-quarter-gdp-report.html
Australia ’s dollar rose versus all of
its 16 major counterparts after data showed the nation’s gross
domestic product grew twice as fast as economists forecast.  The so-called Aussie gained for a third day as Asian shares
advanced, bolstering demand for higher-yielding assets. New
Zealand’s dollar rose after Fonterra Cooperative Group Ltd., the
world’s largest dairy exporter, said auction prices for whole-
milk powder climbed for the first time this year.  “In terms of the domestic outlook I think it’s still
positive,” Lee Sue Ann, a Treasury economist at  United Overseas
Bank Ltd. (UOB)  in  Singapore , said of the Australian economy. “If
there’s any support in the Aussie dollar, that will be because
of the divergence of fundamental outlooks” between Australia
and the broader global economy.  Australia’s dollar rose to as high as 98.62 U.S. cents, the
strongest since May 29, and was at 98.29 at 4 p.m. in Sydney, up
0.9 percent from the close in  New York  yesterday. New Zealand’s
dollar, known as the kiwi, gained 0.6 percent to 76.05 U.S.
cents.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index of shares rose 1.1 percent.  Australia’s  economy  expanded 1.3 percent in the first three
months of this year from the fourth quarter, the Bureau of
Statistics said today. It’s the fastest pace since the period
ended June last year and compared with the 0.6 percent median
estimate from economists in a Bloomberg News survey.  Treasurer  Wayne Swan  told reporters today that Australia is
“outperforming the world” and that the nation is an “island
of growth.”  Yield Premiums  The nation’s government bonds dropped, with two-year yields
climbing 11 basis points to 2.39 percent. The  spread  between the
rate and similar-maturity Treasury yields in the U.S. narrowed
to 1.8 percentage points on June 4, the least since March 2009.
Australian 10-year rates rose 10 basis points to 3.04 percent.  “In terms of the interest-rate differentials between
Australia and the rest of the world,  interest rates  are still
high,” supporting the Aussie, said Lee.  The GDP report followed a decision by the  Reserve Bank  of
Australia yesterday to cut the benchmark interest rate by 25
basis points to 3.5 percent.  Had the RBA board known of the GDP data, “we suspect that
the decision may have been skewed towards pausing and voicing a
strong easing bias due to global uncertainty, which was TD’s
preference, rather than cut in response to market pricing
pressure,”  Annette Beacher  and Alvin Pontoh, strategists at TD
Securities Inc. in Singapore, wrote in a research note today.  Milk powder for August delivery rose 12.3 percent from the
May 15 sale, the first gain since Dec. 6, according to a trade-
weighted index on Auckland-based Fonterra’s website. The near-
term contract rose to $2,784 a metric ton from a 2 1/2 year low
two weeks ago, it said.  The auction results were “very strong, so that suggested
there’s still demand for commodities,” said  Joseph Capurso , a
currency strategist in Sydney at  Commonwealth Bank of Australia (CBA) ,
the country’s biggest lender. “That’s quite a supportive
influence on the kiwi.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Masaki Kondo in Singapore at 
 mkondo3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Garfield Reynolds at 
 greynolds1@bloomberg.net  