-- Australia’s Current-Account Deficit Widened in First Quarter
-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 2012-06-05T01:39:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-05/australia-s-current-account-deficit-widened-in-first-quarter.html
Australia ’s current-account  deficit 
widened in the three months through March as metal ores and
mineral prices fell.  The shortfall on goods, services and investment increased
to A$14.89 billion ($14.5 billion) from a revised A$9.64 billion
in the fourth quarter of 2011, the Bureau of Statistics said in
Sydney today. The median  estimate  in a Bloomberg News survey of
20 economists was for a A$14.85 billion deficit.  Reserve Bank  of Australia Governor  Glenn Stevens  will lower
the benchmark  interest rate  to 3.5 percent today, according to
most economists surveyed by Bloomberg. A high currency has hurt
earnings for manufacturers and retailers, helping create what
the RBA has referred to as a multi-speed economy with those
industries lagging behind the performance of companies linked to
the nation’s mining investment boom.  The report reflects “falls in export prices and iron ore
export volumes,” Andrew McManus, an economist at  Australia &
New Zealand Banking Group Ltd. (ANZ) , wrote in a research report
before today’s release. “The continued ramp up of mining
projects, which is partly funded by foreign investment, is also
expected to see an increase in income payments overseas.”  Net exports subtracted 0.5 percentage point from gross
domestic product growth in the first quarter, the statistics
bureau said today.  The  net-income deficit  was A$11.67 billion in the first
quarter, little changed from an A$11.74 billion shortfall in the
previous three months, today’s report showed. The goods and
services trade balance recorded a A$3.06 billion deficit in the
first quarter compared with a A$2.25 billion surplus in the
prior quarter.  The current account is the broadest measure of trade
because it includes investment flows as well as goods and
services shipments. A deficit represents money Australia has to
borrow overseas to pay for the goods and services it imports and
to finance investment not covered by local savings.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  