-- Aussie Rises After RBA Cuts Rate Less Than Swaps Suggest
-- B y   M a s a k i   K o n d o
-- 2012-06-05T06:31:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-05/australian-n-z-dollars-advance-as-asian-stocks-gain-before-rba.html
Australia ’s dollar climbed versus all
of its 16 major counterparts after the  Reserve Bank  lowered
borrowing costs less than swap rates had indicated.  The so-called Aussie gained after the central bank cut the
overnight cash-rate target by 25 basis points, or 0.25
percentage point, to 3.5 percent. Swaps data compiled by
Bloomberg had shown a more than 40 percent chance of a reduction
to 3.25 percent before the  Reserve Bank of Australia  made its
announcement today. The  New Zealand dollar  advanced as Asian
stocks rose, boosting demand for higher-yielding assets.  “The market expected slightly more than 25, and the RBA
cut only 25, so I think it’s caused short-covering,” said Roy Teo, a currency strategist in Singapore at ABN Amro Private
Bank, referring to the scale of reduction anticipated by
investors. “For the short term, I’d start to be positioned for
some buying in anticipation of a relief rally” for the
Australian dollar.  The Aussie climbed 0.7 percent to 98 U.S. cents as of 4:07
p.m. in Sydney. It slid to an eight-month low of 95.82 last
week. The New Zealand dollar added 0.4 percent to 75.94 U.S.
cents.  Australia’s bonds fell, with the benchmark three-year yield
gaining 24 basis points to 2.19 percent.  The  MSCI Asia Pacific Index (MXAP)  of stocks advanced 1.5 percent,
rallying from a four-day slide.  Economists were divided in their predictions before today’s
RBA decision. Of the 27 surveyed by Bloomberg News, 13 expected
a 25 basis-point cut, four predicted a 50 basis-point reduction
and 10 estimated the central bank would leave rates unchanged.  Modest Growth  “With modest domestic growth and a weaker and more
uncertain international environment, the outlook for inflation
afforded scope for a more accommodative stance of monetary
policy,” the RBA said in a statement.  A private report today showed that Australia’s  services
industry  shrank for a fourth month. The performance of services
index was 43.5 last month, below the 50 level that is the
dividing line between expansion and contraction, according to a
report from  Commonwealth Bank of Australia  and the Australian
Industry Group. It was at 39.6 in April.  The Reserve Bank of  New Zealand , scheduled to hold a policy
meeting on June 14, held its target rate at 2.5 percent in
April.  Rate Parity  “Markets are now pricing in Australian-N.Z. cash rate
parity by the beginning of 2013,” analysts at ANZ National Bank
Ltd., led by Chief Economist  Cameron Bagrie , wrote in a research
note today. “Were this scenario, or one similar to it, to
develop, it would dampen the yield advantage the Australian
dollar has” over the New Zealand currency.  The Aussie rose 0.4 percent to NZ$1.2907 today. It touched
NZ$1.2816 on June 1, the weakest since May 15.  Futures traders increased their bets that the Australian
dollar will weaken against the U.S. currency, figures from the
Washington-based Commodity Futures Trading Commission showed.
The difference in the number of wagers by  hedge funds  and other
large speculators on a decline in the Australian dollar compared
with those on a gain was 35,527 on May 29, the most on  record 
going back to 1993.  “The Australian dollar is very close to being oversold,”
Kurt Magnus, executive director of foreign-exchange sales in
Sydney at Nomura Holdings Inc.,  Japan ’s biggest brokerage, said
before the RBA announcement. “The risks of positive news and
its effect on the currency are increasingly growing.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Masaki Kondo in  Singapore  at 
 mkondo3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Garfield Reynolds at 
 greynolds1@bloomberg.net  