-- Azeris Killed in Deadliest Clash With Armenia Amid Clinton Visit
-- B y   Z u l f u g a r   A g a y e v
-- 2012-06-05T09:03:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-05/azeris-killed-in-deadliest-clash-with-armenia-amid-clinton-visit.html
Five Azeri soldiers were killed in a
border clash with Armenian soldiers in the deadliest incident
between the neighbors in four years as visiting U.S. Secretary
of State  Hillary Clinton  warned of risks of a regional conflict.  The servicemen were killed while repelling an attack by an
Armenian “saboteur” squad in the western Qazax district early
today, Teymur Abdullayev, a spokesman for the Azeri  Defense
Ministry , said by phone.  Armenia ’s Defense Ministry said three
soldiers were killed yesterday by an “invading” Azeri group.  Energy-rich Azerbaijan fought a war with Armenia over
Nagorno-Karabakh, a mostly ethnic Armenian-populated region that
broke free of Baku’s control after the disintegration of the
former  Soviet Union  in 1991. Clinton, who is visiting the South
Caucasus region this week, said yesterday that sporadic violence
along the militarized cease-fire line threatens to turn into a
broader conflict.  “I am very concerned about the danger of escalation of
tensions and the senseless deaths of young soldiers and innocent
civilians,” Clinton  said  at a joint briefing with her Armenian
counterpart, Eduard Nalbandian, in the capital, Yerevan. “The
use of force will not resolve the Nagorno-Karabakh conflict, and
therefore force must not be used.”  The territory remains a potential flash point in a region
where Russia fought a five-day war with  Georgia  in 2008 after
separatist tensions flared up. While the hostilities between
Armenia and Azerbaijan largely ended after a Russia-brokered
cease-fire in 1994, the countries have failed to reach a peace
agreement.  Clinton is also visiting Georgia and Azerbaijan during her
trip this week. Companies led by London-based  BP Plc (BP/)  have
invested about $35 billion in Azerbaijan’s oil and gas fields
since 1991.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zulfugar Agayev in Baku at 
 zagayev@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Hellmuth Tromm at 
 htromm@bloomberg.net  