-- Bank of Canada Says Rates May Still Rise as Risks Rise
-- B y   G r e g   Q u i n n
-- 2012-06-05T20:19:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-05/bank-of-canada-says-rates-may-still-rise-as-risks-rise.html
The Bank of  Canada  kept its main
 interest rate  unchanged for a 14th time today and said it may
raise borrowing costs if the domestic economic recovery
continues as forecast, even as global risks increase.  Canada’s growth prospects remain “largely consistent with
expectations” while the global outlook “has weakened in recent
weeks,” the central bank said today in Ottawa. All 27
economists  surveyed  by Bloomberg News forecast the key rate
would stay unchanged at 1 percent.  Investors curbed bets the central bank will cut rates this
year, and the Canadian dollar rose from a six-month low. The
world’s 10th-largest economy may be hindered by a deepening debt
crisis in Europe and cooling  emerging markets , which have cut
prices of commodities Canada exports, the central bank said.  “They have prefaced their rate guidance with a little bit
more uncertainty now,” said  Derek Holt , Scotiabank’s vice-
president of economics in Toronto. “It’s fair game given the
event risk we’re facing.”  The bank also said that “some of the risks around the
European crisis are materializing and risks remain skewed to the
downside,” while calling the expansion in the U.S., Canada’s
biggest trade partner, “modest.”  The Canadian dollar strengthened 0.1 percent to C$1.0382
cents per  U.S. dollar  at 4:19 p.m. in Toronto. One Canadian
dollar buys 96.31 U.S. cents. The currency touched a six-month
low of C$1.0447 yesterday. Two-year federal government bond
prices fell, with yields rising 2 basis points to 0.99 percent.  Trading in overnight swaps today shows investors pricing in
7 basis points of easing by the end of the year, down from 34
basis points yesterday.  ‘Modest Withdrawal’  “To the extent that the economic expansion continues and
the current excess supply in the economy is gradually absorbed,
some modest withdrawal of the present considerable monetary-
policy stimulus may become appropriate,” policy makers led by
Governor  Mark Carney , 47, said in the statement.  The  Reserve Bank  of  Australia  today cut its benchmark
interest rate by a quarter percentage point to the lowest since
2009 as Europe’s crisis and slower Chinese growth overshadowed a
stronger domestic labor market.  Canada reported June 1 the economy grew at a 1.9 percent
annualized pace in the first quarter, less than the central
bank’s 2.5 percent April estimate, as  consumer spending  slowed.
More recent data have shown domestic strength, with housing
starts at the highest since September 2007 and the biggest two-
month job gain in more than 30 years.  Excess Capacity  “The Canadian economy continues to operate with a small
degree of excess capacity,” the central bank said today, adding
that housing has been stronger than expected, leading to a
“less balanced” recovery.  The central bank also said that a drop in gasoline prices
means inflation will slow to less than its 2 percent target.  European policy makers are arguing over whether rescue
funds can be given directly to troubled banks, and whether
indebted countries such as Greece could have access to new bonds
backed by all of Europe’s fiscal union to help lower their
borrowing costs.  CAE Inc. (CAE) , the Montreal-based producer of flight simulators,
said May 23 it will fire 300 workers because of European
military budget cuts.  ‘Sensitive Times’  Finance Minister Jim Flaherty yesterday said he’s prepared
to offer fresh stimulus if it is required and that growth so far
this year has been about what he expected. “These continue to
be sensitive times,” Flaherty said in Toronto.  Flaherty introduced a budget in March that plans to cut
12,000 government jobs and reduce spending as the majority
Conservative government tries to eliminate a C$23.5 billion
($23.9 billion)  budget deficit  by the fiscal year beginning
April 2015.  The economy is being supported by yields on long-term
government debt that are at the lowest in  Bank of Canada  monthly
figures dating back to January 1919.  “The Bank, unlike the market, still expects the next move
to be a hike, but it is acknowledging that there is less
certainty about the economy being strong enough to warrant that
move,”  Avery Shenfeld , chief economist at  CIBC World Markets  in
Toronto, said in a note to clients.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Quinn in Ottawa  at 
 gquinn1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net ;
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  