-- Bankinter CEO Says Rigor of Bailout Good for Spain Banks
-- B y   C h a r l e s   P e n t y
-- 2012-06-06T11:38:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-05/bankinter-ceo-says-bailout-rigor-would-be-good-for-spanish-banks.html
Bankinter (BKT)  SA Chief Executive Officer
Maria Dolores Dancausa said the rigor that comes with being
rescued with European bailout money would teach a lesson to the
Spanish banks that need the funds.  Submitting to the conditions that would come with European
money “is going to be a good school for those that need to join
this club,” Dancausa said in e-mailed responses to questions.
She said it would be cheaper for  Spain  to take funds for its
banks from Europe than to raise the money in the markets.  Concern over Spain’s ability to absorb mounting costs of
cleaning up souring assets on the balance sheets of its banks
has driven up the financing costs of the government, which is
pushing for  Europe  to channel funds directly to lenders. Budget
Minister Cristobal Montoro yesterday used a radio interview to
call for outside support, saying the sums needed to aid Spain’s
banks aren’t “astronomical.”  Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy , speaking in Spain’s senate
yesterday, called on European institutions to help ease Spain’s
financing problems and said bond buying by the  European Central
Bank  last August had brought “considerable relief.” He also
called for fiscal union, a single deposit guarantee fund in the
17-nation euro area and a mechanism for joint bond issuance.  ‘Men in Black’  Shares of Spanish banks rose today on speculation European
policy makers will take steps to ease the crisis in the country.
 Banco Santander SA (SAN) , the largest bank in Spain,  climbed  3.1
percent to 4.72 euros by 1:21 p.m. in Madrid trading. Bankinter
rose 0.2 percent to 2.54 euros.  The extra yield that investors demand to hold Spanish 10-
year bonds compared to German bunds has risen to more than 500
basis points from about 430 basis points before last month’s
takeover of the Bankia group, Spain’s third-biggest lender,
after souring loans for real estate forced its nationalization.  The Bankia group’s request for 19 billion euros ($23.8
billion) of state support to clean up its balance sheet is a
“source of scandal” for other banks and for Spanish society at
large, even though it was understandable why new management
would seek the funds, Dancausa said.  In his interview yesterday with Onda Cero radio, Montoro
said markets had closed for Spain. He denied the need for a full
bailout, saying the “men in black” wouldn’t be coming to the
country.  Germany  opposes Spain’s request for Europe’s bailout fund
to be able to provide money directly to banks, and the rules
require aid to be funneled through governments. Finance
ministers for Group of Seven countries held a call yesterday to
coordinate their response to Europe’s financial crisis.  $40 Billion or More  Emilio Botin, the chairman of Banco Santander SA, Spain’s
biggest bank, said on June 4 that 40 billion euros in European
funds to aid nationalized lenders, including Bankia, would
suffice to complete the country’s banking cleanup.  “It may be 40 billion euros or it may be more,” said
Peter Braendle, who helps manage about $60 billion at Zurich-
based Swisscanto Asset Management.  Using European bailout funds carries the risk that
investors will stigmatize Spanish banks, Dancausa said. One way
to avoid that would be to have the lenders that need funds from
Europe request it individually, she said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Charles Penty in Madrid at 
 cpenty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  