-- Bank Coordination, PCAOB Lawsuits, Portugal: Compliance
-- B y   C a r l a   M a i n
-- 2012-06-05T12:08:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-05/bank-coordination-pcaob-lawsuits-portugal-banks-compliance.html
The  Federal Reserve  and four other
U.S. financial regulators said they agreed to coordinate
supervision of federally insured banks with assets exceeding $10
billion under the Dodd-Frank Act in a move that will tighten
supervision.  The agencies will coordinate examinations and share
information about how the largest banks comply with consumer
protection laws, the Fed said yesterday in a joint statement.
The Federal Deposit Insurance Corp., the  National Credit Union
Administration , the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency
and the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau also signed the
 statement .  The coordination is expected to lead to “greater
uniformity and efficiencies in supervision and help to minimize
regulatory burden on covered depository institutions,” the
agencies said in the statement.  Compliance Policy  Basel Committee to Discuss South African Corporate Debt Proposal  South Africa ’s central bank will seek backing from other
members of the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision to ensure
corporate debt can be classified as highly liquid when its
rating exceeds that of the sovereign.  That, for example, would mean that a higher-rated  Anglo
American Plc (AAL)  bond won’t be discounted by South Africa’s lower
risk ceiling, said Rene van Wyk, who represents South Africa’s
central bank on the Basel committee.  Van Wyk made the remarks in a presentation in Pretoria
yesterday. That qualification may boost the country’s bond
market, he said.  The Basel committee aims to revise the December 2010 draft
of the so-called liquidity coverage ratio this year as part of a
regulatory overhaul intended to avoid a repeat of the collapse
of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. in 2008. The group is weighing
changes to a list of easy-to-sell assets, which banks must hold
to survive a 30-day credit squeeze. The committee also wants to
ensure banks can run down their liquidity coverage ratio buffers
during times of market stress.  Countries helping to draw up the Basel III rules have been
asked to propose national solutions.  The bank bailout facility proposed by South Africa, which
has a sovereign rating of BBB+ from  Standard & Poor’s , may be
unnecessary should corporate debt be counted as highly liquid,
Van Wyk said. The size of the proposed facility would depend on
the size of the default, he said.  Doty Says PCAOB Should Be Able to Publicize Lawsuits Like SEC  The  Public Company Accounting Oversight Board  should be
permitted to publicize enforcement actions to increase auditors’
awareness of which practices are unacceptable, PCAOB Chairman
 James Doty  said yesterday.  Doty made the remarks to reporters in Washington after
speaking at an event sponsored by Compliance Week, a corporate
governance information service.  Congress created the PCAOB in 2002 to oversee audits of
public companies after Enron Corp. collapsed following an
accounting scandal. Doty urged lawmakers to remove a ban on the
Washington-based nonprofit corporation publicizing enforcement
cases the way Securities and Exchange Commission does.  Under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, PCAOB cases must first be
reviewed by a hearing officer and then by the SEC, Doty said.
PCAOB claims can only be made public if the auditor being
accused settles or takes the case to federal court. The SEC
routinely announces lawsuits filed against firms or individuals.  Legislation last year in the U.S. Senate that would allow
the PCAOB to publicize enforcement actions. Similar legislation
in the House. Neither bill has advanced beyond the Senate
Banking and House Financial Services committees.  U.A.E. National Board Set to Lower Sukuk Costs:  Islamic Finance   The cost of selling Islamic bonds in the United Arab
Emirates may decline as the Arab world’s second-biggest economy
mulls a centralized Shariah board to emulate Malaysia,  Credit
Agricole SA (ACA)  and Moody’s Investors Service said.  The central bank is calling for the board’s creation to
facilitate sukuk offerings, Saif Al-Shamsi, assistant governor
for monetary policy and financial stability, said in a speech
delivered for Governor Sultan bin Nasser al-Suwaidi on May 23.
Malaysia, the world’s biggest market for Islamic bonds, has
regulations and products approved by the central bank and a
centralized Shariah board unlike Persian Gulf nations.  A national standard-setting board may also help overcome
differences over whether notes comply with Islam’s ban on
interest and reduce fragmentation, said  Khalid Howladar , a
senior credit officer at Moody’s.  Regional standards are still developing in the industry,
whose assets are forecast by the Kuala Lumpur-based Islamic
Financial Services Board to almost triple to $2.8 trillion by
2015.  A central board could bring more transparency and
liquidity, according to Howladar.  For more, click here.  Compliance Action  Portugal to Inject More Than 6.6 Billion Euros to Shore Up Banks  Portugal said it will inject more than 6.6 billion euros
($8.2 billion) into its banking system to help  Banco Comercial
Portugues SA (BCP) ,  Banco BPI SA (BPI)  and  Caixa Geral de Depositos SA  meet
capital requirements.  The government has committed to putting up 3.5 billion
euros of capital for Banco Comercial, the Finance Ministry said
yesterday in a  statement  posted on the securities regulator’s
website. Banco Comercial said the state will buy 3 billion euros
of hybrid securities by the end of June and the lender also
plans to raise 500 million euros in a capital increase in the
third quarter.  Portugal in May 2011 agreed on a European Union-led bailout
that will provide as much as 78 billion euros in financial aid,
of which as much as 12 billion euros are earmarked to shore up
the country’s banks. State-owned Caixa Geral will not use the
funds.  Under the bailout’s terms, Portuguese lenders were required
to have a 9 percent core tier 1 ratio at the end of last year
and maintain that level through June after government bond
holdings are written down to market prices. They must boost the
ratio to 10 percent by the end of 2012.  For more, click here and click here.  SEC Enforcement Chief Defends Post-Crisis Record on Executives  The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission hasn’t sought
enforcement actions against top investment banking officials in
connection with the housing-finance collapse because decisions
about mortgage securities can’t usually be traced to the
executive suite, the agency’s enforcement director said.
enforcement director said.  Collateralized debt obligations and “other deal-specific
matters often aren’t vetted at the senior corporate levels,”
SEC Enforcement Director  Robert Khuzami  said in an interview
broadcast yesterday on the C-Span cable network. “You’re not
going to see as many prosecutions of those folks for those types
of violations as you might otherwise.”  The SEC has faced criticism from lawmakers, judges and
investors who say it hasn’t been tough enough in holding
individuals on Wall Street to account for actions leading to the
2008 financial crisis, which was triggered by the failure of
mortgages packaged into securities.  The agency has largely targeted its enforcement effort at
lower-level employees or at Wall Street firms themselves for
misleading investors.  The SEC is litigating at least four cases related to
complex financial products linked to residential mortgages and
has taken action against more than 55 senior executives at
entities including at banks and mortgage companies, Khuzami
said.  He added that the agency needs a bigger budget “to be even
more effective.”  Japan Regulator Seeks U.S. Help Probing Trades, Nikkei Says  Japan’s  Securities and Exchange Surveillance Commission  has
asked the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission to help it
investigate trading in shares of  Tokyo Electric Power (9501) , Nikkei
newspaper reported.  Calls to the commission outside of business hours were
answered by a recorded message.  Payday Lenders Using Indian Tribes to Evade Laws Draw Scrutiny  U.S. regulators and Congress are scrutinizing partnerships
between Native Americans and outside investors in online payday
lending businesses accused of exploiting tribal sovereignty to
evade state consumer-protection laws.  The push has divided Native American groups, with critics
of payday lending opposing tribal involvement in the businesses,
which charge  interest rates  as high as 521 percent for short-
term loans. Other Indian groups, formed to represent the nascent
industry in Washington, are pushing back against the regulators.  The partnerships have drawn the attention of federal
regulators largely because of sovereign immunity, the legal
doctrine that restricts state interference in tribal affairs.  At least 10 Indian tribes have lending businesses,
according to the  Native American Lending Alliance  and the  Native
American Fair Commerce Coalition , both year-old trade
associations.  The tribes and their outside partners are part of the fast-
growing ranks of online payday lenders, which originated 35
percent of the $32 billion in payday loans made in 2010,
according to a Jan. 9 report by JMP Securities, a San Francisco-
based investment bank. Some Native Americans have embraced
online lending in part because sovereign immunity limits the
reach of state consumer-protection laws, and only Congress can
modify this immunity. That legal status has generated investor
interest in working with the tribes.  For more, click here.  Bafin Says EADS May Be Denied Bank License, Handelsblatt Reports  Germany’s financial regulator, Bafin, said the European
Aeronautic, Defence & Space Co. may not get the banking license
it seeks to allow it to put its money with the European Central
Bank,  Handelsblatt  reported, citing an unidentified Bafin
spokesman.  Placing money temporarily with the ECB or borrowing money
from it isn’t the same as conducting a banking business, the
newspaper cited the Bafin spokesman as saying.  Hans Peter Ring, EADS’s former chief financial officer, has
previously said the company might seek a banking license to
broaden its options in obtaining finance for airlines and
suppliers.  Courts  UniCredit, Barclays Bankers Indicted in Italy Tax Probe  Former  UniCredit SpA (UCG)  Chief Executive Officer Alessandro
Profumo is among 20 bankers and ex-managers of Italy’s biggest
lender and of  Barclays Plc (BARC)  charged with fraud in a tax probe
linked to an investment plan known as Brontos.  Milan judge Laura Marchiondelli today scheduled the trial
for Oct. 1, prosecutor Alfredo Robledo said. UniCredit used the
Brontos vehicle, arranged by Barclays, to evade taxes, according
to Robledo. Brontos was created to make it appear that interest
on a deposit account were dividends earned on fictitious
securities, Robledo has said in court papers. Interest earned on
deposits is taxed in full in Italy, while the rate on dividends
is 5 percent.  Officials for UniCredit didn’t immediately return calls
seeking comment, while a Barclays spokeswoman in Milan didn’t
have an immediate comment. Profumo, now chairman of  Banca Monte
dei Paschi di Siena SpA (BMPS) , didn’t immediately return an e-mail
seeking comment.  Lawyer Kluger Gets Record 12-Year Prison Term for Insider Trades  Attorney  Matthew Kluger  was sentenced to a 12-year prison
term that is the longest ever imposed for insider-trading,
exceeding the 11-year sentence given Galleon Group LLC co-
founder Raj Rajaratnam last year.  Garrett Bauer, a trader who was sentenced yesterday to nine
years in prison, participated in a scheme with Kluger that
prosecutors said generated $37 million in illegal profit.  Kluger, 51, stole corporate merger tips from four law firms
over 17 years and passed them to middleman Kenneth Robinson, who
gave them to Bauer, 44. All three men pleaded guilty last year
in federal court in Newark, New Jersey.  U.S. District Katharine Hayden yesterday said she wanted to
send a strong message about the “radiating effect of the loss
of confidence in the market” caused by insider trading.  Lawyers for both Kluger and Bauer, a day trader, said they
would appeal their sentences. Robinson, 46, who cooperated with
authorities and secretly taped the other men for the Federal
Bureau of Investigation, is scheduled to be sentenced today. He
is expected to get a shorter sentence. Prosecutors praised the
terms imposed first on Kluger, and then on Bauer.  In pleading guilty last December, Kluger admitted stealing
data on about 30 transactions when he was at four law firms. The
companies included Sun Microsystems Inc., 3Com Corp. and  Acxiom
Corp. (ACXM)  When deals went public, Bauer sold shares and paid his
partners in cash from ATMs.  Alan Zegas , Kluger’s attorney, argued that his client
deserved far less time because he made less than $1 million.
Outside of court, Zegas said he would appeal.  Kluger said he was disappointed with the sentence and
doesn’t think his term should be longer than Rajaratnam’s
because he cooperated with authorities after his arrest.  The case is U.S. v. Bauer, 11-cr-858, U.S. District Court,
District of New Jersey (Newark).  For more, click here.  Interviews  German Banks Prepared for All Scenarios for Greece, Bafin Says  Germany’s banks are prepared for all potential outcomes of
Greece’s decisions on fiscal policy, said Elke Koenig, the
president of the country’s Bafin financial market regulator.  “I’m not going to participate in speculation about the
future fiscal policy of Greece but I am sure Germany’s banks are
prepared for all possible scenarios,” she said in a copy of a
speech to reporters in Bonn today.  Bafin and the Bundesbank are also tracking developments in
Spain and Portugal, which are not comparable to those in Greece,
she said. Germany’s banking system is “robust” even if it
can’t detach itself completely from its environment, according
to the regulator.  Merkel Says Systemic Banks May Require European Oversight  German Chancellor Angela Merkel said systemic banks may
need supervision at the European level as the European Union
weighs possible steps toward “political union.”  “The fiscal pact is one step, but it’s not sufficient
yet,” Merkel told reporters in Berlin yesterday before talks
with  European Commission  head Jose Barroso. “So we will also
talk about to what degree one has to bring the systemic banks
under specific European supervision to keep national interests
from playing too large a role.”  She and Barroso met at the Chancellery to prepare for an EU
summit on June 28-29 that is Europe’s latest effort to combat
the euro-area debt crisis now in its third year and discuss more
common economic policies.  Comings and Goings  Japan’s DPJ Adds Ex-Nomura’s Kondo to Team for Insider Probe  Japan’s ruling party added lawmaker Kazuya Kondo, a former
banker at  Nomura Holdings Inc. (8604) ’s brokerage unit, to its working
team that’s investigating insider trading, according to a memo
obtained by Bloomberg News.  The group of 15 Democratic Party of Japan members, led by
 Tsutomu Okubo , a former managing director at  Morgan Stanley (MS) , is
seeking ways to restore market confidence, according to the
document. Okubo’s secretary, who declined to be identified,
confirmed the contents of the memo, which was dated today.  Newly appointed Financial Services Minister Tadahiro
Matsushita yesterday pledged to deepen his agency’s probe into
insider trading based on information leaked by share sale
managers. So far, regulators have recommended fines of as much
as 130,000 yen ($1,660) against the traders without identifying
or punishing the underwriters, which people with knowledge of
the matter say include Nomura and  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)   Kondo joined Nomura Securities Co. in 1997 and spent about
10 years working on retail brokerage business at the Tokyo-based
firm, according to his website. He entered parliament in 2009.  Former Trade Minister  Banri Kaieda  also joined the group,
according to the memo.  For more, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carla Main in New Jersey at 
 cmain2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this report:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 