-- Bank of Ireland Said to Pick Ex-Lloyds Director Kane as Chairman
-- B y   J o e   B r e n n a n
-- 2012-06-05T12:36:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-05/bank-of-ireland-said-to-pick-ex-lloyds-director-kane-as-chairman.html
Bank of Ireland Plc , the nation’s
largest bank, plans to appoint Archie Kane, former insurance
director at Lloyds Banking Group Plc, as its next chairman,
according to people with knowledge of the matter.  Kane, 59, who retired from Lloyds last year, has been
nominated by the Dublin-based lender’s board and is currently
going through an approval process with the central bank, said
the people, who declined to be identified as the matter is not
yet public. A former chairman of the  Association of British
Insurers , the industry lobby group, Kane joined TSB, a
predecessor of Lloyds, in 1986, and the company’s board in 2000.  Bank of Ireland Chairman Pat Molloy is stepping down in
July after three years, having presided over two
recapitalizations that raised a total of 8.1 billion euros
($10.1 billion) and allowed the bank to avoid state control. The
government holds a  15.1 percent  stake in the bank after selling
a 34.9 percent holding last year to five investors, including
U.S. billionaire  Wilbur Ross  for 1.1 billion euros.  Officials at Bank of Ireland, the central bank and the
 Finance Ministry , which has two non-executive representatives on
the bank’s board, declined to comment. Kane hasn’t responded to
an effort to contact him through an intermediary.  Kane, who was Lloyds’ most senior Scottish executive, was
among four departing group directors last year that were denied
a total of 2.3 million pounds ($3.5 million) of bonuses due to
be paid out following the integration of HBOS Plc into the
group. He had been in line for a 479,000-pound payment.  London-based Lloyds, the U.K.’s second-largest publicly
quoted lender, is 41 percent government-owned after receiving a
20.3 billion-pound rescue amid the 2008 banking crisis.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Joe Brennan  in Dublin at 
 jbrennan29@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  