-- Bank of Canada Keeps Its Benchmark Interest Rate at 1% (Text)
-- B y   G r e g   Q u i n n
-- 2012-06-05T13:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-05/bank-of-canada-keeps-its-benchmark-interest-rate-at-1-text-.html
Following is the text accompanying the
 Bank of Canada ’s decision to leave its benchmark overnight rate
target at 1 percent. The statement was released today in Ottawa.  The Bank of  Canada  today announced that it is maintaining
its target for the overnight rate at 1 per cent. The  Bank Rate  is
correspondingly 1 1/4 per cent and the deposit rate is 3/4 per
cent.  The outlook for global economic growth has weakened in
recent weeks. Some of the risks around the European crisis are
materializing and risks remain skewed to the downside. This is
leading to a sharp deterioration in global financial conditions.
While the  U.S. economy  continues to expand at a modest pace,
economic activity in emerging-market economies is slowing a bit
faster and a bit more broadly than had been expected. More modest
global momentum and heightened financial  risk aversion  have
reduced commodity prices.  Although economic growth in Canada was slightly slower than
expected in the first quarter, underlying economic momentum
appears largely consistent with expectations. However, the
composition of growth is less balanced. In particular, housing
activity has been stronger than expected, and households continue
to add to their debt burden in an environment of modest income
growth. Despite external events, business and household
confidence has held up and domestic financial conditions remain
very stimulative. The contribution of government spending to
growth is expected to be quite modest over the projection
horizon, in line with recent federal and provincial budgets. The
recovery in net exports is likely to remain weak in light of
modest external demand and ongoing competitiveness challenges,
including the persistent strength of the Canadian dollar.  The Canadian economy continues to operate with a small
degree of excess capacity. Total CPI inflation is expected to
fall below 2 per cent in the short term, as a result of lower
gasoline prices, while  core inflation  is expected to remain
around 2 per cent.  Reflecting all of these factors, the Bank has decided to
maintain the target for the overnight rate at 1 per cent. To the
extent that the economic expansion continues and the current
excess supply in the economy is gradually absorbed, some modest
withdrawal of the present considerable monetary policy stimulus
may become appropriate, consistent with achieving the 2 per cent
inflation target over the medium term. The timing and degree of
any such withdrawal will be weighed carefully against domestic
and global economic developments.  Information note: The next scheduled date for announcing the
overnight rate target is 17 July 2012. A full update of the
Bank’s outlook for the economy and inflation, including risks to
the projection, will be published in the MPR on 18 July 2012.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Greg Quinn  in Ottawa at 
 gquinn1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at   dscanlan@bloomberg.net ;
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  