-- Barbell Approach Only Way to Lift Heavy Economy
-- B y   P e t e r   O r s z a g
-- 2012-06-05T23:00:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-05/barbell-approach-only-way-to-lift-heavy-economy.html
Despite the hoopla over last week’s
 jobs numbers  and Tuesday’s  long-term fiscal outlook  from the
 Congressional Budget Office , the underlying reality of the U.S.
economy hasn’t changed all that much lately. We are still in the
midst of the hard slog following the financial crisis, and we
still face a massive long-term government budget deficit.  Let’s hope that dismal combination is all we face --
because things might be about to get much worse.  Europe  stands
on the brink of economic disaster, which at its worst could
easily trigger another outright recession in America. Foreign
deposits in Spanish banks amount to about 500 billion euros
($622 billion). It isn’t difficult to imagine those depositors
changing their minds about such an  asset allocation . That could
prompt deposit flight in other southern-tier banking systems,
which the European authorities couldn’t contain.  The U.S. desperately needs more fiscal insurance against
such a shockwave.  The right policy, which also happens to be the only one
with any hope of being adopted in the foreseeable future, is a
barbell approach, with more stimulus on one side and, on the
other, more deficit reduction enacted now to take effect over
time. That would attack both the weak labor market revealed in
last week’s jobs report and the long-term fiscal gap that the
CBO highlighted on Tuesday. If we could enact such a dual plan
immediately -- which is admittedly hard to see happening, even
though it has been embraced by some Republicans -- it would give
us much-needed credibility in our efforts to urge the Europeans
to act on their own problems before it’s too late.  Stimulus Needed  Some recent  proposals  for the  U.S. economy  correctly note
that current conditions, with the 10-year Treasury yield
hovering around 1.5 percent and unemployment stuck at more than
8 percent, call for significant additional stimulus. But these
stimulus-only proposals, by not lifting the other side of the
barbell, are incomplete for three reasons:  First, substantial stimulus-only proposals have no chance
of being enacted. Second, even if they could be, they would
accelerate the date at which we again run up against the debt
limit -- and their proponents have no strategy for dealing with
that impediment. Finally, even if the debt limit were simply
assumed away (an ivory-tower approach that might prove appealing
to some stimulus-only proponents), the impact of any stimulus
would be stronger, and our international credibility enhanced,
if it were combined with specific, but delayed, actions to
reduce the deficit.  The jobs report and the new CBO analysis highlight a
typical pattern that occurs after a financial crisis: Recovery
tends to be sluggish, and debt usually builds up quickly. In
December 2007, the CBO projected that debt held by the public
under current policies would rise from 36 percent of gross
domestic product in 2007 to 37 percent this year and 73 percent
by 2025. Instead, debt has already  risen to 73 percent this year 
-- and that’s good, because the automatic stabilizers and
stimulus measures behind the increase have helped to cushion the
blow from the aftermath of the financial crisis.  In the report issued Tuesday, the CBO projects that under
current policies the higher debt will remain with us even after
the economy has recovered. And by 2025, our federal debt is
forecast to hit 106 percent.  The biggest reason that the CBO has boosted its 2025 debt
projection from less than 75 percent of GDP in the 2007
projections to more than 100 percent now is the lingering
effects of the debt increase associated with the recent
recession.  Risky Assumption  Those CBO projections should also suggest at least some
caution about recent  analyses  that increased deficit spending
during a severe economic decline will have no effect on the
long-term ratio of debt to GDP -- and might even reduce it.
Under unusual conditions, stimulus after a recession could
indeed theoretically pay for itself -- a type of  Laffer curve  of
the left. When  interest rates  are very low, the extra debt
doesn’t cost very much. And to the extent that the stimulus
boosts the economy for a prolonged period, the debt-to-GDP ratio
may even fall.  Under the CBO’s economic assumptions, however, the Laffer
curve of the left seems to have as much empirical relevance as
the original Laffer curve suggesting tax cuts actually raise
revenue. A barbell approach also provides a form of insurance
against the new Laffer curve being wrong.  The stimulus-only proponents have one thing very right: The
economy needs more support today. And if Europe goes over the
cliff, that need will become more urgent.  Still, a barbell approach is much better. It is more likely
to be enacted; it offers a pathway to lifting, rather than being
impeded by, the debt limit; it doesn’t gamble on the possibility
of a stimulus paying for itself; and it would generate just as
much, if not more, growth today than a stimulus-only approach of
equal size. Let’s go for the combo deal.  ( Peter Orszag  is vice chairman of global banking at
Citigroup Inc. and a former director of the Office of Management
and Budget in the Obama administration. The opinions expressed
are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View columns, editorials
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the View editors on  Brazil ’s economy;  Susan
Crawford  on  Barry Diller’s new venture ; Clive Crook on the  Fed’s
global leadership ; Gary Shilling on  Japan’s deficits ; Yukon
Huang on  myths of the Chinese economy ; Tim Judah on  Syria and
Iraq .  To contact the writer of this article:
Peter Orszag at  orszagbloomberg@gmail.com   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Mary Duenwald at   mduenwald@bloomberg.net  