-- Benmosche Says Chartis May Use AIG Name as Brand Improves
-- B y   Z a c h a r y   T r a c e r
-- 2012-06-05T13:24:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-05/benmosche-says-chartis-may-use-aig-name-as-brand-improves.html
American International Group Inc. (AIG) 
Chief Executive Officer  Robert Benmosche  said the insurer’s
largest unit, Chartis, may be renamed with the AIG brand as the
company emerges from a U.S. government rescue.  “We are considering being just AIG, being proud of what
we’ve accomplished,” Benmosche, 68, said yesterday in a speech
at a Korea Society dinner in New York.  The insurer has been increasing its use of the AIG name
that was dismissed by then-CEO  Edward Liddy  as “wounded and
disgraced” in 2009, less than a year after a bailout that
swelled to $182.3 billion. The New York-based company last year
began selling  life insurance  through the AIG Direct platform,
the first time it used the name in advertising to consumers 
since late 2008.  AIG has repaid a Federal Reserve credit line and bought
back shares from the U.S. Treasury Department, helping to reduce
the government stake to  61 percent  from more than 90 percent.
Benmosche said the insurer has defied critics with its rebound.  “When I got to AIG, they said AIG is gone, it’s finished,
the brand will never come back,” Benmosche said yesterday.  Benmosche is counting on results at Chartis, a global
property-casualty insurer, to fuel profit growth after  selling 
non-U.S. life businesses and lending units. Chartis provides
protection against worker injuries, storm damage and lawsuits.  ‘Global Pioneer’  The Chartis name replaced AIU Holdings LLC in July 2009
after 7,000 brokers, clients and employees were surveyed about
whether the unit needed a brand more distinct from its parent.
Chartis is derived from the Greek word for map, the firm said at
the time, “underscoring the company’s 90-year history as a
successful global pioneer that is able to guide clients to
customized solutions.”  Benmosche’s company also retained U.S. life and retirement-
services businesses including Western National Life, which was
previously known as AIG Annuity. Benmosche, who joined the
insurer in August of 2009, told employees his first month on the
job that the AIG brand may make a comeback.  “My sense is, one day, if AIG does well, starts to pay back
the debt, AIG’s name may come back,” he said in a town-hall
style meeting with staff in 2009.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zachary Tracer in  New York  at 
 ztracer1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net  