-- Berkshire Seeks Court Examiner to Probe ResCap Deals
-- B y   S t e v e n   C h u r c h
-- 2012-06-05T18:15:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-05/berkshire-seeks-court-examiner-to-probe-rescap-deals.html
Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A) , the holding
company run by billionaire Warren Buffett, asked a judge to
appoint an examiner to investigate deals Residential Capital LLC
made before it filed bankruptcy.  Berkshire said yesterday in a court filing that it agrees
with the official committee of unsecured creditors, which last
week asked for permission to investigate ResCap’s transactions
with its parent,  Ally Financial Inc. (ALLY)  U.S. Bankruptcy Judge
Martin Glenn approved the committee’s request today. Berkshire
went one step further by seeking an independent probe.  “That investigation must be conducted by an impartial
examiner appointed by the court,” Berkshire said in court
papers. “Investigating potentially improper prepetition
transactions between a debtor and its affiliates, and evaluating
potential claims arising from those transactions, are
quintessential duties of a bankruptcy examiner.”  Berkshire holds more than $500 million of ResCap’s
unsecured bonds and more than $900 million of its junior secured
bonds, according to the filing. Berkshire, which owns the bonds
directly and through affiliates, bought the debt more than two
years ago, Ted Weschler, a company investment manager, said in
court papers.  Bonds Gain  Three of ResCap’s unsecured bonds rose following the news.
The company’s 6.5 percent bonds that matured on June 1 climbed
23 percent to 19 cents on the dollar, the 6.5 percent bonds
maturing next year rose 11 percent to 21 cents on the dollar,
and the 6.875 percent bonds gained 8.1 percent to 20 cents,
according to Trace, the bond-price reporting system of the
Financial Industry Regulatory Authority.  On June 1, unsecured creditors asked Glenn for permission
to investigate deals that the bankrupt mortgage company made to
help Ally avoid billions of dollars of potential legal
liability. His approval in Manhattan gives the committee’s
lawyers permission to interview witnesses under oath and
subpoena documents.  The committee’s request to look into the deals is routine
in large corporate bankruptcies. Berkshire’s is rarer. Results
of such investigations are usually given more weight by judges
because they are considered independent.  ResCap filed for bankruptcy May 14 with plans to sell most
of its assets to  Fortress Investment Group LLC. (FIG)  Ally, a Detroit-
based bank that specializes in car loans, supported the
bankruptcy filing as a way to resolve legal claims related to
mortgage-backed securities. Ally is 74 percent-owned by the U.S.
Treasury after receiving a bailout.  Ally Purchase  ResCap has proposed dispensing with potential lawsuits
against Ally as part of the sale of mortgage loans and other
financial assets to its parent company. Ally agreed to pay
$750 million to ResCap to settle any claims against the parent,
purchase as much as $1.6 billion of securities if others don’t,
and provide $150 million to help finance ResCap’s operations
during bankruptcy, according to a company statement.  Thirty-two of the company’s 33 biggest unsecured claims
were related to active or potential mortgage-securities
litigation, according to court papers. ResCap didn’t give a
value for the claims and said it disputes all of them.  Susan Fitzpatrick, a spokeswoman for ResCap, and Gina Proia, a spokeswoman for Ally, declined to comment on the
filing.  Berkshire Pursuit  Berkshire sought to buy ResCap from Ally before the
government-owned company put the home lender in bankruptcy,
three people familiar with the matter said last month.  Berkshire would have paid almost nothing up front for the
assets, while taking on potential liabilities such as mounting
litigation costs and other claims, the people said. Buffett
sought to avoid a ResCap bankruptcy filing because Berkshire had
unsecured debt in the mortgage unit, according to the people.
Ally turned down the Berkshire proposal after deciding that a
bankruptcy filing and sale better protected the company from
future liabilities, the people said.  The case is In re Residential Capital LLC, 12-12020, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steven Church in Wilmington, Delaware at 
 schurch3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  