-- Clinton Differs With Obama in Urging Short Tax-Cut Extension
-- B y   R i c h a r d   R u b i n
-- 2012-06-06T15:43:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-05/bill-clinton-urges-short-tax-cut-extension-in-split-with-obama.html
Former President  Bill Clinton  said
Congress may have to temporarily extend all expiring tax cuts
and spending into early 2013 to give lawmakers time to reach a
deal on deficit reduction.  Clinton’s stance contrasts with that of President  Barack Obama , who has said tax breaks for high earners should expire as
scheduled at the end of 2012. Republicans in Congress seized on
the statements to urge extensions of all the tax cuts.  Matt McKenna, Clinton’s spokesman, later issued a statement
that sought to minimize any differences with Obama.  Clinton “does not believe the tax cuts for the wealthiest
Americans should be extended again,” McKenna said yesterday.
The former president “simply said that he doubted that a long-
term agreement on spending cuts and revenues would be reached
until after the election.”  White House press secretary  Jay Carney  referred reporters
to McKenna’s statement today and said “there’s no daylight”
between the president and Clinton on the issue.  Clinton, who appeared with Obama at fundraising events in
 New York  June 4, said in an interview broadcast yesterday on
CNBC that Congress “will probably have to put everything off
until early next year” because of Republican demands that the
tax cuts for the wealthy be made permanent. Doing so would be
“an error,” he said.  Fiscal Cliff  “What I think we need to do is to find some way to avoid
the fiscal cliff, to avoid doing anything that would contract
the economy now and then deal with what’s necessary in the long-
term debt reduction plan as soon as they can, which presumably
will be after the election,”  Clinton  said.  Ben S. Bernanke , the Federal Reserve chairman, has warned
of a “fiscal cliff” at the end of the year because tax cuts on
wages,  capital gains , dividends and estates are scheduled to
lapse. At the same time, automatic spending cuts are scheduled
to start in 2013. The  Congressional Budget Office  has warned
that the combined effect might push the economy into recession.  Senator  Mitch McConnell  of Kentucky, the Senate Republican
leader, joined House Speaker John Boehner today in calling for
extending all of the tax cuts.  “It’s pretty obvious that the economy needs the certainty
of the extension of the current tax rates for at least a year,”
McConnell told reporters and urged support for an overhaul of
the  tax code .  The Republican-led House is planning to vote on a one-year
extension in July, and lawmakers are considering a fast-track
procedure for a tax overhaul.  High Earners  Obama, who agreed at the end of 2010 to extend the expiring
tax cuts for two years, said in April 2011 that he opposed
further extensions of tax cuts for high earners.  “We can’t afford it,” he said. “And I refuse to renew
them again.”  Delaying the expiration of the tax cuts by even a few
months would probably require Congress to act first on raising
the U.S. debt ceiling. Democrats in Congress such as
Representatives Ron Kind of  Wisconsin  and John Yarmuth of
 Kentucky  have said they have more leverage on the tax issue and
would rather address that first.  Senator  Orrin Hatch  of Utah said in a statement that Obama
should “put campaigning aside” and follow Clinton’s advice.  ’Massive’ Increase  “Bill Clinton and I disagree on many things, but when it
comes to stopping this massive tax hike on Jan. 1, we agree,”
said Hatch, the top Republican on the Senate Finance Committee.
“It’s my sincere hope that President Clinton’s call for action
will spur this president to finally lead and prevent the largest
tax increase in history, a tax increase that would devastate our
already weak economy.”  Republicans also pointed to comments made today by  Larry Summers , who was  Treasury Secretary  in Clinton’s administration
and a White House economic adviser to Obama.  “We’ve got to make sure that we don’t take the gasoline
out of the tank at the end of this year,” Summers said on MSNBC
today when asked about Clinton’s comments and what Obama should
do. “That’s got to be the top priority. We’ve got to make sure
that we keep providing energy to the economy.”  Summers didn’t take a specific position on a short-term
extension of the tax cuts. On Twitter,  Dan Pfeiffer , the White
House communications director, said Summers agrees with Obama.  ‘Huge Opportunity’  In a separate interview on Bloomberg Television, Summers
said the U.S. should borrow more money now because of
historically low  interest rates .  “There’s a huge opportunity for the government to take
advantage of those low rates, to make investments that actually
will pay off for the budget over the long term,” he said.  In a separate interview on the PBS Newshour program,
Clinton said Republican presidential candidate  Mitt Romney 
should move cautiously in acting against  China  on trade if he’s
elected. Romney, the former governor of  Massachusetts , has vowed
he’ll declare China a currency manipulator upon taking office.  “He’s going to have to think about it, because he’s going
to have to look at how much of our debt the Chinese hold and how
dependent the world is on seeing their continued success,”
Clinton said on PBS. “It wouldn’t necessarily be good for
America if there were a total collapse of the Chinese economy.
That would cause a lot of trouble.”  China, the world’s second-largest economy, held $1.17
trillion in Treasuries in March, making it the biggest foreign
U.S. creditor.  Clinton sought to explain comments he made in a May 31 CNN
interview that undercut an Obama campaign ad that criticizes
Romney’s record as a private-equity executive at Bain Capital
LLC.  “I didn’t have any idea, when I was giving that answer,
that I was wading into some controversy in the campaign, because
I haven’t seen the ads,” he said. “But it’s much more relevant
to look at what he did as governor and what he proposes to do as
president.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Richard Rubin in Washington at 
 rrubin12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  