-- Blanked Bankers Double as Bonuses Disappear, Survey Shows
-- B y   H u g h   S o n
-- 2012-06-06T14:08:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-05/blanked-bankers-double-as-bonuses-disappear-survey-shows.html
The proportion of investment bankers
who got no bonuses last year more than doubled to about 14
percent, a poll by executive-search firm Options Group shows.  The percentage of employees who weren’t given an annual
award rose from 6 percent in 2010, the New York-based company
said in a report yesterday. Getting no bonus, or being
“blanked” by your employer, isn’t the smear it once was
because base salaries increased after the 2008 financial crisis,
said  Michael Karp , managing partner of Options Group.  “People aren’t complaining about it as much as they would
have if this were 2007,” Karp said in a telephone interview.
“As compensation shifted, the mentality of people has become
more limber. Also, these are times you can’t just quit and
expect two offers right away.”  Wall Street firms are cutting costs and vowing to claw back
some payments as they succumb to revenue and regulatory
pressures.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) ,  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and
 Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  trimmed pay and reduced positions this
year. More cuts may come as the  European debt crisis  dims the
industry’s prospects, Karp said.  KPMG LLP’s Banking Outlook Survey released today showed 43
percent of the firms surveyed expect management will spend most
of its time and energy on promoting efficiency and cutting costs
for the next two years. Almost one-third of the 100 executives
expect they’ll cut headcount, KPMG said.  Cuts, Deferrals  Options Group compiled data from about 1,300 workers
worldwide in areas including fixed income, equities, investment
banking and research. As many as half of those interviewed were
paid less in 2011 than the year before, and those who got
increases were mostly junior workers, at the vice-president
level or below, according to the report.  Top earners received more of their pay in deferred units,
with about 80 percent delayed for those whose total compensation
reached $3 million, compared with about half for those who make
$1 million, according to the report.  “Firms are trying their best to reduce costs,” Karp said.
“There’s uncertainty in the market, revenues aren’t being
generated. Looking at what’s happening in  Europe , all
indications are for a tough next six months.”  Financial firms in the U.K. have been under pressure from
regulators and governments to cut pay due to public anger about
taxpayer assistance to banks, including  Royal Bank of Scotland
Group Plc  and Lloyds Banking Group Plc. RBS Chief Executive
Officer  Stephen Hester  this year waived his 963,000-pound ($1.49
million) bonus after the opposition  Labour Party  said it would
ask Parliament to vote on the award.  Investment banking revenue may fall 24 percent in the
second quarter as the effect of the  European Central Bank ’s 1
trillion euros ($1.25 trillion) of loans to the banking system
wears off, JPMorgan analysts said in a report last month.
Revenue from fixed income, currencies and commodities trading
may fall 32 percent, while income from equities may drop 14
percent from the first quarter, the analysts said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hugh Son in  New York  at 
 hson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  