-- Brazil Biomass Planning Five Plants to Burn Crop Waste
-- B y   S t e p h a n   N i e l s e n
-- 2012-06-05T20:22:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-05/brazil-biomass-planning-five-plants-to-burn-crop-waste.html
Brazil Biomass Energy SA , a developer
of power plants that burn agricultural waste, is planning five
projects with 170 megawatts of capacity, most of which it will
sell directly to users, bypassing government-organized auctions.  The company expects to sign a contract this month to build
its first project at a sugar-cane mill in the northeastern state
of Alagoas that will run on the crop’s residues, according to
Hugo Seabra de Souza, executive director of  Brazil  Biomass.  Three of the five plants will sell electricity on the free
market to factories and large shopping centers that may pay as
much as 20 percent more than power distributors offer through
government-organized auctions where competition between
developers has driven down prices, Seabra de Souza said.  Rates “are higher in the free market than the regulated
market” for electricity contracts, he said yesterday. This
allows for “a more favorable return on investment.”  Brazil Biomass, based in  Rio de Janeiro , will spend 30
million reais ($14.8 million) on the Alagoas project, which
includes installing a 15-megawatt turbine and upgrading the
mill’s energy system, he said.  The mill will get 4 megawatts of capacity and Brazil
Biomass will sell the rest for seven years. After that, the
power plant will become the property of the mill, according to
Seabra de Souza, who became head of Brazil Biomass on April 26.  Additional Projects  Brazil Biomass, a unit of holding company Brazil Energy,
plans to sign three similar contracts this year for projects at
cane mills in Sao Paulo state and one in the northeastern state
of Bahia that will be fueled by wood chips, he said.  Two of the  Sao Paulo  projects will be retrofits to existing
plants and the others will be built from scratch, he said. All
five projects will be in operation by 2016.  Prices for power in Brazil’s free electricity market may
reach 120 reais a megawatt-hour compared to 100 reais in some
auctions, he said.  Grupo Brazil Energy is owned by a fund managed by Rio de
Janeiro-based  Nova Investimentos .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephan Nielsen in Sao Paulo at 
 snielsen8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  