-- Brazilian Real Rises Most in Week as Central Bank Sells Swaps
-- B y   B l a k e   S c h m i d t
-- 2012-06-05T21:48:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-05/brazilian-real-rises-most-in-week-as-central-bank-sells-swaps.html
Brazil ’s real rallied, snapping a
five-day slide, as the central bank offered currency swap
contracts for a sixth day since mid-May.  The central bank sold 20,300 out of the 40,000 currency
swap contracts it offered, according to a statement. The real
advanced 1.8 percent, the most since May 25, to 2.0225 per
dollar after earlier rising as much as 2.1 percent.  “The level that really seems to concern the central bank
is 2.1 per dollar,”  Vladimir Caramaschi , chief strategist at
 Credit Agricole (ACA)  Brasil SA Dtvm, said in a phone interview from
Sao Paulo. The interventions seek to prevent the  European debt
crisis  from dragging the real down to a level where it fuels
inflation concern, he said.  The yield on the Brazilian interest-rate futures contract
due in January 2014 fell six basis points, or 0.06 percentage
point, to 8.33 percent.  Investors anticipate “that a deceleration abroad could
affect Brazil’s economy, opening more space for rate cuts,”
Darwin Dib, chief economist at CM Capital Markets Asset
Management, said in a phone interview from Sao Paulo. “The
market looked abroad for indicators and saw weak numbers in the
euro zone.”  Euro-area services and manufacturing output contracted by
the most in almost three years in May, adding to signs the
economy is suffering under a worsening sovereign-debt crisis, a
report today from London-based Markit Economics showed.  G-7 Meeting  Finance ministers and central bank governors from Group of
Seven countries agreed to coordinate their response to  Europe ’s
financial crisis.  Spain  called for outside support for the first
time to battle the financial crisis as Budget Minister Cristobal Montoro said European institutions should help shore up the
nation’s lenders.  Brazil’s HSBC Purchasing Managers Index for services fell
to 49.7 in May from 54.4 in April, Markit Economics said today
on its website.  The services index is based on data compiled from monthly
replies to questionnaires sent to executives at over 400
companies in the services industry. A reading above 50 indicates
an expansion in business activity from the previous month, while
a reading below 50 indicates a slowing.  The government sold all 650,000 fixed-rate bonds, known as
NTN-Fs, offered at an auction today and 2.65 million of 3.5
million zero-coupon bills, known as LTNs, according to a
statement posted on the central bank’s website.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Blake Schmidt in  Sao Paulo  at 
 bschmidt16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  