-- Brazil’s Rousseff Should Trim Taxes and Welcome Barbie
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2012-06-05T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-05/brazil-s-rousseff-should-trim-taxes-and-welcome-barbie.html
The present is fast catching up with
the country of the future. Brazilians woke last week to news of
unexpectedly anemic economic  growth , slumping industrial
production and a plunging stock market.  The administration of President  Dilma Rousseff  has been
trying to ride out the global economic slowdown by devaluing its
currency and raising import barriers. For all of Rousseff’s
complaints about an external “monetary tsunami” and predatory
trade, the real threats to Brazil’s remarkable economic
achievements over the past two decades can be found at home.  We recognize the challenges posed to Brazil by the debt
crisis in  Europe , loose monetary policies in the U.S. and
slowing demand in  China , which is Brazil’s biggest trading
partner. We think the Brazilian real, which has fallen in value
by 14 percent in the past three months, should  drop  some more.
We also think that further  cuts  in Brazil’s benchmark interest
rate -- now at a record low -- are warranted and that Brazil’s
limited use of  capital controls  has so far been pragmatic and
 appropriate .  We can’t say the same, however, about requirements that a
certain proportion of deepwater oil drilling rigs, autos and
telecommunications equipment be locally made, and about tariffs
on shoes, chemicals, textiles and that most pernicious of
imports, Barbie dolls.  None of these measures will make Brazilian manufacturing,
which has seen its share of gross domestic product slip from
17.2 percent in 2000 to 14.6 percent in 2011, more competitive.
They will not reduce the “Custo Brasil” -- the Brazil cost -- or
the added burden of high taxes and  interest rates , bureaucracy,
poor infrastructure, stiff wages, and a shortage of skilled
labor that companies face there. As one Brazilian executive
asserted to Bloomberg News, if you airlifted a factory from
 Germany  to Brazil, your costs would jump by 48 percent.  If Rousseff wants Brazil to be more a maker of things than
a fount of commodities, she should start by slashing through a
tax system worthy of the Amazonian jungle: Dense, tangled and
choking, it is equal to 36 percent of gross domestic product
and, according to one  survey , eats up more time for businesses
than any other system. Rousseff has announced piecemeal tax cuts
for selected industries, but so far has made little headway on
larger reforms, particularly unifying and lowering the various
state and municipal rates.  The tax system funds generous social benefits that have
helped, over the past few decades, to reduce inequality and lift
large numbers of Brazilians from poverty. Brazil spends 9
percent of its GDP on pensions, for example, which is well above
the average for advanced economies -- and that cost will rise
steeply as its elderly population  triples  in the next four
decades. Setting a minimum  retirement age  would reduce costs and
spur savings, currently among the lowest in  Latin America .  The politics of these reforms -- and others, such as
rewriting inflexible  labor laws  and spurring investment -- are
daunting. Rousseff presides over a coalition of 10 parties, and
in the curious world of Brazilian politics, these national
allies will slug it out in municipal elections in October. She
also has to worry about the competing ambitions and machinations
of various regional power brokers. Moreover, corruption casts a
debilitating shadow across Brazilian politics, engulfing and
distracting legislators: This August, for example, a long-
brewing vote-buying  scandal  involving the president’s party
seems likely to go to trial.  Rousseff’s early willingness to cut public spending and
reduce the interest on public  savings accounts  suggests a level
of toughness that offers hope for progress. More than 50 years
ago, her predecessor Juscelino Kubitschek said  Brazil  was
“doomed to greatness.” Brazilians are fond of that kind of
statement. Whether Rousseff takes on the thorniest of reforms
will determine which half of Kubitschek’s pronouncement comes
true.  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 