-- Bronx Bus Crash Findings Expose Holes in U.S. Safety Net
-- B y   J e f f   P l u n g i s
-- 2012-06-06T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-05/bronx-bush-crash-caused-by-tired-driver-board-says.html
Five days after the U.S. closed 26
discount bus companies, the National Transportation Safety Board
yesterday showed how much work remains to improve safety in the
nation’s fastest-growing passenger transportation mode.  Unqualified drivers remain on the road, driving-time limits
are being ignored, and rules requiring life-saving technology
such as seat belts on buses are needed, said  Henry Jasny , vice
president and general counsel of Advocates for Highway and Auto
Safety, a Washington watchdog group.  The U.S. Transportation Department last year shut down
World Wide Travel of Greater  New York  after a crash last year in
the Bronx that killed 15 people returning to New York's Chinatown
from a  Connecticut  casino. Driver fatigue and poor oversight 
probably caused the crash, the safety board ruled yesterday.  “The secretary and the agency are finally getting the idea
they need to be stricter with the industry,” Jasny said. “Just
doing that isn’t enough. We need a full-court press.”  The Bronx crash was one of three fatal accidents in a span
of 11 weeks on the East Coast last year that focused regulatory
attention on bus safety. At least 28 people died in crashes last
year.  World Wide’s buses and drivers remain on the road under
management of a different company, the safety board said. That
highlighted the government’s struggles to stop unsafe bus
companies from staying in business under new names after being
ordered to shut down.  Great Escapes  Great Escapes Tours and Travel  is operating out of the same
Second Avenue address in  Brooklyn  used by World Wide Travel,
according to Transportation Department records. Great Escapes
was inspected by the U.S. Federal Motor Carrier Safety
Administration, which regulates bus safety, after last year’s
crash and given a conditional rating, meaning the government
found shortcomings and is giving the company time to correct
them.  Subsequent visits showed the company hasn’t made enough
improvements to get to an acceptable “satisfactory rating,”
the  NTSB said yesterday .  “It is apparent that the carrier’s management does not
have a safety system to resolve the proximal causes and
associated risks with driver behaviors, leading to repeated
driver safety violations proven to increase the risk of
accidents,” the safety board said.  NTSB board member Robert Sumwalt pointed out that the
Defense Department rejected World Wide’s application to carry
members of the military while the Transportation Department gave
it operating authority and passing safety grades.  ‘Badly Broken’  “Something seems badly broken when one arm of the
government, the DOD, says that this company is not qualified to
carry troops and yet another federal agency says it’s OK for you
to be in business,” he said.  The safety board recommended that the FMCSA develop
guidance for companies on how to monitor drivers and that bus
companies be able to see 10 years of driving records for
operator applicants. Regulators will review them, Anne Ferro,
the bus agency’s administrator, said in an e-mailed statement.  “We all agree there is no place on our roads for unsafe
bus companies that place passengers and other motorists at
risk,” Ferro said. “FMCSA has significantly stepped up bus
safety inspections nationwide, and asked Congress for greater
authority and stronger tools to stop old, unsafe companies from
reincarnating as chameleon operators.”  Great Escapes will remain under scrutiny, Ferro said.  A call to Great Escapes seeking comment wasn’t immediately
returned.  Driving Records  “This is a company that doesn’t have the greatest track
record,” said Dan Ronan, spokesman for the American Bus
Association, which has pushed regulators to take stronger action
against Chinatown lines. The Washington-based American Bus
Association’s members include  FirstGroup Plc (FGP) ’s Greyhound and
 Stagecoach Group Plc (SGC) ’s Megabus.  “You can put a new shingle outside, but you’ve got to
change the corporate culture,” he said.  Bus companies are hampered by U.S. rules that restrict them
to seeing three years of job applicants’ driving histories, the
safety board said yesterday. That’s a major impediment for
companies trying to find qualified drivers, said Peter Pantuso,
American Bus Association president and chief executive officer.  World Wide driver Ophadell Williams had 18 driver’s license
suspensions on his record and was fired from jobs with Coach
USA, a unit of Perth, Scotland-based Stagecoach Group Plc, and
the New York Metropolitan Transit Agency, the NTSB found.  Speed Limiters  He lost control of his motorcoach on its way back to
 Manhattan ’s Chinatown from the Mohegan Sun casino in Connecticut
early on March 12, 2011. The bus flipped on I-95 just inside the
Bronx and hit a sign post, shearing off the roof.  Williams, who was charged with manslaughter and criminally
negligent homicide, was traveling 78 miles per hour in a 50 mph
zone in the minute before the accident, the safety board found.
The finding prompted the board to recommend that the  National
Highway Traffic Safety Administration  propose rules requiring
devices to limit speed in buses.  The driver had almost no opportunity to sleep the day
before the crash, NTSB investigators said. In documents compiled
by board investigators, Williams was shown to have been using
his mobile phone and driving a rental car during hours he
reported he was asleep on his driving-hour logs.  NTSB Chairman  Deborah Hersman  said the agency has been
pinpointing tired drivers as a cause of accidents for decades.  The board may have to do more to understand why schools and
some other tour groups push bus operators to travel overnight,
when research shows crash risk is the highest, she said.  “You don’t want to take the cheapest carrier,” Hersman
said. “You want to make sure you’ve looked at them. You are
putting your life in their hands when you get on a bus.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeff Plungis in Washington at 
 jplungis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  