-- Sculptor’s Collection Case Against Saudi Royals Revived
-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 2012-06-05T16:53:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-05/brooklyn-artist-s-case-against-saudi-royal-family-revived.html
A  Brooklyn , New York-based artist who
claims the Saudi royal family owes him almost $12.6 million for
29 sculptures won the reinstatement of a lawsuit thrown out by a
trial court judge last year.  A U.S. appellate court in Washington today revived the case
Elli Bern Angellino brought against the Royal Family Al-Saud and
16 of its members in 2010.  Angellino said he had sent invoices and a notice that he
had commenced the collection case to the Saudi embassy in
Washington, steps that U.S. District Judge James E. Boasberg
last year ruled failed meet legal requirements. In a 2-1 ruling,
the appeals court disagreed, ruling Boasberg failed to fairly
apprise the artist, who acted as his own attorney, of what was
required.  “Pro se litigants are allowed more latitude than litigants
represented by counsel to correct defects in service of process
and pleadings,” U.S. Circuit Judge Karen LeCraft Henderson
wrote for the majority.  Dissenting, U.S. Circuit Judge  Brett Kavanaugh  said the
lower court had given Angellino “ample opportunity” to pursue
the case during the 13 months it was pending.  The sculptures were designed in 2006 and 2007, and shipped
to the royal family under an agreement requiring them either to
return them or to pay for them. Angellino said they were
retained without payment, according to today’s decision.  Absent formal notice that they had been sued, the Saudi
royal family didn’t oppose Angellino’s claim in either court.
The Saudi Embassy press office in Washington didn’t immediately
reply to an e-mailed request for comment.  The case is Angellino v. Royal Family Al-Saud, 11-7043,
U.S. Circuit Court for the  District of Columbia  ( Washington ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Harris in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  