-- BTA Executive Said to Complain Signatures Were Forged Last Year
-- B y   N a r i m a n   G i z i t d i n o v
-- 2012-06-05T18:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-05/bta-executive-said-to-complain-signatures-were-forged-last-year.html
A senior  BTA Bank (BTAS)  executive said his
signatures were forged last year and used to backdate documents
in the months the Kazakh lender sought to staunch a capital
deficit that forced its second debt restructuring in December,
according to three people directly familiar with the matter.  The official, who served on the bank’s  management board ,
filed a complaint after discovering the fraudulent use of his
electronic signatures in May 2011, the people said, declining to
be identified because the information isn’t public. Citing
commercial confidentiality, BTA declined to confirm or deny the
existence of any complaint or internal investigation.  The allegations raise questions about the bank’s controls
and oversight following state takeover of the country’s biggest
lender before its default on $12 billion of  debt  in 2009.
Almaty-based BTA proposed a second restructuring in December to
stave off bankruptcy and failed to make an interest payment on
its July 2018 dollar bonds in January.  Kazakhstan ’s state-owned wealth fund Samruk-Kazyna injected
883 billion tenge ($6 billion) to raise BTA’s equity capital in
2009 and 2010, the equivalent of about 4 percent of gross
domestic product. BTA, which also defaulted in April on $5.2
billion of so-called recovery notes, predicts its capital
shortfall may reach about $6 billion by the end of 2012,
compared with a January estimate for a deficit of $5.1 billion.  Samruk-Kazyna’s press service referred all questions to BTA
Chairman Anvar Saidenov and Chief Executive Officer Erik Balapanov. The existing system of using electronic signatures by
board members at BTA makes impossible any unauthorized use or
unsanctioned third-party access, the bank said in an e-mailed
statement on June 1.  500 Items  The bank’s rules allow management-board members exclusive
use of electronic copies of their signatures. The executive
complained his name was used to sign about 30 documents, which
contained a total of about 500 individual items, in two
instances over a combined period of about eight minutes, two of
the people said.  Documents were backdated to March 2010 during the period
signatures were allegedly forged last year, according to the
people. One of the documents fraudulently signed with the
executive’s name granted an over-limit grace period until
December 2015 on a loan to a construction company, the people
said.  Surprised, Disappointed  A group of creditors said in a Dec. 30 letter to BTA, the
Kazakh central bank and Samruk-Kazyna that the bondholders were
“surprised and disappointed by the significant failures of
Samruk-Kazyna and the central bank to exercise shareholder and
regulatory control and oversight over the affairs on the bank
since the initial restructuring.”  Graft is pervasive in Kazakh banking, with every seventh
borrower paying a bribe to secure a loan, the  Sange  research
center in Almaty said in a poll released in February. BTA was
ranked as the country’s fifth-most corrupt lender in the survey,
with customers often encountering demands for kickbacks or
requests for repayment ahead of schedule.  BTA has blamed its previous management for failures that
preceded the state takeover, filing a series of civil suits
against ex-Chairman Mukhtar Ablyazov and ex-Chief Executive
Officer Roman Solodchenko and claiming they took more than $5
billion from the bank using fake loans, backdated documents and
offshore companies. Both men have denied any wrongdoing.  In April, Kazakhstan reopened criminal cases against three
BTA managers who were accused of “large-scale embezzlement as
part of an organized group and misappropriating property
entrusted to them,” according to the Prosecutor General’s
Office.  BTA Rules  A vote by everyone present is required for BTA’s management
board to make decisions, with a final tally entered into the
record, the bank said in an e-mailed reply to questions.  The technological procedure of using electronic signatures
has several layers of protection that require the sanction or
direct participation of the vote-wielding member of the
management board, according to BTA. The lender’s information
system also precludes unauthorized access to data systems and
employees’ personal computers, it said.  Writing in the December letter, BTA creditors warned that
the bank’s proposal for another restructuring will cast a
spotlight on internal controls and corporate governance.  “You should of course be aware that the operations of the
bank will be the subject of heightened scrutiny,” the creditors
wrote.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nariman Gizitdinov in Almaty at 
 ngizitdinov@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at   sev@bloomberg.net  