-- Buffett’s Berkshire Discloses Stake in Lee Enterprises
-- B y   D a n   K r a u t
-- 2012-06-05T21:28:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-05/buffett-s-berkshire-discloses-stake-in-lee-enterprises.html
Warren Buffett ’s  Berkshire Hathaway
Inc. (BRK/A)  disclosed a stake in  Lee Enterprises Inc. (LEE)  as the
billionaire investor bets on community newspapers.  Buffett’s firm had 1.66 million shares as of March 31,
valued at about $2.1 million, Omaha, Nebraska-based Berkshire
said in a regulatory filing today. Berkshire withheld
information about the stake on May 15 when the company disclosed
other holdings in a filing with the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission. The firm said today that its request to keep the Lee
information confidential was denied.  Buffett has been increasing investments in newspapers,
buying the Omaha World-Herald last year and striking a deal in
May to acquire 63 publications including the Richmond Times-
Dispatch of Virginia from  Media General Inc. (MEG)  Davenport, Iowa-
based Lee emerged from Chapter 11 proceedings in January and has
more than 40 papers, including the St. Louis Post-Dispatch.  “Our future depends on remaining the primary source of
information in certain subjects of great importance to our
readers,” Buffett wrote in a  letter  to publishers and editors
of Berkshire’s daily papers last month. “Technological change
has caused us to lose primacy in various key areas, including
national news, national sports, stock quotations and employment
opportunities. So be it. Our job is to reign supreme in matters
of local importance.”  Lee climbed 25 cents to $1.40 in extended trading at 4:31
p.m. in New York. The company advanced 63 percent this year
through today’s close.  Buffett obtained the stake as Berkshire bought loans in the
company, the Wall Street Journal reported in April. The
billionaire didn’t return a message for comment left with an
assistant.  “Berkshire Hathaway is a very successful, very smart
investor,” Daniel Hayes, a spokesman for Lee, said in a phone
interview. “We’re gratified he’s taken an interest in Lee
Enterprises and in our industry.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Kraut in  New York  at 
 Dkraut2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net  