-- Burbank Bets on Global Recession With Subprime Conviction
-- B y   K a t h e r i n e   B u r t o n   a n d   K e l l y   B i t
-- 2012-06-05T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-05/burbank-bets-on-global-recession-with-subprime-conviction.html
In the dozen years that  John Burbank 
has run his $3.4 billion Passport Capital hedge fund, he’s never
been as negative on global stocks as he is now.  Burbank, 48, expects that the U.S. and much of the rest of
the world will slide into a recession, and he’s setting up for
that event with a big wager that global stocks will fall. Most
of his peers are still betting that stocks, especially those in
the U.S., are more likely to rise than decline.  “You have a great contrarian outcome here that will be
obvious in hindsight, just like subprime was,” Burbank said in
a May 31 interview. “I have a lot of conviction about something
that others don’t seem to see clearly.”  For Burbank, it’s reminiscent of 2006, when he bet big on a
tumble in subprime mortgages, a wager that earned his fund 220
percent the following year. Unlike most equity-heavy hedge-fund
managers, Burbank is comfortable making big bets based on
macroeconomic themes, an investing style that has tripped up
some peers as of late.  John Paulson , who made $15 billion betting against
subprime, lost 51 percent last year in one of his largest funds
with a wrong-way bet on a U.S. economic recovery, then missed
out on the market rebound after scaling back risk.  Burbank also has a lot to prove. His main fund has climbed
about 20 percent this year through the end of May, yet he’s
still below his previous peak level after losing 50 percent in
2008, according to two investors, who asked not to be named
because the information is private. After returning almost 20
percent in each of the following two years, his fund tumbled 18
percent in 2011. He lost money in the fourth quarter on
emerging-market stocks and commodity equities with smaller
market capitalizations, and when he started to switch his
portfolio to a more bearish stance at the end of November, he
missed the late-year rally.  Client Redemptions  Some clients have lost patience, pulling about $500 million
from the main fund in the first quarter, according to a letter
sent to investors. Redemptions from that fund, which now has
$1.5 billion in assets, have since stopped. The firm had net
deposits in the second quarter, said a person familiar with the
fund who asked not to be named because the information is
private.  “In 2006 we had a lot of redemptions before our strategy
paid off,” said Burbank, adding that the fund lost about 20
percent from the subprime bet that year. “Redemptions are a
lagging indicator not a leading one.”  Passport’s year-to-date gains, most of which were earned in
the last two months, trounced other  hedge funds  and the stock
market. Stock hedge funds have returned less than 1 percent this
year through May 31, according to a daily index published by
Chicago-based Hedge Fund Research Inc. The Standard & Poor’s 500
Index returned 5.2 percent in the same period.  Governments Broke  Burbank said that governments in the U.S.,  Europe  and  China 
can no longer afford to inject cash into their respective
economies and that will cause global growth to slow.  “What was government stimulus is giving way to austerity
because balance sheets are now swollen with debt,” he said.
“We have reached the end of what governments can do.”  In 2008, the U.S. government provided a $700 billion
bailout to save the banks, their management and shareholders.
China that year introduced a 4 trillion  yuan  ($628 billion)
fiscal package. Since December of last year, the  European
Central Bank ’s longer-term refinancing operations have pumped
more than $1 trillion euros ($1.25 trillion) into the financial
system.  “They ran up so much in deficits with so little to show
from it,” said Burbank. “It won’t be repeated. What happens
the next three years is highly deflationary, we are stuck with
even more debt, a bigger slowdown and we didn’t fix anything.”  Gains Erased  The  Dow Jones Industrial Average (INDU)  last week erased its 2012
advance as economic reports showed the American jobs engine
sputtered in May. Payrolls climbed less than economists had
expected and unemployment rose to 8.2 percent from 8.1 percent.
Manufacturing shrank in Europe and slowed in China, the world’s
second-largest economy.  To benefit from the expected global slowdown, Burbank has
120 percent of his portfolio betting that stocks will tumble,
and only 80 percent on wagers they will rise. In hedge fund
parlance, he’s 40 percent net short. Most stock hedge funds,
which can use borrowed money, or leverage, to buy more assets
and amplify returns, were 46 percent net long as of last week,
according to Morgan Stanley’s prime brokerage unit.  Copper and Gold  About 100 percent of assets in Burbank’s fund are bets
against individual stocks he expects will plummet, and another
20 percent went to buy out-of-the-money put options on the  S&P
500 , which will gain in value if the benchmark falls. A put
option is a contract that gives the owner the right to sell an
underlying asset for a fixed price at a future date. The
contract is out of the money if the strike price is lower than
that of the underlying security.  Burbank says he’s focused on shares of copper and gold
miners as well as gas exploration and production companies,
which will all be hurt by a global slowdown. He’s bearish on
financials and industrial companies as well. Financial stocks
were among the main contributors to Paulson’s losses last year.  Since February, about 20 percent of Passport’s short book
is in France,  Spain  and  Italy , primarily in telecommunications
companies, banks, consumer products and industrial companies.
Burbank declined to disclose specific shorts.  Some companies in those industries have struggled amid the
region’s debt crisis.  Telefonica SA (TEF) , Spain’s biggest phone
company, is considering merging its German unit with Royal KPN
NV’s German business as it seeks to cut its debt. The stock has
lost 30 percent this year through May, including dividends.  Short Book  Bankia, the country’s third-biggest bank, was nationalized
by Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy ’s government on May 9, leading
the lender with the biggest Spanish asset base to request 19
billion euros of state backing to clean up bad loans. The shares
 plunged  71 percent this year through last month.  Burbank said he’s also bearish on emerging market stocks
because European banks don’t have the capital to lend to
companies there.  Emerging markets , as measured by the MSCI
Emerging Markets Index, are down about 2.5 percent this year,
with dividends reinvested, after having risen about 18 percent
in the first two months of the year.  His biggest wager on a rising market, accounting for about
16 percent, is in Saudi stocks, which he likes because it’s an
insulated market where foreigners only own about 2 percent of
the shares. The currency is pegged to the dollar, and the
companies there are growing fast and pay high dividends, he
said.  Buying Apple  Burbank is also long innovative companies like  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ,
his sixth-largest U.S. holding at the end of the first quarter,
as well as health care and consumer staples, industries that are
considered defensive during an economic slowdown.  Another 11 percent is in mortgages, and about 9 percent in
gold, as governments in India and China look to buy more of the
precious metal. A separate mortgage fund, with about $200
million in assets, is up 6 percent this year, according to an
investor.  Burbank, who graduated from  Duke University  with an English
degree in 1987, never imagined he’d be a trader. He put himself
through college running a house-painting business during the
summers. After earning $35,000 one year, he figured he’d be an
entrepreneur and got an MBA from  Stanford University  in 1992.
Two years later, at the age of 30, he borrowed $50,000 from his
credit cards and tried his hand at trading.  ‘I Was Curious’  “I was curious,” Burbank said in the interview. “After
reading and studying it, I decided to start trading. I had never
done it before so I had to do it to understand it.”  The experience led to a two-year job as research director
for ValueVest Management, and a one-year stint as a consultant
for hedge fund JMG Capital Partners LP. In 2000, he founded
Passport with $800,000.  Burbank isn’t fazed that other hedge-fund managers are
still at least modestly bullish on the U.S. No one wants to miss
a run up in stocks, he says, and even with May’s 6 percent
tumble, the S&P 500 is still up 2.6 percent for the year. Most
managers say it’s too risky to stay out of the market or to go
short, he says, especially because over the last few years,
governments have provided liquidity.  Burbank sees things differently.  “My whole approach is betting on things being different
than they were in the past.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Katherine Burton in  New York  at 
 kburton@bloomberg.net ;
Kelly Bit in New York at 
 kbit@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  