-- Campaign Giving by Text Seen as Fee Source: BGOV Barometer
-- B y   A n d r e w   Z a j a c
-- 2012-06-05T14:53:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-05/campaign-giving-by-text-seen-as-new-fee-source-bgov-barometer.html
The Romney and Obama campaigns want
supporters to be able to send contributions instantly using
their smartphones, a step that would let telecommunications
companies join in collecting fees that now flow to bank-card
networks.  The BGOV Barometer shows credit-card companies including
 Visa Inc. (V)  and American Express Co. and payment processors such
as eBay Inc.’s Paypal have pocketed more than $14.4 million in
fees for handling contributions to presidential candidates so
far in the 2012 election cycle, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. In 2008, when both parties had presidential primary
contests, the companies took in $30.4 million.  The payment networks could be joined by telecom carriers
and aggregators in collecting revenue from political campaigns
for processing donations if the  Federal Election Commission 
approves a pending request to allow limited campaign giving via
text messaging from mobile phones.  The eventual impact is likely to be more revenue for
payment processors of all kinds as campaigns master methods for
identifying small donors and simplify ways for them to
contribute, said  Michael Malbin , executive director of the
Campaign Finance Institute, a Washington-based non-profit that
analyzes political fundraising.  “It’s not a zero-sum game,” said Malbin. “Political
participation has been growing.”  Vote Scheduled  The FEC is scheduled to vote June 7 on a  request  for an
advisory opinion that would let phone users make as much as $50
in donations per monthly billing cycle. Contributions would be
added to the subscriber’s phone bill.  “It’s both a frictionless way of handling donations and an
easier way for donors to give,” said Craig Engle, an attorney
with Washington-based  Arent Fox LLP , who is seeking FEC approval
for text donations on behalf of telecom aggregator m-Qube Inc.,
a subsidiary of Mobile Messenger Inc., of Los Angeles, and two
political consulting firms, Red Blue T LLC and ArmourMedia Inc.  The campaigns of both President  Barack Obama  and former
Massachusetts Governor  Mitt Romney  filed comments with the FEC
in support of the texting donation proposal.  A similar proposal put forth by CTIA-The Wireless
Association, of Washington, was rejected by the FEC in 2010 amid
concerns that it could be used to circumvent the $50 federal
limit on contributions that campaigns can accept without
recording information including the name of the donor.  Maryland, California  Maryland and  California  have already approved giving by
text message in state races. Officials in both states said the
aim is to increase citizen involvement in the political process.  “It is going to be synonymous with campaign fundraising
very soon,” said Jared DeMarinis, spokesman for the  Maryland
State Board of Elections .  Under the current federal proposal, each campaign would be
issued a four- or five-digit code that texters would punch in to
register contributions.  M-Qube would receive donations from wireless carriers, such
as AT&T Inc. and Verizon Communications Inc., and advance the
money to the campaigns after making sure contributions from
individual phone numbers don’t exceed the $50 limit for
anonymous giving.  In 2010, about $40 million was collected for Haitian
earthquake relief in $10 increments through text messaging in 10
days, offering some sense of the scale of fundraising possible
via the medium, said Mark Armour, the president of  ArmourMedia ,
of  Los Angeles .  Upselling Opportunity  Campaigns will have access to texters’ phone numbers,
creating the opportunity to “upsell” them for larger
donations, according to Armour, a press secretary in  Al Gore ’s
1988 presidential campaign.  Mobile carriers still must agree to permit political
donations via their services, said Alan Sege, executive vice
president and general counsel of Mobile Messenger.  “If the FEC approves it and the political campaigns want
it, it’s my personal belief that the carriers will say ‘yes,’”
Sege said in a phone interview.  Tim O’Regan, a spokesman for T-Mobile USA Inc., declined to
comment.  Spokesmen for Verizon and AT&T didn’t return messages
seeking comment.  Carriers’ Share  Political campaigns can expect to see 50 to 70 percent of a
donation, with the rest going to fees to aggregators and
carriers, Sege said. By comparison, a “card not present”
transaction, such as one involving a credit card number entered
into a campaign website, carries a fee ranging between 2 and 3
percent, according to Trish Wexler, spokeswoman for the
Electronic Payments Coalition, a trade group that represents
credit card networks and banks.  The Obama campaign may be especially well-positioned in the
current election to capitalize on a new pool of small donors.  About 44 percent of the $217 million the Obama campaign
raised through April has come from small donors, defined as
those who contribute $200 or less, according to the non-partisan
 Center for Responsive Politics.   Small donors have supplied Romney with 12 percent of the
$98 million he’s raised in the current campaign, the center’s
data shows.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Zajac in  Washington  at 
 azajac@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Timothy Franklin at 
 tfranklin14@bloomberg.net  