-- Can Barry Diller Upend the TV Industry Again?
-- B y   S u s a n   P .   C r a w f o r d
-- 2012-06-05T23:00:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-05/can-barry-diller-upend-the-tv-industry-again-.html
Barry Diller  is taking on the
broadcasting industry -- again. This time his threat comes not
from within, in the form of a fourth network, but from the
outside, in the form of a dime-sized antenna.  Television broadcasters are fighting  a court battle  with
Aereo, a service launched this year in  New York . Aereo has set
up thousands of tiny antennas in  Brooklyn  that receive over-the-
air television signals and send them into short-term digital
storage at users’ request. Residents of  Manhattan  can receive on
any device their personal antenna’s digital signal -- translated
into an almost-real-time online river of ones and zeros.  Aereo says it is providing customers, who pay $12 a month
for the service, with a rented antenna attached to a personal
“digital locker” for shows those same people could otherwise
watch free of charge over the air. From Aereo’s perspective, its
product is a newfangled videocassette recorder for personal use
-- one that happens to have a very long cord.  From the broadcasters’ perspective, Aereo is a diabolical
Rube Goldberg system engineered by lawyers to take advantage of
a favorable 2008  federal court decision . That ruling said the
operator of a remote digital video recorder is not liable for
copyright infringement. There’s a reason you can’t sign up for
Aereo if you live in Hoboken,  New Jersey ; it’s in a different
federal jurisdiction where that case may not carry weight.  Pitched Battle  Although cloaked in hypertechnical copyright-ese, this
lawsuit is really about the pitched battle between the highly
concentrated programming-distribution industry and the Internet.
(Adding to the intrigue is the presence of Diller, who helped
found Fox Broadcasting in 1986 and is an investor in Aereo.) A
host of incumbents -- broadcasters, cable channels, cable
distributors -- have a strong interest in getting in the way of
any firm that offers viewers potentially unlimited online
options.  The broadcasters have benefited from 70 years of favorable
regulatory treatment supporting free, local, over-the-air
 network television  as the common public medium for the country.
To keep this ideal in place, Congress gave broadcasters the
right to demand payment from pay-TV systems (satellite, cable,
telephone) for retransmission of their local signals. Payments
to broadcasters  could reach  $3.6 billion by 2017.  But Congress’s rationale is obsolete: The broadcast
networks are largely indistinguishable these days from cable
channels. It’s not about local content or public service, it’s
about money. And what broadcasters receive is peanuts compared
with the  tens of billions  the cable channels receive annually in
fees from cable systems. All the broadcast networks are owned by
giant conglomerates that also own all of the most successful
cable channels (and Comcast/NBC Universal owns the country’s
largest cable distributor as well).  The continued success of this entire industry depends on
the delivery of large bundles of channels for premium prices.
With their wires already connected to most Americans’ homes, the
large cable distributors can guarantee this delivery. TV
programmers can charge cable distributors more, the distributors
can pass these charges along to subscribers, and everyone
involved can count exactly who’s watching what when (which makes
the advertising market work).  The only losers in this system are the viewers. We are
stuck with impenetrable bundles of shiny programming -- whether
we want everything in that bundle or not.  Compare this system to an online service such as iTunes,
which makes it possible to buy songs instead of albums, and
episodes instead of channels. In short, the content has been
“unbundled.” The broadcasters don’t like this, because if all
their programming is available online by way of Aereo or iTunes,
why would a cable distributor pay billions for it?  Advertising Only  Without retransmission payments, the broadcasters will have
to rely on advertising to survive. That’s not great for them
when it comes to online streaming video, because Nielsen Co.
isn’t yet set up to count online audiences accurately, and the
broadcasters like using Nielsen.  Despite all this, the cable distributors may well be OK --
no matter what happens to Aereo. If the broadcasters win their
case, all U.S. cloud-based online backup and storage services
could be liable for copyright infringement. After all, these
systems copy and store bits of data at the request of users,
just like Aereo does. But the distributors themselves, with
their strong negotiating position with TV programmers, would be
in an ideal position to provide these services.  Even if Aereo wins, the cable distributors still have
several sledgehammers with which to crush any real threat from
online video. The real money is in cable channels, not
broadcast. Cable distributors can remind television programmers
that they won’t pay affiliate fees if any cable channel wanders
out alone online. They can impose data caps on any online video
that isn’t part of their stable, and remind their customers that
independent programs and films (and games and video calls) will
be expensive to watch. They have ample and growing market power
with which to twist all the dials their way.  The broadcast networks like to remind us that a free over-
the-air communications service is part of the U.S. social
contract. But broadcasters retain few of the public obligations
they took on in exchange for the public airwaves granted to
them. (Have you watched local broadcast news recently?) At the
same time, they are part of a powerful consolidated industry
that is uninterested in having a free market in video (or any
other high-bandwidth application) operate online.  The old common medium was broadcast. The new one is
 Internet access . It may take more than a court battle with Barry
Diller to get U.S. media conglomerates to see things that way.  (Susan P. Crawford is a Bloomberg View columnist and a
visiting professor at the Harvard Kennedy School of Government
and  Harvard Law School . She is a former special assistant to
President  Barack Obama  for science, technology and innovation
policy. The opinions expressed are her own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View columns, editorials
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the View editors on  Brazil’s economy ; Clive
Crook on the  Fed’s global leadership ;  Peter Orszag  on the
 Congressional Budget Office’s long-term outlook ; Gary Shilling
on  Japan’s deficits ; Yukon Huang on the  myths of the Chinese
economy ; Tim Judah on  Syria and Iraq .  To contact the writer of this article:
Susan P. Crawford at  scrawford@scrawford.net  or @scrawford on
Twitter  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
 Michael Newman  at   mnewman43@bloomberg.net  