-- Canadian Dollar Gains From 6-Month Low on BOC Outlook
-- B y   C h r i s   F o u r n i e r
-- 2012-06-05T21:12:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-05/canadian-dollar-falls-as-stocks-drop-before-central-bank.html
Canada ’s dollar strengthened from
almost a six-month low after central bank policy makers said
they may raise  interest rates  with the domestic economic
recovery proceeding as forecast, even as global risks have
increased.  The currency erased losses against the U.S. dollar after
Governor  Mark Carney  said “some modest withdrawal of the
present considerable monetary policy stimulus may become
appropriate.” The central bank left its benchmark overnight
rate unchanged at 1 percent, as predicted by all 27 forecasters
in a Bloomberg survey.  “The statement is fairly similar to the last one -- the
tone is still hawkish,”  Camilla Sutton , chief currency
strategist at  Bank of Nova Scotia (BNS) ’s Scotia Capital unit in
Toronto, said in a telephone interview. “It highlights some
deterioration, but says the underlying momentum is still strong.
It’s positive for the Canadian dollar in the very near term.”  Canada’s currency, nicknamed the loonie for the image of
the waterfowl on the C$1 coin, rose 0.1 percent to C$1.0381 per
 U.S. dollar  at 5 p.m. in Toronto after falling as much as 0.3
percent. It touched C$1.0447 yesterday, the lowest level since
Nov. 28. One Canadian dollar buys 96.33 U.S. cents.  Government bonds  fell for a second day. The yield on
benchmark 10-year debt rose six basis points, or 0.06 percentage
point, to 1.74 percent as the price of the 2.75 percent
securities due in June 2022 dropped 60 cents to C$109.25. The
yield touched 1.615 percent on June 1, the lowest in at least
six decades, on demand for the safest and most liquid of assets.  ‘Most Hawkish’  Carney said in the bank’s April 17 statement that interest-
rate rises may be necessary to contain stronger inflation and
diminishing slack in the domestic economy. By the end of April,
overnight index swaps were pricing in at least one quarter-
percentage point increase by the end of 2012, according to
Bloomberg calculations.  A resurgence of  Europe ’s debt crisis after inconclusive
Greek elections in May sent swaps in the other direction. As of
yesterday, they were pricing in a full quarter-percentage point
rate cut by the end of the year.  “The major driver is still what’s transpiring on the
European front,” said Sutton. “The Bank of Canada is still the
most hawkish advanced-economy central bank.”  Canada’s currency reached 98.04 cents per U.S. dollar on
April 27, the strongest in seven months, before plunging more
than 6 percent.  Canada’s growth prospects remain “largely consistent with
expectations” while the global outlook “has weakened in recent
weeks,” the Ottawa-based central bank said today. The world’s
10th-largest economy may be hindered by a deepening debt crisis
in Europe, slowing U.S. job growth and cooling  emerging markets ,
which have cut prices of commodities Canada exports.  ‘Tightening Bias’  Traders trimmed bets on 2012 interest-rate reductions after
the  Bank of Canada  released its statement. About seven basis
points of easing by year-end was priced in, according to
Bloomberg calculations on overnight index swaps. That’s down
from 34 basis points yesterday, the data show.  The statement was “just what I thought: retain the
tightening bias, soften it slightly, which they did,”  Greg Anderson , the North American head of Group of 10 currency
strategy at Citigroup Inc., said by phone from  New York . “It’s
not the stage for any central bank to do anything, except
possibly for the  European Central Bank .”  Greek Elections  Anderson predicts the Canadian dollar will strengthen
“against Europe” -- the euro, sterling and the currencies of
Norway and  Sweden . He said if Greek elections, scheduled for
June 17, add to the euro bloc’s debt crisis, the loonie could
depreciate to C$1.06 versus the greenback.  “With the Canadian dollar’s safe-haven role relative to
other Group of 10 currencies,” he said, “I think we’re
probably going to be in a narrow C$1.03 to C$1.05 range for some
time now.”  The loonie gained 0.9 percent over the past three months
against nine developed-nation peers monitored by Bloomberg
Correlation Weighted Indexes. The U.S. dollar was up 4.9
percent, the yen rose 8 percent and the euro fell 1 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Fournier in Montreal at 
 cfournier3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  