-- Casey Martin Qualifies With Golf Cart for U.S. Open Return
-- B y   M a s o n   L e v i n s o n
-- 2012-06-05T18:18:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-05/casey-martin-qualifies-with-golf-cart-for-return-to-u-s-open.html
Casey Martin again will be riding a
cart for the  U.S. Open  at the Olympic Club, qualifying for the
golf season’s second major championship six years after ending
his professional career.  Martin, who successfully sued the U.S. PGA Tour in 2001 for
the right to ride a cart because of a degenerative circulatory
disorder, was the medalist in yesterday’s U.S. Open sectional
qualifying.  The 40-year-old Martin rode a cart during local and
sectional qualifying and will use a single-rider vehicle when
the U.S Open begins on June 14 in  San Francisco , the  United
States Golf Association  said on its website.  Martin, now the men’s golf coach at the University of
Oregon, shot a 4-under-par 138 over two rounds at Emerald Valley
Golf Club in Creswell,  Oregon . He sank a four-foot par putt on
his final hole to earn one of two Open berths.  Martin was born with Klippel-Trenaunay-Weber Syndrome, a
degenerative circulatory disorder that obstructs the flow of
blood from his right leg to his heart.  In May 2001, the U.S. Supreme Court decided, 7-2, that the
Americans With Disabilities Act required the PGA Tour to exempt
Martin from its “walking rule” because he couldn’t cover long
distances on foot. The tour had argued that allowing one golfer
to use a cart would “fundamentally alter” the competition.  Tiger’s Teammate  Martin, who was a senior at  Stanford University  when Tiger Woods was a freshman, first sued the  PGA Tour  in 1997. In June
1998, he sank a 25-foot putt for birdie to win a five-way
playoff in a sectional qualifying tournament to win a spot in
the U.S. Open at the Olympic Club, the last time the event was
held there.  “Simply incredible,” Woods said on Twitter. “Ability,
attitude and guts. See you at Olympic Casey.”  Martin shot an 11-over-par 291 in the tournament, tying for
23rd. While playing the 1999 season on the development tour, he
earned a PGA Tour card. His best finish in 2000 was a tie for
17th at the Tucson Open, and he missed 15 of 29 midway cuts that
year. He’s been Oregon’s coach for the past six seasons.  Forty-eight golfers qualified for the U.S. Open in
sectional tournaments held at 11 sites throughout the U.S. Among
those joining Martin are  Davis Love III , the 2012 Ryder Cup
captain, and Bob Estes, who will make his 15th U.S. Open
appearance.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mason Levinson in  New York  at 
 mlevinson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net . 