-- CBS Credit Swaps Jump on Potential Sale of its Billboard Unit
-- B y   S r i d h a r   N a t a r a j a n
-- 2012-06-05T21:03:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-05/cbs-credit-swaps-jump-on-potential-sale-of-its-billboard-unit.html
The cost to protect against losses on
the debt of  CBS Corp. (CBS) , owner of the most-watched U.S. television
network, jumped by the most in more than eight months as the
company agreed to meet potential buyers for its billboard unit.  Credit-default swaps on the company climbed 13.1 basis
points to a mid-price of 118 basis points at 4:45 p.m. in New
York, according to prices compiled by Bloomberg. That’s the
biggest increase since climbing 14 basis points on Oct. 3.  The media company agreed to listen to proposals from
possible buyers for its outdoor advertising unit, according to a
person with knowledge of the situation, who wasn’t authorized to
talk publicly. The swaps contracts linked to the company rose as
its  bonds  were little changed.  “The widening today reflects a risk of a CDS succession
event,” Hale Holden, a Barclays Plc analyst, said in a
telephone interview, refering to an occurrence when one entity
becomes responsible for the obligations of another. “If there’s
a debt exchange associated with this possible spinoff, it could
result in the CDS contracts getting split.”  In such a situation a portion of the securities referenced
by the swaps would shift to the new company, increasing the risk
for investors that sold protection on the CBS bonds.  The average cost of the contracts referencing the two
companies’ debt may be wider than the current level of CBS’s
credit swaps, indicating why the CDS widened while the bonds
remained little changed, according to Holden.  CBS Bonds  The television-network owner’s $700 million of 3.375
percent notes maturing in March 2022 fell 1 cent to 99.3 cents
on the dollar at 1:56 p.m., according to Trace, the bond-price
reporting system of the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority.
The bonds widened about 2.5 basis points to yield 190 basis
points more than similar-maturity Treasuries.  “The question is what they would do with the proceeds,”
said Melissa Link, an analyst at  Fitch Ratings , who said a sale
of the unit would be a credit-neutral event. “Credit quality
and solid BBB ratings are important to them and they would not
do anything that would jeopardize it.”  New York-based CBS is rated two levels above junk at BBB by
Fitch, an equivalent BBB by  Standard & Poor’s  and Baa2 by
Moody’s Investors Service. The company had $5.9 billion of long-
term debt as of March 31, according to a May 1 regulatory
filing.  The Markit CDX North America Investment Grade Index, a
credit-default swaps benchmark that investors use to hedge
against losses on corporate debt or to speculate on
creditworthiness, fell 1.6 basis point to a mid-price of 125.9
basis points at 4:41 p.m., Bloomberg prices show. The index
typically declines as investor confidence improves and rises as
it deteriorates.  Credit-default swaps pay the buyer face value if a borrower
fails to meet its obligations, less the value of the defaulted
debt. A basis point equals $1,000 annually on a contract
protecting $10 million of debt.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sridhar Natarajan in  New York  at 
 snatarajan15@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  