-- CBS Said to Permit Bankers to Find Billboard Unit Buyers
-- B y   A n d y   F i x m e r
-- 2012-06-05T20:32:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-05/cbs-said-to-permit-bankers-to-find-billboard-unit-buyers.html
CBS Corp. (CBS) , owner of the most-watched
U.S. TV network, was approached by bankers interested in finding
buyers for its billboard unit and agreed to listen to proposals,
said a person with knowledge of the situation.  CBS agreed to meet potential buyers, the person, who wasn’t
authorized to talk publicly, said late yesterday. The media
company didn’t sign an agreement or agree to a term sheet and
doesn’t plan to distribute an offering book, said the person,
who declined to identify the bankers.  A sale of the outdoor advertising unit would leave the
company with  divisions  that create and distribute entertainment
content for television, radio and cable networks. Chief
Executive Officer  Leslie Moonves  said on a Sept. 20 conference
call CBS would listen to proposals from interested buyers. Chief
Financial Officer Joe Ianniello said at a May 30 investor
conference there has been interest in the outdoor business.  “There’s definitely a lot of interest in Outdoor,”
Ianniello said at the conference in  London . “I will always look
to maximize value, whether it’s through operations or through an
M&A transaction. We’re very excited about the business, so we’re
going to continue to operate it. If something comes along that
makes some sense, we’ll let everybody know.”  Decaux Interest  CBS wants $6 billion for the division, the Wall Street
Journal reported yesterday, citing unidentified people with
knowledge of the operation. Some buyers believe it’s worth
closer to $4 billion, the newspaper said.  Dana McClintock, a spokesman for New York-based CBS,
declined to comment yesterday on the prospect of selling the
outdoor unit. He also declined to comment on the Wall Street
Journal report.  CBS, controlled by Chairman  Sumner Redstone , climbed
2.8 percent to $31.47 at the close in  New York . The shares have
gained 16 percent this year.  In March 2011,  JCDecaux SA (DEC)  Chairman and co-CEO Jean- Francois Decaux said he’s a natural buyer of CBS Outdoor. In
2009, he said the company would consider buying the division or
 Clear Channel Outdoor Holdings Inc. (CCO)  to become the biggest
outdoor advertising company in the world.  “Yes, Mr. Decaux, who we know very well and we like, makes
statements about how he’d like to buy our outdoor company,”
Moonves said May 3, 2011 on an earnings conference call. “He
has our phone number. If he wants to make an offer, we’ll always
listen to it.”  Outdoor Revenue  In 2011, CBS Outdoor produced $1.89 billion in revenue, 13
percent of the company’s  total sales . The unit is the third-
biggest after entertainment, which includes the CBS television
network, and the Local Broadcasting division that operates the
company’s local TV and radio stations.  This year, the division will benefit from political
campaigns and the  Summer Olympics  in London, where CBS holds the
advertising contract for that city’s subway system, Ianniello
said on the company’s May 1 earnings conference call.  Outdoor sales climbed about 1 percent to $416 million in
the first quarter from a year earlier. Revenue will rise about 2
percent in the current period, compared with a year earlier,
Ianniello said on the May 1 call. Olympics advertising will
boost third-quarter results, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andy Fixmer in  Los Angeles  at 
 afixmer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  