-- Central Balkan Countries Must Lower Debt Load: World Bank
-- B y   B o r i s   C e r n i   a n d   M i s h a   S a v i c
-- 2012-06-05T10:20:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-05/central-balkan-countries-must-lower-debt-load-world-bank.html
Central Balkan governments must
consolidate their public finances and reduce debt to avoid
funding problems as their economies slow, the  World Bank (NKWGRAU)  said.  The economies of   Serbia , Albania, Bosnia-Herzegovina,
Kosovo, Montenegro and the Former Yugoslav republic of Macedonia
can expect an average expansion of 1.1. percent this year and
2.6 percent next year, the  World Bank  said in the report today.
The region’s financial-services industry is “relatively well
placed” to withstand the shock if the Greek crisis intensifies,
it said.  “With both public debt and financing pressures high, most
countries in the region need to embark on major fiscal
consolidation programs if they are to reverse their adverse debt
dynamics and avoid financing problems down the road,” the
Washington-based lender said in the report.  The Balkan region, which depends on western  Europe  for
economic expansion, has been hit as the euro region’s debt
crisis cuts demand for their exports and the banks tighten
lending over concern that  Greece  may abandon the single currency
bloc.  The governments of the nations that aspire to join the
European Union, should demand that banks, including Italy’s
 Intesa Sanpaolo SpA (ISP)  and Austria’s Erste Group AG, “build up
their buffers” to make the industry more resilient to shocks,
the World Bank said.  “Credit growth is likely to remain weak, and the financial
sector, increasingly dependent on local deposits as deleveraging
of European banks continues, will have to deal with elevated
non-performing loans levels,” the bank said in the report.  Governments should work to overhaul their economies and
seize “the historic opportunity to board the European
convergence train” and reduce their  income gap  with the
developed nations of the EU, it said.  It the European debt crisis worsens, countries with a
strong reliance on remittances, tourism, commodities may be hit
the hardest, the report said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Boris Cerni in Ljubljana at 
 bcerni@bloomberg.net ;
Misha Savic in Belgrade at 
 msavic2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  