-- Charterhouse Said to Eye Sale of Engineering Firm Fives
-- B y   J a c q u e l i n e   S i m m o n s   a n d   A n n e - S y l v a i n e   C h a s s a n y
-- 2012-06-05T13:38:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-05/charterhouse-said-to-eye-sale-of-engineering-firm-fives.html
Charterhouse Capital Partners LLP, a
London-based buyout firm, plans to sell its controlling stake in
the French engineering company  Fives  in a transaction that may
value the business at about 1.5 billion euros ($1.9 billion),
said three people with knowledge of the process.  The asset is expected to draw interest from private-equity
firms including Axa Private Equity and PAI Partners, said two of
the people, who declined to be identified because the plans
aren’t public. Fives executives, who also own shares, may seek
to team with a buyout firm to buy the stake, the people said.  Charterhouse in 2006 acquired the entity that controlled
the company formerly known as Fives-Lille, which designs and
supplies process equipment, production lines and plant
facilities for industrial companies. The company’s named changed
to Fives in 2007.  Representatives of Charterhouse didn’t immediately return
calls for comment, while Fives declined to comment. Spokesmen
for Axa Private Equity and PAI declined to comment.  Fives’s management initiated talks with private-equity
firms about buying Charterhouse’s stake, two of the people said.
That prompted Charterhouse to begin a formal process to solicit
bids, they said.  Fives had earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization of 99 million euros last year, up 15 percent from
the previous year, according to the company’s website.  L’Agefi earlier reported  Rothschild  was hired to sell
Charterhouse’s stake in Fives.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jacqueline Simmons in Paris at 
 jackiem@bloomberg.net ;
Anne-Sylvaine Chassany in London at 
 achassany@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jacqueline Simmons at 
 jackiem@bloomberg.net  