-- Chesapeake Hearing Ends With No Ruling on Delay Bid
-- B y   C a r o l   C o l e - F r o w e   a n d   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 2012-06-05T19:01:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-05/chesapeake-hearing-ends-with-no-ruling-on-delay-bid.html
The judge considering a  Chesapeake
Energy Corp. (CHK)  shareholder bid to delay the company’s annual
meeting set for June 8 heard more than two hours of argument
without ruling on the request.  U.S. District Judge Vicki Miles-LaGrange in  Oklahoma City 
today told lawyers for both sides that she will expedite her
decision on the stockholder request filed last month. The
investors say they want more information on the financial
dealings of Chief Executive Officer  Aubrey McClendon .  “We are focused on the duty of candor,” Matthew Houston,
a shareholder attorney, told Miles-LaGrange in court. “We
aren’t suggesting that the meeting be canceled. We only want it
postponed.”  The  Oklahoma  City-based company’s shares have dropped about
34 percent since March 20 in the wake of falling gas prices and
reports that McClendon was using personal stakes in the
company’s wells to obtain loans.  Chesapeake climbed 43 cents, or 2.6 percent, to $16.95 at
2:38 p.m. in  New York  Stock Exchange composite  trading .  The company opposes a delay. An attorney for Chesapeake,
Robert Varian, told Miles-LaGrange that McClendon’s compensation
wasn’t one of the items on the proxy ballot for the meeting and
that investor concerns were therefore “irrelevant.”  Postponement would be an “extraordinary remedy,” he said.  While Miles-LaGrange didn’t say when she would rule, she
said the investors must convince her that they would be
irreparably harmed if the meeting went ahead as scheduled.  The case is Deborah G. Mallow IRA SEP Investment Plan v.
McClendon, 12-cv-436, U.S. District Court, Western District of
Oklahoma (Oklahoma City).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Carol Cole-Frowe in Oklahoma City at 
 carol.colefrowe@gmail.com ;
Andrew Harris in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  