-- Chesapeake Is Said to Discuss $4 Billion Pipeline Sale
-- B y   Z a c h a r y   R .   M i d e r ,   J e f f   G r e e n   a n d   J o e   C a r r o l l
-- 2012-06-06T20:33:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-05/chesapeake-is-said-to-discuss-4-billion-pipeline-sale.html
Chesapeake Energy Corp. (CHK)  is in
advanced talks to sell pipelines to Global Infrastructure
Partners for more than $4 billion, said two people with
knowledge of the matter.  The energy explorer, facing a $22 billion cash-flow
shortfall after natural-gas prices touched a decade low, is
discussing selling its entire stake in  Chesapeake Midstream
Partners LP (CHKM)  and other pipeline assets, said the people, who
spoke on condition of anonymity because the talks are private.
The negotiations may lead to a deal within days and could also
fall apart, the people said.  Chesapeake Midstream operates pipeline networks in  Texas ,
 Louisiana ,  Pennsylvania  and other gas-producing states, and had
3,953 miles (6,360 kilometers) of pipe as of March 31. The
partnership gets about 75 percent of its revenue from Oklahoma
City-based Chesapeake Energy, with the remainder from energy
producers such as France’s  Total SA (FP)  and Norwegian  oil company 
 Statoil ASA. (STL)  Chesapeake Energy also owned 1,950 miles of
pipelines separate from the Midstream partnership as of Dec. 31.  Chesapeake Midstream will be a “cash machine” for Global
Infrastructure because it’s structured to pay an  increasing
dividend  as profits increase, said David Askew, an analyst at
RBC Capital Markets Corp. in Austin, Texas. As a master-limited
partnership, or MLP, the company distributes most of its cash
after  capital spending  to unit holders and its controlling
partner.  Cash-Flow Shortfall  “Chesapeake Midstream should be a fast grower with a
growing stable of assets,” Askew, who rates the units
“outperform,” said in a telephone interview yesterday. “As a
growing MLP, it should be pretty lucrative.”  Chesapeake Energy Chief Executive Officer  Aubrey McClendon 
is seeking buyers for assets from Appalachia to the  Rocky
Mountains  to plug a cash-flow shortfall that  James Sullivan , an
analyst with Alembic Global Advisors, has estimated may exceed
$22 billion by the end of next year.  McClendon exited gas hedging contracts held by Chesapeake
Energy in late 2011, leaving the company exposed when milder-
than-normal winter weather across the northern U.S. slashed
demand for the furnace fuel and prices plunged. Sullivan said in
a May 17 note that the company may be forced to curtail spending
on drilling if McClendon fails to sell enough assets.  Icahn Initiatives  Selling pipelines was one of the “cost savings
initiatives” that billionaire investor  Carl Icahn  said he would
push for, along with other asset sales and reduced capital
spending, in a June 4 filing with the Securities & Exchange
Commission. Icahn’s 7.6 percent stake won him the right to
appoint one of four new directors who will replace almost half
the board by June 22 under an overhaul announced earlier this
week.  Chesapeake Midstream rose 4.6 percent to $25.28 at the
close in  New York . Chesapeake Energy rose 7.1 percent to $18.21.  The talks between Chesapeake and Global Infrastructure
predate Icahn’s purchase of his stake, the people with knowledge
of the talks said. Chesapeake held a 45.2 percent limited
partner interest in the midstream partnership as of Dec. 31,
according to a regulatory filing. It also jointly owns
Chesapeake Midstream’s general partner with Global
Infrastructure.  Michael Kehs, a Chesapeake spokesman, and Jack Cowell of
Global Infrastructure declined to comment.  Pipelines, Airports  Global Infrastructure, with offices in New York and London,
manages more than $10 billion of investments including
pipelines, power generation, ports and airports, according to
its website.  McClendon, who sits on the boards of both the Midstream
pipeline company and its controlling partner, has been under a
cloud since a series of media reports in March and April about
personal loans he obtained using minority stakes in company-
owned wells that he’d been allowed to gather for his private
portfolio.  Chesapeake Energy announced May 1 that he will step down as
chairman of the parent company when a replacement is chosen.  Shedding pipelines would be a retreat from McClendon’s
vision of so-called vertical integration, which involves owning
oil and gas fields as well as ancillary assets such as gas-
processing plants, drilling rigs and hydraulic-fracturing
equipment.  2010 Debut  Chesapeake Energy said in its most recent annual report
that owning pipelines makes the company more efficient at
managing costs involved with gathering and processing gas.  Chesapeake Energy started a pipeline venture with Global
Infrastructure in 2009 when the infrastructure investment fund
led by Adebayo Ogunlesi bought a stake in some Chesapeake
pipelines. They took Chesapeake Midstream public the following
year.  Since the initial share sale, Chesapeake Midstream’s units
have increased 15 percent, outperforming Chesapeake Energy’s 20
percent decline. The partnership has paid out $492 million in
dividends since it became publicly traded.  Chesapeake Energy owned 33.7 million common units, and 34.5
million subordinated units, of Chesapeake Midstream as of Feb.
22. Those interests would be worth about $1.6 billion based on
the $24.17 closing price of the common units yesterday.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Zachary R. Mider in New York at 
 zmider1@bloomberg.net ;
 Jeff Green  in Southfield, Michigan at 
 jgreen16@bloomberg.net ;
 Joe Carroll  in Chicago at 
 jcarroll8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Katherine Snyder at 
 ksnyder@bloomberg.net  