-- Chile Peso Rises on Speculation Central Banks Will Spur Growth
-- B y   S e b a s t i a n   B o y d
-- 2012-06-05T18:30:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-05/chile-peso-rises-on-speculation-central-banks-will-spur-growth.html
Chile’s peso advanced for a second
day on speculation central banks will act to stem declines in
global assets and restore economic confidence.  The peso appreciated 0.6 percent to 512.32 per  U.S. dollar 
after touching a five-month low of 522.79 on June 1. The
Bloomberg JPMorgan Latin American Currency Index  gained  0.6
percent.  “If you go long dollars and monetary authorities act,
unilaterally or together, you’ll get killed,” said Cristian Donoso, a trader at Banchile Corredores de Bolsa SA in Santiago.  Finance ministers and central bank governors from the
world’s leading economies agreed to coordinate their response to
 Europe ’s financial crisis on a conference call that dealt with
Spain and  Greece .  Group of Seven officials said they will work together to
help both euro-area countries place their public finances on a
sustainable footing, Japanese Finance Minister  Jun Azumi  told
reporters in  Tokyo  following the call today. Azumi said he urged
European leaders to do more to address investors’ concern about
the region’s finances.  Chile’s economy expanded 4.8 percent in April from a year
earlier, the central bank said today, matching the median
forecast of economists surveyed by Bloomberg. Activity grew 0.5
percent from a month earlier.  International investors in the peso forwards market had the
second-largest short peso position on record on June 1, with a
$10.1 billion bet against the Andean currency, nearing the
record $10.2 billion bet they had May 24.  Chilean bond yields and swap rates also rose for a second
day. The  yield  on five-year fixed-rate bonds in pesos, which
reached a three-month low of 5.05 percent on June 1, climbed
three basis points to 5.17 percent today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sebastian Boyd in Santiago at 
 sboyd9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  