-- China Seeks to Restore Stock Investors’ Vanished Trust
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-06-06T08:38:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-05/china-seeks-to-restore-stock-investors-vanished-trust.html
Carrie Pan, a 29-year-old  Shanghai 
accountant who’s lost almost half the value of her portfolio
since she began investing in Chinese stocks, is confident again.  She purchased 1,000 shares of Yang Quan Coal Industry Group
Co. in April to add to her 200,000  yuan  ($31,400) in equity
holdings, which fell 40 percent last year and compounded her
losses since she started buying  stocks  six years ago. So far,
her latest pick had been up about 4 percent through yesterday.  “I believe stocks will rise,” said Pan, watching her
holdings on a computer screen in her two-bedroom apartment and
sipping a mouthful of bottled Ice Dew spring water on a recent
afternoon of maternity leave. “Guo has already done lots of
things to support the stock market since he took office, and he
is very keen on improving the market’s performance.”  That would be  Guo Shuqing , the 56-year-old head of the
 China  Securities Regulatory Commission, who took over seven
months ago pledging reforms. Since then, Guo has taken action to
increase the amount of stocks foreign investors can buy in the
otherwise-closed market, urged listed companies to pay more cash
dividends to shareholders and made changes in how initial public
offerings are priced.  “Our current stage of work is focused on improving the
fair play of the market, protecting investors’ legal rights and
enhancing the ability of serving the real economy,” Guo said in
a  People’s Daily report  posted on the securities regulator’s
website in March. “We’ll bring more market forces to gauge to-
be-listed companies, reveal their potential risks and let more
investors oversee pricing.”  The CSRC and the country’s two exchanges, in  Shanghai  and
Shenzhen, have also announced plans to cut transaction costs for
stock purchases and sales, and tightened accounting scrutiny on
companies that are facing delisting.  Restoring Trust  The goal is to restore the vanished trust of a Chinese
public that has taken a walloping in stocks and instead sought
investment alternatives such as bubble-prone real estate and the
world of underground lending, known as shadow banking, where
risky and unregulated investments promise investors annual
returns of as much as 100 percent.  “Guo is the man,” said Hao Hong, chief China strategist
at BoCom International Holdings Co. in Hong Kong. “It’s a show
of determination. It’s all about confidence building.”  Like Pan, millions of Chinese investors watched their stock
investments crash and remain mired in a two-year  bear market .
The benchmark  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP) , after peaking at 6,092
in 2007 following a  bull market , fell to just above 1,700 by the
end of 2008. Four trillion yuan of government stimulus lifted
the index to 3,471 in 2009. Yet the market fell another 33
percent in 2010 through 2011, dragging valuations to a record
low of 8.9  times  estimated profit in January.  Losing Their Shirts  The Shanghai index is up 5 percent  in 2012 , though it has
fallen 6.1 percent from this year’s high on March 2 amid concern
an economic slowdown is deepening. The  gauge  dropped 0.1 percent
to 2,309.56 today.  China’s 50 million individual investors lost an average of
40,000 yuan last year, according to a May 9 People’s Daily
report. That’s almost twice the annual average disposable income
of an urban Chinese. Those returns, exacerbated by IPO prices
that tanked immediately after listing, companies’ reluctance to
pay dividends, and speculative bets on smaller companies’ back-
door listings, contributed to equity flight.  Insider trading  probes have also kept some investors away.
The securities regulator handled 39 such cases in the first 11
months of last year, the CSRC said in a November statement.
That’s compared with 42 in the first 10 months of 2010, it said.
The focus on market oversight is still to prevent and crack down
on insider trading, Guo said at a December forum in the southern
city of Shenzhen.  Seeing Hope Again  Police detained a former  fund manager  at Bank of
Communications Schroders Fund Management Co. and the former
chief power analyst at Citic Securities Co., the nation’s
biggest publicly traded brokerage, for insider trading, the CSRC
said in  statements  on its website on May 23.  “Investors lost their confidence in the value of the
market itself because they think this isn’t a market they can
play in,” Wu Xuan, a Beijing-based strategist at Rising
Securities Co., said in a telephone interview. “What the new
CSRC chairman is doing with his new policies is to let investors
see hope again.”  On average 3 million  new investors  enter the stock market
every year while millions leave or stop trading after suffering
heavy losses, a situation the regulator wants to curtail, the
CSRC said in a statement in April, citing Guo, who was visiting
the southern province of Guangdong at the time.  Charismatic Leader  Guo, while heading the  State Administration of Foreign
Exchange  in 2001-2005, was known as a charismatic leader who
handled relationships with other government departments to drum
up support for reforms “with ease,” according to Hong Weizhi,
a former SAFE spokesman who worked with Guo.  Also a former vice governor of the central bank and most
recently chairman of  China Construction Bank Corp. (601939) , the nation’s
second-largest lender by market value, Guo helped oversee the
company’s $9.2 billion IPO in 2005. A fluent English speaker,
Guo was a visiting scholar at Oxford University in 1986-1987.  “When he moves, he would follow one punch with another,
with every punch hitting the right spot,” Hong, head of the
financial affairs office at Kunming city in southwestern Yunnan
province, said in an interview in Beijing. “That’s just his
style, and he really knows what he’s doing. He’s done plenty of
homework, having had a whole set of reform ideas in his mind
since long ago.”  Stock Demand  Reviving demand for  equities  among investors is important
in a market where individuals own 26.5 percent of the nation’s
stocks, compared with 15.6 percent held by institutional
investors and 57.9 percent by corporate holders, according to
the CSRC’s  investor protection bureau .  “The CSRC’s objective is to provide a fair and open market
for investors,” said BoCom’s Hong. “All of Guo’s initiatives
are working toward this goal.”  The property bubble that resulted from investors plunging
into real estate as an alternative investment drove up  home
prices  by as much as 140 percent since 1998, threatened social
stability and prompted the government to increase down payments
and mortgage rates for home purchases in the past two years to
curb rising costs.  Home prices  fell in a record 46 of 70 cities tracked by the
government in April from a year earlier, according to the
statistics bureau.  Deflating Bubbles  “Bubbles in the  property market  have yet to be fully
deflated,” said BoCom’s Hong, a former global strategist at
China International Capital Corp. who predicted the Shanghai
Composite’s slump in 2010. “It’s likely that some of the funds
may flow into the stock market from the property sector if the
government continues to ease credit while keeping the curbs on
home purchases.”  The government also wants to lure away money from the
unregulated shadow-banking sector, valued at $2.4 trillion by
Yao Wei, a Societe Generale SA economist, where investors have
sought to beat an annual inflation rate that kept pace with or
exceeded the 3.5 percent interest rate paid on savings bank
deposits. Lawlessness associated with risky investments gone bad
has led to scores of suicides, death sentences for those
convicted of fraud, and pledges from Premier Wen Jiabao to bring
shadow lending under government supervision.  Government policies have encouraged companies to seek
funding from public offerings in order to reduce reliance on
bank loans, which provide 72 percent of the nation’s credit.  Qualified Investors  To boost equity demand, the CSRC said on April 3 it would
more than double the amount that overseas institutional
investors are allowed to invest in Chinese securities to $80
billion, while the foreign-exchange regulator said May 20 that
it will speed up the approval process.  Only approved institutional investors can buy or sell yuan-
denominated securities under the qualified foreign institutional
investor, or QFII, program. Regulators had approved a combined
$26 billion in investments for 138 QFIIs as of May 8, according
to SAFE’s  statistics .  Increasing the quota is “providing a signal to the market
of the government’s desire to expand the domestic market,”  Mark Mobius , who oversees about $50 billion as executive chairman of
Franklin Templeton’s  Emerging Markets  Group, wrote in an e-mail
response to questions. “We do see some opportunities in the A-
share market,” referring to yuan-denominated stocks trading on
the Shanghai and Shenzhen bourses.  Excessive speculation in trading IPO shares and the stocks
of small and under-performing companies remains “very serious”
in China, distorting prices and hurting investors, the CSRC
cited Guo as saying in an April 22 statement.  Frothy IPOs  The root cause for investors’ losses lies in “defects”
with the mechanisms and systems of the capital market, which led
to the high IPO valuations and speculation in underperforming
companies, the securities watchdog said in a February statement.  Sinovel Wind Group Co. (601558) , the country’s biggest maker of  wind
turbines , has tumbled 66 percent since it began trading on the
Shanghai Stock Exchange in early 2011. The company offered 105
million shares at 48.8 times reported earnings, according to its
IPO prospectus. That was three times the Shanghai Composite’s
valuation at the time, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
 Pang Da Automobile Trade Co. (601258) , the nation’s biggest publicly
traded car dealer, offered stock at 39.6 times reported profit
in April last year. Its shares have slumped 51 percent since
then.  Now at 9.97 times estimated earnings, the current Shanghai
Composite valuation compares with the MSCI Emerging Markets
Index’s  multiple  of 9.70.  Wider Criteria  In seeking to empower individuals, the CSRC will now invite
as many as 10 retail investors to advise on IPO pricing, a
process previously restricted to institutional investors.
Companies need to openly analyze and discuss pricing if the
price-to-earnings ratio of an IPO is expected to be 25 percent
higher than that of publicly traded companies in the same
industry, the CSRC said in an April 28 statement.  A day later, the Shanghai and Shenzhen stock exchanges
introduced rules widening criteria for delisting companies.
Companies with negative net asset values for two consecutive
years will be removed from trading, while net income excluding
one-time gains will be used as a benchmark for true profits for
companies seeking to relist, the two bourses said in separate
drafts seeking public comments.  The CSRC has announced that the Shanghai and Shenzhen
exchanges would cut stock-trading fees by 25 percent effective
June 1, a move Citigroup Inc. said will save investors 3 billion
yuan annually.  Not Totally Convinced  “What Guo is dealing with are all the historical
hangovers, and these things aren’t what can be tackled easily,”
said Dai Ming, a fund manager at Shanghai Kingsun Investment
Management & Consulting Co. “That’s definitely very helpful for
the healthy long-term development of China’s capital market by
improving the fundamental system.”  Not every investor is convinced. Alice Cheng, a 28-year-old
marketing manager who dropped in on a Huaxi Securities Co.
outlet in northeast Shanghai to talk with an investment adviser,
says Guo’s efforts will take time. She won’t buy stocks until
the Shanghai Composite rises above 3,000, a level signaling the
start of a bull market to her.  “I do appreciate what Guo has done, but that won’t have an
immediate effect on boosting stocks in the short term,” Cheng
said. “China’s stock market is a very ailing patient that
cannot recover overnight. All these measures are simply like
treating the patient with traditional Chinese medicine, which is
slow to take effect.”  Predicting Gains  Morgan Stanley Huaxin Securities Co. and Guotai Junan
Securities Co., which correctly predicted the end of China’s
last bear market in July 2010, said shares will probably rally
as the government takes measures to bolster growth. Morgan
Stanley Huaxin said in April the Shanghai Composite may rise
another 30 percent this year.  Wang Hanfeng, Beijing Gao Hua Securities Co.’s China
strategist, said last month the index could climb to 2,750 by
year-end. Gao Hua is the most accurate brokerage for China A-
share research based on Bloomberg Rankings.  China’s economy  expanded 8.l percent in the first quarter,
the slowest pace in almost three years. Premier Wen unveiled in
March a 2012 growth target of 7.5 percent, down from an 8
percent objective in place since 2005. The People’s Bank of
China cut banks’ reserve requirement ratios last month for the
third time since November to boost liquidity.  More Dividends  “The message from recent government announcements with
respect to the equity market is loud and clear,” Jiong Shao and
 Jing Yang , analysts at Macquarie Securities Ltd., wrote in a May
10 report. “The government wants the A-share market to be up.”  The securities regulator is also encouraging companies to
increase dividend payouts to lure more investors in a nation
where dividend yields, or the amount of cash companies return to
shareholders as a percentage of stock prices, are the lowest
among the world’s 10 biggest equity markets. The Shanghai
Composite’s  yield  is 1.99 percent, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  The CSRC said in November it would introduce measures to
boost listed companies’ dividends to shareholders. The CSRC is
urging publicly traded companies to seek comment on dividend
payments from small shareholders and independent directors and
write into corporate articles conditions for paying cash
dividends and bonus stock, according to a May 9 statement.
Companies seeking public listings should disclose their profit-
distribution plan for the next three years, it said.  IPO Prices  Of the mainland’s 2,403 publicly traded companies, 67
percent proposed to pay  cash dividends  in their 2011 annual
reports, an increase of 6 percentage points from a year earlier,
the CSRC said on May 10. The dividend payout, or the cash
dividend as a percentage of companies’ annual net incomes, rose
just 1 percentage point, to 31 percent, in 2011 from the
previous year, it said.  The CSRC’s moves have started to cool IPO excess. The
average prices fell to an equivalent of about 20 times
companies’ earnings in early April from a ratio of more than 30
times in the first quarter and 47 times last year, the watchdog
said in an April 20 statement.  Increasingly, investors seem to be paying attention. Liu
Xi, a 35-year-old hotel sales manager in Shanghai, said she
plans to buy stocks once  economic growth  starts to rebound. Pan,
the accountant, plans to increase her investment in stocks by 20
percent this year.  “I already have my money ready,” Pan said. “I’ll buy on
dips.”  --Zhang Shidong and Zhang Dingmin. With assistance from Allen Wan in Shanghai, Victoria Ruan in Beijing and Fox Hu in  Hong
Kong . Editors: Darren Boey, Sheridan Prasso  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Zhang Shidong in Shanghai at 
 szhang5@bloomberg.net ;
Zhang Dingmin in Beijing at 
 dzhang14@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at   dboey@bloomberg.net  