-- China Eastern Leads ADRs’ First Advance in Week: China Overnight
-- B y   B e l i n d a   C a o
-- 2012-06-05T21:07:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-05/china-eastern-leads-rally-on-consumer-stimulus-china-overnight.html
Chinese stocks traded in New York
advanced for the first time in five days, with  China  Eastern
Airlines Corp. leading gains, on prospects measures to boost
 consumer spending  in Asia’s biggest economy will spur growth.  The  Bloomberg China-US Equity Index (CH55BN)  of the most-traded
Chinese companies in the U.S. rose 1.3 percent to 87.87 in New
York, snapping a four-day slump. China Eastern, the country’s
second-biggest domestic carrier, rebounded from an eight-month
low as  Huaneng Power International Inc. (902) , China’s largest
electricity producer, climbed to a three-month high.  Suntech
Power Holdings Co. (STP)  led solar companies higher.  China’s  Finance Ministry  on June 4 announced a plan to
subsidize energy-saving appliances as part of the government’s
steps to promote domestic consumption and stimulate the economy
at a time the European debt crisis crimps overseas demand.
China’s services industry expanded at the fastest pace in 19
months, a survey of more than 400 private businesses released by
HSBC Holdings Plc and Markit Economics yesterday showed.  China is now “shifting toward domestic consumption to
encourage their own people to pick up the slack coming from the
slower demand from  Europe ,” Michael A. Gayed, chief investment
strategist in New York at Pension Partners LLC, which advises on
over $150 million in assets, said by phone yesterday.
“Utilities companies in China tend to pick up demand by stock
buyers when they are feeling there’s going to be more activity
from consumers or factories.”  China ETF  The  iShares FTSE China 25 Index Fund , the biggest Chinese
exchange-traded fund in the U.S., rose 0.1 percent to $32.62.
The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  of mainland stocks added 0.1
percent to 2,311.92 yesterday. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index
of U.S. shares increased 0.6 percent to 1,285.50, as an
unexpected increase in a measure of  service industries  bolstered
confidence in the  U.S. economy .  China’s  retail sales  in May, due to be released on June 9,
probably rose 14.3 percent from a year earlier, after a 14.1
percent gain in April, according to the median estimate in a
Bloomberg survey of 22 economists. Its economy, the world’s
second-largest, expanded 8.1 percent in the first three months
this year, the slowest pace in 11 quarters.  The consumer subsidy measure “is probably the first of
many steps authorities will take until they get the level of GDP
growth that they’re looking for,”  Kevin Shacknofsky , who helps
manage about $5 billion for Alpine  Mutual Funds  in Purchase, New
York, said in a phone interview.  China Southern  American depositary receipts of  China Eastern (CEA) , the second-
largest carrier by passengers, gained 5.6 percent to $14.81
yesterday in New York. The ADRs traded 1.3 percent above their
 Hong Kong  shares, the first premium in three days.  China Southern Airlines Co., Asia’s biggest carrier by
passenger numbers based in Guangzhou, suspended trading in Hong
Kong and the U.S. on pending news, it said in a June 4 filing to
the Hong Kong Stock Exchange.  Ajay Kapur, head of Asian equity strategy at Deutsche Bank
AG, recommended buying Chinese airlines on valuations and
prospects for the government’s economic stimulus measures after
they “had been hit really badly in the past three months” in
an interview with Bloomberg Television yesterday.  China Eastern ’s Hong Kong-traded shares are trading 4.6
times 12-month trailing profit, compared with a multiple of 5.49
for China Southern and 7.89 for United Continental Holdings Inc.
in the U.S.  “As seasonal demand picks up in June and oil prices fall,
airlines’ fundamentals will improve from previous quarters,”
analysts at China Merchants Securities led by Luo Yanyan wrote
in a report dated June 1, maintaining a neutral rating on the
industry.  Huaneng Gains  Beijing-based Huaneng’s ADRs climbed 3.9 percent to a
three-month high of $25.97. The ADRs are trading at a 0.6
percent discount to the Hong Kong stock, the smallest in five
days.  China’s benchmark power-station coal price at Qinhuangdao
port fell the most in five months, according to data from the
China Coal Transport and Distribution Association on June 4.  “The move down in commodity prices is helping companies
such as Huaneng, which uses a lot of coal,” Greg Lesko, who
helps oversee over $800 million at Deltec Asset Management in
New York, said by phone yesterday.  JA Solar Holdings Co., China’s largest solar-cell maker,
surged 17 percent, the most among companies in the  Bloomberg
Global Leaders Solar Index (BLGS) , after saying first-quarter shipments
exceeded its forecast.  Shanghai-based JA Solar shipped 366 megawatts of solar
cells and panels in the first quarter, ahead of its forecast of
320 megawatts to 350 megawatts, as demand in Italy and Germany
exceeded its estimates, it said in a statement yesterday.  Suntech Power Holdings Co., the world’s largest solar-panel
maker based in Wuxi in China’s eastern Jiangsu province, jumped
7.8 percent to $1.66, the biggest gain in a month.  Trina Solar
Ltd. (TSL) , the fourth-largest maker, soared 5 percent to $6.11. LDK
Solar Co., the world’s second-largest maker of wafers, advanced
3.6 percent to $1.71 after a three-day decline. Yingli Green
Energy Holding Co. added 2.7 percent to $2.65.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Belinda Cao in  New York  at 
 lcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tal Barak Harif at 
 tbarak@bloomberg.net  