-- China Calls on Foreign Embassies to Halt Pollution Data
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-06-06T05:22:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-05/china-calls-on-foreign-embassies-to-halt-pollution-data.html
China  called on foreign embassies to
stop publishing data on air pollution levels in the country,
saying that the Chinese government has the sole authority to
release such information.  Foreign embassies that release such data are interfering in
China’s internal affairs, Wu Xiaoqing, a vice minister of
environmental protection, told reporters yesterday, according to
a transcript posted on the State Council Information Office’s
website. Wu didn’t specifically identify the U.S., which
publishes hourly pollution readings for the cities of Beijing,
Shanghai and Guangzhou on Twitter.  The U.S. pollution measurements have been a source of
tension because the data periodically paints a worse picture of
pollution levels than do Chinese readings. Data published by the
U.S. Embassy in Beijing, which measures pollutants of 2.5
micrometers in size, contributed earlier this year to a public
outcry for China to move more quickly to the same standard.  The monitoring and publication of data on  air quality 
involves the public’s interests and falls under the “authority
of the government,” Wu said at the briefing. “We hope that
individual consulates in China respect China’s relevant laws and
regulations and stop publishing the unrepresentative air quality
information.”  ‘Unofficial Resource’  In a statement issued yesterday, U.S. Embassy spokesman
 Richard Buangan  said the readings are “an unofficial resource
for the health of the consulate community.”  Asked about Wu’s remarks, Chinese Foreign Ministry
spokesman  Liu Weimin  told a briefing in Beijing that embassies
can measure air pollution and give the information to their own
staff; not broadcast it on the Internet.  Beijing authorities will no longer count the number of so-
called blue sky days, and will instead release concentration
indexes of major pollutants, the Xinhua News Agency reported
today. Days with grade I or II air quality were previously
deemed “blue sky days,” the official news service said, citing
Yu Jianhua, director of the Beijing Municipal Environment
Protection Bureau’s air quality department.  China, the world’s largest emitter of  greenhouse gases  and
second-biggest economy, began releasing its own so-called PM 2.5
data earlier this year after editorials in state-run media said
a previous plan to begin publishing the numbers by 2016 was too
slow. China has asked 74 cities to install equipment to monitor
air quality under the PM 2.5 measure by the end of October and
release data by the end of this year, Wu said.  Beijing aims to cut PM 2.5 levels by 15 percent by 2015
compared with 2010 levels, Xinhua said in March.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Feifei Shen in Beijing at 
 fshen11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net ;
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  