-- China’s Stock Index Rises, Led by Drugmakers, Utilities
-- B y   W e i y i   L i m
-- 2012-06-05T07:45:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-05/china-s-stocks-rebound-from-biggest-decline-in-six-months.html
China ’s benchmark  stock  index rose,
led by drugmakers and power producers, as investors bought
shares of companies whose earnings may be more resilient in an
economic slowdown.  North China Pharmaceutical Co. and Datang International
Power Generation Co. led gauges of health-care companies and
utlities to the biggest gains among industry groups. Consumer
staples producers also advanced as liquor maker Kweichow Moutai
Co. jumped 1.8 percent. Citic Securities Co., the biggest listed
brokerage, fell to the lowest level in two weeks after the 21st
Century Herald said regulators may suspend a plan to allow
foreign companies to list in  Shanghai .  The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  gained 3.4 points, or 0.2
percent, to 2,311.92 at the close, after changing directions at
least six times. About 476 stocks fell, 405 rose and 98 were
unchanged. The  CSI 300 Index (SHSZ300)  slipped 0.2 point to 2,558.84.  “Companies such as drugmakers are more stable in a weak
economy because demand is constant,” said Mao Sheng, an analyst
for Huaxi Securities Co. in Chengdu. “Stocks are likely to
consolidate in the near term. Economic data to be released this
week is going to be weak. Until the government is clearer on its
easing policies, shares won’t maintain an uptrend.”  The Shanghai Composite tumbled 2.7 percent yesterday, with
its 64.89-point drop matching the date on which Chinese
authorities crushed student-led protests on June 4, 1989. The
 Bloomberg China-US 55 Index (CH55BN) , the measure of the most-traded
U.S.-listed Chinese companies, fell 0.6 percent at the close in
 New York .  Power Producers  The Shanghai gauge has climbed 5.1 percent this year on
optimism the government will ease monetary policy and increase
fiscal spending to bolster the economy. The central bank has cut
lenders’ reserve-requirement ratios three times since November.
Stocks in the measure are valued at 10 times estimated earnings,
compared with a record low of 8.9 times on Jan. 6, according to
 weekly data  compiled by Bloomberg.  Deutsche Bank AG recommended China’s yuan-denominated
shares because of cheap valuations and the prospect of economic
stimulus, according to Ajay Kapur, head of Asian equity strategy
at the bank.  The nation’s regulators also “want the market to go up,”
said Kapur, referring to measures by the government to boost the
stock market such as allowing foreign investors to buy more
equities.  Gauges tracking drugmakers and utilities rallied 1.9
percent and 1.6 percent, respectively, the most among the CSI
300’s 10 industry groups. The utilities measure has gained 1.4
percent this year, while the drugmakers’ gauge rose 4.6 percent.
The CSI 300 has advanced 9.1 percent.  Economic Data  North China Pharmaceutical advanced 4.5 percent to 7.40
 yuan . Yunnan Baiyao Group Co., a maker of traditional medicine,
advanced 2.9 percent to 53.44 yuan. Datang International Power
climbed 4 percent to 5.24 yuan.  China’s consumer prices in May, due to be released on June
9, probably rose 3.2 percent, according to the median of 22
analysts’ forecasts compiled by Bloomberg. That would be the
slowest pace in three months.  Industrial output  gained 9.8
percent for May, from 9.3 percent in April, the economists
estimated. That would compare with a more than 11 percent
increase in the first quarter.  International Board  The nation’s services industry expanded at a faster pace in
May, according to a survey of  purchasing managers  released by
HSBC Holdings Plc and Markit Economics. The PMI rose to a 19-
month high of 54.7 in May from 54.1 in April, HSBC and Markit
said today. The result contradicted a government-backed survey
of services businesses released June 3 and signs from other data
that a slowdown is deepening.  A measure of  consumer-staple producers  rose 0.8 percent.
Kweichow Moutai gained 1.8 percent to 240.80 yuan.  Citic Securities, the nation’s biggest-listed brokerage,
slumped 1.6 percent to 13.13 yuan. Haitong Securities Co. fell
1.3 percent to 10.06 yuan.  The China Securities Regulatory Commission has put on hold
the plan for the  Shanghai Stock Exchange ’s international board
as it focuses on introducing an over-the-counter market, the
21st Century Herald  reported, citing an unidentified person
familiar with the matter. The CSRC did’t immediately respond to
a fax by Bloomberg News seeking comment on the report.  Finance ministers and central bank governors from the Group
of Seven countries will hold a call today to discuss the
 European debt crisis . Markets have been bracing for further
deterioration in  Spain ’s banking industry and a possible Greek
departure from the 17-member euro area as the region’s leaders
wrangle over the details of support for the currency bloc.  Europe is China’s biggest export market, making up about 18
percent of the nation’s overseas shipments, according to Shenyin
& Wanguo Securities Co.  China may accelerate policy loosening if  Europe ’s debt
crisis worsens, Dorris Chen, head of China research for BNP
Paribas SA, said in a Bloomberg Television interview today.  The  iShares FTSE China 25 Index Fund , the biggest Chinese
exchange-traded fund in the U.S., fell 0.3 percent to $32.59.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Weiyi Lim in Singapore at 
 wlim26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  