-- Clemens Judge Weighs Dismissing Fourth Juror From Trial
-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g
-- 2012-06-05T22:30:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-05/clemens-judge-weighs-dismissing-fourth-juror-from-trial.html
The judge in the perjury trial of
 Roger Clemens , the former  New York  Yankees pitcher accused of
lying to Congress by denying he used performance-enhancing
drugs, said he is considering dismissing a fourth juror, who
plans to travel to  Germany  on June 19.  U.S. District Judge  Reggie Walton  in Washington told
lawyers for Clemens and the government today about the juror,
who will be out of the country for six months. Walton previously
dismissed three other jurors, leaving just one alternate.  “I’m concerned that if he starts to deliberate there may
be pressure to return a decision,” Walton said.  Walton said he hadn’t decided yet whether to release the
juror. If he does and one more juror drops out, a mistrial may
be declared. Court rules allow juries of fewer than 12 if both
sides and the judge agree.  The judge said the juror indicated he wouldn’t be able to
delay the trip.  Rusty Hardin , a lawyer for Clemens, told Walton that the
trial might be over before the juror’s June 19 departure date.
He said the defense was on schedule to rest by the end of the
week after the jury hears from Clemens’s wife, Debbie, and the
estranged wife of Clemens’s accuser,  Brian McNamee .  Walton said allowing the juror to deliberate “is very
risky” given that jurors won’t get the case until June 11 at
the earliest. The trial is scheduled to be recessed June 14 and
15 so Walton can travel to  New Orleans  for a conference.  Walton pointed out that jurors in the trial of former
presidential candidate  John Edwards  deliberated for nine days.  “If that happens here, we’re in trouble,” he said.  Dozers Dismissed  Walton has raised concerns about another juror who he said
may have been sleeping during portions of the trial. Two of the
three jurors sent home earlier had been dozing during
proceedings. The third juror was dismissed after her mother
died.  “Usually, defense counsel will be very reluctant to
consent to trial by less than 12, unless he or she is very
confident about the jury going their way,” Michael Madigan, a
criminal defense lawyer at Orrick, Herrington & Sutcliffe LLP in
Washington, said in an interview.  Clemens, a seven-time Cy Young Award winner, is charged
with one count of obstructing a congressional investigation,
three counts of making false statements and two counts of
perjury stemming from his testimony to the House panel. He faces
as long as 21 months in prison if convicted.  Video Clip  Walton declared a mistrial during Clemens’s first trial in
July after finding that prosecutors improperly showed the jury a
video clip of a 2008 congressional hearing in which the wife of
a government witness,  Andy Pettitte , was discussed. Walton had
ruled earlier that the government could make no references to
Laura Pettitte or an affidavit she gave Congress.  Henry Asbill, a defense lawyer at  Jones Day  in  Washington ,
said that Walton has the authority to allow a verdict with just
11 jurors over the objections of the government and defense,
provided there are 12 jurors at the time deliberations begin.  Before seeking a mistrial, Hardin would assess whether the
jury might acquit and whether the government would retry the
case for a third time, Asbill said.  “Generally, criminal defense lawyers always take
mistrials, particularly if their client can afford to retry the
case,” he said.  Falling Asleep  The jury, which is sitting for its eighth week, consists of
eight women and four men. The remaining alternate is a program
analyst for the  Nuclear Regulatory Commission  who said during
jury selection that he’d read about the case online after
receiving his jury notice.  Walton has admonished both sides for taking too long to
question witnesses. Walton’s own schedule has also delayed the
proceedings.  Jurors falling asleep during testimony isn’t uncommon and
“just a fact of trial life,” said Barry Boss, a partner at
Cozen O’Connor in Washington.  “If the juror is going to fall asleep, I want it to be
when the government is doing its direct, or, even better, when
the government is crossing a defense witness,” he said. “But,
in all likelihood, a juror who is so disengaged that he or she
is falling asleep is unlikely to play a major role during jury
deliberations.”  Today, the defense put on five witnesses, including a
broadcaster for the  Baltimore Orioles , a former masseuse for the
Yankees, and two forensic experts.  Vitamin Shot  Bruce Goldberger, a toxicology expert, was used by the
defense to call into doubt the physical evidence the government
has against Clemens.  That evidence includes a needle and cotton with Clemens’s
DNA that tested positive for steroids. The material was given to
prosecutors by McNamee, Clemens’s former trainer. McNamee told
jurors that he gave the ballplayer injections of steroids and
HGH during the 1998, 2000 and 2001 baseball seasons while both
men worked for the  Toronto Blue Jays  and the Yankees.  McNamee said he saved needles, cotton and vials from one of
the injections in 2001 and kept some of the items in a Miller
Lite beer can that he took from the recycling bin in Clemens’s
apartment. Some of that medical waste also contained material
McNamee said he saved from an injection of human growth hormone
by another ballplayer.  “I’ve never seen evidence like this being used by
prosecutors to link a person to a drug,” Goldberger, a
professor and director of toxicology at the University of
 Florida  in Gainesville, said while testifying for the defense
today.  CSI Consultant  Goldberger, who told jurors that he had been a consultant
for the television show “CSI,” said the evidence was
unreliable because drugs could have been transferred from the
vial or syringe to the cotton balls while inside the beer can.
He called the government’s conclusions “overreaching” in terms
of interpreting the evidence.  Assistant U.S. Attorney Daniel Butler attempted to
challenge Goldberger’s conclusions by pointing out that he never
tested any of the evidence himself.  “There’s no test that I could run or that I could ask to
be run to differentiate that this came from the defendant or was
cross contamination,” Goldberger said.  Mike Boddicker, a former pitcher who played with Clemens on
the  Boston Red Sox , testified for the defense that he saw
Clemens being injected with vitamin B12 in the clubhouse of
Fenway Park in 1990. Boddicker’s testimony backs what Clemens’s
told Congress in 2008 about receiving B12 injections.  Drug Use  The obstruction count contains 13 allegedly false or
misleading statements that Clemens made to Congress in 2008.
Some statements involved denials of drug use; others had to do
with the frequency of B12 injections and whether Clemens
attended a pool party at a teammate’s Florida home in 1998.  Clemens told Congress that, after ballgames, syringes
filled with B12 were arrayed in locker rooms, ready to give to
players who wanted them. He said that McNamee injected him with
B12 and lidocaine.  The case is U.S. v. Clemens, 1:10-cr-00223, U.S. District
Court,  District of Columbia  (Washington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in Washington
at   tschoenberg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  