-- Clinton Warns Putin to Respect Georgian Sovereignty Amid Strains
-- B y   H e l e n a   B e d w e l l
-- 2012-06-05T12:24:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-05/clinton-warns-putin-to-respect-georgian-sovereignty-amid-strains.html
U.S. Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  called on  Russia  to honor its commitments under accords
that ended its five-day conflict with  Georgia  in 2008, requiring
troop pullback to pre-war numbers and locations.  “We reject Russia’s occupation and militarization of
Georgia’s territory and we call upon Russia to fulfill its
obligations under the 2008 cease-fire resolution, including
withdrawal of its forces to pre-conflict positions and free
access for humanitarian assistance,” Clinton said in a speech
today in the Black Sea port of Batumi after meeting Georgian
Prime Minister Nika Gilauri.  The criticism highlights the strains on U.S.-Russia ties as
 Vladimir Putin  returns to the Kremlin. Clinton is renewing calls
that challenge Russia’s sway in the region after spearheading
U.S. criticism of a December parliamentary election and Russian
policy in  Syria , where a 15-month conflict has claimed more than
10,000 lives.  Putin has said that Clinton’s calls for an investigation
into voter “fraud” emboldened the opposition and fomented the
worst unrest in his 12 years in power. Clinton last week
rejected Russia’s claim that it’s a stabilizing influence on
Syria and said that it’s speeding the country’s slide into civil
war by protecting the government of President Bashar al-Assad.  Russia routed Georgia’s army in a five-day war in August
2008 over the Georgian breakaway region of  South Ossetia , later
recognizing its independence as well as that of Abkhazia,
another separatist region, where it still maintains military
forces. Georgia broke off diplomatic relations with Russia on
Sept. 2 of that year.  U.S. Strains  Putin skipped the Group of Eight summit hosted by his U.S.
counterpart  Barack Obama  last month. The former Cold War foes
are at odds over Western efforts to oust Assad, a bid by U.S.
lawmakers to sanction Russian officials for human rights abuses
and a planned U.S. missile-defense shield in  Europe .  Putin is looking to solidify the country’s clout in the
former Soviet Union. He set out to build regional alliances,
luring Kazakhstan and  Belarus  to join Russia in a customs union,
which he says will be a catalyst for growth and may expand to
include neighbors such as Ukraine.  The bloc, which plans further policy integration to become
the Eurasian Union by 2015, is “the biggest geopolitical event
in the post-Soviet area since the collapse of the  Soviet
Union ,” Putin said last month.  Putin’s Visit  The Russian leader visited an area near the country’s
border with Abkhazia four days after his inauguration on May 7
and met the leaders of the two separatist regions at his
residence in the Black Sea resort of Sochi.  U.S. ally Georgia maintains Russia occupied the areas after
the conflict. Russian leaders have refused to meet or speak with
Georgian President Mikheil Saakashvili, whom they blame for
starting the 2008 conflict.  Clinton, who arrived in Georgia after a visit to
neighboring Armenia yesterday, reviewed priority areas of
bilateral cooperation including democracy, trade and defense and
security ties.  She called on Georgia’s leaders to hold “free and fair”
parliamentary and presidential elections before her meeting with
the country’s opposition parties that plan to contest the
balloting in October. Clinton also plans to meet Saakashvili
later today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Helena Bedwell in Tbilisi at 
 hbedwell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  