-- Container Lines Set to Repeat Mistakes in Supply Glut: Freight
-- B y   N i k l a s   M a g n u s s o n   a n d   C h r i s t i a n   W i e n b e r g
-- 2012-06-05T22:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-05/container-lines-set-to-repeat-mistakes-in-supply-glut-freight.html
Container lines are thwarting their
own efforts to push through higher freight rates.  The Shanghai Containerized Freight Index, a measure of
prices for cargo leaving the world’s busiest port, has dropped
7.6 percent since May 4. It had risen 58 percent in the first
four months of the year after  A.P. Moeller-Maersk A/S (MAERSKB) , owner of
the world’s biggest container line, and other carriers
implemented price increases.  Maersk and rivals such as Hapag-Lloyd AG and CMA CGM SA
lost money last year as high fuel costs exacerbated a price war.
In addition to raising freight rates in response, they pooled or
idled ships and reduced speeds to curb vessel supply. The
decline in the index indicates those price increases are
reversing as ships are added back to the world fleet.  “Somebody of the 15 lines contributing to the index must
have undercut the jointly established higher freight rates,”
said Kai Miller, head of the container desk at London-based ship
broker ICAP Shipping. “More general rate increases were
announced for the summertime, but that is now a big question
mark.”  Flagging European trade, too many container ships and signs
that container companies are turning to rate cuts should prompt
investors to stay away from shares in A.P. Moeller-Maersk, Frans Hoeyer, an analyst at Jyske Bank A/S in Silkeborg,  Denmark ,
wrote in a May 21 note. Hoeyer advises investors to reduce their
holdings of Maersk stock.  Peak Season  A.P. Moeller-Maersk shares are down 7.1 percent this year,
compared with 4.1 percent for the  Europe Stoxx 600 Index. (SXXP)   Container lines normally make money in the three months
starting Aug. 1, when U.S. and European retailers stock up on
 consumer goods  for Christmas. The extra demand typically allows
shipping companies to add a peak-season charge. Last year,
though, customers were able to negotiate that increase away as
overcapacity destroyed container lines’ bargaining power.  “If rate increases fail two peak seasons in a row, it
would be very negative for the industry and would lead to
Darwinist selection among the operators,” said Marco Vetulli, a
senior credit officer at Moody’s Investors Service in Milan.
“There’s a real risk that freight rates could decline rapidly
if the demand and supply balance isn’t right when the peak
season comes.”  Moody’s has a negative view on the shipping industry as
margins come under pressure because of high fuel prices and “a
sustained oversupply of vessels” in 2012, Vetulli said.  Short-Lived?  “Spot freight rates have peaked and will soften through
the second half of the year,” Drewry Maritime Advisors said in
a note distributed May 31. “Carriers will continue to push for
higher rates. But the success of these attempts will diminish
and prove short-lived.”  Some of the rate increases implemented by the world’s
largest container lines in May, including Maersk, have been
rolled back and the planned surcharges have been postponed, said
Lars Jensen, head of  Asia /Europe trade at  Maersk Line . Still,
the Danish company has utilization rates on its ships from Asia
to Europe “in the mid-90s” percent range and expects that “to
hold up fairly strongly,” he said in a telephone interview from
Copenhagen.  “The implementation of the peak season charges that most
lines had planned for early June seem to have moved to mid-
June,” Jensen said, adding that Maersk Line plans to introduce
its seasonal surcharge on June 15 rather than on June 1 as
originally planned. “It all depends on supply and demand, but we
are reasonably optimistic as far as the summer is concerned.”  Spot Rates  Nils Smedegaard Andersen, chief executive officer of A.P.
Moeller-Maersk, said on May 16 that rates need to continue to
increase if his container line is to break even or become
profitable this year.  The Shanghai freight index reflects spot cargo rates
charged and provided by 15 carriers and 17 so-called freight
forwarders. The spot rates are the prices for immediately
available cargo, and don’t include longer-term contracts between
container shipping lines and their clients. Lower spot cargo
prices are reflected in a decline in the index.  New ships with a capacity of 400,000 standard containers
were added to the market in the first quarter. That figure will
grow to 1.2 million at the end of 2012, according to BIMCO, the
world’s largest international shipping association. At the same
time, lines have put almost 40 percent of the ships they had
idled back into service, BIMCO estimates.  Recovery Ceiling  “When rates improve, container lines are quick to add
capacity and that creates a ceiling as to how much rates can
recover,” said Peter Sand, a Bagsvaerd, Denmark-based analyst
at BIMCO, whose members control 65 percent of the world’s
tonnage.  Still, with current rates on the Asia- Europe  route at about
$1,700 per 20-foot container, operators may yet end the year
with profits Sand said. Break-even levels are slightly more than
$1,000 per box.  “The rising fuel costs are affecting all liner
companies,” Hamburg-based Hapag-Lloyd said in an e-mailed
response to questions. “The announced rate increases are
necessary to recover these high bunker and other energy related
costs from our customers. This holds true for all trades and not
only for the Far East Europe trade.”  CMA CGM didn’t immediately reply to e-mailed questions.  Some container lines may have used the brief spell of
higher rates and lower fuel prices to take market share.  Paris-based shipping data provider  Alphaliner  said in a
note May 15 that there are “increasing signs of rate
undercutting as rates have risen above break-even for most
carriers.” Any failure to implement peak season surcharges
“could have significant negative ramifications on the carriers’
attempt to return to profits this year,” it said.  “We noticed all major lines introduced higher rates for
the summertime, as we had a very sharp increase in the index,
but it was not maintained very long,” ICAP’s Miller said.
“There must have been some market participants who thought
about their own interests and went down in spot rates to fill
their tonnage. There is always cargo fishing for the cheapest
spot rate.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Niklas Magnusson in Hamburg at 
 nmagnusson1@bloomberg.net ;
Christian Wienberg in Copenhagen at 
 cwienberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at 
 acullen8@bloomberg.net ;
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  