-- Corn-Pest Resistance Study Sees Need for Larger Refuge
-- B y   R u d y   R u i t e n b e r g
-- 2012-06-05T15:42:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-05/corn-pest-resistance-study-sees-need-for-larger-refuge.html
Corn farmers planting genetically
modified crops should use larger areas of conventional grain to
slow the western corn rootworm beetle’s development of
resistance to the modified plants’ insect-repelling traits,
researchers said.  The U.S. Environmental Protection Agency should more than
double the area it requires farmers to plant with regular corn,
Bruce Tabashnik from the University of  Arizona  and Fred Gould
from  North Carolina State University  wrote in the June issue of
the Journal of Economic Entomology.  Corn is made to produce proteins that are toxic to some
insect pests by adding a gene from the soil bacterium Bacillus
thuringiensis, or Bt. Insects can evolve resistance to Bt just
as they can to regular insecticides, the  University of Arizona 
wrote in an online  statement .  “We’re seeing the early signs of rootworm resistance to Bt
corn, which fit predictions from evolutionary theory and
experiments in the lab and greenhouse,” Tabashnik, head of the
entomology department at the University of Arizona’s College of
Agriculture and Life Sciences, was cited as saying.  EPA rules require farmers that sow biotech corn producing
one Bt protein to plant 20 percent of acreage with conventional
corn as a so-called refuge area, while those planting corn
producing two Bt proteins must plant a refuge area of 5 percent,
according to the statement.  For Bt corn to remain effective against rootworms, the
refuge requirements should be raised to 50 percent and 20
percent, respectively, according to Tabashnik and Gould.
Rootworm resistance against Bt corn was first found in  Iowa  in
2009, according to the statement.  “A single farm can have millions of these beetles,”
Tabashnik said. “If 1 percent to 6 percent survive on Bt corn,
you have tens of thousands of potentially resistant insects and
the refuge needs to be much bigger.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rudy Ruitenberg in Paris at 
 rruitenberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  