-- Cyanide Millipede, Cloud Forest Lodge in Ecuador Reserve
-- B y   M i k e   D i   P a o l a
-- 2012-06-05T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-05/cyanide-millipede-cloud-forest-lodge-in-ecuador-reserve.html
Hiking the rainforest in northwest
 Ecuador , an area packed with some of the world’s highest
concentrations of plant and animal life in the world, I’m
wondering if there are any dangerous creatures on the trail,
poisonous snakes perhaps.  “The biggest threat here is something falling on your
head,” says David Yunes, the guide for our small group.  It’s true. We hear frequent cracking sounds coming from the
treetops, followed by the tumbling whoosh of a piece of the
forest, dropping out of the canopy. Before the day is over, a
50-foot cecropia will crash down the steep hillside just next to
the trail, instigating a minor mudslide.  The 2,600-acre Mashpi Rainforest Biodiversity Preserve and
Lodge, the brainchild of former  Quito  Mayor Roque Sevilla, is
part of a movement to save the rainforest by restricting its
exploitation to a single use, ecotourism. Sevilla hopes to
protect the forest and convert visitors into ardent
conservationists.  Mashpi is within the Tumbez-Choco-Darien region, a
“biodiversity hot spot,” which is broadly defined as an area
rich in species diversity but under threat. The conservation
effort here has particular resonance, since the land was not
that long ago the site of a logging operation.  “You’d think the first ones to get here would be
biologists or other scientists,” Yunes says, as we slog through
a landscape dense with life. “But no, it was a logging
company.”  Scars Fading  That was 20 years ago, and the scars left by the industry
are disappearing under the relentless growth of trees and other
flora.  Gigantic tree ferns and enormous elephant-ear plants give
the place a Jurassic look. Palm trees with external stilt-like
root systems are believed, apocryphally, to “walk” toward rare
patches of sunlight on the forest floor. A “strangler fig”
tree has enveloped its neighbor in an arboreal death grip.  The fauna is no less wondrous. Yunes plucks a thick brown
millipede off a leaf to demonstrate its defense mechanism. He
blows on the bug in his cupped hands, inspiring the creature to
emit a small blast of cyanide, which smells a bit like almond
and skunk.  The traveler who braves these elements will find
surprisingly luxurious accommodations at the just-opened  Mashpi
Lodge , situated atop these Andean foothills amid a cloud forest.
It is a comfort to know you can pull off your muddied gumboots
at the end of the day and soak in a jacuzzi, get a massage or
tuck into first-class cuisine.  Watching Trogon  The lodge overlooks a rainforest valley. Rooms have floor-
to-ceiling windows to put guests seemingly in the trees.
Watching me from his perch just a few feet away, I observe a
brilliant collared trogon, one of the 280 bird species found in
Mashpi.  Plunking posh accommodations in the middle of a rainforest
presents some obvious environmental challenges. Trash (including
pointless waste like plastic water bottles) has to be trucked
out and disposed of in Quito. Electricity is produced by a
humming diesel generator, though there are plans to replace it
with a small hydrological dam powered by a hillside river.  The lodge is otherwise mostly sensitive to the environment.
One of the main attractions will be a 1.3-mile aerial tram over
the forest. It’s expected to be running by September, but
construction has been slow as the builders tiptoe between the
wildlife to minimize their impact on the habitat.  Cutting Cable  Not all the locals were enamored of the resort and its
tram.  “There was one guy who didn’t like what we are doing
here,” says Yunes. “One of the neighbors who lives next door
to the preserve. So when the cable first went up, he cut it. He
went up and actually cut it.”  The neighbor, one of the squatters who had established
property rights in the area, eventually came to an arrangement
with the lodge. Metropolitan Touring, which owns the lodge and
the land, says it will include nearby community members as
shareholders in the reserve, and that at least 80 percent of its
employees will be local residents.  The outreach extends to the village of Mashpi, which
supplies much of the produce for lodge’s kitchen, something that
helps out the community and reduces the lodge’s carbon
footprint. So far, this small piece of the Andean rainforest is
evidence that there is life after logging, and it is good.  Rates at the Mashpi Lodge start at $1,296 a person for 3
days/2 nights, including all meals, guided excursions and
transportation to and from Quito, a 2 1/2-hour drive.  (Mike Di Paola writes on preservation and the environment
for Muse, the arts and culture section of Bloomberg News. The
opinions expressed are his own.)  (Muse highlights include  Craig Seligman  on books.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Mike Di Paola at  mdipaola@nyc.rr.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in  New York  at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 