-- Deepening Global Strains to Extend Carney’s Rate Pause
-- B y   G r e g   Q u i n n
-- 2012-06-05T04:00:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-05/deepening-global-strains-to-extend-carney-s-rate-pause.html
Bank of Canada  Governor  Mark Carney 
will extend the longest interest-rate pause since the 1950s amid
signs of deepening strains in Europe and the U.S. while still
saying his next move will be an increase, economists said.  The  benchmark rate  on overnight loans between banks will
remain 1 percent in a decision due at 9 a.m. in Ottawa, all 27
economists  surveyed  by Bloomberg said. It would mark the 14th
straight decision with no change since September 2010.  Carney’s last announcement April 17 said a rate increase
“may become appropriate” because of growing domestic demand
and improvements abroad, a view now challenged by questions
about whether Greece will leave Europe’s currency union and the
weakest U.S. job growth in a year. While trading in overnight
swaps shows some investors are now betting  Canada  will cut rates
before the end of the year, that move wouldn’t be justified,
 Toronto-Dominion Bank (TD)  Chief Economist  Craig Alexander  said.  “Only if the Bank of Canada believes the domestic economy
was headed into a renewed period of weakness would the Bank of
Canada cut rates,” Alexander said, because the world’s 10th
largest economy is still benefiting from business investment and
hiring. Still, “the communique is going to have to reflect the
fact the risks have become much worse than they were six weeks
ago,” he said in a telephone interview.  Canada reported June 1 the economy grew at a 1.9 percent
annualized pace in the first quarter, less than the central
bank’s 2.5 percent estimate, as  consumer spending  slowed. More
recent data have shown domestic strength, with housing starts at
the highest since September 2007 and the biggest two-month job
gain in more than 30 years.  Job Growth  At the same time, U.S. job growth has slowed, and European
policy makers are arguing over whether rescue funds can be given
directly to troubled banks, and whether indebted countries such
as Greece could have access to new bonds backed by all of
Europe’s fiscal union to help lower their borrowing costs.  CAE Inc. (CAE) , the Montreal-based producer of flight simulators,
said May 23 it will fire 300 workers because of European
military budget cuts.  “This is where we can see how well the Bank of Canada can
dance around events with the written word,” said  Doug Porter ,
deputy chief economist with BMO Capital Markets in Toronto.  “The global landscape has shifted beneath the bank’s feet
since the last meeting and clearly the bank cannot look past
that,” Porter said, adding “I don’t think they want to do a
full-scale retreat” on their language suggesting future rate
increases.  ‘Sensitive Times’  Finance Minister Jim Flaherty yesterday said he’s prepared
to offer new stimulus if it is required and that growth so far
this year has been about what he expected. “These continue to
be sensitive times,” Flaherty said in Toronto.  Flaherty introduced a budget in March that plans to cut
12,000 government jobs and reduce spending as the majority
Conservative government tries to eliminate a C$23.5 billion
($23.9 billion)  budget deficit  by the fiscal year beginning
April 2015.  The economy is being supported by low  interest rates  in
bond markets, with yields on long-term government debt at the
lowest in Bank of Canada monthly figures dating back to January
1919.  “There’s nothing the Bank of Canada can do at this point
to stimulate domestic demand,”  Stefane Marion , chief economist
in Montreal at  National Bank of Canada (NA) , said in a telephone
interview. “I’m still comfortable with our view that the Bank
of Canada is on hold until next year.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Quinn in Ottawa  at 
 gquinn1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net ;
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  