-- Deutsche Bank Gets Approval to Expand Private-Fund Trades
-- B y   J a s o n   K e l l y
-- 2012-06-05T13:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-05/deutsche-bank-gets-approval-to-expand-private-fund-trades.html
Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  said the IRS will
allow the company to handle more trading between buyers and
sellers of stakes in private buyout and  hedge funds .  The bank’s year-old dbRemarket platform was designated a
Qualified Matching Service by the U.S. Internal Revenue Service,
according to a statement today. The designation means money
managers can approve the sale of stakes accounting for as much
as 10 percent of their funds through the exchange each year, up
from 2 percent.  Private-equity investors including pensions, endowments and
sovereign funds are seeking more flexibility to trade their
stakes in funds that lock up money for 10 years or more.  Carlyle
Group LP (CG) , the world’s second-largest buyout company, is
marketing its latest flagship fund with a provision that allows
investors to sell their interests at designated times twice a
year, people familiar with the matter have said.  “This is becoming a part of the everyday private-equity
business,” Lee Vecchione, a New York-based Deutsche Bank vice
president responsible for sales of dbRemarket, said in an
interview. “It’s a way for general partners to have more
control over the process.”  General partners, as private-equity firms such as Carlyle
and  Blackstone Group LP (BX)  are known, raise money from investors
and usually pair it with debt to finance takeovers. Upon selling
those companies through initial public offerings or to a
corporation, they distribute 80 percent of the profits to their
investors, called limited partners, and keep 20 percent for
themselves.  Secondary Market  Some limited partners opt to sell their interests before
the end of the fund’s life through the so-called secondary
market because they’re unsatisfied with the investment, they
need money to fund obligations or they want to move into other
funds. About $25 billion of secondary transactions occurred in
2011, according to a January report by Cogent Partners.  The dbRemarket exchange works like a sophisticated online
auction, with sellers putting stakes in private-equity funds up
for sale through a secured website. Buyers approved by Deutsche
Bank and the private-equity manager can then bid on the stakes.
Sellers can take one of several approaches, including a so-
called Dutch auction, where buyers submit sealed bids and all
successful bidders pay the lowest clearing price.  “That helps avoid the winner’s curse,” where the top
bidder has to pay more than the market dictates the asset is
worth, said Rob Sandt, a Deutsche Bank director and head of
auction services.  The QMS designation allows a manager to use dbRemarket for
as much as 10 percent of the fund in a year without triggering
tax provisions that would classify a private-equity or hedge
fund as a publicly traded partnership, Sandt said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jason Kelly in  New York  at 
 jkelly14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  