-- Disney Junk-Food Ban Is Seen Costing It Less Than $7.2M
-- B y   E d m u n d   L e e
-- 2012-06-05T20:15:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-05/disney-junk-food-ban-is-seen-costing-it-less-than-7-2m.html
Walt Disney Co. (DIS) ’s plan to bar junk-
food advertising from children’s programming would have cost
less than $7.2 million in television ad revenue if it were in
effect last year, according to estimates by  Kantar Media .  That’s the amount that Disney generated from beverage and
food commercials aimed at children in 2011, the New York-based
research firm said. The figure is less a 10th of 1 percent of
Disney’s total annual advertising sales. The company reported ad
revenue of $7.6 billion for its media networks in its last
fiscal year, an increase of 8 percent.  Zenia Mucha , a spokeswoman for Burbank, California-based
Disney, said the company doesn’t disclose ad revenue from
individual networks or from particular advertisers. She said the
Kantar figure was inaccurate, without elaborating.  Disney announced today that the Disney XD cable network and
its block of Saturday morning shows on ABC will bar advertising
of foods and beverages that don’t meet its  nutrition guidelines 
by 2015. The same restrictions also will apply to the Disney
Channel and Disney Junior -- cable channels that feature
sponsorships but no commercials and therefore aren’t counted by
Kantar.  Kantar’s estimates suggest that the change isn’t a big
gamble for Disney, the world’s largest entertainment business.
The company also stands to gain from promoting healthier Disney-
endorsed foods. It’s developing a “Mickey Check” logo, which
will indicate that products meet its nutritional standards. That
will begin appearing by the end of 2012.  The company unveiled the plan at an event today with first
lady  Michelle Obama , who has made healthy eating a signature
issue of her office. Chief Executive Officer  Robert Iger 
declined to comment on which products don’t meet the standards,
beyond saying that there were “a lot.”  “We hope to work with these companies so that they can
continue advertising on our programs with a product that is
nutritious and meets our guidelines,” he said at the event.  Giving parents assurance that Disney-branded products are
healthy will ultimately will increase sales, Iger said. “We can
create huge change without having the government step in.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edmund Lee in  New York  at 
 elee310@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  