-- Disney Will Ban Junk-Food Ads on Kids Programs by 2015
-- B y   E d m u n d   L e e   a n d   K a t e   A n d e r s e n   B r o w e r
-- 2012-06-05T21:14:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-05/disney-to-impose-new-rules-on-junk-food-ads-on-kid-s-shows-1-.html
Walt Disney Co. (DIS) , aiming to combat
childhood obesity by banning junk-food ads, will require that
food and beverage advertising to kids on its TV networks and
 radio stations  meet new nutritional standards by 2015.  The guidelines, which follow federal recommendations, are
designed to promote fruits and vegetables, limit calories, and
curb the intake of saturated fat, salt and sugar, Burbank,
California-based Disney said in a statement. By the end of this
year, food products will begin bearing the “Mickey Check”
logo, signaling that they meet the standards.  The effort, announced today at an event with first lady
 Michelle Obama , expands on Disney’s adoption of nutritional
guidelines in 2006. Disney is the world’s  largest entertainment
company , with holdings that include film studios, theme parks,
radio stations and the ABC broadcast network. The company’s
media networks generated $7.6 billion in advertising revenue in
its most recent fiscal year, an increase of 8 percent.  The guidelines give specific standards. Breakfast cereals,
for example, should have no more than 130 calories and fewer
than 10 grams of sugar per ounce.  Disney was the first major media company to set nutrition
guidelines for licensed food products and taking this next step
is “a win for us, a win for food companies, and a big win for
families,” Chief Executive Officer  Robert Iger  said at the
Washington event.  Sales Boost?  Giving parents assurance that Disney-branded products are
healthy will ultimately increase sales, he said. “We can create
huge change without having the government step in.”  Iger declined to comment on which products don’t meet the
standards, beyond saying that there were “a lot.”  “We hope to work with these companies so that they can
continue advertising on our programs with a product that is
nutritious and meets our guidelines,” he said.  The first lady, who appeared with Iger, said the company’s
move is “truly a game changer for the health of our children.”  Kids are exposed to $1.6 billion a year of food and
beverage marketing, Obama said. They are “constantly bombarded
with sophisticated messages” designed to lure them to products
that aren’t always healthy for them, she said.  “They’ve realized that what is good for our children can
also be good business,” she said, adding that she hopes other
companies take notice. Obama encouraged parents to vote with
their wallets to encourage companies that make the right
decision.  Biggest Challenge  David Kessler , who was Food and Drug Administration
commissioner from 1990 to 1997, said “confronting obesity is as
hard a public health challenge as anything we’ve ever tackled.”  The effort to change American eating habits “is going to
take decades,” he said. “There’s no magic bullet here. It’s
changing how we as a country, as individuals, look at food.”  In 2006, Disney began serving healthier food at its theme
parks and resorts. Eighty-five percent of its licensed food
products in the U.S. meet the nutrition guidelines, and the
company plans to further cut the amount of sugar and salt in the
products, Disney said today.  Kraft Foods Inc. (KFT) , a maker of products that would be covered
by the new advertising guidelines, spends more than $440 million
annually to advertise on television and cable networks,
according to Kantar Media.  Kraft is reviewing Disney’s new guidelines and welcomes its
efforts to combat  childhood obesity , Valerie Moens, a company
spokeswoman, said via e-mail.  Disney shares  gained 1 percent to $44.84 at the close in
 New York . Kraft declined less than 1 percent to $37.60.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Edmund Lee in New York at 
 elee310@bloomberg.net ;
Kate Andersen Brower in Washington at 
 kandersen7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net ;
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  