-- Djokovic Fights Off 4 Match Points to Keep Grand Slam Run Alive
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 2012-06-05T23:28:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-05/djokovic-fights-off-4-match-points-to-keep-grand-slam-run-alive.html
Four times, Novak Djokovic was a
point away from the end of his quest to become the first man in
43 years to hold all four tennis Grand Slam titles at once. On
each occasion, he found a way to keep his bid alive.  Djokovic saved four match points in the fourth set and went
on to defeat Jo-Wilfried Tsonga in a French Open quarterfinal
played in drizzle on the main Court Philippe Chatrier at Roland
Garros in Paris.  The 25-year-old Serb advanced to play 16-time Grand Slam
champion  Roger Federer  in the semifinals. Federer, 30, had to
overcome a two-set deficit yesterday.  “There is really not any rational explanation or a word
that can describe what you’re supposed to do when you’re match
points down,” Djokovic told reporters. “Obviously a little bit
of experience that I had playing on this level for last five,
six years helps.”  In the women’s quarterfinals yesterday, reigning U.S. Open
champion Samantha Stosur of  Australia  beat Slovakian Dominika Cibulkova to set up a semifinal against  Sara Errani . The Italian
reached the last four at a major for the first time by defeating
 Angelique Kerber , the No. 10 seed from  Germany .  Today at Roland Garros,  Maria Sharapova  of  Russia  plays
Estonia’s  Kaia Kanepi  and Czech Petra Kvitova faces Yaroslava Shvedova of  Kazakhstan  for a place in the women’s semifinals.
Six-time champion  Rafael Nadal  meets fellow Spaniard Nicolas Almagro in the men’s quarterfinals, while Britain’s  Andy Murray 
faces Spain’s  David Ferrer .  Djokovic, who is trying to become the first man since
Australian Rod Laver in 1969 to win the four majors in a row,
won 6-1, 5-7, 5-7, 7-6 (8-6), 6-1 against Tsonga, the fifth seed
from France.  Match Points  Serving in the fourth set, Djokovic saved two match points
at 4-5 with a forehand volley and a forehand cross-court winner.
He saved two more match points at 5-6 down as Tsonga netted a
forehand and Djokovic hit a smash.  “I’m just going for the shots,” Djokovic, the reigning
Wimbledon,  U.S. Open  and Australian Open champion, said in a
news conference. “I’m glad I was aggressive in these moments,
and it paid back for me.”  Djokovic also came back from the brink on the way to his
first U.S. Open championship last year, saving two match points
in the semifinals against Federer.  Tsonga held his head in his hands after Djokovic finished
off the match with a backhand winner.  “You want to break your racket, you want to shout, you
want to cry,” Tsonga told reporters. “You want to laugh and
say, ‘Oh, come on, that’s a joke. How could I lose this
match?’”  Although Djokovic said he needed a rest after his second
consecutive five-set match, he enjoyed the comeback.  Two-Set Deficit  “As a tennis player, this is what you live for,” he said.
“This is what you practice for all these years.”  At the same time on Court Suzanne Lenglen, the second show
court at  Roland Garros , the third-seeded Federer of Switzerland
overcame a two-set deficit in a 3-6, 6-7 (4-7), 6-2, 6-0, 6-3
defeat of Juan Martin  Del Potro , the ninth seed from Argentina,  The 6-foot-6 Del Potro won the first two sets by putting
Federer under pressure from the baseline with flat ground
strokes. The momentum shifted in the third set after Del Potro
double faulted in his opening service game to hand Federer the
break of serve. Federer said he took time to work out a way past
Del Potro.  “Do you try to serve through him? Which I tried; didn’t
work,” Federer told reporters. “Or do I try and move it around
a bit? And that worked a bit better, but it was really in the
mixup that I found success.”  Ties Connors  It was the first time Federer had come back from two sets
down since the first round of Wimbledon in 2010, and raised his
five-set record to 19-16.  Federer’s match ended about the time Djokovic was forcing
the fourth-set tiebreaker. Federer tied  Jimmy Connors  for the
most Grand Slam semifinal spots with 31.  Federer, who won the French Open in 2009, plays Djokovic in
the semifinals for the second straight year. Federer’s defeat of
the Serb 12 months ago ended Djokovic’s perfect start to 2011
and was his last defeat in a Grand Slam match. He’s since won 26
in a row.  “We’ll see how fit he is,” Federer said of Djokovic. “I
know I have to play a great match.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Rossingh at Roland Garros in Paris via the London
newsroom at   drossingh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter-Joseph Hegarty at 
 phegarty@bloomberg.net  