-- Draghi May Move Toward Rate Cut as Debt Crisis Worsens
-- B y   J a n a   R a n d o w   a n d   J e f f   B l a c k
-- 2012-06-06T10:13:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-05/draghi-may-edge-toward-rate-cut-as-debt-crisis-worsens.html
The  European Central Bank  may edge
closer to cutting  interest rates  to a historic low as the debt
crisis tightens its grip on the euro economy and threatens to
hurt global growth.  While ECB officials meeting in Frankfurt will leave the
 benchmark rate  at 1 percent today, according to 32 of 44
economists  surveyed  by Bloomberg News, 11 predict a quarter-
point reduction and one forecasts a half-point cut. With
European governments struggling to fix a crisis that’s engulfing
Spain and could force Greece out of the euro, pressure is
mounting on the ECB to lower rates and introduce more liquidity
support for banks.  The Group of Seven nations yesterday agreed to coordinate
their response to  Europe ’s turmoil, which has tipped at least
eight of the 17 euro-area economies into recession and damped
European demand for foreign goods. ECB President Mario Draghi,
who said last week the monetary union is “unsustainable” in
its current form, could choose to withhold further stimulus
until governments do more to tackle the causes of the crisis.  “Despite the recent escalation, the ECB seems to insist on
getting backing from governments before going ahead with
additional measures,” said  Juergen Michels , chief euro-area
economist at Citigroup Inc. in  London . Still, “the current
combination of moderating inflation and falling sentiment data
are paving the way for lower rates soon.”  G-7 Concern  G-7 finance ministers and central bankers discussed
“progress toward financial and fiscal union in Europe” on a
conference call yesterday that focused on Spain and  Greece ,
officials said.  European representatives “said they will speed up their
efforts to resolve those problems, which was encouraging to
us,” Japanese Finance Minister  Jun Azumi  told reporters in
Tokyo, adding “Japan is ready to provide support if there is
anything we can do.”  The  Reserve Bank  of Australia cited Europe’s crisis when
cutting its benchmark rate yesterday by a quarter point to 3.5
percent, while the  Bank of Canada  held its key rate at 1
percent. The  Bank of England  will announce its latest policy
decision tomorrow amid speculation it could increase asset
purchases after the U.K. slipped back into recession.  New Projections  ECB officials, convening a day earlier than usual due to a
public holiday in some German states tomorrow, will announce
their rate decision at 1:45 p.m. Draghi holds a press conference
45 minutes later, at which he will unveil the central bank’s
latest forecasts for the euro area.  The ECB in March predicted an economic contraction of 0.1
percent for 2012 and growth of 1.1 percent for 2013. Inflation
was projected to average at 2.4 percent this year and 1.6
percent next. Economists said they expect modest downward
revisions to both the inflation and growth outlooks.  The euro-area economy contracted 0.1 percent in the first
quarter from a year earlier, the European Union’s statistics
office said today, revising down its initial estimate from
unchanged. It confirmed gross domestic product was unchanged
from the fourth quarter of 2011.  “The ECB might want to wait for further corroborating data
to conclude that its second-half-of-the-year recovery
expectations are challenged,” said  Silvio Peruzzo , an economist
at Royal Bank of  Scotland  in London. “We push back our June
rate cut to July, but we do not exclude the possibility that the
ECB might pre-announce it this week, recognizing the increasing
downside risk to the economy.”  Shrinking Economy  While the euro region narrowly avoided recession in the
first quarter, latest data suggest the economy is shrinking
again. Unemployment has reached 11 percent, the highest level on
record, and purchasing manager indexes show manufacturing and
 service industries  are contracting at a faster pace than they
were when the ECB last cut rates in December.  International Monetary Fund Managing Director  Christine Lagarde  said in an interview with Sweden’s Svenska Dagbladet
published June 4 that it’s “clear” the ECB has room for
another rate cut.  Economists said Draghi is likely to announce today an
extension of the ECB’s policy of full allotment in its
refinancing operations, which has been the main plank of its
crisis response since 2008.  The ECB has also pumped more than 1 trillion euros ($1.2
trillion) in three-year loans into the banking system, and
outgoing Executive Board member Jose Manuel Gonzalez-Paramo said
in an interview on May 31 that the full effect of that measure
has yet to be felt.  Pressure on Governments  “We certainly expect  Mario Draghi  to underscore that the
ECB has not run out of options yet,” said Elwin de Groot,
senior market economist at Rabobank Nederland in Utrecht.
“However, letting go now would remove any pressures on European
policy makers to come up with a set of structural solutions to
this sovereign debt crisis.”  U.S. President Barack Obama has criticized European
governments for not doing enough to arrest the crisis, now in
its third year. Investor concern about political inaction drove
Europe’s  Stoxx 600 Index (SXXP)  down 8 percent last month, fully
erasing gains this year, while the euro has plunged to a two-
year low against the dollar. It traded at $1.2490 today.  Billionaire investor  George Soros  said on June 2 that
European leaders, foremost among them German Chancellor  Angela Merkel , have a three-month window in which to “correct their
mistakes and reverse the current trends.”  Spain , which has resisted pressure to become the fourth
euro-area nation to seek a bailout, yesterday called for the
first time for European funds to shore up its banks.  Greek Elections  The spread between Spanish and German 10-year bond yields
widened to a record 5.4 percentage points last week and the cost
of insuring against default on Spanish sovereign debt rose to a
historic high.  Greece will meanwhile hold fresh elections on June 17 that
could hand more power to parties opposed to the terms of the
nation’s rescue package and precipitate its exit from the
monetary union.  Further economic weakness or market tension “may convince
the ECB to become more accommodative this summer,” said
Nikolaus Keis, an economist at UniCredit Research in Munich.
“While a rate cut and the options for the provision of further
liquidity will most likely be discussed, the Governing Council
is unlikely to reach consensus for immediate action.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jana Randow in  Frankfurt  at 
 jrandow@bloomberg.net ;
Jeff Black in Frankfurt at 
 jblack25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  