-- Drone Strike Kills al-Qaeda’s No. 2: U.S.
-- B y   J o h n   W a l c o t t
-- 2012-06-05T18:13:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-05/drone-strike-kills-al-qaeda-s-no-2-u-s-officials-confirm.html
A U.S. predator drone strike in
 Pakistan  killed al-Qaeda’s second-in-command, according to two
U.S. officials.  The drone’s video camera had tracked Abu Yahya al-Libi
getting into his car, and Pakistani sources in the North
Waziristan tribal region reported that the subsequent attack had
killed his driver and bodyguard, according to the U.S.
officials, who spoke today on condition of anonymity to discuss
a covert operation.  It took more than 24 hours after the strike for the U.S. to
be certain the unmanned aircraft’s missile also had killed its
prime target. The dearth of reliable, real-time intelligence on
potential terrorists is a weak link in the Obama
administration’s intensified campaign of almost 300 drone
strikes in Pakistan,  Afghanistan , Yemen and Somalia, according
to analysts such as Rick “Ozzie” Nelson.  “Intelligence is never going to be 100 percent accurate,”
said Nelson, director of the Homeland Security and
Counterterrorism Program at the Center for Strategic and
International Studies in  Washington . “The president himself has
to decide how much risk he’s willing to take when he approves a
strike.”  Worth Risk  In al-Libi’s case, targeting the Libyan was worth the risk
of missing him and perhaps killing innocent people if the audio
and video feeds from the Predator were misleading, the two U.S.
officials said. Eleven years after the 9/11 attacks, the U.S. 
still has little human intelligence of its own from terrorist
sanctuaries in northwestern Pakistan.  Al-Libi, who was arrested in Pakistan in 2002, was among
prisoners who escaped from the U.S.-run prison at Bagram airbase
in Afghanistan three years later. He took over as the core al-
Qaeda group’s No. 2 after U.S. raiders killed Osama bin Laden 13
months ago and Egyptian  Ayman al-Zawahiri  assumed the top
position.  The Libyan, whom U.S. intelligence officials think was born
in 1963 and studied chemistry in  Libya , appeared often in al-
Qaeda videos. He was described on a U.S. State Department
website as “a key motivator in the global jihadi movement, and
his messages convey a clear threat to U.S. persons or property
worldwide.”  The department listed him as one of America’s most wanted
terrorists, and in one announcement offered $1 million for
information leading to his capture.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Walcott in Washington at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  