-- Duke, GE Tempt Savers With Higher Yield Than Money Funds
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C o l l i n s   a n d   E l i z a b e t h   O d y
-- 2012-06-05T15:18:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-05/duke-ge-tempt-savers-with-higher-yield-than-money-funds.html
Duke Energy Corp. (DUK) ,  Ford Motor Co. (F)  and
 General Electric Co. (GE)  are enticing a growing number of
individuals to buy their debt through investments pitched as
higher-yield alternatives to checking accounts and money funds.  These and other companies that sell the debt, called
floating-rate demand notes, are exploiting frustration with
money-market funds paying an average  0.03 percent  as of May 29
and bank savings accounts at  0.13 percent . The notes, which
usually require a minimum deposit such as $500 or $1,000 and
offer checks to access the money, are paying 1 percent to 1.6
percent.  The notes help companies diversify their funding, which is
skewed to securities such as commercial paper and bonds bought
mainly by institutions. For retail investors, they provide less
protection than an insured bank account or a money fund that
holds debt from many issuers. The notes aren’t secured.  “It looks like these programs are a much better deal for
the company than they are for the individual investor,” said
David Sekera, corporate bond strategist at Chicago-based
research firm  Morningstar Inc. (MORN)  “These programs don’t appear to
pay enough extra spread over money-market funds to compensate
the investors for the credit risk and lack of diversification.”  Issuers generally can change payout rates weekly. Duke
Energy, a  Charlotte , North Carolina-based utility, and Ford
Credit, the company’s finance unit, promise to pay at least 0.25
percent more than the average money fund rate. Fairfield,
Connecticut-based GE doesn’t guarantee a minimum.  Checkbook Bond  “I like to call them a bond with a checkbook,” said John Heffernan, director of the PremierNotes program at Duke Energy.
“The unique thing about this is we’re selling them directly to
the investors.”  Duke Energy started  offering  floating-rate notes to
individuals about a year ago, marketing them first to employees
and through billing inserts to customers before advertising in
newspapers, Heffernan said in an interview. The amount of  debt
outstanding  through the program increased 59 percent to $126
million as of March 31.  The finance arm of Peoria, Illinois-based  Caterpillar Inc. (CAT) ,
the world’s largest construction-equipment maker, had about $550
million outstanding in the floating-rate demand notes as of
December. Detroit-based  Ally Financial Inc. (ALLY) , the auto-finance
company, had issued about $3 billion outstanding in a similar
product as of March 31.  Caterpillar’s notes are available to the general public.
Ally’s generally are offered to its employees, retirees and
immediate family members, as well as those at  General Motors Co. (GM) 
and the Chrysler group of companies, said spokeswoman  Gina Proia .  GE Capital  “Looking for CD or Money Market Rates? You can do
better,” according to the marketing on GE’s Interest Plus
 website . The notes are issued by GE Capital, the finance unit of
the industrial and financial-services company. GE has been
offering the notes to individuals since 1992. It had $8.7
billion outstanding as of March 31, compared with $5.6 billion
at the end of 2008.  “The real benefit of this product is flexibility,”
 Russell Wilkerson , a spokesman for  GE Capital , said in an
interview. “It allows customers to come in without a sales fee
and exit at any time without a penalty. That supreme flexibility
and an attractive yield is the strength of the offering.”  If a corporation selling these notes defaulted, investors’
money would probably be tied up in  bankruptcy court  and they 
might lose a significant portion of their investment, Sekera said.  No Trading  While the investments let investors write checks against
them and access the money daily, they aren’t insured by the
Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. against losses and there are
restrictions. Duke Energy requires that checks written or online
transfers total at least $250.  The notes, unlike traditional bonds, don’t have stated
maturity dates and aren’t tradable in a secondary market. Buyers
must rely on the company issuing them to get their money back.  People “tend to use it like a savings account or a money-
market account,” Brad Reynolds, chief investment officer for
LJPR LLC, said of  Ford Credit ’s  Interest Advantage  notes.
Investors who are also employees of the companies may be
inadequately diversified if there are credit problems with the
issuers, said Troy, Michigan-based Reynolds, who works with
clients who invest in the notes.  Money Funds  Money-market funds by comparison pool assets from a variety
of sources.  “A money market fund is a diversified, professionally
managed, highly transparent portfolio consisting of high-
quality, liquid assets and governed by all the investor
protections of a mutual fund,” Rachel McTague, a spokeswoman
for the Washington-based Investment Company Institute, a
lobbying group for mutual-fund companies, said in an e-mailed
statement.  The staff of the Securities and Exchange Commission has
been drafting two proposals aimed at reducing the risk money-
market funds may pose to financial stability. The first would
strip funds of their traditional fixed $1 share price,
substituting a floating value. The second would impose  capital
requirements  and restrict redemptions.  Duke Energy and GE Capital both said they are transparent
about how the products work and that it’s the responsibility of
individuals to determine what investments are right for them
depending on their risk tolerance.  Credit Ratings  Ford Credit, a unit of the Dearborn, Michigan-based
automaker, prominently discloses how its notes differ from bank
accounts or other guaranteed products, said spokeswoman Margaret Mellott. The company had about $4.7 billion outstanding in its
demand notes at the end of 2011.  Some of the companies issuing the notes generally can’t
sell  commercial paper  to money-market funds because their short-
term debt isn’t top-rated, said  Peter Crane , president of Crane
Data, which tracks money markets.  Moody’s Investors Service on May 22 raised the unsecured
credit ratings of Ford and its finance unit to investment grade
from junk status. Money-market funds generally can’t hold the
company’s short-term debt, which was raised to P-3, the lowest
level of investment grade, from Not Prime by Moody’s. GE’s
short-term debt is  rated  first tier by Moody’s and S&P, while
Duke Energy’s is  rated  P-2 by Moody’s and A-2 by S&P.  Investors should look up the ratings for the different
companies offering these programs and check both the short-term
and long-term ratings, said Morningstar’s Sekera. While the
probability of a large corporation going bankrupt is low, the
failure of companies such as Enron Corp. and Lehman Brothers
Holdings Inc. are evidence that it’s possible, he said.  Commercial Paper  The average yield for 90-day nonfinancial commercial paper
rated P-2 by Moody’s and A-2 by S&P was 0.60 percent for the
week through June 1, according to data compiled by the  Federal
Reserve . The average for higher rated 90-day nonfinancial
commercial paper was 0.21 percent.  Duke Energy and GE Capital have internal committees that
can reset the rates paid on the accounts weekly. Ford Credit
updates the rates weekly to reflect money-market rates plus 25
basis points and may pay greater than that “at its sole
discretion,” according to the notes’ prospectus. Mellott, the
spokeswoman, declined to comment beyond the  prospectus  on how
the company sets its rates.  Duke Energy currently pays investors 1.2 percent for
accounts less than $10,000 and as much as 1.6 percent for those
with more than $50,000. GE Capital and Ford Credit paid a rate
of 1 percent for investments of less than $15,000 and as much as
1.1 percent on amounts greater than $50,000 as of June 4.  Consumer Confusion  Income on the notes is treated as interest and taxed at
ordinary income rates.  If the rate is set by the company rather than an index,
it’s harder to determine the value of an investment, said
Richard Saperstein, managing director at New York-based Treasury
Partners, which is a unit of HighTower Advisors and advises
corporations and individual investors.  “Clearly they are playing off of consumers’ interest in
eking out a little bit better return on their money than they
can get from bank accounts or money-market funds,” said  Barbara Roper , director of investor protection for the Consumer
Federation of America.  Even though the risks are disclosed in the notes’
prospectuses, investors may still confuse the products with
money markets or guaranteed accounts because of the features
they offer, Reynolds, the  investment adviser , said. “It looks
like a duck, quacks like a duck and swims like a duck.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Margaret Collins in  New York  at 
 mcollins45@bloomberg.net ;
Elizabeth Ody in New York at 
 eody@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  