-- The Gas Station of the Future Just Opened
-- B y   K a r e n   E .   K l e i n
-- 2012-06-05T21:15:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-05/the-gas-station-of-the-future-just-opened.html
     June 5 (Bloomberg BusinessWeek) -- (Corrects date of
Propel’s move to  California .)  Matt Horton wants to solve a problem that makes
alternative-fuel vehicles unappealing to would-be buyers: lack of
convenient places to refuel. Last month, the chief executive
officer of Propel Fuels opened the country’s first station where
drivers can pump gasoline, ethanol, and biodiesel, cyclists can
get tune-ups, and commuters can find public transit schedules.
Backed by more than $19 million in  venture capital  and nearly $12
million in grants from the U.S. Department of Energy and the
 California Energy Commission , the 23-person  Redwood City  (Calif.)
startup received yesterday an additional, $10.1 million grant
from the commission to help build 100 stations around the state
in the next four years.  With its alternative-fuel pumps at about two dozen other
stations, Propel is laying the foundation for what the
37-year-old Horton calls the “slow, but exciting” transformation
of the U.S. automotive industry. Despite increased consciousness
about their benefits, roughly only 3,100 of the 160,000 filling
stations across the country sell alternative fuels, according to
the  Department of Energy . “The gasoline stations don’t want a
competitor but the alternative fuels industry is dependent on its
largest competitor as a pathway to the market,” says Geoff
Cooper, vice president of research and analysis at the  Renewable
Fuels Association . “In many cases, you aren’t going to see a
retailer take a gasoline pump out of commission to put in a
product that competes with gasoline.”  Four-year-old Propel, which Horton says had more than $10
million in revenue last year and has been averaging 300 percent
growth since 2010, is removing that obstacle by selling directly
to drivers. It’s using its experience pioneering the model across
California and software it built to choose locations. The new
filling station, near Anaheim, is in “one of the top 10 trade
areas [in California] for alternative fuels, based on the
customer demographics, vehicle counts, and traffic patterns,”
Horton says. “In this business, the vehicle drives everything.
You can have all the infrastructure in the world, but if there
aren’t any vehicles around that use it, it’s not going to make
any difference.”  Propel provides information about alternative fuels at its
pumps, since studies have shown that more than one-third of
drivers of flex-fuel cars don’t realize their cars can run on
something other than gasoline. And it encourages customers to
sign up for a system that tracks their  carbon emissions . They can
then log on to Propel’s website for customized reports about the
benefits they’re getting from avoiding imported fuel.  Propel is “a remarkable company, like the Apple Store of the
alternative energy market,” says Jim Lane, editor and publisher
of BiofuelsDigest , a daily online publication. “We have these
transformative fuel products that are being sold as commodities,
like computers used to be sold. But Apple really showed that if
you start thinking about customer experience you can change
people’s minds and get them thinking about something in a whole
new way.” Being first to market is a risk, Lane acknowledges.
“There are not a lot of companies that are trying this. But 10
years ago, they called them crazy in Cupertino, too.”  Horton is an environmentalist who spends his free time
climbing rocks and 200-foot California redwood trees, but says
he’s also a results-oriented pragmatist. “I believe strongly in
the power of business and the American consumer to drive change.
A company like Propel moves us in a more sustainable direction,
rather than relying on regulation and government mandates.”  In 2006, he was a venture capitalist working in the Silicon
Valley office of Boston-based @Ventures, when he got an
unsolicited business plan from Propel’s Seattle-based founders.
He and his team at @Ventures spent a year tweaking the plan,
which initially focused on selling high-blend biodiesel, and
repositioned the company as an alternative platform offering
multiple fuels. @Ventures took part in Propel’s first
institutional investment of $4.75 million in August 2007; Horton
took over as CEO in 2009.  Propel relocated from  Seattle  in 2008, and Horton says it
will benefit from California’s landmark 2007 Low Carbon Fuel
Standard. That standard, aimed at reducing fuel carbon intensity
by 10 percent by 2020, is currently under legal challenge. Horton
says his company has filed letters of support in federal court
but has not based its financial models around the standard.
“California has the largest number of flex-fuel vehicles and is
almost dead last in terms of number of flex-fuel pumps,” he says.  Horton is following sales of natural gas-fueled and electric
vehicles closely, and is considering adding natural gas pumps and
battery recharging to his stations in the future when the market
matures. “The  energy industry  is ripe for disruption,” he says,
noting 10,000 people have already signed up for Propel’s carbon
emissions tracking program. They’re using cleaner fuels that cost
less than traditional gasoline, says Horton. “We’re trying not to
ask people to pay more to do the right thing.”