-- ECB’s Asmussen Says Latvia Needs ‘Sustainable’ Convergence
-- B y   A a r o n   E g l i t i s   a n d   J e f f   B l a c k
-- 2012-06-05T16:25:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-05/ecb-s-asmussen-says-latvia-needs-sustainable-convergence-1-.html
European Central Bank Executive Board
member Joerg Asmussen said measures intended to lower inflation
in  Latvia  and aid its convergence with the euro area must be
“sustainable.”  “Measures to reduce inflation temporarily or easily
reversible measures to lower the fiscal deficit do not represent
sustainable convergence,” Asmussen said at a conference in Riga
today. “The decision to adopt the euro is a very fundamental
one and should not be taken lightly.”  Latvia, along with  Lithuania , is in the final stage of the
exchange-rate mechanism, which countries must enter before
joining the euro. While the country reduced spending equivalent
to about 9 percent of gross domestic product in 2009 to tame its
deficit, Latvia is currently struggling to slow inflation and
announced a cut in  sales tax  to 21 percent from 22 percent last
month.  “Very careful preparation is required to make sure that
convergence continues also after euro adoption,” Asmussen said.  In its Convergence Report published on May 30, the ECB said
Latvia still doesn’t fulfill all the requirements for entry to
the euro, including requirements on central bank independence.
On inflation, the ECB said the country may find containing price
increases “challenging.” The Latvian government has said it
intends to join the euro in 2014.  “A country that wants to be a member of the euro area
needs to keep its public finances in order,” Swedish Finance
Minister  Anders Borg  said at the same conference in Riga today.
“If the European Union is saying Latvia cannot be a member of
the euro area, who can then be? Who could have done more to
restore competitiveness?”  International Monetary Fund Managing Director  Christine Lagarde  said Latvia’s adoption of the euro will help reduce
 interest rates  and send a strong stability signal. The country
“needs to deliver” on progress towards adopting the single
currency, she said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Aaron Eglitis in Riga at 
 aeglitis@bloomberg.net ;
Jeff Black in Frankfurt at 
 jblack25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  