-- Hedge Funds Failing to Deliver Taxes to Connecticut: Muni Credit
-- B y   M i c h a e l   M c D o n a l d   a n d   W i l l i a m   S e l w a y
-- 2012-06-05T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-05/hedge-funds-failing-to-deliver-taxes-to-connecticut-muni-credit.html
Connecticut  Governor Dannel Malloy is
learning you can’t always count on the rich.  The Democrat last month deferred debt payments, trimmed
programs and diverted funds as  tax revenue  came up short and
opened a $200 million budget hole. The gap emerged about a year
after Malloy, 56, who was elected in 2010, signed a $2.6 billion
tax increase, the biggest in  state  history.  Connecticut, the wealthiest U.S. state, joins California
and  New Jersey  in facing a deficit as income-tax revenue is the
most volatile in at least 30 years, according to the  Federal
Reserve Bank of Chicago . Connecticut counts on the levy for
almost half its revenue, with the biggest chunk coming from the
hedge fund capital of Greenwich. Connecticut debt has posted the
weakest returns this year among U.S. states, Barclays data show.  The shortfall “is just the consequence of loading up on
high-income individuals,” said Philip Fischer, who runs
eBooleant Consulting LLC in New York and formerly headed
municipal-bond research at Bank of America Merrill Lynch. “It
is destabilizing. They have very volatile incomes. The states
have that reflected in their budgets.”  Increasing volatility in tax collections is complicating
local governments’ emergence from the worst fiscal crisis since
the Great Depression. States projected or dealt with a combined
$54 billion of deficits in the fiscal year starting July 1,
according to a  report  from the  Center on Budget and Policy
Priorities , a nonprofit group in Washington focusing on issues
affecting lower-income Americans.  Brown’s Estimate  California Governor  Jerry Brown , a Democrat, last month cut
the most-populous state’s revenue forecast by $4.3 billion after
 capital gains  receipts fell 5 percent, instead of gaining 15
percent as forecast. In response, he proposed steps such as
reducing government employees’ workweek by 5 percent.  In New York, personal income taxes dropped about 7 percent
in April from a year earlier, the first month of its fiscal
year, though the decline was smaller than expected.  David Rosen ,
the New Jersey Legislature’s chief budget analyst, estimated
last month that revenue may trail Republican Governor  Chris Christie ’s forecast by as much as $1.3 billion through June
2013.  “The real volatility in the income tax has to do with the
high income folks, which is directly or indirectly tied to  Wall
Street  and the movement in the market,” Rosen said in an
interview.  The Standard & Poor’s 500  Index (SPX)  of shares was little
changed last year after gaining about 13 percent in 2010 and 24
percent the prior year.  Market Trailer  Connecticut’s per-capita personal income of $56,889 in 2011
compared with the national average of $41,663, according to U.S.
Commerce Department  data . Its state and local debt has earned
2.3 percent this year through June 1, compared with about 4
percent for the $3.7 trillion municipal market, Barclays data
show. Similarly rated muni debt has earned 3.6 percent.  A one-step rating cut in January by Moody’s Investors
Service, to Aa3, has contributed to weakness in Connecticut
debt, said Brian Steeves, a portfolio manager at Belle Haven
Investments in White Plains,  New York . The rank is Moody’s
fourth-highest.  Moody’s cited pension and debt costs as well as the state’s
susceptibility to “financial market fluctuations,” given the
dependence on capital gains.  Bonds Rally  The state last month cut $474 million from its projection
for personal income-tax collections in the year starting July 1,
according to the governor’s office.  Still, a fixed-income rally driven in part by Europe’s debt
crisis has helped keep municipal  interest rates  near the lowest
since the 1960s and shielded issuers from being punished by
investors. Mutual funds focusing on muni debt have added about
$13 billion this year through May 30, the best annual start
since 2009, Lipper US Fund Flows data show.  “There are not enough bonds to buy,” said  Robert Miller ,
senior portfolio manager in Menomonee Falls,  Wisconsin , for
Wells Capital Management, which oversees $28 billion in munis.  Investors demand about 0.27 percentage points of  extra
yield  on 10-year debt of Connecticut issuers compared with AAA
bonds, about 0.03 point less than the one-year average, data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  Changes in state tax collections have become more dramatic
since 2000 relative to the previous two decades, according to
Leslie McGranahan and Richard Mattoon, senior economists at the
Chicago Fed. While government revenue has always fluctuated with
the economy, states’ receipts have become more volatile as they
depend more on investment income, their  report  said.  Tax Cuts  The outlook for George W. Bush-era tax cuts is complicating
states’ calculations. Income taxes from 2010 may have surged in
anticipation that the lower rates would end on Jan. 1, 2011,
Daniel Carroll, research economist at the Federal Reserve Bank
of  Cleveland , wrote in a report last year. The reductions were
ultimately extended and are set to expire at year-end.  After Malloy took office in January 2011, Connecticut was
flush with income-tax collections and bypassed a plan to borrow
about $1 billion to close a budget gap inherited from Republican
Governor Jodi Rell. Now the state is scaling back revenue
estimates.  “It’s ridiculous,” Ben Barnes, head of Malloy’s budget
office, said in an interview. “The volatility is so high.”  Following are pending sales:  DETROIT plans to sell $575 million of debt secured by sewer
revenue as soon as next week, data compiled by Bloomberg show.
Proceeds will help finance upgrades to the city’s wastewater
treatment system, refinance debt and end swap agreements,
according to offering documents. The swap termination fees total
about $288 million, according to  Fitch Ratings . Fitch last month
cut the system’s senior lien bonds to A-, seventh-highest, from
A. (Added June 5)  PUERTO RICO PUBLIC BUILDINGS AUTHORITY is set to sell $500
million of revenue bonds backed by lease payments and the
commonwealth’s guaranty as soon as this week to refund debt,
according to offering documents. (Updated June 5)  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Michael McDonald  in  Boston  at 
 mmcdonald10@bloomberg.net ;
 William Selway  in  Washington  at 
 wselway@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  