-- Egypt’s Stocks Slump to Lowest Since January Before Mass Rally
-- B y   A h m e d   A .   N a m a t a l l a
-- 2012-06-05T14:18:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-05/egypt-s-stocks-slump-to-lowest-since-january-before-mass-rally.html
Egyptian shares fell to the lowest
level since January as crowds descended on  Tahrir Square  to
protest the verdict in  Hosni Mubarak ’s trial and demand the
disqualification of Ahmed Shafik from the presidential race.  The benchmark  EGX30 Index (EGX30)  dropped 2.3 percent to 4,502.91,
the lowest level since Jan. 26, at the 2:30 p.m. close in Cairo.
 Orascom Construction Industries (OCIC)  retreated to the lowest level in
almost two months.  EFG-Hermes Holding SAE (HRHO) , the biggest publicly
traded Arab investment bank, declined 1.8 percent.  Egyptian activists and the Muslim Brotherhood prepared for
mass rallies today to drive Shafik, Mubarak’s last prime
minister, out of the presidential race. The rally marks the
third day of protests after Mubarak was handed a life sentence
for complicity in the killing of protesters last year.  “Sentiment remains related to political headlines,” said
Wafik Dawood, director of institutional sales at Cairo-based
Mega Investments Securities. “The call for protests is raising
fears of more instability. In the absence of positive corporate
news, we expect negative sentiment to prevail at least until the
presidential runoff is held.”  Demanding Retrial  Voters are scheduled to go to the polls beginning June 16
to choose between Shafik and Mohamed Mursi, the Muslim
Brotherhood’s candidate, as the first president after Mubarak.
Protesters are demanding the formation of a civilian
presidential council, the retrial of Mubarak and other former
regime officials before a revolutionary court, and the
implementation of a law that would bar some officials, including
Shafik, from running for office.  EFG-Hermes, whose shareholders shunned a buyout letter of
intent from  Planet IB Ltd.  in favor of creating a joint
investment bank with Qatar’s QInvest, fell the most since May 27
to 10.68 Egyptian pounds. Karim Awad, EFG-Hermes’ head of
 investment banking , said in an interview with Bloomberg TV today
regulatory approval for the deal is expected “in the next few
weeks.”  The company’s first-quarter profit fell to 35 million
pounds from 37 million pounds a year earlier, it said today  Orascom Construction , Egypt’s biggest publicly traded
builder, lost 2.1 percent to 248.22 pounds.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ahmed A Namatalla in Cairo at 
 anamatalla@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  