-- Egyptians Gear Up for ‘19th Day’ of Anti-Government Uprising
-- B y   T a r e k   E l - T a b l a w y
-- 2012-06-05T12:00:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-05/egyptians-gear-up-for-19th-day-of-anti-government-uprising.html
Egyptian activists and the Muslim
Brotherhood prepared for mass rallies today to drive  Hosni Mubarak ’s last premier out of the presidential race and
recapture a revolution they say was stolen from them.  The protest in Cairo’s  Tahrir Square  was described by the
spokeswoman of one former presidential contender as the “19th
day” of the uprising last year, which ousted Mubarak from power
and sparked months of political unrest and economic malaise from
which  Egypt  has yet to emerge.  “We spent 18 days in Tahrir and we want to go to the 19th
day,” Hoda Abdel-Baset, spokewoman for Hamdeen Sabahi, said by
phone. The candidate finished a close third to the Muslim
Brotherhood’s Mohamed Mursi and Mubarak’s last premier, Ahmed Shafik, in the first round of the vote last month. He has since
disputed the outcome, including filing a suit to halt the runoff
between the other two candidates scheduled to begin June 16.
“We want to continue the revolution,” said Abdel-Baset.  Protesters’ demands include the formation of a civilian
presidential council, the retrial of Mubarak and other former
regime officials before a revolutionary court, and the
implementation of a law that would bar some officials, including
Shafik, from running for office. Shafik is seen by Mubarak’s
critics as seeking to restore the former regime -- a claim he
has denied.  Several youth groups are seeking to raise 13 million
signatures in support of a civilian presidential council to
administer the country, the state-run Al-Ahram reported. The
proposal comes as the ruling military council meets today with
political groups to discuss the current situation in the
country. The Brotherhood’s Freedom and Justice Party was not
present at the meeting.  While Mubarak and his longtime security chief were
sentenced to life in prison last week for failing to stop the
killing of protesters during the January 2011 uprising, six
other senior officers were acquitted. That left youth groups and
the families of the victims concerned that the former president
would be acquitted on appeal.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tarek El-Tablawy in Cairo at 
 teltablawy@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  