-- Lehman Brokerage Loses Appeal of Barclays Asset Ruling
-- B y   L i n d a   S a n d l e r
-- 2012-06-05T22:01:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-05/lehman-brokerage-loses-appeal-of-barclays-ruling-1-.html
Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.’s
defunct brokerage failed to overturn a bankruptcy court ruling
requiring it to pay  Barclays Plc (BARC)  at least $1.1 billion, while
losing a bid to make Barclays return assets to the brokerage.  The appeal stems from the Lehman brokerage’s fight of more
than three years with the U.K. bank over $3 billion in assets
tied to the bank’s purchase of Lehman’s North American business.
U.S. District Judge Katherine Forrest in  Manhattan  told the
brokerage to pay Barclays what it owed, saying the final sale
documents showed the parties’ true intent.  At the same time, Forrest reversed the lower court ruling
that said Barclays wasn’t entitled to margin assets used to
support a trading operation bought from Lehman.  In his ruling, U.S. Bankruptcy Judge James Peck had told
Barclays to return $2 billion in margin assets to Lehman
brokerage trustee James Giddens. At the same time, Peck ordered
Giddens, who is also handling the MF Global Inc. brokerage
liquidation, to give Barclays at least $1.1 billion, and
possibly another $769 million.  Forrest said Barclays wasn’t entitled to the $769 million,
and awarded about $500 million of the margin assets to the
Lehman brokerage.  Lehman Assets  “We are gratified by the court’s decision today confirming
that Barclays is entitled to the Lehman assets it purchased in
September 2008,” the bank’s litigation lawyer, Jonathan Schiller of Boies, Schiller  & Flexner LLP, said in an e-mail.  Giddens will appeal Forrest’s ruling, he said.  “We strongly believe that the former customers of  Lehman
Brothers Inc . are entitled to these assets,” he said in an e-
mailed statement today. “Our duty to customers mandates that we
continue to pursue all legal avenues to recover the assets.”  Giddens has reserved money for the Barclays litigation and
still aims to pay some money to the brokerage’s creditors before
the end of the year, he said.  The brokerage went into liquidation after the Lehman parent
filed the biggest bankruptcy in U.S. history in September 2008,
listing assets of $639 billion.  The district court case is Giddens v. Barclays Capital
Inc., 11-cv-06052, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New
York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Linda Sandler in  New York  at 
 lsandler@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  