-- Telefonica Said to Plan Sale of 20% Stake in O2 Germany
-- B y   M a n u e l   B a i g o r r i ,   Z i j i n g   W u   a n d   J a c q u e l i n e   S i m m o n s
-- 2012-06-05T16:17:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-05/telefonica-said-to-plan-sale-of-20-stake-in-o2-germany.html
Telefonica SA (TEF) , which is exploring
share sales for its German and Latin American assets, is
considering an initial public offering of a 20 percent stake in
the O2 Germany unit, said three people familiar with the matter.  Spain’s biggest phone company wants to raise as much as 2
billion euros ($2.5 billion) from the sale, said the people, who
asked not to be identified because the discussions are private
and the targets may change. Telefonica has an internal goal to
cut its debt by a range of 6 billion euros to 8 billion euros
this year, said one of the people.  Telefonica is seeking to accelerate repayment of its 57.1
billion euros in net debt after  Standard & Poor’s  lowered the
Madrid-based company’s rating last month. While an IPO for O2
Germany is the preferred option, a merger with E-Plus,  Royal KPN
NV (KPN) ’s German mobile-phone unit, remains an alternative, people
familiar with the matter said.  “It’s hard to predict a timeframe on the IPO as all
depends on market conditions,” said Bruno Lippens, who manages
about $9 billion in a telecommunications fund at Pictet Asset
Management in Geneva, including Telefonica and KPN shares. “I
assume they want to list O2 at a fairly high multiple, making it
overly dependent in future growth and hence very vulnerable to
disappointments.”  Smallest Operator  A Telefonica representative declined to comment.  Telefonica’s German unit had wireless-service revenue of
758 million euros last quarter, making it the smallest of the
country’s four mobile-network operators.  Telefonica fell 0.9 percent to 9.30 euros in  Madrid ,
valuing the company at 42.8 billion euros. KPN slipped 0.2
percent on the Amsterdam exchange.  As  Europe ’s debt crisis deters demand for first-time stock
sales, companies including Graff Diamonds Corp. and billionaire
 Eike Batista ’s AUX gold business have shelved IPO plans.
 Facebook Inc. (FB) , the social-networking company that raised $16
billion last month, has dropped 29 percent since its IPO.  A year ago, Telefonica suspended IPO plans for its call-
center business, Atento Inversiones & Teleservicios SAU. Atento
remains a very difficult asset to sell, said one of the people.  KPN, trying to fend off an unsolicited 2.6 billion-euro
offer for a stake from  Carlos Slim ’s America Movil SAB, last
week announced an expansion of its strategy review to include
the E-Plus business. The Dutch phone company and Telefonica are
evaluating a variety of options, including a combination of O2
Germany and E-Plus and then selling a stake in an entity as part
of an IPO, people familiar with the matter have said.  Revenue Share  O2 Germany and E-Plus would have a combined mobile-phone
client base of 41.7 million, which would leapfrog  Vodafone Group
Plc (VOD) ’s 36.5 million and  Deutsche Telekom AG (DTE) ’s 35.1 million. Based
on wireless-service revenue in the first three months of this
year, a combined E-Plus and O2 remains smaller, with about 1.53
billion euros, compared with Vodafone’s 1.7 billion euros and
1.66 billion euros for T-Mobile.  E-Plus is under pressure after it became the only
one of Germany’s four operators to fail to secure
wireless spectrum in the coveted 800-megahertz band.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Manuel Baigorri in Madrid  at 
 mbaigorri@bloomberg.net ;
Zijing Wu in London at 
 zwu17@bloomberg.net ;
Jacqueline Simmons in Paris at 
 jackiem@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net ;
Jacqueline Simmons at 
 jackiem@bloomberg.net  