-- Telekom Austria Stock Soars on Report Slim Buying Stake
-- B y   Z o e   S c h n e e w e i s s
-- 2012-06-05T15:44:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-05/telekom-austria-stock-soars-on-report-slim-buying-stake.html
Telekom Austria  AG rose in Vienna
trading after  News magazine  reported Carlos Slim acquired 4.1
percent of the former telephone monopoly and plans to buy a 21
percent stake held by Ronny Pecik.  Slim, the world’s richest person, acquired the stake in
Vienna-based Telekom Austria via Mexican phone company  America
Movil SAB (AMXL)  and plans to pay Pecik 9.50 euros a share, News
reported today, without saying where it got the information.
Pecik owns the holding in partnership with Egyptian billionaire
 Naguib Sawiris , who opposes the deal and wants 10 euros a share,
News said.  Telekom Austria  jumped  4.3 percent to 7.571 euros at the
5:30 p.m. close in the Austrian capital, having risen as much as
10 percent in intraday trading on the report. The gain was the
stock’s first in three days.  America Movil   fell  0.8 percent to
16.34 pesos at 10:38 a.m. in Mexico City.  Sawiris would prefer to sell the stake to  Telenor ASA (TEL) ,
which may already hold 3 percent of Telekom Austria, the
magazine said.  Austria’s state assets agency, OeIAG, the biggest
shareholder in the Austrian phone company with a 28.4 percent
stake, backs the plan for the stake sale to Slim, according to
the report. Slim and Pecik’s shares would be placed in a company
80 percent owned by Slim, with Pecik holding the remaining 20
percent, News said.  Pecik and Sawiris didn’t return calls seeking comment.
America Movil had no immediate comment. Spokesmen for Telekom
Austria, OeIAG and Telenor declined to comment on the magazine’s
report.  Sawiris said in an interview with Bloomberg last week that
he’d be willing to sell his Telekom Austria stake to Slim should
Austria’s government prevent a reorganization at the telephone
company.  Slim’s son, America Movil Co-Chairman  Carlos Slim  Domit,
said in an interview in late May that the Mexican billionaire
sees  Europe ’s debt crisis as a “good moment” to apply his
strategy of investing in times of trouble.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zoe Schneeweiss in Vienna at 
 zschneeweiss@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Foxwell at 
 sfoxwell@bloomberg.net  