-- Eletropaulo Dividends Imperiled in Brazilian Rate Review
-- B y   R o d r i g o   O r i h u e l a   a n d   M a r i o   S e r g i o   L i m a
-- 2012-06-05T03:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-05/eletropaulo-dividends-imperiled-in-brazilian-rate-review.html
Eletropaulo Metropolitana
Eletricidade de Sao Paulo SA ’s tariff talks with the government
this month will show whether Brazil will sacrifice the country’s
highest dividend payouts to help contain inflation.  Eletropaulo, as the  AES Corp. unit  is known, is locked in
negotiations with regulator Aneel over prices Brazil’s biggest
distributor can bill in the next four years. Authorities
proposed an 8.8 percent reduction to benefit customers.  President  Dilma Rousseff  is pushing utilities from
Eletropaulo to Cia. Energetica de  Minas Gerais , the nation’s
most profitable non-financial industry, to cut tariffs after
inflation exceeded the central bank’s 4.5 percent target every
month since August 2010. Too big a price cut would erode
investor returns and push up funding costs, said Eletropaulo
Chief Executive Officer Britaldo Soares.  “The importance of the process is to maintain the balance
of companies’ investment capacity, vis-a-vis  Brazil ’s
modernization challenges, better tariffs for customers and
appropriate returns for investors to keep the sector bankable,”
Soares said in a May 22 interview in Rio de Janeiro.  Eletropaulo, based in  Sao Paulo , has a dividend yield of
28.5 percent, the highest among Brazilian companies with a
market value of at least $500 million, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Electricity companies account for eight
of the 20 highest dividend yields.  ‘Balanced’ to Clients  Brazilian utilities have an average operating profit margin
of 15.4 percent, the highest among nine non-financial industries
tracked by Bloomberg. The second highest is  consumer goods  at 15
percent.  Eletropaulo’s share price has slumped 34 percent so far
this year compared with a 5.9 percent slide by Brazil’s
benchmark index and a 2.1 percent decline by Santiago-based
Enersis SA, the Latin American unit of  Spain ’s Endesa SA.  Over the past five years Eletropaulo’s share price slid 24
percent, while its  total return  jumped 83 percent.  The industry’s profitability and dividend levels signal
prices need to be “balanced” more toward customers, said
Nelson Hubner, general director of Aneel.  “If companies turned a profit in one tariff cycle, it’s a
sign that I can capture a lot of that in the next cycle,”
Hubner said in a May 29 interview in Brasilia. “We are going to
start to do that. The consumer will profit with that.”  Strict Rules  Eletropaulo’s communications department didn’t respond to
telephone and e-mailed requests for comment on whether Aneel’s
proposed tariff changes would prompt a reduction in dividends.  Cia. Paranaense de Energia , the largest distributor in
Brazil’s southern region, is also in talks with Aneel over
tariffs to be put in place June 24. The regulator proposed a
0.85 percent reduction for the Curitiba-based company known as
Copel.  The larger cut proposed for Eletropaulo is related to
company investments that the regulator decided to exclude from
the tariff framework, according to Antonio Junqueira, an analyst
at Banco BTG Pactual SA.  “The government is being strict within the rules, which is
their job,” Junqueira said by telephone from  Rio de Janeiro .
“The process took place in the right manner.”  While Eletropaulo’s last tariff cycle, in 2007, led to a
bigger cut than the 8.8 percent proposed in this month’s review,
other terms in the previous package, such as prices paid to
generators, offset the earnings impact, Junqueira said.  Inflation Link  Aneel, which delayed this month’s Eletropaulo revision from
July last year, is also considering scrapping a mechanism that
links rate adjustments with inflation. That could hurt
 distributors  more than generators and transmission companies
whose operating margins are wider, according to BTG’s Junqueira.  Lower tariffs would help contain inflation, giving Rousseff
more scope to stimulate the economy. Brazil’s central bank cut
its benchmark  interest rate  to a record 8.5 percent last month,
taking total reductions since August to four percentage points.
The economy expanded a lower-than-forecast 0.2 percent in the
first quarter from the three previous months.  Authorities must understand that high dividends and quality
service aren’t “incompatible,” said Luiz Fernando Rolla, chief
financial officer of Cemig, Brazil’s largest power company by
market value.  “Distribution is an investment business,” Rolla said in a
May 22 interview in Rio de Janeiro. “In order to invest you
need to attract investors and the only way to do that is to have
a very clear, solid and transparent dividend policy.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rodrigo Orihuela in Rio de Janeiro at 
 rorihuela@bloomberg.net 
Mario Sergio Lima in Brasilia Newsroom at 
 mlima11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  