-- Telkom Falls to 8-Year Low on Plan to Sell Stock
-- B y   S i k o n a t h i   M a n t s h a n t s h a   a n d   J a n i c e   K e w
-- 2012-06-05T16:08:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-05/telkom-may-raise-cash-from-shareholders-minister-says.html
Telkom SA Ltd. (TKG)  fell to its lowest in
almost nine years after South African Communications Minister
Dina Pule said the government may sell  stock  to existing
shareholders or raise debt to help fund a return to profit for
 Africa ’s largest fixed-line operator.  Telkom dropped 6.2 percent to close at 20 rand in
Johannesburg, its lowest since Sept. 10, 2003, and extending its
decline over the past 12 months to 45 percent.  South Africa ’s Cabinet won’t support a plan to sell 20
percent of Telkom to  KT Corp. (030200) ,  South Korea ’s biggest phone and
Internet provider, Pretoria-based Telkom said on June 1. KT’s
plans for the purchase were set aside and may be revived
depending on what the South African government asks for, Yung
Kim, senior executive vice president for strategy planning and
investment at Seongnam, South Korea-based KT, said today.  Details will be worked out during the next three months
after the government has met with Telkom to “consider the way
forward,” Pule said in an interview at a conference in  Cape
Town  today. The Cabinet will consider other deals if foreign
investors are interested, she said, adding that “shareholders
are welcome to approach the government with alternatives.”  Telkom needs a partner to fight increasing competition that
has cut  profit  excluding one-time items every year since 2006,
while a stake purchase would give KT a growth opportunity in
Africa. South Africa’s government  owns  39.8 percent of Telkom,
Africa’s largest fixed-line operator, while the Public
Investment Corp., which invests state employees’ pensions, holds
10.9 percent of the Pretoria-based company’s stock.  A rights offer may not be a viable option, said Khulekani
Dlamini, head of research at Cape Town-based Afena, which
manages about 20 billion rand ($2.4 billion), excluding Telkom
stock.  ‘Cough Up’  “This would be negative for shareholders unless they were
very discounted,” he said in a phone interview. “It would also
mean government as the major shareholder would have to cough up
more cash to meet a rights offer,” while raising debt would
come at a higher cost because of the European credit crisis, he
said.  KT on May 8 offered to pay 25.60 rand a share for the
holding, a reduced price from an Oct. 14 offer of 36.06 rand a
share. KT isn’t discussing raising the price, Kim said in a
phone interview today.  “When you negotiate a deal you want the best outcome for
yourself,” said Pule. “Telkom must inform government of its
funding needs so a solution can be found,” she said, adding
that KT’s offer was too low to meet Telkom’s needs.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sikonathi Mantshantsha in Johannesburg at 
 smantshantsh@bloomberg.net ;
Janice Kew in Johannesburg at 
 jkew4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net ;
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  