-- Emerging-Market Stocks Climb From Six-Month Low on Stimulus Bets
-- B y   C h r i s t i n e   H a r v e y   a n d   B e r n i   M o e s t a f a
-- 2012-06-05T22:31:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-05/emerging-stocks-rise-from-six-month-low-on-stimulus-speculation.html
Emerging-market stocks rose from a
six-month low, with  South Korea  and Taiwan leading gains, on
optimism finance ministers and central bank governors will speed
up efforts to resolve Europe’s financial crisis.  The MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index added 0.4 percent to 886.41
in New York, rebounding from the lowest level since Nov. 25.  PT
Bank Danamon Indonesia (BDMN) , which Singapore’s DBS Group Holdings
Ltd. is seeking to buy, jumped 11 percent on speculation
Indonesia will announce new bank ownership rules next week.
Retailer B2w Cia. Global Do Varejo fell a record low to lead
declines in Brazil.  Group of Seven officials said they will work together to
help Spain and Greece place their public finances on a
sustainable footing, Japanese Finance Minister  Jun Azumi  told
reporters in Tokyo following the group’s conference call today.
European representatives “said they will speed up their efforts
to resolve those problems, which was encouraging to us,” Azumi
said.  “Talk about some coordination is certainly good,”  Tim Hall , who manages about $700 million at Deltec Asset Management,
said by phone from  New York . “Answering the questions of what
is going on in the developed market will help the emerging
markets.”  The  Reserve Bank  of Australia today cut its key  interest
rate  by 25 basis points to 3.5 percent, saying the outlook in
Europe remains clouded by fiscal uncertainties.  The MSCI Emerging Market Index has fallen 3.3 percent in
2012 and trades at a multiple of 9.6 times estimated earnings,
compared with the average of 11.5 for companies traded on the
MSCI World Index, which has fallen 2.1 percent this year.  Bank Danamon  The Standard & Poor’s GSCI Spot Index of 24 raw materials
rose 0.1 percent to 585.22 in New York.  OAO Rosneft, Russia’s largest oil company, fell 3.5 percent
and was among leading decliners in Russia’s benchmark index.
Russia’s Micex Index retreated 0.7 percent in Moscow.  Brazil’s Bovespa dropped 1.8 percent after B2W Cia tumbled
8.3 percent to the lowest level on record.  Usinas Siderurgicas
de Minas Gerais SA (USIM5) , a Brazilian steel producer, declined 7.6
percent to the lowest since July 2005.  Bank Danamon, which is 67 percent owned by Singapore’s
Temasek Holdings Pte, was the biggest gainer on the emerging
stock index today.  Bank Indonesia  may announce new rules on bank
ownership next week, Edi Setiadi, an executive director of the
Syariah Banking department at Bank Indonesia, told reporters in
Singapore today.  Taiwan’s  Taiex Index (TWSE)  added 1.5 percent while Indonesia’s
Jakarta Composite Index rose 1.7 percent. Hong Kong’s Hang Seng
China Enterprises Index advanced 0.2 percent.  Steepest Rise  A gauge of  information technology stocks  rose 1.2 percent,
the steepest advance among the 10 industry groups on the  MSCI
Emerging Markets Index. (MXEF)   Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing added 2.2 percent,
rebounding from a 4.3 percent drop yesterday.  Acer Inc. (2353) ,
Taiwan’s largest computer maker, jumped 7 percent, the most
since September, after saying Microsoft Corp.’s Windows 8
software will help boost sales.  Apple Inc. was denied its renewed request for a ban on U.S.
sales of Samsung Electronics Co.’s Galaxy Tab 10.1 tablet
computer while the case is still before a federal court of
appeals. South Korea’s Samsung gained 0.6 percent.  The WIG20 Index retreated 1.8 percent in Warsaw while the
BUX Index dropped 0.6 percent in Hungary.  The extra yield investors demand to own emerging-market
debt over U.S. Treasuries dropped 11 basis points, or 0.11
percentage point, to 422, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s
EMBI Global Index.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Christine Harvey in New York at 
 charvey32@bloomberg.net ;
Berni Moestafa in Jakarta at 
 bmoestafa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net ;
Tal Barak Harif at 
 tbarak@bloomberg.net  