-- Emirates’ Antinori Says ‘No Reason’ to Slow Europe Expansion
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-06-05T10:38:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-05/emirates-antinori-says-no-reason-to-slow-europe-expansion.html
Thierry Antinori, executive vice-
president for passenger sales at Emirates Airline, the largest
international carrier, comments on expansion plans amid the
euro-zone crisis. He spoke in an interview in  Ho Chi Minh City 
at an event to mark the carrier’s maiden flights to the city.  Emirates plans to grow capacity 18 percent this year,
compared with a 15 percent increase last year, he said.  On Euro-zone crisis:  “It’s true that the euro lost against some other
currencies, but we are still able to balance it with the
business we can sell out of other markets. We’re monitoring, but
till now, there is no reason to change our strategy, and we’ll
continue to expand to Europe.  ‘‘If necessary, we can re-deploy our fleet, but a lot of
passengers flying on the route between Dubai and Europe are also
passengers coming from  Australia ,  India ,  Middle East  and the  Far
East . The share of these passengers will grow because these
customers are interested by a lower euro, to spend vacations, or
to travel to these countries because it makes traveling less
expensive for them.  ‘‘The global worldwide size of our operations makes it
possible for us to continue to stick to our growth plan despite
the euro zone difficulties. And, if necessary, we’ll have
contingency plans, but it’s not time now to do more than just to
prepare in case.  ‘‘Some other airlines are decreasing the number of flights,
downsizing or downgrading their products. We won’t do that.”  On Athens:  “Some airlines are pulling out of  Athens , Emirates is not.
We are staying there on a daily basis and we’re sticking to the
commitment to the market. The customer response is positive
because they see Emirates is a brand you can rely on.”  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Diep Ngoc Pham in Hanoi at 
 dpham5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  