-- Energy, Housing and Trade Shield U.S. From Euro Crisis
-- B y   J a c k   A b l i n
-- 2012-06-05T01:05:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-05/energy-housing-and-trade-shield-u-s-from-euro-crisis.html
Investors have been captivated by the
 European debt crisis . Just as in 2011, first-quarter gains in
stock prices have given way to losses fueled by Europe’s
springtime uprisings and political acrimony.  In the 1990s, faced with the prospect of economic decline,
European leaders were able to prolong their untenable government
largesse by linking arms and unifying around a common currency.
The euro enabled  Germany  to price its goods and services by some
estimates 30 percent below what they would have been had the
deutschmark continued to exist.  Meanwhile, southern European customers, suddenly holding a
respected currency, found themselves with purchasing power. This
economic symbiosis enabled the region to neglect economic
reality.  Now that the countries’ capacity to take on debt has
reached its upper limit,  Europe  is weighed down by the reversal
and by a rapidly aging population.  Based on market activity, investors mistakenly think that
Europe’s malaise will be contagious. Although there is an eerie
parallel between debt burdens, the U.S. is somewhat insulated
from Europe’s predicament. In many respects Europe’s loss is
America’s gain.  Manufacturing Surge  Take manufacturing, for example. The recent surge in U.S.
activity is the direct result of several trading advantages.
After almost a decade of stagnant blue-collar wages, U.S.  unit
labor costs  have become substantially cheaper than those in
other developed markets, thanks in large part to gains in
productivity and years of decline in the dollar. The cost of
hiring an American manufacturing worker is 5 percent cheaper
today than it was in 2000. Average European manufacturing wages
rose 13 percent in dollar terms. In Spain and  Italy  they rose 27
percent and 33 percent, respectively. Now the table is tilted
toward the U.S.  Recent news that General Electric Co., the Boeing Co. and
Ford Motor Co. will shift manufacturing capacity to the U.S.
should come as no surprise. If GE has determined that making
appliances is more cost competitive in  Kentucky  than in China or
Mexico, what does that say about the edge the U.S. has over
European countries?  Consider, next, the natural gas revolution. In just a few
years, the entire energy price structure in the U.S. has been
turned on its head. Thanks to hydraulic fracturing technology,
 North America  suddenly has abundant natural gas selling for
about $2 per million BTU, while Europe is forced to pay $9. (In
 Asia , the price is $18 per million BTU.)  The U.S. appears to be turning the corner on housing as
well. Confidence among  homebuilders  spurted more than expected
in May, reaching a five-year high. My team at Harris Private
Bank estimates that national  home prices , gauged against the
broad economy, are slightly below fair value. This calculation
is based on the observation that, for more than a year, new home
construction has been trailing  labor force gains , which is a
crucial indicator of household formations. By the same measure,
U.S. housing was 22 percent overvalued in the third quarter of
2006.  In certain European markets,  home prices  have similarly
adjusted; Ireland’s have been cut in half, and collapses in
 Spain  and the U.K. are well known. Yet several countries haven’t
seen a slump. In  France , notably, home prices have just kept
marching upward as if the global recession never happened. The
typical French home is, amazingly, 10 percent more expensive now
than six years ago. At the margin, international cities like
Miami should benefit from a surge of foreign real estate buyers
using cheap dollars to buy discounted homes.  French Bubbles  France appears to have bubbly prices for most things. A few
weeks back, my colleagues and I conducted an unscientific study
of worldwide elite hotel rates by logging onto the  Four Seasons ’
web site for quotes on a four-night stay this coming New Year’s
Eve. Not surprisingly, the cheapest rooms were in Bangkok and
 Shanghai , where thanks to relatively undervalued currencies the
nightly rate was $285. In Las Vegas it was $374, in Beverly
Hills $425 and in  New York  $855 (that price is tied to Times
Square’s special status on the big night). What really jumped
out was that the room in Paris, despite all of Europe’s economic
woes, came to a whopping $1,210, hinting at excesses in Parisian
real estate prices and in the euro.  The European experience looks a lot like what happened in
 Japan , as the world’s manufacturing powerhouse and second-
largest economy became the aged third-largest economy. The
difference in Japan is its enormous debt load has been able to
grow because most of it was self-funded. Despite its two-decade
 bear market , the Nikkei 225 index of Japanese stocks has exerted
little gravitational pull on other bourses. From the Nikkei’s
top in 1989, the index has generated a devastating minus-76
percent total return. Meanwhile, investors in the  S&P 500  have
multiplied their money fivefold. The dirty little secret was
that Japan never took money-printing to the same level as
Western central banks have today. A generational deflationary
funk is thus much less probable in the U.S. of 2012 than in
Japan of 1990.  Europe and the U.S. have decoupled on several important
fronts. Trade will certainly be a drag, but U.S. exports to the
region represent only about 2 percent of gross domestic product
-- not enough to derail growth. There is no doubt that headlines
about European sovereign debt may prophesize what’s in store for
the U.S. if its fiscal and monetary imbalances are not
rectified. Yet the U.S. has several advantages on this front,
too. Thanks to immigration, it has a more dynamic workforce. And
while federal debt levels are dauntingly high, U.S. monetary
policy is not beholden to conflicts among multiple countries.  I’m not denying that the U.S. faces challenges ahead, but
these can be managed over the course of years, not weeks. The
U.S. has an enormous edge on the rest of the developed world. As
investors reach that conclusion, U.S. equity markets will
continue to decouple from and outperform those in other
developed economies.  ( Jack Ablin  is the chief investment officer of Harris
Private Bank in  Chicago . The opinions expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View columns, editorials
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the View editors on  pressuring Russia to
pressure Syria ;  Margaret Carlson  on  the Wisconsin recall
election ;  Jeffrey Goldberg  on  winning the Six-Day War ;  Ramesh
Ponnuru  on the  wayward Obama campaign ; William Pesek on  India’s
faltering market reforms ; Gary Shilling on  Japan’s misguided
stimulus .  To contact the writer of this article:
Jack Ablin at  jack.ablin@harrisbank.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Mary Duenwald at   mduenwald@bloomberg.net . 