-- Henley May Follow Taylor Swift With Radio Revenue Accord
-- B y   A n d y   F i x m e r
-- 2012-06-06T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-05/henley-may-follow-taylor-swift-with-radio-revenue-accord.html
A revenue-sharing accord between
 Taylor Swift ’s label and  Clear Channel Communications Inc. (CCMO) , the
biggest U.S. radio station owner, may become a template for the
music industry, according to artist manager Irving Azoff.  Don Henley and other musicians may enter into similar
agreements to get paid for songs played over the air, Azoff, who
manages the Eagles’ drummer and lead vocalist, said yesterday in
an interview.  Clear Channel will pay Big Machine Label Group and its
artists, including Swift, for songs played on the air or over
the Web, the companies said today in a statement. It marks the
first time musicians and their labels have collected royalties
from traditional radio broadcasters.  “We’re trying to convince labels to enter into a direct
deal because we can’t get legislation passed,” said Azoff, a
Clear Channel director and chairman of  Live Nation Entertainment
Inc. (LYV)  “Clear Channel is first of these deals.”  Clear Channel, based in San Antonio, operates iHeart Radio,
which competes with  Pandora Media Inc. (P)  for online listeners.
Pandora co-founder  Tim Westergren  was scheduled to testify today
before Congress, seeking lower royalty rates for streaming.  As part of the agreement, Clear Channel negotiated “more
realistic” digital royalty rates, said Azoff, who sold his
Front Line Management business to Live Nation last year. Live
Nation, based in Beverly Hills, California, is the largest
concert promoter and ticket seller.  “Unrealistic rates on the digital side were choking the
ability to expand digitally for radio companies,” Azoff said.
The rates were also “holding back consumers. We learned from
Napster, that’s a bad thing,” he said.  Radio Pay  In addition to his role at Live Nation, Azoff is the
personal manager of the Eagles, Christina Aguilera, Neil Diamond, Van Halen and Steely Dan, according to a biography
posted at the company’s website.  Nashville, Tennessee-based Big Machine, owned by Scott Borchetta, and Clear Channel didn’t provide other financial
details.  Vivendi SA (VIV) ’s  Universal Music Group  distributes Big
Machine releases. Artists participating in the Clear Channel
accord include Tim McGraw, Rascal Flatts, Reba McEntire, Jewel,
and the Mavericks, according to the statement.  Pandora, iHeart Radio and other online music services pay
rates set by the Copyright Royalty Board, part of the Library of
Congress. While publishers and songwriters are paid for airplay,
recording artists get nothing.  Clear Channel, acquired in 2008 by private equity funds
Bain Capital LLC and Thomas H. Lee Partners LP, owns 850 radio
stations serving 150 cities, according to the statement.  Pandora rose 2.8 percent to $10.28 yesterday in  New York 
trading. The  stock  has increased 2.7 percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andy Fixmer in  Los Angeles  at 
 afixmer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  