-- EON Will Lose Millions After Trader’s ‘Irregularities’
-- B y   M a t h e w   C a r r   a n d   L a r s   P a u l s s o n
-- 2012-06-05T13:01:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-05/eon-will-lose-millions-after-trader-s-irregularities-.html
EON AG (EOAN) ,  Germany ’s biggest utility,
will probably lose millions of euros after “irregularities” by
a former employee were discovered last month.  “EON Energy Trading SE in Dusseldorf has detected some
irregularities of a single trader,” Georg Oppermann, a
spokesman for the power and natural-gas company, said yesterday
by phone. “We expect only minor financial impacts on our
portfolio in the lower double-digit million euro range,” he
said, declining to specify the amount because the trades were in
forward markets. He wouldn’t name the person or say which
commodities were involved.  EON’s losses follow money-losing bets in financial markets
in the past year which hurt banks including JPMorgan Chase & Co.
and UBS AG. The utility’s trading and optimization unit’s
earnings before interest and tax were 125 million euros ($157
million) in the first quarter, compared with a 434 million-euro
loss a year earlier, as it renegotiated multi-year natural-gas
contracts linked to oil, it said in a May 9  earnings report .  EON had already terminated the trader’s employment when the
irregularities were discovered, Oppermann said. The problems
were detected before the forward contracts reached their
delivery date, he said.  Shares Fall  The company fell to its lowest price since Sept. 23,
sliding as much as 2.5 percent to 14.05 euros in  Frankfurt  and
traded at 14.17 euros at 2:38 p.m. That values the company at
28.3 billion euros.  “It raises questions about how utilities manage
proprietary trading,” said Patrick Hummel, an analyst in Zurich
for UBS AG, who has a “neutral” rating on EON shares and a
price target of 17 euros. “When you have prop trading in an
institution, a rogue trader can do financial damage whether it’s
a bank or a utility. There was an immediate share-price reaction
on this story,” he said today by phone.  EON, whose shares have fallen 23 percent in the past year,
has pursued a 15 billion-euro asset-sale program, cut jobs and
expanded in non-European markets including  Brazil  after the
Fukushima nuclear disaster in  Japan  prompted German Chancellor
 Angela Merkel  to call for the permanent halt of all atomic
plants by 2022. The first phase of shutdowns trimmed the
utility’s earnings by 2.5 billion euros in 2011.  The trading unit, which buys and sells commodities for its
own account and maximizes the value of the parent company’s
power plants, links it to markets including electricity, natural
gas, oil, coal, freight, biomass, and carbon allowances.  Record-Low Electricity  A spokeswoman for the European Energy Exchange AG said the
transactions didn’t take place via the Leipzig, Germany-based
power-trading platform.  “According to our findings, these trades were not made at
the EEX,” Katrin Berken said by e-mail today. “That’s why the
market surveillance has not detected any irregular trading
activities of EON.”  German power for 2013, the regional benchmark, reached a
record low 48.25 euros a megawatt-hour yesterday in intraday
trading and has dropped 18 percent in the past year. It gained
0.3 percent today to 48.70 euros.  EON may comment further on the former trader’s activities
once investigations have been completed and a course of action
decided, Oppermann said. He declined to say whether police are
involved, or whether the utility plans to prosecute the trader.
“We will check all options we have,” he said. “We do not see
a material financial impact from the group perspective.”  Oppermann declined to provide further information when
reached today via e-mail.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mathew Carr in London at 
 m.carr@bloomberg.net ;
Lars Paulsson in London at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  