-- Merck, Ariad’s Drug Fails to Win Approval to Treat Sarcoma
-- B y   A n n a   E d n e y
-- 2012-06-05T21:09:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-05/merck-ariad-s-drug-fails-to-win-approval-to-treat-rare-sarcoma.html
Merck & Co. (MRK)  and  Ariad Pharmaceuticals
Inc. (ARIA)  failed to win U.S. regulatory approval for a treatment that
is supposed to slow a rare type of cancer in bone and soft
tissue for patients who have already undergone chemotherapy.  The  Food and Drug Administration  said more clinical trials
are needed to further assess safety and efficacy, Merck, based
in Whitehouse Station, New Jersey, said in a statement today.
The drug would compete with  GlaxoSmithKline Plc (GSK) ’s Votrient, a
kidney-cancer pill that won approval April 26 for expanded use
on patients with soft-tissue sarcomas who have had chemotherapy.  Votrient kept sarcoma from spreading in soft tissue three
months longer than placebo. The medicine from Merck and
Cambridge, Massachusetts-based Ariad, chemically known as
ridaforolimus, stopped progression of the cancer three weeks
longer than placebo. Patients in clinical trials experienced
heart, kidney and liver disorders.  “Merck remains confident in the potential of
ridaforolimus,” Eric Rubin, vice president of clinical research
oncology at Merck, said in the statement. “We will continue to
work closely with the FDA to define potential paths forward for
this investigational therapy.”  There are about 50 types of soft-tissue sarcoma, cancers
that arise in connective or supportive tissues such as bone,
muscle or fat, according to the  American Cancer Society . Most
sarcomas are in the arms and legs or internal organs, according
to the  National Cancer Institute .  Treatment Options  The median survival of patients diagnosed with soft-tissue
sarcoma that is spreading is about a year, according to  FDA
documents . Prior to Votrient’s approval, chemotherapy was the
only treatment option for the tumors outside of the stomach and
intestines, which are diagnosed in about 10,000 patients a year.  Ridaforolimus from Merck and Ariad also is intended to
treat sarcoma tumors in bone. About 2,500 new cases of that
cancer are diagnosed each year, according to the  University of
California , San Francisco.  Merck is responsible for the development and worldwide
commercialization of ridaforolimus in oncology, while Ariad has
co-promotion rights in the U.S.  Sanofi (SAN) , France’s biggest drugmaker, and  Johnson & Johnson (JNJ) ,
the world’s largest health-products company, are among others
developing sarcoma treatments, according to Bloomberg
Industries.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anna Edney in Washington at 
 aedney@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Romaine Bostick at 
 rbostick@bloomberg.net  