-- Terrell Owens Fires Agent as 38-Year-Old Receiver Plans Return
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2012-06-05T15:45:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-05/terrell-owens-fires-agent-as-38-year-old-receiver-plans-return.html
Terrell Owens said he plans to return
to the  National Football League  this year after sitting out the
2011 season and fired  Drew Rosenhaus  as his agent, saying he
needs to be represented by someone who “believes in my ability
to help an NFL team.”  The 38-year-old Owens, who ranks second to Jerry Rice in
NFL history with 15,934 receiving yards, said in a statement on
his website that he’s hired Jordan Woy as his  new agent . Owens
missed last season after knee surgery in April 2011.  “I love the game of football and I know I can help a
team,” Owens said on his  website . “I have had to go through
some humbling times but I am more determined than ever to show a
team that I can be a huge asset to them as a player and a team
leader in the locker room.”  Rosenhaus didn’t immediately return voice and text messages
on his mobile phone seeking comment on Owens’s decision.  A five-time All-Pro, Owens is tied with  Randy Moss  behind
Rice for the NFL’s second-most touchdown catches with 153 and
has 1,078 career receptions, sixth on the career list.  Owens joined the Indoor Football League’s Allen Wranglers
in February, signing a contract worth between $250,000 and
$500,000, but was released in May for missing a team visit to a
children’s hospital. While out of football rehabbing his knee,
Owens said on his reality television show that he’s had money
problems, citing mortgages on real estate and child support
payments. He cried on “The T.O. Show” in September while
discussing his financial situation and frustration with the
person who was managing his money.  Owens, who has played for the  San Francisco 49ers ,
 Philadelphia Eagles ,  Dallas Cowboys , Buffalo Bills and
Cincinnati Bengals over his 15-year NFL career, said he’s
looking forward to getting back on the field this year.  “I am looking for a team who will give me that chance and
I know I will pay big dividends to them as a player and
teammate,” said Owens, who had 72 catches for 983 yards and
nine touchdowns in 14 games for the Bengals in 2010.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in  New York  at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  