-- EU Unveils Debt Writedown Law as Step to Banking Union
-- B y   J i m   B r u n s d e n
-- 2012-06-06T15:19:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-05/eu-seeks-lender-levy-debt-losses-as-step-to-banking-union-1-.html
Senior unsecured creditors will be
put in the firing line to cover costs from failing lenders under
European Union plans unveiled today, as the bloc seeks to end an
era of bank bailouts and move toward more unified financial
supervision.  Michel Barnier , the 27-nation bloc’s financial services
chief, said the plans, which also include the setting up of a
network of national bank-financed funds to stabilize crisis-hit
lenders, are a necessary step to curb excessive risk taking and
take taxpayers off the hook for rescues.  “We don’t want governments to find themselves in the
future with their backs to the wall, and no option but to inject
public money,” Barnier told reporters in Brussels today.
“Banks should pay for banks, we are going to break the link
between banking crises and public budgets.”  EU leaders, including European Central Bank President
 Mario Draghi  and European Commission President  Jose Barroso ,
have called for a banking union with more coordination of
regulation, as lawmakers seek to bolster confidence damaged by
debt turmoil. EU President  Herman Van Rompuy  plans to report on
proposed “building blocks” for deeper integration in the 17-
nation euro area to the next summit of EU leaders on June 28-29
in Brussels.  “Today’s proposal is an essential step towards banking
union in the EU,” Barroso said in a statement.  Annual Levies  Under Barnier’s plans, national governments would impose
annual levies on banks to ensure that a minimum amount of money,
a so-called resolution fund, is immediately available to
stabilize a crisis-hit lender. This would allow regulators to
buy time while other steps, such as creditor writedowns, are
enacted.  Banks could be asked to contribute additional financing
should monies raised through annual levies prove insufficient,
according to the officials. Governments would be required to
lend to each other as a last resort. They would also be expected
to pool their funds to tackle the failure of a large cross-
border bank.  This mutual lending is “likely to receive a thumbs down
from Germany” and other euro-area countries with a triple-A
 credit rating , said Jesper Berg, senior vice president at
Nykredit A/S, Denmark’s biggest mortgage bank. Those nations
will see it as a “backdoor” mutualization of debt, he said.  Resolution Funds  Barnier also proposed that national deposit guarantee
programs could be merged into the planned network of resolution
funds.  This wouldn’t amount to a pooling of national deposit
guarantee systems in the bloc, EU officials said yesterday, and
governments would still be expected to meet their obligations to
depositors using national funds, should the guarantees be
activated.  “Delinking the sovereign from the bank is essential and an
industry-funded resolution fund is a step in the right
direction,” Gilbey Strub, a managing director at the
Association for Financial Markets in  Europe , said in an e-mail.  “Pre-funding this pool is likely to drive stability, but
as the  World Bank  has warned, it must be designed properly to
ensure it does not encourage risk taking,” Strub said.  AFME represents lenders and brokers including  Deutsche
Bank AG (DBK) ,  BNP Paribas SA (BNP)  and  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)   Cross-Border  The commission today reiterated its support for setting up
a single EU bank resolution fund, which it said would be more
effective in handling failing cross-border lenders. Still, the
EU’s ability to take such a step is currently hampered by the
lack of a single banking supervisor, and differing national
insolvency laws.  The banking union advocated by the commission would include
a single fund and unified supervision, along with an EU-wide
deposit guarantee program and a shared rulebook setting out
lenders’ prudential requirements, according to an e-mailed
statement from the regulator.  These further measures should “involve all 27 member
states” of the EU, Barnier said. As a minimum, they should
encompass the 17 nations in the euro area.  The idea of a coordinated deposit-insurance system in the
bloc was rejected today by  Germany , which said further political
integration was needed first.  Second Step  “It has to be very clear that there can’t be a pooling
before we have taken the necessary political and integration
steps,” Steffen Seibert, a German government spokesman, said
today in Berlin. “We mustn’t take the second step before the
first.”  Seibert said Germany welcomed in principle Barnier’s
proposals today to make bondholders pay for the costs of failing
banks and establish a network of national bank-financed funds
to stabilize crisis-hit lenders.  “No doubt fiscal federalism, burden sharing and deeper
banking union will continue to dominate the political agenda in
the weeks and months ahead,”  Richard Reid , research director
for the International Centre for Financial Regulation in  London ,
said in an e-mail.  “But before then the central banks will be obliged to
intervene to underpin the financial system given the glacial and
disjointed approach to policy making emanating thus far from the
EU,” Reid said.  Creditor Writedowns  For the creditor writedowns, Barnier’s proposals would give
regulators the power to impose losses on holders of senior
unsecured debt, as well as derivatives counterparties, once a
lender’s capital and subordinated debt are wiped out. The debt
could also be mandatorily converted into common shares by
regulators, so shoring up a struggling bank’s equity. Any bail-
in would be accompanied by the removal of management, and
restructuring.  The plans will increase funding costs across the banking
system by an estimated 5 to 15 basis points, according to
commission figures.  This cost will be “far outweighed by the expected macro-
economic benefits associated with a far-reduced likelihood of
systemic financial crises and economic disruption,” the
commission said.  Regulators would also have the power to parachute a so-
called special manager into a lender that is struggling and
deemed to be at risk.  These so-called bail-in powers to impose losses on failing
banks’ bondholders wouldn’t be implemented until 2018. Other
parts of the draft law would apply from the start of 2015.  Once the new rules come into force, national authorities
would be expected to exhaust options such as forced bondholder
losses before resorting to public money to stabilize the bank.  Failing Banks  This measure could bring the commission into conflict with
 Sweden , whose Finance Minister  Anders Borg  has said that the EU
shouldn’t prevent governments from putting public money into
failing banks when they want to.  The commission is weighing additional proposals to ensure
that market infrastructures such as clearinghouses can be safely
wound down if they fail, the officials said.  Barnier’s plans will need to be approved by national
governments and by the European Parliament before they can come
into effect.  Lawmakers in the parliament indicated today that they would
seek to introduce some of Barnier’s measures ahead of schedule
by transplanting them into draft rules on bank capital that are
meant to become law at the start of next year.  “We cannot wait an extra two and a half years for the
crisis management legislation to be negotiated and
implemented,”  Sharon Bowles , chairwoman of the parliament’s
economic and monetary affairs committee, said in an e-mail.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Brunsden in Brussels at 
 jbrunsden@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  