-- EU Won’t Discuss Carbon Roadmap Next Week, Official Says
-- B y   E w a   K r u k o w s k a
-- 2012-06-05T14:13:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-05/eu-won-t-discuss-carbon-roadmap-next-week-official-says.html
The option of European Union nations
backing a carbon-cut strategy up to 2050 was dropped from the
agenda of June 11 ministerial meeting after  Germany  concluded
it was unlikely to win unanimous support, an EU official said.  The possibility of adopting a declaration on the Low-Carbon
Roadmap was originally added to the draft agenda at th request
of Germany, said the official, who spoke on condition of
anonymity. A ministerial statement on the strategy paper would
need support from all 27 EU member states.  At stake is the bloc’s post-2020 tactic to cut emissions,
which companies including  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA)  have said should
be defined swiftly to boost investors’ confidence in the EU
emissions market, where prices slumped 62 percent in the past
year on oversupply. The roadmap, published last year by the
European Commission, the EU regulatory arm, sets out the most
cost-efficient path for the bloc to meet its goal of cutting
 greenhouse gases  including CO2 by at least 80 percent in 2050.  A ministerial declaration on the strategy, which could
encourage the commission to propose new legislation, was already
blocked twice in the past year by  Poland , which relies on coal
for about 90 percent of its electricity generation. The central
European country opposes any decisions on post-2020 goals before
the region gets more clarity on a global emissions-reduction
deal that nations worldwide agreed to achieve by 2015.  Climate Policies  Poland, which has repeatedly said it would object to any
more stringent climate policies than those already agreed upon,
is also concerned that ministerial support for the roadmap could
lead to stricter 2020 targets, a move that could hurt its
industry at a time of economic slowdown.  The EU is already on track to meet its binding goal of
lowering greenhouse gases by 20 percent in 2020 from 1990 levels
and may reduce emissions by 25 percent as long as nations step
up energy savings, the commission has said. The best scenario
for  Europe  would be to cut emissions by 40 percent in 2030 and
60 percent in 2040, according to the strategy paper.  Denmark, the holder of the bloc’s rotating presidency and
the chair of next week’s meeting, will present on June 11 a
brief state of play on the roadmap, the EU official said today.  Germany,  France  and the U.K., which have called for more
ambitious emission-reduction targets, may want to bring the
issue of the future EU climate policy to the attention of the
bloc’s leaders later this month, Claude Turmes, a Luxembourg
member of the European Parliament, said on May 24.  The next EU summit is scheduled for June 28-29 in Brussels.
German  Chancellor Angela Merkel  said last month the EU needs to
hold further talks on the bloc’s climate policy and the carbon
market, adding her country “wants to lead in that regard” by
reducing its own emissions 40 percent from 1990 levels by 2020.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ewa Krukowska in Brussels at 
 ekrukowska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  