-- Euro Advances Before G-7 Officials Discuss Debt Crisis
-- B y   M o n a m i   Y u i   a n d   K r i s t i n e   A q u i n o
-- 2012-06-05T06:03:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-05/euro-advances-before-g-7-officials-discuss-debt-crisis.html
The euro rose for a third day before
finance ministers and central bank governors from the Group of
Seven nations hold a call today to discuss  Europe ’s debt crisis.  The yen and dollar fell against most major counterparts as
Asian stocks rallied, sapping demand for lower-yielding assets.
 Australia ’s dollar advanced after the  Reserve Bank  cut benchmark
borrowing costs by a quarter percentage point, less than swap
rates had indicated.  “The G-7 call is likely to touch on the ongoing euro debt
crisis,” said Lee Wai Tuck, a currency strategist at Forecast
Pte in Singapore. “There’s a bit of short-covering in the euro
for now, in case there are any new measures coming out from the
 euro zone . But it’s still a sell on rallies.” Short covering is
when investors end bets an asset will decline.  Europe’s shared currency strengthened 0.2 percent to
$1.2518 as of 6:57 a.m. in  London  from $1.2499 at the close in
 New York  yesterday, extending its advance to the longest stretch
of daily gains since April 27. The 17-nation euro added 0.3
percent to 98.20 yen.  Japan ’s currency slipped 0.1 percent to
78.44 per dollar. The Australian dollar rose 0.7 percent to
97.93 U.S. cents.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index of shares climbed 1.5 percent,
rallying from four days of declines.  Canadian Finance Minister  Jim Flaherty  said officials from
the G-7 and the Group of 20 have been holding discussions on the
European crisis ahead of a summit of G-20 leaders later this
month.  European Debt Crisis  Markets have been bracing for further deterioration in
Spain’s finance sector and a possible Greek departure from the
euro as Europe’s leaders continued to wrangle over how to
support the currency bloc. President  Barack Obama  meanwhile laid
the blame for sluggish U.S. employment at the feet of euro-area
leaders, saying they haven’t done enough to resolve the crisis,
now in its third year.  Demand for the common currency was limited before data
forecast to show the region’s retail sales declined in April.  Sales probably decreased 0.1 percent from March, when they
rose 0.3 percent, a Bloomberg survey showed before the data
today.  European Central Bank Policy makers are forecast to keep
the main  refinancing rate  at a record-low 1 percent when they
meet tomorrow, according to a separate poll.  The euro has declined 3.5 percent over the past six months,
making it the worst performer among 10 developed-nation
currencies, according to Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes.
The dollar gained 4.1 percent and the yen appreciated 3.2
percent.  RBA Rate Decision  RBA Governor  Glenn Stevens  and his board lowered the
overnight cash rate target by a quarter percentage point to 3.5
percent, the lowest since 2009, the central bank said in a
statement in Sydney today. Swaps data compiled by Bloomberg had
shown a more than 40 percent chance of a reduction to 3.25
percent before the decision.  “The market expected slightly more than 25, and the RBA
cut only 25, so I think it’s caused short-covering,” said Roy Teo, a currency strategist in Singapore at ABN Amro Private
Bank, referring to the scale of reduction anticipated by
investors. “For the short term, I’d start to be positioned for
some buying in anticipation of a relief rally” for the
Australian dollar.  The dollar maintained a gain against the yen after Japan’s
Finance Minister  Jun Azumi  pledged on June 1 to take “decisive
action” on his nation’s currency should “excessive moves”
persist. Azumi declined to comment on whether Japan has
intervened in the foreign-exchange market at a press conference
yesterday.  Intervention Unlikely  The nation probably didn’t sell the yen last week to weaken
the currency, Totan Research Co. said yesterday, citing its
analysis of the  Bank of Japan (8301) ’s current-account balances.  The greenback may drop toward 75.56 versus the yen after
breaching key technical levels amid  risk aversion  by investors,
according to Bank of America Corp.  The U.S. currency may be poised for further declines after
it closed below the so-called cloud on its weekly ichimoku
chart, according to  MacNeil Curry , the bank’s New York-based
head of foreign-exchange and interest-rates technical strategy.
It retreated to 75.35 yen in October, a post-World War II record
low.  Ichimoku analysis is used to predict a currency’s direction
through analyzing the midpoints of historical highs and lows.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Monami Yui in Tokyo at 
 myui1@bloomberg.net 
Kristine Aquino in  Singapore  at 
 kaquino1@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Garfield Reynolds at 
 greynolds1@bloomberg.net  