-- European Stocks Rise as U.S. Services Data Beat Estimates
-- B y   T o m   S t o u k a s
-- 2012-06-05T16:00:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-05/european-stocks-advance-snapping-a-four-day-retreat.html
European (SXXP)  stocks extended their
advance, snapping a four-day decline, as the U.S. services
industry expanded at a faster pace than estimated and investors
speculated that policy makers will stimulate economic growth.  CaixaBank led Spanish banks higher, rising 2.6 percent
after the country’s budget minister said the lenders don’t need
an excessive amount of money.  BioInvent International AB (BINV)  plunged
after it stopped developing an anticoagulant drug.  The Stoxx Europe 600 Index added 0.3 percent to 234.59 at
the close of trading. The benchmark measure has still  declined
14 percent from its 2012 high  on March 16 amid growing concern
that  Greece  will leave the euro currency union. U.K. and Danish
markets are closed today for public holidays.  “The market is rebounding with the hope that actions will
be taken,” said Yves Maillot, the head of investments at Robeco
Gestions SA in Paris, who helps oversee $6.8 billion. “Even if
the problems in  Europe  are taking a while to resolve, we are
advancing towards decisions.”  The Stoxx 600 fell yesterday as reports showed that  orders
to U.S. factories  unexpectedly declined in April and growth in
 China’s services industries  weakened in May.  Finance ministers and central bank governors from the Group
of Seven economies agreed to coordinate their response to the
euro area’s sovereign-debt crisis on a conference call.  G-7 officials said they will work together to help Greece
and Spain place their public finances on a sustainable footing,
 Japan ’s Finance Minister, Jun Azumi, told reporters in  Tokyo 
following the call today.  U.S. Service Industries  In the U.S., a report showed that  service industries  grew
in May at a faster pace than economists had predicted. The
 Institute for Supply Management ’s index of non-manufacturing
businesses, which covers about 90 percent of the economy, rose
to 53.7 from 53.5 in April. That beat the  median forecast of
economists  surveyed by Bloomberg News for a reading of 53.4.  A gauge of euro-area services and manufacturing output
contracted in May.  A composite index  based on a survey of
 purchasing managers  in both industries dropped to 46 from 46.7
in April, London-based Markit Economics said today, compared
with an estimate of 45.9 published on June 1. The measure has
remained below 50 -- indicating contraction -- for four months.  Separate reports showed that German and French services
activity fell in May more than economists had estimated.  An index of  Germany’s services industry  based on a survey
of purchasing managers dropped to 51.8 last month from 52.2 in
April, Markit Economics said today. A measure of the industry in
 France  slipped to 45.1 from 45.2 the previous month.  National benchmark indexes climbed in 13 of the 16 western
European markets that opened today. Germany’s DAX fell 0.2
percent, while the Swiss Market Index was little changed.
France’s CAC 40 advanced 1.1 percent.  Bankinter, CaixaBank Advance  CaixaBank (CABK)  added 2.6 percent to 2.17 euros and  Bankinter SA (BKT) 
rose 2.3 percent to 2.53 euros.  Spain’s Budget Minister, Cristobal Montoro, said that the
European Union should provide financial aid to the banks.  “That’s why it’s so important that the European
institutions open up and help us achieve, help facilitate, that
figure because we’re not talking about astronomical figures,”
he said in an interview with Spanish broadcaster Onda Cero.  Banco Espirito Santo SA (BES)  jumped 12 percent to 51.8 euro
cents.  Portugal’s biggest publicly traded bank  climbed for a
second day after the country’s government said it will give more
than 6.6 billion euros ($8.2 billion) to Banco Comercial
Portugues SA, Banco BPI SA and Caixa Geral de Depositos SA to
help them meet  capital requirements .  Telekom Austria, CGGVeritas  Telekom Austria AG (TKA)  surged 4.3 percent to 7.57 euros after
News Magazine reported that  Carlos Slim , the world’s richest
man, has acquired a 4.1 percent stake in the company.  MAN SE (MAN)  soared 9.1 percent to 85 euros, its biggest gain in
three years.  Volkswagen AG (VOW)  increased its  voting rights  to 75.03
percent from 73.76 percent previously, the Wolfsburg, Germany-
based carmaker said.  VW’s Chief Financial Officer, Hans Dieter Poetsch, said in
April that one of the options for pursuing closer collaboration
is a domination agreement of MAN giving VW more sway over MAN
and access to its cash. The move is possible after VW increases
its stake in Munich-based MAN to more than 75 percent, he said.  PostNL NV (PNL)  rose 5.6 percent to 2.83 euros, its biggest
advance in two weeks, after the Dutch government outlined a
planned pension rule that an ABN Amro Bank NV analyst said may
benefit the mail operator’s retirement fund.  CGGVeritas, Zodiac Aerospace  CGGVeritas (GA)  rallied 5.2 percent to 17.61 euros. The world’s
largest seismic surveyor of oilfields was kept as a preferred
stock at Societe Generale SA.  Zodiac Aerospace (ZC)  SA, Europe’s biggest maker of airliner
furnishings, gained 1.7 percent to 75.24 euros. Exane BNP
Paribas said companies with significant export sales will gain
from the euro’s weakness against the  U.S. dollar .  Elekta AB (EKTAB)  sank 4.4 percent to 326.90 kronor, its biggest
drop in five weeks. The world’s second-largest maker of
radiation-surgery equipment reported  fourth-quarter sales  of
3.12 billion kronor ($432 million), missing the  average analyst
estimate  of 3.22 billion kronor.  BioInvent International tumbled 63 percent to 4.76 kronor.
The company and partner  ThromboGenics NV (THR)  stopped work on the
drug because it caused too much bleeding in a clinical trial.  Hip or knee surgery patients in a study showed “a
significantly higher incidence of bleeding events” from the
TB-402 drug than from Bayer AG’s Xarelto, BioInvent and
ThromboGenics said in a statement today. ThromboGenics slumped
10 percent to 19.50 euros, its biggest drop since 2007.  EON AG fell 1.2 percent to 14.24 euros, sliding for a
seventh day, its longest losing streak since August.  Germany’s
largest utility  said it may lose millions of euros because of
irregularities by a former employee at its trading unit.  The volume of shares changing hands on the Stoxx 600 was 55
percent lower than its average over the last 30 days, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Stoukas in Athens at 
 astoukas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  