-- Euro Gains as Central Bank Action Speculation Increases
-- B y   A l l i s o n   B e n n e t t
-- 2012-06-06T21:15:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-05/euro-holds-drop-before-ecb-meeting-amid-slowing-growth.html
The euro gained the most in almost
three months against the dollar as European Central Bank
President  Mario Draghi  said policy makers were “ready to act”
after leaving their benchmark rate at a record low.  The Dollar Index fell to its lowest level in more than a
week as investors bet Federal Reserve Vice Chairman Janet L.
Yellen and Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  would signal increased need
for stimulus in appearances today and tomorrow. The yen fell
against all its major counterparts amid reduced demand for safer
assets.  Australia ’s dollar rose as the nation’s economic growth
exceeded forecasts and investors sought higher-yielding
currencies.  “Everyone is anticipating some kind of action from policy
makers, hopefully before the G-20 meeting June 18,” said  Kathy Lien , director of foreign-exchange research at online-currency
trader GFT Forex, in  New York . “On the more near-term basis,
people are positioning for quite dovish comments from Bernanke
tomorrow. There is quite a possibility that the Fed could ease
before the ECB, and if he gives us that indication, that could
lead to more of a short-squeeze in the euro-dollar.”  The euro strengthened 1 percent to $1.2582 at 5 p.m. in New
York, in the biggest daily increase since March 8. The shared
currency climbed 1.6 percent to 99.63 yen. The yen dropped 0.6
percent to 79.19 per dollar.  “We have a ton of short positions in euro, so when we
cleared through the $1.2550 level, which was a strong level of
resistance, we pushed higher,” Lien said.  Bets the shared currency will decline, or net-shorts,
against the dollar reached a record in the week ended May 29.  Dollar Falls  The  Dollar Index (DXY)   fell  0.8 percent to 82.180 as yields on
benchmark Treasury 10-year notes rose as demand for the safety
of  U.S. debt  declined. The gauge, which tracks the greenback
against the currencies of six major trading partners, touched
82.125, the lowest since May 29. It is weighted 57.6 percent to
movements in the euro.  The 10-year U.S. note yield rose nine basis points, or 0.09
percentage point, to 1.66 percent.  Yellen is scheduled to speak on the economic outlook in
Boston at 8 p.m. New York time. Bernanke will testify to U.S.
lawmakers in  Washington  tomorrow. The Fed said today in its
Beige Book business survey that the  U.S. economy  maintained a
moderate pace of growth as factory output rose and the real-
estate market improved.  “The sense is that investors have woken up and looked at
their short risk positions and said we have Yellen and Bernanke
in the next 24 hours,” said Steven Englander, head of Group of
10 currency strategy in New York at Citigroup Inc. “If Yellen
reverts to her dovishness, the market will take it has a very
positive sign for risk and the dollar risk off currency.”  Australia GDP  Atlanta Fed President  Dennis Lockhart  said today that an
extension of the central bank’s Operation Twist program to
reduce borrowing costs is “on the table” following data that
showed job growth in May was the weakest in a year.  Australia’s dollar appreciated versus all of its major
counterparts but it’s  New Zealand  counterpart after a report
showed gross domestic product grew twice as fast as economists
forecast. The Aussie gained 1.9 percent to 99.27 U.S. cents.  “If Australia has good GDP data people think that means
something about  East Asia  and specifically  China ,” said  Marc Chandler , global head of currency strategy at Brown Brothers
Harriman & Co. in New York. “What’s going on is not so much
risk-on but reducing risk averseness. The euro is still lagging
in this risk on move.”  Technical Resistance  There is technical resistance to further Australian dollar
appreciation at 99.37 U.S. cents, Niall O’Connor, a  New York- 
based technical analyst with JPMorgan Chase & Co. wrote to
clients. The level represents the 38.2 percent Fibonacci
retracement level from the April high of $1.0474. A failure to
break this level leaves the Aussie vulnerable to a decline to
93.88 U.S. cents, O’Connor wrote.  New Zealand’s dollar surged after the world’s largest dairy
exporter said auction prices for whole-milk powder climbed for
the first time this year. The kiwi rose 1.9 percent to 77.08
U.S. cents.  Canada ’s dollar appreciated for a third day versus its U.S.
counterpart, the longest streak since April. The so-called
loonie rose 1 percent to C$1.0276 per  U.S. dollar .  The currency was also buoyed before a report a Bloomberg
 survey  predicts will say on June 8 the nation’s employers added
5,000 jobs last month and crude oil, its largest export, rose
for a third day, gaining 1.5 percent to $85.55 a barrel in New
York.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index rose 2.3 percent. The S&P
GSCI Index of 24 raw materials rose 1.3 percent.  Unlimited Cash  The ECB’s Draghi said during a press conference in
 Frankfurt  that officials will extend their offerings of
unlimited cash to banks until the start of 2013 for periods up
to three months as they endeavor to counter risks stemming from
the region’s debt crisis.  The ECB’s decision to keep its benchmark rate unchanged was
predicted by 49 of 60 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News. Ten
forecast a quarter-point reduction, and one a half-point cut.  The shared currency has fallen 3.3 percent during the past
six months, the worst performance among the 10 developed-nation
currencies tracked by Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes.
The dollar gained 3.8 percent, and the yen advanced 1.6 percent.  “The market is starting to anticipate what action we could
see from policy makers,” said  Lee Hardman , a currency
strategist at Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ Ltd. in  London .
“We’re starting to see the safe-haven currencies of the dollar
and the yen give back some of their strong recent gains. It’s
more hope than anything that is driving the more favorable
market dynamics” for the euro.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Allison Bennett in New York at 
 abennett23@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  