-- Children Lose to Bailed-Out Bankers as Crisis Forces Cuts
-- B y   B e n   S i l l s   a n d   R o d n e y   J e f f e r s o n
-- 2012-06-06T08:24:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-05/europe-s-crisis-sees-vulnerable-losing-aid-to-bailed-out-bankers.html
Twelve-year-old Alonso Arroyo is
worried about his friend Dario.  Doctors in  Spain (IBEX) , where the government is cutting health
spending while paying 23.5 billion euros ($29 billion) to bail
out its third-largest bank, stopped Dario’s prescription of the
2,000-euro a month growth hormone both boys need to stop their
bodies degenerating because of a genetic condition. Alonso
doesn’t know his treatment was pulled too.  “We’ve developed capitalism to the point where it’s eating
us,” said his father, Jose Andres Arroyo, who’s been unemployed
since his trucking firm in Madrid folded three years ago. “How
did we do this? We’ve trashed the European welfare state.”  The two Spanish boys, who also have learning disabilities
because their illness slowed down brain development, have never
heard of government bonds. They don’t know that their country’s
banks plowed 300 billion euros into property developments, many
of which are empty, or that Greek politicians lied about their
debt. With the European financial crisis now in its third year,
spending considered sacred in the good times is becoming
expendable as governments weigh the needs of their most
vulnerable against the threat of losing access to debt markets.  European Struggle  Spain is struggling to avoid following Ireland, Portugal
and  Greece  in requiring a bailout from the European Union and
 International Monetary Fund . Greece is fighting to stay in the
euro. The U.K., whose four biggest banks paid 32 senior
executives a combined 103 million pounds ($161 million) last
year, is in its second recession in three years. In all the
countries, people who know little of the debt crisis are being
caught up in it as medical aid and day care is scaled back.  “The welfare system was put in place when things were
easier and cheaper,” said Gerard Lane, an investment strategist
at Shore Capital stockbrokers in Liverpool, northwest  England .
“It’s difficult for a state to target those who need to get off
welfare, but keep it for all those who need it. The definition
of ‘need’ may change as living standards fall.”  While President  Barack Obama  suffers sustained attacks over
his attempt to introduce universal health care in the U.S., the
cradle-to-grave European welfare model established in the wake
of World War II has become part of the continent’s identity.  Now those commitments are being undermined by the biggest
economic crisis Western Europe has faced since the last shot was
fired in 1945.  Emergency Room  Restrictions in treatment, care services and benefits will
push more vulnerable people into more precarious situations,
putting more pressure on the last line of defense -- emergency
rooms and hospital intensive-care units. For many, that has
disturbing similarities to the U.S. system where sick people
without insurance get neglected until they wind up in the
hospital.  “This is the U.S. pathological model,” said Ken Dubin, an
American political scientist professor who teaches at the IE
business school in  Madrid . “Instead of spending a few thousand
euros to keep these people’s health more or less in check, we
are ending up spending 20,000 euros a day on them for a month or
two months. It’s completely absurd.”  Spanish Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy  is cutting about 7
billion euros of health-care spending, as part of a 45 billion-
euro program of reductions and tax increases aimed at regaining
the confidence of investors and lowering the country’s borrowing
costs. The bill for bailing out Bankia, which paid former
Chairman  Rodrigo Rato  more than 2 million euros last year, is
undermining that effort, sending yields on Spanish 10-year debt
to a record 548 basis points more than German bunds on June 1.  No Choice  Even with the anger the bailout provoked, Rajoy had to
salvage the lender because it would have exacerbated economic
problems had it collapsed, said Martin Van Vliet, an economist
at ING Groep NV in Amsterdam.  “You have to rescue the systemic banks because if you let
them go bust you can make the depression even worse and
unemployment goes up even further,” Van Vliet said in a
telephone interview. “If Bankia went bust, what would happen to
the other Spanish banks?”  Alonso and Dario are focused on keeping up with schoolwork
and the daily struggle to hold back the effects of  Prader-Willi
Syndrome , a genetic disorder that hampers muscle development and
causes constant hunger cravings. They follow strict diets and
exercise regimes. Until now, they’ve had daily hormone
injections to retain basic mobility and stave off the morbid
obesity that the condition can cause.  “Is Dario going to get really fat?” Alonso asks his
mother, Elena Escalante.  Fighting Food  He’s a smiling kid who plays video games obsessively,
supports five different soccer clubs and says he spends every
waking moment fighting the urge to eat. When his parents talk
politics he goes quiet, buries his face in his arms. His mom
stretches out her hand. He squeezes it without looking up.  “He knows something’s going on, but we haven’t told him
about the final decision,” Escalante said in a telephone
interview. Without the hormone treatment, “he’ll slow down,
physically and psychologically. The year you lose, you don’t get
it back.”  Restrictions on prescribing hormone treatment that  Spain 
introduced in May aren’t driven by spending cuts and won’t alter
her use of the treatment, Isabel Gonzalez Casado, the head of
pediatric endocrinology at Madrid’s La Paz hospital, where
Alonso is treated, said in a telephone interview. She declined
to comment specifically on Arroyo’s case.  Same Philosophy  While Europe’s commitment to solidarity may remain as
politicians and voters from  London  to Paris to  Athens  question
the austerity measures of U.K. Prime Minister  David Cameron  and
those demanded in the euro area by German Chancellor  Angela Merkel , the ability to pay for it is diminishing.  “It’s not a fundamental change in political philosophy,
it’s how we cut back what we do,” said Mark Goldring, chief
executive officer of  Mencap , a U.K. charity for people with
learning disabilities. “People are losing the opportunity to
live a full life. Little cuts in lots of directions can cause a
great amount of pain.”  Like the Spanish boys, Paula Leonard, who lives in a west
London suburb, doesn’t know anything about the debt crisis or
the measures Cameron says are needed to fix it.  ‘No Voice’  The 48-year-old, who has Down’s syndrome, rarely speaks and
needs constant care. The day-care center she has attended since
she was a child is threatened with closure. Her mother is part
of a group  challenging it in the courts , claiming it unlawfully
reduces the service without adequate consultation. The case was
filed in the  High Court  in London on April 25, said Alex Rook, a
lawyer at  Irwin Mitchell , the firm acting for the parents.  “The mentally handicapped have no voice at all, they only
have their parents,” June Leonard, 76, a retired community
nurse, said in an interview from her home in Hillingdon, the
London district that’s reorganizing day-care services. “We’re
all concerned about what will happen to our sons and daughters.
They are just swept under the carpet.”  Public spending is falling as leaders and investors demand
 deficit reduction . Total expenditure by the 27 European Union
governments averaged 50.6 percent of gross domestic product in
2010 and is set to decline to 48.9 percent this year, according
to the European Commission’s  Economic Forecast for Spring 2012 .  Keeping Up  Leonard, a widow with three other adult children, said if
the center four miles from her home closes and Paula has to go
to a new location further away, it may bring forward the time
when she has to move into more costly full-time care.  “I know the time is coming when Paula might have to go
into care and I’m dreading it,” Leonard said. “I need the day
center to keep us going. It’s absolutely essential.”  Hillingdon Council said the changes are designed to improve
service by giving people access to a broader range of activities
in different places rather than in one center. “This is part of
on-going service improvements,” Linda Sanders, the council’s
director of social care, health and housing, said by e-mail.  While the U.K.  economy  slipped back into recession in the
first quarter, the country has kept its AAA credit rating and
10-year  government bonds , a key measure of national borrowing
costs, yield about 1.5 percent. That compares with 6.2 percent
in Spain, 7.1 percent in Ireland and 11.2 percent in Portugal,
data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Needing Support  “You can’t cut services that people’s lives depend on and
expect everything to be okay,” said Claudia Wood, deputy
director of London-based research institute  Demos . “Some don’t
have any neighbors or family to fall back on and that’s where
you’ll increasingly see instances of abuse and neglect and
people dying alone in their homes without anyone knowing.”  In Ireland, whose voters last week backed Merkel’s tougher
budget rules in a referendum, people are getting tired of the
cost cutting. The last two governments have introduced 24
billion euros of reductions since the economy went into
recession in 2008.  More than 100 parents and carers of children with special
needs marched on the Irish Parliament in Dublin on April 24 to
protest moves they claim are aimed at eliminating benefits for
children with disabilities. Social Protection Minister  Joan Burton  said May 15 that payments to a small number of people
were suspended because they failed to provide some information.  Cut Concern  Deirdre Kiernan, 44, who has a daughter Kate, 8, with
autism and Down’s syndrome, attended the protest. She hasn’t had
her benefits reduced, though is concerned they will be. The
family receives 309 euros a month in help, plus an annual
payment of 1,700 euros due in June.  “Once one little cut starts, where is it going to stop?”
said Kiernan. “It will eventually reach us all and we are all
going to have to suffer through the stress, the financial loss
and the stress of worrying if we will ever get it back.”  As populations aged and wealth increased during the past
two decades, spending on welfare benefits soared. In  Portugal ,
it more than doubled to 22.5 percent of GDP in 2007 from 9.9
percent in 1980, according to the  Organization for Economic
Cooperation  and Development. In Spain, the ratio increased to
21.6 percent from 15.5 percent.  The  Portuguese government  also is raising taxes and saving
money after following Greece and Ireland in seeking bailout from
the EU and IMF last year to avoid going broke.  ‘Social Tragedies’  “Some families aren’t receiving much-needed subsidies to
treat their mentally disabled sons and daughters, who stay home
instead of coming to the center,” said Maria Antonia Machado,
 director of CEDEMA , an association of parents of mentally
disabled people running a center for 32 individuals in Lisbon.
“One of the big social tragedies of our time is the lack of
support available for the mentally disabled. This has gotten
worse over the past year.”  Escalante, Alonso’s mother, and her husband have known many
people with the same syndrome through their work with the
Spanish Prader-Willi Association and they’ve seen sufferers
without hormone treatment grow morbidly obese.  Arroyo says he fears that without the treatment, six-foot,
189-pound Alonso’s weight will balloon within a year and his
cognitive functions will deteriorate. His doubts about the
European social model the family thought would protect their son
are mixed with anger at those he says bear the real
responsibility, such as the former Bankia chairman.  “They are cutting the one thing that gives him a standard
of living somewhere near the other kids his age just to enrich
Rodrigo Rato and four friends,” Arroyo said. “Maybe they could
just enrich themselves a bit less.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ben Sills in Madrid  at 
 bsills@bloomberg.net ;
Rodney Jefferson in Edinburgh at 
 r.jefferson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tim Quinson at 
 tquinson@bloomberg.net  