-- Euro Manufacturing, Services Shrink as Crisis Deepens: Economy
-- B y   J e f f   B l a c k
-- 2012-06-05T11:16:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-05/euro-manufacturing-services-shrink-as-crisis-deepens-economy.html
Euro-area services and manufacturing
output contracted at the fastest pace in almost three years in
May, adding to signs the economy is suffering under the
worsening sovereign-debt crisis.  A  composite index  based on a survey of purchasing managers
in manufacturing and services dropped to 46 from 46.7 in April,
London-based Markit Economics said today. While above an initial
estimate of 45.9, the May reading is the lowest since June 2009.
The indicator has been below 50 -- indicating contraction -- for
four months. Separate reports showed euro-region retail sales
and German factory orders declined in April.  European companies are cutting back on hiring and spending
as the intensifying fiscal crisis damps the economic outlook.
While the 17-nation euro area  narrowly avoided  falling into a
recession in the first quarter, unemployment has since reached
the highest on record and economic confidence is at the lowest
since 2009.  Today’s data point “to markedly contracting activity and
further weakness ahead,” said  Howard Archer , chief European
economist at IHS Global Insight in  London . “It is odds-on that
the  euro zone  is headed for renewed and appreciable contraction
in the second quarter.”  German stocks dropped to a five-month low, while European
shares rose after four days of declines. The  Stoxx 600 (SXXP)  added 0.3
percent at noon in London. The euro fell to $1.2441 from $1.2540
earlier today.  European Funds  Investors are growing more concerned about the debt crisis
after inconclusive Greek elections raised the prospect of a
breakup of the single currency and as Spain struggles to
recapitalize its banks. Spanish Budget Minister Cristobal Montoro today called for European funds to be used to shore up
the nation’s banks.  Finance ministers and central bank governors from the Group
of Seven will hold a call today to discuss the debt crisis. The
G-7 discussions precede a summit of leaders from the Group of 20
on June 18-19 in Los Cabos,  Mexico .  The fiscal crisis is clouding the outlook for economies and
companies from  Portugal  to Germany. Bayerische Motoren Werke AG,
the world’s biggest maker of  luxury vehicles , predicted on June
1 that the German car market won’t grow in 2012 as the debt
turmoil weighs on  consumer spending .  German Orders  German factory orders, adjusted for seasonal swings and
inflation, declined 1.9 percent in April from March, when they
jumped 3.2 percent, the Economy Ministry in Berlin said today.
Economists forecast a drop of 1.1 percent for April, according a
Bloomberg News survey. From a year ago, orders fell 3.8 percent
when adjusted for work days.  Euro-area retail sales dropped 1 percent from March, when
they advanced 0.3 percent, the European Union’s statistics
office in Luxembourg said today. Economists had forecast a drop
of 0.1 percent, according to a separate survey. From a year
earlier, April sales fell 2.5 percent.  “Companies report business activity to have been hit by
heightened political and economic uncertainty, which has
exacerbated already weak demand both in the euro area and
further afield,”  Chris Williamson , chief economist at Markit,
said in today’s PMI report. “It would not be surprising” to
see the euro-area economy “contract by 0.5 percent in the
second quarter,” he said.  Asia , U.S.  The European Commission predicts a 0.3 percent economic
contraction this year, with countries from  Spain  to the
Netherlands in recession. Germany, Europe’s largest economy,
will notch 0.7 percent growth, according to the Brussels-based
commission.  In Asia, China’s non-manufacturing industries expanded at
the slowest pace in more than a year, as export orders declined
and weakness in real estate countered strength in retailing and
leasing. The purchasing managers’ index fell to 55.2 in May from
56.1 in April, the National Bureau of Statistics and China
Federation of Logistics and Purchasing said yesterday in
Beijing. That’s the lowest reading since March 2011, when the
federation started seasonally adjusting the data.  In the U.S.,  service industries  probably grew in May at the
same pace as the prior month, a sign the world’s largest economy
is failing to gain momentum as employment slows and the European
crisis intensifies, economists said before a report today.  An index of euro-area services activity declined to 46.7 in
May from 46.9 in April, while a gauge of euro-area manufacturing
decreased to 45 from 45.9, according to Markit.  The  European Central Bank  will release its latest economic
projections for this year and next when council members meet in
Frankfurt tomorrow. ECB President  Mario Draghi  will also
announce whether the central bank will continue to lend banks
unlimited liquidity at its benchmark rate, currently at a record
low of 1 percent.  Today’s data “intensifies the pressure on the ECB to cut
 interest rates  further, and sooner rather than later,” IHS’s
Archer said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeff Black in Frankfurt at 
 jblack25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  