-- Euro-Area Manufacturing, Services Shrink as Crisis Worsens
-- B y   J e f f   B l a c k
-- 2012-06-05T09:08:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-05/euro-area-manufacturing-services-shrink-as-debt-crisis-worsens.html
Euro-area services and manufacturing
output contracted at the fastest pace in almost three years in 
May, adding to signs the economy is suffering under the 
worsening sovereign-debt crisis.  A  composite index  based on a survey of purchasing managers
in both industries dropped to 46 from 46.7 in April, London-
based  Markit Economics  said today. While above an initial
estimate of 45.9, the May reading is the lowest since June 2009.
The indicator has remained below 50 -- indicating contraction --
for four months.  European companies are cutting back on hiring and spending
as the intensifying fiscal crisis makes the economic outlook
more uncertain. While the 17-nation euro area  narrowly avoided 
falling into a recession in the first quarter, unemployment has
reached the highest on record and economic confidence is at the
lowest since 2009.  The data point “to markedly contracting activity and
further weakness ahead,” said  Howard Archer , chief European
economist at IHS Global Insight in London. “It is odds-on that
the euro zone is headed for renewed and appreciable contraction
in the second quarter.”  The euro extended declines against the dollar after the
data and traded at $1.2420 at 11:04 a.m. in Brussels, down 0.6
percent on the day and near a two-year low.  European Funds  Investors are growing more concerned about the debt crisis
after inconclusive Greek elections raised the prospect of a
breakup of the single currency and as Spain struggles to
recapitalize its banking system. Spanish Budget Minister
Cristobal Montorotoday called for European funds to be used to
shore up the nation’s banks.  Finance ministers and central bank governors from the Group
of Seven hold a call today to discuss the debt crisis. The G-7
discussions precede a summit of leaders from the Group of 20 on
June 18-19 in Los Cabos,  Mexico .  The fiscal crisis is clouding the outlook for economies and
companies from  Portugal  to Germany. Bayerische Motoren Werke AG,
the world’s biggest maker of  luxury vehicles , predicted on June
1 that the German car market won’t grow in 2012 as the debt
turmoil weighs on  consumer spending .  “Companies report business activity to have been hit by
heightened political and economic uncertainty, which has
exacerbated already weak demand both in the euro area and
further afield,”  Chris Williamson , chief economist at Markit,
said in today’s report. “Based on these numbers, it would not
be surprising to see GDP for the region contract by 0.5 percent
in the second quarter.”  Largest Economy  The European Commission said last month that the euro-area
economy may shrink 0.3 percent this year, with countries from
 Spain  to the Netherlands in recessions. In Germany, Europe’s
largest economy, gross domestic product may rise 0.7 percent,
the Brussels-based commission projected.  The  European Central Bank  will release its latest economic
projections for this year and next when council members meet in
Frankfurt tomorrow. ECB President  Mario Draghi  will also
announce whether the central bank will continue to lend banks
unlimited liquidity at its benchmark rate, currently at a record
low of 1 percent.  Today’s data “intensifies the pressure on the ECB to cut
 interest rates  further, and sooner rather than later,” IHS’s
Archer said. “We doubt that the ECB will cut interest rates as
soon as Wednesday -- although it is not inconceivable given the
 euro zone ’s heightened economic and sovereign-debt problems -
but we do now think it is highly likely that the ECB will cut
interest rates to 0.75 percent in the third quarter.”  An index of euro-area services activity declined to 46.7 in
May from 46.9 in the prior month, while a gauge of euro-area
manufacturing decreased to 45.0 from 45.9 in April, according to
Markit.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeff Black in Frankfurt at 
 jblack25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  