-- Yen Weakens After Azumi Says G-7 Supports Japan
-- B y   J o s e p h   C i o l l i   a n d   A l l i s o n   B e n n e t t
-- 2012-06-05T21:12:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-05/euro-falls-on-speculation-debt-crisis-will-worsen-aussie-gains.html
The yen weakened against the dollar
for a second day after Japanese Finance Minister  Jun Azumi 
indicated that Group of Seven nations remain supportive of
intervention to address extreme currency moves.  The euro fell, ending two days of gains against the
greenback, as Spanish Budget Minister Cristobal Montoro said the
nation faces difficulties in accessing  capital markets . Brazil’s
real gained the most in a week as the central bank sold currency
swap contracts. Canada’s dollar fluctuated after the nation’s
central bank kept rates unchanged while continuing to signal
future increases.  “We’ve heard some jawboning from some of the finance
ministers on concern over the strength of the yen,” said  Mary Nicola , a New York-based currency strategist at BNP Paribas SA.
“Any sort of intervention would lead to a very short-lived
spike in the dollar-yen.”  The yen dropped 0.5 percent to 78.75 per dollar at 5 p.m.
in New York after strengthening to 78.11.  Japan ’s currency was
0.1 percent weaker 98.06 per euro. The 17-nation currency fell
0.4 percent to $1.2452.  The Dollar Index, which tracks the greenback against six
U.S. trading partners, was 0.4 percent higher at 82.769. The
gauge is weighted 57.6 percent to movements in the euro.  Canada Rates  Canada’s currency was 0.1 percent stronger at C$1.0381.  Governor  Mark Carney  said “some modest withdrawal of the
present considerable monetary policy stimulus may become
appropriate.” The  Bank of Canada  kept its benchmark overnight
rate unchanged at 1 percent.  Investors looking to add to bets the greenback will rise
against the Canadian dollar should do so if the U.S. currency
strengthens above C$1.0425,  MacNeil Curry , head of foreign-
exchange and interest-rates technical strategy in New York at
Bank of America Corp., wrote in a note to clients. The Canadian
dollar may weaken to C$1.0658, the lowest since October, as
traders reverse bets on strength.  Brazil ’s real appreciated 1.8 percent to 2.0225 per dollar,
the biggest intraday gain since May 25.  The central bank sold 20,300 out of the 40,000 currency
swap contracts it offered, according to a statement, in an
attempt to stem the currency’s decline. The real has lost 8.3
percent this year versus the dollar, the largest drop among the
major currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  Yen Moves  After reaching its weakest level against the dollar on
March 15, the yen had strengthened as much as 7 percent. Japan’s
Azumi said he told finance ministers a strong yen was depressing
the nation’s stock market and damaging its economy by making
exports more expensive.  “I said at today’s conference that I want G-7 members to
share this agreement, which states that excessive and disorderly
moves of foreign exchange rates would have a bad effect on
economic activities and finances and that we will closely
consult and cooperate appropriately in the  currency market ,”
Azumi said to reporters after the conference call. “There were
no oppositions from G-7 members about this statement of mine.”  Bank of England  policy makers will keep their main  interest
rate  at a record low 0.5 percent on June 7, according to all 55
economists in a Bloomberg survey. The central bank will hold its
asset-purchase plan at 325 billion pounds ($499 billion),
according to the median forecast of a separate Bloomberg survey.  The pound was little changed at $1.5383 versus the dollar.
It reached $1.5269 on June 1, its lowest since Jan. 17.  Krona Falls  The Swedish krona ended two days of gains, declining 0.5
percent to 7.2061 per dollar.  Australia’s dollar climbed 0.1 percent to 97.42 U.S. cents
even after the  Reserve Bank  of Australia lowered borrowing costs
by 0.25 percent to 3.5 percent. Swaps data compiled by Bloomberg
had shown a more than 40 percent change of a 0.5 percent
reduction.  Spain called for outside support for the first time to
battle the financial crisis.  “What the  risk premium  tells us is that as a state and as
Spain overall we have a problem when it comes to going to the
markets,” Spain’s Montoro said. “What that risk premium shows
is that the door of the markets isn’t open to Spain.”  “The Spanish are crying out and saying that they don’t
need an entire bailout and it’s not as big as people are making
it look,” said  Andrew Wilkinson , chief economic strategist at
 Miller Tabak  in  New York . “Investors will be warmed by the
prospects of central banks doing what is needed.”  The euro has declined 3.6 percent in the past six months,
the worst performer among 10 developed-nation currencies,
according to Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes. The dollar
gained 4.6 percent, and the yen appreciated 3 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joseph Ciolli in New York at 
 jciolli@bloomberg.net ;
Allison Bennett in New York at 
 abennett23@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  