-- Fed Presidents Clash Over Need to Provide More Stimulus
-- B y   C a r o l i n e   S a l a s   G a g e   a n d   J e f f   K e a r n s
-- 2012-06-06T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-05/evans-sees-need-for-extremely-strong-accommodation-by-fed.html
Federal Reserve regional bank
presidents voiced opposing views over whether the central bank
should step up record accommodation following the lowest monthly
increase in U.S. payrolls in a year.  Chicago Fed President  Charles Evans  said in a speech in New
York yesterday that “soft” U.S. economic data call for
“extremely strong accommodation,” while  Richard Fisher  of
 Dallas  said more easing through Fed purchases of bonds would be
“pushing on a string.”  James Bullard  of  St. Louis  said there’s
time to assess the economy and a policy change isn’t needed now.  After policy makers met in April, Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke 
said the central bank may ease further should unemployment fail
to make “sufficient progress towards its longer-run normal
level.” Unemployment in May rose to 8.2 percent from 8.1
percent the prior month, and job growth slowed to 69,000,
compared with 275,000 in January.  Vice Chairman  Janet Yellen  will have an opportunity in a
speech tonight in  Boston  to signal whether she believes the Fed
should try to spur the expansion and revive the job market by
easing at its June 19-20 meeting. Bernanke plans to testify
tomorrow about the economic outlook before the Joint Economic
Committee in Washington.  The  Federal Open Market Committee  pledged in April to keep
the main  interest rate  near zero through at least late 2014 “to
support a stronger economic recovery.”  “Finding a way to deliver more accommodation -- whether it
is monetary or fiscal -- is particularly important now because
delays in reducing unemployment are costly,” Evans said.
“Failure to act aggressively now will lower the capacity of the
economy for many years to come.”  Vocal Supporters  Evans, one of the Fed’s most vocal supporters of more
easing, reiterated his view that the central bank should
communicate it won’t raise  interest rates  until either
unemployment falls below 7 percent or inflation increases above
3 percent over “the medium term.”  “The economic conditionality in my 7/3 threshold policy
would clarify our forward policy intentions greatly and provide
a more meaningful guide on how long the federal funds rate will
remain low,” Evans said. “I would indicate that steady
progress toward stronger growth is essential, and I would be
willing to buy mortgage-backed securities to do so.”  The Fed has kept its benchmark interest rate near zero
since December 2008 and purchased $2.3 trillion of securities,
including Treasuries and housing debt, in two rounds of large-
scale asset purchases.  The  U.S. economy  is expanding at a “moderate” pace that
isn’t fast enough to bring a “meaningful” reduction in
unemployment, Evans said to reporters after his speech.  More Stimulus  Evans, who like Bullard doesn’t vote on  monetary policy 
this year, said he’s “generally been willing to go along with
pretty much anything that smacked of” additional monetary
stimulus. “One mistake I don’t want to be nailed with is:
didn’t try hard enough.”  The Chicago Fed chief said he isn’t worried about inflation
rising “above reasonable tolerance levels for” the Fed’s 2
percent objective in part because “wage pressures are anemic.”  Low Treasury yields also bolster the view that the economy
will continue to grow at a modest pace with low inflation, he
said. Yields on the benchmark 10-year note yesterday rose five
basis, or 0.05 percentage point, to 1.57 percent after falling
as much as two basis points to 1.51 percent, according to
Bloomberg Bond Trader prices.  “With inflation near target, relatively moderate economic
growth expected for several more years, potential productive
capacity at risk, and a symmetric 2 percent inflation target, we
should resist the sirens’ call to prematurely raise rates or
tighten our policy in any way,” Evans said in his speech.  Aid for Economy  Fisher said further bond purchases, known as quantitative
easing, would do little to aid the economy while prompting
perceptions the Fed is encouraging  government spending .  “Were we to go down the path to further accommodation at
this juncture, we would not simply be pushing on a string but
would be viewed as an accomplice to the mischief that has become
synonymous with Washington,” Fisher said in a speech at the
University of  St. Andrews  in  Scotland .  Bullard said yesterday in St. Louis that the recent payroll
data hasn’t changed the economic outlook and the Fed should be
careful not to prompt borrowing by consumers with excessive debt.  “One possible FOMC strategy is to simply pocket the lower
yields and continue to wait and see on the U.S. economic
outlook,” Bullard said.  “Monetary policy has been ultra-easy during this period,
but cannot reasonably encourage additional borrowing by
households with too much debt,” Bullard said. “The recent
nonfarm payrolls report was disappointing, but not enough to
substantially alter the contours of the U.S. outlook.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Caroline Salas Gage in  New York  at 
 csalas1@bloomberg.net 
Jeff Kearns in Washington at 
 jkearns3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  