-- Hewlett-Packard CEO Whitman Focuses on Product ‘Breadth’
-- B y   A a r o n   R i c a d e l a
-- 2012-06-05T20:14:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-05/hewlett-packard-ceo-whitman-recalls-company-s-turmoil-.html
Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ)  Chief Executive
Officer  Meg Whitman  said after the “turmoil” from last year’s
management upheaval, the company is working to differentiate
itself with partnerships, a broad product base and an emphasis
on engineering.  “HP is truly differentiated. Differentiated by the breadth
of our portfolio,” Whitman said today in a keynote address at
the company’s Discover  conference  in  Las Vegas . Hewlett-Packard
is unveiling new hardware and software for data security and
analysis to about 11,000 attendees at the event.  About 70 percent of the company’s sales come from personal
computers, printers, storage, servers, and networking gear, said
Whitman, who took the reins of the world’s largest personal
computer and printer maker in September.  Whitman is in the early stages of a turnaround after
declining sales and a loss of investor confidence led to last
year’s ouster of her predecessor  Leo Apotheker . Last month she
announced plans to cut 27,000 jobs, or 8 percent of the
workforce, and has said she’ll eschew big acquisitions to
rebuild the balance sheet.  Sales at the  Palo Alto , California-based company this year
may decline 3.1 percent to $123.4 billion, the average analyst
estimate in data compiled by Bloomberg. Net income may decline
36 percent to $4.5 billion.  Debt, Cash  The company has $21.8 billion in  debt  and $8.3 billion in
cash after buying Autonomy Corp. last year for $10.3 billion.  Under Whitman, research and development is rising and she
is directing spending toward products for cloud computing, data
security and information management.  At the conference, which runs from June 4 to June 7,
Hewlett-Packard showed a computer for managing large data sets
in conjunction with the open-source Hadoop file-management
software, and a storage system capable of backing up 100
terabytes of data per hour.  The company also announced a cloud-computing service for
airlines that lets them more efficiently book reservations and
manage departures.  Hewlett-Packard rose 2.9 percent to $21.68 at the close in
 New York . The shares have fallen 40 percent in the past year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aaron Ricadela in  San Francisco  at 
 aricadela@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  