-- Ex-Madoff Employee Craig Kugel Pleads Guilty to Scheme
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 2012-06-05T23:40:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-05/ex-madoff-employee-craig-kugel-pleads-guilty-to-tax-scheme-1-.html
Craig Kugel, who worked in human
resources at con man  Bernard Madoff ’s firm, pleaded guilty to a
tax scheme that paid salaries and benefits to people who weren’t
employees.  Kugel, 38, pleaded guilty today before U.S. District Judge
Laura Taylor Swain in  New York  to three counts of subscribing to
false tax returns, one count of conspiracy to obstruct the U.S.
Internal Revenue Service and one count of making false
statements. He told the judge that he played no role in
defrauding investors in Madoff’s Ponzi scheme.  Kugel said today that while working for a Madoff unit, he
learned some people on the payroll weren’t employed at Madoff’s
securities firm, yet he authorized and submitted falsified
documents to the U.S. Labor Department that allowed them to
obtain salary and benefits they hadn’t earned.  “I am sorry for my lapses in judgment and committing these
federal crimes,” Kugel told the judge. “I want to make clear
that I had nothing to do with the Madoff Ponzi scheme and I was
never involved in Madoff trading operations.”  Kugel also admitted today that from 2001 to 2008, he
charged personal expenses to his corporate  credit card .  Defendant ‘Cooperating’  Swain said that while Kugel faces a combined maximum prison
term of 19 years, he is aiding prosecutors in the Madoff
investigation. She said she could impose a reduced sentence if
she determines he provided “substantial assistance” to the
government.  The judge ordered Kugel to forfeit more than $2.3 million
that he earned as a result of his illegal activities, noting
that his lawyer and the government had stipulated to that
amount.  Assistant U.S. Attorney Julian Moore told the judge that
prosecutors consented to allow Kugel to remain free on $500,000
bond secured by $100,000 cash and property.  “The defendant has been working with our office and the
FBI since last year,” said Moore, adding that Kugel had also
been working with the government office helping to identify
assets earned as a result of the scheme.  “The government doesn’t believe the defendant is a danger
to the community and that a bail package is reasonable and
appropriate,” Moore said.  ‘Totally Unrelated’  Barry Agulnick, Kugel’s lawyer, said after court that his
client’s crimes hadn’t affected Madoff investors.  “The plea that he took today is totally unrelated to the
Madoff  Ponzi scheme  and totally unrelated to any defrauding of
Madoff victims who lost money,” Agulnick said.  Kugel is the seventh person to plead guilty in the
government’s investigation into Madoff’s former firm.  David Kugel, who is Craig Kugel’s father and a former
supervisory trader in Madoff’s proprietary trading operation,
pleaded guilty in November to aiding the fraud by creating phony
backdated trades beginning in the early 1970s and continuing
until the fraud collapsed in December 2008.  David Kugel pleaded guilty to six criminal counts and is
cooperating with authorities.  Frank DiPascali , Madoff’s chief financial officer, and
former employees Enrica Cotellessa-Pitz and Eric Lipkin, along
with Madoff’s former accountant David Friehling, also have
pleaded guilty and are awaiting sentencing.  Madoff, 74, pleaded guilty in 2009 to orchestrating what
prosecutors called the biggest Ponzi scheme in history. He’s
serving a 150-year sentence in federal prison in  North Carolina .  The cases are U.S. v. Kugel, 10-cr-00228, Picard v. Kugel,
11-cv-04227, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York
( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in New York at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  