-- Ex-McKinsey Consultant Banki in Talks Over Criminal Case
-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 2012-06-05T20:16:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-05/ex-mckinsey-consultant-banki-in-talks-over-criminal-case.html
-- Mahmoud Reza Banki, the former
McKinsey & Co. consultant whose 2010 conviction for violating a
trade embargo with  Iran  was partly set aside in October, is in
talks to resolve the remaining charges against him, according to
the government.  In a letter yesterday, prosecutors asked U.S. District
Judge Paul Engelmayer in  Manhattan  to extend a deadline in the
case against Banki, to “allow the parties time to continue
their discussions regarding the possible disposition of this
case.”  The Iran-born Banki, a naturalized U.S. citizen, was
sentenced to 2 1/2 years in prison following a  jury trial  in New
York. He was freed in November after an appeals panel overturned
convictions on three of five counts. The U.S. appealed and the
same panel in February amended the decision, giving prosecutors
the option to retry him on the three counts.  Banki, who has a doctorate in chemical engineering from
 Princeton University , was originally accused of running a
“hawala” or “value-transfer” business that essentially moved
money to residents of Iran from 2006 to 2009 in violation of the
U.S. embargo.  Banki received about $4.7 million as part of the transfer
process and used the money to buy a $2.4 million condominium,
invest in securities and pay credit-card bills, the government
charged.  Trade Embargo  The appeals panel in October reversed three counts,
including conspiring to violate the Iran trade embargo,
violating the embargo and operating an unlicensed money-
transmitting business.  Defense lawyers had argued that Banki didn’t violate the
law because he got the money from his family and reported the
funds to the U.S. government.  Christine Chung, a lawyer for Banki, didn’t immediately
return a voice-mail message left at her office seeking comment
about the filing by prosecutors.  The case is U.S. v. Banki, 10-cr-00008, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Van Voris in New York at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  