-- Exxaro, Tata Venture Considering Congo Hydroelectric Plant
-- B y   R o b e r t   B r a n d
-- 2012-06-05T15:53:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-05/exxaro-tata-venture-considering-congo-hydroelectric-plant-3-.html
Cennergi Pty Ltd., a joint venture
between  Tata Power Co. (TPWR)  and  Exxaro Resources Ltd. (EXX) , may build a
hydroelectric plant in the Republic of Congo to supply power to
Exxaro’s Mayoko  iron-ore  project.  Exxaro,  South Africa ’s second-largest coal company, plans
to boost profitability by expanding into iron ore at the Mayoko
project, which has the potential to yield as much as 2.5 billion
tons of ore, said Ernst Venter, Exxaro’s general manager for
business growth. Infrastructure such as railways, harbor
facilities and power is needed to develop the project, which is
expected to start production in 2013, Venter said.  “The potential is there” for a hydropower plant in Congo,
Venter said in an interview at an iron-ore conference in Cape
Town. “We’re in the business of iron-ore mining, but we have to
enable that.”  Republic of Congo, sub-Saharan  Africa ’s fourth-biggest oil
producer, experienced a civil war from 1997 to 1999 that left at
least 10,000 people dead, forced 800,000 people to flee their
homes, and damaged infrastructure. Pretoria-based Exxaro is
speeding up development of the Mayoko project after a failed bid
for Territory Resources Ltd. in 2011.  Exxaro gained 2.2 percent to 193.25 rand at the close in
Johannesburg, compared with the 0.1 percent advance of the
 FTSE/JSE Africa All Share Index. (JALSH)   Wind-Power Plant Bids  Cennergi, based in Pretoria, had bids for two wind-power
plants, including one to generate 139 megawatts, approved by
South Africa’s government this year and has submitted bids to
generate hydroelectric power under the nation’s renewable-energy
program, Venter said. The company may consider a listing once
the projects are operational, he said.  Initial exploration at four sites at the Mayoko mine
identified a resource of 400 million tons, Venter said. The
project may yield an additional 2 billion tons as adjacent areas
are explored, he said.  Exxaro will also develop port facilities at an area north
of Congo’s Pointe-Noire harbor to export ore from Mayoko, Venter
said. The company is in talks with the government about
developing rail to handle iron-ore exports, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Brand in  Cape Town  at 
 rbrand9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  