-- Exxon, Shell See U.S.-Led Gas Boom Boosting Global Growth
-- B y   D i n a k a r   S e t h u r a m a n ,   R a k t e e m   K a t a k e y   a n d   J a m e s   P a t o n
-- 2012-06-05T10:38:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-05/exxon-shell-see-u-s-led-gas-boom-boosting-worldwide-growth.html
Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM) , the world’s
biggest energy company, and  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA)  said a U.S.-
led transformation of the natural-gas market will boost the
global economy even as oil becomes more expensive.  “Natural gas is quickly becoming a key enabler of economic
growth and environmental progress around the world,” Rex W. Tillerson, chief executive officer of Exxon, said at a
conference today in  Kuala Lumpur . “We are living at a historic
moment in the evolution of energy markets. How we respond will
shape the quality of life for generations to come.”  A shale boom in the U.S. has helped it surpass  Russia  as
the world’s biggest producer of natural gas and brought the
country close to energy independence. Gas is poised to overtake
coal as the second-most widely used source of energy worldwide
by 2025, with demand in  Asia  projected to grow by more than 50
percent over the next three decades, Tillerson said.  Reserves of gas, a cleaner-burning fuel, are helping
rebuild the  U.S. economy  and enabling China to replace more-
polluting coal,  Peter Voser , Shell’s chief executive office,
said in a separate speech at the World Gas Conference in the
Malaysian capital today.  U.S. gas production increased 8.1 percent last year alone,
about the same as in four years in the previous decade, the
 International Energy Agency  said in report released today.  U.S. Surplus Gas  “While the U.S. has yet to export LNG, it is already
physically exporting its gas surplus to neighboring countries,”
including Canada and Mexico, according to the report. While
 Australia ’s LNG production was stagnant last year, the country
is expected to be the largest LNG supplier by the end of the
decade, the IEA said.  Shell, Exxon,  Chevron Corp. (CVX)  and  Woodside Petroleum Ltd. (WPL)  are
among companies leading $180 billion of liquefied-natural-gas
ventures in Australia that are underpinned by demand from Asia’s
biggest economies. China, estimated to hold triple the shale
reserves of the U.S., and Australia will see the next wave of
the gas revolution as world LNG demand doubles in the next
decade, Voser told delegates at the conference.  Woodside, Australia’s second-biggest oil and gas producer,
said the U.S. is unlikely to grant new natural-gas export
permits until after the presidential election and volumes
eventually shipped may be lower than some predictions.  U.S. Obstacles  “Some people speculate about numbers up to 100 million
tons per year” of liquefied natural gas exports, Chief Executive
Officer  Peter Coleman  said in an interview at the Kuala Lumpur
conference. “I don’t see that. It’s unlikely there will be a lot
of movement on additional expansion until after the election
cycle in the U.S.”  Woodside, operator of the A$15 billion ($14.6 billion)
Pluto LNG project in Western Australia, expects the U.S. to
export 30 million to 50 million metric tons of the fuel  “In the U.S., you are always going to have constraints with
the need for gas in power generation and the chemicals
industry,” Coleman said. “That says a lot of gas will
stay in the U.S.,” he said. “Australian LNG has its place.”  Benchmark gas prices in the U.S. have slumped to the lowest
in a decade amid a supply glut.  Gas futures slid to $1.90 per million Btu on the  New York 
Mercantile Exchange April 19, the lowest since September 2001.  Oil prices are unlikely to collapse as they did in 2008
because long-term fundamentals haven’t changed and supply will
struggle to meet a projected increase in global demand,
according to Voser.  U.S. crude futures, which slumped to an eight-month low
near $81 a barrel yesterday, have declined because of concern
over economic growth this year and as geopolitical tension in
producing regions subside, the Shell CEO said.  Oil Prices  “The softening of the oil price at the moment is a
reflection of some of the geopolitical issues being less
dominant and the lower demand outlook,” Voser said. “The long-
term fundamentals haven’t changed, which means that most
probably, given energy-demand growth in the world in the longer
term, supply will struggle to keep pace.”  Oil dropped from a record high of $147.27 a barrel to
$32.40 between July and December 2008 as the global recession
sapped demand. Futures on the  New York Mercantile Exchange 
tumbled 17 percent last month, the most since December 2008, and
traded today as high as $84.92 a barrel.  “We’ve seen a lot of volatility, mainly on the demand
side,” Voser said after delivering a keynote address at the
industry gathering. “We’ve had some geopolitical dimensions
around the  Middle East , in  Iran  and Syria, following the
political tensions in  Libya  a year ago, so I think that’s
reflected in the price in the more short to medium term.”  Oil traded as high as $110.55 a barrel March 1 on
speculation that international sanctions against Iran threatened
supplies from the world’s fourth-biggest producer. Prices have
since dropped as Iran resumed talks with the West over its
nuclear program while Europe’s debt crisis and China’s slowing
economy damped the outlook for oil demand.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dinakar Sethuraman in Kuala Lumpur at 
 dinakar@bloomberg.net ;
Rakteem Katakey in Kuala Lumpur at 
 rkatakey@bloomberg.net ;
James Paton in Kuala Lumpur at 
 jpaton4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net ;
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  