-- MF Global Trustee Sees Claims of $3 Billion Against Units
-- B y   J o e   S c h n e i d e r   a n d   T i f f a n y   K a r y
-- 2012-06-05T13:46:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-05/mf-global-trustee-sees-claims-of-3-billion-against-units.html
MF Global Holdings Ltd. may have more
than $3 billion of claims against its affiliates and units, the
company’s bankruptcy trustee said in a report detailing the
progress of an investigation into its collapse.  The trustee,  Louis Freeh , has been unwinding the parent
company under Chapter 11 of the U.S. bankruptcy code in an
effort to repay creditors. The operating unit, brokerage MF
Global Inc., is liquidating under the Securities Investor
Protection Act to repay customers. The unit’s trustee, James Giddens, issued his own report on a separate probe into how the
company failed in a report yesterday.  Freeh was critical of Giddens in his report, saying the
SIPA trustee isn’t helping the investigation with information
including how much brokerage MFGI borrowed from a $300 million
secured revolving line of credit and whether a repurchase
agreement in August of 2011 that transferred 2.95 billion euros
($3.7 billion) of Italian bonds from MFGI to reduce its  capital
requirements  was done properly.  The SIPA trustee has indicated that the repurchase
agreement was booked “flat”, meaning that the financing was
equal to the underlying value of the securities position, Freeh
wrote. “The trustee cannot verify that this information is
correct,” he said.  Collapse Probe  Freeh said Giddens has yet to turn over documents to verify
the transaction’s details.  Freeh’s 119-page report yesterday focused on transactions
that support MF Global Holdings’ claim that the company’s
creditors are entitled to more than $3 billion from various
units and affiliates worldwide, including $2.3 billion from the
brokerage.  An investigation into the collapse of MF Global, which has
included a review of internal documents and interviews with
current and former employees, is also being conducted, Freeh
said.  “As soon as practicable, the trustee will file a statement
with the findings of his investigation,” according to the
report.  In prior progress reports, Freeh and Giddens have disputed
whether certain assets belong to customers or creditors.
Customers were estimated to be out $1.6 billion as of Giddens’s
last report. Distributions by Giddens are predicted to return
about 80 percent of what U.S. customers are owed.  Asset Disputes  A lawyer for MF Global Holdings’ estate told U.S.
Bankruptcy Judge Martin Glenn on May 18 that Freeh still
couldn’t trace where some of the money went when the brokerage
collapsed Oct. 31, including $1 billion that “vanished” into
the brokerage unit. The lawyer,  Brett Miller , said the money
left “no trail.”  In some cases, the location of money is known but trustees
are disputing which unit it belongs to. Giddens and a trustee
for MF Global’s U.K. unit have begun litigating in British
courts over whether $700 million belongs to U.S. or U.K.
customers.  MF Global Holdings, run by former  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) 
Co-Chairman  Jon Corzine  until his Nov. 4 resignation, filed the
eighth-largest U.S. bankruptcy after a $6.3 billion trade on its
own behalf on bonds of some of  Europe ’s most indebted nations
led to margin calls. Its bankruptcy filing listed assets of $41
billion and debt of $39.7 billion.  Giddens said in his report yesterday that Corzine may face
claims for breach of fiduciary duty and negligence for his role
in the company’s downfall.  “Liquidity had been a cause for concern before and
throughout Mr. Corzine’s tenure at MF Global, yet systems and
tools that would enable accurate real time monitoring of
liquidity were never implemented,” Giddens said in his 275-page
report.  JPMorgan Overdraft  Corzine also instructed MF Global’s former assistant
treasurer, Edith O’Brien, to make a $175 million transfer on
Oct. 28 to pay down an overdraft balance with  JPMorgan Chase &
Co. (JPM)  in  London , even though there was a lack of information that
day about the firm’s liquidity, Giddens said.  Also facing claims are O’Brien and Henri Steenkamp, the
firm’s chief financial officer. O’Brien invoked her
constitutional right against self-incrimination at a
congressional hearing in March, disappointing lawmakers seeking
answers to questions about frantic money transfers during the
company’s final days in October.  Giddens didn’t make specific recommendations on potential
criminal liability, saying those are beyond the scope of the
report. Corzine told lawmakers in December that he “never gave
any instruction to misuse customer funds.”  Claims Pursuit  Giddens said he will pursue claims through litigation and
negotiation, starting to sue within 60 days. One potential
lawsuit may be against JPMorgan Chase, MF Global’s largest
lender and the repository of its customer accounts. Giddens said
he’s currently in talks with the bank about money transfers that
may be “voidable or otherwise recoverable.” In the days
leading up to MF Global’s collapse, the bank increased margin
requirements, reduced intraday and overnight loans to the
company and took other steps to limit its exposure to the
company’s troubles.  Giddens said JPMorgan has returned about $89.2 million in
customer property and $518.4 million in non-segregated
unallocated MF Global Inc. assets. He may sue the New York-based
bank if he can’t reach an agreement on further returns of money,
he said.  ‘Safe Harbor’  Giddens found that any lawsuits against JPMorgan and other
counterparties to transfers made in the bank’s final weeks may
be complicated by the “safe harbor” provision of the
 bankruptcy code , which protects parties who claim they had no
knowledge of fraud. JPMorgan may argue that it simply acted as a
custodial bank for some intercompany transfers, Giddens said.  Other companies that received MF Global customer funds in
its final days may also qualify for safe harbor protections, his
report found.  The same “safe harbor” rules probably apply to customers,
the trustee said. That means that customers who took money out
of their accounts before the collapse probably can’t be sued to
recover money for distribution to all creditors, the trustee
said.  Mary Sedarat, a JPMorgan spokeswoman, and  Reid Weingarten ,
a lawyer for O’Brien, declined to comment on Giddens’s report.  “Mr. Corzine continues to feel great sadness for the
difficulties MF Global’s bankruptcy has caused the firm’s
customers, employees and others,” said Steven Goldberg, a
Corzine spokesman, in an e-mail. “We note that the Trustee’s
report is consistent with Mr. Corzine’s Congressional testimony
that he did not direct or intend to direct the misuse of
customer funds. We simply do not agree with the Trustee’s
suggestion that Mr. Corzine was negligent or there is any other
basis to sue him.”  MFGI Shortfall  Giddens found that “contrary to some public reports, the
shortfall of customer property at MFGI was not caused by direct
investment of customer funds in sovereign debt or even by losses
on proprietary investments such as the sovereign debt,” but
rather “the actions of management and other employees, along
with lack of sufficient monitoring and systems,” which led to
customer property being used to fund margin calls on the
European sovereign debt investments.  In MF Global’s final days, several large transfers led to
the shortfall in customer funds, Giddens said. On Oct. 26, $615
million was moved from customer accounts to fund proprietary
trading. The money wasn’t returned by the end of the business
day, throwing the company out of regulatory compliance, he said.  A $175 million transfer to clear an overdraft balance at
JPMorgan Chase in London on Oct. 28 made matters worse, Giddens
found.  Future Disasters  In his conclusion, Giddens proposes measures that could
prevent future disasters like MF Global, such as abolishing the
alternative calculation method for foreign accounts and
requiring that more than 100 percent of the value of customer
funds be segregated as a “cushion” for customer funds.  He also suggests a rule by Congress that would make
directors and officers of a company personally and civilly
liable for any shortfall in customer funds without allowing them
to defend themselves on the basis that they delegated essential
duties.  The brokerage case is Securities Investor Protection Corp.
v. MF Global Inc., 11-02790, U.S. District Court, Southern
District of  New York  ( Manhattan ). The parent’s bankruptcy case
is  MF Global Holdings Ltd. (MFGLQ) , 11-bk-15059,  U.S. Bankruptcy Court ,
Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joe Schneider in Sydney at 
 jschneider5@bloomberg.net ;
Tiffany Kary in New York at 
 tkary@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  