-- Facebook Extends Share Declines Since IPO
-- B y   B r i a n   W o m a c k
-- 2012-06-05T21:55:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-05/facebook-extends-share-declines-since-ipo-san-francisco-mover.html
Facebook Inc. (FB)  shares extended their
decline today following a Reuters/Ipsos poll that showed sagging
interest in the site and a minority of users being influenced by
ads and comments when making purchasing decisions.  The stock fell 3.8 percent to $25.87 at the close in  New
York . The  shares  have lost 32 percent since they began trading
at $38 on May 18.  Compared to six months ago, 34 percent of users are
spending less time on Facebook, while just 20 percent are using
the site more often, according to the poll. One in five people
on Facebook have bought products because of advertising or
comments they saw on the site, the poll found.  Facebook, owner of the world’s most popular social-
networking service, has faced investor concerns about its
prospects for revenue and profit growth. The  company  said last
month that advertising is failing to keep up with growth in
daily active users as more people access the site via mobile
phones. Facebook, based in  Menlo Park ,  California , has said its
ability to generate revenue from mobile advertising remains
unproven.  In its drive to lure advertisers, Facebook said today that
it’s giving companies more flexibility in how they buy so-called
Sponsored Stories ads. These ads let marketers pay to insert a
message into the News Feed of a person who has signaled affinity
for a brand or business.  Now, advertisers can use an online system, rather than the
company’s sales team, to specify where these ads are placed --
whether for mobile users or those who access Facebook via
traditional computers.  Falling Mostly  Shares of the company have fallen eight of 12 trading days.
Facebook and  Morgan Stanley (MS) , its lead underwriter, have faced
criticism for increasing the number of shares to be sold in the
IPO by 25 percent to 421.2 million just days before the
offering, and for boosting the asking price.  The poll was conducted online from May 31 to June 4 and
included responses from 1,032 people in the U.S.  Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. analyst Carlos Kirjner initiated
coverage yesterday with an underperform rating and a $25 target
price. A near-term slowdown in sales growth will fuel investor
concerns about full-year 2013 sales, Kirjner said.  The deceleration may “prove to be a temporary setback if,
over time, Facebook manages to improve monetization of its
inventory, both PC- and mobile-based, and maximize the value of
social advertising,” Kirjner said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Womack in  San Francisco  at 
 bwomack1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  