-- Facebook Backer Parker Calls Site Boring, Adds Video Chat
-- B y   S a r a h   F r i e r
-- 2012-06-05T19:29:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-05/facebook-backer-parker-calls-site-boring-adds-video-chat.html
Sean Parker , an early investor in
 Facebook Inc. (FB) , said he’s bored by the social network. That’s
partly why he introduced a new service today that allows users
to chat by video and share files with friends and strangers.  During a star-studded event in New York that included
rapper Snoop Dog, actor Jim Carrey and singer  Alicia Keys ,
Parker showed off Airtime, a video site connected to the
Facebook platform that includes a “next” button to find a
random chat partner, similar to the once-hot online video
service Chatroulette.  Parker, who co-founded Napster Inc. and now Airtime Media
Inc. with Shawn Fanning, said randomized video is outside
Facebook’s area of interest and the social network already has
its hands full building its service. Parker and Fanning, who
said they met on the Internet, wanted to make it easy for
friendships to begin by connecting people who have shared
 Facebook  interests.  “Facebook isn’t helping you make new connections, Facebook
doesn’t develop new relationships, Facebook is just trying to be
the most accurate model of your social graph,” Parker said at
the event. “There’s a part of me that feels somewhat bored by
all of this. There’s no room for serendipity.”  The presentation didn’t go off smoothly. At one point,
Carrey wasn’t aware that the video cut off and continued a
performance backstage, before he was called to come on.  “This is not how it’s really operating, I swear to God,”
said comedian Olivia Munn after several delays, before saying
she doesn’t believe in God.  Parker said after the event that the actors helped ensure
that even if things didn’t go according to plan, people would
still have fun.  “In the event that things went horribly wrong, which they
did, everyone was a comedian, everyone was improvising,” he
said in an interview.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Frier in  New York  at 
 sfrier1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  