-- Fannie Mae Picks Ex-BofA General Counsel Mayopoulos as CEO
-- B y   C l e a   B e n s o n   a n d   H u g h   S o n
-- 2012-06-05T23:47:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-05/fannie-mae-chooses-timothy-mayopoulos-as-new-chief-executive-1-.html
Fannie Mae (FNMA)  has selected Timothy J. Mayopoulos, the company’s current executive vice president, as
its new president and chief executive officer, the Washington-
based mortgage finance company announced yesterday.  In his new role, Mayopoulos, 53, will have a chance to do
battle with his former employer,  Bank of America , which fired
him as general counsel in 2008. The companies are at odds over
whether Bank of America will buy back billions of dollars of
home loans with faulty underwriting that it sold to Fannie Mae.  Bank of America officials said Mayopoulos was fired to make
room for Brian Moynihan, who later became Bank of America’s
chief executive.  “It’s clear that Mayopoulos’s appointment is unlikely to
deter  Fannie Mae  from its strategy of more aggressively pursuing
its mortgage putback claims against Bank of America,” said
Manal Mehta, a partner at Branch Hill Capital, a San Francisco-
based hedge fund that has bet against the the bank’s stock in
the past. “Given the players involved and the contentious
nature of Mayopoulos’s departure from Bank of America, there’s
going to be an interesting and challenging dynamic in reaching
an amicable resolution.”  Fannie Mae, seeking to pay back its U.S. bailout, stepped
up pressure last year by saying that Bank of America must
repurchase loans if a private mortgage insurer drops coverage
included in the original sale. Bank of America refused, and in
January Fannie Mae cut the company off for funding new loans.  New System  Mayopoulos joined Fannie Mae in 2009. In an interview
yesterday, he said he would concentrate in his new position on
building the foundation for a future housing-finance system. “I
think it could be a housing finance system in which the role of
past institutions are different from what they have been,” he
said. “What ultimately happens to the GSEs will be a question
for policy makers. It won’t be a question for us.”  The GSEs, or government-sponsored enterprises, include
Fannie Mae and its smaller rival,  Freddie Mac , which have
operated under U.S. conservatorship since September 2008, when
investments in risky mortgages pushed them to the brink of
collapse. Fannie Mae has drawn a total of $117.1 billion in aid
from the U.S. Treasury while under federal control.  Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac own or guarantee more than half
of U.S. home loans. President  Barack Obama  and members of
Congress are exploring ways to wind down the two companies.  Pay Cut  Mayopoulos, who will make as much as $2.7 million this year
in compensation, will make $600,000 beginning next year, Fannie
Mae said. The company’s regulator, the  Federal Housing Finance
Agency , in March eliminated bonuses and set a target salary for
the CEOs of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac at $500,000.  Mayopoulos said it was worth taking a pay cut to serve an
institution “that helps so many other people.”  He will replace current CEO Michael J. Williams, a longtime
company employee who said in January that he would step down
after serving in the top position for three years.  At Fannie Mae, Mayopoulos has been responsible for
communications and government relations, among other duties.  “Tim’s appointment enables the company to sustain its
rebuilding efforts and to accelerate our contributions to
improving the nation’s housing finance system for the future,”
Philip Laskawy, chairman of Fannie Mae’s board, said in a
statement.  Fannie Mae had a profitable first quarter, reporting net
income of $2.7 billion. The company cited lower credit expenses,
a decline in delinquency rates and a drop in its property
inventory.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Clea Benson in Washington at 
 cbenson20@bloomberg.net ;
Hugh Son in  New York  at 
 hson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Maura Reynolds  at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  