-- Far East Sells Record 2,200 Singapore Homes in First 5 Months
-- B y   E e   C h i e n   C h u a
-- 2012-06-05T08:12:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-05/far-east-sells-record-2-200-singapore-homes-in-first-5-months.html
Far East  Organization,  Singapore ’s
largest closely held real estate developer, said it sold a
record 2,200 homes in the first five months.  The developer marketed projects in Singapore’s suburbs this
year, including Watertown in the northeast and Hillier in the
northwest, which includes homes modeled after  New York  and
London apartments over a mall with a Dean & Deluca store.  Far East will offer discounts of as much as 3 percent to
mark the record sales, it said on its  website . It declined
further comment in an e-mailed statement in response to queries.  The company’s projects led the rebound in the country’s
home sales this year. Watertown in the Punggol suburb accounted
for more than half of the total 1,872 units sold in January,
when the city’s residential transactions rebounded from a two-
year low. April’s home sales climbed a three-year high of 2,487,
boosted by developments including Far East’s Hillsta, according
to government data.  Developers will continue to build in the city’s outskirts
to cater to demand from locals, said Nicholas Mak,  executive
director  at SLP International Property Consultants, a real
estate consulting company.  “Due to their purchasing power, local residents will find
suburban properties more affordable,” Mak said.  There’s a “possibility” the Singapore government may
introduce additional measures to cool the housing market
following the surge in home sales, Mak said, adding that it’s
difficult to gauge what may trigger another round of curbs.  More Curbs  The government has been attempting to rein in prices since
2009, when it barred interest-only loans for some housing
projects and stopped allowing developers to absorb interest
payments for apartments still being built. Analysts at Jones
Lang LaSalle Inc., CLSA Asia Pacific Markets, Nomura Holdings
Inc. and Bank of America Corp.’s Merrill Lynch unit said in
April they all expect the government to introduce further
measures to curb price increases.  The  Straits Times  reported today that May home sales are
probably “significantly down” from April, citing property
consultants and agents.  “It is the darkening economic climate that’s affecting
buying sentiment,” Mak said. “We don’t know how bad the
fallout from the Euro zone financial crisis is. Because credit
is the lifeblood of the real estate market, if there is a credit
crunch, it will affect the  property market .”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ee Chien Chua in Singapore at 
 echua27@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Linus Chua at   lchua@bloomberg.net  