-- Fed’s Bullard Says Job Slump Hasn’t Changed Outlook
-- B y   J e f f   K e a r n s
-- 2012-06-05T20:47:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-05/fed-s-bullard-says-jobs-slump-hasn-t-changed-economic-outlook.html
Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis
President  James Bullard  said disappointing  job creation  hasn’t
changed the U.S. economic outlook and the Fed should be careful
not to prompt borrowing by consumers with excessive debt.  “ Monetary policy  has been ultra-easy during this period,
but cannot reasonably encourage additional borrowing by
households with too much debt,” Bullard said in remarks today
to the Bipartisan Policy Center in St. Louis. “The recent
nonfarm payrolls report was disappointing, but not enough to
substantially alter the contours of the U.S. outlook.”  U.S. job growth slowed to 69,000 last month from a high
this year of 275,000 in January even as the  Federal Open Market
Committee  sustained record stimulus, including a pledge to keep
the benchmark  interest rate  near zero until at least late 2014.  Still, a policy change isn’t needed as more action by the
Fed won’t help stem Europe’s debt crisis and the FOMC has time
to wait before making any alterations, Bullard said.  “One possible FOMC strategy is to simply pocket the lower
yields and continue to wait-and-see on the U.S. economic
outlook,” Bullard said. While Europe’s turmoil is driving
global problems, “a change in U.S. monetary policy at this
juncture will not alter the situation in Europe.”  Housing Bubble  The U.S. recovery from the collapse in the housing price
bubble will take “many years,” and “households are saddled
with far too much mortgage debt,” Bullard said.  The housing crisis scared off the next generation of
Americans from purchasing homes because younger consumers are
wary of buying real estate and prefer renting, Bullard said.
That’s causing growth in the number of new multi-family homes to
outpace single-family homes, he said.  “The housing bubble did tremendous damage to the  U.S.
economy ,” Bullard, who doesn’t vote on monetary policy this
year, said in his remarks. “That’s going to take a long time to
repair.”  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index rallied 0.6 percent to
1,285.50 as of 4:40 p.m. in New York. The benchmark 10-year
Treasury yield rose five basis points, or 0.05 percentage point,
to 1.57 percent after falling as much as two basis points to
1.51 percent.  The European debt crisis doesn’t warrant Fed action even
though “the situation in Europe is grave,” Bullard said to
reporters after his speech. U.S. banks would be better able to
weather a financial “meltdown” in Europe than they were a few
years ago, he said.  European Problem  “This is a problem for  Europe  and it has to be solved by
Europeans, so I don’t think the Fed should get involved,” he
said. “U.S. banks are much better prepared for a possible
financial meltdown in Europe than they were a few years ago.
They are holding higher levels of capital and they have divested
a lot of the more problematic assets.”  Policy makers are trying to sustain the U.S. recovery with
record-low interest rates that have yet to spur a rebound in the
housing market. The S&P/Case-Shiller index of property values in
20 cities dropped 2.6 percent in March from a year earlier after
a 3.5 percent decline in February, the group reported May 29.  Also, the number of Americans signing contracts to buy
previously owned houses fell in April by the most in a year, the
National Association of Realtors said May 30.  “Despite some signs of improvement, the housing sector
remains depressed,” policy makers on the Federal Open Market
Committee said in a  statement  after their meeting on April 25.  JPMorgan Chase & Co. and Morgan Stanley say Fed policy
makers, who plan to meet June 19-20 in  Washington , are more
likely to buy additional government-backed mortgage securities
following indications U.S. job creation is slowing.  A June 1 report that the U.S. in May added the fewest jobs
in a year sent benchmark Treasury note yields to record lows.  Bullard, 51, joined the  St. Louis  Fed’s research department
in 1990 and became president of the regional bank in 2008. His
district includes  Arkansas  and parts of Illinois,  Indiana ,
 Kentucky ,  Mississippi ,  Missouri  and Tennessee.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeff Kearns in Washington at 
 jkearns3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  