-- Djokovic Saves Four Match Points to Set Up Match With Federer
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 2012-06-05T19:06:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-05/federer-beats-del-potro-in-five-sets-to-advance-at-french-open.html
Top-seeded Novak Djokovic saved four
match points to set up a French Open semifinal against  Roger
Federer , the 16-time Grand Slam champion who came back from two
sets down to win.  Djokovic of Serbia beat Jo-Wilfried Tsonga of France 6-1,
5-7, 5-7, 7-6 (8-6), 6-1 today in a quarterfinal played in
drizzle on the main Court Philippe Chatrier at  Roland Garros  in
Paris.  “He was the better player for most of the match, I don’t
know how I came back from four match points down,” Djokovic
said in a televised interview.  Federer, the No. 3 seed from Switzerland, beat Juan Martin del Potro, the ninth seed from Argentina, 3-6, 6-7 (4-7), 6-2,
6-0, 6-3 on Court Suzanne Lenglen, the second showcourt.  Djokovic, a 25-year-old Serb, is trying to become the first
man since  Rod Laver  in 1969 to win all four major in a row. He
was up a set and break when the match turned.  It turned again in the fourth set, when Djokovic, serving
to stay in the match, saved two match points at 4-5 and two more
at 5-6.  One hour later, he clenched his fists as a victor,
finishing with a backhand winner after 4 hours, 9 minutes.  “I was so close,” Tsonga said in a televised interview.
“But I had nothing left in my legs.”  Djokovic, who came back from two sets down in his previous
round against Italy’s Andreas Seppi, has never reached the Paris
final. He is trying to win his fourth straight major title to
complete a non-calendar Grand Slam. The last man to hold all
four titles simultaneously is Laver, an Australian who swept
them in 1969 and 1962. Laver and American  Don Budge  in 1938 are
the only men to win all four in one calendar year.  Federer Comeback  Federer came back to beat Del Potro and advance to the
semifinals of a Grand Slam tournament for the 31st time. He beat
Djokovic at the same stage last year, ending a 43-match win
streak.  Today’s match lasted just under 3 1/2 hours and ended about
the time Djokovic was forcing the fourth-set tiebreak. It was
the first time Federer had come back from two sets down since
the first round of Wimbledon in 2010, and raised his five-set
record to 19-16.  Federer matched  Jimmy Connors  for the most Grand Slam
semifinal spots, and tied  Andre Agassi  for second in major
quarterfinal appearances with 36, behind Connors’s 41.  Stosur Wins  U.S. Open women’s champion  Samantha Stosur  beat Slovakia’s
Dominika Cibulkova 6-4, 6-1 to set up a semifinal against  Sara Errani . The Italian moved to her first major semifinal by
defeating  Angelique Kerber , the No. 10 seed from  Germany , 6-3,
7-6 (7-2).  Stosur, 28, became the first Australian woman in 31 years
to win a major singles title when she beat  Serena Williams  in
last year’s U.S. Open final. She reached the title match of the
French Open in 2010, losing to Italy’s Francesca Schiavone.  “I woke up feeling good this morning and had a good
warmup,” Stosur said in a news conference. “I guess that just
kind of transferred onto the match court and really did what I
wanted to do quite well.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Danielle Rossingh at Roland Garros in Paris via the London
newsroom at 
 drossingh@bloomberg.net ;
Alex Duff in Madrid at 
 aduff4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter-Joseph Hegarty at 
 phegarty@bloomberg.net  