-- FGC Will Pay Cruzeiro Obligations During Intervention
-- B y   F r a n c i s c o   M a r c e l i n o   a n d   G a b r i e l l e   C o p p o l a
-- 2012-06-05T22:34:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-05/fgc-will-honor-cruzeiro-s-obligations-during-next-six-months-1-.html
(Corrects headline and first paragraph to show honoring of
debt obligations may be shorter than 180-day period.)  Brazil ’s privately owned deposit
insurance fund, known as FGC, will pay all of  Banco Cruzeiro do
Sul SA’s  obligations coming due while the lender is under the
FGC’s control.  “Whenever the product is mature, the FGC on behalf of
Cruzeiro will honor it, no matter what kind of instrument,”
Fausto Guimaraes, head of  investor relations  for Cruzeiro do
Sul, said during a conference call.  Brazil’s central bank took control of the lender yesterday
through the FGC after saying it found “serious” financial
violations. The FGC’s control could be extended for another 180
days beyond the original six-month period if needed, Fabio
Mentone, an FGC board member, said during the call today.  Debt payments during the intervention period are being
funded by assets Cruzeiro do Sul sold to the FGC in an asset-
backed receivables fund last year. The fund has 2.3 billion
reais ($1.1 billion) to be disbursed during the remainder of the
180-day period, Mentone said.  “We are confident this portfolio is good,” Mentone said.
“We do not have a problem with future disbursements for the
next 180 days.”  Cruzeiro do Sul has $175 million of senior unsecured dollar
bonds maturing on Sept. 17, 2012. The bonds traded at 59.85
cents on the dollar at 1:30 p.m. in  Sao Paulo , according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. They traded at 97.82 cents on the dollar
on June 1.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Francisco Marcelino in Sao Paulo at 
 mdeoliveira@bloomberg.net 
Gabrielle Coppola in Sao Paulo at 
 gcoppola@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  