-- Fisher Cites Marketplace ‘Fear’ About Fed Balance Sheet
-- B y   R o d n e y   J e f f e r s o n   a n d   A k i   I t o
-- 2012-06-05T14:02:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-05/fisher-cites-marketplace-fear-about-fed-balance-sheet.html
Richard Fisher , president of the
Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas, said further bond purchases
would do little to aid the  U.S. economy  while fueling
perceptions the central bank is encouraging  government spending .  “I believe that were we to go down the path to further
accommodation at this juncture, we would not simply be pushing
on a string but would be viewed as an accomplice to the mischief
that has become synonymous with Washington,” Fisher said in a
speech at the University of  St. Andrews  in Scotland.  The Fed purchased $2.3 trillion of securities in two rounds
intended to lower long-term borrowing costs and spur employment.
In September, it started a program to lengthen the maturities of
the assets on its balance sheet, known as Operation Twist.  Fisher dissented twice last year against moves to push down
long-term borrowing costs and to keep the benchmark U.S.
 interest rate  near zero until at least mid-2013. He voted five
times in 2008 in favor of tighter monetary policy. He doesn’t
vote on policy this year.  “There is a growing sense that we are unwittingly, or
worse, deliberately, monetizing the wayward ways of Congress,”
said Fisher, 63. He said investors are concerned the Fed has
“already expanded its balance sheet to its stretching point.”  Responding to audience questions, Fisher expressed doubts
about Operation Twist, which expires at the end of this month.
Under the program, the Fed sold $400 billion of  Treasury
securities  with maturities of three years or less and used the
proceeds to buy $400 billion of Treasuries with maturities of
six years or more.  Sending a Signal  “It’s time for the market to send us a signal what the
price of debt should be,” Fisher said. He said measures
including Operation Twist are “distorting the price.”  The policy-setting  Federal Open Market Committee  said in
April it plans to hold the  benchmark interest rate  near zero
through at least late 2014 to spur economic growth and reduce
unemployment. Employers in May added the fewest workers in a
year, fueling concern the U.S labor recovery is sputtering.  Fed officials at a June 19-20 meeting plan to update their
forecasts for growth, unemployment and inflation. Policy makers
favoring more stimulus include Boston Fed President  Eric Rosengren , who said on May 31 that the central bank should cut
joblessness by prolonging Operation Twist.  Fisher has opposed more easing of monetary policy, saying
businesses would probably hire more workers after the government
charts a path toward reducing the federal  budget deficit . In his
speech today, Fisher said “trillions of dollars are sitting on
the sidelines” that could be used for  job creation .  Jobless Rate  The  unemployment rate  rose to 8.2 percent in May after the
economy added 69,000 jobs, Labor Department figures showed June
1. Economists forecast the economy to add 150,000 jobs,
according to the median of a Bloomberg News survey.  The benchmark 10-year Treasury note fell on speculation the
U.S. economy won’t slow enough to justify keeping yields at the
record lows set last week. The yield on the 10-year Treasury
note to 1.56 percent at 9 a.m. in New York from 1.53 percent
late yesterday.  Fisher attributed much of the decline in Treasury yields to
the European crisis, which has pushed investors to seek the
perceived safety of  U.S. government debt .  “We are the best-looking horse in the glue factory,” he
said. He declined to predict where bond yields might end up.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rodney Jefferson in St. Andrews, Scotland, at   r.jefferson@bloomberg.net 
Aki Ito in  San Francisco  at 
 aito16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  