-- Fish Heads to Chicken Fat Light Homes, Cut Retailer Costs
-- B y   L o u i s e   D o w n i n g
-- 2012-06-06T16:59:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-05/fish-heads-to-chicken-fat-light-homes-cut-retailer-costs.html
Fish heads and chicken fat are being
turned into electricity by the U.K.’s largest retailers
including  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT)  that ship  food waste  to  power
plants  to reduce garbage-removal fees.  Tesco Plc (TSCO) , Britain’s biggest supermarket chain, along with
 Marks & Spencer Group Plc (MKS) , John Lewis Partnership Plc’s
Waitrose,  William Morrison Supermarkets Plc (MRW)  and J Sainsbury Plc
are testing how meat and fish, cooking oils and leftover
sandwiches can lower energy bills and landfill costs when
they’re transported to plants for converting into power.  Companies around the world have invested about $18.2
billion in waste-to-energy assets in the past five years,
according to Bloomberg New Energy Finance.  Waste Management
Inc. (WM) ,  North America ’s biggest trash hauler, purchased stakes in
eight companies developing systems to convert rubbish into
electricity, fuel and chemicals. In  Brazil , cities are building
incinerators that burn trash to produce electricity.  Bioenergy can provide at least 8 percent of the U.K.’s
demand by 2020, valued at about $13 billion at today’s oil
prices, the government forecasts. Supermarkets are motivated by
a landfill tax that makes it increasingly costly to bury waste.
The tax starting in  April  was 64 pounds ($98) a ton and is set
to increase by  8 pounds a year .  “Diverting food waste from landfill to anaerobic digestion
is a no-brainer for the supermarkets -- landfill charges and
energy costs are only getting more expensive,” said Niamh McSherry, a food retail analyst at Berenberg Bank.  Gutting Catfish  Anaerobic digestion breaks down organic material in the
absence of oxygen to make a biogas that can be burned to
generate power. Electricity from this process currently costs
about $142.80 a megawatt-hour, according to data from the
London-based researcher Bloomberg New Energy Finance. This
compares to coal-fired power that costs $78 a megawatt-hour.  Developers of bioenergy plants set to benefit from the
emerging industry include  Kedco Plc (KED) , Enviroparks Ltd., GWE
Biogas Ltd. and Biffa Group Ltd., which is processing
Sainsbury’s waste for the next two years, and Biogen Ltd., which
already processes food from Waitrose stores.  Waste-to-power projects in the U.K. benefit from state
subsidies under the government’s Renewable Obligation
Certificate program that requires utilities to buy increasing
amounts of electricity from clean energy sources.  State Subsidies  One certificate is awarded to generators of renewable power
for every megawatt-hour produced. Utilities are required to hold
increasing amounts of ROCs or pay a penalty. Different
technologies receive different numbers of ROCs. Anaerobic
digestion is currently eligible for two. This means they receive
about 84.74 pounds for every megawatt-hour of electricity
produced at  current ROC prices .  Refineries and airlines also are pioneering energy-from-
garbage projects.  Neste Oil Oyj (NES1V)  is making diesel for cars and
trucks using fat from gutting pangasius, an Asian catfish.
Airlines including  Air France-KLM (AF)  Group and  Deutsche Lufthansa
AG (LHA)  have started flying planes on used cooking oil.  Old Lamb Chops  Wal-Mart’s Asda unit sends old lamb chops to moldy bread to
bioenergy sites. About 2,500 homes are powered by Sainsbury’s
unsold meals and rotting vegetables.  Waitrose chickens  are kept
warm in solar huts as Tesco examines how fat from rotisseries
can produce electricity.  Waitrose sends all “unavoidable” food waste, packaged or
unpackaged, raw or cooked, to anaerobic digestion facilities to
make biogas used to generate power for the National Grid.  Tesco is saving 200 million pounds on its energy bills
every year through low carbon and energy-efficient technologies
introduced since 2006. Marks & Spencer saved more than 70
million pounds last year. Asda expects to save about 800 million
pounds by 2020 by implementing energy-saving measures.  ’Zero Waste’  Morrison’s, as part of its plan for zero waste to go to
landfills by 2013, sends trash to bioenergy plants. Marks &
Spencer sends 89 percent of its food waste, including salads and
sandwiches, to similar facilities as it strives to become
carbon-neutral in the U.K. and Ireland this year.  “Anaerobic digestion saves the food retailers money and
allows them to demonstrate their ‘green credentials’ to the
government and consumers,” McSherry said in London.  The DECC  estimates  that anaerobic digestion facilities and
plants using wood chips, food waste and agricultural residues to
produce heat and power could account for 8 to 11 percent of the
U.K.’s primary energy demand within eight years.  Rothschild’s RIT Capital  Sainsbury (SBRY) ’s, the U.K.’s third-largest supermarket after
Tesco and Asda, in February invested in Tamar Energy Ltd., which
plans to build 40 plants within five years that will use waste
to generate electricity. The business is backed by financier
 Jacob Rothschild ’s RIT Capital Partners Plc investment trust and
the Duchy of Cornwall estate held by Prince Charles, heir to
Britain’s throne.  Anaerobic digestion is not the only renewable energy source
that U.K. food retailers are using to chop bills and cut
emissions as Britain seeks to get 15 percent of its energy from
clean sources by 2020.  Sainsbury’s, trying to reduce emissions by 30 percent by
2020, has installed about 7 megawatts of solar panels on its
stores, which combined is probably larger than any single solar
farm in the U.K., Neil Sachdev, property director for the
retailer, said by e-mail. One store also uses geothermal power.  Both Sainsbury’s and Marks & Spencer also source
electricity directly from renewable energy generators including
land-based wind farms, biomass facilities and hydropower.
Sainsbury’s currently gets more than 4 percent from renewables,
with plans to boost this past 10 percent by 2013.  Wood-Chip Power  Waitrose in March opened a store on the Isle of Wight
powered by wood chips. It’s seeking to install as many as 150
similar energy centers by 2020 and plans to open its second in
Bracknell this month. Wind turbines and solar panels already
provide heat and light for chicken huts at its Leckford Estate
in Hampshire. Sainsbury’s sends all bread waste for processing
into  animal feed .  Tesco, seeking to cut store emissions in half by 2020 from
2006 levels, is testing the potential of clean-energy
technologies such as sun-powered lights in car parks at six
zero-carbon stores in the U.K., Ireland,  Thailand  and the  Czech
Republic . Many of its stores now use energy-saving lights.  “A modern brand is a sustainable brand,” said Lucy
Neville Rolfe,  executive director  in corporate and legal affairs
at Tesco. “Reducing energy tends to save money.”  Air-Source Pumps  Morrison’s said it opened its “greenest” store last
October in Peterborough. The store is testing solar panels, more
efficient lighting and air-source pumps that use outside oxygen
for heating.  “Reducing energy consumption and sustainably managing
waste is just good business,” Bob Gordon, head of environment
at the  British Retail Consortium , said. “U.K. retailers are
saving literally hundreds of millions of pounds per year through
their sustainability agendas.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Louise Downing in  London  at 
 ldowning4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  