-- Fracking Trucks Hauling Sand Subject to Workday Limit, U.S. Says
-- B y   J i m   E f s t a t h i o u   J r .
-- 2012-06-05T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-05/fracking-trucks-hauling-sand-subject-to-workday-limit-u-s-says.html
Truck drivers hauling water and sand
to U.S. oil and natural gas shale wells can’t extend their daily
on-duty hours by using an exemption targeted for special oil-
field service equipment, the govenment said.  Time spent waiting while water and sand are unloaded at
well sites counts toward the maximum 14 hours a day that a truck
driver can work, the Transportation Department said in a rule
clarification to be published today in the Federal Register.
Some drivers may be using an exemption for equipment such as
pumps or gas separators that let operators subtract from the
limit the time waiting for gear to be unloaded, said Boyd
Stephenson, director of hazardous materials policy at the
Arlington, Virginia-based American Trucking Associations.  The U.S. agency is targeting a boom in natural-gas drilling
by hydraulic fracturing, a process that may require hauling as
many as 1,000 truckloads of water and sand for every well.
Limiting the exemption may force drillers to add drivers,
Stephenson said.  “If you were an operator in the past that was utilizing
this exemption for transporting sand and water then, yes, it
means you’re going to have to have more drivers,” Stephenson
said in an interview. “There were probably some that were
utilizing this exemption for sand and water trucks in the past.
How many is anybody’s guess.”  Shale Formations  A growing number of industries, from ready-mix concrete
mixers to water-well drillers to agricultural retailers, have
obtained or sought relief from rules including limits on
truckers’ daily on-duty hours that the Department of
Transportation announced in December. Consumer groups and the
trucking association object to different parts of the rules and
have gone to court to block them.  Hours-of-service exemptions were written into law for more
than a dozen industries, including oil-field service equipment,
before the final rule was issued.  Oil and gas discoveries in shale formations in states such
as Pennsylvania and Ohio are bringing wells to rural areas that
can often be reached using small rural roads not suited for
heavy trucks. The anticipated expansion of drilling probably led
the safety agency to issue guidance on who is eligible for the
exemption, according to  Henry Jasny , vice president of the
Washington-based Advocates for Highway and Auto Safety.  Justin Nisly, a Transportation Department spokesman, didn’t
return a phone call seeking comment.  “If you’re going to have thousands and thousands more
sites, you’re going to have thousands more vehicle trips on
rural roads which have the highest fatality rate to begin
with,” Jasny said in an interview. “They’re not changing
anything in the current exemption. They’re just trying to make
it clear who gets which exemption.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Efstathiou Jr. in  New York  at 
 jefstathiou@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  