-- Freescale Hires Texas Instruments Analog Head Lowe as CEO
-- B y   L i s a   R a p a p o r t   a n d   I a n   K i n g
-- 2012-06-05T20:18:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-05/freescale-hires-texas-instruments-analog-head-lowe-as-ceo.html
Freescale (FSL)  Semiconductor Inc. named
Gregg Lowe chief executive officer, hiring him away from  Texas
Instruments Inc. (TXN) , where he managed the analog chip business.
Freescale shares surged.  Rich Beyer, who said in April he planned to retire as
Freescale’s CEO, will remain on the board of directors, the
company said today in a statement. Lowe, 49, ran Texas
Instruments’s largest business unit, which had $6.38 billion of
sales last year, more than Freescale’s total revenue.  Lowe spent 28 years at Texas Instruments, where he began
selling products to automakers and later led the analog business
for more than a decade. Analog chips go in everything from space
hardware to household electronics. Lowe is a “clear loss” for
Texas Instruments, where he was a likely successor to CEO  Rich Templeton ,  Romit Shah , an analyst at Nomura Securities
International in New York, wrote in a report.  Austin, Texas-based Freescale, the largest supplier of
chips to the U.S. automotive industry, is struggling to return
to profitability after it was taken private by a group including
Blackstone Group LP and TPG Capital. Under Beyer, Freescale
reorganized and reduced its debt, enabling it to hold a public
share offering last year.  Freescale’s  shares  surged 7.7 percent to $9.41 at the close
in New York, the biggest gain since Jan. 18.  Texas Instruments added 1.4 percent to $27.48. The company
named Brian Crutcher to lead its analog business and Greg Delagi
to run its embedded processing unit, the Dallas-based company
said in a separate statement today.  Freescale’s board also appointed J. Daniel McCranie non-
executive chairman.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lisa Rapaport in New York at 
 lrapaport1@bloomberg.net ;
Ian King in  San Francisco  at 
 ianking@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  