-- Gas Contracts May Be Linked to Renewable Energy, Gazprom Says
-- B y   D i n a k a r   S e t h u r a m a n   a n d   A n n a   S h i r y a e v s k a y a
-- 2012-06-05T09:28:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-05/gas-contracts-may-be-linked-to-renewable-energy-gazprom-says.html
OAO Gazprom (GAZP) , the world’s biggest
natural-gas producer, said  renewable energy  may eventually
replace oil for indexing gas prices in long-term contracts.  “It’s time to define ways to improve the system,”
Alexander Medvedev, deputy chief executive officer of the
Russian gas exporter, said in prepared remarks for a speech
today at the World Gas Conference in Kuala Lumpur. “As a new
thing, one could choose a renewable source as an alternative
energy resource for indexing prices in the future.”  For now, Gazprom links its prices to oil and refined
products with a time lag, a method that dates back to the 1970s,
when the fuels were more commonly used in power generation. As
Brent crude rallied in the past three years and gas traded on
exchanges became cheaper, Europe’s biggest utilities suffered
losses under long-term contracts with suppliers and called for a
new system. Units of  EON AG (EOAN)  and  RWE AG (RWE) , Germany’s biggest
utilities, are in arbitration with Gazprom over prices.  Gazprom has defended oil-indexed pricing as a way to
protect buyers against the influence of producers and unknown
future risks. The company, which supplies one-quarter of
European gas needs and is seeking to raise that share to 30
percent, has no plans to break the oil-link any time soon.  “One should be quite cautious with proposals to reject the
oil-price indexation,” Medvedev said today.  Long-term gas contracts ensure security of supply and
protect the interests of both buyers and sellers, Medvedev said
at the conference. They help share risks and secure long-term
investments, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dinakar Sethuraman in  Kuala Lumpur  at 
 dinakar@bloomberg.net ;
Anna Shiryaevskaya in Moscow at 
 ashiryaevska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  