-- Gasoline Gains on Speculation Lower Pump Prices May Spur Demand
-- B y   B a r b a r a   J   P o w e l l
-- 2012-06-05T18:47:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-05/gasoline-falls-as-european-leaders-to-discuss-debt-crisis.html
Gasoline rose after a gauge of
American service-industry growth climbed in May and on
speculation that lower pump prices will improve demand.  Futures rose as the  Institute for Supply Management ’s  index 
of non-manufacturing businesses, which covers about 90 percent
of the economy, increased to 53.7 in May from the prior month’s
53.5. Gasoline at the pump is down 9.3 percent since reaching a
2012 high of $3.936 on April 4, according to data from AAA, the
largest U.S. motoring club.  “The combination of the season and sharply lower prices
should give a boost in demand,” said  Phil Flynn , senior market
analyst at Price Futures Group in  Chicago .  Gasoline for July delivery rose 1.4 cents, or 0.5 percent,
to settle at $2.6847 a gallon on the  New York  Mercantile
Exchange.  The median forecast of 75 economists surveyed by Bloomberg
News projected the ISM would be 53.4. Readings above 50 signal
expansion.  “The ISM has provided some support for prices,” said  Andy Lipow , president of Lipow Oil Associates LLC in Houston.  Regular gasoline at the pump, averaged nationwide,  fell  1.5
cents to $3.57 a gallon yesterday, according to AAA. It was the
lowest price since Feb. 20.  U.S. gasoline demand slid 3.7 percent last week, the first
decline in four weeks, as Americans used less fuel during the
Memorial Day holiday weekend, MasterCard’s SpendingPulse report
showed today.  For the Memorial Day holiday weekend, from May 25 through
May 28, drivers pumped 1.7 percent less gasoline than the same
holiday period in 2011, the report showed.  Europe Debt Crisis  In  Europe , finance ministers and central bank governors
from the world’s leading economies agreed to coordinate their
response to the region’s financial crisis.  Group of Seven officials said they will work together to
help both Spain and  Greece  place their public finances on a
sustainable footing, Japanese Finance Minister  Jun Azumi  told
reporters in Tokyo following the call today.  “The market is still going to wait to see what’s going to
happen in Europe,” Lipow said. That’s the big story.’’  Euro-area services and manufacturing output contracted at
the fastest pace in almost three years in May, adding to
indications the sovereign debt crisis is weakened the region’s
economy. A  composite index  based on a survey of purchasing
managers in manufacturing and services dropped to 46 from 46.7
in April, London-based Markit Economics said today.  July-delivery heating oil rose 0.67 cent to settle at
$2.6336 a gallon on the exchange.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Barbara J Powell in Dallas at 
 bpowell4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  