-- Gay-Marriage Foes Lose Bid for Review of Order on Ban
-- B y   K a r e n   G u l l o
-- 2012-06-05T19:08:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-05/gay-marriage-foes-lose-bid-for-review-of-ruling-voiding-ban-1-.html
A judge’s ruling striking down
 California ’s Proposition 8 ban on gay marriage as
unconstitutional will stand after a federal appeals court in San
Francisco refused to reconsider the decision.  Proponents of Proposition 8, approved by 52 percent of
California voters in 2008, will ask the U.S. Supreme Court to
review the case. Lawyers for the groups said lower-court rulings
reversing the measure were an attack on the democratic process.  “The Protectmarriage.com legal team looks forward to
standing before the U.S. Supreme Court on behalf of people’s
right to preserve the fundamental building block of
civilization,” Brian Raum, a lawyer for Proposition 8
proponents, said in an e-mail. “The democratic process and the
most important human institution -- marriage -- shouldn’t be
overthrown based on the demands of Hollywood activists.”  A majority of the 25 active judges at the  U.S. Court of
Appeals  in  San Francisco  voted against rehearing the case. In
February, a three-judge panel of the court voted 2-1 to uphold a
federal judge’s 2010 ruling that Proposition 8 violates equal
protection rights of gay and lesbian couples. Three judges
dissented from the majority’s decision today.  “We have overruled the will of 7 million California
Proposition 8 voters,” Circuit Judge Diarmuid O’Scannlain said
in a dissenting opinion on behalf of himself and the two other
opposing judges. “We should not have so roundly trumped
California’s democratic process.”  Obama’s Support  O’Scannlain, noting that President  Barack Obama  announced
his support of same-sex marriage a few weeks ago, said the
president also commented that U.S. states are free to decide
whether to allow gays to marry and the debate over gay marriage
should “continue in a respectful way.”  “Today the court has silenced any such respectful
conversation,” O’Scannlain said.  Justice Stephen Reinhardt, agreeing with the majority to
deny review of the case, said the court held in February that
Proposition 8 was invalid and didn’t resolve the fundamental
question of whether the U.S. Constitution prohibits states from
banning same-sex marriage.  “That question may be decided in the near future, but if
so, it should be in some other case, at some other time,”
Reinhardt said in today’s decision.  The three-judge panel in February ruled that the measure’s
only purpose “was to lessen the status and human dignity of
gays and lesbians in California,” which the U.S. Constitution
doesn’t allow.  Supreme Court  The  Supreme Court  may have several chances over the next
year to take up the issue of same-sex marriage in some form.  The U.S. Court of Appeals in  Boston  ruled May 31 that the
heart of the U.S. Defense of Marriage Act, which defines
marriage as only a heterosexual union, is unconstitutional. The
panel was the first appellate court to have declared any part of
the federal law unconstitutional, said Kenji Yoshino, a
professor of constitutional law at  New York University School of
Law  in  Manhattan .  After the San Francisco appellate panel said Proposition 8
was correctly struck down, backers of the measure sought review
by a larger group of judges. The law, which remains in effect by
court order, will continue to be law in California until the
Supreme Court rules, the San Francisco appeals court said today.  ‘Binding Precedent’  Charles Cooper , an attorney for Proposition 8 defenders,
said in court filings that the three-judge panel “erred in
breaking with the uniform and binding precedent upholding the
constitutionality of laws adopting the traditional definition of
marriage.”  Lawyers for gay couples that sued to overturn Proposition 8
opposed a rehearing in the appeals court.  “The final chapter of the Proposition 8 case has now
begun,” said Chad Griffin, co-founder of the American
Foundation of Equal Rights, which sponsored the lawsuit.
“Should the U.S. Supreme Court decide to review the Ninth
Circuit’s decision in our case, I cam confident that the
justices will stand on the side of fairness and equality.”  Proposition 8, approved after the California Supreme Court
legalized gay marriage in 2008, amended California’s
constitution to define marriage as being between one man and one
woman.  About 18,000 gay couples married in California before
Proposition 8 was passed. As of 2006, there were an estimated
109,000 gay couples in California, more than any other state,
according to U.S. Census data compiled by the  University of
California ,  Los Angeles .  Massachusetts , Connecticut,  Iowa ,  Vermont , New Hampshire,
 New York  and Washington, D.C., issue marriage licenses to same-
sex couples, while Maryland and Washington state have approved
doing so with laws that have yet to take effect.  The case is Perry v. Brown, 10-16696, U.S. Court of Appeals
for the Ninth Circuit (San Francisco).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karen Gullo in San Francisco at 
 kgullo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  