-- German Resistance Thwarts Marchionne’s Call for Unity
-- B y   T o m m a s o   E b h a r d t   a n d   M a t h i e u   R o s e m a i n
-- 2012-06-06T17:07:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-05/german-resistance-thwarts-marchionne-s-call-for-unity.html
Echoing Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s
hard line over Europe’s debt crisis, German automakers are
balking at coming to the aid of embattled peers in the region.  Volkswagen AG (VOW) ,  Daimler AG (DAI)  and  Bayerische Motoren Werke AG (BMW) 
are resisting calls by  Fiat SpA (F)  Chief Executive Officer  Sergio Marchionne  to form a  united front  to push for European Union
support to reduce overcapacity in the region. A meeting today
between auto executives and the EU in Brussels did not advance
efforts to shut unprofitable factories.  “If you do a plan which distributes closures across
countries, it’s easier to sell it,” Marchionne, who also serves
as president of European auto lobby group ACEA, told reporters.
“You can’t ask Italians to be the only ones who feel the pain
of closures. They should go to  France ,  Italy , Germany.”  Overcapacity in Western Europe may more than double to
about 2 million vehicles in 2012 as sales fall for the fifth
straight year, according to IHS Automotive. The region’s car
market will contract 7 percent this year, ACEA forecast today.  With German carmakers producing vehicles in demand in China
and the U.S., Fiat of Italy and  PSA Peugeot Citroen (UG)  and  Renault
SA (RNO)  of France bear the brunt of the costs of excess capacity,
which UBS estimates at 7.4 billion euros ($9.2 billion) a year.  VW, BMW and Mercedes-Benz’s parent Daimler use more than 90
percent of the capacity in their European factories, compared
with rates of 60 percent to 75 percent for other carmakers in
the region, according to Philippe Houchois, a London-based
analyst with UBS.  Seeking Support  While European politicians generally agree that
overcapacity is a problem, they want jobs cut somewhere else.
Even Germany has sought to prevent layoffs at home as part of
 General Motors Co. (GM) ’s efforts to turn around its Opel unit.
Still, German automakers have little incentive to help solve
their competitors’ woes.  “There’s a clear problem of excess of supply in  Europe ,
which has worsened because of the economic downturn,” said
Pierluigi Bellini, an analyst with IHS Automotive in Milan. “I
don’t see Marchionne succeeding in his efforts to get a European
plan for the industry as German carmakers, especially BMW and
Daimler, are running at almost full capacity.”  The EU should create an extraordinary plan for a common
framework for closures across countries, Marchionne has said.
His proposal hasn’t been considered because the carmaker
association itself doesn’t agree on what steps to take. The Fiat
CEO and other industry leaders discussed the outlook today with
the European Commission, the EU’s executive body.  German Resistance  “It’s ridiculous,” Marchionne said. “We had a chance to
discuss today with the Germans, and they say they have no plant
to shut down. I know that at least two plants in  Germany ” are
not doing well financially.  While the automakers could close factories on their own,
the political repercussions would be so broad that some of the
companies would prefer to have cover from the EU. Carmakers are
not asking for EU funding to cut capacity, Marchionne said.  Antonio Tajani, the commissioner for industry, presented a
plan at the EU’s CARS21 meeting to help the industry, including
increasing support for green-car research to 1.5 billion euros
in the 2014-2020 budget.  The commission also seeks to simplify rules for automakers,
including environmental regulations, and to apply stricter
conditions on trade agreements to take into consideration the
impact on the industry, Tajani said.  Job Protection  Political interference has thwarted industry restructuring
in Europe as governments seek to protect local jobs. Peugeot CEO
Philippe Varin was summoned in April by  Nicolas Sarkozy , who was
then French president, after Peugeot workers called on him to
help stave off layoffs.  Francois Hollande , Sarkozy’s successor,
has vowed to protect French jobs as well.  “Indeed, there must be a European solution to this issue,
which is a European issue,” said Pierre-Olivier Salmon, a
spokesman for Peugeot in Paris. Renault, which is 15 percent
owned by the French government, declined to comment.  Fiat was the first European automaker to close a factory in
its own country since the 2008 financial crisis when it shut a
plant in Sicily in December. Before Fiat’s move, General Motors
was the only other carmaker to shut a factory in the past four
years, closing a facility in Antwerp,  Belgium , in 2010.  Peugeot factories  in Aulnay and Rennes are most at risk of
being shut down as cooperation with GM adds to pressure from
sluggish sales in Europe, union representatives Franck Don of
CFDT and Bruno Lemerle of CGT said. The manufacturer assembles
the Citroen C3 compact in Aulnay and the Citroen C5 and C6 and
Peugeot 508 sedans in Rennes.  ‘Unbearable’ Situation  “The situation is unbearable in the short term” for
Renault and Peugeot, said Xavier Caroen, an analyst at Kepler
Capital Markets in Zurich. “The risk is the same: potentially
losing money on each vehicle that is produced in plants that are
not used at their full capacity.”  The lack of support from German automakers stems from their
successful expansion decades ago, making them less reliant on
demand in Europe. Volkswagen, the region’s biggest carmaker,
generated more than double the combined revenues of Peugeot and
Renault in the first quarter. Rather than shutting capacity,
Daimler opened a new plant in Hungary in March.  The Germans are more global with their production and sales
than the French and Italians. Fiat just last year re-entered the
U.S. market and this year is opening its first  China  factory
after more than a decade of failed attempts. That makes Fiat --
minus Chrysler Group LLC -- heavily dependent on Europe. Peugeot
and Renault are not present in the U.S. at all, and lag far
behind the market leaders in China.  ‘Fairy Tale’  By comparison, the Germans -- VW, Mercedes and BMW -- have
factories in China and the U.S. and significant sales in the
countries. China and the U.S. are BMW’s two largest markets,
while VW’s biggest is China.  “We do not want to comment on the topic, because we do not
have any overcapacities,” said Bettina Singhartinger, a
spokeswoman for Daimler in Stuttgart. Volkswagen, BMW and German
 auto industry  lobby group VDA declined to comment.  “Marchionne’s plan is a fairy tale,” said Giuseppe Berta,
a professor at  Bocconi University  in Milan, who has written
several books on Fiat. “Europe has no funds, nor the political
will, to help the auto industry with incentives to shut plants
and reduce the workforce.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tommaso Ebhardt in Milan at 
 tebhardt@bloomberg.net ;
Mathieu Rosemain in Paris at 
 mrosemain@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  