-- German Stocks Drop to a Five-Month Low; EON Falls
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   M o r g a n
-- 2012-06-05T15:53:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-05/german-stocks-drop-to-a-five-month-low-eon-tumbles.html
German stocks  declined, pushing the
benchmark DAX Index to a five-month low, as a report showed
euro-area manufacturing and services output shrank in May for a
fourth month.  EON AG, Germany’s biggest utility, dropped 1.2 percent
after saying it may lose millions of euros due to
“irregularities” by a former employee.  MAN SE (MAN)  made the biggest
gain in more than three years after Volkswagen AG raised its
stake in the company.  The DAX fell 0.2 percent to 5,969.4 at the close in
 Frankfurt , its lowest since Dec. 30. The gauge pared an earlier
drop of as much as 1.1 percent after a report showed U.S.
services industry expanded at a faster pace than estimated. The
DAX has lost 17 percent since its 2012 high on March 16 amid
growing concern that  Greece  will be forced to leave the euro
area. The broader HDAX Index slid 0.1 percent.  “The DAX has been an island” of safety during volatility
in other equity indexes, said Duarte Caldas, a market strategist
at IG Markets in Lisbon. “In the last few days, with the
slowdown in the US and  China , we are seeing some negative
catchup.”  Euro-area services and manufacturing output shrank in May
for a fourth month, according to a  composite index  based on a
survey of purchasing managers in both industries, London-based
Markit Economics said. The index dropped to 46 from 46.7 in
April. The reading is the lowest since June 2009. A level below
50 indicates contraction.  U.S. Service Economy  In the U.S., the  Institute for Supply Management ’s index of
 non-manufacturing businesses , which covers about 90 percent of
the world’s largest economy, rose to 53.7 in May from the prior
month’s 53.5, the Tempe, Arizona-based group said today. The
median forecast of 75 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News
projected 53.4. Readings above 50 signal expansion.  Finance ministers and central-bank governors from the
world’s leading economies agreed to coordinate their response to
 Europe ’s financial crisis on a conference call that dealt with
 Spain  and Greece.  Group of Seven officials said they will work together to
help both euro-area countries place their public finances on a
sustainable footing, Japanese Finance Minister  Jun Azumi  told
reporters in Tokyo following the call today. Azumi said he urged
European leaders to do more to address investors’ concerns about
the region’s finances.  Spanish Bank Rescue  Spain called for outside funds for the first time to battle
the financial crisis as Budget Minister Cristobal Montoro said
European institutions should help shore up the nation’s lenders.  In an interview with Spanish broadcaster Onda Cero today,
Montoro ruled out a full rescue for the euro region’s fourth-
biggest economy.  A survey in  Germany  showed  Chancellor Angela Merkel  is
consolidating her political position. Support for Germany’s
Pirate Party fell one percentage point to 7 percent as Merkel’s
governing Christian Democratic bloc gained one percentage point
to 34 percent, according to a weekly poll.  The  Social Democratic Party  would attract 32 percent of
votes if national elections were held today, the survey by INSA-
Meinungstrend for Germany’s Bild newspaper showed.  EON Sees Losses  EON dropped 1.2 percent to 14.24 euros, the lowest since
Sept. 13. The stock has fallen for seven consecutive days, its
longest stretch of declines since August.  “EON Energy Trading SE in Dusseldorf has detected some
irregularities of a single trader,” Georg Oppermann, a
spokesman for the power and natural-gas company, said yesterday.
“We expect only minor financial impacts on our portfolio in the
lower double-digit million euro range.” he said.  Deutsche Boerse AG (DB1)  fell 1.9 percent to 36.58 euros, the
lowest since Oct. 4.  Deutsche Lufthansa lost 1.7 percent to 8.06 euros.  MAN, the German truckmaker owned by Volkswagen, rallied 9.1
percent to 85 euros, the biggest jump since April 2009.
Volkswagen raised its stake in the company to push a three-way
truckmaking alliance between MAN, Scania AB and its own
commercial-vehicles unit.  Volkswagen increased its  voting rights  to 75.03 percent
from 73.76 percent previously, the Wolfsburg, Germany-based
carmaker said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Morgan in Frankfurt at 
 jmorgan157@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  