-- Germany Will Make Concessions to Protect the Euro, Pioneer Says
-- B y   M a r c o   B e r t a c c h e
-- 2012-06-05T22:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-05/germany-will-make-concessions-to-protect-the-euro-pioneer-says.html
German  Chancellor Angela Merkel  will
probably give in to calls from European partners for more growth
measures and a more active role for the  European Central Bank  in
protecting the financial system, according to Pioneer
Investments Group Chief Investment Officer Giordano Lombardo.  “At the end,  Germany  will accept more macro coordination,
more inflationary policies when the other countries are
deflating and a more active role of the ECB in protecting
banking systems of solvent countries,” Lombardo said in an
interview on June 1 from Milan, where he oversees about $195
billion of investments globally.  Spain’s banking crisis and concern Greece may exit the euro
reignited Europe’s debt crisis after the European Central Bank
earlier this year calmed markets with its long-term lending
program. President  Barack Obama  last week blamed European
leaders for slowing U.S. job gains, saying they haven’t done
enough to resolve the crisis, now in its third year.  Italian Prime Minister  Mario Monti  and French President
 Francois Hollande  have challenged Merkel to get a euro-area debt
sharing system in place. Spanish Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy  on
June 2 called for a “banking union” in Europe involving a
centralized system to re-capitalize troubled banks.  Merkel the same day toughened her opposition to regional
debt sharing, telling members of her party that “under no
circumstances” would she agree to euro bonds.  Still, as euro-area unemployment reached its highest level
on record and manufacturing and services output contracted in
May, “there will be concessions from both sides,” said
Lombardo. “We’ll have a more pro-growth stance from Germany and
on the other side countries such as  Italy , Spain and Portugal
will continue to make a commitment towards fiscal discipline.”  G-7 Response  Finance ministers and central bank governors from the Group
of Seven economies agreed yesterday to coordinate their response
to the euro area’s sovereign-debt crisis on a conference call.  G-7 officials said they will work together to help  Greece 
and Spain place their public finances on a sustainable footing,
Japan’s Finance Minister, Jun Azumi, told reporters in Tokyo
following the call.  Greece will hold elections again on June 17. Lombardo said
it’s “absolutely possible” that the Mediterranean nation will
“vote itself out” of the euro.  A chaotic exit would prompt Pioneer to “reduce
significantly exposure to risk, primarily starting from equity,
which is more liquid,” he said. In a coordinated Greek euro
exit, his preferred  asset allocation  wouldn’t change much, as
the market would actually “clear up part of the uncertainty.”  Even if Greece exits the single currency, “our base
scenario is that the euro system will stay together,” he said.
“There is also a possibility that just a few things will
improve on the policy front and this will have a massively
positive impact on the market.”  Underweight Bonds  Pioneer, a unit of Italy’s biggest bank  UniCredit SpA (UCG) , has
held more European corporate bonds than are represented in
indices, only reducing its overweight exposure in the past few
weeks. It also kept an underweight position on European
 government bonds  as a whole, with the exception of Italy, where
he said the right measures have been taken to sustain public
debt in the long term.  “In a scenario in which there is no euro breakdown, credit
is a good investment opportunity in a very low growth
environment, default rates are acceptable, not particularly
worrying,” he said.  Regarding the recovery of the European financial industry,
he said debt is a better choice than bank equity.  Outside Europe, Pioneer also has an overweight position on
 emerging markets bonds  and equities.  “We don’t believe that they are completely sheltered from
the European crisis but we believe that emerging market
countries still have room for relaxing their policies;  China  has
room to change both its fiscal and monetary policy to avoid a
hard landing.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Marco Bertacche in Milan at 
 mbertacche@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jerrold Colten at 
 jcolten@bloomberg.net  