-- Germany Opens to Banking Coordination in Drive for Fiscal Union
-- B y   R a i n e r   B u e r g i n   a n d   T o n y   C z u c z k a
-- 2012-06-05T09:47:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-05/germany-opens-to-banking-coordination-in-drive-for-fiscal-union.html
Germany  is open to closer European
coordination to resolve the euro area’s banking troubles as the
government backs moves to deepen political and economic union,
Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  said.  Schaeuble’s backing for efforts to tighten banking
cooperation, made in an interview published in today’s
Handelsblatt newspaper, follows comments by  Chancellor Angela Merkel  last night in which she said that systemic banks may need
supervision at the European level.  Ratification of the fiscal pact locking in debt and deficit
limits “is one step, but it’s not yet sufficient,” Merkel told
reporters in Berlin before talks with European Commission head
 Jose Barroso . “So we will also talk about to what degree one
has to bring the systemic banks under specific European
supervision to keep national interests from playing too large a
role.”  German officials are stressing efforts to push for closer
union in Europe as the financial crisis in the euro region
shifts from  Greece  to  Spain ’s banks. Spanish Budget Minister
Cristobal Montoro said today that European institutions should
help shore up the nation’s lenders, the first call for outside
funds. Germany says Spain should tap the bailout fund if needed.  Finance ministers from the Group of Seven countries plan to
hold a call today to discuss the debt crisis in Europe.  Schaeuble reiterated the government’s rejection of debt
sharing as a solution, telling Handelsblatt the euro region
needs “a real fiscal union” before joint debt management can
be discussed.  Redemption Fund  Asked whether the German government might consider a
redemption fund as proposed by its council of economic advisers,
Schaeuble said that Barroso and European Central Bank chief
 Mario Draghi  were charged by European leaders with “developing
a concept for how we can achieve fiscal union as a next step
after the fiscal pact” and the permanent rescue fund. “But
that’s a medium-term project,” he said.  The redemption fund is among measures on the agenda for
talks due today between Germany’s opposition parties and the
government. The opposition is pressing for concessions from the
government on growth and other steps in return for the support
Merkel needs to pass the fiscal pact in the German parliament
before July 6.  Resolving the crisis will require a mix of short- and
longer-term measures, including a so-called banking union as
proposed by Barroso, Schaeuble said. He said the proposal
consists of three elements: a central banking oversight body;
deposit guarantees; and “the question of whether, and if yes,
how we can develop national bank restructuring facilities into
more of a European network.”  Merkel, whose meeting with Barroso was aimed at preparing
for an EU summit on June 28-29, said that Germany was open to
discussing more common economic policies as the 17-nation euro
region strives for “more  Europe , not less.”  “The world wants to know how we see the political union in
complement to the currency union,” Merkel said. “That requires
an answer in the foreseeable future and Germany will be a very
constructive partner.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rainer Buergin in Berlin at 
 rbuergin1@bloomberg.net ;
Tony Czuczka in Berlin at 
 aczuczka@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  