-- Ghana Government Supporter Charged With Fraud in Court Debt Case
-- B y   E k o w   D o n t o h
-- 2012-06-05T15:10:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-05/ghana-government-supporter-charged-with-fraud-in-court-debt-case.html
A Ghanaian businessman and supporter
of the country’s ruling party is facing a second fraud charge in
relation to a 51 million-cedi ($27 million) court award that saw
two government ministers lose their jobs in January.  Alfred Woyome will appear on June 12 on charges of
defrauding by false pretense and causing financial loss to the
state, according to documents at the  High Court  in Accra, the
capital.  Woyome won the court judgment after he said a 2006 contract
he had to renovate sports stadiums for  Ghana ’s hosting of the
2008 Africa Cup of Nations soccer tournament was unfairly
canceled. The award became known late last year when lawmakers
began looking into an auditor-general report for 2010. He didn’t
answer two calls made to his mobile phone today.  Earlier today, fraud charges were dismissed against Woyome
and three others by the Accra court after state prosecutors
decided not to pursue the case, said Cynthia Lamptey, director
of public prosecution.  “We studied the docket and realized we had to change and
prepare appropriate charges,” she said in an interview. Woyome
was charged for the second time about 30 minutes later,
according to Accra-based broadcaster Joy FM.  Attorney-General Martin Amidu was dismissed three days
after he asked an Accra court to force Woyome, to pay back 51.3
million cedis, according to a copy of the writ. The office of
President John Atta Mills said Amidu was fired on Jan. 19 for
“misconduct” at a meeting with the leader. Education Minister
Betty Mould-Iddrisu, the previous justice minister, quit on Jan.
23, without saying why.  Deputy Information Minister Samuel Okudzeto-Ablakwa didn’t
answer a call made to his mobile phone today seeking comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ekow Dontoh in Accra at 
 edontoh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emily Bowers at 
 ebowers1@bloomberg.net  