-- Glass & Lewis Recommends Starboard Nominee to AOL Board
-- B y   C e c i l e   D a u r a t
-- 2012-06-05T20:38:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-05/glass-lewis-recommends-starboard-nominee-to-aol-board.html
 Starboard Value LP, the investor
pushing for changes at AOL Inc., said Glass Lewis & Co.
recommended shareholders vote for one of its three nominees to
the  Internet company ’s board.  Glass Lewis, a proxy voting advisory firm, advised New
York-based AOL investors to elect Jeffrey C. Smith as director,
Starboard said today in a statement.  Starboard -- the fifth-largest investor in AOL  with  5.3
percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg -- is gaining
partial support from proxy-voting companies. Institutional
Shareholder Services Inc. earlier recommended to vote in favor
of Smith, a co-founder of Starboard, and Dennis Miller, another
nominee.  Starboard said in April that a sale of AOL patents to
Microsoft Corp. wasn’t enough, urging AOL to find new ways to
extract value from its advertising business. The investor has
also asked AOL to return more cash to shareholders.  Glass Lewis ’s recommendation is “flawed” because Smith,
chief executive officer of Starboard since February 2011, has no
new-media experience, AOL said in a statement.  The Internet company said Starboard’s short-sightedness is
evidenced by the investor’s call to shut down Patch, a local-
news division, even after AOL said it is committed to bring the
business to profitability.  ‘Distracting’ Campaign  “Starboard’s distracting and misleading proxy campaign,
led by Mr. Smith, furthers our belief that Mr. Smith’s interests
are not aligned with the interests of all stockholders,” AOL
said in the statement.  Smith was previously a partner managing director of Ramius
LLC, a subsidiary of investment bank Cowen Group Inc., according
to Starboard’s May 29 proxy filing with the U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission. He is on the board of  Regis Corp. (RGS) , operator
of the Supercuts salons, and  SurModics Inc. (SRDX) , a provider of drug-
delivery and technologies to the health-care industry.  AOL fell 0.7 percent $27.19 in  New York . The stock has
gained 80 percent this year.  Miller is an adviser to film company  Lions Gate
Entertainment Corp. (LGF) , and focuses on investing in media and
technology, according to Starboard’s filing.  A third Starboard nominee is James Warner, the principal of
advisory firm Third Floor Enterprises, a company specializing in
digital marketing and media.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cecile Daurat in Wilmington at 
 cdaurat@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kevin Miller at 
 kmiller@bloomberg.net  