-- GM Pension Shift Misses Investment-Grade Mark: Corporate Finance
-- B y   M a t t h e w   L e i s i n g   a n d   T i m   H i g g i n s
-- 2012-06-05T04:00:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-05/gm-pension-shift-misses-investment-grade-mark-corporate-finance.html
General Motors Co. (GM) ’s record $26
billion  pension  termination falls short of improving the largest
U.S. automaker’s finances enough to let it join  Ford Motor Co. (F) 
as an investment-grade marque.  While transferring some retirement obligations to a
Prudential Finance Inc. unit will remove liabilities from
Detroit-based GM’s  books , the use of as much as $4.5 billion of
its own cash “will balance out” the benefits, Moody’s
Investors Service said in a report yesterday.  “The transaction is too small,” Colin Langan, an analyst
at UBS Inc.’s investment-banking unit in New York, wrote in a
note to investors yesterday. Even after the pension shift, GM’s
“obligation would still be larger than any company within the
 S&P 500 .”  A ratings upgrade would let GM, which had $134 billion of
pension obligations at the end of last year, borrow at lower
cost relative to benchmarks. Ford’s bond yields increased 22
basis points from a year earlier to 279 basis points more than
comparable-maturity Treasuries on April 24, the day it was
raised to investment grade by  Fitch Ratings , while all high-
yield automakers’ costs rose 86 basis points to 409 over that
span, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch index data.  GM isn’t surprised that the pension changes didn’t result
in an immediate upgrade to its  credit rating ,  Jim Cain , a
spokesman, said in a telephone interview yesterday.  ‘Other Risks’  “The rating agencies have certainly recognized our
progress and there’s clearly a lot more work to do, both to
drive our margins higher and address other risks to the
business,” including the company’s European division, he said.  The automaker is shifting liabilities for salaried U.S.
employees, whose plans are better-funded than hourly and foreign
retirees. Removing salaried-pension payments from its books
while leaving $24 billion unfunded for the rest of its future
retirees didn’t do enough to improve GM’s credit profile to
warrant an upgrade, Moody’s said.  Moody’s  rates  GM debt Ba1 and  Standard & Poor’s  gives it an
equivalent BB+, both of which are one level below investment
grade. Fitch has the automaker at BB, two steps into speculative
status. None of the ratings companies changed their evaluations
of the automaker after last week’s pension shift.  GM said in a June 1 statement it will offer lump-sum
payments to about 42,000 salaried retirees and shift plans to
Prudential. Moody’s said it was the largest pension termination
of its kind. The changes apply to some retired U.S. salaried
employees, not former union workers or retirees in other
countries.  GM Swaps  Five-year  credit-default  swaps on GM have added 32 basis
points to 385 basis points since May 31, the day before it
announced the pension change, according to prices compiled by
Bloomberg. That means investors pay $385,000 annually to protect
$10 million of GM’s debt from losses. Rising credit swap prices
imply increasing investor concern that the company may default
on its debt.  The GM swaps imply the company’s debt rating should be Ba3,
according to Moody’s Corp.’s capital markets group, one level
below the current Fitch grade and two below Moody’s and S&P.  Swaps linked to Ford’s debt are 263 basis points and those
of its finance arm are 233 basis points, Bloomberg data show.
Bob Shanks, Ford’s chief financial officer, said his company
would not emulate GM in shifting pension obligations. “We don’t
think we have excess cash,” he said in an interview with
Bloomberg in his Dearborn,  Michigan  office yesterday. The
automaker, which has a $74 billion global pension liability, is
offering lump-sum pension payments to about 98,000 U.S. salaried
employees and retirees.  Pension Deficits  GM is joining companies including Alcoa Inc. and Textron
Inc. that are digging out of pension deficits created by near-
zero  interest rates , which drive down the corporate bond yields
used to determine future pension obligations. Lower rates mean
companies must set aside more cash for future payouts to
retirees or undertake novel arrangements like transferring the
liabilities to insurance companies.  “The bulk of the remaining $24 billion underfunded
position relates to GM’s U.S. hourly workers and non-U.S.
pension plans, which are not affected by the transaction,”
Moody’s analyst  Bruce Clark  wrote in the report yesterday. “We
don’t believe that the salaried pension plan actions will
meaningfully improve GM’s overall credit profile, rating, or
prospects for returning to investment grade.”  GM posted a profit of $9.19 billion and regained its status
as the world’s top selling automaker last year, following a
U.S.-government bankruptcy reorganization in 2009.  Judging Performance  While Chief Executive Officer Dan Akerson said he hopes GM
returns to investment-grade status within the next year, he has
said there are other ways to judge the performance of the
company. Akerson, 63, is pushing to improve operating margins
and build Chevrolet and Cadillac into more global brands.  GM’s pension move reduces future volatility and allows the
company to focus on building cars, Joseph Spak, an industry
analyst with  RBC Capital Markets , said as the lead author in a
note to investors on June 1.  “We view the announcement favorably as it reduces GM’s
risk and improves their flexibility,” Spak wrote. “Moreover,
we believe this sets a template to deal with the larger U.S.
hourly worker pension obligation.”  ‘Major Overhang’  Such a deal with the United Auto Workers union might cost
about $9 billion,  Brian Johnson , an industry analyst at Barclays
Plc said in a telephone interview yesterday. He first raised the
possibility of a pension buyout in September 2011.  “Those of us with a longer, historical view recognize that
it’s been a major overhang on the company,” Johnson said of the
pension liabilities.  The pension termination will allow GM to eliminate about
$26 billion from its obligations. The offers are a first for GM,
which projects a second-half expense of $2.5 billion to $3.5
billion and a $200 million decrease in annual pension income.  GM, along with Ford, fell to junk status in 2005 as part of
a slide that eventually included the company’s government-backed
bankruptcy reorganization in 2009. Ford avoided bankruptcy,
recorded a $20.2 billion profit last year and was returned to
investment grade by Fitch and Moody’s.  The gap between the assets of the 100 biggest company
pensions and projected liabilities increased by $39 billion to
$267 billion in April, the first time this year the gap has
widened, according to  Milliman Inc. , a Seattle-based actuarial
and consulting firm.  Opel Losses  S&P said in a June 1 report that the pension changes don’t
affect GM’s credit ratings. Fitch characterized them as a
positive because they will reduce future volatility in the
company’s cash pension obligations and said it has enough free
 cash flow  to make the payments under the agreement.  While GM posted its ninth straight  profitable quarter  in
the first three months of 2012, earnings were reduced by
continued losses in  Europe . GM has lost $16.4 billion in the
region, which includes its Opel operations, since 1999.  The automaker last year appeared on track to break even
until November as Europe’s economy worsened. Akerson was part of
the GM board that decided against selling the company’s German-
based Opel unit in 2009.  European uncertainty regarding its debt crisis and
weakening Chinese economic performance aren’t helping convince
investors that it’s time to purchase GM securities even with the
pension changes, Johnson said.  “It’s taking away a reason not to buy GM but in this kind
of macro market we’re going to have to wait for a reason to buy
it,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Matthew Leising in  New York  at 
 mleising@bloomberg.net ;
Tim Higgins in Southfield, Michigan at 
 thiggins21@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net ;
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  