-- Gold Being Sold Aggressively in India as Prices Near Record
-- B y   M a d e l e n e   P e a r s o n
-- 2012-06-05T11:23:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-05/gold-being-sold-aggressively-in-india-as-prices-near-record-2-.html
Gold consumers in  India , the world’s
biggest importer, are “aggressively” selling the metal after
prices surged to a record, an industry group said.  “In some areas consumers are selling more than jewelers,”
Bachhraj Bamalwa, chairman of the All India Gems & Jewellery
Trade Federation, said today in a phone interview. “They are
selling aggressively.”  Gold in India climbed to a record on June 2 after the rupee
fell to an all-time low against the dollar, while global prices
are down 16 percent from a peak reached in September. The jump
in scrap sales adds to evidence of slowing demand in India that
may lose its spot as the world’s largest bullion market in 2012
to  China , according to the World Gold Council.  “Physical buying is not there, because prices are very
high,” said Ketan Shroff, a director with Pushpak Bullions Pvt.
in  Mumbai . “Everybody is selling. Even retail investors, who
had invested at lower levels, are sellers right now.”  Futures for August-delivery rose 0.6 percent to 30,104
rupees ($540) per 10 grams on the Multi Commodity Exchange of
India Ltd. at 3:52 p.m. in Mumbai, near last week’s record
30,156 rupees. Global prices for spot gold traded at $1,619.27
an ounce, down from an all-time high of $1,921.15.  Scrap sales in India may more than double to about 300
metric tons in 2012 from 130 tons a year ago,  Prithviraj
Kothari , president of the Bombay Bullion Association, said on
May 29. Gold demand will be “very poor” in the next two
months, he said today.  Monsoon Dependence  “Demand in June and July is always very poor in any
year,” Kothari said by phone from Mumbai. “Imports are always
down as there are no festivals, no marriage season and
everything depends on the monsoon and lots of farmers are
selling their gold in the market to purchase their new crops.”  India’s gold demand may fall 4 percent by volume in 2012
and gain 4 percent by value, Morgan Stanley said in a May 31
report. Volume demand will decline 13 percent in urban areas and
4 percent in rural areas, it said.  Scrap sales will continue until prices come down, the
jewelry federation’s Bamalwa said by phone from Kolkata.  On the National Spot Exchange Ltd., India’s biggest bourse
for physical metal contracts, demand for gold and silver fell by
about 20 percent to 25 percent this year because of higher taxes
and prices, Chief Executive Officer Anjani Sinha said today.  “At this level demand is low,” he said in a phone
interview from Mumbai. “It will only pick-up when the marriage
seasons starts,” in September, he said.  Gold demand in India fell to 207.6 tons in the quarter
ended March 31 from 290.6 tons a year ago, after the government
increased  import duties , the World Gold Council said on May 17.
Investment demand dropped 46 percent and jewelry demand fell 19
percent, it said that day.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Madelene Pearson in Mumbai at 
 mpearson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  