-- Google Warns Users Who May Be Targets of State-Backed Hacks
-- B y   J o r d a n   R o b e r t s o n
-- 2012-06-05T21:55:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-05/google-warns-users-who-may-be-targets-of-state-backed-hacks-1-.html
Google Inc. (GOOG)  said it has started
sending warnings to users of its e-mail service who may have
been targeted by state-sponsored cyber-attacks.  Gmail users whose accounts are suspected of being the
target of such a hacking effort will receive a message stating,
“We believe state-sponsored attackers may be attempting to
compromise your account or computer,”  Mountain View ,
California-based Google  said  on a company blog.  “If you see this warning it does not necessarily mean that
your account has been hijacked,” Google said. “It just means
that we believe you may be a target, of phishing or malware for
example, and that you should take immediate steps to secure your
account.” Phishers try to obtain confidential information,
while malware disrupts files or computing operations.  The alerts are directed at specific Gmail users, some of
whom can be identified by the company’s algorithms. Google also
collects reports from hacking victims and receives other,
unspecified intelligence regarding targets of espionage
attempts. Google has used notifications in the past to inform
users of malicious “botnet” software on machines, without
specifying the suspected origin.  The messages are a sign of the vast amount of data about
cyberattacks that Google collects as the operator of the world’s
biggest search engine and one of the biggest e-mail services.
Gmail has more than 350 million active users, according to a
company spokesman, Jay Nancarrow.  Google’s Limitations  The warnings are also an acknowledgement that while Google
already alerts users to suspected fraudulent activity on many
websites and in certain e-mails, there are limitations on its
ability to block cyber-assaults.  Sophisticated attacks often take the form of personalized
e-mails that aren’t caught by spam filters. The hackers often
try to plant malicious software, or malware, on users’ machines
to steal account passwords and other data. Targets of state-
sponsored attacks can include government officials, dissidents,
human-rights activists and corporate executives.  U.S. officials often cite  China  as a source of
international attacks. Other countries are implicated as well. A
 report  last week in the  New York  Times cited the U.S. and  Israel 
as being behind the Stuxnet computer-worm attack that damaged
centrifuges in an Iranian nuclear facility in 2010.  Nancarrow, the Google spokesman, declined to comment on how
Google determines whether an attack is likely to have been
state-sponsored.  Google  said  in January 2010 that the company itself was the
target of “highly sophisticated” intrusions that originated in
China, home to the world’s largest Internet market. Google also
warned last year of an attempt to steal passwords from Gmail
users, which Google said may have also originated in China.  China has denied hacking allegations and has said it too is
a victim of hacking.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jordan Robertson in  San Francisco  at 
 jrobertson40@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  