-- Greek Euro-Exit Moonscape Result May Threaten Drachma Choice
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   S t e a r n s   a n d   E l i s a   M a r t i n u z z i
-- 2012-06-05T21:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-05/greek-euro-exit-moonscape-result-may-threaten-drachma-choice.html
Business in  Greece  can hardly get
worse for Pavlos Tziorkas’s technology-consulting firm as it
battles a credit freeze in the fifth year of recession. That is,
he says, unless his country were to leave the euro.  “If we go out of the euro, we will have an unstable
environment in Greece, I am sure of that,” Tziorkas said by
phone from  Intelli Solutions SA ’s office in Athens, near the
city center, where public protests and clashes with police have
been commonplace since the debt crisis erupted two years ago.
Dropping the euro might prompt the company to relocate from
Greece, he said.  As Greece gears up for its second election in as many
months, companies and citizens are grappling with the
possibility the nation will be forced to return to the drachma,
11 years after swapping it for a German-designed single currency
meant to be an irrevocable step in European economic
integration.  A post-euro Greece, a country whose economy is about the
size of the U.S. state of  Maryland , may face defunct banks,
collapsing businesses, skyrocketing import prices, soaring
national debt, food rationing and even violent demonstrations,
according to a dozen economists, analysts and professors.  Even the normal reward of a  currency devaluation , cheaper
exports, would help little in a country where manufacturing
accounts for only 10 percent of gross domestic product.  No Other Option?  “A moonscape scenario, one where everything that is mobile
leaves, is certainly one you can anticipate,”  Michael Spence , a
Nobel laureate in economics and professor at  New York 
University’s Stern School of Business, said in an interview in
Milan. “The short-term scenario is one of chaos.”  The June 17 Greek vote follows an inconclusive May 6
election that catapulted Syriza, a party that favors reneging on
budget-cutting accords tied to 240 billion euros ($299 billion)
in international aid, into second place. A Greek government that
won’t stick to the bailout terms may fail to qualify for
quarterly emergency loans from the euro area and the
 International Monetary Fund  and run out of cash, leaving no
option except to introduce its own currency.  The risks have prompted Intelli, whose clients include Greek
units of French bank  Societe Generale SA (GLE)  and of Dutch financial-
services company  ING Groep NV (INGA) , to consider moving its
headquarters to another country in the 17-nation euro.
Possibilities include Luxembourg or Cyprus, said Tziorkas, the
43-year-old general manager.  Not Argentina  While a reborn drachma probably would boost the export and
tourism industries, Greece may not be in a position to follow
Argentina’s example a decade ago of defaulting and devaluing its
way back to growth. Even after completing the world’s biggest
writedown of privately held debt as part of an extension of
European and IMF aid through 2014, Greece may fail to make
future payments without outside help.  What’s certain, say bankers, economists and analysts, is
that any exit from the single European currency would create a
major financial disruption.  “There would be a run on deposits and banks would only be
left with transactional money,” Guillermo Nielsen, who became
finance secretary in 2002, months after  Argentina  defaulted on
$95 billion of debt, said by phone from  Buenos Aires . “The
result would be more income disparity, between those who have
access to cash and those who don’t. It would become a third-
world country.”  A euro-area exit without the support of fellow euro
countries and the  European Central Bank  would force Greece to
take direct charge of the nation’s lenders, Credit Suisse Group
AG analysts say.  Depleting Deposits  A 75 billion-euro, or 30 percent, deposit depletion over
the past two-and-a-half years and writedowns on Greece’s debt
have left domestic banks needing 50 billion euros in capital.  Greek banks would lose access to ECB funds in the event of
an exit, bringing economic activity to a standstill, Credit
Suisse said in a May 11 note. Companies, the government and
individuals may have to resort to bartering goods and services
while a new currency is printed.  The country’s four biggest lenders --  National Bank of
Greece SA ,  EFG Eurobank Ergasias SA (EUROB) ,  Alpha Bank SA (ALPHA)  and  Piraeus
Bank SA (TPEIR)  -- got a first injection of capital from the euro area’s
rescue fund in late May, letting them return to ECB financing,
ECB President  Mario Draghi  said on May 31. Earlier, the lenders
were forced to rely on the Greek central bank’s emergency
assistance after being suspended from direct ECB funding.  Denominating Debt  Beyond the cash crunch, Greek authorities would need to
decide which euro-denominated debt to foreign creditors should
be honored by the state and banks. The rest would be
redenominated into the new currency, a process that could lead
to years of legal battles.  Seven-year-old Intelli Solutions would find its debt to
foreign software suppliers “multiplied” with the re-
introduction of the drachma, Tziorkas said.  Economically, a recession more severe than the 13 percent
shrinkage over the past three years could envelop the country,
where unemployment is at a record of almost 22 percent.  A Greek exit would shrink GDP by as many as 10 percentage
points more than if Greece were to remain in the euro, making
the slump comparable to the Great Depression in the U.S., David Mackie, London-based chief European economist at JPMorgan Chase
& Co., wrote in a May 18 note to clients. In a May 29 report,
National Bank of Greece said an exit would deepen the recession
by about 22 percent in a year at stable prices.  ‘Larger Community’  “Greeks are preparing for the worst,” Elpida
Hatzitheodorou, an antique dealer several hundred yards from the
ancient Acropolis in  Athens , said in an interview. “We have to
stay in the euro. I feel safer as part of a larger community.”  The 50-year-old Hatzitheodorou, whose shop is bursting with
silver knickknacks, lace trimmings and traditional Greek
cabinets, said she bought gold jewelry to diversify savings
after sales plummeted as much as 80 percent from their peak.  Because a devalued currency makes imports more expensive,
industries including tourism, energy and health care would
struggle initially to acquire goods from abroad, said Costas
Lapavitsas, a London-based economics professor and author of a
book called “Crisis in the Eurozone.” He recommends a euro
exit and debt default to revive Greek industrial production.  Energy Imports  “There would be problems in buying oil, pharmaceuticals
and certain food,” Lapavitsas said by phone. “The government
would have to administer what’s imported and manage the
distribution of supplies to where they’re needed most.”  With fewer resources, tourism, Greece’s biggest industry at
around 16 percent of GDP, would risk reverting to a “rooms-to-
let” strategy focused on low-cost travelers rather than
building on the past decade’s improvement in infrastructure and
services, said Aggelos Tsakanikas, head of research at the
Foundation for Economic and Industrial Research in Athens.  Such a shift would mean a “significant decrease” in
overall spending by tourists in Greece, even if their numbers
rose, he said.  And while a return to the drachma might make Greek real
estate and other asset prices more attractive to foreign
investors, they, like holiday travelers, would be deterred by
any public disorder, Tsakanikas said.  Unrest Forecast  “The main question is whether tourists and investors would
be willing to visit and invest in a country if there is social
unrest of any kind,” he said. “It would be a long period
before stability is restored to the country.”  Three people were killed in Athens after being trapped in a
burning bank during riots in May 2010 when the euro area and IMF
were wrapping up an initial bailout. This past February, as
Greece was pushing through extra budget cuts for a second aid
package, rioters in the capital set fire to as many as 45
buildings and attacked 170 businesses.  Economists including Kai Carstensen at Germany’s Ifo
institute are more sanguine about a Greek exit from the euro. In
a  study  in April, they concluded that this route -- coupled with
a devaluation of any new currency -- would be a feasible
alternative to the current strategy of fiscal austerity and
internal devaluation through wage and price cuts.  “Experience suggests that, after external devaluations,
countries have recovered much faster,” wrote Carstensen and six
of his colleagues at the Munich-based Ifo. They cited as
evidence Argentina’s debt and currency crisis in 2002,
Thailand’s devaluation of the baht in 1997 and Italy’s temporary
exit in 1992 from a European exchange-rate system that led to
the euro’s creation in 1999.  Slimming Deficit  Greece has narrowed its  budget deficit  from more than 15
percent of GDP in 2009 -- more than five times the European
Union limit -- to 9.1 percent last year. The country cut the
minimum wage 22 percent this year.  The hardship has helped Syriza challenge four decades of
Greek political dominance by  New Democracy  and the socialist
Pasok. Both those parties, whose support collapsed on May 6
after they united six months earlier to back further fiscal
tightening, pursued high-spending policies for decades after the
end of a Greek military dictatorship in 1974.  Recent polls show Syriza running neck-and-neck with New
Democracy before the parliamentary elections, with Pasok third.  Jumping Backward  Guy Verhofstadt , who was Belgian prime minister when Greece
joined the euro in 2001, said staying a member would encourage
the overhaul of a system characterized by corruption, closed
markets and a bloated state that employs almost one in five
workers. A return to the drachma would reinforce political
traditions, he said.  “You jump backwards in time,” Verhofstadt, now leader of
the pro-business Liberal group in the European Parliament, said
by phone in Brussels.  Intelli’s Tziorkas, while calling the business mood in
Greece “bad” after two years of austerity, said the nation
needs to pursue budget cuts agreed to with euro countries and
the IMF because doing so would keep aid flowing and ultimately
strengthen the  Greek economy .  Intelli, with about 120 employees and 6 million euros in
revenue, has offset some of the impact through growth abroad in
such countries as Cyprus, Romania, Turkey and Egypt.  Anticipating the possibility of a return to the drachma,
the company hasn’t only conducted preliminary inquiries into
what it would take to transfer the headquarters abroad but also
looked into keeping cash reserves outside Greece, he said.  “We are living a situation in which we can’t predict the
future,” Tziorkas said. “The only thing to do is a Plan B.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jonathan Stearns in Brussels at 
 jstearns2@bloomberg.net ;
Elisa Martinuzzi in Milan at 
 emartinuzzi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net ;
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  