-- Gupta Judge Trades Quips With Lawyer; Trial Takes Day Off
-- B y   D a v i d   G l o v i n   a n d   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 2012-06-06T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-05/gupta-judge-trades-quips-with-lawyer-trial-takes-day-off.html
The Jed-and-Gary show went on the
road yesterday.  With Rajat Gupta’s insider-trading trial on a one-day
hiatus as U.S. District Judge Jed Rakoff gave a speech in
Washington, the 12 jurors and two alternatives had to look
elsewhere for humor. Rakoff and his longtime friend, defense
attorney  Gary Naftalis , dished out a lot of it June 4 in their
current venue, courtroom 14B in Manhattan federal.  As lunch hour neared and Naftalis pushed ahead with his
cross-examination of a government witness, Rakoff interrupted.  “I don’t meant to cut you off, Mr. Naftalis, and the fact
that the jury is getting hungry for their lunch shouldn’t deter
you in any respects,” he said. Jurors laughed.  When the same witness was confused by Naftalis’s reference
to a list that had been placed into evidence as Exhibit 1786,
Rakoff clarified that it was a document number, not a birthdate.  “Even I wasn’t born in 1786,” Naftalis, 70, offered.  “So you allege,” answered Rakoff, 68.  From the jurors, more laughter.  The two were at it again when Naftalis asked the witness,
former McKinsey & Co. director  Anil Kumar , to testify about the
Indian School of Business, which he and Gupta co-founded.
Naftalis wanted Kumar to compare the school’s reputation with
that of the  University of Pennsylvania ’s Wharton School and
 Harvard Business School . Rakoff cut him off, saying it was
irrelevant.  “Maybe I should ask about Yale?” Naftalis offered.  Laughter, again.  Silk Route  Gupta, who ran McKinsey from 1994 to 2003 and was a
director at  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and  Procter & Gamble Co. (PG) ,
is accused of leaking tips to Galleon Group LLC co-founder Raj Rajaratnam. Gupta has pleaded not guilty to conspiracy and
securities fraud, which carries a maximum 20-year prison term.  To prove that Gupta had a motive to leak tips, prosecutors
have stressed that the two men co-founded an investment firm --
Taj Capital, later renamed New Silk Route LLC, focusing on South
Asia. The defense claims Rajaratnam’s interest in the firm faded
because it started only a private-equity fund, and not a
separate hedge fund.  Testimony on June 4 focused on a document called the
“Priority Target List” that Kumar said Gupta and Rajaratnam
created to identify potential investors.  Bill Gates  The list included foundations, endowments and funds
associated with  George Soros ,  Bill Gates ,  Hank Greenberg ,
 Michael Dell , the Walton family, the Bronfman family, Harvard
and Columbia universities and the Kennedy Family Foundation.  It was Gupta’s job to contact individual investors and
banks including Goldman Sachs and  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ,
according to the document. Rajaratnam was to contact  Paul Tudor
Jones  and Stan Druckenmiller, who, according to testimony
earlier, were members of Rajaratnam’s fantasy football league.  The document includes what it calls “Indicative Investment
Amounts.” It reads: “Soros 100”; “AIG 100”; and “Lehman
200.” Next to “CalPers” -- which may be a reference to the
 California Public Employees’ Retirement System , the largest U.S.
pension fund -- the document says “200.” Another document
included in the exhibit says Harvard “may be interested up to
$100 million.”  Other Tips  Naftalis filed papers yesterday seeking to block
prosecutors from presenting evidence about other alleged Goldman
Sachs tips that the U.S. says Gupta passed to Rajaratnam. On
June 4, while Goldman Sachs Chief Executive Officer  Lloyd
Blankfein  was on the stand, Assistant U.S. Attorney  Reed Brodsky 
sought to question him about a briefing he gave to Goldman Sachs
board members about the bank’s profit and loss numbers on May
22, 2008.  Prosecutors allege that after the briefing, someone calling
from an unassigned McKinsey telephone Gupta sometimes used
telephoned Rajaratnam. The U.S. says it was Gupta who called
Rajaratnam and passed material nonpublic Goldman Sachs earnings.
Rajaratnam later traded on the tip on May 27, 2008, prosecutors
said.  The government is seeking to elicit testimony and evidence
about the briefing before the jury.  “That may be a little bit of overkill,” Rakoff told
Brodsky. “I’m leaning toward precluding this.”  In a hearing outside the jury’s presence on June 4, Rakoff
noted that prosecutors hadn’t included data about the Blankfein
briefing or the alleged passing of a tip in their indictment or
in the government’s detailed explanation of the criminal
charges.  He said he’d consider whether the uncharged acts could be
heard by the jury because they may be “probative of Mr. Gupta’s
knowledge and intent.”  ‘A Mini-Trial’  Naftalis argued against allowing the jury to hear the
additional evidence.  “If evidence of the uncharged May acts is admitted, there
will be a mini-trial about those acts, which is reason alone to
exclude the evidence,” Naftalis said in court papers.  “The jury will necessarily conclude that Mr. Gupta is an
inside trader, even though the court has already held that the
evidence cannot be admitted for the purpose.”  Ellen Davis , a spokeswoman for the  Manhattan  U.S.
Attorney’s office, declined to comment on the Gupta filing.
Rakoff directed prosecutors to also file court papers outlining
their argument.  The case is U.S. v. Gupta, 11-cr-00907, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Glovin in New York at 
 dglovin@bloomberg.net ;
Patricia Hurtado in New York at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  