-- IAEA’s Amano Says Visit to N. Korea on Nuclear Issue Is Unlikely
-- B y   S a n g w o n   Y o o n
-- 2012-06-05T01:52:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-05/iaea-s-amano-says-visit-to-n-korea-on-nuclear-issue-is-unlikely.html
The head of the United Nations
nuclear watchdog said a visit to North  Korea  to discuss its
atomic program is unlikely in the near future.  “Through recent contacts with the DPRK, it has become
clear that there is no immediate prospect of an Agency mission
taking place,” Director-General Yukiya Amano told the
 International Atomic Energy Agency ’s 35-member board of
governors at a meeting yesterday in Vienna, according to an e-
mailed statement. Amano referred to the country by its official
name, the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea.  North Korea in March invited the IAEA to discuss the
eventual monitoring of its uranium enrichment activities at the
main Yongbyon nuclear facility, as part of a February food aid
deal with the U.S. in exchange for a halt on nuclear and missile
tests. The agreement fell apart after Kim Jong Un’s regime
unsuccessfully fired a long-range rocket on April 13.  “The Agency has not been able to implement any safeguard
measures in the DPRK for more than three years, so our knowledge
of the current status of the country’s nuclear program is
limited,” Amano said in the statement as the IAEA began a week-
long board meeting. He urged  North Korea  to “fully comply”
with its international obligations and cooperate with the IAEA.  The U.S., South Korea and  Japan  have expressed concerns
that the North may conduct a nuclear test to recover from the
embarrassment of the rocket failure. The totalitarian regime
denied planning such a move, while satellite photos have
indicated preparation activities at rocket launch and nuclear
testing sites.  Targeting Media  North Korea yesterday said its military has “strategic
rockets” targeted at specific coordinates of seven South Korean
media outlets for their “vicious smear campaign” against Kim Jong Un, in a statement carried by the official Korean Central
News Agency.  The North Korean army listed the longitude and latitude of
the offices of the  Chosun Ilbo , Dong-A Ilbo and Joongang Ilbo
newspapers in  Seoul  and named four local broadcasting stations
as additional possible targets.  Kim’s regime often issues threats of war, including the
April 26 statement that a special action squad will turn South
Korean President  Lee Myung Bak  and his government to “ashes.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sangwon Yoon in Seoul at 
 syoon32@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  