-- IBM Ends Its NFL Sponsorship Over Difference in Views
-- B y   B e t h   J i n k s
-- 2012-06-05T21:32:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-05/ibm-ends-its-nfl-sponsorship-over-difference-in-views.html
International Business Machines Corp. (IBM) 
has ended its information-technology sponsorship of the  National
Football League  because of differing views over how the
partnership should be handled.  “We determined that our respective views on how the NFL
should manage the IT sponsorship were too different and we
decided not to renew our agreement,” said Chris Andrews, a
spokesman for IBM. “All discussions were amicable and we remain
on very positive terms with the NFL, and there is no reason why
we wouldn’t consider advertising on NFL games in the future.”  IBM, based in Armonk, New York, had served as the NFL’s
technology sponsor since 2003, a deal that included consulting
and  data-center management . The decision to end the arrangement,
which expired in March, followed months of negotiations, Andrews
said. The NFL move doesn’t affect IBM’s other sponsorships, he
said, without elaborating.  The company also is one of three sponsors of the Masters
tournament held at Augusta National Golf Club, the subject of
criticism over its male-only membership policy. In January,
Ginni Rometty became the first female chief executive officer at
IBM, which has declined to comment on future Masters’
sponsorship plans. The past four IBM CEOs have been invited to
be Augusta National members, and the current CEOs of other
Masters sponsors, Exxon Mobil Corp. and AT&T Inc., are members.  IBM’s NFL sponsorship decision was reported earlier by the
 Sports Business Journal .  Motorola Mobility, the mobile-phone maker that’s now part
of Google Inc., also ended its sponsorship deal with the NFL
this year, following more than a decade. The company’s brand had
appeared on the headsets worn by coaches on the sidelines.  “After careful thought and consideration, Motorola
Mobility determined that it is in the company’s best interest
not to renew our sponsorship,” Juli Burda, a spokeswoman for
the company, said in an e-mail.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Beth Jinks in  New York  at 
 bjinks1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  