-- Icahn’s Chesapeake Intervention Faces $22 Billion Hurdle
-- B y   J o e   C a r r o l l   a n d   J i m   P o l s o n
-- 2012-06-05T20:17:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-05/icahn-s-chesapeake-intervention-faces-22-billion-hurdle.html
Carl Icahn ’s makeover of  Chesapeake
Energy Corp. (CHK) ’s board may be too late to shield the U.S. natural-
gas producer from a gathering storm of wrong-way bets on energy
demand, plunging oil prices and corporate-governance failures.  Chairman and Chief Executive Officer  Aubrey McClendon ’s
management of the company he co-founded 23 years ago will come
under new oversight after Chesapeake said yesterday it will
replace four of the eight non-executive directors along with
naming a new independent chairman. Icahn said he’ll now push to
curb spending after earlier criticizing the CEO and directors
for “irresponsible actions” that led Chesapeake “to the edge
of the proverbial cliff.”  The overhaul of Chesapeake’s board follows a plunge in gas
prices to a 10-year low and revelations that McClendon had
intertwined his personal business with that of the company’s key
financiers. The CEO’s strategic shift from gas toward more
profitable oil production may falter after crude prices had
their biggest monthly decline since 2008.  Bringing in new directors doesn’t address “concern on  cash
flow  in 2013, especially after you had a $24-a-barrel pullback
in crude prices,” Tim Rezvan, a New York-based analyst for
 Sterne Agee  & Leach Inc. who rates the shares “neutral,” said
yesterday in a telephone interview. “That’s the latest bomb to
drop: First you had gas prices, then the personal conflict-of-
interest story and now you’ve got a 25 percent pullback” in
crude prices since March 1.  5-4 Majority  Chesapeake had lost almost half its market value in the
past year as a glut of North American gas collapsed prices to
the lowest since 2002 and McClendon’s personal finances came
under scrutiny by the U.S. Securities & Exchange Commission, the
 Internal Revenue Service  and the board he has led since the
company’s inception. The  shares  rose 2.9 percent to $17 at the
close today in  New York .  Four new independent directors will be named by
Chesapeake’s two largest shareholders, Southeastern Asset
Management Inc. and Icahn, by June 22, the company said in a
statement yesterday. Icahn spurred the overhaul by acquiring a
7.6 percent stake to rein in McClendon, whose decision-making
the 76-year-old billionaire blamed for a cash crunch that drove
the share price to the lowest since 2009.  McClendon has been under a cloud since a series of media
reports in March and April about personal loans he obtained
using minority stakes in company-owned wells that he’d been
allowed to gather for his private portfolio. The company
announced May 1 that he will step down as chairman when a
replacement is chosen.  Board Majority  With a fifth director,  Charles Maxwell , having reached the
mandatory retirement age of 80, Icahn and Southeastern together
will control at least five of the nine seats. Louis Simpson, a
former  Warren Buffett  protégé who joined the board at
Southeastern’s request last year, won’t be among those to
resign, the company said yesterday.  The annual  shareholders’ meeting  scheduled for June 8 will
proceed as planned, said Michael Kehs, vice president of
strategic affairs and public relations.  “It’s positive from a governance standpoint because
Aubrey’s ability to just run the company as he sees fit takes a
blow,” said  Philip Weiss , a New York-based analyst for Argus
Research who was the second-best performer among analysts
following the company during the past year, based on buy, sell
and hold recommendations. However, “the company’s issues with
debt, liquidity, cash flow and low commodity prices aren’t going
to go away just because they’re changing the board.”  Debt Burden  Chesapeake outspent cash flow in 19 of the past 21 years
while amassing a portfolio of oil and gas fields that cover an
area half the size of New York state. In turn, the company’s
debt load swelled to $12.6 billion as of March 31, which exceeds
those of companies two and three times Chesapeake’s market
value, such as  EOG Resources Inc. (EOG)  and Anadarko Petroleum Corp.,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Chesapeake reported an unexpected $71 million first-quarter
loss on May 1 and warned it may run out of cash next year if it
fails to reach its divestiture goals. McClendon is auctioning
$20.5 billion in oilfields and other assets this year and next.
 James Sullivan , an analyst with Alembic Global Advisors, has
estimated the company’s 2012-13 cash-flow shortfall will exceed
$22 billion.  Icahn said in a regulatory filing yesterday that he wants
new directors and McClendon to focus on limiting spending,
selling assets and perhaps selling the entire company if the
price is right.  Winter Hindsight  “This is obviously a huge, long-term, important
development,” Jeffrey Bronchick, who oversees about 306,000
Chesapeake shares as part of a $355 million portfolio at Cove
Street Capital, said in a telephone interview. “Fixing this
issue was a pre-condition to addressing the leverage issue in an
adult and forthright manner.”  McClendon aggravated the impact of falling gas prices on
the company’s profits in late 2011 by exiting commodity hedges
that would have secured higher prices for the company’s output,
Moody’s Investors Service said on May 31. The CEO incorrectly
anticipated that colder weather was imminent in the northern
U.S. that would lift the price of the furnace fuel.  “Obviously, we are not happy with that decision,”
McClendon said during a May 2 conference call with analysts and
investors. “If we had to do it all over again and with the
hindsight of winter, we would have obviously done something
different.”  Rescue Plan  McClendon’s plan to rescue Chesapeake from swooning gas
prices involves boosting oil and gas liquids to 26 percent of
the company’s output next year from 16 percent in 2011. Under
that scenario, oil and gas liquids would account for 55 percent
of Chesapeake’s 2013 revenue, according to a May 22 presentation
published on the company’s website.  The company’s 2012 and 2013 cash flow estimates hinge on an
assumption that U.S. crude futures will average $100 a barrel,
according to the presentation. With the futures trading around
$84 a barrel, about 24 percent below this year’s peak of $110.55
reached in March, that plan may be in jeopardy, Sterne Agee’s
Rezvan said.  Oil prices , which have fallen amid weakening economic
outlooks in  China , the U.S. and  Europe , also may hinder
McClendon’s efforts to find buyers for crude assets such as
Chesapeake’s holdings in the Permian Basin of west Texas,
Moody’s analysts led by Peter Speer said in last week’s report.  Lower oil prices may leave potential buyers with less cash
available to use on acquisitions, as well as making oilfields
less attractive from an earnings standpoint. McClendon said in a
March interview in  Oklahoma City  that he’s counting on the
Permian assets to raise at least $5 billion.  “Further declines in crude prices could reduce the number
of bidders for Chesapeake’s assets and lower their sale
prices,” Speer’s team wrote.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Joe Carroll  in Chicago at 
 jcarroll8@bloomberg.net ;
Jim Polson in New York at 
 jpolson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  