-- Microsoft Said to Introduce Office for IPads
-- B y   O l g a   K h a r i f
-- 2012-06-05T21:10:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-05/microsoft-said-to-introduce-office-for-ipads.html
Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  is preparing to
release its first-ever version of its Office software for  Apple
Inc. (AAPL) ’s mobile devices this year, according to two people with
knowledge of the matter.  The software will make the word-processing program Word and
spreadsheet-maker Excel available on Apple’s iPad tablets and
iPhones, said the people, who requested anonymity because the
product hasn’t been made public.  Adding Office software onto the iPad is key to Microsoft’s
growth, particularly in the corporate market. IPads accounted
for 97 percent of tablets bought by businesses in the first
quarter, according to a  survey  of users by Good Technology Inc.,
a maker of wireless-device security technology. Devices that run
Microsoft software and compete with the iPad won’t be
available until later this year.  The software could either be preloaded on some devices or
sold as an application at Apple’s  App Store . There will be
competition: The  top-grossing app  last Christmas was Google
Inc.’s Quickoffice, a productivity tool for viewing and editing
Office documents.  Another app, CloudOn, which lets consumers use Word, Excel
and PowerPoint on tablets, has had more than 1 million
downloads, and raised about $10 million in  venture capital ,
CloudOn Inc. Chief Executive Officer Milind Gadekar said in an
interview. The startup has always expected Microsoft to come out
with its own version of Office for tablets and hopes to win
customers with extra features, Gadekar said.  Tablet sales will climb 85 percent to 126.6 million units
this year, according to  IHS iSuppli Research . IPads accounted
for two of every three tablets sold in the first quarter,
according to  data  compiled by  ABI Research  and Bloomberg.  Mobile-Phone Presence  Microsoft has been making an effort to increase its
presence on mobile devices. The Redmond, Washington-based
company struck a deal with Nokia Oyj to place its  Windows
operating system  on Nokia’s handsets and earlier this year
Microsoft showed off a version of the system run on ARM
processors, which are found on most mobile phones.  The company will release the next version of Office, called
Office 15, in the coming  months , according to Microsoft.
Microsoft’s business division reported $5.81 billion in  revenue 
last quarter, a 10 percent increase from a year ago, as demand
for Office 2010 remained strong.  The Boy Genius Report  said  on May 23 that Microsoft is
planning to release Office for Apple and Android mobile devices
in November.  Apple spokeswoman Trudy Muller and Microsoft spokesman
Jevon Fark declined to comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Olga Kharif in Portland at 
 okharif@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  