-- Middleman Robinson Gets 27 Months for Insider Trading
-- B y   D a v i d   V o r e a c o s
-- 2012-06-05T17:34:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-05/middleman-robinson-gets-27-months-for-insider-scheme.html
Kenneth T. Robinson, a middleman in
an insider-trading scheme that generated $37 million in illicit
profits, was sentenced to 27 months in prison by a U.S. judge
who credited him for cooperating with authorities.  Robinson, 46, pleaded guilty in April 2011 after helping
authorities describe how he passed corporate merger tips for 17
years from attorney  Matthew Kluger  to trader Garrett Bauer.
Robinson then secretly recorded Kluger and Bauer for the  Federal
Bureau of Investigation .  Kluger was sentenced to 12 years in prison yesterday, the
longest term ever for insider trading.  “It’s very clear to me and everybody who’s been involved
in the case that Mr. Robinson is the only one of the defendants
who is in this world and breathing the air we breathe,” U.S.
District Judge Katharine Hayden said today at a hearing in
 Newark , New Jersey. “One does genuinely have a sense that Mr.
Robinson, of these defendants, will return to the world and
resume a place where he can hold his head up.”  Robinson, a mortgage broker, faced a sentence of 70 to 87
months under advisory guidelines.  He had admitted he knew both men before he began funneling
tips from Kluger to Bauer in 1994. The scheme grew into one of
the largest  insider-trading  plots ever, with Kluger stealing
data on about 30 transactions from four law firms where he
worked. Bauer, who was sentenced yesterday to nine years in
prison, made almost $32 million.  Confidence in Market  Hayden said yesterday that she wanted to send a strong
message about the “radiating effect of the loss of confidence
in the market” caused by insider trading. She said Kluger stole
tips from “white shoe firms” in a “brazen” scheme that was
conducted in a “thuggish” manner.  At today’s hearing, Robinson attorney, Francis Murray, said
Hayden should send a different message that would encourage
offenders to approach the government in insider-trading cases.  “The message is one of incentivizing the unknown people
out there who are in Mr. Robinson’s situation, for them to do
what is right versus fighting the government every step of the
way,” Murray said. “Mr. Robinson made that decision with some
guts.”  Robinson, of  Long Beach ,  New York , made two large trades on
his own that attracted suspicion. He agreed to cooperate with
the FBI soon after agents searched his house in March 2011.
During the search, agents missed $175,000 in cash that Bauer
gave him to split with Kluger.  Cash Surrendered  Within days, Robinson surrendered the cash and recorded
Bauer and Kluger making incriminating statements, Murray said.  Robinson signed a plea agreement on April 5, 2011, the day
before Kluger and Bauer were arrested. He pleaded guilty on
April 11, 2011, to charges of  securities fraud  and conspiracy to
commit securities fraud.  “I always knew what I was doing was wrong,” Robinson told
the judge today. “I just wasn’t smart enough to stop.”  After his arrest, he said, he vowed to make amends.  “I was going to do everything I can to try to make matters
right,” he said. “I knew I had to tell the truth. I knew there
was no way I was going to lie to an FBI agent or a U.S. attorney
or a judge.”  He said it was difficult when the FBI asked him to tape
Bauer and Kluger, whom he has known for two decades.  “I was afraid I couldn’t,” he said. “These were my
friends. I didn’t want to hurt them. But it was the right thing
to do, and I knew it.”  Government Urges Lenience  Assistant U.S. Attorney Matthew Beck urged Hayden to grant
leniency, citing Robinson’s “extraordinary cooperation” in the
case.  “Those tapes were remarkable,” Beck said. “They
demonstrate the seriousness of the offense, the closeness of the
conspirators and devastating evidence of the guilt of those
three individuals. But for those tapes, the case would have been
much harder.”  Murray said Robinson agreed to forfeit more than
$757,700 in illicit profits and interest to the U.S. Securities
and Exchange Commission.  Lawyers for both Kluger and Bauer, a day trader, said they
would appeal their sentences.  The case is U.S. v. Robinson, 11-cr-223, U.S. District
Court, District of  New Jersey  (Newark).  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Voreacos in Newark, New Jersey,
at  dvoreacos@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 