-- IEA Sees Bleak Outlook for Unconventional Gas Output in Europe
-- B y   M a r e k   S t r z e l e c k i
-- 2012-06-05T07:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-05/iea-sees-bleak-outlook-for-unconventional-gas-output-in-europe.html
The outlook for unconventional gas
production in Europe is “bleak” because of growing opposition
to drilling technology that has boosted output in  North America ,
according to the  International Energy Agency .  The production of unconventional gas, which represented 16
percent of global production of the fuel in 2011, will continue
to expand, led by the U.S., the Paris-based agency said in its
medium-term gas market report today. Europe and other regions
face challenges including lack of infrastructure and
environmental concerns in Europe, the IEA said.  “Poland remains the European showcase that could
ultimately reverse the trend, if significant resources are
developed in an environmentally sound manner and trigger some
positive changes for Poland’s economy,” the IEA said. “Should
the Polish example not bring positive results, this could deter
unconventional gas developments in Europe for many years.”  Hydraulic fracturing, or fracking, the practice of pumping
water, sand and chemicals into wells to extract gas from shale
rock, helped the U.S. overtake  Russia  as the world’s biggest
producer of the fuel. The global potential of shale resources
has been hindered since  France  and  Bulgaria  banned the practice.
The U.K. and Spain remain neutral or positive to unconventional
gas, the IEA said.  In April 2011, the U.S. Energy Department’s Energy
Information Administration said that Poland has 187 trillion
cubic feet of shale-gas, enough to supply the country for 300
years. The Polish Geological Institute said in March that the
eastern European nation’s reserves may fall short of the EIA’s
estimates and be sufficient for more than 50 years.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Marek Strzelecki in Warsaw at 
 mstrzelecki1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  