-- High Temperatures to Return to U.S. East by Next Week
-- B y   B r i a n   K .   S u l l i v a n
-- 2012-06-05T12:25:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-05/high-temperatures-to-return-to-u-s-east-by-next-week.html
Another round of high temperatures
will probably push across the Midwest to the Northeast and into
southern  Canada  next week, boosting demand for air conditioning.  Average temperatures in the region are expected to rise 6
degrees Fahrenheit (3.3 Celsius) above normal from June 11 to
June 15, according to  David Salmon , owner of Weather Derivatives
in Belton, Missouri.  The average temperature in New York’s Central Park
yesterday was 59, or 9 below normal, the  National Weather
Service  said. The forecast may mean a 15-degree shift in New
York by next week, with the temperature peaking at 86 on June
12, according to MDA EarthSat Weather.  Periods of high temperatures or humidity will drive up
electricity use as people turn on air conditioners to get
comfortable. Natural gas futures rose from a four-week low in
 New York  yesterday on speculation that warmer weather forecast
for the eastern U.S. will increase fuel demand from power
plants.  Average temperatures across the Great Lakes into southern
Canada, including Chicago, Detroit, Toronto and Montreal, are
expected to rise about 5 degrees through next week, said  Matt Rogers , president of Commodity Weather Group LLC in Bethesda,
Maryland.  Temperatures may reach into the 90s from Chicago to
Washington, said MDA EarthSat in Gaithersburg, Maryland. A high
of 93 is expected in Chicago on June 10 and 92 in Washington on
June 11.  Midwest Heat  Rogers said the main focus of the heat from June 15 to June
19 will be in Nebraska, Iowa, Kansas and Missouri. The average
temperature for the area from Chicago to western Pennsylvania is
expected to be about 5 degrees above normal.  At the same time, California, Nevada and Arizona may have
average temperatures about 3 degrees below normal, Rogers said.
 San Francisco  may be 5 degrees cooler than normal, he said,
while the East Coast will remain above normal through next
weekend.  The normal average temperature in New York for June 7 is
about 70 degrees, according to MDA. It’s 65 in  Boston , 73 in
Washington, 76 in Atlanta, 82 in Houston, 80 in Dallas, 60 in
Seattle and 68 in Burbank, California.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian K. Sullivan in Boston at 
 bsullivan10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  