-- IMF’s Lagarde Says Latvia Exceeded Expectations Under Program
-- B y   A a r o n   E g l i t i s
-- 2012-06-05T15:30:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-05/imf-s-lagarde-says-latvia-exceeded-expectations-under-program.html
International Monetary Fund Managing
Director Christine Lagarde comments on the  European debt crisis 
and on Latvia’s economic performance. Lagarde made the remarks
to a panel of journalists today in the Latvian capital, Riga.  On whether the Greek IMF program should be renegotiated:  “It has to be one step at a time. The election campaign is
going on, there will be elections on the June 17th. There will
be representatives duly elected by democratic process and we
will pursue discussions with that newly formed set of
representatives after June 17th. So I don’t want to prejudge. I
don’t want to rule out.  ‘‘We always sit at the table of discussions, we never leave
the table, but really one of the IMF’s first jobs will be to
review the complete implementation of the program because our
review is actually overdue, it should be taking place now, but
because of the postponed or rather the renewed election on June
17th, we are conducting the review a bit later on. So that’s
step number two for us. Election, we begin the review process
and we always sit at the table.”  On what Europe should do to stop losing competitiveness:  “Regain it. And certainly within the eurozone, improve
competitiveness, improve the efficiency of the economies. There
are reforms underway in many members of the eurozone. I think of
 Italy , for instance, I think of Spain, clearly, that are doing
those jobs, in addition to countries under program which are
conducting structural reforms to improve efficiency of their
economies and that is necessary.”  On whether bailout countries are more successful in reforms:  “Generally, one is pressed to do the hard things by
necessity and clearly the crisis or the pressure from the
external factor is a good incentive to conduct those reforms.
But this is happening and it needs to continue.”  On whether Latvia’s value-added tax cut was right to fight
inflation to join the euro:  “Joining the eurozone was clearly part of the program
because it was the exit strategy for the program and an
important yardstick. In accomplishing what they have
accomplished, they are clearly demonstrating that  Latvia  is
capable of reaching goals, of taking hard decisions, of
implementing the decisions, and of reaching targets.  ‘‘So that’s a very-very strong, not only economic but also
political demonstration of the country’s strengths, inner
strength, cultural strength, which in our view is critical and
was in a way, slightly unexpected to begin with. If we look 3
years ago, had we expected such performance? The answer is
probably ‘no’.  ‘‘So Latvia has exceeded expectations in multiple ways, the
way in which it frontloaded the program, in the way it sort of,
went overboard. So that particular strength should be taken into
account.  ‘‘How it meets all the particular criteria, is clearly for
the authorities to take their best judgment. We’re not here to
say one percentage point or one decimal of a percentage point
here or there, it will be determined by the euro partners but
the inner strength of the economy, the way in which it has
traveled through the program, it is a very strong indication of
its ability to perform and that’s really important.’’  On  Spain :  ‘‘I have not received a request for any kind of program. I
have not had any solicitation on the part of Spain and yet I’ve
had discussions including with the Vice Prime Minister of Spain
a few days ago in  Washington  and we certainly did not raise that
issue.’’  On France favoring bigger stimulus:  ‘‘We at the IMF take a balanced view. We’re saying that
what the economies need at the moment is a combination of
stabilization measures and that includes obviously fiscal
consolidation, and growth-friendly measures as well, not
necessarily by way of stimulus.  ‘‘There are multiple ways to growth. One can certainly be
monetary policy, another one can be through structural reforms
that deliver growth potential and improve the capacity of the
economy. So it’s a balanced approach, and one goes with the
other and vice versa, they are not mutually exclusive. That’s
point number one.  ‘‘Point number two: there’s no one-size-fits-all principle.
We believe that each and every economy has its characteristics,
specificities, and will require a tailor-made approach to this
goal of growth, and I would add to that, inclusive and
sustainable growth, which we believe is important. So it’s a
combination of both. You cannot just say ‘we need to stimulate
the economy.’ It’s not as simple as that.”  On  job creation  in Latvia and the rest of Europe:  “Jobs are preconditioned on growth. And in that regard, I
think that the Latvian performance is quite strong.  Five percent in 2011, 3.5 percent probably in 2012 is a
significant performance. Number two, clearly it is necessary to
focus on productivity and it is also important in our view to
tailor two things: one is the skill-set of the population with
the jobs available on the market, and second, to tailor the
capacity to produce and export with sectors of export that are
likely to grow in the future.  ‘‘It’s improving gradually, and it will continue to be
gradual. You cannot move from 20 percent unemployment to 7
percent unemployment overnight, it’s a gradual process, but
there is progress already, given it has moved from 22 to 16
percent. The trend is good, it’s directionally correct and it
has to continue in that direction.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aaron Eglitis in Riga at 
 aeglitis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  