-- India Hires Accenture to Help Lure Chipmaking Investment
-- B y   K a r t i k a y   M e h r o t r a
-- 2012-06-05T18:31:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-05/india-hires-accenture-to-help-lure-chipmaking-investment.html
India  hired  Accenture Plc (ACN) , the
world’s second-biggest technology-consulting company, to help
attract as much as $10 billion of investment in semiconductor
manufacturing.  The government is seeking companies that can offer
technology expertise and set up fabrication units, Accenture
said in a statement yesterday. India, which has no chip factory,
wants to meet growing demand for  computer hardware  and cut its
reliance on imports, said Satya Gupta, the Bangalore-based
chairman of the India Semiconductor Association.  The South Asian country, which is home to the chip-design
units of  Intel Corp. (INTC)  and  Texas Instruments Inc. (TXN) , is seeking to
replicate the success of countries such as Malaysia, Taiwan and
China in semiconductor manufacturing. Sales of electronics and
computers may surge 31-fold to $400 billion in eight years,
according to estimates provided by the  Ministry of Information
Technology & Communications  in  New Delhi .  “Setting up factories is critical to the growth of the
Indian economy, because demand for electronic goods is growing
exponentially every year,” said Gupta. “It’s about time India
takes that step forward.”  India is also trying to boost foreign direct investment to
bolster flagging economic growth after gross domestic product
expanded 5.3 percent in the quarter ended March 31, the slowest
pace in nine years. FDI in the 12 months through March rose 35
percent to $46.8 billion from a year earlier, according to data
provided by the government.  Global Market  The global chip market is set to grow 7.2 percent to $322
billion in 2013 and 4.4 percent to $336 billion in 2014, World
Semiconductor Trade Statistics said in a statement on its
website yesterday.  Accenture will help the Indian government assess companies
interested in building fabrication units locally and develop
business proposals, according to the statement. Ajay Kumar, a
top bureaucrat in the ministry, wasn’t available to comment as
he was traveling.  India’s infrastructure, which lags behind those offered by
leaders in chip making, may thwart plans by the government, said
Kishore Suratkal, a semiconductor analyst with Religare Capital
Markets in  Hong Kong .  The  World Economic Forum  ranked the quality of India’s
infrastructure at 89 last year, below Kazakhstan and Gambia.
About one in four Indians don’t have access to electricity.
Roads in the country are ranked worse than Botswana’s by the
WEF.  “The biggest shortcoming would be India’s lack of
infrastructure, though there’s no dearth of engineering
talent,” Suratkal said in a telephone interview. “India has
been trying to gain expertise in chip manufacturing for a long
time.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kartikay Mehrotra in New Delhi at 
 kmehrotra2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sam Nagarajan at 
 samnagarajan@bloomberg.net  