-- Indonesia May Announce Currency Measures, Setiadi Says
-- B y   S h a m i m   A d a m   a n d   N o v r i d a   M a n u r u n g
-- 2012-06-08T05:03:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-05/indonesia-may-announce-more-currency-measures-setiadi-says-1-.html
Bank Indonesia  may unveil further
measures to ease volatility in the rupiah and may announce next
week new rules on bank ownership, a central bank official said.  “In the region, we still suffer from the turbulence from
the European countries,” Edi Setiadi, an executive director of
the Shariah banking department at Bank Indonesia, told reporters
in Singapore today. “We are busy with how to act on the
currency turbulence” and Governor Darmin Nasution may announce
measures “to make the market calm,” Setiadi said.  Bank Indonesia said last week it will start offering dollar
term deposits to boost supply of the currency locally and
stabilize the rupiah, the biggest decliner in  Asia  this year
after the rupee.  Southeast Asia ’s largest economy joined India
in moving to steady its  exchange rate  as the escalating European
crisis spurs outflows from  emerging markets .  “If we look at what is happening to the Indonesian market
right now, Bank Indonesia should issue rules on  repurchase
agreements  or reverse repos” to enable banks who have global
bonds and need dollars to tap central bank funds, said  Destry Damayanti , an economist at PT Bank Mandiri PT Bank Mandiri in
Jakarta. “This will help to stabilize the rupiah.”  The government can also coordinate with Bank Indonesia to
offer dollar-denominated  government bonds  to the domestic market,
Damayanti said.  Rupiah Falls  The rupiah declined today after overseas investors cut
holdings of the country’s stocks. It weakened 0.4 percent to
9,438 per dollar as of 3:45 p.m. in Jakarta, according to prices
from local banks compiled by Bloomberg. The currency is the
second-worst performer against the dollar this year among 11
Asian currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  “We’ve announced last week the dollar term deposit, that’s
our measures to ease rupiah” volatility, Bank  Indonesia  Deputy
Governor Halim Alamsyah said in a mobile-phone text message
today when asked about plans for new currency measures. He
declined to comment on additional steps the central bank may be
considering.  The central bank is due to release its monthly monetary
policy decision on June 12. It said last month it would take
steps to reduce excess funds in the economy while extending a
pause in interest-rate cuts as a declining currency and the
threat of higher fuel prices push up inflation risks. Governor
Nasution cut the  reference rate  to 5.75 percent in February, the
third reduction since early October.  Deepening Market  The sale of dollar term deposits is part of efforts to
deepen Indonesia’s financial market, Nasution said last week.
The measure will provide an avenue for local lenders to bring
back an estimated $2 billion a day on average that is currently
being kept in overseas banks, Alamsyah has said.  The move will “complement” foreign-exchange reserves and
make it easier for the central bank to enter the market, Bank
Indonesia also said.  India ’s central bank has also stepped up the fight to
steady the rupee. It curbed trading in currency derivatives to
rein in volatility and moved to boost the supply of dollars by
cutting the amount of overseas income companies can hold in
foreign currency to 50 percent from 100 percent.  Separately, Indonesia may announce a new regulation in
relation to bank ownership “this week, or early next week,”
Setiadi said today.  The country is studying a proposal to allow banks to own
more than 40 percent of local banks provided investors meet
criteria set by the central bank, which may include good
corporate governance, Alamsyah said May 31. The proposal
includes capping ownership of families or individuals in banks
at 20 percent and that of companies that aren’t financial
institutions at 30 percent, he said. Non-bank financial
institutions may own up to 40 percent of banks, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Shamim Adam in  Singapore  at 
 sadam2@bloomberg.net ;
Novrida Manurung in Jakarta at 
 nmanurung@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  