-- Iranian Decision to Convert 20% Uranium May Be Good News
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   T i r o n e
-- 2012-06-05T15:10:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-05/iranian-decision-to-convert-20-uranium-may-be-good-news.html
Iran ’s decision to convert a third of
its higher-enriched uranium into metal plates will make it more
difficult for the Persian Gulf country to assemble an atomic
weapon if it decides to to so, nuclear-security analysts say.  United Nations International Atomic Energy Agency
inspectors have verified that Iran converted about 33 percent of
its 20 percent-enriched uranium stockpile, according to two
senior international officials. Iran used about 49 kilograms
(108 pounds) of the 145 kilogram stockpile to make fuel in the
form of metal plates for the Tehran Research Reactor, they said
on condition of anonymity because of the issue’s sensitivity.  “There is some good news overlooked,”  Robert Kelley , a
nuclear engineer and the IAEA’s former top inspector for  Iraq ,
said today in an interview. “This makes the material much less
of a danger for further enrichment, and once it has been
irradiated it is of even less concern.”  Iran’s growing stockpile of 20 percent-enriched uranium
tops the list of concerns among world nuclear powers negotiating
with the Islamic republic. The heavy metal purified to 20
percent can make medical isotopes used to diagnose and treat
cancer. Only a small technical step is required to enrich
uranium to the weapons-grade 90 percent level.  Building Confidence  “The facts on the ground in Iran seem to support Iran’s
assertion that it has been systematically working on developing
a fuel-fabrication capability,”  Mark Hibbs , an analyst at
Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, said today in an
interview in Vienna. “This should provide the six powers more
confidence that Iran has a narrative to explain its interest in
20 percent-enriched uranium fuel.”  Diplomats from  China ,  France ,  Germany ,  Russia , the U.K. and
the U.S. meet their Iranian counterparts in Moscow on June
18-19. It will be the third round of talks in three months over
Iran’s nuclear work, which the West says is a cover for nuclear
weapons and Iran insists is peaceful.  Israel dismisses Iranian assurances that it’s not working
on an atomic bomb and demands that the Persian Gulf country halt
all  uranium enrichment  and scrap nuclear material it’s produced.
Israeli Defense Minister Ehud Barak said on May 30 that Iran
must be stopped before it develops a nuclear weapon and warned
that the clock is “ticking faster” for Israel than it is for
the U.S.  Secret Enrichment?  The Institute for Science and International Security says
global concern about Iran’s ability to covertly enrich uranium
to bomb grade may increase next year. That’s because of “the
possible construction of a hidden centrifuge-enrichment site and
simultaneously growing stocks of 3.5 and 19.75 percent low-
enriched uranium that would allow the speedier production of
weapon-grade uranium,”  David Albright , director of the
Washington-based group, wrote in a report yesterday.  Peter Jenkins, a partner at ADRgAmbassadors LLP who hosted
Iran discussions as the U.K.’s former IAEA envoy, said it’s
“significant” that Iran has begun to transform its stock of 20
percent into metal. “It demonstrates that the 20 percent
program is indeed about producing fuel for the TRR and not, as
critics have alleged, about moving closer to building nuclear
weapons,” he wrote in an e-mailed reply to questions.  Negotiators should focus on helping Iran to convert more of
its 20-percent stockpile into metal rather than asking the
country to export the uranium in exchange for manufactured
reactor fuel, he said.  Time, Opportunity  “It has used its additional output of uranium enriched to
20 percent for fabricating fuel plates for its Tehran Research
Reactor, which effectively leaves its current 20-percent
stockpile relatively unchanged,” Arms Control Association
Director Daryl Kimball wrote on June 2 in an e-mailed response
to questions. “This means there is still time and an
opportunity for a win-win deal at the Moscow round of P5+1 talks
with Iran that leads to a halt of 20 percent enrichment.”  The IAEA reported on May 25 that Iran increased its 20
percent stockpile to 145 kilograms from 109 kilograms in
November. The country has made three fuel assemblies for the
Tehran Research Reactor and inserted one of them into the
reactor’s core, the senior international officials said.  Converting the 20 percent uranium into fuel makes it more
difficult to use the material for weapons, if Iran ever chose to
do so, according to Kelly. Scientists would need to develop
chemical processes over a period of months to re-convert the
uranium into a form suitable for enrichment.  Trade Sanctions  Iran, the second-biggest oil producer in the Organization
of Petroleum Exporting Countries, is under dozens of trade
sanctions for its nuclear work. A European oil embargo is set to
come into force next month.  “This development underlines why a comprehensive
diplomatic solution has to provide confidence that Iran doesn’t
have undeclared and undisclosed nuclear-fuel capabilities,”
Hibbs said. “Iran could not have developed capability for
making reactor fuel using 20 percent-enriched uranium without a
substantial prior investment in research and development for
this activity.”  IAEA inspectors meet with Iranian officials on June 8 to
negotiate broader access to atomic facilities. Agency Director
General Yukiya Amano said on May 22 that Iran and the IAEA had
agreed to a deal.  “I continue to hope the agreement will be signed soon,”
Amano said yesterday in the Austrian capital. The IAEA’s 35
member board of governors is meeting for a second day in Vienna.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Tirone in Vienna at 
 jtirone@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  