-- Is Deneuve’s ‘Belle de Jour’ Sexiest Movie Ever Made? DVD
-- B y   P e t e r   R a i n e r
-- 2012-06-05T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-05/is-deneuve-s-belle-de-jour-sexiest-movie-ever-made-dvd.html
If you’ve been panting over “Fifty
Shades of Grey,” you may need a respirator for  “Belle De
Jour,”   Luis Bunuel ’s 1967 erotic classic that’s been called the
sexiest film ever made.  It has a scene that people always remember: A burly, well-
dressed Asian man visits an upscale bordello and opens a small
lacquered box with something -- a fly? a beetle? some sort of
electronic gizmo? -- buzzing inside.  Two of the women are frightened off, but Catherine Deneuve’s Severine, who goes by the name Belle de Jour, is
intrigued. After the client and his box have departed the
bedroom, Severine sprawls across the coverlets in a messy state
of post-orgasmic bliss.  Generations of audiences have obsessed over the contents of
that box. In interviews, the screenwriter Jean-Claude Carriere
has usually taken the “it’s-whatever-you-want-it-to-be”
approach.  Bunuel was cagier.  “I know the little box is upsetting, especially because of
the buzzing noise it makes,” he said in an interview from the
1970s reprinted in the booklet accompanying the Criterion DVD
reissue of “Belle de Jour.”  Buzzing Box  “I myself don’t know what is in the little box,” he
added. “It must be something extraordinary, something used for
an unheard-of perversion. It produced more curiosity than I
expected. It’s not a bad little depravity.”  Depravity was Bunuel’s stock in trade. Collaborating with
 Salvador Dali  on the scandalous 1929 “ Un Chien Andalou ,” he
showed a close-up of a woman’s eye (actually a calf’s eye,
Bunuel later said, though the audience doesn’t know it) being
sliced in two by a razor. It remains one of the ghastliest of
all movie images.  By the time he made “Belle de Jour,” Bunuel, at 67, had
become the grand old man -- or grand dirty old man -- of
international cinema. A Spaniard who worked primarily in Mexico
and  France , he was especially fond of scandalizing the Catholic
Church.  He somehow managed to make “ Viridiana ” (1961), which
features a sequence blaspheming the Last Supper, during the
Franco regime. Upon its release it was immediately banned.
Bunuel was fond of saying “Thank God I’m still an atheist.”  Rich Mane  Deneuve was just 24 when she made “Belle de Jour,” having
made her name four years earlier in  Jacques Demy’s  meltingly
gorgeous musical  “The Umbrellas of Cherbourg.”  With her rich
mane of (dyed) blonde hair, alabaster skin and crystalline
beauty, Deneuve was practically an objet d’art.  Severine is a haut-bourgeois Parisian housewife whose
daydreams of erotic masochism spill into her real life -- except
it’s never clear in “Belle de Jour” where reality ends and
fantasy begins. For Bunuel, Deneuve was the bright butterfly
caught in his surrealist web.  Roman Polanski  had already paved the way for Bunuel by
starring Deneuve as a sexually repressed psycho in  “Repulsion” 
(1965). For connoisseurs of the depraved like Polanski and
Bunuel, Deneuve’s hyperprettiness and hauteur were catnip.  Although she publicly complained about her rocky experience
working with Bunuel on “Belle de Jour,” Deneuve teamed with
him again three years later on  “Tristana,”  another high point
in both of their careers. Virginal, preyed-upon, her character
ends up losing her leg along with her virginity.  (Peter Rainer is a critic for Muse, the arts and leisure
section of Bloomberg News. Opinions expressed are his own.)  Muse highlights include  Craig Seligman  on books and  Michael
Di Paola  on travel.  To contact the writer of this column:  Peter Rainer  at
 Fi1L2E@aol.com   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 