-- Italy’s Grilli Says No Euro Bonds Without Fiscal Union
-- B y   A n d r e w   F r y e   a n d   F r a n c i n e   L a c q u a
-- 2012-06-05T18:38:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-05/italy-s-grilli-says-don-t-expect-euro-bonds-without-fiscal-union.html
Italian Deputy Finance Minister
 Vittorio Grilli  said the joint sale of euro bonds can’t happen
until the 17 countries sharing the single currency form a fiscal
union with a common budget.  “Euro bonds are the end of the process,” Grilli said
today in an interview with Bloomberg Television’s Francine Lacqua in Istanbul. “We have to decide what kind of common
budget we have, and that common budget is there to back and
guarantee euro bonds. You can’t start with euro bonds if we
don’t have that part.”  The debate over debt sharing has exposed differences among
the leaders of Europe’s biggest countries as they try to devise
a common strategy to reduce borrowing costs.  Chancellor Angela Merkel  said on June 3 that “under no circumstances” would she
agree to have Germany back euro bonds, while French President
 Francois Hollande  and Italian Prime Minister  Mario Monti  have
embraced the possibility of common debt.  Monti is seeking to help broker a common strategy by
hosting a meeting in  Rome  with Merkel, Hollande and Spanish
Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy  on June 22. Italy’s  debt load , the
euro region’s second-biggest after  Greece , is set to exceed 123
percent of gross domestic product this year.  ‘Second Class’  The head of Italy’s debt-management agency said it would
take at least 18 months to introduce joint euro bonds for the
currency area and that previously sold debt by  member states 
would risk becoming “second class.”  “That’s one of the problems of a transition,” Maria Cannata said in an interview today on Sky TG24, when asked if
national debt sold before the introduction of euro bonds would
face the risk of a depreciation.  Italy  can sustain 10-year borrowing costs as high as 8
percent, Cannata said, adding that buyers of German bunds will
probably see losses when that nation’s record-low yields rise
after Europe’s debt crisis eases.  Italian bonds fell last week, pushing the 10-year yield to
6.01 percent, the highest since January. That yield closed at
5.64 percent today, pushing the difference with equivalent-
maturity German bunds to 444 basis points.  Market ‘Fragility’  “We are not concerned as far as sustainability is
concerned,” Grilli said of Italy’s debt. “Of course we are
concerned more generally about fragility of the market and a
large debtor like Italy has to be very interested in a calming
down of the market.”  Monti is seeking common ground on tackling the debt crisis
with fellow leaders in  Europe  as politicians in Greece demand
new policies to promote growth amid a fifth year of recession.
Greeks, who choose a new government on June 17, are bridling
against austerity steps required as part of 240 billion euros
($300 billion) in international bailouts negotiated since 2010.  “We think Greece will stay in the euro,” Grilli said.
“When you are part of any government or financial institution,
you have to consider all possible contingencies, even the most
unlikely.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrew Frye in Rome at 
 afrye@bloomberg.net ;
Francine Lacqua in London at 
 flacqua@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  