-- TiVo Says Cisco Infringes Digital Video Recorder Patents
-- B y   S u s a n   D e c k e r
-- 2012-06-05T22:55:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-05/tivo-claims-cisco-infringes-digital-video-recorder-patents.html
TiVo Inc. (TIVO)  filed a lawsuit claiming
that television set-top boxes made by Cisco Systems Inc.
infringe patents related to digital-video recording services.  Cisco supplies equipment to companies including  Verizon
Communications Inc. (VZ)  and  Time Warner Cable Inc. (TWC)  The boxes, which
have DVR functions, infringe TiVo’s patents, according to the
complaint filed yesterday in federal court in Marshall,  Texas .  Cisco filed a preemptive suit against TiVo May 30 in
federal court in its hometown of San Jose, California, seeking a
ruling that it doesn’t infringe four TiVo patents.  TiVo, which pioneered the DVR market before rivals grabbed
more customers, has waged more than seven years of  litigation  to
get compensation for its inventions. The company provides DVR
services to Comcast Corp. and  Charter Communications Inc. (CHTR)  Legal
costs are projected to create a wider loss this quarter than
analysts expected, Tivo said last week.  Cisco knew of the patents and the infringement because it
has been subpoenaed in TiVo’s patent suits against Verizon and
AT&T Inc., TiVo said in the complaint. Dallas-based AT&T agreed
to pay at least $215 million to settle its case, and Alviso,
California-based TiVo got more than $500 million from  Dish
Network Corp. (DISH)  in a suit first filed in 2004.  Cisco, in a e-mailed statement, repeated its comment on the
suit it filed, calling it “an effort to defend our DVR products
and our customers against TiVo’s aggressive strategy of
wrongfully asserting its patent claims.”  The dueling suits set up a battle as to where the dispute
will be heard. Trial in the case against Verizon could be held
in October in Marshall, based on a joint schedule proposal
submitted by the two sides yesterday.  The new case is TiVo Inc. v.  Cisco Systems Inc. (CSCO) , 12cv311,
U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of Texas
(Marshall). Cisco’s case is Cisco v. TiVo, 12cv2766, U.S.
District Court for the Northern District of California (San
Jose).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Susan Decker in Washington at 
 sdecker1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  