-- Jafza Said to Seek $1.85 Billion From Sukuk Sale, Bank
-- B y   D a n a   E l   B a l t a j i   a n d   A r i f   S h a r i f
-- 2012-06-05T08:30:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-05/jafza-said-to-seek-1-85-billion-from-sukuk-sale-bank.html
Jebel Ali Free Zone FZE, a business
park operator in Dubai, plans to raise a combined $1.85 billion
from a bank facility and the sale of Islamic bonds to help
refinance its 7.5 billion-dirham ($2 billion) debt maturing in
November, according to three people familiar with the matter.  The company, controlled by Dubai’s government, plans to
raise $1.2 billion from a bank facility and $650 million from
sukuk sale, said the people, who declined to be identified
because the matter is private. It may also use $190 million from
internally generated cash to refinance the debt, they said. The
planned Islamic bonds may mature in 2019, said two other people.  Dubai, home to the world’s tallest skyscraper, incurred
$113 billion of debt seeking to transform itself into a tourism
and commercial hub, with $15 billion maturing this year,
according to International Monetary Fund estimates. Jebel Ali
Free Zone said on May 27 it received approval from a majority of
sukuk holders to redeem the trust certificates ahead of their
maturity.  The company mandated Abu Dhabi Commercial Bank PJSC, Abu
Dhabi Islamic Bank PJSC, Citigroup Inc., Dubai Islamic Bank
PJSC, Emirates NBD PJSC, National Bank of Abu Dhabi PJSC and
Standard Chartered Plc to arrange investor meetings in  Asia ,
 Europe  and the  Middle East  from June 5 ahead of a possible sukuk
sale, a banker familiar with the knowledge said June 1. Jebel
Ali Free Zone had its ratings placed on review for upgrade at
Moody’s Investors Service this week.  The floating-rate Islamic notes traded at 98.92 fils to the
dirham at 12:09 p.m. in Dubai, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  A spokesman for the company declined to comment when
contacted by telephone today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dana El Baltaji in Dubai at 
 delbaltaji@bloomberg.net ;
Arif Sharif in Dubai at 
 asharif2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  