-- Japan’s Unsustainable Deficit-Financing Model
-- B y   A .   G a r y   S h i l l i n g
-- 2012-06-05T23:01:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-05/japan-s-unsustainable-deficit-financing-model.html
Financing government  debt  and
deficits hasn’t been a problem for  Japan : Until recent years,
the country’s big-saving consumers provided the funds to finance
the shortfalls.  Unfortunately, this also meant that Japanese consumers
weren’t spending that money. In fact, there was so much saving
left over that Japan had money to export. This is demonstrated
by its trade and  current-account surpluses .  The Japanese think and act quite differently from
Americans. During the deflationary depression of the 1930s, U.S.
consumers lacked incomes, with the logical consequence that they
didn’t do any spending. During the Japanese  deflationary 
depression that started in the early 1990s, consumers had money,
but didn’t spend it. Were they too scared about the future? Were
they content with their lifestyles and not desirous of more
goods and services?  The dynamic in which the Japanese government’s fiscal
stimulus is being saved by consumers and then recycled back to
the government to finance its  deficit  is unsustainable.  Consumer
spending  has been flat since the mid-1990s, while exports have
provided what little growth there was. Furthermore, consumer
borrowing has gone nowhere since 1990. Most importantly, the
household saving rate fell to 7.3 percent last year from almost
20 percent in the 1980s.  Savings Rate  Kentaro Katayama , a visiting scholar at the Japanese
 Finance Ministry , points to four things that have pushed down
the consumer-saving rate. First, economic stagnation has reduced
incomes and robbed consumers of the growth that earlier went
into high levels of saving. Second, increases in old-age
pensions and public long-term-care insurance lowered financial
risks and the need to save, especially for older people. Third,
attitudes in Japan have changed, and consumers now put more
emphasis on enjoying life and less on preparing for the future
with saving and investment.  Finally,  Japan’s population  is declining, the first of any
Group of Seven country to do so. Fertility rates, at 1.21 births
per woman, are also the lowest of major developed countries,
well below the 2.1 needed to sustain population in the long
run. Many younger Japanese women now have professional
opportunities and are delaying or avoiding marriage. In
addition, the number of older Japanese is growing much faster
than their counterparts elsewhere, and the Japanese have the
highest life expectancy of any developed country. Older people
save less than the young as their incomes drop in retirement and
they cash in their savings since they still consume.  Also, Japan is the least open to immigration of any major
industrial country and lacks an influx of newcomers, who tend to
be younger and save more. There’s no such thing as an
immigration visa, though foreigners have been allowed in for
extended “training sessions” during times of  labor shortages .
Baseball isn’t a native sport, yet Japanese teams have limited
the number of foreigners on their rosters.  The Japanese people own 93 percent of their government’s
debt. By comparison, almost half of U.S. Treasuries are held
outside the U.S. As of last Dec. 31, Japanese banks owned 41
percent of government obligations, which accounted for about a
quarter of their assets. This has isolated Japanese  government
finance  from the rest of the world and allowed the  yields  on 10-
year bonds to run at less than 2 percent in the last decade and
less than 1 percent today. At the same time, domestic investors
don’t seem to object to these low nominal returns, partly due to
patriotism and partly because, with deflation more often than
not in recent years, their real yields are much higher.  Export Slowdown  The chink in this domestic financing armor, as I’ll discuss
tomorrow, is exports, which drive Japan’s economy, corporate
profits and  cash flow . A retrenchment by U.S. consumers -- I
predict their saving rate is headed for more than 10 percent --
will curb imports, which are the exports on which Japan,  China 
and many other countries depend for growth. In the post-World
War II years, a 1 percent decline in U.S. consumer spending cut
imports by 2.9 percent, on average.  In addition, China will lower its growth in already
excessive industrial capacity, and that will include capital
equipment and other Japanese exports. The Chinese government’s
target for real  gross-domestic-product  growth was recently
reduced to 7.5 percent from 8 percent, and it will fall to 5
percent or 6 percent in the hard landing I have predicted.  The slowdown in China, along with the  European debt crisis ,
pushed Japan’s  Topix (TPX)  Index to its lowest since 1983 this week.  Furthermore, gone are the days when Japan could import
designs and technology from the West and then beat the
originators with minor improvements and superior manufacturing.
Toyota Motor Corp. took the best of Mercedes-Benz and Bayerische
Motoren Werke AG, and improved on them to produce the  Lexus . Now
Japan has fully exploited these opportunities and must develop
new designs and technology. That takes more time and money.  Absent strong domestic demand, weak exports will keep
 capital spending  subdued and, in time, will result in a decline
in Japanese gross corporate saving through capital consumption
and retained earnings. The net effect will be to depress Japan’s
current account, probably into negative territory.  (A. Gary Shilling is president of A. Gary Shilling & Co. and
author of “The Age of Deleveraging: Investment Strategies for a
Decade of Slow Growth and Deflation.” The opinions expressed
are his own. This is the third in a five-part series. Read  Part
1  and  Part 2 .)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View columns, editorials
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the View editors on  Brazil’s economy ;  Susan
Crawford  on  Barry Diller’s new venture ; Clive Crook on the  Fed’s
global leadership ;  Peter Orszag  on the  Congressional Budget
Office’s long-term outlook ; Yukon Huang on  myths of the Chinese
economy ; Tim Judah on  Syria and Iraq .  To contact the writer of this article:
A. Gary Shilling at  insight@agaryshilling.com   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Max Berley at   mberley@bloomberg.net  