-- Kluger, Jenner, Reed Smith, Hughes Hubbard: Business of Law
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 2012-06-05T10:57:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-05/jenner-block-reed-smith-hughes-hubbard-business-of-law.html
Attorney  Matthew Kluger  was sentenced
to a 12-year prison term that is the longest ever imposed for
 insider-trading , exceeding the 11-year sentence given Galleon
Group LLC co-founder Raj Rajaratnam last year.  In pleading guilty last December, Kluger admitted stealing
data on about 30 transactions when he was at four law firms,
including Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom LLP and Wilson,
Sonsini, Goodrich & Rosati PC. The companies included Sun
Microsystems Inc., 3Com Corp. and  Acxiom Corp. (ACXM)  When deals went
public, Bauer sold shares and paid his partners in cash from
ATMs. The men used disposable mobile phones to escape detection.  Garrett Bauer, a trader who was sentenced yesterday to nine
years in prison, participated in a scheme with Kluger that
prosecutors said generated $37 million in illegal profit.  Kluger, 51, stole corporate merger tips from four law firms
over 17 years and passed them to middleman Kenneth Robinson, who
gave them to Bauer, 44.  All three men pleaded guilty last year in federal court in
Newark,  New Jersey , where U.S. District Katharine Hayden
yesterday said she wanted to send a strong message about the
“radiating effect of the loss of confidence in the market”
caused by insider trading. She said Kluger stole tips from
“white shoe firms” in a “brazen” scheme that was conducted
in a “thuggish” manner.  “This particular scheme is tremendously clear,” Hayden
said. “People stay out of the stock market, in part, because
they think it’s skewed toward the insiders. This case has given
insight to the lack of credibility for the small investor.”  Lawyers for both Kluger and Bauer, a day trader, said they
would appeal their sentences. Robinson, 46, who cooperated with
authorities and secretly taped the other men for the  Federal
Bureau  of Investigation, is scheduled to be sentenced today.
Prosecutors praised the terms imposed first on Kluger, and then
on Bauer.  Rajaratnam was the most prominent of 66 people charged in
an insider-trading crackdown by Manhattan U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara. All but seven pleaded guilty or were convicted at trial
since 2009. Most got far less severe terms than Rajaratnam.  Alan Zegas , Kluger’s attorney, argued that his client
deserved far less time because he made less than $1 million.
Outside of court, Zegas said he would appeal, saying the term
was “far harsher than what I believed Mr. Kluger deserved.”  Both Kluger and Bauer pleaded guilty to  securities fraud ,
conspiracy to commit securities fraud, conspiracy to commit
 money laundering  and obstruction of justice. They might have
faced as many as 20 years in prison on all but the conspiracy to
commit securities fraud count, which carried a five-year term.  Hayden said she judged Kluger more harshly because he
abused his position of trust as a lawyer.  The case is U.S. v. Bauer, 11-cr-858, U.S. District Court,
District of New Jersey (Newark).  For more, click here.  Moves  Jenner & Block Hire Blagojevich Prosecutor Reid Schar  Assistant U.S. Attorney  Reid Schar , who prosecuted former
Governor  Rod Blagojevich , has joined Jenner & Block LLP’s
Chicago Office as partner in the white-collar criminal defense
and investigations practice group.  Schar, who spent 13 years in the U.S. Attorney’s office,
tried more than 20 criminal cases, most involving complex fraud
and financing issues. He has led a number of grand jury
investigations into complex corruption and financial matters and
has briefed and argued 10 appeals in the 7th U.S. Circuit Court
of Appeals, the firm said.  “I’m looking forward to working the other side,” Schar
said in an interview. “Complex securities cases, intellectual
property work, certain types of class action work -- there are
different types of challenges in private practice.”  During Schar’s tenure at the U.S. Attorney’s office, he led
the prosecution in both corruption trials of Blagojevich and was
a member of the team that helped convict former Blagojevich
fundraiser Tony Rezko.  He was also a part of the prosecution
team in the trial of Muhammad Salah and Abdelhaleem Ashqar, who
were accused of aiding Hamas.  Since 2011, Schar served as counsel to U.S. Attorney
Patrick Fitzgerald, where he provided input on management,
personnel, cases, among other matters. He also served as deputy
chief of the General Crimes Section and deputy chief of the
Organized Crime and Public Corruption section. Since 2005, Schar
had been chief liaison to the Environmental Protection Agency
and has served as ethics adviser and professional responsibility
officer since 2007.  “Mr. Schar is a broad-based thinker whose accomplishments
at the U.S. Attorney’s Office are impressive,” said Jenner &
Block Chairman Anton R. Valukas. “His track record and superb
advocacy skills are exactly what is required to work on the
types of matters our clients look to us to handle.”  Schar says he picked Jenner because of its strong
litigation practice. Schar’s practice will focus on complex
criminal matters, internal investigations and high-stakes civil
litigation. Despite switching sides, he anticipates some
similarities in the job. “If you’re a good prosecutor you
should be thinking like a good defense attorney,” he said.  Jenner & Block counts several other former U.S. Attorney
among its ranks, including two former U.S. Attorneys, Valukas
and Thomas P. Sullivan. Schar will be the firm’s 11th partner
who formerly served at the U.S. Attorney’s Office, the firm
said.  Jenner & Block has about 450 lawyers at offices in Chicago,
 Los Angeles , New York and  Washington .  Ex-UBS Prosecutor for U.S. Downing to Join Miller & Chevalier  Kevin Downing, the Justice Department prosecutor who
directed the U.S. crackdown on offshore  tax evasion  including
 UBS AG (UBSN) , agreed to join Miller & Chevalier, a Washington-based
tax law firm.  Downing will join the firm June 11, Miller & Chevalier said
yesterday in an e-mailed statement. Downing resigned from the
Justice Department effective yesterday, according to a person
familiar with the matter who declined to be identified and
wasn’t authorized to speak about the resignation.  “The focus of the federal government on criminal tax
enforcement is going to continue at an aggressive pace,”
Patricia Sweeney, chairwoman of Miller & Chevalier’s tax
department, said in the statement. Downing’s “understanding of
both civil and criminal enforcement issues unique to
international financial institutions will be of great benefit.”  Downing was the lead prosecutor in the U.S. probe of UBS,
Switzerland’s largest bank. In February 2009, UBS avoided
prosecution by paying $780 million, admitting it helped
thousands of Americans evade taxes and turning over the names of
250 American clients to U.S. authorities. UBS later revealed
another 4,450 accounts.  For more, click here.  Jones Walker Opens New York Office Headed by Lazio  Former U.S. Representative from New York Rick Lazio is
joining the law firm of Jones, Walker, Waechter, Poitevent,
Carrere & Denegre, LLP as a partner and will head the firm’s
first New York office.  Lazio also will lead the firm’s housing and housing finance
team, which will include attorneys from several practice areas
including real estate, banking and financial services, business
and commercial transactions, tax and government relations. Lazio
will focus on issues of affordable housing and related housing
finance, as well as financial services. He will also have an
office in Jones Walker’s Washington office.  Jones Walker has more than 375 attorneys at offices in
Alabama, Arizona, the  District of Columbia , Florida, Georgia,
Louisiana, Mississippi, New York and Texas.  SEC Litigator Healy Joins Reed Smith in Washington  Reed Smith  LLP announced the addition of Terence Healy as a
partner in its global regulatory enforcement group in the firm’s
Washington office. Healy was formerly Senior Assistant Chief
Litigation Counsel at the Securities and Exchange Commission in
Washington.  Healy worked on cases related to accounting fraud, revenue
recognition, options backdating, insider trading, Foreign
Corrupt Practices Act, and structured products. He directed the
trial teams in the agency’s insider trading case against Dallas
Maverick’s owner  Mark Cuban  and the SEC’s first litigated case
against individuals under the FCPA.  Prior to joining the SEC, Healy spent nine years as a trial
attorney for the  Department of Justice .  “We are pleased to add another former top-level federal
litigator to our ranks,” A. Scott Bolden, managing partner of
Reed Smith’s Washington office said in a statement. “Terence’s
experience at the SEC and DOJ give him a perspective on global
regulatory issues that will be very valuable for a wide range of
Reed Smith clients, who look to us for assistance with
securities-related issues, FCPA, internal investigations, and
complex litigation matters.”  Reed Smith has more than 1,600 lawyers in 23 offices
throughout the U.S., Europe, Asia and the Middle East.  Litigation  Kerviel’s Refusal to Be SocGen Scapegoat Seen Harming Appeal  Jerome Kerviel  began his fight yesterday against a 2010
conviction for  Societe Generale SA (GLE) ’s 4.9 billion-euro ($6.2
billion) trading loss, telling a Paris appeals court that the
bank knew about his actions.  His lawyers said they’ll show judges at the four-week
appeal starting yesterday that the bank knew before the 2008
trading loss that he was exceeding his mandate with risky bets
and can’t claim to be an innocent victim.  “I think that I’m not responsible for this loss,” Kerviel
told Judge Mireille Filippini at the start of the hearing
yesterday, in response to a question about why he was appealing.
“I always acted with the knowledge” of the bank.  Kerviel’s stance is similar to the defense he used with his
previous legal team when the court held him responsible,
sentenced him to three years in jail and ordered him to repay
the loss. Those arguments aren’t likely to impress the appellate
judges, said Stephane Bonifassi, a Paris criminal lawyer.  “What courts like to hear, if they think a guy is guilty,
is that he understands what he did,” said Bonifassi, who isn’t
involved in the matter. “Here, it’s a guy who says, ‘It’s not
my fault, it’s other people’s fault.’ He still hasn’t accepted
what happened.”  Kerviel’s defenders say he will own up to his actions and
the appeal won’t recycle the lower court defense.  Kerviel “is ready to take responsibility for what he did,
but he will never accept the blame for what he didn’t do,” said
David Koubbi, his lead lawyer. Kerviel “is guilty of nothing”
as the case rests on him betraying the trust of the bank.  When asked by Filippini about how the bank monitored his
activities, Kerviel said yesterday he and others exceeded their
limits “very, very regularly,” and that he would receive e-
mails in the morning alerting him when he was beyond the lines.  Jean Veil , a lawyer for  Societe Generale , told Bloomberg TV
during a break in the hearing that Kerviel seems to be “much
more aggressive” in his appeal than he was at the trial.  This may be because the verdict had made him “afraid,”
Veil said. Other than the tone, his defense “is exactly the
same.”  Koubbi has also filed complaints accusing Societe Generale
of trying to obscure information. Paris prosecutors began
preliminary inquiries in May into claims the bank misled the
lower court by hiding a nearly 1.7 billion-euro tax credit on
the loss and gave investigators an audio recording that had been
tampered with. An inquiry into the defamation complaints Societe
Generale filed in response is also under way.  Kerviel changed legal teams four times since the January
2008 loss, reiterating what he said from the start that he
feared being made a “scapegoat” for what he said was a common
practice of evading risk controls and exceeding limits.  For more, click here.  Apple Copied Samsung Inventions for IPhone Use, U.S. Judge Told  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  introduced its iPhone in 2007 using  Samsung
Electronics Co. (005930)  technology that it didn’t want to pay for,
Charles Verhoeven of Quinn Emanuel Urquhart & Sullivan LLP, who
was representing the Korean electronics company, told a U.S.
trade judge yesterday.  Samsung contends Apple’s devices, including the iPhone,
iPad tablet computer and iPod touch media player have infringed
as many as four patents. All came from two decades of work
Suwon, South Korea-based Samsung spent improving mobile phones,
the attorney for the company said.  “All of these things that Samsung built up, Apple was
using when it entered the market,” Samsung lawyer Verhoeven
said as a trial began yesterday at the U.S. International Trade
Commission in Washington. “Apple, in 2007, when they decided to
enter an industry they’d never been in before, didn’t even
inquire of there was a license they needed to take.”  The case before ITC Judge James Gildea, and another patent
case by Apple against Samsung that’s in the midst of trial
before a different trade judge, are part of a global battle
between the two companies for increased share of a market that
Bloomberg Industries said was $312 billion last year.  Apple denies infringing the Samsung patents and is
challenging their validity, just as Samsung is doing in regard
to Apple’s allegations.  Cupertino, California-based Apple contends Samsung raised
the patent issue in 2010 only after being confronted with claims
it was introducing new products that copied the iPhone and iPad,
Apple lawyer William Lee of Wilmer Cutler Pickering Hale and
Dorr LLP said.  Two of the Samsung patents cover industry standards for the
transmission of data and two others are for device features.  “In that three- to four-year period, Samsung never
suggested the patents were infringed by an Apple product,” Lee
said. “For nearly four years, no claims of infringement, and
then an infringement problem arose.”  Samsung’s case against Apple is In the Matter of Electronic
Devices, Including Wireless Communication Devices, 337-794, and
Apple’s case against Samsung is In the Matter of Electronic
Digital Media Devices, 337-796, both U.S. International Trade
Commission (Washington).  For more, click here.  News  MF Global Trustee Giddens May Bring Corzine Negligence Claims  Hughes Hubbard & Reed LLP’s James Giddens, the trustee
liquidating  MF Global Holdings (MFGLQ)  Ltd.’s brokerage, said in a
report that claims for breach of fiduciary duty and negligence
can be made against employees of the company including former
Chairman  Jon Corzine , finance chief Henri Steenkamp and
Assistant Treasurer Edith O’Brien.  Giddens declined to make any recommendations on potential
criminal liability, saying such determinations were beyond the
scope of his mandate. MF Global managers may be liable for some
of the $1.6 billion shortfall in customer money, according to
the report. Giddens said he will pursue claims through
litigation and negotiation, starting to sue within 60 days.  “I have determined there may be valid claims against
individuals and entities,” Giddens said in the report. “In my
capacity as trustee, I will make every effort to ensure that
such claims result in the greatest possible returns to customers
in an efficient and fair manner, whether those claims are
pursued by my office or others.”  Giddens also said he’s in discussions with  JPMorgan Chase &
Co. (JPM)  regarding money transfers that may be “voidable or
otherwise recoverable.” Giddens said JPMorgan has returned
about $89.2 million in customer property and $518.4 million in
non-segregated unallocated MF Global Inc. assets. He may sue the
bank if he can’t strike an agreement about further returns of
money, he said.  Mary Sedarat, a JPMorgan spokeswoman, declined to comment
on Giddens’s report. Steven Goldberg, a Corzine spokesman,
didn’t immediately respond to an e-mail seeking comment on
Giddens’s report.  Reid Weingarten , a lawyer for O’Brien,
declined to comment.  O’Brien invoked her constitutional right
against self-incrimination at a congressional hearing in March,
disappointing lawmakers seeking answers to questions about
frantic money transfers during the company’s final days in
October.  MF Global Holdings, the brokerage parent run by former
 Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  Co-Chairman Corzine until his Nov. 4
resignation, filed the eighth-largest U.S. bankruptcy after a
$6.3 billion trade on its own behalf on bonds of some of
Europe’s most indebted nations led to margin calls. Its
bankruptcy filing listed assets of $41 billion and debt of $39.7
billion.  The brokerage case is Securities Investor Protection Corp.
v. MF Global Inc., 11-02790, U.S. District Court, Southern
District of New York (Manhattan). The parent’s bankruptcy case
is MF Global Holdings Ltd., 11-bk-15059,  U.S. Bankruptcy Court ,
Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  For more, click here.  Conrad Black Sues U.S. Seeking to Void Criminal Convictions  Conrad Black , the former Hollinger International Inc.
chairman found guilty of fraud and obstruction of justice, sued
the U.S. in a bid to cancel the convictions.  Black, 67, argued yesterday in papers filed in federal
court in Chicago, that prosecutors’ seizure of almost $9 million
in proceeds from his sale of a Manhattan apartment in 2005
prevented him from hiring the defense counsel of his choice,
violating his constitutional rights.  Black’s trial defense team was led by Chicago lawyer Edward Genson and Canadian attorney Edward Greenspan. The former chief
executive officer wanted to retain  Brendan Sullivan  and Gregory Craig of Washington-based Williams & Connolly LLP, according to
yesterday’s filing, made by  William K. Kane  of the Chicago
office of Baker & Hostetler LLP.  “It is too late to turn back the clock and to restore the
deprivation of Mr. Black’s constitutionally guaranteed right to
counsel of choice,” his attorneys said. “However, it is not
too late for Mr. Black’s remaining convictions to be vacated.”  Black noted that he was acquitted of the crimes related to
the confiscated money.  “The seized funds were returned to him, but the damage was
done,” he said.  He is also asking for dismissal of the indictment and
official cancellation of the sentence he served, about three
years.  Black and four other men were accused of skimming money
from the Chicago-based company as it more than $3 billion in
assets from 1998 to 2001. One of them, ex-finance chief F. David Radler, pleaded guilty to fraud and testified against the
others.  Black successfully appealed two of three fraud charges for
which he was found guilty, winning a reduction of his original 6
1/2-year sentence. He was freed from a U.S. prison in Miami last
month and flown to Toronto where he now lives.  Randall Samborn , a spokesman for U.S. Attorney Patrick Fitzgerald in Chicago, declined to comment on Black’s request.
The prosecutor announced May 23 that he will step down June 30.  The criminal case is U.S. v. Black, 1:05-cr-00727, and
yesterday’s lawsuit is Black v. U.S., 12-cv-4306, U.S. District
Court, Northern District of Illinois (Chicago).  Juror Lies Result in New Trial for Three in Tax-Fraud Case  Paul Daugerdas, a former Jenkens & Gilchrist lawyer, and
two other defendants in what a judge called the biggest U.S.
tax-fraud prosecution in history won a new trial after a juror
disclosed she hid details of her past, including that she was an
alcoholic and a suspended attorney.  U.S. District Judge William Pauley in Manhattan yesterday
overturned the convictions, ruling that the presence of
Catherine Conrad, who was Juror No. 1, denied the three a fair
trial.  “While Conrad claimed that she was a ‘fair and unbiased’
juror, this court cannot credit that assertion,” Pauley said in
an opinion yesterday. “Conrad is a pathological liar and
utterly untrustworthy.”  Pauley upheld the conviction of a fourth defendant, former
accountant David Parse, ruling that his lawyers possessed
information about Conrad’s lying that they failed to tell the
court before the case went to the jury.  Jurors in May 2011 convicted Daugerdas of more than 20
criminal counts stemming from an alleged 10-year tax shelter
scheme. He faced more than 20 years in prison. The defendants
claimed Conrad wouldn’t have been permitted to serve on the jury
if she had told the truth about her background. Her presence on
the panel deprived them of a fair trial, they said.  The case is U.S. v. Daugerdas, 09-CR-581, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  Dewey’s U.K. Unit Had $175 Million of Liabilities, FT Reports  The U.K. unit of Dewey & LeBoeuf LLP, the U.S. law firm
that’s in bankruptcy proceedings, has liabilities of at least
$175 million, the Financial Times said, citing the company’s
last London partner, Mark Fennessy.  The U.K. unit was profitable and acted as guarantor to
secure the bank and bondholder debt of the U.S. firm, Fennessy
told the FT on May 29, the newspaper reported June 2. Fennessy
until May 28 was coordinating the winding down of Dewey’s U.K.
and French operations, the newspaper said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in Brooklyn, New York, at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  