-- Joy Global Tempts With Cheapest Industry Deal: Real M&A
-- B y   T a r a   L a c h a p e l l e
-- 2012-06-05T20:24:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-05/joy-global-tempts-komatsu-with-cheapest-industry-deal-real-m-a.html
Joy Global Inc. (JOY)  is tempting potential
acquirers with the chance to secure the world’s largest
independent maker of underground mining equipment at the
industry’s cheapest takeover valuation.  Joy Global  has  declined  43 percent since February as mining
companies reduced spending amid falling demand for coal in the
U.S., forcing the Milwaukee-based manufacturer to cut fiscal
2012 sales and earnings forecasts. The $5.8 billion company
traded yesterday at 8.2 times earnings in the last 12 months,
lower than 90 percent of similar-sized construction and mining
equipment makers, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  With Joy Global still expecting to post  record sales  this
year and already generating profit margins that are double the
industry median, the company may attract suitors such as Tokyo-
based  Komatsu Ltd. (6301)  that are willing to bet on a rebound in
commodities prices, BB&T  Capital Markets  said. A buyer could
offer a premium of more than 80 percent -- an all-time high for
the industry in the U.S. -- and still acquire Joy Global at the
least expensive net income multiple on record, the data show.  “The valuation has gotten more attractive,”  Stephen Volkmann , a New York-based analyst at Jefferies Group Inc., said
in a telephone interview. “If you want to be in the global
mining business, this is a way to bulk up in size pretty
quickly. The stock is cheaper now, but the company is in good
shape financially and margins are high.”  Sandy McKenzie, a spokeswoman for Joy Global, said the
company doesn’t comment on speculation, when asked whether it is
open to a sale or has been approached by potential buyers.
Hiroshi Ishihara, a spokesman for Komatsu, said the company is
unable to comment on any possible deals for individual
companies.  Shovels, Drills  Joy Global, through its P&H Mining Equipment and Joy Mining
Machinery businesses, makes everything from crushing equipment
to blasthole drills and electric shovels for mining coal, copper
and minerals.  The company last week lowered its sales and earnings
projections for the fiscal year ending in October, citing
weakened demand for coal in the U.S. and concern about slowing
sales of the fuel internationally. The amount of coal used in
U.S. electricity generation will fall this year to the lowest
level since 1984, the  U.S. Energy Department  said last month.  Joy Global, which boosted net income in seven of the past
eight years, still said it expects to post record sales of $5.5
billion to $5.7 billion this year, an increase of as much as 29
percent from fiscal 2011.  ‘Exceptionally Cheap’  The company’s shares, which reached a high this year of
$95.71 four months ago, fell to $54.53 yesterday, the lowest
since August 2010. The Standard & Poor’s GSCI Spot  Index (S5INDU)  of 24
raw materials fell 13 percent during the same period, including
its  biggest monthly decline  since 2008 in May.  The stock drop left Joy Global valued yesterday at 8.2
times earnings, less than the median price-earnings ratio of
about 13 for construction and mining equipment makers globally
with a market capitalization greater than $1 billion, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “From the valuation multiples, they’re exceptionally
cheap,” C. Schon Williams of BB&T said in a phone interview
from Richmond, Virginia.  Today, Joy Global’s shares rose about 3 percent to $56.14,
the fourth-biggest gain among 61 companies in the Standard &
Poor’s 500 Industrials Index.  An acquirer could buy Joy Global’s equity for as much as
$10.6 billion and still only value the company at 15.11 times
its  profit  in the last 12 months, data compiled by Bloomberg
show. That’s less than the U.S. construction and mining
machinery industry’s record-low takeover valuation of 15.15
times net income when Parker Hannifin Corp. bought Commercial
Intertech Corp. in 2000, the data show.  The potential premium of more than 80 percent for Joy
Global would exceed the industry high of 55 percent.  High Margins  A buyer would be getting a company that earned 13.6 cents
in net income from each dollar of sales in the last 12 months,
data compiled by Bloomberg show. That’s more than twice the
industry’s median profit margin of 6.4 percent. Komatsu, the
world’s second-largest maker of excavators, had a  profit margin 
of 8.4 percent, the data show.  Joy Global “is a very well-run company and has some of the
highest margins within the machinery industry,”  Joel Levington ,
managing director of corporate credit at Brookfield Investment
Management Inc. in  New York , said in a phone interview. “It’s
always possible” that someone could look to acquire it.  The company also gets about 60 percent of its sales from
maintenance and repair work, a recurring source of revenue that
an acquirer may find appealing, according to Larry  De Maria , a
New York-based analyst for William Blair & Co.  Looking Out  Komatsu Chief Executive Officer Kunio Noji said in a
December interview that he is looking for acquisition candidates
in the U.S. and  Europe  and that potential targets include a
manufacturer of underground mining equipment. That makes Komatsu
the most logical suitor for Joy Global, BB&T’s Williams said.  “Right now it’s difficult to persuade targeted companies
to be part of our company, and we don’t do hostile takeovers,
but I think one day in two or three years they’ll come to us,”
Noji said at the time.  Komatsu may feel compelled to consider a takeover of Joy
Global now that it has gotten so much cheaper, Williams said.  “Given where the stock is, foreign machinery names such as
Komatsu may be taking a harder look at it,” he said. “It’s a
good management team, has good brands and it’s in an end-market
that Komatsu has said they’re interested in.”  GE Purchases  General Electric Co. (GE)  last month agreed to buy Australian
mining equipment company Industrea Ltd. and signed an initial
accord to acquire U.S. underground-mining equipment maker
Fairchild International Inc.  While GE CEO  Jeffrey Immelt  said the company isn’t looking
“for any big deals in 2012” and would probably focus on
acquisitions between $1 billion and $3 billion, the two recent
takeovers signal that it’s interested in expanding into the
mining equipment business.  “Typically GE doesn’t look to be a small player in a big
business, but rather a larger player in a big business,”
William Blair’s De Maria said in a phone interview. GE may look
to acquire Joy Global as soon as 2013, he said.  Andrew Williams , a spokesman for Fairfield, Connecticut-
based GE, declined to comment on whether it was considering a
takeover of Joy Global.  Joy Global’s  management  team may not want to sell while the
stock is depressed, and the company has historically been more
of an acquirer than a target, said Brookfield’s Levington. Joy
Global completed $2.4 billion in deals in the last five years,
data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Only Target  “There would have to be a pretty compelling reason to do
it,” Levington said.  Still, after  Caterpillar Inc. (CAT) ’s $8.6 billion takeover of
mining equipment maker Bucyrus International Inc. last year, Joy
Global is the only remaining target that would give buyers a
leading position in mining machinery, Jefferies’ Volkmann said.  “It’s more a question of whether the current market
conditions drive people to have conversations” about acquiring
Joy Global, he said. “It’s really the last asset available.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tara Lachapelle in New York at 
 tlachapelle@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Daniel Hauck at   dhauck1@bloomberg.net ;
Katherine Snyder at   ksnyder@bloomberg.net ; 