-- JPMorgan Loss Raises Risk-Management Questions, Curry Says
-- B y   P h i l   M a t t i n g l y   a n d   C h e y e n n e   H o p k i n s
-- 2012-06-05T21:51:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-05/jpmorgan-loss-raises-risk-management-questions-curry-says-1-.html
JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ’s trading loss
of more than $2 billion raises “questions about the adequacy
and rigor” of the bank’s risk-management practices, according
to U.S. Comptroller of the Currency Thomas J. Curry.  The OCC, JPMorgan’s prudential regulator, is “actively
examining” the New York-based bank, which disclosed the losses
from its chief investment office on May 10, Curry said in
remarks prepared for a Senate Banking Committee hearing
tomorrow. The agency has learned that the bank’s position
“deteriorated rapidly” at the end of April and during the
first days of May, he said.  “Since that time, the OCC has been meeting daily with bank
management with respect to the bank’s response to this
situation, to re-evaluate the risk-management activities and
controls of the bank and how they applied to its CIO function,
and to determine what additional action is necessary,” Curry
said in his statement.  The hearing will be the first public airing of the roles
played by the OCC, the  Federal Reserve , the Federal Deposit
Insurance Corp. and the Treasury Department in the period before
JPMorgan Chairman and Chief Executive Officer  Jamie Dimon 
disclosed the trading losses tied to  credit derivatives .  Senator  Tim Johnson , the South Dakota Democrat who leads
the committee, said the session will give lawmakers a chance to
probe the losses at the biggest and most profitable U.S. bank.
It may also provide a preview of the panel’s scheduled June 13
hearing with Dimon.  Volcker Rule  The OCC is “not drawing any conclusions” about whether
the trading that led to the losses would have violated the so-
called Volcker rule, which would ban proprietary trading by
banks that benefit from FDIC deposit insurance and Fed
borrowing. JPMorgan’s disclosure has heightened tension around
the Dodd-Frank Act measure being crafted by regulators, with
congressional Democrats and consumer groups saying the loss
shows the need for tougher restrictions.  “It’s premature to reach any conclusion based upon the
facts and information as they currently exist,” Curry said.  The final Volcker rule should prohibit activity, including
hedging, that “does not reduce risks related to specific
individual or aggregate positions held by a firm,” Treasury
Deputy Secretary Neal Wolin said in his prepared remarks.  The JPMorgan loss goes beyond the rule named for former Fed
Chairman  Paul Volcker , Wolin said. It shows the need for banks’
senior managers to have effective risk models and accountability
for failure, and for regulators to have clear understanding of
banks’ exposures and risk-management systems, he said.  “Ultimately, the true test of reform is not whether it
prevents firms from taking risks or from making mistakes, but
whether our financial regulatory system is tough enough and
designed well to prevent those mistakes from hurting the broader
economy or costing taxpayers money,” Wolin said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Phil Mattingly in Washington at 
 pmattingly@bloomberg.net ;
Cheyenne Hopkins in Washington at 
 chopkins19@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Maura Reynolds  at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  