-- Kenyan Shilling Gains for Fourth Day as Central Bank Holds Rate
-- B y   J o h n s t o n e   O l e   T u r a n a
-- 2012-06-05T15:50:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-05/kenyan-shilling-gains-for-fourth-day-as-central-bank-holds-rate.html
Kenya ’s shilling gained for the
fourth day, the longest winning streak in four months, as the
central bank retained its benchmark rate at a record high for
the sixth month.  The currency of  East Africa ’s biggest economy appreciated
0.2 percent to close at 85.75 per dollar, the longest series of
gains since Feb. 1, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. It
had traded 0.5 percent stronger to 85.51 earlier.  Kenya’s central bank retained its benchmark rate at a
record-high 18 percent in its monetary policy committee meeting
today, it said in an e-mailed statement.  “The Kenya Shilling remains vulnerable to external shocks
due to the current account deficit, estimated at 11.4 percent of
GDP in April 2012 and the instability in the euro zone,” the
central bank said in the statement.  Kenya accepted all 5.79 billion shillings ($67.5 million)
of bids for seven-day  repurchase agreements  at a weighted
average rate of 17.783 percent, a central bank official, who
declined to be named in line with policy, said by phone from the
capital, Nairobi. The bank had offered 8 billion shillings of
the securities, the official said.  In a bid to support the currency, the central bank has
reduced  money supply  through at least 91 billion shillings in
repurchase agreements since May and selling an unspecified
amount of dollars in the market. The  Finance Ministry  is
encouraging intervention to prevent swings in the exchange rate.  ‘Excess Liquidity’  “Despite the enhanced Open Market Operations undertaken in
May 2012, excess liquidity conditions have persisted in the
market, thereby posing a risk to demand driven inflation
pressure and  exchange-rate  stability,” the central bank said.
“The MPC will continue to monitor closely foreign exchange
activities in the market and take appropriate measures to
sustain exchange rate stability.”  Kenya received the first $240 million of a $600 million
syndicated loan agreed upon with three international lenders
last month,  Joseph Kinyua , permanent secretary at the Finance
Ministry, said in an e-mailed statement today. The remaining
$360 million will be drawn down after one month, he said.  Kenya’s trade deficit widened in March as fuel imports rose
to the highest in seven months, the  Kenya National Bureau of
Statistics  said on May 30 on its website. The gap increased 22
percent from a year earlier to 80.3 billion shillings. The
 inflation  rate fell to the lowest in more than a year in May,
slowing for a sixth month, to 12.2 percent from 13.1 percent a
month earlier, the Nairobi-based Kenya National Bureau of
Statistics said in an e-mailed statement on May 30.  The Ugandan shilling gained 0.9 percent to close at
2,487.50 per dollar while Tanzania’s shilling weakened less than
0.1 percent to close at 1,588 per dollar.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Johnstone Ole Turana in Nairobi at 
 jturana@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at   asguazzin@bloomberg.net  