-- Kenyan Shilling Gains for Fourth Day as Government Receives Loan
-- B y   J o h n s t o n e   O l e   T u r a n a
-- 2012-06-05T09:52:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-05/kenyan-shilling-gains-for-fourth-day-as-government-receives-loan.html
Kenya ’s shilling gained for the
fourth day, the longest winning streak in four months, as the
government received the first tranche of an international loan.  The currency of  East Africa ’s biggest economy appreciated
as much as 0.5 percent to 85.51 per dollar and was up 0.4
percent at 85.65 at 12:18 p.m. in Nairobi, the longest series of
gains since Feb. 1, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Kenya received the first $240 million of a $600 million
syndicated loan agreed with three international lenders last
month,  Joseph Kinyua , permanent secretary at the  Finance
Ministry , said in an e-mailed statement today. The remaining
$360 million will be drawn down after one month, he said.  Kenya’s central bank will probably keep its benchmark rate
unchanged at a record-high 18 percent, where it’s been since
December, in its monetary policy committee meeting today,
according to five out of six economists in a Bloomberg survey.
One analyst predicted a one percentage point cut, which would be
the first reduction in a year and a half. The decision will be
announced later today.  “The bank will rather err on the cautious side with the
possibility that global sentiment could weigh on the shilling”
and is “wary of the impact cutting rates would have on the
currency,” Thalma Corbett, chief economist with NKC Independent
Economists in Paarl,  South Africa , said in an e-mail.  Trade Deficit  Kenya’s trade deficit widened in March as fuel imports rose
to the highest in seven months, the  Kenya National Bureau of
Statistics  said on May 30 on its website. The gap increased 22
percent from a year earlier to 80.3 billion shillings ($938
million). The  inflation  rate fell to the lowest for more than a
year in May, slowing for a sixth month, to 12.2 percent from
13.1 percent a month earlier, the Nairobi-based Kenya National
Bureau of Statistics said in an e-mailed statement on May 30.  The central bank has offered 8 billion shillings for seven-
day repurchase agreement, a bank official, who declined to be
named in line with policy, said by phone.  The Ugandan shilling gained 0.9 percent to 2,487.50 per
dollar while Tanzania’s shilling appreciated 0.1 percent to
1,585 per dollar.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Johnstone Ole Turana in Nairobi at 
 jturana@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at   asguazzin@bloomberg.net  