-- Kerrey Not Nebraska Favorite Son After Decade in New York
-- B y   L a u r a   L i t v a n
-- 2012-06-05T14:31:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-05/kerrey-not-nebraska-favorite-son-after-decade-in-new-york.html
Between sips of an iced latte at a
Starbucks in Omaha, Democrat Bob Kerrey counts the ways the odds
are stacked against his bid to return to the  U.S. Senate .  Republicans outnumber Democrats by 48 percent to 32 percent
in Nebraska, where Kerrey was governor before serving two Senate
terms from 1989 to 2001. Also, pro-Republican super-PAC attack
ads are claiming he forgot his roots after spending a decade in
 New York City . Further, President  Barack Obama  isn’t popular
here, which also is a drag on his candidacy.  “All taken together, it’s a tough race,” said Kerrey, 68,
who lamented that he has been unable to raise much money from
the types of donors who get behind an expected victor. “At the
moment, it’s not likely that anybody who’s going to contribute
to me says: ‘I’m going to contribute to him because I think he’s
going to win.’”  A former Navy SEAL awarded the Medal of Honor for his
service in  Vietnam , Kerrey was a Nebraska favorite son and one
of the state’s most accomplished politicians. Today, he’s the
underdog in a race to replace retiring two-term Democratic
Senator  Ben Nelson . Kerrey’s decision Feb. 29 to run -- after
earlier saying he wouldn’t -- is supposed to boost Democrats’
chances of keeping the seat and controlling the Senate where
they now have a slight majority, 53-47.  So far, nothing has gone according to script.  New School  After leaving the Senate -- and Nebraska -- in 2001, Kerrey
spent a decade as president of the New School, a self-described
progressive university in New York City’s  Greenwich Village .
When he returned to Nebraska to run again for the Senate, the
 Republican Party  brought a challenge to his residency that went
to the state  Supreme Court .  Kerrey won the challenge in March, though the case
highlighted that he used his sister’s address for voter
registration before shifting to the guest house of a Democratic
donor.  Many Nebraskans aren’t buying in to his candidacy.  “A senator is supposed to be a representative of where you
are, but he moved to  New York ,” said Nick Carl, 31, an Omaha
independent who was too young to vote when Kerrey last was on a
ballot in 1994. “It was 10 years ago. If it was a year or two,
he’d maybe have an argument.”  Kerrey said he’s about to complete the purchase of a home
in Omaha and that the issue is overblown. He said there’s
precedent to what he’s doing; former Senator Chuck Hagel, a
Republican, won the first of his two terms in 1996 after 20
years living outside Nebraska.  Republican Primary  Kerrey had expected to run against Nebraska Attorney
General Jon Bruning, a Republican who faces ethics questions
over his purchase of a lakeside home with business executives to
whom his office was accused of giving special treatment.  Instead, state Senator Deb Fischer surged past Bruning and
state Treasurer Don Stenberg to win the May 15 Republican
primary. She was boosted by a last-minute endorsement from Sarah Palin, a Tea Party favorite and 2008 vice presidential nominee,
and a decision by billionaire  Joe Ricketts  -- founder of what is
now  TD Ameritrade (AMTD)  -- to spend almost $255,000 on the race, much
of it on TV ads attacking Bruning and supporting Fischer.  Kerrey trails in the polls. A Rasmussen telephone survey on
May 16 showed Fischer with support from 56 percent of 500
probable voters to 38 percent for Kerrey. The poll had a margin
of error of plus or minus 4.5 percentage points.  Seven Debates  Acting like a front-runner, Fischer hasn’t responded to
Kerrey’s call for seven debates. Today, he plans to speak alone
at what would have been the first one, before the American
Legion Cornhusker Boys and Girls State.  Meeting with a group of Republican women over sweet rolls
and coffee last week in western Omaha, Fischer spoke of her
opposition to tax increases or a pathway to citizenship for
illegal immigrants and her support for domestic spending cuts.
Kerrey, she said, “isn’t getting the traction he expected” in
his return-home candidacy.  “It’s up to the voters to reject people like that, and
then it won’t happen,” she said.  Kerrey served as governor of  Nebraska  from 1983 to 1987 and
was elected to the Senate a year later. He unsuccessfully sought
the Democratic presidential nomination in 1992, making a
national health insurance overhaul his central campaign issue.
His proposal would have allowed the government to create a
publicly run health system.  More Republican  Kerrey is running in a state that is more Republican than
when he left, and where Nelson is the sole Democratic statewide
officeholder, said  Jennifer Duffy , Senate editor of the
nonpartisan Cook Political Report.  “It’s a pretty big hill,” she said of Kerrey’s run. She
rates the Senate seat as likely to switch to Republican control.  Known for his willingness to work with Republicans in the
Senate -- where he helped lead commissions that came up with
bipartisan plans for overhauling Medicare and the  Internal
Revenue Service  -- Kerrey said he’s running to help curb
partisan gridlock.  Kerrey said he’ll campaign on his convictions, though his
positions might be unpopular with some state voters.  “I’m not running because I need to be a senator,” he
said. “In fact, I barely want to be. I’m willing to do it
because I’m worried about our country. There’s a set of problems
that aren’t going to be solved unless people are willing to
compromise.”  Budget Deficit  Kerrey said he wants to reduce the budget deficit through a
mixture of spending cuts and tax increases. He proposes
generating more revenue by narrowing the difference between the
15 percent capital gains rate and the 35 percent top rate on
ordinary income, and boosting taxes for investment profits of
private-equity fund managers.  Kerrey said he would have voted for the 2010 health care
overhaul, though he wants some changes. He would replace today’s
employer-provided health insurance with a market-based approach
that expands the risk pool. He says individuals could choose
between plans with copayments and deductibles that the
government sets.  Some voters don’t like Kerrey’s support of the health care
law. Nelson was criticized for being the final vote needed to
muscle the legislation through the Senate in 2009 after
receiving a concession from Majority Leader known as the
“Cornhusker kickback.” That provision was later dropped.  ‘Poking’ Finger  “For Kerrey to say he’s supporting it is like poking your
finger in the eye of the bear,” said Stephanie Arje, a
Republican from Omaha who said she picketed Nelson’s office to
protest his health care vote.  Others, though, say Kerrey’s willingness to work across
party lines wins their support.  His experience makes Kerrey the more plausible candidate,
said Tony Ward, an independent voter who works at Omaha’s
Creighton University.  “Right now, I see so much rancor” in the Republican
party, Ward said. “It’s become such a circus that they don’t
have any credibility anymore. With Kerrey, I trust his record.”  Randall Adkins, a political science professor at the
 University of Nebraska , said that to win in November Kerrey must
appeal to enough Republicans and to voters in Omaha and Lincoln,
which have a higher concentration of independents and Democrats.  “If he doesn’t do well in Omaha, he won’t do well,”
Adkins said. “He has to win his base.”  Fundraising Help  Kerrey has had fundraising help from his party, including
$43,100 from the Democratic Senatorial Campaign Committee. On
March 28, Senate Democratic leaders including Majority Leader
 Harry Reid  held a fundraiser in  Washington  to benefit Kerrey’s
election bid.  He has spent most of what he has raised, paying $754,560
for ads to reintroduce himself to state voters, according to
data from Kantar Media’s CMAG, which tracks campaign spending.
The ads play up his record of bipartisanship and his war-hero
past, and feature voters who welcome him back.  Kerrey has been the target of attack ads by Republicans in
their primary and outside groups including Americans for
Prosperity, funded in part by Koch Industries Inc. executives
 Charles Koch  and  David Koch . That group focused on his support
of the health-care law and a cap-and-trade regulatory system to
reduce greenhouse gas emissions.  “Tell  Bob Kerrey  his liberal agenda isn’t welcome in our
Nebraska homes,” said an ad by Americans for Prosperity that
aired in April.  Republican Hagel said he’s convinced that Kerrey can follow
in his footsteps with a home-state comeback win.  “It’s a joke to say he’s not a real Nebraskan and he’s a
carpetbagger,” Hagel, who didn’t seek re-election in 2008, said
in an interview. “Come on. This is a guy who is Nebraska
through and through.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laura Litvan in Washington at 
 llitvan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  