-- Kings Rout Devils to Move Within One Win of NHL’s Stanley Cup
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2012-06-05T04:18:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-05/kings-rout-devils-to-move-within-one-win-of-nhl-s-stanley-cup.html
The  Los Angeles Kings  are one win
away from capturing the  National Hockey League ’s Stanley Cup for
the first time after beating the New Jersey Devils 4-0.  Alec Martinez and  Anze Kopitar  scored second-period goals
for the Kings to snap a scoreless tie at the Staples Center in
Los Angeles, and Jeff Carter and Justin Williams added goals in
the third period. Goaltender Jonathan Quick made 22 saves for
the shutout as the Kings took a three-games-to-none lead in the
best-of-seven championship series.  The Kings, who entered the postseason as the final seed
among the Western Conference’s eight playoff teams, can win
their first NHL title with a Game 4 victory at home tomorrow and
become the first No. 8 seed to capture the Stanley Cup.  “We’re tasting that we’re close and that should push us
even more,” Williams said at a news conference.  Los Angeles  now has held a 3-0 lead in all four of its
series this postseason. The Kings will seek to become the 21st
team to complete a four-game sweep in the Stanley Cup Final and
the first since 1998, when Detroit beat Washington.  “The fourth one is going to be the toughest one, but I’m
sure on Wednesday the crowd is going to be just as excited as
us,” said Kopitar, who added an assist on Williams’s goal.
“Being focused is going to be a big part of it.”  The only team to rally from an 0-3 deficit and win the
Stanley Cup was the 1942  Toronto Maple Leafs  against  Detroit .  “We’ll just play the game the way we’ve always done it,”
Kings center Jarret Stoll said in a televised interview when
asked how the team will avoid being overconfident. “We’ll try
to do the things that got us here, that’s it.”  Martinez Scores  The Kings, who won the first two games of the Stanley Cup
Final 2-1 in overtime in Newark, New Jersey, took the lead last
night on Martinez’s goal 5:40 into the second period.  It was Martinez’s first tally of the postseason, and
Kopitar scored his eighth playoff goal less than 10 minutes
later by firing an 18-foot one-timer past Devils goaltender
Martin Brodeur off a pass from  Dustin Brown .  Carter pushed the Kings’ lead to 3-0 at the 4:15 mark of
the third period, tapping in a centering pass from Mike Richards
less than a minute into a power play.  The Kings’ final goal also came with a man advantage 2:32
later when Williams fired a wrist shot at Brodeur and then poked
a rebound between the legs of the Devils’ goalie. While the
third-period goals prompted derisive cheers of “Mar-ty” from
Kings fans, Quick completed his team-record third shutout of the
postseason.  “You need outstanding goaltending to win playoff games,”
Kings coach Darryl Sutter said. “He’s given us that.”  Sutter also said the Kings’ penalty killing was a “huge
factor.” Los Angeles prevented the Devils from scoring on all
six of their power-play opportunities, including a five-on-three
advantage at one point during the first period.  The Devils’ two goals through the first three games of the
 Stanley Cup  Final are the fewest since 1969, when the  St. Louis
Blues  totaled three goals in a four-game sweep by the  Montreal
Canadiens .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in  New York  at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  