-- Knology Sued by Investor Over WideOpenWest Buyout Offer
-- B y   M i c h a e l   B a t h o n
-- 2012-06-05T22:04:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-05/knology-executives-sued-over-1-5-billion-sale-to-wideopenwest.html
Knology Inc. (KNOL) , a cable-television
operator in the U.S. Southeast and Midwest, was sued by a
shareholder claiming WideOpenWest Finance LLC’s $1.5 billion
takeover offer undervalues the company.  WideOpenWest, controlled by Avista Capital Partners LP, is
offering $19.75 a share in cash, according to an April 18
statement. The bid is 34 percent more than Knology’s average
three-month closing price before the Wall Street Journal
reported Feb. 28 that the company was considering offers.  “Given Knology’s recent strong performance as well as its
future growth prospects, the consideration shareholders will
receive is inadequate,” Sheila Lewis, a Knology investor, said
in a complaint filed yesterday in Delaware Chancery Court in
Wilmington. She seeks to represent shareholders as a group.  M. Todd Holt, president of  West Point , Georgia-based
Knology, wasn’t immediately available to respond to a phone call
and e-mail seeking comment on the lawsuit.  Knology rose 0.4 percent to $19.52 in Nasdaq Stock Market
trading.  The acquisition would give Englewood, Colorado-based
WideOpenWest, known as WOW!, a larger customer base to bolster
its position in talks with content providers. The combined
company would have more than 800,000 subscribers in 13 states.  ‘Material Conflicts’  Knology’s financial advisers -- an affiliate of  Credit
Suisse Group AG (CSGN)  and a unit of  Bank of America Corp. ’s Merrill
Lynch -- failed to act impartially or in the best interest of
shareholders, Lewis said.  Both had “material conflicts of interest” that prevented
them from getting the best price for Knology, “thus tainting
the sales process,” she said. Neither was sued in the
complaint.  Credit Suisse owns an indirect stake in WOW! through its
holdings in Avista, Lewis said. Merrill Lynch provided services
to Avista at least five times during the past two years,
according to court documents.  William Halldin , a spokesman for  Charlotte , North Carolina-
based Bank of America, and Jack Grone, a spokesman for Zurich-
based Credit Suisse, both declined to comment on Lewis’s
complaint.  The case is Lewis v. Knology Inc., CA7592, Delaware
Chancery Court (Wilmington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Bathon in Wilmington at 
 mbathon@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  