-- Korean Won Rebounds From 8-Month Low as Stocks Rally; Bonds Drop
-- B y   K y o u n g w h a   K i m
-- 2012-06-05T07:44:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-05/korean-won-rises-most-in-a-week-as-stocks-rally-bonds-decline.html
South Korea ’s won strengthened,
rebounding from near an eight-month low, as some investors
judged recent declines excessive.  Government bonds  declined as
stocks rallied.  The currency depreciated 4.3 percent last month, the
biggest decline since September and touched 1,185.53 per dollar
on May 25, the weakest point since October, as a worsening debt
crisis in Europe and signs China’s economy is slowing deterred
risk-taking. The MSCI  Asia-Pacific Index (MXAP)  of regional shares
climbed 1.4 percent today, snapping a four-day drop that left
the gauge at its lowest level since November.  “The absence of any major bad news from Europe was a
positive for Asia,” said Kim Sung Soon, a chief currency dealer
at state-run Industrial Bank of  Korea . “With stocks rebounding,
there are some players snapping up bargains after the recent
decline in the local currency and the market seems to be full of
dollars for now.”  The won climbed 0.2 percent to 1,180.20 per dollar in
Seoul, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Its one-month
implied volatility, a measure of exchange-rate swings used to
price options, fell 73 basis points, or 0.73 percentage point,
to 10.9 percent.  The government will step up policy efforts to boost
economic growth while keeping inflation stable, the  finance
ministry  said in its monthly economic assessment report today.  Moody’s View  Asia’s fourth-biggest economy hasn’t changed significantly
since Moody’s Investors Service raised its outlook for South
Korea in April, a senior vice president for the company in  Asia 
said.  “Nothing fundamental has changed since we raised the
outlook,”  Tom Byrne  told reporters in Seoul today. “The drop
in demand from Europe would hurt exports for countries such as
Korea and other regions” in the near term, he said.  The yield on the government’s 3.5 percent bonds due March
2017 increased four basis points to 3.38 percent, Korea Exchange
Inc. prices show. Yesterday’s closing level was the lowest for a
benchmark five-year note since 2004.  Three-year debt futures declined to 104.76 from 104.87
yesterday and the one-year interest-rate swap rose three basis
points to 3.31 percent. The Kospi Index of shares gained 1
percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kyoungwha Kim in Singapore at 
 kkim19@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  