-- Korea’s Won Leads Asia Currency Gains as Losses Judged Excessive
-- B y   Y u m i   T e s o
-- 2012-06-05T08:52:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-05/korea-s-won-leads-asia-currency-gains-as-losses-judged-excessive.html
South  Korea ’s won and Taiwan’s dollar
led gains among Asian currencies as some investors judged recent
declines excessive.  The won rose from near an eight-month low and Taiwan’s
dollar climbed from a four-month low. The  MSCI (MXAP)  Asia-Pacific
Index of shares snapped a four-day losing streak after Canadian
Finance Minister  Jim Flaherty  said policy makers from the Group
of Seven countries will hold a call today to discuss the
European debt crisis.  “Amid no fresh bad news and a rebound in stocks, we are
seeing a correction upward in regional currencies that have been
weakening recently,” said Tohru Nishihama, an economist at Dai-
ichi Life Research Institute Inc. in Tokyo. “Still, sentiment
toward emerging-market assets isn’t so strong yet.”  The won advanced 0.2 percent to 1,180.20 per dollar in
 Seoul , according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The  Taiwan
dollar  added 0.2 percent to NT$30, while the baht climbed 0.9
percent from June 1 to 31.63 after onshore markets were shut
yesterday for a holiday.  The won tumbled 4.3 percent last month, the biggest decline
since September, and touched 1,185.53 on May 25, the weakest
level since October, as Europe’s worsening debt crisis and
China’s slowing economy deterred risk-taking.  ‘Absence of Bad News’  “The absence of any major bad news from Europe was a
positive for  Asia ,” said Kim Sung Soon, a currency dealer at
state-run  Industrial Bank of Korea. (024110)  “With stocks rebounding,
there are some players snapping up bargains after a recent
decline in the local currency and the market seems to be full of
dollars for now.”  Malaysia’s ringgit was little changed as economists
predicted official data tomorrow will show Malaysian exports
rebounded. The currency traded at 3.2005 per dollar, compared
with 3.1972 yesterday.  Overseas shipments rose 1.1 percent in April from a year
earlier after contracting 0.1 percent in March, according to the
median  forecast  of 13 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News.  Malaysian Exports  “Malaysian exports may pick up and that will support the
ringgit,” said Akira Banno, a treasury adviser at Bank of
Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ Bhd. in  Kuala Lumpur . “There is an
expectation that the G7 teleconference may come to some solution
on Europe.”  The baht touched a two-week high on speculation exporters
converted overseas income and as a technical indicator heralded
a decline in the dollar. The U.S. currency’s 14-day relative
strength index against the baht surged to 76 on June 1, above
the 70 threshold that indicates the greenback is overbought.  “It’s natural to expect some exporter flows after the long
weekend,” Dai-ichi Life Research’s Nishihama said.  Elsewhere, China’s  yuan  was little changed at 6.3675
against the greenback, while India’s rupee declined 0.4 percent
to 55.86. Indonesia’s rupiah fell 0.1 percent to 9,403. The
Philippine peso traded at 43.465 from 43.483 yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yumi Teso in Bangkok at 
 yteso1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net . 