-- KT Shelves Telkom Stake Plan on South Africa Opposition
-- B y   J u n   Y a n g
-- 2012-06-05T08:22:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-05/kt-shelves-telkom-stake-plan-on-south-africa-opposition.html
KT Corp. (030200) ,  South Korea ’s second-
largest mobile-phone operator, shelved its plan to buy a 20
percent stake in  Telkom South Africa Ltd. (TKG)  after the South
African government said it opposed the sale.  Plans for the purchase were set aside and may be revived
depending on what the South African government asks for, Yung
Kim, senior executive vice president for strategy planning and
investment at Seongnam, South Korea-based KT, said in a phone
interview today. “If it’s something we can solve, we can talk
again. We don’t have a clear idea on what the problem is.”  South Africa ’s Cabinet won’t support the plan, Pretoria-
based Telkom said on June 1, leading  shares  in Telkom to drop to
an eight-year low that day. The government is Telkom’s largest
owner with a 39.8 percent stake, and state-controlled pension
fund Public Investment Corp. holds 10.9 percent, according to
 data  compiled by Bloomberg.  South African Communications Minister Dina Pule told
reporters on June 4 KT’s 2.68 billion rand ($315 million) offer
wasn’t enough to support  Africa ’s largest fixed-line operator.
Telkom has said it will speak with the minister to clarify its
position. The government said its decision took into account the
role Telkom will play in increasing access to services.  KT climbed 1.2 percent to 29,100 won at the close of Seoul
trading. The shares have dropped 18 percent this year, compared
with a 1.3 percent decline in the benchmark Kospi index. Telkom
gained 1.5 percent to 21.31 rand in Johannesburg trading
yesterday.  The South Korean carrier, which last month reduced its
offer to 25.60 rand a share for the holding from the Oct. 14
proposal of 36.06 rand a share, isn’t discussing raising the
price, Kim said. A 20 percent stake would be worth about 2.2
billion rand at yesterday’s closing share price.  Telkom told KT it will continue discussions with the South
African government, which will make a final decision on the
offer in three months, Kim said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jun Yang in Seoul at 
 jyang180@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  