-- Nabors Shareholders Approve ‘Proxy Access’ Proposal on Directors
-- B y   D a v i d   W e t h e
-- 2012-06-05T21:56:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-05/nabors-shareholders-approve-proxy-access-proposal-on-directors.html
Shareholders for  Nabors Industries
Ltd. (NBR) , the world’s largest land-drilling contractor, approved a
“proxy access” proposal that would give owners of the stock
greater power to nominate their own board candidates.  The proposal, which needed a majority of shares voted,
passed, Denny Smith, a spokesman for the Hamilton, Bermuda-based
company, said today in an e-mail. Nabors will issue a federal
filing with details of the vote “within the required time,” he
wrote.  The proposal, which was submitted by several New York City
retirement and pension funds, was voted on by shareholders at
today’s annual meeting in  Bermuda . It was supported by funds in
 California ,  Connecticut  and  Maryland .  “The significance of today’s majority vote for proxy
access at Nabors is about much more than an historically
unaccountable board that failed to rein in the excesses of an
overpaid CEO,” John C. Liu,  New York  City comptroller, said in
an e-mailed statement. “It serves as irrefutable evidence that
the investment community wants reasonable proxy access rights
for substantial, long-term shareowners.”  The company announced in February that former Chief
Executive Officer Eugene Isenberg forfeited his rights to a $100
million payment in connection with him being replaced, and also
said he would resign as chairman this month. The estate of
Isenberg, who served as CEO for 24 years, will collect $6.6
million plus interest upon his death.  The New York City comptroller’s office said in the e-mail
this was the first-ever majority support for a proxy access
proposal at a major company.  A shareholder can qualify to nominate a board member if he
owns at least 3 percent of the stock for at least three years,
according to the proposal.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Wethe in Houston at 
 dwethe@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  