-- Facebook IPO Said Focus of Nasdaq Broker Briefing Today
-- B y   N i n a   M e h t a
-- 2012-06-06T05:12:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-05/nasdaq-said-to-plan-update-on-facebook-ipo-compensation-process.html
Nasdaq OMX Group Inc. (NDAQ)  will inform
brokers today about the compensation process for firms that lost
money in the initial public offering of  Facebook Inc. (FB) , according
to a person with direct knowledge of the matter.  The second-largest U.S. stock-exchange operator told member
companies and market participants that it will brief them by the
end of the day, according to the person, who asked not to be
identified because the discussions are private. Nasdaq OMX
planned to set aside about $13 million for reimbursements,
pending Securities and Exchange Commission approval, Chief
Executive Officer Robert Greifeld said on May 20.  Joe Christinat, a Nasdaq spokesman, declined to comment.
The Wall Street Journal reported earlier that Nasdaq OMX plans
to brief brokers on Menlo Park,  California-based Facebook .  Nasdaq and Facebook ran into trouble on the morning of May
18 when computer systems used to set the opening price in the
IPO were overwhelmed by order cancellations and updates. The
stock has  declined  32 percent from the $38 price set by
underwriters in the $16 billion offering, the biggest ever by a
technology company. Facebook fell 3.8 percent to $25.87
yesterday.  Order updates and cancellations totaling 30 million shares
were submitted into the opening auction as it was being repaired
between 11:11 a.m. and 11:30 a.m. New York time on May 18,
Greifeld said two days later. About half of them may involve
“some level of dispute,” he said. Nasdaq has said the 30
million shares weren’t included in the IPO cross.  $120 Million  Losses may total $120 million for the four largest U.S.
equity wholesalers, or market-makers that execute orders for
individual investors supplied from brokers such as  TD Ameritrade
Holding Corp. (AMTD)  and Charles Schwab.  Knight Capital Group Inc. (KCG)  estimated it lost as much as $35
million trading Facebook because of the malfunction, the Jersey
City, New Jersey-based broker said in a May 23 SEC filing.
Citadel LLC, the Chicago-based investment firm run by  Ken
Griffin , lost as much as $35 million in its market-making unit,
according to a person with knowledge of the firm.  UBS AG (UBSN)  lost about $30 million and  Citigroup Inc. (C)  about $20
million from servicing retail customers through their
wholesaling businesses, Dow Jones Newswires reported on May 25.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nina Mehta in New York at 
 nmehta24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  