-- Nationstar to Buy Rights on $10.4 Billion of Home Loans
-- B y   B r i a n   L o u i s
-- 2012-06-05T12:50:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-05/nationstar-to-buy-rights-on-10-4-billion-of-home-loans.html
Nationstar Mortgage Holdings Inc. (NSM) 
agreed to buy servicing rights on mortgages with an unpaid
principal balance of $10.4 billion from  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  as
banks reduce the amount of home loans they administer.  The purchase will be funded partly by an investment by
 Newcastle Investment Corp. (NCT) , Lewisville, Texas-based Nationstar
said in a statement today. Newcastle paid $44 million for the
right to receive 65 percent of the monthly  cash flow  generated
by the rights, the New York-based real-estate debt investor said
in a separate statement.  Nationstar, taken public by Fortress Investment Group in
March, is expanding its loan-servicing business as banks cut
their portfolios to meet capital requirements proposed under the
Basel III accord. The regulation forces lenders to hold more
capital against mortgage servicing rights that exceed 10 percent
of tier 1 capital, a measure of high-quality, loss-absorbing
reserves that banks must hold against risky assets.  Nationstar is positioned to become the largest non-bank
residential loan servicer by the end of this year, according to
Chief Executive Officer Jay Bray. The company added $36.3
billion to its servicing portfolio in the first quarter from a
year earlier, exceeding the $33.2 billion gain for market leader
Wells Fargo & Co., data from Inside Mortgage Finance show.  Nationstar agreed last month to acquire $374 billion in
servicing rights from Residential Capital LLC, a division of
 Ally Financial Inc. (ALLY)   Newcastle is managed by an affiliate of Fortress. The Bank
of America loans are expected to transfer to Nationstar in July.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Louis in Chicago at 
 blouis1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  