-- New Jersey’s May Tax Revenue Missed Analyst’s Projections
-- B y   T e r r e n c e   D o p p
-- 2012-06-05T22:06:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-05/new-jersey-s-may-tax-revenue-missed-analyst-s-projections.html
New Jersey  collected less tax revenue
during May than projected by the Legislature’s chief fiscal
analyst, according to a memo sent to lawmakers.  Revenue for fiscal 2012, which ends June 30, will now
probably be $50 million to $100 million below an earlier
forecast,  David Rosen  of the nonpartisan  Office of Legislative
Services  said in the note obtained by Bloomberg News. Rosen
declined to comment when reached by telephone.  The May shortfall means revenue through June 2013 may lag
behind Governor  Chris Christie ’s initial projections by as much
as $1.4 billion, compared with Rosen’s $1.3 billion estimate two
weeks ago. Christie, 49, a first-term Republican, has traveled
the state to promote his “Jersey Comeback,” a turnaround he
has said will let the state raise spending while cutting income
taxes 10 percent over three years.  “In the absence of mitigating circumstances, the May
collection data would suggest a modest downward adjustment,”
Rosen wrote in the memo.  Treasurer Andrew Sidamon-Eristoff told lawmakers on May 23
that the two-year shortfall will be $676 million. He and Rosen
were $628 million apart on the projections they gave last month.
They are now as much as $728 million apart.  Sales Taxes  The state’s major sources of  tax revenue  in May came in
below expectations, Rosen said in the memo. He didn’t give
specifics on the shortfall. Sales taxes were 2.3 percent less
than May 2011’s collections, the biggest surprise, Rosen said.  The $32.1 billion budget for fiscal 2013 that Christie
proposed in February called for a 7.3 percent revenue gain, the
largest since before the recession that began in December 2007.
 Standard & Poor’s  said in February that the spending plan is
“structurally unbalanced” because it is built on
“optimistic” revenue assumptions.  The governor and lawmakers face a July 1 deadline to pass a
balanced budget for the next fiscal year. Democrats control both
houses of the Legislature.  “There may not be a sustainable revenue stream to
support” Christie’s  tax cut , Assembly Budget Committee Chairman
Vincent Prieto, a Democrat from Secaucus, said in a telephone
interview today. “This just says we need to get away from the
catchy slogans and national sound bites.”  ‘Off the Mark’  Kevin Roberts , a spokesman for Christie, said in an e-mail
that Prieto and other Democrats are “jumping for joy” at the
projected revenue hole. Roberts said in an e-mail to reporters
that the administrations’s current estimate is that revenue in
May fell $28.9 million short of previous estimates.  “They’re too concerned with rooting for New Jersey’s
failure so they can justify their obsession with raising taxes
on hard-working families,” Roberts said. “Why would they let
reality stand in the way of raising taxes when they have a
partisan office backing them up along the way?”  The governor has said he wouldn’t abandon his tax cut
because of lower-than-expected collections. Christie has said
revenue growth alone will be enough to fund it and that he’ll
veto any tax increases.  Democrats have made counterproposals that would give
middle-class residents property-tax credits on income-tax
returns. The Senate plan would give a 10 percent credit.
Assembly Democrats want to give 20 percent credits and fund them
partly through a tax increase on those making $1 million or
more.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Terrence Dopp in Trenton at 
 tdopp@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  