-- Nintendo Reboots Wii to Help Mario Wean Gamers From Ipads
-- B y   N a o k o   F u j i m u r a   a n d   C l i f f   E d w a r d s
-- 2012-06-05T23:06:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-05/nintendo-reboots-wii-consoles-to-lure-gamers-from-ipads-tech.html
Nintendo Co. will let Mario and Zelda
leap between big-screen TVs and the handheld controllers of its
new Wii U console to lure gamers who increasingly play free
titles on their  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  iPads and iPhones.  The world’s largest maker of video-game machines unveiled
23 games for the Wii U today at the Electronic Entertainment
Expo in  Los Angeles . President Satoru Iwata hopes the console
and a fresh crop of games will help Nintendo recover from a 43.2
billion-yen ($551 million)  net loss  for the year ended March 31
-- its first loss since being listed.  Nintendo is changing tactics, combining social-media
features and TV screen action with a touch-screen controller as
the company, based in Kyoto,  Japan , faces competition from an
online game market that may grow to $37.9 billion by 2016. The
question is whether the new console, Nintendo’s first since it
introduced the Wii in 2006, features and games will attract
consumers who may have moved on to newer ways to play.  “It changes your gaming, it changes how you interact with
your gaming friends and it changes how you enjoy your TV,”
Reggie Fils-Aime, Nintendo’s president for  North America , said
from the stage today at the E3 conference. “It stands to
revolutionize your living room.”  Nintendo has lost 48 percent of its  market value  over the
past year and rose 3 percent to close at 9,290 yen in Osaka
trading today. Annual sales of games at U.S. retailers including
 GameStop Corp. (GME)  have fallen for three years as consumers flocked
to online titles such as  Zynga Inc. (ZNGA) ’s “FarmVille.”  Touch-Screen Controller  U.S. sales of game hardware and software dropped to $17
billion last year from $18.6 billion a year earlier, according
to NPD Group Inc., an industry researcher based in  Port
Washington ,  New York . Revenue for online games is projected to
rise to $37.9 billion by 2016 from $19.3 billion in 2010, DFC
Intelligence of  San Diego  said in September.  “It’s crucial that the new software create demand and a
market,” said Satoru Kikuchi, a Tokyo-based analyst at Deutsche
Bank AG, who rates Nintendo shares hold. “They need two or
three original titles that can exploit the features of the Wii
U.”  Titles introduced today include a new Wii Fit that records
how many calories players burn, and “Just Dance 4.”  Mario Bros.  Nintendo presented a new version of “Super Mario Bros.”
and its Zelda character today and said a version for the 3DS
handheld player will be released Aug. 19.  Harder-core games were represented by a new Batman title
from  Warner Bros . and “ZombiU,” a horror shooting title. A
version of  Ubisoft Entertainment (UBI) ’s “Assassin’s Creed III” is
in development, Fils-Aime said in an interview.  The company also announced links to video services such as
Netflix and YouTube. The inclusion of more fighting titles plus
richer family-oriented games will help expand Nintendo’s
audience, Fils-Aime said. High-definition capability, lacking in
the original Wii, is drawing developers of mature games, he
said.  “We can get mom and dad as well as the younger siblings,”
Fils-Aime said in the interview. “And you have the teenagers
and young adults as well.”  The centerpiece of the new machine is a touch-screen
controller called the GamePad, which serves as a second screen
for games or as an independent screen for functions including
video calls or Internet browsing.  New Controller  The 6.2-inch touchscreen controller, about the size of a
tablet computer, lets users connect wirelessly to the console. A
player can switch camera angles in a game, change the lighting
and flick the picture back to the touchscreen should another
person want to watch a TV program.  “What is being seen or even done on the small GamePad
screen is different from what’s happening on the big-screen
TV,” Iwata said in the video.  Nintendo, which forecasts it will return to profitability
with net income of 20 billion yen for the year ending March 31,
learned from the mistakes made introducing the 3DS, Iwata said.  “When we launched the Nintendo 3DS, we failed to prepare a
software lineup which could satisfy our customers,” he told
analysts in  Tokyo  on April 27. “We have learned the lesson that
we have to make that kind of preparation for the Wii U.”  Sales of the 3DS have gained momentum in Japan, though U.S.
demand for the player is “far less” than Nintendo’s
expectations, Iwata said in April.  Sales Targets  The company may be able to sell 6 million to 7 million
units of the Wii U, which may retail for 25,000 yen in Japan and
$250 in the U.S., this fiscal year, Hideki Yasuda, an analyst at
Ace Securities Co. in Tokyo, said in an April 27 report.  Nintendo forecasts 10.5 million combined unit sales for the
Wii and Wii U.  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  sold 14.9 million Xbox machines in 2011,
according to calculations based on quarterly announcements.  Sony
Corp. (6758)  sold 13.9 million PlayStation 3 consoles last fiscal year,
it said in an earnings statement in May.  Microsoft will begin selling the next version of the Xbox
in 2013 at the earliest, people with knowledge of the plans told
Bloomberg News in March. Sony plans a release the same year for
the successor to the PlayStation 3, the Wall Street Journal
reported last week, citing unidentified people familiar with the
matter.  Xbox Service  The Xbox 360’s online service will add sports and
entertainment content through 35 new providers, adding shows
including “Monday Night Football,” Microsoft said yesterday at
E3. The Redmond, Washington-based company also introduced an
application called Xbox SmartGlass that will link the console to
phones, tablets and personal computers.  Sony’s PlayStation 3 is adding movies, TV shows and
exclusive games including “Wonderbook: Book of Spells” from
“ Harry Potter ” author  J.K. Rowling , the Tokyo-based company
said yesterday at the trade show.  “Nintendo may remain in the current tough situation for
another year or so, until there’s a sign that the Wii U takes
off,” Yasuda said.  Yasuda is among five  analysts  tracked by Bloomberg with a
buy rating on the stock. Fourteen analysts rate Nintendo a hold,
and three recommend selling.  Many of the customers who made the Wii a hit have since
moved on to social and mobile gaming, said Edward Woo, an
analyst at Ascendiant Capital Markets in  Irvine ,  California .  “For Nintendo to be able to recapture those people, they
would really need to come up with something that is unique,”
Woo said. “The challenges they face are pretty significant.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Naoko Fujimura in Tokyo at 
 nfujimura@bloomberg.net ;
Cliff Edwards in  San Francisco  at 
 cedwards28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  