-- Nokia, Apple, Obama, Ubisoft, ETSI: Intellectual Property
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 2012-06-05T11:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-05/nokia-apple-obama-ubisoft-etsi-intellectual-property.html
Nokia Oyj’s claim of patent
infringement on electronics, including mobile phones and tablet
computers from Taiwan’s  HTC Corp. (2498) , will be reviewed by a U.S.
agency that has the power to block imports of the goods.  The International Trade Commission agreed to investigate
Nokia’s complaint, filed with the agency last month, according
to a statement yesterday. No date has been set for a decision.  Nokia said on May 2 it filed lawsuits in the U.S. and
 Germany  over inventions for mobile devices, naming HTC among
several manufacturers. The company, which lost its 14-year title
as the world’s biggest seller of mobile phones last year to
 Samsung Electronics Co. (005930) , is seeking to expand revenue from its
patent holdings.  HTC is using proprietary technology of Espoo, Finland-based
Nokia to improve hardware and software functions in its devices,
the company said in a statement when it filed the suits.  Nokia has joined  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  to make Lumia smartphones
that run using Windows Phone software, which competes with
 Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s Android operating system. HTC makes phones for
both Android and Windows Phone.  A final decision in the trade commission’s investigation
will be made “at the earliest practicable time,” according to
the statement. A hearing will be held and then a commission
judge will issue findings in the case. If a violation is found,
the six-member commission will then vote on whether to block HTC
phones from entering the U.S. market.  A spokesman for HTC wasn’t available to comment. Nokia and
HTC have been partners in fighting patent-infringement claims by
IPCom GmbH, a licensing company that obtained mobile-phone
patents from  Robert Bosch GmbH  in 2007.  About 10 companies, including  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  and  Research in
Motion Ltd ., dominate the global industry. There was about $312
billion in worldwide sales of handsets in 2011, a 19 percent
increase from 2010, according to Bloomberg Industries.  Apple Copied Samsung Inventions for IPhone Use, U.S. Judge Told  Apple Inc. introduced its iPhone in 2007 using Samsung
Electronics Co. technology that it didn’t want to pay for, a
lawyer representing the Korean electronics company told a U.S.
trade judge yesterday.  Samsung contends Apple’s devices, including the iPhone,
iPad tablet computer and iPod touch media player have infringed
as many as four patents. All came from two decades of work
Suwon, South Korea-based Samsung spent improving mobile phones,
the attorney for the company said.  “All of these things that Samsung built up, Apple was
using when it entered the market,” Samsung lawyer Charles
Verhoeven of Los Angeles- based Quinn Emanuel Urquhart & Sullivan
LLP  said at the beginning of the trial yesterday at the U.S.
International Trade Commission in  Washington .  The case before ITC Judge James Gildea, and another patent
case by Apple against Samsung that’s in the midst of trial
before a different trade judge, are part of a global battle
between the two companies for increased share of a market that
Bloomberg Industries said was $312 billion last year.  Apple denies infringing the Samsung patents and is
challenging their validity, just as Samsung is doing in regard
to Apple’s allegations.  Samsung’s case against Apple is In the Matter of Electronic
Devices, Including Wireless Communication Devices, 337-794, and
Apple’s case against Samsung is In the Matter of Electronic
Digital Media Devices, 337-796, both U.S. International Trade
Commission (Washington).  For more patent news, click here.  Trademark  Obama Campaign Sues Seller of Election Materials  The  Obama presidential campaign  filed a trademark-
infringement suit against a website that sells election-related
materials.  It is the second similar complaint the campaign has filed
against Washington-based  Demstore.com  since October 2011.
According to the complaint filed June 1 in federal court in
Washington, the campaign objects to what it says is unauthorized
use of the “rising sun” trademark.  The campaign said it’s damaged because it depends on its
sale of authorized merchandise as a fundraising technique for
President Barack Obama’s re-election campaign. Also, when people
make even a “relatively small” purchase of trademarked
merchandise through the official website, the campaign obtains
the buyer’s contact information and uses it “to reach out to
that individual repeatedly to seek further donations and further
opportunities to promote the campaign.”  The earlier trademark suit against Demstore.com was
dismissed following a Jan. 25 court filing from the campaign
requesting termination of the case. No details of a settlement
were available in the court file.  In the new case, the campaign asked the court to bar
further unauthorized use of its “rising sun” and other
trademarks, and to order the seizure of all unauthorized
merchandise. Additionally, the campaign seeks money damages,
including extra damages to punish the website for what it says
is deliberate infringement.  Demstore.com didn’t respond immediately to an e-mailed
request for comment.  The Obama campaign is represented by Barry J. Reingold,
William C. Rava and Jeremy L. Buxbaum of Seattle’s Perkins Coie
LLP.  The new case is Obama for America v. Demstore.com, 1:12-cv-
00889, U.S. District Court,  District of Columbia  (Washington).
The earlier case is Obama for America v. Demstore.com, 1:11-cv-
07646, U.S. District Court for the Northern District of Illinois
(Chicago).  For more trademark news, click here.  Copyright  Ubisoft Asks Court to Declare It Didn’t Infringe Beiswenger Book  Ubisoft Entertainment SA (UBI)  filed a copyright suit against
author John L. Beiswenger two weeks after he dismissed a
copyright suit he filed against the French maker of computer
games.  On May 15 Beiswenger and Ubisoft jointly filed a court
document asking that the case he filed in April be dismissed.
According to data compiled by Bloomberg, the parties said they
reached a settlement in the dispute.  Beiswenger, a Pennsylvania resident, had claimed that
Ubisoft’s 2007 “Assassin’s Creed” games infringed the
copyright for his 2002 work “Link: A Novel.”  In the new suit, Ubisoft asked the court to declare that
the game doesn’t infringe Beiswenger’s copyrights. His claims
are “entirely meritless and were based on patently non-
copyrightable elements” contained in the two works, Ubisoft
said.  Montreuil, France-based Ubisoft said it filed the new case
despite Beiswenger’s dismissal of the infringement suit because
“his claim could be refiled at any time.” The company wants to
establish “once and for all” that its “Assassin’s Creed”
doesn’t infringe Beiswenger’s copyrights directly or indirectly.  Ubisoft argued that the “ancestral memories” element
Beiswenger claimed was infringed “has existed in the cultural
consciousness for decades -- long before the publication of
either ‘Link’ or ‘Assassin’s Creed.’”  In addition to a declaration of non-infringement, Ubisoft
asked the court for an award of attorney fees and litigation
costs.  The French games company is represented by Stephen S. Smith
of Greenberg Glusker Fields Claman & Machitinger LLP of  Los
Angeles .  The new case is Ubisoft Entertainment SA v. Beiswenger,
3:12-cv-02754-NC, U.S. District Court, Northern District of
 California  ( San Francisco ). The original case is Beiswenger v.
Ubisoft Entertainment, 1:12-cv-00717-CCC, U.S. District Court,
Middle District of Pennsylvania (Harrisburg).  For more copyright news, click here.  Trade Secrets/Industrial Espionage  Saab CEO Claims He Was Target of Industrial Espionage Attempt  The chief executive officer of  Saab AB (SAABB) ’s defense group said
his phone was bugged when he was in negotiations with
 Switzerland  over the sale of 22 of his company’s fighter jets,
 Agence France-Presse   reported .  Hakan Buskhe claimed he was the target of industrial
espionage and didn’t identify the person or company behind the
action, according to AFP.  He said he had been “closely watched” and “monitored,
one way or another,” AFP reported.  Switzerland said in November it would buy the planes,
choosing them over aircraft produced by France’s  Dassault
Aviation SA (AM)  and the European  EADS (EAD)  group, AFP reported.  Industry Standards  ETSI Chooses Apple Standard Over Nokia for Mobile-Phone SIM Card  Mobile-phone makers agreed on a new standard for smaller
SIM cards, overcoming a deadlock in which Finland’s  Nokia Oyj (NOK1V) 
and Apple Inc. had competing proposals.  The so-called “fourth form factor” will be 40 percent
smaller than the current smallest SIM card design, the European
Telecommunications Standards Institute said in a statement on
its website, following a meeting held May 31 and June 1 in
 Osaka , Japan. “It can be packaged and distributed in a way that
is backwards compatible with existing SIM card designs.”  ETSI agreed to pick Apple’s SIM card standard, beating a
proposal from Nokia, MacWorld said on its website, citing
cardmaker Giesecke & Devrient. Spokesmen for ETSI and Nokia
couldn’t immediately be reached for comment.  In March, a two-day meeting to adopt a format from
competing proposals by Apple and Nokia finished without reaching
a decision. The smartcards that identify wireless subscribers
are standardized to reduce industry costs and give consumers
freedom to switch handsets and networks. Smaller versions permit
the design of thinner phones.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in Oakland, California, at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 