-- NRA-Backed Law Spells Out When Indianans May Open Fire on Police
-- B y   M a r k   N i q u e t t e
-- 2012-06-05T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-05/nra-backed-law-spells-out-when-indianans-may-open-fire-on-police.html
Every time police Sergeant Joseph Hubbard stops a speeder or serves a search warrant, he says he
worries suspects assume they can open fire -- without breaking
the law.  Hubbard, a 17-year veteran of the police department in
Jeffersonville,  Indiana , says his apprehension stems from a
state law approved this year that allows residents to use deadly
force in response to the “unlawful intrusion” by a “public
servant” to protect themselves and others, or their property.  “If I pull over a car and I walk up to it and the guy
shoots me, he’s going to say, ‘Well, he was trying to illegally
enter my property,’” said Hubbard, 40, who is president of
Jeffersonville Fraternal Order of Police Lodge 100. “Somebody
is going get away with killing a cop because of this law.”  Indiana is the first U.S. state to specifically allow force
against officers, according to the Association of Prosecuting
Attorneys in  Washington , which represents and supports
prosecutors. The  National Rifle Association  pushed for the law,
saying an unfavorable court decision made the need clear and
that it would allow homeowners to defend themselves during a
violent, unjustified attack. Police lobbied against it.  The NRA, a membership group that says it’s widely
recognized as a “major political force” and as the country’s
“foremost defender” of Second Amendment rights, has worked to
spread permissive gun laws around the country. Among them is the
Stand Your Ground self-defense measure in  Florida , which
generated nationwide controversy after the Feb. 26 shooting of
Trayvon Martin, an unarmed Florida teenager.  Amended Law  Asked about the Indiana law, Andrew Arulanandam, a
spokesman for the Fairfax, Virginia-based association, said he
would look into the matter. He didn’t return subsequent calls.  The measure was approved by the Republican-controlled
Legislature and signed by Republican Governor  Mitch Daniels  in
March. It amended a 2006 so-called Castle Doctrine bill that
allows deadly force to stop illegal entry into a home or car.  The law describes the ability to use force to “protect the
person or a third person from what the person reasonably
believes to be the imminent use of unlawful force.”  Republican state Senator R. Michael Young, the bill’s
author, said there haven’t been any cases in which suspects have
used the law to justify shooting police.  ‘Public Servant’  He said “public servant” was added to clarify the law
after a state  Supreme Court  ruling last year that “there is no
right to reasonably resist unlawful entry by police officers.”
The case was based on a man charged with assaulting an officer
during a domestic-violence call.  Young cited a hypothetical situation of a homeowner
returning to see an officer raping his daughter or wife. Under
the court’s ruling, the homeowner could not touch the officer
and only file a lawsuit later, he said. Young said he devised
the idea for the law after the court ruling.  “There are bad legislators,” Young said. “There are bad
clergy, bad doctors, bad teachers, and it’s these officers that
we’re concerned about that when they act outside their scope and
duty that the individual ought to have a right to protect
themselves.”  Bill supporters tried to accommodate police by adding
specific requirements that might justify force, and by replacing
“law enforcement officer” in the original version with
“public servant,” said Republican state Representative Jud McMillin, the House sponsor.  Preventing Injury  The measure requires those using force to “reasonably
believe” a law-enforcement officer is acting illegally and that
it’s needed to prevent “serious bodily injury,” Daniels said
in a statement when he signed the law.  “In the real world, there will almost never be a situation
in which these extremely narrow conditions are met,” Daniels
said. “This law is not an invitation to use violence or force
against law enforcement officers.”  Jane Jankowski , a spokeswoman for Daniels, referred
questions about the measure to that statement.  Opponents see a potential for mistakes and abuse.  It’s not clear under the law whether an officer acting in
good faith could be legally shot for mistakenly kicking down the
wrong door to serve a warrant, said state Senator Tim Lanane,
the assistant Democratic leader and an attorney.  “It’s a risky proposition that we set up here,” Lanane
said.  Intoxicated Suspects  Those who are intoxicated or emotional can’t decide whether
police are acting legally, and suspects may assume they have the
right to attack officers, said Tim Downs, president of the
Indiana State Fraternal Order of Police. The law didn’t need to
be changed because there isn’t an epidemic of rogue police in
Indiana, he said.  “It’s just a recipe for disaster,” said Downs, chief of
the Lake County police in northwest Indiana. “It just puts a
bounty on our heads.”  Downs said he canceled his NRA membership after the
organization pressed for the Indiana legislation.  The NRA helped get the measure through the Legislature and
encouraged its members to contact lawmakers and Daniels.  The organization’s Indiana lobbyist attended all the
Legislative committee hearings, said State Representative Linda Lawson, the Democratic floor leader and a former police officer.  Political Support  Lawmakers respond to the NRA because the group brings
political support, Lawson said.  The legislation reversed an “activist court decision,”
and “restores self-defense laws to what they were,” the NRA
said on its legislative website.  In Clay County, Indiana, outside Terre Haute, the Sheriff’s
Department changed its procedures because of the law. Detectives
in plain clothes and unmarked cars now must be accompanied by a
uniformed officer on calls to homes, Sheriff Michael Heaton
said.  “I’m not worried about the law-abiding citizens,” said
Heaton, who also is president of the Indiana Sheriff’s
Association. “It’s the ones that really don’t understand the
law and they just think, ‘Cop shows up at my door, I can do
whatever I want to him.’”  Hubbard, the officer in Jeffersonville, in southeastern
Indiana, said the law causes him to second-guess himself. He
serves on the department’s patrol division and is a member of
its special weapons and tactics unit. The department serves
“thousand” of warrants a year, he said.  “It puts doubt in your mind,” said Hubbard, who served in
the U.S. Marine Corps before joining the department. “And
hesitation in our job can mean somebody gets hurt or killed.”  Hubbard said he hasn’t changed his approach to his job or
noticed a difference in how civilians he encounters are
behaving.  The law has changed Hubbard’s view of the NRA.  He said he has been “a proud member of the NRA for
years,” and while he’s still a member and NRA firearms
instructor, “the day I found out the NRA was pushing behind
this bill was the day I became a not-so-happy NRA member.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Niquette in Columbus, Ohio, at 
 mniquette@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  