-- Loans See First 2012 Loss as Citigroup Pares: Credit Markets
-- B y   C h r i s t i n e   I d z e l i s   a n d   K r i s t a   G i o v a c c o
-- 2012-06-05T16:00:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-05/loans-see-first-2012-loss-as-citigroup-pares-credit-markets.html
Leveraged loans are generating their
biggest losses of the year as investors pull back from even the
safest debt in a company’s  capital structure  on concern that
Europe’s financial crisis will spark a global slowdown that
diminishes the creditworthiness of borrowers.  Syndicated loans of speculative-grade borrowers  lost  1.22
percent last month, the most since November, snapping the
longest rally since the eight months ended February 2011,
according to the Standard & Poor’s/LSTA U.S. Leveraged 100 Loan
index. The last time investors lost money in the debt of
companies such as Energy Future Holdings Corp. was in November,
when the market fell 1.34 percent.  At the same time that Spain seeks a bailout for its banks
and speculation increases that  Greece  will leave the 17-member
euro, Federal Reserve data released last week showed corporate
profits are climbing at the slowest pace since they dropped in
the final quarter of 2008. Growth in commercial and industrial
lending is slowing as banks retrench, Fed data also show.  “The two big things that are driving the market are the
European sovereign debt crisis and the economic backdrop,”
 Michael Anderson , a U.S. high-yield strategist at Citigroup Inc.
in New York said yesterday in a telephone interview. “We
reduced our weighting on high-yield bonds and loans in early
May, and our rational for doing that was the macro backdrop. We
think there’s still more to come.”  Outflows Rise  Retail investors pulled $201.4 million from U.S. floating-
rate funds, which buy leveraged loans, during the week ended May
30, according to  EPFR Global , a Cambridge, Massachusetts-based
research firm. That’s the biggest weekly outflow this year and
follows $59 million of withdrawals the week before.  The cost of leveraged loans sold to non-bank lenders
increased in May to 4.98 percentage points more than lending
benchmarks, the widest margin since 5.01 percentage points in
January, according to S&P Capital IQ Leveraged Commentary &
Data.  Elsewhere in credit markets,  Deere & Co. (DE)  plans to sell 10-
and 30-year debt almost two months after the financing arm of
the largest maker of agricultural equipment issued $1 billion at
its lowest coupons. A gauge of corporate credit risk rose for a
fifth day as euro-area services and manufacturing output
contracted at the fastest pace in almost three years.  Bonds of Caracas-based  Petroleos de Venezuela SA , the state
oil company, are the most actively traded dollar-denominated
corporate securities today, with 73 trades of $1 million or more
as of 11:54 a.m. in New York, according to Trace, the bond-price
reporting system of the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority.  Deere Bonds  Deere’s offering will be of benchmark size, typically at
least $500 million, according to a person with knowledge of the
transaction who asked not to be identified because terms aren’t
set. Proceeds from the benchmark sale will be used for general
corporate purposes, according to a regulatory filing by the
Moline, Illinois-based tractor maker.  Deere last sold bonds April 12, when it issued equal $500
million portions of 2.25 percent seven-year notes at 99.73 cents
on the dollar to yield 87 basis points more than similar-
maturity Treasuries and three-year, 0.875 percent debt at 99.94
cents with a 47 basis-point spread, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  The Markit CDX North America Investment Grade Index, a
credit-default swaps benchmark that investors use to hedge
against losses on corporate debt or to speculate on
creditworthiness, added 1 basis point to a mid-price of 128.4
basis points at 11:54 a.m. in  New York , according to prices
compiled by Bloomberg.  Worsening Crisis  The swaps measure increased as a  composite index  in Europe
based on a survey of purchasing managers in manufacturing and
services dropped to 46 in May from 46.7 in April, London-based
Markit Economics said today. The reading is the lowest since
June 2009, and points to a worsening sovereign debt crisis that
may affect revenue for American corporations.  The swaps gauge typically rises as investor confidence
deteriorates and falls as it improves. Credit swaps pay the
buyer face value if a borrower fails to meet its obligations,
less the value of the defaulted debt. A basis point equals
$1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10 million of debt.  Retail investors added a net $252.8 million in May to U.S.
funds that buy loans, based on weekly flow data, according to
EPFR. That compares with $1.2 billion of inflows in April and
$1.5 billion so far this year, the data show.  ‘Steady’ Interest  “Even if on a retail level you have outflows,” there is
still “steady” interest from institutional investors such as
collateralized obligations, said John Popp, head of Credit
Suisse Group AG’s credit investment group, which manages $16.2
billion.  Leveraged loans sold to non-bank lenders, such as CLOs and
mutual funds, jumped 50 percent last month to $27.7 billion,
from $18.5 billion in April, according to LCD data.  For the year, the pace of loan sales is slower than 2011.
Companies sold a total $115.6 billion of the high-risk debt to
non-bank lenders through May, down 27.5 percent from $159.5
billion in the same period last year, LCD data show.  Lending retrenchment is taking place as concerns deepen
about a possible Greek departure from the euro area and as  Spain 
calls for outside funds for the first time. Spanish Budget
Minister Cristobal Montoro said in an interview with broadcaster
Onda Cero today that European institutions should help shore up
the nation’s lenders.  Slowing Growth  The rate of commercial and industrial loan growth  slowed  in
May, gaining 0.67 percentage points compared with 0.95
percentage points in April and growth of 3.5 percentage points
in the first three months of the year.  Moody’s Liquidity-Stress Index fell to a record-low in May
as there are fewer companies with the lowest speculative-grade
liquidity rating. That measure suggests that most borrowers can
meet their obligations and covenants over the next year,
according to a report published June 1 by the ratings company.  “Liquidity pressures are likely to mount if  Europe ’s
sovereign debt problems hurt the  U.S. economy  or access to
credit markets,” Moody’s analysts led by Tom Marshella wrote in
the report. “This would pressure  cash flow , as well as make it
more difficult for speculative-grade companies to refinance
pending maturities and address potential covenant violations.”  U.S. employment increased only 69,000 in May and job growth
for the month before was revised down to 77,000, according to
Labor Department figures released last week. Initial claims
increased 10,000 to 383,000 during the week ending May 26 while
the four-week moving average for claims increased 4,000 to
375,000, signaling some softening in the labor market.  GDP Revision  Gross domestic product climbed at a 1.9 percent annual rate
from January through March, down from a previous estimate of 2.2
percent, according to revised Commerce Department figures
released last week. The report also showed corporate profits
rose at the slowest pace in more than three years and smaller
wage gains at the end of last year.  “The loss of momentum in the domestic economy and the
gathering global storm raise the likelihood of further policy
easing at the next Fed meeting,” JPMorgan Chase & Co. analysts
led by  Peter Acciavatti  wrote in a June 1 report.  Credit Suisse is projecting U.S. leveraged loans returns
this year to be in the range of 4 percent to 7 percent. For U.S.
high-yield bonds, the lender expects gains of 7 percent to 10
percent, according to a June 4 research report.  The default rate for U.S. leveraged loans is expected to be
between 1 percent and 2 percent in 2012, while U.S. high-yield
debt is forecast to range between 1 percent and 3 percent, the
report shows. The default rate on loans rose 0.64 percentage
points from last year to 1.26 percent, according to Credit
Suisse.  Treasuries Rally  Treasuries rose today after the European debt turmoil
pushed yields on haven U.S. government bonds to a record low
last week. The yield on the 10-year Treasury note fell one basis
point to 1.52 percent.  “The fact that the Treasury is rallying hurts the loan
market in two ways -- it’s indicative of  risk aversion  and
people are less worried about interest-rate duration and aren’t
looking for floating-rate product that will have limited rate
exposure,” Citigroup’s Anderson said.  Leveraged-loan  prices declined  each of the past three
weeks, wiping out nearly all of this year’s gains after falling
from this year’s high of 94.56 cents on May 14.  “In a market where all risky asset classes traded off so
much, loans of course will trade lower,” said Brad Rogoff, head
of credit strategy at Barclays Plc. “But loans have been
hanging in better than bonds, not only because of resilient
performance in the secured part of the capital structure but
also there haven’t been huge outflows from mutual funds.”  Junk bonds  lost 1.21 percent in May while leveraged loans
declined 1.22 percent, according to the S&P/LSTA Index and Bank
of America Merrill Lynch indexes. Year-to-date bonds returned
4.26 percent while loans have posted a gain of 3.48 percent.  “The month was a struggle for loans just as it was for any
other asset class, but the relative health of that market feels
better than any of the other risky asset classes,” Rogoff said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Christine Idzelis in New York at 
 cidzelis@bloomberg.net ;
Krista Giovacco in New York at 
 kgiovacco1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Faris Khan at 
 fkhan33@bloomberg.net  