-- Oil Rises for Second Day as Service Industries Grow
-- B y   M o m i n g   Z h o u
-- 2012-06-05T20:37:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-05/oil-falls-as-euro-area-services-manufacturing-output-contract.html
Oil rose for a second day as a gauge
of U.S. service-industry growth unexpectedly increased, reducing
worries that a slowing economic recovery will cut oil demand.  Prices rebounded after the  Institute for Supply
Management ’s  index  of non-manufacturing businesses advanced to
53.7 in May from April’s 53.5. Economists surveyed by Bloomberg
forecast 53.4. Oil fell earlier as European data signaled the
economic outlook is worsening during the region’s debt crisis.  “The ISM triumphed over the concerns about Europe,” said
 Michael Lynch , president of Strategic Energy & Economic Research
in Winchester,  Massachusetts . “The worst news seems to be out
already. Now it’s time to wait for the recovery.”  Crude for July delivery gained 31 cents, or 0.4 percent, to
settle at $84.29 a barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange .
Prices have fallen 15 percent this year.  Prices were little changed after industry-funded  American
Petroleum Institute  said oil inventories fell 1.77 million
barrels last week to 384.1 million. The July contract gained 26
cents, or 0.3 percent, to $84.24 a barrel in electronic trading.
It was at $84.27 before the API released its report at 4:30 p.m.  Brent oil for July settlement slipped 1 cent to $98.84 a
barrel on the London-based ICE Futures Europe exchange.  Estimates in the Bloomberg survey for the ISM index ranged
from 52 to 55.1. The ISM services report covers industries from
utilities and retailing to housing, health care and finance,
about 90 percent of the economy. Readings above 50 signal
expansion.  Oil also gained as stocks advanced and officials from the
world’s leading economies agreed to coordinate their response to
the European crisis. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index rose 0.6
percent and the  Dow Jones Industrial Average  gained 0.2 percent.  G-7 Call  Finance ministers and central bank governors from the Group
of Seven industrialized nations said they will work together to
help both Spain and Greece place their public finances on a
sustainable footing, Japanese Finance Minister  Jun Azumi  told
reporters in Tokyo following a conference call today.  The talks preceded a summit of leaders from the Group of 20
nations June 18 and 19 in Los Cabos, Mexico.  “It’s pretty clear that something needs to be done in
Europe, and you have to believe that something will be done and
the market’s verdict will be whether or not it’s sufficient,”
said  John Kilduff , a partner at Again Capital LLC, a New York-
based hedge fund that focuses on energy.  Three of the G-7 countries -- Germany, France and Italy --
use the euro. The others are the U.S., U.K., Japan and Canada.
The G-20 includes the G-7 advanced-economy nations along with
major  emerging markets  such as Brazil, Russia, India and China.  Consumption Declines  The  International Energy Agency  estimated “big declines”
in demand this year from industrialized nations in Europe and
the U.S. in its monthly Oil Market Report on May 11. Demand from
China and non-industrialized nations outside the Organization
for Economic Cooperation and Development is forecast to boost
global consumption by 0.9 percent this year from 2011.  Prices fell earlier after London-based Markit Economics
said euro-area services and manufacturing output contracted at
the fastest pace in almost three years in May.  “The manufacturing number in the  euro zone  knocked down
 oil prices ,” said Rich Ilczyszyn, chief market strategist and
founder of Iitrader.com in Chicago.  Spain called for outside support for the first time to
battle the debt crisis as Budget Minister Cristobal Montoro said
European institutions should help shore up the nation’s lenders.  “The market remains sensitive to economic news, especially
out of Europe,” said  Gene McGillian , an analyst and broker at
Tradition Energy in  Stamford , Connecticut. “Concerns that the
worst of the crisis will spread from  Spain  and Portugal are
pinning the market here.”  U.S. Inventories  U.S. oil  supplies  dropped from a 22-year high as refineries
increased gasoline output to meet peak summer consumption, a
Bloomberg survey showed.  Stockpiles declined 500,000 barrels to 384.2 million last
week, according to the median of 12 analyst estimates before an
Energy Department report on June 6. It would be the first
decrease in 11 weeks. Seven respondents forecast a fall and five
an increase.  A decline in inventories may spur some short covering, or
buying by traders who sold oil contracts when prices were
falling, said Phil Streible, a Chicago-based commodities broker
at RJO Futures. Futures settled at an eight-month low of $83.23
a barrel on June 1. Prices declined for 17 trading sessions in
May, the most days in a single month since January 1997.  “The downside is limited now,” he said.  Electronic trading volume on the Nymex was 420,819
contracts as of 4:32 p.m. in  New York . Volume totaled 580,789
contracts yesterday, 4.1 percent above the three-month average.
Open interest was 1.45 million.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Moming Zhou in New York at 
 mzhou29@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  