-- Oil Declines on Speculation Debt Crisis Will Curb Demand
-- B y   L a n a n h   N g u y e n
-- 2012-06-05T11:28:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-05/oil-declines-on-speculation-debt-crisis-will-curb-demand.html
Oil dropped on speculation  Europe ’s
debt woes would curb energy demand after manufacturing in the
continent contracted as global policy makers discuss the
region’s crisis.  West Texas Intermediate futures fell, giving up earlier
gains of as much as 1.1 percent. Euro-area services and
manufacturing output contracted in May, adding to signs the
economy is suffering from worsening debt. Finance ministers and
central bank governors from the Group of Seven countries will
hold a call today on the  European debt crisis , according to
Canadian Finance Minister  Jim Flaherty .  “Emergency talks for the G7 are a little bit dangerous
because they raise expectations,” Ole Hansen, senior manager of
trading advisory at Saxo Bank A/S, said by phone from
Copenhagen. “Europe can go from bad to worse and  China  is
obviously slowing. These two areas have a significant impact for
general demand of most commodities, including oil.”  Crude for July delivery fell as much as 67 cents to $83.31
a barrel in electronic trading on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange  and was at $83.51 at 12:25 p.m. London time. The
contract yesterday rose for the first time in five days by 0.9
percent to $83.98. Prices are 16 percent lower this year.  Brent oil for July settlement fell as much as 1.2 percent
to $97.68 a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures Europe
exchange after dropping to the lowest intraday level in more
than a year yesterday. The European benchmark’s  premium  to West
Texas was at $14.50, narrowing from $14.87 yesterday.  Manufacturing Dropped  A composite index based on a euro-area survey of purchasing
managers in both services and manufacturing dropped to 46 in May
from 46.7 in April, London-based Markit Economics said today,
compared with an estimate of 45.9. The indicator has remained
below 50, indicating contraction, for four months.  The data showed European companies are cutting back on
hiring and spending as the intensifying fiscal crisis makes the
economic outlook more uncertain.  Producers in the Organization of Petroleum Exporting
Countries are likely to maintain oil supplies at current levels
when they meet in Vienna this month, Maria van der Hoeven, the
executive director of the  International Energy Agency , said
today in an interview in  Kuala Lumpur  at the World Gas
Conference.  “It’s likely that they’ll be unwilling to do anything that
might risk prematurely tightening markets once again at a time
of such economic uncertainty,” van der Hoeven said. “We are
fairly confident that OPEC’s decision will be as it has been
until now, to supply the market as they did.”  Geopolitical Issues  Prices are unlikely to collapse as they did in 2008 because
long-term fundamentals haven’t changed and supply will struggle
to meet a projected increase in global demand,  Peter Voser ,
chief executive officer of Royal Dutch Shell Plc, said at the
same conference.  “The softening of the oil price at the moment is a
reflection of some of the geopolitical issues being less
dominant and the lower demand outlook,” Voser said. “The long-
term fundamentals haven’t changed, which means that most
probably, given energy-demand growth in the world in the longer
term, supply will struggle to keep pace.”  U.S. stockpiles probably fell  1 million barrels  last week,
the first decline in 11 weeks, as refineries boosted gasoline
output to meet peak summer demand, according to a Bloomberg News
survey before an Energy Department report tomorrow. Supplies
rose to a 22-year high in the week ended May 25.  “We would like to see some of that substantial stockpile
reduced,” said  Michael McCarthy , a chief market strategist at
CMC Markets Asia Pacific Pty in Sydney. “West Texas has moved
back into an old trading range between $82 and $88 a barrel and
I expect those bounds to hold the contract over the course of
this week.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lananh Nguyen in London at 
 lnguyen35@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  