-- Oil Gains a Third Day on Demand Outlook as Supplies Drop
-- B y   B e n   S h a r p l e s
-- 2012-06-06T06:57:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-05/oil-trades-near-three-day-high-as-u-s-crude-stockpiles-decline.html
Oil rose for a third day in  New York 
after stockpiles dropped in the U.S., the world’s biggest
consumer of crude, and economic reports pointed to more demand.  Futures gained as much as 0.9 percent. Crude inventories
fell  1.8 million barrels  last week, the industry-funded  American
Petroleum Institute  said yesterday. An Energy Department report
today may show supplies slid by 500,000 barrels, according to a
Bloomberg News survey. U.S. service-industry growth unexpectedly
increased, and  Australia ’s economic expansion beat estimates.  “The inventory decline doesn’t change the overall outlook
much, but at least it’s headed in the right direction,” said
Ric Spooner, a chief market analyst at CMC Markets in Sydney.
“It suggests some sort of stabilizing. The services-sector data
was a relief, and given that it’s such a big part of the U.S.
economy, it gave the market room to pause.”  Oil for July delivery climbed as much as 75 cents to $85.04
a barrel in electronic trading on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange  and was at $84.80 at 2:53 p.m. Singapore time. The
contract yesterday rose 0.4 percent to $84.29, the highest close
since May 31. Prices are 14 percent lower this year.  Brent oil for July settlement gained 26 cents, or 0.3
percent, to $99.10 a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures
Europe exchange. The European benchmark contract’s  premium  to
West Texas Intermediate was at $14.30, compared with $14.55
yesterday.  Relative Strength  New York crude is set to rebound based on a technical
indicator that shows a decline of more than 20 percent from this
year’s high into bear market conditions is the most-exaggerated
drop in more than 26 years.  The relative strength index, or RSI, has been below 30
since May 11, signaling that oil is poised to climb, said
 Richard Ross , a technical analyst at brokerage Auerbach Grayson
& Co. in New York. The 14-day RSI, which identifies possible
turning points in markets, dropped to 16.3 on June 1, the lowest
level since February 1986.  Oil is unlikely to collapse as it did in 2008 because long-
term fundamentals haven’t changed and supply may not keep up
with demand,  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA)  Chief Executive Officer  Peter Voser  said yesterday in  Kuala Lumpur . It would be
“irresponsible” to say that a few weeks of worse-than-expected
economic data has significantly changed the market outlook,
Maria van der Hoeven, the head of the  International Energy
Agency , said in the city.  Economic Outlook  Crude extended gains after a report showed Australia’s
economy expanded last quarter at more than twice the pace
forecast by economists. First-quarter gross domestic product
advanced 1.3 percent from the previous three months, the Bureau
of Statistics said in Sydney today. The median of 24 estimates
in a Bloomberg News survey was for a 0.6 percent gain.  The  Institute for Supply Management ’s  index  of non-
manufacturing businesses, which covers about 90 percent of the
 U.S. economy , rose to 53.7 last month from April’s 53.5, the
Tempe, Arizona-based group said yesterday. The median forecast
of 75 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News projected 53.4.
Readings above 50 signal expansion.  U.S. gasoline stockpiles rose  1.4 million barrels  last
week, figures from the API showed. They are forecast to climb
950,000 barrels in the Energy Department report, according to
the median estimate of 12 analysts in the Bloomberg survey.
Distillate inventories, a category that includes diesel and
heating oil, gained 1.8 million barrels compared with a
projected 250,000 increase.  The API collects stockpile information on a voluntary basis
from operators of refineries, bulk terminals and pipelines. The
government requires that reports be filed with the Energy
Department for its weekly survey. The Department is scheduled to
release its report at 10:30 a.m. in  Washington .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Sharples in Melbourne at 
 bsharples@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  