-- Oil Bear Market Seen as Temporary on Growth, Demand
-- B y   Y e e   K a i   P i n
-- 2012-06-05T23:00:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-05/oil-bear-market-seen-as-temporary-on-growth-demand.html
Oil-supply constraints amid continued
global economic growth mean that crude’s slump to the lowest in
eight months may be temporary.  Oil, which has entered a so-called  bear market  after
sliding more than 20 percent since May 1 in  New York , is
unlikely to collapse as it did in 2008 because long-term
fundamentals haven’t changed and supply may not keep up with
demand, according to the chief executive officer of  Royal Dutch
Shell Plc. (RDSA)  It’s “irresponsible” to say recent worse-than-
expected economic data has significantly changed the market
outlook, the head of the  International Energy Agency  said.  “The softening of the oil price at the moment is a
reflection of some of the geopolitical issues being less
dominant and the lower demand outlook,” Shell CEO  Peter Voser 
said yesterday at the World Gas Conference in  Kuala Lumpur .
“The long-term fundamentals haven’t changed, which means that
most probably, given energy-demand growth in the world in the
longer term, supply will struggle to keep pace.”  West Texas Intermediate oil futures traded as low as $81.21
a barrel this week on the  New York Mercantile Exchange , the
lowest price since October, after U.S. unemployment rose,
Chinese economic indicators missed forecasts and European
leaders remained divided on solutions for the region’s debt
crisis. Prices dropped from a record high of $147.27 to $32.40
between July and December 2008 as the global recession sapped
demand.  Global Growth  “There are still a number of forecasting agencies
projecting economic growth of 3 percent to 3.5 percent in
2012,” Maria van der Hoeven, the executive director of the
Paris-based IEA said in an interview. “It would be quite
irresponsible to say that a few weeks of weaker economic
indicators have moved markets altogether. I think you need more
facts and figures over the next weeks to give an appraisal.”  The  International Monetary Fund  raised its global growth
forecast for the first time in more than a year in April. The
world economy will expand 3.5 percent this year, compared with a
January projection of 3.3 percent, the Washington-based IMF said
April 17 in its World Economic Outlook. It predicted growth of
4.1 percent in 2013, up from 4.0 percent.  BNP Paribas SA cut its 2012 price forecast for WTI by $7 to
$100 a barrel on  Europe ’s worsening sovereign debt crisis, the
bank said in a report e-mailed May 29. Still, prices will
advance in the third quarter because of sanctions against Iran
and shrinking spare production capacity in the Organization of
Petroleum Exporting Countries, the bank forecast.  Demand Volatility  Oil traded as high as $110.55 a barrel March 1 on
speculation that international sanctions against  Iran  threatened
supplies from the world’s fourth-biggest producer. July futures
were at $84.16, down 0.2 percent, on the Nymex today.  “We’ve seen a lot of volatility mainly on the demand
side,” Voser said after delivering a keynote address at the
industry gathering. “We’ve had some geopolitical dimensions
around the  Middle East , in Iran and  Syria , following the
political tensions in Libya a year ago, so I think that’s
reflected in the price in the more short to medium term.”  OPEC is likely to maintain its level of oil supplies when
it meets this month even as prices fall, van der Hoeven said in
Kuala Lumpur today. OPEC, which controls about 40 percent of
global production, will be reluctant to reduce output and
threaten the global economy, she said. The 12-member group, with
 Saudi Arabia  as its biggest member, is scheduled to discuss
policy on June 14 in Vienna.  ‘Triple Digits’  “It’s likely that they’ll be unwilling to do anything that
might risk prematurely tightening markets once again at a time
of such economic uncertainty,” she said. “We are fairly
confident that OPEC’s decision will be as it has been until now,
to supply the market as they did.”  Global oil use will increase by 0.9 percent to 90 million
barrels a day in 2012, the IEA said in its Oil Market Report
last month. The Paris-based agency is the energy adviser to the
Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development. Consumer
nations welcome lower  oil prices , van der Hoeven said.  “We’re still near triple digits and given the economic
situation we are in and some local-currency weaknesses, there is
still this huge burden on domestic and national budgets,” she
said. “Lower prices are easing the situation but it does not
mean this should be jeopardized.”  Iran has lost about 300,000 barrels a day of oil exports
because of the international sanctions aimed at curbing the
Persian Gulf nation’s nuclear program, according to van der
Hoeven. A European Union embargo is due to take effect July 1
and will remove a total of 1 million barrels from the market,
the IEA estimates.  Stockpile Release  “There is some evidence of producers making extra oil
available for  China  and other Asian buyers,” van der Hoeven
said. “I am quite confident that the market is already
preparing for what might be the full impact when the Iranian
sanctions come.”  The IEA is still ready to coordinate a release of emergency
oil supplies from members’ stockpiles even if prices have
fallen. The energy adviser coordinated the sale of 60 million
barrels of crude and refined products last year after supplies
from  Libya  were disrupted.  “When you have a collective action in stock release, you
bring more liquidity to the market because there is a disruption
to supply,” she said. “Now there is no physical disruption to
supply but if necessary there is always the opportunity to act.
We did it more than once, we stand by.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yee Kai Pin in Kuala Lumpr at 
 kyee13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  