-- Holder Considered Quitting as Attorney General, Book Says
-- B y   S e t h   S t e r n
-- 2012-06-05T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-05/holder-considered-quitting-as-attorney-general-book-says.html
U.S. Attorney General Eric Holder
considered resigning in 2010 after facing criticism for his
decision to prosecute terror suspects in civilian court,
according to a book being published today.  Holder “sank into a depression” following the death of
his mother and a public backlash against his plans to try Khalid Sheikh Mohammed, the mastermind of the Sept. 11 terror attacks,
in federal court in  New York , according to “Kill or Capture:
The War on Terror and the Soul of the Obama Presidency” by
Daniel Klaidman, a reporter for Newsweek and the Daily Beast
(Houghton Mifflin Harcourt, 304 pages, $28).  The Obama administration subsequently abandoned plans to
try Mohammed and four alleged co-conspirators in civilian court,
and Holder announced in April 2011 that their cases would
instead be sent to a military commission at Guantanamo Bay,
Cuba.  “Holder’s sense of isolation within the administration had
turned his job into a grind,” according to the book. “He woke
up on many mornings with a knot in his stomach, not sure if he’d
be able to make it through the day.”  Holder enjoyed a close personal relationship with President
 Barack Obama  even as he clashed with Chief of Staff  Rahm Emanuel 
and White House political adviser  David Axelrod  over his
handling of terror detainees and speeches early in the
administration on gun control and race relations, according to
the book.  Holder ultimately decided to stay at the urging of
presidential adviser  Valerie Jarrett , who told him that if he
quit, “this will not be good for you and it will not be good
for your friend, the president,” according to the book.  Tracy Schmaler , a Justice Department spokeswoman, didn’t
immediately respond to an e-mail requesting comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Seth Stern in Washington at 
 sstern14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  