-- Thomas H. Lee Partners Buys Party City for $2.69 Billion
-- B y   C r i s t i n a   A l e s c i   a n d   D e v i n   B a n e r j e e
-- 2012-06-05T19:57:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-05/thomas-h-lee-partners-buys-party-city-for-2-69-billion.html
Thomas H. Lee Partners LP agreed to
buy a majority stake in Party City Corp. from its private-equity
owners in a transaction valued at $2.69 billion including debt,
after the largest U.S. party-supplies retailer filed for an
initial public offering that hasn’t been completed.  Thomas H. Lee will own about 65 to 66 percent of the
company, said a person familiar with the matter who declined to
be identified because the details haven’t been made public.
Party City’s existing owners -- Advent International Corp.,
Berkshire Partners LLC, Weston Presidio and management -- will
hold minority stakes, Boston-based Thomas H. Lee said today in a
statement announcing the agreement.  Private-equity managers are turning to other buyout firms
to buy and sell companies as the IPO market slumps amid  Europe ’s
debt crisis. So-called secondary sales are the second-most
common way to exit investments after sales to strategic buyers,
accounting for about 25 percent of divestitures in the first
quarter, according to  Preqin Ltd. , a London-based researcher.  “The IPO window has shut very abruptly and is weak for the
time being, so secondary buyout sales are looking strong,” said
David Fann, chief executive officer of TorreyCove Capital
Partners LLC, a  La Jolla , California-based firm that advises
private-equity managers and investors. “Multiple offerings have
been pulled and it’s impacting where the private-equity managers
look for exits.”  Valuations have also given investors pause after  Facebook
Inc. (FB)  fell 30 percent from its IPO price. At least 13 IPOs have
been withdrawn or postponed globally since Facebook’s May 17
offering, slowing a market for deals that’s struggled to keep
momentum as U.S. stock values have failed to recover to levels
before the financial crisis.  Halloween Stores  Party City, which was founded in 1947 as a wholesale party
supplier, last year  filed  to raise as much as $350 million in an
IPO. The retailer had $982.3 million of debt as of Dec 31,
according to the company’s amended prospectus  filed  last month
with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.  The purchase, Thomas H. Lee’s fourth this year, gives the
private-equity firm a chain with 1,200 owned and franchised
stores in the U.S. and  Canada  and about 400 temporary Halloween
stores, along with a wholesale business. Party City posted net
income of $76.3 million last year on $1.87 billion in revenue,
according to a prospectus filed on May 10.  “Party City leads the $10 billion retail party goods
industry in terms of product selection and retail network,”
Todd Abbrecht, a managing director at Thomas H. Lee, said in the
statement. “We look forward to working closely with the team at
Party City to maximize its scale and vertically integrated
business model to continue to grow its business.”  Deal Advisers  Thomas H. Lee will make the investment out of its current
buyout fund, Thomas H. Lee Equity Partners VI, which closed with
$8.1 billion in 2007, according to another person familiar with
the matter, who asked not to be identified. The fund, which had
an internal rate of return of 2.45 percent net of fees as of the
third quarter last year, has investments including Puerto Rico-
based First BanCorp, payroll processor Ceridian Corp. and
uniform-apparel company Aramark Corp., according to Seattle-
based researcher  PitchBook Data Inc .  Thomas H. Lee manages $14 billion in assets and also has
stakes in companies including  Dunkin’ Brands Inc. (DNKN) , Clear Channel
Communications Inc. and  Nielsen Holdings NV. (NLSN)  The firm was
advised by Bank of America Corp. and Moelis & Co. and received
legal advice from Weil Gotshal & Manges LLP.  Party City was advised by  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and
Deutsche Bank AG. Ropes & Gray LLP gave legal advice to Party
City and its current owners, Advent International, Berkshire
Partners and Weston Presidio.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cristina Alesci in  New York  at 
 calesci2@bloomberg.net ;
Devin Banerjee in New York at 
 dbanerjee2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net ;
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  