-- Home-Loan Subsidy Leaves U.S. Exposed to Fiscal Storms
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2012-06-05T16:03:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-05/home-loan-subsidy-leaves-u-s-exposed-to-fiscal-storms.html
To understand the fiscal storm
bearing down on the U.S., consider this: Federal spending now
accounts for 23 percent of the economy, the highest level since
the 1940s, while  tax revenue  stands at 15 percent, the lowest
level since the 1950s. Anyone who can balance a checkbook
understands the ramifications of that asymmetry.  Some of the imbalance has to do with the economic decline,
which has sapped tax receipts and increased government spending
on  food stamps , jobless benefits and the like. Much of it, as
the Congressional Budget Office  reports  today, is a structural
problem. Left unchecked, the U.S. will continue to run outsized
deficits and federal debt, which will exceed 70 percent of gross
domestic product by the end of this year, will approach 200
percent of GDP by 2037. Interest payments alone are estimated to
reach as much as $1 trillion annually within the decade.  Putting the nation on a more sustainable fiscal path will
require hard choices and shared sacrifice by everyone --
including the middle class. One way to begin is by gradually
scaling back some of the lucrative individual income- tax breaks ,
known as tax expenditures, that help lower tax bills primarily
for wealthier individuals at a cost of more than $1 trillion a
year. Replacing these expenditures with targeted 15 percent tax
credits would  save  the U.S. $2.8 trillion over the next decade,
according to the  Tax Policy Center , with the biggest share of
the burden falling on higher earners.  Countless Deductions  Many Americans are enjoying historically low  effective tax
rates  -- the actual rate paid after factoring in countless
deductions, exclusions, exemptions and credits. This spending
through the  tax code  subsidizes such things as mortgage
interest, health insurance, retirement savings, charitable
contributions, state and local taxes, and child care.  The effect is dramatic. A middle-class family of four
earning the median income (about $75,648) falls into the 15
percent tax bracket, yet in 2011 paid federal income taxes at an
actual rate of  5.6 percent  -- a level not seen since the
Eisenhower administration. On average, a median-income family
saves about $3,175 per year through tax expenditures, according
to the  Tax Policy Center .  Tax expenditures aren’t necessarily bad. As currently
structured, though, they reward the  wealthiest , distort behavior
and, according to many economists, drive up the price of
housing, health insurance and other tax-protected items.
Wealthier earners enjoy the fruits more than lower earners
because they are more likely to owe income taxes, itemize their
returns and fall into higher tax brackets, which confer a bigger
break.  Wealthier Benefit  For instance, someone in the 35 percent tax bracket gets 35
cents back for every dollar in mortgage interest paid, while
someone in the 15 percent bracket gets 15 cents back. Households
in the top 20 percent income bracket (those earning more than
$103,000) received two-thirds of the benefits of tax
expenditures in 2011, saving an average of $30,000.  Unlike with most issues in  Washington , there is bipartisan
support for eliminating or scaling back tax expenditures,
particularly when coupled with lower overall tax rates. The
 bipartisan fiscal commission  headed by former Republican Senator
 Alan Simpson  and former Clinton administration official Erskine Bowles, and  another  panel headed by former Clinton budget
director  Alice Rivlin  and former Republican Senator Pete Domenici, both call for repealing $1.1 trillion worth of tax
breaks and using the revenue for  deficit reduction , lower tax
rates and targeted credits.  President  Barack Obama  has  called for  limiting the benefit
of tax expenditures for the wealthy to the value the breaks have
for those in the 28 percent tax bracket. In other words, Obama
would return to high earners 28 cents for every dollar paid in
mortgage interest, even if they are in the 35 percent tax
bracket. His plan would raise about $288 billion over the next
10 years. House Budget Chairman  Paul Ryan ’s fiscal 2013 budget
would  curtail  tax expenditures for the wealthy, though he hasn’t
said which ones he would target, and he would use the savings to
cut tax rates rather than reduce the deficit.  The approaches differ in the details, yet all share a
common principle: Tax benefits should be more proportional, so
that the rich pay more and lower-income earners pay less. That’s
not the case with the mortgage-interest deduction, one of the
most popular tax breaks, which costs the U.S. about $89 billion
a year. The deduction, which saves homeowners an average of $559
a year, is a regressive benefit. Its average value rises from
$91 for those earning less than $40,000 to $5,459 for those
earning more than $250,000.  Homeownership Rate  Homeowners can deduct interest paid on mortgages of as much
as $1.1 million and an additional $100,000 for home-equity
loans. They can also apply the deduction to multiple residences.
Several studies have found  little evidence  that the tax break
promotes homeownership. The rate of U.S. homeownership is
similar to that of  Canada ,  Australia  and the U.K., none of which
currently offers a deduction. The break instead propels people
to buy more expensive homes, leaving them less money to invest
elsewhere and artificially driving up housing prices.  Given the fragility of the housing market, any major
changes should happen gradually. The U.S. should first restrict
the deduction to a single residence and exclude home-equity
loans. The deduction should also be phased out, perhaps in
$100,000 increments over a period of 10 years, and replaced with
a 15 percent refundable tax credit. By making the credit
refundable, homeowners who owe no tax would still be able to
benefit. In essence, they would save 15 percent on the interest
owed on home loans.  The U.K. phased out its mortgage-interest tax relief over
a 12-year period in 2000. Economic studies show that
homeownership rates haven’t suffered, nor have housing prices. A
U.S. tax credit may even help a larger number of lower- and
middle-income families afford homes. With the major tax
expenditures projected to cost almost $12 trillion over the next
decade and federal debt expected to reach 93 percent of GDP over
the same period, action is clearly needed.  Today’s CBO report makes  painfully clear  the consequence of
doing nothing: reduced national savings, higher  interest rates ,
more foreign borrowing, slower income growth and the potential
for a fiscal crisis in which borrowing costs skyrocket. The
unfortunate reality is that everyone will have to bear the pain
to avoid such an outcome. Replacing the countless deductions,
exclusions and exemptions with tax credits will at least make
the burden more equitable, with those most able to afford higher
taxes paying a fairer share.  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View columns, editorials
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the View editors on  pressuring Russia to
pressure Syria ;  Margaret Carlson  on  the Wisconsin recall
election ;  Jeffrey Goldberg  on  winning the Six-Day War ;  Ramesh
Ponnuru  on the  wayward Obama campaign ; William Pesek on  India’s
faltering market reforms ; Gary Shilling on  Japan’s misguided
stimulus .  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 