-- London Luxury-Home Price Gains Slow After Property-Tax Increase
-- B y   C h r i s   S p i l l a n e
-- 2012-06-05T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-05/london-luxury-home-price-gains-slow-after-property-tax-increase.html
Luxury-home prices in central London
rose the least in nine months in May, after the British
government increased a tax on purchases of 2 million pounds
($3.1 million) or more, Knight Frank LLP said.  Values of houses and apartments costing an average of 3.7
million pounds climbed 10.7 percent from a year earlier, the
London-based broker said in a report today. That was the
smallest gain since August 2011. Prices rose 0.7 percent from
April, bolstered by buyers from mainland  Europe .  Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  raised the tax,
known as stamp duty, to 7 percent from 5 percent in March. The
threshold for the new  tax rate  is now the average asking price
of a home in  Kensington and Chelsea , one of London’s most
affluent neighborhoods, property-listings website Rightmove Plc
said when the government announced the change.  “The market has absorbed the 7 percent duty rate fairly
well,”  Liam Bailey , head of residential research for Knight
Frank, said in the report. Prices for homes valued at more than
2 million pounds rose 1.6 percent in the past two months, while
those for all luxury properties gained 2.7 percent, he said.  Europe’s debt crisis has prompted overseas investors to
acquire real estate in  London  to preserve their wealth. Luxury-
property prices in the city have increased about 12 percent
since the market’s peak in 2008, including 4.7 percent this
year, as a scarcity of homes for sale drove up values.  German Buyers  “We are now seeing a noticeable uptick in interest from
France, Italy,  Spain  and even German-based purchasers,” Bailey
said in the report. That contributed to the 19th monthly price
increase in a row.  The crisis, now in its third year, threatens to destroy
Europe’s 17-nation currency union as Greece contemplates exiting
the euro and Spain sees its bond yields rise and banking
industry falter. The euro zone’s collapse could cause prime
central London property values to fall as much as 50 percent,
 Development Securities Plc (DSC)  said in a  May 31 report , as capital
flows out of the city to less expensive markets.  “The ‘safe-haven’ effect has clearly played its role in
attracting foreign money into London’s most desirable post
codes,” Chief Executive Officer Michael Marx said in the
report. “However, the property industry knows -- perhaps better
than most -- that nothing goes on forever.”  Foreign Residents  Foreign buyers accounted for about 60 percent of home
purchases in London’s most expensive districts in the four years
through 2011, according to London-based Development Securities.
As a result, more than half of the residents of Kensington and
Chelsea and the City of Westminster are from outside the U.K.  House prices  across the country  rose in May  for the first
time in three months as a lack of homes for sale supported
values,  Nationwide Building Society  said May 31. Values gained
0.3 percent from April and fell an annual 0.7 percent to an
average of 166,022 pounds.  Knight Frank  compiles its luxury-homes index from its own
appraisal values of a sample of the same properties in the 13
most expensive neighborhoods of central London, including
Belgravia and Knightsbridge.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Spillane in London at 
 cspillane3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Blackman  at   ablackman@bloomberg.net . 