-- Noda Sales-Tax Push Confronts Rising Japan Majority Opposition
-- B y   I s a b e l   R e y n o l d s   a n d   S t u a r t   B i g g s
-- 2012-06-06T03:21:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-05/opposition-to-japan-sales-tax-raise-gains-to-56-in-asahi-survey.html
Japanese Prime Minister  Yoshihiko Noda ’s push to win opposition support for his bill to double the
 consumption tax  is at odds with increasing public sentiment
against the legislation.  The number of voters opposed to the tax rose 5 percentage
points to 56 percent this month from May, while those in favor
fell 7 points to 32 percent, an Asahi newspaper poll today
showed. The results are in line with a May 28 Nikkei newspaper
poll showing opposition rose three points to 53 percent from the
previous month, compared with 38 percent who backed it.  Noda this week reshuffled his Cabinet in a bid to gain
support from the main opposition  Liberal Democratic Party , which
has indicated a deal on the bill is possible. He has vowed to
stake his career on raising the tax, in a step toward reining in
Japan’s ballooning public debt as welfare costs rise.  “Of course Noda can’t change course at this point,” said
Tokyo-based independent political analyst Minoru Morita. “I
think his government will plow ahead regardless of public
opinion, and so will the LDP.”  Noda needs the support of the LDP to pass the bill in the
upper house of parliament, where his  Democratic Party  of Japan
lacks a majority. While the LDP also favors raising the  sales
tax , its leaders insisted that two Cabinet ministers who were
censured by the upper house in April be removed. The ministers
were replaced on June 4.  DPJ Secretary-General Azuma Koshiishi yesterday met with
his counterparts in the LDP and the smaller Komeito party to
discuss the tax legislation without reaching an agreement. The
three officials are scheduled to meet again today.  Chief Cabinet Secretary Osamu Fujimura declined to comment
on today’s Asahi poll at a daily press briefing in Tokyo.  Economic Factors  The poor state of the economy was probably a factor behind
the change in public opinion, Morita said. Japan’s  Topix Index (TPX) 
this week fell to its lowest since 1983 amid concern over the
 European debt crisis  and an economic slowdown in China.  Almost three-fourths of respondents in the Asahi poll said
they oppose Noda’s aim of passing the bill during the current
Diet session, compared with 17 percent in favor. The session
ends on June 21, but can be extended. Noda’s approval rating
rose by one percentage point to 27 percent, while his
disapproval rating was at 51 percent. The survey received 1,063
valid responses and provided no margin of error.  “It’s easy to say things that will make you popular,”
Foreign Minister  Koichiro Gemba  told Keidanren, Japan’s biggest
business lobby yesterday after Noda reiterated his determination
to pass the bill. “Real politics is about doing unpopular
things if they are necessary.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Isabel Reynolds in  Tokyo  at 
 ireynolds1@bloomberg.net ;
Stuart Biggs in Tokyo at 
 sbiggs3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  