-- Morgan Stanley Will Pay $6.75M Over Claims
-- B y   S i l l a   B r u s h
-- 2012-06-05T19:19:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-05/morgan-stanley-will-pay-5-million-to-resolve-cftc-trade-claims.html
Morgan Stanley will pay $6.75 million
to resolve claims that its futures brokerage unlawfully traded
positions off exchanges owned by  CME Group Inc. (CME)   The trades during an 18-month period in 2008 and 2009 were
non-competitive and constituted “fictitious sales” that
violated commodity-market rules, the U.S. Commodity Futures
Trading Commission said today in a statement announcing a $5
million fine against New York-based Morgan Stanley. The bank,
which was accused of supervisory and record-keeping violations,
will pay an additional $1.75 million to resolve related
complaints from CME and the Chicago Board of Trade.  “Laws requiring that futures trades be executed on an
exchange serve important price discovery and transparency
principles,” David Meister, CFTC’s enforcement director said in
the agency’s statement. “Firms must have appropriate systems
and controls in place designed to detect and prevent the conduct
described in the order.”  Morgan Stanley (MS)  employees, including a managing director,
improperly executed off-exchange trades in Eurodollar and
Treasury Note futures contracts in order to limit clients’
risks, according to the CFTC order. Morgan Stanley violated
commodity-market rules by failing to ensure there were related
cash or over-the-counter swap positions in the trades, the
agency said.  “Morgan Stanley cooperated fully with exchange staff in
the matter, including by conducting a detailed internal
investigation, self-reporting issues it found, and putting in
place various enhanced controls,” Mary Claire Delaney, a bank
spokeswoman, said in an e-mail statement. “The orders do not
find that any customers were harmed, that the transactions were
conducted at commercially unreasonable prices or that the
transactions distorted or otherwise impacted market prices.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Silla Brush in Washington at 
 sbrush@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Maura Reynolds at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  