-- Torn Limbs, Hollow Stares Evoke War Horrors in Israel
-- B y   G w e n   A c k e r m a n
-- 2012-06-05T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-05/torn-limbs-hollow-stares-evoke-war-horrors-in-israel-review.html
Pale dummies of children on wooden
school benches stare blankly into space. A brick sticking out of
a rucksack filled with wires shares a glass tomb with what are
meant to be amputated limbs.  This haunting juxtaposition of work by  Joseph Beuys  (1921-
1986) and Tadeusz Kantor (1915-1990), two artists who used
visual means and performance to deal with traumatic events of
20th-century history, is taking place for the first time at the
 Israel Museum  in  Jerusalem .  “For the first several decades after World War II, it was
very difficult to come to terms with issues of the war and the
Holocaust within Israel,” says museum director  James Snyder .
“In a way, we are seeing a maturation of attitude. It is
extremely touching to see this exhibition come to pass.”  About 6 million European Jews were killed in the Holocaust
during World War II in a Nazi campaign across  Europe  that
included random executions, plunder and death camps. Both the
German Beuys, who served as a radio operator in Nazi-occupied
 Poland , and the Pole Kantor, who was a professor of the arts
during the German occupation of Poland, used performance as a
medium to address the chaos of their time.  “Performance was a format in which artists could work to
express notions of consciousness and conflict of
consciousness,” Snyder says.  Beuys’s work influenced a generation of Israeli artists for
whom his approach of relating to war in art had a profound
impact. Despite this, “Beuys/Kantor: Remembering,” is the
first exhibition of his work in Israel.  Glass Coffin  His “Palazzo Regale, 1985” with the rucksack and
amputated limbs reflects the horror of postwar  Germany  while a
nearby glass coffin encases a fur coat, two cymbals, an iron
head and a conch shell, evoking the artist’s interest in
shamanic mystical rituals.  Eva Beuys, the artist’s widow, wrote to Snyder that she was
“proud and pleased that the exhibition was taking place,”
adding “how meaningful it would be for Beuys himself,” the
museum director says.  The exhibition features about 60 works on loan from public
collections around the world and includes three-dimensional
works, installations and drawings as well as films documenting
each artist’s performance and theater pieces.  “Children at Their Desks, 1989,” an object from Kantor’s
performance piece “The Dead Class,” depicts children as
innocent and oblivious to events occurring around them.  “Beuys and Kantor are two of the most important figures in
20th-century European art, each offering provocative and deeply
personal perspectives on the horrific events that shaped both
their personal lives and world history,” Snyder says.  “Beuys/Kantor: Remembering” runs through Oct. 27 at the
 Israel  Museum on Ruppin Blvd., Jerusalem. Information:
 http://www.english.imjnet.org .  Muse highlights include  Richard Vines  on London dining.  To contact the writer on the story:
Gwen Ackerman in Jerusalem at 
 gackerman@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 