-- House Republicans Seek Cuts in Dodd-Frank Agencies
-- B y   S i l l a   B r u s h
-- 2012-06-06T16:45:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-05/house-republicans-seek-cuts-in-dodd-frank-regulatory-agencies.html
U.S.  House Republicans  are seeking to
cut the budget of the main derivatives regulator and subject a
new consumer financial protection agency to additional funding
scrutiny in spending plans panned by Democrats.  The Commodity Futures Trading Commission’s fiscal 2013
budget would be cut by $25 million to $180 million, a level
about 42 percent below President Barack Obama’s request, as part
of a broader spending measure approved by voice vote in the
House Appropriations agriculture subcommittee. Under separate
legislation also approved in a voice vote, the Consumer
Financial Protection Bureau, created by the 2010 Dodd-Frank Act,
would be funded by congressional appropriations each year
instead of its current system of transfers from the  Federal
Reserve .  “The concern we have is the overreach of Dodd-Frank,”
Representative Jack Kingston, a Georgia Republican and chairman
of the agriculture subcommittee, said at the meeting. The CFTC
also was “asleep on the job” before  MF Global Holdings Ltd. (MFGLQ) 
collapsed last year prompting a shortfall of $1.6 billion in
customer funds.  The Democrat-led Senate has yet to release spending
measures for financial regulatory agencies. Legislation would
need to be reconciled and passed by both congressional chambers
before heading to Obama for signature.  ‘Unilateral Surrender’  The spending measures are “a declaration of unilateral
surrender to the forces of irresponsibility that wrecked our
economy several years ago,” Representative  Barney Frank , a
Massachusetts Democrat and co-author of the 2010 Dodd-Frank Act,
said in a statement. At least $2 billion in derivatives trading
losses at  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  demonstrate the need for higher
funding levels, according to Frank and Representative  Norm Dicks , a Washington Democrat and ranking member on the
appropriations committee.  The CFTC, Securities and Exchange Commission, Office of the
Comptroller of the Currency and  Justice Department  are
investigating the losses at JPMorgan.  “In the face of the JPMorgan $2 billion debacle recently,
it is obvious that  Wall Street  still thinks it can do this self-
regulatory approach and they’re trying to avoid the laws
Congress has passed,” Dicks said at the agriculture panel
meeting.  The CFTC spending plan would require $32 million to be used
for  information technology  and not on personnel. “We need a new
cop on the beat, but that new cop is electronic,” Kingston
said.  Congress had to change a budget measure last year because a
similar allocation on technology might have led to job cuts at
the agency.  ‘Significantly Underfunding’  “The result of this bill is to effectively put the
interests of Wall Street ahead of those of the American public
by significantly underfunding the agency Congress tasked to
oversee derivatives,”  Gary Gensler , CFTC chairman, said in a
statement.  Under the legislation, the SEC would have $1.4 billion in
funding, an increase of $50 million from current levels.  “I’d be the first to say the SEC needs more resources,”
James Angel, a finance professor at  Georgetown University  in
Washington said in a phone interview. “The problem is the SEC
has a long history of misallocating resources. With the money,
they hire lawyers not technology people, not markets people.”  The bill would give the IRS $11.8 billion, the same as it
is receiving this year, denying the administration the 8 percent
increase it sought. The IRS is responsible for implementing much
of the health care law, and the bill would deny additional
funding for that purpose, according to the appropriations
committee.  Internal Revenue Service Commissioner  Douglas Shulman  has
said that budget constraints would make it harder for the agency
to enforce the tax law and respond to taxpayers’ questions.  “Objectively we are the agency that brings in the money to
fund the government and so we’re the one agency that has a very
substantial return on investment,” he said on March 21. “And
so I think, you know, we should be treated differently and I
think the president’s budget request reflects that.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Silla Brush in  Washington  at 
 sbrush@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Maura Reynolds at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  