-- How We Crunched the Numbers to Find the Best-Paid CEOs
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   R a n k i n g s
-- 2012-06-05T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-05/how-we-crunched-the-numbers-to-find-the-best-paid-ceos.html
For the Finance 50 compensation
tables, we limited our universe to the largest publicly listed
financial companies for which we had 2011 proxy statements as of
May 1. We created a list of the largest companies by market
capitalization using the Equity Screening function. These
companies had to be headquartered in the U.S.  The CEOs of the 50 largest companies that met our criteria
are ranked by total compensation. Because KKR has two CEOs, only
49 companies are listed. All of the data come from the Summary
Compensation Table in companies’ proxy statements for their 2011
fiscal year. Direct compensation is the sum of base salary,
annual bonus, non-equity incentive-plan compensation and “all
other compensation.” Indirect compensation is the value of stock
and options awards.  For a number of firms, such as Bank of America, JPMorgan
Chase and Goldman Sachs, a portion of the pay in any given year
may be in recognition of a CEO’s performance in the previous
year. To make up for the lag between performance and pay, in
calculating the best- and least-value CEOs, we used three years
of stock returns.  Using the Total Return Analysis function, we calculated the
cumulative total return for each stock for fiscal years 2009,
2010 and 2011. We divided that figure by the CEO’s total
incentive compensation in 2011 (stock and option awards and non-
equity incentive-plan compensation) to derive the percentage
point return on stock for every $1 million of incentive pay.
(For returns that were less than zero, we inverted the
denominator.)  Two Ways of Counting  We also added a table showing the amounts 10 big bank
boards awarded CEOs for their work in 2011, which in some cases
include money and stock granted in early 2012. These figures
were found in proxies and other filings.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Serrill at   mserrill@bloomberg.net  