-- HP Executive Was ‘Furious’ at Oracle Switch on Server Chips
-- B y   P a m e l a   M a c L e a n
-- 2012-06-05T20:34:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-05/hp-s-livermore-was-furious-at-oracle-over-itanium-announcement.html
A top  Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ)  executive
testified she was “furious and appalled” when Oracle Corp.
announced in a 2010 press release that it would no longer
support Itanium chips used in Hewlett-Packard servers.  Ann Livermore , then a Hewlett-Packard executive vice
president and now a member of its board, today told a state
court judge in  San Jose ,  California , that the announcement came
without warning the day before Hewlett-Packard’s annual
shareholder meeting.  Livermore, who was the first witness in a trial that began
yesterday, said she called Oracle Co-President Safra Catz and
yelled at her.  “Do you understand what you’ve done?” Livermore recalled
saying to Catz. “This was a blatant violation of the agreement
we signed just six months ago.”  She said Catz had little to say in response except that she
would discuss it with Oracle Chief Executive Officer  Larry Ellison .  Hewlett-Packard, the world’s largest personal-computer
maker, seeks a court order requiring Oracle to continue
developing software for its servers that run on  Intel Corp. (INTC) ’s
Itanium chips and about $500 million in damages, according to a
person familiar with the matter.  $4 Billion  Without such an order, Hewlett-Packard estimates it should
be awarded more than $4 billion in damages, based on an
extrapolation to 2020 that accounts for projected losses, said
the person, who didn’t want to be identified because the court
document containing the damages request is confidential.  In the first phase of the trial, which is scheduled to last
about three weeks, Superior Court Judge James Kleinberg must
determine whether Oracle is contractually obligated to continue
developing software for Hewlett-Packard’s Itanium-based servers.
If so, a jury would determine in a second phase whether Oracle
broke the contract and what, if any, damages should be awarded.  In its 2011 complaint, Hewlett-Packard accused Oracle of
violating a portion of an agreement they negotiated over  Mark Hurd ’s move from CEO of Hewlett-Packard to co-president at
Oracle. Hewlett-Packard contends the accord included a
“reaffirmation of the Oracle-HP partnership.”  Settlement Agreement  Oracle has said in court papers that the two-sentence
paragraph of Hurd’s settlement agreement at issue doesn’t give
Hewlett-Packard any rights to continued software development,
guaranteed pricing, or “any such rights that existed in the
Oracle-HP ‘partnership’ before the Hurd agreement was signed.”  In cross-examination today, Oracle attorney Dan Wall asked
Livermore if she had heard Itanium called “Itanic,” a
reference to the “Titanic” oceanliner sinking.  “I’ve heard lots of terms,”  Livermore said. “I
understand the reference they are making and I don’t like it. It
is not done by anyone I like or respect.”  Livermore acknowledged under questioning that Intel
demanded $488 million over five years to keep up production of
Itanium in a waning market for the chip. She said that to her
knowledge, Oracle was never told about the arrangement with
Intel.  ‘Not Share’  “We did not share what we were paying Intel,” she said.  Oracle claims in court filings that Intel “really wanted
to kill” the Itanium chip, which was on “life support.”
Oracle accuses Hewlett-Packard of engaging in a “campaign of
secrecy and deception” and “pay-off” to Intel to induce it to
continue making the chips.  In its counterclaims, the database maker seeks a court
order barring Hewlett-Packard from making false statements about
Oracle’s business practices and commitment to customers, and
unspecified damages.  The Itanium chip is a niche technology different from the
Intel Xeon chips used in most computer servers. Sales of
Hewlett-Packard’s Itanium-based Integrity and Superdome
machines, which the company describes as “business critical
systems,” have been declining since Oracle made its March 2011
announcement that it would stop developing software for Itanium.  The case is Hewlett-Packard Co. v.  Oracle Corp. (ORCL) , 11-
cv-203163, California Superior Court, Santa Clara County (San
Jose).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Pamela MacLean at  pmaclean@pacbell.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  