-- Paulson Buys Saudi Prince’s Ranch in $49M Deal
-- B y   O s h r a t   C a r m i e l   a n d   K e l l y   B i t
-- 2012-06-05T17:35:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-05/paulson-buys-saudi-prince-s-ranch-in-49-million-deal.html
Billionaire John Paulson bought Hala
Ranch, a 90-acre (36-hectare) property in Aspen,  Colorado , that
belonged to Saudi Prince Bandar bin Sultan, and a separate site
in the town for $49 million.  The ranch, built by the prince about 20 years ago, is
Aspen’s largest residential property and includes a 55,000-
square-foot (5,000-square-meter) main house, according to  Tim
Estin , a broker with Coldwell Banker Mason Morse Real Estate in
Aspen. It was initially marketed for $135 million, making it the
most expensive U.S. home listing, the Aspen Times said in 2006.  “Hala Ranch is one of the most beautiful properties in
Aspen,” Paulson & Co., the hedge-fund manager’s investment
firm, said in a statement. “The purchase price represents a
substantial discount to the asking price.”  Paulson also bought Bear Cabin, located on a separate 38-
acre parcel that was never previously offered for sale,
according to the statement.  The statement didn’t disclose the exact price for the
transactions, which were reported yesterday by CNBC. Land
records in Pitkin County reflect two sales totaling $49 million
to an entity called Starwood Mountain Ranch LLC.  Aspen Sales  The dollar volume of Aspen home sales declined 27 percent
this year through May from the same period in 2011, to  $277
million, according to Estin, publisher of the  Estin Report , a
monthly analysis of the Aspen home market. He wasn’t involved in
the Paulson transactions.  The dollar volume fell as fewer homes priced above $10
million changed hands, Estin said. The tally doesn’t include
Paulson’s purchase, which was completed in June, according to
property records. The deals for Hala Ranch and another $30
million home that went into contract last week will bring sales
volume in line with a year ago, he said.  After the prince built the ranch, Pitkin County limited
home sizes to 15,000 square feet, according to Estin.  Paulson, directly or through his funds, owns real estate
across the U.S. including properties in Colorado,  Arizona ,
 California ,  Nevada , Florida and  Hawaii , according to the
statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Oshrat Carmiel in  New York  at 
 ocarmiel1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  