-- Pena Nieto Sees Lead Narrow in Poll as PRI Majority at Risk
-- B y   N a c h a   C a t t a n
-- 2012-06-05T19:37:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-05/pena-nieto-sees-lead-narrow-in-poll-as-pri-majority-at-risk.html
Mexican presidential front-runner
Enrique Pena Nieto saw his lead narrow and support for his party
decrease enough to put winning a congressional majority at risk,
according to the latest poll.  Pena Nieto of the  Institutional Revolutionary Party , or
PRI, had 35.8 percent support, from 35.6 percent last week,
while  Lopez Obrador  of the Party of the Democratic Revolution
gained 24 percent backing from 21.7 percent, polling company
Consulta Mitofsky said in an e-mailed report. Pena Nieto’s lead
has narrowed to 12 percentage points from 17.5 points last
month, the closest since campaigning started March 30.  Lopez Obrador’s advantage has put him firmly in second
place. Polls have shown him chipping away at Pena Nieto’s lead
after thousands of students marched in major cities against the
front-runner. The percentage of respondents who said they would
vote for the PRI in Congress fell close to the threshold of 42.2
percent, which Mitofsky says is the minimum needed to gain a
majority in both houses.  “At this moment the party is at risk of not winning a
majority,” Ana Hernandez, a research manager at Mitofsky, said
in a phone interview.  The PRI had 44.2 percent support among respondents asked
who they’d vote for in Congress. It was the lowest number the
party received since the campaign started, the poll shows.  Josefina Vazquez Mota of the ruling  National Action Party 
had 20.8 percent support compared to last week’s 20.4 percent,
according to Mitofsky. The poll of 1,000 potential voters was
taken June 1 to June 3.  The student marches, along with debates over candidates’
spending, are affecting the polls, Mitofsky said in its report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nacha Cattan in Mexico City at 
 ncattan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  