-- Pennsylvania Readies Bond Sale for Jobless-Benefit Loans
-- B y   R o m y   V a r g h e s e
-- 2012-06-05T18:07:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-05/pennsylvania-readies-bond-sale-for-jobless-benefit-loans.html
Pennsylvania ’s Senate passed a bill
to let the state sell as much as $4.5 billion of bonds to repay
federal loans for jobless benefits, which would be the largest
such offering in the U.S.  The legislation, supported by Governor Tom Corbett, a
Republican, also would make the unemployment-compensation fund
solvent by 2019. The upper chamber approved it 29-19.  States  collectively owed the U.S. $29.8 billion at the end
of last month, led by California at $8.49 billion, Labor
Department figures indicate. The debt was amassed as the longest
recession since the 1930s pushed the nation’s jobless  rate  to a
26-year high of 10 percent. Pennsylvania would sell the bonds to
repay its loans before November, to prevent employer costs from
rising. The commonwealth owed $3.86 billion, the data show.  “There are better rates through bonding than those being
charged by the federal government through interest,” Senator
John R. Gordner, a Republican from Berwick, said during debate
before the vote. “It is something we should take advantage of
in order to reduce our overall cost to employers.”  Debt sold to repay loans for jobless benefits is typically
structured as revenue bonds backed by assessments on employers.
Investors who favor such securities like the “clearly laid
out” structure, said Chris Mauro, head of U.S. municipal
strategy at  RBC Capital Markets  in  New York .  Market Demand  “There is a lot of appetite for these transactions,”
Mauro said. “There’s no reason to believe that these deals
wouldn’t get a very favorable reception.”  A refinancing sale by  Michigan  next week will indicate the
depth of demand, Mauro said. The state’s finance authority plans
to issue $2.7 billion in fixed-rate debt that will refund
variable-rate notes it sold in December to cover jobless
benefits loans.  Illinois may sell $1.7 billion of bonds to repay its
federal loans in mid-July,  Kelly Kraft , a spokeswoman for
Governor  Pat Quinn , said by e-mail.  Texas sold about $2 billion of tax-exempt bonds in 2010 to
pay off its loans for unemployment compensation funds. The bonds
maturing in January 2017 and rated AAA are yielding about 1.1
percent, compared with top-rated general-obligation municipal
debt at  0.8 percent , according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Borrowed From U.S.  States borrowed from the federal government as their local
funds ran dry during and after the 18-month recession, which
began in December 2007 and ended in June 2009.  The bill to authorize Pennsylvania’s sale must return to
the state House of Representatives, which already passed a
similar measure. The lower chamber must concur with the Senate’s
changes before the bill can go to Corbett for his signature.  The legislation also makes changes to boost the fund, which
in 2011 paid out $3.03 billion while collecting $2.69 billion
from employers and workers, according to the state Labor and
Industry Department. It  freezes  the maximum weekly benefit of
$573 through 2019.  Also, workers who made 50.5 percent of their annual income
or more in one quarter wouldn’t be eligible for benefits, a
change from the 63 percent limit. The change affects less than
10 percent of the unemployed, the state said, while providing an
annual savings of $276 million.  Pennsylvania is ranked 26th in employment growth from the
last three months of 2010 to the fourth quarter of 2011 among
the 50 states and the  District of Columbia , according to the
Bloomberg Economic Evaluation of States.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Romy Varghese in Philadelphia at 
 rvarghese8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  