-- Peru Bill Seeks ‘Significant’ Reduction in Pension Fund Fees
-- B y   J o h n   Q u i g l e y
-- 2012-06-05T18:54:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-05/peru-bill-seeks-significant-reduction-in-pension-fund-fees.html
Peru’s government presented
legislation to increase competition among private pension funds
and reduce their fees by about 30 percent, Finance Minister
Miguel Castilla said.  Peru will also seek to subsidize pensions for the country’s
lowest earners and require the self-employed to pay into a state
or private retirement fund, Castilla said today. The measures
are designed to boost the number of pension holders to 50
percent of the working population from 34 percent, he said.  President  Ollanta Humala  won elections a year ago pledging
to give the poorest Peruvians a state pension and reduce fees
charged by the country’s four private pension fund
administrators. The funds, known as AFPs, need to cut costs and
move from salary-based commissions to a “fairer” system of
fees based on the size of the workers’ pension savings, Castilla
said.  The bill is designed to “boost competition and reduce
unnecessary costs that are preventing a greater reduction in
fees and act as a barrier to new entrants,” Castilla said.  Prima AFP is the country’s largest pension fund by assets,
followed by AFP Integra, AFP Horizonte and Profuturo AFP. Prima
is owned by  Credicorp Ltd. (BAP) , the country’s largest financial
services group, while Integra was acquired by  Colombia ’s Grupo
de Inversiones Suramericana last year. Horizonte is a unit of
Spain’s Banco Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria, while Profuturo AFP is
a unit of  Canada ’s  Bank of Nova Scotia. (BNS)   Peru’s private pension fund system was founded in 1993 and
has 92 billion soles ($34 billion) in assets under management,
according to the Andean nation’s financial regulator. The fund
managers have 5 million customers, of which 40 percent, or 2.2
million, are actively contributing.  Under the new legislation, fund managers will have to
compete in an auction for new customers by offering the lowest
commission, Castilla said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Quigley in  Lima  at 
 jquigley8@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net . 