-- PG&E to Settle Pipeline Blast Probes Within Months, CEO Says
-- B y   J u l i e   J o h n s s o n   a n d   M a r k   C h e d i a k
-- 2012-06-05T04:00:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-05/pg-e-to-settle-pipeline-blast-probes-within-months-ceo-says.html
PG&E Corp. (PCG)  may reach a settlement
with regulators within the next two or three months on three
California investigations into a deadly 2010 pipeline explosion,
Chief Executive Officer Anthony Earley said.  Earley said the “time might be right” to negotiate a deal
and he was eager to have it in place by the second anniversary
of the tragedy in a San Francisco suburb.  “By the second anniversary, on Sept. 9, we need to show
progress or people are going to start asking why hasn’t this
come along,” Earley said in an interview yesterday at the
Edison Electric Institute’s annual convention in  Orlando ,
 Florida .  PG&E’s violation of state and federal laws led to a
natural-gas pipeline blast that killed eight people and
destroyed 38 homes in San Bruno,  California , according to
investigators at the California Public Utilities Commission.
State fines from investigations will be at least $200 million,
Earley said last month.  Several commissioners and senior staff at the CPUC are
amenable to the idea of pushing for a settlement because the
three investigations are related, Earley said. Regulators are
considering fines against PG&E for misclassifying pipelines,
poor record keeping and other safety violations.  Staff Reports  With the state having concluded its staff reports into the
San Bruno event, “it is possible” that “detailed discussions
as to the outlines of a settlement have begun,”  Hugh Wynne ,
utility analyst for Sanford C. Bernstein & Co, wrote yesterday
in a research note to investors. Total pipeline fines and
penalties could range from $500 million to $1 billion, Wynne
said.  Earley declined to comment on whether the utility is in
talks with the commission. The CPUC doesn’t comment on pending
cases, commission spokeswoman Terrie Prosper said in an e-mail.  Earley said his goals for 2012 are to wrap up the San
Bruno-related proceedings, continue investing in bolstering the
company’s infrastructure and to begin rebuilding “severely
damaged” customer relations.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Chediak in  San Francisco  at 
 mchediak@bloomberg.net ;
Julie Johnsson in Chicago at 
 jjohnsson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  