-- Philippine Bonds Gain as Consumer-Price Gains Ease, Peso Steady
-- B y   K a r l   L e s t e r   M .   Y a p
-- 2012-06-05T08:18:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-05/philippine-bonds-peso-advance-as-consumer-price-gains-ease.html
Philippine bonds gained as a
government report showed inflation eased in May. The peso was
little changed.  Benchmark 20-year bonds snapped four days of losses as data
showed consumer prices rose 2.9 percent from a year earlier,
after a 3 percent advance in April. Economists surveyed by
Bloomberg had forecast a 3 percent increase. Price movements are
“generally well-behaved,” central bank Governor Amando
Tetangco said after the report.  “Inflation is supportive of a monetary-rate decision to
keep rates at low levels,” said Jan Briace Santos, a fixed-
income trader who helps manage the equivalent of $16 billion at
BPI Asset Management Inc. in  Manila . “It strengthens confidence
in the central bank’s ability to manage inflation and keep it
benign.”  The yield on 8 percent government bonds due July 2031 fell
two basis points, or 0.02 percentage point, to 6.08 percent as
of 4:00 p.m. in Manila, according to Tradition Financial
Services.  The peso was little changed at 43.465 per dollar from
43.483 yesterday, prices from Tullett Prebon Plc show. The
currency earlier rose to as high as 43.29 per dollar. One-month
implied volatility, a measure of exchange-rate swings used to
price options, was steady at 7.50 percent.  Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas continues to monitor
developments in  Europe  and the U.S. to assess the potential
impact on Philippine consumer prices and growth prospects “to
see if there is any need to make adjustments in our policy
stance,” Tetangco said. Policy makers will meet on June 14 to
review its record-low 4 percent benchmark rate.  The government rejected all bids for bonds due 2019 at an
auction today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karl Lester M. Yap in Manila at 
 kyap5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  