-- Pound Poised to Rally Against the Euro, BNP Paribas Says
-- B y   J o s e p h   C i o l l i
-- 2012-06-05T20:47:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-05/pound-poised-to-rally-against-the-euro-bnp-paribas-says.html
Investors should sell the euro
against the pound as indicators suggest the British currency is
poised to strengthen relative to its fair value, according to
BNP Paribas SA.  Two  interest-rate  cuts by the  European Central Bank  in
November and December of last year have eroded the value of the
euro, Michael Sneyd, a currency strategist at BNP Paribas in
 London , wrote in a note to clients. The ECB unexpectedly cut the
benchmark interest rate by 25 basis points, or 0.25 percentage
point, to 1.25 on Nov. 3 before reducing it again to 1 percent
on Dec. 8 in an attempt to stimulate bank lending and fend off a
recession.  The euro’s recent rise against the pound provides “an
attractive opportunity to short the euro-pound and take
advantage of the medium-term outlook for the pound to outperform
the euro,” Sneyd wrote, citing the firm’s fair-value model.
“Further rate cuts by the ECB in the third quarter are likely
to further erode the euro’s yields and drive the euro-pound
lower.”  The pound should continue to benefit from its status as a
“safe-haven” in  Europe  and an alternative to the dollar and
euro, Sneyd wrote.  Data from the Swiss National Bank show that reserves in the
pound have doubled this year, an allocation strategy that could
be used by other banks, according to Sneyd. Interventions from
the SNB could also place more downward pressure on the euro-
pound, he wrote.  The pound rose 0.4 percent to 80.95 pence per euro at 4:46
p.m. in  New York . Sterling has fallen 0.9 percent against the
euro so far this month after gaining 3.9 percent over the first
five months of the year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joseph Ciolli in New York at 
 jciolli@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  