-- Progress ‘Hopeful’ FERC Will Approve Duke Takeover by June 8
-- B y   J u l i e   J o h n s s o n   a n d   J i m   P o l s o n
-- 2012-06-05T21:49:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-05/progress-hopeful-ferc-will-approve-duke-takeover-by-june-8-1-.html
Progress Energy Inc. (PGN) ’s chief
executive officer said he’s “hopeful” the proposed $17.6
billion takeover by  Duke Energy Corp. (DUK)  will receive final
regulatory approval this week, creating the largest U.S. utility
owner.  The companies are intensifying their plans for integrating
the two companies, Bill Johnson, who would become CEO of the
combined company, said in an interview at an industry conference
in Orlando, Florida, today.  The deal, announced almost 17 months ago, remains
compelling, Johnson said. Charlotte, North Carolina-based Duke
has promised rate cuts to state regulators and proposed spending
an additional $110 million on  power lines  to ease federal anti-
competition concerns.  “This makes as much sense as it ever did,” said Johnson,
who is also chairman of Raleigh, North Carolina-based Progress.  Duke and Progress asked the Federal Energy Regulatory
Commission for approval by June 8 so they can close the deal by
July 1. Their agreement expires July 8.  While proposed concessions to state and federal regulators
will erase some of the term’s near-term benefits, the merger is
“still accretive to us based on our analysis,” Duke’s Chief
Executive Officer and Chairman  Jim Rogers  said during a separate
interview at the industry conference today.  “It still makes sense economically,” Rogers said.  The gap between the value of Duke’s all-stock offer and
Progress’s share price  narrowed  5.3 percent to $2.75 at the
close in  New York .  Regulators in  North Carolina  and South Carolina haven’t
voted on the transaction, saying they’re waiting for FERC
approval. Duke and Progress have announced agreements with state
regulatory staff based on the latest proposal to the federal
commission.  Progress rose 0.9 percent to $56.31 in New York. Duke
increased 0.6 percent to $22.61.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Julie Johnsson in Chicago at 
 jjohnsson@bloomberg.net ;
Jim Polson in New York at 
 jpolson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  