-- Prudential Names Henriksson to Oversee $83 Billion at QMA
-- B y   D a n   K r a u t
-- 2012-06-05T17:52:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-05/prudential-names-henriksson-to-oversee-83-billion-at-qma.html
Prudential Financial Inc. (PRU) , the
second-largest U.S. life insurer, named Roy Henriksson chief
investment officer of Quantitative Management Associates, the
unit that oversees $83 billion for clients including pension
funds and endowments.  Henriksson is a former professor who was previously CIO of
Advanced Portfolio Management, according to the Newark, New
Jersey-based insurer. He replaces Margaret Stumpp, who will
become a senior adviser, the company said today in a statement.
The unit uses mathematical models to identify mispriced
securities, among other strategies, and has about 36 investment
professionals, according to its  website .  “Roy, whose research has informed our own processes over
the years, brings deep knowledge and experience with finance
theory, equity investing,  asset allocation , and risk
management,” Scott Hayward, chief executive officer of QMA,
said in the statement.  Prudential is focusing on asset management and retirement
services after striking deals to  exit  real estate relocation and
commodities businesses. The insurer agreed last week to manage
pension obligations for General Motors Co.  Henriksson studied at the  Massachusetts Institute of
Technology , where he earned a bachelor’s degree in economics, a
master’s in management and a doctorate in finance. He was a
professor at the  University of California , Berkeley and worked
for a decade at Advanced Portfolio Management in  New York , which
serves institutional clients, according to the statement.  Stumpp had been CIO for more than 20 years and will focus
on research and clients in her new role, Prudential said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Kraut in New York at 
 Dkraut2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net  