-- Putin Vows Deeper China Trade Ties After Skipping G-8 Summit
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-06-06T10:21:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-05/putin-pledges-closer-russian-chinese-cooperation-on-syria-iran.html
Russian President  Vladimir Putin 
vowed to  boost trade  and cooperation with China after meeting
Chinese leaders as the sides push against Western calls for
stronger action in Syria and Iran.  Putin and President  Hu Jintao  agreed yesterday in Beijing
to increase trade to $200 billion by 2020 from $83.5 billion in
2011. The two leaders also discussed North Africa, the Korean
Peninsula and  Iran’s nuclear program , said Putin, who will meet
Iranian President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad while in Beijing.  Putin is moving to strengthen Russia’s economic and
political ties with China after skipping a Group of Eight summit
in the U.S. last month. As veto-wielding members of the  United
Nations Security Council , Russia and  China  have blocked
resolutions pushing for stronger sanctions on Syrian President
Bashar al-Assad’s regime and oppose expanding Iran sanctions.  “The most important thing is that we reached high level of
coordination in order to help mediating and solving
international crises and problems,” Putin said at a joint press
conference yesterday. “Thanks to our efforts we have lifted the
level of Russian-Chinese cooperation to unprecedented heights.”  Twelve Agreements  In total, Putin and Hu oversaw the signing of 12
agreements, including the the creation of a $4 billion joint
investment fund. The wealth funds of Russia and China will each
commit $1 billion, raising additional money from third-party
international investors, China Investment Corp. said on its
website.  Putin will stay in Beijing for a June 6-7 meeting of the
Shanghai Cooperation Organization security alliance and meet
Ahmadinejad. Chinese Vice Foreign Affairs Minister Cheng Guoping
in May said China opposes sanctions that restrict normal trade
with Iran.  “The situation internationally remains very difficult,”
Chinese Premier  Wen Jiabao  said after meeting Putin today.
Strengthening the partnership “has crucial importance for
ensuring peace and stability in the world,” Wen said.  Putin also met today with Vice President  Xi Jinping  and
Vice Premier  Li Keqiang . He told Xi the two sides would continue
military cooperation.  Outstanding Loans  In a meeting with Wen today, Ahmadinejad said Iran’s
relationship with China has “no negative aspects” and said his
country wants to develop ties. Wen told Ahmadinejad the sides
would use the opportunity to boost understanding and trust.  The Ahmadinejad meeting foreshadows an international round
of talks about Iran’s atomic program in Moscow on June 18-19,
the third attempt in three months to address global concerns
that the Persian Gulf state is developing atomic weapons.  Iran has said its nuclear program is for peaceful purposes,
and is seeking relief from the economic sanctions the U.S. and
European Union have imposed.  Later today, China Development Bank Corp. Chairman Chen  Yuan  said the bank has outstanding loans of $38.5 billion to the
other members of the Shanghai Cooperation Organization,
Kazakhstsan, Kyrgyzstan,  Russia , Tajikistan and Uzbekistan.  Chen told a briefing that the group plans to set up its own
development bank with the goal of promoting settlement in local
currencies.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Ilya Arkhipov in Moscow at 
 iarkhipov@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net ;
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  