-- Qantas Faces Domestic Price War as Overseas Losses Widen
-- B y   D a v i d   F i c k l i n g
-- 2012-06-06T08:07:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-05/qantas-faces-domestic-price-war-as-overseas-losses-widen.html
Qantas Airways Ltd. (QAN) ,  Australia ’s
largest carrier, slumped 21 percent in two days after
forecasting a wider loss on international routes. Domestic
operations may be next to feel the pain.  Fares within Australia are falling as Qantas adds flights
to protect its 65 percent market share amid rising competition
from Virgin Australia Holdings Ltd. and  Tiger Airways Holdings
Ltd. (TGR)  The price war and slower economic growth threaten earnings
on domestic routes even as Qantas Chief Executive Officer Alan Joyce tries to revive international services set to lose at
least A$450 million ($444 million) in the year ending June.  “Domestic is really the bigger concern,”  Peter Harbison ,
executive chairman of CAPA Centre for Aviation, said by phone
from Sydney. “The question becomes, who is prepared to lose the
most blood?”  Qantas  plans to add 25,800 seats a week between the
nation’s biggest cities, as  Virgin (VAH)  Australia rolls out business-
class services to lure corporate fliers and budget carrier Tiger
Air ramps up flights for leisure travelers. The competition may
have already caused Sydney-based Qantas’s domestic yields, a
measure of fares, to fall for the first time in 15 months in
April, Macquarie Group Ltd. said in a May 31 note.  After suffering its biggest-ever drop of 19 percent
yesterday, Qantas fell 2.6 percent to A$1.125 at the close in
Sydney. Virgin Australia, backed by billionaire  Richard Branson ,
slipped 1.2 percent to 41.5 Australian cents. The S&P/ASX 200
index gained 0.3 percent.  “When supply and demand is unbalanced you do see this
impact on yield,” Qantas Chief Financial Officer  Gareth Evans 
said on a conference call yesterday. An index of restricted
economy fares on Australian domestic routes fell to its  lowest-
ever level  in February.  Etihad-Virgin  Virgin Australia also won renewed support for its push to
challenge Qantas as Etihad Airways PJSC announced that it had
accumulated a 4.99 percent stake. The Abu Dhabi-based carrier
said it may eventually increase this to 10 percent. The deal
cements a partnership that helps Virgin extend its marketing and
sales reach overseas.  Tiger Air is challenging Qantas’s budget arm Jetstar by
opening a second Australian base in Sydney next month. The
carrier is rebuilding operations in the country after halting
services for six weeks last year and then cutting its timetable
following safety violations.  Qantas plunged yesterday, wiping out about $600 million of
market value, after saying underlying profit may slump to as
little as A$50 million this fiscal year. That’s a drop of as
much as 91 percent. The carrier attributed the decline to the
international unit and fuel costs rising about A$700 million to
a record A$4.4 billion.  Domestic Earnings  Jet fuel has averaged $127.50 a barrel in Singapore trading
since June 30, 19 percent higher than a year earlier. Prices
have fallen about 18 percent over the last two months.  On domestic routes, Qantas and Jetstar expect earnings of
more than A$600 million in the year ending June. That’s a
“near-record,” according to Joyce. Still, yields have begun to
fall, the airline said in a statement. The carrier aims to
protect its market share as this is the most profitable level,
it has said.  “The strategy is working,” Joyce said. “If we didn’t
maintain our 65 percent market share, in the long run this
profitability would be under threat.”  Emirates, Etihad  On international routes, Qantas is contending with slower
 travel demand  in  Europe  and competition from Middle East
carriers including Emirates Airline and Etihad. These airlines
are able to offer a wider range of one-stop flights to the
continent as their hubs are better placed than Qantas’s.  Virgin has also begun cooperating with part-owner Air New
Zealand Ltd. on flights across the  Tasman Sea , as well as with
Singapore Airlines Ltd. and Delta Air Lines Inc.  The relative strength of Australia’s economy has further
increased competition by prompting international airlines to
shift planes from European destinations to routes serving the
country, said Joyce, who took over as CEO in 2008.  “Europe looks like a big basket case” he said. “People
have mobile assets and they’re moving their assets into the
Australian market, which is increasing capacity here.”  Joyce has cut unprofitable overseas routes, slowed the
addition of new planes and formed a stand-alone international
unit in bid to return the operations to profit by 2014. The CEO
has also cut engineering jobs and announced plans to consolidate
heavy maintenance to pare servicing costs that Qantas says are
about 30 percent higher than competitors.  ‘Structural Problems’  “He’s got some structural problems in Australia with the
high cost base,” said Jason Beddow, chief executive officer at
 Argo Investments Ltd. (ARG) , one of Qantas’s 20 biggest shareholders.
“They’re competing globally and you’ve got other airlines
coming in with different cost bases.”  Given the challenges on international routes, Qantas may
have to fight to maintain its 65 percent share on domestic
services even if it cuts into profit, said Harbison.  “It is important to maintain that share, but there are
going to be short-term implications,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Fickling in Sydney at 
 dfickling@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  