-- Rand Gains as U.S. ISM Data, G-7 Meeting Raise Stimulus Hopes
-- B y   R o b e r t   B r a n d   a n d   S t e p h e n   G u n n i o n
-- 2012-06-05T15:29:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-05/rand-declines-as-euro-weakens-commodities-fall-ahead-of-g7-call.html
The rand gained for a second day as
 service industries  in the U.S. failed to gain momentum in May,
adding to speculation global policy makers will take steps to
stimulate economic growth, boosting riskier assets.  South Africa’s currency advanced 0.7 percent to 8.4401 per
dollar by 4:48 p.m. after declining as much as 0.6 percent in
earlier trading. Yields on the nation’s 6.75 percent bonds due
2021 fell two basis points to 7.743 percent.  Finance ministers and central bank governors from Group of
Seven countries plan to hold a call today to discuss risks to
the global economy posed by a further deterioration in Spain’s
banking industry and a possible Greek departure from the 17-
member euro area. The  Institute for Supply Management ’s  index  of
non-manufacturing businesses rose to 53.7 in May from the prior
month’s 53.5, a sign the U.S. is failing to gain momentum as
employment slows and the European crisis intensifies.  The ISM data may lead to further monetary stimulus in the
world’s biggest economy as it “confirms the view that the U.S.
is struggling to boost its output and is not as resilient as
people had hoped” Luke Barnett, a market analyst at
Johannesburg-based ETM Analytics said by phone.  The  European Central Bank  will keep its main refinancing
rate at a record-low 1 percent at a meeting tomorrow, according
to economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  Bank of England  policy makers will keep their main  interest
rate  at 0.5 percent on June 7, according to all 55 economists in
a Bloomberg survey. The central bank will hold its asset-
purchase plan at 325 billion pounds ($499 billion), according to
the median forecast of a separate Bloomberg survey.  ‘Dovish Tone’  “Ahead of the ECB and BOE meetings, a lot of people are
expecting a dovish tone, which is positive for emerging market
currencies, including South Africa’s,” Barnett said.  Emerging-market stocks  snapped four days of losses and
Standard & Poor’s GSCI Index gained for a second day as the
prices of metals including copper and nickel rose.  G-7 members are “concerned about the unstable situation in
the current global economy and we need to share these
concerns,” Japanese Finance Minister  Jun Azumi  told reporters
in Tokyo. Canadian Finance Minister  Jim Flaherty  said yesterday
in Ottawa that officials would discuss “the situation in
Europe,” without elaborating about the call.  The euro area is South Africa’s biggest regional trading
partner, buying 22 percent of the nation’s exports.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Brand in  Cape Town  at 
 rbrand9@bloomberg.net 
Stephen Gunnion in Johannesburg at 
 sgunnion@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  