-- TransCanada to Build $4 Billion Pipe to Export Canadian Gas
-- B y   J i m   P o l s o n   a n d   B r a d l e y   O l s o n
-- 2012-06-05T21:42:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-05/transcanada-to-build-4-billion-pipe-to-export-canadian-gas-2-.html
TransCanada Corp. (TRP)  has been selected
by  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA)  and partners to build a $4 billion
pipeline to Canada’s West Coast for exporting natural gas.  The pipeline, with an initial capacity of at least 1.7
billion cubic feet a day, will run from the Montney and Horn
River gas-producing regions to a proposed liquefied-natural-gas
export facility near Kitimat, British Columbia, TransCanada said
in a statement today.  Operations would begin “toward the end of the decade”
subject to regulatory and corporate approvals, Calgary-based
TransCanada said. Shell and its other partners in the proposed
project,  Korea Gas Corp. (036460) ,  Mitsubishi Corp. (8058)  and  PetroChina Co. (857) ,
have  said  the terminal will initially be able to ship about 2
billion cubic feet a day. Shell has a 40 percent stake and the
other partners have 20 percent each.  The Shell project is one of at least five developing
proposals to export Canadian natural gas to Asian markets as
prices in the U.S. slumped to the lowest point in a decade amid
a ramp-up in drilling.  “ Canada  is not going to be restrained from developing
their oil sands and natural-gas resources,” Jose Valera, a
partner in the energy practice at the law firm Mayer Brown LLP.
“It’s going to be more a question of people investing the
capital resources to develop the projects. The market is going
to start sorting all this out.”  Licenses Granted  Canadian regulators have granted licenses for two LNG
export projects in the area of Kitimat. BC LNG Export Co-
operative LLC, jointly owned by Haisla Nation and Houston-based
LNG Partners LLC, was given a 20-year license, according to a
statement on April 11. In October, the  National Energy Board 
approved an LNG terminal planned by  Encana Corp. (ECA) ,  Apache Corp. (APA) 
and  EOG Resources Inc. (EOG)   Shell’s project has not yet received a license. TransCanada
and Shell are developing “definitive agreements” on the
pipeline, to be known as Coastal GasLink, according to the
statement. Connections also are planned to existing pipelines in
British Columbia.  The Horn River and Montney formations in Alberta and
British Columbia may hold the equivalent of more than 200
trillion cubic feet of natural gas, according to an April 2011
report by the U.S. Energy Information Administration.  TransCanada  rose  0.8 percent to C$42.48 at the close in
Toronto.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jim Polson in  New York  at 
 jpolson@bloomberg.net ;
Bradley Olson in Houston at 
 bradleyolson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  