-- Rapaport Group Plans Diamond Bourse for Banks, Brokers
-- B y   C h a n y a p o r n   C h a n j a r o e n
-- 2012-06-06T10:35:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-05/rapaport-group-plans-diamond-bourse-for-banks-brokers.html
The Rapaport Group plans to set up an
online diamond exchange from October that’s open to banks,
brokerages and other financial firms as well as industry members
to benefit from increasing demand in  China  and India.  The exchange, to be called RapX, will offer real-time
bid/ask prices and clearing services for institutional investors,
Chairman Martin Rapaport said in interviews on the telephone and
by e-mail. At present, about 7,200 industry members use
Rapaport’s RapNet online exchange to trade, with about $6
billion worth of diamonds listed. There’s no estimate on the
value of diamonds that’ll be available on RapX, he said.  Global rough-diamond demand may climb more than 6 percent a
year in the decade to 2020, exceeding growth in supply, Bain &
Co., a consulting firm in  Boston , has forecast. China, the
largest metals user, may overtake the U.S. to become the top
market in 2015, according to the Antwerp World Diamond Center.  “Strong demand from top consumers in  India  and China in
2011 supported investment opportunities in this market,” said
Sergey Filchenkov, a Moscow-based analyst at IFC Metropol.  Prices of so-called top-quality gems climbed 22 percent in
2011, the biggest advance since at least 2006, according to the
RapNet Diamond Index, which calculates the average weekly price
of the 25, best-quality 1-carat diamonds. The index declined 3.1
percent this year. A carat is a fifth of a gram. Spot gold rose
10 percent in 2011, rallying for the 11th straight year on
increased demand, and is up 4.6 percent this year.  ‘Consumption Story’  “The bottom line is the consumption story, especially in
China,” said New York-based Rapaport, who introduced reports
bearing his name in 1978, three years after becoming an
apprentice diamond cleaver in Antwerp. “Diamonds are a store of
value -- similar to gold.”  While the existing RapNet exchange that’s used by the
industry is a so-called peer-to-peer network, where people trade
directly with one another, the potential sellers and buyers on
RapX won’t know each other, Rapaport said.  “The diamond world used to be a cozy market based on
relationships,” said Claudio Ribeiro, chief executive at Carat
Ventures, a Singapore-based diamond-investment company that uses
the Rapaport index as part of its pricing model. “Now, the
market has expanded beyond Antwerp and  Israel .”  The U.S. accounted for about 38 percent of the global
diamond market in 2011, China 11 percent and  Japan  and India 10
percent each, according to De Beers, which produces about 35
percent of the world’s rough diamonds.  Asia’s Millionaires  China, India and Singapore posted the biggest gains in
millionaires last year as  Asia  countered a decline in wealth in
western  Europe  and the U.S., according to  Boston Consulting
Group . Millionaire households in China rose 16 percent to 1.43
million, while those in Singapore climbed 14 percent to 188,000
and India saw a 21 percent increase to 162,000, the Boston-based
firm said in a report on June 1. Millionaire households in the
U.S. fell by 129,000 to 5.13 million.  Graff Diamonds Corp., the London-based jeweler, intends to
open 11 stores in Asia over two years to capitalize on rising
demand, Chief Executive Officer Francois Graff said on May 27,
before the company shelved plans for a share sale in  Hong Kong .
Singapore Diamond Exchange Pte. Ltd. has partnered with IDEX
Online to sell diamond portfolios at minimum prices of $250,000
from July, majority shareholder Alain Vandenborre said May 22.  Rye Brook, New York-based IndexIQ Advisors LLC applied to
the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission in March to list an
exchange-traded fund backed by diamonds, according to a filing.
The company, which runs exchange-traded products, didn’t specify
on which exchange it wants to list the diamond fund.  Rio Tinto Group and  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP)  are seeking to sell
their diamond assets. Rio said in March 27 it was considering
selling the business as the mines in  Canada ,  Australia  and
 Zimbabwe  no longer fit its strategy. BHP announced Nov. 29 that
it’s studying the sale of some or all of its diamond unit.  Rapaport USA, Inc., based in Las Vegas,  Nevada , owns the
Rapaport - RapNet Diamond Trading Network.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chanyaporn Chanjaroen in Singapore at 
 cchanjaroen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story: James Poole at
   jpoole4@bloomberg.net  