-- RBA’s Stevens Comments on 25 Basis-Point Rate Cut (Full Text)
-- B y   B r e n d a n   M u r r a y
-- 2012-06-05T04:35:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-05/rba-s-stevens-comments-on-25-basis-point-rate-cut-full-text-.html
The following is a reformatted
version of a statement by  Reserve Bank  of Australia Governor
 Glenn Stevens  after the central bank decided today to cut the
overnight cash rate target by a quarter of a percentage point to
3.5 percent.  “At its meeting today, the Board decided to lower the cash
rate by 25 basis points to 3.50 per cent, effective 6 June 2012.  ‘‘Growth in the world economy picked up in the early months
of 2012, having slowed in the second half of 2011. But more
recent indicators suggest further weakening in Europe and some
further moderation in growth in China. Conditions in other parts
of  Asia  have largely recovered from the effects of last year’s
natural disasters, but the ongoing trend is unclear and could be
dampened by slower Chinese growth. The  United States  continues
to grow at a moderate pace. Commodity prices have declined
lately, though they are mostly still high. Australia’s terms of
trade similarly peaked about six months ago, though they remain
historically high.  ‘‘Financial  market sentiment  has deteriorated over the past
month. The Board has noted previously that Europe would remain a
potential source of adverse shocks. Europe’s economic and
financial prospects have again been clouded by weakening growth,
heightened political uncertainty and concerns about fiscal
sustainability and the strength of some banks.  Capital markets 
remain open to corporations and well-rated banks, but spreads
have increased. Long-term interest rates faced by highly rated
sovereigns, including Australia, have fallen to exceptionally
low levels. Share markets have declined.  ‘‘In  Australia , available indicators suggest modest growth
continued in the first part of 2012, with significant variation
across sectors. Overall labour market conditions firmed a
little, notwithstanding job shedding in some industries, and the
rate of unemployment remains low. Nonetheless, both households
and businesses continue to exhibit a degree of precautionary
behaviour, which may continue in the near term.  ‘‘There have been no new data for inflation since the
previous meeting. Over the coming one to two years, and
abstracting from the effects of the carbon price, inflation is
expected to be in the 2–3 per cent range. In the near term, it
is likely to be in the lower part of that range, though
maintaining low inflation over the longer term will require
growth in domestic costs to slow as the effects of the earlier
high  exchange rate  wane.  ‘‘As a result of earlier changes to monetary policy,
 interest rates  for borrowers have declined to be a little below
their medium-term averages. Business credit has increased more
strongly in recent months, though credit growth remains modest
overall. Housing prices had shown some signs of stabilising
around the turn of the year, but have recently declined again.
Generally, the housing market remains subdued. The exchange rate
has declined over recent weeks, reflecting lower commodity
prices, heightened  risk aversion  and expectations of lower
interest rates.  ‘‘At today’s meeting, the Board judged that, with modest
domestic growth and a weaker and more uncertain international
environment, the outlook for inflation afforded scope for a more
accommodative stance of monetary policy.’’  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brendan Murray in Sydney at 
 brmurray@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  