-- RBA Lowers Key Rate as Europe, China Growth Risks Mount: Economy
-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 2012-06-05T06:07:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-05/rba-cuts-key-rate-to-3-5-as-weaker-eu-china-threaten-growth.html
The  Reserve Bank  of Australia cut its
benchmark interest rate by a quarter percentage point to the
lowest since 2009 as  Europe ’s debt crisis and slower Chinese
growth overshadowed a stronger domestic labor market.  Governor  Glenn Stevens  and his board lowered the overnight
cash rate target to 3.5 percent, the RBA said in a statement in
Sydney today. Thirteen of 27 economists surveyed by Bloomberg
News predicted the move, while four forecast a half-point
reduction and 10 expected borrowing costs to remain unchanged.  “Europe’s economic and financial prospects have again been
clouded by weakening growth, heightened political uncertainty
and concerns about fiscal sustainability and the strength of
some banks,” Stevens said in the statement. In  Asia  “the
ongoing trend is unclear and could be dampened by slower Chinese
growth,” he said.  The local currency and stocks maintained earlier advances
after Stevens’s second rate reduction in as many meetings.
Australia’s economy is giving mixed signals, with the
 unemployment rate  at a one-year low of 4.9 percent and an
investment pipeline worth almost A$500 billion ($489 billion)
driving growth in some regions, even as export prices have
slumped, building approvals dropped and retail sales weakened.  The Australian dollar bought 97.88 U.S. cents at 3:54 p.m.
in Sydney from 97.34 cents immediately before the decision was
announced. The S&P/ASX 200 Index held earlier gains, rising 1.3
percent to 4,038.200.  Falling Unemployment  The jobless rate in  Australia  is less than half the 11
percent in the euro area and lower than the U.S.’s 8.2 percent.
In his statement, Stevens noted the local job market’s
improvement.  “Overall labor market conditions firmed a little,
notwithstanding job shedding in some industries, and the rate of
unemployment remains low,” Stevens said. “Nonetheless, both
households and businesses continue to exhibit a degree of
precautionary behavior, which may continue in the near term.”  Elsewhere in the region,  China ’s services industry expanded
at a faster pace in May, climbing to a 19-month high, a survey
of  purchasing managers  released by HSBC Holdings Plc and Markit
Economics showed. Philippine inflation eased to 2.9 percent last
month compared with a 3 percent advance in April, giving the
nation’s central bank room to cut  interest rates  should Europe’s
debt crisis worsen.  The  MSCI Asia Pacific (MXAP)  Index advanced 1.5 percent to 110.63
at 2:54 p.m. in  Tokyo  after four straight sessions of declines.
The index yesterday closed at the lowest level since Nov. 25.  EU Reports  Reports later today are forecast to show retail sales in
Europe slid for the second time in three months in April from
March, and German manufacturing orders dropped 1.1 percent from
the previous month, the first decline since January, surveys of
economists showed.  In the U.S., the  Institute for Supply Management ’s non-
manufacturing index, which covers almost 90 percent of the
economy, held at 53.5, matching April’s four-month low,
according to analysts’ estimates.  Reflecting the weakness in the global economy,  Qantas
Airways Ltd. (QAN)  shares plunged to a record low in Sydney today
after saying annual profit may fall as much as 91 percent
because of losses on overseas routes and higher fuel costs.
Australia’s largest carrier, which listed in 1995, slumped as
much as 18 percent.  ‘Cautionary Behavior’  “The RBA has put more weight on global factors,” said
Matthew Sherwood, head of investment markets research in Sydney
at Perpetual Investments, which manages about $23 billion. “The
bank is clearly worried about the outlook for Europe and
households domestically are showing cautionary behavior. They
are a little wary of using the ammunition too quickly.”  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP) , the world’s biggest mining company,
won’t approve any major projects until the end of the year as
costs rise and commodity prices ease, Chief Executive Officer
 Marius Kloppers  said last week.  BHP is due to decide on three projects -- South Australia’s
Olympic Dam copper-uranium expansion, an iron-ore port expansion
in Western Australia and a potash project in  Canada  -- by the
end of the year. They may cost a combined $68 billion to build,
according to a May 23 estimate from Deutsche Bank AG.  Stevens last month lowered the benchmark by a half
percentage point, and minutes of the meeting showed that the
RBA’s decision on the size of the cut reflected a need for lower
consumer borrowing costs.  Mortgage Rates  Australia’s four biggest banks are trying to guard margins
against further erosion from elevated wholesale funding costs,
by passing through less of the central bank’s rate reductions to
mortgage holders.  Commonwealth Bank of Australia , Westpac Banking Corp. and
National Australia Bank Ltd. said they are reviewing rates after
today’s decision. Australia & New Zealand Banking Group Ltd. is
due to do so later in the month.  The RBA, in its quarterly monetary policy statement
released May 4, cut growth and inflation forecasts. It predicted
average growth of 3 percent in 2012, down from a February
estimate of 3.5 percent. Consumer prices will rise 2.5 percent
in the year to December, from a previous prediction of 3
percent; underlying inflation is forecast at 2.25 percent from a
previous estimate of 2.75 percent, the RBA said.  Today, Stevens said: “The board judged that, with modest
domestic growth and a weaker and more uncertain international
environment, the outlook for inflation afforded scope for a more
accommodative stance of monetary policy.”  Policy makers gave no indication of plans for monetary
policy going forward, said  Stephen Walters , JPMorgan Chase &
Co.’s chief economist in Australia.  “But they’ve sort of settled back into that rhythm of 25-
basis-point moves,” said Walters, one of the 13 who predicted
today’s reduction. “There was some speculation that having gone
50 they were going to maintain those sort of hops but they
haven’t done that.”  Stevens is scheduled to speak in the southern city of
Adelaide on June 8.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  