-- Treasuries Fall on Bets Yield Drop to Record Lows Unsustainable
-- B y   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s   a n d   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r
-- 2012-06-05T21:12:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-05/treasuries-fall-on-bets-yield-drop-to-record-lows-unsustainable.html
Treasury yields rose for a second day
on speculation their slide to a record low last week won’t be
sustained, and as bets European leaders may take steps to stem
their sovereign-debt crisis damped demand for safety.  The yields increased as data showed  service industries  in
the U.S. expanded last month. Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S.
Bernanke  will testify this week about the outlook for the  U.S.
economy  before policy makers meet later this month. The  European
Central Bank  meets tomorrow.  “There is a hope that something, anything, will come from
the ECB soon, which in the absence of more bad news is giving
some relief to the strength of the rally,” said  Sean Murphy , a
trader in New York at  Societe Generale , one of the 21 primary
dealers that trade with the Fed. “We’ve come a long way, and we
are giving back some of the gains. But the reality is, low rates
are here for some time until conditions are relieved.”  Thirty-year bond yields climbed eight basis points, or 0.08
percentage point, to 2.64 percent at 5:01 p.m. in  New York ,
according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. The 3 percent
securities due in May 2042 dropped 1 21/32, or $16.56 per $1,000
face amount, to 107 3/8.  The 10-year  yield  rose five basis points to 1.57 percent
after falling as much as two basis points to 1.51 percent.  Trading volume remained below average. About $240 billion
of Treasuries  changed hands  through ICAP Plc, the world’s
largest interdealer broker, compared with $214 billion
yesterday, the lowest level since May 29. Daily volume touched
an almost 11-week high of $396 billion on May 31. The average
over the past year was $257 billion.  Record Lows  Thirty- and 10-year yields reached record lows of 1.4387
percent and 2.5089 percent last week after the Labor Department
reported the economy added 69,000 jobs in May, less than half
the number projected by a Bloomberg News survey of economists.
The yields reached their 2012 highs in March, 3.49 percent for
long bonds and 2.40 percent for 10-years.  Treasuries investors cut bets the securities will advance,
according to a weekly survey by JPMorgan Chase & Co. in which
wagers on a decline outweighed those on a gain for the first
time since March.  The survey’s proportion of “net shorts,” the difference
between bets Treasuries will rise and those that they will fall,
increased to six percentage points in the week ended yesterday.
While the number of “outright shorts” remained at 17 percent,
outright longs, or bets on a rise, dropped to 11 percent from 17
percent. The number of neutrals rose to 72 percent, from 66
percent the previous week.  Expensive Securities  Valuation measures showed Treasuries are at almost the most
expensive level ever. The term premium, a model created by
economists at the Fed, was at negative 0.86 percent after
closing June 1 at negative 0.94 percent, a record. The average
over the past year is negative 0.48. A negative reading
indicates investors are willing to accept yields below what’s
considered fair value.  Volatility in the Treasury market slipped to 84.6 basis
points, from 86.5 basis points yesterday, which was the highest
since March 22, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch’s
MOVE index. The gauge measures Treasury price swings based on
options. Its one-year average is 88 basis points.  The yield difference between 10- and 30-year Treasuries
securities widened to 107 basis points, after touching 103 basis
points earlier, the narrowest since Jan. 12. It probably won’t
continue to increase, according to Bank of American Corp.  ‘Further Flattening’  “We look for further flattening,”  MacNeil Curry , chief
rates and currencies technical strategist in New York at the
firm’s Bank of America Merrill Lynch unit, wrote today in a note
to clients. The spread could reach 94 basis points, he wrote.  Treasuries continue to be a refuge and yields could fall
lower, said Gary Shilling, president of A. Gary Shilling & Co.,
who correctly forecast the U.S. recession that began in 2007.  “We are probably going to be headed for outright
deflation, and we have a budding global recession,” Shilling, a
Bloomberg View columnist, said in a radio interview on
“Bloomberg Surveillance” with Ken Prewitt and  Tom Keene .  Bernanke will testify June 7 in  Washington  before the Joint
Economic Committee on the U.S. economic outlook as policy makers
prepare to open a two-day meeting on June 19. The central bank
has kept its benchmark  interest rate  at zero to 0.25 percent
since December 2008 and bought $2.3 trillion of debt in two
rounds of quantitative easing from December 2008 to June 2011 to
spur economic growth.  “People are on the edge of their seats waiting to see
where Operation Twist or QE are concerned,” said Tom Tucci,
managing director and head of Treasury trading in New York at
Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce’s CIBC World Markets.  Fed Purchase  The Fed purchased $4.85 billion of Treasuries today due
from August 2020 to February 2022 under Operation Twist, a
program in which it’s replacing $400 billion of shorter-term
debt in its holdings with longer maturities through this month
to help keep borrowing costs down.  Dallas Fed President  Richard Fisher  said further bond
purchases would do little to aid the U.S. economy while fueling
perceptions the central bank is encouraging  government spending .
Speaking at the University of  St. Andrews  in  Scotland , he voiced
doubts about the Fed’s maturity-extension program, saying it’s
“distorting the price” of debt.  The  Institute for Supply Management ’s index of  non-
manufacturing  businesses, which covers about 90 percent of the
economy, rose to 53.7 in May from April’s 53.5, the Tempe,
Arizona-based group said. Readings above 50 signal expansion.  European Coordination  Finance ministers and central-bank chiefs from the world’s
leading economies agreed to coordinate their response to
Europe’s financial crisis on a conference call that dealt with
Spain and Greece.  Group of Seven officials said they’ll work together to help
both euro-area countries put their public finances on a
sustainable footing, Japanese Finance Minister  Jun Azumi  told
reporters in Tokyo following the call today.  The ECB will announce an interest-rate decision tomorrow,
followed by a press conference with its president,  Mario Draghi .  Stocks rose, with the  Standard & Poor’s 500 (SPX)  Index gaining
as much as 0.7 percent.  “The risk trade is trying to come back into vogue, but the
market is shy, as history has proven that not much gets resolved
until there is an actual crisis,” said  Scott Graham , head of
government-bond trading at Bank of Montreal’s BMO Capital
Markets unit in Chicago, a primary dealer. “Buying dips in the
market is the way to play it, as things are far from
resolution.”  Treasuries have returned 3.7 percent from the end of the
first quarter through yesterday, according to Bank of America
Merrill Lynch indexes. The MSCI World Index of equities lost
11.6 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cordell Eddings in New York at 
 Ceddings@bloomberg.net ;
Susanne Walker in New York at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  