-- JPMorgan Faced Failure in Risk Controls, Regulators Say
-- B y   P h i l   M a t t i n g l y   a n d   C h e y e n n e   H o p k i n s
-- 2012-06-06T18:12:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-05/regulators-point-to-jpmorgan-losses-as-risk-management-failures.html
JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ’s trading loss
of more than $2 billion points to failures in the bank’s risk-
management practices, U.S. regulators told lawmakers today.  Comptroller of the Currency Thomas J. Curry said the losses
raise “questions about the adequacy and rigor” of the bank’s
risk operation, particularly of the unit which experienced the
losses, the chief investment office.  “We believe that the issue at JPMorgan Chase is one of
inadequate risk management within the office of the chief
investment office,” Curry told lawmakers. The agency is looking
to see if “similar gaps exist in any other area of JPMorgan’s
risk management architecture,” he said.  The hearing before the Senate Banking Committee was the
first public airing of the roles played by the OCC, the  Federal
Reserve , the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. and the Treasury
Department before May 10, when JPMorgan Chairman and Chief
Executive Officer  Jamie Dimon  disclosed the trading losses tied
to  credit derivatives .  “We are looking at whether there were gaps within our
assessment of the risks and the risk controls in place in the
CIO office,” Curry told lawmakers.  Senator  Tim Johnson , the South Dakota Democrat who leads
the committee, said losses at the largest and most profitable
U.S. bank shows that “no institution is immune from bad
judgment.”  Dimon Testimony  Dimon, who is scheduled to testify to the Senate panel on
June 13 and to the House Financial Services Committee on June
19, is under pressure from lawmakers and regulators to explain
the trades, which he has called “flawed, complex, poorly
reviewed, poorly executed and poorly monitored.”  Jennifer Zuccarelli , a spokeswoman for JPMorgan, declined
to comment on the remarks of regulators.  Senator  Richard Shelby  of  Alabama , the top Republican on
the committee, said after the hearing that Curry’s testimony,
which came as the OCC was still conducting its review of the
losses, didn’t answer all of his questions.  “Maybe Mr. Dimon will explain what’s going on,” Shelby
told reporters. “Sooner or later we need an explanation. Was it
 managing risk  or was it something else?”  Capital Requirements  Fed Governor  Daniel Tarullo  said in his prepared testimony
that the central bank has been assisting in the oversight of
JPMorgan’s “efforts to manage and de-risk the portfolio in
question.”  Tarullo, who pointed to the importance of “robust bank
capital requirements,” said the Fed, as the primary regulator
for JPMorgan’s holding company, has been looking to see if there
are weaknesses in risk management or control. He said the Fed
hasn’t found similar risks, though the review is “not yet
complete.”  Lawmakers, split along party lines, tried to square
JPMorgan’s losses with a provision in the Dodd-Frank Act to ban
proprietary trading by banks that benefit from FDIC deposit
insurance and Fed borrowing.  Senator  Jeff Merkley , an Oregon Democrat and co-author of
the so-called Volcker rule, argued that the goal of the ban was
to reduce risk, not increase it. He asked Curry whether trades
by one trader in the bank’s chief investment office -- nicknamed
the “London Whale” because his positions grew so large -- met
that goal.  Whale’s Thoughts  “Do you think that Bruno Iksil, the London Whale who ran
JPMC’s European strategic investment unit, woke up each day
trying to mitigate the risk from excess deposits invested
between loans and bonds?”  Curry said the while it is “premature” to reach any
conclusions on whether JPMorgan’s trades would have violated the
Volcker rule, “the episode will certainly help focus our
thinking on these issues.” As to Iksil’s role, Curry responded
to Merkley by saying he would “not necessarily” conclude that
the trader was operating solely to mitigate the firm’s risk.  The final version of the Volcker rule, which is still being
revised, should prohibit hedging that “does not reduce risks
related to specific individual or aggregate positions held by a
firm,” Treasury Deputy Secretary Neal Wolin said in his
prepared remarks.  The JPMorgan loss shows the need for banks’ senior managers
to have effective risk models and accountability for failure,
and for regulators to have clear understanding of banks’
exposures and risk-management systems, Wolin said.  ‘Substantive Guidelines’  Tarullo said the Volcker rule will put in place
“substantive guidelines” to distinguish between hedging and
proprietary trading.  “If a firm said we are doing this because it is a hedge
they would be required to explain to themselves, importantly, as
well as to the primary supervisor, what the hedging strategy
was” and make sure it didn’t create new exposures, he said.  Senator  Jack Reed , a Rhode Island Democrat, raised the
issue of the OCC’s oversight of how JPMorgan measured its
“value at risk,” or VaR. Dimon, in a May 10 call with
investors, said the chief investment office used a new model
that later proved to be “inadequate.”  SEC Chairman  Mary Schapiro  said in congressional testimony
last month that the agency is “very focused” on determining
whether JPMorgan appropriately disclosed changes it made during
the first quarter to the VaR calculation. A company’s VaR is a
measure of how much the company estimates it could lose on
trading on 95 percent of days.  Risk Models  Curry said that while the agency “would likely have been
aware” of changes to the company’s internal risk models, there
is no explicit regulatory approval requirement to make changes.  Tarullo, who garnered support from lawmakers in both
parties for his emphasis on the needs for stronger  capital
requirements , said that because the euro crisis has been brewing
for some time, the Fed has been able to “regularize” a system
of oversight to track U.S. financial institution exposures in
 Europe .  “What we have been able to do is put in place a system
that allows us to check the positions and exposures of
individual firms” against aggregate data, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Phil Mattingly in Washington at 
 pmattingly@bloomberg.net ;
Cheyenne Hopkins in Washington at 
 chopkins19@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Maura Reynolds  at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  