-- Roche’s Actemra Beat Abbott Drug in Rheumatoid Arthritis
-- B y   N a o m i   K r e s g e
-- 2012-06-06T12:42:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-05/roche-s-actemra-beat-abbott-drug-in-rheumatoid-arthritis.html
Roche Holding AG (ROG) ’s rheumatoid
arthritis drug Actemra beat Humira from  Abbott Laboratories (ABT)  in a
test that Roche said may widen use of its therapy.  Actemra was more effective than Humira in reducing tender
and swollen joints and other measures of rheumatoid arthritis in
patients who couldn’t take methotrexate, the usual initial
treatment for the disease, the Basel, Switzerland-based
drugmaker said. Roche presents the study today at the  European
League Against Rheumatism’s  annual conference in Berlin.  The results may influence doctors to prescribe Actemra
instead of Humira for the roughly 30 percent of patients who
need a single-drug treatment, said Karsten Jung, Roche’s
therapeutic area head for immunology. Roche and  Abbott Park ,
Illinois-based Abbott may face competition soon if U.S.
regulators approve  Pfizer Inc. (PFE) ’s rheumatoid arthritis pill
tofacitinib.  “This will make a strong case that this should set Actemra
apart from other medications,” Jung said in a telephone
interview.  Roche believes annual sales of Actemra may peak at more
than 1 billion Swiss francs ($1.03 billion), Jung said. The
Swiss drugmaker hopes to get U.S. Food and Drug Administration
approval this year to sell Actemra for patients who haven’t
already tried Humira or a similar biological treatment, instead
of only those who aren’t helped by those medicines, he said.  Sold as RoActemra in  Europe , the Roche drug had 618 million
francs in sales last year. Sales rose about 46 percent to 184
million francs in the first quarter.  Humira’s Sales  By comparison, Humira sales reached $7.9 billion last year.
New York-based Pfizer’s tofacitinib, recommended for approval by
a U.S. advisory panel last month, may generate $1.5 billion
annually by 2020, analysts at Citigroup Inc. said.  “The study evaluated monotherapy treatment using the
maximum Actemra dose and the minimum Humira dose allowed for
monotherapy, so the results may be skewed in favor of Actemra,”
Raquel Powers, an Abbott spokeswoman, said in a telephone
interview.  Doctors will make a decision on Actemra based on the
balance between the drug’s toxicity and potential benefit, EULAR
President Maxime Dougados said in a telephone interview.  “It’s good to have this information,” Dougados said.
“I’m not sure it will radically change the management style
tomorrow morning.”  Roche rose 1.3 percent to 151.40 Swiss francs at 2:40 p.m.
in Zurich trading  Study Data  In today’s Roche study, about 65 percent of the patients
who took Actemra showed a 20 percent improvement after six
months, compared with about 49 percent of the patients who took
Humira.  More patients who took Actemra saw their cholesterol rise
than among the Humira group, according to the study. Serious
infections were about the same between groups.  In a second study released at the Berlin conference today,
 Bristol-Myers Squibb Co. (BMY) ’s therapy Orencia was about equal to
Humira in patients who hadn’t taken a biological rheumatoid
arthritis treatment before. After a year of treatment, about 65
percent of the patients on Orencia showed a 20 percent
improvement, compared with about 63 percent of patients on
Humira. The patients took the biological medicines together with
methotrexate.  Rheumatoid arthritis usually hits adults between 20 and 40
years of age, as the immune system attacks the joints to cause
swelling, pain and damage that can lead to deformity and
disability. More common in women than in men, the disease
afflicts about 1.3 million Americans, according to the  National
Institutes of Health .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Naomi Kresge in Berlin at 
 nkresge@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  