-- Troika Hires Ageshin From VTB Capital for Fixed-Income Sales
-- B y   J a s o n   C o r c o r a n
-- 2012-06-05T07:52:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-05/troika-hires-ageshin-from-vtb-capital-for-fixed-income-sales-2-.html
Troika Dialog hired Evgeny Ageshin
from larger rival VTB Capital to run its fixed-income, currency
and commodity sales team as it seeks to become  Russia ’s biggest
investment bank.  Ageshin, who was co-head of foreign exchange and derivative
sales at VTB, started yesterday, said Maria Zhog, a spokeswoman
for Moscow-based Troika, a unit of OAO Sberbank, Russia’s
biggest lender. Ageshin will report to Andrey Chuprin.  State-run Sberbank merged its fixed-income trading
operations with Troika in March, two months after paying at
least $1 billion to buy the country’s oldest brokerage. Maxim Safonov, Troika’s head of fixed income, currencies and
commodities, said March 15 the bank may hire as many as 11
bankers to double its fixed-income sales team.  Sberbank Chief Executive Officer  German Gref , a former
economy minister, is seeking to turn what was once the  Soviet
Union ’s savings bank into a full-service financial firm that can
compete at home and abroad in areas from bond underwriting to
 stock trading . Troika plans to increase its staff of about 100
bankers by about 40 percent this year,  Todd Berman , head of
 investment banking , said Nov. 29.  Citigroup, RenCap  Troika last month hired bankers Steve Kale, David Theys and
Dmitry Zubatyuk from Citigroup Inc., Arma Partners and
 Renaissance Capital , respectively. Kale, who previously led
Citigroup’s equity capital markets origination team for Russia,
joined as head of equity syndicate group. Theys was named head
of telecommunications, media and technology, while Zubatyuk
became director for oil and gas.  VTB Capital, created from scratch three years ago by VTB
Group, Russia’s second-largest bank, was the biggest organizer
of Russian debt sales last year, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. OAO Gazprombank was second, followed by Troika and
Sberbank.  VTB’s chief economist, Alexei Moiseev, is leaving the bank
to become a deputy finance minister, the Vedomosti newspaper
reported yesterday, citing unidentified people with knowledge of
the matter. Moiseev declined to comment on the report by phone
today.  VTB’s press service declined to comment on the departures.  “We have hired over 100 individuals since the beginning of
the year,” Sue Maple, global head of human resources at VTB
Capital, wrote in an e-mailed statement. “We see no reason to
change course.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jason Corcoran in Moscow at 
 jcorcoran13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net  