-- Rolls-Royce Must Face Whistle-Blowers’ Contract Suit
-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 2012-06-05T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-05/rolls-royce-must-face-whistle-blowers-contract-suit.html
Rolls-Royce Corp. must face a
whistle-blower lawsuit brought by two former quality-control
officers claiming the company cheated the U.S. by failing to
report defense-contract product defects, a judge said.  U.S. District Judge William T. Lawrence in Indianapolis
yesterday ruled plaintiffs Thomas McArtor and Keith Ramsey could
proceed on two of their four theories of liability.  McArtor and Ramsey claim Rolls-Royce induced the U.S. to
enter into about 180 aircraft engine contracts from 2003 to 2006
by hiding its failure to comply with a required quality
assurance plan, failing to disclose defects and concealing those
practices to maintain a third-party certification needed to keep
existing contracts and obtain new ones.  “As a result of RRC’s concealment efforts,” Lawrence
said, citing the McArtor-Ramsey allegations, “the
recertification auditor did not discover most of the
violations.”  The suit was filed in 2008 and unsealed after the U.S.
declined to intervene in 2010.  Lawrence rejected the plaintiffs’ theory the company could
be liable for reverse false claims for allegedly failing to tell
the U.S. of defects to avoid having to pay refunds or issue
replacement parts. The men hadn’t shown such claims were
anything more than conjectural, he said.  Government’s Choice  “RRC is required to pay the government or otherwise make
concessions if and only if the government so chooses,” the
judge said.  Joel Reuter, a spokesman for the Indianapolis-based unit of
 Rolls-Royce Holdings Plc (RR/) , said yesterday he couldn’t immediately
comment on the court’s decision. The parent company is based in
 London .  “Thousand of engines in military aircraft are potentially
affected,” according to a revised complaint filed in November
2011, including the F-35 joint-strike fighter plane, C-130
Hercules transports and the V-22 Osprey, a plane capable of
vertical lift-off.  The men, who are suing on behalf of the U.S., seek an
$11,000 penalty for each false claim and each false statement
the company made to the Defense Department, plus three times the
amount of payments received or costs avoided. McArtor and Ramsey
are seeking 30 percent of any such recovery for themselves.  Forced Out  McArtor, who filed the initial complaint, worked for the
company from 1994 to 2006, serving as a senior quality assurance
manager and airworthiness coordinator when he was allegedly
forced out for reporting fraudulent conduct.  Ramsey, who joined the case after it was unsealed, served
as a quality engineer from August 2002 to March 2006 when, he
said, he was fired for refusing to cooperate with quality
control plan deviations.  The men said in an amended complaint filed in November that
they didn’t know each other before to the litigation.  “Rolls-Royce is finally out of options for avoiding these
serious, safety-related allegations,” plaintiffs’ lawyer
Michael Kanovitz of Chicago-based Loevy & Loevy said in a
statement issued after Lawrence released his ruling.  The case is U.S. ex rel. McArtor v. Rolls-Royce Corp., 08-
cv-00133, U.S. District Court, Southern District of  Indiana 
(Indianapolis).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Harris in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  