-- Romney Courts Hispanics by Assailing Obama on Economy
-- B y   J u l i e   H i r s c h f e l d   D a v i s
-- 2012-06-06T17:54:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-05/romney-courts-hispanics-by-assailing-obama-on-economy.html
Mitt Romney , stepping up efforts to
better his standing with a crucial voting bloc, is blaming
President  Barack Obama  for rising joblessness and poverty rates
plaguing Hispanic Americans and vowing that he would improve
their lot.  The presumptive Republican presidential nominee, who polls
indicate is at a steep disadvantage with Hispanic voters after a
primary battle that spotlighted his opposition to affording
illegal immigrants a path to legal status, today announced he
has tapped a group of prominent Hispanic Republicans to lead his
outreach effort. The campaign is calling the effort “Juntos Con
Romney,” which translates to “Together With Romney.”  “The Hispanic community has been especially hard-hit by
President Obama’s policies,” Carlos Gutierrez, a leader of the
group who served as Commerce secretary under President  George W. Bush , said in a statement. “Together with Mitt Romney, we will
be able to do what President Obama has failed to do: fix the
economy, create jobs, and get our country on the right track
again.”  Television Ads  It’s the latest move by Romney, 65, who is also running
Spanish-language television advertisements in politically
competitive states and deploying Spanish-speaking surrogates to
speak on his behalf, to make the gains with Hispanic voters he
may need to defeat Obama.  “We do need to do better with Hispanic voters, and I think
we can,”  Ed Gillespie , a top Romney advisor, said today at a
breakfast hosted by Bloomberg News. Romney’s “message of
opportunity and economic growth is the way that we’re going to
attract those votes.”  Romney told  Texas  voters yesterday that he would focus on
building an economy that benefits Americans of all ethnicities.  “I can tell you that if I’m the next president of the
 United States , I’ll be the president for all Americans and make
sure this economy is good for all Americans -- Hispanic and
otherwise,” Romney told a few hundred voters packed into the
warehouse of a Hispanic-owned office equipment company in  Fort
Worth , Texas.  Campaigning in a border state with a 38 percent Hispanic
population, the former Massachusetts governor never mentioned
the politically charged issue of immigration, continuing to
speak as protesters briefly chanted, “Education not
deportation!” before being escorted out of the event. Romney’s
jobs-focused message highlighted his strategy of trying to woo
Hispanic voters by speaking to their economic worries and
aspirations.  ‘America in Crisis’  “Three-and-a-half years in as president, with America in
crisis, with 23 million people out of work or stopped looking
for work, he hasn’t put forward a plan to get us working
again,” Romney said of Obama at Southwest Office Systems, a
Hispanic-owned family business.  In a web video released by his campaign in both English and
Spanish before yesterday’s event, Romney questioned Obama’s
contention in a recent Internet ad that circumstances have
improved for Hispanics. With ominous music as its backdrop,
Romney’s spot features economic data showing that Hispanic
unemployment and poverty rates have risen since the Democrat
took office.  Unemployment Figures  According to the  U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics , the
seasonally adjusted  unemployment rate  among Hispanics and
Latinos has risen during Obama’s term, from 9.7 percent when he
took office in January 2009 to 11 percent last month. That’s
three times as big an increase as in the  total unemployment
rate , which rose from 7.8 percent to 8.2 percent over the same
period.  Still, polls show Obama, 50, enjoys a lopsided advantage
among Hispanics after a primary in which Romney, emphasized his
opposition to measures that would let illegal immigrant share in
federal benefits or remain in the country and obtain legal
status.  A May 16-21 NBC News/ Wall Street  Journal poll of Hispanic
registered voters found they favored Obama over Romney, 61
percent to 27 percent.  “It’s very clear that Republicans need to do better in the
Latino community, and that means inevitably addressing issues of
particular importance in the Latino community,” said Republican
pollster  Whit Ayres  of Alexandria, Virginia-based North Star
Opinion Research. “If you’re going to reach out and ask for
Hispanic support, you need to be sure that you’ve established
positions on issues on which they feel strongly.”  Economic Focus  Romney is trying to appeal to Hispanics by focusing on
discontent about their economic circumstances, which Ayres said
is the top issue for them, as it is for voters overall.  “ Governor Romney  has a real opening if he can paint an
alternative vision, a compelling and inspiring vision for a
stronger economy,” Ayres said.  Hispanic voters helped propel Obama’s 2008 White House win,
backing him by 67 percent to 31 percent over Republican  John McCain , according to exit polls.  A similar grip on such voters in this year’s race could
swing several states with growing Hispanic populations into
Obama’s column, including Florida, Colorado and Nevada.  Balancing Act  The immigration issue forces Romney and the  Republican
Party  to strike a tricky balance between the political
imperative of pleasing the party’s base -- which backs
restrictive policies toward illegal immigrants -- and the
demographic reality of the growing numbers of Hispanic voters,
many of whom are alienated by such measures.  Gillespie said Romney’s tough stance on illegal immigration
doesn’t prevent him from gaining the backing of Hispanic voters.
“I don’t think that not supporting a very liberal immigration
policy disqualifies you from getting the votes of Hispanic
Americans,” he said.  While the polls suggest Hispanics were turned off by
Romney’s position during the Republican primary, Obama faces
challenges in exploiting the issue because he hasn’t fulfilled
his promise to overhaul U.S. immigration laws to forge a path to
legalization for millions of undocumented workers. The
president’s camp is arguing that Hispanics would do even worse
economically during a Romney presidency.  “Hispanics stand to lose the most from Romney’s insistence
on the same failed economic policies that created the economic
crisis, including his plans to give massive tax breaks to
millionaires and billionaires, allow Wall Street to write its
own rules again and let foreclosures ‘hit the bottom,’”
Gabriela Domenzain, an Obama campaign spokeswoman, said in a
statement.  ‘Seeing Results’  “We are seeing results,” she added, noting that private
sector jobs have increased consistently over the last 27 months.  Romney’s advisers believe that by playing on economic
concerns, praising legal immigration and highlighting Hispanics’
business success stories, he will be able to whittle Obama’s
edge. His appearance yesterday was at an office equipment
company and family business started in 1964 by Victor Puente Sr., whose parents were Mexican immigrants.  “We have lived the American dream,” Vince Puente,
Victor’s son, said before Romney spoke, noting that his
grandparents “immigrated legally.”  Romney, whose win in Texas’ May 29 primary gave him enough
delegates to surpass the 1,144 needed to clinch the Republican
nomination, opened his remarks thanking the state “for taking
me over the line and helping me get the nomination.”  He swept all five primaries yesterday, winning in
 California ,  New Jersey ,  New Mexico ,  Montana  and  South Dakota .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julie Hirschfeld Davis in  San Antonio , Texas at 
 jdavis159@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net  