-- Russian Inflation Holds at Post-Soviet Despite Ruble Drop
-- B y   S c o t t   R o s e
-- 2012-06-05T08:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-05/russian-inflation-holds-at-post-soviet-despite-ruble-drop.html
Russian inflation held at a post-
Soviet low last month even as the ruble’s plunge threatens to
fuel price growth, adding to the central bank’s concerns about
the higher cost of living in the second half of the year.  Consumer prices  advanced 3.6 percent in May from a year
earlier, the Federal Statistics Service in Moscow said in an e-
mailed statement today. Prices rose 0.5 percent from a month
earlier. That matched the median estimates of economists in two
Bloomberg News surveys.  The world’s largest energy exporter drove inflation to
record lows by pushing back annual increases in utility tariffs
to mid-year before President  Vladimir Putin ’s election to the
Kremlin in March. The central bank is warning that inflation
risks remain in the second half.  “The weaker ruble is another uncertainty, but given what
we saw in autumn, a 10 to 15 percent depreciation is not big
enough to push inflation much higher,” Vladimir Kolychev, chief
economist at Societe Generale SA’s OAO  Rosbank (ROSB)  unit in Moscow,
said by telephone before the release. The central bank’s stance
now is “restrictive enough” to cool the economy in the past
two quarters, he said.  Bank Rossii will probably wait until the third quarter to
assess the July increase in regulated prices and this year’s
harvest before acting on rates, he said.  The ruble strengthened 0.7 percent against the dollar to
33.2325 as of 11:10 a.m. in Moscow, its second day of gains. The
ruble-denominated Micex Index of 30 stocks also rose for a
second day, adding 0.8 percent to 1,316.85.  Ruble Drop  The ruble fell 12 percent against the dollar last month,
the sharpest drop since January 2009 and the most among 25
emerging-market currencies tracked by Bloomberg. It lost 9
percent against the central bank’s target basket of dollars and
euros.  Prime Minister  Dmitry Medvedev  told central bank Chairman
Sergey Ignatiev at a June 2 meeting to step up sales of foreign
currency to bolster the ruble if needed. The situation is
“under control” and any further weakening of the currency
would be slowed by greater interventions, Ignatiev was cited as
saying.  Bank Rossii said after its rates meeting May 10 that policy
makers expected to meet their target of containing price growth
within the target range of 5 percent to 6 percent. Increases to
regulated tariff prices as well as the end of seasonal effects
from cheaper food prices may drive up inflation in the second
half, according to the statement.  Core Inflation  Core inflation , which excludes volatile costs such as
energy, slowed to 0.2 percent in May from a month earlier, less
than the 0.4 percent median forecast of 10 economists in a
Bloomberg survey.  The ruble’s depreciation last month may start feeding into
the inflation rate because imported goods including food have a
significant weighting in the  consumer price index , Vladimir Tikhomirov, chief economist at Otkritie Financial Corp. in
Moscow, said by telephone June 1.  “If the ruble remains at current levels, it will start to
have an effect on imports and prices in one to two months,” he
said.  “If the ruble is able to appreciate a bit, then the
effect from the sharp weakening of the ruble might turn out to
be not so significant.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Rose in Moscow at 
 rrose10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  