-- Russia Stocks Tumble to 1-Week Low as Brent Drops, Rosneft Falls
-- B y   K s e n i a   G a l o u c h k o
-- 2012-06-05T16:32:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-05/russia-stocks-tumble-to-1-week-low-as-brent-drops-rosneft-falls.html
Russian stocks fell to a one-week
low, led by OAO Rosneft, the country’s biggest oil producer, as
declining brent prices outweighed bets global policy makers will
take steps to spur growth.  The  Micex Index (INDEXCF)  retreated 0.7 percent to 1,297.04 by the
close in Moscow, erasing an earlier gain of 1.1 percent and
falling to the lowest level since May 28. The benchmark gauge
tumbled 11 percent last month, the most since September. Rosneft
and smaller rival OAO Lukoil tumbled at least 1.2 percent. OAO
 Norilsk Nickel  fell 0.8 percent after the Russian government
increased the nickel export tariff by 16 percent.  Brent oil sank as much as 1.2 percent. Finance ministers
and central bank governors from the Group of Seven countries
agreed to coordinate their response to  Europe ’s financial crisis
on a conference call that dealt with Spain and  Greece . Euro-area
services and manufacturing output contracted in May, adding to
signs the economy is suffering under the worsening sovereign-
debt crisis.  “With the absence of concrete decisions from Europe and
with London trading closed, the Russian market is very volatile
and is declining,”  Andrey Kuznetsov , an equities analyst at
Citigroup Inc. in Moscow, said by phone.  Russia  received almost 50 percent of budget revenue from
oil and gas sales last year. The London markets were closed
today for a public holiday. The Micex will trade on June 9 and
be closed on June 11-12 for public holidays.  Redemptions  Russia-dedicated equity funds posted redemptions for the
seventh week in eight, registering a net outflow of $8.2 million
in the week ended May 30, according to EPFR Global. Developing-
nation equity funds registered outflows of more than $1 billion
for the fourth consecutive week, the longest streak since the
third quarter of 2011.  The dollar-denominated RTS Index rose 0.5 percent to
1,246.40, the highest level since May 30.  The MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index rose 0.6 percent to 887.40
today, the most since May 29, while the MSCI BRIC Index of
shares traded in  India ,  Brazil , Russia and  China , added 0.2
percent.  Russian stocks trade at 4.7 times  estimated earnings , the
cheapest level since November, having lost 7.8 percent this
year. That compares with a 3.2 percent drop for the  MSCI
Emerging-Market Index (MXEF)  which trades at 9.6 times projected
earnings.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ksenia Galouchko in Moscow at 
 kgalouchko1@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  