-- Samantha Stosur and Sara Errani Reach French Open Semifinals
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 2012-06-05T15:07:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-05/samantha-stosur-beats-cibulkova-in-french-open-quarterfinals.html
Samantha Stosur of Australia beat
Dominika Cibulkova in straight sets in the quarterfinals of
tennis’s French Open in Paris. She’ll meet Sara Errani of Italy,
who advanced to a Grand Slam semifinal for the first time.  Sixth-seed Stosur saved three break points to prevent the
No. 15-seeded Slovak tying the first set at 5-5 before sweeping
to victory. She won 6-4, 6-1. The Australian won the match when
Cibulkova hit an attempted drop shot into the net.  Stosur, 28, became the first Australian woman in 31 years
to win a major singles title when she beat  Serena Williams  in
last year’s  U.S. Open  final. She reached the final of the French
Open in 2010, losing to Italy’s Francesca Schiavone.  “It’s never easy to come out here, it was very windy and I
was playing an opponent who is always going for it,” Stosur
said in a televised interview after the match.  “I have to say that she played unbelievable today,”
Cibulkova told reporters. “You know, her topspin and her serve,
I mean, she played like a man, and it’s really hard to play
against a man.  It was driving me crazy on the court today. It
was really, really hard, really tough.”  Errani won the other women’s quarterfinal 6-3, 7-6 (7-2)
against  Germany ’s Angelique Kerber. The German, the No. 10 seed,
led 4-3 in the second set only to allow No. 21 Errani to break
back immediately.  A series of service breaks followed as the match went to 5-
5 before Errani’s resilience sent the set into a tie-break,
which she won 7-2.  ‘More Tired’  “In the beginning of the second set I was feeling a bit
more tired, but just tried to keep playing like I was playing,”
Errani told reporters. “I just wanted to keep fighting every
ball, every point.”  Also today, Grand Slam men’s record holder  Roger Federer  of
Switzerland, the No. 3 seed, plays No. 9 Juan Martin del Potro
of Argentina in the quarterfinals. Novak Djokovic of  Serbia , the
world No. 1, meets Jo-Wilfried Tsonga of France, who’s seeded
fifth.  Federer’s victory in 2009 makes him the last man other than
defending champion  Rafael Nadal  of Spain to win at  Roland
Garros . Djokovic is trying to become the first man since  Rod Laver  of Australia in 1969 to hold all four tennis majors at the
same time.  The Serb is the reigning Wimbledon, U.S. Open and
Australian Open champion, yet has never made the final in Paris.
No. 2 Nadal, vying for a record seventh French Open men’s title,
is currently tied on six with Sweden’s  Bjorn Borg .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Rossingh at Roland Garros in Paris via the London
newsroom at 
 drossingh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter-Joseph Hegarty at 
 phegarty@bloomberg.net  