-- Jerry Sandusky’s Insurer Must Pay Defense Costs for Now
-- B y   S o p h i a   P e a r s o n
-- 2012-06-05T20:47:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-05/sandusky-s-defense-must-be-covered-by-insurer-judge-rules-1-.html
Federal Insurance Co. must continue
to cover the defense costs of Jerry Sandusky, the former
 Pennsylvania  State University assistant football coach accused
of sexually abusing boys, a judge ruled.  Pennsylvania public policy bars enforcement of insurance
contracts that indemnify the insured against damages arising
from “certain reprehensible conduct,” said U.S. District Judge
Yvette Kane in Harrisburg, Pennsylvania. It’s unclear whether
the policy makes Federal’s duty to provide Sandusky with a
defense unenforceable, Kane said yesterday in court papers.  “The court is also without facts specific to this case
that may bear on the court’s public policy determination and may
dictate the breadth of any rule that the court may craft,” Kane
wrote. “Was it Sandusky himself who procured this policy? Did
he do so knowing that criminal charges were imminent?”  Sandusky, a former defensive Penn State coordinator, was
charged in November with 52 criminal counts related to the
alleged abuse of 10 boys he met through the Second Mile, a
charity he founded for needy children.  Jury selection in the criminal case began today in
Bellefonte, Pennsylvania. Opening statements are slated for June
11. He also faces a lawsuit filed by an alleged victim in state
court in Philadelphia.  Policy Coverage  Federal, based in Warren,  New Jersey , issued an insurance
policy to Second Mile, covering the charity and all of its
directors and officers, in March 2011 for the period April 1,
2011, to April 1, 2012, Kane wrote. In December the insurer
advanced $125,000 to Sandusky’s defense attorney. Federal sued
that month seeking a court order saying it isn’t required to
provide the coverage.  Without a clear record, the court “must defer issuance of
a ruling on the public policy question as it relates to
Federal’s obligation to provide Sandusky’s legal costs,” Kane
wrote.  Federal Insurance is an operating insurer of the  Chubb
Corp. (CB)  Mark Schussel, a spokesman for Chubb, declined to comment
on the ruling.  Brian Osias of McCarter & English, Sandusky’s attorney in
the insurance case, said Kane’s decision has “broad public
policy implications.”  “Directors’-and-officers’ and employment-liability
insurance policies with similar language are issued to thousands
of policyholders across the country, so this case is about more
than Mr. Sandusky,” Osias said in an e-mailed statement. “It
is important for insurance companies to provide coverage
consistent with the policies that they draft and sell.”  The case is Federal Insurance Co. v. Sandusky, 11-cv-02375,
U.S. District Court, Middle District of Pennsylvania
(Williamsport).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sophia Pearson in Philadelphia
at   spearson3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 