-- Scene: Pandit, Parsons, Tudor Jones, Teixeira, Cohn
-- B y   A m a n d a   G o r d o n
-- 2012-06-05T20:10:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-05/scene-pandit-parsons-tudor-jones-teixeira-cohn.html
There was no scolding last night when
former  Citigroup Inc. (C)  chairman  Richard Parsons  spilled red wine
on the white carpet at the  Apollo Spring Gala .  It happened while Parsons was talking with Citigroup Inc.
Chief Executive Officer Vikram Pandit and Gabon’s ambassador to
the U.S.,  Michael Moussa-Adamo . Both were unscathed.  Perhaps it was just a sign of a good party. High spirits
had taken hold at the concert. Lionel Richie sang “Three Times
a Lady,” Gladys Knight paid tribute to Etta James with “At
Last,” and  Chaka Khan  belted “I’m Every Woman.” The gala
raised $1.2 million.  At the late-night supper in the white-carpeted tent,  Paul Tudor Jones  of Tudor Investment Corp. and Maya Harris of the
Ford Foundation said their favorite number was “Jesus Is
Love,” performed by Donnie McClurkin and the Tuskegee Choir.
Richie, inducted into the Apollo Hall of Fame along last night,
recorded it with the Commodores. James was also inducted
posthumously.  Pandit, recipient of the gala’s Corporate Award, said he
likes all kinds of music.  The CEO also explained that he knows the area around the
Apollo because he went to school a few blocks west. He was
referring to  Columbia University , where he earned degrees
including an M.B.A. and a Ph.D.  Post-Citi, Parsons said he’s working on the things he
loves, which include reopening the jazz club Minton’s at 118th
Street and St. Nicholas Avenue, in the second quarter of 2013.  “The idea is to pair great music with great food and
ambience,” Parsons said.  To that end, he added, he’s hired Alexander Smalls, a chef,
restaurateur and former opera singer.  Harlem Baseball  New York Yankees player  Mark Teixeira  and  Gary Cohn ,
 Goldman Sachs (GS)  Group Inc.’s president, were part of the dream
team last night that helped  Harlem RBI  raise $2.3 million to
teach kids baseball. Last year participants had a college
placement rate of 100 percent.  “Baseball is a good metaphor for life,” Teixeira said.
“You don’t hit every ball or win every game. What you learn is
to dust yourself off and try again.”  Cohn agreed on how sports teach the importance of failure,
“except when I’m coaching little kids,” he said. “Then both
teams win.”  Library Gala  Meanwhile guests fancifully went back to school at the  New
York Public Library  Spring Gala.  Waiters served peanut-butter-and-jelly sandwiches on silver
trays. Tabletops were chalkboards, accessorized with cups of
sharpened pencils and erasers.  The homework: taking in a concert by  Tony Bennett  and a
ceremony that awarded teacher and education-reform advocate
Seymour Fliegel with the Brooke Russell Astor Award.  TPG-Axon Capital Management’s Beth Kojima was a gala
chairwoman along with library trustees Gayfryd Steinberg and
Susan Morgenthau. The event raised almost $1.4 million.  Citymeals Gala  At the  Citymeals-on-Wheels  gala at Rockefeller Center, chef
Michael Cimarusti of the Los Angeles restaurant Providence
served kelp-cured sockeye salmon with crispy buckwheat and
salmon skin.  On his home turf, Yuji Fujinaga, the chef of Sea Grill,
offered swordfish pastrami and pickled ramps on a bun. The
secret ingredient: Urfa Bibar, Turkish smoked pepper.  The event raised $825,000 to deliver meals to 16,500
homebound elderly in  New York City .  The Citymeals-on-Wheels fiscal year ends June 30, “so as
of July 1, we start at zero again,” said the organization’s
executive director, Beth Shapiro. The annual private fundraising
goal is $18 million.  Muse highlights include  Craig Seligman  on books and  Peter
Rainer  on movies.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Amanda Gordon in  New York  at 
 agordon01@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net  