-- Schweitzer-Mauduit Loses Bid to Block Cigarette Papers
-- B y   S u s a n   D e c k e r
-- 2012-06-05T21:42:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-05/schweitzer-mauduit-loses-bid-to-block-cigarette-papers-1-.html
Schweitzer-Mauduit International Inc. (SWM) 
lost a bid to prevent a German competitor from shipping self-
extinguishing cigarette papers to the U.S.  Julius Glatz GmbH of Neidenfels,  Germany , didn’t violate
Schweitzer-Mauduit’s patent rights, the U.S. International Trade
Commission said in a notice posted on the agency’s website. The
commission gave no reason for its final decision to reject
Schweitzer-Mauduit’s request to halt imports of the rival
papers.  Schweitzer-Mauduit, based in Alpharetta,  Georgia , supplies
about 80 percent of the U.S. market for so-called low-ignition
proclivity papers, which have thick bands that act as buffers so
a cigarette goes out if a smoker isn’t drawing air through it.
Glatz and its LIPtec unit sell papers for discount brands
produced by American Indian tribes and sold online.  All 50 U.S. states and the  District of Columbia  have passed
laws requiring so-called fire-safe cigarettes as part of an
effort to cut down on fire-related deaths. Smoking is the top
reason people die in home fires, with an estimated 700 to 900
deaths each year,  according  to the National Fire Protection
Association.  Additional Patents  Schweitzer-Mauduit makes papers under the name Alginex, and
has said in regulatory filings that it has additional patents
protecting its flagship brand from competitors.  An ITC judge in February sided with Glatz on both patents
in the case. The commission reviewed whether the judge had
correctly interpreted key terms of the patents, as well as other
aspects of the case, and today said it was terminating the
investigation with a finding of no violation. The full decision
will be available once both sides have a chance to redact
confidential information.  In October, Schweitzer-Mauduit said it had settled its
dispute with one competitor, Germany-based Delfortgroup AG, and
its distributor, Astra Tobacco Corp. of  Chapel Hill ,  North
Carolina . Under the terms of the agreement, Delfortgroup agreed
to pay a minimum of $4 million a year for five years, with
additional payments through the life of the patents, some of
which last through 2023.  The case is In the Matter of Reduced Ignition Proclivity
Cigarette Paper Wrappers, 337-756, U.S. International Trade
Commission ( Washington ).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Susan Decker in Washington at 
 sdecker1@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  