-- Scott Conant Craves $5,000 Zegna Suits, Prada, Cartier
-- B y   P a t r i c k   C o l e
-- 2012-06-05T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-05/scott-conant-craves-5-000-zegna-suits-prada-cartier.html
When he was a struggling line cook at
New York’s San Domenico restaurant, Scott Conant had to share an
apartment with five other guys. There were times when he was
actually broke.  Today, Conant’s SCM Hospitality runs five Scarpetta
restaurants, where he is the chef-owner. He’s also a judge on
the  Food Network’s “Chopped”  -- and a clotheshorse.  He owns Ermenegildo Zegna suits,  Prada (1913)  shoes and designer
cowboy boots. The Waterbury, Connecticut native often wears a
Cartier Roadster watch, and when he goes casual, he slips into
 AG jeans by Adriano Goldschmied .  At his loft-like test kitchen in  Manhattan ’s SoHo district,
Conant talked about his dress code, impulse buys and the shoe
problem.  Cole: You were wearing cowboy boots in the kitchen of
Scarpetta in  Beverly Hills  the first time we met, and my
reaction was, “Ouch!” Your feet must hurt in them after a hard
day’s work.  Conant: They’re really comfortable and they have a lot of
miles on them. You know what cowboy boots are good for? You can
dress them up and you can dress them down, but I’m not going to
wear them with a suit because I’m not from  Texas .  Cole: What are your other preferences?  Conant: I happen to love Italian suits. I like to dress up,
but I also like to be comfortable at the same time. I wear Prada
shoes when I dress up because they have among the most
comfortable shoes.  Zegna Love  Cole: How many suits do you have?  Conant: About 40 or 50, and I love Zegna. I love custom-
made suits and shirts as well. Once you wear a custom-made
shirt, it’s almost impossible to go back. It’s like flying
first-class and going back to economy. You’re ruined.  Cole: How many pairs of shoes do you have?  Conant: I have a crazy thing for boots and shoes, so I have
quite a few pairs. I don’t know how many anymore. I have more
clothes than my wife has. It is an issue.  Cole: You don’t wear a tie on “Chopped” usually. This is
the first time I’ve seen you in a tie.  Conant: This is a Valentino tie. I also like Varvatos and
Armani ties. Kitty Boots, the stylist at the Food Network, very
often doesn’t let me wear a tie. Sometimes I overrule her, and
sometimes she overrules me.  Cole: Has  Giorgio Armani  ever come into your restaurant?  Conant: He did, and he criticized my spaghetti. That was
about three years ago. He had an opinion. Everyone has an
opinion.  Costly Trip  Cole: Tell me about the watch.  Conant: It’s a Cartier Roadster. I was in Paris last summer
and got stuck there during  Hurricane Irene , a hell of a place to
be stuck. That trip cost me a lot more than it was supposed to.
I wanted that watch for years.  Cole: Are socks important to you?  Conant: These are blue, from  Barneys New York . I’m not one
of these guys who has florescent green socks, I’m not that
quirky. Years of therapy have gotten the quirkiness out of me.  Cole: In the kitchen, you sometimes wear a black chef’s
jacket.  Conant: I have a white one and a black one. It’s like good
and evil. It depends on my personality that day. It depends on
how much of a hammer I need to drop in the kitchen.  (Patrick Cole is a reporter for Muse, the arts and culture
team of Bloomberg News. Any opinions expressed are his own.)  (Muse highlights include  Craig Seligman  on books and  Mike
Di Paola  on the environment.)  To contact the writer on this story:
Patrick Cole in  New York  at 
 pcole3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in New York at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 