-- Scotland Upsets Australia to End Seven-Game Rugby Losing Streak
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2012-06-05T15:24:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-05/scotland-upsets-australia-to-end-seven-game-rugby-losing-streak.html
Scotland  defeated Australia 9-6 in a
one-off rugby Test to snap a seven-game losing streak and send
the home team to another upset loss in its season opener.  Fly-half Greig Laidlaw booted his third penalty goal with
the final kick of the game at Hunter Stadium in Newcastle last
night to give Scotland, the 5-1 outsider with bookmakers, its
first win in Australia since 1982. Mike Harris kicked two
penalties for the Wallabies in a match played in driving rain
and gusts up to 80 kilometers-per-hour (50 miles-per-hour).  “The team have come of age with that performance,”
Scotland coach Andy Robinson said in a televised interview.
“Whilst you’re trying to build your attacking game, you’ve got
to try and defend and stop the opposition from scoring in Test
rugby.”  It was Scotland’s second straight victory over  Australia 
after winning 9-8 in Edinburgh when the teams last met in 2009.
The Scots’ triumph in Brisbane 30 years ago was the last time
they managed back-to-back wins against the Wallabies.  The match, which comes exactly a year before the British
and Irish Lions open their nine-game tour of Australia, was the
first of four Tests this month for the Wallabies, who host  Wales 
in a best-of-three contest over the next three Saturdays.  Australia, which is 10 places above No. 12 Scotland in the
International Rugby Board  rankings , was also ambushed in its
opening Test of 2011 as Samoa secured a first victory against
the Wallabies in five attempts. Australia had won 18 of its
previous 26 Tests against the Scots.  ‘Tough One’  “It’s a tough one to swallow,” Wallabies coach  Robbie Deans  said. “They had one possession in our 22 in the second
half and turned it into points. We could and should have put the
game beyond doubt, we didn’t and that left the door ajar.”  Scotland, which lost all five matches in this year’s Six
Nations tournament, took a 6-3 halftime lead with the wind at
its back as Laidlaw kicked two penalties. Inside center Harris,
one of five rookies in Australia’s starting lineup, made it 6-3
in the 33rd minute and tied it three minutes after the break.  With Scotland pinned in their own half, Australia’s
forwards launched a series of attacks on the Scottish try-line
only to be thwarted by the visiting defense each time. Harris
struck a post with a 54th-minute penalty and was short with
another attempt 20 minutes later. Fly-half Berrick Barnes also
skewed a drop-goal attempt wide with seven minutes to go.  With time running out, Scotland worked the ball into the
Wallabies’ 22 for the first time in the second half and was
awarded a penalty less than 30 meters out following a scrum
collapse. Laidlaw held his composure to deliver Scotland’s first
win since beating  Georgia  at the  World Cup  in September.  ‘Very Disappointing’  “The weather kind of evened things out a little but our
boys stuck in there,” Scotland captain Ross Ford said. “We
knew if we could keep them under 20 points we’d be in with a
shout and the pressure just kept building and building.
Eventually it came our way.”  Wallabies scrum-half Will Genia said his team needed to
“take a hard look at ourselves.”  “It’s a very disappointing result to lose like that,” he
said at a televised news conference. “It’s a learning
experience and a very, very tough one at that.”  The Scots play Fiji on June 16 before finishing their
three-match June tour against Samoa a week later.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  