-- SEC Names Two Deputies to Help Lead Hedge Fund Enforcement Unit
-- B y   J o s h u a   G a l l u
-- 2012-06-05T16:25:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-05/sec-names-two-deputies-to-help-lead-hedge-fund-enforcement-unit.html
The U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission’s asset management unit has named two new deputies to
help manage investigations into possible misconduct at  hedge
funds  and private equity firms.  Julie Riewe and Marshall Sprung, who have both worked in
the 75-person group since it was formed in 2010, will jointly
fill a vacancy left by the departure of a senior attorney
announced last week, according to  Bruce Karpati , chief of the
asset management enforcement group.  Riewe, 41, joined the SEC in 2005 from law firm Wilmer
Cutler Pickering Hale and Dorr LLP. Since then, she has worked
on cases involving hedge funds, conflicts of interest, and asset
valuation, as well as an insider trading case against  Mark Cuban , the billionaire owner of the Dallas Mavericks basketball
team. The case has been contested for about three years.  Sprung, 40, came to the SEC from law firm Gibson Dunn &
Crutcher LLP in 2003 and has handled investigations involving
conflicts of interest and valuation that affect retail
investors. Sprung, who is based in the SEC’s regional office in
 Los Angeles , was part of the SEC’s investigation into the
concealment of a coding error in an Axa Rosenberg Group LLC
investment model that led to the repayment of $217 million in
losses to investors and a $25 million fine.  “Julie and Marshall have been with the unit since day one
and have been a key part of its success,” Karpati said in an e-
mailed statement today.  The deputy positions were created to replace  Robert Kaplan ,
who had been co-chief of the unit with Karpati before joining
law firm Debevoise & Plimpton LLP.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joshua Gallu in Washington at 
 jgallu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Maura Reynolds at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  