-- Semafo Shuns Quebec for Africa to Double Its Gold Output
-- B y   F r e d e r i c   T o m e s c o
-- 2012-06-05T20:54:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-05/semafo-shuns-quebec-for-africa-to-double-its-gold-output.html
The  Quebec  government plans to spend
C$47 billion ($45 billion) to attract mining investment over the
next 25 years. Benoit La Salle, a former aid worker who runs
Montreal-based  Semafo Inc. (SMF) , sees more opportunity in Africa and
is braving military coups and mine invasions to drive the
company’s expansion.  “Africa is the new frontier,” La Salle, Semafo’s chief
executive officer, said in a telephone interview. “That’s where
you’ll find the most favorable geology.”  The operator of three  gold mines  in Burkina Faso,  Guinea 
and Niger, is betting it can double output in the next five
years with its current properties as it scouts for acquisitions.
Semafo produced about 250,000 ounces of the metal last year, and
plans to reach 500,000 ounces to become Canada’s ninth-biggest
producer based on 2011 production.  “Here in  North America , we’ve been exploring for 300 years
and there really isn’t much left in the ground,” La Salle said
from Montreal. “ Burkina Faso  has seen seven mines built in the
last five years. It’s been several decades since we saw that
kind of activity in Quebec.”  Semafo, coming off a record year for  net income  and gold
sales in 2011, said May 15 that first-quarter net income jumped
55 percent to $28.1 million as gold production reached 60,900
ounces. Total cash margin jumped 34 percent to $1,002 an ounce
from a year earlier as gold prices averaged $1,694 an ounce.  Stock Drop  The company, with a market value of C$1.64 billion, said
Jan. 30 it expects to produce as much as 260,000 ounces of the
metal this year.  Semafo  stock  has dropped 7.9 percent this year, compared
with a 7.3 percent drop in the S&P/TSX Global Gold  Index (SPTSX)  and a 4
percent drop in  Canada ’s S&P/TSX Composite Index.  Gold prices have dropped in the past three months as
concern about  Europe ’s debt crisis intensified, strengthening
the dollar and cutting the metal’s appeal as an alternative
asset.  Last year’s so-called “Arab Spring” revolts in countries
including Libya and  Egypt  also curbed investor appetite for
risk, reducing demand for shares of miners that operate in
Africa, said Stuart McDougall, an analyst with Jennings Capital
Inc. in Toronto.  “Ever since the Arab Spring, the African producers and
explorers have been hit pretty hard because of the geopolitical
risk, and they just haven’t recovered,” McDougall said in a
telephone interview. “Investors are very focused on
geopolitical risk now. In the meantime we’ve had a sector
correction that acted like a double whammy against Semafo.”  Humanitarian Worker  McDougall has a buy rating on Semafo, in part because he
expects  gold prices  to rebound. He predicts gold will climb in
the second half of this year and reach $2,000 next year.  An accountant by trade with an MBA, La Salle founded Semafo
in 1995 after a stint as a humanitarian worker in Burkina Faso.
Semafo initially focused on exploration and opened its first
mine at Guinea’s Kiniero gold field in 2002. Production at
Burkina Faso’s Mana mine, which accounted for three-quarters of
total output last year, began in 2008.  After almost two decades of working in Africa, La Salle
said he’s well acquainted with geopolitical risk. Guinea, which
provided Semafo with about 6 percent of its gold production last
year, was the site of a military coup in December 2008.  Semafo had to close its Guinea mine for about six months
last year after residents invaded the mine and began illegally
mining for gold. Production resumed in April.  ‘Political Instability’  “The best way to reduce risk is to be active in several
countries,” said La Salle. “Political instability in  Africa 
doesn’t mean you will be expropriated. Expropriation risk is
something you will see in industrialized countries like
 Argentina . Governments in Africa, and especially West Africa,
don’t want to see the mines close. If they nationalize, they
know that foreign investors are going to stop coming.”  La Salle has no such concerns with Burkina Faso, even after
a mutiny last year by soldiers spread across the country.
Semafo’s operations in the country, one of Africa’s poorest,
weren’t disrupted by the unrest.  Semafo said May 30 drilling results at its Wona-Kona
deposit at the Mana mine support its plan to improve economics
by converting a considerable part of the reserves to open-pit
operations instead of drilling underground. A cost and
production study is under way, results of which will be
announced this month, La Salle said.  Wona-Kona  “We view this news positively as it will likely enhance
the open pit scenario at Wona-Kona, and we could ultimately see
a more robust underground mining scenario emerge as well,”
Brian Christie, an analyst at Desjardins Securities Inc., said
in a note May 30. Christie has a buy rating on the stock with a
C$8.25 price target.  Semafo is also studying whether to build a second
processing facility on the Mana permit area, which covers about
2,200 square kilometers. The new mill could produce as much as
120,000 ounces annually and cost up to $125 million, Tara Hassan, an analyst at National Bank Financial in Toronto, said
in a note to clients May 16.  “Mana is so big, it will have more than one processing
mill,” La Salle said. “One good thing about mining in Africa
is that you can have access to very large territories.”  While Semafo’s total cash margin, or average selling price
minus cash production cost, rose to $1,002 an ounce in the first
quarter, Semafo’s cash cost per ounce is still higher than some
of the major gold producers, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Cash Costs  The average industry cost in 2011 based on data compiled
from nine companies was $542, while Semafo  reported  costs of
$677 an ounce, up 31 percent from a year earlier. First-quarter
cash costs for Barrick were $432, Goldcorp’s were $251 and
Newmont’s were $580 while cash cost at Semafo  rose  8 percent to
$708 per ounce from a year earlier.  The company is flush with about $174 million in cash and
has no debt as of March 31. Semafo is on the lookout for new
properties in West Africa, La Salle said. The company will
consider projects in countries such as Ghana, Mali, Mauritania
and  Senegal , he said.  In the meantime, La Salle’s goal of doubling output by 2017
is “reasonable,” Jennings Capital’s McDougall said.  “They should be able to finance what they intend to do in
the medium term, such as the new mill, unless gold drops out of
the market,” he said. “In that case, they won’t be the only
ones having trouble.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Frederic Tomesco in  Montreal  at 
 tomesco@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net ;
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  