-- Senators Seek Reduction in Pentagon Pay for Contractors
-- B y   T o n y   C a p a c c i o   a n d   N i c k   T a b o r e k
-- 2012-06-06T04:00:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-05/senators-seek-reduction-in-pentagon-pay-for-contractors.html
Pentagon reimbursement for
compensation of military contractors’ employees would be reduced
by 70 percent to $230,700 a person under a plan approved by the
Senate Armed Services Committee.  The reduction, from $763,029, is set out in a committee
report made public yesterday on the defense authorization
measure approved by the panel. Because a bill already passed by
the House doesn’t specify a limit, the pay issue would be
determined in negotiations on a final version of the annual
measure.  Federal law limits how much the government will reimburse
contractors, not how much the companies can pay their employees.
Defense Department contractors affected by the restriction
include  Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT) ,  Northrop Grumman Corp. (NOC)  and
 General Dynamics Corp. (GD)   “At a time when most Americans are seeing little or no
increases in their paychecks and budget constraints require the
department to find efficiencies, the committee concludes that
increases of this magnitude are unsupportable,” the panel said
in its  report .  The reimbursement rate, based on an Office of Federal
Procurement Policy benchmark, increased in April to $763,029,
compared with $432,851 when the benchmark was set in 2004.  The Senate committee adopted an amendment by Senator  Joe Manchin , a West Virginia Democrat, setting the maximum at
$230,700, the annual salary for the vice president and the
maximum for federal employees.  “I am determined to make sure that this provision is not
watered down as Congress moves forward with the defense bill,”
Manchin said yesterday in an e-mail. “It doesn’t make any sense
that taxpayers are paying some contractors twice as much as we
pay the commander-in-chief.”  Contractors Opposed  The Professional Services Council, which represents about
350 contractors, is “actively opposing” the proposed pay-cap
reduction, according to Roger Jordan, vice president of
government relations for the Arlington, Virginia-based group.  “The establishment of an arbitrary cap is the wrong
approach,” Jordan said in an interview. Reducing the cap to
$230,700 would force some contractors to cut pay significantly
and would hurt their ability to retain highly skilled employees,
he said.  The Aerospace Industries Association was reviewing the
provision “and its impact on our ability to compete with
Silicon Valley and other high-tech industries to hire and retain
the best technical talent,” Cord Sterling, vice president of
legislative affairs for the Arlington, Virginia-based trade
group, said in an e-mailed statement.  ‘More Cost-Efficient’  Scott Amey, general counsel of the  Project on Government
Oversight  in  Washington  and a supporter of the reduced
reimbursement, called it “a way to make the government more
cost-efficient.”  “As far as what the taxpayer should be on the hook for, I
think the salaries should be on par with what government
employees make,” Amey, whose group describes itself as an
independent watchdog, said in an interview.  Under current law, the ceiling is set each year at the
median compensation level for top executives at publicly held
companies with annual sales of more than $50 million. It
incorporates the pay of the five highest-paid managers at each
 home office  and each business segment, according to the Office
of Federal Procurement Policy.  The cap restricts amounts that can be reimbursed for
salaries in so-called cost-type contracts. Under such deals,
companies are reimbursed for direct costs they incur, including
labor, travel and materials, as well as some indirect costs. The
government often uses these agreements for research and
development work such as designing a new drone or Lockheed
Martin’s F-35 jet, the Defense Department’s most expensive
weapons program.  The Senate defense measure is S. 3254. The House-passed
version is H.R. 4310.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tony Capaccio in Washington at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net ;
Nick Taborek in Washington at 
 ntaborek@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  