-- Senate Republicans Block Plan to Reduce Gender Gap in Pay
-- B y   K a t h l e e n   H u n t e r
-- 2012-06-05T20:24:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-05/senate-republicans-block-plan-to-reduce-gender-gap-in-pay.html
Republicans in the  U.S. Senate 
blocked Democrats’ latest proposal intended to attract women
voters this election year, a measure to bolster workers’ ability
to win pay-discrimination lawsuits.  The 52-47 vote today in Washington, with 60 required,
didn’t advance the measure, which also would prohibit
retaliation against workers who share wage information. All
Republicans opposed the bill.  “For millions of American women, no amount of talent or
dedication will bring pay equality with male co-workers,”
Majority Leader  Harry Reid  said on the Senate floor today. “In
the minds of many employers, they simply aren’t equal.”  Democrats held the vote on the same day that Wisconsin
voters are deciding whether to recall Republican Governor  Scott Walker , who in April signed legislation repealing a 2009 law
that permitted alleged victims of workplace discrimination to
sue for punitive damages in state court.  Looking to the presidential and Senate elections in
November, Democrats who control the Senate are seeking to
attract the votes of women, especially single women, 70 percent
of whom voted for President  Barack Obama  in 2008. Democratic
backers of the Senate pay-equity bill are casting Republican
opposition to the measure and Walker’s move as evidence that the
party is hostile toward women.  Political Ploy  Women earn about 77 cents for every dollar earned by male
workers, according to U.S. Census Bureau data on earnings for
more than 95.5 million full-time, year-round U.S. workers older
than 16. Fifty years ago, the pay disparity was 61 cents for
women to a dollar for male workers, according to the data. The
bill’s proponents say the pay gap shows the 1964 Equal Pay Act
needs to be augmented.  Republicans called the Senate proposal a political ploy
that would benefit  trial lawyers  while doing little, if
anything, to advance equal pay.  “This is just a political exercise,” Senator  Orrin Hatch ,
a Utah Republican, told reporters today. “It’s offensive. Over
and over, that’s all we’re doing this year is things that might
protect Democrats.”  The bill, sponsored by Senator Barbara Mikulski, a Maryland
Democrat, would increase potential damages to plaintiffs in pay-
discrimination suits and enhance the legal burden on employers
to show that pay disparities aren’t gender-based. It would
create a grant program to train women on how to negotiate with
employers on their pay.  Similar Measure  A similar measure failed to advance in the Senate in 2010.  “American women are mad as hell; they are ready to
fight,” Mikulski told reporters yesterday, adding that women
“often face harassment, humiliation or retaliation” at work.  In an earlier effort to appeal to women voters, Reid, a
Nevada Democrat, allowed a March 1 vote on a Republican proposal
to let employers and insurers deny coverage for  birth control 
and other  health services  that violate their religious beliefs.  The 51-48 defeat of the measure will be “very helpful” to
Democrats in November, Senator  Richard Durbin  of Illinois, the
chamber’s second-ranking Democrat, said at the time.  In April,  Senate Democrats  sought to reauthorize the 1994
Violence Against Women Act, which expired Oct. 1 with little
fanfare. The Senate passed its measure April 26 with backing
from 15 Republicans.  House Republicans  last month passed their
version, including some provisions opposed by Democrats.  ‘Make-or-Break’  Obama, in a statement after the vote, said it was
“incredibly disappointing that in this make-or-break moment for
the middle class, Senate Republicans put partisan politics ahead
of American women and their families.” He said his
administration “will continue to fight for a woman’s right for
equal pay for equal work.”  Congressional Democrats this week called on Republican
presidential candidate  Mitt Romney  to endorse the measure and
noted that the first bill Obama signed into law in 2009 extended
the deadline for filing pay discrimination lawsuits.  In an April interview with ABC’s  Diane Sawyer , Romney said
he supported equal pay for women, though he declined to say
whether he would have signed the 2009 law if he were president.  A campaign spokeswoman declined yesterday to provide
Romney’s position on the Senate bill. “ Governor Romney  supports
pay equity for women,” Amanda Henneberg said in an e-mailed
statement.  Senate Minority Leader  Mitch McConnell , a Kentucky
Republican, said the legislation was designed to “reward
plaintiffs’ lawyers” who have traditionally supported
Democrats.  “We don’t think America suffers from a lack of
litigation,” McConnell said.  The bill is S. 3220.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kathleen Hunter in Washington at 
 khunter9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  