-- Serbia Will Probably Raise Interest Rates to Support Dinar
-- B y   G o r d a n a   F i l i p o v i c   a n d   M i s h a   S a v i c
-- 2012-06-05T14:47:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-05/serbia-will-probably-raise-main-interest-rate-to-support-dinar.html
Serbia ’s central bank will probably
increase its  benchmark interest rate  this week as it seeks to
halt the decline of the dinar even as the economy slows.  The Belgrade-based Narodna Banka Srbije will raise its two-
week repurchase rate on June 7 from the current 9.5 percent,
according to 14 of 22 economists in a Bloomberg News  survey .
Eight expect the bank to keep borrowing costs unchanged.  The dinar has weakened 11 percent against the euro this
year, according to central bank figures. The bank has spent
nearly 1.2 billion euros ($1.5 billion) since February to slow
the currency’s decline. Vice Governor Bojan Markovic said June 1
the central bank may increase  interest rates  to quell volatility
in the dinar, while bank officials, who requested anonymity,
said reserve requirements may be raised.  A “mix of a rate hike and the reserve requirement increase
could be effective,” as the dinar’s decline is “to some degree
psychologically driven.” said Jasna Atanasijevic, chief
economist at the Belgrade-based Hypo Alpe Adria Banka AD.  Serbia cut borrowing costs by a total of 3 percentage
points from June to December last year to contain an economic
slowdown triggered by  Europe ’s debt crisis. The Balkan nation is
seeking to avoid a second recession in three years after its
economy contracted 1.3 percent from a year earlier in the first
quarter and the size of a rate move needs to balance a need to
tame the dinar’s decline with economic activity.  Debt Crisis  The nation’s Fiscal Council, a three-member body monitoring
budget performance, said on May 30 that Serbia faces the threat
of a debt crisis after the  budget deficit  rose to between 7
percent and 8 percent of gross domestic product and public debt
approached 50 percent of GDP.  Adding to the equation on whether to change borrowing costs
is mounting political turmoil. Inconclusive elections on May 6
and the May 20 presidential runoff win by  Tomislav Nikolic  over
incumbent  Boris Tadic , who had led the country into European
Union entry talks, worried investors who feared the formation of
a government would be delayed.  Serbia, which is struggling to head off a return to
recession, has been without a government able to cut spending
and create new jobs in an economy with unemployment at about 24
percent.  New Government  “With plans to raise the  reserve requirements , even a
quarter-point rate increase could be a strong signal,” said
Predrag Stojanovic, head of treasury at Belgrade-based Piraeus
Banka AD, said June 1 by phone. “Of course, it will also not
only take a new government to be formed quickly, but they need
to come out quickly with a valid program for this situation.”  Over the past five months, Serbia has widened its deficit
to 6 percent of GDP as revenue lagged forecasts. The goal was to
keep the gap within 4.25 percent of GDP, in line with a $1.3
billion precautionary loan program with the  International
Monetary Fund , frozen in February when it became clear that
Serbia would slip on its fiscal target.  The dinar traded at 116.2600 per euro at 4:37 p.m. in
Belgrade after touching a record low 119.1761 earlier in the
day.  The dinar may plunge to 125 per euro by the end of the year
and inflation may accelerate to 10 percent if a new Cabinet is
not in place soon to implement fiscal consolidation, the
Belgrade-based Economics Institute said in a monthly report
today.  ‘Responsible’ Government  The failure to have a “responsible” government may lead
to “spontaneous fiscal consolidation through inflation,” a
stagnant economy and a drop in foreign-currency reserves by 3
billion euros, the think-tank said, urging a return to the IMF
program as “an important signal” to investors.  Central bank officials have warned a further weakening of
the dinar could fueling price growth in a country which had
bouts of hyper-inflation and currency denominations in the early
1990s, when the country was subject to international sanctions
over its role in Balkan wars.  Inflation remains tame by Serbian standards, falling to a
30-year low of 2.7 percent in April. The bank targets an
inflation rate of 4 percent, plus or minus 1.5 percentage
points, at the end of 2012.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gordana Filipovic in Belgrade at 
 gfilipovic@bloomberg.net ;
Misha Savic in Belgrade at 
 msavic2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  