-- Service Industry Index in U.S. Probably Held at Four-Month Low
-- B y   S h o b h a n a   C h a n d r a
-- 2012-06-05T04:01:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-05/service-industry-index-in-u-s-probably-held-at-four-month-low.html
Service industries  probably grew in
May at the same pace as the prior month, a sign the U.S. is
failing to gain momentum as employment slows and the European
crisis intensifies, economists said before a report today.  The  Institute for Supply Management ’s  index  of non-
manufacturing businesses, which covers about 90 percent of the
economy, held at 53.5, matching April’s four-month low,
according to the  median  forecast of economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News. Readings above 50 signal expansion  Budget cuts aimed at reducing sovereign debt and putting
countries like Greece and  Spain  on a more sustainable fiscal
path are bringing  Europe  to the brink of a recession that is
rippling through the global economy. The lack of strength in
service industries and cooling manufacturing, which was a pillar
of the recovery, mean there’s little to spur U.S. growth.  “The  U.S. economy  is really not making the grade,” said
 Jonathan Basile , an economist at Credit Suisse in  New York .
“The softer tone is going to continue. We’ll see a slower
profile for growth in the services sector.”  The Tempe, Arizona-based ISM’s report is due at 10 a.m. in
New York. Bloomberg survey estimates ranged from 52 to 55.1. The
services survey covers industries that range from utilities and
retailing to health care, housing and finance.  The report follows June 1 data that showed factories
tempered production and pared inventories in May as the global
economy weakened. The ISM manufacturing index fell to 53.5 from
a 10-month high in April. At the same time, the orders gauge
climbed to 60.1 last month, the highest since April 2011.  Shares Stabilize  Stocks yesterday reversed early losses as the two-month
slump in equities dragged the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index to its
cheapest price-to-earnings valuation in six months. The  S&P 500 
ended little changed at 1,278.18 at the close in New York after
retreating as much as 0.9 percent.  A cooling labor market may help explain why demand has yet
to accelerate. Payrolls climbed by 69,000 in May, less than the
most-pessimistic forecast in a Bloomberg survey, after a revised
77,000 gain in April that was smaller than initially estimated,
figures showed June 1. The jobless rate rose to 8.2 percent from
8.1 percent.  Faster hiring and wage growth is needed to ensure sustained
growth in consumer purchases, which increased 0.3 percent in
April after a 0.2 percent rise the prior month.  “The overall economy is still our customers’ main
concern,”  Bill Simon , the U.S. chief executive officer of Wal-
Mart Stores Inc. said during a May 17 earnings call. “In
particular, they remain concerned about  job security  or the
availability of jobs, followed by gas and energy prices and
rising food costs.”  Car purchases eased in May, company data showed June 1.
 General Motors Co. (GM)  and Toyota Motor Corp. led five of the six
largest automakers in reporting U.S. sales gains in May that
trailed estimates as incentive offers failed to draw enough
buyers amid slumping employment growth.  
To contact the reporter on this story:
Shobhana Chandra in Washington at 
 schandra1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  