-- Service Industries in U.S. Sustained Growth in May: Economy
-- B y   S h o b h a n a   C h a n d r a
-- 2012-06-05T21:04:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-05/services-industries-in-u-s-were-little-changed-in-may.html
Service industries  sustained their
pace of growth in May, showing the biggest part of the  U.S.
economy  is withstanding the impact of the  European debt crisis .  The  Institute for Supply Management ’s  index  of non-
manufacturing businesses, which covers about 90 percent of the
economy, unexpectedly rose to 53.7 last month from April’s 53.5,
the Tempe, Arizona-based group said today. The  median  forecast
of 75 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News projected 53.4.
Readings above 50 signal expansion.  A pickup in orders, similar to the group’s manufacturing
data last week, and the first decline in prices in almost three
years ease concern services will falter as the debt crisis
pushes Europe toward a recession. Today’s report also showed
employment almost stalled, confirmation of a slump in hiring
that signals companies are hesitant to expand.  “Caution is going to remain with us,” said Michael Carey,
chief economist for  North America  at Credit Agricole CIB in  New
York , who correctly forecast the gain in the services index.
“There’s a big question about Europe, big uncertainty about
what will happen on the fiscal side in the U.S., and the
uncertainty is holding back robust growth.”  Economists’ estimates in the Bloomberg survey ranged from
52 to 55.1. The ISM services survey covers industries ranging
from utilities and retailing to housing, health care and
finance.  Stocks rose after the figures and a report that said
Europe’s bailout fund was preparing a  credit line  for  Spain . The
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index climbed 0.6 percent to 1,285.5 at
the close in New York. Finance ministers and central bank
governors from the world’s leading economies also agreed to
coordinate their response to  Europe ’s financial crisis.  European Data  Elsewhere, euro-area services and manufacturing output
contracted in May at the fastest pace in almost three years,
adding to signs the economy is suffering under the worsening
sovereign-debt crisis.  The  Reserve Bank  of  Australia  cut its benchmark  interest
rate  by a quarter percentage point to the lowest since 2009 on
concern over Europe and slower Chinese growth.  Today’s U.S. ISM report followed June 1 data that showed
factories tempered production and pared inventories in May as
the global economy weakened. The ISM manufacturing index fell to
53.5 from a 10-month high in April. At the same time, the orders
gauge climbed to 60.1 last month, the highest since April 2011.  The non-manufacturing survey’s measure of new orders
climbed to 55.5 from 53.5 in the prior month, and its business
activity gauge rose to 55.6 from 54.6. The index of prices paid
decreased to 49.8, the lowest since July 2009, from 53.6.  The employment measure dropped to a five-month low of 50.8
from 54.2.  Uncertain Outlook  “There’s still a little bit of uncertainty,”  Anthony Nieves , chairman of the ISM’s non-manufacturing index, said in a
conference call with reporters. “Because things are coming in
slow and steady, jobs have also been added slow and steady. We
continue on a path of growth,” he said, though it is “slight,
incremental growth.”  A cooling labor market may help explain why demand is yet
to accelerate. Payrolls climbed by 69,000 in May, less than the
most-pessimistic forecast in a Bloomberg survey, after a revised
77,000 gain in April that was smaller than initially estimated,
figures showed June 1. The jobless rate rose to 8.2 percent from
8.1 percent.  Faster hiring and wage growth is needed to ensure sustained
growth in consumer purchases, which increased 0.3 percent in
April after a 0.2 percent rise the prior month.  Jobs Concern  “The overall economy is still our customers’ main
concern,”  Bill Simon , the U.S. chief executive officer of Wal-
Mart Stores Inc. said during a May 17 earnings call. “In
particular, they remain concerned about  job security  or the
availability of jobs, followed by gas and energy prices and
rising food costs.”  Car purchases eased in May, company data showed June 1.
 General Motors Co. (GM)  and Toyota Motor Corp. led five of the six
largest automakers in reporting U.S. sales gains in May that
trailed estimates as incentive offers failed to draw enough
buyers amid slumping employment growth.  Falling fuel costs represent a positive influence on
consumers. The average cost of a gallon of regular  gasoline  at
the pump dropped to $3.57 on June 4, a three-month low.  That is helping shore up purchases in less expensive items.
Retailers’ same-store sales topped analysts’ estimates in May as
warm weather combined with the lower gasoline prices to draw
shoppers. Sales at Minneapolis-based Target Corp., the second-
largest U.S. discount retailer, climbed 4.4 percent. Framingham,
Massachusetts-based TJX Cos., the owner of T.J. Maxx and
Marshalls, posted an 8 percent increase, reports showed last
week.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shobhana Chandra in Washington at 
 schandra1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  