-- Tornadoes a ‘Wake-Up Call,’ FM Global’s Gritzo Says
-- B y   Z a c h a r y   T r a c e r
-- 2012-06-05T17:04:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-05/severe-tornadoes-a-wake-up-call-for-insurers-fm-s-gritzo-says.html
The surge in tornado frequency and
severity in recent years should be a “wake-up call” that storm
patterns may be returning to historic levels, said Lou Gritzo of
insurer FM Global.  “If you look back to the 70s and even to the 50s, you see
a number of events that were significantly greater,” Gritzo, FM
Global’s manager of research, said today at an insurance
conference sponsored by Advisen Ltd. in  New York . “The return
to normal in terms of events should really be a wake-up call.”  Twisters killed 541 people last year in April and May,
compared with six deaths in the two months this year, the U.S.
 National Weather Service  said. Insured losses from severe
weather in the U.S. were about $1 billion in April, lagging
behind losses of roughly $16 billion from tornadoes and other
severe weather in April and May of 2011, broker Aon Plc
estimated.  Last year’s storms included a May 22 tornado that tore
through Joplin,  Missouri , killing more than 125 people, as well
as deadly twisters in Tuscaloosa, Alabama, and Springfield,
 Massachusetts . The 2011 tornado season was the third most active
since 1980 with more than 1,550 confirmed storms, according to
CoreLogic Inc., a  Santa Ana , California-based data provider.  Tornado damage, once largely confined to rural areas, is
increasingly being seen in more developed and populated parts of
the country, David Finnis, national property practice leader at
insurance broker Willis Group Holdings Plc, said at today’s
conference.  “What we rarely have seen are those EF-5s hitting a large
building,” Finnis said, referring to the most powerful
tornadoes.  Tornado Alley  Twisters have historically been associated with the
corridor known as  Tornado Alley , which stretches from central
Texas to northern  Iowa , and from central  Kansas  and  Nebraska  to
western Ohio, according to the National Climatic Data Center.
The region is known for a high frequency of storms in months
including April and May.  That pattern may be changing. Of the 10 states with the
highest number of twister touchdowns between 1980 and 2009, only
three were in Tornado Alley, according to a  March 22 report  from
CoreLogic. Property damage from storms in Tornado Alley was an
estimated $2.5 billion from 2000 to 2011, compared with nearly
$15.5 billion in 16 states outside the region, according to the
report.  The number of deadly storms occurring outside the corridor
has “called this long-held notion of risk concentration in
Tornado Alley into question” and “forced many insurance
companies to rethink the way they assess natural hazard risk,”
Howard Botts, a CoreLogic vice president, said in the report.  Insurers that raised prices after last year’s disasters are
gaining as claims costs drop.  Allstate Corp. (ALL) ’s net income jumped
to the highest since 2007 in the first quarter and operating
profit at New York-based Travelers Cos. beat analysts’
estimates. The  Standard & Poor’s 500 Property & Casualty (S5PROP) 
Insurance Index advanced 4.1 percent this year through
yesterday, compared with a 1.6 percent gain in the  S&P 500
Index .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zachary Tracer in New York at 
 ztracer1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at 
 dkraut2@bloomberg.net  