-- Shell Permits Would Help U.S. Keep Pace in Arctic, Salazar Says
-- B y   K a t a r z y n a   K l i m a s i n s k a
-- 2012-06-05T17:46:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-05/shell-permits-would-help-u-s-keep-pace-in-arctic-salazar-says.html
The U.S. is considering final permits
letting  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA)  explore for oil in the  Arctic
Ocean  as the nation seeks to keep pace with Russia,  Norway  and
Canada, Interior Secretary  Ken Salazar  said.  Shell is closer to drilling as many as five wells in the
Beaufort and Chukchi seas this year, after agreeing to build an
oil-spill containment system and add precautions to protect
native Alaskans and animals such as polar bears and walrus.
Federal waters off Alaska’s coast may hold 26.6 billion barrels
of oil, according to a 2011 assessment from the Interior
Department.  “We know Russia is moving forward with a very significant
exploration program,” Salazar said today at a conference in
Washington. “We know Canada has a huge interest in what’s
happening in the Arctic, and they are planning on moving
forward. We are not to be left behind.”  Shell is waiting for the Bureau of Safety and Environmental
Enforcement to approve its offshore drilling permits. Federal
agencies such as the Environmental Protection Agency and the
 U.S. Fish & Wildlife Service  have approved The Hague-based
company’s plans, making it more likely Shell will be drilling on
leases it purchased in 2005 and 2008.  “If the decision is made to move forward, and if the wells
are drilled there, our view is that, yes, it will be done with
all the safety precautions,” Salazar said.  Statoil ASA (STL)  and  Eni SpA (ENI)  struck oil and gas in the Skrugard
prospect, off the coasts of Norway and Russia in the Barents
Sea, in April 2011, and said the discovery has as much as 250
million barrels of recoverable reserves. Statoil, based in
Stavanger, Norway, also holds leases in the U.S. Arctic region.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katarzyna Klimasinska in Washington at 
 kklimasinska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  