-- Shell CEO Sees No Urgency to Sell $6 Billion Woodside Stake
-- B y   J a m e s   P a t o n
-- 2012-06-05T07:22:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-05/shell-ceo-sees-no-urgency-to-sell-6-billion-woodside-stake-1-.html
Royal Dutch  Shell (RDSA)  Plc, Europe’s
largest oil company, sees no urgency over what to do with its $6
billion stake in Australia’s  Woodside Petroleum Ltd. (WPL) , Chief
Executive Officer  Peter Voser  said today.  “We are under no urgency or pressure to do anything,”
Voser told reporters today in  Kuala Lumpur , where he’s attending
an industry conference. “Woodside has an interesting growth
model in terms of projects and has strategic value.”  Woodside, Australia’s second-largest oil and gas producer,
has slumped in Sydney trading since The Hague-based Shell sold
10 percent of the company at A$42.23 a share in November 2010.
Shell still owns 23 percent of the Perth-based company, valued
at A$6.1 billion ($6 billion) today. Woodside rose 4 percent
today to A$32.10 at 2:24 p.m. in Sydney.  Shell’s Chief Financial Officer Simon Henry said in
February the stake didn’t fit in with Shell’s long-term plans.
Woodside CEO  Peter Coleman  said in an interview last month he
has talked with companies interested in buying the shares and
has offered to help Shell with a sale.  Separately, Voser said the company is working toward a
final  investment decision  on the proposed Arrow liquefied
natural gas project in Australia. Arrow Energy Ltd., owned by
Shell and  PetroChina Co. (857) , expects to decide late next year
whether to go ahead with the venture on Curtis Island in
Queensland state, CEO Andrew Faulkner said last year.  Shale Gas  “It’s making progress,” Voser said today. “Given the
overall costs in Australia we will aim to develop this project
in a paced way, and that means a slightly later development.”  Shell’s CEO also said the company sees potential to expand
in so-called unconventional gas in North America, Latin America,
Australia, China and potentially Ukraine.  “That’s where you will see Shell operating in the near-and
medium-term future,” he said.  China, estimated to hold triple the shale gas reserves of
the U.S., has yet to produce the fuel commercially because its
drillers lack technology and face tougher geology. The Asian
nation is seeking to emulate the U.S., where a shale boom made
it the world’s biggest gas producer.  Shell signed the first production-sharing contract to
explore, develop and produce shale gas in China in March and
said it’s making progress.  “It is geologically more complex, but I think we can
achieve similar cost optimization and progress like we have done
in  North America ,” Voser said. “We think we can make this a
profitable proposition and that’s what we’re seeing with the
encouraging results so far.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Paton in Sydney at 
 jpaton4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net  