-- Siemens, Gamesa Exporting U.S.-Made Wind Turbines
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   M a r t i n
-- 2012-06-05T18:32:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-05/siemens-gamesa-exporting-u-s-made-wind-turbines.html
Siemens AG (SIE)  and  Gamesa Corp.
Tecnologica SA (GAM)  plan to export wind turbines from their U.S.
factories as domestic demand stagnates before a renewable-energy
tax credit expires in December.  Executives from the largest German and Spanish turbine
companies discussed their plans today at the  American Wind
Energy Association ’s annual  Windpower 2012  conference in
Atlanta.  European wind manufacturers that invested in U.S. factories
to meet growing demand for renewable energy are counting on
developing markets in the rest of the Americas to weather an
expected slump. U.S. sales are already slowing and are expected
to plunge next year if the credit lapses, according to Bloomberg
New Energy Finance.  “We are using our manufacturing in the U.S. to export,”
David Flitterman, chairman of Gamesa’s North American unit said
today at a media briefing.  Those shipments may not offset the expected decline in U.S.
sales. “Exports from the U.S. will be an important strategy but
you don’t get the volumes you need,” he said.  Gamesa has already exported 102 megawatts of U.S.-made
turbines to the  Honduras  and is seeking sales to projects in
Uruguay and  Nicaragua , Flitterman said.  The so-called production tax credit, which offers a 2.2-
cent-a-kilowatt-hour credit for electricity produced by wind
turbines, biomass, geothermal and landfill-gas plants, is due to
expire Dec. 31. A bill to extend it has stalled in Congress and
wind-industry executives are urging its renewal at the Windpower
conference this week.  Lost Jobs  There are about 75,000 U.S. wind-industry workers,
according to the  American Wind Energy Association . Letting the
credit lapse will lead to the elimination of 10,000 wind-
industry jobs this year and another 27,000 in 2012, the
Washington-based trade group estimates.  Though some of those job cuts may be averted by
manufacturers’ efforts to use exports to keep their U.S.
production lines running, the industry still needs the
production tax credit to be extended, according to AWEA.  “I don’t think that undermines our PTC messaging at all,”
said Ellen Carey, an AWEA spokeswoman. “The industry pumps over
$15 billion of private investment into the U.S. every year. As
Siemens and Gamesa said, these are global companies that can
look elsewhere to build and develop.”  If the credit is allowed to lapse, installations of
turbines in the U.S. may fall as much as 95 percent to 500
megawatts in 2013 from this year, according to Bloomberg New
Energy Finance.  “We do expect to have some volume in the U.S. next year,”
even with the tax credit expiring, Mark Albenze, chief executive
officer of Siemens’s energy unit in the Americas, said at the
conference. “We’ll be increasingly turning to exports into
countries like Canada and  Chile .”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Martin in  New York  at 
 cmartin11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  