-- Sony Enlists HTC, Rowling to Bolster PS3 Gaming Platform
-- B y   M i c h a e l   W h i t e   a n d   C l i f f   E d w a r d s
-- 2012-06-05T04:00:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-05/sony-enlists-htc-rowling-to-bolster-ps3-gaming-platform.html
Sony Corp., moving to bolster its
PlayStation 3 video-game platform, added movies, TV shows and
exclusive games including  “Wonderbook: Book of Spells” from
“ Harry Potter ” author  J.K. Rowling .  The company announced a partnership with mobile-phone maker
 HTC Corp. (2498)  at the E3 video-game trade show in Los Angeles
yesterday. The Tokyo-based consumer electronics maker also
unveiled Sony-only titles such as “PlayStation All-Stars Battle
Royale” that work with the PS3 and its Vita handheld device.  Sony,  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  and Nintendo Co. are working to
broaden the appeal of their consoles in a battle for living-room
supremacy, while countering the threat from games on smartphones
and  Facebook Inc. (FB)  The next “Assassin’s Creed” from  Ubisoft
Entertainment (UBI)  and “Call of Duty” from  Activision Blizzard Inc. (ATVI) 
will showcase interoperability between the PS3 and the wireless
Vita, Sony said.  “They didn’t dwell too much on the Vita as a device but on
the interoperability, which is smart,” said  Michael Pachter , an
analyst at Wedbush Securities in  Los Angeles . Sony is taking the
pragmatic approach that “if you’re going to be on one device,
you ought to be on all of them,” he said.  With “Assassin’s Creed” and “Call of Duty,” both
available for the holiday season, Sony will feature the ability
to provide users seamless movement from one device to the other.  Sony is also extending its PlayStation Network service,
making videos from Hulu Plus and Crackle available on the Vita,
as well as classic games. Vintage titles such as “ Tomb Raider ”
and “Final Fantasy” will be offered for Vita through PSN
starting in summer, and the service will add the indie game
“Unfinished Swan” exclusively.  ‘Book of Spells’  Rowling’s “Book of Spells,” to be released in the fall,
is aimed at younger players and utilizes the PlayStation Move
controller to create an augmented reading experience, Sony said.
The game will project images such as simulated fire onto a book,
using a wand to manipulate the action.  The PlayStation 3, released in November 2006, and
Microsoft’s  Xbox 360 , introduced a year earlier, face added
competition later this year from Nintendo’s new Wii U.  Microsoft introduced software yesterday called Xbox
SmartGlass that will link the Xbox 360 to phones, tablets and
personal computers. The Redmond, Washington-based company also
formed a partnership with  Nike Inc. (NKE)  for a “Nike+ Kinect
Training” program with the Kinect controller.  Wii U  On June 3, Kyoto, Japan-based Nintendo demonstrated a
touchscreen controller for the Wii U that allows for messaging
between players and game downloads. The tablet-like gamepad can
serve as a second screen for Wii games, make video calls or
browse the Internet.  Sales of PlayStation game consoles will probably drop to 16
million units from 18 million in the fiscal year started April
1, Sony said in May. Sales of portable game players, including
the PS Vita, will more than double to 16 million units from 6.8
million, the company said.  Sony is forecasting revenue to rise 14 percent to 7.4
trillion yen ($94 billion) this fiscal year, partly because of
the projected surge in sales of portable game players.  The game unit turned to a profit of 46.5 billion yen in the
year ended March 2011 after four consecutive years of losses,
 Mami Imada , a Tokyo-based spokeswoman, said in an e-mail. The
business posted a profit of around 30 billion yen in the year
ended in March 2012, she said.  Next Generation  Greater coordination between Sony’s video-game business and
its other entertainment units is also a focus for Kazuo Hirai,
Sony’s new chief executive officer. In March, he  appointed
film-studio chairman Michael Lynton as chief executive of  Sony
Corp. (6758)  of America, placing oversight of the music, television and
movie units under one executive.  Sony rose 2.2 percent to 1,018 yen as of 12:39 p.m. in
Tokyo trading. The shares rebounded from a 1.7 percent decline
to 996 yen yesterday, the lowest closing price since 1980.  Hirai, who turned around the PlayStation unit, is counting
on digital cameras, games and mobile gadgets to help drive a
revival, he said on April 12.  Sony plans a 2013 release for the successor to the
PlayStation 3, the Wall Street Journal reported last week,
citing unidentified people familiar with the matter. The company
considered a download-only plan before deciding to include an
optical disc drive, the newspaper said.  Microsoft will begin selling the next version of the Xbox
in 2013 at the earliest, people with knowledge of the matter
told Bloomberg News in March.  “The launch of the new consoles is traditionally the time
when we see exciting new game franchises,” Joe Minton,
president of San Francisco-based Digital Development Management,
which represents game developers, said in an interview before
yesterday’s event. “We’ve got to suffer through another year
and a half before that happens.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cliff Edwards in  San Francisco  at 
 cedwards28@bloomberg.net ;
Michael White in Los Angeles at 
 mwhite8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  