-- Soybean Price Seen as a Buying Opportunity by Oil World
-- B y   R u d y   R u i t e n b e r g
-- 2012-06-05T13:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-05/soybean-price-seen-as-a-buying-opportunity-by-oil-world.html
Soybean futures’ price decline last
month offers a buying opportunity for consumers because demand
for U.S. beans is expected to be “strong” in the September-to-
February period, Oil World said.  U.S. soybean exports in the first half of the 2012-13 crop
year are forecast to jump to 33.5 million metric tons from 24.2
million tons in the year-earlier period, the Hamburg-based
oilseed researcher wrote in an e-mailed report.  Demand for U.S. beans is forecast to climb after drought
cut the harvest in  Brazil  and  Argentina , the biggest shippers
after the U.S. in 2011-12, according to Oil World. Soybean
futures fell 11 percent in  Chicago  in May, the biggest monthly
drop since September amid expectations for a bigger U.S. crop.  “U.S. soybeans are likely to face extremely strong demand
in the first half of the U.S. crop year, given the severely
decimated South American supplies available in that period,”
Oil World wrote. “The price setback in May now represents a
buying opportunity for consumers.”  Last month’s decline resulted from fund managers scaling
back bets on rising soybean prices, combined with weak economic
data from the U.S. and  India  and rain in the U.S. Midwest that
improved growing conditions, according to the researcher.  “A new round of fund-buying may trigger a price recovery
in early June,” Oil World wrote. “This would be fundamentally
justified, especially by the reduction of U.S. soybean  stocks  to
critically low levels by end-August 2012.”  Lower Stockpiles  U.S. soybean stocks at the end of August are forecast to
slip to 4.6 million tons from 5.85 million tons a year earlier,
according to the report. U.S. farmers are expected to harvest
88.7 million tons of beans compared with 83.2 million tons in
2011-12, it said.  A bigger crop “is unlikely to develop a lasting bearish
influence,” Oil World wrote.  “Depleted oil-crop stocks in the U.S. and this year’s
soybean crop failure in South America leave barely any cushion
against crop losses in the U.S. this summer,” the researcher
wrote. “This factor will create a bullish price scenario if it
becomes too dry in major U.S. soybean growing areas.”  Soybean exports from  South America  are forecast to slump to
6.53 million tons in the September-February period from 15.5
million tons a year earlier, led by a drop in Brazil’s shipments
to 5.3 million tons from 10 million tons, Oil World said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rudy Ruitenberg in Paris at 
 rruitenberg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  