-- Spain Minister Urges EU Aid for Banks in First Plea for Help
-- B y   E m m a   R o s s - T h o m a s   a n d   C h a r l e s   P e n t y
-- 2012-06-05T08:58:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-05/spain-minister-urges-eu-aid-for-banks-in-first-plea-for-help-1-.html
Spain  called for outside funds for
the first time to battle the financial crisis as Budget Minister
Cristobal Montoro said European institutions should help shore
up the nation’s lenders.  Spanish banks don’t need “excessive” amounts to
recapitalize, and the question is “where that figure comes
from,” Montoro said in an interview with Spanish broadcaster
Onda Cero today, as he continued to rule out a full rescue for
the euro region’s fourth-biggest economy.  “That’s why it’s so important that the European
institutions open up and help us achieve, help facilitate, that
figure because we’re not talking about astronomical figures,”
he said in Madrid.  Montoro’s comments contrast with Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy ’s position that Spain’s banks don’t need a rescue and
underscore the squabble among European leaders over allowing the
bailout fund to channel cash directly to lenders. As Spain’s
narrowing access to markets undermines its ability to backstop
its banks, finance ministers of the Group of Seven countries
plan to hold a call today to discuss the debt crisis.  Spanish 10-year bond yields rose to 6.42 percent, widening
the spread over equivalent German securities to 524 basis points
from 520 basis points yesterday. Shares of banks rose, with
 Banco Santander SA (SAN)  adding 0.5 percent at 11 a.m. in Madrid.  External Aid  Santander Chairman  Emilio Botin  said yesterday that about
40 billion euros ($50 billion) of European funds for four seized
lenders including Bankia group would be enough to solve the
industry’s problems. He joined a growing number of bank
executives, including  Bankinter SA (BKT)  Chief Executive Maria Dolores Dancausa, in saying that Spain is closer to needing some kind of
external help since the government moved to nationalize Bankia
group on May 9.  “Using the mechanisms for assistance from  Europe  or the
IMF is the best option and more and more the banking industry is
taking that view,” Juan Carlos Ureta, chairman of  Renta 4 Banco
SA (R4) , a Spanish bank and investment services company, said in a
telephone interview. “There is the risk of a possible stigma
and that is why it’s so important to stress that it’s only some
institutions that are in difficulties while the industry as a
whole is healthy.”  Portugal’s Banks  In 2010, banks helped push  Portugal  toward a bailout by
urging the government to ask for aid as downgrades by credit-
rating companies hurt their ability to borrow. Portuguese
lenders also said they couldn’t take any more Portuguese debt
onto their balance sheets.  The government in Lisbon yesterday said it would inject
more than 6.6 billion euros into its banking system to help
 Banco Comercial Portugues SA (BCP) ,  Banco BPI SA (BPI)  and  Caixa Geral de
Depositos SA  meet  capital requirements  under the terms of 78
billion-euro EU-led bailout.  Spain’s economy, which is twice as big as Greece, Portugal
and Ireland combined, moved to center stage in Europe’s debt
crisis after last month’s nationalization of Bankia group, and
the spread over German yields has swelled about 90 basis points
since then. The Madrid-based lender’s request for 19 billion
euros to mend its balance sheet underlined banks’ mounting
losses and the strains on the state’s ability to absorb them.  Steen Jakobsen, chief economist at Saxo Bank A/S, said it’s
unrealistic for Spain to accept aid for the banks without also
seeking a rescue to cover the financing needs of the government
and its regions.  ‘No Sense’  “Spain’s problems are multidimensional, from having to
deal with real estate to fixing the  budget deficit  and all at
the same time,” said Jakobsen. “The idea that you can solve
the situation with 40 billion euros of European money for the
banks makes no sense.”  An EU and International Monetary Fund bailout package for
Spain that covered the government’s gross funding needs through
the end of 2014 and included 75 billion euros to recapitalize
banks would amount to about 350 billion euros, David Mackie, the
chief economist at  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  in  London , wrote in a
May 30 report.  Rajoy, who speaks in the Senate at 4 p.m. today in Madrid,
said on May 28 “there won’t be any rescue of Spanish banks.”
In the same speech he called for the permanent European
Stability Mechanism to be able to sidestep governments and
recapitalize banks directly.  Germany  opposes empowering Europe’s
bailout fund to provide money directly to banks and the rules
require it to be funneled through governments.  Merkel’s Union  German  Chancellor Angela Merkel  said late yesterday
systemic banks may need supervision at the European level as the
European Union weighs possible steps toward “political union.”
She met European Commission head  Jose Barroso  to prepare for an
EU summit on June 28-29, after the 27-nation EU’s executive arm
backed Spain’s call for the ESM to be able to inject funds
directly into struggling lenders.  Spain supports the creation of a “banking union,”
including integrated deposit-guarantee funds and supervision,
Economy Minister Luis de Guindos said on May 31. That should be
approved at the June 28-29 summit, Montoro said today. He stuck
to the government’s view that the nation won’t need an overall
bailout, saying it’s not possible to rescue Spain.  “The men in black are not going to come to Spain because,
among other things, it isn’t possible to rescue Spain in the
technical sense of the word,” Montoro said. “Spain doesn’t
need that.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Emma Ross-Thomas in  Madrid  at 
 erossthomas@bloomberg.net ;
Charles Penty in Madrid  at 
 cpenty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  