-- Spain Minister Urges EU Aid for Banks in First Plea for Help
-- B y   E m m a   R o s s - T h o m a s   a n d   C h a r l e s   P e n t y
-- 2012-06-05T15:44:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-05/spanish-minister-urges-eu-aid-for-banks-in-first-plea-for-funds.html
Spain  called for outside support for
the first time to battle the financial crisis as Budget Minister
Cristobal Montoro said European institutions should help shore
up the nation’s lenders.  Spanish banks don’t need “excessive” amounts to
recapitalize, and the question is “where that figure comes
from,” Montoro said in an  interview  with Spanish broadcaster
Onda Cero today, as he ruled out a full rescue for the euro
region’s fourth-biggest economy.  “That’s why it’s so important that the European
institutions open up and help us achieve, help facilitate, that
figure because we’re not talking about astronomical figures,”
he said. “What we need is for the European institutions to get
going and seek that bank recapitalization through those
procedures that mean more Europe.”  Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy  has repeatedly said Spain’s
banks don’t need a rescue while European leaders squabble over
allowing the bailout fund to channel cash directly to lenders.
As Spain’s narrowing access to markets undermines its ability to
backstop its banks, finance ministers from Group of Seven
countries held a call today to coordinate their response to
Europe’s financial crisis.  Closer Coordination  A spokesman for Montoro, who declined to be named in line
with government policy, said the minister wasn’t asking for aid
and was urging European policy makers to speak clearly about a
so-called banking union.  Spanish 10-year bonds rose following the G-7 call, with
yields falling 11 basis points to 6.30 percent, narrowing the
spread over equivalent German securities to 509 basis points
from 520 basis points yesterday. The  risk premium  reached a
euro-era record of 539 basis points last week.  “What the risk premium tells us is that as a state and as
Spain overall we have a problem when it comes to going to the
markets,” Montoro said. “What that risk premium shows is that
the door of the markets isn’t open to Spain.”  Germany  opposes Spain’s demands for Europe’s bailout fund
to be able to provide money directly to banks, and the rules
require aid to be funneled through governments. Still, Germany
is open to closer European coordination to resolve the euro
area’s banking troubles, Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble 
said in an interview with today’s Handelsblatt newspaper.  German  Chancellor Angela Merkel  has also indicated a
willingness to consider a fund that would pool euro countries’
excessive debts, agreeing on May 24 to study a blueprint of a
plan that she previously rejected.  ‘Political Union’  Merkel said late yesterday systemic banks may need
supervision at the European level as the European Union weighs
possible steps toward “political union.” She met European
Commission head  Jose Barroso  to prepare for an EU summit on June
28-29, after the 27-nation EU’s executive arm backed Rajoy’s
calls for the ESM to be empowered to recapitalize banks
directly.  European Banking Federation President  Christian Clausen 
said it’s logical to tap the fund for struggling Spanish banks.  “It’s burning somewhere and if you don’t use a firewall
when it’s burning then I don’t know when to use it,” Clausen,
who’s also chief executive officer of Nordea Bank AB, said in an
interview in  Stockholm . “There are other roads as well, so what
technical solution isn’t what is important. It’s that some banks
need to get capitalized and the sooner the better.”  External Help  Banco Santander SA (SAN)  Chairman  Emilio Botin  said yesterday
that about 40 billion euros ($50 billion) of European funds for
four seized lenders including Bankia group would be enough to
solve the industry’s problems. He joined a growing number of
bank executives, including  Bankinter SA (BKT)  Chief Executive Maria Dolores Dancausa, in saying that Spain is closer to needing some
kind of external help since the government moved to nationalize
Bankia group on May 9.  “Using the mechanisms for assistance from Europe or the
IMF is the best option and more and more the banking industry is
taking that view,” Juan Carlos Ureta, chairman of  Renta 4 Banco
SA (R4) , a Spanish bank and investment services company, said in a
telephone interview. “There is the risk of a possible stigma
and that is why it’s so important to stress that it’s only some
institutions that are in difficulties while the industry as a
whole is healthy.”  Bankia Group  Spain’s economy, which is twice as big as Greece, Portugal
and Ireland combined, moved to center stage in  Europe ’s debt
crisis after last month’s nationalization of Bankia group, and
the spread over German yields has swelled about 90 basis points
since then. The Madrid-based lender’s request for 19 billion
euros to mend its balance sheet underlined banks’ mounting
losses and the strains on the state’s ability to absorb them.  Steen Jakobsen, chief economist at Saxo Bank A/S, said it’s
unrealistic for Spain to accept aid for the banks without also
seeking a rescue to cover the financing needs of the government
and its regions.  “Spain’s problems are multidimensional, from having to
deal with real estate to fixing the  budget deficit  and all at
the same time,” said Jakobsen. “The idea that you can solve
the situation with 40 billion euros of European money for the
banks makes no sense.”  An EU and International Monetary Fund bailout package for
Spain that covered the government’s gross funding needs through
the end of 2014 and included 75 billion euros to recapitalize
banks would amount to about 350 billion euros, David Mackie, the
chief economist at  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  in  London , wrote in a
May 30 report.  Rajoy’s Call  Rajoy, who was speaking in the Senate from 4 p.m. today in
 Madrid , said on May 28 that “there won’t be any rescue of
Spanish banks.” In the same speech he called for the permanent
European Stability Mechanism to be able to sidestep governments
and recapitalize banks directly.  Spain supports the creation of a “banking union,”
including integrated deposit-guarantee funds and supervision,
Economy Minister Luis de Guindos said on May 31. That should be
approved at the June summit, Montoro said today. He stuck to the
government’s view that the nation won’t need an overall bailout,
saying it’s not possible to rescue Spain.  “The men in black are not going to come to Spain because,
among other things, it isn’t possible to rescue Spain in the
technical sense of the word,” Montoro said. “Spain doesn’t
need that.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Emma Ross-Thomas in Madrid at 
 erossthomas@bloomberg.net ;
Charles Penty in Madrid  at 
 cpenty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  