-- Spanish Stocks Rise on Hedging Amid Queen’s Jubilee
-- B y   B e n   S i l l s
-- 2012-06-05T09:10:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-05/spanish-stocks-rise-on-hedging-amid-queen-s-jubilee.html
Spanish stocks  rose for a second day
after short interest fell in the biggest traded company and the
City of London, home to many  hedge funds , shut down to
celebrate Queen Elizabeth II’s Diamond Jubilee.  Spain’s  Ibex-35 (IBEX)  rose as much as 1.5 percent after posting
its biggest gain in three weeks yesterday, also a U.K. holiday.
The index traded 0.3 percent higher at 11:00 a.m. in  Madrid , led
by  Bankia SA. (BKIA)   The benchmark gained as the holiday marking the 60th
anniversary of the monarch’s coronation freed investors to
attend parties across the capital instead of selling Spanish
stocks, said Ivan San Felix, an analyst at Renta 4 in Madrid.  “The hedge funds do a lot of damage and they’ve been
heavily short on Spain,” said San Felix. “Let’s hope they
relax, have a good time, enjoy the Jubilee, and maybe we can
gain a bit more.”  Short interest in  Telefonica SA (TEF) , Spain’s largest company by
market value, fell to about 2.1 percent of outstanding shares on
June 1, the latest day for which data is available and the
lowest level in at almost six weeks, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  Short interest in Bankia, the lender that requested a 23.5
billion-euro bailout last month, dropped to two-month low of 2.5
percent on June 1, the last trading day before the four-day
holiday.  The Ibex had dropped 29 percent this year through June 1 as
investors bet the Spanish government will have to seek a bailout
from its European Union partners in order to recapitalize its
banking system. Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy  on June 2 urged
investors to ignore “irrational” concerns about Spanish
securities and insisted the government won’t need a rescue.  The extra yield investors demand to hold Spanish 10-year
government debt instead of the benchmark bunds narrowed to 524
basis points today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ben Sills in Madrid  at 
 bsills@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  