-- Standard Chartered Sees More Mideast Yuan Debt, Shankar Says
-- B y   A l a a   S h a h i n e
-- 2012-06-05T09:32:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-05/standard-chartered-sees-more-mideast-yuan-debt-shankar-says-1-.html
Standard Chartered Plc (STAN) , the U.K.’s
second-biggest bank by market value, expects more companies in
the  Middle East  to raise funds in yuan, a senior executive said.  “Is the trajectory of this going north over the next five
years? Yes. Absolutely,” Viswanathan Shankar, chief executive
officer for the Middle East, Africa, Europe and the Americas,
said in an interview at the World Economic Forum in Istanbul.  Emirates NBD PJSC (EMIRATES)  sold 1 billion yuan ($157 million) of so-
called dim sum bonds in March, the first sale of such securities
in the Middle East, as the company sought to draw funds from
China, a country with a trade surplus that has made it the
world’s biggest savings pool.  Europe ’s sovereign debt crisis hasn’t affected the
financing of companies and projects in the Middle East “because
the regional banks have stepped in,” Shankar said. Falling
asset prices in the euro-area may create opportunities for Gulf
Cooperation Council sovereign wealth funds and “high net-worth
individuals” from the region to “pick up assets on the cheap
in Europe,” he said.  The European crisis doesn’t appear to have slowed bond
issuances in the Persian Gulf states, Shankar said.  “I see continuing activity, particularly if you look at
some part of the GCC like Saudi, which has got a huge amount of
investment actually going into infrastructure, you will actually
see more activity,” he said.  Standard Chartered  has “minimum” exposure to the
financial crises in the euro area, Shankar said.  “Our direct exposure to the sovereigns of the troubled
euro zone countries is zero,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alaa Shahine in Dubai at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  