-- Starbucks Unit in Coinstar Kiosk Deal
-- B y   L e s l i e   P a t t o n
-- 2012-06-06T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-05/starbucks-unit-in-coinstar-kiosk-deal.html
Starbucks Corp. (SBUX) ’s Seattle’s Best
Coffee division signed a deal with  Coinstar Inc. (CSTR)  to sell coffee
in thousands of kiosks in the U.S.  The “Rubi” kiosks will begin rolling out this summer at
grocers, drugstores and mass-market retailers, the companies
said yesterday in a statement.  “We have signed an exclusive deal with Coinstar to roll
out the coffee kiosks that we’ve been testing” for more than a
year, Jenny McCabe, a Starbucks spokeswoman, said in a telephone
interview.  The kiosks, which grind and brew beans on demand and around
the clock, will serve brewed coffee, mochas and vanilla lattes
starting at $1 per cup, the companies said.  Starbucks, based in Seattle, expects to sell about 10,000
cups of coffee a year from each kiosk, McCabe said.  Starbucks is seeking to expand beyond its namesake products
and boost sales with the more affordable  Seattle ’s Best Coffee
brand, acquired in 2003. In February, the brewer said it would
begin selling Seattle’s Best at Kmart stores and  Chevron Corp. (CVX) 
gas stations. It’s also sold in some  Yum! Brands Inc. (YUM) ’s Taco
Bell restaurants, Burger King Worldwide Holdings Inc. locations
and Subway stores.  Seattle’s Best sells its coffee in bags numbered 1 through
5, indicating the strength of the roast. The brand is boosting
its exposure after the closing of 475 Seattle’s Best Coffee
locations within Borders Group Inc. stores after the
bookseller’s bankruptcy.  Coinstar, based in Bellevue, Washington, already operates
Redbox movie-rental and coin-counting kiosks.  Starbucks, which  brought in  $11.7 billion in sales in the
year ended Oct. 2,  fell  2.8 percent to $52.41 yesterday at the
close in  New York . The shares have gained 14 percent this year.  Coinstar rose 3.7 percent to $61.49 yesterday in extended
trading after the announcement. Earlier, the shares closed at
$59.29, for a gain of 30 percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Leslie Patton in Chicago at 
 lpatton5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  