-- Statoil in Talks on Shtokman Structure; No Plan to Leave Project
-- B y   Z u l f u g a r   A g a y e v
-- 2012-06-05T12:39:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-05/statoil-in-talks-on-shtokman-structure-no-plan-to-leave-project.html
Statoil ASA (STL)  is in talks on the
Shtokman gas project in Russia’s Barents Sea waters and expects
a schedule to be set after reaching new agreements with partners
led by  OAO Gazprom (GAZP) , following repeated delays.  “We have no plans to leave Shtokman,”  Peter Mellbye , an
executive vice president for international production at the
Norwegian energy producer, said today in an interview in Baku,
Azerbaijan.  Gazprom, Russia’s natural-gas exporter, may add partners to
the Arctic project and seek to focus on producing liquefied
natural gas for shipment by tanker. Gazprom, Statoil and their
third partner, France’s  Total SA (FP) , have repeatedly postponed a
final investment decision and the start of output as costs rise
and demand wanes, while the shale gas boom in the U.S. forced
them to reconsider markets.  The partners are in discussions with “other companies”
before signing new agreements, Mellbye said.  Gazprom may add new partners and has experience working
with  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA)  on LNG, Chief Executive Officer
Alexey Miller said on May 25, after the Kommersant newspaper
reported Shell may replace Statoil in the Shtokman project.
Gazprom will maintain its stake and new partners would reduce
the stakes held by Statoil and Total, Interfax said yesterday,
citing Miller.  The partners may agree on new terms for Shtokman, such as a
focus on LNG, at the St. Petersburg International Economic Forum
in June, Miller said last month.  Total and Statoil signed onto the Shtokman project with
Gazprom in 2007, and the Shtokman Development AG operating
company was set up in 2008. The partners have targeted the start
of piped gas shipments from Shtokman in 2016, and LNG exports a
year later.  Shtokman Development is 51 percent owned by Gazprom, while
Total owns 25 percent and Statoil has 24 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zulfugar Agayev in Baku at 
 zagayev@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  