-- Stress in Dollar-Funding Eases, Money Market Indicators Show
-- B y   L i z   C a p o   M c C o r m i c k
-- 2012-06-05T14:04:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-05/stress-in-dollar-funding-eases-money-market-indicators-show.html
     June 5 (Bloomberg) --Money-market forward indicators
signaled strains in short-term dollar funding markets eased as
 Europe ’s leaders continue to try find measures that will resolve
the sovereign-debt crisis.  Predictions in the forward market for the London interbank
offered rate-OIS, a gauge of banks’ reluctance to lend, fell,
according to the so-called FRA/OIS spreads. The derivative-
market prediction for the spread in September, the so-called
second rolling contract, was 39.3 basis points, down from 40.3
basis points yesterday.  Three-month Libor, which represents the rate at which banks
say it would cost to borrow from another,  was  0.46785 percent on
June 1, up from 0.46685 percent, where it had held from May 16,
according to the British Bankers’ Association. There was no
Libor rate published today or yesterday, as U.K. markets are
closed for a public holiday. The Libor-OIS spread, a gauge of
banks’ reluctance to lend, was little changed on June 1 at 30.4
basis points.  Overnight index swaps, or OIS, give traders predictions on
where the Fed’s effective funds rate will average for the term
of the swap. The central bank’s target rate is set in a range of
zero to 0.25 percent.  The difference between the two-year swap rate and the
comparable-maturity Treasury note yield, known as the swap
spread, narrowed 0.56 basis points to 36.75 basis points. The
gap is a gauge of investors’ perceptions of U.S. banking sector
credit risk as swap rates are derived from expectations for
dollar Libor. Swap rates serve as benchmarks for investors in
many types of debt, including mortgage-backed and auto-loan
securities.  The cost for European banks to convert euro-denominated
payment streams into dollars-based funding via the cross
currency swaps market decreased. The three-month cross-currency
basis swap was 55.5 basis points below Euribor, compared to 59.1
basis points below yesterday.  Euribor-OIS Spread  The Euribor-OIS spread, the difference between the euro
interbank offered rate and overnight indexed swaps, held steady.
The measure of banks’ reluctance to lend to one another was
unchanged 40 basis points. The measure has fallen from 95 basis
points at the start of the year.  The seasonally adjusted amount of U.S.  commercial paper 
rose $20.1 billion to $1,028.6 trillion outstanding in the week
ended May 30, according to Federal Reserve data. The market for
corporate borrowing through U.S. commercial paper has risen for
five straight weeks.  The price on one-year cross-currency basis swaps between
yen and U.S. dollars was minus 40.4 basis points, from minus
41.5 basis points yesterday. A negative swap price indicates
investors are willing to receive reduced interest payments on
the yen they lend in order to obtain the needed financing in
dollars.  Foreign-exchange swaps are typically for periods of less
than a year, while cross-currency basis swaps usually range from
one to 30 years. The latter are agreements in which a person
borrows in one currency and simultaneously lends in a different
currency. The trade involves the exchange of two different
floating-rate payments, each denominated in a different currency
and based on a different index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Liz Capo McCormick in  New York  at 
 emccormick7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at  