-- Sugar Rises on Brazil Rains; Orange Juice Climbs; Cotton Tumbles
-- B y   M a r v i n   G .   P e r e z
-- 2012-06-05T19:27:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-05/sugar-rises-on-brazil-rains-orange-juice-climbs-cotton-tumbles.html
Sugar futures climbed the most in
more than two weeks on speculation that rains will delay the
harvest in  Brazil , the world’s top producer and exporter.  Orange
juice  also advanced, while cotton slumped.  A cold front arrived today in Brazil’s Center-South, the
world’s top cane-producing region, bringing rains that are
expected to ease only by the weekend, according to Somar
Meteorologia. That followed five days of rains last week, which
was projected to delay harvesting of sugar cane and coffee,
according to the Sao Paulo-based forecaster.  “We got a lot rain here in the Center South over the last
five days, and it’s raining today,” Juliano Ferreira, a broker
at ICAP do Brasil Ctvm, said in an telephone interview from  Sao
Paulo . “That’s going to slow down the harvest,” and buyers
seeking the sweetener for the Muslim fasting month of Ramadan in
July will have to look elsewhere because supply is tight, he
said.  Raw sugar for July delivery climbed 0.8 percent to settle
at 19.06 cents a pound at 2 p.m. on ICE Futures U.S. in  New
York , the biggest gain since May 16.  The rainfall-induced delays in Brazil will probably provide
a floor to prices between 18.5 cents and 19 cents in the near
term, Ferreira said.  Orange-juice futures for July delivery rose 3 percent to
$1.148 a pound in New York, the most since May 24. The beverage
has still plunged 32 percent in 2012.  Cotton futures for December delivery tumbled 2.5 percent to
65.36 cents a pound on ICE, capping a third straight loss. The
fiber has plummeted 52 percent in the past year.  London ’s NYSE Liffe exchange was shut for second day for a
bank holiday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Marvin G. Perez in New York at 
 mperez71@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  