-- Swaps Born in U.K Boom Haunt Buyers After Rates Slide: Mortgages
-- B y   N e i l   C a l l a n a n
-- 2012-06-05T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-05/swaps-born-in-u-k-boom-haunt-buyers-after-rates-slide-mortgages.html
When  Barclays Plc (BARC)  arranged a 918.9
million-pound ($1.4 billion) commercial-mortgage backed security
called Gemini Eclipse 2006-3 in 2006, it included 20-year swap
contracts to protect the borrower from interest-rate swings.  The cost of getting out of the contract has risen to at
least 240 million pounds after the  Bank of England  cut its
benchmark rate to a record low 0.5 percent from 4.75 percent and
the shopping centers and office parks across the U.K. backing
the transaction tumbled to about half of the mortgage, according
to a note sent to investors last month. If the loans can’t be
refinanced, the swaps have to be repaid before any principal is
returned, according to the loan’s special servicer CBRE Group
Inc.  “It was never really envisaged that  interest rates  would
do anything like they’ve done and that anyone would ever have to
exit a swap,” said Stephen Clifton, who heads the City of
London investment division at real-estate broker Knight Frank
LLP. “Many of the big deals that were done in 2006 and 2007
involved a very significant swap position.”  Barclays, Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc and other banks
frequently made buying swaps a condition of lending against real
estate at the height of the boom, according to an April report
by CBRE. That puts U.K. property investors among small business
owners, Italian towns and U.S. municipalities including
Jefferson County,  Alabama , that exposed themselves to losses
after buying derivatives to guard against changes in interest
rates and currencies.  “Barclays is satisfied it provided sufficient information
to enable real estate companies to make an informed, commercial
decision about the products it offers,” the bank’s spokesman
Jon Laycock said in an e-mail.  Potential Penalties  The prospect of multi-million-pound penalties, which
fluctuate with borrowing costs, also is stalling property sales
by making it more difficult for buyers and sellers to determine
the value of a deal when a swap is involved.  The market would have “more transactions and see more
liquidity” if the hedges didn’t exist, said Mayad Rassam, head
of treasury at commercial real estate broker Mutual Finance Ltd.
Instead, there’s a “stalemate.”  To avoid the penalties, borrowers need to refinance at a
time when banks are reining in lending amid  Europe ’s debt crisis
and property values have fallen below the amount of the
mortgages used to buy them. U.K. commercial real-estate
investors may be unable to refinance as much as 100 billion
pounds of maturing loans, according to Bill Maxted and Trudi
Porter in a survey published last month by De Montfort
University.  Stricter Regulations  Banks and other creditors cut U.K. commercial real-estate
lending by 6.8 percent to 212.3 billion pounds last year as they
bolstered their balance sheets and recapitalized to meet
stricter regulations. About 51 billion pounds of loans are due
for repayment this year, the university said, with 153 billion
pounds due to mature through 2016.  Rate swaps are contracts that allow borrowers to keep
payments within a fixed range even if  interest rates  fluctuate
more widely. When rates fall, customers might pay higher costs
for the swap to keep payments within the agreed range. Borrowers
that exit contracts through default or repayment of the loan are
liable for costs running the length of the agreement.  Banks paired swaps contracts of 15 to 30 years with five-
year commercial property loans, making the penalties for
breaking the agreements “particularly virulent” because they
mature long after the loans, said Rob Leach, a director at
ratings company  Standard & Poor’s .  Break Costs  The Gemini swap expires in 2026, even though the senior
loan matures in July 2019. Break costs must be paid in full if
the borrower is foreclosed upon and only then can the
bondholders receive any return, CBRE, the special servicer
tasked with overseeing the bond, said in a February 2011
document.  Gemini investors were advised that the properties on which
the loans are secured -- including at the time of origination an
office building leased to EMC Corp., the world’s biggest maker
of storage computers, and two shopping centers next to each
other in Wigan -- were valued at about 437.8 million pounds,
compared with outstanding loans of 860.4 million pounds.  The cost of breaking the swap almost doubled to 241.3
million pounds from 126.5 million pounds in January 2010,
according to a report to bondholders. The penalty rose after
long-term swap rates had the sharpest fall in 12 years. A
falling rate increases the cost of breaking a contract and the
longer the remaining term, the bigger the penalty.  Legal Challenges  The loans were made to 31 Guernsey, Channel Island-based
limited partnerships whose assets are managed by Propinvest
Asset Management LLP.  Propinvest, which manages the properties, didn’t return
calls or e-mails about the swap. CBRE spokesman Kieron Smith
declined to comment.  Like other products sold by banks in the years leading up
to the financial crisis in 2008, swap contracts have prompted
legal challenges from buyers who claim they weren’t informed of
the risk they were taking. In Britain, hundreds of small
business owners, from a fish-and-chip shop to dentist offices,
have sued banks after they were sold currency and  interest-rate
swaps .  “In many cases, the risks were not mentioned, never mind
explained,” said Jackie Bowie, a director of financial-risk
consultant JC Rathbone Associates Ltd. The swaps were part of a
“very aggressive sales culture” in some banks, boosting
bonuses by generating upfront profit, she said.  Regulator’s Requests  JC Rathbone has been asked by lawyers to act as an
independent witness or provide an opinion in about six separate
legal actions by borrowers who bought swaps, according to Bowie.
Many complaints will be settled before they reach the courts,
she said.  The Financial Services Authority is examining claims and
has asked banks to provide information about how the products
were offered. The U.K. regulator will take action if it finds
“widespread evidence of breaches or mis-selling,” spokesman
 Joseph Eyre  said in an e-mail in April.  A 30-year swap taken out in June 2007 now has a penalty of
as much as 44 percent of the mortgage, according to an analysis
by Rassam of data compiled by Bloomberg.  It may worsen. “A flattening of the U.K. forward LIBOR
curve could cause derivative break costs on long-dated hedges to
rise from roughly 40 percent of loan amounts to 60 percent,”
Chatham Financial Director Mark Battistoni, who heads the
hedging team at the advisers’  London  office, said in an e-mail.  Increased Penalty  That increased penalty would be triggered if long-term
swaps fell 1 percent from the current rate of just below 3
percent, he said, “which could occur for a variety of reasons,
including broader appetite for long-dated gilts, a reduction in
swap spreads, or expectations, such as in  Japan  in the past 15
years, that deflation is on the horizon.”  Holders of the swaps are more vulnerable to the break costs
now because loans are maturing and banks, which are selling
assets and reducing lending, may be unwilling to roll them over.  The existence of the swaps is also curtailing asset sales.
 Lloyds Banking Group Plc (LLOY) , Britain’s biggest mortgage lender, was
among banks that held back sales where long-dated swaps were
involved, according to a person familiar with the matter. The
company avoided including loans saddled with the contracts when
it sold portfolios last year because the swings in penalties
could delay deals, the person said.  Delayed Sale  The sale of 1.36 billion pounds of commercial real estate
loans by RBS to a  Blackstone Group LP (BX)  fund was delayed in part
because the swaps penalties changed during talks that ended in
December, a person familiar with the deal said. Lloyds spokesman
Ian Kitts declined to comment and RBS, the U.K.’s biggest
government-owned lender, declined to comment by e-mail.  “More sophisticated buyers, the handful of names we all
know and hear about with every large loan deal, are the only
ones who are able to price complex swaps correctly in a
portfolio deal,” said Chris Mutch, a real-estate director of
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP. “In addition, they know how to
manage swap instruments and exposures when they are ultimately
transferred over.”  Blackstone, the world’s largest private-equity firm, has
set up a specialist debt-management team and is approaching
banks looking to advise them on how to maximize recoveries from
impaired loans including those affected by swaps, a person with
knowledge of the matter, who declined to be identified, said in
February.  CLS Holdings Plc (CLI) , a London-based developer, paid a 24.2
million-pound penalty to break a swap in December. Turbulence in
the euro area contributed to the swap rates falling, Chief
Financial Officer John Whiteley said in March.  Expectations that interest rates will remain low mean that
the troubled investors will face losses on their investments
into the medium-term. “With statements being made that interest
rates will not materially go up until 2014 and beyond, it’s been
pretty catastrophic,” Clifton said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Neil Callanan in London at 
 ncallanan@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Andrew Blackman  at 
 ablackman@bloomberg.net ;
Rob Urban at 
 robprag@bloomberg.net . 