-- Syracuse, Vassar Among Colleges Said to Join Cost Pledge
-- B y   K a t e   A n d e r s e n   B r o w e r
-- 2012-06-05T10:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-05/syracuse-vassar-among-colleges-said-to-join-cost-pledge.html
The University of  North Carolina  at
 Chapel Hill  and Syracuse University are among schools promising
to give incoming students more information on costs and
financial aid, according to an Obama administration official.  Ten schools and university systems representing 5 percent
of all enrolled U.S. college students will participate in the
financial aid pledge, said the administration official, who
described the agreement on condition of anonymity ahead of an
announcement scheduled for today.  Under the initiative, participating institutions will
provide students with data including the net costs after grants 
and scholarships of one year of school, estimated monthly 
payments for federal  student loans  after graduation, and 
statistics such as graduation, default and retention rates, 
the official said.  The schools’ pledge comes as President  Barack Obama  is
pressing U.S. lawmakers to avert the doubling of student-loan
 interest rates  to 6.8 percent from 3.4 percent. The president
has said that if Congress doesn’t extend a freeze on the rates
for government loans, as many as 7.4 million students and
families will have to pay an additional $1,000 a year.  Vice President Joe Biden, Education Secretary Arne Duncan,
Consumer Financial Protection Bureau Director  Richard Cordray ,
and White House Domestic Policy Director Cecilia Munoz are
scheduled to meet today with participating college and
university presidents to discuss ways to reduce tuition costs,
the administration official said.  Understanding Costs  The universities’ commitments, which take effect in the
2013-14 school year, build on the CFPB and the Education
Department’s “Financial Aid Shopping Sheet” aimed at making it
easier for students and families to understand college costs.  Other participating schools include Vassar College;  Arizona  
State University; Miami Dade College; North Carolina 
Agricultural & Technical State University; the State University 
System of New York; the University of Massachusetts system; the 
University of Maryland system, and the University of Texas 
system, according to the administration official.  Obama is scheduled to visit the University of Nevada in Las
Vegas on June 7 where he will urge lawmakers to pass legislation
extending the student-loan interest rate freeze before it
expires on July 1, the official said. Before the trip, Obama
will issue a memorandum directing his administration to look for
ways to make it easier for students to learn about loan
repayment options.  Republicans, who control the House, passed a measure
preventing the U.S. student-loan interest rate from doubling
July 1. To cover the cost, the legislation would take $5.9
billion from a preventive health-care fund, which House Speaker
 John Boehner  called “one of the slush funds” in the 2010
health care overhaul. House Democratic Leader  Nancy Pelosi 
responded by saying that the move would be “another assault on
women’s health” as the fund provided care for women.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kate Andersen Brower in Washington at 
 kandersen7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  