-- Syracuse, Vassar Among Colleges Joining Aid-Cost Pledge
-- B y   K a t e   A n d e r s e n   B r o w e r   a n d   R o g e r   R u n n i n g e n
-- 2012-06-05T17:54:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-05/syracuse-vassar-among-colleges-joining-aid-cost-pledge.html
The University of  North Carolina  at
 Chapel Hill  and  Syracuse University  are among schools promising
to give new students and parents more information on costs and
financial aid, Vice President  Joe Biden  said.  Biden joined administration officials and college and
university presidents in Washington to announce plans for a new
“Financial Aid Shopping Sheet,” a project of the Education
Department and Bureau of Consumer Protection, that would spell
out for the first time student-aid information in one concise
form. The schools’ participation would take effect in the
2013-14 school year.  It’s “a commitment to transparency,” Biden told reporters
at the White House during a meeting with college and university
presidents.  Students and parents have complained about the confusing
array of financial-aid offers, including the lumping together of
scholarships and federal student-aid grants, making it difficult
to determine total costs. There are no federal requirements to
disclose  interest rates  or total payments on loans.  Under the “ shopping sheet ,” participating schools will
provide students with a standard format for financial-aid
letters, including the net costs after grants and scholarships
of one year of school, estimated monthly payments for federal
student loans after graduation, and statistics for graduation,
default and retention rates.  Ten schools and university systems representing 5 percent
of all enrolled U.S. college students, or 1.4 million, will
participate in the financial aid pledge.  Comparability Forms  “I don’t know how it’s ultimately going to be branded, but
I love this ‘know what you owe before you go,’” said Nancy Zimpher, chancellor of the State University of New York, which
has 64 campuses and 465,000 students. She said the state
university system will also feature a standard “comparability”
form so students and parents “can shop for the best value.”  As part of his election-year campaign, President  Barack Obama  is pressing U.S. lawmakers to avert the doubling of
student-loan interest rates to 6.8 percent from 3.4 percent on
July 1. The president, in economic messages to college-age
voters, has said that if Congress doesn’t extend a freeze on the
rates for government loans, as many as 7.4 million students and
families will have to pay an additional $1,000 a year.  The cost of a one-year extension is almost $6 billion,
according to the nonpartisan  Congressional Budget Office .  ‘Slush Funds’  Republicans, who control the House, passed a measure
preventing the scheduled increase. To cover the cost, the
legislation would take $5.9 billion from a preventive health-
care fund, which House Speaker  John Boehner  called “one of the
slush funds” in the 2010 health-care overhaul. House Democratic
Leader  Nancy Pelosi  responded by saying that the move would be
“another assault on women’s health” as the fund provided care
for women.  The bill freezing interest rates on  student loans  is
awaiting a vote in the Senate.  Congressional Republicans  on May
31 sent a letter to Obama suggesting alternative funding to pay
for the cost of the freeze, though the White House hasn’t
responded, Senate Republican Leader  Mitch McConnell  told the
chamber today.  “Why doesn’t the vice president just pick up the phone,
choose one of the proposals we laid out in our letter and then
announce” at today’s meeting “that the problem’s been
solved?” McConnell said.  “We’re wide open” on considerations, Biden told reporters
at the White House, although the administration isn’t willing to
“trade off” student loans for other vital services. He said he
hoped Congress wouldn’t be “playing games” by using health
care to pay for the freeze.  Campaign Efforts  The White House billed the financial disclosure statement
as another element of the administratin’s effort to help middle
class families. Before a speaking engagement June 7 at the
University of Nevada-Las Vegas, Obama will announce he’s issuing
a presidential directive for his administration to take steps to
better inform students and parents about repayment options on
loans, according to a White House statement.  Debt from educational loans in the U.S. rose 3.4 percent to
$904 billion in the first quarter, the Federal Reserve Bank of
 New York  reported May 31. All educational debt, including
government and private loans taken out by students and parents,
is estimated at $1 trillion, according to the Consumer Financial
Protection Bureau.  Biden was joined in the meeting today by Education
Secretary Arne Duncan, Consumer Financial Protection Bureau
Director  Richard Cordray  and White House Domestic Policy
Director Cecilia Munoz.  Other participating schools include Vassar College;  Arizona 
State University; Miami Dade College; North Carolina
Agricultural & Technical State University; the University of
Massachusetts system; the University of Maryland system, and the
University of Texas system, according to a White House
statement.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kate Andersen Brower in Washington at 
 kandersen7@bloomberg.net ;
Roger Runningen in  Washington  at 
 rrunningen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  