-- Syria Expels Diplomats From U.S., U.K., France, Germany
-- B y   D o n n a   A b u - N a s r
-- 2012-06-05T15:22:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-05/syria-expels-diplomats-from-u-s-u-k-france-germany.html
Syria  kicked out envoys from  Turkey 
and 10 Western countries, including the U.S. and the U.K., in
retaliation for the expulsion of its diplomats in the aftermath
of the Houla massacre.  Diplomats from  Belgium ,  Bulgaria , Canada, France, Germany,
 Italy , Spain and  Switzerland  were also expelled, the state-run
SANA news agency said today, citing an unidentified Foreign
Ministry official who said the action was in accordance with
“the principle of reciprocity.”  The expulsion of Syrian diplomats from the U.S. and other
Western nations came after 108 people, including 49 children,
were killed in Houla. The massacre was one of the worst
atrocities in the 15-month uprising against President Bashar al- Assad’s government. The United Nations Human Rights Council said
it was the work of “pro-regime elements,” while Syrian
officials have blamed the killings on “terrorist” groups.  As many as 10,000 people have been killed since the unrest
in Syria began in March 2011, according to UN estimates. At
least 24 people were slain today across the country, the Local
Coordination Committees in Syria said in an e-mail.  The U.S. suspended embassy operations in Damascus and
recalled Ambassador  Robert Ford  and the rest of its staff in
February. Several European Union embassies, including the German
and French missions, have closed down.  Lose Hope  A cease-fire brokered by UN envoy  Kofi Annan  in April has
failed to stop the bloodshed. Saudi Foreign Minister Prince Saud al-Faisal said today he is starting to lose hope the plan can
succeed. He urged Russia, which has protected the Assad regime
against tougher UN sanctions, to change its position on the
Syrian crisis to avoid harming its relations with Arab nations.  Syria agreed today to permit UN aid workers into Dara’a,
Homs, Deir al-Zour and Idlib, which are among the areas that
have seen the most fighting, according to John Ging, director of
operations for the Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian
Affairs in Geneva.  “There is now agreement with the Syrian government on the
scale, scope and modality for humanitarian response,” Ging told
journalists in Geneva today. “Whether this is a breakthrough or
not will be evident in the coming days or weeks and it will be
measured not in rhetoric, not in agreements, but in action on
the ground.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Donna Abu-Nasr in Manama at 
 dabunasr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  