-- Syrian Massacre Has Few Echoes of War in the Balkans
-- B y   T i m   J u d a h
-- 2012-06-05T23:00:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-05/syrian-massacre-has-few-echoes-of-war-in-the-balkans.html
Syria  is the new Bosnia and Houla is
the new  Srebrenica . This is the fashionable conceit of
journalists, think-tankers and  opinion  makers of various  stripes 
after last week’s grotesque house-to-house execution of 49
children, among others, in the Syrian town.  The idea is simple enough: Bosnia descended into war in
1992, but it took three years before the massacre of some 8,000
Bosnian Muslim men and boys at Srebrenica finally triggered a
chain of events that led to Western intervention. Houla, the
thinking goes, should now do the same for Syria.  But as someone who reported from Srebrenica, entered Kabul
in the hours after the Taliban fled Afghanistan’s capital in
2001, and watched Saddam’s statue fall in  Baghdad , I find the
idea absurd that Syria can be seen through the lens of former
 Yugoslavia .  Even if things are as bad in Syria today as they were at
times during the war in Bosnia, the geopolitical contexts are so
utterly different that drawing conclusions from the Balkans for
conflicts in the Middle East risks producing the wrong answers.
If anything, Syria has the potential to become a new Iraq, and
we should look for any lessons there.  Lessons Learned  It’s a truism that generals prepare to fight the last war,
and today this thinking has been institutionalized. Governments
set up post-conflict units dedicated to “lessons learned.” So,
when it comes to international interventions of one sort or
another, each generation looks to the last case for pointers on
what to do about the next. In the post-Cold War period, Bosnia
lies at the beginning of this daisy chain.  As the newly declared Bosnian state collapsed into war in
1992, there were endless arguments about what to do. Many people
now thinking about Syria have either forgotten or aren’t aware
that the  dispute  over Bosnia pitted the U.S. against its
European allies, and not just  Russia . The U.S. wanted military
action, while many Europeans did not.  We need not rehash the rights and wrongs of these quarrels.
The upshot was that when Srebrenica finally began to tip the
scales in favor of military intervention in 1995, and the North
Atlantic Treaty Organization took serious  action , the war was
over within weeks. A peace agreement was forged and 60,000
peacekeepers flooded in to secure the deal.  But note these vital differences with Syria: After more
than three years of war, all parties to the conflict in Bosnia
were exhausted, and as part of the  Dayton Accords  that ended the
war, even Serbian strongman  Slobodan Milosevic  agreed that
foreign troops should occupy the country. As a result, not a
single peacekeeper was harmed.  So when war broke out in  Kosovo  in 1998, political leaders
concluded -- and I acknowledge simplifying here -- that the
lesson of Bosnia was that a few days of bombing were enough to
bring the Serbs to heel. It was almost a disaster. Western
policy makers said that the conflict would be brief, so
Milosevic decided that he could sit tight and achieve many of
his objectives. The result was a 78-day-long bombing  campaign 
that appeared to be failing as it dragged on.  The stalemate in Kosovo ended only after NATO leaders
started to talk about a land invasion. Russia, unwilling and
unable to help the Serbs resist, suddenly became part of the
solution and not -- as in Syria today -- part of the problem.
Milosevic caved. When American, U.K. and other troops entered
Kosovo in June 1999, the province’s Muslim Albanians greeted
them as liberators. Today a statue of  Bill Clinton  stands in the
capital Pristina and almost all Albanians remain fanatically
pro-American.  Serbs and Taliban  On to 2001: If air strikes had worked in Kosovo, then
surely a similar combination of airpower and friendly local
allies would do the trick for  Afghanistan . That was right, until
it went wrong. Dislodging the Taliban from Kabul was easy, but
unlike the Serbian forces that pulled out of Kosovo, the Taliban
simply retreated to later fight back, in time-honored Afghan
fashion. Now, U.S.-led forces, like the Soviets and imperial
British before them, are looking for an Afghan exit.  By 2003, that failure had not yet become apparent, so the
lessons of Bosnia-Kosovo-Afghanistan were applied to Iraq,
albeit this time with the addition of a full-scale land
invasion. As it turned out, the lessons of the Balkans did not
apply in Mesopotamia. The vast majority of Iraqis were neither
pleased to see U.S. troops, nor grateful to be liberated by
them. Many, such as  Iraq ’s Christians, were rightly fearful of
what the end of  Saddam Hussein ’s repressive secular regime would
mean for them.  And then came  Libya . The lesson learned from Iraq was that
Western intervention with boots on the ground had led to
resistance and civil war, engendering blanket hostility to the
West in Arab and Muslim societies. The war also cost the lives
of thousands of U.S. troops and several trillion dollars of U.S.
taxpayer money. So,  Muammar Qaddafi  would be removed with
support from the air and no visible troops on the ground,
Kosovo-style. For now, Libya is still counted a success, but the
country is awash in weapons and the situation is, to say the
least, fluid.  One can debate how successful the Balkan interventions were
and what sort of societies we have in Bosnia and Kosovo today.
But a lot of people are alive who would have died if NATO had
not acted. The Kosovo intervention also scotched the possibility
of the conflict spreading to Macedonia and Albania and maybe
sucking in others.  None of this can be said for the interventions in
Afghanistan or Iraq. In Libya, more people might have died in a
Qaddafi crackdown, but we will never know. Yet as a consequence
of arms and Tuareg fighters flooding out of Libya after
Qaddafi’s defeat,  Mali  -- one of  Africa ’s model democracies --
has effectively been chopped in two. A military junta rules the
South, and Islamist guerrillas the North.  Location, Location  These outcomes are something we should consider when
thinking about Syria. As with real estate, what matters is
location, location, location. Bosnia and Kosovo are in  Europe ,
while Syria is at the heart of the  Middle East , so Balkan
lessons don’t apply.  This isn’t an argument for doing nothing, but a plea to
avoid drawing the wrong conclusions and doing the wrong thing.
If you are still unconvinced, then try to imagine this: A statue
to  George W. Bush  in central Baghdad, and one to  Barack Obama  in
Damascus after U.S. airstrikes there, erected by grateful, pro-
American Iraqis and Syrians. It’s hard to do.  (Tim Judah is an author and journalist. He writes about
foreign affairs and covers the Balkans for the Economist. The
opinions expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View columns, editorials
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the View editors on  Brazil’s economy ;  Susan
Crawford  on  Barry Diller’s new venture ; Clive Crook on the  Fed’s
global leadership ;  Peter Orszag  on the  Congressional Budget
Office’s long-term outlook ; Gary Shilling on  Japan’s deficits ;
Yukon Huang on  myths of the Chinese economy .  To contact the author of this article:
Tim Judah at  timjudah@btinternet.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Marc Champion at  mchampion7@bloomberg.net . 