-- U.S. May ISM Non-Manufacturing Report on Business (Text)
-- B y   E d i t o r :   [ b n : P R S N = 3 2 1 4 6 5 0 ]   A l e x   T a n z i   [ ]
-- 2012-06-05T14:09:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-05/u-s-may-ism-non-manufacturing-report-on-business-text-.html
Following is the text of U.S. non-
manufacturing conditions from the Institute for Supply
Management.  May 2012 Non-Manufacturing ISM Report On Business NMI at 53.7%  Business Activity Index at 55.6%  New Orders Index at 55.5%  Employment Index at 50.8%  Economic activity in the non-manufacturing sector grew in May
for the 29th consecutive month, say the nation’s purchasing and
supply executives in the latest Non-Manufacturing ISM Report On
Business.  The report was issued today by  Anthony Nieves , C.P.M., CFPM,
chair of the Institute for Supply Management Non-Manufacturing
Business Survey Committee. “The NMI registered 53.7 percent in
May, 0.2 percentage point higher than the 53.5 percent
registered in April. This indicates continued growth this month
at a slightly faster rate in the non-manufacturing sector. The
Non-Manufacturing Business Activity Index registered 55.6
percent, which is 1 percentage point higher than the 54.6
percent reported in April, reflecting growth for the 34th
consecutive month. The New Orders Index increased by 2
percentage points to 55.5 percent, and the Employment Index
decreased by 3.4 percentage points to 50.8 percent, indicating
continued growth in employment at a slower rate. The Prices
Index decreased 3.8 percentage points to 49.8 percent,
indicating lower month-over-month prices for the first time
since July 2009. According to the NMI, 13 non-manufacturing
industries reported growth in May. The majority of the
respondents’ comments are positive and optimistic about business
conditions and the direction of the economy.”  INDUSTRY PERFORMANCE The 13 non-manufacturing industries
reporting growth in May -- listed in order -- are: Information;
Transportation & Warehousing; Accommodation & Food Services;
Management of Companies & Support Services; Educational
Services; Wholesale Trade; Construction; Retail Trade; Real
Estate, Rental & Leasing; Professional, Scientific & Technical
Services; Finance & Insurance; Utilities; and Public
Administration. The three industries reporting contraction in
May are: Arts, Entertainment & Recreation; Health Care & Social
Assistance; and Mining.  WHAT RESPONDENTS ARE SAYING …
•“Q2 will be a strong quarter for us; the building market is
starting to wake up.” (Construction)
•“Increased activity and resources related to projects.”
(Finance & Insurance)
•“The upswing in  consumer confidence  has led to increased
business.” (Arts, Entertainment & Recreation)
•“While we tend to remain optimistic about the economy, our
numbers do not show a surge in activity. It appears consumers
are maintaining their ’let’s wait and see’ attitude.”
(Accommodation & Food Services)
•“Business outlook is flat for the remainder of 2012 with
emphasis on cost containment, restructuring and cost-savings
projects.” (Professional, Scientific & Technical Services)
•“Business is still strong, but we have seen some softening in
growth since mid-March.” (Wholesale Trade)  COMMODITIES REPORTED UP / DOWN IN PRICE, and IN SHORT SUPPLY
Commodities Up in Price Airfares (5); Beef* (2); Copper
Products; Corrugated;  Diesel Fuel  (4); #1 Diesel Fuel* (6); Fuel
(5); Gasoline* (5); Lumber; Office and Computer Supplies (2);
and Paper Products (2).  Commodities Down in Price Beef*; Cheese (2); Computer
Equipment/Hardware (2); Consultants; #1 Diesel Fuel*; #2 Diesel
Fuel; Gasoline*;  Natural Gas  (4); Services; and Steel Products.  Commodities in Short Supply Nuts is the only commodity reported
in short supply.  Note: The number of consecutive months the commodity is listed
is indicated after each item. *Reported as both up and down in
price.  MAY 2012 NON-MANUFACTURING INDEX SUMMARIES  NMI In May, the NMI registered 53.7 percent, indicating
continued growth in the non-manufacturing sector for the 29th
consecutive month. A reading above 50 percent indicates the non-
manufacturing sector economy is generally expanding; below 50
percent indicates the non-manufacturing sector is generally
contracting.  Business Activity ISM’s Non-Manufacturing Business Activity
Index in May registered 55.6 percent, 1 percentage point higher
than the 54.6 percent registered in April. Ten industries
reported increased business activity, and five industries
reported decreased activity for the month of May. Comments from
respondents include: “Expansion of facilities and capital
projects” and “Improved economic environment.”  The industries reporting growth of business activity in May --
listed in order -- are: Information; Accommodation & Food
Services; Transportation & Warehousing; Educational Services;
Wholesale Trade; Construction; Management of Companies & Support
Services; Finance & Insurance; Professional, Scientific &
Technical Services; and Public Administration. The industries
reporting decreased business activity in May are: Mining; Arts,
Entertainment & Recreation; Health Care & Social Assistance;
Retail Trade; and Utilities.  New Orders ISM’s Non-Manufacturing New Orders Index grew in May
for the 34th consecutive month. The index registered 55.5
percent, an increase of 2 percentage points from the 53.5
percent reported in April. Comments from respondents include:
“Improving customer demand” and “Expecting strong sales for the
rest of 2012.”  The 12 industries reporting growth of new orders in May --
listed in order -- are: Information; Transportation &
Warehousing; Retail Trade; Construction; Accommodation & Food
Services; Educational Services; Utilities; Management of
Companies & Support Services; Finance & Insurance; Wholesale
Trade; Professional, Scientific & Technical Services; and Public
Administration. The three industries reporting contraction of
new orders in May are: Mining; Arts, Entertainment & Recreation;
and Health Care & Social Assistance.  Employment
Employment activity in the non-manufacturing sector grew in May
at a slower rate, as ISM’s Non-Manufacturing Employment Index
registered 50.8 percent. This reflects a decrease of 3.4
percentage points when compared to the 54.2 percent registered
in April. Fourteen industries reported increased employment, two
industries reported decreased employment, and two industries
reported unchanged employment compared to April. Comments from
respondents include: “Reduction of excess FTE [full-time
equivalent] capacity and organizational consolidation” and “To
handle additional work and growth.”  The industries reporting an increase in employment in May --
listed in order -- are: Mining; Management of Companies &
Support Services; Real Estate, Rental & Leasing; Accommodation &
Food Services; Retail Trade; Information; Transportation &
Warehousing; Other Services; Wholesale Trade; Educational
Services; Professional, Scientific & Technical Services;
Construction; Finance & Insurance; and Public Administration.
The industries reporting a reduction in employment in May are:
Arts, Entertainment & Recreation; and Health Care & Social
Assistance.  Supplier Deliveries
The Supplier Deliveries Index slowed in May for the second
consecutive month, following two months of faster deliveries.
The index registered 53 percent, which is 1.5 percentage points
higher than the 51.5 reported in April. A reading above 50
percent indicates slower deliveries, and below 50 percent
indicates faster deliveries.  The eight industries reporting slower deliveries in May --
listed in order -- are: Wholesale Trade; Real Estate, Rental &
Leasing; Educational Services; Retail Trade; Transportation &
Warehousing; Construction; Information; and Professional,
Scientific & Technical Services. The three industries reporting
faster supplier deliveries in May are: Other Services; Finance &
Insurance; and Public Administration. Seven industries reported
no change in supplier deliveries in May compared to April.  Inventories
ISM’s Non-Manufacturing Inventories Index grew in May for the
fourth consecutive month. The index registered 56 percent, which
is 2 percentage points higher than the 54 percent reported in
April. Of the total respondents in May, 28 percent indicated
they do not have inventories or do not measure them. Comments
from respondents include: “Demand is higher for our products”
and “Cyclical ordering for items in inventory.”  The nine industries reporting an increase in inventories in May
-- listed in order -- are: Retail Trade; Wholesale Trade;
Information; Transportation & Warehousing; Construction; Health
Care & Social Assistance; Finance & Insurance; Public
Administration; and Utilities. The five industries reporting
decreases in inventories in May are: Agriculture, Forestry,
Fishing & Hunting; Other Services; Real Estate, Rental &
Leasing; Professional, Scientific & Technical Services; and
Accommodation & Food Services.  Prices
Prices paid by non-manufacturing organizations for purchased
materials and services decreased in May. ISM’s Non-Manufacturing
Prices Index for May registered 49.8 percent, 3.8 percentage
points lower than the 53.6 percent reported in April. This
indicates lower month-over-month prices for the first time since
July 2009. In May, the percentage of respondents reporting
higher prices is 19 percent, the percentage indicating no change
in prices paid is 72 percent, and 9 percent of the respondents
reported lower prices.  Ten non-manufacturing industries reported an increase in prices
paid during the month of May, in the following order:
Accommodation & Food Services; Agriculture, Forestry, Fishing &
Hunting; Wholesale Trade; Health Care & Social Assistance;
Management of Companies & Support Services; Real Estate, Rental
& Leasing; Educational Services; Retail Trade; Finance &
Insurance; and Professional, Scientific & Technical Services.
The six industries reporting a decrease in prices paid during
May -- listed in order -- are: Construction; Other Services;
Transportation & Warehousing; Utilities; Public Administration;
and Information.  Backlog of Orders
ISM’s Non-Manufacturing Backlog of Orders Index grew in May for
the second consecutive month. The index registered 53 percent,
which is the same percentage rate reported in April. Of the
total respondents in May, 36 percent indicated they do not
measure backlog of orders.  The nine industries reporting an increase in order backlogs in
May -- listed in order -- are: Agriculture, Forestry, Fishing &
Hunting; Educational Services; Construction; Retail Trade;
Public Administration; Information; Transportation &
Warehousing; Finance & Insurance; and Health Care & Social
Assistance. The four industries reporting lower backlog of
orders in May are: Other Services; Mining; Professional,
Scientific & Technical Services; and Wholesale Trade.  New Export Orders
Orders and requests for services and other non-manufacturing
activities to be provided outside of the  United States  by
domestically based personnel grew in May for the 10th
consecutive month. The New Export Orders Index for May
registered 53 percent, which is 5 percentage points lower than
the 58 percent reported in April. Of the total respondents in
May, 67 percent indicated they either do not perform, or do not
separately measure, orders for work outside of the United
States.  The five industries reporting an increase in new export orders
in May are: Mining; Construction; Information; Transportation &
Warehousing; and Professional, Scientific & Technical Services.
The three industries reporting a decrease in export orders in
May are: Other Services; Wholesale Trade; and Finance &
Insurance. Seven industries reported no change in new export
orders in May compared to April.  Imports
The ISM Non-Manufacturing Imports Index grew in May for the
sixth consecutive month. The index registered 53 percent, which
is 3.5 percentage points lower than the 56.5 percent reported in
April. Fifty-nine percent of respondents reported that they do
not use, or do not track, the use of imported materials.  The five industries reporting an increase in the use of imports
in May are: Health Care & Social Assistance; Information;
Construction; Retail Trade; and Wholesale Trade. The only
industry reporting a decrease in imports for the month of May is
Management of Companies & Support Services. Eleven industries
reported no change in imports for the month of May compared to
April.  Inventory Sentiment
The ISM Non-Manufacturing Inventory Sentiment Index in May
registered 63 percent, which is 2 percentage points higher than
the 61 percent reported in April. This indicates that
respondents believe their inventories are still too high at this
time. In May, 33 percent of respondents said their inventories
were too high, 7 percent said their inventories were too low,
and 60 percent said their inventories were about right.  The 11 industries reporting a feeling that their inventories are
too high in May -- listed in order -- are: Arts, Entertainment &
Recreation; Mining; Management of Companies & Support Services;
Other Services; Wholesale Trade; Finance & Insurance; Real
Estate, Rental & Leasing; Health Care & Social Assistance;
Professional, Scientific & Technical Services; Construction; and
Public Administration. The two industries reporting that their
inventories are too low in May are: Information; and Retail
Trade.  About this Report
The data presented herein is obtained from a survey of non-
manufacturing supply managers based on information they have
collected within their respective organizations. ISM makes no
representation, other than that stated within this release,
regarding the individual company data collection procedures. Use
of the data is in the public domain and should be compared to
all other economic data sources when used in decision-making.  Data and Method of Presentation
The Non-Manufacturing ISM Report On Business is based on data
compiled from purchasing and supply executives nationwide.
Membership of the Non-Manufacturing Business Survey Committee is
diversified by NAICS, based on each industry’s contribution to
gross domestic product (GDP). The Non-Manufacturing Business
Survey Committee responses are divided into the following NAICS
code categories: Agriculture, Forestry, Fishing & Hunting;
Mining; Utilities; Construction; Wholesale Trade; Retail Trade;
Transportation & Warehousing; Information; Finance & Insurance;
Real Estate, Rental & Leasing; Professional, Scientific &
Technical Services; Management of Companies & Support Services;
Educational Services; Health Care & Social Assistance; Arts,
Entertainment & Recreation; Accommodation & Food Services;
Public Administration; and Other Services (services such as
Equipment & Machinery Repairing; Promoting or Administering
Religious Activities; Grantmaking; Advocacy; and Providing Dry-
Cleaning & Laundry Services, Personal Care Services, Death Care
Services, Pet Care Services, Photofinishing Services, Temporary
Parking Services, and Dating Services).  Survey responses reflect the change, if any, in the current
month compared to the previous month. For each of the indicators
measured (Business Activity, New Orders, Backlog of Orders, New
Export Orders,  Inventory Change , Inventory Sentiment, Imports,
Prices, Employment and Supplier Deliveries), this report shows
the percentage reporting each response, and the diffusion index.
Responses represent raw data and are never changed. Data is
seasonally adjusted for Business Activity, New Orders, Prices
and Employment. All seasonal adjustment factors are supplied by
the U.S. Department of Commerce and are subject annually to
relatively minor changes when conditions warrant them. The
remaining indexes have not indicated significant seasonality.  The NMI (Non-Manufacturing Index) is a composite index based on
the diffusion indexes for four of the indicators with equal
weights: Business Activity (seasonally adjusted), New Orders
(seasonally adjusted), Employment (seasonally adjusted) and
Supplier Deliveries. Diffusion indexes have the properties of
leading indicators and are convenient summary measures showing
the prevailing direction of change and the scope of change. An
index reading above 50 percent indicates that the non-
manufacturing economy in that index is generally expanding;
below 50 percent indicates that it is generally declining.
Supplier Deliveries is an exception. A Supplier Deliveries Index
above 50 percent indicates slower deliveries and below 50
percent indicates faster deliveries.  The Non-Manufacturing ISM Report On Business surveys are sent
out to Non-Manufacturing Business Survey Committee respondents
the first part of each month. Respondents are asked to ONLY
report on information for the current month. ISM receives survey
responses throughout most of any given month, with the majority
of respondents generally waiting until late in the month to
submit responses in order to give the most accurate picture of
current business activity. ISM then compiles the reports for
release on the third business day of the following month.  The industries reporting growth, as indicated in the Non-
Manufacturing ISM Report On Business® monthly reports, are
listed in the order of most growth to least growth. For the
industries reporting contraction or decreases, those are listed
in the order of the highest level of contraction/decrease to the
least level of contraction/decrease.  The Non-Manufacturing ISM Report On Business is published
monthly by the  Institute for Supply Management , the largest
supply management research and education organization in the
United States. The Institute for Supply Management, established
in 1915, is the largest supply management organization in the
world as well as one of the most respected. ISM’s mission is to
lead the supply management profession through its standards of
excellence, research, promotional activities and education.  The full text version of the Non-Manufacturing ISM Report On
Business® is posted on ISM’s Web site at www.ism.ws on the third
business day of every month after 10:10 a.m. (ET).  The next Non-Manufacturing ISM Report On Business featuring the
June 2012 data will be released at 10:00 a.m. (ET) on Thursday,
July 5, 2012.  SOURCE: Institute for Supply Management    http://www.ism.ws  