-- U.S. Chamber Urges Action to Avert 2013 Fiscal Cliff
-- B y   R i c h a r d   R u b i n
-- 2012-06-05T20:21:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-05/u-s-chamber-urges-action-to-avert-2013-fiscal-cliff.html
Congress should extend expiring tax
cuts and find alternatives to automatic spending cuts scheduled
to take effect in 2013, the U.S. Chamber of Commerce said in a
 letter to lawmakers .  The threat of inaction on the so-called fiscal cliff has
already begun to slow  consumer spending  and business investment,
the country’s largest business trade association said today.  “The threat of further harm to the American economy is
real, and the American people and business community should not
be forced to wait,”  Bruce Josten , the chamber’s chief lobbyist,
wrote in the letter. “The chamber believes Congress and the
president should act now; the voters will act in November.”  If Congress doesn’t act, tax rates on income,  capital
gains , dividends and estates will increase Jan. 1. Automatic
spending cuts targeting the Defense Department also will kick
in.  In the letter, Josten called for extending all the expiring
tax cuts. He didn’t give details on what kind of spending cuts
should be made to replace the automatic cuts, known as
sequestration.  The  Congressional Budget Office  said May 22 that inaction
on the fiscal cliff would probably cause a recession in early
2013.  Over the long run, Josten wrote, Congress should overhaul
the tax system and reduce “excessive spending,” particularly
for entitlement programs.  The U.S. should “approach a balanced budget” within 10
years, he wrote.  The budget  adopted by  House Republicans , which Democrats
criticize for cutting spending too deeply, includes a deficit of
1.2 percent of gross domestic product in 2022 and doesn’t
balance the budget until 2040.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Richard Rubin in Washington at 
 rrubin12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  