-- U.S. and Europe Have No Excuse for Next Recession
-- B y   C l i v e   C r o o k
-- 2012-06-05T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-05/u-s-and-europe-have-no-excuse-for-next-recession.html
Four years after the onset of the
Great Recession, a second and possibly worse global slump is
starting to seem possible. If this happens, governments won’t be
able to say they were taken by surprise. It will happen because
governments have frozen in the face of hazards that are well
understood and readily avoidable.  It’s hard to say whether the policy paralysis is worse in
 Europe  or the U.S. I give the edge to Europe, where the failure
of leadership has been more thorough and sustained. Still, the
difficulties in the U.S. are easier to overcome, so neglecting
them is more boldly incompetent. The country’s politicians, busy
campaigning, have effectively said they’ll get back to us,
maybe, after November’s elections. That’s audacious.  It has been plain for months, if not years, that the
European Union needs collective monetary stimulus and some
measure of debt mutualization to stabilize its economies. You
would think neither would pose much of a test for an association
of nations dedicated by treaty to “ever closer union.” Yet
trying to avoid these steps has inflicted shattering recessions
on several EU countries and worsened a manageable crisis of
confidence to the point where it might destroy the entire euro
project.  Europe’s central bank has been flexible in  providing
liquidity  to the euro area’s banks, but in  setting interest
rates  it continues to worry more about the distant threat of
inflation and arcane constitutional proprieties than collapsing
output and employment. On explicit debt mutualization, the EU
has so far done nothing.  Germany  and others have opposed the
crucial step of issuing jointly guaranteed euro bonds.  German Plan  The only flicker of hope comes in a  German plan  that would
allow governments to issue a limited amount of mutually backed
debt for a limited period. It’s not very good, and couldn’t be
executed quickly. German  Chancellor Angela Merkel  isn’t backing
it, you understand, but she has stopped vowing it will never
happen. Hence the excitement.  First proposed in November, the so-called European
Redemption Pact would pool each euro area member’s debts in
excess of 60 percent of gross domestic product in a jointly
guaranteed fund. Countries would promise not to increase the
remaining, national part of their debt above the 60 percent
ceiling. Access to the redemption fund would let  Spain  and other
distressed borrowers refinance their excess borrowing at lower
 interest rates , and would lift the fear of default. Strong
creditors, such as Germany, would also pool some of their debt
according to the same rules. They’d have to pay a bit more than
it would cost them to refinance unilaterally. That’s the subsidy
element that Merkel has hitherto ruled out.  The plan has two main differences from the “conditional
euro bond” proposal I wrote about  last week . First, it’s meant
to be temporary, an aspect that Merkel is stressing. The fund
would be paid down over 20 to 25 years, using tax revenue
pledged in advance from the countries whose debts had been
pooled. Once the debt was paid off, the EU would be back to
national fiscal sovereignty, plus the budget and debt
constraints in the Stability and Growth Pact that was adopted as
part of the original euro design. In other words, it would be
back to the arrangement that let Europe get into this mess in
the first place.  The second difference is that, unlike conditional euro
bonds (which involve side payments from less creditworthy to
more creditworthy countries), the redemption pact includes no
market incentives for compliance and no room to maneuver. The
emphasis is on compulsion: Participants must give up  tax
revenue , post gold or foreign reserves as collateral, and suffer
severe sanctions if they fail to make their payments or let
their national debt rise back above 60 percent. To comply,
countries such as Italy would have to practice extreme austerity
under threat of reprisal for many years.  Prolonged Delay  Worse, the plan would mean prolonged delay and uncertainty.
It requires a new EU treaty, which would then have to be
ratified nation by nation. And in the end, when this system
confronted a crisis like today’s, it would fold -- just as the
original Stability and Growth Pact folded -- because meeting its
terms would be politically impossible.  The only good thing about the new plan is that it suggests
Merkel might eventually be willing to think the unthinkable, and
actually do something. By EU standards, that’s progress.  If the U.S. has shown greater flexibility in dealing with
its crisis, the credit goes mostly to the  Federal Reserve .
Granted, the central bank’s freedom of action in the crisis is a
constitutional anomaly. The Fed’s enormous programs of
quantitative easing are fiscal policy as much as monetary policy
and therefore, you might argue, properly the domain of
Congress. Luckily, that interpretation is not, for now at least,
being pressed.  Since the fiscal stimulus passed in 2009, Washington has
been more or less paralyzed. The Fed has exploited a freedom
that Europe’s central bankers believe they lack, and has been
the only part of the U.S. government executing an intelligible
economic policy.  Last week’s dismal employment figures, together with
downward revisions for growth in the first quarter, point to
another pause in the U.S. recovery and turn attention to the Fed
again. The case for a further round of the bond-buying known as
quantitative easing seems overwhelming. And more QE, apparently,
is all there is, because the rest of  Washington  is otherwise
engaged. With luck, the Fed will act.  The U.S. economy’s needs are just as obvious and feasible
as those of Europe. On fiscal policy, the prescription is
unchanged: Congress needs to combine budgetary ease in the short
run with a credible commitment to reduce debt in the long run.
Neither is any use without the other. The blueprint for this
exists in the Simpson-Bowles plan. It’s astonishing, or should
be, that nobody in Washington -- not Democratic President  Barack Obama , not Republican candidate  Mitt Romney , nobody in Congress
and nobody running for Congress -- thinks that this or any other
detailed plan of action is worth discussing.  Bigger Issues  What’s even more depressing is that the country doesn’t
seem to mind. This must be because this election is about bigger
issues. It’s about the future of capitalism and the role of the
state. It’s about liberty, the Constitution, social solidarity
and American exceptionalism. Politicians and activists aim to
keep fighting about those subjects until November. Then they’ll
discover that nothing has been settled, so they’ll keep on
fighting to resolve them, once and for all, in some election
after that.  Voters mustn’t expect the impossible. In Europe, nothing
can be done until Germany’s leaders have worked out what
“political union without fiscal union” might mean. As for the
U.S., between now and the next crash, there’s just no time in
the schedule to fix the economy.  (Clive Crook is a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View columns, editorials
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the View editors on  Brazil’s economy ;  Susan
Crawford  on  Barry Diller’s new venture ;  Peter Orszag  on the
 Congressional Budget Office’s long-term outlook ; Gary Shilling
on  Japan’s deficits ; Yukon Huang on  myths of the Chinese
economy ; Tim Judah on  Syria and Iraq .  To contact the writer of this article:
Clive Crook at  clive.crook@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Mark Whitehouse at   mwhitehouse1@bloomberg.net . 