-- U.S. Risks Fiscal Crisis Without Budget Changes, CBO Says
-- B y   B r i a n   F a l e r
-- 2012-06-05T19:03:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-05/u-s-debt-may-top-world-war-ii-record-within-15-years.html
The U.S. government risks a fiscal
crisis unless it makes significant changes in tax and spending
policies, the  Congressional Budget Office  said.  The nonpartisan agency said today that without policy
changes, the national  debt  within 15 years will top the
historical peak set after World War II. In 1946, government debt
amounted to 109 percent of the economy.  This year, it’s projected to reach 70 percent of the gross
domestic product, up from 40 percent in 2008, according to CBO.  By 2037, the debt would be almost twice the size of the
economy, the agency said. That would mean higher  interest rates ,
slower economic growth and far more painful choices for
lawmakers than they face today.  The growing debt “would increase the probability of a
sudden fiscal crisis, during which investors would lose
confidence in the government’s ability to manage its budget,”
the agency said in its annual report on the long-term outlook
for the  federal budget . “Such a crisis would confront policy
makers with extremely difficult choices. To restore investors’
confidence, policy makers would need to enact spending cuts or
tax increases more drastic and painful than those that would
have been necessary had the adjustments come sooner.”  The gap between projected taxes and spending is so large,
the report said, that if lawmakers merely wanted to prevent the
debt-to-GDP ratio from increasing over the next 25 years, they’d
have to immediately and permanently cut $700 billion from the
$3.6 trillion U.S. budget.  Fiscal Cliff  A so-called fiscal cliff is coming at the end of 2012 when
a number of major tax-and-spending changes will take effect
unless Congress acts. The George W. Bush-era income tax cuts
will expire as will a temporary cut in the Social Security
payroll tax. About $1 trillion in automatic spending cuts will
be poised to start, expanded jobless benefits will expire and
the government will approach the legal limit on federal
borrowing.  Lawmakers are waiting for the outcome of the November
election before deciding what to do about the fiscal changes, in
hopes that voters will give them a stronger hand in
negotiations.  “CBO’s report is a warning that we must get our fiscal
house in order,” said Representative  Steny Hoyer  of  Maryland ,
the second-ranking House Democrat. “However, Republican
leaders’ insistence on finding savings only from cuts to
essential services for the most vulnerable Americans will not
get us any closer to the real, comprehensive  deficit reduction 
solution we need.”  Job Creation  House Budget Committee Chairman  Paul Ryan  said the report
“underscores the obvious: the president’s policies are not
working.” Republicans passed a budget “that responsibly averts
the looming debt crisis” and will “advance solutions that
foster a better environment for economic growth and  job
creation ,” said Ryan of  Wisconsin .  Lawmakers will face difficult tradeoffs in deciding how to
phase in any deficit reduction, CBO said, in part because of the
still-weak economy.  “Abruptly implementing spending cuts or tax increases
would give families, businesses and state and local governments
little time to plan and adjust,” according to the agency.
“Immediate spending cuts or tax increases would represent an
added drag on the weak economic expansion.”  Yet “cutting spending or increasing taxes slowly would
lead to a greater accumulation of government debt and might
raise doubts about whether longer-term deficit reduction would
ultimately take effect,” CBO said.  Financial Markets  For now, the financial markets are giving lawmakers time to
sort out the fiscal issues. Low interest rates have allowed
President  Barack Obama ’s administration to finance almost four
years of a  budget deficit  topping $1 trillion without igniting
price increases. While the amount of marketable Treasuries
outstanding has more than doubled to $10.4 trillion from $4.4
trillion in mid-2007, debt expenses equaled 3 percent of the
economy in 2001, less than when the U.S. ran a surplus in 1999.  Still, CBO said interest costs will climb dramatically
without cuts. It projected they will reach 10 percent of GDP by
2037.  As debt mounts, interest costs will be a growing share of
 government spending , making it harder for policy makers to
respond to unanticipated expenses such as wars or financial
crises, CBO said.  “To keep deficits and debt from climbing to unsustainable
levels,” policy makers will need to increase revenue
substantially, cut spending significantly, or “adopt some
combination of those two approaches,” CBO said. “The aging of
the  U.S. population  and the rising costs of health care mean
that the combination of budget policies that worked in the past
cannot be maintained in the future.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Faler in Washington at 
 bfaler@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  