-- U.S. Hasn’t Decided on Expanding Pacific Talks, Obama Aide Says
-- B y   B r i a n   W i n g f i e l d
-- 2012-06-05T18:42:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-05/u-s-hasn-t-decided-on-expanding-pacific-talks-obama-aide-says.html
The Obama administration hasn’t made
a decision about adding  Japan , Mexico and Canada to a Pacific-
region trade accord being negotiated by nine nations, a top
economic adviser to President Barack Obama said.  It’s “too early to tell” whether the Trans-Pacific
Partnership should expand,  Michael Froman , deputy national
security adviser for international economic affairs, said today
at a conference in Washington. “We’re proceeding down three
parallel paths with them.”  The Pacific agreement, a trade priority for Obama, includes
Australia, Brunei, Chile, Malaysia,  New Zealand , Peru,
Singapore, the U.S. and Vietnam. Japan, Mexico, and Canada have
expressed interest in joining, and individual governments are
bilateral talks with the three nations.  The trade-talk partners want to make sure new entrants are
committed to the same goals and don’t want to renegotiate
settled issues, Froman said.  The U.S. is discussing separate agreements with Japan,
 Mexico  and Canada, Froman said.  “I don’t think there’s any particular reason we have to
hold up one or two if the third one is going to take a bit more
time,” he said. “We don’t have to address that question yet.
It’s hypothetical.”  Negotiators met this week during a meeting of trade
ministers in Kazan, Russia. Talks on the nine-nation deal will
resume in San Diego starting July 2.  Mexico hopes to win approval to participate in the talks
before President Felipe Calderon leaves office Dec. 1, said
Arturo Sarukhan, the nation’s ambassador to the U.S., told
reporters today in Washington.  “It’s not only about the U.S.,” he said. “It’s about
nine core countries that have to bless the TPP process.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Wingfield in  Washington  at 
 bwingfield3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  