-- Ukraine Offers Gas Permits to Weaken Russia Reliance, Boyko Says
-- B y   S a n d r i n e   R a s t e l l o   a n d   K a t e r y n a   C h o u r s i n a
-- 2012-06-05T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-05/ukraine-offers-gas-permits-to-weaken-russia-reliance-boyko-says.html
Ukraine is offering two natural-gas
exploration and extraction licenses to reduce its dependence on
Russian imports and help unfreeze an international bailout,
Energy and Coal Industry Minister  Yuriy Boyko  said.  “Priority number one is to increase domestic production,”
Boyko said in a June 1 interview in Washington.  Ukraine is offering licenses for the Skifska and Foros
fields on the Black Sea shelf, the government said in its
official gazette, Uryadovyi Kurier, on June 2.  Royal Dutch Shell
Plc (RDSA)  and  Chevron Corp. (CVX)  won extraction rights last month. The
companies are expected to sign production-sharing agreements
that will give the government more than 30 percent of output,
Environment Minister Eduard Stavytskyi said May 16.  The country is trying to renegotiate a gas contract with
Russia, which provides 70 percent of the country’s use of the
fuel. The government wants to reduce the deficit of state-
managed NAK Naftogaz Ukrainy and unlock funds from the
 International Monetary Fund  without raising domestic tariffs for
the fuel.  The IMF approved a $15.6 billion loan to Ukraine in July
2010, the second in two years, after the country’s economy
plunged almost 15 percent in 2009.  Disbursements under the loan have been frozen after the
government failed to raise natural gas price for households
ahead of the general elections. Measures including increased
domestic extraction and replacing natural gas with domestically
extracted coal can help cut NAK’s losses without raising
tariffs, Boyko said.  ‘Find a Compromise’  “We don’t consider increasing tariffs as the only
measure” to narrow Naftogaz’ shortfall, he said. “We are in
dialogue with IMF, we want the program to be renewed, to find a
compromise.”  Failure to cut import prices under the 10-year agreement
with  Russia  prompted the nation to seek other suppliers and look
for ways to boost its output. Ukrainian pipelines are also used
to transmit about 80 percent of Russian gas sent to the European
Union.  The country is trying to diversify its gas providers. An
agreement to buy natural gas on the  spot market  from RWE AG,
 Germany ’s second-biggest utility, will provide about 5 billion
cubic meters of the fuel by the end of the year, Boyko said.  Ukraine is discussing the possibility of buying liquefied
natural gas from the U.S. and Qatar, Boyko said. Importing gas
from  Turkmenistan , which may provide about 5 billion cubic
meters a year as a payment for  infrastructure projects, is also
an option, he said, adding that such an accord would require
Russia’s approval to use its pipelines.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sandrine Rastello in  Washington  at 
 srastello@bloomberg.net ;
Kateryna Choursina in Kiev at 
 kchoursina@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net ;
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  