-- Ukrainian Parliament Approves Language Bill Amid Protests
-- B y   K a t e r y n a   C h o u r s i n a   a n d   D a r y n a   K r a s n o l u t s k a
-- 2012-06-05T14:46:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-05/ukrainian-parliament-approves-language-bill-amid-protests.html
Ukraine’s parliament approved in a
preliminary reading a law that will allow the use of Russian as
a second official language in the eastern half of the former
Soviet republic as more than 9,000 citizens protested outside.  The bill was backed by 234 pro-government lawmakers today
in the 450-seat legislature in the capital  Kiev . The law needs
to be approved in two more readings and signed by President
 Viktor Yanukovych  to take effect. The bill makes Russian an
official language in eleven Ukrainian regions and the cities of
Kiev and Sevastopol, where the Russian Black Sea fleet is based.  The bill was put forward by Yanukovych’s Party of Regions
and caused a scuffle among lawmakers on May 24 that left
hospitalized two opposition deputies from the party of Former
Ukrainian Prime Minister  Yulia Tymoshenko .  “We were campaigning with this bill and we had voters’
support,” Oleksandr Yefremov, who leads the Party of Regions,
said in remarks broadcast by Ukrainian television. The bill was
voted in “completely normal way of legislative procedure.”  Tymoshenko, who was sentenced to seven years in prison in
October for abuse of power while serving as premier, helped lead
the bloodless 2004 Orange Revolution, when millions of people
supported Ukraine’s closer ties with the European Union and less
dependence on  Russia . Yanukovych, who is from the Russian
language-dominated eastern part of Ukraine, has been campaigning
for official recognition of the language. His party’s support
has slid before October national elections.  Protesters  Around 9,000 protesters gathered near the parliament in the
morning. After the vote, they marched to Independence Square, or
Maidan Nezalezhnosti, in central Kiev, where the Orange
Revolution took place and where the fan zone for the Euro 2012
football championship has been set up.  Ukrainian was announced as the only official language after
the country got its independence as the  Soviet Union  collapsed
in 1991. Opposition parties said the vote today was unlawful.  “It was a temporary victory of the Party of Regions and
those who decided to align with them,” Arseniy Yatsenyuk, an
opposition lawmaker who has teamed up with Tymoshenko for the
October elections, said on her party’s website. “We failed to
win this battle, but we will win the war.”  The Russian language vote is “the last nail in the coffin
of the authorities,” Tymoshenko said in a  statement  on the
website of her party today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kateryna Choursina in Kiev at 
 kchoursina@bloomberg.net ;
Daryna Krasnolutska in Kiev at 
 dkrasnolutsk@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net ;
James M. Gomez at   jagomez@bloomberg.net  