-- Unbeaten Racehorse Black Caviar Gets Suited Up for Overseas Trip
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2012-06-05T04:51:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-05/unbeaten-racehorse-black-caviar-gets-suited-up-for-overseas-trip.html
Unbeaten Australian racehorse Black
Caviar will wear a specially designed compression suit as she
takes her 21-race winning streak abroad for the first time.  The 5-year-old mare will also be accompanied by a vet and
assistant trainer on her 30-hour trip to  England  for her
overseas debut at Royal Ascot in 2 1/2 weeks, trainer  Peter
Moody  said.  “This mare has always been quite susceptible to soft-
tissue injuries, muscle tears and the like and we thought it
might aid her in that way,” Moody told reporters today. “It
seems to be the done thing with all sports people these days
where they wear skins and tights to create blood flow whilst
traveling.”  Black Caviar , whose streak has attracted record crowds and
front-page headlines in  Australia , departs tomorrow and is
scheduled to contest the June 23 Diamond Jubilee Stakes at
Ascot. She may also race in the July Cup at Newmarket three
weeks later.  She’s rated as the 1-2 favorite by bookmakers including
 William Hill Plc (WMH)  to make it 22 wins from 22 starts, meaning a
successful $1 bet returns 50 cents plus the original stake.  Her exploits in Australia have attracted a fan base big
enough to justify the June 23 race being shown live on a giant
screen at Federation Square in  Melbourne , where the sprinter is
trained by Moody. The race starts at 12.45 a.m. local time.  “Black Caviar has captured our imagination as one of
Australia’s greatest racing sensations,” Dennis Napthine, the
minister for racing in Victoria state, said today. “We are
hoping many Victorians and visitors to Melbourne will come
together to share this moment in racing history.”  Moody said stopover times have been limited during her
flight and she’ll depart having never been in better shape.  “She’s getting on the plane tomorrow night the fittest
she’s ever been in her career,” he said. “We’re going into it
with the same approach as we have probably our last eight or 10
races. Fingers crossed nothing goes wrong, she wins.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  