-- Thunder Win Third Straight Against Spurs for 3-2 NBA Series Lead
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2012-06-05T04:45:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-05/thunder-win-third-straight-against-spurs-for-3-2-nba-series-lead.html
The Oklahoma City Thunder beat the
 San Antonio Spurs  for the third straight time to move within one
win of reaching the National Basketball Association Finals.  Kevin Durant  scored 27 points and  Russell Westbrook  added
23 for the Thunder, who opened a 13-point fourth-quarter lead
before pulling out the 108-103 win last night at San Antonio’s
AT&T Center. Oklahoma City became the first team to win a road
game in the NBA’s conference finals and sent the Spurs to their
only three-game losing streak of the season.  “After Game 2, we just told each other to play hard every
single possession,” Durant said in a televised interview. “We
had to play better and guys are stepping up.”  The Thunder now hold a 3-2 lead in the best-of-seven
Western Conference finals and can advance to the NBA’s
championship series with a Game 6 victory tomorrow in  Oklahoma
City , where they have a 7-0 record this postseason.  The Spurs’ losing streak comes after they had won a
franchise-record 20 straight games, including 10 in a row to
start the postseason.  “It’s not like we’re playing the Sisters of the Poor,”
Spurs coach Gregg Popovich said at a news conference. “These
guys are hard to guard, talented, hungry, athletic. The bottom
line is you can’t turn it over 21 times for 28 points against a
team like that. They’re too good.”  The West champion will face the  Miami Heat  or  Boston
Celtics  in the NBA Finals. The Eastern Conference finals is tied
at two games each, with the Heat hosting Game 5 today after the
home team won the first four matchups.  Bosh Return?  Heat All-Star forward  Chris Bosh  may return today from an
abdominal strain that has sidelined him since May 13. After
three weeks of being listed as out indefinitely, Miami coach
 Erik Spoelstra  said yesterday that Bosh has made considerable
progress in his rehabilitation.  Oklahoma City last night ended the third quarter with a
20-5 scoring run to erase a six-point deficit and take an 81-72
lead. The Thunder pushed its advantage to 13 points in the
fourth quarter, leading 101-88 with 5:16 left.  The Spurs rallied with 11 straight points -- including six
from  Tim Duncan  -- to get within 101-99 with 1:54 remaining.  The home team still trailed by two points when  James Harden 
nailed a contested 24-foot 3-pointer for Oklahoma City with 28
seconds on the clock.  “The ball was supposed to go to Kevin, but the shot clock
was winding down and I had to make a play,” said Harden, who
added that it was the biggest shot of his career. “I just tried
to shoot it with confidence.”  A turnover by Durant with 15 seconds remaining gave the
Spurs a final chance to tie, trailing 106-103, and Manu Ginobili
was long on a 3-point attempt. Ginobili led the Spurs with 34
points, while Tony Parker had 20 and Duncan added 18 points and
12 rebounds.  “We did a great job of weathering the storm,” Thunder
coach Scott Brooks said at a news conference. “We knew they
were going to make a run and we hit some big shots down the
stretch. Everybody did their job and we got the win.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in  New York  at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  