-- Austria’s Erste, Raiffeisen Downgraded by Moody’s
-- B y   B o r i s   G r o e n d a h l
-- 2012-06-06T15:49:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-05/unicredit-bank-among-3-austrian-lenders-downgraded-by-moody-s.html
Erste Group Bank AG (EBS) , UniCredit Bank
Austria AG and  Raiffeisen Bank International AG (RBI)  were downgraded
by Moody’s Investors Service on their eastern Europe business
and as Europe’s sovereign-debt crisis weighs on Austria’s
biggest lenders.  Erste, Austria’s largest bank, had its long-term debt
rating cut two grades to A3, Moody’s said today in a statement.
Bank Austria, the second biggest, and Raiffeisen, the third
biggest, were lowered one level to A3 and A2 respectively.  The downgrades of the firms “reflect their vulnerability
to the adverse operating conditions in some of their core
markets” in eastern Europe, Moody’s analysts Carola Schuler and
Gregory Winans Bauer said in the statement. The lenders, which
have “limited capital buffers to absorb losses in a stressed
environment,” also face “increased risk of further shocks from
the ongoing euro area debt crisis,” they said.  Moody’s in May cut the ratings of 26 Italian banks,
including  UniCredit SpA (UCG) , which owns Bank Austria, and of 16
banks in  Spain , including  Banco Santander SA. (SAN)  It also cut six
German banks, including Commerzbank AG, today.  Bank Review  The downgrades are the result of a review of more than 100
European banks and an additional eight non-European firms with
large capital-market businesses Moody’s started in February to
assess the impact of Europe’s debt crisis. Ratings downgrades
may raise bank borrowing costs and force lenders to increase
collateral.  The rating cut has “limited impact on Erste, since we
benefit from a robust liquidity situation underpinned by very
large and resilient deposit base, committed long-term funding
from institutional and private investors, as well as proven
access to short term refinancing and capital markets for
issuance of unsecured and secured bonds even in challenging
times,”  Michael Mauritz , a spokesman for Erste, said by e-mail.
Erste has already covered it’s full funding needs for 2012, he
said.  Raiffeisen also doesn’t “expect a significant impact on
funding costs,” spokesman Michael Palzer said by phone. Bank
Austria declined to comment, citing company policy.  Zero Exposure  Austria’s major banks have reduced to practically zero
their holdings of debt from the euro area’s periphery nations
such as  Greece , Ireland,  Portugal  and Spain. Their business in
eastern European countries such as Hungary and  Romania  is the
main risk monitored by investors and rating companies. Bank
Austria, Erste and Raiffeisen through their local units are the
biggest, second-biggest and third-biggest bank, respectively, in
the former communist bloc.  Erste declined 0.6 percent to 14.245 euros at the 5:30 p.m.
close in Vienna. Raiffeisen fell 0.3 percent to 23.035 euros.
The 43-member  Bloomberg Europe Banks and Financial Services
Index  rose 3.9 percent today, with only Bankinter SA falling
besides Erste and Raiffeisen. The two banks still are among the
best performers of that index this year, with Raiffeisen having
advanced 15 percent and Erste 4.9 percent, compared to the
index’s 5.4 percent decline.  Erste’s “sizable exposure to Hungary and Romania which
together with a less diversified franchise in the region makes
the bank more dependent on developments in the remaining
performing central and eastern European countries,” Moody’s
said in the statement. This also affected the rating company’s
outlook for Erste, which was set at negative.  Bad Loans  Erste swung to a loss last year because it wrote down its
banks in Hungary and Romania as bad debts soared, and because of
losses on previously undisclosed credit default swaps. Moody’s
started its rating review already at the time. The lender said
April 30 that bad loans in those two countries will remain a
drag on profit for longer than it predicted.  While Raiffeisen’s risk profile is “more geared toward
riskier” countries in eastern  Europe  and the former  Soviet
Union , the bank “has sound non-performing loans coverage
ratios, which mitigate the potential credit-negative effects if
losses were to materialize,” the Moody’s analysts said, giving
the lender’s rating a stable outlook.  While both banks managed to fill capital gaps found by the
European Banking Authority in the past two quarters, the asset-
weighted average Tier 1 ratio for Austrian banks “still ranked
below several western European peers,” Moody’s said.  ‘Preconceived Opinion’  “We oppose the points of criticism as we have
substantially increased our capital base over the last years,
fulfilling all requirements,” Erste’s Mauritz said. “In our
point of view the criticism on central and eastern Europe is a
preconceived opinion.”  Erste, which filled a 753 million-euro ($941 million)
capital gap found by the EBA, had core Tier 1 ratio stood at 8.6
percent excluding state aid and other non-voting capital at the
end of the first quarter.  Raiffeisen’s core Tier 1 ratio,
excluding those measures, stood at 7.3 percent at the end of
March.  Raiffeisen and 78.5 percent-owner Raiffeisen Zentralbank
Oesterreich AG, which was also cut one level to A3, filled a 2.1
billion-euro capital hole found by the EBA in the past quarters
by selling assets and converting capital into forms accepted by
EBA.  The downgrade of Bank  Austria , which owns most of  Italy ’s
UniCredit’s eastern European business, was because of its
weakened asset quality combined with a “low problem loan
coverage and the bank’s relatively high gearing into wholesale
funding,” the analysts said. “This renders the bank more
vulnerable to confidence-sensitive funding than its Austrian
peers,” Moody’s said, giving the rating a negative outlook.  Debt Crisis  Moody’s is overhauling the way it rates European banks and
firms with global securities operations to reflect the adverse
effects of the sovereign-debt crisis, dwindling economic growth
and the latest round of capital rules set by the  Basel Committee
on Banking Supervision . Moody’s ratings review of European banks
follows its decision on Feb. 13 to cut the credit rating of
Italy and five other countries, including Spain and Portugal, on
doubts over the region’s ability to solve the debt crisis.
Moody’s in February also revised its outlook on  France ’s and
U.K.’s top Aaa ratings to “negative.”  Austria lost its AAA rating at  Standard & Poor’s  in
February as the ratings company cited the risk that its banks
need further state bailouts. S&P confirmed Erste’s and
Raiffeisen’s own ratings after the sovereign downgrade. The
Alpine republic still has the highest rating at Moody’s and
 Fitch Ratings , while both are citing the banks as the biggest
risk to the rating.  Moody’s is still reviewing for downgrade the ratings of
Hypo Tirol Bank AG and  Oesterreichische Volksbanken AG (VBPS) , which
was partially nationalized earlier this year.  The rating company’s didn’t review the stable Baa2 rating
of Bawag PSK Bank AG. It had already cut by two steps in
February the rating of Kommunalkredit Austria AG, a former
Volksbanken unit that was the first Austrian lender to be
nationalized in 2008. Kommunalkredit’s Baa3 rating is stable.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Boris Groendahl in Vienna at 
 bgroendahl@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  