-- UniCredit, Barclays Bankers Indicted in Italy Tax Probe
-- B y   E l i s a   M a r t i n u z z i   a n d   S o n i a   S i r l e t t i
-- 2012-06-05T12:14:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-05/unicredit-barclays-bankers-indicted-in-italy-tax-probe-1-.html
Former  UniCredit SpA (UCG)  Chief Executive
Officer  Alessandro Profumo  is among 20 bankers and ex-managers
of Italy’s biggest lender and of  Barclays Plc (BARC)  charged with fraud
in a tax probe linked to an investment plan known as Brontos.  Milan judge Laura Marchiondelli today scheduled the trial
for Oct. 1, prosecutor Alfredo Robledo said. UniCredit used the
Brontos vehicle, arranged by Barclays, to evade taxes, according
to Robledo.  Brontos was created to make it appear that interest on a
deposit account were dividends earned on fictitious securities,
Robledo has said in court papers. Interest earned on deposits is
taxed in full in Italy, while the rate on dividends is 5
percent.  UniCredit said the bank and its employees “acted with
transparency and in good faith,” adding it’s confident that
they will be cleared at the trial, the Milan-based lender said
in a statement. Profumo, now chairman of Banca Monte dei Paschi
di Siena SpA, said in a separate statement that he’s certain
that the trial will prove he acted correctly. Barclays said in
an e-mailed statement that it didn’t violate any laws.  Barclays used a Luxembourg unit to issue Turkish-lira
securities that were purchased by its Milan branch, Robledo said
in court documents. With several transactions involving a unit
of Barclays in  London  and currency swaps, Barclays allegedly
enabled UniCredit to earn interest of about 20 percent in 2007,
or five times the amount it could have earned on the  interbank
market , Robledo said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sonia Sirletti in Milan at 
 ssirletti@bloomberg.net ;
Elisa Martinuzzi in Milan at 
 emartinuzzi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  