-- Luongo’s Centolire to Close Amid Restaurant Bankruptcy
-- B y   P h i l i p   B o r o f f
-- 2012-06-05T18:25:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-05/luongo-s-centolire-to-close-amid-restaurant-bankruptcy.html
Pino Luongo , a celebrity chef who in
the 1980s and 1990s helped popularize Tuscan food with more than
a dozen restaurants in the U.S., said he plans to shutter
Centolire on New York’s Madison Avenue, his last property.  “At the end of the day, the rent is too high,” Luongo
said. Centolire’s monthly rent, utilities and taxes averaged
$41,000 since October 2011, according to records in  U.S.
Bankruptcy Court  in Manhattan.  Luongo spoke briefly at Morso, an East Side restaurant that
he helped create last year and doesn’t own. He declined to
answer other questions.  “It’s a sad situation and I just want to move on,” he
said.  On May 14, his holding company filed for Chapter 11 court
protection -- without the aid of a lawyer -- to prevent eviction
and an auction of Centolire’s contents. In a filing last week,
Luongo said he couldn’t raise financing to save the restaurant
or afford a bankruptcy law firm.  Luongo asked U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Robert Gerber to dismiss
the case so he can sell Centolire’s assets and close it this
month.  Anthony Bourdain, a chef and television personality, in his
2000 book, “Kitchen Confidential,” called Luongo “one of the
most controversial figures in the business, a man envied,
feared, despised, emulated and admired by many who have worked
for and with him.”  Bourdain through an assistant declined to
comment.  Hydraulic Lift  A May 14 auction at Centolire was scheduled by Corsair
Special Situations Fund LP, a  New York  investment firm that’s
owed money by ABC Dining, Luongo’s holding company, according to
court papers. The sale was to include a glass, hydraulic
elevator that ascends to a second-floor dining room and cost
$300,000, according to an ad placed in the New York Times.
Corsair declined to comment.  Luongo arrived in New York from  Rome  in 1980, as a 27-year-
old actor who spoke no English. His first job was as a busboy at
Da Silvano in  Greenwich Village , where  Robert De Niro , the actor
and now restaurateur, and director Michael Cimino were
customers.  Luongo’s empire would include Il Cantinori, which he opened
in 1983; Sapore di Mare, which he started in the Hamptons at age
34; and Le Madri in Chelsea, and the Tuscan Square retail
emporium at Rockefeller Center. He later helped take over the
Texas-based Sfuzzi restaurant chain.  Deal Junkie  “Slowly but surely, I had become a junkie, but it was a
socially acceptable, even socially celebrated type of junkie,”
Luongo wrote in his 2009 memoir, “Dirty Dishes: A
Restaurateur’s story of Passion, Pain and Pasta.” “In addition
to the money, I was addicted to business deals, to expansion,
and perhaps even to codependent relationships and drama.”  Luongo opened Centolire in early 2001, months before a
bankruptcy filing of his previous holding company, Toscorp. The
Sept. 11, 2001, terrorist attacks “had a profound impact on
Toscorp as well as the New York economy as a whole,” according
to a December 2011 lawsuit that Luongo’s ABC Dining filed
against Corsair in New York state Supreme Court in  Manhattan .  After the Toscorp bankruptcy, three of his restaurants were
spun off to operate as individual businesses, according to ABC
Dining’s complaint. Two later closed. Corsair acquired the debt
of the three restaurants and demanded that the entity now called
ABC Dining guarantee it, according to ABC’s complaint.  Card Trouble  In 2008, ABC told Corsair it couldn’t make payments. After
a forbearance agreement, ABC suspended payments for two years.
During recent negotiations, Corsair’s lawyer contacted ABC’s
credit card processors in December 2011 and as a creditor
directed that payments to ABC stop, ABC’s complaint said.  “Corsair timed its action to coincide with the holiday
season so as to inflict the most significant damage to ABC’s
business,” according to ABC’s complaint.  ABC owes its landlord more than $300,000 in back rent and
other charges, the landlord, 1161 LLC, said in a bankruptcy
court filing. ABC also owes Mandato Produce Corp. $40,735,
according to a lawsuit Mandato filed in January in New York
state  Supreme Court .  Adversity hasn’t blunted Luongo. In a video interview with
food writer  Josh Ozersky  last year, Luongo called De Niro’s
Locanda Verde “the worst Italian food I ever had in New York”
and  Del Posto  his least favorite of  Mario Batali ’s restaurants,
adding that Batali’s Eataly “for me has big question marks.”  In “Dirty Dishes,” he said he came to realize he
preferred the kitchen to the boardroom.  “I consider myself a very lucky man to finally comprehend
that it’s not the business deals or the money that defines me,
it’s cooking,” he wrote.  The bankruptcy case is ABC Dining Ltd., 12-bk-12106, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter of this story:
Philip Boroff in New York at 
 pboroff@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in New York at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 