-- Hutchison Slims Partner Discount to Cellcom:
-- B y   C h r i s t i n e   H a r v e y
-- 2012-06-06T14:30:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-05/hutchison-slims-partner-discount-to-cellcom-.html
Partner Communication Co. (PTNR)  is trading
at the smallest discount to its biggest competitor in 15 months
on bets  Hutchison Whampoa Ltd. (13) ’s return as a shareholder will
boost earnings for  Israel ’s second-largest mobile-phone company.  Partner gained more than 10 percent in  New York  and Tel
Aviv this week after billionaire  Li Ka-shing ’s Hutchison agreed
to buy a stake in the company. The advance sent valuations to
5.5 times estimated earnings, narrowing the discount versus
 Cellcom Israel Ltd. (CEL) , the country’s largest mobile-phone company
by the most since Feb. 27, 2011.  The Bloomberg Israel-US Equity
Index (ISRA25BN)  of the biggest New York-traded Israeli companies added 1.2
percent to 80.49 yesterday.  Hutchison and the Li Ka-Shing Foundation will pay $125
million for 75 percent of Scailex Corp., which owns a  44.5
percent stake  in Partner, the Hong Kong-based company said
yesterday. Partner shares have slumped almost three quarters
since Scailex agreed to buy a 51 percent stake in Partner from
Hutchison in August 2009, as the government stepped up efforts
to boost competition in the mobile market.  “The new owner being a global corporation with deep
pockets is a catalyst to change the direction of the way these
companies have been valued,” Zach Herzog, head of international
sales at Psagot Investment House Ltd., said by phone from  Tel
Aviv  yesterday. “Partner is changing the trend and it will
continue. The company will close the gap and eventually take
over.”  The Israel-US Equity Index has declined 0.9 percent this
year, compared with a retreat of 1.5 percent for  Israel’s TA-25 (TA-25) 
benchmark gauge. The Israeli index gained 1.3 percent to
1,069.64 at the close in Tel Aviv.  Narrowing Gap  Shares of Partner declined 0.6 percent to $4.96 in New York
 trading  yesterday, paring its gain to 10 percent this week. The
Tel Aviv stock dropped 5.2 percent today to 18.4 shekels, the
equivalent of $4.72.  The Rosh Ha’Ayin, Israel-based company’s Israeli stock is
valued at 5.2 times estimated earnings compared with 5.5 times
for  Cellcom. (CEL)  Partner was trading at a discount of as much as 26
percent on Sept. 15.  Hutchison invests in ports, telecommunications ventures,
retail, property and energy producers. The deal to buy a stake
in Scailex, Partner’s biggest shareholder, is subject to
regulatory and other approval, the Hong Kong-based company said
in a statement yesterday.  Li, worth $20.7 billion, is the 20th richest person in the
world, according to the Bloomberg Billionaire Index.  ‘Sense of Stability’  “This is all a positive because it puts Partner in a much
stronger financial position and turns some sense of stability
toward it,” Richard Gussow, senior analyst at DS Securities &
Investments Ltd., said by phone from Tel Aviv yesterday. “It’s
an opportunity for them to move past the difficult situation the
telecoms have been in.”  Partner tumbled 56 percent in New York last year, lagging
behind Cellcom’s 48 percent drop and the Bloomberg US-Israel
Index’s 32 percent retreat.  The company said first-quarter net-income dropped 43
percent to 146 million shekels ($38 million) from 254 million
shekels a year earlier, according to a statement filed with the
Tel Aviv Stock Exchange on May 23.  Profit declined in the last five quarters as the government
has forced telecommunication providers to cut fees and
encouraged new players to enter the market. Golan Telecom and
 Hot Telecommunication System Ltd. (HOT)  started offering low-priced
wireless services last month.  The Hutchison stake means Partner may be able to invest
“in new services that it needs to in order compete with new
players and improve profitability,” Gussow said.  Earnings  The company will probably say  sales  fell 16 percent to $1.6
billion shekels in the second quarter, according to the median
estimate of two analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  Israel, whose population of 7.8 million is similar in size
to  Switzerland ’s, has about 60 companies trading on the Nasdaq
Stock Market, the most of any nation outside the U.S. after
 China . The country is also home to more startup companies per
capita than the U.S.  SodaStream International Ltd. (SODA) , the Israeli maker of at home
soda machines, rose 5.3 percent to $33.67, the highest level
since May 14.  The company said June 4 that it would begin developing co-
branded soda makers with Breville Group, an Australian designer
of consumer appliances. Products will be available for sale in
2013.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christine Harvey in New York at 
 charvey32@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tal Barak Harif at 
 tbarak@bloomberg.net  