-- Hutchison Returns to Israeli Market With Scailex Purchase
-- B y   S h o s h a n n a   S o l o m o n   a n d   D a v i d   W a i n e r
-- 2012-06-05T13:44:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-05/hutchison-returns-to-israeli-market-with-scailex-purchase.html
Hutchison Whampoa Ltd. (13) , billionaire
 Li Ka-shing ’s biggest company, is reentering Israel’s phone
industry after less than three years by agreeing to buy a stake
in  Partner Communications Co. (PTNR) ’s largest shareholder.  Hutchison and the Li Ka-Shing Foundation will pay $125
million for 75 percent of  Scailex Corp. (SCIX)  from Suny Electronic
Ltd., the Hong Kong-based company  said  today. Scailex owns a
 44.5 percent stake  in Partner, Israel’s second-largest mobile-
phone operator. Scailex rose 28 percent at the 4:30 p.m. close
in  Tel Aviv . Hutchison fell 0.9 percent to HK$61.90 at the close
in  Hong Kong .  Hutchison exited the Israeli phone market in 2009 when its
telecommunications unit sold a 51 percent stake in Partner to
Scailex for $1.4 billion. Partner’s shares have slumped 65
percent in the past year as the government stepped up efforts to
boost competition in the mobile phone market.  “This is not a cheap buy,” Dan Eldar, a representative of
Hutchison based in  Israel , said on a conference call from Hong
Kong. “Partner is a good company” and it’s premature to talk
about business strategies for the telecom company, he said.  Suny will retain a 3.6 percent stake in Scailex and Ilan Ben Dov, who controls Suny, will own 3.7 percent after the deal.  Suny Shares  Shares of Suny more than doubled to 7.32 shekels in Tel
Aviv. Partner added 3 percent to 19.41 shekels.  Suny will acquire the import and marketing operations of
Samsung cellular products from Scailex for $100 million, Suny
said in a statement. A loan agreement signed as part of the
August 2009 accord would also be restructured, it said. The
completion of the deal is subject to regulatory and other
approvals and Scailex buying back at least 50 percent of its
bonds, Hutchison said.  Hutchison plans to appoint Amikam Cohen, the former chief
executive officer at Partner, as chairman of Partner’s board if
the deal goes through.  Li controls more than 50 percent of Hutchison Whampoa’s
stock, through his  Cheung Kong Holdings Ltd. (1) , and personal stock
holdings. Hutchison has investments in industries spanning
ports, retail, telecommunications, energy and property in more
than 50 countries.  Hutchison is assuming Scailex’s debt, Eldar said on the
call. Of Scailex’s total debt of $760 million, $300 million is
owed to Hutchison and the remainder to third parties, according
to Hutchison.  Hutchison Telecommunications International Ltd., a unit of
Hutchison Whampoa, booked a one-time gain of HK$6.33 billion
($816 million) when it previously sold its stake in Partner,
according to a March 2010 Hong Kong stock exchange filing.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Shoshanna Solomon in Tel Aviv at 
 ssolomon22@bloomberg.net ;
David Wainer in Tel Aviv at 
 dwainer3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  