-- Verbund Studies Albanian Sale of State-Owned Hydro Plants
-- B y   Z o e   S c h n e e w e i s s
-- 2012-06-05T11:10:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-05/verbund-says-it-s-looking-at-albanian-hydro-plant-privatizations.html
Verbund AG (VER) ,  Austria ’s biggest
utility, is interested in the sale of four state-owned
hydropower plants in Albania and will decide “before the
summer” whether to make a bid.  The Albanian government wants to sell the Bistrica 1,
Bistrica 2, Ulez and Shkopet plants, Ines Schurin, Verbund’s
spokeswoman, said today by e-mail from Vienna. The company sees
long-term investment opportunities in the region between Austria
and Turkey, she said.  Albania is trying to attract private investors to its power
market as it diversifies energy sources and sells some of its
utilities. The government of the former Communist nation awarded
5.2 billion euros ($6.5 billion) in wind power and hydroelectric
contracts in the past four years.  The four plants have a total capacity of 80 megawatts and
experts see a sale price of about 1 million euros per megawatt,
WirtschaftsBlatt reported today, without saying where it got the
information.  France ’s Cie. Nationale du Rhone CNR and Austria’s  EVN AG (EVN) 
also are interested in the facilities, according to a  May 15
statement  from Albania’s Ministry of Economy, Trade and Energy.  Verbund and EVN already are building a hydropower plant in
Ashta in the northwest of Albania that is scheduled to be
completed this year. EVN, Austria’s second-biggest utility, is
also building three hydropower plants on the Devoll river in
Albania along with Norway’s Statkraft AS.  “We are generally interested in renewable energy in our
core markets of Austria,  Bulgaria , Macedonia and Albania,” said
Stefan Zach, a spokesman for EVN, declining to comment on
specifics.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zoe Schneeweiss in Vienna at 
 zschneeweiss@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  