-- VF’s North Face Brand See Growth in Europe
-- B y   S a p n a   M a h e s h w a r i   a n d   C h r i s   B u r r i t t
-- 2012-06-05T17:41:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-05/vf-s-north-face-brand-see-growth-in-europe.html
VF Corp. (VFC) ’s North Face, the outdoor
brand that forecasts sales will rise to $3 billion by 2015,
plans to gain market share in  Europe  even amid the region’s
economic turmoil, division president Todd Spaletto said.  The North Face, which brought in $1.7 billion in sales last
year, the most of Greensboro, North Carolina-based VF’s brands,
anticipates growth in Europe and  Asia  will help drive
international sales to more than 40 percent of revenue by 2015
from about 35 percent in 2011, Spaletto said today in an
interview at Bloomberg headquarters in New York. VF, whose
brands include Vans skateboarding shoes and Reef swim trunks,
posted  revenue  of $9.46 billion last year.  “We haven’t changed our outlook on Europe,” said
Spaletto, 40, who was promoted to president of Americas for
North Face in February 2011. “Certainly we’re watching it
really closely based on everything that’s in the news, but I
will tell you there’s a big opportunity for us in Europe based
on the fact that it is such an active market.”  Retailers such as teen clothier  Abercrombie & Fitch Co. (ANF)  and
watch-maker Fossil Inc. have been penalized by investors this
year after sales slowed in Europe, hurt by the region’s debt
crisis and slumping consumer spending. While the North Face
sells $120 fleece  jackets  and $149 backpacks, the brand has
proven it can flourish in a recession, Spaletto said.  Staycations  “We’re lucky in that the cost of entry for most of our
sports is really low,” he said. “If you’re living in Munich
and you want to go on a vacation, you can go backpacking for a
really low amount of money. We saw it in 2008, 2009, in
recessionary time periods, things like backpacking or hiking or
as we call it, staycations. It’s just the same thing with
running, a pair of shoes and a shirt and shorts and you’re on
your way.”  VF, which also owns Timberland and 7 For All Mankind, has
 gained  7.2 percent this year through yesterday, outpacing the
1.6 percent gain in the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index. The shares
gained 0.5 percent to $136.78 at 1:36 p.m. in  New York .  The North Face  traces  its roots to 1966, when it was
founded by two hiking enthusiasts in  San Francisco ’s North Beach
neighborhood, and was acquired by VF for about $25.4 million in
2000. After boosting sales to $1.5 billion in 2010 from $220
million a decade earlier, the division projected doubling
revenue while maintaining its authenticity and connection with
athletes and outdoor activity enthusiasts.  Airbag Backpack  The “lifestyle” brand has a stronger base in Europe than
in Asia, and because Europeans are so active, there’s a good
opportunity to take market share from competitors including
country-specific outdoor retailers, Spaletto said. France,
Germany and  Italy  are examples of nations where North Face isn’t
the No. 1 brand, he said.  North Face also produces technically advanced gear such as
a backpack with an airbag inside that skiers can deploy during
an avalanche, Spaletto said.  While the appeal of the pack, which costs about $1,000, may
be to a small section of consumers, it helps North Face sell
clothing and shoes to customers looking for “premium products
that work,” Spaletto said.  “It’s transferrable to someone who maybe lives in
 Manhattan  and commutes from the train station and is facing 20
below temperatures and has to walk a mile to work,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sapna Maheshwari in New York at 
 sapnam@bloomberg.net ;
Chris Burritt in New York at 
 cburritt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  