-- Vietnam 2012 Growth May Be as Low as 5.2%, Official Says
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-06-05T08:59:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-05/vietnam-2012-growth-may-be-as-low-as-5-2-official-says.html
Vietnam ’s planning ministry said that
 economic growth  may slump to as low as 5.2 percent in 2012,
which would be the slowest pace in more than a decade.  The economy has been buffeted this year by a credit crunch
after the central bank pushed up  interest rates  last year to
fight the fastest  inflation  in Asia, and with some Vietnamese
banks’ ability to lend constrained by a lack of capital amid
concern about the health of the financial system.  The economy grew 4 percent in the first quarter, the
slowest since 2009. The pace of expansion for the full year may
be in a range of 5.2 to 5.5 percent, with second-quarter growth
likely to reach about 4.5 percent, Deputy Minister of Planning &
Investment Cao Viet Sinh, said in an interview yesterday at a
conference in the central Vietnamese town of Dong Ha.  “Looking at slowing industrial indicators and the
difficulties that businesses are facing, we can see that it will
be very difficult in the second half,” said Sinh. “But the
government still wants to stick with the 6 percent target for
now and wait to see what growth in the third quarter will be,
before making any changes in the target.”  The pace of growth in the second half of the year may reach
about 6 percent, as the government plans measures including
increased state spending to boost consumption, Sinh said.  “We want to see the impact of the measures to help
businesses, and we will also want to see the consumption and
 industrial indicators  in the third quarter,” Sinh said.  The last time Vietnam’s economy grew less than 5.2 percent
was in 1999, when gross domestic product expanded by 4.8
percent, according to figures from the General Statistics Office
in Hanoi.  ‘Sluggish’ Growth  “Vietnam has entered a phase of sluggish growth,” the
 World Bank  said in a report released yesterday at the
conference. The “growth rate has been trending downward for the
last five-six years, largely on account of the slow pace of
structural reforms,” the lender said, citing inefficiencies in
state-owned companies, banks, and public investments.  “This is a country that for many years just lived on
delivering growth,” and didn’t have to worry too much about
economic stability, World Bank Vietnam country director Victoria
Kwakwa said in an interview today in Dong Ha. “They’re really
having to make their choices.”  Vietnam’s central bank should prioritize containing
inflation, even if it means accepting “somewhat slower growth”
in the short term, the  International Monetary Fund  said
yesterday, flagging “the importance of exercising caution in
further policy-rate cuts.”  The central bank cut key  policy rates  in March, April and
May. Inflation slowed to 8.34 percent last month after reaching
23 percent last year, the fastest in  Asia .  The government agrees with the IMF that authorities should
be willing to accept slower growth, Minister of Planning &
Investment Bui Quang Vinh told reporters today in Dong Ha.  Vietnam may have to accept annual growth of 5.5 percent to
6.5 percent in the “long-term,” Vinh said. Prime Minister
Nguyen Tan Dung said in May 2011 the country was aiming for
average economic growth of 7 percent over the next five years.  “We will have to sacrifice growth in a trade for quality
growth,” Vinh said.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Jason Folkmanis in Dong Ha at 
 folkmanis@bloomberg.net ;
Nguyen Dieu Tu Uyen in Dong Ha at 
 uyen1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  