-- Wall Street CEO Pay Rises 20% With KKR’s Kravis No. 1
-- B y   L a u r a   M a r c i n e k   a n d   N i k o l a j   G a m m e l t o f t
-- 2012-06-05T04:01:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-05/wall-street-ceo-pay-rises-20-with-kkr-s-kravis-no-1.html
In October 2010, private-equity baron
Henry Roberts Kravis, in one of the grandest gestures of his
life, pledged $100 million to his alma mater,  Columbia Business
School , to help pay for the expansion of its upper Manhattan
campus. His ability to throw that kind of cash around was helped
by the start of trading of his buyout company,  KKR & Co. (KKR) , on the
 New York  Stock Exchange three months earlier.  While the listing swelled Kravis’s personal wealth, it also
exposed him to the rigors of the U.S. corporate reporting
process. As a result, the world now knows that in 2011, Kravis
was awarded $30 million in salary and other compensation by
KKR’s board, Bloomberg Markets magazine reports in its July
issue.  That makes him No. 1 in the Finance 50, the magazine’s
annual ranking of the best-paid CEOs at the largest U.S.-based
financial companies by market capitalization.  Kravis, 68, is followed in the ranking by  George Roberts ,
his cousin and co-chief executive officer, who earned $29.9
million. The two men founded the firm with Jerome Kohlberg in
1976. The trio first worked together more than 40 years ago at
Bear Stearns & Co.  Since it was founded, KKR has done more than 200 buyouts
with a combined value of more than $465 billion, according to
company data. The cousins’ stake in the firm was $1.22 billion
in mid-April, according to corporate filings.  Average 20% Rise  Kravis and Roberts, 68, lead a list of 50 financial CEOs
whose compensation collectively rose by an average of 20.4
percent in 2011 -- a year when most big banks and brokerages saw
their revenues, profits and stock prices plummet. The 2011 pay
rise followed a 26 percent increase in 2010 for CEOs who held
the same job in both years.  In a comparison of 2011 financial CEO incentive pay against
stock returns over three years,  Citigroup Inc. (C)  CEO Vikram Pandit, who was awarded $15 million in 2011, ranks as the
executive who provided the least  shareholder value . That award
is being reconsidered after shareholders rejected it.  Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A)  CEO  Warren Buffett  provided the
best value.  Financial-company boards need to take stock performance
more seriously when setting executive pay, says  Hugh Johnson ,
who oversees $2 billion, including financial stocks, as chairman
of  Albany , New York-based Hugh Johnson Advisors LLC.  “The performance was abysmal, and people were overpaid,”
he says.  Series of Crises  Overall, 33 of the 50 biggest financial companies had
negative  share returns  in their 2011 fiscal years, as they were
buffeted, particularly in the second half of the year, by a
series of crises that froze the deal markets.  In August, in an unprecedented move,  Standard & Poor’s 
downgraded the U.S.’s credit rating to AA+ from AAA following a
political battle over the nation’s debt ceiling. Investor
concern mounted amid speculation about U.S. bank exposure to
European debt and weak economic growth in both  Europe  and the
U.S. A $6.3 billion bet on the bonds of Europe’s most indebted
nations by  MF Global Holdings Ltd. (MFGLQ)  led to that firm’s
bankruptcy.  “Last year’s performance in financial stocks reflects
regulatory uncertainties and uncertainty over the follow-on
effects from the European crisis,” says Stephen F. Roseman, CEO
of New York-based Thesis Fund Management LLC, which invests in
financial companies. “It was an incredibly complex
environment.”  SEC Data  The ranking is based on compensation data reported to the
U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission in the firms’ annual
proxy statements and 10-K filings. Those numbers sometimes
match, and sometimes differ markedly from, statements from the
banks, brokerages and insurance companies concerning the
compensation they intended to give their top executives for the
work they did in 2011.  The SEC figures reflect what they actually received in
2011, some of which may be based on work they did in 2010.  In the case of  PNC Financial Services Group Inc. (PNC)  CEO Jim Rohr, who is No. 10 on the list, the SEC compensation table says
he earned $16.6 million, while PNC’s proxy states that the
bank’s board of directors awarded him just $8.2 million for his
2011 performance.  Over two years, one of the starkest discrepancies concerns
the pay of  Bank of America Corp.  CEO Brian Moynihan, No. 37 in
the 2011 ranking. The official SEC compensation tables say he
was paid $1.9 million in 2010 and $8.1 million in 2011, a year
when the bank’s stock fell 58 percent.  Moynihan Pay Cut  Bank of America proxies for the two years say he was
awarded $11 million for 2010 and $7.4 million for 2011, a 32
percent pay cut.  In the case of  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  CEO  Lloyd Blankfein , who is No. 12, the SEC table lists his 2011
compensation as $16.2 million, while in a separate statement the
bank said it was awarding him $12.4 million, with some of it not
delivered to him until 2012. Goldman’s stock price plunged 45.6
percent in 2011.  Kravis and Roberts topped the Finance 50 list even while
 KKR’s shares  slid 5.4 percent for the year. The firm’s
performance since its July 2010 NYSE listing, however, is more
impressive: The company scored a 24 percent total return as of
June 4. The pair has earned their pay over the years with a
series of profitable private-equity deals, says  Tim White , a
managing partner at Dallas-based executive-search firm
Kaye/Bassman International Corp.  ‘Reliable Yields’  “What they’ve been able to do is to find consistent
yields, reliable yields, for their clients that maybe other
private-equity firms haven’t been able to,” White says. Among
KKR’s 2011 deals: the $2.4 billion purchase of Pfizer Inc.’s
Capsugel manufacturing unit, and the $1 billion purchase,
together with two other private-equity firms, of a 25 percent
stake in Banco Santander SA’s U.S. auto loans unit.  Among KKR’s holdings is  Texas  power producer Energy Future
Holdings Corp., which it bought with TPG Capital LLP in 2007 for
$43.2 billion, making it the largest leveraged buyout ever.
Energy Future, called TXU Corp. prior to the LBO, reported a
2011 net loss of $1.91 billion as gas prices fell and Texas
power prices also dropped.  Kravis and Roberts’ pay, as detailed in the government
filings, includes salary and carried interest, the share of
profits -- usually 20 percent -- that managers take from buyout
funds after distributing earnings to the pensions, endowments
and sovereign funds known as limited partners.  $64 Million  That captures only a slice of their total compensation,
however. Because of their stake in the listed company, each took
home an additional $64.2 million in dividends and other
distributions, according to company filings.  Kravis and Roberts declined to comment for this article.  Stephen Schwarzman , CEO of  Blackstone Group LP (BX)  and No. 48
in the Finance 50, is the only other private-equity manager on
the list. The Summary Compensation Table for the New York-based
company said Schwarzman received $4.96 million last year. In
reality, Schwarzman took home much more. He received $74 million
in distributions from funds started before the company went
public in 2007 and $69.6 million in cash dividends from his
ownership of Blackstone stock, according to company filings.  All told, Schwarzman received $148.5 million in pay and
dividends in 2011.  Dimon Leads Bankers  The highest-paid banker in the Finance 50 is  Jamie Dimon  of
 JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  His total compensation increased 11
percent, to $23 million, even as the bank’s stock sank 20
percent. In mid-May of this year, Dimon called his own judgment
into question when his bank announced that it had lost at least
$2 billion investing in synthetic credit securities. JPMorgan’s
stock  dropped  more than 10 percent in the two days after the
disclosure.  “We’re accountable, and what happened violates our own
standards and principles about how we want to operate the
company,” Dimon said in a conference call on May 10. “This
puts egg on our face, and we deserve any criticism we get.”  Dimon is No. 9 on Bloomberg Markets magazine’s ranking of
financial CEOs who provided the least shareholder value during
the three years from 2009 through 2011. The ranking is based on
a score derived by calculating the percentage point return on
JPMorgan’s stock from 2009 to 2011 for every $1 million of
Dimon’s 2011 incentive pay. JPMorgan’s stock rose 10 percent in
the three years covered by the ranking.  Protesting Pandit Pay  Citigroup’s Pandit leads the least-shareholder value
ranking even though he agreed to take only a dollar in
compensation for part of 2009 and all of 2010. His score is
based on his $7.84 million in incentive pay for 2011, which was
awarded to him after he kept a promise to restore the bank to
profitability.  Citi, the third-largest bank in the U.S. by assets,
reported a 6.4 percent full-year profit increase, to $11.3
billion, in 2011.  The bank’s stock , however, has languished --
down 61 percent in the three years from 2009 through 2011.  Pandit’s pay made headlines when the majority of Citigroup
shareholders, invoking the so-called say-on-pay provision of the
Dodd-Frank financial-reform law, voted to reject it. The vote
isn’t binding, but outgoing Citi Chairman  Richard Parsons  said
the bank’s board would reconsider executive pay packages in
light of it.  The shareholder revolt sends a stern message to the bank’s
board that stock performance needs to be taken into
consideration when incentive pay is awarded, says Thomas Villalta, chief investment officer at Jones Villalta Asset
Management LLC in Austin, Texas.  ‘Pay Is Too High’  “The message is that we’re really dissatisfied with the
share price and that executive pay is too high,” says the  money
manager , who holds Citigroup stock in the Jones Villalta
Opportunity Fund.  Buffett continues to offer the best value to shareholders.
Berkshire Hathaway A shares returned 19 percent to investors
from 2009 through 2011, while Buffett took no incentive pay. His
personal stake in Berkshire’s A and B shares added up to more
than $45 billion as of May 14.  The fight over executive pay in the financial industry
won’t be resolved until shareholders see a more direct
connection between remuneration and stock performance, says
Michael Farr, president and founder of Farr, Miller & Washington
LLC, which manages $825 million, including bank stocks.  Says Farr: “The real key is that some of the risk will be
borne by the risk takers at these banks -- that they will be
held accountable.”  -- With assistance from Laurie Meisler in New
York. Editors: Michael Serrill, Vince Bielski.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Laura Marcinek in New York at 
 lmarcinek3@bloomberg.net 
Nikolaj Gammeltoft in New York at 
 ngammeltoft@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Serrill at   mserrill@bloomberg.net . 