-- Wheat Declines for Fifth Session in Six as Crop Outlook Improves
-- B y   T o n y   C .   D r e i b u s
-- 2012-06-05T20:03:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-05/wheat-declines-for-fifth-session-in-six-as-crop-outlook-improves.html
Wheat fell for the fifth time in six
sessions on an improving outlook for crops in  Kansas  and
 Oklahoma , the biggest U.S. producers of winter varieties.  Winter wheat was 20 percent  harvested  as of June 3, up from
7 percent a year earlier, U.S. Department of Agriculture data
show. Collection is ahead of schedule as warm weather sped
development after plants emerged from winter dormancy. About 52
percent of the crop was in good or excellent condition, compared
with 34 percent a year earlier, the USDA said yesterday.  “Oklahoma looks really good,” Darrell Holaday, the
president of Advanced Market Concepts in Wamego, Kansas, said by
telephone. “In south-central Kansas, the harvest was delayed
last week, but they were back cutting again yesterday. The wheat
looks really good.”  Wheat futures for July delivery fell 2.3 percent to settle
at $6.1325 a bushel at 1:15 p.m. on the  Chicago  Board of Trade.
The price has dropped 6.1 percent this year.  Participants on a tour of Kansas fields from April 30 to
May 3 forecast yields at a record 49.1 bushels an acre. Since
then, less than 5 percent of normal precipitation has fallen in
some parts of Kansas, National Weather Service data show. If the
crop hadn’t developed early, the heat would’ve struck at a
critical growth stage, Holaday said.  “The one thing that saved this wheat was it matured
early,” Holaday said. “Normally we say we’re going to start
cutting on June 7. If it was a normal year, we would’ve been in
the filling stage two or three weeks ago, but instead we started
cutting before Memorial Day. The reality is the early harvest
saved the crop.”  Wheat is the fourth-largest U.S. crop, valued at $14.4
billion in 2011, behind corn, soybeans and hay, government data
show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony C. Dreibus in Chicago at 
 tdreibus@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  