-- Yahoo Said to Be in Talks to Resolve Facebook Patent Suit
-- B y   B r i a n   W o m a c k
-- 2012-06-05T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-05/yahoo-said-to-be-in-talks-to-resolve-facebook-patent-litigation.html
Yahoo! Inc. (YHOO)  is in negotiations to
resolve a legal dispute with  Facebook Inc. (FB) , which it accused of
infringing patents, according to a person briefed on the matter.  Yahoo has undergone board and management change since it
filed the lawsuit in March and is engaged in the talks to help
improve ties with Facebook, said the person, who didn’t want to
be identified because the matter is private.  Under former Chief Executive Officer  Scott Thompson , Yahoo
alleged that social-networking provider Facebook infringes
patents covering such functions as Internet privacy, advertising
and information sharing. Facebook countersued in April, accusing
Yahoo of infringing 10 of its patents. Thompson resigned the
following month, amid pressure from investors, after failing to
correct misstatements in his academic record.  Caryn Marooney, a spokeswoman for Menlo Park, California-
based Facebook, declined to comment yesterday, as did Dana Lengkeek, a spokeswoman for Sunnyvale, California-based Yahoo.  Facebook bulked up on intellectual property in the wake of
the Yahoo lawsuit. It said in April that it’s paying $550
million for some of the patents that  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  agreed to
buy from AOL Inc. Facebook also acquired patents from
 International Business Machines Corp. (IBM) , a person with knowledge
of the matter said in March.  Yahoo, in the lawsuit filed March 12 in federal court in
San Jose, California, sought an order barring Facebook from
infringing the 10 patents. It also sought triple damages.
Facebook later accused Yahoo of infringing 10 patents through
its home page and the Flickr-photo sharing service.  “If an unfavorable outcome were to occur in this
litigation, the impact could be material to our business,
financial condition or results of operations,” Facebook, which
went public last month, said in a March 27 filing.  The settlement talks were  reported  earlier this week in the
AllThingsD blog.  The case is Yahoo! Inc. v. Facebook, 12-cv-01212, U.S.
District Court, Northern District of California (San Jose).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Womack in  San Francisco  at 
 bwomack1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  