-- Zipcar Now Sees Enterprise in Rear Window
-- B y   M a r k   C l o t h i e r
-- 2012-06-05T20:15:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-05/zipcar-now-sees-enterprise-in-rear-window-joining-hertz.html
Enterprise Holdings Inc., the largest
U.S.  car-rental  company, is making a move into hourly car
rentals this year, joining No. 2  Hertz Global Holdings Inc. (HTZ)  in
going after the growing niche created by Zipcar Inc.  Enterprise, the closely held rental giant, last month
acquired Mint Cars On-Demand, an hourly car-rental firm with
locations in  New York  and  Boston . It already owned two smaller
brands and this year it plans to bring them all together as
Enterprise Car Share. This month, it’s looking to increase its
New York fleet by about 50 percent.  Zipcar created the business of hourly car rental in
Cambridge,  Massachusetts , in 2000 and is still the leader in the
segment, with about 500,000 U.S. members and about 9,000
vehicles. Hertz plans to equip its entire 375,000-vehicle U.S.
fleet for hourly rental within about a year.  “Today, nobody can compete with its network,” Ryan Johnson, who heads Enterprise’s hourly car rental business, said
of  Zipcar (ZIP)  in an interview. “We understand we have some ground
to make up before we are that viable competitor to them, but we
think the rest of our network and the rest of our strength will
give us the advantage.”  Researcher IBISWorld estimates the market for hourly car
rentals to be about $1.8 billion, or 6 percent of the $30.5
billion U.S. rental-car market. Hourlies may reach $3.3 billion
in  North America  by 2016 and $10 billion globally, market
researcher Frost & Sullivan forecasts.  Falling Shares  Zipcar’s shares have dropped 30 percent  this year  under the
threat of new competition. The company has more than 2,500
locations, some with just a single car, in 15 major U.S. cities
and at more than 250 universities.  Zipcar’s membership expanded 25 percent in 2011 after 55
percent growth the year before. Zipcar reported a loss for the
first quarter after its first two  profitable quarters . It’s
expanding in  Europe  and has forecast its first annual profit for
this year.  The added competition isn’t Zipcar’s biggest concern, said
Fred Lowrance, a Nashville, Tennessee-based analyst at Avondale
Partners. If anything, it validates the appeal of Zipcar’s
short-term rental model. The bigger risk, he said, is that
Zipcar already has saturated markets with the highest
concentration of potential customers and must look for growth in
second-tier U.S. cities and in Europe, where car-sharing is more
entrenched and competition is stiffer.  European Competition  “There’s a longer path to profitability,” Lowrance said
in an interview. “They’ve picked off the low-hanging fruit in
cities like New York and D.C., but their growth focus is on
smaller big cities in the U.S. and there’s no guarantee that
those work as well. And Europe is even more competitive.”  Daimler AG (DAI) ’s Car2go and  Bayerische Motoren Werke AG (BMW) ’s
DriveNow, a joint venture with rental-car chain  Sixt AG (SIX2) , rent
cars by the minute and hour in Europe, competing with Autolib in
Paris and other car-sharing networks.  Lowrance in April lowered his rating on Zipcar to market
perform from market outperform. In 12 months, he projects the
shares to be worth $13; he had previously predicted $20. The
shares have declined 48 percent since its April 2011 initial
public offering. Over the same time, the Standard & Poor’s 500
Index slipped 2.2 percent. Zipcar rose 2.5 percent to $9.33 at
the close in New York.  The number of Zipcar shares held by  short sellers  --
investors betting on a decline in the stock -- has risen by 76
percent since the end of January.  Hertz began directly competing with Zipcar in 2008 after
considering buying the startup. The original effort, Connect by
Hertz, was renamed Hertz on Demand last summer. The  Park Ridge ,
New Jersey-based company has been trying to solidify its No. 2
spot in the traditional rental market behind Enterprise with an
acquisition of  Dollar Thrifty Automotive Group Inc. (DTG)   ‘Viable Product’  With PhillyCarShare, a company Enterprise acquired last
year, and its own WeCar, Enterprise now has 58,000 car-sharing
members and more than 540 locations. Mint brought 8,000 members
as well as cars in 40 locations. By the end of the month,
Enterprise will have replaced about 80 percent of Mint’s
vehicles with newer models.  “We are now confidently the second-largest fleet size in
the U.S. and we are growing rapidly,” Johnson said of models
equipped for short-term loans. “To move forward and create a
unified network has always been our plan, but we wanted to make
sure when we did that we had a very viable product and were
confident in it.”  Enterprise, based in  St. Louis , also operates the  Alamo  and
National car-rental brands.  Mass Market  The company has hourly rental cars available in New York,
Philadelphia, Boston and at about 50 college campuses. It is
considering expanding to  Washington , D.C.,  Chicago ,  San
Francisco  and Toronto, as well as secondary markets such as
Seattle and Atlanta.  “Today, car-sharing has not been a mass market product
offering,” Johnson said. “We really believe it can be.”  Enterprise is betting that its network of neighborhood
branches will be a differentiator. With 5,500 locations, the
company says 90 percent of the  U.S. population  is within 15
miles of one. Zipcar says about 10 million people live within a
10-minute walk of its cars.  Will Handsfield, 31, abandoned his car four years ago. Most
of the time he takes the bus, subway, bike or just walks. Zipcar
parks four cars less than a five-minute walk from his house in
Washington’s Capitol Hill neighborhood.  “For 95 percent of my daily or weekly routine, I don’t
need a car,” he said in an interview. “It’s that 5 percent --
the weekend grocery run -- and that’s what Zipcar helps solve.”  While Handsfield, who describes himself as an “avid”
Zipcar user, said he’s loyal to the company, Hertz or another
competitor could catch his eye with discounts as long as the
cars were parked nearby.  “More than $1 or $2 difference, that adds up,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Clothier in Southfield, Michigan at 
 mclothier@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  