-- ‘Jaws,’ Disney, Levy Tangle in Guare’s ‘McPhee’: Review
-- B y   J e r e m y   G e r a r d
-- 2012-05-15T02:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-15/-jaws-disney-levy-tangle-in-guare-s-mcphee-review.html
The familiar soundtrack from  “Jaws” 
pulses through “Are You There, McPhee?”  Havoc threatens to break out at every whacked-out juncture
in John Guare’s latest long frolic of a play -- running close to
three hours and traversing cultural forces as diverse as Walt Disney, Jorge Luis Borges,  Alfred Hitchcock  and  Jane Fonda .  “I sort of welcome nightmares,” the lead character r
says, offering an apercu of Guare’s dramaturgical gambit. “I
feel they’re telling the truth.”  “McPhee,” a shaggy-dog tale-within-a tale having its
world premiere at the  McCarter Theatre  Center in Princeton, is a
play about story telling.  Beginning in the present, a group of people hanging out in
an alley tell Edmund Gowery, their playwright friend, that it’s
his turn to entertain them with a story.  Mundie (Paul Gross), long removed from his brainy hit
“Internal Structure of Stars,” accedes, launching into the tale
of a house on Nantucket whose tenants have been arrested on
child-pornography charges.  Puppet Manque  It was the summer of 1975 and Mundie has used the proceeds
from “Stars” to purchase the house as an investment. He’s never
been to the island, let alone met his tenants. When the police
tell him he’d better come up from  Manhattan , he encounters an
entire populace, it seems, soured on him. He never showed up for
their community theater production of his play, with dire
consequences for the leading lady.  They assure him, the show was claimed by some to have been
“better than the original” even though the main character --
the authorial stand-in -- was played by a puppet.  Puppets, too, figure prominently in “Are You There,
McPhee?” a phrase apparently used by sailors in response to
threatening bumps in the night. Borges appears frequently as one
of these talking heads, and ululating waves of magic realism
rise and fall throughout the show.  This was the summer of “Jaws,” and while the well-groomed
island dwellers are reading Peter Benchley’s novel and debating
the reality of a shark named Bruce, Mundie holds close to his
copy of Borges’s “Labyrinths.”  Magic Realism  “Everything is so strange that even this is possible,”
Borges tells Mundie, who will spend the next few hours fending
off predatory citizens, feeding two abandoned children and
pondering the wisdom of his life choices.  Mundie identifies with the ever-enraged Donald Duck. Soon,
a character is explaining to him that “ Walt Disney  is God’s
apology for the Holocaust,” as if that explains anything.  “To quote Mary Poppins, ‘We live in a world where nothing
need ever be explained,’” he’s told.  Well, there’s little explaining here. Guare, a living
encyclopedia of culture highbrow and low, is even more
loquacious and not infrequently, baffling than he was in his
freewheeling “A Free Man of Color.”  The director of that earlier show, George C. Wolfe, had a
stronger command of Guare’s rhythms than Sam Buntrock reveals
here. And Gross conveys little humor as a reluctant traveler
through this increasingly mad universe.  Nevertheless, the cultural synapses Guare sparks can be as
dizzingly funny as a Thomas Pynchon novel and just as escapist.
In the right hands, “Are You There, McPhee?” will be
scintillating.  Through June 3 at the McCarter Theatre Center in Princeton,
NJ. Information: +1-609-258-2787;  http://www.mccarter.org 
Rating: ***  (Jeremy Gerard is the chief U.S. drama critic for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  Today’s Muse highlights include  Warwick Thompson  on London
theater and David Shribman on sports  books .  To contact the writer of this column:
Jeremy Gerard in  New York  at 
 jgerard2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 