-- T-Mobile USA to Cut 900 More Jobs in Rebuilding Strategy
-- B y   S c o t t   M o r i t z
-- 2012-05-15T22:25:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-15/t-mobile-usa-to-cut-900-more-jobs-in-rebuilding-strategy.html
Deutsche Telekom AG (DTE) ’s  T-Mobile USA 
unit plans to cut 900 jobs as part of a new round of cost
savings as the carrier restructures its operations to cope with
a decline in its contract-subscriber base.  The job losses are a second set of reductions after the the
Bellevue, Washington-based company announced on March 22 it
would be eliminating 1,900 jobs tied to the closing of seven
 call centers . The new round is related to the restructuring of
“key functions and departments across the company,” according
to a memo to staff from Chief Executive Officer  Philipp Humm . A
copy of the memo was obtained by Bloomberg News.  T-Mobile USA, the nation’s fourth-largest wireless-service
provider, lost 510,000 contract customers in the first quarter.
It is the largest national carrier in the U.S. that doesn’t
offer an iPhone and is lagging behind larger rivals Verizon
Wireless and  AT&T Inc. (T) , which are upgrading to long-term-
evolution technology, enabling smartphones to run on speedier
networks.  “Restructuring our organization will help us better
respond to market and customer demands,” Humm said in the memo.  Under its restructuring plan, the company is also targeting
more-aggressive rebranding in its ad campaigns as it seeks to
cut costs by $900 million, Deutsche Telekom Chief Financial
Officer Timotheus Hoettges said at a  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) 
investors’ conference in Boston today.  Self-Funding Venture  T-Mobile USA and Deutsche Telekom executives are visiting
analysts and investors this week and next to outline the new
strategy.  After AT&T dropped its $39 billion bid for the carrier in
December, Deutsche Telekom is working to make the unit a self-
funding venture, which would open the possibility for a merger
or a potential public offering of T-Mobile USA shares.  “I understand some banks would welcome that,” Humm said
in an interview last week.  The company also has hired bankers, including TAP Advisors
LLC, to sell a large portion of its network towers and has said
it will spend $4 billion over two years on LTE network
construction.  “There is no need for us to enter into any kind of deal,”
Hoettges said today.  While T-Mobile doesn’t have an agreement with  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  to
sell the iPhone, the network is being upgraded to be compatible
with the device, Hoettges also said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Moritz in  New York  at 
 smoritz6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  