-- 3M's Sustainability Innovation Machine
-- B y   A n d r e w   W i n s t o n
-- 2012-05-15T20:21:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-15/3m-s-sustainability-innovation-machine.html
     Planes are now held together by tape, not bolts. It's
really, really strong tape, but still. Who knew the maker of
Post-It Notes could help keep aircraft aloft?  This somewhat frightening factoid is just one of the
fascinating things I learned in a recent visit to the St.
Paul, Minnesota, headquarters of the perennial innovation
leader, 3M. During my daylong visit, I observed a
quiet, longtime sustainability leader plugging away, creating
new products that will help the world save
energy, water, waste... and lots of money.  For good reason, the $30-billion company has long been
held up as a role model of how to manage innovation. In the
sustainability realm, 3M pioneered what now seems like an
obvious idea: avoiding pollution before having to clean it up.
The company's simply named Pollution Prevention Pays (3P)
program has saved many billions of dollars over 36 years.  The environmental results of its near obsession with
eco-efficiency are frankly astonishing. In the last two
decades, 3M has slashed toxic releases by 99 percent and
greenhouse gas emissions by 72 percent. It's the only company
that has won the EPA's Energy Star Award every year the honor
has been bestowed.  3M's sustainability leadership has come mainly from its
eco-efficiency success, but these practices are increasingly
the norm in business. So I was happy to observe abundant
evidence of the company pivoting to make sustainability a
driver of business growth as well.  Before my presentation at an employee event, I listened
as CEO Inge Thulin and senior execs from each of the major
divisions laid out their strategies. Thulin spoke about
sustainability being "embedded... in our new vision" of growth
and innovation. Other execs bragged about the high percentage
of their division's sales coming from sustainability and
"energy preservation."  But most importantly, I heard about some great new
products and technologies. When you're describing a company
that launches an average of 20 new products every week, it's
hard to pick favorites. But here are a few examples of what
sustainability innovation looks like:  -- The world's highest reflectivity mirror film, which
can take sunlight from a roof and carry it deep into a
building — the length of a football field, in fact — all while
losing less than half of the light. I saw this technology
paired seamlessly with some regular fluorescent lighting and
working well in an interior conference room. As one exec
said, somewhat heretically, "Why build solar panels to convert
sun to electricity to then turn on lights if you can do this?"
(Note: I'd do both!)  -- Pipe linings: Every year, due in large part
to 250,000 water main breaks, our <a
href=" http://www.smartplanet.com/blog/pure-genius/aging-water-infrastructure-wastes-17-trillion-gallons-a-year/4826 ">cities
lose 1.7 trillion gallons</a> of treated water (equal to the total
water use of the 10 largest cities). To help solve this
problem, 3M launched a product that sends a machine down into
pipes to apply a fast-setting lining which structurally
reinforces them, without having to go to the significant
expense of digging them up first.  -- An industrial paint application product/service that
reduces toxic solvent use by 70 percent and is saving
customers, mostly auto repair shops, $2 billion from simpler
paint operations and reduced waste. It's also a sizable
business for 3M.  -- 3M's Novec Fluids, which provide
cleaning, coating, cooling, and fire suppression for the
electronics industry (chip manufacturing, datacenters, and so
on) in a non-flammable, non-ozone-depleting way. It's also
remarkably safe for users and technology — you can safely dip
an iPhone in the stuff.  3M is a refreshingly humble company: every estimate or
"boast" is carefully and conservatively calculated to not
overstate the case. For 36 years, the company has used only
first-year savings to tally the benefits of pollution
prevention projects — that's an effective discount rate
of, well, infinity. And with the water-pipe-lining
technology, the payback calculation for customers includes
only labor savings and overall construction efficiency. A more
thorough accounting would add in the significant water and
energy savings, as well as reduced impacts on local economies
(traffic and business disruption).  But there are signs of a feistier attitude brewing. The
new CEO is making sustainability, growth, and innovation a
powerful trifecta. With Novec Fluids, the team is not only
working with key customers and early adopters, but it's also
pushing the market toward greener options by advocating for
tougher government standards and regulations. This kind of
pro-environment lobbying is an advanced sustainability
strategy that only real leaders can pull off.  Finally, I toured the company's relatively new innovation
demonstration center. It's a customers-only, hands-on science
museum that proudly demonstrates all that 3M can do through
cool combinations of its 46 base technologies.  Bottom line: sustainability is deeply integrated in 3M's
innovation pipeline, which is the engine of the company. The
company's core new product development process includes key
sustainability questions and criteria for designers to
address.  Many companies start talking about sustainability efforts
before they've really made significant changes to the company
or its products. Although 3M may have the opposite problem —
getting too little brand and marketing value out of its
efforts — it is usually smarter to execute first, and then
tell your story. In 3M's case, it's nice to see the engineers
at this quiet company just out there doing it.  Andrew Winston is the co-author of the best-seller
Green to Gold and the author of Green Recovery. He advises
some of the world’s biggest companies on environmental
strategy. Follow him on Twitter at @GreenAdvantage. 