-- ABC Adds 10 Shows to Schedule After ‘Housewives’ Ends
-- B y   A n d y   F i x m e r
-- 2012-05-15T20:14:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-15/abc-adds-10-shows-to-schedule-after-housewives-ends.html
Walt Disney Co. (DIS) ’s ABC broadcast
network, flirting with NBC for last place in the young-adult
audience advertisers target, is adding 10 new shows next season
after “ Desperate Housewives ” ended its eight-season run.  “666 Park Avenue” and “Last Resort” are among the six
dramas that will air in the TV season starting in September,
Burbank, California-based ABC said today in an e-mailed
statement. ABC Entertainment President Paul Lee will discuss the
schedule today at  Lincoln Center  in New York.  ABC is seeking to build on a lineup that includes the
returning first-season dramas “Revenge” and “Once Upon a
Time.” The network, led by the comedy “ Modern Family ,”
“Dancing With the Stars” and “Grey’s Anatomy,” is averaging
3.1 million prime-time viewers in the 18-to-49-year-old
demographic. That’s down 3.7 percent from a year ago and trails
NBC’s 3.19 million, according to Nielsen data as of May 13.  “Mistresses,” Nashville,’’ “Red Widow” and “Zero
Hour” are the other new dramas, ABC said. The series finale of
“Desperate Housewives” aired on May 13.  ABC also will add four comedies: “How to Live With Your
Parents (For the Rest of Your Life),” “Malibu Country,” “The
Neighbors” and “The Family Tools.” The network ordered new
seasons of “Don’t Trust the B---- in Apartment 23,” “Happy
Endings,” “Last Man Standing,” “The Middle,” “Modern
Family” and “Suburgatory.”  Fall Presentations  Broadcast and cable networks are releasing their 2012-2013
schedules in so-called upfront meetings with advertisers to book
advance commitments for the season.  Comcast Corp. (CMCSA) ’s NBC unveiled its schedule May 13,  News
Corp. (NWSA) ’s Fox released its schedule yesterday and  CBS Corp. (CBS) , owner
of the most-watched TV network, will reveal its prime-time
changes tomorrow.  NBC is adding seven comedies next year, including “Guys
with Kids” from  Jimmy Fallon . Fox ordered three comedies and
two dramas, including “The Following” starring  Kevin Bacon .  ABC will garner $2.35 billion in ad commitments ahead of
next season, 2 percent more than a year earlier,  Spencer Wang ,
an analyst in New York with Credit Suisse Group AG, wrote in a
May 11 report.  CBS is expected to gain $2.78 billion in commitments, the
most of the major networks, while Fox will collect $2.03 billion
and NBC will receive $1.66 billion, Wang wrote.  Burbank, California-based Disney, the world’s biggest
entertainment company, fell 0.4 percent to $45.01 at the close
in  New York   trading . The stock has climbed 20 percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andy Fixmer in  Los Angeles  at 
 afixmer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  