-- ABN Amro, Feeder Funds Win Review of Madoff Trustee Suits
-- B y   L i n d a   S a n d l e r
-- 2012-05-16T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-15/abn-amro-feeder-funds-win-review-of-madoff-trustee-suits.html
ABN Amro  Bank NV and investment funds
sued by the liquidator of  Bernard Madoff ’s brokerage succeeded
in moving their cases to a district judge who may cut the amount
of money the Madoff trustee can try to reclaim.  U.S. District Judge Jed S. Rakoff in Manhattan said
yesterday he would take a group of suits out of bankruptcy
court, mostly to convey decisions he already made in trustee
Irving Picard’s cases against  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  and the New York
Mets owners, including high standards Picard must meet to show
money wasn’t withdrawn in good faith.  A second group of cases involves individuals’ tax issues,
which Rakoff has also decided, he said in one of two orders
filed yesterday in U.S. District Court in  Manhattan . Rakoff, who
let the Mets owners move their dispute with Picard to his court,
received more than 400 requests during the week ended April 2
from companies sued by the trustee, ranging from Merrill Lynch
to the former spouses of Madoff’s sons.  HSBC Damages  In the HSBC case, Rakoff threw out almost $9 billion in
damages demanded by Picard. He also cut the Mets suit by two-
thirds from $1 billion, before the team owners settled with
Picard. Ruling against investor James Greiff, however, Rakoff
said Picard can try to take back withdrawals from the  Ponzi
scheme  even if U.S. tax law mandated the withdrawals.  The massive transfer of cases has undercut U.S. Bankruptcy
Judge  Burton Lifland ’s power to reverse some fraudulent
transfers and limited Picard’s ability to collect money to pay
victims of Madoff’s $52 billion Ponzi scheme, the largest in
U.S. history. This month, Rakoff sent 84 lawsuits against
investors back to bankruptcy court, limiting the trustee to
trying to take back two years of fake Ponzi profits rather than
six years of payouts.  Rakoff, with U.S. District Judge  Colleen McMahon , has
thrown out $90 billion of Picard’s claims against banks. Picard,
who has charged about $270 million for his firm’s Madoff work,
is appealing rulings related to about $30 billion of the claims,
including against HSBC and JPMorgan Chase & Co.  Madoff is serving a 150-year prison sentence.  The ABN Amro opinion is in the case: Picard v. Primeo Fund,
12-mc-00115, U.S. District Court, Southern District (Manhattan.)
The Mets case is Picard v. Katz, 11-cv-03605, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan). The order on
the tax issues is on the same docket.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Linda Sandler in New York at 
 lsandler@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  