-- Activision Seeks Delay of $1 Billion ‘Modern Warfare’ Trial
-- B y   E d v a r d   P e t t e r s s o n
-- 2012-05-15T23:01:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-15/activision-seeks-delay-as-warfare-trial-claims-hit-1-billion.html
Activision Blizzard Inc. (ATVI)  is seeking
to delay a trial against the creators of its blockbuster game
“Call of Duty: Modern Warfare 2” to bring in a new lead lawyer
as the possible damages it faces have ballooned to $1 billion.  Beth Wilkinson , the lawyer Activision hired May 10, asked
California Superior Court Judge Elihu Berle at a hearing today
in Los Angeles to postpone the May 29 trial date for 30 days so
she can get up to speed. Berle didn’t rule on the request at the
hearing, saying he needed further information on how long the
parties expected the trial to last.  Activision, the biggest U.S. publisher of video games, said
in a May 9 regulatory filing that the damages claim of  Jason West  and  Vince Zampella , the developers of “Modern Warfare 2,”
whom the company fired in 2010, has increased to more than $1
billion, from the $36 million the two sought in unpaid royalties
when they first sued two years ago.  “A 30-day continuance would be extremely prejudicial to
us,”  Robert Schwartz , a lawyer for West and Zampella, said at
the hearing.  Wilkinson said Activision is working on ways to make the
trial shorter, including paying $42 million owed to 40 other
former Activision employees, who left after West and Zampella
were fired and who filed a separate lawsuit for unpaid bonuses,
to take part of their claims out of the case.  ‘Less Disruptive’  “A shorter trial will be less disruptive,” Wilkinson said
in response to Schwartz’s objections to a later trial date.  Zampella and West claim Activision strung them along with
false promises of royalties and creative control so that they
would complete the game that helped Activision leapfrog
 Electronic Arts Inc. (EA)  as the biggest video game publisher.
Activision countersued, naming Electronic Arts as a defendant
and accusing the company of trying to pry the developers away
while they were still under contract.  “Modern Warfare 2,” a shooter game, was released in
November 2009, and broke all sales records in the entertainment
industry, selling 4.7 million copies in the U.S. and U.K. and
generating $310 million in sales in its first 24 hours.  Harry Potter  In five days, sales hit $550 million, beating the box-
office record of $394 million for “ Harry Potter  and the Half-
Blood Prince,” Activision said at the time. By June 2010, more
than 20 million copies of the game had been sold worldwide.  Activision, based in  Santa Monica ,  California , surpassed
Electronic Arts, based in  Redwood City , California, as the
biggest U.S. video-game publisher by revenue in 2009. West and
Zampella said in a court filing last year that “Modern Warfare
2” earned Activision more than $1.5 billion.  Activision contends Electronic Arts conspired with West and
Zampella as early as July of 2009 to disrupt its “Call of
Duty” franchise, according to Activision’s December 2010
amended cross-complaint. It seeks $400 million in damages for
costs to rebuild its Infinity Ward unit, which Jason and West
founded. In the months after the two were fired, about 40 other
Infinity Ward employees quit.  Electronic Arts wanted to disrupt the rival studio ran by
West and Zampella because its own “Medal of Honor” shooter
games were failing and it wasn’t able to compete with
Activision’s “Call of Duty” games, Activision said.  ‘Secret Meeting’  In August 2009, when West and Zampella still had two years
left on their contracts with Activision, Electronic Arts flew
them on a private plane to  San Francisco  for a “secret
meeting” at the home of Electronic Arts Chief Executive Officer
John Riccitiello, Activision said.  “The negotiations between Electronic Arts and West and
Zampella were structured with the design and expectation that
West and Zampella would ‘spin out’ from Activision and would
take significant numbers of key Infinity Ward employees with
them to set up their own independent company so that Electronic
Arts would make another run at competing with Activision,”
according to Activision’s counterclaims.  After Activision fired them for breach of contract and
insubordination, West and Zampella started a new studio, Respawn
Entertainment, which has a distribution agreement with
Electronic Arts. Respawn hasn’t released any games yet, and West
and Zampella declined to comment on what game they are working
on and when it is expected to be released.  Receive Congratulations  The two developers said in an April 19 interview at
Respawn’s offices in  Van Nuys , California, that they met with
Electronic Arts executives after they had finished work on
“Modern Warfare 2” as part of a customary “victory lap” of
meetings to receive congratulations and celebrate the completion
of their latest game.  West and Zampella had started Infinity Ward originally in
Tulsa,  Oklahoma , and Activision bought a 30 percent stake in the
studio in 2002. The first “Call of Duty” release, a World War
II action game, came out in 2003, after which Activision bought
the remaining 70 percent, making the studio a wholly owned unit.  Among the issues that soured relations between the
developers and Activision executives were disputes over “Call
of Duty” offshoots and expansion packs developed by other
Activision units that were put on the market with similar-
sounding names before Infinity Ward was to come out with their
next “Call of Duty” game, the developers said.  “We hear about it at the last minute, and the team gets
all upset,” West said during the interview. “We’re making this
game, we have a huge team of people spending years of their life
putting everything they have into this, so our goal is to make
sure it’s the best it can be.”  Call of Duty  The “Call of Duty” titles Activision released that
weren’t developed by Infinity Ward didn’t live up to the quality
of the studio’s games and hurt the image of the franchise they
had built up, West and Zampella said.  In 2008, Activision agreed to give them “unprecedented
creative authority” over the “Call of Duty” and “Modern
Warfare” brands, as well as performance bonuses tied to the
success of “Modern Warfare 2,” West and Zampella said in their
April 2011 fraud claims against Activision. The agreement
stipulated that no “Modern Warfare” game could be shipped
without West and Zampella’s written consent.  The developers allege Activision never intended to keep its
end of the bargain and induced them to sign the agreement so
they would complete “Modern Warfare 2.” They say they were
never paid the millions of dollars in bonuses they were promised
if the game reached the level of success it achieved.  ‘Dig Up Dirt’  At a May 2 hearing, Activision lost a bid to keep the jury
from hearing testimony from a former information-technology
employee, who said Activision’s inhouse lawyer asked him to
“dig up dirt” on West and Zampella.  Elliot Brown, a lawyer for Activision, said at the hearing
that the issue was only a “sideshow” and that the former
employee, Thomas Fenady, was only asked to see if Activision
could access the computers of West and Zampella, not to
investigate them.  Fenady acted on instructions of then-general counsel George Rose and his testimony falls under attorney confidentiality
rules and shouldn’t be disclosed at trial, Brown said.  “It’s part of attorney work to ask an IT guy to see, ‘Can
we hack computers of the employees?’” Berle said at the
hearing. “That is part of the legal work of Mr. Rose?”  Activision was trying to find out “what was going on
inside Infinity Ward” because relations were strained between
the company’s executives and West and Zampella, and Infinity
Ward had put a firewall between its computer network and
Activision’s, Brown told the judge.  Firewall  Fenady reported that it would be difficult to get around
the firewall and nothing further was done, Brown said at the
hearing.  Victor Jih, a lawyer for West and Zampella, said at the
hearing that the evidence shows that Activision, almost nine
months before the two were fired, was secretly looking for
excuses to “dump” them and that their meeting with the
Electronic Arts executives, which happened after the attempt to
access their computers, had been a pretext to fire them.  “It directly refutes all of the testimony from every
Activision executive that has testified that they reluctantly
fired Jason and Vince, that they never even thought about firing
Jason and Vince until oh, at the very, very last minute,” Jih
said. “This is not a sideshow, your honor. It’s the crux of the
case.”  Richard Kendall, a lawyer for Electronic Arts, said at the
hearing that the Fenady testimony “is critical evidence.”  It shows that “Activision had the gears in motion already
to fire these guys well before EA surfaced in any way as
communicating with West and Zampella or any of their
representatives,” Kendall said.  The case is West v. Activision, SC107041, California
Superior Court ( Los Angeles  County).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edvard Pettersson in Los Angeles at 
 epettersson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 