-- Activision’s Diablo Gets Top Twitter Trend Spot on Error
-- B y   M a r i e   M a w a d
-- 2012-05-15T19:00:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-15/activision-s-diablo-gets-top-twitter-trend-spot-on-game-error.html
Activision Blizzard Inc. (AVTI) ’s just-
released “Diablo III”  video game  is gaining fame over a
software bug, as hundreds of Twitter Inc. users post messages
about “Error 37.”  Buyers wrote on Twitter about a bug preventing them from
logging on to the online role-playing game. Diablo started
selling today after festivities and a midnight release hosted by
Activision, the world’s largest video-game publisher, and
retailers around the world.  There were as many as 1,850 posts in the past 24 hours,
according to Topsy.com, which compiles hits data, enough to push
“#error37” to Twitter’s top trends. Similar messages were
posted on  forums  of the “Diablo III” website, citing errors
about login servers unable to process demands as they are being
used at full capacity.  Activision, controlled by Paris-based  Vivendi SA (VIV) , said  in a
release  that pre-orders of 2 million units for “Diablo III”
were a record high for the company, best known for its “World
of Warcraft” subscription-based role-playing game. Activision
raised its forecasts for 2012 sales and profit on May 9,
predicting revenue of $4.2 billion.  “Due to tremendous demand for Diablo III at launch, some
players have experienced difficulty logging in to the game,”
Activision said in an e-mailed statement. “Our teams have
resolved most of the issues and continue to work on and monitor
the game servers to ensure a positive experience for everyone.”  Activision rose 1.2 percent to $12.80 at 2:58 p.m. in  New
York . The stock climbed about 11 percent in the past 12 months,
giving the company a market value of $14.2 billion.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Marie Mawad in Paris at 
 mmawad1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  