-- Lady Gaga Portrait, Hirst Lure Billionaires to Hong Kong
-- B y   F r e d e r i k   B a l f o u r
-- 2012-05-16T10:31:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-15/lady-gaga-portrait-hirst-lure-billionaires-to-hong-kong.html
Hong Kong’s art scene goes into
overdrive this week as  Asia ’s billionaires descend on the city
for the  Hong Kong International Art Fair .  Despite a 3.2 percent drop in the  Hang Seng Index (HSI)  today,
collectors at the VIP preview snapped up works by Asian artists
including  Indonesia ’s Nyoman Masriadi, and Liu Wei from  China .  The fair, featuring 266 galleries from 39 countries, is a
test of Asian demand. It opens to the public tomorrow and runs
through May 20. VIPs first get first picks at works by  Roy Lichtenstein , Zeng Fanzhi and  Damien Hirst .  “The fact the stock market has tumbled isn’t helping but
that said, it’s good, it’s upbeat,” said Jasdeep Sandhu, owner
of Singapore-based  Gajah Gallery,  which sold two paintings by
Masriadi costing several hundred thousand dollars.  Taipei-based  Lin & Lin Gallery  sold 12 of 15 works by Liu
costing between $1 million and $4 million in the first three
hours of the VIP preview today. “We had got so many inquiries
we had to limit each buyer to one piece,” gallery administrator
Muo Cheng said in an interview.  Launched in 2008, ART HK has become a major stop on the
global art circuit for dealers looking to tap into the region’s
growing wealth.  “For two or three days, Hong Kong is the place to be,”
said Tim Marlow, director of exhibitions at London-based  White
Cube . “It’s like Venice or Basel. I’ve just come from  New York 
and  Sao Paulo .”  Emin, Baselitz  White Cube  is selling works by Tracey Emin, sculptor Antony Gormley and German neo-expressionist Georg Baselitz.  Last year, the event drew more than 63,000 visitors and is
closing in on  London ’s  Frieze  and  Art Basel Miami Beach . Swiss-
based Art Basel owner  MCH Group AG (MCHN)  bought a majority stake in
Art HK last May.  Increasingly exhibitors are using Art HK to showcase Asian
artists alongside western works. New York-based David Zwirner
Gallery is featuring a portrait of Lady Gaga by Chinese painter
 Yan Pei-Ming  that will hang alongside two paintings by the
Belgian Luc Tuymans.  Gagosian  Gallery is displaying works by Picasso, Hirst and
Lichtenstein, along with Yayoi Kusama and Takashi Murakami from
 Japan .  Galerie Karsten Greve , of Cologne,  Germany , is
participating in Art HK for the first time, with work by
American artist Cy Twombly.  Overseas Interest  Originally started as an Asian-themed fair in 2008, Art HK
Fair Director Magnus Renfrew had to struggle to attract overseas
galleries. This year he had to turn away almost two-thirds of
galleries who applied with about half of the exhibitors from
outside Asia.  “The level of competition is much higher this year,” he
said.  Organizers of other events this week have timed them to
capitalize on the influx of visitors generated by the fair.
 Intelligence Squared Asia’s  annual cultural debate features four
art figures arguing the motion “Contemporary Art Excludes the
99 Percent.”  For the one percent, there is also the Private Museum Forum
being held on the sidelines of the fair tomorrow.  Paris-based  Galerie Perrotin  opened its  Hong Kong  gallery
yesterday with a show by the U.S. artist Kaws using the image of
the Michelin Man. London-based  Simon Lee Gallery  opened a new
space in the Pedder Building featuring New York artist Sherrie
Levine.  Growing Market  “Hong Kong is a portal to a totally different emerging and
growing market,” said Simon Lee. “It feels like the city is
more galvanized around the art fair.”  Yesterday also saw the opening of the first Asian solo
exhibition by German photographer Andreas Gursky at Gagosian.
His series of photographs of water under a Bangkok bridge
measure more than three meters (9.8 feet) and sell for several
hundred thousand dollars.  White Cube, which opened its Hong Kong gallery in March,
also opened a solo show by Paris-based Anselm Kiefer entitled
“Let a Thousand Flowers Bloom,” inspired by a journey the
artist made in China in 1993.  For more budget-minded collectors,  Spoon Art Fair  is
featuring emerging Asian artists whose works will be displayed
in 40 different rooms at the Grand Hyatt Hotel from May 18-20.  The Hong Kong International Art Fair runs from May 17 to
May 20 at the Hong Kong Convention and Exhibition Centre. The
lead sponsor is  Deutsche Bank AG. (DBK)  Information:
 http://www.hongkongartfair.com/eng/welcome/   (Frederik Balfour is a reporter at large for Muse, the arts
and leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed
are his own.)  Muse highlights include: Jorg von Uthmann on  Paris art ,
Warwick Thompson on  London stage , Ryan Sutton on New York
 dining .  To contact the writer on the story:
Frederik Balfour in Hong Kong at 
 fbalfour@bloomberg.net  or on Twitter @frederikbalfour.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 