-- Lady Gaga’s Indonesia Concert Banned for Vulgarity, Police Say
-- B y   G r e g   A h l s t r a n d
-- 2012-05-15T17:01:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-15/lady-gaga-too-vulgar-to-perform-in-indonesia-jakarta-police-say.html
Lady Gaga won’t be allowed to perform
a concert in Jakarta next month because she’s too vulgar and
doesn’t fit with Indonesian culture, police said.  Indonesia ’s National Police won’t issue a permit for the
singer’s “Born This Way Ball” concert, scheduled June 3 at the
Gelora Bung Karno stadium, Boy Rafli Amar, a spokesman for the
department, said.  “A National Police permit will be given subject to
recommendation from the Jakarta Police,” Amar said by phone
yesterday in Jakarta. “The Jakarta Police didn’t give a
recommendation for the concert, so we won’t give permission.”  Members of the Islamic Defenders Front on protested last
week against the concert, saying Lady Gaga’s performances were
pornography and that her purpose was to destroy the country’s
morals. Indonesia, with 240 million people, has the world’s
largest Muslim population.  An e-mail and BlackBerry Messenger request for comment to
Big Daddy, the Indonesian promoter of the concert, weren’t
immediately replied to yesterday. Amanda Silverman, a publicist
for Lady Gaga, didn’t immediately respond to an e-mail seeking
comment.  The Jakarta Police recommended the permit be denied, Senior
Police Commissioner Rikwanto, head of public relations for the
Jakarta Police Department, said by phone yesterday.  “We sent a letter to the National Police that we declined
to give a recommendation for Lady Gaga to hold a concert in
Jakarta,” he said. “Our decision was based on input from
various elements of society. The decision also is to prevent
disturbances in society caused by the Lady Gaga concert. She’s
too vulgar and the concert does not fit with our culture.”  Metro police will study and take into consideration input
by the non-government organizations, Julian Aldrin Pasha, a
presidential spokesman, said by telephone yesterday. The police
will issue a decision related to the concert as it concerns
security, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Ahlstrand in Jakarta at 
 gahlstrand@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Greg Ahlstrand at 
 gahlstrand@bloomberg.net  