-- Allianz Affirms 2012 Target as Quarterly Profit Rises 60%
-- B y   O l i v e r   S u e s s
-- 2012-05-15T09:34:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-15/allianz-ceo-expects-2012-to-be-no-less-challenging-.html
Allianz SE (ALV) ,  Europe ’s biggest insurer,
confirmed its full-year operating profit target after first-
quarter net income climbed 60 percent on lower disaster claims.  Net income rose to 1.37 billion euros ($1.76 billion) from
857 million euros a year earlier, the Munich-based insurer said
in a statement today. Operating profit advanced 40 percent to
2.33 billion euros.  Allianz, which reported preliminary figures last week,
confirmed its full-year operating profit target of 7.7 billion
euros to 8.7 billion euros. Chief Executive Officer Michael Diekmann told  shareholders  at the May 9 annual meeting that low
 interest rates  threaten insurers over the long term as the
industry recovers from record claims related to earthquakes and
floods in  Japan  and  Thailand  last year.  “Revenues in property and casualty insurance are at record
levels, and operating profit is on track,” Chief Financial
Officer Oliver Baete said in the statement. “Even though there
was a lower incidence of natural catastrophes this quarter, we
are seeing a trend toward higher natural catastrophe impacts.
For this reason, we have increased our 2012 budget for these
impacts to 1.2 billion euros.”  Natural Disasters  Europe’s biggest insurers and the reinsurers who help them
shoulder risks for clients are using last year’s catastrophes to
push through higher prices for coverage. Natural disasters
caused less than $3 billion of insured losses for insurers and
reinsurers in the first quarter, down from almost $53 billion a
year earlier, according to  estimates  from Aon Benfield, the
world’s biggest reinsurance broker.  The company’s  shares  fell 9 euro cents, or 0.1 percent to
77.06 euros at 10:46 a.m. in  Frankfurt  today. They gained 4.3
percent this year, giving Allianz a market value of 35 billion
euros. That compares with the 1.9 percent increase in the 28-
member  Bloomberg Europe 500 Insurance Index. (BEINSUR)   Allianz’s property and casualty insurance unit, typically
the most important in terms of profit, reported a 50 percent
increase in net income to 836 million euros in the quarter while
premium income rose 3.8 percent to 14.8 billion euros.  “The segment benefited from both positive price and volume
effects,” Allianz said.  Underwriting Profit  The unit’s spending on claims and other costs as a
percentage of premiums, also known as the combined ratio,
improved to 96.2 percent from 101.3 percent a year earlier. A
ratio above 100 percent means an insurer’s claims and costs
exceed premium income, giving it a loss from underwriting.  The combined ratio at the German property and casualty
division, its biggest non-life unit by premium income, improved
to 98 percent from 98.5 percent, Allianz said in a  presentation 
posted on its website. Allianz has set a goal to lower the
measure to 95 percent by 2014. It also plans cost cuts to
improve the unit’s operating profit by more than 500 million
euros. The insurer is “on plan” with the initiative, Markus Riess, the company’s head of German operations, said in an
interview earlier this month.  Profit at the life- and health-insurance division climbed
30 percent to 626 million euros, Allianz said. Statutory
premiums fell 4 percent to 13.7 billion euros.  The firm’s asset-management unit, which includes  Newport
Beach , California-based  Pacific Investment Management Co. , saw
profit increase 23 percent to 379 million euros in the quarter.
Total assets under management rose 11 percent to 1.7 trillion
euros while third-party assets under management rose to 1.3
trillion euros from 1.1 trillion euros the year before.  Greater Independence  Allianz gave Pimco greater independence last year by
separating it from the other asset managers, which are combined
in the Allianz Global Investors unit. Both are part of the
Allianz Asset Management holding, led by management board member
Jay Ralph.  Pimco had 516 million euros in operating profit in the
first quarter with 1.33 trillion euros of assets under
management, while Allianz Global Investors reported operating
profit of 78 million euros and had 295 billion euros of assets
under management, Allianz said in the  presentation .  Allianz booked a net gain of 84 million euros from its
investment in  Hartford Financial Services Group Inc. (HIG)  after the
U.S. insurer repurchased of $2.43 billion of subordinated
debentures and warrants from Allianz last month. Allianz also
expects two-digit million-euro gains from the investment in the
second-quarter, Allianz CFO Baete said in a media conference
call today.  Option to Buy  Hartford turned to Allianz in October 2008, agreeing to pay
10 percent on $1.75 billion of debt as  capital markets  froze.
The German insurer also bought warrants, which gave Allianz the
option to buy 69.3 million shares for $25.23 each. Allianz owns
about 5 percent of Hartford. Allianz hasn’t yet decided on
future plans for its stake in Hartford, Baete said.  Allianz got shareholder approval at last week’s annual
meeting to list its stock on Chinese markets. It also appointed
Helmut Perlet, its former chief financial officer, to succeed
Supervisory Board Chairman Henning Schulte-Noelle, who didn’t
stand for re-election.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Oliver Suess in Munich  at 
 osuess@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  