-- Ally Pays $750 Million in ResCap Bankruptcy to ‘Avoid the Noise’
-- B y   D a k i n   C a m p b e l l
-- 2012-05-15T16:09:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-15/ally-pays-750-million-in-rescap-bankruptcy-to-avoid-the-noise-.html
Ally Financial Inc. (ALLY)  contributed $750
million to cover legal claims on soured loans tied to its
bankrupt mortgage unit, even though the firm calls them
meritless, “to avoid the noise,” according to its leader.  The payment to Residential Capital as part of the
bankruptcy plan insulated Detroit-based Ally from the costs of
drawn-out litigation and damage to its bond prices, CEO  Michael Carpenter  said today during a conference call with analysts.
Viewed that way, the payment was a “good economic trade” that
puts the matter to rest, he said.  “That doesn’t mean a lot of lawyers can’t drive you nuts,
create big headlines and make a lot of money,” Carpenter said.  ResCap sought court protection yesterday after losses piled
up on  subprime  and Alt-A mortgages bundled into bonds during the
credit crisis. Carpenter is counting on the Chapter 11
reorganization to separate his firm from ResCap so he can pursue
plans for an Ally turnaround -- including repayment of the $17.2
billion U.S. bailout -- without the threat of more damage from
mortgages.  In addition to the cost of defaults, U.S. lenders have been
plagued by demands for refunds from investors who bought the
loans after they found defects such as false data about
borrowers and the properties. Such claims have cost the five
biggest U.S. home lenders more than $72 billion in payments and
legal fees since the start of 2007, and analysts have speculated
that ResCap’s creditors will pursue Ally for payment.  Ally agreed to give $750 million to ResCap to settle claims
such as those brought by  bondholders  or other third parties, and
claimants will have “absolutely no case” to seek additional
funds from the parent company, Carpenter said earlier this week.  Legal Outlook  The  legal strategy  probably will work, according to Laura
Bartell, a bankruptcy law professor at  Wayne State University  in
 Detroit , who said plaintiffs rarely succeed in linking a
bankrupt subsidiary to its parent.  “ResCap is clearly separate, it’s independently
incorporated, they have separate debt, they have a separate
board of directors,” Bartell said. “This is likely to get Ally
out of it -- at a cost.”  Freedom from ResCap could allow Ally to move ahead with
plans to repay the U.S. for the bailout that left taxpayers with
a  74 percent stake . Those plans so far include seeking buyers
for more than $30 billion of assets in  Canada ,  Mexico ,  Europe 
and  South America . The company has paid the U.S. $5.5 billion,
Ally said in a statement.  Ally may also consider buying back the U.S. stake and
making acquisitions, Carpenter said today. The core auto-lending
business won’t be sold, and an initial public offering -- which
was put on hold until ResCap’s status was resolved -- may be
revived, he said.  Conflicting Claims  Ally and ResCap may struggle to placate creditors who
haven’t settled, said  Stephen Lubben , a bankruptcy law professor
at Seton Hall University in Newark,  New Jersey .  “As these new parties come to the table, you can’t
negotiate with them in a way that you will lose the consent you
have with prior parties,” Lubben said in a phone interview.
“That’ll be one of the challenges of the bankruptcy case, to
bring all those people together. If they don’t agree to what
other people have agreed to, you have this tricky negotiation.”  General Motors Co. is interested in acquiring Ally’s
international operations, according to CEO Dan Akerson. “We’re
interested in it, but we’re not going to bleed to buy it,” he
said yesterday in an interview at Bloomberg’s  New York 
headquarters.  Ally, known as GMAC when it was part of General Motors,
ranked No. 1 in financing U.S. consumer auto sales for 2011 with
more than $40 billion in contracts for new or used cars and
trucks, or about 1.5 million vehicles.  The online bank faces competition from ING Direct USA,
which McLean, Virginia-based  Capital One Financial Corp. (COF) 
acquired this year, as well as London-based Barclays Plc, which
is starting its own Internet bank in the U.S., the Wall Street
Journal reported earlier this month. Carpenter confirmed on
today’s call that Ally had been interested in bidding on ING
Direct.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dakin Campbell in  San Francisco  at 
 dcampbell27@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net ;
Rick Green at 
 rgreen18@bloomberg.net  