-- Alzheimer’s Research Effort Seeks New Treatments by 2025
-- B y   S h a n n o n   P e t t y p i e c e   a n d   M i c h e l l e   F a y   C o r t e z
-- 2012-05-15T16:38:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-15/alzheimer-s-80-million-research-aims-to-prevent-the-disease.html
An $80 million national research plan
to attack Alzheimer’s, a mind-robbing malady that may affect as
many as 16 million Americans by 2050, will start this year with
U.S.-sponsored studies on ways to prevent the disease in high-
risk people, and treat it with an insulin nasal spray.  The  National Institutes of Health  will spend $7.9 million
testing the spray, and $16 million on the first study to focus 
on growth of the disease in high-risk patients, the Health and 
Human Services Department said today. The study in those most 
likely to get Alzheimer’s will be run by  Roche Holding AG (ROG) , 
using the Swiss company’s experimental drug crenezumab.  The goal, to develop new treatments by 2025, faces tough
challenges, said Ronald Petersen, a researcher at the Mayo 
Clinic in Rochester,  Minnesota . Researchers aren’t sure what 
sets off the disease process that leads to dementia or whether 
protein tangles in the brain -- a disease hallmark -- are a 
cause of the condition or a byproduct.  “This represents a blueprint for dealing with this
crisis,” Petersen said in an e-mail. “Now the challenge begins
to implement it to make major advances in research and care for
patients with Alzheimer’s disease.”  The plan is part of the National Alzheimer’s Project Act,
signed into law last year. About 5.4 million Americans have 
the disease now, according to the Centers for Disease Control 
and Prevention in Atlanta.  Roche Study  The Roche-partnered study will test crenezumab, also known
as RG7412, in about 300 people in  Colombia  with a genetic
mutation that leaves them nearly certain to develop Alzheimer’s
in their 40s. If the drug works, researchers plan to expand the
tests to people who don’t have the mutation and yet are still at
high risk of developing the disease later in life, said Pierre Tariot, director of the Banner Alzheimer’s Institute.  “It is possible that we would identify ways to predict who
is at risk for late-onset Alzheimer’s disease,” Tariot said in
a telephone interview. “It’s at least theoretically possible
that prevention therapy could be identified that is so safe it
could be given to anybody, because remember that age itself is a
major risk factor.”  Crenezumab attacks beta amyloid, a protein that builds up
in the brains of Alzheimer’s patients. Therapies targeting the
protein haven’t been successful yet, though, with failures
including  Eli Lilly & Co. (LLY) ’s semagacestat in 2010.  Different Tack  This Colombian study will take a different tack, attempting
to prevent the buildup of amyloid before Alzheimer’s symptoms
appear, Tariot said. It could be the best test yet of the
amyloid hypothesis, he said.  “The amyloid accumulates over years and years,” said
Richard Scheller, chief scientific officer of Roche’s Genentech
unit, which is working on the drug. “By the time one is showing
signs of dementia, there has already been damage to the brain.
Once the brain circuitry is unravelling, it may be difficult to
stop it.”  Roche expects results next year from mid-stage tests of
crenezumab in patients with mild to moderate Alzheimer’s,
Scheller said. The Colombian trial will help provide the basis
for deciding whether to test the drug in the broader population
of people at risk for Alzheimer’s, he said.  “Breakthroughs leading to treatments have been slow in
coming,”  Kathleen Sebelius , secretary of the HHS, said at a
conference on the disease in Bethesda,  Maryland , today.
“Clinical trial results continue to be disappointing. We’ve yet
to find treatments or ways that are proven to prevent
Alzheimer’s, and that’s the ultimate goal.”  Added Training  The HHS also announced plans to provide more training for
health-care providers and information for caretakers, as well as
a new awareness campaign that will include  television
advertising .  Alzheimer’s destroys brain cells, making it difficult for
patients to think, remember and function. Markers of brain cell
death include amyloid plaques and tau tangles that can begin in
the brain 10 to 20 years before symptoms occur.  Researchers suspected a link between  Alzheimer’s disease 
and diabetes after scientists found excess insulin in the blood
was associated with the diseases later in life. Insulin is known
to help maintain the brain’s synapses.  Insulin Inhaler  A 2010 study found that people with early stages of the
disease who used an insulin inhaler made by Kurve Technology
Inc. twice a day showed improved ability to carry out daily
tasks, like dressing or balancing their checkbook.  Previous studies show diabetics have an elevated risk of
developing Alzheimer’s disease and mild cognitive impairment, a
potential precursor to the most common form of dementia in the
elderly. Catching the disease early when memory and language
deficits first develop may improve the odds of treating the
condition or preventing it altogether.  Efforts to capitalize on the link have yielded mixed
results. A daily dose of inhaled insulin improved the memory of
patients with early-stage Alzheimer’s and helped them manage
routine tasks like getting dressed. The approach didn’t improve
other measures of mental function.  GlaxoSmithKline Plc (GSK) ’s
Avandia, once the biggest selling diabetes drug, failed to
benefit Alzheimer’s disease patients in a 2009 study.  A 2008 study underscored the confounding findings that
often stem from Alzheimer’s disease research. Autopsies of 248
patients with Alzheimer’s disease found diabetes drugs reduced
the number of lesions in their brains, though they didn’t lessen
the dementia caused by the condition.  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
Shannon Pettypiece at 
 spettypiece@bloomberg.net ;
Michelle Fay Cortez in  Minneapolis  at 
 mcortez@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net . 