-- AMD CEO Read Says Flexibility Trumps Speed in Sales Race
-- B y   I a n   K i n g
-- 2012-05-15T20:40:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-15/amd-ceo-read-says-flexibility-trumps-speed-in-sales-race.html
Advanced Micro Devices Inc. Chief
Executive Officer Rory Read said his company’s success will
hinge on getting products to market more quickly as  Qualcomm (QCOM) 
Inc. and other phone-chip makers move into computing.  AMD will broaden its designs to include other companies’
technology, a move that will tailor chips more directly to
specific customer needs, he said. The company will also stop
trying to take on  Intel Corp. (INTC)  directly in striving to make
faster processors, a strategy that’s going to produce chips that
are needlessly powerful.  “That era is done,” Read, 50, said in an interview.
“There’s enough processing power on every laptop on the planet
today.”  Computing is increasingly moving to the cloud -- data
centers that supply services over the Internet -- creating a
need for chips that are tuned for displaying video and other
media and don’t need to crunch large amounts of information,
Read said. It’s shifting the competition to a race for chips
that contain multiple functions, exactly where phone-chip makers
excel, he said.  Qualcomm,  Nvidia Corp. (NVDA)  and other makers of chips based on
 ARM Holdings Plc (ARM)  technology will gain an entry into the PC
market later this year when Microsoft Corp.’s Windows 8 debuts
in versions capable of working on the type of chip which
dominates the mobile-phone industry.  Shares of Sunnyvale, California-based AMD fell 2.2 percent
to $6.60 at the close in  New York . The stock has gained 22
percent in 2012, after two straight years of declines.  Introducing Trinity  For now, Read is touting the company’s new line of chips,
called Trinity, whose designs predate his tenure at the company.
The former International Business Machines Corp. and  Lenovo
Group Ltd. (992)  executive took over as AMD’s chief executive in
August after a seven-month search to replace his ousted
predecessor  Dirk Meyer .  Trinity is one of the first steps in AMD’s attempts to
produce processors that combine multiple functions rather than
an emphasis on speed. Almost half of Trinity is devoted to
graphics processing, something Read said will be important in
displaying and enhancing processing work done elsewhere, in
cloud computing.  The new chip design also has one model that uses less than
half the power of current processors, making it better suited
for the thinnest and lightest laptops. That will give AMD-based
notebooks the ability to go all day on a single battery charge.
Trinity will also have 70 percent better graphics performance
that comparable Intel chips, AMD said.  Steal the Bacon  Delivering Trinity will also help  AMD (AMD)  prove to suppliers
that it’s becoming more reliable. It won’t suffer from the
supply shortages that held back sales of its predecessor, Read
said. In addition, AMD’s pricing means that computer makers will
be able to produce thin and light machines that are cheaper than
the Ultrabooks being pushed by Intel, he said.  “I think we come in and steal the bacon around the whole
thin-and-light movement and capture a significant portion of the
opportunity there,” he said.  Read is trying to turn around a company that’s struggled
against its larger rival ever since it was founded a year after
Intel in 1969. AMD has reported five annual profits in the last
10 years, with losses dwarfing  net  income over that period.  To change that, Read said he’s implementing a greater use
of statistics and measurements in AMD operations and demanding
employees take personal responsibility for mistakes. His
strategy of differentiating AMD’s products from those made by
Intel, which has more than 80 percent of the market for PC
processors, will fully manifest in 2015, he said.  “It can be a very different AMD going forward, but we have
a long way to go,” he said. “There’s been a passion for
innovation but there needs to be a passion for delivery and a
passion for the customers.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ian King in  San Francisco  at 
 ianking@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  