-- Amylin Said to Attract Interest From Pfizer, AstraZeneca
-- B y   J e f f r e y   M c C r a c k e n ,   A l b e r t i n a   T o r s o l i   a n d   M e g   T i r r e l l
-- 2012-05-15T20:08:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-15/amylin-said-to-attract-interest-from-pfizer-astrazeneca.html
Amylin Pharmaceuticals Inc. (AMLN)  has lured
suitors such as  Pfizer Inc. (PFE) ,  AstraZeneca Plc (AZN)  and Sanofi, which
signed confidentiality agreements on the drugmaker’s sale
process, said people familiar with the matter.  Merck & Co. (MRK) ,  Takeda Pharmaceutical Co. (4502) ,  Roche Holding AG (ROG) 
and  Bristol-Myers Squibb Co. (BMY)  also signed agreements to get
access to confidential financial and product information for
Amylin, said the people, who declined to be identified as talks
are private. The drug developer is seeking a buyer following its
rejection of an unsolicited offer from Bristol-Myers, people
with knowledge of the matter said earlier this year.  First-round bids are due in the next two weeks, said two of
the people. Amylin, the maker of the diabetes drugs Bydureon and
Byetta, has a market capitalization of more than $4 billion and
generated more than $650 million in  revenue  last year.  “Diabetes is an area companies either want a position in
or want a stronger position in,” said  Mark Clark , an analyst at
Deutsche Bank in  London . “Amylin is not a massive financial
stretch so it comes down to what companies’ alternatives are,
whether there are other synergies involved and who it makes the
most sense to. Some companies are more desperate for revenue
sources than others.”  Clark recommends buying  Sanofi (SAN)  shares and has a “hold”
rating on AstraZeneca.  Assess Interest  San Diego-based Amylin hired  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN)  and
 Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  to assess takeover interest, one person
said last month. Representatives at Amylin, Takeda, Merck,
AstraZeneca, Sanofi, Bristol-Myers, Roche and Pfizer declined to
comment.  Amylin gained 6.4 percent to $27.30 at 4 p.m.  New York 
time, the shares’ highest value since August 2008. They have
gained 15 percent since March 28, when Bloomberg reported
Amylin’s rejection of the Bristol-Myers bid. Amylin spurned an
offer of $22 a share from New York-based Bristol-Myers in
February, people with knowledge of the bid said in March.  Billionaire investor  Carl Icahn  dropped a lawsuit against
the company last month following a meeting with Chief Executive
Officer Daniel Bradbury. Icahn owned about 8.8 percent of Amylin
as of April, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. He had
sued Amylin in Delaware Chancery Court over a rule requiring
advance notice of candidates for board seats after the board
rejected Bristol-Myers’s $3.5 billion buyout bid. Icahn has said
he still wants Amylin to pursue a sale.  Bydureon Estimate  Amylin received regulatory approval for Bydureon, a once-
weekly formulation of its earlier diabetes drug Byetta, in
January, and the therapy may draw $1.5 billion in peak annual
sales in the U.S., according to Robyn Karnauskas, an analyst
with Deutsche Bank. The drugmaker had been seeking a partner to
help market Bydureon outside the U.S. since November, when it
ended a collaboration with  Eli Lilly & Co. (LLY)   Sanofi, based in Paris, and Merck, in Whitehouse Station,
New Jersey, would gain the most strategically from purchasing
Amylin, Leerink Swann analysts Seamus Fernandez and Steve Yoo
wrote in a research note today. They estimate a price of more
than $30 a share “for the right acquirer.”  “We would see Amylin bringing several key strategic
positives as well as substantial operational synergies for
Sanofi,” the analysts wrote, naming a prescribing change that
includes dosing of Byetta with Sanofi’s Lantus, immediate access
to the GLP-1 class of diabetes drugs and overlaps in research
and development.  Diabetes Commitment  Merck, the analysts wrote, “has a deep commitment to
diabetes” and is facing competition from Bristol-Myers,
AstraZeneca and Takeda.  Sanofi started looking at Amylin last year, after the U.S.
company said it had ended the partnership with  Eli Lilly , one
person said.  Sanofi internally has discussed the rationale of a bid,
given that Byetta would compete with its own experimental
version of a similar drug, known as lixisenatide, one person
said. The French company, which has been gathering information
on Amylin, also has some doubts as to the potential of Bydureon,
this person said.  Still, Sanofi is keen on Amylin because Byetta is a
successful product that would give it access to a so-called GLP-
1 treatment well before lixisenatide comes to market, another
person said.  Very Explicit  “Sanofi has been very explicit that they want a full range
of products and services for diabetes,” Clark said.  Roche, based in Basel, Switzerland, tried to expand in the
GLP-1 market once before, with no luck. It returned rights to
the experimental GLP-1 diabetes drug taspoglutide to developer
 Ipsen SA (IPN)  last year, after patients dropped out of trials because
of side effects.  Bristol-Myers and London’s AstraZeneca failed to win U.S.
clearance earlier this year to sell the experimental diabetes
treatment dapagliflozin as regulators sought more safety data.  “Any of the companies listed would fit the characteristics
of having a ‘strong’ R&D commitment to diabetes,” the Leerink
Swann analysts wrote. “Amylin could be deemed highly strategic
for any of the companies cited.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeffrey McCracken in New York at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net ;
Albertina Torsoli in Paris at 
 atorsoli@bloomberg.net ;
Meg Tirrell in New York at 
 mtirrell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jennifer Sondag at 
 jsondag@bloomberg.net  