-- Hana Plunges as Botswana Study Disappoints: Vancouver Mover
-- B y   L i e z e l   H i l l
-- 2012-05-15T20:33:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-15/hana-plunges-as-botswana-study-disappoints-vancouver-mover.html
Hana Mining Ltd. (HMG) , an exploration
company, fell the most since its listing almost 10 years ago
after an update on its Botswana copper and silver project
disappointed analysts on operating costs.  Hana  plunged  68 percent to close at 42 cents in Toronto.
The Vancouver-based company fell 7.2 percent this year before
today.  “There’s been a massive re-setting of expectations and
most of it was due to operating costs,”  Adam Low, a Toronto-
based analyst at Raymond James Ltd., said today in a telephone
interview.  The company published a preliminary economic assessment and
updated mineral resource for the Banana Zone and Zone 5 at its
Ghanzi copper and silver project after the close of regular
trading yesterday. The operation may cost an initial $300.5
million, including pre-production costs, and produce an average
of 66.4 million pounds (30,119 metric tons) of copper and
878,000 ounces of silver a year, Hana said in a statement.  Hana expects average operating costs of $1.96 a pound of
copper in the first five years and $1.75 thereafter, the company
said in the statement.  Hana said in May 2011 it would delay completion of the
study after identifying potential problems with a mineral
resource estimate it completed in December 2010.  “The stuff that we were supposed to get a year ago, this
is it coming in now finally,” Low said. “There was a lot of
anticipation about it.”  Low cut his rating on Hana to market perform, from
outperform.  Lower Grade  The new resource estimate was “unexpectedly both smaller
and lower grade” than the previous estimate Gary Lampard, an
analyst at Canaccord Genuity in Toronto, said in a note.  “We do not believe that Hana Mining has the capacity to
further develop the Ghanzi project,” he said. “Thus, our
valuation is now a takeout valuation.”  Lampard lowered his recommendation to sell, from
speculative buy and cut his price target to 60 cents from
C$3.70.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Liezel Hill in Toronto at 
 lhill30@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  