-- Anadarko Cut as $25 Billion Toxic Suit Oozes Into Court
-- B y   T i f f a n y   K a r y   a n d   E d w a r d   K l u m p
-- 2012-06-08T20:41:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-15/anadarko-was-part-of-25-billion-scheme-u-s-says.html
Anadarko Petroleum Corp. (APC)  investors
are discounting the company’s market value by $2 billion as
analysts and lawyers see few ways to minimize the effect of a
$25 billion lawsuit spawned by the toxic past of its Kerr-McGee
Corp. unit.  The 2006 purchase of Kerr-McGee’s oil and gas assets, a key
part of former Chief Executive Officer Jim Hackett’s legacy of
expanding Anadarko, has left the company battling a lawsuit
that’s put a cloud over its stock. Energy investors may want to
look at buying shares in companies that don’t have the sort of
litigation risk that Anadarko has, said Jeffrey Campbell, an
analyst for Pritchard Capital Partners in New York.  “We cannot support jumping in front of the litigation bus
when peer companies offer attractive upside without
unquantifiable risk,” Campbell said in a May 22 note. At its
June 7 closing price of $63.20, Anadarko’s stock is
underperforming peers by about $4.16 a share, implying investors
were pricing in about $2 billion for a possible settlement or
penalty, according to Campbell’s estimate.  The suit, which went to trial May 15 in  Manhattan 
Bankruptcy Court, contends The Woodlands, Texas-based Anadarko’s
Kerr-McGee unit was part of a two-step transaction that
defrauded the Environmental Protection Agency of the money to
clean 2,772 polluted sites.  After an internal reorganization started in 2001, Kerr-
McGee spun off its chemicals business and old environmental
liabilities as  Tronox Inc. (TROX)  beginning in 2005. About three months
after the transaction was completed, Anadarko offered to buy
Kerr-McGee’s oil and gas assets for $18 billion.  2009 Bankruptcy  Tronox filed for bankruptcy in 2009 and sued its former
parent, saying billions of dollars in environmental debts did it
in. The U.S., Tronox’s largest creditor on behalf of the EPA,
intervened, creating the current lawsuit.  Anadarko rose 1 percent to $63.84 at the close in New York.
The stock has slid 15 percent since closing at $75.06 on May 1.
It’s the  fourth-worst performer  this year among 17 members of
the Standard & Poor’s 500 Oil & Gas Exploration & Production
index.  The case also comes on the heels of another big legal
settlement, said John Lutz, who helps oversee about $8 billion
of assets including Anadarko shares at Frost Investment Advisors
in  San Antonio . Anadarko agreed in October to pay $4 billion for
costs related to its 25 percent stake in the Macondo well that
was the site of the Deepwater Horizon explosion in the  Gulf of
Mexico  in 2010.  Litigation Overhang  “I do sense that there’s some real investor frustration
here with having to deal with these big litigation overhangs on
the stock,” Lutz said.  Anadarko isn’t opposed to a settlement and hasn’t been
successful in talks toward one so far, Chief Executive Officer
Al Walker said at an energy conference on June 6.  The plaintiffs run the risk of getting nothing if the judge
agrees with Anadarko and “may start to become a little more
reasonable and rational around what a settlement might look
like” as the case goes forward, Walker said.  Analysts including Thomas Claps of Susquehanna
International Group in  New York  also see a possibility for lower
damages even if Anadarko loses. Claps, who has been following
the trial, said he thinks the $25 billion claim could be cut if
it’s found that environmental damages were less than that
amount.  “It seems $1.5 billion to $6 billion could be a range
where the judge is focusing,” Claps said. That number is based
on Tronox’s own estimate of what environmental damages were, he
said.  Gropper Ruling  However, U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Allan Gropper in a pre-trial
ruling denied a request by Anadarko to limit the damages to the
amount of claims over environmental and tort damages.  Based on bankruptcy law’s rules about “fraudulent
transfers” -- transactions which defraud creditors of money
either intentionally or otherwise -- any recovery by the U.S. is
most likely to be based on the value of Kerr-McGee’s oil and gas
assets that were transferred to Anadarko, not the value of
environmental damages, said Michael Cook, a partner in the New
York office of Schulte Roth & Zabel LLP.  That doesn’t preclude a number other than $25 billion, he
said.  “Just because they claim it’s worth a certain amount
doesn’t mean it is,” Cook said. “There has to be a finding of
the value of what was transferred.”  2006 Purchase  Anadarko bought Kerr-McGee for $16.4 billion and an
estimated $1.6 billion of debt and other liabilities in a deal
announced in June 2006. The purchase was completed in August of
that year. Lawyers for the U.S. say they estimate the value of
assets transferred was $15 billion, and have added $10 billion
for interest and appreciation.  Those numbers seem high to analysts including Claps.  “The judge has said this should be remedial rather than
punitive,” he said, noting a Jan. 20 ruling in which Gropper
denied Anadarko’s request to cap damages while leaving open the
possibility that the U.S.’s claim could be limited. Anadarko has
also accused creditors of seeking a “windfall” because they’re
asking more than it would cost to satisfy the U.S.’s
environmental claims against Tronox.  Under the precedent of Mirant Corp., creditors can seek
more than the value of what they’re owed under fraudulent
transfer law, Cook said. In that case, an appeals court found
that Mirant, an energy company, had standing to pursue
recoveries from its lenders over a fraudulent transfer even
though unsecured creditors had already been repaid in full.  Tronox Settlement  The EPA’s claims against Kerr-McGee have already been
partly satisfied under a settlement between Tronox and the EPA.
Tronox paid $320 million to the EPA and said the agency could
have all the proceeds of its lawsuit against Anadarko to satisfy
the rest of its claims.  The EPA has never given a total estimated damages claim
related to Kerr-McGee. It said in court papers that the amounts
it seeks to clean up the sites are estimates, based on unpaid
past response costs, and potential future costs, for which
estimates could change. Many sites have been abandoned for
years, resulting in potential groundwater contamination and
other new issues, according to EPA records filed with court
documents.  The EPA’s settlement says that if the U.S. recovers more
than is needed to clean up the sites, the excess money will flow
first to sites in the same state, then to sites in other states,
and finally to its Superfund program, which cleans up the U.S.’s
most hazardous toxic sites.  Anadarko is “optimistic” about its chances of prevailing,
general counsel Bobby Reeves said in a May 1 conference call
with analysts.  Diminished Demand  Reeves said Tronox didn’t fail because it was overloaded
with environmental liabilities. Instead, it failed because the
economic and housing crisis diminished demand for its chemical
products, he said. The internal reorganization that separated
out oil and gas assets before the sale was “conducted for
totally legitimate business purposes and was not in any way done
with an intent to harm creditors,” he said.  Reeves also raised the possibility that even if the U.S. is
successful, its damages could be limited to about $800 million,
since this is closer to the value that Kerr-McGee got from
Tronox’s initial public offering. Kerr-McGee got $225 million
from equity sales and $537 million from debt issuance at the
time.  That argument could prevail, though there are also legal
precedents for “collapsing” multiple transactions into one
scheme as the U.S. has argued in its case, Cook said.  Real Question  “That’s the real question. Is it a one-step scheme or a
two-step scheme,” said Madlyn Primoff, a partner in the New
York office of Kaye Scholer LLP. “I would think the defendants
would argue this is two separate transactions and the purchase
of the good assets was valid and proper.”  In his Jan. 20 ruling, Gropper said Tronox overstates its
case when it “asserts that there are no limits on the recovery
of a plaintiff in a case such as this other than the value of
the fraudulently transferred property,” but doesn’t say what
other limits might be. He also noted that any claim Anadarko can
assert for value that it transferred into Tronox might be an
“offset” that could be deducted from any damages claim.  For now, both sides are still far apart on numbers;
Anadarko has taken charges of $525 million for the case, and
says that it’s best estimate as of this time as to what it will
ultimately cost the company.  Anadarko may have downplayed the Tronox case somewhat and
the amount of damages the U.S. is seeking has “caught some
people by surprise over the past couple of months,” Lutz said.  The bankruptcy case is Tronox Inc., 09-10156,  U.S.
Bankruptcy Court , Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tiffany Kary in New York at 
 tkary@bloomberg.net ;
Edward Klump in Houston at 
 eklump@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  