-- Manchester City Nears $40 Million Deal for Van Persie: Roundup
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2012-05-15T07:40:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-15/manchester-city-nears-40-million-deal-for-van-persie-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of soccer
stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable Internet links.  City in Pole Position  Premier League champion  Manchester City  is in the pole
position to sign Arsenal captain Robin  van Persie  for 25 million
pounds ($40.2 million), the  Daily Mirror  reported.  City is prepared to triple the 28-year-old Dutch striker’s
wages to 250,000 pounds a week to beat  Manchester United  and
Juventus to his signature, the Mirror added.  Arsenal Talks  Van Persie will tomorrow hold talks with Arsenal manager
Arsene Wenger about his future as he enters the final year of an
80,000-pounds-a-week contract, the Sun reported.  Arsenal is expected to offer Van Persie a new four-year
deal worth 130,000 pounds a week and a signing-on fee of 5
million pounds in an attempt to keep him, the newspaper added.  Swift Moves  City manager  Roberto Mancini  urged the club’s board to make
“swift and decisive” moves for Van Persie and Lille winger
Eden Hazard in the off-season, the  Daily Telegraph  reported.  Mancini has identified Napoli forward Edinson Cavani as an
alternative should Arsenal refuse to sell Van Persie, the
newspaper added.  Roberto’s Reward  Mancini will be offered a new four-year contract worth 20
million pounds as a reward for leading City to its first English
league title in 44 years, the Daily Express reported.  The 5 million-pounds-a-season deal will put Mancini
alongside Manchester United’s  Alex Ferguson  as the Premier
League’s best-paid manager, the newspaper added.  Villa Shortlist  Aston Villa is drawing up a shortlist of managerial
candidates after firing  Alex McLeish  yesterday, with Wigan’s
Roberto Martinez the early favorite for the post ahead of
Norwich’s Paul Lambert and Brendan Rodgers of Swansea, the
Guardian reported.  Dalglish Dash  Liverpool manager Kenny Dalglish flew to Boston to seek
clarity on his future from club owner Fenway Sports Group, which
is unhappy with the team’s eighth-place finish in the Premier
League, the Independent reported.  Fenway Sports has offered no public affirmation that
Dalglish retains its faith and players including defender  Martin
Skrtel  also want to know what the club’s aims and ambitions are,
the Independent added.  Kuyt Criticism  Liverpool striker Dirk Kuyt criticized Dalglish’s team
selection policy for affecting his form and said he’s being
forced out of the club, the Sun reported.  “Last season I was scoring goals all over the place, but
this season the manager bought three players who all played in
my position,” the Sun cited Kuyt as saying. “In the rotation
system he used, I never found my rhythm again and never felt my
old self.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  