-- Manufacturing in New York Region Rises More Than Forecast
-- B y   L o r r a i n e   W o e l l e r t
-- 2012-05-15T13:43:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-15/manufacturing-in-new-york-region-rises-more-than-forecast.html
Manufacturing in the  New York  region
expanded more than forecast in May as shipments surged and new
orders improved.  The Federal Reserve Bank of New York’s general  economic
index  increased to 17.1 this month from 6.6 in April. The median
estimate in a survey of Bloomberg economists called for an
increase to 9. Readings greater than zero signal expansion in
the so-called Empire State Index, which covers New York,
northern New Jersey and southern  Connecticut . The last negative
reading was in October.  Manufacturers in the U.S. are getting a boost as auto sales
running at the fastest pace in four years lift demand for goods
from glass and machinery to sound systems. The gain in the index
is a sign that other manufacturing gauges may show improvement,
said  Millan Mulraine , a senior U.S. strategist at TD Securities
in New York.  “The story is one of moving back towards trend not only in
manufacturing but in the overall economy as well,” Mulraine
said.  Other reports today showed that retail sales rose in April
at the slowest pace of the year as unseasonably mild pulled
consumers to stores the prior month, and consumer prices were
unchanged.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index rose 0.1 percent to
1,339.56 at 9:39 a.m. in New York. Treasuries pared losses after
Greek leaders meeting in Athens indicated that talks to form a
government had failed and elections will be held, boosting
demand for safe assets.  Economists’ Estimates  Estimates for the Empire State Index in the Bloomberg
survey of 57 economists ranged from 2 to 19.9.  The Empire State gauge of new orders rose to 8.3 in May
from 6.5 the month before, while the shipments measure jumped to
24.1 from 6.4.  The index of factory  employment  climbed to 20.5 in May from
19.3.  The index of prices paid decreased to 37.4 from 45.8 in
April. A measure of the factory workweek rose to 12.1 from 6.  Factory executives in the New York Fed’s district were less
optimistic about the future. A measure of the outlook six months
from now fell in May to 29.3 from 43.1 the month earlier.  Economists monitor the New York and Philadelphia Fed
factory reports for clues about the  Institute for Supply
Management ’s report on U.S. manufacturing. The Philadelphia
Fed’s gauge, to be released May 17, probably climbed to 10 in
May from 8.5 in April, according to the median estimate in a
Bloomberg survey of economists. ISM factory data will be
released June 1.  Car-Audio Systems  Manufacturing makes up 12 percent of the  U.S. economy  and
about 6 percent of the New York’s. Harman International
Industries Inc., a maker of car-audio systems based in  Stamford ,
Connecticut, got a record $2 billion contract in April from a
luxury European automaker whose name it didn’t disclose.  Middleby Corp. (MIDD) , a food equipment manufacturer in Elgin,
Illinois, is seeing strong demand from restaurant chains
expanding into  emerging markets .  “Clearly, there is some softness in  Europe  and that
detracted from our growth in the first quarter,” Chief
Financial Officer Timothy Fitzgerald said in a May 11 earnings
call. “But in the kind of the rest of the world,  Latin America ,
Asia,  Middle East , we’re still seeing strength.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lorraine Woellert in Washington at 
 lwoellert@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  