-- ANZ to Invest $300 Million in China, Expand to 20 Outlets
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-05-16T02:37:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-15/anz-to-inject-300-million-in-china-unit-expand-to-20-branches.html
Australia & New Zealand Banking Group
Ltd. (ANZ) ,  Australia ’s third-largest lender, plans to invest A$300
million ($300 million) and more than triple the size of its
network in  China , the world’s fastest-growing major economy.  The number of outlets will be increased to 20 in the next
five to 10 years, up from six now, the Melbourne-based lender
said yesterday. The capital increase, which is subject to
regulatory approval, is the first since the bank invested A$395
million while incorporating its Chinese unit in 2010.  ANZ Bank, one of Australia’s so-called four pillar lenders,
joined rivals such as HSBC Holdings Plc and DBS Group Holdings
Ltd. in adding to investments in China as demand for financial
services dropped in their home markets. Foreign banks’ combined
profit from China more than doubled to a  record  16.7 billion
 yuan  ($2.64 billion) last year.  “The economy is still very well-placed to expand,” Chief
Executive Officer  Mike Smith  said in an interview in Beijing
today. “At the moment, the emphasis has to be on business here
in China.”  ANZ Bank also plans to continue hiring in China at a pace
similar to the growth rate over the past four years, when the
lender increased its China workforce from less than 100 to close
to 700 people now, Smith said.  China is a “significant” part of the bank’s plan to earn
as much as 30 percent of profit from the Asia-Pacific region
outside Australia and  New Zealand  by 2017, Charles Li, chief
executive officer of ANZ China, said yesterday. The share was
about 15 percent in November, when the target was announced.  DBS, HSBC  Smith said today the expansion target is based on organic
growth. The bank has no immediate plan for an acquisition in
 Hong Kong  as “everything is still expensive,” he said.  DBS, Southeast Asia’s largest bank, said last month it
would inject 2.3 billion yuan into its Chinese unit, adding to a
4 billion yuan initial investment five years ago. HSBC, based in
 London , said in February it would like to increase its China
branch network almost eightfold toward 800 over the medium term.  ANZ Bank in March became the first Australian bank to
receive a license to provide yuan-denominated services,
including deposits and loans, for Chinese citizens. That will
enable it to tap local household savings, which amounted to 36.9
trillion yuan in March.  Shares of ANZ Bank fell 1.8 percent to A$21.73 in Sydney as
of 12:21 p.m., paring this year’s gain to 5.9 percent.
Australia’s benchmark S&P/ASX 200 index has increased 3.2
percent during the same period.  ANZ Bank is also seeking a banking license in  Thailand  this
year or next year, Smith said.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Jun Luo in Shanghai at 
 jluo6@bloomberg.net ;
Susan Li in Hong Kong at 
 sli31@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  