-- Apple, Publishers Lose Bid to Dismiss E-Book Class Action
-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 2012-05-15T20:59:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-15/apple-publishers-lose-motion-to-dismiss-e-book-antitrust-suit.html
Apple Inc. (AAPL)  and five book publishers
lost their bid to have a private antitrust suit over electronic
book pricing dismissed.  U.S. District Judge Denise Cote in Manhattan today denied a
request by the defendants to throw out the complaint by
plaintiffs seeking to represent a nationwide class of consumers
who bought e-books from the defendants. They claim Apple and the
publishers violated federal and California state law by agreeing
on e-book pricing.  The complaint “plausibly alleges that Apple and the
publisher defendants took part in a conspiracy in restraint of
trade, that an object of this conspiracy was to raise prices for
eBooks,” Cote said in an opinion denying the defendants’ motion
to dismiss the federal antitrust claims in the case.  Last month, the U.S. government sued Cupertino, California-
based Apple and the publishers -- Hachette SA, HarperCollins,
Macmillan, Penguin Group and  Simon & Schuster  -- claiming they
broke the law in setting prices for e-books. Cote is overseeing
the government suit in addition to actions filed by states over
e-book pricing and private antitrust claims filed in federal
court.  Overlapping Claims  The claims in the state cases overlap many of those in the
private class action, Michael Cole, the chief of Connecticut’s
antitrust department, told Cote in a hearing last month. As a
result, a settlement with all the states would resolve most of
the private claims, Cole said.  Erica Glass, a spokeswoman for  Pearson Plc (PSON) ’s Penguin Group
and Adam Rothberg, a spokesman for  CBS Corp. (CBS) ’s Simon & Schuster,
declined to comment on Cote’s ruling today.  Apple spokesman  Tom Neumayr , Sophie Cottrell, a spokeswoman
for Lagardère SCA’s Hachette Book Group, and Erin Crum, a
spokeswoman for  News Corp. (NWSA) ’s HarperCollins, didn’t immediately
return voice-mail messages seeking comment on the ruling.
Macmillan, a unit of Verlagsgruppe Georg von Holtzbrinck GmbH,
didn’t immediately respond to an e-mail seeking comment.  Before the defendants reached the pricing agreements that
the Justice Department and private claimants allege were
illegal, Seattle-based  Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN)  dominated the digital-
book market by offering titles at $9.99 each. Under the
contested agreements, publishers set prices for best-selling
books at $12.99 and $14.99, giving Apple a 30 percent cut.  The case is In Re Electronic Books Antitrust Litigation,
11-MD-2293, U.S. District Court, Southern District of  New York 
(Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Van Voris in New York at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  