-- Apple Helps Czech Mole Enter $21 Billion U.S. Toy Market
-- B y   L e n k a   P o n i k e l s k a
-- 2012-05-15T22:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-15/apple-helps-czech-mole-enter-21-billion-u-s-toy-market.html
Krtek, the Czech cartoon mole known
throughout communist  Europe  for decades, is seeking to break
into the $21 billion U.S. toy market with the help of  Apple Inc. (AAPL)   The launch of the stuffed-animal version of Krtek
(pronounced Kir-teck) aboard the U.S. Space Shuttle  Endeavour  on
this day last year spurred 22-year-old Czech student Karolina
Milerova, the granddaughter of Krtek’s late creator, Zdenek
Miler, to commission  IPad and IPhone apps  designed to entertain
kids from Prague to Peoria.  Exporting the six-decade-old “Little Mole” through new
media is a first step toward establishing the most popular Czech
animated icon in America to spur sales of books, movies and
toys. That would give local vendors, such as toymaker  Moravske
Ustredna  and publisher  Zeme Pohadek , a way to vie for the hearts
of children more used to such names as  Walt Disney Co.’s (DIS)   Mickey
Mouse  and Warner Bros’ Bugs Bunny.  “My granddad’s desires were to help kids and promote Krtek
more in the U.S.,” said Milerova. “IPad’s applications are a
great way to do both.”  Miler, an admirer of  Walt Disney ’s works who died last
November at age 90, created the  mole  to explain to kids living
in then-communist  Czechoslovakia  how linen is made. The first
cartoon was titled  “How Krtek Got His Pants.”   Communist Hit  The black-and-grey Krtek, with a bright red nose and saucer
eyes, soon became a hit across eastern Europe and spread to
other communist countries like Cuba and  China . He later was
introduced to western European countries, including France and
 Germany , where he is still popular as “der kleine Maulwurf.”  “Krtek has never had a foothold in the U.S.,” said
Blahoslav Dobes, the head of Moravska Ustredna, which donated
the Krtek stuffed animal to astronaut  Andrew Feustel  to carry
aboard the Endeavour and has already taken preliminary steps
into the U.S. market. “We think there’s a big potential. We
want to develop that market.”  Krtek’s easy transferability to other countries with
different languages lies in the fact that Krtek and his forest
friends don’t speak: Instead they hum, squeak, sigh, mumble and
chirp to communicate.  Miler also shunned violent behavior, putting him in
contrast with contemporary cartoon pals such as Tom and Jerry,
Bugs Bunny and the Road Runner, said film experts including
Lukas Gregor, an instructor at Filmova Skola Zlin.  Universal Understanding  “Miler put a lot of tenderness in his work,” said Zdenka
Deitchova, who worked with Miler at  Studio Bratri v Triku  and is
the wife of Gene Deitch, who helped draw American cartoon
characters such as Tom and Jerry, Popeye and Tom Terrific.
“Kids from all over the world understand them without the need
for further explanation.”  The production rights for most of Krtek’s 60 cartoons are
owned by  Zeme Pohadek , a Prague-based production and publishing
company that bought the rights from Kratky Film in 2003. It has
sold 2.2 million Krtek DVDs since then and owns licenses with
French, Chinese, German and Scandinavian broadcasters.  Moravska Ustredna holds the license to manufacture toys for
most of Europe, and countries like  Japan , China and  Russia .  After the 16-day final Endeavour flight, Feustel, who took
a book of Czech poetry with him on an earlier mission, and his
wife Indira, who has Czech roots, toured the  Czech Republic  to
promote science and technology to children.  Promoting Science  “We hope that through his adventures in space, children
and youth will become interested in math and science and
technology, and will grow those educational experiences toward
future careers,” Feustel said at the time.  Milerova, a student at Prague’s Anglo-American College, set
up the Zdenek Miler Foundation to manage charity work with kids
shortly after he died on Nov. 30, 2011. Miler, who liked the
idea, created a worldwide trademark for Karolina to allow her to
promote Krtek internationally.  The first app, a Krtek-themed Pexeso, which is a Czech
version of the game known as Concentration in the U.S., was
designed by  ULikeIT s.r.o ., a Czech app maker. A second e-
coloring book is in design. Proceeds from app sales go to the
foundation to help educate orphaned and disabled children.  “My grandfather was so happy to see Krtek on Endeavour,”
said Milerova. “I want to continue to promote Krtek over there
with books, movies and toys. I feel morally obliged to do so.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lenka Ponikelska in  Prague  at 
 lponikelska1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  