-- Harrisburg City Council Loses Bid to Reinstate Bankruptcy
-- B y   S t e v e n   C h u r c h
-- 2012-05-15T20:36:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-15/harrisburg-city-council-loses-bid-to-reinstate-bankruptcy.html
Harrisburg, Pennsylvania’s city
council members can’t challenge the dismissal of the city’s
bankruptcy, an appeals court ruled today.  The  U.S. Court of Appeals  in Philadelphia granted a request
by Harrisburg’s mayor and the County of Dauphin to block the
councilors attempt to appeal. The mayor, the county and the
state of Pennsylvania opposed the bankruptcy when it was filed
by a majority of the council in October.  U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Mary D.  France  in Harrisburg
dismissed the bankruptcy on Nov. 23, saying it wasn’t authorized
by state law. She later refused to let the council’s attorney,
 Mark Schwartz , challenge her ruling, saying that he waited too
long. Her decision was upheld by U.S. District Judge Sylvia H. Rambo, who called the effort to appeal to district court
“potentially frivolous.”  Schwartz said today he may ask the court to clarify the
ruling.  Harrisburg, a city of 49,500, is insolvent in part because
of $300 million in debt related to the overhaul and expansion of
a waste-to-energy plant that doesn’t generate enough revenue.
The city has missed payments related to the debt.  Pennsylvania  Governor Tom Corbett has appointed two
receivers with authority to impose a financial recovery plan on
the city. The first resigned earlier this year, citing
“political and ethical crosswinds.”  The second, retired U.S. Air Force Major General William B. Lynch, will seek to have his appointment confirmed by a state
court later this month.  The council’s appeal is Harrisburg v. AFSCME District
Council 90, 12-cv-00130, U.S. District Court, Middle District of
Pennsylvania (Harrisburg). The bankruptcy case was In re City of
Harrisburg, Pennsylvania, 1:11-bk-06938,  U.S. Bankruptcy Court ,
Middle District of Pennsylvania (Harrisburg).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steven Church in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 schurch3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at   jpickering@bloomberg.net  