-- Aussie Rises From 5-Month Low on Bets Declines Excessive
-- B y   M o n a m i   Y u i
-- 2012-05-15T06:40:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-15/aussie-trades-below-parity-for-second-day-on-europe-debt-concern.html
The Australian dollar rallied from an
almost five-month low as a technical indicator suggested its
recent decline was excessive.  The  New Zealand dollar , known as the kiwi, earlier slid to
a four-month low amid concern  Greece  will be forced to leave
 Europe ’s currency union, sapping demand for riskier assets.
Australian bonds rallied, sending yields to record lows, after
the Reserve Bank released minutes of its latest meeting when it
cut its key rate by half a percentage point.  “The Aussie looks to be taking a little breather here,”
said Takuya Kawabata, a researcher at Gaitame.com Research
Institute Ltd. in  Tokyo , a unit of Japan’s largest currency-
margin company. “The parity level is likely to present major
resistance for a while.”  Australia ’s dollar rose 0.4 percent to 99.93 U.S. cents as
of 4:35 p.m. in Sydney from the close in  New York  yesterday. It
earlier touched 99.45, the lowest since Dec. 20. The currency
strengthened 0.4 percent to 79.83 yen. The kiwi added 0.3
percent to 77.86 U.S. cents after falling to 77.52 cents, the
weakest since Dec. 30. It gained 0.3 percent to 62.18 yen.  The Australian dollar’s 14-day relative strength index
against its U.S. counterpart dipped to 28 yesterday, below the
30 level that some traders see as signaling an asset may reverse
direction. A similar gauge versus the yen fell to 26 yesterday.  Greek Political Turmoil  Greek President Karolos Papoulias will attempt to persuade
divided party leaders today to accept his proposal for a
government of prominent non-politicians to steer the country.
The nation may face another election unless leaders can agree on
a new coalition. European finance ministers are scheduled to
meet for a second day in Brussels.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index of stocks retreated 0.6
percent. The  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPX)  of U.S. equities lost
1.1 percent yesterday, while the MSCI World Index of developed-
market shares fell 1.5 percent.  “It’s just not at all clear what the endgame is in
Europe,” said  Sean Callow , a senior currency strategist in
Sydney at  Westpac Banking Corp. (WBC)  “While the Aussie doesn’t have
a huge direct link to Europe compared to some other currencies,
the sentiment does spill over into equities and into global risk
appetite in general, and that tends to be negative for both the
Aussie and kiwi.”  RBA Minutes  The  Reserve Bank  of Australia cut its overnight cash rate
target in a bid to revive below-average growth, counter rising
mortgage costs and shore up  consumer confidence , minutes of its
May 1 meeting showed. The RBA reduced its key rate by the most
in three years to 3.75 percent.  “Growth outside of the mining sector was expected to be
below trend in the near term, affected by the high  exchange
rate , softer  government spending  and subdued conditions in the
housing market and building industry,” according to the minutes
released today in Sydney. “With financial markets remaining
unsettled, the risks emanating from Europe continued to cloud
the global outlook.”  Traders are betting the RBA will cut its benchmark rate
further, with overnight index swaps indicating at least a 60
percent chance that it will fall to a record low 2.75 percent by
November, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The release of the minutes “does not contain a smoking gun
that would prime the market even more for a follow-up RBA rate
cut in June,” David de Garis, a senior economist at  National
Australia Bank Ltd. (NAB)  in Melbourne, wrote in a research note.
“Some further net domestic economic softening would be
necessary to support the case for easier monetary policy in the
September quarter.”  The swaps data indicates that there is an about 85 percent
probability that the next cut will occur as soon as June.  Australia’s bonds advanced, pushing the yield on all notes
maturing in three years or longer to record lows. The 10-year
rate dropped as much as eight basis points to 3.201 percent,
while the 15-year yield touched 3.535 percent and the three-year
rate fell to 2.535 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Monami Yui in Tokyo at 
 myui1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  