-- Australia Pledges $300 Million Toward Afghan Transition Process
-- B y   J a s o n   S c o t t
-- 2012-05-15T23:49:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-15/australia-pledges-300-million-toward-afghan-transition-process.html
Australia, a military ally of the
U.S., will contribute $300 million starting 2015 to support
Afghanistan’s forces after the Asian nation becomes responsible
for its own security, Prime Minister  Julia Gillard  said today.  The government will contribute $100 million a year for
three years, Gillard, who attends a North Atlantic Treaty
Organization summit on Afghanistan in  Chicago  on May 20-21, said
in a statement.  Australia has about 1,500 troops in Afghanistan and said
last month the majority of its forces will withdraw by as early
as mid-2013. During a surprise visit to Afghanistan earlier this
month, President  Barack Obama  defended the 2014 deadline for
NATO members to transfer all combat operations to Afghan
security forces.  “To consolidate and build on the security gains of the
transition strategy, the Afghan National Security Forces will
need ongoing funding and training and mentoring support,”
Gillard, who spoke by telephone with Obama yesterday, said in
the statement. “ Australia  has a vital national interest in
supporting Afghanistan’s stability and security after
transition.”  Gillard and Obama “discussed their shared objectives” for
the Chicago summit, including the importance of “support for
Afghanistan’s security and economic development beyond 2014,”
the prime minister’s office said in a statement yesterday.  Australia announced May 8 it will cut defense spending by
A$5.4 billion ($5.4 billion) over four years as Gillard attempts
to return the budget to surplus next year. The prime minister is
allowing 2,500 U.S. Marines to be based in the northern city of
Darwin after agreeing with Obama last year to increase
cooperation and allow a greater regional presence for American
forces.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jason Scott  in Canberra at 
 jscott14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  