-- Tax-Evasion Law Will Harm U.S. Asset Managers, BlackRock Says
-- B y   A l e x i s   L e o n d i s
-- 2012-05-15T14:51:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-15/tax-evasion-law-will-harm-u-s-asset-managers-blackrock-says.html
Proposed regulations from the
 Internal Revenue Service  that aim to prevent  tax evasion  by
Americans with offshore accounts may hurt U.S. asset managers
that offer funds to investors abroad.  Portfolio managers of global funds may not want to purchase
U.S. securities because the funds would be subject to  Fatca , or
the Foreign Account Tax Compliance Act, if they invest in U.S.
securities, Harris Horowitz, head of global tax for  BlackRock
Inc. (BLK) , said in a telephone interview. Foreign investors may also
choose not to invest in funds that have U.S. securities because
if they work with a foreign broker who isn’t compliant, they
could be penalized, Horowitz said.  “We’re concerned about the reputation of the U.S. asset-
management industry and the products that we offer impairing our
relative competitiveness to others,” said Horowitz, who’s also
a managing director at the New York-based firm, which is the
world’s largest money manager. “We think it could change
investor behavior.”  Horowitz is testifying at a hearing today held by the IRS
on Fatca, which is scheduled to take effect in phases beginning
Jan. 1, 2013. The IRS could amend how and when some aspects of
the rules are implemented. It can’t rescind the law.  The 2010 law requires financial institutions based outside
the U.S. to obtain and report information about income and
interest payments accrued to the accounts of American clients.
Foreign financial institutions that hold U.S. securities are
subject to Fatca as are foreign investors who buy funds with
U.S. securities in the portfolios.  Local Funds  The 2010 Fatca law generally applies a 30 percent
witholding tax on payments on U.S. securities to foreign
financial institutions that don’t comply.  Foreign investors will be more likely to choose local funds
over U.S. funds, even if they’re cross listed on local exchanges
and have better performance, because they won’t want to file the
onerous paperwork, said Horowitz. That could reduce the
liquidity of products like U.S. exchange-traded funds, he said.  Fatca may also result in jobs being exported overseas
because U.S. asset managers such as BlackRock would rather
create, list and organize funds abroad since there will be
separate funds for foreign investors who invest in non-U.S.
securities, said Horowitz.  “We just think the way the IRS is going about it should be
considerate and more focused on high risk,” Horowitz said.
“It’s like shooting a mouse with an elephant gun -- it’s a
little overbearing.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alexis Leondis in  New York  
 aleondis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  