-- Taxpayers Pay as Fracking Trucks Overwhelm Rural Cow Paths
-- B y   J i m   E f s t a t h i o u   J r .
-- 2012-05-15T16:19:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-15/taxpayers-pay-as-fracking-trucks-overwhelm-rural-cow-paths-1-.html
When natural-gas drillers arrived in
Wetzel County, West Virginia, resident Bill Hughes, a retired
electrician, saw the benefits of producing a fuel that burns
cleaner than coal. Then oversize trucks hauling drilling
supplies began tearing up local roads, creating hazardous
conditions.  “The bastards are just in too much of a hurry,” Hughes
said, recalling an incident when a dump truck tried to pass him
on one of the county’s narrow, two-lane roads that have suffered
from the pounding of the trucks.  A surge in hydraulic fracturing to get gas and oil trapped
in rock means drillers need to haul hundreds of truckloads of
sand, water and equipment for a single well. Drilling that added
jobs and  tax revenue  for many states also has increased traffic
on roads too flimsy to handle the 80,000-pound (36,300 kilogram)
trucks that serve well sites.  The resulting road damage will cost tens of millions of
dollars to fix and is catching officials from Pennsylvania to
Texas off guard. Measures to ensure that roads are repaired
don’t capture the full cost of damage, potentially leaving
taxpayers with the bill, according to  Lynne Irwin , director of
 Cornell University ’s local roads program in Ithaca, New York.  “It’s the Wild West,” Irwin said in an interview.
“Everybody is making up their own rules.”  Texas Pays $40 Million  The Texas Department of Transportation has formed a  task
force  to study the impact of energy development on roads,
according to department spokesman Mark Cross. Last month, the
state’s Transportation Commission approved $40 million to repair
roads near the  Barnett Shale  in North Texas and the Eagle Ford
Shale in South Texas.  The  Wyoming  Legislature has commissioned a study of roads
in the southeastern part of the state near the Niobrara Shale
formation in anticipation of drilling for oil. One goal is to
determine how much money must be allocated for road maintenance
and how local governments should be compensated, according to
Khaled Ksaibati, professor of civil engineering at the
University of Wyoming where the study is being conducted.  The result will be a “baseline on the current condition of
those local roads and how much traffic they can take before we
get to failure,” Ksaibati said in an interview.  New York Costs  While  New York  state has yet to allow fracking for gas, it
is weighing the potential impacts on roads. A draft study last
year from the state’s  Department of Transportation  found that
“hundreds of miles of roads and scores of bridges” would need
to be reconstructed to handle gas industry trucks at a cost of
$211 million to $378 million.  “The potential transportation impacts are ominous,” the
study found.  In Pennsylvania and West Virginia, where advances in
technology have opened the Marcellus Shale to drillers,
officials are catching up to road-use issues, Irwin said.
Operators unfamiliar with local conditions such as when roads
freeze and thaw are worsening conditions, according to Tim
Ziegler, field operations specialist at the Larson
Transportation Institute at  Pennsylvania  State University.  “Basically, it is a collision of 21st century industry and
19th century roads, or improved cow paths,” Ziegler said in an
e-mail.  ‘Pie-Crust’ Roads  Drillers in Pennsylvania must agree to maintain low-volume
or “pie-crust” roads, streets that may have only two inches of
asphalt over dirt, before the state will allow heavy truck
traffic, according to Scott Christie, deputy secretary for
highway administration at the Pennsylvania  Department of
Transportation .  Producers are tapping into Pennsylvania’s portion of the
Marcellus Shale, a formation stretching from New York to
 Tennessee  that may hold enough gas to supply the U.S. for three
years.  “When they first arrived I would say we were slightly
behind,” Christie said in an interview. “In some cases the
ruts were two-feet deep. In some cases the roads were almost
impassable.”  Even newer roads are vulnerable. A portion of U.S. Highway
2 near Williston,  North Dakota , completed in 2004, is already
being reconstructed, Jamie Olson, a spokesman for the state
Department of Transportation, said in an e-mail. Traffic across
the state has increased 10 percent in the past year, and 25
percent near the  Bakken Shale  formation, where oil is being
produced.  Exceed Projections  “We are reconstructing a portion of this roadway because
the accumulated traffic loading has already exceeded the 20-year
projection,” Olson said.  Local officials in charge of rural roads don’t have the
means to calculate how much damage the gas industry has done and
will typically overcharge by requiring replacement roads, Irwin
said. Officials who oversee highways and interstates have yet to
begin assessing the impacts from the gas industry, which shares
the road with other heavy haulers.  “It could go either way,” Irwin said. “There’s methods
available to figure out what would be the correct amount. I
don’t see a good model yet to point to.”  Gas drillers provide jobs, tax income, and other indirect
benefits, according to a December report from energy researcher
IHS  Global Insight . Shale gas production supported more than
600,000 jobs in 2010, a number that includes people who work at
well sites as well as “indirect jobs” in associated industries
such as lawyers, cement makers and real-estate agents.  ‘Still Safe’  “We want to make sure we work with them to keep those
pluses going and also make sure the roadways are still safe,”
Cross said.  West Virginia  also requires drillers to sign maintenance
agreements and post a bond to cover the cost of repairs, said
Gary Clayton, regional maintenance engineer with the state
 Department of Transportation . Drillers must have road
contractors on standby to make repairs as needed.  “They don’t all come as rapidly as we would like them
to,” Clayton said in an interview. “In most cases outside of a
few, we’ve been able to maintain the roads in near the original
condition.”  The state has yet to take action against a driller for
failing to comply with its road maintenance obligations, Clayton
said. West Virginia has issued more than 275 road permits. About
3,000 miles (4,827 kilometers) of state roads are being used in
gas production.  Wet Gas  Chesapeake Energy Corp. (CHK)  has seven drilling rigs in West
Virginia’s Northern Panhandle, according to Scott Rotruck, vice
president of corporate development and state government
relations for the Oklahoma City-based producer. Wells in the
region produce wet gas that includes liquids such as ethylene,
used to manufacture plastics, and propane, that can fetch twice
as much as dry gas.  West Virginia roads were not built to handle heavy trucks
needed for shale development, Rotruck said in remarks prepared
for an April 11  hearing  of the Senate Commerce, Science and
Transportation in Fairmont, West Virginia. Chesapeake, the
biggest natural-gas driller in the U.S. after  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM) ,
has spent $61 million on roads in West Virginia in 2011 and
plans to spend $93 million this year, Rotruck said.  “We reinforce, rebuild, and repair roads, as the situation
dictates, to keep them safe and passable,” Rotruck said.
“Chesapeake realizes and takes very seriously, our
responsibility for safety.”  Wetzel County  While Hughes said Chesapeake “has been pretty good about
road maintenance,” some companies delay repairs as they add new
wells to a drilling site. Drilling began in Wetzel County, about
90 miles southwest of Pittsburgh, in 2007.  As a result, drivers end up losing mufflers or, in some
cases, taking longer routes to avoid damaged roads, Hughes said.
The idea that taxpayers won’t bear the cost of road damage is
“ridiculous,” he said.  “Maintenance as they go, not when they’re done, that’s the
issue,” Hughes said. “They don’t want to do it in between
because they know they’re going to damage them again.”  West Virginia was unprepared for the scale of drilling-
truck damage, according to John Gruzinskas, sheriff of Marshall
County, north of Wetzel County. Drivers hired by drilling
companies were “disrespectful” of local residents, Gruzinskas,
said at the April 11 hearing. His office lacks the authority or
manpower to police the industry,  “Our roads are destroyed from these overloaded vehicles,
and our state is a willing participant in this destruction,”
Gruzinskas said in remarks prepared for the hearing. “The
drivers are not familiar with our winding narrow roads. Many of
our residents are run off the road by the large trucks.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Efstathiou Jr. in New York at 
 jefstathiou@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  