-- Taxpayers Fund $454,000 Pay for Collector Chasing Student Loans
-- B y   J o h n   H e c h i n g e r
-- 2012-05-15T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-15/taxpayers-fund-454-000-pay-for-collector-chasing-student-loans.html
Joshua Mandelman made $454,000 in a
single year as a student-loan debt collector -- more than twice
the pay of the U.S. secretary of education.  His boss, Richard Boyle, chief executive officer of
 Educational Credit Management Corp. , received $1.1 million in
2010, including commuting expenses from his ranch in  New Mexico .
Five other managers each took home more than $400,000.  ECMC, a  Minnesota  nonprofit group, owes its success to an
18-year-old agreement with the U.S. government. The company
charges fees to borrowers and earns commissions from taxpayers
-- totaling as much as 31 percent -- when it collects on
defaulted student loans. Those rich rewards, which are approved
by Congress, are sparking criticism that ECMC and similar
collection agencies are reaping a bonanza from former students’
pain.  The loan program “is enriching collection agencies and
undermining a goal we all want for society -- to encourage
people to go to college,” Robert Shireman, a former deputy
undersecretary of education under President  Barack Obama , said
in a telephone interview.  ECMC is one of 32 little-known “guaranty agencies” that
play a key role in the world of higher-education finance. They
oversee  student loans  for the U.S. Education Department, which
began its lending program in 1965. The groups guarantee loans
made by banks and other private lenders. They promise to repay
the lenders if borrowers don’t. If the agencies can’t recover
the money, the federal government takes over the loan, shifting
the risk to taxpayers.  Scholarship Money  ECMC says it helps keep federal financial-aid programs
solvent by recovering taxpayer money. Since its founding in
1994, the company has returned $4.3 billion to the  U.S.
Treasury , said Dave Hawn, ECMC’s chief operating officer.  The agency’s collectors steer borrowers into affordable
payment plans, repairing their credit and turning their lives
around, Hawn said in a telephone interview. ECMC also funds more
than $20 million a year in college scholarships for low-income
students and runs financial-literacy and higher-education
counseling programs.  “I’m really proud of what we do as an organization,” Hawn
said.  ECMC’s debt collectors earn bonuses as a reward for
extracting money from defaulted borrowers. In 2010, the bonuses
for top performers amounted to as much as 10 times their base
salaries, which ranged from about $33,000 to $46,000, according
to the company’s tax return.  Highest-Paid Collector  Mandelman’s $454,000 was more than double his pay in 2006,
making him ECMC’s highest-paid collector, tax records show. Four
other debt collectors took home between $301,000 and $389,000 in
2010.  In an interview outside his home in  Minneapolis , Mandelman,
32, said he works 12-hour days helping borrowers get their
finances back on track. Thank-you notes cover his desk, he said.  “I did well,” said Mandelman, part-owner of the Amsterdam
Bar and Hall, a restaurant and nightclub in nearby St. Paul. “I
worked hard. I also helped a lot of people.”  U.S. higher-education debt is sounding alarms in  Washington 
as defaults more than doubled since 2003, to $67 billion.
Congress is debating whether to halt the doubling of  interest
rates  on some student loans in July. With college costs soaring,
outstanding student loans have spiraled over $1 trillion,
surpassing credit-card debt.  In March, the Obama administration proposed changing how it
regulates the student-loan debt collectors it hires, amid
complaints they insist on stiff payments, even when borrowers’
incomes make them eligible for leniency.  The Education Department declined to discuss compensation
at ECMC, referring questions to the company.  ‘Personal Profit’  “We don’t think anyone working on our behalf should put
personal profit ahead of serving the best interests of
students,”  Justin Hamilton , a department spokesman, said in an
e-mail. “Much of the loan-collection work carried out by
guaranty agencies is defined by congressional statute. Some of
those policies deserve a second look and we welcome a
conversation with Congress about how they can help us with
that.”  As ECMC’S debt collectors have prospered, so has Boyle, the
CEO.  Boyle -- a former executive with  SLM Corp. (SLM) , the largest
U.S. student-loan company, known as  Sallie Mae  -- received
$271,000 in 2002. His compensation rose to $618,000 in 2004,
$852,000 in 2008 and $1.1 million in 2010, making him the
highest-paid head of a guaranty agency.  Carl Dalstrom, who leads Indianapolis-based United Student
Aid Funds Inc., the largest guaranty agency, got $775,000.  Commuting Expenses  As part of Boyle’s compensation, ECMC pays for his
commuting expenses and then reimburses him for the taxes he owes
on those expenses, a payment known as a “tax gross up,”
according to the company’s tax filing. Besides salary and bonus,
his pay includes deferred compensation and benefits.  Boyle lives on a 715-acre ranch in Youngsville, New Mexico,
with 26 head of cattle, property records show.  The 64-year-old CEO makes two or three trips a month to
ECMC’s headquarters in Oakdale, Minnesota, near  St. Paul , Hawn
said. Boyle, who declined to be interviewed, also travels to
ECMC offices in Sacramento and Indianapolis, Hawn said.  Boyle flies coach on commercial flights when commuting,
Hawn said. Until recently, Boyle stayed in an apartment paid for
by the company. He now stays in hotels, Hawn said.  Only “a small number” of ECMC’s 90 debt collectors
received pay in the $300,000 to $400,000 range, Hawn said. On
average, they earn about $77,000 a year, he said.  Incentive Changes  ECMC itself decided that debt-collector bonuses were
excessive. Last year, the company changed its incentive policy,
making it difficult for collectors to earn more than $150,000 a
year. ECMC took action to “get our compensation for that team
in line with the market,” Hawn said.  The company stands by its executive pay. Rising management
compensation reflects ECMC’s growth, said Hawn, who received
$541,000 in 2010.  Since Boyle became CEO in 1999, revenue tripled, to $168
million, as the company took over the portfolios of guaranty
agencies in Oregon, Connecticut and  California . Under the
company’s charter, the Education Department turns to ECMC as the
go-to organization to take charge of troubled agencies.  Boyle also used excess revenue to buy related businesses
that aren’t tax-exempt, including  Premiere Credit of North
America LLC , which chases patients for medical bills and parents
for child support, as well as students for loan payments.  Directors’ Compensation  When setting executive pay, ECMC directors consider
compensation inside and outside the charitable world, Hawn said.
Under IRS rules, nonprofit companies must demonstrate they
aren’t paying their employees excessively. ECMC directors hire
independent compensation consultants to ensure they are in
compliance, he said. Fees paid to company directors have about
tripled during Boyle’s tenure, to as much as $90,000 a year.  The company benefits financially from federal student-loan
collectors’ powers under U.S. law. Unlike those chasing credit-
card borrowers, student-loan collectors can confiscate wages
without a court order and seize tax refunds and Social Security
checks. There is no statute of limitation on collecting student
loans, which are rarely discharged through bankruptcy.  In February, an ECMC debt collector phoned Susan Raposa, a
61-year-old special-education teacher, telling her to pay or
face wage garnishment, Raposa said. ECMC now seizes $600 a month
on behalf of the federal government -- keeping $96 -- or 16
percent -- as its fee.  As a single mother, Raposa said she struggled to pay off
her student-loan balance -- now $47,000 -- since she graduated
from Bridgewater State College in  Massachusetts  in 1992.  ‘My Fair Share’  “I absolutely want to pay my fair share,” said Raposa, who
lives in Raynham, Massachusetts, about 35 miles south of  Boston .
“But I’m going to live poorer than people on welfare.”  ECMC won’t discuss borrowers because of consumer
confidentiality, Hawn said.  Like all guaranty agencies, ECMC receives more money
collecting from borrowers like Raposa than it does keeping them
from defaulting in the first place.  Agencies get 1 percent of a borrower’s loan amount for
preventing a default through counseling. That’s $250 on a
$25,000 loan, the current average of a student leaving college,
according to the Education Department.  Once borrowers default, or fail to make payments for 270
days or more, the financial rewards for collectors multiply.  Under government rules,  guaranty agencies  add collection
costs -- currently as much as 25 percent -- to a borrower’s loan
balance. They also keep 16 percent of any money recovered.  Hitting the Jackpot  If an agency “rehabilitates” a loan -- getting borrowers
to make nine payments in 10 months -- it gets a jackpot.  By law, the organizations can receive as much as 37 percent
of a borrower’s entire loan amount, half in collection costs and
half in taxpayer-funded commissions. ECMC says it typically
collects 31 percent, or $7,750 on a $25,000 loan. That’s 31
times what it can make for preventing the default through
counseling.  In 2010, ECMC generated $131 million from collections, or
about three quarters of its revenue, compared with about $17
million from programs aimed at preventing default.  In terms of caseload, ECMC devotes more employees to
default prevention than collections, Hawn said. The company
averages 77 default-prevention workers for 241,000 delinquent
borrowers in need of counseling. It has about 90 debt collectors
for 557,000 borrowers in default.  ‘Poorly Aligned Incentives’  Guaranty agencies now rely even more on collections after
the Obama administration in 2010 stopped private lenders from
offering federal student loans. The Education Department has
since issued all new loans directly -- cutting out a major
source of fees for guaranty agencies.  Last year, Education Secretary  Arne Duncan , whose annual
salary is just under $200,000, asked the guaranty agencies to
choose either debt collection or default prevention. He cited
“poorly aligned incentives” because agencies make so much more
money collecting on defaults.  The request was voluntary, and two dozen agencies submitted
proposals. ECMC wasn’t one of them.  American Student Assistance, a guaranty agency in Boston,
proposed getting paid based on the loans it keeps current.  “You shouldn’t profit from defaulted borrowers” as a
public-service organization, said Paul Combe, who received
$364,300 in 2010 as CEO of the agency.  Defaults Prevented  The National Council of Higher Education Loan Programs,
which represents guaranty agencies, says the organizations
prevented 88 percent of seriously delinquent loans from
defaulting in 2009, the most recent year for which data is
available.  “There’s no factual basis for this claim that the
incentives are misaligned,” Shelly Repp, president of the
Washington-based council, said in a telephone interview,
referring to Duncan’s comments.  Off a highway interchange in Oakdale, ECMC operates from a
two-story brick building in an office park across from a Target
store and McDonald’s restaurant. There is no sign out front, or
in the reception area.  Prized Pinata  Debt collectors work in a “cubicle farm” in a one-story
building attached to the main office, according to Shane
Kussatz, ECMC’s former director of collections support. There,
supervisors would hang pinatas over top producers’ desks, while
automatic dialers and other computer systems helped the company
track down more borrowers, he said.  “There was a lot of talk about operating as a nonprofit
company,” said Kussatz, who took a buyout in January after 12
years at the company. “At the end of the day, our job was to
collect debt. I didn’t fool myself.”  ECMC emphasized collections, according to Paul Fiedler, who
worked as a default-prevention counselor from 2004 through 2009
in Richmond, Virginia.  The company asked counselors to call as many as 500
borrowers a month to get them back on track with their payments,
said Fiedler. Under the federal program, he could let borrowers
defer payments or temporarily reduce outlays because of a job
loss or other hardship.  During Fiedler’s night shifts, counselors were expected to
stay at their desks, except for bathroom breaks, said Fielder,
67. He left ECMC after it shut down the Richmond office.  “It was an endless job,” Fiedler said in a telephone
interview. “I don’t know why they didn’t hire more people. A
lot of borrowers fell through the cracks. There were not enough
hours in the day to get to them.”  Including monthly bonuses tied to his record of preventing
defaults, Fiedler earned in the mid-$40,000-a-year range, he
said. ECMC’s Hawn said collectors make more than counselors
because recovering money from borrowers is “significantly more
challenging.”  Default-prevention counselors clamored for the rare
openings in debt-collection, Fiedler said.  “Everyone knew that’s where the big money was,” Fiedler
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Hechinger in Boston at 
 jhechinger@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lisa Wolfson at   lwolfson@bloomberg.net ; 