-- Canadian Banks Not Immune to Housing-Related Failures
-- B y   A n d r e w   M a y e d a
-- 2012-05-15T13:22:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-15/banks-not-immune-to-housing-related-failures-corporate-canada.html
Canada ’s banks, ranked the soundest
on the planet by the  World Economic Forum , aren’t immune to
collapses triggered by falling housing  prices,  according to the
government official implementing new mortgage rules.  Previous failures of Canadian financial institutions were
due to bad real estate lending and sharp falls in housing
prices, and these can happen again, Vlasios Melessanakis,
manager of policy development at the  Office  of the
Superintendent of Financial Institutions, wrote in documents
obtained by Bloomberg News under freedom-of-information law. The
last failure in Canada was in 1996.  “Canada is not immune,” Melessanakis wrote March 21 in
internal notes responding to a posting on a mortgage-industry
website. “Just because nothing happened in Canada in 2008 (a
U.S.-centered crisis), does not mean that Canada is not
vulnerable to a housing correction now.”  The comments underscore tension between policy makers and
mortgage lenders as a booming housing market helps drive profits
at banks. Finance Minister  Jim Flaherty  has tightened mortgage
rules three times and put the federal housing agency’s books
under regulator oversight, while Bank of Canada Governor  Mark Carney  has repeatedly warned household debt is the economy’s
biggest domestic risk.  Participants at Bloomberg’s Canada Economic Summit in
Toronto last week, including the head of the country’s biggest
bank, downplayed talk of a housing bubble even after Canadian
housing starts rose to the highest since September 2007 last
month.  Pockets of Vulnerability  “When we look at the overall marketplace, there might be
pockets of vulnerability but we remain quite comfortable,”
 Gordon Nixon , chief executive officer of  Royal Bank (RY)  of Canada,
said May 8. “Frankly, I’d like to see the rhetoric come down a
little bit.”  Melessanakis wrote his comments to colleagues in response
to a posting on a mortgage-industry website,  Canadian Mortgage
Trends , that criticized proposed  standards  published by Canada’s
top banking regulator on March 19.  Ottawa-based OSFI suggested requiring lenders to take
“reasonable steps” to verify borrower incomes, establish
standards for measuring borrowers’ ability to pay their debts,
and limit the size of loans secured by the equity in people’s
homes. The draft guidelines are based on mortgage-lending
principles set by the  Financial Stability Board , a Basel-based
group that coordinates global financial rules.  Unsound Fundamentals  “How many new lending ‘guidelines’ can the market bear
before it breaks?” wrote Robert McLister, a mortgage planner
who edits the website.  “The market may break because the fundamentals are not
sound (i.e. overvaluation of homes), not because of OSFI
guidance,” Melessanakis wrote in response.  A spokesman for the regulator said Melessanakis’s remarks
don’t reflect the regulator’s official position. While they were
shared with the agency’s communications and consultation
division, they were not sent to superintendent Julie Dickson,
spokesman Brock Kruger said in an e-mail.  There’s “no question” the proposed OSFI guidelines will
curb demand and hurt housing prices, McLister said in an
interview. “OSFI had good intentions here, but some of this
policy is certainly misguided,” he said, when asked to react to
Melessanakis’ comments.  Canadian existing home sales rose 0.8 percent in April from
the previous month and 11.5 percent from a year earlier, the
 Canadian Real Estate Association  said in a statement today.
The average home price rose 0.9 percent from April 2011, the
group said in a statement.  Strongest Banks  Melessanakis referred a request for comment to OSFI’s
communications staff.  Four Canadian banks were among the world’s six strongest in
Bloomberg’s second annual rankings.  Canadian Imperial Bank of
Commerce  was No. 3, followed by  Toronto-Dominion Bank (TD)  (No. 4),
 National Bank of Canada (NA)  (No. 5) and Royal Bank (No. 6).  Lenders have been increasingly skeptical of the need for
new rules to cool the housing market. The government should hit
the “pause” button and take stock of regulations introduced
since the financial crisis,  Terry Campbell , president of the
Canadian Bankers Association, said in an April 3  speech .  In January last year, Flaherty reduced the amortization
period on mortgages backed by the government to 30 years from
35, the  third time  since 2008 he has tightened rules for home
loans.  Strengthening Oversight  Flaherty introduced  legislation  April 26 that includes
measures to strengthen oversight of Canada Mortgage & Housing
Corp., a government-owned mortgage insurer. The law allows OSFI
to review CMHC’s books at least once a year, and prohibits banks
from using insured mortgages to back covered bonds, which
lenders have been issuing to fund their home-lending business.  OSFI’s Dickson said in a May 9  speech  that Canadian banks
should not be “lulled into a false sense of security” by steps
policy makers are taking to prevent another financial crisis.  McLister pointed to banks’ low arrears rates on mortgages
as evidence more rules aren’t needed. Melessanakis wasn’t
convinced.  “This can change fast,” he wrote in his notes. “Are the
banks equipped to handle a 40 percent drop (what occurred in
Toronto market in early 1990’s)? Need to stress test to find
out.”  McLister called the idea of a 40 percent decline in housing
prices across the country “farcical.” Such a decline is “not
going to happen, period. But in some places like  Vancouver ,
maybe Toronto, obviously you’re going to have greater risk there
of price volatility,” he said by telephone.  HELOC Rules  OSFI’s guidelines suggest lenders limit home-equity lines
of credit to 65 percent of the property’s value. The regulator
also recommends that HELOCs be paid off over a specific
amortization period, like conventional mortgages.  While McLister wrote that those rules “portend a big
slowdown in HELOCs,” Melessanakis responded that the loans have
“contributed significantly to growing overall  household debt .”  “This is not sustainable,” he wrote. “If (or when)
housing prices drop, households will be vulnerable,” echoing
comments made by Flaherty and Carney.  Melessanakis also disputed McLister’s point that many of
OSFI’s recommendations are already employed by “scores of
lenders.” “Not all, and not on a consistent basis,” the OSFI
official said. “There are some enhancements in lending
practices that are needed.”  Last Failure  Melessanakis doesn’t name specific lenders in his comments.
OSFI  regulates  151 deposit-taking institutions, including 77
banks as well as trusts, loan companies and  credit unions .  The last financial institution failure in Canada occurred
in 1996, when Security Home Mortgage Corp. collapsed, according
to the Canada Deposit Insurance Corp., a government agency that
insures deposits. Security Home Mortgage had assets of C$65
million ($64.8 million) the year before it failed.  Eighteen financial institutions failed in the 1990s,
including Confederation  Life Insurance Co., which had C$19.2
billion in assets at the end of 1993. There were 23 failures in
the 1980s, including Northland Bank, which had C$1 billion in
assets.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Mayeda in Ottawa  at 
 amayeda@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  