-- Berkshire Takes GM Stake as Buffett Deputies Buy Stocks
-- B y   N o a h   B u h a y a r
-- 2012-05-16T20:14:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-15/berkshire-discloses-stake-in-gm-as-buffett-bets-on-stocks.html
Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A)  disclosed
stakes in  General Motors Co. (GM)  and  Viacom Inc. (VIAB)  as former hedge-
fund managers Todd Combs and Ted Weschler built portfolios under
Chairman  Warren Buffett .  Buffett’s firm had 10 million shares of the automaker on
March 31, Omaha, Nebraska-based Berkshire said yesterday in a
filing disclosing U.S. stockholdings. The stake in New York-
based Viacom was about 1.59 million shares. The filing excludes
some confidential data.  Buffett, who also is Berkshire’s chief executive officer,
has been preparing the company for his eventual departure, in
part by hiring Weschler and Combs to help oversee investments.
The 81-year-old billionaire has said he makes Berkshire’s larger
wagers, while the back-up stock pickers are responsible for
smaller bets. Each oversees $2.75 billion, Buffett said May 5 at
the company’s annual meeting.  “There’s a pent-up demand for cars in this country,
because of the financial crisis,”  David Kass , a professor at
the University of Maryland’s Robert H. Smith School of Business,
said in a phone interview. Buffett’s stock pickers “had an
opportunity to buy at an attractive price, well below the
initial public offering price,” he said.  GM jumped 2.3 percent to $21.91 at 4 p.m. in  New York  and
averaged about $25.15 during the first quarter. The U.S.
government, which backed the company’s 2009 bankruptcy, sold
shares in a public  offering  in 2010 for $33 each.  Jim Cain , a GM
spokesman, said the automaker doesn’t comment on investors
buying or selling its shares.  Vehicle Sales  Americans put off purchases of new cars and trucks during
the recession, sending the average age of vehicles on U.S. roads
to a record high of 10.8 years, according to researcher R.L.
Polk & Co., based in Southfield, Michigan.  GM is benefiting from a recovering U.S. auto market, on
pace for its best vehicle sales since 2007, and growth in China
that helped the carmaker reclaim global industry leadership in
annual deliveries last year. CEO Dan Akerson has introduced
models such as the Sonic small car and ATS luxury sedan to push
Chevrolet and Cadillac as global brands.  “GM has a lot of good product in the showroom and product
coming in 2013,” said David Kudla, who manages about $1 billion
as CEO of Mainstay Capital Management. “When we look at the
economy, at the fundamentals of the industry and the company,
the stock’s a buy.”  Viacom Stake  Berkshire’s stake in Viacom, the owner of  MTV  and  Paramount
Pictures , recalls Weschler’s holding of Liberty Media Corp. when
he was running hedge fund Peninsula Capital Advisors LLC, said
the  University of Maryland ’s Kass. Viacom advanced 0.6 percent
in New York trading.  Buffett’s firm reported a holding in Liberty Media last
year and almost doubled its investment in the Englewood,
Colorado-based communications and entertainment company, to 3
million shares in the first quarter.  Buffett, the world’s third-richest person, and Berkshire
Vice Chairman Charles Munger built a reputation for buying
equities and companies below their intrinsic value and reaping
gains as prices rose. The stock picks are watched by mutual
funds and individuals looking for clues about their strategy.  “The beauty of stocks is that they do sell at silly prices
from time to time,” Buffett said at the annual meeting.
“That’s how Charlie and I got rich.”  Berkshire increased its holding of  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT)  to
46.7 million shares from about 39 million at year-end. The New
York Times reported last month that the Bentonville, Arkansas-
based retailer’s executives bribed officials to speed expansion
in Mexico. The U.S Justice Department is investigating, people
familiar with the matter have said.  Earning Power  “I don’t think the earning power of Wal-Mart five years
from now will be materially affected by the outcome of this
situation,” Buffett said at the meeting on May 5.  The firm’s stake in  Procter & Gamble Co. (PG) , the world’s
largest consumer-products maker, fell to 73.3 million shares
from 76.8 million. The Cincinnati-based company has struggled to
raise prices for some products and compete against low-cost
competitors, Buffett told CNBC in a May 7 interview.  Berkshire’s stock portfolio climbed to $89.1 billion on
March 31 from $77 billion at the end of December, according to a
regulatory filing. Buffett’s firm is the largest shareholder in
companies including  Coca-Cola Co. (KO) ,  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC)  and
 American Express Co. (AXP)   Buffett, whose company has more than $20 billion invested
in U.S. banks, said at the May 5 meeting that the nation’s
lenders are in better shape than European rivals. Berkshire
added 3.81 million shares of  Bank of New York Mellon Corp. , the
world’s largest custody bank, bringing its total holdings to
5.61 million shares.  Confidential Information  Buffett’s firm said in the document that confidential
information has been filed with the Securities and Exchange
Commission, “implying that Berkshire is likely building a new
sizable position,”  Meyer Shields , an analyst with Stifel
Nicolaus & Co., said in a note to clients today.  The SEC sometimes allows companies to withhold data from
the public to limit copycat investing while building or cutting
a position. Buffett’s firm requested confidential treatment in
filings last year, as he spent more than $10 billion amassing a
stake in  International Business Machines Corp. (IBM)   Berkshire boosted its stake in Armonk, New York-based IBM
by about 1 percent to 64.4 million shares. Buffett’s firm cut
its stake in  Intel Corp. (INTC)  by 33 percent to 7.75 million shares at
March 31. The Santa Clara, California based-company’s processors
run more than 80 percent of the world’s personal computers.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Noah Buhayar in New York at 
 nbuhayar@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net  