-- Bharti Said to Near Purchase of Qualcomm’s Indian Mobile License
-- B y   G e o r g e   S m i t h   A l e x a n d e r   a n d   K a r t i k a y   M e h r o t r a
-- 2012-05-15T18:31:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-15/bharti-said-to-near-purchase-of-qualcomm-s-indian-mobile-license.html
Qualcomm Inc. (QCOM)  is asking  Bharti Airtel
Ltd. (BHARTI) ,  India ’s largest mobile-phone operator, to pay about 50
billion rupees ($928 million) for its Indian unit as the two
companies seek to conclude talks in the next two weeks,
according to two people with knowledge of the matter.  Bharti may purchase the unit in installments over two
years, the people said, declining to be identified as the
details are private. Under the plan, Bharti would initially
purchase a 26 percent stake in the unit, currently held by  Tulip
Telecom Ltd. (TTSL)  and Global Holding Corp., and Qualcomm will own 51
percent of the division for at least two years after that, the
people said.  Qualcomm, the biggest maker of mobile-phone chips, bought
frequency licenses in cities including New Delhi and Mumbai in
June 2010, paying 49.1 billion rupees for spectrum that allows
handset users to download video at greater speeds. The San
Diego, California-based company was allocated spectrum this
month, two years after paying for the airwaves, people with
knowledge of the matter said on May 8.  Mobile-phone operators in India including Bharti Airtel and
 Vodafone (VOD)  Group Plc are trying to boost revenue by selling
services such as video streaming as incomes rise. The number of
smartphones sold in India almost doubled last year to 11
million, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Tulip Telecom and Global Holding paid 1.4 billion rupees
each for their 13 percent stakes in Qualcomm’s Indian unit in
2010. Qualcomm owns the remaining 74 percent.  ‘Major Partner’  Dimple Kapur, a spokeswoman for Qualcomm in Mumbai, didn’t
immediately respond to an e-mail or phone call seeking comment
on the sale. Spokesmen for Bharti Airtel and Global Holding
declined to comment. The Economic Times reported last month that
Bharti was in talks to buy Qualcomm’s new licenses, without
naming its sources.  “Qualcomm as the major partner will take all decisions
with respect to bringing in any operator partners,” Tulip
Telecom Chairman Hardeep Singh Bedi said in a phone interview,
without elaborating.  India penalized Qualcomm for delays in providing fourth-
generation mobile services using the long-term evolution, or
LTE, technology, by cutting the length of its licenses by 18
months, the people familiar with the matter said on May 8.
Qualcomm Chief Executive Officer  Paul Jacobs  said in a letter to
Telecom Minister  Kapil Sibal  dated April 16 that there was “no
basis” for the penalty which Qualcomm estimated would cost it
$90 million.  To contact the reporters on this story:
George Smith Alexander in Mumbai at 
 galexander11@bloomberg.net ;
Kartikay Mehrotra in  New Delhi  at 
 kmehrotra2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  