-- MBIA Restructuring Approval Involved ‘Error,’ Lawyer Says
-- B y   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h
-- 2012-05-15T22:55:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-15/mbia-restructuring-approval-involved-error-lawyer-says.html
New York state regulators’ approval
of  MBIA Inc. (MBI) ’s restructuring in 2009 was based on inaccurate and
incomplete information, said a lawyer for banks seeking to
overturn the decision.  The bond insurer ran dozens of internal analyses
forecasting billions of dollars in potential losses from
investments in commercial mortgage-backed securities, yet
provided regulators with only five scenarios showing “zero
losses,” Robert Giuffra said today in opening arguments of a
nonjury trial before New York State Supreme Court Justice
Barbara Kapnick.  “They only gave the department what they wanted the
department to see,” Giuffra said. “If inaccurate information
was provided, if there were inaccurate assumptions, then the law
is quite clear that it should be annulled.”  Bank of America Corp.  and  Societe Generale SA (GLE)   claim the
approval of Armonk, New York-based MBIA’s restructuring by the
state’s insurance superintendent was based on misleading
information and violated the law.  More than a dozen financial institutions sued MBIA and the
state insurance department in 2009 over the restructuring. Bank
of America and  Societe Generale  are the only banks left in the
litigation after  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ,  Morgan Stanley (MS) ,  UBS AG (UBSN) 
and others dropped out.  Potential Losses  The banks claimed the restructuring harmed them as
policyholders by transferring $5 billion in assets out of the
MBIA unit that insured risky mortgage debt, exposing the banks
to potential losses. Bank of America and Societe Generale have
another lawsuit pending against MBIA while MBIA is suing Bank of
America over  mortgage loans .  Giuffra said MBIA concealed from regulators a $3.75 million
study by Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. paid for by the insurer.
The study showed that its MBIA Insurance unit was insolvent and
that a policyholders’ surplus of $3.3 billion was actually
negative, the banks said in a court filing.  The regulators’ review process was “flawed,” Giuffra
said, as the department only studied 1 percent of the portfolio
of MBIA Insurance’s 1,300 structured-finance products and failed
to examine the company’s audited financial statements.  Difficult Task  Giuffra argued that Jack Buchmiller, a former supervising
risk management specialist in the department, was given a
“mission impossible” task of analyzing the restructuring by
himself -- quoting an e-mail Buchmiller wrote in February 2009
before the approval.  Buchmiller told MBIA officials in the e-mail to “cue up
the mission impossible music” while requesting more information
about structured finance products, according to an  affidavit 
dated Feb. 7.  Buchmiller was a “hard-working civil servant” who was
given a job not even  Albert Einstein  or  Warren Buffett  could do,
Giuffra said.  “No one could have done it,” Giuffra said. “It was too
much work.”  Buchmiller, who may be called to testify in the case, said
in the affidavit that the banks’ characterization of the e-mail
is incorrect.  Buchmiller said in the affidavit that he was referring to
the fact that MBIA “had a series of difficult tasks it needed
to complete in short order” to convince him that its loss
models on collateralized debt obligations backed by commercial
mortgage-backed securities, were sound, “much like the team of
agents from the ‘Mission: Impossible’ television series.”  Giuffra will resume his opening argument on May 17. The
trial is expected to last two to four weeks.  The case is ABN Amro Bank v. Dinallo, 601846-2009,  New York 
State Supreme Court ( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Dolmetsch in New York at 
 cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  