-- Billionaire Timchenko Says Novatek Pushing for Export Rights
-- B y   A n n a   S h i r y a e v s k a y a   a n d   T o r r e y   C l a r k
-- 2012-05-15T16:22:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-15/billionaire-timchenko-says-novatek-pushing-for-export-rights-1-.html
OAO Novatek,  Russia ’s second-biggest
natural-gas producer, is seeking permission to export the fuel
and break into markets held by state-run monopoly OAO Gazprom.  “Novatek is actively working toward getting export rights
for Russian gas,” billionaire shareholder and board member
 Gennady Timchenko  said yesterday in an e-mail.  The company only sells gas in Russia because Gazprom, the
world’s largest producer, holds exclusive rights to export the
fuel under a 2006 law. Novatek, based in Tarko-Sale, Siberia,
has more than doubled output in eight years and said in February
that it’s seeking to triple its market value to $100 billion in
the “near term.”  Russia’s government, which gave Gazprom the monopoly to
prevent domestic competitors from undermining export prices, has
no plans to end its exclusive rights, President  Vladimir Putin 
said in October, when he was prime minister. Such a move may be
possible in the future, Putin said.  “Gaining export access would all but certainly boost the
market’s appetite for the stock itself,” said  Ronald Smith , a
senior oil and gas analyst at Citigroup Inc. “It is more likely
a story for 2014 or, at the earliest, 2013.”  Novatek rose 2.8 percent to 330.63 rubles in Moscow today.  ‘Maximum Resistance’  The government agreed on a plan to accelerate tax increases
on gas extraction for so-called independent producers, which
include Novatek and  oil companies , bringing their levy near the
level Gazprom will pay from mid-2015, Deputy Finance Minister
 Sergei Shatalov  said May 2.  The  Finance Ministry ’s gas-tax proposals are not final and
Novatek will “lobby strongly” in discussions that may go
throughout this year, Chief Financial Officer Mark Gyetvay said
on a conference call with investors today.  Novatek will push more aggressively for gas-export rights
if the tax increases are implemented, Gyetvay said. The company
aims to resolve the issue in 2013 and is exploring all
“theoretical” options to export gas, he said.  “The pressure on the government will depend on the
domestic market and how quickly internal gas prices increase,”
 Valery Nesterov , an analyst at Troika Dialog in Moscow, said by
phone. The move could lower prices amid competition between
exporters, meaning Gazprom and the state “are likely to assert
maximum resistance,” he said.  Time Lag  Russia is gradually increasing regulated domestic prices to
make sales at home as profitable as exports. Gazprom sells gas
to  Europe  at under long-term contracts at rates tied to prices
for crude and refined products, with a time lag of as long as
nine months. High Brent prices pushed Gazprom’s prices for
European customers up by 27 percent last year, ensuring record
 revenue  of 4.64 trillion rubles ($153 billion) in 2011. Gazprom
ships gas to European clients by pipelines under long-term
contracts.  Novatek agreed in 2010 with Gazprom on exports of liquefied
natural gas from its planned Yamal LNG project on a commission
basis. Gazprom will act as Novatek’s agent, charging a fee for
exporting the producer’s LNG.  The agency agreement may be one of the possible options to
pursue export rights, Gyetvay said, when asked if Novatek will
use that mechanism again.  Should the gas-tax proposals be put into effect, Novatek
may revise its long-term strategy and increase its equity stake
in LNG projects on the Yamal Peninsula, Gyetvay said. The
company may “adjust” its stake in the Yamal LNG project, which
it is developing with  Total SA. (FP)  Novatek also is planning joint
projects with Gazprom to liquefy LNG in the resource-rich Arctic
region.  Balanced Approach  Novatek would seek a balanced approach to supplying gas to
Europe, “rather than cannibalizing Gazprom exports,” Gyetvay
said. “Last thing you want to see is complete chaos in
negotiating with various customers in western Europe.”  Timchenko and Novatek Chief Executive Officer Leonid Mikhelson are the gas producer’s major shareholders, while Total
has a 15 percent stake. Timchenko is also co-founder of Gunvor
Group, the energy trader that agreed in March to acquire
 Petroplus Holdings AG (PPHN) ’s Antwerp refinery in  Belgium . Gunvor
completed the purchase this month.  Putin, who was honorary head of a judo club founded by
Timchenko in  St. Petersburg , has said he isn’t involved in the
billionaire’s businesses.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anna Shiryaevskaya in Moscow at 
 ashiryaevska@bloomberg.net ;
Torrey Clark in Moscow at 
 tclark8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  