-- Birmingham City Owner Asks Court to Release Some of His Assets
-- B y   D e b r a   M a o
-- 2012-05-15T05:15:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-15/birmingham-city-owner-asks-court-to-release-some-of-his-assets.html
Carson Yeung, owner of English soccer
club Birmingham City, appealed to a  Hong Kong  court to lift a
freeze on more than HK$700 million ($90 million) in assets as he
fights money laundering allegations in the Chinese city.  Philip Dykes, Yeung’s lawyer, argued before the Court of
Appeal today that a lower court judge who granted the order
“should have evaluated the likelihood of conviction” and
should have asked prosecutors to ascertain the profits gained
from the alleged criminal activity.  Adrian Bell, a lawyer for the  Department of Justice , said a
prosecution expert witness, Roderick Sutton, came to “definite
conclusions” after examining transactions in Yeung’s bank
accounts and finding “hallmarks” of money laundering.  Birmingham International Holdings Ltd. (2309) , the West Midlands-
based team’s parent company, has been suspended in Hong Kong
since June 30 when its chairman Yeung was charged with five
counts of  money laundering  with a total value of HK$721.3
million. Yeung has posted HK$8 million in bail and was refused
permission to leave Hong Kong in September.  A judge ordered more than HK$700 million in assets to be
frozen in December, Dykes said after today’s hearing. The
December hearing was closed to the public.  “The amount frozen at the moment is unlikely to be out of
whack if everything goes well for the prosecution,” Court of
Appeal judge Robert Tang said. Tang and fellow appellate judge
Joseph Fok reserved their judgment and will rule at a later date.  The case is Secretary for Justice and Yeung Ka-sing Carson,
Yeung Chung, Li Wing-sze Terrenz, Success Orient Investment
Limited, CACV8/2012 in the  High Court  of Hong Kong.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Debra Mao in Hong Kong at 
 dmao5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Wong at 
 dwong19@bloomberg.net  