-- BMC Investor Elliott Nominates Directors to Push for Sale
-- B y   L i s a   R a p a p o r t
-- 2012-05-15T20:42:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-15/bmc-investor-elliott-nominates-directors-to-push-for-sale.html
BMC Software Inc. (BMC)  investor Elliott
Associates LP has nominated five directors to the board of the
maker of programs for corporate  computer networks , pressing the
company to consider a sale.  Elliott, which holds a 5.5 percent stake in BMC, nominated
Thomas Hogan, former executive vice president of sales at
Hewlett-Packard Co.; Carl James Schaper, chairman at software-
maker Infor;  John Dillon , former CEO at Salesforce.com Inc.;
David Roberson, past CEO at Hitachi Data Systems Corp.; and
Andreas Mattes, who ran enterprise communications for Siemens
AG, the New York-based fund said in a letter to the BMC board
today.  Jesse Cohn, portfolio manager at Elliott, met last week
with BMC’s CEO Bob Beauchamp and Chief Financial Officer Steve Solcher, according to the letter. Cohn criticized BMC’s move
yesterday to establish a poison pill, calling the defense “a
stockholder-unfriendly entrenchment mechanism generally derided
as an instrument of poor corporate governance.” BMC’s future
will be “increasingly difficult” if it remains a standalone,
public company, Cohn said.  “BMC is currently attractive to multiple strategic
acquirers,” Cohn said in the letter. He also said the company
could be of interest to private-equity firms.  The  shares  rose 1.3 percent to $44.51 at the close in  New
York . BMC surged the most in more than three years yesterday
after disclosing that Elliott would seek board seats and push
for a sale.  “While the company is always open to alternatives that
fully reflect the value and prospects of the company, the board
of directors has determined that forming a special committee and
pursuing a sale at this time is not in the best interest of
stockholders,” BMC said in a separate statement today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lisa Rapaport in New York at 
 lrapaport1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  