-- Boehner Demands Spending Cuts for Any Debt Limit Increase
-- B y   B r i a n   F a l e r
-- 2012-05-16T18:25:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-15/boehner-demands-spending-cuts-for-any-debt-limit-increase.html
House Speaker  John Boehner  revived
Republicans’ insistence that any increase in the nation’s  debt
limit  be matched by at least as much in spending cuts,
positioning his party for a renewed standoff with Democrats over
the  federal budget .  “Allowing the debt ceiling to go up without addressing our
fiscal challenge would be the most irresponsible thing that I
could do,” Boehner said in a speech yesterday before a
conference in Washington sponsored by the Peter G. Peterson
Foundation.  Boehner’s demand, which included other changes in the
budget, drew fire from Democrats who said Republicans were
pushing for a replay of last year’s battle over raising the debt
limit. Lawmakers have fought over whether to raise taxes and cut
entitlement programs to help close the  budget shortfall .  “It is absolutely reckless to threaten that the  United
States  will not pay its bills,” said Representative  Chris Van Hollen , the top Democrat on the House Budget Committee, also at
the conference. “That is not fiscal discipline -- that is
fiscal irresponsibility. We should be coming together to try and
find a way out, not drawing lines in the sand.”  Year-End Deadline  Boehner’s comments signal no clear path to resolving a
crush of tax-and-spending decisions waiting for lawmakers at the
end of this year. Income tax cuts first enacted under President
 George W. Bush  will expire, as will a temporary reduction in the
Social Security payroll tax. More than $1 trillion in automatic
spending cuts are set to begin taking effect, extended
 unemployment benefits  will run out and the government will brush
up against its $16.394 trillion legal cap on borrowing.  Both parties are waiting for the November election before
negotiating the issues. Lawmakers of both parties yesterday said
they doubt the issues will be resolved in a post-election
session of Congress.  “I don’t see that happening,” said House Budget Committee
Chairman  Paul Ryan , a Wisconsin Republican. Lawmakers may
instead use the so-called lame-duck session to create a
“framework” in which to make decisions early next year, said
 Van Hollen  of Maryland, who agreed that “it’s hard for me to
see how you resolve” the issues by January.  Accounting Maneuvers  Treasury Secretary  Timothy Geithner , also speaking at the
conference, said his agency can use accounting maneuvers to
postpone having to lift the debt cap until next year.  Their comments came at an annual conference of lawmakers
and budget experts organized by Peterson, the co-founder of the
New York-based private-equity firm  Blackstone Group LP (BX) , who is
an anti-deficit activist.  Lawmakers shouldn’t worry about another battle over the
debt limit because it will require them to make difficult and
long-delayed budget decisions, said Boehner.  “It’s an action-forcing event in a town that’s become
infamous for inaction,” he said. Congress may have to approve
multiple debt-limit increases to meet Republicans’ demands for
spending cuts, said Boehner.  Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid  rejected Boehner’s
stance.  “The American people have had enough of this
brinksmanship,” said Reid, a Nevada Democrat. “They want us to
get things done.”  He called for “a balanced approach for deficit reduction
that puts the interest of the middle class ahead of the top 1
percent.”  Corporate Tax Code  House Republicans  will vote later this year to create an
“expedited process” for overhauling the nation’s individual
and corporate tax codes, said Boehner.  “If we do this right, we’ll never have to deal with the
uncertainty of expiring tax rates again,” he said.  House Republicans haven’t figured out what the process
would look like or how it would be enforced to ensure Congress
acts on a tax code overhaul, said Representative  Dave Camp ,
chairman of the tax-writing Ways and Means Committee.  “The real thing he mentioned was some kind of expedited
process,” Camp, a Michigan Republican, told reporters in the
Capitol today. “There’s 34 different types of those in law now,
so we’re going to be reviewing those in the committee.”  Previous negotiations, including last year’s talks on the
debt-limit and supercommittee deliberations, included discussion
of ways to require congressional action on taxes.  Spending Cuts  Last week, House Republicans voted to cut  food stamps  and
other domestic programs to head off automatic spending cuts
scheduled to hit the Defense Department in January.  Former President  Bill Clinton , also at the conference, said
he supports the deficit-reduction plan written by the heads of
President  Barack Obama ’s debt commission.  The panel’s two chairmen, former Wyoming Senator Alan Simpson, a Republican, and Clinton’s onetime White House Chief
of Staff Erskine Bowles, proposed raising taxes and cutting
politically sensitive entitlement programs such as Medicare and
Social Security.  Budget issues should be central to this year’s presidential
campaign, Clinton said, urging Obama to talk more about his
proposed cuts to Medicare and the Defense Department.  “Politicians ought to be talking more about the hard
issues,” Clinton said. “This budget issue ought to become
front and center in the presidential election, in all the
debates, in very specific ways.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Faler in  Washington  at 
 bfaler@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  