-- Bogota Bomb Blast Injures Former Colombian Justice Minister
-- B y   A n d r e a   J a r a m i l l o   a n d   E r i c   M a r t i n
-- 2012-05-15T18:55:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-15/bogota-bomb-blast-injures-former-colombian-justice-minister-2-.html
A bomb blast in central Bogota
injured  Colombia ’s former Justice Minister Fernando Londono
today and killed five people, including his driver and one of
his bodyguards.  The bomb exploded near Londono’s armored car, blocks from
the nation’s financial district, injuring 17 people, President
 Juan Manuel Santos  said. Londono has injuries to his head and
thorax and his life isn’t in danger, Santos said.  Londono served as interior and justice minister to former
President  Alvaro Uribe , who used the army with Santos as defense
minister and the justice system led by Londono to turn the tide
in a five-decade war against the Revolutionary Armed Forces of
Colombia, Latin America’s oldest guerrilla movement. With U.S.
aid, the nation in the past decade has reduced the number of
insurgents and cut the cocaine cultivation that helps fund the
rebels.  The blast came on the same day as a free trade agreement
with the U.S. came into effect, triggering protests across the
country. The accord, which was inaugurated at midnight with a
shipment of flowers to the U.S., will immediately end duties on
more than 80 percent of U.S. exports to Colombia.  Bogota Mayor  Gustavo Petro  said the attack is an attempt to
“destabilize” the city and was probably carried out to
coincide with the free trade agreement.  “I believe the FTA represents the dawn of a new era,”
Gabriel Silva, Colombian ambassador to the U.S., said in a
speech to business leaders during a luncheon at the U.S. Chamber
of Commerce in Washington.  The free-trade agreement stalled in the  U.S. Congress  amid
opposition from House Democrats and unions who said Colombia did
too little to protect labor leaders from violence. President
 Barack Obama  worked to broaden support by securing stronger
commitments from Colombia.  Obama certified Colombia’s labor protection efforts during
a trip to Cartagena for a hemispheric summit last month,
allowing both sides to put the trade pact into effect today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrea Jaramillo in Bogota at 
 ajaramillo1@bloomberg.net ;
Eric Martin in  Washington  at 
 emartin21@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  