-- Bovespa Erases 2012 Advance as Homebuilders Plunge on Earnings
-- B y   N e y   H a y a s h i
-- 2012-05-15T20:38:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-15/bovespa-futures-advance-as-german-growth-eases-europe-concern.html
The  Bovespa (IBOV)  index fell, erasing this
year’s advance, as Brazilian homebuilders plunged after
reporting earnings that trailed analysts’ estimates.  MRV Engenharia & Participacoes SA was the worst performer
on the gauge after saying first-quarter net income declined 24
percent. PDG Realty SA Empreendimentos & Participacoes and Rossi
Residencial SA also tumbled. Oil producer OGX Petroleo & Gas
Participacoes SA fell to a seven-month low after reserve
estimates at its first development fell short of investors’
expectations.  Of the 56 companies on Brazil’s benchmark stock index that
have reported first-quarter earnings, at least 30  trailed 
analysts’ estimates, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The Bovespa dropped 2.3 percent to 56,237.97 at the close
in  Sao Paulo . The gauge is down 0.9 percent this year. Fifty-
eight stocks fell today while 9 rose. The real weakened 0.3
percent to 2.0019 per dollar at 5:30 p.m. local time.  “Overall, corporate earnings in the first quarter were a
bit worse than expected,” Joao Pedro Brugger, who helps oversee
70 million reais ($35 million) at Leme Investimentos in
Florianopolis, Brazil, said in a phone interview. “Companies
are facing slowing demand, as the economy cools, but they still
need to deal with increasing costs, such as labor costs, since
wages keep rising. This is a particularly serious problem in the
real estate industry, which is very labor intensive.”  MRV, PDG Plunge  MRV plunged 15 percent to 9.43 reais. Net income of 116
million reais in the first quarter missed the average  estimate 
of adjusted profit of 173.8 million reais, according to a
Bloomberg survey of five analysts.  PDG Realty (PDGR3)  tumbled 9.8 percent to 3.67 reais. Rossi sank
7.8 percent to 5.96 reais.  Cyrela Brazil Realty SA Empreendimentos e Participacoes ,
Brazil’s second-biggest homebuilder, slid 0.8 percent to 14.20
reais after earlier rising as much as 4.5 percent. The company
said net income increased to 118 million reais from 74 million
reais a year earlier, beating the average estimate for an
adjusted profit of 115 million reais among nine analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg.  OGX, the  oil company  controlled by billionaire  Eike Batista , slumped 7.8 percent to 12.03 reais, the lowest since
October 17. At Tubarao Azul, where OGX boosted output to 23,500
barrels a day yesterday after adding a new well, the company
calculates total recoverable reserves of 110 million barrels
over the project’s lifetime. The figure was smaller than
expected by Bradesco Corretora, analyst Auro Rozenbaum said in a
phone interview.  CCX Carvao da Colombia SA, Batista’s coal unit, will start
trading in Sao Paulo on May 25, Chief Executive Officer Leonardo
Moretzsohn said today on a conference call. CCX is being spun
off from Batista’s MPX Energia SA, which fell 7.7 percent to
48.51 reais.  Bovespa’s Valuation  Brazil ’s benchmark equity measure earlier  gained  as much as
0.8 percent as cheap valuations lured investors. The gauge
trades at 9.5 times analysts’ earnings estimates for the next
four quarters, the cheapest since January 16, data compiled by
Bloomberg show.  “If the equity market hasn’t been doing particularly well
recently, it’s because the external outlook is making people
avoid riskier assets,” Alexandre Ghirghi, a portfolio manager
at Metodo Investimentos, said by phone from Sao Paulo. “We
don’t see long-term investors in the market now, very few people
are buying shares and planning to hold on to them for some
time.”  Emerging-market  stocks  declined for a third day as Greek
Pasok party leader  Evangelos Venizelos  said the country will
hold elections, deepening concern  Europe ’s debt crisis will
worsen and curbing demand for riskier assets.  The Bovespa has fallen 18 percent since this year’s high on
March 13 on concern about Europe and on speculation the slowdown
in  China , Brazil’s biggest trading partner, may be deeper than
expected.  Trading volume was 7.8 billion reais in stocks in Sao Paulo
yesterday, data compiled by Bloomberg say. That compares with a
daily average of 7.2 billion reais this year through May 14,
according to data from the exchange.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ney Hayashi in Sao Paulo at 
 ncruz4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  