-- Brazil Builders Plunge as PDG Profit Tumble Deepens Slump
-- B y   D e n y s e   G o d o y   a n d   K a t e r i n a   P e t r o f f
-- 2012-05-15T20:51:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-15/brazil-builders-plunge-as-pdg-profit-tumble-deepens-slump-2-.html
MRV Engenharia (MRVE3)  & Participacoes and
 PDG Realty (PDGR3)  SA Empreendimentos & Participacoes led a plunge among
Brazilian real-estate companies after reporting first-quarter
profit that fell more than forecast.  MRV lost 15 percent to 9.43 reais at the close in Sao
Paulo, the biggest decline on the BM&FBovespa Real Estate Index,
which retreated 4 percent. PDG, the country’s largest
homebuilder by sales, fell 9.8 percent to 3.67 reais, making it
the worst performer this year on the benchmark Bovespa index.  PDG and MRV joined  Rossi Residencial SA (RSID3) ,  Brookfield
Incorporacoes SA (BISA3)  and  Gafisa SA (GFSA3)  in reporting lower profit or net
losses last quarter. Homebuilders overextended themselves after
7.5 percent economic growth in 2010 spurred construction,
creating a property glut as expansion slowed, said Luiz Roberto
Calado, a vice president at the Brazilian Finance Managers
Association.  “They basically overestimated demand,” Calado, who
published a book in 2010 on Brazilian real estate, said by phone
from  Sao Paulo . “They started buying land and creating lots of
projects, but family income just hasn’t risen as much as housing
prices. Even with credit, houses and apartments don’t seem
affordable anymore.”  Housing starts in Sao Paulo, Brazil’s’s largest city, rose
10 percent last year from 2009 as sales fell 14 percent,
according to Embraesp, a property research group, and Secovi, a
real-estate agency association. Prices advanced 91.4 percent,
according to the Fipe/Zap Index, as personal incomes rose 34.6
percent, according to data compiled by the central bank. There
is no nationwide data available for Brazilian real estate.  Year-to-Date  PDG has declined 38 percent this year, helping drag down
the Bovespa, which erased 2012 gains today as it dropped 2.3
percent. MRV is down 12 percent this year.  Homebuilders had rallied earlier this year, with the
BM&FBovespa Real Estate Index climbing as much as 30 percent
from the end of 2011, as the central bank cut benchmark
borrowing costs, making mortgages cheaper. Policy makers reduced
the target overnight rate to 9 percent on April 18 to revive
growth that slowed to 2.7 percent last year. Policy makers have
lowered the rate 3.5 percentage points since August.  Banks are tightening credit to homebuilders after surging
labor costs shrank margins and triggered costly delays,
prompting them to turn to private-equity firms for financing,
according to Guilherme Rocha, an analyst with Credit Suisse
Group AG.  ‘Positive Highlight’  Cyrela Brazil Realty SA Empreendimentos e Participacoes  was
the only homebuilder among Brazil’s six largest to report higher
profit in the first quarter.  Most Brazilian homebuilders “struggled with projects
launched in the past and deliveries,” Banco Itau BBA SA
analysts wrote in a report today. “Cyrela was the main positive
highlight.”  MRV, which caters to clients supported by a government
program to boost homeownership, said first-quarter profit fell
24 percent to 116 million reais ($58.1 million), trailing
analysts’ estimates. PDG said adjusted profit fell 79 percent to
49.8 million reais, below the average estimate for 135.4 million
reais. Rossi’s profit fell 44 percent to 43.9 million reais,
also below analysts’ forecasts.  Brookfield’s net income declined 94 percent as the number
of potential buyers who pulled out of contracts rose while
building and operational costs climbed. Earnings sank to 4
million reais, trailing the average estimate of analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg.  Cyrela Surprise  Gafisa has reported losses in two consecutive quarters. It
cited contract cancellations and lower margins on sales for its
most recent loss of 31.5 million reais, which exceeded the
average estimate for an adjusted loss of 18.5 million reais.  Cyrela,  Brazil ’s second-largest homebuilder by revenue,
said profit rose 59 percent to 118 million reais in the first
quarter, beating the average estimate for an adjusted profit of
115 million reais among nine analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  “Cyrela is among the very few sector names that we would
expect to positively surprise the market,” analysts at Bradesco
BBI wrote in a report.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Katerina Petroff in Sao Paulo at 
 kpetroff@bloomberg.net ;
Denyse Godoy in Sao Paulo at 
 dgodoy2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  