-- Brazilian Real Weakens Past 2 Per Dollar for Second Straight Day
-- B y   J o s u e   L e o n e l   a n d   G a b r i e l l e   C o p p o l a
-- 2012-05-15T21:32:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-15/brazil-real-trades-at-almost-2-per-dollar-on-rousseff-s-comment.html
Brazil ’s real dropped past 2 per
dollar for a second day as President Dilma Rousseff said it has
been “extremely overvalued,” encouraging speculation the
currency of Latin America’s biggest economy may fall further.  The real dropped yesterday to that level for the first time
in almost three years after Finance Minister  Guido Mantega  said
the  exchange rate  doesn’t worry the government and as  Greece ’s
turmoil sapped demand for Brazil’s assets. The currency has slid
6.7 percent in 2012, making it the biggest loser among the 16
most-traded counterparts tracked by Bloomberg.  “What’s driving the  currency market  is the external
environment, but there is also the will of the government that
creates an expectation of depreciation,” Deives Ribeiro, the
head of foreign-exchange trading at Fair Corretora de Cambio e
Valores, said by phone from  Sao Paulo .  The real slid 0.3 percent to 2.0019 per U.S. dollar today
after earlier dropping to 2.0056. The currency touched 2.0062
yesterday, the weakest level since July 2009.  The yield on the Brazilian interest-rate futures contract
due in January 2014 fell six basis points, or 0.06 percentage
point, to 8.32 percent today. The yield dropped as traders
stepped up bets that central bank President Alexandre Tombini
will cut the target lending rate further to support growth amid
the global slowdown.  “Tombini has been pretty emphatic that he will continue
with the process of rate cuts if there is space,” Ures Folchini, head of fixed income at Banco WestLB do Brasil SA,
said in a phone interview from Sao Paulo.  Rousseff on Rates  High  interest rates  that are “incompatible” with the rest
of the world pose an obstacle to faster economic growth,
Rousseff said today at a meeting of mayors in Brasilia, where
she also gave her assessment of the currency.  Brazil’s target rate has dropped 3.5 percentage points to 9
percent since Aug. 31, the most among the world’s 25 largest
economies, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Policy
makers may reduce the benchmark to as low as 8 percent by the
end of August, trading in interest-rate futures shows.  The central bank bought $7.2 billion in the  spot market  in
April, the most since $8.4 billion in March 2011, to help
exporters by weakening the local currency.  “The government decides what the level should be and
spends all the money it can to get it there,” said Pablo
Cisilino, who helps oversee about $30 billion in emerging-market
debt at Stone Harbor Investment Partners, in a telephone
interview from  New York .  The Bovespa index fell, erasing this year’s advance, as
Brazilian homebuilders plunged after reporting earnings that
trailed analysts’ estimates.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Josue Leonel in Sao Paulo at 
 jleonel@bloomberg.net ;
Gabrielle Coppola in Sao Paulo at 
 gcoppola@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  