-- British Airways Plans Service Revamp After Studying New IPad
-- B y   C h r i s   J a s p e r
-- 2012-05-16T12:54:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-15/british-airways-plans-service-revamp-after-study-into-next-ipad.html
British Airways said it’s upgrading
its inflight service following feedback from 400 passengers
invited to workshops in London,  New York , Mumbai and  Shanghai  to
help anticipate trends like the rise of  Apple Inc. (APP) ’s iPad.  Enhancements at the airline, which was the first to offer
flat-bed seats in 1996, will include steps to improve the flying
experience for family groups, as well as measures aimed at
premium travelers, Frank van der Post, managing director for
brands and customer experience, said in an interview.  The first of five “innovation platforms” will be revealed
in coming months and should enter service within a year, though
others may take much longer to reach fruition given required
safety clearances, said Van der Post, a hotel-industry veteran
recruited in 2011 from Jumeirah Group. BA is only now completing
a 100 million-pound ($161 million) revamp of its first-class
cabins which saw the first planes fitted out from January 2010.  “We have to start coming up with the things the customer
doesn’t know he wants yet,” the executive said by phone. “Coming
from the hospitality trade you quickly learn that airline
programs can take a much longer time to approve and implement.
So we have to have more discipline in planning further ahead.”  Apple Aid  London-based  British Airways (IAG) , a unit of International
Consolidated Airlines Group SA, has equipped 1,200 of its crew
members with Apple iPad computers loaded with information on
frequent flyers to help provide custom in-flight service. Data
is added a 24 hours before departure and updated until takeoff,
with the tablet small enough to be used discreetly in the cabin.  Yet as recently as five years ago, nobody had any inkling
of how important the iPad and its precursor the iPhone would
become and how they might aid  customer service  in the  airline
industry , said Van der Post, who before working at Dubai-based
Jumeirah spent 20 years at  InterContinental Hotels Group Plc (IHG) ,
the world’s largest provider of lodging rooms.  The next phase of the iPads initiative will see the devices
issued to ground staff at London’s Gatwick airport, while
passengers can also now book flights using iPhones.  Inflight Calls  Carriers are intensifying competition for premium clients
as the economic slump hits travel budgets, with Virgin Atlantic
Airways Ltd. spending 100 million pounds on frills including a
cheese trolley and afternoon tea and  Deutsche Lufthansa AG (LHA) 
adding flat-bed seats with 8 percent more space.  Virgin also announced last week that it will become the
first U.K. carrier to allow passengers to make and receive phone
calls mid-flight. The technology will be available on new Airbus
SAS A330 aircraft flying from London to New York and will be
fitted on  Boeing Co. (BA)  747s undergoing a 50 million-pound refit.  While British Airways is still growing premium traffic
“quite strongly” even with the U.K. economy in recession, its
cabins lag some way behind the likes of Qatar Airways Ltd., said
 John Strickland , an analyst at JLS Consulting Ltd. in London.  “BA is quite highly regarded in terms of its premium
services, ahead of European peers such as Lufthansa and  Air
France-KLM (AF) , but they’re not top of the tree,” Strickland said.
“The Asian and Gulf carriers have really set the bar high.”  ‘Gut Instinct’  Some innovations at British Airways will emanate from the
customer, while others will be technology-led, Van der Post
said, adding: “You have to have a healthy dose of gut instinct.”  An initiative in which BA customers self-tag their own bags
is to be trialed at London Heathrow airport’s Terminal 3 in the
next six months after being tested at Gatwick since last year,
the executive said. The plan aims to ease crowding on the
concourse and could be extended to the BA-dedicated Terminal 5.  BA introduced a revamped economy and premium economy cabin
in six new Boeing 777-300s delivered from 2010 and is part-way
through a program to renew all four classes on its 18 existing
777-200 planes and the three classes in its 14-strong 767 fleet.  The next new cabin product is scheduled for 2013, with the
arrival of its first  Airbus A380s  and Boeing 787 Dreamliners.  The carrier is also refining its catering and in October
began offering business-class meals in its premium-economy
cabin, Van der Post said, adding that passenger ratings for its
food and beverages have improved by 18 percentage points.  External ratings such as those from  Skytrax , which awards
BA four stars out of a possible five, one fewer than for five
Asian and Gulf carriers, are less important than in the hotel
trade, since customers don’t base bookings on them, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Jasper in  London  at 
 cjasper@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Chad Thomas  at   cthomas16@bloomberg.net  