-- Brown’s California Budget Dilemma No Shocker, Expert Says
-- B y   A l i s o n   V e k s h i n   a n d   J a m e s   N a s h
-- 2012-05-15T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-15/brown-s-california-budget-dilemma-no-shocker-expert-says.html
Governor  Jerry Brown ’s forecast for a
swelling California deficit shouldn’t come as a shock, as he
balanced his budget by relying on optimistic revenue estimates,
according to  Christopher Thornberg , an economist in  Los Angeles .  “The reason the revenues aren’t coming in as expected is
that the state was counting on $4 billion that was never going
to materialize,” Thornberg, a co-founder of Beacon Economics
LLC, said yesterday by telephone. “It was eminently predictable
from the very beginning.”  Brown, 74, yesterday proposed cuts in spending on welfare
and indigent medical care, along with a shortened government
workweek to cut payroll expenses by 5 percent, among proposals
to reduce fiscal 2013 spending by about $8.3 billion. The
Democrat earlier said the gap had widened to $15.7 billion
because he overestimated revenue by $4.3 billion in January.  For the past four years,  California  lawmakers have curbed
spending and boosted taxes temporarily to bridge combined
deficits of more than $100 billion. Deeper cuts now threaten to
shred safety nets for the poor, elderly and disabled, reduce
subsidies to renowned state universities and strain funding for
public safety and schools.  The budget plan would trim $880 million from CalWorks, a
form of welfare that delivers money and job services to low-
income families with children, and $1.2 billion from Medi-Cal, a
Medicaid program that provides health insurance for the poor. It
would also slice almost $453 million from child-care subsidies.  Hurting the Poor  “These cuts could mean that a woman living in poverty
could have no source of public support,” Judy Patrick,
president and chief executive officer of the Women’s Foundation
of California in  San Francisco , said yesterday by telephone. “A
woman who has gone to work and is receiving a small childcare
benefit would lose her childcare and potentially have to quit
her job, which would cost the state more in services and loss of
tax revenues.”  Brown’s plan to divert $410 million from a mortgage-relief
settlement with large U.S. banks drew fire from state Attorney
General  Kamala Harris , a fellow Democrat, who said the money was
meant to help homeowners. Brown proposed using the cash to cover
the cost of paying off housing bonds and to finance Justice
Department programs. The remaining $118 million would be held
for similar uses in the next fiscal year.  “While the state is undeniably facing a difficult budget
gap, these funds should be used to help Californians stay in
their homes,” Harris said yesterday in a statement.  Shortened Workweek  To cut payroll costs, Brown proposed reducing state
employee work weeks from 40 hours in five days to 38 hours over
four. The goal is to avoid mandatory unpaid time off or job
losses, according to the governor’s plan.  Most of California’s 214,000 employees would work 9.5-hour
days, with three off instead of two, Marty Morgenstern,
secretary of Labor & Workforce Development, said yesterday on a
conference call with reporters.  The change wouldn’t affect pension benefits, which are tied
to base wages rather than take-home pay, Morgenstern said. He
said overtime issues the plan may raise are being explored with
union leaders.  The state’s highest-paid workers would be subject to larger
wage cuts, Morgenstern said. Negotiations with the unions on all
of the changes must be completed before July 1, he said.  Brown proposed cutting about $292 million from the Cal
Grant program, which gives students as much as $12,192 a year
for expenses while attending California colleges.  “We will continue to seek a long-term funding agreement
with the state that will provide the stable fiscal footing
needed to preserve the university’s quality, access and
affordability,” Steve Montiel, a  University of California 
spokesman said yesterday in a statement.  -- With assistance from Michael B. Marois in  Sacramento .
Editors: Ted Bunker,  Pete Young .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alison Vekshin in San Francisco at 
 avekshin@bloomberg.net ;
James Nash in Los Angeles at 
 jnash24@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman in  New York  at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net . 