-- Brown Turns to One-Time Fixes to Help Close Budget Gap
-- B y   M i c h a e l   B .   M a r o i s   a n d   J a m e s   N a s h
-- 2012-05-15T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-15/brown-turns-to-one-time-fixes-to-help-close-budget-gap.html
California Governor  Jerry Brown ’s
plan to erase the largest state deficit in the U.S. may not be
what he had in mind when he returned to office 16 months ago.  Brown, a Democrat who served two terms as governor from
1975 to 1983, pledged an austerity budget free from gimmicks. In
June, he vetoed a spending plan in part because it used one-time
accounting maneuvers.  Now confronting a $15.7 billion  deficit , Brown said an
interim fix such as a 5 percent cut in state worker pay is a
legitimate way to avoid slicing deeper into social safety nets.
The governor also wants voters to temporarily approve higher
income taxes on top earners, to the highest in the U.S., and
raising the biggest state sales levy.  “California has been living beyond its means,” Brown told
reporters in  Sacramento  yesterday. “The  United States of
America  and its federal government is living beyond its means. A
lot of corporations have. A lot of people spend more money than
they take in. Well, there has to be a balance and a day of
reckoning.”  Brown set out a revised spending plan yesterday for the
fiscal year that begins July 1, calling for more than $3 billion
in reductions to medical care for the poor, welfare, in-home
services for the disabled and childcare subsidies.  He warned that another $6 billion in cuts, mostly to
schools, would be imposed midway through the year if voters
refuse to increase income and sales taxes.  Spending Grows  Even with those reductions, the governor’s budget would
increase state spending by 5.6 percent to $91.4 billion next
year from $86.5 billion this year.  Brown said the deficit swelled from $9.2 billion in January
because he overestimated tax collections, while spending rose
above projections. At the same time, the federal government and
courts blocked him from implementing some cost-saving measures
to health and welfare programs, he said.  To reduce the deficit without cutting spending further, his
budget includes accounting moves such as taking $292 million
from  California ’s share of a $25 billion national mortgage-
relief settlement over abusive foreclosure practices stemming
from the housing collapse.  He would use about $200 million of that money to make debt-
service payments on housing bonds, currently financed through
the general fund. He also wants to siphon $300 million from
local court reserve funds and $240 million from court
construction funds to pay the state’s subsidy for trial courts.  “It’s perfectly legitimate to solve a one-time deficit
with one-time revenues,” Brown said in a briefing for reporters
in  Los Angeles . “The real issue to watch here is ongoing cuts.
We’re going to get those.”  38-Hour Week  Brown wants most of the state’s 214,000 public employees to
switch to a four day, 38-hour work week next year, to save about
$400 million. The reduction from a 40-hour week would require
approval by labor unions. It wouldn’t affect employee pensions,
which are tied to base wages rather than take-home pay. Brown
said his own salary would be reduced 5 percent.  “The thing everyone gets in exchange is that the state
stays afloat and they get to continue working,”  said Marty Morgenstern, Brown’s secretary of the California Labor &
Workforce Development Agency. “It’s a crisis situation.”  School spending would increase as required by law, though
by $1.5 billion less than previously planned. Brown also plans
to take $1.4 billion of the cash assets from the state’s now-
defunct redevelopment agencies and give it to schools to reduce
the state’s obligation to fund education by that amount.  Income, Sales Taxes  California, with the world’s ninth-biggest economy, lost
more than 1 million jobs in the recession that started in 2007,
reducing the most populous U.S. state’s revenue by 24 percent.
For the past four years, California lawmakers have trimmed
spending and temporarily raised taxes to combat deficits of more
than $100 billion combined.  Even before yesterday’s budget revision, California’s 2013
deficit was the largest in the U.S., according to a March 21
report by the Washington-based Center on Budget and Policy
Priorities.  Brown is asking voters in November to temporarily raise the
statewide sales tax, already the highest in the U.S., to 7.5
percent from 7.25 percent. It would also boost rates on income
starting at $250,000. Those making $1 million or more, now taxed
at 10.3 percent, would pay 13.3 percent, the most of any state.  “I don’t like to tax anybody, but you’ve got to go where
the money is,” Brown said.  Poll Support  In the latest independent poll of Brown’s tax plan, the
 Public Policy Institute of California  showed in April that 54
percent of likely voters expressed support when read the ballot
title and a brief summary. Thirty-nine percent said they would
vote against Brown’s plan.  Brown’s bid to raise income taxes on the wealthiest
Californians drew support from 65 percent of likely voters,
whereas his proposal to raise sales taxes was opposed by 52
percent, the poll found.  Brown acknowledged that more than 65 percent of the growth
in the deficit was caused by his overly optimistic projection of
how much the state would collect in taxes.  He told reporters yesterday in Sacramento when asked about
that miscalculation that even  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ’s chief
executive officer,  Jamie Dimon , can fall victim to the whim of
the  capital markets .  ‘Stuff Moves’  “You never can quite get it right because in our
particular free-enterprise system -- a free flow of capital --
stuff moves and it goes up and down,” the governor said. “Even
Jamie Dimon just blew $2 billion. That’s a big risk. We all have
to live with the uncertainties of the business cycle, but we do
our best.”  Brown was asked if the miscalculation should cost him his
job, as some advocate for Dimon.  “Totally different,” he said. “One is a loss of actual
money. The other is coming out inaccurate on the prediction you
made.”  Brown’s critics who oppose his tax-increase initiative
seized on the fact that Brown was off by more than $6 billion
from his January estimate.  “There’s a fine line between being a ‘buoyant optimist’
and just plain delusional,” said  Jon Coupal , president of the
Howard Jarvis Taxpayers Association, which in 1978 sponsored
Proposition 13, California’s property-tax limit.  The state’s sinking finances may threaten its chances for a
higher credit grade. California is  Standard & Poor’s  lowest-
rated state, at A-, six levels below AAA. While the company
raised its outlook to positive in February, a larger deficit
will “test the Legislature’s commitment to a stronger fiscal
position as a public-policy priority,” Gabriel Petek, an S&P
analyst in  San Francisco , said May 1 in a report.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michael B. Marois in Sacramento at 
 mmarois@bloomberg.net ;
James Nash in Los Angeles at 
 jnash24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  