-- Bush Says U.S. Must Give Support to Democratic Revolutions
-- B y   K a t e   A n d e r s e n   B r o w e r
-- 2012-05-15T17:56:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-15/bush-says-u-s-must-support-democratic-revolutions-across-world.html
Former President  George W. Bush  said
the U.S. has a duty to support democratic revolutions throughout
the world to foster the spread of freedom, while warning the
path forward is never straight or steady.  “Freedom is a powerful force, but it does not advance on
the wheels of historical inevitability,” Bush said today in
 Washington  at an event organized by his presidential center to
honor dissidents and democratic activists.  Bush, who left the White House in January 2009 after two
terms in office, cited the example of the Arab Spring, which he
called “the greatest challenge to authoritarian rule since the
fall of communism.” The U.S. can’t decide when such revolutions
begin or end, only “what side it is on.”  To support democracy activists, the  George W. Bush
Presidential Center  is collecting interviews with dissidents
around the world to document their struggles and motivation.  Bush was introduced by Syrian dissident Ammar Abdulhamid,
founder of the Tharwa Foundation, which supports democratic
movements in the  Middle East  and North Africa.  Abdulhamid said the interviews help “break the barrier of
fear” for democracy activists. “The collection shows freedom
advocates are not alone.”  Myanmar Reform  Myanmar opposition leader and Nobel laureate Aung San Suu Kyi also addressed the conference via videoconference. Suu Kyi
took her seat in parliament this month after 15 years under
house arrest.  Her fight has led to an opening for democracy in Myanmar,
also known as  Burma . Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  said
last month that the U.S. would begin the process of easing some
economic sanctions on the country.  Suu Kyi said a suspension of sanctions rather than a
lifting of sanctions against Myanmar is a “possible first
step” to ensure the government continues moving toward
democratization. Republican Senator  John McCain  of  Arizona  has
proposed suspending U.S. sanctions, except for an arms embargo
and provisions targeted at individuals and entities in Myanmar
that impede the movement toward democracy.  Suu Kyi said her country still has a long way to go.  “The democratization process is not irreversible,” she
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kate Andersen Brower in Washington at 
 kandersen7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  