-- Business Inventories in U.S. Rise at Slower Pace as Sales Climb
-- B y   A l e x   K o w a l s k i
-- 2012-05-15T14:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-15/business-inventories-in-u-s-rise-at-slower-pace-as-sales-climb.html
Businesses in the U.S. rebuilt
 inventories   in March at the slowest pace in four months as sales
climbed, indicating orders to American factories will continue to
increase.  The 0.3 percent advance in  stockpiles  followed a 0.6 percent
gain the prior month, Commerce Department data showed today in
 Washington . The median projection in a Bloomberg News survey
called for a 0.4 percent rise. Sales increased 0.6 percent.  Inventory swings will probably not play a big role in
economic growth in coming quarters after stockpiles boosted the
gain in fourth-quarter gross domestic product to the biggest in
more than a year. Another report today showed retail sales cooled
in April.  “What we’re seeing is more or less trying to keep pace with
final demand,”  Stephen Stanley , chief economist at Pierpont
Securities LLC in  Stamford ,  Connecticut , said before the report.
“I don’t think that firms have built up inventories
involuntarily.”  The median forecast for business inventories was based on a
Bloomberg survey of 44 economists. Estimates ranged from a gain
of 0.2 percent to 0.7 percent. February’s figure was unrevised
from an originally reported 0.6 percent increase.  Another Commerce Department report today showed  retail sales 
rose in April at the slowest pace of the year, showing
unseasonably mild weather and pre-Easter shopping may have pulled
consumers to stores the prior month. The 0.1 percent gain
followed a 0.7 percent increase in March. The increase matched
the  median  forecast in a Bloomberg survey.  The cost of living was little changed in April as fuel
prices dropped, and manufacturing in the  New York  region expanded
this month at a faster pace than projected, other reports also
showed.  Prices Unchanged  Unchanged consumer prices matched the median forecast of
economists surveyed by Bloomberg News and followed three straight
gains that included a 0.3 percent rise in March, Labor Department
data showed.  The Federal Reserve Bank of New York’s general economic
index increased to 17.1 this month from 6.6 in April. The median
estimate in a survey of Bloomberg economists called for an
increase to 9. Readings greater than zero signal expansion in
the so-called Empire State Index, which covers New York,
northern  New Jersey  and southern Connecticut. The last negative  Retailers’ stockpiles, the only part of today’s inventory
report not previously released, increased 0.4 percent in March
while sales advanced 0.7 percent.  Businesses had enough goods on hand to last 1.27 months at
the current sales pace, the lowest since December and down from
1.28 the prior month.  Growth Slowdown  The world’s largest economy expanded at a 2.2 percent annual
rate in the first after a 3 percent pace in the prior three
months, Commerce Department figures show.  Part of the slowdown reflected less support from
inventories. Stockpiles were rebuilt at a $69.5 billion annual
pace, adding 0.6 percentage points to growth in the first three
months of 2012. That compares with a 1.8 point contribution in
the prior period.  Wholesale inventories, which make up about 30 percent of all
stockpiles, rose 0.3 percent in March, the slowest pace in four
months, the Commerce Department reported May 9, following a 0.9
percent gain. Factory inventories, which comprise about 38
percent of total stockpiles, grew 0.3 percent in March, the
government said May 2.  “A lot of our customers are managing their inventories much
tighter now than what they have in the past,” Roy Armes,
president and chief executive officer of  Cooper Tire & Rubber
Co. (CTB) , said during a May 2 earnings call. “A lot of that has to do
with the economy, some of it has to do with just managing cash
and there’s a lot of it that has to do with the distribution
network.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Kowalski in Washington at 
 akowalski13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  