-- Cagle’s Wins Court Approval to Sell Assets to Koch Affiliate
-- B y   M i c h a e l   B a t h o n
-- 2012-05-15T19:43:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-15/cagle-s-wins-court-approval-to-sell-assets-to-koch-affiliate.html
Cagle’s Inc. (CAGAQ) , a poultry producer, won
court approval to sell its assets for about $93 million to JCG
Foods LLC, an affiliate of Koch Foods Inc.  U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Joyce Bihary approved the sale to
closely held JCG, which is owned by Joe Grendys, chief executive
officer and owner of  Park Ridge , Illinois-based Koch Foods,
according to court documents filed May 11 in Atlanta, where
Cagle’s is based.  “The auction went very well,” bringing in about $12.5
million more than the original offer, Paul K. Ferdinands, a
lawyer for Cagle’s, said in a telephone interview today. The
auction success should make it so that “all the creditors are
going to get paid in full,” Ferdinands said.  JCG Foods agreed to pay $49.7 million plus the value of
inventory and accounts receivables, which stood at about $43
million as of Jan. 28, and minus post-bankruptcy payables and
accrued expenses that totaled about $7.7 million, according to
court documents.  “From a big-picture perspective, it went from about $80
million to about $93 million in overall deal value,” Ferdinands
said. JCG will pay $69.5 million in cash and the rest in a
promissory note bearing 8 percent interest, which will be
guaranteed by Grendys and a $5 million portion by Koch Foods,
the seventh-largest U.S. chicken producer by pounds.  ‘Very Natural Fit’  “It’s a very, very natural fit for us,” Grendys said in a
telephone interview today. The acquisition “strategically gives
us more chickens to market, their sales are complementary to our
current sales base and it gives us the ability to expand within
our own customer base and sell more products with more volume to
our current customers and new customers,” he explained.  Cagle’s sought court protection on Oct. 19, listing more
than $50 million in assets and less than $50 million in debt in
its Chapter 11 petition. Cagle’s assets include two processing
plants, a feed mill and a hatchery. The company processes about
1.7 million chickens a week.  “We are going to invest in the infrastructure and
immediately expand production,” said Grendys. “We can add
about 1 million chickens a week at one of the operations. Our
goal is to take it up over 2.7 million a week.”  The case is In re Cagle’s Inc., 11-80202,  U.S. Bankruptcy
Court , Northern District of  Georgia  (Atlanta).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Bathon in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 mbathon@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  