-- California-Blend Gasoline Tumbles to Two-Week Low on Unit Starts
-- B y   L y n n   D o a n
-- 2012-05-15T17:49:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-15/california-blend-gasoline-tumbles-to-two-week-low-on-unit-starts.html
California-blend gasoline tumbled to
a two-week low against futures after  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA)  and
 Tesoro Corp. (TSO)  finished refinery maintenance and  BP Plc (BP/)  started a
crude unit at the Cherry Point plant.  Tesoro’s  Los Angeles  refinery started a hydrotreater
following a week of repairs, and Shell finished work at the
158,000-barrel-a-day Martinez refinery in Northern California.
BP is starting a crude unit at Cherry Point in  Washington  that’s
expected to resume service later this week, a person familiar
with operations there said.  California-blend gasoline, or Carbob, in Los Angeles
dropped 26.5 cents to a premium of 27 cents a gallon against
futures traded on the  New York  Mercantile Exchange at 12:31 p.m.
East Coast time, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. That’s
the lowest level for the fuel since April 30.  San Francisco Carbob declined 29.5 cents to 27 cents above
gasoline futures.  Shell, based in  The Hague , has finished planned work at the
Martinez refinery, Emily Oberton, a company spokeswoman in
Houston, said in an e-mail. The plant shut a catalytic cracker
April 21 for maintenance, a filing with Contra Costa County
regulators showed.  Tesoro started a hydrotreater at the 97,000-barrel-a-day
Los Angeles refinery over the weekend, a person familiar with
the plant’s operations said yesterday. The unit, which removes
sulfur, metal and other impurities from oil products, was closed
a week ago for maintenance, the person said May 8.  Initial efforts to start the unit at BP’s 234,000-barrel-a-
day Cherry Point refinery on May 8 failed when an upset forced
the refinery to shut it again, two people familiar with the
operation said May 10.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lynn Doan in  San Francisco  at 
 ldoan6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  