-- Cameron Leadership Damaged as Murdoch Inquiry Weakens Faith
-- B y   G o n z a l o   V i n a
-- 2012-05-16T11:48:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-15/cameron-leadership-tarnished-as-murdoch-inquiry-undermines-faith.html
Tim Bullivant, a retired chartered
accountant from Grafham, England, votes Conservative. He says
he’s worried that missteps are trashing Prime MinisterDavid Cameron’s reputation as a competent leader.  With Britain in  recession , perceptions that Cameron’s party
favors the rich have hurt his standing in opinion polls since
the government’s March budget cut taxes for Britain’s highest
earners. Cameron also has been politically damaged by e-mails
suggesting ministers sought News Corp.’s guidance on reacting to
phone-hacking allegations weeks before the scandal forced  Rupert Murdoch  to close the company’s best-selling tabloid.  Cameron says he forged a coalition government with a
mandate to repair Britain’s battered public finances by imposing
the biggest austerity program in a generation. His handling of a
fuel strike that never happened, delays for passengers entering
the U.K. at London’s Heathrow airport, and a levy on Cornish
pasties have all taken the sheen off his premiership.  “I am not so much disillusioned as slightly concerned,”
Bullivant, 75, said in a telephone interview. “My feeling is
that six weeks ago there wasn’t really a problem, but there are
now possible signs of incompetence in the way things are
presented.”  Rebekah Brooks, who led Murdoch’s U.K. publishing unit
before her arrest in July, told a media-ethics inquiry last week
that she discussed the company’s phone-hacking cases and its bid
for  British Sky Broadcasting Group Plc (BSY)  with Cameron.  Brooks Charged  An e-mail uncovered by the inquiry from News Corp.’s U.K.
lobbyist, Fred Michel, said he was asked to advise both Cameron
and his Culture Secretary  Jeremy Hunt , who was responsible for
reviewing the television company takeover. Brooks, 43, was
charged yesterday by prosecutors for trying to cover up the
tabloid phone-hacking scandal. She denied any wrongdoing.  The prime minister attempted today to make light of
Brooks’s testimony to the media inquiry about their friendship,
including her statement that Cameron signed off regular  text
messages  with “LOL, for lots of love.”  “I have to admit that perhaps I’ve been overusing my
mobile phone,” Cameron told lawmakers at his weekly question-
and-answer session.  Conservative lawmaker David Davies wrote in his local
newspaper, the South Wales Argus, about “incompetence” at
“the highest levels of government.” Cameron should “change
his tack, otherwise he’s not going to be in the position for
very long,” he said.  ‘Huge Gamble’  Former Labour Chancellor of the Exchequer  Alistair Darling 
said in September that Cameron was taking “a huge gamble with
growth and jobs.” Two months later, he said austerity programs
being pursued in  Europe  would “strangle growth” and lead to
“higher borrowing, higher debt, and that’s why people are so
lacking in confidence.”  The  economy  shrank by 0.2 percent in the first quarter,
after a 0.3 percent contraction in the final three months of
2011. The Bank of  England  said today U.K. growth is likely to
remain “subdued” in the near term.  Labour leader Ed Miliband branded government policy an
“omnishambles budget” in Parliament last month, citing a
freeze on tax allowances for the elderly, the “pastygate”
plans to put  sales tax  on more hot food, and restrictions on tax
reliefs, including those for large donations to charity.  The moves will help pay for a reduction in the top income-
 tax rate  to 45 percent beginning next year. Chancellor of the
Exchequer  George Osborne  said the cut was necessary as the 50
percent levy generated “next to nothing” and deterred wealth
generation.  Support Drops  Bullivant says the government’s presentation of its March
21 budget was flawed, and polls show Cameron and Osborne have
lost public support since the budget announcement. Labour led
the Tories by 45 percent to 31 percent in a  YouGov Plc (YOU)  poll
published May 14. A survey by YouGov had the gap at 5 percentage
points on March 21.  Cameron, 45, is due to be questioned within weeks by the
Leveson Inquiry into media ethics about his relationship with
the 81-year-old Murdoch and his 2007 decision to hire  Andy Coulson , who resigned from Murdoch’s News of the World tabloid
over phone hacking, as his press chief.  “The Murdoch episode shows what happens when a government
is in a crisis that it can’t shrug off,” said  Andrew Russell , a
professor of politics at Manchester University. “The 50 pence
tax, the pasty tax and the granny tax are traps into which the
government fell that they should have avoided. They now look
very unsure of themselves.”  Police Probe  Coulson, Cameron’s former director of communications, is
being investigated by the police. He told Leveson that he held
40,000 pounds ($64,284) of shares in  News Corp. (NWSA)  while working at
Downing Street, Cameron’s office and official residence.  After more than a week of calls for culture secretary Hunt
to resign, Conservative lawmakers declined on May 1 to back a
parliamentary report that said Murdoch is “not a fit person”
to run News Corp. Conservative Louise Mensch attacked five
Labour members, including Tom Watson, and one Liberal Democrat
in Parliament for going beyond their mandate.  “Labour and the LibDems created a trap for the
Conservatives, who now look like they’re going in to bat for
Murdoch,” said Tim Bale, professor of politics at  Sussex
University  and author of “The  Conservative Party : From Thatcher
to Cameron.”  Election Losses  While Conservative  Boris Johnson  won a second term as mayor
of  London  this month by defeating Labour’s  Ken Livingstone , the
May 3 local elections saw Labour add 823 seats and gain control
of Birmingham, Britain’s second-largest city, Cardiff, the Welsh
capital, and 30 other councils. It also won a majority in
Glasgow, Scotland’s biggest city.  Extrapolated nationally, the results gave Labour a lead
over the Tories of 38 percent to 31 percent, according to a
tally by the British Broadcasting Corp.  The damage done by the Murdoch saga threatens to undermine
Cameron’s broader political program, including the legitimacy of
his deficit-reduction plan, according to  Bill Jones , professor
of politics at Liverpool Hope University.  “It looks like the Tories are looking after their own and
that has further eroded the contention that we are all in this
together,” Jones said. “They are being made to look like posh,
arrogant public schoolboys who don’t know how ordinary people
live.”  Mark Wickham Jones, professor of politics at the University
of Bristol, said Osborne’s March budget and the Murdoch affair
created a “sea change” against the government’s rallying
narrative.  “There has been a series of negative headlines that now
raise serious concerns about the Tory capacity to govern,”
Wickham-Jones said. “This has been their worst month since
coming to office.”  Bloomberg LP, the parent of Bloomberg News, competes with
News Corp. units in providing financial news and information.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gonzalo Vina in London at 
 gvina@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  