-- Cameron’s Dalai Lama Meeting Damages Ties, China Says
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-05-15T12:38:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-15/cameron-s-dalai-lama-meeting-damages-ties-china-says-2-.html
China  filed a formal diplomatic
complaint with the U.K. after Prime Minister David Cameron met
the Dalai Lama, saying relations between the two countries had
been “seriously damaged.”  The meeting in London yesterday “seriously damaged the
feelings of the Chinese people,” Foreign Ministry spokesman
Hong Lei said at a briefing in Beijing today. “It has also
seriously damaged the relations between China and the U.K. China
asks the U.K. to respond to China’s solemn demand and stop
conniving and supporting Tibetan separatists.”  Cameron’s spokesman told a regular government briefing in
London he wasn’t aware of the protest and said there was no
intention that the exiled Tibetan spiritual leader’s trip to
Britain should harm relations. The meeting at  St. Paul’s
Cathedral  was a private one, he said, giving no further details.  “The  Dalai Lama  is an important religious figure,” the
spokesman, Steve Field, told reporters. “We do not want to see
our relationship with China disrupted by the visit of the Dalai
Lama. The Dalai Lama travels all over the world and has visited
the U.K. several times in the past,” holding meetings with
Cameron’s predecessors,  Gordon Brown  and Tony Blair.  ‘Grossly Violated’  China’s reaction to the London meeting echoed that when
President  Barack Obama  welcomed the Dalai Lama at the White
House in February 2010. That meeting, along with U.S. arms sales
to Taiwan, strained ties that year. Following that meeting,
Chinese spokesman Ma Zhaoxu said the U.S. “grossly violated the
norms governing international relations.”  A second meeting between Obama and the Dalai Lama in
 Washington  last year, which came before reciprocal visits by
Vice Presidents Joe Biden and  Xi Jinping , went ahead with a
milder protest. Hong said at the time that China “firmly”
opposes “any foreign official to meet with the Dalai Lama in
any form.”  The Dalai Lama has lived in India since fleeing Tibet in
1959 from China’s military takeover. China accuses the Nobel
Peace Prize winner of waging a campaign for independence while
he says he is seeking autonomy for Tibet.  France’s former president, Nicolas Sarkozy, roiled China-
France relations in 2008 by meeting the Dalai Lama in Poland.
China postponed a summit with the European Union that year and
Premier Wen Jiabao skipped France during a visit to Europe in
early 2009. China agreed to resume high-level contacts with
France later that year.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Michael Forsythe in Beijing at 
 mforsythe@bloomberg.net ;
Eddie Buckle in  London  at 
 ebuckle@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  