-- Canada’s Dollar Rises Against Most Major Peers on Outlook
-- B y   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s   a n d   C a t a r i n a   S a r a i v a
-- 2012-05-15T21:07:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-15/canada-dollar-gains-as-europe-avoiding-recession-boosts-demand.html
Canada ’s dollar fell against its U.S.
counterpart after  Greece  political leaders indicated that talks
had failed and elections will be held, boosting demand for
refuge from  Europe ’s debt crisis.  The currency, nicknamed the loonie for the image of the
bird on the C$1 coin, strengthened against most of its 16 most-
traded currencies as Canadian existing home sales rose 0.8
percent in April from the previous month, the Canadian Real
Estate Association said in a statement. Canadian stocks and
crude oil, the nation’s biggest export, declined.  “The glass has been half full and half empty for the
loonie, as Greece has not been able to calm investor concern
even as Canadian fundamentals continue to improve,”  said  Doug Porter , deputy chief economist at  Bank of Montreal (BMO) ’s BMO Capital
Markets unit in Toronto. “The Canadian dollar is one of the
more stable currencies and will strengthen once the clouds part
in Europe. But until then it is subject to bouts of weakness.”  The Canadian currency fell 0.4 percent to C$1.0072 at 5
p.m. in Toronto. It gained as much as 0.5 percent earlier and
fell 0.2 percent. One Canadian dollar buys 99.29 U.S. cents.  The loonie gained 0.4 percent against the euro to C$1.2822
and strengthened 0.6 percent against the  New Zealand dollar  to
77.49 Canadian cents.  Canada’s government bonds fell, pushing yields on the  two-
year note  up two basis points, or 0.02 percentage point, to 1.29
percent. The 0.75 percent securities maturing in May 2014
declined 3 cents to C$98.97 cents.  Homes, Manufacturing  The loonie gained earlier as the  Canadian Real Estate
Association  reported sales of existing homes increased in April
for a third month, rising 0.8 percent. Manufacturing in the New
York region expanded more than forecast, according to the
Federal Reserve Bank of New York’s general economic index. The
gauge, known as the Empire State Index, increased to 17.1 this
month from 6.6 in April, topping a Bloomberg News survey’s
forecast for a reading of 9.  The Canadian currency erased gains after Greek President
Karolos Papoulias’ meeting with political leaders in  Athens 
failed to produce a government after an inconclusive May 6 vote.
He called for a meeting tomorrow to form a caretaker government.  A second election threatened to extend the country’s
political gridlock and reignited speculation Greece will renege
on its pledges to cut spending, required by the terms of its 240
billion euros ($306 billion) in bailouts.  Crude oil for June delivery dropped 0.9 percent to $93.90 a
barrel in  New York , approaching yesterday’s low of $93.65, the
least since December. The Standard & Poor’s/TSX Composite Index
fell 1.3 percent, while the  S&P 500 Index  dropped 0.6 percent.  ‘Will Hold In’  “The internal Canada story of better data and a more
hawkish tone from the central bank has allowed the currency to
withstand some of the pressure from the global risk story and
falling oil prices,” said  Mark Chandler , head of fixed-income
strategy at Royal Bank of Canada’s RBC Capital Markets unit, by
phone from Toronto. “The global risk sentiment will catch up
with the loonie if things get worse, but long term the currency
will hold in.”  Bank of Canada policy makers said after their last meeting
on April 17 that raising the benchmark  interest rate  might be
necessary as growth and inflation quicken. They have held the
rate at 1 percent since September 2010.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cordell Eddings in New York at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net ;
Catarina Saraiva in New York at 
 asaraiva5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  