-- Cardinal DEA Settlement Calls for Two-Year Shipping Halt
-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g   a n d   P h i l   M i l f o r d
-- 2012-05-15T23:21:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-15/cardinal-dea-settlement-calls-for-two-year-shipping-halt.html
Cardinal Health Inc. (CAH) , the second-
largest U.S. drug distributor by revenue, agreed to suspend
shipments of controlled drugs from a  Florida  facility for two
years in a settlement with the Drug Enforcement Administration.  Federal officials had challenged Dublin, Ohio-based
Cardinal’s procedures, contending the Lakeland, Florida,
distribution center posed a public safety threat by shipping
large quantities of the prescription painkiller  oxycodone  to
pharmacies. The Memorandum of Agreement between the company and
the DEA issued today doesn’t free Cardinal from possible civil
penalties linked to the violations.  “In the agreement, Cardinal admits that its due diligence
efforts for some pharmacy customers and its compliance with an
earlier MOA signed in 2008 for similar violations at the same
facility were, in certain respects, inadequate,” according to a
statement from the DEA.  The terms of the settlement involving heightened scrutiny
of controlled-substances sales apply to 28 Cardinal facilities
registered with the agency. The agreement will remain in place
for five years unless the DEA seeks earlier termination.  “Cardinal Health is not above the law, and with this
agreement it admits that it neglected its vital responsibility
to prevent the diversion of controlled substance medications,”
Joseph Rannazzisi, deputy assistant administrator in the DEA’s
Office of Diversion Control, said in the statement.  Cardinal today asked the  U.S. Court of Appeals  in
 Washington  today to dismiss its challenge to the Florida
suspension.  ‘Behind Us’  “This agreement allows us to put this matter behind us,
and just as important, will clear the way for a more productive
dialogue about how we and others in the health-care and
regulatory community can work together to prevent the abuse and
misuse of  prescription drugs ,” George Barrett, Cardinal
Health’s chairman and chief executive officer, said in a
statement.  The DEA suspended Cardinal’s license to ship controlled
substances from the Lakeland facility, which supplies 2,500
pharmacies, in February. The agency alleged the company failed
to ensure the drugs went only to legitimate patients, and it
ordered Cardinal to explain why the suspension shouldn’t be made
permanent.  Since the suspension, Cardinal has supplied controlled
substances to those pharmacies from its distribution center in
Jackson,  Mississippi .  Months of Proceedings  The settlement averts the need for months of administrative
proceedings and appeals to restore the license. An
administrative hearing on the matter had been scheduled for
today.  “It’s not enough to scare anyone into compliance,
especially given that Cardinal says its shipments aren’t being
disrupted -- they’re just being switched to its distribution in
Jackson,” said  Erik Gordon , a professor at the  University of
Michigan ’s Stephen M. Ross School of Business.  Cardinal settled similar allegations in 2008 for
$34 million, then the largest fine under the Controlled
Substances Act.  Last year, Cardinal shipped enough of the semi-synthetic
opiate painkiller oxycodone to two CVS Caremark Corp. pharmacies
in Sanford, Florida, to supply a population eight times the
city’s size, according to the government. The DEA alleged in
court filings that Cardinal didn’t question the orders or heed
its warnings to conduct on-site audits.  Under the memorandum, Cardinal agreed to improve “anti-
diversion procedures” to keep better control of narcotics
companywide. The DEA is planning “no further administrative
actions at other Cardinal Health facilities,” the company said.  The case is Cardinal Health v.  U.S. Department of Justice ,
12-05061, U.S. Court of Appeals, District of Columbia Circuit
(Washington).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Phil Milford in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 pmilford@bloomberg.net ;
Tom Schoenberg in Washington at 
 tschoenberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  