-- Carlyle’s Rubenstein Seeks to Raise Funds for Deal Pickup
-- B y   D e v i n   B a n e r j e e   a n d   J a s o n   K e l l y
-- 2012-05-15T20:23:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-15/carlyle-s-rubenstein-seeks-to-raise-funds-for-deal-pickup.html
Carlyle Group LP (CG) , the world’s second-
largest private equity firm, plans to raise 11 funds this year
to seize on a reviving deal-making market, the firm’s co-chief
executive officer said.  Carlyle raised $2 billion during the first quarter,  David Rubenstein  said today in a conference call to discuss first-
quarter earnings. Carlyle, based in  Washington , had $39.9
billion in dry powder, or committed funds that haven’t been
invested, as of March 31.  “This is a fantastic time to make investments,”  William Conway , the firm’s other co-CEO, said on the call. “It is
precisely in times like this, when economic data and markets are
sending confusing signals, that the best investments can be
made.”  Larger competitor  Blackstone Group LP (BX)  is in the market with
its latest real estate fund and  KKR & Co. (KKR) , led by  Henry Kravis 
and  George Roberts , is gathering its next North American
private-equity fund. Carlyle is targeting $10 billion for its
own flagship North American fund and is pursuing its fourth
Asian buyout fund, adding to the 89 funds it already manages.  Rubenstein and Conway, who created Carlyle in 1987 with
 Daniel D’Aniello , are betting those funds will presage a rebound
in deal-making. Announced private-equity transactions in the
first quarter dropped 41 percent from a year earlier to $53.9
billion, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Carlyle’s earnings rely on its ability to buy and sell
companies, a process that generates income from both managing
money and so-called performance fees tied to the profits of
successful sales.  Profit Falls 26%  In its first quarterly earnings report, Carlyle said profit
in the first three months fell 26 percent as performance fees
declined from a year earlier. Economic net income, a measure of
profit excluding some costs, declined to $392 million from $533
million a year ago, according to the statement.  Performance fees fell 27 percent to about $632 million from
a year earlier, when Carlyle sold $1.8 billion of shares of
China Pacific Insurance Group Co.  Fee-earning assets rose 5 percent since Dec. 31 to $117
billion as total assets under management climbed 8 percent to
about $159 billion. Blackstone, the largest private-equity firm,
oversees about $190 billion.  The value of Carlyle’s fund portfolio gained 9 percent in
the quarter, compared with 4.9 percent at Blackstone. New York-
based Blackstone last month said profit fell 24 percent to $432
million as the slower gain in the value of its holdings hurt
performance fees.  Post-IPO Declines  Carlyle joined the ranks of publicly traded private-equity
firms this month, raising $671 million in its initial share
sale, pricing below the marketed range to win investors wary of
the track record of publicly traded buyout firms.  The stock has declined 4 percent from the $22 offering
price, rising 0.4 percent to $21.12 at the close of trading
today in New York.  All publicly traded U.S. buyout firms have fallen below
their IPO prices, with Blackstone down 61 percent from its 2007
debut,  Fortress Investment Group LLC (FIG)  losing 82 percent and
 Apollo Global Management LLC (APO)  declining 39 percent.  “We firmly believe Carlyle’s status as a public company
will strengthen our capabilities,” Rubenstein said today. “No
doubt as a public company there will be times when we face
challenges, just as there will be times when we see considerable
opportunities.”  Distributions to Clients  Carlyle said it returned $2.3 billion to fund investors in
the quarter and is set to return $1.5 billion more.
Distributable earnings were $179 million, down 37 percent from a
record $284 million a year earlier, while earnings for the 12
months ended March 31 were $759 million, up 36 percent from the
previous 12 months. Taking into account changes related to the
IPO, after-tax distributable earnings were 57 cents a share.  Private-equity firms pool investor money to buy companies,
using mostly debt, with the intention of selling them or taking
them public later for a profit. They typically charge an annual
management fee of 1.5 percent to 2 percent of committed funds
and keep 15 to 20 percent of profit from investments.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Devin Banerjee in  New York  at 
 dbanerjee2@bloomberg.net ;
Jason Kelly in New York at 
 jkelly14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  