-- Carlos Fuentes, Mexican Author With Global Fans, Dies at 83
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   R o e d e r   a n d   R a n d a l l   W o o d s
-- 2012-05-15T23:19:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-15/carlos-fuentes-mexican-author-with-global-fans-dies-at-83-2-.html
Carlos Fuentes, one of the generation
of writers who brought modern Latin American fiction onto the
world stage, died today in a  Mexico  City hospital. He was 83.  His death was related to a heart condition, the press
office of the National Council for Arts and Culture said. The
recipient of awards including the Miguel de Cervantes Prize and
Mexico’s National Prize in Literature, Fuentes had a following
among Latin American authors surpassed only by Colombia’s
Gabriel Garcia Marquez and Peru’s Mario Vargas Llosa though
unlike his  contemporaries he never won a Nobel Prize.  “He was the great promoter, innovator and ambassador of
Latin American culture and the Latin American novel,” said
Julio Ortega, a professor at  Brown University  in Providence,
 Rhode Island , who worked with Fuentes and knew him since 1969.
“From a very young age, he opened frontiers.”  The author of books such as “Where the Air is Clear”
(1958), “The Death of Artemio Cruz” (1962) and “The Old
Gringo,” (1985) Fuentes was the son of a diplomat and equally
comfortable in Spanish and English. He was born in  Panama  on
Nov. 11, 1928, spent much of his youth in  Washington , and later
in life divided his time between Mexico City and  London .  In a post on the Twitter website lamenting his death,
President  Felipe Calderon  said Fuentes was a “universal
writer.”  Fuentes is survived by his wife Silvia Lemus, and his
daughter Cecilia Fuentes Macedo.  He served as Mexico’s ambassador to France from 1975 to
1977 and taught at schools including the University of
Pennsylvania, Princeton, Dartmouth, Harvard, Cornell and Brown,
according to Fuentes’  website .  ‘Great Creator’  “He was one of the most brilliant authors of the 20th
century in Mexico,” said  Enrique Krauze , a Mexican historian
and author, in a phone interview from Mexico City. “He was a
great creator and recreator of the Spanish language.”  Fuentes drew inspiration from the history of his native
country, particularly the Mexican Revolution, to examine
corruption and human failings in his works.  “Writing is not a normal act like eating or making love or
sleeping,” he once said in an  interview . “Deep down it’s a
perverse and dangerous act.”  He was outspoken in his political views and expressed at
times support for Cuban dictator  Fidel Castro . Fuentes was
critical of the recent war in Iraq and U.S. strategies in
combating narcotics smuggling and illegal immigration.  More recently, he criticized Mexico’s leading presidential
candidate, Enrique Pena Nieto, saying his “ignorance” made him
unfit to run the country.  On Dec. 3, Pena Nieto struggled when asked at a literary
fair to name three books that influenced him, finally
identifying the Bible and attributing to historian Krauze
another title written by Fuentes.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jonathan Roeder in Mexico City at 
 jroeder@bloomberg.net ;
Randall Woods in Santiago at 
 rwoods13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  