-- Carlyle Group Said to Seek Capital for Asia buyout Fund
-- B y   S a b r i n a   W i l l m e r   a n d   C r i s t i n a   A l e s c i
-- 2012-05-15T02:40:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-15/carlyle-group-said-to-seek-capital-for-asia-buyout-fund.html
Carlyle Group LP (CG) , the private-equity
firm that went public this month, is seeking capital for a
buyout fund that will invest in Asia, according to three people
with knowledge of the situation.  The firm, based in Washington, plans an initial close on
Carlyle Asia Partners IV in the second half of the year, said
one of the people who asked not to be named because the
information isn’t public.  Christopher Ullman, a Carlyle spokesman, declined to
comment.  Private-equity firms are gathering capital to take
advantage of Asia’s growth. KKR & Co. and TPG Capital are
raising multibillion-dollar pools targeting the region. Both RRJ
Capital Ltd. and CDH Investments Fund Management Co. are seeking
to amass larger funds than their prior offerings.  Fifty-three pan-Asia funds were attempting to raise a total
of $22.3 billion to invest exclusively in the region as of last
month, according to data compiled by Preqin Ltd., a London-based
research firm.  Carlyle Group  was among the first to announce it had raised
a yuan-denominated fund to invest in  China . The firm raised 2.4
billion  yuan  ($380 million) in the first round of a fund with
Beijing’s municipal government in July 2010, after setting up a
$100 million joint fund with Fosun Group in Shanghai five months
earlier. China increased the Beijing fund to 3.2 billion yuan
last July.  Carlyle Group raised $2.55 billion for its prior fund,
Carlyle Asia Partners III, in 2010 after starting the pool in
2007. That fund produced a multiple of 0.8 times invested
capital and an internal rate of return of minus 11 percent for
the California Public Employees Retirement System as of Sept. 30,
according to the pension system’s data.  The Carlyle Asia Partners funds invest in areas including
Australia, China, India,  South Korea  and  Southeast Asia ,
according to the firm’s website. They invest in such industries
as financial services, media and telecommunications,
manufacturing and consumer products.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sabrina Willmer in  New York  at 
 swillmer2@bloomberg.net ;
Cristina Alesci in New York at 
 calesci2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  