-- Carlyle Group Profit Falls 26% on Lower Performance Fees
-- B y   D e v i n   B a n e r j e e
-- 2012-05-15T20:24:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-15/carlyle-group-profit-falls-26-on-lower-performance-fees.html
Carlyle Group LP (CG) , the private-equity
firm that went public this month, said first-quarter profit fell
26 percent as performance fees declined from a year earlier.  Economic net income, a measure of profit excluding some
costs, declined to $392 million from $533 million a year ago,
Washington-based Carlyle said in a statement today. Performance
fees fell 27 percent to $631.5 million from a year earlier, when
Carlyle sold $1.8 billion of shares of China Pacific Insurance
Group Co.  Carlyle joins competitor  Blackstone Group LP (BX)  in reporting
lower profit as fund holdings appreciated at a slower pace
compared with a year earlier. Carlyle and its publicly traded
peers have been reducing their reliance on traditional buyouts,
which produce volatile earnings, by expanding other businesses
such as credit investments and real estate purchases.  “Our central mission remains the same as it has for 25
years -- investing wisely and creating value for our limited
partners,” William E. Conway, the firm’s co-chief executive
officer, said in the statement. “In doing so, our new partners
-- our public unitholders -- will benefit.”  Carlyle, the world’s second-largest private-equity firm by
assets, raised $671 million in its initial share sale this
month, pricing below the marketed range to win investors wary of
the track record of publicly traded buyout firms. The stock has
declined 4 percent from the $22 offering price. It gained 0.4
percent to $21.12 today in New York.  Public Record  All publicly traded U.S. buyout firms have fallen below
their IPO price, with Blackstone down 61 percent from its 2007
offering price,  Fortress Investment Group LLC (FIG)  losing 82 percent,
and  Apollo Global Management LLC (APO)  declining 39 percent.  “We firmly believe Carlyle’s status as a public company
will strengthen our capabilities,” co-CEO  David Rubenstein  said
on a call with investors today. “No doubt as a public company
there will be times when we face challenges, just as there will
be times when we see considerable opportunities.”  Carlyle said it returned $2.3 billion to fund investors
during the quarter and is set to return $1.5 billion more.
Distributable earnings were $179 million, down 37 percent from a
record $284 million a year earlier, while earnings for the 12
months ended March 31 were $759 million, up 36 percent from the
previous 12 months. Taking into account changes related to the
IPO, after-tax distributable earnings were 57 cents a share.  Private-equity firms pool investor money to buy companies,
using mostly debt, with the intention of selling them or taking
them public later for a profit. They typically charge an annual
management fee of 1.5 percent to 2 percent of committed funds
and keep 15 to 20 percent of profit from investments.  Assets Gain  The value of Carlyle’s fund portfolio gained 9 percent
during the quarter, compared with 4.9 percent at Blackstone. New
York-based Blackstone last month said profit fell 24 percent to
$432.3 million as the slower gain in the value of its holdings
hurt performance fees.  Carlyle raised $2 billion during the quarter and invested
$1.5 billion from its carry funds, Rubenstein said. The
fundraising doesn’t include some commitments to the firm’s new
flagship North America buyout fund, which is targeting $10
billion. Carlyle had $39.9 billion in so-called dry powder, or
committed funds that haven’t been invested, as of March 31.  “It is precisely in times like this, when economic data
and markets are sending confusing signals, that the best
investments can be made,” Conway said on the call.  Carlyle expects to be raising money for 11 funds this year,
said Rubenstein. The firm is planning an initial close on its
flagship fund in the second quarter and a first close on its
fourth Asia buyout fund in the second half of the year.  Fee-earning assets since Dec. 31 rose 5 percent to $117
billion as total assets under management climbed 8 percent to
about $159 billion. Blackstone, the largest private-equity firm,
oversees about $190 billion.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Devin Banerjee in  New York  at 
 dbanerjee2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  