-- CDON to Add Products, Retailers to Grow Online Sales, Chief Says
-- B y   J a n i n a   P f a l z e r
-- 2012-05-15T09:34:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-15/cdon-to-add-products-retailers-to-grow-online-sales-chief-says.html
CDON Group AB (CDON) , a Swedish online
retailer, will add products and open its site to other retailers
to establish Cdon.com as the top online shopping site in the
Nordic region, Chief Executive Officer Paul Fischbein said.  Products from CDON Group’s other shopping sites will
continue to be integrated into the cdon.com product range,
Fischbein said May 11 in an interview. Last year, Cdon.com added
toys and baby products, marketed via the group’s Lekmer.com
site. Home appliances, currently sold via Tretti.se, are next in
line, and other retailers may get access to the site as early as
this year, Fischbein said.  Malmoe, Sweden-based CDON Group has 10 online stores
selling products ranging from fashion to interior design and it
would only add a selection of products featured on other online
stores to Cdon.com, Fischbein said. Growth in the group is
driven mainly by Cdon.com and fashion site Nelly.com with 57
percent and 21 percent respectively of total 2011 sales,
according to the annual report. Cdon.com, which started as a
seller of compact discs, last year saw home electronics become
its biggest product category.  “Cdon’s position is very strong with a huge client
database, large traffic volumes and high brand awareness,”
Fischbein said. “We want to capitalize on that and on the
underlying market growth and in our view broadening Cdon.com is
the way to do it.”  The company is open to growing through acquisitions,
Fischbein said. The target is to add one or two new product
categories each year on a group level. Cdon.com could
potentially be expanded with products such as tents and camping
goods, Fischbein said.  Global Site  CDON Group’s most successful acquisition is Nelly.com,
added in 2007. Sales in the fashion segment increased by 69
percent to 731 million kronor ($104 million) last year after
Nelly opened a European shopping site, which will be followed by
a global site this year. The company has local sites in the
Nordic countries as well as  Germany , the Netherlands,  Austria 
and the U.K. Other local sites will follow, mainly in  Europe ,
Fischbein said.  “The good thing about a Nelly EU site is that it is a
decent business on a stand-alone basis and at the same time it
gives an indication of where Nelly works,” Fischbein said.  “When we open the rest-of-the-world site for English
speaking customers worldwide it may likewise indicate if Nelly
works in the U.S. or  Australia .”  Sales in CDON Group’s entertainment segment, which includes
cdon.com, BookPlus.fi and Lekmer.com, rose 29 percent to 1.93
billion kronor last year. CDON Group was spun off from media
company  Modern Times Group AB (MTGA)  on Dec. 15, 2010.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Janina Pfalzer in Stockholm  at 
 jpfalzer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kim McLaughlin at 
 kmclaughlin6@bloomberg.net  