-- Cellcom Drops Most on Record on Net, Competition: Tel Aviv Mover
-- B y   S h o s h a n n a   S o l o m o n
-- 2012-05-15T13:50:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-15/cellcom-drops-most-on-record-on-net-competition-tel-aviv-mover.html
Cellcom Israel Ltd. (CEL)  tumbled the most
on record after  Israel ’s largest mobile-phone company posted a
43 percent decline in first-quarter profit and on concern
competition will force the company to cut prices.  The  shares  plunged 9.6 percent, the most since July 2007
when the stock was listed in  Tel Aviv , to 37.50 shekels at the
close in Israel. The stock was cut to underperform at Excellence
Nessuah Investment House Ltd. with a share-price estimate of 30
shekels.  Net income in the quarter declined to 173 million shekels
($45 million) from 306 million shekels a year-earlier on lower
revenue. Golan Telecom Ltd. and  Hot Telecommunication System
Ltd. (HOT)  said yesterday they will start offering unlimited mobile-
phone services, competing with packages of Cellcom,  Partner
Communications Co. (PTNR)  and  Bezeq Israeli Telecommunication Corp. (BEZQ) ,
which control 95 percent of the market in Israel, according to
data from the Ministry of Communications.  “Cellcom revenue will continue to be adversely affected by
the increased competition in the sector,” Sabina Podval, an
analyst at Leader & Co Investment House Ltd. in Tel Aviv, said
in an e-mailed statement today. “The report underlines the
limited ability of the company to control revenues and shows
that the company must fall in line with the new level of prices
in the sector.”  New Players  Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu ’s government is forcing
telecommunication providers to cut fees and is encouraging new
players to the market. Partner, Cellcom and Bezeq’s Pelephone
Communications Ltd. wireless unit have lowered prices and
subsidized handsets to compete with new providers. Cellcom said
the monthly average revenue per user declined 21 percent to 90.5
shekels in the quarter.  Golan Telecom, partly owned by French entrepreneur Xavier
Niel, started services yesterday offering unlimited voice and
messaging at 99 shekels ($25.84) a month and selling SIM cards
without handsets. Hot Telecommunications’ unit will also start
mobile-phone services at 89 shekels a month for unlimited use,
according to an e-mailed statement.  Hot shares slid 8.7 percent to 34.50 shekels. “The feeling
is that Golan Telecom caught Hot off guard and Hot reacted under
pressure, offering prices that are much lower than what it
planned originally,” said Ori Licht, head of equity research at
I.B.I.-Israel Brokerage & Investments Ltd.  Partner (PTNR) , the country’s second-largest cellular company,
tumbled 8.2 percent to 23.59 shekels, the lowest since September
2003. Bezeq declined 4.3 percent to 4.90 shekels, the lowest
since December 2004. The TA-25 benchmark index retreated 1.9
percent.  Harel Finance Ltd. also lowered Cellcom to underperform
from market perform. “We estimate the average revenue per user
will continue to deteriorate even at a faster rate than we have
seen to date,” analyst Rami Rosen, at  Ramat Gan , Israel-based
Harel wrote in an e-mailed note today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shoshanna Solomon in Tel Aviv at 
 ssolomon22@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gwen Ackerman at 
 gackerman@bloomberg.net  