-- Cerberus Said to Seek $1.8 Billion Loan for Hawaii Resorts
-- B y   S a r a h   M u l h o l l a n d
-- 2012-05-15T19:23:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-15/cerberus-said-to-seek-1-8-billion-loan-for-resorts-in-hawaii.html
Cerberus Capital Management LP is
seeking as much as $1.8 billion in new debt on six resorts,
including five in Hawaii, taking advantage of  Wall Street ’s
growing appetite for commercial mortgages.  Cerberus is approaching banks for a loan to pay off debt
taken out in 2006, according to three people familiar with the
transaction. A new $1.4 billion mortgage would be packaged into
securities, while the remainder is placed with other investors,
said the people, who declined to be identified because the
negotiations aren’t public.  The move marks the second attempt to refinance the debt on
the so-called Kyo-ya portfolio in the commercial-mortgage  bond
market . A deal struck with  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  last year
never closed, leaving the private-equity firm led by  Stephen Feinberg  without funding when loans matured in July, a person
familiar with the deal said.  The debt was extended until next year, according to
Morningstar Inc. The  Hawaii  hotels are located in Maui and Oahu,
including the Sheraton Waikiki and three other properties that
account for 40 percent of the rooms at Waikiki Beach. The sixth
hotel is in  San Francisco .  John Dillard, a spokesman for Cerberus, and  Michael DuVally 
of Goldman Sachs declined to comment.  Hawaii Hotels  Hotel demand in Hawaii in 2012 has been greater than
anywhere else in the U.S., driven by international travelers
coming to the islands. International air visitations rose about
17 percent this year through March, compared with a 4.8 percent
boost from travelers from the U.S., according to data from
Hawaii’s Department of Business, Economic Development & Tourism.  After struggling amid the  global economic slump , cashflow
from the Kyo-ya hotels has nearly doubled since 2009, Deutsche
Bank AG analysts said in a research note today. The most recent
appraisal values the properties at $1.8 billion, compared with
$2.7 billion in 2006, according to the Deutsche Bank analysts
led by Harris Trifon in New York.  Occupancy at the hotels had climbed to 86 percent for the
12 months ending Sept. 30, compared with 72 percent through Dec.
31, 2009, according to Morningstar.  Wall Street has arranged about $9.1 billion in commercial-
mortgage bond deals this year. Issuance may climb to $45 billion
in 2012, up from about $29 billion last year, according to
Credit Suisse.  Demand for bonds backed by commercial mortgages is
growing, with UBS AG selling $1.5 billion of collateralized debt
obligations, or CDOs, linked to the debt last week at prices
that “met or exceeded” expectations, Credit Suisse Group AG
analysts said in a May 10 report. The offering followed the
Federal Reserve Bank of  New York ’s record sale of similar
securities last month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Mulholland in New York at 
 smulholland3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  