-- European Cup Win May Determine Samsung’s Backing of Chelsea
-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a   a n d   J o n a t h a n   B r o w n i n g
-- 2012-05-15T11:48:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-15/champions-league-win-may-determine-samsung-s-backing-of-chelsea.html
Chelsea’s jersey sponsorship contract
with  Samsung Electronics Co. (005930)  may hinge on the  London  soccer
team’s performance in the May 19 Champions League final against
 Bayern Munich .  The South Korean electronics maker, which last quarter
surpassed  Nokia Oyj (NOK1V)  as the world’s largest mobile phone maker,
put its name on the club’s shirt in July 2005. The company will
decide on whether to renew its annual 16.3 million-euro ($21
million) deal by the end of this month, said Sunny Hwang,
Samsung’s vice president and head of worldwide sports marketing.  Chelsea is a surprise finalist in  Europe ’s elite club
competition. Its sixth-place Premier League finish is the lowest
since Russian billionaire  Roman Abramovich  bought the team in
2003. Abramovich fired manager Andre Villas-Boas eight months
after he joined from Porto and interim coach Roberto Di Matteo
oversaw a victory in the F.A. Cup and a shock defeat of
defending champion Barcelona in the Champions League semifinals.  “Being associated with a winning team is much better than
a failing team so it’s natural that Samsung should wish Chelsea
could win,” Hwang said in an interview in London. “Of course
that will play an important role when we decide whether or not
we renew the contract.”  The current agreement expires at the end of next season,
and Samsung said today in a statement that it considers the
popularity, performance, and image of the event or the team when
deciding on an endorsement deal.  Next season may be the first without Champions League
soccer at  Stamford  Bridge during Abramovich’s ownership. The
Blues can only qualify by winning the final at Munich’s  Allianz
Arena .  Chelsea spokesman Steve Atkins didn’t respond to a
voicemail seeking comment.  ‘Wide Range of Factors’  Samsung said a “a wide range of factors” will be
considered when it decides whether to continue with Chelsea.  “Our decisions do not rely on the outcome of a single
event,” the company said in today’s statement.  The Samsung jersey sponsorship is the fifth-highest in
European soccer, according to German market research company
Sport + Markt. Manchester United and Liverpool get about $32
million a season, while Barcelona signed what it said was a
“record” deal worth 30 million euros a year in December 2010
to promote the  Qatar Foundation .  Battle With Apple  Samsung unveiled its latest high-end handset in London this
month, intensifying a battle with  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  in the $219 billion
market smartphone market. Europe accounted for 19 percent of
2011 revenue, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Hwang also said his company has turned down opportunities
for naming rights to various stadiums, including Chelsea’s
Stamford Bridge. The Blues have failed to sell naming rights for
several years and want to find a sponsor as part of proposals to
move to a new stadium. The club said May 4 that it was bidding
to acquire the Battersea Power Station site in London.  “Our experience is that even though we put the Samsung
name on that, no media mentions Samsung but just the stadium
name, so that was the actual reason,” said Hwang.  Stadiums don’t offer the same brand-building opportunity as
team jerseys, said Emmanuel Hembert, principal of global
management consultancy  A.T. Kearney , who advises soccer clubs.  “The exposition you have on shirt sponsorship is much
higher,” he said in an interview. “Wherever they play you have
your name displayed. For the stadium the display is much
lower.”  Hwang said the Chelsea sponsorship, which was renewed in
2009, has been used to market Samsung’s goods in Europe, and
doesn’t compare to a global sponsorship like the soccer  World
Cup , for which  Sony Corp. (6758)  is a top-tier partner. Hwang said
Samsung will consider competing with Sony the next time FIFA
opens its tender for an electronics partner.  “When we study the possibility of the World Cup we have to
judge the idea from a global perspective,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tariq Panja in London at 
 tpanja@bloomberg.net ;
Jonathan Browning in London at 
 jbrowning9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  