-- Chesapeake Energy Said to Increase Term Loan to $4 Billion
-- B y   M i c h a e l   A m a t o   a n d   K r i s t a   G i o v a c c o
-- 2012-05-15T20:34:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-15/chesapeake-energy-said-to-increase-bridge-loan-to-4-billion.html
Chesapeake Energy Corp. (CHK) , the second-
largest U.S. gas producer, increased the size of a  term loan 
it’s seeking to pay off a revolving  credit line  to $4 billion
from $3 billion, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “That level of demand is an encouraging sign of the
market’s demand for Chesapeake debt at these  price levels ,”
 Brian Gibbons , an analyst at CreditSights Inc. in New York,
wrote in an e-mail.  The debt, due in December 2017, began trading this
afternoon at 98.25 cents on the dollar, according to Markit
Group Ltd.  Chesapeake sold the loan at 97 cents on the dollar, up from
96 cents originally offered, Bloomberg data show. The change in
the so-called original issue discount increases proceeds for the
company and reduces the yield to investors.  The loan pays interest at 7 percentage points more than the
London interbank offered rate with a 1.5 percent minimum on the
benchmark, according to Bloomberg data.  “The yield is compelling and people have to pay attention
to it,” Philip Adams, a Chicago-based senior bond analyst at
Gimme Credit LLC, said today in a telephone interview. “It’s
also helpful there’s some insight into how much the Permian
Basin assets might be worth.”  Permian Basin  Chesapeake’s 1.5 million acres in the Texas-based Permian
Basin may be worth $6.82 billion, based on the price  Concho
Resources Inc. (CXO)  agreed to pay this week for  oil fields  in the
same area.  While obtaining the loan provides Chesapeake with
additional liquidity, its “ability to remain in compliance with
its debt covenants in the future and rising leverage metrics
remain concerns,” analysts led by Peter Speer, vice president
and senior credit officer at Moody’s Investors Service in New
York wrote in a research report yesterday.  Moody’s rates the company Ba2 with a “negative” outlook,
noting that Chesapeake’s is nearing restrictions under its ratio
of debt to earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization requirement as its Ebitda falls due to increase in
natural gas prices.  “The unsecured loan is intended to signal to the market
place that Chesapeake has the liquidity to continue to execute
its 2012 business plan, and that it won’t be forced to sell
these assets at a fire sale price,” Gimme Credit’s Adams wrote
in a research note yesterday.  Bonds Rise  The company’s $1 billion of 6.125 percent bonds rose 0.75
cents at 3:45 p.m. in  New York , to 90.75 cents on the dollar,
according to Trace, the bond price reporting system of the
Financial Industry Regulatory Authority.  Chesapeake, based in  Oklahoma City , is planning on
completing asset sales totaling $9 billion to $11.5 billion and
a portion of those proceeds will be used to repay the loan,
according to a May 11 company statement distributed by  Business
Wire .  Standard & Poor’s today downgraded Chesapeake one level, to
BB- from BB, citing “covenant concerns” and the probability
that Chesapeake will “face an even wider gap between its
operating cash flow and planned  capital expenditures .”  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and Jefferies Group Inc. are
arranging the financing and were seeking commitments from
lenders today at 10 a.m. in New York, according to the data.  Jim Gipson, a spokesman for Chesapeake, didn’t return a
telephone call or e-mail seeking comment.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michael Amato in New York at 
 mamato3@bloomberg.net ;
Krista Giovacco in New York at 
 kgiovacco1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Faris Khan at 
 fkhan33@bloomberg.net  