-- Chesapeake Oil Asset May Fetch an Extra Billion: Energy
-- B y   J o e   C a r r o l l
-- 2012-05-15T20:30:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-15/chesapeake-oil-asset-may-fetch-an-extra-billion-energy.html
Chesapeake Energy Corp. (CHK)  may receive
$1.8 billion more than estimated for a group of  oil fields 
slated for sale, disposals needed to relieve a cash crunch at
the second-largest U.S. natural-gas producer.  Chesapeake’s 1.5 million acres in the Permian Basin may be
worth $6.82 billion, based on the price  Concho Resources Inc. (CXO) 
agreed to pay this week for oil fields in the same area, said
 Michael Kelly , a Houston-based analyst at Global Hunter
Securities LLC. Chesapeake Chief Executive Officer  Aubrey McClendon  estimated the value at $5 billion during a March
interview at the company’s headquarters in  Oklahoma City .  The potential for an extra billion dollars from what
McClendon calls “the world’s hottest acquisition” comes after
Chesapeake yesterday shelved a $1 billion sale of future
production meant to help plug a  cash-flow shortfall . The company
risks a $16 billion funding gap this year and next,  Standard &
Poor’s  said today. Chesapeake has said it may run out of money
next year.  “This is probably going to be the biggest Permian asset
sale in quite a long time and perhaps a long time into the
future,” McClendon said on a conference call yesterday. “For a
company that wants to get bigger in the Permian or wants to get
in the Permian, this is the best opportunity.”  Chesapeake signed a $3 billion loan from  Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. (GS)  and  Jefferies Group Inc. (JEF)  last week that McClendon
called a “bridge” as it waits for asset sales to raise cash.
Chesapeake increased the size of the loan to $4 billion today,
according to a person with knowledge of the transaction.  Dwindling Liquidity  Without the loan, Chesapeake was in danger of exhausting
the remaining borrowing capacity of its revolving credit
facility by the end of next month,  Philip Weiss , an analyst at
Argus Research in New York. Weiss, who has a “sell” rating on
Chesapeake shares, is the top-ranked analyst covering Chesapeake,
based on the 1-year returns on his recommendation.  S&P cut Chesapeake’s corporate credit rating to BB- from BB
today, the second downgrade in three weeks. The company’s rating
was dropped to three levels below investment grade because of
“less than adequate” liquidity, Scott Sprinzen, an S&P analyst,
said today in a note to clients.  Concho Resources, based in Midland,  Texas , agreed to pay $1
billion for closely held Three Rivers Operating Co.’s oil and
gas assets, including 310,000 acres in the Permian, according to
a May 13 release. Splitting off the producing assets, the
company is paying about $3,000 an acre for undeveloped Permian
land, Kelly calculated.  Concho Chairman and CEO Timothy Leach said yesterday the
company plans to increase the number of rigs drilling in the
Permian. The Three Rivers purchase is Concho’s third in six
months in the Permian. Concho is “pretty well set” with its
acreage, Leach said.  Looking at Permian  Anadarko Petroleum Corp. plans to look at Chesapeake’s
Permian Basin assets and may acquire properties where it has
some wells and leases, Anadarko Chief Executive Officer Al Walker said during a meeting with reporters today in The
Woodlands, Texas.  Other buyers in the area in the past year include Linn
Energy LLC and Vanguard Natural Resources LLC.  Occidental Petroleum Corp., the biggest producer in the
Permian, had a bid for the Chesapeake assets rejected, according
to a report yesterday in Forbes. The company offered about $3.5
billion, the magazine reported on its website, citing
unidentified people with knowledge of the negotiations.  “There are no such negotiations taking place,” Eric Moses,
a spokesman for Los Angeles-based Occidental, said in an e-mail
yesterday.  Exxon Mobil Corp., which paid about $590 million to
Chesapeake last month for leases in  Oklahoma ’s Texoma Woodford
formation, declined to comment on whether it’s interested in
Chesapeake’s Permian Basin assets. “We don’t comment on
speculation,” David Eglinton, an Exxon spokesman, said today in
an e-mailed statement.  Permian Reserves  The Permian may hold as much 4.5 billion barrels of
recoverable oil reserves, according to a  report  last month from
the  U.S. Geological Survey . The number of active rigs drilling
in the Permian in Texas increased to 273 at the end of last year,
more than triple two years ago.  Apache Corp. continues to increase activity in the Permian,
where it’s the second-largest operator. Apache will invest 42
percent more this year in the Permian, where it has about 1.5
million net acres, according to a May 8 presentation. The
company isn’t interested in the Chesapeake assets, Chairman and
CEO Steven Farris said March 6.  Chesapeake’s Permian Basin holdings will be sold by the end
of September, McClendon said yesterday. The company also is
seeking to raise cash by bringing in a partner to help cover
drilling expenses in the Mississippi Lime formation in Oklahoma
and  Kansas , he said.  Three Companies Looking  Three companies examined reserves estimates and other
geologic data for Chesapeake’s Permian Basin assets last week
and the sale process will continue for another month, McClendon
said. Goldman Sachs and Jefferies are among the firms advising
Chesapeake, he said.  At the same time that McClendon reassured investors of
robust interest in the Permian Basin assets, he canceled plans
to raise as much as $1 billion this year through a so-called
volumetric production payment from its Eagle Ford wells in south
Texas. He also postponed an initial public offering for
Chesapeake’s oilfield-services unit until at least next year,
citing “market conditions.”  Chesapeake fell 5.6 percent to $14.65 at the close in  New
York . The shares have declined 34 percent this year, the worst
performance by an oil and gas producer on the Standard & Poor’s
500 Index.  McClendon as Chairman  Chesapeake has  lost 27 percent  of its market value in the
past four weeks following criticism of potential conflicts of
interest from loans McClendon obtained using his personal stakes
in company wells as collateral. The stock also has been battered
as a surplus of North American gas sank prices to a 10-year low
last month.  Chesapeake’s board said on May 1 that it will strip
McClendon of the chairman’s position. The U.S. Securities &
Exchange Commission opened an informal inquiry earlier this
month. Chesapeake posted an unexpected $71 million first-quarter
loss and said on May 1 that it may run out of money next year to
fund its drilling program.  ‘Razor’s Edge’  “We view the latest events as a continuance of the company
living on the razor’s edge,”  Brian Gibbons , a debt analyst at
CreditSights in New York, said in a note to clients yesterday.
The company’s efforts to reassure nervous investors have been
“bizarre and confusing and unsettling.”  McClendon said Chesapeake doesn’t have the funds to drill
as many wells as it wants in the Permian. A new owner would
“probably need” about three times as many rigs as the 12
Chesapeake currently is using in the area, he said.  “It just needs to be done by somebody who has more
resources than we have to put to work on those assets,”
McClendon said. “To imagine that assets are unsellable in the
Permian Basin, which is the world’s hottest acquisition basin
today, is really unthinkable.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Joe Carroll  in Chicago at 
 jcarroll8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  