-- Chicago’s Borrowing Costs Poised to Drop 22% From November
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   K a s k e
-- 2012-05-15T20:53:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-15/chicago-s-borrowing-costs-poised-to-drop-22-from-november-1-.html
Chicago , the third-largest U.S. city,
may see relative borrowing costs shrink 22 percent from November
in a sale of $308 million of taxable general-obligation bonds
this week.  The city plans to offer $593 million of debt, including a
30-year taxable segment on which the preliminary yield is about
2.35 percentage points above U.S. Treasuries, said a person with
knowledge of the sale. The yield gap has narrowed by 0.65
percentage point since November, when Chicago issued $206
million of taxable debt to yield 3 percentage points above
federal bonds, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  For the $285 million tax-exempt portion of the deal, the
city is offering 10-year debt yielding 0.85 percentage point
above top-rated, benchmark tax-exempt bonds, according to
preliminary pricing data.  Demand for munis has reduced spreads for states and
localities, Tom Boylen, a trader at Chicago-based Performance
Trust Capital Partners, said in an interview. Investors have
added $11.4 billion to U.S. municipal mutual funds this year,
the biggest yearly start since 1993, Lipper US Fund Flows data
show.  “The majority of spreads have compressed in municipals,”
Boylen said. “There’s a lot of cash coming to the marketplace
and this provides one of the few general-obligation, national
names that has some spread to it.”  Hungry Pension  Thirty-year Treasuries yielded about 2.94 percent today,
according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. Chicago, a city of
2.7 million people, plans to wrap up the sale tomorrow.  Moody’s Investors Service rates Chicago Aa3, its fourth-
highest grade. Last month, the company changed the city’s
outlook to negative from stable because of its “outsized
pension pressures.”  Retirement costs will take up about 22 percent of the
city’s corporate budget by 2016 without changes to the system,
Mayor  Rahm Emanuel  told state lawmakers this month. His
recommendations include increasing the  retirement age , phasing
in higher employee contributions and suspending cost-of-living
payments to retirees.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Kaske in  New York  at 
 mkaske@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  