-- China Swaps Drop to Four-Month Low as More Policy Easing Likely
-- B y   K y o u n g w h a   K i m
-- 2012-05-15T02:04:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-15/china-swaps-drop-to-four-month-low-as-more-policy-easing-likely.html
China ’s one-year  interest-rate swaps 
slid to the lowest level since January on speculation policy
makers will roll out more stimulus to shore up growth in the
world’s second-largest economy.  China’s slowdown may deepen and growth this year will be in
the “mid-7 percent range,” a pace unseen since 1999, Ramin Toloui, Pacific Investment Management Co.’s global co-head of
 emerging markets  portfolio management in  Singapore , said in e-
mailed comments May 13. The People’s Bank of China cut banks’
 reserve requirements  by 50 basis points on May 12, after data
showed April industrial production, new loans and retail sales
grew less than forecast.  “Policy makers will need to orchestrate large-scale bank
lending, prevent yuan appreciation, cut the reserve ratio
further and perhaps lower policy rates if they want to achieve
their growth goal,” Dariusz Kowalczyk, a Credit Agricole CIB
strategist in  Hong Kong , wrote in a report today.  The one-year swap rate, the fixed cost to receive the
seven-day repurchase rate, fell nine basis points to 2.86
percent at 9:36 a.m. in Shanghai, according to a weighted
average compiled by the National Interbank Funding Center. It
touched 2.80 percent, the lowest level since Jan. 4.  In March, China set a growth goal of 7.5 percent for the
year, the first time it has targeted annual expansion of less
than 8 percent since 2004.  Severe Consequences  “The time for such policy adjustment is now, and any
further significant delay may have severe economic and market
consequences not only for China, but for the whole region,”
Kowalczyk wrote.  The People’s Bank of China will sell 60 billion  yuan  ($9.5
billion) of 28-day repurchase agreements today, according to a
trader at a primary dealer required to bid at the auctions.  The  seven-day repurchase rate , a gauge of funding
availability in the financial system, dropped 29 basis points to
2.82 percent in Shanghai, according to a weighted average
compiled by the National Interbank Funding Center. The yield on
3.51 percent government bonds due February 2022 fell nine basis
points, or 0.09 percentage point, to 3.40 percent.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Kyoungwha Kim in Singapore at 
 kkim19@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net . 