-- China, India Airlines Fail to Comply With Europe’s Carbon Rules
-- B y   C a t h e r i n e   A i r l i e   a n d   M a t h e w   C a r r
-- 2012-05-15T10:58:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-15/china-india-airlines-fail-to-comply-with-europe-s-carbon-rules.html
China  and India’s airlines failed to
submit carbon-dioxide emissions data for 2011, rebuffing
European rules that seek to expand the region’s emissions
trading system to include aviation.  There has been “systematic non-reporting” of emissions to
and from  Europe  from 10 airlines based in India and China,
according to a  statement  on the European Commission’s website
today. While airlines, brought into Europe’s carbon program in
January, need to submit last year’s emissions data, there’s no
obligation to hand in permits for that year.  The inclusion of flights in Europe’s ETS as of January
triggered opposition from countries including the U.S., China
and  Russia , which said Europe should let the  United Nations ’
 International Civil Aviation Organization  decide on greenhouse-
gas limits for the industry.  The Chinese and Indian airlines represent less than 3
percent of the sector’s emissions, Climate Commissioner Connie
Hedegaard said. Eight airlines in China and two in  India  have
until mid-June to submit the data, she told journalists in
Brussels today. The remaining airlines reported last year’s
emissions on time to meet the March 31 deadline, the Commission
said in the statement. More than 1,200 emissions reports have
been submitted from airlines, it said.  The EU, home of the world’s biggest carbon trading system
by traded volume, decided in 2008 that aviation would from this
year become a part of its cap-and-trade plan. Airline carbon-
dioxide discharges in the region doubled over two decades and
international organizations failed to enact pollution curbs.  Stricter Next Year  The airlines that failed to obey the rules probably won’t
be penalized and instead the European Union may become more
strict next year when airlines need to hand in allowances to
cover emissions, according to  Deutsche Bank AG. (DBK)   “The EU will be very, very flexible,” Isabelle Curien, an
analyst in Paris for the bank, said today by phone. “ Member
States  may be unwilling to instigate an operating ban” for
airlines that failed to comply. An operating ban would restrict
entry of airlines into Europe.  The EU may wait until airlines need to hand in carbon
allowances and credits for the first time on April 30 next year,
Curien said.  International carriers will be given for free emission
permits making up 85 percent of the industry cap in 2012 and
will have to buy the remaining 15 percent at auctions. They can
also trade between each other.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Catherine Airlie in London at 
 cairlie@bloomberg.net ;
Mathew Carr in London at 
 m.carr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  