-- China Stocks Fall to 1-Month Low on Economy, Investment Concern
-- B y   W e i y i   L i m
-- 2012-05-15T07:55:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-15/china-stocks-fall-to-1-month-low-on-economy-investment-concern.html
China’s stocks  fell, dragging the
benchmark index to the lowest level in a month, after foreign
direct investment dropped and Pacific Investment Management Co.
said the nation’s economic slowdown may deepen.  Jiangxi Copper Co. and Aluminum Corp. of China Ltd. paced
declines for metal producers as the political impasse in  Greece 
fueled concerns that the country may leave the euro area.
 Yanzhou Coal Mining Co. (600188)  slid to the lowest in three weeks after
the price of the country’s coal for power stations declined for
the first time since at least 2009. Qingdao Haier Co. led a
rally for household appliance stocks on speculation the
government may introduce stimulus measures for the industry.  “Stocks are falling because there’s a combination of bad
news from Europe and China,” said Zhou Lin, an analyst at
Huatai Securities Co. in Nanjing. “The Europe crisis is
worsening with Greece potentially being kicked out. The Chinese
cut in reserve-ratio requirements indicates the government’s
concern about the economy’s health. Investors are expecting the
growth to slow further in the second quarter.”  The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  fell 5.9 points, or 0.3
percent, to 2,374.84 at the close, the lowest level since April
17. The  CSI 300 Index (SHSZ300)  snapped five days of losses, gaining 0.1
percent to 2,617.37. The  Bloomberg China-US 55 Index (CH55BN) , the
measure of the most-traded U.S.-listed Chinese companies,
tumbled 2.4 percent in  New York  yesterday.  Investment Slump  The  Shanghai  index dropped 0.6 percent yesterday even as
the central bank announced a third cut in lenders’ reserve
ratios since November. About 9 billion shares changed yesterday,
15 percent higher than the daily average this year. Thirty-day
 volatility  in the gauge was at 15.2 today, the lowest since
March 27.  For the year, the Shanghai index has climbed 8 percent on
expectations the government will relax monetary policy and take
measures to bolster equities. Stocks in the gauge are valued at
10.2 times estimated earnings, compared with a record low of 8.9
times on Jan. 6, according to weekly  data  compiled by Bloomberg.  Foreign direct investment in  China  fell for a sixth month
in April, as faltering global growth and renewed turmoil in
financial markets dented company spending in  Asia ’s biggest
economy.  Inbound investment declined 0.7 percent from a year earlier
to $8.4 billion, the Ministry of Commerce said today in Beijing.
That compares with a 6.1 percent drop in March and extends the
longest stretch of declines since the global financial crisis.
The estimates of five analysts in a Bloomberg News survey on
April investment ranged from a drop of 3 percent to a gain of
8.2 percent.  Deeper Slowdown  Jiangxi Copper, the biggest producer of the metal, slid 1.3
percent to 25.22 yuan. Chalco, the listed unit of nation’s
biggest maker of the lightweight metal, declined 0.9 percent to
6.91  yuan .  Asia stocks dropped as the political impasse in Greece
added to speculation the nation will leave the euro currency
union and Moody’s Investors Service cut the credit ratings of 26
Italian banks, damping demand for riskier assets.  Pimco, which oversees the world’s largest bond fund, sees
Chinese growth this year in the “mid-7 percent range,” a pace
unseen since 1999. Its call is still lower than that of banks
from Citigroup Inc. and JPMorgan Chase & Co. to Bank of America
Corp. and UBS AG, which all pared their forecasts after April
economic data were released last week.  “Anything less than 7.5 percent GDP growth would border on
a disaster,” Michael Mullaney, who helps manage $9.5 billion as
chief investment officer at Fiduciary Trust in  Boston , wrote by
e-mailed response. “Material stocks as a whole will continue to
suffer with any incremental weakness.”  Coal Stocks  Yanzhou Coal lost 1.4 percent to 23.26 yuan. China Shenhua
Energy Co., the largest coal producer, fell 1.2 percent to 25.95
yuan. The benchmark coal price at Qinhuangdao port with an
energy value of 5,500 kilocalories per kilogram fell 0.6 percent
from a week earlier to a range from 775 yuan ($123) to 785 yuan
a metric ton as of May 13, according to data yesterday from the
China Coal Transport and Distribution Association.  Shenhua’s Hong Kong-traded shares were rated hold at UOB-
Kay Hian Holdigs Ltd., which said valuations are “not very
attractive” amid a margin squeeze and earnings growth
deceleration.  China Southern Airlines Co., the nation’s biggest carrier
by passenger numbers, declined 0.9 percent to 4.65 yuan. China
warned its tourists last week to avoid “unnecessary” travel to
the  Philippines  amid a dispute between the two countries over an
island in the  South China Sea .  Stimulus Speculation  Qingdao Haier, the biggest maker of refrigerators, surged
7.8 percent to 12.20 yuan.  Gree Electric Appliances Inc. (000651) , which
makes air conditioners, rose 2.8 percent to 21.91 yuan.  “Last month, there was a report saying the government may
have more stimulus measures for home appliances,” said  Li Jun ,
a strategist at Central China Securities Co. in Shanghai.
“That’s due to happen by the first half. It could be that
there’s new information on this matter.”  China may set up a new mechanism for foreign pension funds
to invest in the country’s capital markets, the Wall Street
Journal reported, citing unidentified people familiar with the
matter. The program would be separate from the qualified foreign
institutional investor program, known as QFII, China’s main
official international investment program, the report said.
 Taiwan ,  Hong Kong  and Singapore pension funds without QFII
licenses may be among the first to be included in the new
program, the report cited one of the people as saying.  South Korea ’s National Pension Service, the country’s
biggest investor, plans to seek approval to buy more yuan-
denominated Chinese stocks after using up the initial quota of
$100 million it received in March.  The IShares FTSE China 25 Index Fund, the biggest Chinese
exchange-traded fund in the U.S., retreated 1.7 percent to
$34.74 yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Weiyi Lim in Singapore at 
 wlim26@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at   dboey@bloomberg.net  