-- Dissident Chen May Get China Passport by Next Week
-- B y   I n d i r a   A . R .   L a k s h m a n a n
-- 2012-05-16T08:22:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-15/china-dissident-chen-decries-pattern-of-abuse-against-family.html
Blind Chinese activist  Chen Guangcheng  should receive a passport by May 21 that would allow
him to leave for the U.S., according to Bob Fu, a Texas-based
Christian aid worker who is in daily touch with him.  Chen, a self-taught lawyer and prominent opponent of forced
abortions under  China ’s one-child policy, applied for a travel
document on May 6. Under Chinese regulations, he should be
issued a passport within 15 days of his petition, Fu said in an
interview in Washington.  “If by May 21st, there’s no movement, there will be real
concern,” Fu said yesterday, after testifying at a
congressional hearing during which Chen spoke by phone from a
Beijing hospital. “Everything now is hanging on the passport.”  Chen, who said he is speaking daily with U.S. diplomats,
told the hearing that Chinese authorities have retaliated
against members of his extended family with beatings and
detentions. Chen called “absurd” the homicide charges that
authorities have filed against a nephew, who fought back against
security officials who Chen said broke into his brother’s home
and beat his family. No one died in the attack.  State Department spokeswoman  Victoria Nuland  said that U.S.
visas for Chen, his wife and two children have been approved and
are ready whenever China acts on his request to study in
America.  Apology Demanded  Asked to respond to the alleged abuses against Chen’s
family, Foreign Ministry spokesman Hong Lei reiterated China’s
demand that the U.S. apologize for what he said was interference
in its domestic affairs. He declined to comment on Chen’s
status, saying “Chinese nationals can apply for a passport
according to the law.”  Fu, founder of ChinaAid, a Texas-based Christian group,
said that he is “still very optimistic that, at the end of the
day, China will allow Chen and his family as normal citizens to
come to the U.S.”  “Chinese leaders made the commitment to follow through and
we certainly expect them to deliver” since the credibility of
both the Chinese and U.S. governments is at stake, Fu said in
the interview.  Chen, speaking by telephone to a House Foreign Affairs
subcommittee hearing convened by Republican Representative  Chris Smith  of  New Jersey , said he remains in daily contact with U.S.
embassy officials. American diplomats have not been permitted to
meet with Chen in person in more than a week and were kept
waiting outside one day for eight hours, according to Fu.  House Arrest  Chen was imprisoned for four years and subsequently kept
under extrajudicial house arrest in Shandong province after
initiating a class-action lawsuit against forced abortions and
sterilizations of village women. He escaped last month and fled
to Beijing, where he was given shelter at the U.S. embassy just
days before Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  and Treasury
Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  arrived for annual talks on U.S.-
China cooperation.  Negotiations over Chen’s future drew attention to human
rights violations and threatened to derail the high-level
meeting. After initially departing the embassy with a Chinese
promise that he would be allowed to live freely in China, Chen
said he changed his mind and wanted to go to the U.S. A deal was
reached for Chen to apply for a passport and take an offer to
study law at  New York  University.  Family Beaten  Chen said yesterday that Chinese authorities have beaten
and detained members of his extended family since he escaped
house arrest. The reprisals against his family members “are a
total violation of Chinese law,” he said, according to Fu’s
translation.  Human rights lawyer Jiang Tianyong was beaten on May 2 when
he tried to visit Chen in the hospital, and authorities have
threatened to revoke the visas of any foreign journalists who
enter the hospital without permission, Smith said.  Chen said his immediate family is comfortable at Chaoyang
Hospital, where they were reunited by Chinese authorities under
pressure from the U.S. Chen said his two children are delighted
to be able to play outside of the hospital, enjoying a freedom
they never had in Shandong province, where his son had been
taken away from the family.  Chen is still receiving medical treatment while awaiting a
Chinese passport.  “All of the processing on the U.S. side has been
completed,” Nuland said at a news briefing in  Washington . “We
are ready when he and his government are ready. We have been for
more than a week now.”  Smith said in an interview that the Obama administration
has “deprioritized human rights” and may have been naive to
trust Chinese officials who said they would let Chen come to the
U.S.  “It’s a false argument that we don’t have leverage” to
pressure China on human rights, Smith said. He dismissed the
notion that China, the largest foreign holder of  U.S. government
debt , might retaliate by ceasing to buy U.S. Treasuries.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Indira A.R. Lakshmanan in Washington at 
 ilakshmanan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  