-- China May Allow Non-QFII Pension Funds to Invest, WSJ Says
-- B y   E l e n i   H i m a r a s
-- 2012-05-15T06:39:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-15/china-may-allow-foreign-pension-funds-to-invest-wsj-reports.html
China may set up a new mechanism for
foreign pension funds to invest in the country’s  capital
markets , the Wall Street Journal reported, citing people it
didn’t name.  The new channel would be separate from the existing
Qualified Foreign Institutional Investor program, the report
said. The country may also introduce a specialized Qualified
Domestic Institutional Investor plan to let wealthy investors
buy Hong Kong stocks directly, Ming Pao Daily reported today,
citing people it didn’t identify.  China is accelerating the opening of its capital markets,
more than doubling quotas for QFIIs last month to $80 billion
from $30 billion to expand their holdings in the nation’s
stocks, bonds and bank deposits. The country needs more
institutional investors such as pensions and the government is
discussing tax reductions to encourage their investments, the
 China  Securities Regulatory Commission said in a May 7 statement
on its website.  “It may be possible that we’ll see a separate program, but
really they are trying to achieve their quest to attract more
long-term foreign institutional capital to open the Chinese
market,” said Hubert Tse, partner at Chinese law firm Boss &
Young in  Shanghai  who advises QFIIs, QDIIs, global  hedge funds 
and private equity funds in China. “Now that they are
increasing the inflow with QFII, they will need to balance the
outflow by expanding the QDII.”  QFII Funds  Retirement funds in Taiwan, Hong Kong and  Singapore  without
QFII licenses may be among the first to be allowed to invest
under the new system, the Wall Street Journal reported. Six
overseas pension funds have won QFII licenses with a combined
quota of $750 million, according to the statement. Another
channel is for them to buy products issued by QFIIs, the CSRC
said in the May 7 statement.  The initial size of the expanded QDII plan could be as much
as about $50 billion, Ming Pao said.  This expansion “would be positive for  Hong Kong ,” said
 Tomomi Yamashita , a senior  fund manager  in  Tokyo  at Shinkin
Asset Management Co., which oversees $6 billion. “If cash-rich
China begins buying foreign currency, that would improve the
global liquidity. I hope for that to happen.”  ‘Through Train’  China scrapped a plan in January 2010 to allow Chinese
nationals to buy Hong Kong stocks directly and instead expanded
a program under which Chinese institutions can invest in
overseas markets. The so-called “through-train” program for
Chinese individuals was unveiled by regulators in August 2007
and helped push the benchmark  Hang Seng Index  to a record high
that October.  “We continue to work closely with China Securities
Regulatory Commission on refining existing and new initiatives
on financial cooperation,” the Financial Services and the
Treasury Bureau in Hong Kong replied in an e-mail to questions
from Bloomberg News. “We do not comment on newspaper reports on
specific items.”  CSRC didn’t immediately reply to a fax seeking comment.
Phone calls to the State Administration of Foreign Exchange, the
nation’s currency regulator, weren’t answered.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eleni Himaras in Hong Kong at 
 ehimaras@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  