-- Clemens Sought More Drugs While on Yankees, McNamee Says
-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g
-- 2012-05-15T22:20:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-15/clemens-sought-more-drugs-while-with-yankees-mcnamee-says.html
Roger Clemens , the ex-New York
Yankees pitcher charged with lying to Congress, used human
growth hormone and testosterone while playing for the team in
2000 and 2001, his former trainer said.  Brian McNamee , the trainer, said in his second day
testifying for the prosecution that Clemens asked him to buy the
drugs in late June or early July 2000 while the two were at
Yankee Stadium.  “‘I’m ready to start up again,’” McNamee said Clemens
told him. “He asked me if I had a guy. I said yes.”  McNamee, then the Yankees’ assistant strength coach, said
he injected Clemens as many as 20 times over the next two
months. Most of the shots were given at Clemens’s apartment in
New York and one occurred in the Jacuzzi area of the Yankees
clubhouse, McNamee said.  McNamee spent about six hours today answering prosecutor
questions about injecting Clemens, including where he got the
drugs and how he eventually became the person who helped
publicly name Clemens as a user of performance enhancing
substances.  McNamee said he would buy “kits” of the drugs, which
included syringes, from Kirk Radomski, a former clubhouse
assistant for the  New York  Mets.  “I asked him if he had stuff for starting pitchers, what
starting pitchers would take,” McNamee said.  McNamee said he would leave the kits under clothes in
Clemens’s locker at the stadium. Clemens would then call him to
his apartment when it was time for an injection, he said.  ‘Two Days Off’  The HGH shots were “two days on, one day off,” while the
testosterone shot was every seven to 10 days, McNamee said.  In 2000, McNamee said, he gave Clemens from six to 10 shots
of testosterone and about 10 to 20 shots of HGH.  Clemens asked the trainer again in June 2001 to buy
testosterone, McNamee said. McNamee said he asked Clemens
whether he wanted HGH too. Clemens allegedly told him he didn’t
like the fact that the HGH shots were given in the belly.  Unlike in the year before, McNamee said, he handed Clemens
the drugs and syringes in the Yankees locker room.  After August, Clemens never asked for more drugs for
himself, McNamee said.  McNamee said he would always dispose of the medical waste
from the injections. He saved the needle, gauze and vial from
one of the injections in 2001. He told jurors today he kept the
items in a Miller Lite beer can that he grabbed from the
recycling bin in Clemens’s apartment.  Showed His Wife  “I put it in my bag and went home,” McNamee said. “I
showed it to my wife.”  McNamee said he put the can in a FedEx box marked “Clem”
and placed it in a locked closet.  McNamee said he saved the material because his wife kept
telling him that he would be the one to take the fall if
something went wrong.  “She kept saying: ‘You’re going to go down, you’re going
to go down, you’re going to go down if something bad ever
happens,’” McNamee said.  “When you saved these items what were you intending to do
with them?” Assistant U.S. Attorney Daniel Butler asked.  “Nothing,” McNamee said.  He said he thought about throwing them out and didn’t.  McNamee, 45, is the government’s only eyewitness to
Clemens’s alleged drug use. Yesterday he testified about
injections he allegedly gave Clemens during the 1998 baseball
season while both worked for the  Toronto Blue Jays .  Prison Term  Clemens, a seven-time Cy Young Award winner, is charged
with one count of obstructing a congressional investigation,
three counts of making false statements and two counts of
perjury stemming from his testimony to a House panel
investigating use of steroids in Major League Baseball. He faces
as long as 21 months in prison if convicted.  Rusty Hardin , a lawyer for Clemens, began cross examining
McNamee today for about 10 minutes before the trial ended for
the day. Hardin made clear he’s seeking to show that McNamee
sought to profit from his accusations against Clemens.  He showed the jury a picture of McNamee the day he
testified before the grand jury in 2010 at the federal
courthouse in  Washington . McNamee was wearing a blue tie with a
logo for American Nutrition Center.  Hardin asked several questions about McNamee’s dealings
with the company and what McNamee did with tie. After McNamee
said he kept it, Hardin asked about a tie autographed by McNamee
that was later auctioned off by the company’s owner. Hardin said
the company represented that the tie in the auction was the one
worn by McNamee during his grand jury appearance.  ‘Definitely Possible’  McNamee said he received two ties from the company and it
was “definitely possible” that one of them was auctioned.  Under questioning from Hardin, McNamee said he had done
interviews promoting a sister company of American Nutrition
Center.  Clemens, who says he was injected by McNamee, said he
thought he was receiving vitamins and permissible drugs.  McNamee was asked by Butler whether he ever injected
Clemens with vitamin B12 or lidocaine -- the two substances
Clemens told Congress he had taken. McNamee said, “No, never.”  Clemens, 49, who pitched for the Yankees,  Blue Jays ,  Boston
Red Sox  and  Houston Astros  during a 24-year career, used the
anabolic steroids and HGH to remain competitive as he aged,
Assistant U.S. Attorney Steven Durham said in his opening
statement as the trial began on April 23.  The government’s case against Clemens includes the needle
and cotton with Clemens’s DNA that tested positive for anabolic
steroids, Durham said.  Sought Money  Hardin argued in opening statements that McNamee
manipulated the government’s physical evidence and an expert
will testify it’s easy to add DNA to a needle that has never
been used in an injection.  Clemens has denied having used drugs since former Senator
 George Mitchell , acting as a special investigator for  Major
League Baseball , released a report on steroid use among
professional ballplayers on Dec. 13, 2007. Mitchell concluded
Clemens used drugs on at least 16 occasions from 1998 to 2001.  McNamee was let go by the Yankees after the 2001 season. He
continued to train Clemens, as well as former Yankees pitcher
 Andy Pettitte . He said that in 2003 he injected Clemens’s wife,
Debbie, with HGH that he bought from Radomski.  In May 2007 while training Clemens for a return to the
Yankees, McNamee said, he was contacted by federal agents. The
agents had earlier raided Radomski’s home.  ‘Minimized’ Occasions  The following month, McNamee said, he signed an agreement
to cooperate and was interviewed about players and business
clients whom he provided with steroids and HGH. He admitted to
injecting Clemens with HGH and steroids, though McNamee said he
“minimized” the number of occasions. He also never told the
investigators -- or the Mitchell commission -- about the alleged
medical waste that he had stashed in his home.  “I wasn’t giving it up,” he said. “It was the last thing
I had to hold onto to not hurt the guy as bad.”  McNamee said he changed his mind after Clemens played a
secretly recorded phone call with McNamee during a television
interview. McNamee said he was “infuriated” because the
medical condition of his then 11-year-old son was discussed.  “It had nothing to do with steroids in baseball,” he
said.  The case is U.S. v. Clemens, 10-cr-00223, U.S. District
Court,  District of Columbia  (Washington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in Washington at 
 tschoenberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hither at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  