-- Cleveland Cavaliers Guard Kyrie Irving Named NBA’s Top Rookie
-- B y   E b e n   N o v y - W i l l i a m s
-- 2012-05-15T15:23:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-15/cleveland-cavaliers-guard-kyrie-irving-named-nba-s-top-rookie.html
Cleveland Cavaliers point guard Kyrie
Irving was named the National Basketball Association’s Rookie of
the Year after leading all first-year players in scoring.  Irving received 117 of the 120 first-place votes from media
members who regularly cover the sport, the NBA said today in an
e-mailed release. He was the No. 1 pick in the 2011 NBA Draft
out of  Duke University .  Denver Nuggets  forward Kenneth Faried,  San Antonio Spurs 
forward Kawhi Leonard and New York Knicks guard Iman Shumpert
each received one first-place vote. Irving received 592 points
in the balloting, with Ricky Rubio of the  Minnesota Timberwolves 
second at 170 and Faried third at 129.  “It was a great season, I had such an amazing time,”
Irving said today in a press conference at the team’s practice
facility. “That’s why it’s so special here, because I came in
as a 19-year-old kid, and I got to just be myself all the
time.”  Irving led all rookies with 18.5 points per game, and was
second among first-year players in assist average at 5.4. He
also averaged 3.7 rebounds for the Cavaliers, who finished
21-45, 14 games behind the  Philadelphia 76ers  for the eighth and
final Eastern Conference playoff spot.  The 20-year-old guard is the first Cavaliers player to win
the award since current  Miami Heat  forward LeBron James was
named Rookie of the Year for the 2003-04 season. James won his
third league Most Valuable Player award on May 12.  Irving thanked the Cavaliers’ fans, management, friends and
family for their support in his first season. He saved his final
thank you for his father, Drederick, who played professionally
in  Australia  and raised Kyrie alone after his mother died when
he was young.  “I’m living my dream, and without you, I don’t know where
I’d be,” he said to his father. “We’re going to bring this
back home, we’re going to put it right on the mantle, and put
some flashing lights on it so it shines throughout the whole
house.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eben Novy-Williams in  New York  at 
 enovywilliam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jay Beberman at 
 jbeberman@bloomberg.net  