-- Colombia’s Peso Falls After Santos Says Currency Is Too Strong
-- B y   A n d r e a   J a r a m i l l o
-- 2012-05-15T20:06:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-15/colombia-s-peso-falls-after-santos-says-currency-is-too-strong.html
Colombia’s peso fell for a second day
after talks to form a Greek government failed and the South
American country’s president said the currency is too strong.  The peso slipped 0.8 percent to 1,786.20 per  U.S. dollar ,
from 1,771.50 yesterday, paring its rally this year to 8.5
percent, still the best performance among all currencies tracked
by Bloomberg.  The Colombian currency has strengthened “more than it
should,” President  Juan Manuel Santos  said in an interview
today on Caracol Radio. “Banco de la Republica is intervening.
I hope the peso stabilizes because it’s an important factor.”  Agriculture Minister Juan Camilo Restrepo said yesterday
the central bank should adopt “stronger” measures to ease the
peso’s rally to help exporters as a free-trade agreement with
the U.S. goes into effect today. Santos’s comments came as
 Greece  officials announced the country will hold new elections
after President Karolos Papoulias failed to broker a governing
coalition, raising concern it may exit the euro.  “Under a scenario of nervousness in international markets,
pessimism starts to prevail,” said  Camilo Perez , the head
analyst at Banco de Bogota, the nation’s second-biggest bank.
“Not only are people talking about Greece, but renewed concern
over global growth is also a factor” that is hurting appetite
for risk, Perez said.  To ease gains in the peso, the central bank said April 30
it will buy a minimum of $20 million daily in the  spot market 
until at least Nov. 2, extending the program by three months.  The yield on Colombia’s 10 percent peso-denominated debt
due in July 2024 was little changed at 7.18 percent, according
to the central bank.  Investors were little shaken by a bomb blast in central
Bogota today that injured  Colombia ’s former Justice Minister
Fernando Londono and killed five people, according to Perez.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrea Jaramillo in Bogota at 
 ajaramillo1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  