-- Colorado Panel Kills Same-Sex Unions Measure in Special Session
-- B y   J e n n i f e r   O l d h a m
-- 2012-05-15T03:09:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-15/colorado-panel-kills-same-sex-unions-measure-in-special-session.html
Legislation that would have permitted
same-sex civil unions and which prompted  Colorado  Governor John Hickenlooper to call a special legislative session was defeated
by a Republican-led House committee.  The Colorado  State, Veterans and Military Affairs Committee 
voted 5 to 4 to kill the bill after a six-week odyssey that saw
it progress farther than many proponents expected. The measure,
which would have permitted gay and lesbian couples to inherit
one another’s property and take family leave and make medical
end-of-life decisions for a partner, was approved by the
Democratic-controlled state Senate last month.  On the first day of the new session, Colorado Republican
House Speaker Frank McNulty assigned the bill to the state
affairs committee, a panel dominated by conservative members.
McNulty said before the vote that he made the assignment to
“dispense with divisive issues as quickly as possible so we can
get back to the business of creating jobs.”  Hickenlooper, a first-term Democrat, and President  Barack Obama , who announced his support for gay marriage on May 9, may
benefit from the civil unions defeat in a state considered a
battleground in the presidential election that Obama carried in
2008, said Bob Loevy, a retired professor of political science
at Colorado Springs-based Colorado College.  “The Democrats have played this very adroitly,” Loevy
said. “Right-wing social issues, particularly those with a
religious connotation, divide the Republican coalition and drive
away a group that used to be very strongly Republican. That’s
upscale, professional upper-income voters who live in close-in
suburbs, particularly in the Denver metropolitan area.”  Constitutional Amendment  The state’s voters in 2006 rejected a domestic
partnerships ballot initiative and amended the state
constitution to declare marriage a contract between a man and a
woman.  After being approved by the state Senate in April, the
civil union’s bill unexpectedly passed out of three Republican-
controlled House committees, yet died in the House on May 8
after McNulty recessed the chamber shortly before midnight in a
move aimed at blocking it. Hickenlooper called a special session
the next day, even as Obama said for the first time that gay
marriage should be legal.  Before the bill’s defeat, Hickenlooper said he called the
special session to address the civil-unions bill and other
measures that failed to advance. In an executive order calling
for a special session, the governor asked the  legislature  to
consider subjects including unemployment, limits on driving
while under the influence of drugs, water projects and civil
unions.  ‘Needed a Debate’  “We needed a special session anyway, we needed to make
sure that we got business bills done and at the same time we
needed a debate on civil unions,” Hickenlooper said.  Supporters predicted the bill’s downfall would be felt at
the ballot box this fall.  “A no vote today hurts thousands of Colorado families and
the millions of people who care about us,” said Anna Simon, a
biology professor at the University of Denver, who testified
during the four-hour committee hearing in favor of the measure
with her partner, Fran.  It’s the closest a civil unions measure, which would have
permitted gay and lesbian couples to inherit one another’s
property and take family leave and make medical end-of-life
decisions for a partner, has come to passing in Colorado.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jennifer Oldham in Denver at 
 Joldham1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeffrey Taylor at 
 Jtaylor48@bloomberg.net  