-- ConocoPhillips Interested in More Australia Shale Investment
-- B y   J a m e s   P a t o n
-- 2012-05-15T09:26:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-15/conocophillips-interested-in-more-shale-investments-in-australia.html
ConocoPhillips (COP) , the third-largest
U.S. oil company, said it’s interested in further shale
investments in  Australia  following a partnership last year with
Perth-based  New Standard Energy Ltd. (NSE)   “We’re chasing a bunch of stuff,” Todd Creeger, president
of Conoco’s Australian unit, said today in an interview in
Adelaide. “There are some large acreage holders interested in
talking to us about what we could do together. New Standard was
a good entry. We’ll see more of that.”  The Canning Basin in  Western Australia , where New Standard
Energy and ConocoPhillips are exploring, is at the top of the
Houston-based company’s list, Creeger said. The Cooper Basin in
central Australia also has potential, he said.  Conoco, Hess Corp.,  BG Group Plc (BG/)  and Mitsubishi Corp. have
agreed to fund shale exploration campaigns through ventures in
Australia. With explorers including  Santos Ltd. (STO)  and  Beach Energy
Ltd. (BPT)  holding pieces of an estimated 400 trillion cubic feet of
recoverable shale-gas resources, Australia is poised to
commercialize its acreage on a “large scale,” according to the
U.S. Energy Information Administration.  Acquiring shale oil and gas acreage in Australia will grow
more expensive over time, Creeger said, declining to be specific
about assets in which Conoco may be interested. Conoco is more
focused on shale oil than gas, he said.  “The key is to get in early,” he said. “When you look at
the history of the U.S. and how that shale has developed, the
first movers have been the ones that from a business standpoint
have been successful.”  Darwin Expansion  Still, Australia’s shale industry faces obstacles and lacks
enough drilling equipment, skills and pipeline infrastructure,
Creeger said.  “In Australia it’s going to be more complicated,” he
said. “Development will likely be slower than what you’ve seen
in the U.S., but from a geology standpoint there’s no reason you
wouldn’t see the same opportunity here.”  Conoco is  Origin Energy Ltd. (ORG) ’s partner in a $20 billion
liquefied natural gas project in Australia’s Queensland state
and operates the Darwin LNG plant in the Northern Territory.
Adding production at the Darwin project may depend on getting
three or four companies to combine gas supplies, he said.  “We’re very interested in expanding Darwin,” Creeger
said. “We haven’t found an anchor field for an expansion. There
are options. None are of a size to underpin expansion.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Paton in Sydney at 
 jpaton4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net  