-- Coty Withdraws $10.7 Billion Avon Offer as Talks Spurned
-- B y   L a u r e n   C o l e m a n - L o c h n e r   a n d   M a t t h e w   B o y l e
-- 2012-05-15T14:22:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-15/coty-withdraws-takeover-offer-for-avon-products.html
Avon Products Inc. (AVP) , the world’s
largest door-to-door cosmetics seller, fell the most in more
than six months after Coty Inc. withdrew its $10.7 billion
offer.  Avon  slid  11 percent to $18.68 at 10:17 a.m. in New York,
the biggest decline in the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index. The
shares earlier fell 14 percent for the largest intraday drop
since Oct. 27. The stock had gained 20 percent this year before
today.  Coty, the maker of perfumes by  Beyonce Knowles  and  Heidi
Klum , said attempts to speak to Avon board members, including
Chairman  Andrea Jung  and Chief Executive Officer Sheri McCoy,
failed after it received a two-sentence e-mail requesting a
deadline extension. Coty had given yesterday as a cutoff date
for a response when it made its $24.75-a-share bid last week.  “This continued delay and unwillingness to engage in
discussions is disappointing,” Coty Chairman Bart Becht said in
a letter to Avon’s  board  that was released in a statement. “It
is time for Coty Inc. to move on and pursue other
opportunities.”  Avon, which rejected an initial $10 billion offer last
month, yesterday asked for another week to consider the higher
bid as the deadline for an answer expired.  Coty said it had equity commitments for the bid of more
than $5.8 billion from Joh. A. Benckiser, BDT Capital Partners
and  Warren Buffett ’s  Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A)  with debt financing
to be provided by  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)   “Your total lack of engagement with us leads us to believe
that you remain reluctant to explore a friendly, negotiated
combination,” Becht said.  ‘Promptly’ Responded  Avon, in a separate statement, confirmed that Coty had
withdrawn its proposal. The company said it responded
“promptly” to Coty’s May 9 letter by disclosing it and
indicating the board would consider the contents.  “Five days after sending its letter, Coty withdrew its
proposal,” Avon said.  Becht targeted Avon to add a door-to-door distribution
channel for Coty’s cosmetics and more than double its $4.5
billion in annual sales from brands including  Calvin Klein ,
Cerruti,  Marc Jacobs  and Wolfgang Joop.  “The Avon bid was uncharacteristic for Coty, and I imagine
Coty’s feeling a bit bruised,” Vivienne Rudd, a personal-care
industry analyst at Mintel International, said by phone.  Potential targets for Coty now include Natura Cosmeticos SA
of Brazil,  Oriflame Cosmetics SA (ORI) , the beauty care unit of
Japan’s Kao Corp., France’s Yves Rocher Group, and  L’Occitane
International SA (COC) , Rudd said. Coty also may consider an initial
public offering, she said.  ‘Odd Demands’  “The signs were that if the Avon deal went through it
would have been a public company,” said Rudd, who is based in
London. “Clearly, it’s feeling ready to look beyond the private
model.”  Coty’s withdrawal may hurt its credibility in future
offers, said Erik Gordon, a professor at the University of
Michigan’s Stephen M. Ross School of Business.  “Coty’s idea of a friendly offer gives new meaning to
being a friend,” he wrote in an e-mail. “Who wants to be
courted by someone who makes odd demands and goes a little
whacky when you don’t immediately comply?  Avon, based in New York, has posted three straight years of
 declining profit  and last month hired McCoy as CEO from  Johnson
& Johnson (JNJ)  to replace Jung and pursue a turnaround.  The company also is facing an investigation into possible
bribery in its overseas operations. In regulatory filings last
year, Avon said it had fired four executives suspected of paying
bribes to officials in China. The company also disclosed an
internal investigation into its compliance with the Foreign
Corrupt Practices Act.  Largest Takeover  There have been about 280 takeovers in the cosmetics and
toiletries industry in the past decade, the largest being
Procter & Gamble Co.’s $57.3 billion takeover of Gillette Co.,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The median price to
earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization
paid in almost 30 of those deals was 10.8 times, in line with
Coty’s new offer.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lauren Coleman-Lochner in  New York  at 
 llochner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  