-- Cove Reports New Indian Ocean Gas Discovery Off Mozambique
-- B y   W i l l   K e n n e d y
-- 2012-05-15T15:47:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-15/cove-reports-new-indian-ocean-gas-discovery-off-mozambique-2-.html
Cove Energy Plc (COV) , the U.K. explorer
that’s agreed to be bought by  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA) , reported a
new gas find off  Mozambique , increasing the size of its
discoveries in the east African nation by as much as 66 percent.  The Golfinho exploration well, drilled by partner  Anadarko
Petroleum Corp. (APC) , found 7 trillion to 20 trillion cubic feet of
recoverable gas, according to a statement today. The discovery
was separate to the existing Prosperidade find, which holds as
much as 30 trillion cubic feet. In total, the Rovuma Area 1
block where Anadarko and Cove are exploring may hold more than
five times the U.K.’s existing gas reserves.  “The well results are indicative of the upside that the
potential acquirers of Cove Energy have priced into their
offers,” FirstEnergy Capital Corp. wrote in an e-mailed report.
“We anticipate further consolidation in the region as the size
of the discoveries becomes even more attractive to super
majors.”  Shell, Europe’s largest oil company, agreed to buy Cove
last month, after raising its bid to 1.12 billion pounds ($1.8
billion), or 220 pence a share, and matching a rival offer from
Thailand’s  PTT Exploration & Production Pcl. (PTTEP)  Cove has an 8.5
percent interest in Rovuma Area 1. The fields will supply
liquefied natural-gas projects that export to Asia.  Cove rose 2 percent 228 pence in London. The stock has
almost doubled this year.  ‘Close Proximity’  “This new gas accumulation is independent and separate to
the Prosperidade gas complex,” said Cove’s Chief Executive
Officer John Craven. The find “could be advantageously
developed, given its close proximity to the shore.”  PTT, which is still considering whether to raise its bid,
has declined to comment on the new discovery.  East Africa’s fields offer a fresh source of gas supply for
Asia, where China and India are the world’s fastest-growing
major economies.  Eni SpA (ENI)  of Italy,  BG Group Plc (BG/)  of the U.K. and
 Statoil ASA (STL)  of Norway also discovered gas off Mozambique and
Tanzania.  Anadarko holds 36.5 percent of Rovuma Area 1, Japan’s
Mitsui & Co. 20 percent, India’s Videocon and BPRL Ventures 10
percent each and Mozambique’s state oil company 15 percent.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Cunningham at 
 scunningha10@bloomberg.net  