-- Credit Suisse’s Quintella to Run Asset-Management Firm
-- B y   C r i s t i a n e   L u c c h e s i
-- 2012-05-15T03:00:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-15/credit-suisse-s-quintella-to-run-asset-management-firm.html
Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN) , the second-
largest Swiss bank, is creating an asset-management firm in
Brazil as interest-rate declines create opportunities for hedge-
fund managers.  The firm will be a partnership between the Zurich-based
bank and a group of 16 executives, said Antonio Quintella,
formerly head of the Americas at Credit Suisse who was named
chief executive officer of the firm, Peninsula Investimentos.
Sergio Fraiman Blatyta, ex-head of proprietary trading at Banco
Santander Brasil SA, is in the partnership group, Quintella
said.  “The opportunities to grow with a new line of  hedge funds 
are exceptional now that the Treasury bonds in Brazil will not
offer liquidity, high yields and low risk at the same time
anymore and the investors will be forced to diversify,”
Quintella said yesterday in a phone interview.  Brazilian government policy makers have cut their key rate
by 3.5 percentage points since August to  9 percent  a year.
They’re seeking to invigorate an economy that grew last year
less than  Russia ,  India ,  China  and most of Latin America.  Quintella is also chairman of Credit Suisse Hedging-Griffo,
the asset-management and private-banking subsidiary. Hedging-
Griffo’s assets under management have quintupled since it was
acquired by Credit Suisse in 2007, he said. The unit has
32 billion reais ($16.4 billion) in assets under management and
42 billion reais in the private-banking business, according to
the bank.  Sao Paulo  Quintella’s compensation of 15.63 million Swiss francs
($16.7 million) made him the top-paid executive at Credit Suisse
in 2010. He’ll leave  New York  and be based in Sao Paulo.  He has led Credit Suisse’s Brazilian business since 2003.
The bank was the third-largest adviser on Brazilian takeovers
last year and ranks second this year. Credit Suisse trails UBS
AG, Switzerland’s biggest bank by assets.  Jose Olympio Pereira, 49, took Quintella’s place as CEO of
the Brazilian subsidiary. He said in an interview that the
market for hedge funds may grow as much as 30 percent a year in
Brazil. About 80 percent of the 1.5 trillion reais in assets
under management in the country are invested in fixed income-
related products and that may decrease, Pereira said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cristiane Lucchesi in  Sao Paulo  at 
 clucchesi5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at   dscheer@bloomberg.net  