-- Czech Economy Extends Recession on Austerity Measures
-- B y   P e t e r   L a c a
-- 2012-05-15T07:42:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-15/czech-economy-extends-recession-on-austerity-measures-correct-.html
(Corrects direction of annual figure in second paragraph.)  The Czech Republic’s recession
unexpectedly deepened in the first quarter as the government’s
spending cuts curbed domestic demand amid an increase in the
value-added tax.  Gross domestic product contracted 1 percent from the
previous quarter, the steepest fall since the second quarter of
2009, after shrinking 0.1 percent in the final three months of
last year, the Prague-based Czech Statistic Office said in a
flash estimate on today. The reading was worse than the median
forecast of zero growth in a Bloomberg survey of 13 economists.
GDP decreased 1 percent from the same period of 2011.  The weakening economy is complicating Premier Petr Necas’s
efforts to trim the fiscal  deficit  to match the European Union
limit of 3 percent of GDP this year. Necas plans to push through
austerity measures, including an increase in the value-added tax
and smaller spending on pensions, which the central bank expects
to slow the economy next year.  “The fall in GDP was the result of the extraordinary
development of two different and normally stable sectors,” the
office said, referring to the financial industry and tobacco
sales after consumers and retailers built up stockpiles at the
end of 2011 before a tax increase in January.  Tax Change  The government raised the lower bracket for VAT levied on
goods and services including food, drugs and public transport to
14 percent from 10 percent starting in 2012. Inflation began to
accelerate in the final quarter of last year as businesses
raised prices before the tax increase  took effect.  The government’s austerity plans are clouding the outlook
for monetary policy as the policy makers are divided over the
effects of the measures on inflation.  Czech central bank Governor Miroslav Singer and Vice-
Governor Vladimir Tomsik sought a quarter-point rate reduction
in  interest rates  at a May 3 policy meeting, minutes from the
session showed on May 11. Four policy makers voted to keep the
 benchmark  two-week repurchase rate stable at a record-low 0.75
percent, while one board member voted for a quarter-point
increase in the rate, which has been unchanged for two years.  The economy, which exports about 80 percent of its output,
 contracted  in the third and fourth quarters of 2011 as
government spending cuts outweighed demand abroad for Czech-made
vehicles, car parts and electronics goods.  While the economy extended the recession, Necas’s 20-month-
old administration wants to push through 57 billion koruna ($3
billion) worth of budget measures to narrow the deficit to 2.9
percent of GDP next year from the planned 3 percent this year.  The central bank forecasts a stagnant economy this year and
a 1.9 percent expansion in 2013.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Laca in Prague at 
 placa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  