-- Dana Gas Quarterly Net More Than Doubles on Higher Oil Price
-- B y   A y e s h a   D a y a
-- 2012-05-15T09:49:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-15/dana-gas-quarterly-net-more-than-doubles-on-higher-oil-price-2-.html
Dana Gas PJSC (DANA) , a fuel producer
awaiting outstanding payments from  Egypt  and Iraq, said first-
quarter profit more than doubled amid higher  oil prices  and
lower spending, even as output declined.  Net income advanced to 206 million dirhams ($56 million)
from 92 million dirhams a year earlier, the Sharjah, United Arab
Emirates-based company said in a statement to the Abu Dhabi
bourse today. Oil and natural gas production fell 4.5 percent to
5.73 million barrels of oil equivalent. Benchmark Brent crude
gained 4.7 percent in the first quarter to $122.88 a barrel.  Gross revenue increased 13.6 percent to 700 million
dirhams, while exploration expenses dropped 81 percent to 7
million dirhams, it said.  Shares gained as much as 5.1 percent, the most since Feb.
19, and traded 2.6 percent higher at 0.4 dirham.  Dana Gas shares have tumbled 39 percent in the past year as
it struggles to obtain payments for its Egyptian and Iraqi
operations and on concern it won’t have enough money to repay a
$1 billion Islamic bond due in October. Bondholders of the
Islamic debt hired London-based law firm Linklaters LLP last
month to negotiate a restructuring, three people familiar with
the matter said earlier this month.  Regional Turmoil  The company appointed  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) ,  Blackstone Group LP (BX) 
and Latham & Watkins LLP to advise on its sukuk, which expires
on Oct. 31, according to the statement.  Although regional turmoil, the  European debt crisis , and
delayed payment “affect Dana’s ability to raise new funding,
the company is committed to finding a consensual solution that
is equitable to all stakeholders,” Dana Gas said.  Output from Egypt declined 27 percent to 34,500 barrels a
day of oil equivalent, as pressure fell at older wells. The
company collected 192 million dirhams against receivables in
Egypt, it said. Trade receivables for operations in that nation
stood at 825 million dirhams at the end of the quarter,
according to the statement.  The company’s share of production from the self-ruled
Kurdish region of northern  Iraq  grew 46 percent to 28,500
barrels a day of oil equivalent. Dana Gas collected 143 million
dirhams against receivables, leaving the outstanding trade
receivables for its Iraqi business at 1.04 billion dirhams.  “Dana Gas’s business object is to preserve and protect the
value of its assets for its stakeholders and therefore it
continues to balance operating and necessary capital expenditure
within the available financial resources,” the company said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ayesha Daya in Dubai at 
 adaya1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Stephen Voss  at 
 sev@bloomberg.net . 