-- Dangdang Gains as Yanzhou Coal Discount Widens: China Overnight
-- B y   L e o n   L a z a r o f f
-- 2012-05-15T21:48:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-15/dangdang-gains-as-yanzhou-coal-discount-widens-china-overnight.html
Chinese Internet stocks gained in New
York, on prospects  Facebook Inc. (FB) ’s increased offering price will
spur demand for industry assets while  Yanzhou Coal Mining Co. (YZC) ’s
discount swelled as coal prices fell.  Renren Inc. (RENN) , a social networking website, climbed the most
in a month, and Internet bookstore  E-Commerce China Dangdang
Inc. (DANG)  posted the steepest advance in three weeks. American
depositary receipts of Yanzhou traded at the biggest discount to
the shares in  Hong Kong  since December as coal prices fell for
the first time in three years. The  Bloomberg China-US Equity
Index (CH55BN)  of the most-traded Chinese shares in the U.S. extended its
nine-day slump to 9.2 percent.  China ’s Internet stocks benefited from Facebook’s decision
to increase the price range on its IPO to as much as $38 a share
from $35, implying a market value of as much as $104.2 billion.
That would make Facebook worth more than  Citigroup Inc. (C)  and
McDonald’s Corp. Beijing-based Renren reported yesterday a
first-quarter loss of 3 cents a share, below the median  forecast 
for 4 cents a share by eight analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  “All the talk on the street about Facebook is driving
retail investors in particular to look for stocks that might
gain on social media in China,” Echo He, a New York-based
analyst who covers Chinese Internet stocks for Maxim Group LLC,
said in a phone interview. “Renren’s second-quarter outlook is
weak because advertising is weak, but investors are hoping it
can do as well as Facebook.”  The  iShares FTSE China 25 Index Fund , the biggest Chinese
exchange-traded fund in the U.S., was little changed at $34.72
while the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index slid 0.6 percent to
1,330.66.  German, U.S. Data  Germany ’s economy expanded more than forecast in the first
quarter, offsetting contractions elsewhere in  Europe  and helping
the region, China’s largest trading partner, avoid a second
recession in three years.  U.S. auto sales running at the fastest pace in four years
helped boost manufacturing in the  New York  region in May more
than forecast while strengthening the outlook for a U.S.
economic recovery.  “Investors do remain very nervous but a better outlook for
the  U.S. economy  is certainly helping to calm matters,” Charlie Awdry, portfolio manager of Henderson Global Investors’ 500
million pound ($800 million) China Opportunities Fund, said in a
phone interview from  London . “We still think Chinese earnings
are going to grow, though at a slow pace.”  Foreign direct investment  in China fell for a sixth month
in April, the longest stretch of declines since the global
financial crisis, amid renewed turmoil in financial markets.  Renren Rises  Renren added 6.4 percent to $6.38. The company said
yesterday it will probably report second-quarter revenue of $41
million to $43 million, missing a $46 million median  forecast  of
seven analysts in a Bloomberg survey.  Second-quarter performance “remains very soft” as a
result of the country’s slowing economy,  Chief Executive
Officer Joseph Chen said in an investor conference call
yesterday. “We have not seen much rebound in sentiment and
expenditures from advertisers,” he said.  E-Commerce, known as Dangdang, which reports first-quarter
earnings before the market opens tomorrow, jumped 9.5 percent,
the most since April 25, to $7.40. The Beijing-based company,
which has gained 67 percent in 2012, is expected to report a
non-GAAP  loss  of 20 cents per share for the last quarter,
according to seven analysts in a Bloomberg survey.  AutoNavi Holdings Ltd. (AMAP) , a Chinese provider of digital map
and navigation services, surged 6.5 percent to $11.50, the most
in two months, after reporting first-quarter net revenue of
$35.7 million, compared with a $33 million median  forecast  by
two analysts.  Discount  Yanzhou Coal, China’s fourth-largest producer, rose 0.8
percent to $17.86 in New York yesterday. The ADR traded at 4.1
percent discount to its shares in Hong Kong, where they gained
2.7 percent yesterday to HK$ 14.46, or the equivalent of $1.86.
The discount was the biggest since Dec. 8. One ADR represents 10
ordinary shares.  The price of Chinese coal for power stations fell for the
first time in three years in May, data compiled by the China
Coal Transport and Distribution Association on May 14 showed.  WuXi PharmaTech (Cayman) Inc. (WX) , China’s biggest medical
contract researcher, led declines yesterday, dropping 6.6
percent to $14.01.  The U.S. China Index fell 0.2 percent to 95.24 in New York
yesterday.  The Shanghai Composite Index retreated 0.2 percent
yesterday to 2,374.84 while the Hang Seng China Enterprises
Index of Chinese companies traded in Hong Kong broke a string of
eight consecutive declines, gaining 1 percent to 10,084.59.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Leon Lazaroff in New York at 
 llazaroff@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tal Barak Harif at 
 tbarak@bloomberg.net  