-- Data-Mining in Doctor's Office Helps Solve Medical Mysteries
-- B y   J o r d a n   R o b e r t s o n
-- 2012-05-25T17:39:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-15/data-mining-in-doctor-s-office-helps-solve-medical-mysteries.html
     (This story was corrected to remove remarks from a
Microsoft executive that the company said were made in error.)  When hospitals look to Microsoft Corp., it's no longer
just for the latest in office software. Some are getting help
from the technology giant in diagnosing their patients.  Medical providers are experimenting with new ways to sift
through their data and find patterns. The results can be
surprising: Microsoft recently examined health records from a
research partner, MedStar Washington Hospital Center in
Washington, D.C., and found that the location of patients'
rooms is one factor in whether they get sick. Such insights
can help identify hot spots for bacteria and illness and stop
their spread.  As hospitals digitize patient records and amass huge
amounts of data, many are relying on companies such as
Microsoft, SAS Institute Inc., International Business Machines
Corp. and Oracle Corp., whose data-mining technologies can
help them detect patterns and improve medical care.  The analytics industry generated more than $30 billion in
revenue last year, according to research firm IDC. That is
forecast to increase to $33.6 billion this year as the
health-care industry becomes a bigger customer.  The use of data-mining technology has already led to some
measurable improvements in patient care.  New York-Presbyterian Hospital has reduced the rate of
potentially fatal blood clotting in patients by using
analytics software, Dr. Nicholas Morrissey, a surgeon involved
in the effort, said in an interview.  As patients were being admitted, the hospital started
using Microsoft software in 2010 to scan records for risk
factors, such as cancer, smoking and the amount of time
patients were bed-bound. By letting the software rather than
the hospital staff make the assessment, doctors saved time and
made better evaluations, Morrissey said.  The clotting now happens at a rate of 0.23 incidents per
1,000 patient days, versus 0.33 incidents per 1,000 patient
days before implementation of the software, Morrissey said. He
stressed that further study of the software's impact is
needed.  "I wouldn't be out there saying we've solved the
problem, but we're definitely making progress -- that was a
significant drop," he said.  Seton Healthcare Family, a hospital system in central
Texas, started using data-mining software from IBM last year
to sift through transcribed doctors' notes and other
"unstructured data," such as numbers printed on medical
images, for ways to lower readmission rates for congestive
heart failure patients.  It found some surprising themes. Two of the strongest
predictors of whether a patient would be rehospitalized were
lack of an emotional support network and the presence of a
bulging jugular vein -- two things hospital staff can easily
look for when admitting patients.  "We've gotten some really tremendous results," said Ryan
Leslie, Seton's vice president of analytics and health
economics. The hospitals narrowed a list of 113 predictors
that medical staff thought would be important down to 18, and
even identified some that weren't on the original list, such
as the bulging vein.  Besides improving patient care, hospitals' use of
analytics software can make them eligible for millions of
dollars in government funding if they can demonstrate
"meaningful use" of their computer systems. The payments are
part of the Obama administration's $14.6 billion program to
prod health-care providers to adopt electronic medical
records.  Federal law prohibits medical providers from disclosing
certain health information without patient consent, but there
is an exemption for activities that fall under "quality
improvement," said Susan McAndrew, deputy director for health
information privacy at the U.S. Department of Health and Human
Services' Office for Civil Rights.  That means health-care providers generally don't have to
tell patients that their records are being analyzed for the
purpose of improving care, which has raised some privacy
concerns.  "People do not like to have researchers of any stripe
using their electronic health records," said Deborah
Peel, founder of Austin, Texas-based Patient Privacy Rights.
"As a matter of respect and autonomy and
patient-centeredness, patients want to be asked. When they are
asked, by and large they support this. It's the not being
asked stuff that's really bad."  She pointed to a 2007 survey that found just 1 percent of
respondents felt researchers didn't need to seek permission
before using their medical data.  Some privacy experts disagree, warning of the dangers of
over-notification.  Deven McGraw, director of the health privacy project with
the Center for Democracy & Technology in Washington, said
notifying patients too often could be unnecessarily confusing.  "You ask for it when it's used in ways that people might
not expect," she said.  New York-Presbyterian Hospital and Seton Healthcare
Family didn't notify their patients. MedStar Washington
Hospital Center did not respond to a request for comment.  Morrissey of New York-Presbyterian, which published some
of its results, emphasized that no personal information is
ever publicly disclosed. He said the benefits outweigh the
concerns.  "I think we're going to impact things that are most
life-threatening," he said, emphasizing that while the results
need further research, "it seems real, and it's significant."
 