-- Default Swaps in U.S. Increase as Greece Heads for New Elections
-- B y   S r i d h a r   N a t a r a j a n
-- 2012-05-15T21:18:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-15/default-swaps-in-u-s-increase-as-greece-heads-for-new-elections.html
A gauge of U.S. corporate credit risk
rose for a ninth day, reversing earlier declines, as attempts to
form a new government in  Greece  failed, clearing the way for a
new round of elections.  The Markit CDX North America Investment Grade Index, a
credit-default swaps benchmark that investors use to hedge
against losses on corporate debt or to speculate on
creditworthiness, climbed 2.7 basis points to a mid-price of
117.4 basis points at 5 p.m. in New York, according to prices
compiled by Bloomberg. The gauge had earlier declined to as low
as 112.8 basis points.  The swaps index jumped as post-election attempts to form a
ruling coalition in Athens broke down, sending Greece back to
the polls next month. Surveys give the lead to an anti-bailout
party that has opposed the conditions attached to the country’s
rescue package, spurring investor concern the region’s
sovereign-debt crisis will escalate.  “You have people so risk averse that they don’t wait to
look for fire,” said Scott Colyer, chairman and chief executive
officer of Advisors Asset Management Inc. in Monument,  Colorado .
“It was the failure of Greece to put together any government
that has resulted in this widening.”  The index fell earlier in the day as the Federal Reserve
Bank of  New York ’s general economic index increased to 17.1 this
month from 6.6 in April, almost double the median estimate of 9
in a survey of Bloomberg economists. Readings greater than zero
signal expansion.  JPMorgan Goes Underweight  Last time the credit-default swaps index, which typically
rises as investor confidence deteriorates, increased for more
than nine days was in July 2007, Bloomberg data show. The
contracts pay the buyer face value if a borrower fails to meet
its obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt. A basis
point equals $1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10
million of debt.  JPMorgan Chase & Co. changed its recommendation on
investment-grade corporate bonds to underweight from neutral,
citing the situation in  Europe  and slowing growth in  emerging
markets .  “There is not enough evidence that the firewalls to avoid
contagion to Spain and  Italy  are up to the task of avoiding
broader stress in Europe,” analysts led by  Eric Beinstein  said
in a note today.  The U.S. two-year  interest-rate swap spread , a measure of
stress in credit markets, widened 1.1 basis points to 39 basis
points. The measure, which rises when investors seek the
perceived safety of  government securities  and falls when they
favor assets such as corporate bonds, has increased from a 2012
low of 23.5 in March.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sridhar Natarajan in New York at 
 snatarajan15@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  