-- Delta Reaches Contract Accord With Pilots Seven Months Early
-- B y   M a r y   J a n e   C r e d e u r
-- 2012-05-15T16:40:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-15/delta-reaches-contract-accord-with-pilots-seven-months-early-1-.html
Delta Air Lines Inc. (DAL)  reached a
tentative agreement on a new contract with its pilots union
seven months before the existing accord comes up for amendment,
in an industry where negotiations often drag on for years.  Leaders of the Air Line Pilots Association’s Delta chapter
and its panel that negotiated the contract are meeting in
Atlanta today to discuss the terms, Tim O’Malley, chairman of
the union’s executive committee, told members in a letter today.  “The negotiating committee and its expanded team have
accomplished a great deal of work in the last two months, a
process that normally takes years,” O’Malley wrote.  The agreement must be approved by the union’s executive
committee and then by a majority of the 10,850 rank-and-file
pilots before it takes effect. Terms of the accord, such as
whether it includes pay raises or a change to the so-called
scope clause that determines what size planes regional partners
can fly, can’t be disclosed yet, Kelly Regus, a union
spokeswoman, said in an e-mail.  “Reaching a tentative agreement with the Air Line Pilots
Association has been a high priority for Delta since
negotiations began in March,”  Gina Laughlin , a spokeswoman for
the Atlanta-based company, said in an e-mail. “We are pleased
to have reached this agreement.”  Delta won’t comment on details until the contract is final,
she said.  Competitors’ Talks  The time required to reach the accord at Delta, the world’s
second-largest airline, is in contrast to what has occurred at
the carrier’s U.S. rivals.  United Continental Holdings Inc. (UAL) , the world’s largest
carrier, has been trying to negotiate a joint contract with the
United and Continental pilots since the airlines merged in
October 2010.  AMR Corp. (AAMRQ) ’s American Airlines, which is operating under
 bankruptcy protection , hasn’t been able to reach a contract with
its pilots after more than five years of negotiating.  US Airways
Group Inc. (LCC)  has failed to get a combined agreement for  US Airways 
and America West pilots since the carriers merged in 2005.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mary Jane Credeur in Atlanta at 
 mcredeur@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  