-- Dish CEO Clayton Responds to Criticism of Ad-Skipping DVR
-- B y   A l e x   S h e r m a n
-- 2012-05-16T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-15/dish-ceo-clayton-responds-to-criticism-of-ad-skipping-dvr.html
Dish Network Corp. (DISH)  says it has
“respect” for broadcast networks after executives at  Comcast
Corp. (CMCSA) ’s NBC and  News Corp. (NWSA) ’s Fox questioned the company’s motive
for letting subscribers automatically skip ads.  Dish, the second-largest U.S. satellite-TV service, has
“respect for the networks and for the advertising model,”
Chief Executive Officer Joseph Clayton said yesterday in an e-
mailed statement.  Clayton was responding to comments about Dish’s new Auto
Hop feature, which automatically skips ads in programs
subscribers have recorded for later viewing. NBC Broadcasting
Chairman Ted Harbert, in remarks to advertisers on May 14 at
Radio City  Music Hall , said Auto Hop is “an insult to our joint
programming.”  Last week, Englewood, Colorado-based Dish announced the new
feature for its digital-video recorders. Auto Hop bypasses ads
from recorded shows on NBC, Fox, ABC and CBS, the four largest
broadcast networks.  Dish knew the feature might displease broadcasters, which
is why Auto Hop only works for day-after viewing, said Vivek Khemka, president of  product management . The pushback isn’t
Dish’s primary concern, he said.  “I really wasn’t thinking about what the network
executives were going to say,” Khemka said in an interview. “I
was thinking about getting a good response from consumers, and
what we’ve seen so far is a pretty overwhelmingly positive
response from customers, from comments online and on Facebook.”  What Consumers Want  Dish said the technology gives consumers what they want --
a way to skip commercials -- and isn’t an attack on the current
pay-TV ecosystem.  “We are spending more on national advertising in 2012 than
we ever have,” said Clayton. “In recent years, Dish has agreed
to pay significant rate increases for broadcast content. Dish
values its relationships with both local and national
broadcasters. But, answering the consumer demand for choice and
control is our primary mission.”  Fox Entertainment Chairman Peter Rice said on May 14 Dish’s
decision to give customers the ability to bypass ads without
fast-forwarding was “surprising” given “they’re going to do
that to their largest content providers.”  Dish fell 1.4 percent to $30.17 yesterday in  New York . The
stock has gained 5.9 percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Sherman in New York at 
 asherman6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  