-- Disney’s ESPN in Talks With Apple for Expanded TV Access
-- B y   A n d y   F i x m e r   a n d   A l e x   S h e r m a n
-- 2012-05-16T03:40:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-15/disney-s-espn-in-talks-with-apple-to-expand-digital-access.html
Walt Disney Co. (DIS) ’s ESPN sports network
is talking with  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  about giving subscribers online
access to programming through the computer maker’s Apple TV
device, according to two executives.  The network would consider putting its WatchESPN
application on Apple TV for users who confirm they are pay-TV
customers, ESPN executive Sean Bratches said today.  ESPN, the most-watched U.S. sports network is making more
programming available online and on mobile devices to reach
customers watching TV in new formats. The network now provides
subscribers ESPN3, a digital channel that’s part of the
WatchESPN app, to subscribers through  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) ’s Xbox
video-game console as part of some pay-TV plans, including from
 Verizon Communications Inc. (VZ) ’s FiOS and  Comcast Corp. (CMCSA)   “We’re a platform-agnostic content company,” Bratches,
the network’s executive vice president of affiliate and
advertising sales, said today in an interview. “To the extent
that in the future there’s an opportunity with Apple to
authenticate through the pay-TV food chain as we’re doing with
Microsoft, that’s something that we will participate in.”  ESPN is also talking with other Internet video providers,
said Ed Erhardt, ESPN’s president of global customer marketing
and sales. Earlier this year, ESPN allowed  Facebook Inc. (FB)  users
to  watch college basketball games  on an authenticated basis.  The executives spoke at advertiser meetings in New York
today, where the network announced programming for the TV season
starting in September.  No Deal  No deal is imminent with Apple, said Amy Phillips, a
spokeswoman for Bristol, Connecticut-based ESPN.  “We’re not having conversations with Apple about
authenticating WatchESPN,” Phillips said.  Tom Neumayr , a spokesman for Apple, declined to comment.  Using apps to expand cable-channel viewing online involves
a number of steps, including security, carrier access and
getting the software installed on Web-connected devices, such as
the Xbox, that are popular with viewers.  Time Warner Cable Inc., for example, offers customers
WatchESPN, though ESPN3 isn’t available through Xbox. The cable
system, second to Comcast, expects to have a deal soon,
according to Alex Dudley, a spokesman for New York-based Time
Warner Cable.  Disney, based in Burbank, California, declined 0.4 percent
to $45.01 at the close in New York. The stock has climbed 20
percent this year. Apple, based in Cupertino, California, fell
0.9 percent to $553.17 and has gained 37 percent this year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andy Fixmer in  Los Angeles  at 
 afixmer@bloomberg.net ;
Alex Sherman in New York at 
 asherman6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net ;
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  