-- Dollar Bases for Rally Versus Yen, BofA Says
-- B y   C a t a r i n a   S a r a i v a
-- 2012-05-15T23:00:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-15/dollar-bases-for-rally-versus-yen-bofa-says.html
The dollar may be forming a base
against the yen, a move that could spur a longer-term uptrend,
according to Bank of America Corp.  A close above two-month resistance of 80.22 yen may be the
first signal that the dollar is basing, or ending its decline,
and gearing up to resume a bullish trend started in February,
according to  MacNeil Curry , head of foreign exchange and
interest rates technical strategy at Bank of America in New
York. Resistance refers to a chart area where sell orders may be
clustered.  The U.S. currency has been moving in the opposite direction
from declines in the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index and Treasury
10-year yields, a sign that the bearish dollar-versus-yen trend
may be overrun.  “When markets don’t do what they should, it suggests that
the pre-existing trend is exhausted,” Curry said in a telephone
interview.  The dollar strengthened 0.4 percent to 80.18 yen yesterday
in New York. It has increased 0.7 percent since May 9, compared
to a 1.8 percent drop in the S&P 500 and 0.05 percentage point
drop in 10-year  yields .  If the dollar is able to base and gain to 84 yen, it could
appreciate to the 85 to 88 level this year, Curry said. The
dollar’s long-term bull trend may resume and see it appreciate
to 101 or even 125 during the next two years if higher-yielding
assets start rallying, Curry said.  “I’d like to see equities come back and I’d like to see
commodities start to stabilize,” he said. “To see a good,
sizeable move, you’d have to see risk come back a bit.”  In technical analysis, investors and analysts study charts
of trading patterns to forecast changes in a security,
commodity, currency or index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Catarina Saraiva in  New York  at 
 asaraiva5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  