-- Dry Weather in West Australia Seen Threatening Wheat Planting
-- B y   P h o e b e   S e d g m a n
-- 2012-05-15T07:53:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-15/dry-weather-in-west-australia-seen-threatening-wheat-planting.html
Dry weather may curb crop planting in
 Western Australia , the nation’s largest wheat grower, on
forecasts for little rainfall this week, according to the
state’s largest grain handler CBH Group.  “It’s not going to rain for another week to 10 days, which
is disappointing,” Max Johnson, manager of grain operations,
said in a phone interview. “If it doesn’t rain, then some of
the growers will stop seeding and wait for showers. If it
doesn’t come, or comes too late, they might drop off
altogether.”  The state, which produces 40 percent of the country’s
total, had below-average rainfall in April and is forecast to
 stay dry  in the next week, according to the Bureau of
Meteorology. A smaller harvest may limit the 7.4 percent price
slump in  Chicago  this year.  Australia , the second-biggest
exporter, may produce 25.7 million metric tons in the year
starting July 1 from 13.7 million hectares (33.9 million acres),
the Australian Bureau of Agricultural and Resource Economics and
Sciences said March 6.  Rain is needed to improve planting conditions and
development across most of the nation’s grain-growing regions,
 Luke Mathews , a commodity strategist at  Commonwealth Bank of
Australia (CBA) , wrote in a note yesterday. The country produced a
record 29.5 million tons in 2011-2012, according to Abares.  Wheat for July delivery gained 1 percent to $6.045 a bushel
on the Chicago Board of Trade at 3:47 p.m. in  Singapore . The
price has dropped this year as favorable weather boosts crop
prospects in the U.S., the world’s biggest shipper.  Planting Progress  Global inventories may fall 4.5 percent to 188.1 million
tons in the year that ends on May 31, 2013, the  U.S. Department
of Agriculture  said May 10. World production may fall 2.5
percent to 677.6 million tons.  About 4 million hectares may be planted to wheat in Western
Australia this year from about 4.5 million, Johnson said by
phone from Perth yesterday. The state harvested an estimated
11.7 million tons of wheat last season as output more than
doubled from the previous year’s drought-affected crop,
according to Abares. Total grain production was a record 15
million tons, CBH said Feb. 15.  About 40 percent of the crop has been planted in the
Geraldton  zone  and a similar amount in Kwinana, Johnson said.
Esperance has planted between 50 percent and 60 percent of the
crop, while  Albany ’s progress is at 20 percent, he said.  Farmers in Australia need rain at this time of year to sow
winter crops including wheat and canola.  “We are expecting around 7 million hectares with a
reasonable start,” Johnson said referring to the state’s grain
crop. “It might pull back 5 percent” if it doesn’t rain in the
next couple of weeks, he said.  To contact the reporter for this story:
Phoebe Sedgman in Melbourne at 
 psedgman2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  