-- Dubai Shares Gain, Snapping Five-Day Drop on Bets Slump Overdone
-- B y   Z a h r a   H a n k i r
-- 2012-05-15T12:33:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-15/dubai-shares-gain-snapping-five-day-drop-on-bets-slump-overdone.html
Dubai stocks rose, snapping a five-
day drop, on bets the decline prompted by concern over  Europe ’s
debt crisis was overdone given earnings prospects in the Persian
Gulf emirate.  Emaar Properties PJSC (EMAAR) , developer of the world’s tallest
skyscraper, gained the most since April 22 and  Emirates
Integrated Telecommunications Co. (DU) , the second of two phone
companies in the  United Arab Emirates , advanced 0.7 percent. The
 DFM General Index (DFMGI)  rose 0.3 percent, the first increase since May
7, to 1,486.36 at the 2 p.m. close in the emirate. The  Bloomberg
GCC 200 Index (BGCC200)  advanced 0.4 percent.  “The drop associated with concerns over Europe’s debt
crisis is completely unjustified, as it’s a correlation based
purely on sentiment,” said Waleed Al Khateeb, the senior
finance manager at Daman Securities in Dubai. “The measure
rallied in the beginning of the year helped by improved earnings
and dividends. At the time we were rightly not affected by
global economic developments.”  Dubai’s benchmark index dropped 5.3 percent in the five
trading days through yesterday, bringing the slump in the past
month to 11 percent. The 31 companies on Dubai’s index valued at
9.9  times estimated earnings  and compares with 12.2 times for
 Saudi Arabia ’s  Tadawul All Share Index (SASEIDX) , data compiled by
Bloomberg show. The kingdom’s benchmark index gained 0.5 percent
today.  RSI Index  Dubai’s measure is the third-best performer in the Persian
Gulf region so far this year with an advance of 9.8 percent
after companies including Emaar posted first-quarter net income
that beat estimates. The measure’s 14-day  relative strength
index  dropped to 21 yesterday before reaching 23 today. A
reading below 30 indicates to some investors that a security is
poised to advance.  About 100  million shares  traded in Dubai today, compared
with this year’s peak of 835 million.  Emaar shares climbed 1.7 percent to 2.94 dirhams. Du, as
Emirates Integrated is known, increased for the first time this
week to 3.03 dirhams.  Elsewhere in the six-nation Gulf Cooperation Council,
Oman’s  benchmark stock index  dropped 1.2 percent and Bahrain’s
 measure  fell less than 0.1 percent. Kuwait’s  gauge  gained 0.1
percent while Qatar’s  QE Index (DSM)  and  Abu Dhabi ’s  ADX General Index (ADSMI) 
were little changed.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zahra Hankir in Dubai at 
 zhankir@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  