-- Fed’s Duke Says Regulatory Uncertainty Hurting Housing
-- B y   J o s h u a   Z u m b r u n   a n d   J e f f   K e a r n s
-- 2012-05-15T14:30:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-15/duke-says-status-of-fannie-mae-freddie-mac-hurts-credit.html
Federal Reserve Governor Elizabeth Duke said the unresolved status of government-sponsored mortgage
firms Fannie Mae and  Freddie Mac  is restraining the recovery in
housing by helping to choke off credit.  “Uncertainty about the future on the part of lenders is
inhibiting these investments” in mortgage lending, Duke said
today in  Washington , according to prepared text of her remarks.  Duke said mortgage lending is also being hampered by
uncertainty over the outlook for home prices and government
regulations as well as “the costs and liabilities associated
with originating and servicing  mortgage loans .”  Job gains,  mortgage rates  close to all-time lows, falling
inventories of unsold homes and cheaper properties are
underpinning residential real estate, which has struggled to
recover as the availability and terms of mortgage loans has
remained tight six years after  home prices  began their decline.  Duke said that in addition to economic uncertainty,
regulatory changes for servicing requirements,  capital
requirements  and underwriting requirements may constrain the
flow of credit.  She did not comment on the specific rules that should be in
place, saying that “regardless of what the final contours of
the rules are, I think the mortgage market will benefit from
having them decided so that business models can be set and
investments calibrated.”  Spending Cuts  In response to audience questions, Duke said she saw a risk
to the economy from government spending cuts and tax increases
that are scheduled to kick in at the end of the year.  “I still have confidence that lawmakers will act,” Duke
said, adding that until they do, the “uncertainty impacts every
business decision and impacts every economic decision.”  Bush-era tax cuts, the payroll-tax holiday and extended
 unemployment benefits  are all due to expire just as budget cuts
are set to take effect in January of 2013. Duke said the
combined impact of the changes amounted to about 4 percent of
gross domestic product.  “Expectations at this point are that it’s something that
will be addressed probably after the election so it’s a very
short window for lawmakers.”  The national average 30-year mortgage fell to a fixed rate
of 3.83 percent on May 10, the lowest on record, according to a
Freddie Mac  index .  Yet the Fed’s April 2012 Senior Loan Officer Opinion Survey
showed that banks are less likely than in 2006 to originate
mortgages to “any borrowers apart from those with the strongest
credit profiles.”  Conservatorship in 2008  Washington, D.C.-based  Fannie Mae  and McLean, Virginia-
based Freddie Mac, which issue mortgage securities to support
home lending across the country, were taken into government
conservatorship in 2008.  Since then, “policymakers have reached no consensus about
the future structure of the GSEs and the role the government
should play in the mortgage market,” Duke said at the National
Association of Realtors Legislative Meetings and Trade Expo.
“Private capital might be reluctant to enter the market until
the future parameters of government support are resolved.”  New houses  sold  at a 328,000 annual rate in March, down
from a 353,000 pace in February that was the highest in two
years, according to Commerce Department. The 20-city Case-
Shiller  home-price index  showed an increase in prices in the
three months through February for the first time since April.  Six-Year Low  The inventory of homes for sale would take 6.3 months to
clear in March, near a six-year low reached in January,
according to the National Association of Realtors. The months of
inventory reached as high as 12.1 months in July 2010.  Duke said that still-elevated foreclosures are “indicative
of a historic level of homeowner stress, they are down from
their post-crisis peaks, and there are signs that further
gradual improvement may lie ahead.”  She said she saw “some promising signs in the trend of
 house prices  as well” and “somewhat encouraging” indicators
of housing construction activity.  “Notwithstanding these signs of improvement in the housing
market, demand for owner-occupied housing remains stubbornly
tepid,” she said.  Duke, 59, joined the Fed in August of 2008. Her term as
governor ended in January of this year and she is continuing to
serve as a successor has not been appointed. The board currently
has two vacancies, and her departure would create a third.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joshua Zumbrun in Washington at 
 jzumbrun@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  