-- Health Exchanges' Sharing of Patient Data Heightens Privacy Concerns
-- B y   J o r d a n   R o b e r t s o n
-- 2012-05-15T18:20:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-15/health-exchanges-sharing-of-patient-data-heightens-privacy-concerns.html
     Victor Hand, a semi-retired railway manager in Maine, grew
so alarmed when he learned that his state was building a
database to store all residents' medical files that he rushed
to the hospital to try to opt out.  "I sure don't want my information in that thing," Hand
said. "I just don't think they can keep it private. If I knew
for sure that nobody could get it but my doctors, then maybe
I'd participate, but there's no way to guarantee that.''  Maine was one of the first states to set up a health
information exchange -- a computer network connecting
disparate medical practices, from rural, one-physician
outposts to urban mega-hospitals -- to help doctors share
patient files with the click of a mouse. Fueled by $548
million in federal grants as part of the Obama
administration's health-care overhaul, the exchanges represent
a radical change in how patient records are handled and used
in treatment, Bloomberg.com reports.  The networks have also stirred controversy. In some
cases, they include data without patients' consent, and
privacy advocates fret that some exchanges may lose or even
sell personal information.  A gap in federal law lets states set their own rules
about whether to tell patients their medical data are being
shared with an exchange and whether to let people opt out. The
result: Many exchanges in the U.S. give patients no choice
about such matters, according to the EHealth Initiative, a
nonprofit organization that researches health-care technology.
Many people don't know their medical files have been shared
with an exchange, and they may not have a choice about having
them removed.  "Torn Apart"  "The whole system could get torn apart by the privacy
issues," said Mark Rothstein, director of the Institute for
Bioethics, Health Policy and Law at the University of
Louisville's medical school. He said that if people were
properly notified, most would approve of the exchanges.  There are now at least 255 exchanges throughout the
country at various stages of development. New York and Texas
each have 17, Florida has 12, and California and Michigan have
10 apiece, according to Washington-based EHealth Initiative.
The databases have won support from care providers such as the
Cleveland Clinic, Johns Hopkins Hospital and Mayo Clinic.  The exchanges may also be a boon for big insurance
companies that provide the underlying technology, a market
expected to grow to almost $800 million this year, according
to Chilmark Research, which covers health-care technology.
Suppliers include UnitedHealth Group's OptumInsight and Aetna
Inc.'s Medicity.  Rushed to Hospital  While concerns over privacy have scuttled formal plans
for a national exchange, the federal government is pushing for
standards that will let exchanges in different states
communicate with each other.  The idea is to mimic cell phone networks, letting
patients roam between providers and have electronic medical
records follow, according to the Office of the National
Coordinator for Health Information Technology, which oversees
the efforts.  The exchanges have clear benefits, such as letting
emergency room doctors look up an unconscious patient's
medication history, lab results or record of previous
problems. That can help physicians make quicker and more
accurate diagnoses.  When Ann Sullivan, a 65-year-old, chronically ill retiree
from Kennebunkport, Maine, was rushed to the hospital in
December with sudden shortness of breath, she fretted that she
was having a heart attack.  Sullivan was taken to Southern Maine Medical
Center, which is a part of the state's health information
exchange, so her doctor knew quickly what to look for: blood
clotting in the lungs from a previous treatment. He diagnosed
it as a chest cold and sent her home.  "Asking for Trouble"  "It gives me peace of mind -- tremendous peace of mind --
that something's there all in one place and that I'm being
looked at holistically,'' said Sullivan, who said this was the
fastest she had ever been discharged.  Yet many patients may not even know their data are being
used. In the U.S., 48 exchanges give patients no choice at all
about such matters, according to the EHealth Initiative.  "If you don't ask people and you just do it, you're
asking for trouble," Rothstein said. "It's foolish. It's a
shortcut that doesn't pay off in the long run."  Joy Pritts, chief privacy officer for the Office of the
National Coordinator, said government officials are taking
steps to ensure that patients have a say over inclusion and
updating laws to impose privacy and security requirements on
exchanges.  "We ensure that patients have some sort of meaningful
choice and they're involved in the process," she said.  Patients Unaware  Maine offers a case study in what can go right -- and
wrong -- with exchanges. By some measures, the state's
exchange is a success. It holds the medical files on more than
1 million residents, or three-quarters of the population.
Still, the state's American Civil Liberties Union discovered
that many patients weren't told their files were in the
database, provoking a privacy outcry and prompting the passage
of a new state law mandating that patients get an opt-out form
at treatment.  Medical data are "at the heart of my humanness," said
Kathleen McGee, a 58-year-old artist and environmental
consultant from Bowdoinham, Maine, who campaigned for the law.
"I don't think anyone else should have that information."  Devore Culver, chief executive of HealthInfoNet, the
nonprofit that runs Maine's exchange, said many medical
professionals had been ignoring a requirement the exchange
imposed at its launch in 2008 that they alert patients. He
said he welcomes the new law.  Identity-Theft Threat  "It's a constant education challenge to keep people on
the front lines informed about notification," said Culver. He
said 10,000 patients have opted out, only a slight increase
since the opt-out statute was enacted.  A big concern over sharing health records is that the
information, which often contains a person's most private
data, is a prime target of thieves. Medical providers suffer
more breaches than any other type of organization, with 690
involving a total of 23 million records since 2005, according
to the Privacy Rights Clearinghouse, a nonprofit consumer
advocacy organization.  Medical identity theft, a form of insurance fraud in
which thieves masquerade as others to receive
treatments, affects 1.5 million people in the U.S. every
year, according to the Ponemon Institute, an independent
research organization.  Another concern is that exchanges with shaky finances
 could be tempted to sell data to marketers, which is
permitted if the information is exchanged in an anonymous
form.  "On Edge"  Dave Miller, chief security officer of Covisint, a
division of Compuware Corp. that makes technology for health
information exchanges, said that while there is widespread
interest in selling the data, it's not being done yet. Target
customers would be pharmaceutical companies, academics and
government researchers, he said.  "This is the stuff where everyone is on edge and waiting
for the other guy to jump first and see if he gets his butt
sued," Miller said.  Even patient-friendly policies can yield shortcomings. A
recent report by the New York Civil Liberties Union found
"significant flaws" in that state's exchanges, which cover
nearly 3 million people. New York has an "opt-in" model, which
is generally seen as the most favorable to patients. A key
concern in New York is that because it's an all-or-nothing
model, patients can't control which information is shared.  California Doctors Balk  Some doctors have reservations, too. In
California, health-care providers have refused to join
exchanges because of membership and technology
costs, according to Dorothy Glancy, a law professor at Santa
Clara University who has studied the state's exchanges.  In Santa Barbara County, one of the nation's most
ambitious exchanges collapsed in 2006 after repeated technical
delays and a failure to sell health-care providers on the
business case for making the investment.  Little could persuade Hand, the semi-retired railway
worker, that it's wise to join a health information exchange.  "Insurance companies will get it -- that one really
scares me -- marketers will get it, drug companies will get
it, crooks will get it," said Hand, who plans to opt out of
the exchange. He acknowledged that privacy poses risks, too:
"If I have a stroke and the delay takes 10 minutes, then I
lose the gamble.'"  -- Editors: Marcus Chan, Tom Giles  To contact the reporter on this story:  Jordan Robertson
in San Francisco at  jrobertson40@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story: Tom
Giles at  tgiles5@bloomberg.net 
 