-- Health Information Exchange FAQ
-- B y   J o r d a n   R o b e r t s o n
-- 2012-05-15T18:10:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-15/health-information-exchange-faq.html
     What is a health information exchange?  It's a computer network that links doctors so they can
exchange patients' files with the click of a mouse. By sharing
your medical history, physicians can make quicker and
better-informed decisions about your health.  Two big concerns about the exchanges involve the lack of
notification about such use of patients' records and the
consequences if this sensitive information were to fall into
the wrong hands.  How do I know if I'm in an exchange?  Ask each of your doctors. If they don't know, or if you
get an answer you're not satisfied with, you might want to
look at this list of organizations that have received federal
grants to help build exchanges and call them directly.  If my medical information is in an exchange, how do I get
it out?  This varies by state. Some states such as New York have
strict opt-in policies, which means nothing will be shared
unless you first approve. Others, like Maine, offer an opt-out
model that allows patients to request to be kept out of the
exchange. The opt-in or opt-out process is generally handled
at the doctor's office.  What kind of data can they see?  Most everything that's in your medical files, from
doctor's notes to lab reports to medication history. The type
and amount of data collected varies.  What's excluded?  Mental health and drug-treatment records aren't included
in the exchanges. However, sometimes that information is
included in primary-care physician notes and winds up in the
exchanges, anyway -- causing concern for some patients.  Where is this all going? A nationwide health information
exchange?  The U.S. Department of Health and Human Services says
there is no plan for a national exchange. Still, the
government is pushing technical standards that will allow
exchanges in different states to communicate with each
other, so those with similar privacy policies would be able to
link up. Differing privacy policies are a key impediment to a
nationwide exchange.  Will my information be sold?  So far, large health-information exchanges say they are
not selling data, but acknowledge that they are accumulating
data that would be valuable to researchers, health companies
and marketers in the aggregate. It can only be sold in
anonymized form. There has been concern about whether
exchanges will start selling data if their finances falter.
 