-- Emanuel Gambles Chicago on NATO Event to Get Global Stage
-- B y   T i m   J o n e s   a n d   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 2012-05-15T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-15/emanuel-gambles-chicago-on-nato-event-to-get-global-stage.html
Laurence Geller, who runs luxury
hotels around the globe, figures it will cost him half a million
dollars when his adopted hometown, Chicago, hosts world leaders
this month at a North Atlantic Treaty Organization summit.  That’s his estimated bill for increased security, staffing
and canceled reservations from tourists wanting to avoid the
swarm of demonstrators, police and diplomats at the May 20-21
event. Geller, chief executive officer of  Strategic Hotels &
Resorts Inc. (BEE) , will gladly absorb the loss because the meeting
may be a turning point for a city, he says, where short-term
thinking has replaced boldness.  “We can be a great city” like Shanghai or  Singapore , said
Geller, a London native. “Or we’ll be  Detroit .”  The summit is a coming-out party of sorts for Chicago that
its rookie mayor,  Rahm Emanuel , President  Barack Obama ’s former
chief of staff, pursued to bolster the global profile of the
third-largest U.S. city. For some demonstrators, that party
started yesterday with a protest outside Obama’s re-election
headquarters, where eight of an estimated 100 protesters were
arrested after being accused of trespassing, said Officer Robert
Perez, a Chicago Police Department spokesman.  While the city has sanctioned two separate protests, on May
18 and 20, organizers of other demonstrations have said they’ll
rally without official permission. Occupy Chicago will attempt
to force  Boeing Inc. (BA)  to close its downtown headquarters on May
21, said Micah Philbrook, a spokesman for the group.  Boeing will encourage employees to work remotely, said John Dern, a spokesman, though the company’s offices will remain open
that day. Occupy Chicago’s threat to “ shut down ” Boeing came
as some army-surplus stores in the Chicago area reported heavy
sales of gas masks.  Run on Gas Masks  “We’re pretty much sold out,” said Anna Marie Murguia,
manager of First Surplus & Supply in Lombard, Illinois. “And a
lot of our vendors have depleted their supplies too.”  For summit supporters such as Geller, whom Emanuel named
last year to the executive committee of the city’s tourism
board, the event is a risk  Chicago  must take to elevate its
stature and avoid economic stagnation. For doubters, it’s an
investment of dubious value as the city cuts services. Last
month, Moody’s Investors Service lowered the outlook on its
bonds to negative because of unfunded pension liabilities.  “I love this city, I really do, but we have this
inferiority complex that we have to get over,”  University of
Chicago  economist Allen Sanderson said, arguing that investments
in political conventions, sporting events and summits don’t
deliver lasting economic benefits.  $56 Million Tab  “The things that matter are more long term -- what is the
tax climate in the city or the state; what is the political
climate?” Sanderson said. “What’s the quality of schools?
Those are far more important considerations.”  The city’s host committee issued an economic forecast April
30 that said Chicago will benefit to the tune of $128 million.  “Taxpayers will not pay anything for the summit,” Emanuel
said on the same day, assuring reporters that the estimated $56
million cost will be covered by corporate donations and the
federal government.  More than 18,000 attendees are registered, according the
NATO. Thousands of demonstrators also are expected to converge,
fewer than were expected before the White House moved a
companion G8 meeting to Camp David outside  Washington . Still,
the specter remains of violent confrontations that have marked
international gatherings elsewhere.  ‘Not 1968’  While city officials have promoted the summit, they’ve been
put on the defensive by memories of the Democratic National
Convention during the height of the  Vietnam War , when police and
demonstrators fought the so-called Battle of Chicago.  “This is not 1968,” Lori Healey, director of the NATO
Host Committee, told reporters in January.  The summit is the latest in more than a century of attempts
by the city to promote its image, said  Dick Simpson , a political
scientist at the University of  Illinois  at Chicago and co-author
of “Twenty-First Century Chicago.”  “We’ve always had that complex, that striving to be viewed
as the American city,” Simpson said, pointing to self-
promotional efforts from the Columbian Exposition of 1893 to the
city’s failed attempt three years ago to win the 2016  Olympic
Games . “We want to make sure everyone recognizes us as a global
city.”  Still, the ghosts of 1968 linger, said Police
Superintendent Garry McCarthy.  Secret Service Help  “Why wasn’t it put to bed already?” McCarthy, 53, said in
an interview at police headquarters. “Because people want to
hang on to it, that’s why.”  The U.S. Department of  Homeland Security  is leading the
effort to provide security for the two-day event through its
Secret Service and Federal Protective Services divisions,
working with the city’s police force of 12,500.  Chicago has a mixed record with large events featuring
political leaders. Although it hosted the 1996 Democratic
convention without significant clashes, a 2003 Iraq War protest
resulted in the arrests of about 900 demonstrators and led to
civil-rights lawsuits complaining of police tactics. The city
settled the case in March for $6.2 million.  McCarthy said the department has learned lessons from
previous international events in Toronto, Pittsburgh and other
cities as well as the Occupy Movement protests in Chicago and is
prepared for at least 10,000 demonstrators. The department’s
strategy will be to deploy officers in ordinary uniforms with
instructions to deal with protesters on an individual basis, the
superintendent said, reserving the right to alter its tactics as
the situation warrants.  Mob Rules  “If you treat them like a mob, they become a mob,”
McCarthy said. “If you put officers out in riot gear and
helmets, turtle suits, then you should expect that that’s what
you’re going to receive in kind.”  The department also has acquired two long-range acoustical
devices, said Melissa Stratton, a department spokeswoman. The
truck-mounted units made by San Diego-based  LRAD Corp. , can
deliver a burst of sound intolerable to the human ear. They were
deployed for that purpose during the 2009 G20 summit in
Pittsburgh, according to the company’s website. Protest
organizers are wary of police plans.  “Chicago is internationally known for three things:
 Michael Jordan , Al Capone and police misconduct,” said Andy
Thayer, 51, a protest organizer and participant for more than 30
years, during which time he’s been arrested twice -- in Moscow,
campaigning for gay rights, and in the U.S. opposing the
policies of former President  George W. Bush .  Thousands of Protesters  Thayer, a logistics organizer and unofficial spokesman for
a group calling itself the Coalition Against the NATO/G8 War and
Poverty Agenda, led the group’s drive to obtain a city permit
allowing it to stage the May 20 march.  Asked who’s coming, he said, “That’s a difficult question
to answer.” He estimated demonstrator turnout could be in the
thousands.  Floor trading and other operations at the city’s historic
Chicago Board of Trade building won’t be affected by the summit,
said Laurie Bischel, a spokeswoman for  CME Group Inc. (CME) , which
owns the board and the Chicago Mercantile Exchange. It also will
“generally be business as usual” at the city’s  JPMorgan Chase
& Co. (JPM)  office, said  Thomas Kelly , a spokesman.  Geller, 64, the Strategic Hotels CEO, said he’s not worried
about “anarchists” in the coming days -- and that an event
more rare than any NATO summit probably would cause far more
disruption in Chicago.  “Imagine the damage if the Cubs ever won the  World
Series ,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tim Jones in Chicago at 
 tjones58@bloomberg.net ; and
Andrew Harris in Chicago at 
aharris16@bloomberg.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Flynn McRoberts at 
 fmcroberts1@bloomberg.net  