-- Emerging-Market Stocks Drop to Four-Month Low on Greek Elections
-- B y   S t e p h e n   G u n n i o n   a n d   B e r n i   M o e s t a f a
-- 2012-05-15T21:33:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-15/emerging-stocks-fall-as-kammenos-indicates-fresh-greek-elections.html
Emerging-market stocks fell to a
four-month low as Greek Pasok party leader  Evangelos Venizelos 
said the country will hold elections, deepening concern  Europe ’s
debt crisis will worsen and curbing demand for riskier assets.  The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index (MXEF)  lost 0.6 percent to 946.10,
the lowest level since Jan. 9.  Brazil ’s  Bovespa index  fell,
erasing this year’s gain, while  Mexico ’s IPC benchmark slipped
1.1 percent.  MRV Engenharia & Participacoes SA (MRVE3) , a home developer
in Brazil, tumbled 15 percent after saying first-quarter net
income declined 24 percent.  A second election in less than two months threatens to
extend the political deadlock that has left  Greece  without a
government since the last vote on May 6, and fuels concern that
the country may exit the euro. Presidency official Costas
Bitsios said a meeting will be held tomorrow to form a caretaker
government to run the country.  “The more this political impasse lasts, the bigger are the
chances of Greece leaving the  euro zone ,”  Luciano Rostagno ,
chief strategist at WestLB AG’s Brazilian unit in  Sao Paulo ,
said by phone. “Nobody knows how that would affect big
countries that are also in trouble, such as  Spain . That’s
pushing  risk aversion  to high levels, making investors turn away
from equities.”  China Investment  Today’s retreat in the  emerging-markets index  trimmed its
gain this year to 3.2 percent. The index trades at 10.1 times
estimated earnings, compared with 11.8 times for the  MSCI World
Index (MXWO)  of advanced nations.  Foreign direct investment in  China  fell for a sixth month
in April, underscoring the risk of a deeper slowdown in the
world’s second-largest economy.  “China’s growth is slowing down,” Ian Cruickshanks, head
of strategic research at Johannesburg-based Nedbank Group Ltd.,
said by phone. “The European Union is their primary export
market and if that’s close to recession it just says China has
to slow down and so the whole of the commodity-producing
emerging-market zone has to slow down too.”  Brazil’s  benchmark gauge  dropped 2.3 percent. For the year,
the gauge is down 0.9 percent.  MRV plunged to 9.43 reais. Net income of 116 million reais
in the first quarter missed the average estimate of adjusted
profit of 173.8 million reais, according to a Bloomberg survey
of five analysts.  Marfrig Alimentos SA (MRFG3) ,  Latin America ’s third-largest meat
producer, gained 5.3 percent after reporting a 47 percent
increase in first-quarter profit.  Of the 56 companies on Brazil’s benchmark stock index that
have reported first-quarter earnings, at least 30 trailed
analysts’ estimates, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The extra  yield  investors demand to own emerging-market debt
over U.S. Treasuries rose four basis points, or 0.04 percentage
point, to 385, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s EMBI Global
Index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Berni Moestafa in Jakarta at 
 bmoestafa@bloomberg.net ;
Stephen Gunnion in Johannesburg at 
 sgunnion@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at   dboey@bloomberg.net ;
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  