-- Most Emerging Stocks Falls as China Data Counters German Growth
-- B y   B e r n i   M o e s t a f a   a n d   S t e p h e n   G u n n i o n
-- 2012-05-15T12:54:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-15/emerging-stocks-swing-between-gains-losses-on-germany-china.html
Most emerging-market stocks retreated
as concern that  Europe  will struggle to contain the debt crisis
and falling foreign investment in China countered German
economic growth that beat estimates.  Declining stocks outnumbered advancers by 370 to 277, with
the  MSCI Emerging Markets Index (MXEF)  trading little changed at 952.24
as of 1:39 p.m. in  London , having swung between gains and losses
in earlier trading.  Russia’s 30-stock Micex Index gained for the first time in
five days after the country’s statistics service said the
economy grew 4.9 percent in the quarter, beating estimates.
Anglo American Plc, the mining company that makes up about 8
percent of  South Africa ’s benchmark, jumped as much as 1.7
percent as commodities rose for the first time in ten days.
Polish, Hungarian and Turkish stocks declined.  Germany grew more than expected in the first quarter,
helping the euro area avoid its second recession in three years
as growth in the region’s largest economy offset contractions in
peripheral countries. Foreign direct investment in  China  fell
for a sixth month in April, underscoring the risk of a deeper
slowdown in the world’s second-largest economy after April
export and import gains missed estimates and industrial output
growth was the slowest since 2009.  “China’s growth is slowing down; hopefully it will remain
positive because that’s very important for the rest of the
world,” Ian Cruickshanks, head of strategic research at
Johannesburg-based Nedbank Group Ltd., said by phone. “The
European Union is their primary export market and if that’s
close to recession, it just says China has to slow down and so
the whole of the commodity-producing emerging-market zone has to
slow down too.”  New York Manufacturing  Manufacturing in the  New York  region expanded more than
forecast in May as shipments surged and new orders improved,
according to the Federal Reserve Bank of New York’s general
economic index.  The  emerging-markets index  declined for an eighth straight
week on May 11, its longest stretch of five-day losses since
2008. The index trades at 10.1 times estimated earnings and has
added 3.7 percent this year, compared with the 11.9 multiple for
the  MSCI World Index (MXWO)  of advanced nations, which has added 3.4
percent in 2012.  Gross domestic product in Germany, Europe’s largest
economy, rose 0.5 percent from the fourth quarter, when it fell
0.2 percent, the Federal Statistics Office said in Wiesbaden
today. Economists predicted a 0.1 percent gain, according to the
median of 40 estimates in a Bloomberg News survey.  Greek President Karolos Papoulias failed to form a unity
government, extending the nation’s political gridlock that has
left the country without a government since the inconclusive
elections on May 6. Moody’s Investors Service also cut the
credit ratings of 26 Italian banks.  In Russian, the Micex Index gained as much as 0.3 percent,
trimming its decline this year to 4.6 percent.  Commodities  Anglo American Plc (AAL) , the largest mining investor in South
Africa, gained as Standard & Poor’s GSCI index of commodities
broke a nine-day losing streak, rising as much as 0.4 percent.
Johannesburg’s All Share index added 0.1 percent.  Poland’s WIG 20 Index retreated 0.4 percent as  Netia SA (NET) ,
the country’s second-largest fixed-line phone company, slipped
1.8 percent after posting a net loss in the first quarter. The
 PX Index (PX)  in the  Czech Republic  declined 1 percent to the lowest
since Jan. 9.  Erste Group Bank AG (EBS)  of Austria slid 2.8 percent.
Hungary’s  BUX Index (BUX)  retreated less than 0.1 percent.  Turkish
stocks (XU100)  fell 0.7 percent, a second day of losses.  China Stocks  China’s Shanghai Composite Index fell 0.3 percent. A
government report showed today China’s foreign direct investment
in April fell 0.7 percent from a year earlier and Pacific
Investment Management Co. said the nation’s economic slowdown
may deepen.  Hon Hai Precision Industry Co. (2317) , an assembler of Apple
Inc.’s iPad and iPhone, fell in Taipei after profit margins
declined.  China Southern Airlines Co. (1055) , Asia’s biggest carrier by
passenger volume, lost 4.6 percent in  Hong Kong  after it reduced
flights to the Philippines. China Shipping Container Lines Co.
rallied on plans to add Europe peak-season levies.  The  Markit iTraxx SovX CEEMEA Index  of eastern European,
Middle East and Africa credit-default swaps declined two basis
points to 309, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The extra  yield  investors demand to own emerging-market debt
over U.S. Treasuries fell one basis point, or 0.01 percentage
point, to 380, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s EMBI Global
Index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Berni Moestafa in Jakarta at 
 bmoestafa@bloomberg.net 
and Stephen Gunnion in Johannesburg at 
 sgunnion@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at   dboey@bloomberg.net 
and Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  