-- Merck KGaA Declines to Four-Month Low as Profit Declines
-- B y   A l l i s o n   C o n n o l l y
-- 2012-05-15T08:58:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-15/merck-kgaa-net-drops-on-lower-consumer-health-chemicals-sales.html
Merck KGaA (MRK)  fell to the lowest price
in four months after the German maker of the Erbitux cancer drug
reported a decline in first-quarter profit and forecast cost
savings short of analysts’ estimates.  Net income decreased 49 percent to 174.2 million euros
($223 million) from 341.1 million euros a year earlier,
Darmstadt-based Merck said today in a  statement . Core earnings,
excluding costs such as writedowns and merger expenses, were
1.67 euros a share, missing the 1.75-euro average estimate of 10
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. The stock fell as much as 3.8
percent.  Merck forecast net savings of 300 million euros by 2014 as
it cuts jobs to streamline its drugmaking operation following
developmental and regulatory setbacks. The market may be
disappointed about the target, Richard Vosser, an analyst at
JPMorgan Chase & Co., wrote in a note to investors.  “We struggle to build a compelling investment thesis
around a mature pharma business with limited pipeline punch and
declining royalty income,” Edward J. Dulac III, an analyst at
 Barclays Capital  in  London , wrote in a note. He has an
underweight recommendation on the stock.  Job-Cut Plan  Merck said April 24 that it will close the Geneva
headquarters of its Serono division and transfer 750 employees
to other locations to cut costs and eliminate redundancies in
production. The plan includes cutting 500 jobs in Geneva as well
as 80 positions across three manufacturing sites in  Switzerland .
The company  bought  Serono,  Europe ’s biggest biotechnology
company, for $13.3 billion in 2007.  Merck shares traded 2.2 percent lower at 76.91 euros at
10:54 a.m. in  Frankfurt  after previously dropping to 75.62
euros, the lowest intraday price since Jan. 16.  Merck, which isn’t related to U.S. drugmaker  Merck & Co. (MRK) ,
stuck to a forecast that spending on job cuts will cause a
decline in earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and
amortization this year. It’s predicting Ebitda excluding items
of 2.8 billion euros to 2.9 billion euros and revenue of 10.5
billion euros. The forecasts are in line with analysts’
estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  For 2014, Merck forecast adjusted earnings per share of
8.20 euros to 9 euros, earnings before interest, tax,
depreciation and amortization of 3 billion euros to 3.2 billion
euros and sales of 10.35 billion euros to 10.7 billion euros.  Drug Setbacks  Merck’s Rebif multiple sclerosis infusion treatment, the
company’s top-selling product, faces increased competition from
newer therapies. In June, the drugmaker dropped development of a
multiple sclerosis pill, cladribine, which had been its most
promising experimental medicine.  The company said on May 9 that its Erbitux drug failed to
show a benefit for stage-three colon cancer patients when given
with chemotherapy as a way to prevent the cancer’s return
following tumor removal, compared with chemotherapy alone.  Serono’s first-quarter sales climbed 5.4 percent to 1.42
billion euros. Rebif revenue rose 4.5 percent to 430 million
euros, while Erbitux had sales of 214 million euros.  Consumer-health product sales declined 7.4 percent to 108
million euros. Sales at Performance Materials, which includes
revenue from  liquid crystals  used in TV screens, fell 5.3
percent to 386 million euros.  Merck’s Millipore unit makes products including water
purification systems used in drug research. Merck is also the
world’s biggest maker of liquid crystals, which are used in flat
screen televisions and electronic device displays.  Chief Executive Officer Karl-Ludwig Kley told investors at
the annual meeting on April 20 that he’ll focus on restructuring
Merck over the next two years before making any major
acquisitions.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Allison Connolly in Frankfurt at 
 aconnolly4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  