-- Merkel-Hollande Meeting Yields Greece Growth Signal
-- B y   M a r k   D e e n   a n d   T o n y   C z u c z k a
-- 2012-05-16T09:27:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-15/merkel-s-first-hollande-meeting-yields-growth-offer-for-greece.html
German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  and
French President  Francois Hollande  said they would consider
measures to spur economic growth in  Greece  as long as voters
there committed to the austerity demanded to stay in the euro.  Requests for measures to bolster growth will be
“considered” and the European Union may also “approach Greece
with proposals,” Merkel said late yesterday at a joint press
conference with Hollande during his first official visit to
Berlin. “Greece can stay in the euro area,” and “Greek
citizens will be voting on exactly that.”  Their encounter, the first meeting between the chiefs of
Europe’s two biggest economies, came after Greece announced a
return to the ballot box following the collapse of talks on
forming a government. The euro and stocks fell as investors
speculated that Greece may drop out of the single currency more
than two years after its budget-deficit blowout triggered a
financial crisis across  Europe  that continues to rage.  Hollande saw Merkel less than 12 hours after being sworn in
as president and an arrival that was delayed by a lightning
strike on his plane from Paris. With Greece in its fifth year of
recession, the French Socialist returned to a theme he pressed
throughout his election campaign, saying policy makers must
offer the prospect of something more than austerity.  “I’ll respect the vote of the Greeks whatever it is,”
Hollande said. “Yet my responsibility is to give Greece a
signal. I see the suffering and challenges that the Greeks feel.
The Greeks need to know we’ll come with growth measures that
will allow them to stay in the  euro zone .”  Shift in Focus  With the debt crisis now in a third year, the leaders made
a show of German-French unity after months of trading barbs on
crisis policy. Merkel publicly backed  Nicolas Sarkozy  for a
second term, while Hollande criticized her exclusive focus on
deficit cutting.  They found common cause after the collapse of talks in
 Athens  on forming a government stirred speculation that anti-
bailout parties would make further gains and tear up the terms
of Greece’s 240 billion euros ($305 billion) of aid.  Banks dragged the  Stoxx Europe 600 Index (SXXP)  to its lowest
level since December. The euro fell as much as 0.4 percent to
$1.2681, the lowest level since January, as the prospect of new
Greek elections prompted renewed speculation of a euro exit and
potential contagion that would wreak untold damage to Europe’s
financial system.  Greek ‘Challenges’  Merkel said there was an agreed bailout program between
Greece and its creditors that “has to be adhered to.” At the
same time, she said she had called New Democracy leader Antonis Samaras, who won the May 6 vote, and caretaker Prime Minister
 Lucas Papademos  to say “that we are prepared to help Greece
overcome its structural challenges, to help with growth.”  She said that there were differences in emphasis on growth
with Hollande. Growth will feature in talks among euro leaders
on May 23 and again at a summit at the end of June, she said.  The French president, who has called for Europe’s German-
inspired budget treaty to be renegotiated, said that he wanted
“growth aspects to be real and translatable into reality.” At
the June summit, “everything needs to be put on the table,”
including investment spending and joint euro-area bonds, he
said. Merkel rejects euro bonds.  ‘Tentative’ Relations  Greece may trigger a crisis “where you’re really going to
find differences that matter” between Merkel and Hollande,
Irwin Collier, a political scientist at the Free University in
Berlin, said on Bloomberg TV’s “The Pulse” with  Francine Lacqua . “The next couple of months are going to be very
tentative for the relationship.”  Hollande’s arrival in Berlin came at the second attempt
after his plane was struck by lightning, forcing him to turn
back and board a second aircraft.  Merkel said she was “very glad” that Hollande came to
 Germany  the day of his inauguration. “We are even more glad
because he did this despite the lightning strike. Maybe this is
good omen for cooperation.”  Bild, Germany’s most-read newspaper, underscored the
domestic challenges Merkel faces over Greece, saying in an
editorial today that the inability to form a government “makes
it clear once and for all: the Greeks are saying good-bye to the
euro.”  Europe requires “clear rules” on debt limits and economic
data, Bild said. “Whoever swears allegiance to those rules is
allowed in. Everyone has to observe a euro stop sign. Not just
the Greeks. When that’s clear to everyone after this crisis,
Europe will be fit for the future again.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mark Deen in Berlin at 
 markdeen@bloomberg.net ;
Tony Czuczka in Berlin at 
 aczuczka@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  