-- Merkel Boosted by Growth Spurt Before Crisis Talks With Hollande
-- B y   B r i a n   P a r k i n   a n d   P a t r i c k   D o n a h u e
-- 2012-05-15T13:35:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-15/merkel-boosted-by-growth-spurt-before-crisis-talks-with-hollande.html
Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s party
seized on figures showing  Europe ’s biggest economy returned to
growth, pushing back against French and domestic critics of
 Germany ’s budget-cutting prescription during the debt crisis.  Michael Fuchs , the deputy parliamentary leader of Merkel’s
 Christian Democrats , contrasted the German economy’s expansion
at five times the pace forecast with French stagnation over the
same period. The “robust” developments in Germany’s economy
show that “lasting economic growth on the basis of solid public
finances is possible,” Fuchs said in an e-mailed statement.  Crisis policy will top the agenda when Merkel hosts French
President  Francois Hollande  in Berlin today as  Greece  moves
toward new elections that risk forcing it out of the euro.
Hollande criticized the chancellor’s austerity focus during his
campaign, calling for a shift in focus to growth. The two
leaders will hold a press conference at 7:45 p.m. in Berlin.  The French and German data “play right into Merkel’s hands
at the right time, allowing her to plug the virtues of her
budget credo when it’s been assailed both abroad and
internally,” Irwin Collier, a professor of political economy at
Berlin Free University, said in an interview. “Her message will
be, copy us.”  Hollande’s domestic challenges were highlighted by first-
quarter figures released before his inauguration in Paris today
showing  France ’s economy, the euro region’s second-biggest, was
unchanged from the last three months of 2011, when it grew 0.1
percent. Germany’s economy unexpectedly expanded 0.5 percent in
the first quarter after contracting 0.2 percent, helping the
euro area avoid a second recession in three years.  Euro, Bunds  The euro fell 0.3 percent to $1.2783 at 3:19 p.m. in Berlin
as Greek leaders said elections were probable to resolve the
political impasse. The German 10-year bund yield was little
changed at 1.45 percent after sliding yesterday to 1.434
percent, the lowest since Bloomberg began tracking the
securities in 1989.  Reducing budget deficits is necessary “to ensure reliable
financial policy” and “a stable and affordable refinancing of
our debt over the long run,” Fuchs said. “All European states
-- Germany and France included -- are called upon to raise their
competitiveness through meaningful structural reforms. That way
all profit.”  Merkel’s domestic Social Democratic opponents used the
impending visit of the French president, a Socialist, to
denounce her crisis policy and call for growth measures. SPD
leaders proposed an “investment and growth pact” alongside the
Merkel-inspired budget treaty going through ratification in
European Union states and threatened to block the fiscal pact in
Germany’s parliament unless Merkel agreed to their demands.  Merkel and former French President  Nicolas Sarkozy ’s anti-
crisis policy “has failed the whole way,” SPD Chairman Sigmar Gabriel said. “The reason is the one-sided and incorrect crisis
analysis that views the problem as one of pure over-
indebtedness.”  Europe does not face a choice between growth and tackling
state deficits, said Fuchs. “Rather we have to ensure growth
and stable public finances in equal measure.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brian Parkin in Berlin at 
 bparkin@bloomberg.net ;
Patrick Donahue in Berlin at 
 pdonahue1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  