-- Erste’s Treichl Banks on Romanian Turnaround ‘Very Soon’
-- B y   B o r i s   G r o e n d a h l
-- 2012-05-15T15:39:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-15/erste-s-treichl-banks-on-romanian-turnaround-very-soon-.html
Erste Group Bank AG (EBS)  Chief Executive
Officer Andreas Treichl told shareholders that Romanian lender
Banca Comerciala Romana, his most expensive bet on growth in
eastern  Europe , will recover “very soon.”  “I’m convinced that  Romania  will be a cause of joy in the
future,” Treichl said at Erste’s annual general meeting today,
where he presented a 719 million-euro ($920 million) loss partly
caused by the Black Sea country. BCR “was an expensive
acquisition that was necessary for the development” of eastern
Europe’s second-biggest lender after  UniCredit SpA (UCG) , Treichl
said. “The recovery will come very soon.”  A writedown on BCR, for which Erste paid six times book
value in 2006, was one of the reasons Erste reported its first
loss last year since at least 1988. Bad debt charges in  Hungary 
and losses on credit default swaps also contributed to the
shortfall. Erste is asking shareholders at the AGM to do without
a dividend for the first time since going public in 1997.  “I’m glad this year is over,” Treichl told about 1,900
shareholders at the meeting.  Erste said last month that bad loans in Hungary and Romania
will remain a drag on profit for longer than it predicted
earlier. Weak growth in those countries and the  Czech Republic 
weighed on its shares today. They  fell  6.8 percent to 14.405
euros at the 5:30 p.m. close in Vienna to the lowest level since
Jan. 18, making it one of the worst performers of the 43-member
 Bloomberg Europe Banks and Financial Services Index , which
declined 2.1 percent.  Poland, Ukraine  Treichl, 59, who over the past 15 years led an expansion
that made Erste the biggest bank in the Czech and Slovak
Republics before Romania, and the second-biggest in Hungary,
said  Poland  was still the biggest hole on Erste’s map. The bank
won’t be able to plug that gap soon, he told the meeting.  “We have to clean up our act in 2012, we’re fighting on
many fronts,” Treichl said. “I do hope that the day will come
when we can do something in Poland again.”  Erste’s small Ukrainian lender, which trails units of rival
 Raiffeisen Bank International AG (RBI) , UniCredit and BNP Paribas SA,
has piled up 192 million euros of losses since its acquisition
in 2007, Treichl said, and the bank is currently reviewing how
to deal with the business.  “It’s a grave situation and we’re discussing it,” Treichl
said. The bank’s future is “very high up on our agenda because
those aren’t losses that we’d like to see continuing.”  CoCo Sales  Erste won shareholders’ permission to sell so-called
contingent convertible bonds, known as CoCos, that convert into
equity should its capital ratio fall below 7 percent, among
other scenarios, at the AGM.  As other  hybrid capital  forms are phased out by regulators,
“there is the need to be able to issue new instruments” that
are “especially designed for the new  capital requirements ,”
Erste’s management board said in its recommendation to approve
the measure. The bank doesn’t have concrete plans to sell such
bonds, board member Franz Hochstrasser told shareholders.  Erste is filling a capital hole that emerged when rules
were tightened to protect European lenders against the region’s
debt crisis. The shortfall widened in October, when Treichl
announced the losses in Hungary, Romania and on the CDSs.  Retained earnings and asset reductions brought Erste’s
capital ratio to 9.7 percent as of March 31, exceeding the 9
percent minimum set by the European Banking Authority. The new
bond authorization would amend the bank’s current allowance to
sell bonds convertible into as many as 62.4 million shares.  Savings Banks  Shareholders also approved an option for Erste to
restructure its joint-liability agreement with Austrian savings
banks, designed to avoid a capital reduction under the new rules
imposed by the  Basel Committee on Banking Supervision . The new
rules, known as Basel III, will lower Erste’s capital by about
1.5 billion euros unless European lawmakers grant an exemption.  The  amendment  is engineered to avoid the capital reduction
in case the bank doesn’t get an exemption in the law. They mean
that Erste would no longer have to consolidate the savings
banks’ risk-weighted assets, according to the AGM invitation. To
achieve that it would give up some of its rights, including the
appointment of managers, to a new entity jointly owned with the
local lenders.  Erste’s biggest shareholder is a charitable foundation
that’s headed by Treichl and owns 23.2 percent, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  Spain ’s fourth-biggest bank
 CaixaBank (CABK)  SA owns 9.7 percent. A group of Austrian savings banks
owns 4.1 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Boris Groendahl in Vienna at 
 bgroendahl@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  