-- Hertz’s Bid for Dollar Thrifty Seen Doubling in Price: Real M&A
-- B y   T a r a   L a c h a p e l l e ,   K a t i a   P o r z e c a n s k i   a n d   M a r k   C l o t h i e r
-- 2012-05-15T20:12:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-15/hertz-s-bid-for-dollar-thrifty-seen-doubling-in-price-real-m-a.html
Hertz (HTZ)  Global Holdings Inc.’s two-year
pursuit of  Dollar Thrifty Automotive Group Inc. (DTG)  is on the verge
of doubling in price.  Hertz, which first tried to buy the car-rental company in
April 2010, said this month it agreed on “material terms” to
divest its Advantage brand, a key hurdle in obtaining antitrust
approval for a potential combination with Dollar Thrifty. In
October Hertz had said it would reassess the bid price after
getting regulatory clearance. Now Dollar Thrifty trades at $2.3
billion, near a record valuation relative to its sales,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  If Hertz wants to hold on to its position as the second-
largest U.S. car-rental chain behind closely held Enterprise
Holdings Inc., this time around it may cost at least $85 a share
to buy Tulsa, Oklahoma-based  Dollar Thrifty , said Avondale
Partners LLC and MKM Partners. That would be more than double
Hertz’s original offer of $41 a share two years ago and a 27
percent increase from the value of the most recent cash-and-
stock bid when it was withdrawn in October. A new bid from Hertz
will need to win over a company that has boosted  profit  126
percent in two years and said it wants to remain independent.  “Dollar Thrifty probably will be pretty demanding,” Nancy Havens-Hasty, president of Havens Advisors LLC, a New York-based
merger arbitrage fund manager, said in a telephone interview.
Hertz “finally said that they’re very, very close to a
settlement. It’s a once in a lifetime opportunity that they’ve
been working on. This has been taking forever.”  Havens Advisors owned shares of Dollar Thrifty as of March,
according to a regulatory filing.  Bidding War  Richard Broome, a spokesman for  Park Ridge , New Jersey-
based Hertz, wouldn’t comment on whether the company is
preparing a new offer for Dollar Thrifty or at what price. Brian
Shiver, a spokesman for Dollar Thrifty, declined to comment on
the price at which the company would consider selling.  Today, shares of Dollar Thrifty increased 1 percent to
$80.75. Hertz fell 10 cents to $14.41.  Hertz’s first agreement to acquire Dollar Thrifty two years
ago ultimately fed a bidding war with  Avis Budget Group Inc. (CAR) 
that resulted in at least five more attempts to buy the company,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Dollar Thrifty’s  stock ,
which ended at $79.98 yesterday, had closed as high as $83.74 in
June as traders bet on escalating offers.  Regulatory Approval  The most recent bid from Hertz was for $57.60 in cash and
0.8546 in Hertz shares for each Dollar Thrifty share owned.
While that equated to $72 a share when it was announced in May
2011, the value had declined to about $67.01 by the time the bid
was withdrawn in October. Avis had already dropped out in
September, citing “ market conditions .”  When Hertz pulled the unsolicited bid, the company said it
would continue to pursue U.S. Federal Trade Commission approval
for the acquisition. The car-rental agency also said that after
receiving regulatory clearance it would reevaluate an
appropriate takeover price based on Dollar Thrifty’s stock
buybacks and financial performance and overall market
conditions. Dollar Thrifty has since repurchased $100 million of
its shares, the company said in February.  Hertz and an unnamed potential buyer have reached terms for
the divestiture of Advantage, Hertz Chairman and Chief Executive
Officer Mark Frissora said on a May 3 conference call. Hertz is
“optimistic” that will satisfy the FTC, allowing it to
“consider the terms” for moving forward with a takeover of
Dollar Thrifty, he said.  ‘End Game’  “We’re in the end game right now,” Roy Behren, who co-
manages the $5 billion  Merger Fund (MERFX)  at Westchester Capital
Management Inc. in Valhalla, New York, said in a phone
interview. “We expect to see an agreement with the FTC shortly,
followed by the parties engaging in conversations. There’s a
good likelihood that they will arrive at an agreed upon
transaction price.”  The firm owned about 2.4 million Dollar Thrifty shares as
of yearend, making it the company’s third-largest shareholder.
More than half of Dollar Thrifty’s 10  biggest investors  are
hedge funds, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Dollar Thrifty has boosted  net income  for four straight
quarters as it controlled costs and benefited from higher used-
car prices, which help lower depreciation, one of the largest
expenses for rental-car companies. Profit of $183 million in the
last 12 months is up from $81 million in the 12 months prior to
Hertz’s initial bid, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Since that first offer, Dollar Thrifty’s shares climbed 106
percent through yesterday, compared with only a 5 percent gain
for the  Russell 2000 Index. (RTY)   Hertz’s Dilemma  The company was trading yesterday at  1.49 times  revenue in
the last 12 months, approaching its record price-to-sales
multiple of 1.56, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  “The dilemma for Hertz at this point is, because of the
time it’s taken for them to do the deal,” Dollar Thrifty’s
stock has climbed,  Keith Moore , an event-driven strategist at
MKM Partners, said in a phone interview from  Stamford ,
 Connecticut . “Earnings have dramatically gone up.”  As profit has climbed, Dollar Thrifty Chairman and CEO
 Scott Thompson  reiterated as recently as May 9 that he’s
continuing to execute on a “standalone plan.” The company’s
 operating margin  has expanded to almost 22 percent of sales last
year from less than 10 percent in 2009, remaining higher than
both Hertz and Avis.  “They could remain a standalone and do well,” Betsy Snyder, a credit analyst at New York-based Standard & Poor’s,
said in a phone interview. “They’ve done a great job on the
operations side the last few years.”  Leisure Travel  While Dollar Thrifty doesn’t have to sell, Hertz is a
motivated buyer, Snyder said.  Hertz needs Dollar Thrifty to secure its standing as
America’s second-biggest rental-car chain in America and to
reach more types of customers, said Fred Lowrance, a Nashville,
Tennessee-based analyst at Avondale Partners.  The nation’s four largest rental-car companies control 80
percent of the market, according to IBISWorld, the  Santa Monica ,
California-based industry researcher. Enterprise will command 38
percent of the $30.5 billion market in the U.S. this year,
according to a February report from IBISWorld. Hertz will have
18.9 percent, followed by Avis with 18.5 percent and Dollar
Thrifty at 5 percent.  Hertz’s largest rivals have more than one brand, allowing
them to charge varying prices and target everyone from higher-
end business travelers to vacationing families seeking a
discount, Lowrance said.  ‘Instant Presence’  St. Louis-based Enterprise operates National Car Rental and
 Alamo Rent a Car , as well as its flagship Enterprise Rent-A-Car
brand. Avis has both the Avis premium brand and Budget Car
Rental, which caters to leisure travelers. Hertz’s Advantage
brand is small compared to Dollar Thrifty, Avis’s Budget and
Enterprise’s Alamo, Snyder said. Leisure travel makes up 41
percent of the market in the U.S., according to IBISWorld.  “Leisure travelers are a more price-conscious traveler and
that’s been the brightest spot of the industry the last few
years,” said Snyder of S&P. “This acquisition gives Hertz an
instant presence.”  Hertz, which has a  market value  of $6.1 billion, will now
need to pay at least $85 a share to convince Dollar Thrifty’s
 board  and its stockholders to sell, said Moore of MKM and
Avondale Partners’ Lowrance.  That price would be a 6.3 percent premium to Dollar
Thrifty’s closing amount yesterday and 107 percent more than the
value of Hertz’s initial offer in April 2010. It would value
Dollar Thrifty’s equity at $2.38 billion, data compiled by
Bloomberg show.  ‘Harder Ball’  Lowrance said the offer could go as high as the “low
$90s” based on recent share buybacks and the  record profit  that
analysts  estimate  Dollar Thrifty will generate again this year.  “This time, management and the board will play a little
harder ball in the negotiation process” than when the company
agreed to $41 a share two years ago, Lowrance said. “They just
played it all wrong at the very start. Now I think they’re going
to be a little more diligent and push back a little bit harder
on whatever the price is.”  Michael Millman, founder of  Short Hills , New Jersey-based
Millman Research Associates, is even more bullish. Dollar
Thrifty is worth $100 a share and would still boost Hertz’s
earnings at that price, he wrote in a May 9 note.  ‘Long Dance’  After already driving up the cost for Hertz to buy Dollar
Thrifty, Avis is unlikely to ignite another bidding war as it
focuses on integrating the acquisition of Avis  Europe  Plc,
according to David Neiderer, a Philadelphia-based analyst at
Penn Capital Management. Avis agreed to purchase Avis Europe,
the second-biggest car-rental company on the continent, for $1
billion in June.  John Barrows, a spokesman for Parsippany, New Jersey-based
Avis, didn’t return a voicemail seeking comment.  “This has been such a long dance,” Neiderer, whose firm
oversees about $6 billion including Avis and Hertz  shares , said
in a phone interview. “I tend to see Avis as just kind of there
to play poker. Hertz needs it more. It will be a decent price
for Dollar Thrifty.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tara Lachapelle in  New York  at 
 tlachapelle@bloomberg.net ;
Katia Porzecanski in New York at 
 kporzecansk1@bloomberg.net ;
Mark Clothier in  Detroit  at 
 mclothier@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Daniel Hauck at   dhauck1@bloomberg.net ;
Katherine Snyder at   ksnyder@bloomberg.net ;
Jamie Butters at +1-248-827-2944 or  jbutters@bloomberg.net . 