-- Eton Park Boosted YPF Stake as Soros Sold Before Takeover
-- B y   M a t t   C r a z e
-- 2012-05-16T20:54:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-15/eton-park-boosted-ypf-stake-before-argentina-seizure.html
Hedge fund Eton Park Capital
Management LP raised its stake in  YPF SA (YPFD)  while billionaire
 George Soros  sold in the first quarter before Argentina took
control of the oil producer, causing the stock to plummet.  Eton Park, run by former  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  partner
Eric Mindich, bought 2.17 million American depositary receipts
to take its position to 11.95 million ADRs as of March 31,
according to a regulatory filing yesterday. The stake was worth
$158 million based on today’s closing price of $13.18, down 54
percent from $339 million on March 30. In the same period Soros
Fund Management LLC sold all of its 860,255 ADRs that were worth
$29.8 million, according to a separate filing.  Soros, the Hungarian-born investor who increased his
fortune by 3.5 percent this year, averted  YPF (YPF) ’s slump to the
lowest in nine years as President Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner
seized 51 percent of YPF from Spain’s  Repsol YPF SA (REP)  on April 16.
The stock began falling in March after Argentina’s Chubut and
Santa Cruz provinces withdrew operating licenses on YPF fields.  “Eton Park clearly had no idea this was coming,” Peter Rup, chief investment officer at Artemis Wealth Advisors LLC in
New York, said in a telephone interview today. “Those are the
risks that are involved in borderline frontier markets.”  Jonathan Gasthalter, an external spokesman of Eton Park,
declined to comment on the firm’s YPF holding in an e-mailed
response to questions yesterday. YPF was Eton Park’s third-
largest holding at the end of the first quarter.  Delisting  YPF slumped 7.3 percent today after the company sought
waivers with creditors to avoid default and delisting on the New
York Stock Exchange. Terms on a “significant portion” of its
debt allow creditors to seek early repayment after a
nationalization, YPF said in a 20-F filing to the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission today.  Fernandez seized control of YPF after charging that Repsol
managers allowed oil output to dwindle because they didn’t
invest enough. The Madrid-based company denies the claim and
began legal action against  Argentina  to gain compensation.  Argentine Planning Minister Julio De Vido and Deputy
Economy Minister Axel Kicillof will oversee the running of YPF
for another 30 days before the government formally takes
control, according to a notice in today’s official gazette.  Repsol is seeking $10.5 billion from Argentina and will
line up behind companies from Exxon Mobil Corp. to Unisys Corp.
yet to be repaid by the most-sued nation on earth.  Google Stake  Funds advised by Eton Park, Capital Guardian Trust Co. and
Capital International Inc. bought 3.3 percent of YPF from Repsol
for $500 million on Dec. 23, 2010. The New York-based firm
manages about $12 billion, down from a 2007 peak of $14 billion.  Eton Park’s biggest holdings are  News Corp. (NWSA)  and  Nielsen
Holdings NV (NLSN) , according to the filing. The firm is Buenos Aires-
based YPF’s fourth-biggest shareholder after the government, the
Argentine Eskenazi family’s Petersen Group and Lazard Asset
Management LLC, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Mindich also acquired shares in U.S. discount retailer
Dollar General Corp. and cable television provider Liberty
Global Inc. and sold aerospace-components maker Goodrich Corp.
in the first quarter, according to yesterday’s filing.  Eton Park is the second-biggest outside holder of ADRs in
Argentine energy company Pampa Energia SA after billionaire Joe Lewis, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Argentina barred
Eton Park from investing in an electricity transmission company
in 2007, saying it didn’t know enough about the industry.  19th Richest  Soros has his biggest holding in South American farmland
owner Adecoagro SA that includes land in Argentina, Brazil and
Uruguay. He sold a position in  Google Inc. (GOOG)  worth $168 million in
the first quarter, in addition to shares in financial services
holding company  KeyCorp (KEY)  and  Delta Air Lines Inc. (DAL)  He bought fuel
distribution and ammonia-producer CVR Energy Inc.,  Suntrust
Banks Inc. (STI)  and  Chevron Corp. (CVX)  in the first quarter.  Soros’ fortune has increased 3.5 percent this year to $22
billion, making him the 19th richest person, according to the
 Bloomberg Billionaires Index .  Repsol said April 24 its YPF unit invested more than $20
billion in Argentina since 1999, refuting the government’s
claims that it had failed to invest enough.  The takeover denies Repsol access to unconventional energy
reserves in Argentina, increases its exposure to Europe, and may
lead to a permanent cut in  cash flow  and a “large balance sheet
writedown,” Moody’s Investors Service said the same day.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matt Craze in Santiago at 
 mcraze@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  