-- EU Ministers Reach Deal To Boost Bank Capital Rules
-- B y   J i m   B r u n s d e n   a n d   R e b e c c a   C h r i s t i e
-- 2012-05-15T13:02:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-15/eu-ministers-reach-deal-to-boost-bank-capital-rules.html
European Union finance ministers
agreed on a plan to force banks to hold more capital in a deal
that gives the U.K. full powers to implement its so-called
Vickers banking agenda.  U.K. Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  said at a
meeting of EU finance ministers in Brussels he won assurances
from other nations that the U.K. will be able to follow through
on its banking agenda, which will force large retail banks to
hold more capital than the minimum international standards. That
broke a deadlock reached two weeks ago, when 16 hours of talks
left ministers divided on whether countries would need to seek
permission when imposing extra loss buffers.  “We are happy to accept there is a political agreement,”
Osborne said during a public debate. “There will still be
technical changes that need to be discussed.”  Governments and lawmakers in the 27-nation EU face a
January deadline to implement bank rules agreed on by the  Basel
Committee on Banking Supervision  in the wake of the 2008
collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. The measures, known as
Basel III, would more than triple the core capital that banks
need to hold to 7 percent of their risk-weighted assets.  Loss Buffers  Finance ministers agreed today on how to raise  capital
requirements  for banking activities within the EU. They had
previously agreed on a protocol for higher loss buffers for
domestic and non-EU banking activity.  Under today’s accord, member states can independently
require their banks to set aside another buffer equal to 3
percent of risk weighted assets, provided the increase is
applied across the entire region. In doing so, officials
eliminated a proposal to allow affected host countries to seek
binding mediation from the European Banking Authority.  This change allows the U.K. to move forward with its
Vickers plan, prepared by experts and accepted by the
government, which will force some lenders including  HSBC
Holdings Plc (HSBA) ,  Barclays Plc (BARC) ,  Lloyds Banking Group Plc (LLOY) ,  Royal Bank
of Scotland Group Plc (RBS) , Santander U.K. Plc and  Nationwide
Building Society  to hold core capital equivalent to 10 percent
of their assets, weighted for risk.  ‘All In’  Basel agreements must be implemented into nations’ laws
before they can come into effect. Today’s deal will allow
Denmark, which holds the rotating presidency of the EU, to begin
negotiations on the draft law with lawmakers in the European
Parliament.  “We’re all in,” Danish Economy Minister  Margrethe Vestager  said during the public debate. “I very much appreciate
that,” she said, adding that it will bolster her position in
negotiations with lawmakers.  While the  European Central Bank  and the European Banking
Authority supported the agreement, they warned that, in its
current form, it may hand too much power to national regulators
and undermine attempts to have a common EU rulebook for bank
regulation.  “Perhaps the balance has tilted too much in the direction
of too much flexibility,” ECB Vice President  Vitor Constancio 
said during the public debate. “There may be risks.”  Bulgarian Concerns  Andrea Enria, chairman of the EBA, also raised concerns
that the revised text would allow national regulators to
increase the risk weighting attached to residential and
commercial mortgage loans, forcing banks to hold more capital.  “The possibility to alter risk weights is to be handled
with extreme care,” Enria said. There is already a perception
in the market that risk weights are not consistent across
different countries, he said.  Ministers today addressed Bulgarian concerns that banks may
be forced to hold more capital against the country’s sovereign
debt. The overall arrangement also won support from the
Netherlands, which had concerns about how they would have to
apply the rules.  “For the Netherlands, good arrangements have been made to
protect our special pension system,” Dutch Finance Minister Jan Kees de Jager told reporters after the meeting.  The first round of talks between  Denmark  and members of the
assembly is scheduled for May 23. Parliament, which approved its
negotiation position on the law yesterday, is seeking to expand
the scope of the rules to include limits on bonuses and a
requirement for banks to draw up plans showing how they could be
safely wound down if they failed.  ‘Long Way’  The European Parliament’s additions to the text mean that
“there’s still quite a long way ahead to go” before work on
the legislation is finished, Osborne said. The U.K. is opposed
to some of the changes made by the assembly, he said.  Osborne said before today’s meeting that he wouldn’t accept
any EU interference in the separate Vickers plans, prepared by a
panel chaired by former Bank of England Chief Economist  John Vickers . The measures would also require banks to build fire
breaks between their consumer and investment banks. The plans
will cost the industry as much 7 billion pounds ($11 billion),
the Vickers panel has said.  The U.K. last week said the Vickers proposals will be
included in its legislative agenda for the next 12 months.
Osborne wants the plans fully approved by 2015 and implemented
no later than 2019.  The Basel group brings together regulators from 27 nations
including the U.S., U.K. and  China  to draw up prudential rules
for banks.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jim Brunsden in Brussels at 
 jbrunsden@bloomberg.net ;
 Rebecca Christie  in Brussels at 
 rchristie4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  