-- EU Force Bombs Somali Pirate Supplies in 1st Land Attack
-- B y   A l a r i c   N i g h t i n g a l e   a n d   I s a a c   A r n s d o r f
-- 2012-05-15T11:15:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-15/eu-navy-destroys-somali-pirates-supplies-in-shore-attack-1-.html
The EU naval force operating off  East
Africa  conducted its first air attack to destroy Somali pirates’
equipment on land, deploying a new tactic to protect the
region’s merchant shipping.  There were no Somali casualties as a result of the assault,
which took place earlier today, the European Union’s naval
mission covering Somalia  said  on its website in an initial
assessment. It’s trying to contain piracy in an area about 1 1/2
times the size of western  Europe  with nine warships and five
patrol aircraft.  The attack marks a shift in strategy by officials who met
in  London  in February to discuss ways of disrupting Somali
piracy onshore, said Adjoa Anyimadu, a researcher at  Chatham
House , a London-based policy center. Since 2008, gangs linked to
clans in the failed state on the eastern coast of  Africa  have
carried out more than 800 attacks on ships, from private yachts
to oil supertankers.  “This development sums up new thinking on the part of
governments on how to combat this piracy issue,” she said by
phone. “It’s come out of a tacit agreement among the
international community that something has to be done.”  Somali piracy cost the global economy almost $7 billion
last year, including $530 million spent on private armed guards,
according to Oceans Beyond Piracy, a project of Colorado-based
non-profit One Earth Future Foundation. The pirate groups earned
about $160 million through ransom payments for vessels and crew,
it estimates.  Oil Tankers Attacked  The attack was the navy’s first on a land-based target in
 Somalia  and more will probably follow, Timo Lange, spokesman for
the Northwood, U.K.-based force, said by phone. The Council of
the European Union authorized attacks on Somali pirates’
equipment and supplies ashore on March 23.  “The EU Naval Force action against pirate supplies on the
shoreline is merely an extension of the disruption actions
carried out against pirate ships at sea,” Rear Admiral Duncan
Potts, the force’s commander, said in a statement. “We believe
this action by the EU Naval Force will further increase the
pressure on and disrupt pirates’ efforts to get out to sea and
attack merchant shipping and dhows.”  Pirates attacked at least two  oil tankers  in the past week,
successfully hijacking one. The Suezmax tanker Smyrni, able to
haul about 1 million-barrels of crude, is now off Somalia’s
coast after its owner said May 10 that pirates with guns had
boarded the vessel. The tanker is the largest of its kind to be
hijacked since February 2011, according to the London-based
International Maritime Bureau.  A smaller Aframax tanker escaped from pirates armed with
rocket-propelled grenades and AK-47 assault rifles off the
Somali coast. The pirates fired seven RPGs and 300 bullets in
that incident, according to the IMB. Pirates mounted 102 attacks
worldwide last quarter, the IMB said last month. About 3,500
Somali pirates are attacking vessels off Africa’s eastern coast,
the  United Nations  said in February.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alaric Nightingale in London at 
 anightingal1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stuart Wallace at 
 swallace6@bloomberg.net  