-- Bonus Curbs May Be Required to Win Basel Law Deal, Borg Says
-- B y   J i m   B r u n s d e n   a n d   R e b e c c a   C h r i s t i e
-- 2012-05-15T16:46:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-15/eu-nations-may-agree-on-bonus-curbs-in-basel-law-deal-borg-says.html
Bank bonus curbs may need to be
accepted by European Union governments as part of a compromise
deal with lawmakers on how to implement Basel capital rules in
the region, Swedish Finance Minister  Anders Borg  said today.  The European Parliament is pushing for limits on bonuses to
be included in the legislation, amid warnings from lenders that
the move would make it harder for them to attract top talent.
Borg said governments may have to yield to the parliament’s
demand in exchange for tougher capital rules.  “If they are pushing us on bonuses, we might have to
accept that,” Borg said. “It’s also very important to
underline that also the parliament must be tough on  capital
requirements , because it’s either capital requirements or
taxpayers’ money.”  Lawmakers and governments in the 27-nation EU face a
January deadline to implement an overhaul of bank-capital and
liquidity rules agreed on by the  Basel Committee on Banking
Supervision  in the wake of the 2008 collapse of Lehman Brothers
Holdings Inc. The rules would more than triple the core reserves
that lenders must have to protect themselves from risk, and
would force banks to hold a minimum amount of easy-to-sell
assets to survive a credit squeeze.  Reconcile Differences  Borg and his fellow finance ministers overcame a deadlock
by agreeing on how they will seek to apply the Basel rules in
the EU. Their deal follows an accord yesterday among members of
the EU parliament. Governments and legislators must now begin
negotiations to reconcile their different approaches.  The first round of talks between members of the assembly
and  Denmark , which holds the EU’s six-month rotating presidency,
is scheduled for May 23. The parliament will make bonuses a
priority in the talks, Danish Economy Minister  Margrethe Vestager  told reporters today.  “There might be room for a bit of rules on bonuses and
dividends,” Vestager said. EU Financial Services Commissioner
 Michel Barnier  said he would also support curbs on bonuses,
which in some cases have become “inexplicable.”  Borg said he welcomes elements of today’s deal that would
allows regulators in a bank’s home country to also oversee
institutions’ branches in other countries.  “This is for us very important because it will make it
less complicated to reinforce capital demands on a company like
Nordea,” Borg said. Stockholm-based bank  Nordea Bank AB (NDA)  is
Scandinavia’s largest lender, with operations in Denmark,
 Norway ,  Finland  and the Baltic States.  Borg said  Sweden  won necessary concessions during today’s
meeting of ministers to ensure the country’s regulators can
toughen rules for its lenders.  Sweden has insisted on the ability to make its biggest
banks hold more capital, in an effort to avoid repeating the
country’s banking crisis of the 1990s.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Brunsden in Brussels at 
 jbrunsden@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@Bloomberg.net  