-- EU Pledges Campaign Against 1 Trillion Euros in Tax Evasion
-- B y   R e b e c c a   C h r i s t i e
-- 2012-05-15T10:46:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-15/eu-pledges-campaign-against-1-trillion-euros-in-tax-evasion.html
The European Commission today pledged
to step up its fight against an estimated 1 trillion euros
($1.28 trillion) in  tax evasion .  European Tax Commissioner Algirdas Semeta later this year
will offer new proposals to combat  tax havens  and “aggressive
tax planning,” so that nations don’t lose revenue to unfair
investment strategies, the EU said in a document distributed to
reporters in Brussels today. The commission, the European
Union’s regulatory arm, will also seek to limit opportunities to
exploit loopholes among national tax rules.  EU finance ministers are meeting in Brussels today and will
discuss whether to give the commission room to negotiate tax
agreements with  Switzerland ,  San Marino ,  Liechtenstein , Monaco
and Andorra. In 2010, EU nations collected about 330 million
euros in savings tax withholdings from Switzerland, according to
the commission document.  “It is expected that a revised EU-Swiss agreement, with a
broader scope and stronger provisions, could deliver a
substantially higher figure,” the commission said. “It’s
difficult to estimate a precise figure at this point, given the
intransparent nature of tax evasion, but member states would
certainly benefit from considerable new revenue.”  Austria and Luxembourg have opposed the commission’s
negotiating mandate, citing concerns that such a move would
threaten their current policies. Austria won’t bow to pressure
to loosen its banking secrecy rules as part of a Europe-wide
interest taxation plan, Finance Minister Maria Fekter said.  “I’m besieged from all sides and you know me: I will stand
my ground,” Fekter told reporters before a meeting of European
Union finance ministers in Brussels today.  All EU tax decisions require unanimity among the 27
governments. The EU will help nations that want help improving
tax collection.  “Any member state that needs support will get it,” the
document said. “In  Greece , for example, commission services are
actively engaged in helping build a more robust tax system to
deliver quality revenues, and positive results are already
beginning to emerge.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rebecca Christie in Brussels at 
 Rchristie4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  