-- Euro Reaches Four-Month Low Amid Greek Government Concern
-- B y   C a t a r i n a   S a r a i v a   a n d   E m m a   C h a r l t o n
-- 2012-05-16T13:08:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-15/euro-trades-near-4-month-low-as-greece-fails-to-form-government.html
The Dollar Index rose, extending its
longest run of gains on record, as Greek leaders prepared to
hold new elections amid mounting concern the nation will exit
the currency bloc.  The euro reached a four-month low against the greenback as
 Greece ’s central bank head said Greeks have been pulling cash
from the nation’s lenders following an inconclusive May 6 vote.
The pound fell the most in a month against the dollar as the
 Bank of England  said U.K. growth will stay “subdued” in the
near term. The  Federal Reserve  releases minutes of its April
policy meeting today.  “As the week progresses, the risk that there is a Greek
exit, along with all the baggage that goes along with it,
continues to be very real,” said Carl Forcheski, a director on
the corporate currency sales desk at Societe Generale SA in New
York. “This is a continuation of the euro move for justified
reasons.”  The  Dollar Index (DXY) , which IntercontinentalExchange Inc. uses
to gauge the greenback against the currencies of six U.S.
trading partners, rose 0.1 percent to 81.267 at 9:06 a.m. New
York time, strengthening for a 13th day in the longest string of
gains since its inception in 1973.  The euro rose 0.1 percent to $1.2744 after dropping to
$1.2681, the weakest level since Jan. 17. The shared currency
rose 0.5 percent to 102.56 yen after sliding to 101.91, the
lowest since Feb. 14. The dollar advanced 0.4 percent to 80.50
yen.  Caretaker Government  The  implied volatility  of three-month options on Group of
Seven nations’ currencies rose to as high as 10.94 percent, the
highest since Jan. 9, according to a JPMorgan Chase & Co. index.
The measure has averaged 11.6 percent over the past year.
Greater volatility makes investments in currencies with higher
benchmark lending rates less attractive because the risk in such
trades is that market moves will erase profits.  Greece’s Democratic Left leader Fotis Kouvelis said a new
caretaker government decided by party leaders today would have
one task, that of holding elections. He said elections would
most likely be held on June 17. President Karolos Papoulias
failed to broker a governing coalition in meetings yesterday.  The deadlock in Greece has sparked uncertainty over the
country’s pledged spending cuts required by the terms of its two
bailouts worth 240 billion euros ($306 billion) negotiated since
May 2010.  ‘Big Winner’  “ Risk aversion  is rife and the dollar is the big winner,”
Lauren Rosborough, a senior foreign-exchange strategist at
Societe Generale SA in  London , wrote in a note to clients. “It
would be as foolish to downplay the dangers of a Greek exit.”  The premium for three-month options granting the right to
sell the euro against the dollar relative to those allowing for
purchases rose above 3 percentage points for the first time
since December, the 25-delta risk reversal rate show. The
premium was 1.97 percentage points at the end of April.  The euro has lost 1 percent this year, according to
Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes, which track 10
developed-nation currencies. The dollar rose 1.1 percent over
the period.  “Risk-off has done a lot of damage to the euro,” said
Gavin Stacey, chief interest-rate strategist at  Barclays Capital 
in Sydney. “If we are to see Greece leave the euro, I suspect
the initial reaction will be even more catastrophic.”  The dollar strengthened earlier against most of its major
peers before the Fed releases minutes of its April 24-25
meeting.  Awaiting the Fed  Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said after that gathering he’s
prepared to “do more” to boost the recovery and ensure
inflation remains close to target. Officials have said borrowing
costs are likely to remain “exceptionally low” at least
through late 2014.  The Fed bought $2.3 trillion of bonds in two rounds of
quantitative easing, or QE, from December 2008 to June 2011. The
central bank is also replacing $400 billion of short-term
Treasuries in its holdings with longer-term debt to keep
borrowing costs down.  “The markets are awaiting the minutes and any Fed speech
to get a sense of whether or not another round of QE is in the
pipeline,” Barclays’ Stacey said. “The  U.S. dollar  would
weaken on the back of further QE and by improvement in risk
appetite.”  The pound weakened for a second day against the dollar
after central bank Governor Mervyn King said the U.K. faced
threats from the euro region’s “storm” as he released the
quarterly Inflation Report in London.  ‘Euro-Zone Fallout’  The central bank this month halted its bond-purchase, or
quantitative easing, program at 325 billion pounds ($519
billion).  “The pound is lower given King’s concerns over the euro-
zone fallout and the possible negative impact on the U.K.
economy,” said  Neil Jones , head of European hedge-fund sales at
Mizuho Corporate Bank Ltd. in London. “There were certainly no
signs of further QE being off the table.”  The pound fell 0.4 percent to $1.5937 after dropping as
much as 0.7 percent, the biggest decline since April 13.
Sterling slid 0.3 percent to 79.84 pence per euro.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Catarina Saraiva in  New York  at 
 asaraiva5@bloomberg.net ;
Emma Charlton in London at 
 echarlton1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  