-- Euro-Area Economy Avoids Second Recession on German GDP
-- B y   S v e n j a   O ’ D o n n e l l
-- 2012-05-15T11:39:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-15/euro-area-economy-avoids-second-recession-on-german-gdp.html
Germany  helped the euro area avoid
its second recession in three years as growth in the region’s
largest economy offset contractions in peripheral countries.  Gross domestic product in the 17-nation  euro region 
stagnated in the latest quarter compared with the prior three
months, the European Union’s statistics office in Luxembourg
said today. The median forecast of economists surveyed by
Bloomberg was for a 0.2 percent contraction. The German economy
expanded  0.5 percent , compared with the 0.1 percent median
estimate by economists in a separate survey.  Germany’s expansion is helping counter declining GDP in the
euro area’s peripheral economies amid a deepening debt crisis.
European finance ministers meeting in Brussels are pondering the
prospect of  Greece  exiting the currency union, while voters from
 France  to Greece rejected austerity plans by punishing
administrations at the ballot box.  “Germany is holding up the rest of the euro zone,” said
 Nick Kounis , head of macroeconomic research at ABN Amro in
Amsterdam. “While it will remain the outperformer, I doubt this
will happen again in the  second quarter ,” he said, adding that
for the euro area “the second quarter is likely to be
negative.”  The euro rose against the dollar today and traded at
$1.2847 at 12:32 p.m. in  London , still near its lowest in almost
four months amid mounting doubts that Greece can avoid an exit
from the currency bloc. The  Stoxx Europe 600 Index (SXXP)  gave up
earlier gains and was down 0.6 percent at 246.81, while the MSCI
Asia Pacific Index declined 0.5 percent.  Spain’s Economy  The debt crisis has already pushed eight euro-area nations
into a recession, commonly defined as two consecutive quarters
of contraction, with  Spain ’s economy the latest to succumb.
France, the region’s second-biggest economy, said today that it
avoided contraction, recording zero growth in the first quarter,
in line with economists’ median forecast.  Italy ’s economy shrank 0.8 percent in the quarter, today’s
report showed, while the Netherlands saw a 0.2 percent
contraction and  Portugal ’s GDP declined 0.1 percent.  In Germany, GDP rose 0.5 percent from the fourth quarter,
when it fell 0.2 percent, the Federal Statistics Office said in
Wiesbaden today. Growth was mainly driven by net trade as
exports rose, the office said. Domestic consumption also
increased, while investment declined.  Auto-Parts Maker  Continental AG Chief Financial Officer Wolfgang Schaefer
said on May 3 that  Europe ’s second-largest auto-parts maker may
raise its sales forecast next quarter. Earnings at Volkswagen
AG, Bayerische Motoren Werke AG and Daimler AG exceeded
expectations.  Still, inconclusive elections in Greece and concerns about
Spain’s creditworthiness are clouding the outlook for euro-area
nations including Germany. German investor confidence fell from
a two-year high in May, the first decline since November, the
ZEW Center for European Economic Research in Mannheim said
today.  Divisions within the euro area and political deadlock in
Greece may hurt growth prospects for the 10 EU nations outside
the currency region. U.K. Chancellor of the Exchequer George Osborne said today that economies across Europe including
Britain are being damaged by concerns over the future of the
euro region rather than austerity measures.  “This is a time of considerable uncertainty in the euro-
zone economies,” Osborne said today as he arrived for talks in
Brussels. “And that uncertainty is undermining the entire
 European recovery .”  Eastern Europe  In eastern Europe, Hungary headed toward joining the  Czech
Republic  and  Romania  in a recession. The Hungarian economy
contracted 1.3 percent from the previous three months after
stagnating in the October-December period. Czech GDP shrank 1
percent for the third consecutive decline, while Romania
extended its slump to a second quarter with a 0.1 percent drop.  In France,  Francois Hollande  was sworn in as the nation’s
new president and said he will make proposals to counter the
financial crisis that would cut government debt while
stimulating economic growth. Hollande will meet with German
Chancellor Angela Merkel later today, underscoring rising
concerns that Greece is headed out of the euro.  Those concerns deepened as Greek President Karolos Papoulias failed to secure an agreement on a unity government
and avert new elections, marking a second week of political
gridlock in  Athens . The country’s biggest anti-bailout party,
Syriza, defied overtures to join the government.  Retail Sales  In the U.S., retail sales probably slowed in April, an
economist survey indicated. The U.S. consumer-price index was
little changed in April compared with March after climbing 0.3
percent the prior month, according to the survey median before a
Labor Department report.  In  China , foreign direct investment fell for a sixth month
in April, the longest stretch of declines since the global
financial crisis, amid renewed turmoil in markets. Inbound
 investment  dropped 0.7 percent from a year earlier to $8.4
billion, the  Ministry of Commerce  said today in Beijing. That
compares with a 6.1 percent drop in March.  Elsewhere in the Asia-Pacific region, minutes of the
 Reserve Bank  of Australia’s May 1 meeting showed the central
bank made its deepest interest-rate cut in three years to help
revive below-average growth, counter rising mortgage costs and
shore up  consumer confidence . Singapore’s March retail sales
grew 9.1 percent from a year earlier, more than economists
estimated, compared with a revised 20.1 percent in February.  Biggest Risk  In Europe, an “escalation of the sovereign-debt crisis”
is the biggest risk to the euro-area outlook, the European
Commission warned on May 11. The region’s GDP will probably drop
0.3 percent this year before increasing 1 percent in 2013, the
EU executive said in its semi-annual economic forecasts.  The economies of Greece, Italy, Spain, Portugal and the
Netherlands are all projected to shrink in 2012, with Spain the
only euro member seen remaining in contraction in the following
year.  “The outlook is still one of weak growth for the  euro
zone ,” said  Jonathan Loynes , chief European economist at
 Capital Economics  in London, before the report was released.
“It won’t avoid recession for much longer.”  From a year earlier,  euro-area GDP  also was unchanged in
the first quarter. The statistics office is scheduled to publish
a breakdown of first-quarter GDP next month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Svenja O’Donnell in London at 
 sodonnell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  