-- Ex-Im’s Hochberg Pledges $1 Billion Support for Executive Jets
-- B y   P a t r i c k   W i n t e r s
-- 2012-05-15T09:34:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-15/ex-im-s-hochberg-pledges-1-billion-support-for-executive-jets.html
Export-Import Bank Chairman  Fred Hochberg  plans to provide more financial aid to U.S. corporate
jet manufacturers, branching out from a traditional support for
 Boeing Co. (BA)  to help an industry where demand has suffered.  Ex-Im Bank support is needed to confront “intense
competition” from manufacturers such as Brazil’s  Embraer SA (EMBR3)  and
Canada’s  Bombardier Inc. (BBD/B) , who get subsidies from their home
export credit agencies, Hochberg said in an interview yesterday
at the Ebace corporate-jet conference in Geneva.  “We have been very geared toward large commercial
aircraft, we also want to provide the same level of service to
general and business aviation,” Hochberg said.  Ex-Im supported $90 million of corporate jet deliveries
last year to customers of  Textron Inc. (TXT) ’s Cessna Aircraft Co,
 General Dynamics Corp. (GD) ’s Gulfstream unit and Hawker Beechcraft
Corp. Hochberg said he plans to boost the aid to $1 billion by
2014. The increased focus comes after order backlogs on
corporate jets fell by more than half to $40 billion in three
years.  Hawker Beechcraft, which is owned by  Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. (GS)  and  Onex Corp. (OCX) , filed for bankruptcy on May 3 as crippling
debts incurred from the company’s takeover combined with
stalling sales for light corporate jets.  Hochberg’s comments come as the  U.S. Senate  votes today on
a bill to boost Ex-Im support 40 percent to $140 billion by
2014. Opposition from airlines, led by  Delta Air Lines Inc. (DAL) , as
well as groups that favor smaller government, have threatened to
derail Ex-Im bank’s bid to increase its loan limit. The airlines
argue that the bank unfairly helps foreign competitors buy
aircraft for lucrative overseas routes.  Ex-Im Bank in 2011 provided a record $33 billion in export
finance, Hochberg has said. Since 2007, almost half of the
bank’s loan guarantees helped Boeing, California House
Republican Tom McClintock said on May 10.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patrick Winters in Zurich at 
 pwinters3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  