-- Ex-News Corp. Executive Charged Over Phone-Hack Cover-Up
-- B y   L i n d s a y   F o r t a d o   a n d   E r i k   L a r s o n
-- 2012-05-15T17:15:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-15/ex-news-corp-executive-brooks-charged-in-phone-hack-cover-up.html
Rebekah Brooks, the close friend of
News Corp. Chairman  Rupert Murdoch  and former head of the
company’s British publishing unit, was charged with trying to
cover up the tabloid phone-hacking scandal.  Brooks, 43, faces three charges of conspiracy to pervert
the course of justice, Alison Levitt, the principal legal
adviser to Britain’s Director of Public Prosecutions, said in
London today. Brooks’s 49-year-old husband, Charlie, her former
personal assistant, Cheryl Carter, and three other people were
also charged.  Brooks conspired “to conceal documents, computers and
other electronic equipment from officers,” and “remove seven
boxes of material from the archive of News International,” in
the police investigations into phone hacking and bribery of
public officials at the News of the World and the Sun tabloids,
prosecutors said.  The phone-hacking scandal prompted News Corp. to close the
News of the World and drop its 7.8 billion-pound ($12.5 billion)
bid for full control of  British Sky Broadcasting Group Plc. (BSY)  The
charges against Brooks come four days after she testified at a
media inquiry triggered by the scandal about her ties to
Murdoch, Prime Minister  David Cameron  and other politicians.  Brooks is “baffled by the decision to charge” her and
said in a televised statement that, “as details of the case
emerge, people will see today as an expensive sideshow, and a
waste of public money, as a result of this weak and unjust
decision.”  ‘Scapegoats’  Her husband, standing next to her, said the charges are
“an attempt to use me and others as scapegoats, the effect of
which is to ratchet up the pressure on my wife, who I believe is
the subject of a witch hunt.”  Charlie Brooks said that, while he has “grave doubts”
that his wife will get a fair trial, they will fight the case.  The charges against Brooks, which relate to events from
July, are the first in the expanded police investigation into
phone hacking, which began in January of last year. The charge,
which can be related to destroying evidence or deliberately
misleading a court or investigation, carries a maximum sentence
of  life imprisonment , according to prosecutors.  The CPS decided “there is sufficient evidence for there to
be a realistic prospect of conviction” in regards to the
defendants, Levitt said. The defendants were told to report to
police stations today to face the charges.  Driver, Guard  Brooks’s personal assistant, Carter; the former head of
security at News International, Mark Hanna; Brooks’s chauffeur,
 Paul Edwards , and former News International security guard Daryl
Jorsling, were also charged in the cover-up, Levitt said.  Carter, 48, was charged with one count of perverting the
course of justice at Basildon Police Station. She “vigorously
denies the commission of that or any offense,” her lawyer,
Henri Brandman, said in a statement.  Edwards, 47, of  London , was charged at Belgravia Police
Station today. Hanna, 49, from Buckinghamshire, reported to
Bethnal Green Police Station to face the charge, and Jorsling,
39, was charged with one count of conspiracy to pervert the
course of justice at Sutton police station, the Metropolitan
police said. Brooks and her husband, who live in Oxfordshire,
were charged at police stations in Lewisham and Hammersmith.  Brooks resigned from News International in July when it was
revealed that News of the World journalists accessed messages on
the phone of murdered teenager Milly Dowler while Brooks was
editor of the tabloid. She was arrested by police for the first
time a few days after she stepped down.  March Arrest  Police arrested Brooks again on March 13 in the probe into
the perversion of justice. Her husband and Hanna were also
arrested at the time.  At the inquiry last week, which is probing the relationship
between the press and politicians, Brooks was asked about her
friendship with Cameron, a neighbor in  Oxfordshire . She said
Cameron sent her an “indirect” message offering her support
when she resigned.  In the years before the scandal, she said she exchanged
 text messages  with him about once a week, prior to him being
elected. That increased to about twice a week during the 2010
general election.  Cameron signed off his texts with “LOL, for lots of
love,” Brooks said at the inquiry led by Judge Brian Leveson.
He stopped doing so after she told him it meant “laugh out
loud,” she said.  No Discussion  Cameron’s spokesman declined to comment on the arrests,
citing the continuing police investigation. Cameron wasn’t
informed in advance and there was no discussion of the subject
in this morning’s Cabinet meeting, the spokesman, Steve Field,
told reporters in London.  Leveson’s inquiry is in addition to parliamentary probes
and police investigations that have expanded to include bribery
of public officials and computer hacking and have resulted in
about 45 arrests.  Prosecutors received evidence from the Met Police on March
27 in relation to seven suspects. The seventh, who provided
security for Brooks on behalf of News International, wasn’t
charged. The six who were charged will have their first court
appearance at Westminster Magistrates Court in London on June
13, prosecutors said.  Bloomberg LP, the parent of Bloomberg News, competes with
 News Corp . units in providing financial news and information.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lindsay Fortado in London at 
 lfortado@bloomberg.net ;
Erik Larson in London at 
 elarson4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@Bloomberg.net  