-- Mexico Said to Start Marketing Samurai Sale for This Month
-- B y   Y u s u k e   M i y a z a w a
-- 2012-05-15T08:12:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-15/mexico-said-to-start-marketing-sale-of-samurai-for-this-month.html
Mexico  started marketing a sale of
Samurai bonds which aren’t guaranteed by the Japanese government
and plans to price the notes this month, according to a person
with direct knowledge of the matter.  The Latin American nation will price the three-year notes
to yield from 80 basis points to 100 basis points more than the
yen swap rate, said the person, asking not to be identified
because the information is private.  It will also offer five-year Samurais yielding from 100
basis points to 120 basis points more than the benchmark, the
person said. The bonds won’t be guaranteed by the  Japan  Bank for
International Cooperation, unlike the last two sales of the
securities by Mexico, the person said.  Mexico joins Rabobank Nederland and Export-Import Bank of
 Korea  in tapping the Samurai bond market this month. The extra
yield investors demand to own yen-denominated debt instead of
government notes declined 46 basis points this year to 113
yesterday, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch index
data. The Korean lender may raise more than 80 billion yen ($1
billion) as early as this week, the peninsula nation’s record
offering in the market, Chief Financial Officer Kim Yoon Yung
said yesterday.  Mexico plans to raise 10 billion yen equally split between
the two maturities, according to a filing with Japan’s  Finance
Ministry  today. Citigroup Inc., Mitsubishi UFJ Morgan Stanley
Securities Co., Nomura Holdings Inc. and SMBC Nikko Securities
Inc. are helping Mexico with the sale, it said.  Last Samurai  The country last tapped the Samurai market in October 2010
when it raised 150 billion yen from a sale of 10-year 1.51
percent bonds at a spread of 50 basis points, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The notes are 94 percent guaranteed by
JBIC, the data show.  The yield on the 1.51 percent bond relative to the yen swap
rate was 57.1 basis points yesterday, according to JS Price.  Mexico’s foreign-currency long-term debt is rated BBB by
 Standard & Poor’s , its second-lowest investment grade, with a
stable outlook, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  America Movil SAB, the Mexico-based wireless carrier
controlled by billionaire  Carlos Slim , raised 12 billion yen in
October from a sale of Samurai bonds, including three-year 1.23
percent notes at a spread of 80 basis points and five-year 1.53
percent debt at a spread of 100 basis points, data compiled by
Bloomberg show. The company is  rated  A-, or two levels higher
than the government, the data show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yusuke Miyazawa in Tokyo at 
 ymiyazawa3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Shelley Smith  at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  