-- Facebook Said to Seek Directors Who Can Add Diversity to Board
-- B y   C a r o l   H y m o w i t z   a n d   D o u g l a s   M a c M i l l a n
-- 2012-05-15T17:39:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-15/facebook-said-to-seek-directors-who-can-add-diversity-to-board.html
Facebook Inc. (FB)  is seeking to add
directors, including at least one woman, who can add diversity
to its all-male  board , people with knowledge of the matter said.  Facebook has been working with executive-recruiting firm
 Spencer Stuart  to identify prospective board members, said the
people, who asked not to be identified because the search is
private. The addition of any new directors probably won’t be
announced until after  Menlo Park , California-based Facebook
holds its initial public offering, one of the people said.  The world’s largest social networking service has drawn
scrutiny for the lack of independent directors and gender
diversity on its board, even as most of its 901 million users
are women. Chief Executive Officer  Mark Zuckerberg  will control
57.3 percent of the company’s voting power after the IPO,
regulatory filings show. Adding outside directors who haven’t
been closely affiliated with the company would help the board
hold executives accountable, said Dennis Carey,  vice chairman  at
Korn/Ferry International, an executive-search firm.  “Once Facebook becomes a public company, the board needs a
seasoned corporate director and people with a variety of
backgrounds,” said Carey, whose Los Angeles-based firm isn’t
involved in the search. “The board shouldn’t be a rubber stamp
for Zuckerberg.”  Jonathan Thaw, a spokesman for Facebook, declined to
comment. Ben Machtiger, a spokesman for Spencer Stuart in New
York, didn’t respond to a request for comment.  Facebook’s Existing Board  Zuckerberg picked existing directors as he sought advice in
building the company. Aside from Zuckerberg, the board includes
 Donald Graham , CEO of Washington Post Co.; venture capitalist
Mark Andreessen, co-founder of Netscape Communications Corp.;
 Jim Breyer , managing general partner of Accel Partners, an early
investor in Facebook;  Peter Thiel , a venture capitalist and the
founder of hedge fund Clarium Capital LLC; Reed Hastings, CEO of
Netflix Inc.; and Erskine Bowles, president emeritus of
University of  North Carolina .  Just 11.3 percent of the Fortune 500 had male-only boards
last year, according to Catalyst, a New York-based nonprofit
organization that researches women’s progress in business.  There’s no shortage of qualified female director candidates
who’ve served on corporate boards and have finance, marketing or
other executive experience, Korn/Ferry’s Carey said.  Qualified Candidates  One such candidate is Lorrie Marie Norrington, formerly
president of EBay Inc.’s Marketplaces business and now a
director at Autodesk Inc., DirecTV and Lucasfilm Ltd. Another is
Marna Whittington, head of Allianz Global Investors’ U.S.-based
Allianz Global Investors Capital and currently a director at
Macy’s Inc., Carey said.  Facebook could also add its own chief operating officer,
 Sheryl Sandberg , who’s a director at Walt Disney Co., or recruit
one of the 18  female  CEOs who currently head Fortune 500
companies.  The California State Teachers’ Retirement System, which
manages $145 billion, asked Facebook in February to add a woman
to its board, arguing that diversity improves governance and
performance. A petition from the advocacy group Face It, which
has more than 52,000 signatures, also urges Facebook to
diversify its board to include women and minorities.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Carol Hymowitz in  New York  at 
 chymowitz1@bloomberg.net ;
Douglas Macmillan in New York at 
 dmacmillan3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  