-- Facebook Increases IPO Price Range to $34-$38 a Share
-- B y   L e e   S p e a r s   a n d   B r i a n   W o m a c k
-- 2012-05-15T18:06:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-15/facebook-said-set-to-finish-taking-ipo-orders-tomorrow.html
Facebook Inc. (FB)  boosted the price range
on its initial public offering to seek as much as $12.8 billion,
signaling that Chief Executive Officer  Mark Zuckerberg  expects
demand for the social network to withstand recent market
turmoil.  The new range is $34 to $38 a share, a regulatory filing
today shows, indicating a market value of as much as $104.2
billion. That would make Facebook, co-founded in 2004 by
Zuckerberg, worth more than  Citigroup Inc. (C)  and McDonald’s Corp.  Facebook, which has spent more than a week pitching the IPO
to investors across the U.S., raised the range even after the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index yesterday slumped to the  lowest
level  since February. That may spell disappointment for
investors if the slump persists, said Bruce McCain, chief
investment strategist at the private-banking unit of KeyCorp.  “They get more money upfront if they can make it go, but
if the enthusiasm is weak out of the gate, it makes it that much
more difficult for the company going forward,” said McCain, who
helps oversee more than $20 billion for the Cleveland-based
bank. “You would think they would be a little more cautious.”  Facebook , based in Menlo Park,  California , previously
proposed selling the shares at $28 to $35 each. Facebook had
traded as high as $44.10 in auctions on private marketplace
SharesPost Inc. At the top end of the new range, Facebook would
be valued at 26 times trailing 12-month sales, more than double
Google Inc.’s valuation when the search engine debuted in 2004.  Sales Growth  The social network topped $4 billion in  revenue  in the 12
months through March 31, with more than 900 million users. Sales
are poised to rise 64 percent to $6.1 billion in 2012, according
to researcher EMarketer Inc., which would be the third straight
year of slowing growth.  Facebook plans to stop taking orders today for its initial
public offering, two days ahead of schedule, a person with
knowledge of the transaction said yesterday. The offering of
337.4 million shares is oversubscribed, according to people with
knowledge of the matter, who declined to say by how much orders
exceeded the amount of stock being offered.  Facebook was already in a position to surpass  United Parcel
Service Inc. (UPS)  as the most valuable company in history to go
public in the U.S., based on market capitalization, data
compiled by Bloomberg and Dealogic show. Although that valuation
may be higher than warranted in the long run, demand remains
high, said  Dan Veru , chief investment officer at Palisade
Capital Management.  Gauging Markets  “Some investors are just captivated with the idea of
owning Facebook,” said Veru, whose  Fort Lee , New Jersey-based
firm oversees $3.7 billion. “The bankers are going to do
everything they can to ensure a successful offering. If this
offering isn’t successful, it would not just be bad for
Facebook, it would be bad for the entire market.”  Facebook’s underwriters will have the option to buy an
additional 50.6 million shares from the company and its holders
after the IPO, filings show.  Some institutional investors had balked at buying into
Facebook over concern about the site’s growth prospects, people
with knowledge of the matter said last week. In a Bloomberg
Global Poll of more than 1,250 investors, analysts and traders
taken before the  price range  increase, 79 percent said Facebook
didn’t deserve such a high valuation.  ‘Quite Expensive’  “Facebook’s pricing seems to be quite expensive,” said
Yves Maillot, head of investments at Robeco Gestions SA in
Paris, who helps oversee $6.8 billion. The IPO is also pressing
ahead in a “very difficult environment for the U.S. equity
market.”  The  S&P 500  sank 1.1 percent to 1,338.35 yesterday as
 Greece  struggled to form a new government amid mounting concern
the nation may leave the euro. The index fell for a second
session as financial companies and energy producers led losses
among all 10 of its main industry groups.  Facebook’s shares are set to price May 17 and begin trading
under the symbol FB on the Nasdaq Stock Market the following
day. Underwriters for the sale include  Morgan Stanley (MS) ,  JPMorgan
Chase & Co. (JPM)  and  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)   Zuckerberg celebrated his 28th birthday yesterday, during
the final leg of a marketing tour aimed at building demand for
the IPO and convincing investors that Facebook can make money
from mobile users.  Facebook today said it expected its purchase of mobile
photo-sharing service Instagram to close by the end of the year.
When the $1 billion deal was announced last month, Facebook said
it anticipated completing the transaction in the second quarter.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lee Spears in  New York  at 
 lspears3@bloomberg.net ;
Brian Womack in  San Francisco  at 
 bwomack1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  