-- Farmland Values Advance in U.S. as Crop-Price Spur Income
-- B y   J e f f   W i l s o n
-- 2012-05-15T21:49:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-15/farmland-gains-top-25-as-incomes-rise-kansas-city-fed-says.html
Farmland values surged during the
first quarter from  Kansas  to  Indiana  as gains in crop prices
during the past two years bolster income, according to a survey
of lenders by regional Federal Reserve banks.  Midwest farmers in a five-state region saw an increase of
19 percent as of April 1 from a year earlier, including a 27
percent increase in Iowa, the largest U.S. corn and soybean
grower, the Chicago Fed said in a  report  today. Great Plains
states posted a 25 percent increase, led by a 39 percent jump in
 Nebraska  and 24 percent in Kansas, the Kansas City Fed  report 
showed.  Corn and soybean futures last year reached the highest
averages ever, while wheat was 34 percent higher than in 2009.
Net farm income for domestic growers will reach $91.7 billion
this year, second only to last year’s $98.1 billion, the  U.S.
Department of Agriculture  said on Feb. 13.  “We have had two years of exceptional farm income,
historically low  interest rates  and a lack of alternative
investments driving farmland prices,” Mike Walsten, the editor
of Land Owner Newsletter, a unit of Pro Farmer publications,
said by telephone from Cedar Falls, Iowa. “Farm income in 2011
was $30 billion higher than the 10-year average, and that’s
what’s increasing farmer purchases.”  Grain Prices  The rally in farmland prices may slow because grains are
down this year, Walsten said. The average corn price may fall 25
percent to $4.60 a bushel in the year that begins Sept. 1, down
from an estimated $6.10 this year, the USDA said on May 10.
Wheat prices may fall to $6.10 a bushel in the season that
begins June 1, down from $7.25 this year.  “We are probably going into a period of more stability and
a leveling off in the land market,” he said. “I have seen some
sales in  Iowa  and  Illinois  recently that were not as strong as I
expected. It’s not the same zip and drive that we saw in late
2011 or earlier this year.”  During the first quarter, Indiana prices advanced 15
percent from a year earlier, Wisconsin increased 13 percent, and
Michigan rose 7 percent, the Chicago Fed said. Midwest land
values climbed 5 percent from the fourth quarter, and about one-
third of the 231 bankers surveyed by the Fed forecast higher
values in the second quarter.  “Bidding among farmers was common at farmland auctions,
driving up” prices, David Oppedahl, a business economist at the
bank, said in the quarterly report. “Relative to investors,
farmers again purchased a higher share of the acres sold in the
past three to six months.”  Rents Rise  The cost to rent farmland in the district rose 17 percent
from a year earlier, the second-largest increase since the
survey began in 1960, according to the quarterly report.  Falling  interest rates  for operating and real-estate loans
improved credit conditions for agricultural producers in the
first quarter, the Chicago Fed said. The index of rate of
repayments on non-real-estate agricultural loans climbed to the
highest ever and 56 percent of survey respondents reported
improvement. Loan renewals and extensions declined, with 37
percent of bankers reporting fewer than a year earlier.  Loans to buy farm machinery and build grain storage were
expected to rise in the current quarter from a year earlier, the
Fed said.  Plains States  In the Plains states,  Oklahoma  had the smallest increase at
8.9 percent, according to the survey of 235 banks by the Kansas
City Fed. Ranchland in the region gained 16 percent as high feed
costs boosted demand for pasture, and irrigated farmland gained
30 percent from a year earlier.  “Record-high farmland prices prompted landowners to place
more land on the market,” bank economists  Jason Henderson  and
Maria Akers said in the quarterly report. About a third of the
bankers surveyed anticipated farmland values would rise further,
while the rest expected prices to hold at peak levels.  The report covered the Fed’s 10th District, which includes
 Colorado , Kansas, Nebraska, Oklahoma,  Wyoming  and parts of  New
Mexico  and  Missouri .  Income gains in the region “spurred additional household
and capital spending in the first quarter,” the economists
said.  In the first quarter, interest rates averaged 6.2 percent
for operating loans and 5.8 percent for real-estate loans.  Several bankers reported that crop insurance and mineral
leases helped with loan repayments in drought areas, according
to the survey.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jeff Wilson  in Chicago at 
 jwilson29@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  