-- FCC Asks Verizon Wireless If Plan’s Set for Airwaves Sale
-- B y   T o d d   S h i e l d s
-- 2012-05-15T21:34:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-15/fcc-asks-verizon-wireless-for-information-on-airwaves-sale.html
Regulators asked  Verizon Wireless 
whether a partial rejection of its $3.6 billion plan to buy
frequencies from cable companies would lead the mobile provider
to abandon a planned airwaves sale.  The Federal Communications Commission asked the question in
a letter posted on its website today. Ed McFadden, a Verizon
spokesman, declined to comment.  “It adds to the narrative that the FCC has reservations
about the Verizon-cable deals,” Jeffrey Silva, a Washington-
based analyst with Medley Global Advisors, said in an interview.
The agency may be concerned that largest U.S. mobile provider
Verizon would grow as other companies face limited opportunities
for more airwaves, he said.  The FCC and  Justice Department  are scrutinizing Verizon’s
plan, announced in December, to buy unused airwaves from cable
companies led by largest provider  Comcast Corp. (CMCSA)  and No. 2  Time
Warner Cable Inc. (TWC)  Verizon said on April 18 it would sell another
set of airwaves covering dozens of cities if allowed to buy the
cable holdings.  Verizon Wireless and competitors  AT&T Inc. (T) ,  T-Mobile USA 
and  MetroPCS Communications Inc. (PCS)  are seeking to boost spectrum
holdings to ensure they have adequate capacity as demand for
services such as Web browsing and video streaming rises. AT&T
attempted and failed to buy T-Mobile for $39 billion last year,
citing spectrum as one of the main reasons for the deal.  Regulators are trying to make sure the market remains
competitive and that no one carrier has spectrum holdings large
enough to reduce rivalry. The government blocked AT&T’s T-Mobile
purchase, saying it would have hurt competition.  Verizon Wireless, based in Basking Ridge, New Jersey, is
owned by Verizon Communications and  Vodafone Group Plc (VOD) , based in
Newbury,  England .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Todd Shields in Washington at 
 tshields3@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  