-- Ford Leaves Logo Out of New Ads to Overcome Negatives
-- B y   K e i t h   N a u g h t o n
-- 2012-05-15T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-15/ford-leaves-logo-out-of-new-ads-to-overcome-negatives.html
Ford Motor Co. (F) , seeking to overcome
negative perceptions, debuted a new corporate advertising
campaign last month that showed new models stripped of the Ford
blue oval badge and that never mentioned the automaker by name.  The TV spots, with the new slogan “Go Further,” ran for a
week starting April 30 on network and cable television without
ever identifying Ford as producing the cars and sport-utility
vehicles shown, said  Matt VanDyke , the company’s U.S. director
of marketing communications. The idea was to grab attention with
the new models while not putting off consumers with the Ford
name.  “We didn’t need people to glance up, see the blue oval and
say ‘Oh yeah, that’s Ford, they may be doing things differently,
but I don’t really need to pay attention,’” VanDyke told
reporters yesterday at Team  Detroit , the automaker’s advertising
agency in Dearborn,  Michigan . “The reality of the quality of
our products is just ahead of where the perception of the brand
is, still, here in the U.S.”  The decision to leave the Ford logo out of the ads was
based on consumer-research clinics where potential buyers
reacted more favorably to new models before they knew they were
made by the Dearborn-based automaker, VanDyke said. The ads show
redesigned versions of the Fusion sedan and Escape sport-utility
vehicle and end by displaying the  gofurther.com  website.  After a week, the ads appeared with the logo. They ran on
several network shows, including “Dancing with the Stars” on
ABC, “Late Show with  David Letterman ” on CBS, “House M.D.”
on Fox and “NBC Nightly News,” according to Mark Schirmer, a
Ford spokesman.  ‘Immediate Conclusions’  “As soon as people see a blue oval” in consumer clinics,
VanDyke said yesterday, “they jump to immediate conclusions as
to preconceived ideas about what the company does, what it
stands for. We still have a gap and an opportunity to change
that perception on the coasts.”  Ford Chief Executive Officer  Alan Mulally  has turned around
the automaker by focusing on quality, styling, technology and
fuel economy. Ford earned $29.5 billion in the last three years
after $30.1 billion in losses from 2006 through 2008. After
Ford’s net income fell 45 percent in the first quarter to $1.4
billion, Mulally said last month the company will make more
money in the year’s second half as it rolls out the new Fusion
and Escape.  Ford fell 2.5 percent to $10.32 at the close yesterday in
 New York . The share have declined 4.1 percent this year before
today.  Surprise and Shock  There are no plans currently to leave the logos off Fusion
and Escape, Ford’s top selling car and SUV, in ads when those
models go on sale later this year, VanDyke said. Dispensing with
the logo in the ads helped generate 3.4 million online video
views over the last two weeks, he said. When consumers viewed
the ads online, they discovered Ford was behind them.  “What we found was that it really did surprise people and
it really did shock people,” VanDyke said. “What we’ll do is
take that insight and figure out how we continue to really push
in those coastal markets in the U.S., where people just don’t
automatically put us on their radar.”  East and West Coast markets favor models from  Toyota (7203)  Motor
Corp. and  Honda (7267)  Motor Co., said  Jim Farley , Ford’s global
marketing chief.  “Perception and current market reality are always lagging
and we still see the leaders in the U.S. market as Honda and
Toyota, with Honda far above Toyota,” Farley said. “Nobody
comes close to Honda’s reputation for fuel economy.”  Toyota’s Gains  Ford’s U.S. sales rose 4.8 percent in the first four months
of the year, to 717,480 light vehicles, less than half the
industry’s gain of 10 percent. Ford’s U.S. market share has
fallen to 15.4 percent this year from 16.2 percent last year,
according to researcher Autodata Corp. of  Woodcliff Lake ,  New
Jersey .  Toyota, which suffered supply shortages last year after the
earthquake and tsunami in  Japan , has seen its U.S. sales rise 12
percent this year and its market share grow to 14.3 percent from
14.1 percent. Honda’s U.S. sales have risen 2.2 percent and its
market share has slid to 9.5 percent from 10.3 percent,
according to Autodata.  Ford has several models that offer the best mileage in
their category as rated by the U.S. Environmental Protection
Agency, Farley said. Most consumers don’t view Ford as a fuel
economy leader, he said.  “I can say best-in-class EPA rating on this or that,”
Farley said. “But it’s going to require more than that to
change minds.”  No Bailout  Ford borrowed $23.4 billion in late 2006, putting up all
major assets including the blue oval logo as collateral. That
helped Ford avoid the bankruptcies and bailouts that befell the
predecessors of  General Motors Co. (GM)  and Chrysler Group LLC.  Ford continues to receive positive consumer consideration
because it didn’t take a government bailout, VanDyke said.
Consumers’ “favorable opinion” of Ford has risen 32 percent
since the first quarter of 2008, VanDyke said.  “Not taking the money, people still today say, ‘You
separated yourself from your crosstown rivals’,” VanDyke said.
“Our favorable opinion has never been at a better place.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Keith Naughton in Dearborn, Michigan, at 
 knaughton3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  