-- Former Minister Raja Granted Bail in India’s Biggest Graft Case
-- B y   P r a t a p   P a t n a i k   a n d   B i b h u d a t t a   P r a d h a n
-- 2012-05-15T08:01:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-15/former-minister-raja-granted-bail-in-india-s-biggest-graft-case.html
Former Indian telecommunications
minister  Andimuthu Raja , the central figure in an allegedly
corrupt sale of phone licenses that crippled the government, was
granted bail after spending 15 months in prison.  Judge O.P. Saini, who is hearing the trial of Raja,
business executives and government officials charged with
colluding to benefit from the allocation of second-generation
airwaves in 2008, ordered Raja’s release today on condition he
surrender his passport and post a personal bond of 2 million
rupees ($37,180). All the accused deny any wrongdoing.  Raja was the last of 14 charged in the case to be bailed,
following the release of officials of Reliance ADA Group,
Unitech Ltd. and DB Realty Ltd. The scandal triggered weeks of
street protests last year and contributed to an 18-month
slowdown in policy making by Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh ’s
government.  The  Supreme Court  in February canceled 122 licenses awarded
in the sale to companies including Idea Cellular Ltd., and local
partners of  Norway ’s Telenor ASA and  Russia ’s AFK Sistema.
Scrapping the wireless permits, the nation’s top court said the
2008 sale was “flawed” and influenced by those with “money
power.”  Raja was detained Feb. 2, 2011, on charges that he
conspired to grant permits to unqualified companies for personal
gain. He applied for bail this month, saying the case against
him is “false and fabricated” and he sought parity with co-
accused already freed from jail.  The nation’s chief auditor in 2010 reported that the sale
of airwaves lacked transparency and that ineligible bidders had
bought spectrum at “unbelievably low” prices. The auditor said
the award may have deprived the exchequer of as much as $31
billion, sparking the nation’s biggest graft probe.  Three private companies -- Reliance Telecom Ltd., Unitech
Wireless and Swan Telecom Pvt. -- are also among the accused.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Bibhudatta Pradhan in  New Delhi  at 
 bpradhan@bloomberg.net ;
Pratap Patnaik in New Delhi at 
 ppatnaik2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Hari Govind at 
 hgovind@bloomberg.net  