-- Ex-IMF Chief Seeks Damages From Maid as Part of Lawsuit
-- B y   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h
-- 2012-05-15T18:06:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-15/former-imf-chief-seeks-damages-from-maid-for-alleged-false-claim.html
Former International Monetary Fund
chief  Dominique Strauss-Kahn  filed a counterclaim in the
lawsuit brought by a  Manhattan  hotel maid who accused him of
sexually assaulting her.  Strauss-Kahn alleged in the court filing in New York state
 Supreme Court  in the Bronx that the maid, Nafissatou Diallo,
knowingly made a “malicious and wanton” false accusation,
according to copies of the filing provided by his lawyers. The
documents couldn’t be immediately confirmed with the court.  “She is directly responsible for his being arrested,
imprisoned and subjected to extraordinary pain, anguish and
expense,” William Taylor III, one of Strauss-Kahn’s attorneys,
said in a statement. “Her conduct is not without consequence
for her and he is not required to simply endure what she did and
her effort to profit for herself without fighting back.”  Strauss-Kahn is seeking damages of at least $1 million for
claims of malicious prosecution, abuse of process, false
imprisonment, defamation and intentional infliction of emotional
distress.  The counterclaim was filed on the first anniversary of his
arrest on attempted rape charges and is another example of
Strauss-Kahn’s “misogynistic attitude,” Douglas H. Wigdor, a
lawyer for Diallo, said in a statement.  “As with his plea for diplomatic immunity, we are entirely
confident this latest desperate ploy will be swiftly rejected,”
Wigdor said.  Pulled Off Plane  Strauss-Kahn, 63, was pulled off an Air France flight at
 John F. Kennedy International Airport  last May 14, arrested and
charged with trying to rape Diallo, a housekeeper at the Sofitel
in midtown Manhattan. He resigned as head of the IMF four days
later.  Manhattan District Attorney Cyrus Vance Jr. dropped the
criminal charges against Strauss-Kahn after concluding that
Diallo had lied about events surrounding the alleged attack. The
criminal case was dismissed on Aug. 23.  Diallo sued Strauss-Kahn the same month, seeking damages
for what her lawyer called “violent and deplorable acts.”
Unlike a criminal trial, a civil suit doesn’t require proof
beyond a reasonable doubt.  A judge in the Bronx earlier this month denied a defense
motion to dismiss the lawsuit on the grounds that Strauss-Kahn
enjoyed diplomatic immunity.  The case is Diallo v. Strauss-Kahn, 11-307065,  New York 
State Supreme Court (Bronx County).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Dolmetsch in New York at 
 cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  