-- Fox Retools ‘Idol’ in Bid for Second Resurrection of Show
-- B y   E d m u n d   L e e   a n d   A n d y   F i x m e r
-- 2012-05-15T20:20:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-15/fox-retools-idol-in-bid-for-second-resurrection-of-show.html
“ American Idol ,” Fox TV’s aging
ratings powerhouse, will undergo a “creative reinvigoration”
next season that will determine whether the show’s almost nine-
year run as the most-watched series comes to an end.  “Right now, there’s a battle for first place,” said
Steven Piluso, chief strategy officer at PHD, an ad-buying unit
of New York-based advertising company Omnicom Media Group.
“‘Idol’ has slipped enough that any one of the other shows
could become the winner a year from now.”  Even with audience losses, “Idol” heads into the final
weeks of the season, its 11th, as the most-watched series among
all viewers and the 18-to-49-year-olds advertisers prize. The
show generated $730.6 million in ad spending for Fox last year,
according to Kantar Media, or 15 percent of parent  News Corp. (NWSA) ’s
TV  revenue . A 30 percent drop in young adult viewers this year
leaves no clear leader in the reality field, Piluso said.  “The producers know what happened this year,”  Kevin Reilly , Fox’s entertainment president, said yesterday on a
conference call, promising a “creative reinvigoration” without
providing details of how the show will be retooled. “There’ll
be some changes,” he said.  The network is considering rule tweaks that give judges an
expanded role, as well as aesthetic changes, such as set
designs, according to a person with knowledge of the situation
who sought anonymity because the matter is private.  Changing Reality  The reality-TV landscape has changed since “American
Idol” made its Fox debut in 2002. The network can no longer
rely on the program to carry audiences when new shows fail to
bring in viewers, sometimes called a tentpole property.  “There was a time when ‘Idol’ could have single-handedly
done the job,” Reilly said. “We’re not a one-show deal.” Fox
is focused on strengthening its full lineup year round, he said.  Fox charges as much as $602,000 for a 30-second commercial
on “Idol,” according to Nielsen data. The network’s average ad
price is $247,500, according to Nielsen data supplied by  Brad Adgate , research director at  Horizon Media , a New York
advertising company.  As of last week, the Wednesday-night edition of “Idol”
was attracting an average of 8 million viewers in the young-
adult demographic this season. Just behind was “The Voice,”
the year-old talent show from  Comcast Corp. (CMCSA) ’s NBC, at 7.9
million younger viewers per night.  Part of the reason for the falloff among younger viewers on
“Idol” may be the makeup of the judges, according to Lyle
Schwartz, managing director of GroupM, a media-buying arm of
London-based  WPP Plc (WPP) , the world’s largest advertising company.  “If you put them side by side -- the skew of demographics
of ‘Idol’ stars versus ‘Voice’ stars -- you’ll see why one may
appeal to a different audience,” Schwartz said.  Age Gap  The judges on “American Idol” include  Steven Tyler , 64.
His band Aerosmith released its first single, “Dream On,” in
1973, before “The Voice” stars Adam Levine and Cee Lo Green,
were born. Both are in their 30s.  Among total viewers, the Wednesday edition of “Idol”
draws a nightly audience of 19.8 million, compared with 19.4
million for “NCIS,” the  CBS Corp. (CBS)  Tuesday crime drama.
“Idol” Thursday attracts 18.5 million viewers and “Dancing
With the Stars” from  Walt Disney Co. (DIS) ’s ABC attracts 18.4
million viewers on Mondays.  News Corp., based in New York, fell 1 percent to $19.93 at
the close in New York. The Class A stock has gained 12 percent
this year, ranking ninth in the 16-stock S&P 500 Media Index,
led by  Scripps Networks (SNI)  Interactive, up 26 percent.  New Faces  Fox and the producers of “Idol,” including CKX Inc. and
FremantleMedia North America, have revived the show in the past
when audience trends suggested the program’s reign was over. In
2011, ratings rose for the first time in four years.  Several changes have involved new faces.  Ellen DeGeneres 
joined the show for a single season as a judge in 2010,
replacing  Paula Abdul . Last year, DeGeneres was gone, along with
 Kara DioGuardi , and the show lost the caustic  Simon Cowell  to
Fox’s “The X Factor.” They were replaced by Tyler and  Jennifer Lopez , who helped increase the audience last year.  “Idol” also saw a renewed focus on music in 2011, with
the producers turning to record executive Jimmy Iovine to work
with the contestants in a bid to improve the quality of the
performances.  “It’s extremely unlikely the show will grow significantly
again,” said Todd Gordon, managing director of MagnaGlobal, a
media-buying agency at New York-based  Interpublic Group of Cos. 
“But it’s reasonable to expect they’ll find a way to regain
some of that younger demographic.”  Chance for Gains  At upfront meetings with advertisers yesterday, Fox
announced that “X Factor,” a sister talent program that’s also
produced by FremantleMedia, will bring on pop stars Britney Spears and Demi Lovato as celebrity judges this fall. The show
will air on Wednesday and Thursday nights, giving viewers a
late-week alternative to “The Voice.”  NBC has a lot riding on “The Voice.” At his presentation
to advertisers yesterday, NBC Entertainment Chairman  Robert Greenblatt  said the success of the show has made it the
“cornerstone” of the network’s future programming.  “We have no illusion, however, that it’ll bring down all
the other singing contests out there,” Greenblatt said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Edmund Lee in  New York  at 
 elee310@bloomberg.net ;
Andy Fixmer in Los Angeles at 
 afixmer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net ; 
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  