-- French Growth Stalls, Setting a Challenge for Hollande
-- B y   M a r k   D e e n
-- 2012-05-15T05:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-15/french-growth-stalls-setting-challenge-for-new-president.html
French growth stalled in the first
quarter, underscoring the challenge incoming President  Francois
Hollande  faces to revive the economy while also trimming the
budget deficit.  Gross domestic product  unchanged from the fourth quarter,
when it expanded a revised 0.1 percent, Paris-based national
statistics office Insee said today. That was in line with the
median of 25 economist forecasts gathered by Bloomberg News.  For Hollande, who will be sworn into office later today,
the figures highlight  France ’s struggles in the third year of
the sovereign-debt crisis. While the region’s second-largest
economy has avoided a double-dip recession, joblessness at a 12-
year high and debt approaching 90 percent of GDP leave Hollande
little room for maneuver.  “The new government faces a high-wire act,” said Michel Martinez, an economist at  Societe Generale  in Paris. “A
hardening budget stance will only make things more difficult in
the months ahead.”  Output rose 0.3 percent from a year earlier, down from a
revised 1.2 percent increase in the previous quarter.  Hollande won office last week pledging both to focus on
growth and justice and to meet France’s commitment to reduce its
 budget deficit  to 4.4 percent of GDP this year and 3 percent
next year. The European Commission said last week that France
will have to find further savings or tax increases if the goals
are to be reached.  Tax increases and spending cuts implemented by Sarkozy’s
government last year are starting to be felt by consumers now.
That’s damping demand from households just as France’s neighbors
are also cutting back, hurting demand for exports.  “Too heavy tax increases could cause growth to falter,”
Martinez said.  The French economy will expand about 0.5 percent this year
and 1.3 percent in 2013, the commission forecast. The government
predicts growth of 0.7 percent in 2012 and 1.75 percent in 2013.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Deen in Paris at 
 markdeen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  