-- Fujii Warns Sales Tax Bill Failure Would Spark JGB Sell-Off
-- B y   I s a b e l   R e y n o l d s   a n d   T a k a s h i   H i r o k a w a
-- 2012-05-15T04:06:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-15/fujii-warns-sales-tax-bill-failure-would-spark-jgb-sell-off.html
Former Japanese Finance Minister
Hirohisa Fujii said failure to pass legislation to raise the
consumption tax will spark ratings agency downgrades and prompt
banks to sell off their government bond holdings.  Failure to pass the bill “will spark a major move in hot
money,” Fujii, a senior ruling party lawmaker, said in an
interview yesterday at his  Tokyo  office. “There will be a sell-
off in  government bonds  and  interest rates  will rise. Financial
institutions who hold bonds will suffer losses, so they will
sell them off quickly.”  Prime Minister  Yoshihiko Noda  is struggling to persuade
opposition lawmakers and some in his Democratic Party of  Japan 
to back his proposal to double the five percent tax by 2015 in
order to address soaring welfare costs and the world’s largest
debt. Polls show more voters oppose the measure than favor it.  Fujii’s warning is at odds with previous credit rating
downgrades that have failed to result in higher interest rates.
Japanese banks face a total of 6.4 trillion yen ($80.4 billion)
in valuation losses on their holdings of government bonds if
interest rates increased one percentage point, the  Bank of Japan (8301) 
said in a report last month.  Domestic deposit-taking institutions hold about 39 percent
of JGBs, while about 8.5 percent are held by foreigners.  Japanese government bond prices have so far been unaffected
by the country’s ballooning debt. The country’s credit rating
has been downgraded by Standard and Poor’s four times since
2001, and over that period yields have fallen more than 52 basis
points.  Fujii, 79, heads the DPJ’s tax panel and has twice served
as finance minister, most recently in 2009.  The  yield  on benchmark 10-year bonds was 0.840 basis points
at 12:31 p.m. in Tokyo, the lowest level since October 2010.  Fifty percent of voters oppose raising the  consumption tax ,
while 40 percent approve, according to a Nikkei newspaper survey
published April 23. Noda’s approval rating fell five percentage
points to 29 percent, according to the survey of 924 people. The
Nikkei gave no margin of error.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Isabel Reynolds in Tokyo at 
 ireynolds1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  