-- Gas Drillers in Pennsylvania Trim Risks of Harm, Study Finds
-- B y   J i m   E f s t a t h i o u   J r .
-- 2012-05-15T15:41:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-15/gas-drillers-in-pennsylvania-trim-risks-of-harm-study-finds.html
Natural-gas drillers in
 Pennsylvania ’s Marcellus Shale reduced the rate of blowouts,
spills and water contamination by half since 2008, according to
a study based on state-agency actions.  State regulators issued environmental violations at 27
percent of the wells drilled in the first eight months of 2011,
54 percent below the full-year rate in 2008, according to the
study today from New York’s University at Buffalo’s Shale
Resources and Society Institute, which opened last month.
Stronger regulations, tougher enforcement and improved industry
practices helped trim the violations, researchers found.  Technological advances in hydraulic fracturing, or
fracking, have opened vast oil and gas deposits from  North
Dakota  to West Virginia. In Pennsylvania, the Department of
Environmental Protection reports more than 4,000 wells since
2009 were drilled by fracking, a technique in which millions of
gallons of chemically treated water are forced underground to
free trapped gas.  “The odds of non-major environmental events and the much
smaller odds of major environmental events are being reduced
even further by enhanced regulation and improved industry
practice,” according to the study. Pennsylvania managed “the
brisk pace of unconventional gas development, while preserving
the economic opportunity that development has afforded the
community.”  Fracking Opponents  The  Sierra Club  and other environmental groups oppose
fracking because they say it adds to air pollution and has the
potential to contaminate drinking water. Shale gas has boosted
U.S. supplies and driven prices to decade lows.  Drillers in Pennsylvania, which is developing its gas
reserves, reported some high-profile failures. In 2010,
 Chesapeake Energy Corp. (CHK) , the second-biggest U.S. gas producer
behind  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM) , agreed to pay a $900,000 fine after
wells failed in Bradford County, releasing gas into ground
water.  Residents of Dimock, Pennsylvania, blame  Cabot Oil & Gas
Corp. (COG)  for spoiling water wells. A final round of tests last
month by the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency found that no
wells in the area had unsafe levels of contamination.  Of 845 incidents that caused measurable amounts of
pollution, 25 involved major impacts to air, water, and land
resources, according to the report. Of those, environmental
impacts weren’t corrected in six cases, the study found.  John Martin , who formerly studied environmental issues
surrounding shale gas for the  New York  State Research and
Development Authority, is the initute’s director and helped
write the report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Efstathiou Jr. in New York at 
 jefstathiou@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  