-- Gasoline Slides to Three-Month Low on Greek Election Concerns
-- B y   B a r b a r a   P o w e l l
-- 2012-05-15T20:38:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-15/gasoline-slides-to-three-month-low-on-greek-election-concerns.html
Gasoline slid to a three-month low
after Greece failed to form a coalition government, setting the
stage for new elections and increasing concern that  Europe ’s
economy may slow, reducing fuel demand.  Futures sank as the dollar gained against the euro,
reducing the investment appeal of commodities. Greek Pasok party
leader  Evangelos Venizelos  said new elections will be held in
Europe’s most debt-laden country after attempts to form a
government failed.  “There’s nothing positive out of Europe and any rally will
be short-lived,” said Fred Rigolini, vice president of
Paramount Options Inc. in New York.  Gasoline for June delivery fell 1.49 cents, or 0.5 percent,
to settle at $2.9441 a gallon on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange . It was the fourth consecutive decline.  Gasoline has lost 14 percent since reaching a 2012 high of
$3.4166 on March 26. In that same period, futures pared their
year-to-date gain to 9.6 percent from 27 percent.  The dollar rose 0.7 percent against the euro at 3:05 p.m.
in  New York . The euro touched $1.2722, the lowest level since
Jan. 17.  The euro faltered as Greek President Karolos Papoulias
tries to persuade divided party leaders to accept his proposal
for a government of prominent non-politicians to steer the
country and avert new elections. Political gridlock has left the
country, the most indebted in the 17-nation  euro zone , without a
government for more than a week.  Greek Government  Greece must elect a government that sticks to the terms of
its international bailout in order to stay in the euro, German
Finance Minister Wolfgang Schaeuble said.  Gross domestic product in the  euro region  stagnated in the
latest quarter compared with the prior three months, the
European Union’s statistics office in Luxembourg said today. The
German economy, the largest in the 17-nation euro region,
expanded  0.5 percent .  “ Germany  saved the euro zone from going into recession
although the problems in Europe haven’t really gone away,” said
 Phil Flynn , vice president of research at PFGBest in Chicago.
“The dollar has been a safe haven and put downward pressure on
the market.”  In U.S. economic news, the National Association of Home
Builders/Wells Fargo index of  builder confidence  rose to 29, the
highest since May 2007. The Federal Reserve Bank of New York’s
general  economic index  increased to 17.1 this month from 6.6 in
April.  “The market is trying to hold above yesterday’s low as we
get a little bit of positive economic news,” said  Gene McGillian , an analyst and broker at Tradition Energy in
 Stamford , Connecticut. “But uncertainty over  Greece  will make
it a headline-driven market.”  Pump Prices  Regular gasoline  at the pump, averaged nationwide, was
unchanged at $3.727 a gallon yesterday, according to AAA. Prices
are down 20.9 cents since reaching a 2012 high of $3.936 on
April 4.  June-delivery heating oil rose 0.35 cent to settle at
$2.933 a gallon on the exchange, the first gain in four days.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Barbara J Powell in Dallas at 
 bpowell4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  