-- Geithner Says Regulators to Take Close Look at JPMorgan
-- B y   I a n   K a t z   a n d   C h e y e n n e   H o p k i n s
-- 2012-05-15T14:40:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-15/geithner-says-regulators-to-take-close-look-at-jpmorgan.html
Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  said  JPMorgan Chase & Co (JPM) ’s. $2 billion trading loss was
a “pretty significant risk-management failure” and will prompt
close scrutiny by regulators.  Regulators, including the  Federal Reserve  and the
Securities and Exchange Commission, “are going to take a very
careful look at this incident,” Geithner said at an event today
in Washington held by the Peter G. Peterson Foundation.  JPMorgan Chief Executive Officer  Jamie Dimon , 56, announced
the loss May 10, assailing his firm’s handling of trading in
synthetic credit positions as “flawed, complex, poorly
reviewed, poorly executed and poorly monitored.” JPMorgan, the
biggest U.S. bank, will consider reclaiming incentive pay from
employees, including former Chief Investment Officer Ina Drew,
after her unit’s trading loss, said two senior executives who
declined to be identified.  Geithner said the administration’s overhaul of financial
regulations isn’t meant “to prevent the unpreventable in terms
of mistakes in judgment, but to make sure when those mistakes
happen -- and they’re inevitable -- that they’re modest enough
in size, and the system as a whole can handle them.” The loss
“points out how important it is that these reforms are strong
enough and effective enough,” he said.  Geithner said he hadn’t talked to Dimon since the loss was
reported.  The  Treasury secretary  also said the executive branch has
“tools” that can push back the deadline for raising the debt
limit until early 2013, even though the government will hit the
ceiling before the end of the year.  Geithner has said last year’s months-long debate between
the Obama administration and Congress over raising the debt
limit hurt the  U.S. economy  and was avoidable.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ian Katz in Washington at 
 ikatz2@bloomberg.net ;
Cheyenne Hopkins in Washington at 
 chopkins19@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  