-- German Economy Grew More Than Forecast in First Quarter
-- B y   J a n a   R a n d o w
-- 2012-05-15T08:12:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-15/german-gdp-grew-5-times-more-than-forecast-in-1st-quarter.html
The German economy grew more than
economists forecast in the first quarter as exports to  emerging
markets  offset waning euro-area demand.  Gross domestic product  in Europe’s largest economy rose 0.5
percent from the fourth quarter, when it fell 0.2 percent, the
Federal Statistics Office said in Wiesbaden today. Economists
predicted a 0.1 percent gain, according to the median of 40
estimates in a Bloomberg News  survey . French GDP stagnated.  With the euro region’s debt crisis ravaging economies from
Greece to Spain, German companies have shifted focus. Carmakers
and their suppliers are benefitting from demand in faster-
growing markets such as China, while falling unemployment and
rising wages are stimulating spending at home. Business
confidence rose for a sixth month in April after company
earnings  outpaced  expectations in the first quarter.  “With this morning’s numbers, the German economy has not
only avoided recession but could have even helped prevent the
entire euro-zone economy falling into technical recession,”
said  Carsten Brzeski , senior economist at ING Group in Brussels.
“One thing is at least for sure: the German economy remains the
powerhouse of the euro-zone economy.”  The euro extended gains after the GDP report, rising to
$1.2865 at 10 a.m. in Frankfurt from $1.2823 this morning.  Fillip for Merkel  Evidence of an improving economy is a fillip to Chancellor
Angela Merkel as she prepares to host French President  Francois Hollande  today. Hollande, who travels to Berlin immediately
after his inauguration in Paris, won election after campaigning
against Merkel’s austerity drive in favor of more focus on
growth.  The debt crisis has already pushed eight euro-region
countries into recession, commonly defined as two consecutive
quarters of contraction.  Italy said today its economy contracted for a third
straight quarter, with GDP dropping 0.8 percent in the first
three months of this year. The Netherlands also recorded its
third quarterly contraction in a row.  France  had zero growth in
the quarter, in line with economists’ median forecast.  The European Union’s statistics office in Luxembourg
publishes euro-area data at 11 a.m.  The 17-nation economy probably shrank 0.2 percent in the
period after contracting 0.3 percent at the end of last year,
according to the median of 38 forecasts in another Bloomberg
survey conducted before today’s German report.  Euro-Area Stagnation?  “The euro area could get away with stagnation in the first
quarter,” said  Andreas Scheuerle , an economist at Dekabank in
Frankfurt. “Today’s data mean German growth forecasts for this
year have to be massively revised up,” he added.  Germany’s economy will grow 0.7 percent in 2012 and 1.7
percent in 2013, the European Commission forecast on May 11. By
contrast, the euro region’s and those of seven member countries
will contract this year, it said.  The German statistics office said first-quarter growth was
mainly driven by net trade as exports rose. Domestic consumption
also increased while investment declined. A detailed breakdown
for the quarter will be published on May 24. From a year
earlier, GDP increased 1.7 percent.  Germany’s benchmark  DAX Index (DAX)  has climbed 9.4 percent this
year, compared to a 1 percent gain in the Stoxx Europe 600
Index. Earnings at companies listed on Germany’s  HDAX Index (HDAX)  of
the country’s most highly capitalized stocks beat analysts’
estimates by an average 7 percent in the first quarter, with
carmakers and their suppliers surprising most.  ‘Rosy’ Outlook  Earnings per share at  Volkswagen AG (VOW) ,  Bayerische Motoren
Werke AG (BMW)  and  Daimler AG (DAI)  exceeded expectations by as much as 52
percent.  Continental AG (CON) ’s Chief Financial Officer Wolfgang Schaefer said on May 3 that Europe’s second-largest auto-parts
maker may raise its sales forecast next quarter should the
stable development continue.  “World trade will pick up in the second half of the year,
the global economy should become stronger and  Germany  will
benefit from that,” said Aline Schuiling, senior economist at
ABN Amro Bank NV in Amsterdam. “The outlook is quite rosy, with
above-average growth but also above-average inflation rates.”  Annual consumer price gains in Germany have exceeded the
European Central Bank’s 2 percent limit since January last year
and Bundesbank President Jens Weidmann said in an interview with
Sueddeutsche Zeitung published May 11 that inflation may be
higher than in the past.  Wage Deals  That may weigh on consumer sentiment, even as unemployment
holds at the lowest level in two decades and workers are
securing some of the biggest pay increases in that period.
Germany’s two million public-service workers negotiated 6.3
percent higher pay by the end of next year, and  IG Metall , whose
3.6 million members make it the biggest union in Europe, is
demanding a 6.5 percent raise.  Metro AG (MEO) , Germany’s biggest retailer, reported a wider-
than-expected first-quarter loss on May 3 after cutting prices
of electronics goods to win back shoppers. Still, companies from
 Hugo Boss AG (BOS)  to  Beiersdorf AG (BEI)  reported they are profiting from
increased  consumer spending .  “The domestic economy is still benefiting from an
improving labor market and higher wage deals, which are
strengthening consumption,” the Bundesbank said last month.
“The German economy is currently lacking momentum, even though
it’s in good shape overall.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jana Randow in Frankfurt at 
 jrandow@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  