-- German Investor Confidence Fell From a Two-Year High in May
-- B y   J o s e p h   d e   W e c k
-- 2012-05-15T09:33:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-15/german-investor-confidence-dropped-from-a-two-year-high-in-may.html
German investor confidence fell from
a two-year high in May as  Europe ’s debt crisis clouded the
economic outlook.  The ZEW Center for European Economic Research in Mannheim
said its index of investor and analyst expectations, which aims
to predict economic developments six months in advance, slid to
10.8 from 23.4 in April. That’s the first decline since November
and the biggest since August. Economists forecast a drop to 19,
according to the median of 34 estimates in a Bloomberg News
 survey .  Germany’s benchmark  DAX index  fell 10 percent in the last
two months, paring its 2012 gain to 9 percent, as concerns about
 Spain ’s creditworthiness mounted and an inconclusive election in
 Greece  raised the possibility of its exit from Europe’s monetary
union. Still,  Germany  averted a recession in the first quarter
with growth of 0.5 percent, the country’s statistics office said
today, beating economists’ forecasts.  “Financial markets have been spooked again by the re-
intensification of the euro debt crisis,” said Jens Sondergaard, an economist at Nomura International Plc in  London .
“It is possible that the ZEW more reflects the deterioration in
financial-market sentiment rather than a fundamental
reassessment of where the German economy is heading.”  ZEW said its gauge of the current situation rose to 44.1
from 40.7. The euro was little changed after the report at
$1.2846.  Europe Avoids Recession  German business confidence unexpectedly increased to a
nine-month high in April, factory orders and industrial
production rose more than forecast in March and exports climbed
as companies tapped demand in  emerging markets .  First-quarter growth, which beat economists’ 0.1 percent
median estimate, was mainly driven by net trade, the statistics
office said today. Domestic consumption increased while
investment declined.  Germany’s resilience helped the euro area avoid recession.
After shrinking 0.3 percent in the final quarter of 2011, the
17-nation economy stagnated in the first three months of this
year, confounding economists’ median forecast for a 0.2 percent
contraction.  Growth in Europe’s largest economy may be damped by
austerity measures across the region, which are curbing demand
in Germany’s largest export market. The European Commission last
week forecast gross domestic product will drop 0.3 percent in
the euro area as a whole this year. While Germany will post 0.7
percent growth, GDP is predicted to shrink 4.7 percent in
Greece, 1.8 percent in Spain, 1.4 percent in Italy and 0.9
percent in the Netherlands, it said.  ‘Increased Tensions’  Concerns about Spain’s banking sector and the failure of
May 6 elections to produce a stable Greek government that
embraces reform have brought the sovereign-debt crisis to the
forefront again.  In  France ,  Francois Hollande  won the presidential election
after campaigning against German Chancellor Angela Merkel’s
austerity drive in favor of more focus on growth.  The drop in the ZEW index “is particularly due to the
elections in France and Greece,” said  Michael Schroeder , head
of ZEW’s financial markets department. “You don’t know whether
Greece will stay within the euro zone or not, what will happen
to fiscal consolidation. It doesn’t mean everything is negative,
it means there is high amount of uncertainty.”  Bond Yields  Spanish 10-year bond yields rose above 6.2 percent
yesterday for the first time in more than five months. At the
same time, German, Finnish and Dutch yields reached record lows.  “Increased tensions in the euro sovereign debt markets
explain why investors are somewhat less optimistic,” said  Klaus Baader , senior economist at Societe Generale SA in  Hong Kong .
“Germany’s current situation is stable.”  German unemployment at a two-decade low and rising wages
are helping the country to weather the region’s turmoil.  Public sector employees won an agreement in late March for
as much as 6.3 percent more pay by the end of 2013.  IG Metall ,
Europe’s biggest manufacturing union, is demanding a 6.5 percent
wage increase for its 3.6 million members.  “The debt crisis will continue to weigh on the economy,”
said  Ralph Solveen , an economist at Commerzbank AG in Frankfurt.
“Germany won’t record its strongest growth ever, but it will
continue to outperform its euro-region peers.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joseph de Weck in  Frankfurt  at 
 jdeweck@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  