-- German SPD Pushes Growth Saying Merkel’s Crisis Policy Failed
-- B y   P a t r i c k   D o n a h u e
-- 2012-05-15T08:59:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-15/german-spd-pushes-growth-saying-merkel-s-crisis-policy-failed.html
German Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s
crisis-fighting policy has failed and only exacerbated the
turmoil,  Germany ’s opposition Social Democrats said as they
unveiled proposals to spur economic growth in  Europe .  SPD chairman  Sigmar Gabriel  plus  Peer Steinbrueck  and
Frank-Walter Steinmeier, respectively the former finance and
foreign ministers in Merkel’s first-term government, called for
an investment and growth pact alongside the Merkel-inspired
budget treaty going through ratification in European Union
states. They threatened to block the fiscal pact in Germany’s
parliament unless Merkel agrees to add growth measures.  The timetable for passing the fiscal pact and associated
legislation to set up the permanent bailout fund, the European
Stability Mechanism, is “completely unrealistic,” Steinmeier
told reporters in Berlin today. The government underestimated
the mechanics of getting the two-thirds majority in parliament
needed to pass the legislation and it is “very ambitious to
assume” both bills pass before the summer recess, he said.  The main opposition party, buoyed by victory in an election
in Germany’s most populous state two days ago, said their
proposals on growth mirrored the program of  Francois Hollande ,
who is due to meet with Merkel in Berlin today after he was
inaugurated in Paris. Hollande defeated  Nicolas Sarkozy  in the
French presidential election on May 6 after campaigning against
Merkel’s austerity drive and in favor of a focus on growth.  Wrong Analysis  “We’re calling for an economic program, a growth and
investment pact, so that the fiscal pact can function at all,”
Gabriel said. Merkel and Sarkozy’s policy “has failed the whole
way.” he said. “The reason is the one-sided and incorrect
crisis analysis that views the problem as one of pure over-
indebtedness.”  Among the measures the SPD demanded were better use of 80
billion euros ($103 billion) of EU structural funds, more
European Investment Bank funding and the introduction of a
financial transaction tax, policies that Merkel has already
backed. The SPD also favors the introduction of joint euro-area
bonds, which Merkel rejects.  Shifting crisis policy “will cost money,” said
Steinbrueck. “Money that’s well spent.”  He compared it to the process of paying for German
reunification over the last 20 years, which he said cost 100
billion euros a year and has been “far reachingly successful.”  “There will be changes and the government knows it,”
Gabriel said. “In the end, Merkel will not push against a
change in her policy, since she knows what this would mean for
her.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patrick Donahue in Berlin at 
 pdonahue1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  