-- Gillard Gets Post-Budget Boost in Australia Poll Results
-- B y   J a s o n   S c o t t
-- 2012-05-15T00:42:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-15/gillard-gets-post-budget-boost-in-australia-poll-results-1-.html
Australian Prime Minister  Julia Gillard , facing an election due next year, has regained ground
from the opposition in an opinion poll after last week’s budget
promised to hand out extra cash to households.  The ruling  Labor Party ’s primary vote climbed three
percentage points to 30 percent and the opposition Liberal-
National coalition’s backing slumped six points to 45 percent,
according to a  Newspoll  released in today’s Australian
newspaper. On a two-party preferred basis, which takes into
account the country’s preferential voting system, the
opposition’s lead shrank to 10 points from 18.  Labor’s minority government has been hit by scandals that
threatened to derail Gillard’s bid to promote herself as a sound
economic manager and successful legislator. Today’s poll signals
her strategy of appealing to Labor’s core support of lower-
income earners may be paying off for now, said Zareh Ghazarian,
a political analyst at  Monash University  in  Melbourne .  “The tactic to come up with a battlers’ budget has stemmed
the bleeding for the government,” he said, using Australian
slang for the working class. “Some of the core constituency
that deserted Labor have liked what they’ve seen from the
handouts but the polls show the government is still well short
of where it needs to be before the election.”  The Newspoll survey of 1,204 people, conducted May 11-13,
had a margin of error of plus or minus 3 percentage points.
Support for Labor hit a record low of 26 percent in a Newspoll
taken on Sept. 16-18 last year. The previous poll was conducted
April 27-29.  Cutting Rates  Gillard’s government unveiled a  federal budget  on May 8
that aims to return to surplus next year and scrapped a planned
cut in company taxes to fund payouts for low-and middle-income
earners. Labor is aiming give the  central bank , which cut
 interest rates  on May 1, the flexibility to lower borrowing
costs in a nation where almost 90 percent of mortgages are at
variable rates.  Today’s  Newspoll  shows voters evenly split on the question
whether the budget would be good or bad for the Australian
economy, at 37 percent each. On a question on how the budget
would affect their financial position in the next year, 31
percent of voters aged 18 to 34 said they would be worse off,
compared with 47 percent aged over 50.  Treasurer  Wayne Swan ’s budget includes a payment to
families of as much as A$820 ($818) for each child in high
school, while families with two children will receive an extra
A$600 a year from July 2013 using revenue from the mining tax.
The government has also introduced an insurance plan for the
disabled and boosted its national dentistry health-care coffers
by A$513 million to reduce waiting lists at dentists.  Gillard’s Challenges  Most benefits are allocated on a sliding scale that
excludes higher-income earners.  “The budget was an appeal to Labor’s base, and while it
may have spurred its vote with lower-income groups, the poll
shows older, wealthier people are against it,” Newspoll Chief
Executive Officer Martin O’Shannessy said in a phone interview
today. “That’s creating a division that may be difficult for
the government to manage come the next election.”  Gillard, a former labor lawyer whose party lacks a majority
in parliament, is fighting to overcome setbacks that have
weakened her control of the 150-seat lower house.  She received a fillip on May 1, when the  Reserve Bank  of
Australia lowered its benchmark rate, the highest among major
developed economies, by half a percentage point, to 3.75
percent. She said last month that a rate cut “could deliver
widespread benefits for households and business.”  Australia’s unemployment rate fell to 4.9 percent from 5.2
percent in March, the lowest since April 2011.  Economic Management  The economy is being powered by demand for energy and
minerals located in the nation’s north and west from emerging
countries including India and  China , driving a more- than 30
percent rise in the local currency in the past three years.
That’s put pressure on non-resource industries such as
manufacturing and tourism in the most-populous states of New
South  Wales  and Victoria.  “The jury’s out over whether this poll boost can be
lasting but it’s certainly comes as a relief for the
government,” said  John Warhurst , a political analyst at the
 Australian National University  in Canberra. “It shows Gillard’s
bid to use cash handouts to cut through the negativity
surrounding the government may have had a positive impact.”  Gillard, 50, has needed the support of independent
lawmakers and the Green party to keep Labor in power and pass
legislation following the 2010 election that was the closest in
seven decades. She has battled charges by the Tony Abbott-led
opposition that she’s beholden to the Greens and broke a
campaign pledge to oppose the carbon levy.  Minority Government  While she won a February leadership challenge by  Kevin Rudd , whom she ousted as Labor leader and prime minister two
years ago, her position has been damaged by scandals that have
threatened to bring her minority government undone.  Tony Crook, a National party member of parliament for
Western  Australia  who voted as an independent, joined the
opposition coalition when parliament reconvened on May 8. Peter
Slipper, the parliamentary speaker on whom Gillard had relied to
solidify her control of the house, last month stepped aside to
deal with fraud and sexual harassment claims that he denies.  Credit Card  Gillard on April 29 asked Labor lawmaker  Craig Thomson  to
quit the party in the wake of allegations he used a union  credit
card  to pay for prostitutes while working for the Health
Services Union before becoming a lawmaker in 2007. Thomson, who
has denied the claims, said he will continue to vote with the
government and will make a statement regarding the claims to
parliament later this month.  “The government’s still highly unlikely to be reelected by
it’s not just a question of winning or losing -- it’s how
competitive it can be in the election,” Warhurst said. “It’s
all about saving seats and some of the Labor backbenchers may
think they’ve got a chance to do that now. In the short term, it
takes some of the heat off Gillard and will quiet down any
leadership talk.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jason Scott  in Canberra at 
 jscott14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  