-- Global Bankers Air Concerns to IRS on Rules for Accounts
-- B y   R i c h a r d   R u b i n
-- 2012-05-15T17:00:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-15/global-bankers-air-concerns-to-irs-on-rules-for-accounts.html
Bankers from around the world told
the  Internal Revenue Service  that proposed U.S. rules requiring
reporting of Americans’ overseas bank accounts are too
burdensome and must be changed.  “The rules need to be streamlined and simplified
significantly” so they can be used by bank employees around the
world who don’t speak English, said Andrew Barkin, managing
director and head of U.S. tax at Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ
Ltd. He spoke on behalf of the Institute of International
Bankers at an IRS hearing today in  Washington .  The rules  implement the Foreign Account Tax Compliance Act,
a 2010 law designed to make it more difficult for U.S. citizens
to hide money outside the country. Many provisions of the law
take effect in 2013, and overseas banks will be required to tell
the IRS annually about the balances and activity in their U.S.
customers’ accounts.  Because of the law, some Asian banks have started turning
away U.S. customers, and financial institutions from  Japan ,
Switzerland,  Australia  and  Brazil  have lodged concerns with the
U.S. Many argue that the U.S. is outsourcing its tax compliance
to banks around the world and imposing rules that conflict with
local laws and regulations.  Under the law, the U.S. will impose a 30 percent tax on
some U.S.-related payments being sent to financial institutions
outside the country that don’t comply with the rules.  Representatives of the  Swiss Bankers Association , the
Japanese Securities Dealers Association and the Financial
Services Council of Australia spoke at today’s hearing.  Seeking Flexibility  Speakers asked for flexibility from the IRS, agreements
between the U.S. and other countries, and rules that are less
stringent for insurance companies,  credit unions  and retirement
funds.  Harris Horowitz, head of global tax for  BlackRock Inc. (BLK) ,
said in a telephone interview before the hearing that portfolio
managers of global funds may not want to purchase U.S.
securities because the funds would be subject to the 2010 law.
Foreign investors may choose not to invest in funds that include
U.S. securities because they could be penalized if they work
with a foreign broker who isn’t compliant, he said.  The IRS issued temporary rules in February and will
consider changes before making those rules final. The IRS can’t
rescind the law.  The expansion of rules is making personal finance decisions
difficult for U.S. citizens who live outside of the country and
are trying to comply, said Joseph Green, who lives in  Canada .  “Hundreds of thousands of us around the world face the
same problems: the escalation in tax filing and complexity and
the associated angst that’s created is more severe than perhaps
you recognize,” said Green, who spoke at the hearing on behalf
of Democratic Party members living abroad.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Richard Rubin in Washington at 
 rrubin12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  