-- GM Says It No Longer Plans to Advertise on Facebook
-- B y   S a r a h   F r i e r   a n d   T i m   H i g g i n s
-- 2012-05-16T20:02:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-15/gm-says-reassessing-advertising-on-facebook-website.html
Facebook Inc. (FB) ’s loss of paid
advertising from  General Motors Co. (GM) , the world’s biggest
automaker, may spur other marketers to reconsider ads on the
site and hamper sales growth just as the social network debuts
as a publicly traded company, an analyst said.  If auto ads, generally among the most effective online
promotions, fail on Facebook, then major advertisers including
AT&T Inc.,  Procter & Gamble Co . and American Express Co. may
follow GM’s lead and curb spending on the site, said Carlos Kirjner, an analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. in New York.  “The revenue loss is insignificant, but the fact that one
of the largest brand advertisers in the country sees Facebook as
ineffective suggests others may do so,” Kirjner said in a
research report. “One can plausibly infer that what GM found
out, others will too, making it harder to make a bull case for
revenue growth based on the presumption that there is high
return on investment from social advertising to brand
advertisers.”  Facebook last week said growth in advertising sales isn’t
keeping pace with gains in users, many of them logging on from
mobile devices. GM said yesterday it was halting display ads on
Facebook, while maintaining brand-promotion pages. Facebook is
depending more on brand pages as paid ads prove less effective,
said Rebecca Lieb, a digital media analyst at The Altimeter
Group in  New York .  ‘Lucrative Applications’  “There are certain applications we find to be much more
lucrative, much more beneficial than others,” Dan Akerson, GM
chief executive officer, said in an interview for Bloomberg
Television’s “Street Smart” on May 14. “We have a Facebook
account and we try to steer customers that are interested in the
company to a number of digital media, Facebook being one of
them.”  GM spent $10 million for paid ads on Facebook last year,
according to a person familiar with the situation who declined
to be named because the information isn’t public.  Facebook plans to raise as much as $16 billion through an
initial public offering, the biggest ever for a technology
company. Its shares, to be offered at $34 to $38 each, are set
to price tomorrow and begin trading under the symbol FB on the
Nasdaq Stock Market the following day.  Companies are struggling to measure the effectiveness of
paid ads on Facebook because it’s not as easy to track as a 30-
second spot on television, said Debra Aho Williamson, an analyst
at EMarketer Inc.  On Facebook, ads are sold for brand pages, sponsored posts
that appear on user’s news feeds, and other formats. Facebook is
trying to come up with a measurement for its ads that is as
simple to use as TV ratings, she said.  ‘Extra Complexity’  “It’s difficult,” David Matathia, director of advertising
at Hyundai North America, said in a telephone interview. “There
are extra levels of complexity to it, but we find a way to make
it work and we’ve had some positive results.”  Hyundai directs around 25 percent of its advertising budget
toward online media, which includes Facebook, and is looking to
increase spending on social networks, he said. Hyundai spent
$679 million on U.S. advertising in 2011, according to ad
tracker Kantar Media.  GM plans to stop advertising on Facebook mid-year, Pat Morrissey, a company spokesman, said in a telephone interview
today. About 25 percent to 30 percent of the company’s
advertising spending is on social, digital and online media, he
said. That’s about 3 percent more than the automaker spent last
year.  The decision to cut Facebook ads came as part of a regular
spending review, he said. “We will be re-evaluating Facebook in
the future,” Morrissey said.  ‘Vendetta’  The timing makes a statement, said Lieb, the digital media
analyst at The Altimeter Group.  “There must be a problem, disagreement or vendetta for GM
to come out this publicly and openly,” she said.  Outside of Facebook, General Motors spent $1.78 billion on
advertising in the U.S. in 2011, in third place after AT&T and
Procter & Gamble, said Jon Swallen, head of research at Kantar
Media. Facebook executives have spent more than a week pitching
the IPO across the country, trying to convince potential
investors that the company can make money off its more than 900
million users.  GM spent too much managing its brand pages and not enough
on advertising, according to Hussein Fazal, chief executive of
AdParlor, a Toronto-based startup that manages ad purchases on
the social network for marketers and agencies. The automaker
spent about $3 on brand pages for every $1 on paid ads.  ‘Wrong Ratio’  “That ratio is all wrong,” Fazal said in an interview.
“The majority of that spend should be going towards ad buys.”  Other automakers, like  Ford Motor Co. (F)  and Subaru of America
Inc., say they’re sticking with Facebook.  Annie Ta, a spokeswoman for Facebook, declined to comment.
 Mark Siegel , a spokesman for AT&T, and Sarah Meron, a
spokeswoman for American Express, didn’t immediately return
calls for comment. Procter & Gamble does pay for ads on
Facebook, said spokesman Paul Fox, who declined to comment on
future plans.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sarah Frier in New York at 
 sfrier1@bloomberg.net ;
Tim Higgins in Detroit at 
 thiggins21@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net ;
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  