-- Goldman, Merrill E-Mails Show Naked Shorting, Filing Says
-- B y   K a r e n   G u l l o
-- 2012-05-16T21:34:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-15/goldman-merrill-e-mails-show-naked-shorting-filing-says.html
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and Merrill
Lynch & Co. employees discussed helping naked short-sales by
market-maker clients in e-mails the banks sought to keep secret,
including one in which a Merrill official told another to ignore
compliance rules,  Overstock.com Inc. (OSTK)  said in a court filing.  The online retailer accused Merrill, now part of  Bank of
America Corp. , and Goldman Sachs of manipulating its stock from
2005 to 2007, causing its shares to fall. Clearing operations at
the banks intentionally failed to locate and deliver borrowed
shares for clients shorting stocks, including two traders who
were fined and suspended from the industry, Overstock’s
attorneys said in court filings earlier this year.  Lawyers for Overstock, whose  California  state court lawsuit
in San Francisco was dismissed in January, asked a judge to make
public e-mails sent in 2005 and 2006 that it said “reflect
business decisions to put profits and corporate ambition over
compliance” at Goldman Sachs and Merrill. The banks’ decisions
to intentionally fail to deliver Overstock shares caused large-
scale naked short selling of the company’s stock, according to
the filing.  After a Merrill executive expressed concern that a
colleague intentionally failed, or didn’t complete, a short
sale, an executive at the clearing unit responded with an
expletive, telling the executive to ignore “the compliance area
-- procedures, schmecedures,” Overstock lawyers said in the
filing, citing an excerpt from a May 2005 e-mail. The Merrill
executive later told a judge the statement was a joke, Overstock
said in the Feb. 9 court document.  Largest Client  According to the Overstock filing, Wolverine Trading LLC,
the Goldman Sachs clearing unit’s largest client, was told in an
undated e-mail that “we will let you fail,” in response to an
inquiry by Wolverine about whether there was an effort “at
cleaning up” fails. The sender isn’t identified in the filing.  An e-mail sent by John Masterson included “nonpublic data
concerning customer short positions in Overstock and four other
hard-to-borrow stocks to Maverick Capital, a large hedge fund
that sells stocks short,” Overstock lawyers said in the
document.  Michael DuVally , a spokesman for Goldman Sachs, said a
John Masterson worked at the bank as a managing director.  Fraser Seitel, a spokesman for Maverick, said the company
hasn’t been able to locate the e-mail and declined further
comment on the Overstock filing.  Clearing Unit  In June 2005, Thomas Tranfaglia, then president of
Merrill’s clearing unit, said in an e-mail about the possibility
of failing market-maker trades, “Why would we have to borrow
them? We want to fail on them,” according to the filing.  “As far as I’m concerned, this is totally unacceptable --
we are failing when we have over a million shares of stock
available,” another Merrill executive said in an e-mail cited
by Overstock in its filing. “Is there a blanket agreement that
we allow every market-maker client to continue failing even if
there is enough availability?” the executive asked in the e-
mail. “There needs to be some assessment done here, and fails
cleaned up regardless of who is causing them.”  The vast majority of Merrill’s fails to deliver in
Overstock shares correspond to market-makers Scott Arenstein and
Steven Hazan, Overstock’s lawyers said in the filing. Goldman
Sachs purchased “conversion” trades, or naked short sales,
according to Overstock, from both men through their companies.  In its filing, Overstock’s lawyers said conversions
involved the purchase of stock from a counterparty who sold
short, combined with options to hedge risk.  An undated Goldman Sachs e-mail cited in the filing refers
to Arenstein and his company SBA Trading as “providing very
aggressive liquidity to Goldman” in the form of conversion
trades with Goldman Sachs’s securities lending group.  Media  Four media organizations, including Bloomberg LP, the  New
York Times (NYT) , Wenner Media and The Economist, intervened in the
Overstock case and joined the company’s request to unseal court
files. Bloomberg News obtained a copy of the filing describing
the e-mails. The document was filed by attorneys for Goldman
Sachs and Merrill as an exhibit to another filing, said Karl
Olson, an attorney for Bloomberg and other news outlets.  The full text of the e-mails isn’t included in the court
filing by Overstock.  Goldman Sachs’s DuVally said the information allegedly sent
by Masterson involved providing “market color information” to
clients regarding activity in the securities lending marketplace
on a “security specific or sector specific basis.”  ‘Short Balances’  “In accordance with the firm’s guidelines, Mr. Masterson
shared with the client aggregate and anonymous information
regarding overall short balances in certain securities,”
DuVally said in an e-mail. “The information he provided did not
disclose the short positions or any other information of any
client.” He declined to immediately comment on the other items
in the document.  The e-mails show Bank of America’s efforts to ensure proper
handling of short-sale transactions, said  William Halldin , a
spokesman for the  Charlotte , North Carolina-based bank.  “When regulatory requirements changed in early 2005, our
compliance team worked closely to implement those changes and,
when necessary, address any issues that arose,” Halldin said in
a telephone interview.  Tranfaglia is no longer at the bank and didn’t respond to a
voice-mail message seeking comment. Both banks have denied any
wrongdoing.  Goldman Sachs and Bank of America persuaded a judge to
dismiss Overstock’s lawsuit, originally filed in 2007. Judge
John Munter in  San Francisco  agreed with the banks that the
lawsuit had to be thrown out because none of the conduct alleged
in the complaint happened in California.  Wolverine Trading  Cory Burke, a spokesman at Wolverine Trading, a Chicago-
based market making firm, declined to comment.  Arenstein and his company were fined $3.6 million in July
2007 for naked short selling by the former  American Stock
Exchange . He was suspended from the exchange for five years. He
declined to comment on the filing.  Hazan agreed to pay $4 million in 2009 to settle Securities
and Exchange Commission claims that the firm made naked short
sales. Hazan and his New York-based Hazan Capital Management LLC
were accused of betting that share prices would fall without
borrowing and delivering the shares, the SEC said. Hazan was
barred from working with any brokerage.  The  New York  Stock Exchange in a related action in 2009
said it barred Hazan from trading for seven years.  Michael Bachner , a lawyer for Hazan, declined to comment on Overstock’s
filing.  Borrowed in Anticipation  In short selling, investors sell shares they have borrowed
in anticipation of making a profit by purchasing stock to return
to the lender after its price has fallen.  In naked short selling, traders never borrow the stock and
can drive down prices by flooding the market with orders to sell
shares they don’t have.  A “failure to deliver” or “fail” is when the short-
seller doesn’t deliver the shares for a short sale prior to the
trade’s settlement date, usually three days later. A “locate”
refers to the ability of a broker to find shares that can be
delivered on behalf of the short-seller.  Options market makers at the time the e-mails were sent had
an exception to trading rules requiring that borrowed shares be
located. Market makers had 13 days to clear up fails.  In October 2008, naked shorting mostly ended after the SEC
put in place rules that made it harder to short a stock without
first borrowing it or locating it.  ‘Obsolete Procedures’  Overstock lawyers said the information in the e-mails
“concerns obsolete procedures from six or seven years ago that
were unlawful at the time and that are further blocked by the
enactment of new federal regulations in 2008.”  Overstock, based in  Salt Lake City , claimed in its lawsuit
that large portions of its stock were the subject of naked
shorting, leading to instances in which the short position in
its stock exceeded the entire supply of outstanding shares.  “We have to be careful not to link locates to fails
[because] we have told the regulators we can’t,” an
unidentified Goldman Sachs executive wrote in an undated e-mail
cited in Overstock’s filing.  “Like all other prime brokers, the firm regularly receives
requests for ‘locates’ from its clients and may grant locates
when there are reasonable grounds to believe shares will be
available by settlement date to cover a short sale by the
customer,” said DuVally.  Goldman Sachs can’t link a specific locate to a net fail-
to-deliver position that may occur at the Continuous Net
Settlement System, he said in an e-mail. The system is a unit of
the Depository Trust and Clearing Corp., which provides clearing
and settlement of equities and other financial instruments.  The case is Overstock.com v. Morgan Stanley, CGC-07-460147,
Superior Court of the State of California (San Francisco).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karen Gullo in San Francisco federal court
at   kgullo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  