-- Gorman Sees Smith Barney Talks Taking Months
-- B y   M i c h a e l   J .   M o o r e
-- 2012-05-31T13:41:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-15/gorman-says-smith-barney-talks-will-take-couple-of-months.html
(Corrects figure to trillions in fourth paragraph of story
published May 15.)  Morgan Stanley (MS) ’s process of buying
the next piece of its brokerage joint venture will probably take
a couple months, said Chief Executive Officer  James Gorman .  Discussions won’t start with  Citigroup Inc. (C)  until Morgan
Stanley’s call option on the next 14 percent stake becomes
effective at the end of this month, Gorman said today at the
firm’s annual shareholder meeting in Purchase,  New York .  “How long it takes depends presumably on whether it goes
to arbitration or not,” Gorman said. “It’s probably a couple
of months.”  Morgan Stanley can buy a 14 percent stake in the next
month, increasing its ownership in Morgan Stanley Smith Barney -
- the world’s largest brokerage -- to 65 percent. It can buy the
business, which has more than 17,000 advisers and $1.74 trillion
in client assets, outright over the next two years.  Under the current agreement, Citigroup and New York-based
Morgan Stanley will submit their estimates of the brokerage’s
fair value. If the figures are within 10 percent of each other,
the stake will be sold at the average of the two, a person
briefed on the arrangement has said. If the difference is more
than 10 percent, the firms would bring in an outside appraiser,
the person said.  Citigroup Chief Financial Officer  John Gerspach , 58,
indicated last month that the bank may be willing to sell the
rest of its stake to Morgan Stanley this year. Gorman said April
19 that he feels “no particular compulsion” to speed up the
purchase of the remaining pieces.  Gorman reiterated today that he plans to stick to the
preset schedule of buying the remaining stake over the next two
years.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael J. Moore in New York at 
 mmoore55@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  