-- Greece Weighs $562 Million Default or Yield Choice
-- B y   J o h n   G l o v e r
-- 2012-05-15T13:44:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-15/greece-weighs-562-million-default-or-yield-choice.html
Greece , which hasn’t had a government
for more than a week and whose  10-year debt  yields more than 27
percent, decides today whether to pay 436 million euros ($562
million) to bondholders who shunned last month’s debt swap.  A floating-rate note sold a decade ago by  Europe ’s most-
indebted nation matures today. Repaying the security would
disadvantage investors who took losses in the bond exchange and
voters facing spending cuts. Reneging on the obligation also
would constitute a default, triggering derivatives contracts and
clauses requiring the settlement of other unswapped bonds.
Meantime, the country has no government to make the choice.  “The political vacuum means it’s very difficult for the
interim government to take what are essentially political
decisions about burden-sharing,” said Myles Bradshaw at Pacific
Investment Management Co. in London, manager of the world’s
biggest fixed-income fund. “It would be very difficult for
Greece to pay bondholders and then turn around and say they’re
cutting pensions to pay the bonds.”  Reuters reported today that the bond will be paid, citing
an official it didn’t name. Greece will hold new elections after
President Karolos Papoulias failed to broker the creation of a
government following an inconclusive May 6 vote, Pasok leader
 Evangelos Venizelos  said today. The Syriza party led by 37 year-
old Alexis Tsipras, who favors defaulting and an end to economic
austerity, is ahead in current polls.  Popular Versus Legal  The note maturing today is one of about 7 billion euros of
international bonds either issued by the government or with its
guarantee, whose owners are holding out for a better deal than
offered under Greece’s debt restructuring. The bond swap, known
as private sector involvement, inflicted losses of more than 50
percent of principal on creditors taking part.  “Deciding to repay these bonds or not is a very difficult
trade-off between what is popular and what is legal,” said
Athanasios Vamvakidis, head European currency strategist at Bank
of America Corp. in  London . “Repaying in full what are likely
to be seen as mostly speculators will be extremely unpopular.
Not repaying may cost more because it’s a default and will be
challenged in the courts.”  Greece’s interim government hasn’t yet decided whether to
pay the maturity, government spokesman Pantelis Kapsis said
yesterday in an interview on Athens-based Mega TV. “It is an
issue and someone must handle it,” he said. “The present
government will handle it at its discretion.”  No Better Offer  Petros Christodoulou, head of the Public Debt Management
Agency in  Athens , didn’t reply to an e-mail seeking comment. He
has previously said Greece only has funds for PSI payments and
“no bondholder will get better economics than the PSI.”  Dealers don’t quote prices for the unswapped bonds because
they don’t trade. Greece’s government bonds due in February 2023
trades at a record low bid price of 15.6 cents per euro to yield
27.8 percent. Payments on the bonds wouldn’t be affected by
Greece defaulting on the international notes.  The yield premium investors demand to hold Greek debt
rather than similar-maturity German bunds is almost 28
percentage points, suggesting holders expect a second round of
restructuring or a default. The securities began trading in
March at 27.8 cents on the euro at a yield of 18 percent and
are now at a record 14.43 cents to yield more than 29 percent.  State of Grace  The bond documents may give Greece a month’s grace,
according to London-based analysts at  Barclays Capital  and BNP
Paribas SA. A failure to pay would give holders of at least 3.2
billion euros of other international bonds the right to demand
immediate payment, according to Bank of America.  The bond terms state that an event of default occurs if the
Republic fails to pay interest “and such default isn’t cured by
payment thereof within 30 days from the due date.” They go on
to say that a failure “in the performance of any other
covenant, condition or provision set out in the notes” that
isn’t resolved within 30 days constitutes a default.  Bradshaw at Pimco said he expects “on balance” that Greek
officials will buy time by taking advantage of the grace period.
That would postpone default to as late as June 15, by which time
the nation may still not have a government.  Greece offered to swap the bonds that come due today for
new ones in the PSI exchange. Holders of about 14 million euros
of the original 450 million euros of notes accepted the offer,
data compiled by Bloomberg show.  A default on the international bonds would be a step closer
to a default on the nation’s new debt, which in turn would bring
the country closer to leaving the euro, Vamvakidis at Bank of
America said.  “A line in the  euro zone  will be crossed, as this will be
the first time that a member country goes through a hard
default,” he said. “The scenarios that unfold in either case
are likely to increase sovereign risk in the periphery. That
highlights the extreme urgency for the Greek political system to
resolve the governance issues as soon as possible.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Glover in London at 
 johnglover@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mark Gilbert  at 
 magilbert@bloomberg.net  