-- Greek Vote Escalates Crisis as Schaeuble Raises Euro-Exit
-- B y   J e f f   B l a c k   a n d   J a m e s   G .   N e u g e r
-- 2012-05-15T15:57:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-15/greek-vote-escalates-crisis-as-schaeuble-raises-euro-exit.html
Greece ’s decision to return to the
ballot box in the search for a government unleashed a hazardous
new phase in Europe’s debt crisis, with German Finance Minister
 Wolfgang Schaeuble  calling the vote a referendum on whether the
country stays in the euro.  Post-election attempts to form a ruling coalition in Athens
broke down today after nine days, sending Greeks back to the
polls next month with surveys giving the lead to an anti-bailout
party that would tear up the conditions attached to 240 billion
euros ($307 billion) of aid.  “If Greece -- and this is the will of the great majority -
- wants to stay in the euro, then they have to accept the
conditions,” Schaeuble told reporters at a meeting of European
finance ministers in Brussels. “Otherwise it isn’t possible. No
responsible candidate can hide that from the electorate.”  The euro tumbled to a four-month low, European stocks
dropped and investors sought the safety of German bonds amid
speculation that Greece would be forced out and pull other
countries with it, doing untold damage to the European financial
system.  The Greek quagmire raised the tension for a meeting in
Berlin tonight between German Chancellor  Angela Merkel , the
dominant figure in euro crisis management, and  Francois Hollande , who took office as French president today in the first
power shift to the Socialists in  France  since 1981.  Questions for Hollande  Hollande, who replaces  Nicolas Sarkozy  on the French side
of the Berlin-Paris tandem, campaigned against the austerity
policies that Merkel championed as the solution to the crisis.
Now, in his first hours in a government post, he will confront
questions about his stance on Greece as more than two years of
crisis containment threaten to come unglued.  As in early 2010 when the first Greek bailout and broader
rescue fund were improvised, the way forward will be charted by
top political leaders. Their next summit is May 23 in Brussels,
the 18th since the debt crisis erupted.  “What’s at stake isn’t just the next Greek government,”
German Foreign Minister  Guido Westerwelle  said in an e-mailed
statement. “What’s at stake is the Greek people’s commitment to
Europe and the euro.”  Policy makers gave an inkling of the behind-the-scenes
planning to cope with a Greek departure, which would send
shockwaves through the European banking system and leave lenders
to Greece’s government, businesses and households unsure of
getting their money back.  ‘Technically Prepared’  The  International Monetary Fund  has “to be technically
prepared for anything,” IMF Managing Director  Christine Lagarde , who started the crisis as French finance minister, told
France24 television.  The once-taboo issue of a Greek withdrawal or expulsion
from the 17-nation currency union burst into the public debate
last week, starting in  Germany ,  Europe ’s biggest economy and the
country that invented the euro’s low-debt rules.  European Central Bank officials including  Patrick Honohan 
of Ireland and Luc Coene of Belgium weighed the arguments for
and against a euro exit, adding to speculation that a currency
designed to last forever might start splintering after 13 years.  EU treaties declare the euro “irrevocable” and provide no
exit procedure. A December 2009 study by the ECB’s legal
department deemed an ouster or departure “so challenging,
conceptually, legally and practically, that its likelihood is
close to zero.”  More Time  Hints from euro finance ministers late yesterday that
Greece might get more time to meet budget-cut targets failed to
encourage the feuding political parties in  Athens  to put
together a unity government.  “Nobody was mentioning an exit of Greece from the euro
area,” Luxembourg Prime Minister  Jean-Claude Juncker  said last
night after chairing the meeting of euro finance ministers. “I
don’t envisage, not even for one second, Greece leaving the euro
area. This is nonsense, this is propaganda.”  Less than a day later, Alexis Tsipras, head of Greece’s
Syriza party, counted on using his second-place finish in the
May 6 election as a springboard to winning the Greek revote and
shredding the bailout terms.  Greece’s economy has shrunk every year since 2008 and is
likely to contract 4.7 percent in 2013, according to EU
forecasts. Greek unemployment will reach 19.7 percent in 2012,
the second-highest in Europe after  Spain , the EU predicted last
week.  Tsipras called for a “definitive end” to the bailout and
vowed that the new elections will “permanently lock the old
powers in the closet.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
James G. Neuger in Brussels at 
 jneuger@bloomberg.net ;
Jeff Black in Brussels at 
 jblack25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  