-- Former Greek Leader Sees Euro Exit as ‘Catastrophe’
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-05-15T07:08:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-15/greece-s-simitis-sees-catastrophe-if-nation-leaves-euro-area.html
Greece  must be part of the euro area
and it would be a “catastrophe” for the nation to revert to
its own currency, a move that threatens a run on banks, former
Greek Prime Minister Costas Simitis said.  “There’s no question we must belong to the euro zone,”
Simitis, who led Greece when it joined the euro in 2001, said at
a forum in Beijing today. “The idea of coming back to the
drachma is an idea that cannot function.”  Luxembourg Prime Minister  Jean-Claude Juncker  said
yesterday that talk of Greece leaving the euro was “nonsense”
and “propaganda” as the nation’s political impasse since its
inconclusive May 6 election looked set to continue for a second
week. President Karolos Papoulias failed to secure agreement on
a unity government and avert new elections with the country
heading toward a possible exit from the euro area.  A Greek withdrawal from the euro could be “technically”
managed yet would damage confidence in the monetary union,
 Patrick Honohan , a member of the European Central Bank Governing
Council, said on May 12. “It is not necessarily fatal, but it
is not attractive.”  A retreat from Europe’s economic and monetary union is a
“discussion without sense,” Simitis, 75, said at a forum co-
hosted by the Greek Embassy in Beijing on the  European debt
crisis  and its influence on China-EU cooperation.  ‘Bank Run’  An exit would require banks to close for at least three
months while preparations, including printing a new currency,
are made, Simitis said, citing the views of “experts.”  “Having the banks close for three months -- that’s
nonsense,” he said. “If they close more than three days there
will be a bank run.”  The once-taboo issue of a Greek departure or expulsion from
the 17-nation currency union burst into public debate last week,
when ECB officials including Honohan of Ireland aired the pros
and cons.  Simitis said he believes Greece will never leave the euro
and that its political parties are in a “certain sense” trying
to “renegotiate the conditions with the European Union.”  For now  Europe  is saying “’no’ but after a time, as it
usually happens, says ‘all right,”’ Simitis said.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Kevin Hamlin in Beijing at 
 khamlin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  