-- Greek Drachma Specter Puts G4S In the Money 10 Years After Euro
-- B y   A n d r e w   N o e l
-- 2012-05-15T10:16:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-15/greek-drachma-specter-puts-g4s-in-the-money-10-years-after-euro.html
G4S Plc (GFS) , the British security company
that helped European nations adopt the euro a decade ago, said
it’s monitoring the potential for cash-handling contracts in
Greece should the nation revert to the drachma.  Greece was the fastest-growing market at G4S’s European
cash-services business last year as instability boosted the use
of notes and coins, Chief Executive Officer Nick Buckles said.  “Our biggest contingency issue would arise if the country
were to leave the euro and go back on to the drachma because
basically we would be involved in the whole swap-out of the
currency,” Buckles said. “That would be the biggest challenge
for us. But we’re not talking to anyone about that.”  G4S’s division providing security to government
institutions in  Greece  shrank by 20 percent last year amid
spending cutbacks. President Karolos Papoulias is struggling to
secure agreement on a unity government and avert new elections
with the country heading toward a possible exit from the euro
area. Greece joined the single currency in 2001.  Leaving the euro would be a “catastrophe” for Greece,
with the risk of a run on banks, former Greek Prime Minister
Costas Simitis said today in Beijing. Banks would have to close
for at least three months while preparations, including printing
a new currency, are made, Simitis said, citing the views of
“experts.” A Greek withdrawal from the euro could be
“technically” managed,  Patrick Honohan , a member of the
European Central Bank Governing Council, said on May 12.  Euro Experience  Formed about eight years ago through the merger of Group 4
Falck A/S and Securicor Plc, the Crawley-based company won a
contract to guard the U.S. embassy in  Athens  as well as the
consulate in Thessaloniki.  “What’s going on currently wasn’t completely expected when
we did the budget, but we’re expecting slightly positive growth
in Greece this year,” Buckles said on a call today. “We did a
lot of the euro implementation so we have experience of that.
We’ll wait and see.”  G4S is a “very responsive company,” though management
isn’t spending any time considering a Greek withdrawal from the
euro at the moment, according to Buckles. Demand for its
services in the mining and oil and gas industries, as well as
growth in  emerging markets  such as  Peru  is helping offset
weakness in eastern  Europe .  Olympics Boost  The security company reported internal revenue growth of 7
percent in the first quarter. bolstered by a contract to provide
security and more than 10,000 guards at  London ’s Olympic Games.
The tournament, which takes place in July, already boosted
 revenue  by 30 million pounds ($48 million) in the January to
March period.  Buckles has embarked on the gradual transformation of G4S
into an integrated services company offering additional catering
and cleaning work. Shareholder pressure led G4S to abandon an $8
billion bid for ISS last year. The company could acquire a small
engineering company to bolster its offering of maintenance and
repair services, Buckles said.  G4S may also sell 100 million pounds of assets that are
struggling with margin targets and no longer central to the
company’s strategy, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Noel in London at 
 anoel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  