-- Greek Euro Exit to Hurt Confidence in Eastern Europe, Mirow Says
-- B y   A g n e s   L o v a s z
-- 2012-05-15T13:31:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-15/greek-euro-exit-to-hurt-confidence-in-eastern-europe-mirow-says.html
Thomas Mirow , president of the
London-based European Bank for Reconstruction and Development,
which supports economic transition in the former Communist east,
comments on the effects of Greece’s potential departure from the
euro on the countries where the bank invests.  Mirow spoke to reporters in London today.  On investor confidence:  “As we have seen with Lehman, these types of events are
very difficult to forecast because they have a material aspect,
a hard, physical element, but they also have a psychological
element.  ‘‘For many major investors in  Asia , the Pacific or the
Americas, it’s about  Europe  and they would probably not exactly
differentiate between one or the other smaller countries.  ‘‘Nobody knows what exactly would be the effects and
whether international investors still would have trust that
 Greece  is as singular as the Europeans up to now have described
it to be. There can be knock-on effects because Greek banks play
a role in the region in some countries and an important one. But
any scenario how would this exactly be realized is theory.’’  On contagion through trade and banking links:  ‘‘The trade channel, which is the most important between
the euro area and central Europe, is having an impact because of
slowing demand from the western parts of Europe and the southern
parts of Europe.  ‘‘It comes on top that we see an ongoing process of
deleveraging of western banks making credit and loans more
difficult to access, especially for small and medium-sized
companies. That is an effect, which has already played out,
regardless of what still may come with regard to Greece, which
nobody knows now.’’  To contact the reporter on this story:
Agnes Lovasz in  London  at 
 alovasz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  