-- Greek President Told Banks Anxious as Deposits Pulled
-- B y   N a t a l i e   W e e k s   a n d   M a r i a   P e t r a k i s
-- 2012-05-16T08:35:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-15/greek-president-told-banks-anxious-as-deposits-pulled.html
Greek President Karolos Papoulias was
told by the nation’s central bank chief that financial
institutions are worried about their survival as Greeks pull out
euros amid a deepening political crisis.  Central bank head  George Provopoulos  told Papoulias that
Greeks have withdrawn as much as 700 million euros ($891
million) and the situation could worsen, according to the
transcript of the president’s meeting with party leaders on May
14 that was published yesterday.  “Provopoulos told me that of course there’s no panic but
there’s great fear which can evolve into panic,” the president
said.  Greece ’s future in the euro has been thrown into doubt by
the political standoff following inconclusive May 6 elections.
The president was forced to call for new elections yesterday.
German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  said the next vote
will be a referendum on whether Greece exits the euro, a move
that would leave lenders to its government, businesses and
households unsure of recouping their money.  The risk of a run on Greek banks is “a very serious
problem,” Yannis Ioannides, professor of economics at  Tufts
University  in  Massachusetts , told Bloomberg Television. He said
the  European Central Bank  needs to guarantee deposits held by
the region’s lenders to guard against contagion. “That’s the
only way to kill a bank run: not words but deeds.”  Banks in downtown in  Athens  were open as normal today with
no signs of unusual activity. Deposits by businesses and
households held in Greek banks stood at 165.4 billion euros in
March, according to the last available data from the  Bank of
Greece. (TELL)  In 2011, deposits declined 35.4 billion euros, or 17
percent.  Stocks Fall  Europe’s Stoxx 600 fell 1 percent at 11:15 a.m. in Athens
while futures on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index slid 0.2
percent. The euro traded less than 0.1 percent from the weakest
level in almost four months. Greece’s benchmark  ASE Index (ASE)  gained
1.7 percent today after dropping 3.6 percent yesterday.  Greek leaders will seek agreement today on an interim
government that will schedule new elections as early as June 10.
Opinion polls suggest the Syriza party, which opposes the
austerity measures pledged by Greece as part of an international
bailout, may come in first place.  The 130 billion-euro bailout provided a 50 billion-euro
fund to recapitalize banks after they reported losses from the
country’s debt restructuring, the largest ever. Government
spokesman Pantelis Kapsis said he believed that the first phase
of the recapitalization of the banks would be completed in
coming days, in an interview on state-run NET TV today.  Out of Cash  The country will run out of cash by early July if partners
withhold their next aid payment. The European Financial
Stability Facility on May 9 confirmed that a 5.2 billion-euro
tranche will be released by the end of June, with 4.2 billion
euros already disbursed May 10. The remaining 1 billion euros
will be released depending on Greece’s financing needs.  The once-taboo issue of a Greek withdrawal or expulsion
from the 17-nation currency union burst into the public debate
last week, starting in  Germany ,  Europe ’s biggest economy and the
country that invented the euro’s low-debt rules.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Natalie Weeks in Athens at 
 nweeks2@bloomberg.net ;
Maria Petrakis in Athens at 
 mpetrakis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  