-- Guggenheim’s Walter Trims Deutsche Deal Amid Growth Push
-- B y   A l e x i s   L e o n d i s   a n d   S r e e   V i d y a   B h a k t a v a t s a l a m
-- 2012-05-15T16:53:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-15/guggenheim-s-walter-trims-deutsche-deal-amid-growth-push.html
When  Mark Walter , the chief executive
officer of Guggenheim Partners LLC, ran Chicago investment firm
Liberty Hampshire Co., a junior associate asked in 1996 why he
decided to accept money from outside investors.  “I’d rather have a small piece of an incredibly large and
successful pie than own all of nothing,” Walter said at the
time, according to the associate,  Brian Friedman , who worked at
Liberty for a year and had been a student of Walter’s at the
Illinois Institute of Technology Chicago-Kent College of Law.  Walter’s drive to expand suffered a setback last week when
talks to buy three of  Deutsche Bank AG (DB) ’s four asset-management
units fell apart, a deal that would have more than quintupled
Guggenheim’s assets and put it on par with the likes of Legg
Mason Inc. and Franklin Resources Inc. The two sides are still
in discussions on RREEF, a Deutsche Bank division that invests
in real estate and infrastructure and has $49 billion euros ($63
billion) under management.  Since 2000, Walter has built Guggenheim Partners from a
family office with a handful of employees into a $125 billion
global asset manager through smaller deals including the
acquisitions of Claymore Group and Rydex ETF owner Security
Benefit Corp. The 51-year-old, who shot to prominence earlier
this year as the man behind the $2.15 billion purchase of the
 Los Angeles Dodgers , may seek more deals after hiring investing
veterans including Henry Silverman, the former chief operating
officer of Apollo Global Management LLC, to advise on expansion.  ‘Appetite for Expansion’  “RREEF by itself won’t satisfy Walter’s appetite for
expansion,” said Howard Tai, a senior analyst in the capital
markets group of Boston-based research firm Aite Group LLC.  Walter, who spent his childhood in Cedar Rapids,  Iowa ,
stayed away from the spotlight before this year. He declined to
comment for this story, as did Michelle Lee, a spokeswoman for
Guggenheim.  Walter is the controlling partner behind the Dodgers
purchase and a member of the partnership called Guggenheim
Baseball Management LLC, which includes former Los Angeles
Lakers player  Magic Johnson  and baseball executive  Stan Kasten .
Walter, who lives in  Chicago  and is a Cubs season-ticket holder,
may have paid as much as $850 million more than the closest bid.
A group led by  Steve Cohen , who runs SAC Capital Advisors LP,
offered the next-highest bid at $1.3 billion, a person familiar
with the situation said in March.  Financing terms for the sale, which closed May 1, haven’t
been disclosed. The principals of Guggenheim Baseball own the
team along with member-controlled entities that contributed
capital to the purchase, according to a person familiar with the
arrangement who wasn’t authorized to speak publicly.  Sandy Koufax  “A franchise as storied as the L.A. Dodgers often trades
based on the same dynamics that a painting might trade on,”
said Steve Patterson, president of Houston-based Pro Sports
Consulting LLC, which advises professional and college teams on
transactions and media deals. “There’s only one L.A. Dodgers
franchise, only one or two cable deals and only one  Sandy Koufax .”  Koufax, a Hall of Famer, played for the team for his full
career and is considered to be one of the sport’s best pitchers.  Those who think Walter overpaid fail to appreciate how much
the media rights add to the franchise’s value, Patterson said.
The team’s television contract with News Corp.’s Fox Sports
expires after the 2013 season. The bidding for Dodgers rights
will “drive a number that’s never been seen before.”  ETF Deals  Walter has been a seller as well as a buyer in building his
empire. In 2006, Guggenheim sold almost 72 percent of its
alternative asset-management unit to  Bank of Ireland Plc , before
buying most of it back in 2009 after the bank put it on the
market following a drop in assets under management.  Other transactions show he is focused on tapping into
exchange-traded funds, the fastest-growing product in the money-
management industry. The firm announced the acquisitions of
Claymore Group in 2009 and Security Benefit the next year,
making it one of the 10 largest ETF providers in the U.S.  Guggenheim had planned to acquire the Deutsche Bank units
as a separate entity, similar to how the firm’s 2010 transaction
with Security Benefit was structured,  Alan Schwartz , executive
chairman of Guggenheim, said in an April 30 interview with
Bloomberg Television at the Milken Institute Global Conference
in  Los Angeles .  “It’s a really intelligent way to do it,” said Schwartz,
the former CEO of Bear Stearns Cos. “It will not put any
pressure, or disruption in our existing asset-management
business, which will stay focused on its customers and its
products.”  Taking a Pass  Deutsche Bank and Guggenheim agreed to end discussions on a
potential sale of DWS Americas, DB Advisors and Deutsche
Insurance Asset Management and focus talks on RREEF, the
Frankfurt-based lender said May 11.  “A lot of very savvy and sophisticated investors have
looked at the Deutsche Bank transaction and elected to pass,”
in part because they only wanted pieces of the disparate
business, Burton Greenwald, an independent fund consultant in
Philadelphia, said in an interview.  Walter majored in accounting at Omaha,  Nebraska ’s Creighton
University, whose alumni include Joe Ricketts, founder of
brokerage TD Ameritrade Holding Corp. Ricketts’s family had held
the record for the highest price paid for a Major League
Baseball team at $845 million for the Chicago Cubs and Wrigley
Field in 2009.  After college, Walter attended Northwestern University Law
School and worked in the Chicago office of law firm Sonnenschein
Nath & Rosenthal, now known as SNR Denton. He seemed well-
respected by his colleagues,  Scott Turow , an author and attorney
who’s been at SNR since 1986, said in an e-mail.  ‘Big Picture’  Walter left the legal world for a job in finance, joining
First Chicago Capital Markets Inc., where he worked in
businesses including asset-backed securities. In 1996, Walter
and three partners from First Chicago started Liberty Hampshire,
which provided asset-backed financing for large financial
institutions.  In the first year, only about eight people were employed at
the firm, according to Friedman, who started as an intern and
stayed on as an associate while going to graduate school.  “He wanted to make sure that everybody understood what the
goals were, what the specific tasks were that needed to be
accomplished and that everybody understood the big-picture
environment, regardless of what their role was,” said Friedman,
now a managing director at First Analysis Securities Corp. in
Chicago.  ‘Laid-Back’  Walter was “more comfortable in a pair of jeans than he
was in a $2,000 suit,” Friedman said. “He always had an
ability to stay relaxed even in stressful situations, which made
him appear laid-back. Yet he was always thinking and
energized.”  In 2000, Dominic Curcio, who was at Liberty Hampshire,
linked Walter with J. Todd Morley, who had a mortgage-securities
business, and Peter Lawson-Johnston II, a descendant of Meyer
Guggenheim, to form Guggenheim Partners, said a person familiar
with the relationship who asked not to be named because the
details aren’t public.  The Guggenheim family derives its wealth from Meyer, a
tailor who was born in  Switzerland , came to the U.S. in the
1840s and a made a fortune in mining and smelting. Preceding
Guggenheim Partners was Guggenheim Brothers, a family office for
managing the Guggenheim family’s funds.  Executive Hires  As it grew, Guggenheim Partners raised money from outside
investors such as Sammons Enterprises Inc., a Dallas-based
company with interests in industrial products and insurance.
Guggenheim has more than 2,200 employees at more than 25 offices
in nine countries and offers asset management, advisory,
 investment banking  and capital markets services.  Guggenheim has beefed up its leadership to guide growth.
Walter brought in  Schwartz  in 2009 to help the firm expand to
full-service investment banking, Schwartz said at the time.
Silverman, who joined in March as vice chairman of the
investment-management business, would focus on the Deutsche Bank
acquisition, Schwartz said in the April 30 interview.  Walter lives in Lincoln Park,  Illinois , with his wife and
10-year-old daughter, and is involved in local nonprofits,
including the Lincoln Park Zoo. Guggenheim is the main sponsor
for the zoo’s annual benefit and Walter’s wife, Kimbra, has been
on the women’s board since 2006, said Christine Zrinsky, vice
president of development for the zoo. The Walters want to be
actively involved in conversations about projects rather than
just write checks, she said.  ‘Good Decisions’  “They’re very private people,” Zrinsky said. “Mark runs
his company, but everything else they do as a couple.”  Walter supports other homegrown causes, as well as
political efforts. He gave  $30,800  to the  Democratic National
Committee  and $5,000 to President Barack Obama last year,
according to the Center for Responsive Politics.  He’s a trustee of the Solomon R. Guggenheim Foundation,
which runs museums including those in Manhattan and Bilbao,
 Spain . Stephen Swid, the chairman and CEO of SCS Communications
Inc. and also a trustee, said he’s known Walter for at least 10
years and sees him at the foundation’s board meetings.  Walter is “bright and honest,” asks the right questions
and fulfills his pledges, Swid said in a telephone interview
from his  New York  office.  “He makes good decisions and explains them,” Swid said.
“That’s an asset.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alexis Leondis in New York at 
 aleondis@bloomberg.net ;
Sree Vidya Bhaktavatsalam in Boston at 
 sbhaktavatsa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  