-- Gupta Stake in Fund Increased After Tip, U.S. Says
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 2012-05-15T22:32:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-15/gupta-stake-in-fund-increased-after-tip-u-s-says.html
After  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) 
Director  Rajat Gupta  told Galleon Group LLC co-founder Raj Rajaratnam about topics raised at a bank board meeting, the
hedge  fund manager  increased by $4 million Gupta’s stake in a
fund in which both men were investors, prosecutors alleged.  The government claim was included in a motion filed
yesterday in  Manhattan  federal court. The U.S. is seeking to use
a wiretap recording of a July 29, 2008, call between the two men
at Gupta’s May 21 trial on  insider trading  charges.  “The evidence at trial will show that Rajaratnam agreed to
increase the value of Gupta’s stake by approximately $4 million,
and shortly after the July 29 call, Rajaratnam had a Galleon
employee send Gupta a letter, on Galleon letterhead,
memorializing the increased value,” the government said.  The “ease with which” Gupta told Rajaratnam what was
discussed at the board meeting, including that Goldman Sachs was
considering buying a commercial bank or  American International
Group Inc. (AIG) , is pertinent to the trial, assistant U.S. attorneys
Reed Brodsky and Richard Tarlowe said in court papers.  Voyager Capital  Gupta is accused of leaking tips about Goldman Sachs and
Procter & Gamble Co., where he was also a director, to
Rajaratnam, who directed the biggest hedge fund insider-trading
scheme in U.S. history. Gupta, who is no longer on the boards of
Procter & Gamble or Goldman Sachs, has pleaded not guilty.  Prosecutors argued the taped discussion is direct proof of
the alleged conspiracy between Gupta and Rajaratnam, whom they
identify as Gupta’s co-conspirator in the scheme. The fund
manager is serving an 11-year sentence for insider trading.  Both men were investors in a fund called Voyager Capital
Partners, according to prosecutors. Gupta’s lawyers have asked
U.S. District Judge Jed Rakoff, who is presiding over the trial,
to exclude the wiretap as well as others made of Rajaratnam
where Gupta isn’t a participant on the call.  Gupta’s lawyers have argued against the government being
allowed to play the intercepted calls, saying they are either
irrelevant or prejudicial.  Prosecutors said the July 2008 call is also evidence that
Gupta was seeking professional guidance from Rajaratnam and what
they described as “the relationship of trust‘‘ between the
alleged co-conspirators.  $10 Million Losses  Gary Naftalis , Gupta’s lawyer, has said the government’s
argument is flawed and that his client had no incentive to pass
tips to Rajaratnam because Gupta lost $10 million investing with
Rajaratnam in the Voyager fund.  At a January hearing before Rakoff in the case, Naftalis
said ‘‘a significant theme in this case is that during 2008 and
2009 there was a significant deterioration in the relationship
between Mr. Rajaratnam and Mr. Gupta’’ after Lehman Brothers
Holdings Inc. collapsed in September 2008.  ‘‘Our position is that we were very unhappy with Mr.
Rajaratnam, how he handled our investment, what kind of
information he gave us, whether we were dealt with fairly,’’
Naftalis said at a Jan. 27 hearing in the case. The lawyer said
that is ‘‘obviously inconsistent with going out and tipping
him.’’  Lawsuit Against Rajaratnam  The defense lawyer has asked Rakoff to allow him to present
testimony to the jury showing that Gupta lost his entire Voyager
investment and that he discussed with a lawyer plans to sue
Rajaratnam over the losses.  ‘‘In fact, Mr. Gupta lost his entire investment in the
fund, negating any motive to deviate from a lifetime of probity,
integrity and distinguished service,’’ Naftalis said today in a
statement.  ‘‘There were a host of legitimate reasons for any
communications between Mr. Gupta and Mr. Rajaratnam -- not the
least of which was Mr. Gupta’s attempt to obtain information
regarding his $10 million investment in the GB Voyager fund
managed by Mr. Rajaratnam,’’ Naftalis said in the statement.  Defense lawyers, in a separate filing yesterday, asked
Rakoff to allow them to present evidence at trial of Gupta’s
charitable works.  Prosecutors have said evidence of Gupta’s past charitable
contributions and the damage the case has had on his reputation
aren’t relevant. The U.S. has also sought to block Gupta’s
lawyers from speculating at trial about the government’s motives
in bringing the case.  ‘Charitable Activities’  ‘‘Gupta’s charitable activities are a large component of
his background and a critical element of who he is as a
person,” defense lawyers argued in court papers. Prosecutors
are attempting to exclude “relevant and important evidence”
from the trial, they said.  Prosecutors asked Rakoff to keep Gupta from telling the
jury about his potential prison sentence if convicted.  Gupta is charged with five counts of  securities fraud  and
one count of conspiracy and faces as long as 20 years in prison
for each count of securities fraud.  The case is U.S. v. Gupta, 11-cr-00907, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in New York federal court
at   pathurtado@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  