-- ICC Prosecutor Seeks New Charges Against Congo General
-- B y   M i c h a e l   J .   K a v a n a g h
-- 2012-05-15T13:26:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-15/icc-prosecutor-seeks-new-charges-against-congo-general.html
The  International Criminal Court ’s
prosecutor asked for new  war crimes  charges against a Democratic
Republic of Congo general and a new arrest warrant for a Rwandan
rebel based in Congo’s violent east.  General Bosco Ntaganda, who is already wanted by The Hague-
based court, should face crimes against humanity for murder,
ethnic persecution and sexual slavery during fighting in
northeastern Congo in 2002 and 2003, according to a  statement 
yesterday from the prosecutor’s office on The Hague-based
court’s website. Rwandan Sylvestre Mudacumura should also face
charges for war crimes and crimes against humanity committed in
eastern Congo in 2009 and 2010, according to the statement.  “The public request of the arrest warrant can contribute
to demobilize those following Ntaganda and Mudacumura’s
orders,” the prosecutor’s office said. Both men currently lead
rebellions in eastern Congo.  Fighting in eastern Congo began more than 15 years ago in
the aftermath of the 1994 genocide in neighboring  Rwanda . At
least 3.1 million people died as a result of the conflict
between 1998 and 2007, according to the International Rescue
Committee, mainly due to starvation or easily preventable
disease.  Ntaganda deserted Congo’s army last month amid rumors of
his impending arrest by the ICC. Clashes between the army and
deserters linked to him forced more than 10,000 people to flee
their homes in North Kivu province as of May 9, according to the
 United Nations Children’s Fund .  At least 30 people have been killed by Mudacumura’s rebel
group, the Democratic Forces for the Liberation of Rwanda, or
FDLR, since the beginning of the month in eastern Congo, the UN
Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs in Congo
said May 9.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael J. Kavanagh in Kinshasa at 
 mkavanagh9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Richardson  in Nairobi at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net . 