-- Tide Turning in Japan Deflation Fight, BOJ’s Top Economist Says
-- B y   T o r u   F u j i o k a   a n d   M a s a h i r o   H i d a k a
-- 2012-05-15T00:37:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-15/tide-turning-in-japan-deflation-fight-boj-s-top-economist-says.html
The  Bank of Japan  could reach its 1
percent inflation goal in two years as brighter growth prospects
spur prices, the central bank’s top economist indicated.  “Growth in prices will be closer to the 1 percent
inflation goal at or after the end of fiscal 2013 unless the
economy gets thrown off course,”  Eiji Maeda , 50, the BOJ’s
chief economist, said in an interview in  Tokyo  yesterday,
referring to the year ending March 2014. “In the long term,
there are signs that the tide is turning in price trends.”  The remarks signaling that the target could be met in the
year starting April 2014 are the strongest yet from the central
bank, which last month forecast prices would increase 0.7
percent in fiscal 2013. BOJ Governor Masaaki Shirakawa has
pledged “powerful” monetary easing until the goal is in sight
and has already added stimulus twice this year.  Companies have improved  Japan’s growth outlook  by targeting
an aging population, which could spur demand and help lift
prices, Maeda said. Higher labor costs in countries like  China ,
 Japan ’s largest trading partner, have reduced pressure on
Japanese firms to lower prices, which has also helped ease
deflation in Japan, he said.  Gap Erased  The gap between supply and demand as a ratio to gross
domestic product, which currently stands between 2 percent and 3
percent, will probably be erased over the next two years, he
said. Consumer prices tend to rise 0.3 percentage point for
every 1 percentage point improvement in the gap, Maeda
estimates.  “It’s a very bullish estimate,”  Yoshiki Shinke , chief
economist at the Dai-Ichi Life Research Institute in Tokyo, said
of BOJ’s 0.7 percent price outlook for the next fiscal year.
“Chances are high that the BOJ will be forced to conduct
additional easing as actual price growth will be lower than its
forecasts.”  The BOJ unveiled the 1 percent target in February.  Core
consumer prices , which exclude fresh food and are the central
bank’s preferred measure, rose 0.2 percent in March. Prices will
rise 0.13 percent in fiscal 2013, according to 40 economists
surveyed by the government affiliated Japan Center of  Economic
Research  last month. Shirakawa’s five-year term ends in April.  The central bank has come under pressure this year to
bolster its asset-purchase fund, the main policy tool with its
key rate near zero, to sustain the nation’s recovery from last
year’s record earthquake and weaken a currency that surged to a
postwar high in October.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Toru Fujioka in Tokyo at 
 tfujioka1@bloomberg.net ;
Masahiro Hidaka in Tokyo at 
 mhidaka@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  