-- Midwest Farmland Values Jumped 19% in Quarter, Chicago Fed Says
-- B y   J e f f   W i l s o n
-- 2012-05-15T20:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-15/midwest-farmland-values-jumped-19-in-quarter-chicago-fed-says.html
Farmland  values  in the U.S. Midwest
surged 19 percent in the first quarter from a year earlier as a
rally in commodity prices boosted farm earnings and demand for
acreage, the Federal  Reserve Bank  of Chicago said.  Rising net income from corn, soybeans and hay supported
higher land prices from a year earlier in  Iowa , Illinois,
 Indiana ,  Michigan  and Wisconsin, the Fed said today in a  report .
Land values rose 5 percent from the fourth quarter, and about
one-third of the 231 bankers surveyed by the Fed forecast higher
values in the second quarter.  “Bidding among farmers was common at farmland auctions,
driving up” prices, David Oppedahl, a business economist at the
bank, said in the quarterly report. “Relative to investors,
farmers again purchased a higher share of the acres sold in the
past three to six months.”  Farmland values in Iowa, the biggest U.S. producer of corn
and soybeans, were up 27 percent on April 1 from a year earlier
and 4 percent higher compared with Jan. 1, Fed data show.
 Illinois  jumped 20 percent in the past year, Indiana advanced 15
percent, Wisconsin increased 13 percent, and Michigan rose 7
percent.  The cost to rent farmland in the district rose 17 percent
from a year earlier, the second-largest increase since the
survey began in 1960, according to the quarterly report.  Falling  interest rates  for operating and real-estate loans
improved credit conditions for agricultural producers in the
first quarter, the Chicago Fed said. The index of rate of
repayments on non-real-estate agricultural loans climbed to the
highest ever and 56 percent of survey respondents reported
improvement. Loan renewals and extensions declined, with 37
percent of bankers reporting fewer than a year earlier.  Loans to buy farm machinery and build grain storage were
expected to rise in the current quarter from a year earlier, the
Fed said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jeff Wilson  in Chicago at 
 jwilson29@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  