-- If Greece Quits Euro, Its Ruin Will Be Pointless
-- B y   C l i v e   C r o o k
-- 2012-05-15T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-15/if-greece-quits-euro-its-ruin-will-be-pointless.html
The chaos in  Greece  has resumed and a
new election that nobody expects to resolve anything looms.
Exasperated European Union officials have begun openly
discussing the country’s exit from the euro currency system.
This is a grave mistake. Greece’s exit would be no less
catastrophic than when the EU called it unthinkable -- and not
just for Greece.  “Divorce is never smooth,”  Luc Coene , the governor of
 Belgium ’s central bank and a member of the European Central
Bank’s governing council,  told  the Financial Times on May 13.
“I guess an amicable divorce -- if that was ever needed --
would be possible but I would still regret it.”  Amicable? That’s one thing Greece’s exit from the euro
couldn’t be. As the economist  Barry Eichengreen , the leading
authority on these matters, has argued, it would provoke “the
mother of all financial crises.” The contemplation of this
possibility by EU leaders is making matters even worse. Greece
has no chance of recovery while this danger hangs over its
economy.  Devaluation’s Other Side  Departing a currency zone under pressure is not the same as
being forced off a currency peg -- which, though painful, can be
better than the alternative. Contracts would have to be
redenominated and euro banknotes would have to be over-stamped
before a new currency could be printed and circulated. That
takes time, and since a huge devaluation is part of the formula,
rigorous  capital controls  would have to be imposed on a country
fully integrated into the wider EU economy. Bankruptcies would
cascade through the system and the Greek  economy , at least for a
time, would shut down.  Devaluation would restore competitiveness -- but to what
end? Greece has a small export sector reliant on tourism. (Care
for a Greek vacation under these circumstances? See the
Parthenon. Watch a society collapse.) The other side of a
devaluation -- and a necessary condition for its success -- is
higher import prices and hence lower real wages. But resistance
to the latter is why Greece is rejecting “austerity” to begin
with. Once Greece has its own currency again, it can resist
falling  living standards  by printing money. That would
neutralize the gain in competitiveness and lead, in the worst
case, to hyperinflation.  Advocates of an exit are saying, in effect, that if Greece
were well governed, it could avoid that outcome. It could clear
its debts through comprehensive default (as opposed to the
partial default it has already tried); restart its banking
system from scratch; eliminate its primary budget  deficit 
through orderly spending cuts and tax increases; submit to lower
real wages; and (eventually) restore its economy to health.
Possibly. But if Greece were well governed, we wouldn’t be
having this conversation.  You might therefore say, tough luck on Greece. Let it
collapse and see what happens. That would be a salutary
experience for the Greeks, and would teach others not to go the
same way. The problem is that the effects of political and
economic breakdown in Greece would spread much further.  Coene and other officials have been saying that  Europe ’s
financial defenses could withstand Greece’s exit and full
default. It has been true all along that Greece is small enough
to pose no systemic threat in its own right to the wider EU
economy. That’s why the EU’s decision to allow this crisis to
persist and worsen is such an amazing case of incompetence and
irresponsibility.  Contagion’s Two Channels  The threat to Europe was never Greece, but Europe’s
mismanagement of Greece. The big problem, getting bigger all the
time, is the failure to deal with that small problem.  There are two main channels of contagion from a Greek exit.
One runs through Greek debts to foreigners. This is probably
manageable, even though the EU’s assurances about the soundness
of its banks and the adequacy of its preparations are, on the
evidence to date, grounds for panic rather than confidence.
Certainly the EU’s wider financial system has had time to
prepare.  The real danger, as today’s Bloomberg View editorial makes
clear, is through the second channel. If Greece can exit the
euro, why not  Portugal ? Why not  Spain ? Why not  Italy ? Even if
the consequences of a Greek exit are as horrendous as I’m
saying, those outcomes will no longer be “unthinkable.” The
breakup of the entire euro system will become a choice, however
unattractive, rather than something that just can’t happen.  This means, among other things, faster capital flight from
distressed peripheral countries to the core -- compounding their
difficulties and making their exit that much more likely.
Investors have already started discussing how much smaller the
euro system might need to be.  Here we come to the great irony in all this. The EU will
surely strive to prevent the breakup of the wider euro system.
Its leaders know that if the euro falls apart, the unraveling of
the EU -- again unthinkable, until now -- becomes distinctly
possible. So far, the EU’s political momentum has always pushed
it toward closer union. A splintering of the euro system would
be the first time the EU had responded to a crisis by undoing
earlier commitments rather than building on them. That’s a bad
habit to get into.  So Greece’s exit from the euro area would demand
countervailing assurances that the rot stops there. The crucial
innovations that  Germany  and its allies in austerity have
resisted so far -- jointly guaranteed euro bonds, and the
 European Central Bank  as a lender of last resort for distressed
sovereign borrowers -- would have to be adopted. The measures
that would have stopped things ever getting this bad would
finally have to be taken up.  Greece’s ruin will have been for nothing, except to serve
as an example to others. Likewise the distress in Spain and
other peripheral countries. Steps toward full fiscal union will
have been taken not because Europe’s citizens want them, not as
a measured response to the crisis, but far too late, out of
desperation after everything else had failed, with a
correspondingly increased risk of failure. The EU will have
shown that it cracks under pressure, which won’t be forgotten.
And this is assuming all goes well.  Gaze on your works,  Angela Merkel , and despair.  (Clive Crook is a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  Today’s highlights: the View editors on a  Greek exit from the
euro  and tariffs  on Chinese solar products ;  Margaret Carlson  on
 boring white Republicans ;  Peter Orszag  on  small-business woes ;
 Jonathan Weil  on  JPMorgan Chase and regulators ; Rachelle
Bergstein on the  economics of stiletto heels ; and Zvi Bodie and
 Cornelius Hurley  on the  Office of Financial Research.   To contact the writer of this article:
Clive Crook at  clive.crook@gmail.com   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
James Gibney at   jgibney5@bloomberg.net  