-- High-Kicking Beauty, Berlin Magic Fail to Lift ‘Top Hat’
-- B y   W a r w i c k   T h o m p s o n
-- 2012-05-15T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-15/high-kicking-beauty-berlin-magic-fail-to-lift-top-hat-.html
There may be trouble ahead, sings the
hero of the 1930s tap musical “Top Hat” in  London . It’s closer
than he thinks.  If this lackluster staging becomes a long-runner, I’ll eat
my own top hat. And throw in the white tie and tails.  Based on the 1935 Rogers-Astaire movie scored by Irving Berlin, the new West End show tells the story of a debonair
Broadway hoofer called Jerry Travers who falls for smart-talking
socialite Dale Tremont.  Byzantine misunderstandings take place during trips to
London and Venice. Dale believes that Jerry is a two-timing
snake married to her best friend, so she weds a flamboyant
Italian dress designer in revenge.  Do people ever marry in revenge? I guess they have to in
shows like this, or the plot would wind up about half an hour
too soon.  There’s a trick to carrying off wispy theatrical fluff.
Everything has to look easy, light, fast. Snappy jokes, perfect
timing, and novelties are all needed to disguise the weakness of
plot. “Singin’ in the Rain,” currently at the Palace Theatre,
does the job with whipped cream and sprinkles.  “Top Hat” is as snappy as a tax bill. In Matthew White’s
stage adaptation, the one-liners wilt and writhe on the floor.  An example: “A thief stole my wife’s checkbook. I haven’t
reported it. He spends less than she does!” This was old when
Methuselah’s grandmother was a girl. I bet she didn’t find it
funny, either.  Bad Timing  There can be a pleasure in groaning at bad jokes, of
course, if they’re delivered with a wink. It’s all in the
timing.  Some of the cast need more help in this area than Matthew
White (who also directs) gives them. Tom Chambers, in the role
of Jerry Travers, misses the mark most times.  The lumpy scene changes don’t aid the flow. Designer
Hildegard Bechtler uses sliding panels, the size of the whole
proscenium, to hide the art deco set transformations. It looks
cheap, as does the tatty painted back-cloth of St Mark’s Square,
which is supposed to conjure up the romance of  Venice .  It’s also slow. The director has to fill the dead time in
front of the panels with bits of padding. Mostly this involves
tiresome business with waiters and chambermaids.  Bill Deamer’s choreography is another disappointment.
Sometimes the tap routines seem to grind to a halt. A dance with
a hat stand (recreating one of  Fred Astaire ’s famous routines
from the film “Royal Wedding”) looks oddly like a guy dancing
with a hat stand.  Leggy Beauty  The shame is the greater because there are some good
performances. Summer Strallen (whose sister Scarlett is
currently starring in “Singin’ in the Rain”) is every inch the
self-possessed beauty she’s supposed to be. Her voice is sweet,
and her extraordinarily leggy high kicks seem to tickle the end
of her nose.  She looks terrific in a swirling recreation of Ginger Rogers’s floaty-feather dress used in the “Cheek to Cheek”
duet.  There’s lively support from Vivien Parry as a cynical
socialite, and Ricardo Afonso as the fiery-tempered dress
designer Alberto Beddini.  Irving Berlin’s score is full of great numbers. “Puttin’
on the Ritz,” “Let’s Face the Music,” and “Top Hat” are all
classics.  They’re like lonely flowers growing in a swamp. Without the
mystery ingredient which makes light farces believable, the show
feels weary.  “Top Hat” hits rock bottom.  Rating: *½.  “Top Hat” is at the Aldwych Theatre. For information:
 http://www.tophatonstage.com  or +44-844-847-1712  Muse highlights include: Jorg von Uthmann on  Paris art ,
Ryan Sutton on  New York   dining .  (Warwick Thompson is a critic for Muse, the arts and
lifestyle section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
his own.)  To contact the writer of this review:
Warwick Thompson, in London, at  warwicktho@aol.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 