-- LightSquared, Failed Wireless Venture, Files Bankruptcy
-- B y   T i f f a n y   K a r y
-- 2012-05-16T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-15/lightsquared-failed-wireless-venture-files-bankruptcy.html
LightSquared Inc. was granted
permission to manage $15 million in cash in bankruptcy after
saying it disagrees with lenders over the use of other assets to
fund the two years needed to win regulatory approval and
reorganize.  U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Shelley Chapman in  Manhattan  said
yesterday she is prepared to approve LightSquared’s request to
manage the only cash it has that lenders don’t have a claim to.
The $15 million will last until the first week of July, by which
time the wireless-network provider may reach an agreement with
lenders to let it use their cash collateral to fund operations,
said Matthew Barr, a lawyer for LightSquared.  “We did make good progress with some of the lenders,”
Barr told Chapman, adding that he thought the lenders were
asking for too much in exchange for use of the cash. Chapman
encouraged the company to reach an agreement with lenders.  LightSquared filed for bankruptcy May 14, saying it will
seek a resolution with U.S. regulators who thwarted the
company’s plan to deliver high-speed wireless to as many as 260
million people over concerns that it interferes with GPS
networks.  Chapman yesterday approved routine requests for a company
on its first day in bankruptcy, including the right to pay
employees and continue its insurance policies.  Lender Protections  LightSquared had offered in court papers to give
protections to U.S. Bank NA as agent for lenders to its $278.8
million loan, on which $322.3 million is now outstanding. The
loan, initially due July 1, is now due Dec. 31, and was taken by
the company’s “Inc.” unit, according to court papers.
LightSquared said it offered similar terms to UBS AG and
 Wilmington Trust FSB  as agents to a $1.5 billion loan at its
“LP” unit, on which $1.7 billion is now outstanding.  An ad-hoc group of lenders who own LP unit debt had
objected in court papers, saying they needed more protection for
the use of their cash. The group said it tried to reach an out-
of-court agreement with the company and supports a “consensual
resolution” in Chapter 11 as long as their rights are
protected.  “Today it really isn’t a business. There’s a vision of a
business,”  Thomas Lauria , a lawyer for the ad-hoc group, said
in court. Lenders are concerned that the company’s assets and
 cash flow  aren’t enough to support the $1.7 billion in debt at
its “LP” unit, he said.  LightSquared, based in Reston,  Virginia , listed assets of
$4.48 billion and debt of $2.29 billion as of Feb. 29 in its
Chapter 11 filing. The filing followed intense negotiations with
creditors, who had requested that the company’s backer,  Philip Falcone , step aside. Falcone and the current management team
will remain with the company,  Terry Neal , a LightSquared
spokesman, said May 14.  The case is In re LightSquared Inc., 12-12080,  U.S.
Bankruptcy Court , Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tiffany Kary in New York at 
 tkary@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  