-- Internet IPO Puts Rise at Record Rate Before Facebook: Options
-- B y   N i k o l a j   G a m m e l t o f t   a n d   C e c i l e   V a n n u c c i
-- 2012-05-15T20:52:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-15/internet-ipo-puts-rise-at-record-rate-before-facebook-options.html
As  Facebook Inc. (FB)  prepares its initial
public offering, traders are boosting the cost of bearish
options at a record rate for LinkedIn Corp. and four other
Internet companies that sold shares in the past year.  Puts (LNKD)  trading 10 percent below shares of LinkedIn,  Groupon (GRPN) 
Inc., Zynga Inc., Pandora Media Inc. and  Yelp Inc. (YELP)  cost an
average of 5.12 points more than calls 10 percent above on May
14, data on 30-day options compiled by Bloomberg show. That’s
almost four times more than at the record low reached in April.  The price of protecting against declines in newly public
Internet companies is increasing after LinkedIn and Pandora  fell 
more than twice as much as the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index
during last year’s market selloff. The benchmark index for
American equities has slipped 5.7 percent since its 2012 high on
April 2, falling to its lowest level since February. It lost 19
percent between April and October 2011.  “There’s a lot of uncertainty creeping into the markets
and that’s having a big impact on these high-risk names,” Josef Schuster, the founder of IPOX Schuster LLC which manages about
$1.9 billion in  Chicago , said yesterday in a phone interview.
“People are looking for downside protection.”  Internet radio pioneer  Pandora (P)  fell as much as 51 percent
last year, while LinkedIn lost 46 percent between July and
November. Historical volatility, a measure of price swings
tracked by options traders, has climbed above 50 for LinkedIn,
Groupon, Zynga, Pandora and Yelp. Only 20 stocks in the  S&P 500 
have higher 30-day levels than that.  Facebook IPO  Julie Mossler, a spokeswoman for Groupon, Zynga’s Stephanie
Hess and  Vince Sollitto  of Yelp declined to comment on the
options trading. Spokesman Hani Durzy from LinkedIn and
Pandora’s Deborah Roth didn’t return a phone call and an e-mail
seeking comment.  Facebook, scheduled to sell stock on May 17, boosted the
price range of the deal to $34 to $38 a share, according to a
regulatory filing today. That implies a market value of as much
as $104.2 billion.  Should the world’s most popular social-networking site’s
IPO fail to deliver the gains investors expect, sentiment toward
similar stocks may deteriorate, according to Carlo Panaccione of
Navigation Group Inc.  “The fear is that Facebook is going to be priced a little
bit more than it’s worth,” Panaccione, co-founder of Navigation
Group which oversees $370 million in Redwood Shores,  California ,
said yesterday in a telephone interview. “Couple that with the
fact that we had a rough summer last year and you see these
spikes in the options trading.”  Advertising Sales  Facebook said last week that growth in advertising sales
isn’t keeping pace with gains in users, many of them logging on
from handheld devices.  The company plans to stop taking orders today for its IPO,
two days ahead of schedule, a person with knowledge of the
transaction said yesterday. The  Menlo Park , California-based
company is poised to surpass  United Parcel Service Inc. (UPS)  as the
most valuable company in history to go public in the U.S., based
on market capitalization, data compiled by Bloomberg and
Dealogic show.  Groupon, the largest daily-deal website, reported profit
yesterday that topped analyst estimates as marketing costs
dropped and it expanded. The results, which spurred an 18
percent rally in the shares after the close of U.S. trading, may
bring investors back to social media companies, according to
 Michael Obuchowski  of First Empire Asset Management.  ‘Turning Point’  The results “might be a  turning point ,” Obuchowski, chief
investment officer at First Empire Asset Management in
Hauppauge,  New York , which manages about $4.9 billion, said
yesterday in an interview. “If Groupon can appease the
investors and show solid numbers, then that could turn the tide
and generate a lot more interest in those companies in
general,” he said. These are “risky but potentially game-
changing business models,” he said.  The Global X Social Media Index exchange-traded fund, which
tracks the Solactive Social Networks index and includes the five
U.S. Internet stocks, dropped 8.3 percent this month as Tokyo-
based  Gree Inc. (3632)  tumbled after regulators in  Japan  questioned one
of the company’s sales methods.  Groupon slumped the most this year among the five American
companies, losing 43 percent through yesterday amid concerns
about its financial statements. Skew, as measured by the
difference between prices of puts to calls, for Groupon was 8.85
yesterday before the report, close to the 9.74 reached in April,
the highest level since December.  50% Increase  Implied volatility , the key gauge of options prices, for
30-day contracts closest to LinkedIn’s stock price has risen 50
percent since its March 1 low, data compiled by Bloomberg show.
Skew jumped to 9.66 yesterday after reaching its lowest level
ever on March 23, the data show.  Shares of the biggest professional-networking website,
which had its IPO a year ago, lost 5.8 percent since touching a
record $117.30 on May 4, the day after it reported that first-
quarter sales and profit beat analysts’ estimates amid a jump in
membership.  Implied volatility for gaming company  Zynga (ZNGA) , which went
public in December, was 28 percent above its historical average,
while the measure for Pandora, which held its IPO last June, was
8.2 percent higher than its average. Implied volatility for
Yelp, the website that allows people to comment on businesses
and services, was 5.9 percent more that its all-time average.  VIX, VStoxx  The Chicago Board Options Exchange Volatility Index, known
as the  VIX (VIX) , climbed 10 percent yesterday to 21.87, its highest
level since Jan. 17. It added 0.5 percent to 21.97 today. The
VStoxx Index, which measures the cost of Euro Stoxx 50 Index
options, rose 5.1 percent to 33.31 today, reaching the highest
level since Dec. 14.  Mountain View , California-based LinkedIn is valued at 12.5
times this year’s estimated revenue, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. That compares with ratios of 9.4 for Yelp, 4 for
Zynga, 3.9 for Pandora and Groupon’s 3.3. S&P 500 companies
trade for an average 2 times estimated sales. Of the five
companies, only LinkedIn was profitable last year.  “If you had just invested in social media stocks across
the board, you would have done rather poorly,” Benoit Flamant
of IT Asset Management in Paris, which owns LinkedIn shares and
manages about 200 million euros ($257 million), said yesterday
in a phone interview. “I’m not in a rush to invest in
Facebook.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nikolaj Gammeltoft in New York at 
 ngammeltoft@bloomberg.net ;
Cecile Vannucci in Amsterdam at 
 cvannucci1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  