-- International Demand for U.S. Assets Rises
-- B y   M e e r a   L o u i s
-- 2012-05-15T15:16:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-15/international-demand-for-u-s-assets-rises.html
International demand for U.S.
financial assets rose in March as investors continued to seek
safety from the debt crisis in  Europe .  Net buying of long-term equities, notes and bonds totaled
$36.2 billion during the month, compared with net purchases of
$10.1 billion in February, the  Treasury Department  said today in
Washington. Economists surveyed by Bloomberg News projected net
buying of $32.5 billion of long-term assets, according to the
median estimate.  “The continued buoyancy in foreign demand for U.S.
Treasuries is consistent with the preeminent safe-haven appeal
of these securities to global investors,”  Millan Mulraine , a
senior U.S. strategist at TD Securities in  New York , said. “We
expect the souring in global risk sentiment in recent months, as
concerns about the deteriorating European debt crisis and
slowing global growth momentum intensifies, to continue to
bolster foreign investors’ appetite for U.S. Treasury
securities.”  The report showed that net foreign purchases of U.S.
Treasuries totaled $20.5 billion in March, compared with net
buying of $15.4 billion the month before.  U.S. assets maintained their attraction as the  European
debt crisis  mounted on concerns that  Greece  may leave the euro
area. Greece’s impasse over forming a government has raised the
possibility of another election to be held as early as next
month, threatening the implementation of austerity pledges under
the international financial rescue plan.  Greek Elections  Greece will hold new elections after President Karolos
Papoulias failed to broker creation of a government following an
inconclusive May 6 vote,  Evangelos Venizelos , the leader of the
socialist Pasok party, said today.  Estimates of foreign purchases of long-term U.S. assets in
March ranged from net buying of $25 billion to $75 billion,
according to four economists surveyed by Bloomberg before the
report.  China  remained the biggest foreign owner of U.S. Treasuries
in March after its holdings rose $14.7 billion to $1.17
trillion, according to the Treasury.  Hong Kong , counted separately from China, lowered its
holdings of Treasuries by $3 billion to $138.8 billion, while
 Brazil  increased its holdings by $9 billion to $237.4 billion in
March.  International demand for U.S. Treasuries rose for an eighth
straight month in March, as total foreign holdings of the
securities reached $5.12 trillion.  Including short-term securities such as stock swaps,
foreigners sold a net $49.9 billion in March, compared with net
buying of $92.6 billion the previous month.  International Purchases  The Treasury Department’s data capture international
purchases of government notes and bonds, stocks, corporate debt
and securities issued by U.S. agencies.  The Treasury said in February it was shifting from a
transaction-based survey to a custodial survey to keep track of
foreigners’ holdings. As a result, month-to-month comparisons
are not comparable.  “These data help provide a window into foreign ownership
of U.S. securities, but they cannot attribute holdings of U.S.
securities with complete accuracy,” Treasury said in a press
release today. “It is difficult to draw precise conclusions
from,” these data “about changes in the foreign holdings of
U.S. financial assets by individual countries.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Meera Louis in  Washington  at 
 mlouis1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  