-- Intel CEO Says Replacement Is Likely to Come From Within
-- B y   I a n   K i n g   a n d   E m i l y   C h a n g
-- 2012-05-16T01:17:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-15/intel-ceo-says-replacement-likely-to-come-from-within.html
Intel Corp. (INTC)  Chief Executive Officer
 Paul Otellini  said Chief Operating Officer Brian Krzanich is one
of “a stable of strong candidates” to eventually replace him.  The company will probably continue a tradition of filling
the top position from within its own ranks, Otellini said today
in a television interview broadcast on “Bloomberg West” from
the company’s headquarters in  Santa Clara ,  California .  “We’re a company that’s always gone from within in terms
of these promotions,” he said. “I think that makes a lot of
sense for most companies, particularly given the track record in
the Valley lately.”  Otellini, 61, as well as his two predecessors, Craig Barrett and Andy Grove, spent time in the role of chief
operating officer before taking on the CEO role at Intel, the
world’s largest semiconductor maker. Otellini said his job is to
groom a number of candidates for the board to choose from.  Under Otellini, Intel has jump-started a decade-long effort
to parlay its dominance in the  personal-computer  processor
market into chip orders from mobile-phone makers. The company
has announced five new customer relationships this year, leading
to the first phone with an Intel processor going on sale in
 India  last month.  Mike Bell, a former Apple Inc. executive who was  hired  by
Otellini to co-head the company’s mobile-phone division, said
there may be more announcements to come. He declined to comment
on whether Apple will use Intel chips in its mobile products.  Intel will continue to try to create products that are so
good that “people can’t afford not to take a look,” Bell said.  “We are looking to partner with as many people as we can
in the space,” he said. “I think you’ll see more to come as
the year goes on.”  Intel  shares  fell less than 1 percent to $26.88 at the
close in  New York . The stock has increased 11 percent this year,
compared with a 6 percent gain in the benchmark Philadelphia
Semiconductor Index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ian King in  San Francisco  at 
 ianking@bloomberg.net ;
Emily Chang in San Francisco at 
 echang68@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  