-- Lira Weakens Third Day, Erasing Earlier Gains on Greek Elections
-- B y   S e l c u k   G o k o l u k
-- 2012-05-15T15:09:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-15/lira-rebounds-from-one-month-low-as-central-bank-halves-funding.html
The lira weakened for a third day,
erasing earlier gains, after attempts to form a new government
in  Greece  failed, increasing concern the escalation of debt
crisis in  Europe  will limit appetite for riskier assets.  The lira depreciated 0.5 percent to 1.8191 per dollar at
6:08 p.m. in Istanbul, heading for the weakest level since March
20 and giving up its intraday rise of as much as 0.5 percent.
The  yield  on two-year benchmark debt advanced for a third day,
up four basis points, or 0.04 percentage point, to 9.6 percent.  Fresh elections will now be held in Greece, Costas Bitsios,
a presidency official, confirmed in comments to reporters in
 Athens . He said a meeting will be held tomorrow to form a
caretaker government. The lira earlier traded stronger after the
central bank cut repurchase agreements at the lowest policy rate
of 5.75 percent to 2 billion liras ($1.1 billion) today from 4
billion liras yesterday, restricting  money supply .  “A possible exit from euro will create a capital problem
in the banking system and great uncertainty,” Sant Manukyan,
global strategist at Is Investment Securities in Istanbul, said
in e-mailed comments.  Emerging markets  cannot remain immune to a freeze in
Europe’s financial system, Manukyan said.  Turkey , a European
Union candidate, sells half of its exports to Europe.  The lira yesterday pierced its 200-day moving-day average
of 1.8062, a key level for technical analysts. Crossing the
moving average threshold and remaining above it is an indication
the currency’s move may be sustained.  The central bank varies its funding rate on a daily basis,
maintaining borrowing costs within a 5.75 percent to 11.5
percent interest-rate corridor introduced last year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Selcuk Gokoluk in Istanbul at 
 sgokoluk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  