-- Israel’s Barak Heads to U.S. for Iron Dome Funding Talks
-- B y   C a l e v   B e n - D a v i d
-- 2012-05-15T16:02:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-15/israel-s-barak-heads-to-u-s-for-iron-dome-funding-talks.html
Israeli Defense Minister  Ehud Barak 
left today for  Washington  to hold discussions with U.S.
Secretary of Defense  Leon Panetta  aimed in part at reaping new
funds for a missile-defense system developed to protect Israel.  Barak’s meeting with Panetta on May 17 is intended to
include an agreement on more U.S. funding for the Israeli-made
Iron Dome system, according to a ministry official who spoke on
condition of anonymity because he wasn’t authorized to comment
in advance. The defense chiefs also will confer on regional
security issues, the official said.  The U.S. House Armed Services Committee voted last week to
authorize as much as $680 million in new funding for Iron Dome
from 2012 to 2015.  George Little , a Pentagon spokesman, said in
March that the Defense Department wanted more funds for the
system even though it didn’t include money in its budget request
for fiscal 2013.  Iron Dome, built by Israel’s Rafael Advanced Defense
Systems Ltd., went into operation a year ago and has proved
effective at intercepting short-range rockets fired by
Palestinian militants from the  Gaza Strip  into southern Israel,
according to Israeli and U.S. officials.  The $680 million backed by the House panel would be in
addition to $205 million authorized last year to buy Iron Dome
installations.  While the system was developed especially for Israel’s
defense, Waltham, Massachusetts-based  Raytheon Co. (RTN) , the world’s
largest missile maker, said in August that it has formed a
partnership with Rafael in an effort to market the system for
U.S. use.  The Armed Services Committee said the Pentagon should
ensure that the U.S. “has appropriate rights to this
technology” and “should explore any opportunity to enter into
co-production of the Iron Dome system with Israel, in light of
the significant U.S. investment in this system.”  Closely held Rafael, based in Haifa, Israel, says on its
website that it was started as part of Israel’s Ministry of
Defense and incorporated in 2002.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Calev Ben-David in Jerusalem at 
 cbendavid@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Louis Meixler at 
 lmeixler@bloomberg.net  