-- Italy Economy Contracts Most in Three Years on Recession
-- B y   C h i a r a   V a s a r r i
-- 2012-05-15T15:08:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-15/italy-economy-contracts-most-in-three-years-on-recession.html
Italy ’s economy  contracted  for a
third quarter in the three months through March as the nation’s
recession deepened amid an intensifying euro-area debt crisis.  Gross domestic product declined 0.8 percent, the most in
three years, Rome-based national statistics institute Istat said
in a preliminary report today. The contraction was more than the
median forecast of 0.7 percent in a survey of 14 economists by
Bloomberg News. GDP fell 1.3 percent from a year earlier.  Prime Minister  Mario Monti ’s government is implementing 20
billion euros ($26 billion) in austerity measures that helped
push Italy into its fourth recession since 2001 in the fourth
quarter of last year. Monti is now lobbying European leaders to
craft policies to boost economic growth without widening budget
deficits as spending cuts and the debt crisis cloud prospects
for euro-region expansion.  “Today’s GDP outcome is particularly disappointing,”
UniCredit SpA economists including Milan-based Chiara Corsa
wrote in a note to investors today. “It seems that the picture
won’t improve substantially in the second quarter of the year.”  Renegotiate Goals  The Italian government should follow  Spain  in renegotiating
its deficit goals with the European Union, Stefano Fassina, head
of economic policy for the  Democratic Party  that supports Monti
in the legislature, wrote in a note today.  Today’s data “confirms, unfortunately, the unrealistic
optimism of the government’s forecasts for the economic
contraction in 2012,” Fassina wrote, adding that GDP will
likely shrink around 2 percent this year.  Monti’s government forecasts that the euro-area’s third-
biggest economy will contract 1.2 percent.  The euro dropped to its lowest level in four months against
the dollar today as Greek leaders failed to form a new
government after May 6 elections, meaning that a new vote will
need to be held.  Italy’s economy fared worse in the first quarter than that
of France,  Germany  and the euro area. The economy of  France  and
the 17-nation currency region stalled in the first quarter,
while Germany expanded a bigger-than-forecast 0.5 percent. Istat
is scheduled to give a breakdown of Italian first-quarter GDP
data on June 11.  Consumer Demand  “The contraction in the first quarter was probably due to
a decline in domestic demand, and in particular private
consumption and investments,” Fabio Fois, an economist at
 Barclays Capital  in  London , wrote in a note about Italy. “While
austerity measures have probably hit consumers already, we think
that we will have a clearer picture later in the year as most of
the fiscal adjustment has still to take place.”  Italian  consumer confidence  plunged last month to the
lowest since 1996, while business sentiment declined to a two-
year low amid concern that the recession may worsen. Monti’s
government forecasts that the  jobless rate , at an almost 12-year
high of 9.8 percent, won’t start declining until next year.  Fiat SpA (F) , Italy’s biggest manufacturer, posted a wider
first-quarter loss in  Europe  as the automaker’s sales in the
region plunged. Fiat, which shut down a factory in Sicily at the
end of last year, froze new investment in Europe and postponed
the introduction of new models, saying it doesn’t anticipate a
recovery in demand until at least next year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chiara Vasarri in Rome at 
 cvasarri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jerrold Colten at 
 jcolten@bloomberg.net  