-- Titanic Tourists Offered Trinkets as Belfast Rivals Vegas
-- B y   C o l m   H e a t l e y
-- 2012-05-15T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-15/titanic-tourists-offered-trinkets-as-belfast-rivals-vegas.html
Titanic tourism has come to Belfast,
luring thousands of U.S. tourists with souvenirs from the
tasteful to the tacky at a $156 million six-story center.  A century after the maiden-voyage disaster, visitors to the
 Northern Ireland  city where the most famous liner was built can
sample a Titanic menu and buy replicas of the liner’s key rings
and sugar sachets. The center plans to draw about 425,000
visitors each year and has sold 55,000 tickets since opening
last month.  “Very impressive,” says one visitor, Elizabeth Parks from
Birmingham,  Alabama . “There’s a lot of history in it and a lot
of interesting things to learn about Belfast, how the ship was
built, what the conditions were like at the time.”  The fate of the Titanic Quarter, where the center is based,
shows the region’s economic problems since the global downturn
in 2008. While the 650,000 square-feet (60,387 square-meter)
dockside development was marketed as a financial hub,  Citigroup
Inc. (C)  is the only banking tenant so far. The number of tourists
to Northern Ireland has fallen 15 percent since 2008.  The visitors’ center features a shipyard theme ride showing
the Titanic being built for the White Star line in 1911 -- she
was just under 270 meters (about 880 feet) in length and 53
meters high, the largest such vessel in the world. There are
mock-ups of the cabins, interactive displays, 3D exhibitions and
a cinema to show the tragic collision with an iceberg.  Skyline Cranes  At its peak, the  Harland & Wolff  shipyard that built the
Titanic employed 35,000 workers. A decline in the industry
caused orders to dry up, and shipbuilding ceased in 2000. Two
cranes, dubbed Samson and Goliath, stand near the Titanic
Visitor Centre and still dominate the east  Belfast  skyline.  “Last week, every other customer here was American,” said
Ronan Byrne, the owner of California Coffee, a downtown Belfast
restaurant. “We’re offering a Titanic menu now and I’m
confident we’ll see a lot more tourists than we did last year.”  Initial visitor reactions to the center, which charges a
13.50 pounds ($21.50) admission fee, have been mixed. Some were
taken aback by the merchandise on sale at the center.  “I don’t like how they are cashing in on the disaster by
selling memorabilia in the shop,” said John Engels, visiting
from the Netherlands. “That makes me uncomfortable. It was a
disaster: I’m not sure it’s right to sell key rings about it.”  Shipyard Deaths  As well as 1,500 people who died in the 1912 sinking of the
Titanic, eight workmen lost their lives during the building and
two ambulances were permanently sited at the yard because of the
danger in constructing the liner.  “It was well put together and very informative but I don’t
think children would like it,” said Alexandra Dujin, a Pole who
traveled from Cavan in the  Republic of Ireland  with her husband.
“It’s very serious. We have two children, but we didn’t take
them with us today because I think they would have been bored by
it.”  Another tourist, John Ford from  Oregon , says the city may
want to look 5,000 miles west for inspiration.  “I expected to see more exhibits from the Titanic,” Ford,
a 68 year-old retired fire-fighter, said. “I saw more of the
Titanic at the center in  Las Vegas .” He speaks of the U.S.
 exhibition  which showcases more than 300 artifacts from the
doomed liner. “I was a little disappointed in that. But I liked
it.”  Information: Titanic Belfast,
 http://www.titanicbelfast.com/Home.aspx   Muse highlights include: Jorg von Uthmann on  Paris art ,
Warwick Thompson on  London stage , Ryan Sutton on  New York 
 dining .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Colm Heatley in Belfast at 
 cheatley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 