-- Mittal Rescues Indian Olympic Effort From ‘Disgrace’
-- B y   A n d r e w   M a c A s k i l l   a n d   U n n i   K r i s h n a n
-- 2012-05-15T18:30:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-15/mittal-rescues-indian-olympic-effort-from-disgrace-.html
At an outdoor public pool in
Bangalore filled with toddlers in rubber rings and dive-bombing
teenagers, two of  India ’s Olympic swimmers prepare for the
biggest race of their lives.  Separated by lane markers from at least 400 locals who pay
38 cents for a cooling dip each day, the elite swimmers carve
their way through water turned cloudy green by the chlorine
needed to combat the pool’s bacteria. There are no changing
rooms, while a lone coach watches over the athletes with a
stopwatch.  “The government thinks all you need to be successful in
swimming is water,” said Virdhawal Khade, 20, India’s 100-meter
freestyle record holder who will lead his nation’s team in
 London  from July. “Unless they start taking sport seriously,
it’s hard to see things changing.”  India has won just 18 medals at 21 summer Olympics since
1920, more than half of them in men’s field hockey. At the 2008
games in Beijing, the country where cricket is a national
obsession ranked last in the per-capita medals table. Amid scant
funding from the government, which is struggling to contain the
widest  budget deficit  among major emerging economies,
billionaires  Lakshmi Mittal  and  Mukesh Ambani  have stepped in to
bankroll training and equipment for athletes and try to put more
Indians on the podium in London.  ‘Frankly Disgraceful’  “Sport has never been a government priority, it always
faced bigger challenges like poverty reduction, that is why our
past performance has, frankly, been disgraceful,” Indian
Olympic Association Acting President  Vijay Kumar Malhotra  said
May 2. “As the economy has grown, so have expectations.”  The world’s second most populous country, whose economy has
surged fivefold over two decades, allocated $48.1 million to
fund athletes in the 16 months leading up to the London
Olympics. China spent $450 million each year on sports in the
decade before Beijing, where it claimed 100 medals. About half
of the 54 Indians who have qualified for London in individual
sports rely on some form of corporate support.  Most of the 26 Olympic disciplines, including swimming,
rowing and gymnastics, are solely in the hands of poorly run
federations lacking world-class training facilities and
coaching, said Manisha Malhotra, the administrator of the  Mittal
Champions Trust  and a former tennis player who competed at the
2000 Sydney Games. She’s no relation to India’s acting Olympic
chief.  ‘Plugging Holes’  “We are plugging the holes, putting Band-Aids on the
shortfalls,” Malhotra said. “None of the private bodies can
have the bandwidth that the government has neither do they have
the outreach.”  The two richest Indians, Ambani, chairman of  Reliance
Industries Ltd. (RIL) , and U.K.-based Mittal are funding programs to
give athletes access to personal trainers, nutritionists,
psychologists and state-of-the-art equipment that would
otherwise be out of reach.  Tata Group (TATA) , India’s largest business
group and owner of Jaguar Land Rover, runs an archery academy.
The country’s No. 2 software services exporter,  Infosys Ltd. (INFO) ,
backs an athletics school.  Mittal, chairman of  ArcelorMittal (MT) , the world’s biggest
steel company, decided to intervene after being  disappointed 
with the lack of compatriots to cheer at the 2004 Athens
Olympics. He pledged $10 million for a breakthrough in time for
this summer’s event.  “This should be the best performance of an Indian
contingent,” Mittal  told  reporters at a press conference at the
end of March. “The athletes have worked relentlessly hard for
the last four or five years, so some medals have to come.”  Monkey God  For the 150 wrestlers, including Olympian  Rajiv Tomar ,
training in a mud pit near Delhi’s Mughal-era Red Fort,
international glory seems a long way off. The men lift rusting
barbells as flies buzz around in summer temperatures climbing
toward 40 degrees centigrade.  The center, founded by Guru Hanuman, a legendary Indian
wrestler who took his name from the monkey god worshiped by many
Hindus, sits on land donated in an earlier bout of corporate
philanthropy by industrialist Krishna Kumar Birla. The wrestlers
train on threadbare mats that also double up as their sleeping
quarters.  “We are  struggling  for the basics like good diet and these
boys have to fend for themselves until they get recognized at
the national level,” said Maha Singh Rao, a coach at the center
as he watched teenagers grappling during evening practice. “It
is tough and these kids aren’t from rich families.”  Cricket Billions  The underfunding of Olympic disciplines stands in sharp
contrast to India’s sporting passion, cricket, which isn’t an
Olympic sport.  Fueled by money from sponsors, television coverage and
ticket sales, the Indian Premier League, the world’s richest
cricket franchise, is worth $3.67 billion, according to  Brand
Finance Plc , a London-based consultancy firm.  While India’s national cricket squad has access to the best
equipment, dietitians and fitness trainers, the country’s
Olympic shooters have been left without bullets to practice,
archers without bows and arrows, and boxers with torn gloves,
according to Rahul Mehra, a lawyer who took all India’s Olympic
sports federations to the Delhi High Court in 2009, seeking
fixed terms for sports chiefs and greater transparency.  Half of India’s 25 Olympic sports federations are run by
politicians or their aides with little involvement of former
players or professional managers, Mehra said May 3.  Chief on Trial  The Judo Federation of India is headed by Jagdish Tytler, a
former Congress party government minister who was probed and
exonerated by federal investigators over allegations he incited
anti-Sikh riots in 1984. Yashwant Sinha, a senior leader of the
main opposition  Bharatiya Janata Party , chairs the tennis body.
Politicians also oversee the boxing, swimming and archery
federations.  “Politicians across parties are running the show and they
unite to block change the moment you say reforms,” Mehra said
in a phone interview.  The Indian Olympic Association has refused to fire its
President Suresh Kalmadi, a legislator from the western state of
Maharashtra, even after he was jailed and put on trial for
alleged corrupt contracts during preparations for the 2010
Commonwealth Games in  New Delhi . Kalmadi, who has been suspended
by the ruling Congress Party of Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh ,
was bailed in January.  Surrounded by splashing children at the open-air pool in
Bangalore, Virdhawal Khade rues India’s sporting failures.  Khade holds the Indian record with a time of 49.27 seconds
in the 100 meter freestyle. That’s almost 2.2 seconds slower
than the fastest time  this year  by the Australian swimmer James Magnussen, the world number one over the distance.  Khade was meant to travel to  Australia  this month to train
in a modern pool with other top athletes. The proposal was
approved by the National Sports Development Fund, he said, yet
the money never materialized.  “They promise but then they don’t deliver,” Khade said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrew MacAskill in New Delhi at 
 amacaskill@bloomberg.net ;
Unni Krishnan in New Delhi at 
 ukrishnan2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  