-- Mizuho Leads Japan Megabank Profit Goals Beating Estimates
-- B y   S h i g e r u   S a t o
-- 2012-05-16T03:40:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-15/mizuho-unexpectedly-forecasts-higher-profit-as-loans-rebound-1-.html
Japan ’s three biggest banks, led by
 Mizuho Financial Group Inc. (8411) , forecast profit for this year that
exceeded analysts’ estimates as lending rebounds.  Mizuho said  net income  will climb 3.2 percent to 500
billion yen ($6.3 billion) in the year ending March, beating the
378 billion yen average estimate compiled by Bloomberg.  Sumitomo
Mitsui Financial Group Inc. (8316)  said profit will fall 7.4 percent to
480 billion yen. Analysts expected 441 billion yen.  Mitsubishi
UFJ (8306)  Financial Group Inc. targeted profit of 670 billion yen
versus an estimated 655 billion yen.  The projections released yesterday reflect seven months of
rising  lending  in Japan following a 22-month slump, as well as
the banks’ push to gain market share abroad from European
competitors. Japanese lenders are looking to higher-yielding
markets to make up for a decline in profitability on domestic
loans as  interest rates  tumble.  “Megabanks’ strategy centers on boosting lending abroad to
counter a tough business environment at home,” said Shinichi Ina, a Tokyo-based analyst at UBS AG. “The three banks may take
a larger chunk of the overseas market while their European
rivals pull back amid the region’s debt crisis.”  Mizuho shares rose 0.9 percent to 115 yen at 12:37 p.m. in
Tokyo. Sumitomo Mitsui slipped 0.2 percent to 2,346 yen.
Mitsubishi UFJ declined 1.4 percent to 344 yen. The benchmark
 Topix Index (TPX)  dropped 1.3 percent on concern that fresh elections
in  Greece  may lead it to exit the euro.  Brokerage Rebound  Earnings at Mizuho will also be bolstered by a return to
profit at its brokerage business, which lost about 95 billion
yen in the year ended March, Chief Executive Officer  Yasuhiro Sato  said at a news conference. Tokyo-based Mizuho, Japan’s
third-biggest bank by market value, is merging two securities
arms in January, it said yesterday.  The company has announced 1,000 job cuts at the brokerage
business since October. It’s also eliminating 3,000 positions by
March 2016 through a separate merger of its corporate and retail
banking units.  “Mizuho’s profit outlook should have a positive impact on
its shares,” said Shinichiro Nakamura, a Tokyo-based banking
analyst at SMBC Nikko Securities Inc. “Market players will
discern whether the 500 billion yen profit forecast is
achievable because the level is a bit ambitious.”  Trading Boost  The bank’s 17 percent increase in net income in the year
ended March was driven in part by a 57 percent surge in trading
profit, offsetting a 1.9 percent decline in lending income.  The extra yield that investors demand to hold Mizuho
Corporate Bank Ltd.’s five-year, 1.11 percent bond issued in
January 2008 instead of similar-maturity Japanese  government
bonds , widened to 18.4 basis points today from 16.9 on May 1.
 Credit-default swaps  insuring Mizuho Corporate Bank bonds rose
nine basis points yesterday to 175.  Sumitomo Mitsui’s  net income  rose 9 percent to 518.5
billion yen in the year ended March, propelled by a 1.8 percent
increase in lending profit, Japan’s second-biggest bank by
market value said. Profit from securities trading, including
government bonds, grew 27 percent.  At Mitsubishi UFJ, the country’s largest lender, this
year’s 670 billion yen net income target represents a 32 percent
decline from the 981.3 billion yen it earned in the year ended
March, when it had a 291 billion yen gain from converting its
Morgan Stanley shares into common stock.  Seize Demand Abroad  “Lending demand in Japan will perhaps continue to show
year-on-year gains, but we’re not going to see substantial
growth,”  Katsunori Nagayasu , president of Mitsubishi UFJ, said
at a news briefing. “Abroad, we’re going to selectively seize
lending demand and solidly expand businesses.”  Net interest margins at home are being squeezed as monetary
easing designed to spur the economy and end deflation pushes
government  borrowing costs  close to a nine-year low. Average
 interest rates  on new loans in Japan sank to a record-low 0.92
percent in February, according to central bank data.  “Megabanks may be able to bolster their lending income
this year as they’re boosting their overseas loans,” said
Yoshinobu Yamada, a Tokyo-based analyst at Deutsche Bank AG.  Mitsubishi UFJ boosted lending abroad 26 percent to 16.6
trillion yen as of March 31 from a year earlier, it said.
Sumitomo Mitsui’s banking unit increased overseas loans by 20
percent to 9.9 trillion yen, while Mizuho’s loans abroad rose 17
percent to 11.7 trillion yen, according to their statements.  Ready to Spend  The lenders are looking to build on their global expansions.
Mitsubishi UFJ, which owns 22 percent of Morgan Stanley, may
spend “several billion” dollars to buy U.S. regional banks,
lending unit President Nobuyuki Hirano said in April. The Tokyo-
based company which already owns San Francisco-based UnionBanCal
Corp., bought  Santa Barbara , California-based Pacific Capital
Bancorp for $1.5 billion in March.  Sumitomo Mitsui clinched a $93 million deal in January to
buy about 5 percent of U.S. investment bank Moelis & Co., a day
after the Tokyo-based lender announced its $7.3 billion purchase
of Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc’s aviation division.  Mizuho bought 15 percent of Joint-Stock Commercial Bank for
 Foreign Trade  of  Vietnam  for about $570 million last year.  “Mitsubishi UFJ has deeper pockets than its rivals and can
step up acquisitions abroad in the coming years, whereas
Sumitomo Mitsui will probably focus on investment rather than
acquisitions,” said Yamada at Deutsche Bank. “Mizuho seems to
be less aggressive on buyouts, but is attempting to expand
overseas lending on its own.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shigeru Sato in  Tokyo  at 
 ssato10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  