-- J.C. Penney Reports First-Quarter Loss Amid Sales Slump
-- B y   L a u r e n   C o l e m a n - L o c h n e r   a n d   C h r i s   B u r r i t t
-- 2012-05-16T20:37:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-15/j-c-penney-reports-first-quarter-loss-amid-sales-slump.html
J.C. Penney Co. (JCP) , the department-store
chain led by  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s former retailing chief, dropped the
most in more than three decades after posting a first-quarter
loss and sales that fell more than analysts projected.  J.C. Penney  tumbled  20 percent to $26.75 at the close in
 New York , the biggest drop since at least July 1980 and the
largest decline on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index today.  Sales slumped 20 percent to $3.15 billion, trailing the
$3.43 billion average of 16  estimates  compiled by Bloomberg. The
quarterly dividend will be discontinued, the Plano, Texas-based
company said yesterday in a statement.  The $163 million loss is a new challenge for Chief
Executive Officer  Ron Johnson , whose appointment in June caused
the shares to surge amid buzz that he would bring some Apple-
style magic to the ailing retailer. Johnson vowed to flip the
traditional department-store strategy upside-down by turning
stores into a collection of branded shops and simplifying
pricing into three tiers to wean consumers off discounts.  “Credibility has indeed been hit from different angles
this evening, all of which emanates from the over-selling of the
turnaround story months earlier,”  Brian Sozzi , an independent
analyst in New York, wrote yesterday in a note. There was a
premium built into the stock on hopes that Johnson “could
revive this relatively lifeless fish.” Sozzi recommends
investors sell the shares.  The loss equaled 75 cents a share, compared with profit of
$64 million, or 28 cents, a year earlier.  ‘Tougher Than Anticipated’  “Sales and profitability have been tougher than
anticipated during the first 13 weeks,” Johnson said in the
statement. “While we have work to do to educate the customer on
our pricing strategy and to drive more traffic to our stores, we
are confident in our vision to become America’s favorite
store.”  The company said discontinuing the 20-cent-a-share
quarterly dividend will result in cash savings of about $175
million on an annual basis.  In the quarter ended April 28, the company incurred $76
million in restructuring and management-transition charges.
Excluding those items, the loss totaled 25 cents a share. The
average of 16 analysts’  estimates  compiled by Bloomberg was for
a loss of 8 cents. J.C. Penney said it will record additional
restructuring charges throughout the fiscal year.  Margin Shrinks  Gross margin, the percentage of sales left after
subtracting the cost of goods sold, shrank to 37.6 percent from
40.5 percent a year earlier, according to the statement.  Same-store sales tumbled 18.9 percent in the quarter.  “Even though we think sales are materially below plan, the
team has been very focused on reducing costs up/down the entire
organization,”  Charles Grom , an analyst at Deutsche Bank AG in
New York, wrote in a May 10 note. He recommends holding the
shares.  Johnson’s taste for theater was apparent yesterday during
the company’s earnings presentation.  Instead of dialing in to a conference call, hundreds of
listeners packed a concrete-floor space on the far west side of
 Manhattan , near the Lincoln Tunnel, to hear Johnson and other
executives detail the company’s plans from onstage.  Johnson told analysts, vendors and others assembled that
the retailer needed to do a better job of communicating its
pricing strategy and to “wean” customers from using coupons.  Executives announced several new brands, including
collections by architect  Michael Graves , whose housewares for
 Target Corp. (TGT)  during Johnson’s time there helped establish that
retailer as a destination for discount design. J.C. Penney also
is adding lines by Jonathan Adler, Betsy Johnson and Tourneaux
watches.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lauren Coleman-Lochner in New York at 
 llochner@bloomberg.net ;
Chris Burritt in Greensboro at 
 cburritt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  