-- Jana Partners Took Stake in DirecTV, Exited Google Last Quarter
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C o l l i n s   a n d   E l i z a b e t h   O d y
-- 2012-05-15T15:32:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-15/jana-partners-took-stake-in-directv-exited-google-last-quarter.html
Jana Partners LLC, run by Barry Rosenstein, bought a new stake in  DirecTV (DTV) , the largest U.S.
satellite-TV provider, while selling its position in  Google
Inc. (GOOG) , according to a regulatory filing today.  The hedge fund acquired 3.2 million shares of DirecTV
valued at about $158 million as of March 31, according to a
filing with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. That
makes the El Segundo, California-based company Jana’s third-
largest holding as of the first quarter behind oil refiner
 Marathon Petroleum Corp. (MPC)  and pipeline firm  El Paso Corp. (EP) ,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Jana, based in New York, sold its stake in Google, the
world’s largest search-engine operator, valued at about $37
million as of Dec. 31. The value of its energy holdings
decreased by 10 percent last quarter, including selling about
10.2 million shares of Findlay, Ohio-based Marathon, its largest
position, Bloomberg data show. Marathon returned about 31
percent in the first three months of the year.  The value of its investments in consumer-staples companies
rose by about 6.6 percent during the quarter. Jana took a new
position in Atlanta-based  Coca-Cola Enterprises Inc. (CCE) , which
manufactures and distributes sodas. The fund’s stake of about
2.6 million shares, valued at about $73 million at the end of
March, accounted for about 3 percent of its portfolio.  Jana also increased its position in St. Louis-based battery
manufacturer  Energizer Holdings Inc. (ENR) , making it the fund’s fifth
largest holding at about 5.5 percent of the portfolio.  Jana is an event-driven fund, meaning it generally invests
in companies undergoing changes such as mergers, spinoffs and
bankruptcies. The firm oversees about $3 billion in investments
and commitments. Charles Penner, a Jana spokesman, declined to
comment on today’s filing.  Barnes & Noble  The hedge fund said it owned 6.96 million shares in  Barnes
& Noble Inc. (BKS)  as of April 11, according to a previous filing.
Jana said it sold 1 million shares of the bookstore chain as of
April 30. That day Barnes & Noble surged 52 percent after
 Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  said it will invest $300 million in a new unit
with the bookseller.  Jana also has taken an activist role in publisher  McGraw-
Hill Cos. (MHP) , proposing a plan last August to break up the company.
McGraw-Hill said Sept. 12 that it will break in two by the end
of this year, with one company focused on financial information
and the other on educational publishing.  Money managers who oversee more than $100 million in U.S.
equities must file a  Form 13F  within 45 days of the end of each
quarter to list their holdings in stocks that trade on U.S.
exchanges, as well as options and convertible debt.  Hedge funds are lightly regulated pools of capital whose
managers can invest in any asset, and share in annual profits.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Margaret Collins in  New York  at 
 mcollins45@bloomberg.net .  Elizabeth Ody in New York 
 eody@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rick Levinson at   rlevinson2@bloomberg.net . 