-- Japan Machinery Orders Seen Rising for a Second Quarter
-- B y   J a m e s   M a y g e r   a n d   A n d y   S h a r p
-- 2012-05-16T03:35:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-15/japanese-machinery-orders-fall-2-8-from-previous-month.html
Japan ’s machinery orders fell less
than economists anticipated in March and are forecast to rise
this quarter, signs that a stronger yen and slower global growth
have yet to temper corporate spending plans.  Bookings decreased 2.8 percent from the previous month, a
Cabinet Office report showed in  Tokyo  today, compared with a
median 3.5 percent decline in a Bloomberg News  survey  of 29
economists. The government also forecast orders will climb 2.5
percent in the three months ending June 30, which would be the
biggest advance in four quarters.  Japan’s government may report tomorrow that the world’s
third-biggest economy returned to growth in the first quarter
after shrinking in the final three months of last year, a
Bloomberg News survey of analysts shows. Two consecutive
quarters of rising machinery orders signal  capital spending  will
support growth even as reconstruction demand from last year’s
earthquake fades, economist Naoki Iizuka said.  “This is very good news,” Iizuka, a senior economist at
Mizuho Securities Co. in Tokyo, said of the government forecast.
“The Japanese economy will be able to enjoy relatively stable
growth compared with other advanced economies” thanks to
rebuilding from last year’s earthquake and corporate outlays, he
said.  The yen traded at 80.41 per dollar at 12:32 p.m. in Tokyo.
That compares with a post-World War II high of 75.35 in October
and this year’s low of 84.18 on March 15. Finance Minister  Jun Azumi  says that he’s watching for speculative moves in the
currency and is ready to take immediate action as needed.  Stocks Slide  Not all economists are convinced sustained gains in orders
will support an economy under risk from a stronger yen and
ongoing turmoil in  Europe . The Nikkei 225 Stock Average fell 1.2
percent as public and political opposition to austerity measures
in  Greece  add to the risk that the nation will exit the euro,
disrupting markets and the global economy.  Nippon Sheet Glass
Co. (5202) , which gets 39 percent of its sales in Europe, slumped to
its lowest level on record yesterday.  “The recovery in business investment is good news, but
it’s unlikely to be strong enough to help accelerate growth,”
said Hidenobu Tokuda, an economist at Mizuho Research Institute
Ltd. in Tokyo. “Companies are reluctant to increase spending
because of the strong yen.”  Post-election attempts to form a ruling coalition in Athens
broke down yesterday after nine days, sending Greeks back to the
polls next month with surveys giving the lead to an anti-bailout
party that would tear up the conditions attached to aid for the
debt-stricken nation.  Earthquake Rebuilding  In Japan, gross domestic product rose an annualized 3.5
percent in the first quarter, compared with a 0.7 percent
contraction in the final three months of 2011, according to the
median estimate of 27 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News. The
economy got a boost from earthquake rebuilding and incentives
for the purchase of energy-efficient cars.  The Cabinet Office will release the number at 8:50 a.m. in
Tokyo tomorrow.  As the boost from reconstruction wanes, the pace of the
expansion may slow. Growth may be 2.2 percent in the second and
third quarters, and 1.7 percent in the final three months of the
year, according to the average forecast of 40 economists in a
survey by Japan Center for  Economic Research  released yesterday.  To contact the reporters on this story:
James Mayger in Tokyo at 
 jmayger@bloomberg.net ;
Andy Sharp in Tokyo at 
 asharp5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  