-- Japan’s Growth Seen Peaking as BOJ Pressed to Stimulate
-- B y   K e i k o   U j i k a n e
-- 2012-05-16T00:29:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-15/japan-s-growth-seen-peaking-as-boj-pressed-to-add-more-stimulus.html
Japan ’s economic growth probably
peaked in the first quarter and analysts forecast the pace of
expansion will halve by year-end as the boost from earthquake
reconstruction fades.  Gross domestic product  rose an annualized 3.5 percent,
compared with a 0.7 percent contraction in the final three
months of 2011, according to the median estimate of 27
economists  surveyed  by Bloomberg News. The Cabinet Office will
give the number at 8:50 a.m. in  Tokyo  tomorrow.  Persistent deflation and the yen’s 5 percent climb against
the dollar since mid-March may encourage politicians to keep
pressing the  Bank of Japan  to add more stimulus to support
growth in the world’s third-biggest economy. As the boost from
rebuilding wanes, the nation will increasingly depend on exports
just as Europe’s sovereign-debt crisis and a slowdown in  China 
cloud the outlook for global demand.  “The pace of a slowdown later this year will depend on how
the  European debt crisis  will affect the yen and exports,” said
Masaaki Kanno, chief economist at JPMorgan Securities Japan Co.
in Tokyo and a former BOJ official. “The  Bank of Japan (8301)  may have
little choice but to ease more -- once every three months.”  Machinery orders fell a less-than-estimated 2.8 percent in
March from the previous month, a Cabinet Office report showed
today. An increase for the quarter as a whole and expectations
for another gain in the three months through June indicate
limits on how much the economy may slow.  Stocks, Currency  Europe ’s woes may fuel demand for the yen as a haven, with
the  currency trading  at 80.30 per dollar as of 9:19 a.m. in
Tokyo after climbing to a postwar high of 75.35 in October.  Japanese equities fell today as public and political
opposition to austerity measures in  Greece  add to the risk that
the nation will exit the euro, disrupting markets and the global
economy. The Nikkei 225 Stock Average declined 0.4 percent as of
9:06 a.m. in Tokyo.  Japan’s growth will probably slow to a 2.2 percent pace in
the second and third quarters, and 1.7 percent in the final
three months of the year, according to the average forecast of
40 economists in a survey by Japan Center for  Economic Research 
released yesterday.  “The key is to what extent overseas demand will be able to
support the economy when the effect of reconstruction demand
starts to wane,” said  Norio Miyagawa , a senior economist at
Mizuho Securities Research and Consulting Co. in Tokyo.
“There’s a high chance of additional monetary easing in July.”  More Stimulus  The central bank increased its asset-purchase program for a
second time in three months on April 27. On the same day, BOJ
board members predicted that consumer prices will advance 0.7
percent in the year to March 2014, compared with the central
bank’s 1 percent price goal set in February.  Some lawmakers are urging more aggressive easing to offset
fiscal tightening as Prime Minister  Yoshihiko Noda  struggles to
convince lawmakers to double a 5 percent sales tax as part of
efforts to contain the world’s largest public debt burden.  Noda has pledged more than 20 trillion yen ($250 billion)
to rebuild areas devastated by last year’s earthquake and
tsunami. Government incentives to buy fuel-efficient cars such
as tax waivers and rebates also gave a boost to  consumer
spending  last quarter, lifting seasonally adjusted  retail sales 
in January and February.  The government may end the subsidy program in June or July,
weakening consumer spending, according to Junko Nishioka, chief
economist at RBS Securities Japan Ltd. in Tokyo.  Energy Constraints  Constraints on energy use and prospects for more gains in
the yen made add to economic challenges. Japan may impose
rolling blackouts and electricity-savings targets this summer as
utilities struggle to power factories and light homes with as
many as 50 atomic plants offline.  In Kansai, which accounts for about 20 percent of the
economy and is the nation’s second-most important industrial
heartland, consumers face the biggest limit on power use, the
government says. The western region is home to Osaka, Kyoto and
Kobe cities as well as the headquarters of  Panasonic Corp. (6752) ,
Sharp Corp. and Nintendo Co.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Keiko Ujikane in Tokyo at 
 kujikane@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  