-- JPMorgan Says 91.5% of Shareholders Approve Pay Proposal
-- B y   D a w n   K o p e c k i   a n d   C h r i s t i n e   H a r p e r
-- 2012-05-15T17:12:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-15/jpmorgan-says-91-5-of-shareholders-approve-pay-proposal.html
JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , the biggest
U.S. bank by assets, said its executive compensation plan won
the approval of 91.5 percent of shareholders in a non-binding
annual advisory vote, up from 73 percent last year.  JPMorgan announced the preliminary results today at the
company’s annual shareholder meeting in Tampa,  Florida , where
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer  Jamie Dimon  also addressed
the $2 billion trading loss disclosed last week.  “This should never have happened,” Dimon, 56, said at the
meeting, where about a dozen protesters stood outside carrying
signs. “I can’t justify it.”  The board awarded $23 million in salary and bonuses to
Dimon for his 2011 performance, the same amount he received for
2010. The New York-based bank reported record  net income  for
2011 and its stock fell 22 percent during the year.  JPMorgan’s compensation plan also awarded $14 million in
salary and bonuses to Ina Drew, 55, who resigned yesterday. Her
departure came four days after JPMorgan disclosed that the chief
investment office that Drew oversaw lost $2 billion and may lose
more. The company will consider reclaiming some of her stock
awards, according to two senior executives.  “All corrective action will be taken as necessary,” Dimon
said at the meeting. “Ina served the firm for more than 30
years and has been a great partner. But it’s important that we
bring in new management.”  ‘Shocking’ News  Most of the votes on compensation and other proposals were
probably cast before the loss was announced, according to Nell Minow, co-owner and board member of GMI Ratings, a research firm
that specializes in corporate governance.  “I don’t think that the vote will be indicative of
shareholder concerns on this issue,” Minow said. “It’s unusual
to have such shocking and bad news come in after most of the
votes have been cast.”  Dimon read a statement about the losses at the start of the
meeting and the matter was raised only in passing by
shareholders who were given an opportunity to speak. Talking to
reporters after the meeting concluded, Dimon said, “The buck
always stops with me.”  ISS Proxy Services USA and Glass Lewis & Co., two
shareholder advisory firms, recommended on April 30 that
JPMorgan shareholders approve the bank’s compensation plan.  ISS said that while JPMorgan “continues to resist adopting
incentive plans with pre-established goals and long-term
objectives,” it added a feature “that provides both an
incentive for  sustained performance  and some mitigation against
excessive risk-taking.”  Shareholders also approved the re-election of all the
directors up for a vote, with each receiving at least 86.2
percent of the ballots cast, according to preliminary results
announced at the meeting. They defeated a proposal that would
have split the role of chairman and CEO.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dawn Kopecki in  New York  at 
 dkopecki@bloomberg.net ;
 Christine Harper  in New York at 
 charper@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  