-- JPMorgan Said to Consider Clawing Back Bonuses After Loss
-- B y   L a u r a   M a r c i n e k ,   D o n a l   G r i f f i n   a n d   D a w n   K o p e c k i
-- 2012-05-15T19:42:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-15/jpmorgan-said-to-weigh-bonus-clawbacks-after-loss.html
JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , the biggest
 U.S. bank , will consider reclaiming incentive pay from employees
including former Chief Investment Officer Ina Drew after her
unit had a $2 billion trading loss, said two senior executives.  The lender can cancel stock awards or demand they be repaid
if an employee “engages in conduct that causes material
financial or reputational harm,” JPMorgan said in its annual
proxy statement. The company will claw back pay if it’s
appropriate, said one of the executives, who asked not to be
identified because no decisions have been made.  The incident, which led to Drew’s retirement yesterday, may
test JPMorgan’s clawback policy amid mounting investor criticism
over Wall Street pay practices and as regulators investigate the
trades. Chief Executive Officer  Jamie Dimon  said the strategy
that led to the loss was “poorly executed and poorly
monitored” and that it gave ammunition to proponents of
stricter bank regulation.  “The political environment is very sensitive right now and
this couldn’t have come at a worse time,” said David Knutson, a
credit analyst in  Chicago  with Legal & General Investment
Management, which owns JPMorgan debt. “I can see how pressure
from regulators could result in JPMorgan attempting to exercise
a clawback.”  ‘Every Single Dollar’  New York City Comptroller  John Liu  said that JPMorgan
should tell shareholders it will “aggressively claw back every
single dollar possible from the executives responsible for the
$2 billion loss,” according to a statement today.  “Doing so will send a clear message to senior management
that anyone who recklessly gambles with shareholder money is
jeopardizing long-term value and will be held accountable,” Liu
said in the statement.  JPMorgan’s executive-compensation plan won the approval of
91.5 percent of shareholders today in a non-binding advisory
vote at the company’s annual meeting in Tampa,  Florida .  Drew, 55, received $14 million in compensation for 2011,
including $7.1 million in restricted stock, a $4.7 million cash
bonus and $750,000 salary, according to the proxy. Her pay over
the past two years averaged $1.2 million a month. After three
decades at the company, she was replaced yesterday by Matt Zames, co-head of global fixed income at the investment bank.  ‘Gross Negligence’  Stock awards can be canceled or repaid if a member of the
operating committee, which included Drew, “improperly or with
gross negligence” fails to identify risk, JPMorgan said in the
proxy. Committee members also can have 2012 stock awards
canceled if Dimon deems their performance was “unsatisfactory
for a sustained period of time,” according to the proxy.  Drew didn’t respond to phone and e-mail messages seeking
comment.  Jennifer Zuccarelli , a bank spokeswoman, declined to
comment.  JPMorgan’s stock declined 9.3 percent the day after Dimon
disclosed the loss on May 10, the biggest drop since August. The
shares slid 3.2 percent yesterday to $35.79 in  New York .  The trading loss has hurt JPMorgan’s reputation, Dimon said
in a conference call last week. It “puts egg on our face and we
deserve any criticism we get,” he said.  More shareholders are voting to reject compensation
packages for senior executives as  Europe ’s sovereign-debt crisis
and stagnating economic growth squeeze bank profits. Citigroup
Inc. shareholders last month rejected compensation for
executives including CEO Vikram Pandit in a non-binding vote
after the New York-based firm’s shares plunged 44 percent last
year.  Morgan Stanley  Morgan Stanley (MS) , owner of the world’s biggest brokerage,
instituted clawbacks in 2009 that allow the New York-based bank
to take back compensation if an employee’s conduct hurts the
firm in the years after it was paid.  UBS AG (UBSN)  said in 2010 that
its net loss a year earlier would trigger a bonus clawback for
the first time, depriving bankers of 300 million Swiss francs
($321 million) of deferred pay they were due to receive.  JPMorgan will have to weigh the trading loss against Drew’s
tenure at the firm and any profit her unit generated before this
year, said Paul Sorbera, president of executive search firm
Alliance Consulting in New York.  The bank’s corporate division, under which she reported,
earned a peak of $3.7 billion in 2009. The bank doesn’t break
out results for the chief investment office. Dimon, upon
announcing Drew’s retirement, called her a “great partner” who
has made “vast contributions” to the firm, according to a
statement yesterday.  “There are so many things she’s entitled to in the
organization -- as a long-term employee, as a managing director,
as woman in the organization -- they want to take care of her,
they want to do the right thing by her,” Sorbera said. “The
bank will be in a position where they probably could go one way
or the other.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Laura Marcinek in New York at 
 lmarcinek3@bloomberg.net ;
Donal Griffin in New York at 
 dgriffin10@bloomberg.net ;
Dawn Kopecki in New York at 
 dkopecki@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  