-- Julius Baer Says Profitability Drops as Clients Shun Risk
-- B y   G i l e s   B r o o m
-- 2012-05-15T08:48:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-15/julius-baer-says-profitability-drops-as-clients-shun-risk.html
Julius Baer Group Ltd. (BAER) , the Swiss
wealth manager established in 1890, said revenue earned on
assets under management dropped in the first four months of this
year as client appetite for risk remained “subdued.”  Baer fell the most in more than three months in Zurich
trading after  reporting  the gross margin, a measure of
profitability, was “slightly below” 100 basis points over the
period compared with 105 basis points in  2011 . A basis point is
one-hundredth of a percentage point.  Switzerland’s fourth-biggest money manager is seeking
acquisitions and building branch networks in  emerging markets 
and Europe as a crackdown on  tax evasion  pushes customers to
repatriate funds from cross-border accounts. While net inflows
beat the bank’s target of 4 percent to 6 percent annualized
growth, clients traded less, according to  Julius Baer .  “The message in this update is not overly positive,” said
 Dirk Becker , a Frankfurt-based analyst with Kepler Capital
Markets. “They’re reeling in new client money at the expense of
their margins. Julius Baer is one of the most expensive
financial stocks.”  Julius Baer fell as much as 4.9 percent and was down 4.8
percent at 32.56 Swiss francs at 10:36 a.m., making it the worst
performer on the 43-company Bloomberg Europe Banks and Financial
Services Index, which gained less than 0.1 percent.  Julius Baer said it’s trying to bring down its cost-to-
income ratio after the measure worsened to more than 70 percent
during the first fourth months of this year from 68 percent in
2011.  Net Inflows  Assets under management rose 4 percent to 178 billion
francs ($190 billion) at the end of April, from 170.3 billion
francs four months earlier, the bank said today in a  statement .  Net inflows included strong contributions from “growth
markets and from the local private banking business in
 Germany ,” the bank said. The bank hired relationship managers
and opened a new representative office in  Tel Aviv  in March.  Julius Baer said Feb. 6 it expects to pay a fine and hand
over client data to U.S. authorities as part of an investigation
into Americans using Swiss banks to hide money from the  Internal
Revenue Service . The bank, which exited its U.S. private-client
business between 2009 and 2011, said at the time that the amount
of the fine is not “reliably assessable.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Giles Broom in Geneva at   gbroom@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net  