-- K&L Gates Must Face Lawsuit Over Le-Nature’s Demise
-- B y   S o p h i a   P e a r s o n
-- 2012-05-15T17:58:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-15/k-l-gates-must-face-lawsuit-over-le-nature-s-demise.html
K&L Gates LLP must face a lawsuit
over drink maker Le-Nature’s Inc.’s collapse, a  Pennsylvania 
appeals court ruled in reinstating a $500 million case against
the law firm.  Bankruptcy trustee Marc Kirschner sued K&L Gates in
September 2009 in Pennsylvania state court, alleging the firm’s
failure to detect fraud at the company resulted in losses of
more than $500 million. K&L Gates was hired by Le-Nature’s to
investigate allegations of improper conduct in 2003, according
to court documents. The trial court’s December 2010 dismissal of
the complaint was an error, the appeals court said yesterday.  “We conclude that the amended complaint avers a legally
sufficient basis for concluding that K&L Gates owed a duty to
Le-Nature’s and that K&L Gates’s breach of that duty proximately
caused harm to Le-Nature’s,” the appellate court ruled
yesterday in a 54-page opinion.  The court also concluded that Le-Nature’s had asserted a
“viable cause of action” for holding the  law firm 
“vicariously liable” for the negligence of Pascarella & Wiker
LLP, a financial accounting firm.  Michael Rick, a spokesman for K&L Gates, and Carl Wiker, a
partner with Pascarella & Wiker, didn’t immediately return phone
calls seeking comment on the ruling.  Le-Nature’s, based in Latrobe, Pennsylvania, produced
bottled water, tea and other flavored drinks in Latrobe and a
plant in Phoenix. Creditors pushed the company into bankruptcy
in 2006 demanding that its assets be sold to pay $1.4 million in
debts, about two years before company officials were indicted in
a $800 million fraud.  Le-Nature’s co-founder Gregory Podlucky was sentenced in
October to 20 years in prison for fraud,  tax evasion  and money-
laundering related to the company’s collapse.  The case is Kirschner v. K&L Gates LLP, No. 154 WDA 2011,
Superior Court of Pennsylvania  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sophia Pearson in Philadelphia at 
 spearson3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  