-- Kazakhstan Bad-Loan Fund Insufficient to Mend Banks, Fitch Says
-- B y   N a r i m a n   G i z i t d i n o v
-- 2012-05-15T15:17:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-15/kazakhstan-bad-loan-fund-insufficient-to-mend-banks-fitch-says.html
The Kazakh central bank’s problem-
loan fund may provide only “marginal” relief to asset quality
and will be challenging to implement,  Fitch Ratings  said.  “Without some form of government enhancement, the fund
might face difficulties in raising funds from private investors,
while the central bank is ready to provide only a third of the
financing,”  James Watson , a managing director at Fitch, said in
a presentation distributed in Almaty today.  The central bank created the fund last month to remedy
strains in the financial industry and said it was planning a
pilot project to buy non-performing assets from commercial
lenders. The entity, which is 100 percent controlled by the
regulator, is collecting information about bad loans and later
plans to issue bonds against which its purchases of delinquent
debt will be made, according to the National Bank of  Kazakhstan .  The size of the fund will probably be limited to $1
billion, making it “rather small” compared with an estimated
$25 billion of problem loans in the Kazakh banking industry and
$8 billion in accrued interest, according to Fitch.  “A rather illiquid local-asset market makes valuations
difficult and could lengthen the process of initial asset
transfer from banks to the fund,” Watson said.  The nation initially sought to create a fund for non-
performing loans by last July. It may sell 150 billion tenge ($1
billion) of bonds, with the National Bank of Kazakhstan buying a
third of the securities should lenders and pension funds
purchase two-thirds of the debt in the first two sales, central
bank Chairman Grigori Marchenko said last year.  Bank Defaults  Central Asia’s biggest energy producer used $10 billion
from its oil fund to support banks and companies after credit
markets froze and a property bubble burst in 2008.  BTA Bank (BTAS) , the
biggest lender at the time,  Alliance Bank (ASBN)  and Temirbank agreed
with creditors to discount and extend payments on about $20
billion of debt after they defaulted in 2009.  “Successful resolution of problem loans will depend
critically on the willingness of banks to accept realistic asset
valuation and recognize losses, and on the readiness of the
National Bank of Kazakhstan to enforce proper provisioning and
adequate bank capitalization,” the  International Monetary Fund 
said in a  statement  last week.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nariman Gizitdinov in Almaty at 
 ngizitdinov@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at   sev@bloomberg.net  