-- Kenya Shilling Drops 6th Day, Longest Losing Streak in 9 Months
-- B y   J o h n s t o n e   O l e   T u r a n a
-- 2012-05-15T15:48:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-15/kenya-shilling-drops-6th-day-longest-losing-streak-in-9-months.html
Kenya ’s shilling slumped for the
sixth day, its longest losing streak in nine months, amid
speculation oil importers were buying dollars in the market.  The currency of East Africa’s biggest economy depreciated
0.2 percent to 83.85 per dollar by 5:57 p.m. in Nairobi, after
trading as much as 1.1 percent weaker earlier.  “Corporate buyers with pent-up demand for the dollar who
have significant exposure are buying in anticipation of further
weakening of the shilling,” Bernard Matimu, chief dealer at
Nairobi based  NIC Bank Ltd. (NICB) , said in a phone interview today.
There was increased demand from oil importers, he said.  Kenya’s central bank sold an unspecified amount of dollars
today to support the shilling, John Muli, a trader at African
Banking Corp. Ltd., said in a telephone interview from Nairobi.  Kenya accepted all 2.4 billion shillings ($28.5 million) of
bids for  repurchase agreements  at a weighted average rate of 17
percent, after offering 5 billion shillings of the securities,
an official of the bank who declined to be identified in line
with policy said in a phone interview from the capital, today.  “The mop up action by the central bank has not supported
the shilling substantially due to incoming dollar demand, hence
the weakening streak,” Matimu said.  Kenya’s government signed a $600 million two-year loan
accord with three foreign banks that will be repaid at interest
rate of 475 basis points above the London interbank offered
rate,  Standard Bank Group Ltd. (SBK)  said.  The loan has been underwritten by  Citigroup Inc. (C) , based in
New York,  Standard Bank , Africa’s biggest lender based in
Johannesburg, and London-based  Standard Chartered Plc (STAN) , David McCaig, the global head of debt products at Standard Bank Group,
said in an interview today in Nairobi, the Kenyan capital.  “We expect the loan, which will be in foreign currency, to
assist in the stabilisation of the shilling and building up of
the foreign-currency reserves,” Njeru Githae minister of
finance told reporters in Nairobi, the capital.  Tanzania’s shilling gained for the first day in three,
appreciating 0.4 percent to 1,577 per dollar, while the Ugandan
shilling weakened 1 percent to 2,490 per dollar.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Johnstone Ole Turana in Nairobi at 
 jturana@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at   asguazzin@bloomberg.net  