-- Kenya Signs $600 Million Loan Accord With Three Lenders
-- B y   E r i c   O m b o k   a n d   J o h n s t o n e   T u r a n a
-- 2012-05-15T16:17:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-15/kenya-signs-600-million-loan-agreement-with-four-lenders-1-.html
Kenya ’s government signed a $600
million two-year loan with three foreign banks that will be
repaid at an interest rate of 475 basis points above the London
interbank offered rate, Finance Minister Robinson Githae said.  The syndicated loan, Kenya’s first, was underwritten by
 Citigroup Inc. (C) , based in  New York , Standard Bank Group Ltd.,
 Africa ’s biggest lender based in Johannesburg, and London-based
 Standard Chartered Plc (STAN) , Githae told reporters today in Nairobi,
the capital. The funds will be used to finance infrastructure
spending, he said.  “The loan will have significant positive impact on the
economy,” Githae said. “It will also ease pressure on the
domestic  interest rates  and boost the international reserves of
the central bank, thus stabilizing the Kenyan shilling.”  Kenya,  East Africa ’s biggest economy, is rated by both
Standard & Poor’s and Fitch Ratings at B+, which is four steps
below investment grade, and the same as  Cape Verde  and Zambia.
The loan comes after the government cut its domestic borrowing
target by half for the 2011-12 fiscal year as the central bank
held interest rates at a record 18 percent, boosting Kenyan bond
yields.  The loan is “competitively priced when compared with other
similar African debt financings,” Githae said, citing yields on
Ghanaian, Senegalese and Gabonese 10-year bonds that have
coupons ranging from 8.2 percent to 8.75 percent. Kenya’s
central bank sold two-year bonds at a weighted average yield of
13.8 percent on April 25, according to the bank’s website.  Debt Tranches  The first $240 million portion of the loan will be
disbursed immediately, subject to relevant conditions being
fulfilled, while the remainder will be released within 30 days,
David McCaig, the global head of debt products at  Standard Bank ,
said in an interview today in Nairobi.  The loan will be repaid through the issue of a sovereign
bond “on or before its term,” Githae said today.  Kenya currently has 1.51 trillion shillings ($17.8 billion)
of outstanding public debt, made up of 686 billion shillings of
foreign debt and 830 billion of domestic borrowings, according
to Githae. He dismissed concern “in the press and by other
parties” that the government may have difficulty in repaying
the debt.  “The amount borrowed in absolute numbers is high, but the
correct way to consider debt burden is in terms of the size of
the economy and the capacity to repay,” Githae said. “The debt
is sustainable and there is low risk of debt distress.”  The shilling pared its loss to 83.85 per dollar, or 0.2
percent lower, by 7:08 p.m. in Nairobi after weakening as much
as 1.1 percent earlier in the day, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eric Ombok in Nairobi at 
 eombok@bloomberg.net ;
Johnstone Ole Turana in Nairobi at 
 jturana@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shaji Mathew at 
 shajimathew@bloomberg.net  