-- Kexim to Beat $11 Billion Bond Sale Goal on Lower Debt Costs
-- B y   T a e j i n   P a r k
-- 2012-05-16T04:12:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-15/kexim-boosts-11-billion-bond-sale-target-as-debt-costs-tumble.html
Export-Import Bank of Korea  plans to
exceed its $11 billion debt raising target this year, taking
advantage of tumbling bond yields to cut funding costs and boost
lending to the nation’s exporters.  Kexim has raised $5.2 billion from notes denominated in
currencies other than won since Jan. 1, the state-owned bank’s
Chief Financial Officer Kim Yoon-Yung said in a May 14 interview
in  Seoul . The weighted average coupon on its bonds has dropped
to 4.34 percent from 5.02 percent at the end of 2010, according
to  data  compiled by Bloomberg.  “The current environment is very good for us borrowers,”
Kim said. “As the Korean economy grows, the funding requirement
from our clients has gotten bigger and bigger.”  Kexim has provided loans to an Indonesian steel plant part-
owned by Posco and a Qatar gas project being built by Hyundai
Heavy Industries Co. in the past 12 months to bolster South
Korean exporters, whose output is equivalent to half the
nation’s economy, Bloomberg data show. Korean borrowers led by
Kexim have sold $15.5 billion of international debt in 2012, the
most for this part of the year since Bloomberg started tracking
the data in 1999.  Kexim plans to sell at least 80 billion yen ($995 million)
of Samurai bonds as early as this week, the country’s largest-
ever such offering, Kim said. The notes will be offered in two-,
three- and five-year maturities and will be priced to yield
“slightly higher than we priced last June,” he said.  Yields Decline  The lender’s previous 80 billion yen offering of Samurai
bonds in June was also split into three parts. Two-year debt was
priced to yield 50 basis points more than the yen swap rate,
while three-year notes paid a 60 basis-point spread and five-
year bonds yielded 73 basis points more than the benchmark,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Average yields on Korean dollar-denominated notes slid to
3.35 percent on May 8, the lowest since August, according to
JPMorgan Chase & Co.  indexes . Korean bonds yield the least among
13 Asian countries after  Singapore , the JPMorgan data show.  Investors allocated $14.4 billion to emerging market bond
funds in the first quarter, a more than a seven-fold jump from
the same period a year ago, according to EPFR Global, a U.S.
provider of fund flows.  Korea  is  Asia ’s third-biggest exporter behind China and
 Japan , and the eighth-biggest globally, according to U.S.
government  figures .  Kexim, which doesn’t take funds from domestic depositors,
borrows from global  capital markets  to help finance Korean
companies’ overseas projects. It typically raises debt in
foreign currencies to match the funding needs of its exporter
customers.  Posco Steel Plant  The bank contributed $1.2 billion of the $1.73 billion
facility for PT Krakatau  Posco (005490) , this year’s second-largest loan
in Asia, data compiled by Bloomberg show. Posco and PT Krakatau
Steel’s joint venture is building a steel plant in  Indonesia 
with 6 million metric tons of output a year.  Kexim will also provide $1 billion of project financing to
 Qatar Petroleum ’s Barzan gas-field project, the lender said in
December. Hyundai Heavy is part of the engineering consortium
developing an offshore platform for the $10.3 billion project.  South Korean exports reached a  record  $49 billion in July
fueled by steel and computer memory chips, before falling to
$46.3 billion in April as  Europe ’s debt crisis crimped demand.  Kexim has the equivalent of $33 billion in  bonds and loans 
due by the end of 2017, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
It is leading Korea’s international debt issuer rankings for the
seventh straight year, the data show.  “You always have to be prepared to jump in anytime,” when
markets are receptive to bond sellers, Kim said. “When the
window is open, just grab it.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Taejin Park in Seoul at 
 tpark31@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Shelley Smith  at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  