-- Knife Brawl Over $8 Food Debt Reveals Egyptian Risks
-- B y   T a r e k   E l - T a b l a w y   a n d   A l a a   S h a h i n e
-- 2012-05-16T15:22:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-15/knife-brawl-over-8-food-debt-reveals-egyptian-risks.html
After a punch split his lip and sent
blood trickling down his chin, Mustafa Badawi whipped out a
knife and slashed at his opponent.  The glint of the blade and the yells from the narrow street
of a Cairo slum drew dozens to the brawl, their feet kicking up
dust as they rushed to stop a dispute over a debt of about $8
from escalating into murder.  “Where am I supposed to get the money from?” Badawi cried
as he was wrestled to the ground. The funds had been borrowed to
buy food and repay other debts from a neighbor. “If you want
your money, then take it in blood. That’s all I have.” Behind
him, candidates from  Egypt ’s presidential election gazed out
from campaign posters lining the street.  In the 15 months since President  Hosni Mubarak ’s ouster,
Egypt’s worst economic slowdown in decades is testing the faith
of those facing the greatest hardship as the Arab world’s most
populous nation starts its first free vote for a head of state
on May 23. Final results may not be known until June 21.  With most Egyptians seeing the economy as the nation’s top
priority, according to a Pew Research Center survey, authorities
must balance investor demands with the needs of the poor who
make up about 40 percent of the population. Failure risks
reigniting unrest, deepening the woes that make the country one
of the 10 most likely to default, said  Wael Ziada , head of
research at EFG-Hermes Holding SAE, the biggest publicly traded
Arab investment bank.  ‘Given Up Hope’  The rift between rich and poor that had narrowed after the
January 2011 uprising has started to widen again. While about
two-thirds of the richest are satisfied with Egypt’s direction,
only 42 percent of the lowest earners share that view, according
to the May 8 Pew poll. The two groups were equally optimistic
after Mubarak’s departure.  “This is a dangerous period,” said Mahmoud El-Askalany,
head of consumer-rights group Egyptians Against High Prices.
“The poor have given up hope on the political process.”  Two of every five Egyptians live on less than $2 a day and
it’s people like Badawi who would bear the brunt of short-term
inflationary pressures brought about by policies to restore
confidence and attract investors.  “You need subsidy restructuring, currency restructuring
and some restructuring of the financial system -- unfortunately
this will lead to inflation,” Ziada said.  The  International Monetary Fund  says that Egypt may end up
with the fastest inflation and slowest growth this year among
countries in the  Middle East  with traded foreign debt.  Devaluation Pressure  Egypt is also under pressure to devalue the currency after
international reserves were depleted by about 60 percent to
$15.2 billion, the lowest since 2004.  London-based Silk Invest Ltd. has said it stopped buying
Egypt’s local-currency debt on concerns about a possible
devaluation. The pound, subject to managed float, has lost 3.8
percent since the start of last year. Currency forwards show
investors expect it will weaken by 20 percent in a year.  The world’s largest wheat importer last devalued the
currency in 2003 after  a drop in reserves  prompted authorities
to impose restrictions on foreign-currency withdrawals. The
inflation rate more than doubled the next year to 8 percent.  Concerns about rising consumer prices have some wealthy
Egyptians taking steps to shield their savings.  Gold Sales  Mohamed Roushdy, the 37-year-old founder of Bullion Rosche,
a Cairo-based company that sells gold and silver bars, said
demand is so high he plans to hire 25 people for marketing,
which is now handled by him and an associate. He’s targeting
people with savings of 30,000 Egyptian pounds ($4,969) to
100,000 Egyptian pounds. Ahmed Amin, a 33-year-old oncologist,
said he’s converting his assets to dollars.  “When everything around you gets shaken, you look for
security,” Roushdy said.  Wrangling between Islamists who dominate parliament and the
country’s military rulers over the constitution, the election
law and other issues have stymied economic policy and undermined
efforts to secure a $3.2 billion IMF loan.  “The people aren’t going to eat the election law, freedom
or democracy,” El-Askalany said.  Foreign investors are already punishing Egypt for
indecision on the economy. The cost of insuring the country’s
debt against default surged 37 basis points, or 0.37 percentage
point today to 647, the highest level since January, according
to data provider CMA, extending their advance since the start of
last year to 402 basis points, the data show. Egypt’s credit
worthiness was lowered four times at Moody’s Investors Service
to B2, five levels below investment grade.  Daily Protests  The rating company said in April it has extended its review
of another possible cut pending the outcome of the presidential
election and the country’s talks with the IMF.  Underscoring the urgency for the next government are near-
daily protests over issues such as fuel shortages and public
sector wages. Increased hardships for the poor will create a
backlash against the emergent political parties, said  Ahmed
Maher , a founder of the April 6 movement, a youth group that
helped organize the initial anti-Mubarak protests.  “This is going to come down on their heads,” he said.  El-Askalany, the head of the consumer rights group, had
predicted in mid-2010, months before the start of the uprising,
that there was a “hunger revolution” brewing. “Not much has
changed now,” he said.  Food a Luxury  Manal Abdel-Meguid, a 37-year-old housekeeper and mother of
three, says grocery items that cost her 300 pounds a month
before the uprising now cost her 30 percent more. Food prices
rose at an annual rate of 10.8 percent in April, according to
the statistics agency. Chicken prices climbed 28 percent in the
five months through April, according to the central bank.  “It’s getting to the point that food is becoming a
luxury,” she said outside a Cairo market.  Candidates are pledging to protect the poor.  Amre Moussa , a
former foreign minister who leads opinion polls, is campaigning
on a promise to lure enough external financing to boost
investments, create jobs and avert a devaluation.  The Islamist Freedom and Justice Party, which is fielding
Mohamed Mursi as a candidate, wants to change subsidies so that
the poor benefit more directly and others pay market rates.
Mursi launched his candidacy by promising to help mothers who
can’t afford medication.  Ahmed Shafik, Mubarak’s last prime minister, smiles from
billboards totting the slogan: “Action, not words.” Many
Egyptians see these pledges are little more than hollow
promises.  “No one helps us,” said Badawi, the 25-year-old
unemployed artisan’s apprentice, as he was led away by a group
of men after the fight. “They talk and fight, and we starve.
This is all we got from this revolution,” he said, pointing to
campaign posters.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tarek El-Tablawy in Cairo at 
 teltablawy@bloomberg.net ;
Alaa Shahine in Dubai at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net ;
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  