-- NLRB Can Revive Speedy Union Vote Rule Judge Threw Out
-- B y   W i l l i a m   M c Q u i l l e n   a n d   S a r a   F o r d e n
-- 2012-05-15T20:12:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-15/nlrb-can-revive-speedy-union-vote-rule-judge-threw-out.html
A  National Labor Relations Board  rule
to speed up elections on whether to form a union, thrown out on
a technicality yesterday by a federal judge, could be quickly
reinstated, according to labor lawyers.  U.S. District Judge James Boasberg ruled yesterday that the
NLRB lacked a quorum when it approved the measure in December.
In response, the board today “temporarily suspended” the rule
and pledged to “move forward” on the issue. Only two members
voted when three are needed for a quorum.  Jesse Choper, a law professor at the  University of
California  at Berkeley, said the judge’s legal reasoning
constituted a “technicality” and can be easily resolved.  “The worst that can happen is they go back and have a
meeting of three or five,” Choper said. “They can make their
quorum.”  In his decision, Boasberg said representation elections
will have to continue under previously established procedures
unless the board votes with a proper quorum. The rule went into
effect on April 30.  “According to  Woody Allen , 80 percent of life is just
showing up,” Boasberg wrote in an opinion. “When it comes to
satisfying a quorum requirement, though, showing up is even more
important than that.”  Republican board member  Brian Hayes  didn’t cast a vote on
the final rule when agency acted in December.  Opposition Indicated  Two of the three members, both Democrats, voted to adopt
the rule. Because he had previously voted against the standard,
the board held that Hayes had “effectively indicated his
opposition,” Boasberg wrote.  “Two is simply not enough,” Boasberg wrote. “The board
lacked the authority to issue it, and therefore it cannot
stand.”  The labor board held hearings on the proposals in July and
began taking final action in November. Hayes dissented on two
procedural votes and didn’t cast a ballot when the final rule
was circulated to the board members on Dec. 16.  “We continue to believe that the amendments represent a
significant improvement in our process and serve the public
interest by eliminating unnecessary litigation,” NLRB Chairman
Mark Gaston said in a statement today.  Issues ‘Sidestepped’  The rule change, supported by labor and challenged in court
by the U.S. Chamber of Commerce, simplified and shortened
balloting at a time when the unionized share of the workforce is
falling. The compressed schedule could have cut the time
permitted for voting in half to as few as 15 days, labor
relations consultant Phillip Wilson said.  “The issue has been sidestepped,” said  Gary Chaison , a
professor of industrial relations at  Clark University  in
Worcester,  Massachusetts . “They could have a vote within a week
or two.”  Unions win 87 percent of elections held 15 days or less
after a request, a rate that falls to 58 percent when the vote
takes place after 36 to 40 days, according to a February report
by Bloomberg Government.  In January, President  Barack Obama  appointed three more
members to the board, assuring a quorum, bypassing Senate
confirmation. Opponents have filed lawsuits challenging the
legality of those appointments. That case is unrelated to the
issue decided yesterday.  ‘Cloud of Uncertainty’  The U.S. Chamber of Commerce said the Boasberg’s decision
puts a “cloud of uncertainty” over the NLRB due to the
challenges over the recess appointments. Any future vote on the
rule could be thrown out if courts rule against the
appointments, said Sheldon Gilbert, an attorney with National
Chamber Litigation Center.  “The board and the courts must reconsider this issue as
soon as possible so that the board can do its job of protecting
workers’ rights,” Teamsters General President Jim Hoffa said in
a statement today.  The case is Chamber of Commerce v. National Labor Relations
Board, 11-2262, U.S. District Court,  District of Columbia 
( Washington ).  To contact the reporters on this story:
William McQuillen in Washington at 
 bmcquillen@bloomberg.net ;
Sara Forden in Washington at 
 sforden@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net ;
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  