-- Norway Eases Planned Oil Spending as Budget Kept Expansionary
-- B y   S t e p h e n   T r e l o a r   a n d   J o s i a n e   K r e m e r
-- 2012-05-15T09:01:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-15/norway-eases-planned-oil-spending-as-budget-kept-expansionary.html
Norway  cut planned oil-revenue
spending to ease pressure on the krone and interest rates, while
sticking to budget stimulus as economic growth slows.  The world’s seventh-largest crude exporter will use 116
billion kroner ($19 billion) of its oil revenue, compared with
an October forecast of 122 billion kroner, the  Finance Ministry 
said in its revised 2012 budget today. The budget is expected to
add 0.75 percentage point to growth as structural oil spending
is estimated to rise 19 billion kroner from 2011.  Unemployment in Norway is the lowest in  Europe  as record
investments in its oil and gas fields has allowed the nation of
5 million people to withstand Europe’s debt crisis. The
country’s central bank has cut rates twice since December to
keep krone gains in check after the currency gained haven status
and to protect the economy from the fallout of Europe’s crisis.  “Economic activity in Norway has held up well in 2012,
despite the global economic slowdown,” Finance Minister
Sigbjoern Johnsen said in the statement. “Unemployment is
expected to remain at the current low level. In the revision of
the 2012 Budget, the Government emphasizes the need for fiscal
constraint to reduce the pressure on the  exchange rate  and
exposed mainland industries.”  GDP Slows  The government said it expects mainland gross domestic
product, which excludes oil and gas production, to expand 2.75
percent this year, compared with a forecast of 3.1 percent in
October. Mainland growth will be 3 percent in 2013.  Home prices  increased an annual 8.5 percent in April,
according to the Norwegian Real Estate Brokers Association,
while retail sales jumped 9.6 percent in March. Policy makers
are battling to limit gains in the currency, which has become a
haven currency for investors seeking to escape Europe’s debt
crisis. Norway boasts the world’s biggest budget surplus of any
AAA rated nation and has no net debt.  Net revenue from petroleum activities for 2012 is estimated
at 378 billion kroner, compared with the 352 billion kroner
anticipated in October, according to the budget.  The Nordic nation places most of its energy revenue in a
fund that invests abroad to avoid stoking inflation in the
domestic economy. The  Government Pension Fund Global  is Europe’s
largest equity investor. A fiscal spending rule limits the use
of petroleum revenue for budget purposes to 4 percent of the
fund. The government breached this limit in 2009 and 2010 to
support the economy during the global slump.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Josiane Kremer in Oslo at 
 jkremer4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonas Bergman at 
 jbergman@bloomberg.net  