-- Nude Olympian Joins Andy Murray to Sell Hot Sports Drink: Health
-- B y   T r i s t a   K e l l e y
-- 2012-05-16T16:00:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-15/nude-olympian-joins-andy-murray-to-sell-hot-sports-drink-health.html
Provexis Plc (PXS) , vying for a sliver of
the $42 billion sports-drink market, is counting on a lift from
unsolicited athlete endorsements on the eve of the  Summer
Olympics .  Olympian Rebecca Romero, who in 2008 posed nude on her
bicycle in an advertisement for  Coca-Cola Co. (KO) ’s Powerade, signed
on to promote Science in Sport gels in March, after years of
endorsing the gels by using them on her own. The British gold
and silver medalist has said the products have been giving her
an athletic edge for more than a decade. Olympic tennis hopeful
 Andy Murray  also regularly uses the company’s gels and asked the
Windsor, England-based company for a supply before the
Australian Open in January.  It’s the latest example of informal backing from athletes
that creates priceless buzz for small companies, enabling them
to compete in the high-stakes sports nutrition market against
players ten times their size.  “I don’t think the big brands can do elite sports like we
can,” Chief Executive Officer Stephen Moon, a former
 GlaxoSmithKline Plc (GSK)  executive, said in an interview. “They
don’t have the credibility. You can’t unravel our standing with
elite athletes just by spending the cash. We have a small but
powerful niche brand.”  Brand Builder  Moon knows a thing or two about brand building.  Lucozade ,
the product that Moon oversaw at London-based Glaxo before
joining Provexis in 2003, is the U.K.’s biggest-selling sports
drink, according to market research company Mintel
International.  Science in Sport may never get that big or even close.
Provexis is dwarfed by the market leader,  PepsiCo Inc. (PEP) ’s
Gatorade. Science in Sport, acquired by Provexis in June, had
sales of 5 million pounds ($8 million) last year for its gels,
powders, drinks and bars, compared with about $13.8 billion for
Gatorade, which dominates the industry with 33 percent of the
market.  Still, the sports and energy drink market is the fastest-
growing in the beverage industry, rising 14 percent to $41.5
billion in 2011 from $36.3 billion in 2010, according to
Euromonitor International.  That means that even small players
may have room to break in if they are skilled enough.  Provexis has a plan. Like its much larger competitors, the
company is counting on snaring its own piece of the 100 million
pounds in extra revenue the Olympics are expected to bring in,
as an influx of visitors boosts visibility of local brands,
according to  Datamonitor .  Free Advertising  “You’ve got a month’s worth of free advertising for the
sports and sports-related industries,” said Vincent Mitchell,
professor of consumer marketing at  Cass Business School  in
London. “You’re likely to see gym subscriptions go up,
activity-type holidays go up, sports drinks, athletic shoes, it
will be a mass effect.”  Moon has another important asset: his one-time boss at
Glaxo, the company’s former consumer-health chief  John Clarke ,
joined the board last month and will tap his industry contacts
to help develop marketing strategy.  The company’s sales grew 13 percent last year and its goal
is for 20 percent growth, Moon said.  To be sure, Provexis’s investors are not yet convinced that
the two former Glaxo men will succeed in winning business from
the big brands. The shares have fallen 40 percent in the past
year, giving the company a market value of 25.3 million pounds.
The stock rose 2.1 percent to 1.72 pence in London today.  ’A Bit of Faddism’  “You’re constantly seeing people bring out new products
but a lot of them never take hold and it’s increasingly
consolidating around the major brands,” said Jonny Forsyth, a
global drinks analyst at Mintel.  There’s also the what’s hot, what’s not factor, which can
change rapidly in the world of elite sports. While catering to
athletes can bring higher margins, such a specialized market can
also bring risks because companies are forced to keep up with
athletes’ hyper-evolving demands, said Mitchell.  “There appears to be a little bit of faddism in this, so
if you look at what’s the best training regime, the best
supplements, the best kit to wear, it tends to go in phases,”
Mitchell said.  Possible Acquisition  Provexis’s third-biggest investor is more optimistic.  Royal
DSM NV (DSM) , the world’s largest maker of vitamins, bought 9.8
percent of Provexis in 2008 and can envision acquiring the whole
company at some point, said Marcel Lubben, managing director of
the venture-capital unit at DSM, which is based in Heerlen, the
Netherlands.  Provexis says that drinking its 60-milliliter packets of Go
gels can help athletes maintain endurance, prevent fatigue and
aid recovery. The products include versions with caffeine,
nitrates to increase stamina or choline to help the body derive
energy from fat. All cost about 1 pound to 2 pounds per tube,
the company says. The products are sold on the brand’s website,
at cycling shops and in grocery chains including  Tesco Plc. (TSCO)   “You’ve got whole communities of athletes who use these
products and know exactly what they want from them, the correct
type of carbs and not the quick-fix sugars,” Romero, who won a
gold medal in cycling at the 2008 Beijing Olympics and a silver
in rowing at the Athens 2004 Games, said in an interview.  She started using SiS Go Electrolyte hydration powders and
ReGo Protein recovery sachets in 1998. “They were one of the
first real brands that looked at the science of nutrition for
athletes. It’s not just some generic sugary drink.”  Andy Murray  Murray, the world’s fourth-ranked men’s tennis player,
regularly uses SiS products, his spokeswoman Louise Irving said
by e-mail.  Provexis, which has about 65 employees, last year shelved
two drug development projects to shift more cash to Science in
Sport and a blood-thinning nutritional additive called
Fruitflow. Science in Sport will contribute “the bulk” of
sales this year and turning the company profitable “is No. 1 on
the agenda.”  For now, Provexis wants to focus on growing, said Moon.  “I imagine as we start to make more noise in the market
those conversations will happen,” Moon said of acquisition
talks. “I’d like to see some multiples happen in our market cap
first.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Trista Kelley in  London  at 
 tkelley2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  