-- NYC Council Set to Require Banks to Report Community Practices
-- B y   E s m é   E .   D e p r e z   a n d   H e n r y   G o l d m a n
-- 2012-05-15T17:46:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-15/nyc-council-set-to-require-banks-to-report-community-practices.html
Banks holding New York City treasury
funds would be required to disclose investments and business
practices in neighborhoods under a law City Council members say
they’ll pass today.  The bill, which Mayor  Michael Bloomberg  has said he intends
to veto, would also create a community-investment advisory board
in the Finance Department that would use census data to review
banks’ branch locations, loans, delinquencies and foreclosures.
Officials could use the information to determine whether the
city should deposit its funds there, according to the text of
the bill.  The council’s vote on the banking act, introduced in
February 2011, comes amid increased scrutiny of the industry
after the  Occupy Wall Street  movement and last week’s disclosure
by  JPMorgan Chase & Co., (JPM)  the biggest U.S. lender by assets, of a
$2 billion trading loss.  “The goal of the bill is not to punish banks or to point
fingers,” Council Speaker  Christine Quinn , a Manhattan
Democrat, told reporters at a City Hall press conference before
the session. “Rather, the legislation seeks to increase
transparency and encourage banks to reinvest in the communities
they serve.”  Foreclosure ‘Crisis’  The bill will help encourage responsible corporate
behavior, said Council member Albert Vann, a Democrat from
Brooklyn who sponsored the measure.  “The foreclosure crisis is still a serious problem, the
demand for affordable housing remains overwhelming and small
businesses continue to need access to credit in this difficult
environment,” he said.  New York has designated 31 banks that can hold city
deposits totaling as much as $8 billion, and averaging about $5
billion a month, to pay vendors and employees, said Owen Stone,
a spokesman for the Finance Department.  A  report  last year from the Association for Neighborhood
and Housing Development, which backs the bill, found diminished
bank support for communities even as profits and deposits grew.  The industry deployed less capital in  New York  in every
major category of lending and investment, including a 43 percent
decrease in home-purchase lending, a 37 percent drop in
community-development lending and a 14 percent decrease in
multifamily lending, according to the association, a nonprofit
group of 98 neighborhood-based housing groups serving low- and
moderate-income consumers.  Mayor’s Opposition  Total deposits for the city’s largest banks rose 8.6
percent, or $38.5 billion, from 2008 to 2009 while profits
increased almost 83 percent to $70.8 billion, according to the
report.  “You would think that between the federal government and
the state government we’d have enough  bank regulations ,”
Bloomberg said at a bankers’ breakfast May 11. “I don’t know
why the City Council thinks that they have the expertise to
really add anything other than just adding costs to banks who
try to comply.”  Bloomberg said Congress and the state Legislature should
review “federal and state regulations and make sure they’re
appropriate. That’s where you should be regulating banks. You
can’t regulate banks in just one city.”  Council member Brad Lander, a  Brooklyn  Democrat, said state
and federal regulations don’t require banks to disclose data on
their efforts to modify mortgages for homeowners at risk of
foreclosure, as the city’s law would.  Reduced Choices  The New York Bankers Association is also opposed to the
bill.  “This measure could reduce choices for managing taxpayer
funds, could require the disclosure of confidential information,
mandate the provision of products that may not be safe or sound
and be pre-empted by state and federal law,” Michael P. Smith,
chief executive officer, said by e-mail. “It would clearly act
as a disincentive to do business with the city.”  Also today, council members say they intend to override the
mayor’s veto of a so-called prevailing-wage bill setting minimum
pay for workers in city-owned buildings, and will vote on a
resolution asking the Legislature to raise the state’s minimum
wage to $8.50 from $7.25 an hour.  The mayor is founder and majority owner of Bloomberg News
parent Bloomberg LP.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Esme E. Deprez in New York at 
 Edeprez@bloomberg.net ;
Henry Goldman in New York at 
 hgoldman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  