-- Obama’s Tariffs on China’s Solar Products Will Cost U.S.
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2012-05-15T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-15/obama-s-tariffs-on-china-s-solar-products-will-cost-u-s-.html
Simple economics holds that if you
want to promote mass adoption of something, you have to make it
affordable and available.  This week, the Obama administration is poised to  slap 
potentially hefty tariffs on imports of Chinese solar products,
a move that will satisfy a protectionist urge but undercut the
U.S. energy agenda. It’s no secret  China  is aggressively
subsidizing its solar manufacturers, driving down prices for
solar panels and components. Here’s the question: Is that a bad
thing?  One of the administration’s overarching  goals  -- and one we
heartily endorse -- is fostering the adoption of clean, non-
carbon-based energy, including solar. In a perfect world it
should matter less where the technology comes from than whether
affordable solar is enabling office buildings, universities and
households to install the technology and cut down on fossil-fuel
use.  Slapping tariffs on the Chinese may make for good politics,
but it will slow solar adoption and almost undoubtedly provoke
retaliatory trade actions by a country with which the U.S., like
it or not, is inextricably linked. It’s not lost on the Chinese
that the U.S. has its own share of clean-energy subsidies. A
better approach would be to try to negotiate a clean-energy
trade agreement with China and other countries trying to promote
renewables. Such an agreement would have to spell out the types
and levels of allowable government assistance; restrict
protectionist measures, such as requiring locally produced
components and services; and be subject to dispute resolution by
the  World Trade Organization .  China’s Subsidies  The lure of punitive tariffs is easy to understand: China,
through the use of overly generous subsidies to domestic
manufacturers, has helped drive down the  price  of solar panels
80 percent over the past five years and more than 40 percent in
just the past 12 months. Several U.S. solar companies such as
Solar Trust of America LLC, Solyndra LLC, Evergreen Solar Inc.
and SpectraWatt Inc. have filed for  bankruptcy protection , while
others are teetering on the edge. The  Coalition for American
Solar Manufacturing , which has petitioned the U.S. Commerce
Department for trade sanctions, says China’s tactics have cost
2,000 jobs in the photovoltaic industry alone.  Yet there are other reasons for the solar shakeout.
Manufacturers, racing to meet demand over the past decade, are
now sitting on a glut of panels as subsidy cuts in  Europe  and
declining natural-gas prices take their toll. As Bloomberg News
recently reported, even the largest producers in China say their
profits will slump this year as shipments grow.  President  Barack Obama  has  singled out  trade actions
against China as a hallmark of his administration, saying
tariffs such as the 2009 Chinese tire duties have saved jobs.
Labor groups and other important constituencies have praised his
position.  But a growing body of research shows tariffs might actually
cost U.S. jobs, drive up prices and hurt domestic businesses
that use imported materials. The Peterson Institute for
International Economics, for instance,  found  that Obama’s tire
tariffs came at a steep price to consumers and to workers in
other sectors. The analysts concluded the measure did save about
1,200 tire manufacturing jobs but raised tire costs by about
$1.1 billion in 2011. Higher-priced tires reduced spending
elsewhere, indirectly lowering retail employment by as many as
3,700 jobs. The money didn’t land in the pockets of tire workers
but in “the coffers of tire companies, mainly abroad but also at
home,” the study said.  How Duties Backfire  Businesses, particularly smaller companies that lack scale
to negotiate bulk prices, can also face higher prices from trade
sanctions, according to a Bloomberg Government  analysis  of 35
recent trade sanctions on Chinese goods. A 2009 decision to
impose duties on Chinese imports of citric acid, which is used
in everything from detergent to soda, resulted in higher prices,
the analysis found. U.S. actions don’t happen without
consequences. The Chinese routinely retaliate against U.S. trade
sanctions by imposing tariffs on American imports such as cars
and chicken parts. Energy analysts say China will probably
respond to the solar tariffs by imposing a tax on U.S.-made
polysilicon, a solar component, further hurting the market.  In March, the Commerce Department imposed  preliminary 
tariffs of as much as 4.73 percent on Chinese solar panels. The
move was seen mainly as a slap on the wrist, given that China
sells its modules for about 12 percent less. The tariffs being
decided this week stand to be much higher -- as much as 100
percent -- which could have major ramifications, particularly
for U.S. companies using Chinese materials in their products.
It’s no wonder the solar industry is  split  on the issue.  The political reality is the U.S. will probably decide in
favor of tariffs, and we hope the level is low enough that the
tax doesn’t hobble solar. But rather than giving in to
protectionist tendencies, we encourage the U.S. to take a more
diplomatic approach and begin earnest negotiations for a clean-
energy trade agreement. Such an idea had been discussed as part
of the stalled Doha trade talks and should be revived.  One idea promoted by economists is to model an agreement on
the 1996 Information Technology Agreement. The ITA, which now
has 70 member countries, eliminated tariffs on hundreds of goods
and products, and resulted in skilled countries like the U.S.
designing technology products (think iPad) and labor-rich
countries like China assembling them (think iPad). Any agreement
would have to deal with government subsidies and be subject to
dispute settlement by the WTO.  The market is already tilted against renewable sources of
energy, with fossil fuels cheap, available and benefiting from
entrenched tax benefits. Rather than throwing up roadblocks, the
U.S. should be encouraging clean energy, regardless of the
country of origin.  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  Today’s highlights: the View editors on a  Greek exit from the
euro ;  Margaret Carlson  on  boring white Republicans ; Clive Crook
on  Germany and Greece ;  Peter Orszag  on  small-business woes ;
 Jonathan Weil  on  JPMorgan Chase and regulators ; Rachelle
Bergstein on the  economics of stiletto heels ; and Zvi Bodie and
 Cornelius Hurley  on the  Office of Financial Research.   To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 