-- Obama Carolina Convention Plans Going Awry for Democrats
-- B y   J o h n   M c C o r m i c k   a n d   H a n s   N i c h o l s
-- 2012-05-15T04:00:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-15/obama-carolina-convention-plans-going-awry-for-democrats.html
President  Barack Obama ’s decision in
February 2011 to hold the Democratic National Convention in
 North Carolina  looked like a bold move to reclaim a state he’d
won in 2008. Today, it’s more like an awkward fit.  The state’s Democratic Party is mired in a sexual
harassment scandal. Voters just approved a state constitutional
amendment to ban gay marriage, which conflicts with Obama’s view
on the issue. Convention fundraising has been slow, and labor
unions tapped to fill the financial gap are angry the convention
will be in a city -- Charlotte -- with no unionized hotels and
in a state where compulsory union membership or the payment of
dues is prohibited as an employment condition.  North Carolina’s 9.7 percent  unemployment  rate is above the
national average and one of the host city’s top employers -- Bank
of America (BAC)  -- has announced job reductions. Obama is scheduled
to accept his party’s nomination at Bank of America Stadium in
September.  “It’s inconceivable that they would move the convention,”
said Don Kettl, dean of the school of public policy at the
University of  Maryland . “But they may wish that they had placed
their chips on another swing state.”  North Carolina is one of about a dozen states that
Democratic and Republican strategists say are likely to
determine the outcome of the presidential election.  Gay Community Protests  Last week’s vote to approve a state constitutional ban on
same-sex marriage has triggered calls from gay rights activists
to move the convention. Some Democrats also want to include
same-sex marriage in the party platform that will be approved at
the convention, a potentially headline-grabbing debate.  Former Massachusetts Governor Mitt Romney, the presumptive
Republican nominee, is also courting the state’s voters. He
visited  Charlotte  last week and declined to comment about the
same-sex marriage constitutional ban. Romney opposes gay
marriage.  Obama won North Carolina four years ago, just barely. The
state, which hadn’t previously backed a Democrat for president
since it went for  Jimmy Carter  in 1976, gave Obama 49.9 percent
of the vote, compared with 49.5 percent for Senator  John McCain 
of  Arizona . The margin was about 14,000 votes out of 4.3 million
cast.  The decision to hold the convention in Charlotte was meant
to signal that Obama planned to compete in some southern and
western states that had traditionally voted Republican. Obama,
50, has visited the state 11 times as president, according to a
database of his travels maintained by Bloomberg News.  Association With Bank  There are political downsides for Obama in delivering his
acceptance speech in a stadium named after a bank at a time when
he’s championing the need for tighter regulations and more
robust consumer protections.  Last October, Obama criticized a planned $5 dollar monthly
fee that Bank of America was going to charge its debit card
users. He said that while companies have a right to set fees, he
questioned the bank’s explanation for the new charge.  “People have been using financial regulation as an excuse
to charge consumers more,” he said at a White House news
conference on Oct. 6. Following complaints from consumers, the
bank shelved its plans to impose the fee.  Preparations for the Sept. 4-6 convention come as the
 Democratic Party  in North Carolina is dealing with fallout from
a sexual harassment accusation.  Sexual Harassment Allegations  State Democratic Chairman  David Parker  submitted his
resignation over the weekend following complaints about his
handling of allegations by an ex-worker against a former party
director.  Party members rejected his resignation and Parker  says  he
plans to remain in his post, even though he’s been encouraged to
leave by  Democratic Governor Bev Perdue, who isn’t seeking a
second term, the Democratic gubernatorial nominee Walter Dalton
and state elected officials.  Also playing out in the state is the federal trial of the
state’s former Democratic U.S. senator,  John Edwards , who is
accused of a scheme to use almost $1 million in campaign
contributions to help hide an affair with his pregnant mistress
while running for president in 2008.  Brad Crone , a Democratic strategist in North Carolina,
called the situation within the state party “disconcerting to a
lot of people at the national level and the state campaign” at
least in the short term.  “I don’t think the shadow is going to be cast very far in
terms of what’s happening today in the first week of
September,” he said. “That doesn’t mean that Obama doesn’t
have a whole lot of work to do in the state.”  Standing By Charlotte  Obama’s re-election campaign stands by its decision to
locate the convention in Charlotte.  “The president won in 2008 by expanding the electorate and
expanding the map, so that Democrats would never go back to 2000
or 2004 when all the chips were laid on one state,” said  Ben LaBolt , Obama’s re-election spokesman. “Our decision to base
the convention in North Carolina is an extension of that vision
- a state where no Democrat had won prior to 2008 for decades
but all the polls show the president and  Mitt Romney  tied.”  Unlike previous conventions, the Democrats are trying to
fund this year’s gathering without million-dollar donations from
corporations. They’ve pressed labor unions to fill in the
fundraising gap as part of an effort to raise $36.6 million.  Money Woes  Convention planners are expecting to receive, at most, $4
million from unions this year, less than half of the $8 million
contributed by organized labor in 2008, according to a person
familiar with the funding strategy who wasn’t authorized to
speak on the record about fundraising. The number could
eventually be less than $1 million and the Charlotte host
committee, the main vehicle for funding the convention, is still
short more than $20 million, the person said.  Obama’s campaign is working to connect  Jim Rogers , the host
committee co-chairman and chief executive officer of  Duke Energy
Corp. (DUK) , with Obama’s wealthiest supporters. Rogers has
accompanied Obama on his last two $35,800-per-person fundraisers
in  New York  City, most recently last night at the home of  Tony James , the president of Blackstone Group LP, according to a
person familiar with the matter who wasn’t authorized to speak
on the record.  Republicans have no such ban on corporate donations. The
host committee for that party’s Aug. 27-30 convention in Tampa,
 Florida , is taking corporate donations as part of a $55 million
fundraising goal.  Crone, the North Carolina Democratic strategist, said the
decision to hold the convention in his state doesn’t look as
smart as when it was first announced, given the controversies
that have erupted since then. Still, he said it was important
for the Obama campaign to show its commitment to southern states
traditionally dominated by Republicans.  “The gateway to the presidency has to come through North
Carolina and  Virginia ,” he said. “You have to have some states
in the South that you’re going to fight in.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 John McCormick  in Chicago at 
 jmccormick16@bloomberg.net ;
Hans Nichols in Washington at 
 hnichols2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net  