-- Occupy London Gets British Bankers Association CEO Meeting
-- B y   H o w a r d   M u s t o e
-- 2012-05-15T15:27:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-15/occupy-london-gets-british-bankers-association-ceo-meeting.html
About 80  Occupy London  protesters
rallied outside the British Bankers Association’s headquarters,
demanding a meeting with Chief Executive Officer  Angela Knight .  Knight met with three demonstrators today inside the BBA’s
building on Old Broad Street in the City’s financial district,
said an Occupy organizer, Ryan Hickey. They would have preferred
she met them outside where all could ask questions, he said.  “She listened to their views and explained how the U.K.
has a world-leading banking center, employing around half a
million people and making one of the largest contributions to
the country through tax and charitable giving,” the BBA said in
an e-mailed statement. “She said she understood the concerns of
the group, had no doubts about their sincerity.”  The meeting
lasted about 25 minutes.  The Occupy movement began in  New York  in September and
spread to  Europe ,  Asia  and  Australia  to oppose bank bailouts,
austerity measures and corporate profits. As Britain’s coalition
government oversees public-spending cuts, the U.K. last quarter
fell into its first double-dip recession since the 1970s.  No arrests were made, according to a City of  London  Police
spokeswoman, who declined to be identified in line with policy.  Michael Richmond, 26, a  novelist  from London, said he was
protesting against the BBA because it “represents the interests
of all investment banks” at the expense of other groups and
because the group is given a “free run” by the media.  Knight will step down in July after five years at the BBA,
the group said last month. She is to become CEO of Energy U.K.,
an energy-industry trade association.  The protesters’ first camp at  St. Paul’s Cathedral  led to
Christopher Wren’s 17th century masterpiece closing in October.
Ten days later its dean, Graeme Knowles, said he would resign,
after criticism over the church’s handling of the protesters.  Demonstrators camped in London’s Finsbury Square were
ordered on May 11 to leave by May 18 or face legal proceedings.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Howard Mustoe in London at 
 hmustoe@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  