-- Loeb Makes $122 Million on Yahoo as Thompson Steps Down
-- B y   K a t h e r i n e   B u r t o n
-- 2012-05-15T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-15/loeb-makes-122-million-on-yahoo-as-thompson-steps-down.html
Daniel Loeb ’s New York-based Third
Point LLC, has made almost $122 million so far on its stake in
 Yahoo! Inc. (YHOO)  after successfully forcing Chief Executive Officer
 Scott Thompson  to step down.  Loeb, 50, whose hedge fund owns 5.8 percent of the Web
portal, has been pushing to shake up its board since September
2011, when he told the company that directors had erred in
spurning a takeover bid from Microsoft Corp. Yahoo rose the most
in three weeks yesterday following Thompson’s decision to leave,
after Loeb flagged discrepancies in the CEO’s resume.  “We are confident this board will benefit from shareholder
representation, and we are committed to working with new
leadership to unlock Yahoo’s significant  potential  and value,”
Loeb, who will join the board, said in a statement after
Thompson’s departure.  While the proxy fight with Yahoo has grabbed headlines,
Loeb, a former distressed debt analyst, has staged few such
battles with management in recent years. Instead, most of his
returns have come from buying distressed assets and companies
going through restructurings or mergers. The $9 billion hedge
fund, a so-called event and special situations fund, has
returned 7 percent this year through May 2, with much of it
coming from credit markets, said a person familiar with the fund
who asked not to be named because the information is private.  About 20 percent of the portfolio is in mortgages,
primarily on residential properties, Loeb said at the Skybridge
Alternatives Conference last week in  Las Vegas .  Mortgage Bet  Mortgages have been a good place to make money this year.
Returns on subprime-mortgage bonds issued in 2005 through 2007,
the years with the worst loans, for example, have averaged 11
percent this year through May 10, according to Barclays Plc
index data.  Loeb also owns Portuguese debt, saying the country isn’t in
as much danger of default as Greece or  Spain . A Bloomberg index
of 7 to 10-year Portuguese government bonds has returned 22
percent this year.  In the first quarter one of his bigger winners was in
 Norway ’s Eksportfinans ASA. Third Point bought about $500
million worth of its bonds after dispatching an analyst to Oslo
on Thanksgiving, just days after the lender’s debt was cut to
junk by Moody’s Investors Service. By the end of March, the
yield on Eksportfinans’ $1.5 billion of 3 percent notes due 2014
had fallen to 4.2 percent from 10.3 percent in December.  Yahoo Stake  Third Point  spent about $971 million on its stake
Sunnyvale, California-based Yahoo, including shares and options,
for an average price of $13.77 per share, according to
Securities and Exchange Commission filings. The stock rose 2
percent to $15.50 a share at 4 p.m. in New York. In 2008,
Microsoft offered as much as $33 a share for Yahoo!  Loeb won after showing Thompson claimed to have a degree in
computer science from Stonehill College on the company’s
website. In filings from  EBay Inc. (EBAY) , his previous employer, his
degree is correctly listed as accounting.  As part of Loeb’s agreement with Yahoo! to drop his proxy
fight, Loeb will become a director along with two Third Point
nominees,  Harry Wilson  and  Michael Wolf . Loeb generally doesn’t
join boards because they are time-consuming and limit his
ability to trade the stock. Yahoo! will be his first
directorship since 2008.  Ross Levinsohn, Yahoo’s head of global media, was named
interim CEO, and director Fred Amoroso will become chairman.
Amoroso replaces Roy Bostock, the non-executive chairman, who is
exiting the board immediately.  Loeb founded Third Point after stints as distressed debt
analyst at Jefferies & Co. and a high-yield bond salesman at
Citigroup.  Third Point’s main fund has returned 17.4 percent on
average since it started in November 1996, compared with about 9
percent for an index of similar funds tracked by Chicago-based
Hedge Fund Research Inc.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katherine Burton in  New York  at 
 kburton@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  