-- Oil Falls to Five-Month Low on New Greek Election
-- B y   M a r k   S h e n k
-- 2012-05-15T20:08:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-15/oil-fluctuates-as-greece-calls-new-elections.html
Oil fell near a five-month low after
a second Greek election was called for as attempts to form a
government failed, sending the euro tumbling.  Futures dropped 0.8 percent as Pasok party leader  Evangelos Venizelos  said Greeks are headed back to the polls. The euro
declined against the dollar after the announcement. A weaker
European currency curbs the appeal of commodities as an
investment. A government report tomorrow will probably show that
U.S. crude supplies climbed to the highest level since 1990.  “Concerns about  Greece , and Europe as a whole, have led to
risk aversion,” said  Mike Wittner , head of oil market research
at Societe Generale SA in New York. “Prices are also lower
because we’re expecting another crude stock build tomorrow.”  Crude oil for June delivery decreased 80 cents to $93.98 a
barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange , the lowest
settlement since Dec. 19. Prices are down 4.9 percent this year.  Brent oil for June settlement gained 67 cents, or 0.6
percent, to end the session at $112.24 a barrel on the London-
based ICE Futures Europe exchange. June futures expire tomorrow.
The more-active July contract rose 45 cents, or 0.4 percent, to
close at $111.45.  “Brent would be lower if not for the June expiration
tomorrow,” said  Tim Evans , an energy analyst at Citi Futures
Perspective in  New York . “A lot of the length has already been
liquidated because of the impending expiration.”  Length refers to wagers that prices will climb.  Second Ballot  Greece has been without a government since an election on
May 6, increasing concern the country will renege on pledges to
cut spending as required by the terms of two bailouts negotiated
since May 2010. That has spurred speculation it may ultimately
leave the euro currency union.  German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  said Greece must
elect a government that sticks to the terms of its international
bailout in order to stay in the euro.  The euro dropped as much as 0.8 percent to $1.2722 against
the dollar, the lowest level since Jan. 17.  “The Greek elections sent the euro lower and caused oil to
lose its gain,” said  Stephen Schork , president of the Schork
Group in Villanova,  Pennsylvania . “There’s a direct
correlation.”  The European sovereign debt crisis that began in Greece and
then moved to Ireland,  Portugal ,  Italy  and  Spain  has reduced
economic growth and fuel consumption.  U.S. Inventories  An Energy Department report tomorrow will probably show
that U.S. crude-oil stockpiles advanced 1.75 million barrels to
381.3 million last week, according to the median of 12 analyst
estimates in a Bloomberg survey. That would be the highest level
since August 1990.  Analysts were split over whether stockpiles of gasoline and
distillate fuel, a category that includes heating oil and
diesel, declined or increased, the survey showed.  “Prices are down because we’re anticipating another build
in crude supplies,” Evans said. “People are certainly aren’t
anticipating a shortage of crude anytime soon.”  Saudi Arabian Oil Minister  Ali al-Naimi  said May 13 that
Brent oil should drop to $100 a barrel because global supply is
outstripping demand. The desert kingdom is the only member of
the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries with
significant surplus output capacity and has shown a readiness to
use its reserves to help reduce prices.  Economic Reports  Oil in New York advanced as much as 0.7 percent in intraday
trading after the Federal Reserve Bank of New York’s general
 economic index  increased in May. Confidence among U.S.
homebuilders jumped to a five-year high.  The New York Fed’s general economic index increased to 17.1
this month from 6.6 in April. The median estimate in a Bloomberg
survey of economists called for an increase to 9. The National
Association of Home Builders/Wells Fargo index of  builder
confidence  rose to 29, the highest level since May 2007, a
report from the Washington-based group showed today.  Prices also increased after economic growth in  Germany ,
 Europe ’s largest economy, beat economists’ projections. German
 gross domestic product  rose 0.5 percent in the first quarter,
the Federal Statistic Office said in Wiesbaden today. Economists
predicted a 0.1 percent gain, according to the median of 40
estimates in a Bloomberg survey.  “We were up about 70 cents on the economic news and then
the Greek headlines came out,” Schork said.  Electronic trading volume of crude oil on the Nymex was
519,794 contracts as of 3:45 p.m. in New York. Volume totaled
501,848 contracts yesterday, 16 percent below the three-month
average. Open interest was 1.54 million.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Shenk in New York at 
 mshenk1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  