-- Olam Profit Declines on Lower Prices, Cotton, Wood Demand
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   Y u n
-- 2012-05-15T11:22:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-15/olam-third-quarter-profit-drops-23-on-lower-cotton-wood-demand.html
Olam International Ltd. (OLAM) , the
commodity supplier partly owned by Singapore’s Temasek Holdings
Pte, reported a 23 percent drop in third-quarter profit as
prices fell and demand for cotton and wood products waned.  Net income fell to S$98.7 million ($78.6 million) in the
three months ended March 31 from S$127.3 million a year earlier,
Singapore-based Olam said today in a statement. That compares
with the S$97.3 million median of three analyst estimates
compiled by Bloomberg. Revenue fell 11 percent to S$4.2 billion.  Olam, which supplies 20 agricultural goods from cocoa to
rubber, follows  Wilmar International Ltd. (WIL)  and  Noble Group Ltd. (NOBL) 
in posting lower year-on-year earnings as volatile commodity
prices crimp profit. Olam is one of the world’s three biggest
suppliers of cotton, which on average fell 49 percent in the
quarter from a year earlier.  “The cotton business, particularly our Australian and U.S.
origination and marketing operations, continues to face demand
decline and illiquidity across many of its markets,” Olam said
today. Revenue fell due to lower commodity prices.  Olam shares fell 1.5 percent to S$2 in  Singapore , before
the earnings announcement. The stock has dropped 6.1 percent
this year, compared with the 9.3 percent gain in the benchmark
 Straits Times index .  New Prices  Cotton farmers will take time to adjust to new prices,
Chief Executive Officer Sunny Verghese said at a briefing in
Singapore today. Olam will maintain its share of the cotton
market, he said.  “Its industrial businesses may take another quarter or so
to recover,” Nomura Holdings Inc. analysts Tanuj Shori and
Vishnuvardana Reddy wrote in a report dated May 4. “Olam
actually has done well, especially in the food-related
business.”  Olam’s  industrial raw materials division , which accounted
for 23 percent of net contribution in the year ended June 30,
includes cotton, wool, rubber, and wood products. Net
contribution from this segment fell 49 percent in the quarter to
S$33.2 million.  Cotton procurement fell short of expectations in the third
quarter as U.S.-based farmers sold less of the raw material,
Chief Financial Officer Krishnan Ravikumar said at the briefing.  “Anticipated volumes from both growers and customers are
likely to be lower, or may get postponed into the next financial
year,” Olam said. “We have also encountered enhanced
counterparty risk in some Asian markets.”  Cocoa, Coffee  Olam’s confectionery and beverage segment, which procures
cocoa and coffee, saw net contribution rise 25 percent in the
quarter from a year earlier. Its food staples and packaged foods
business, comprising rice, sugar, and grains trading posted an
18 percent gain in net contribution.  The division selling nuts, spices, and beans recorded a 38
percent gain in net contribution from a year earlier and a 15
percent drop in revenue, Olam said today.  Olam is buying assets and developing new projects to help
boost annual profit after tax to $1 billion by 2016, a goal that
was reaffirmed by Chief Executive Officer Sunny Verghese in
March. The company posted profit of S$429.8 million for the year
ended June 30, 2011.  The company announced in the quarter it plans to invest in
a $183 million venture comprising 28,000 hectares (69,000 acres)
of rubber plantation with the Gabon government. Olam will hold
80 percent of the venture, it said in March.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Yun in  Hong Kong  at 
 myun11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rebecca Keenan in Hong Kong at 
 rkeenan5@bloomberg.net  