-- Hollande Vows to Stay Normal as He Confronts Euro Crisis
-- B y   H e l e n e   F o u q u e t
-- 2012-05-15T10:11:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-15/hollande-vows-to-stay-normal-as-he-confronts-merkel-debt-crisis.html
Francois Hollande reached the
pinnacle of French power today still declaring himself to be, as
he campaigned, a “normal” guy.  Hollande told a group of reporters yesterday, on the eve of
his swearing in, that he would continue living in the rented
apartment that he shares with his partner,  Paris Match magazine 
journalist Valerie Trierweiler, for 3,000 euros ($3,932) a
month, parking included, in the 15th arrondissement of Paris. He
has also swatted away questions about them marrying.  Such commonplace ways would be one source of agreement with
his German counterpart,  Angela Merkel , the linchpin of European
politics who does her own grocery shopping and lives with her
second husband in a 19th century apartment building in central
Berlin. Hollande travels to meet Merkel later today following
ceremonies at the Elysee Palace to begin their joint effort to
quell the financial crisis. They are scheduled to hold a press
briefing at 7:45 p.m. in Berlin.  “Hollande is the male version of Merkel: stubborn, dogged
and yet he knows how to create consensus,” said Francois Heisbourg, chairman of the International Institute for Strategic
Studies in  London . “He is unremarkable at first, but then he
can expand in his capacity.”  Hollande began his march to the presidency in Lorient, a
Breton port, three years ago. On June 27, 2009, he told 400
Socialist Party activists they needed to unite to oust  Nicolas Sarkozy .  It was  the first  of his almost 500 events in France’s
longest-ever campaign to make voters forget he was nicknamed for
a pudding brand and get them to choose him rather than Sarkozy,
who had promised to be their “captain in the storm.”  Fighting Doubts  Along the way, Hollande, 57, had to fight doubts over his
leadership ability, rifts among Socialist factions, the legacy
of humiliating defeats on his watch as party chief in 2002 and
2007, and the shadow cast by  Dominique Strauss-Kahn , the
favorite to run this year until his 2011 arrest in  New York .  “While it was hard some months ago to imagine that his
‘moderate man’ image, some call it soft, would be convincing,
the fact that he embodies the reverse of Sarkozy created a real
rivalry,” said Jean Chiche, a senior researcher at Paris’s
Political Sciences Institute. “Personality was a key element of
the May 6 vote,” Chiche said, as voters sought a change “after
five years of constant buzzing.”  Hollande’s inauguration marks the return of a Socialist at
the helm of France after  Francois Mitterrand . He becomes the
only Socialist among the European chiefs leading the fight
against financial crisis. His prescriptions including a more
activist central bank and revised treaties to promote growth --
and not just enforce austerity -- put him at odds with Merkel,
who had campaigned for Sarkozy.  Victory Margin  Hollande was elected by nearly 19 million French voters or
51.6 percent for a five-year mandate, nearly the same score that
got Mitterrand first elected in 1981 with 51.7 percent of the
votes.  A native of Rouen, the Norman city where Joan of Arc was
burned at the stake by the English in the 15th century, Hollande
has spent his career mainly behind the scenes.  He began in 1981 as an aide to then-President Mitterrand
and has never held a minister’s job. A blank slate as a national
candidate, Hollande set out to create a persona he called
“normal” to contrast with Sarkozy’s “President Bling Bling,”
a leader who sought the spotlight.  “Power will be exercised with dignity and simplicity,”
Hollande said today in an 11-minute address at the Elysee after
Sarkozy left. “Conduct will be scrupulously sober.”  A lawmaker representing a district in rural  France ,
Hollande  struggled for nearly 15 years  to be considered the
natural Socialist leader, forcing him to seek support from the
base rather than from the capital’s power networks.  Succession  He quit as party first secretary in 2008 after 11 years,
triggering an acrimonious succession fight between  Martine Aubry 
and Segolene Royal, the mother of his four children and the
loser to Sarkozy five years ago. Aubry won amid accusations by
Royal of cheating. Meantime, Hollande went off the radar to plot
a comeback in discreet encounters with long-time allies.  Over the winter holidays that year, Hollande discussed his
presidential hopes with his partner Trierweiler, she recounted.
“Do you think you’re the best?” she asked. “Yes,” Hollande
responded. “Then go,” said the 47-year-old lifelong reporter
and mother of three adolescent boys.  Then Hollande emerged in Lorient. He eventually declared
his candidacy  in March 2011 in Tulle , the town in central France
where he headed the local council of Correze and which he
represented in the national parliament. It was in Tulle, which
he led as mayor for seven years until 2008, that he gave his May
6 victory speech and told the cheering crowd “I owe you
everything.”  ‘Flanby’  Hollande used his extended campaign to lose 40 pounds and
toughen an image that had earned him the nickname “Flanby,” a
 Nestle SA (NESN)  caramel pudding.  “I had to mature from the light-hearted and funny first
secretary of the party that I had been for 11 years,” Hollande
told a group of reporters in the southern town of Montpellier
during his campaign. “I had to take it up a notch, show a more
responsible, a more presidential face.”  In May last year, Hollande trailed Strauss-Kahn, then
International Monetary Fund chief, in opinion polls. The
economist and former finance minister abandoned a possible bid
after he was arrested in  New York City  on sexual-assault
charges. Those charges were dropped by U.S. prosecutors in
August.  Behind the Scenes  Former Socialist Prime Minister Lionel Jospin never chose
him to be part of his government and he was left to heal the
devastated party after Jospin was bounced in the first round of
the 2002 presidential race by the far-right National Front. It
was Royal who held three ministers’ jobs and won the 2007
nomination to run for president. She made their 2006 separation
public after losing the election.  Hollande, who lives with Trierweiler on the Rue Cauchy near
the Javel metro station and Parc Andre Citroen, reported income
of 78,516 euros in 2010 and total assets worth 1.17 million
euros, mainly in real estate assets. He says he holds no stocks
and owns nothing like the 50,000-euro Patek Philippe SA watch
that was given to Sarkozy by his third wife, Carla Bruni- Sarkozy.  He vacations in a 130 square meter (1400 square foot) house
with swimming pool near the Riviera bought in 1986 with Royal
and that he now owns outright.  Business School  Hollande’s path to power followed a traditional French
route. He graduated from the Institute for Political Sciences in
Paris and the  National School of Administration , schools that
trained all post-war presidents, except Sarkozy and  Charles de
Gaulle .  He’d been educated at  HEC-Paris , an elite business school
where he befriended some who were to become corporate leaders,
such as  Axa SA (CS)  Chief Executive Officer Henri de Castries. His
social circle includes  Jean-Bernard Levy , CEO of  Vivendi SA (VIV) , and
Jean-Louis Beffa, former CEO of Cie. de Saint-Gobain.  While Hollande has called financial markets his “real
enemy” and advocated cracking down on derivatives and leveraged
buyout firms, he has committed to eliminating the  budget deficit 
by 2017, a task that may prove harder with the French economy
stagnant in the first quarter. He has said he would “defend the
social model,” stop Sarkozy’s reduction in the civil service,
increase the minimum wage and raise taxes on the wealthy,
including a 75 percent levy on earnings of more than 1 million
euros.  Hollande speaks little English and his first conversation
with U.S. President  Barack Obama  on the night of his victory
went through translators. There’s more than language to learn on
the fly. On May 17, the presidential Airbus heads to  Washington 
for a bilateral meeting with Obama and then to Camp David, the
White House retreat in  Maryland , for a Group of Eight summit to
be followed by a meeting of NATO leaders in  Chicago .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Helene Fouquet in Paris at 
 hfouquet1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  