-- Homebuilder Confidence in U.S. Climbs to Five-Year High
-- B y   S h o b h a n a   C h a n d r a
-- 2012-05-15T14:59:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-15/homebuilder-confidence-in-u-s-climbs-to-five-year-high-in-may.html
Confidence among U.S. homebuilders
jumped more than forecast in May, reaching a five-year high that
signals an improving outlook for construction.  The  National Association of Home Builders /Wells Fargo index
of  builder confidence  rose to 29, the highest since May 2007, a
report from the Washington-based group showed today. The gauge
exceeded the highest projection in a Bloomberg News survey in
which the  median  estimate was 26. Readings below 50 mean more
respondents said conditions were poor.  “We have resumed the gradual upward trend in confidence
that started at the beginning of this year,” Barry Rutenberg,
chairman of the National Association of Home Builders and a
builder from Gainesville,  Florida , said in a statement. This
comes “as stabilizing prices and excellent affordability
encourage more people to pursue a new-home purchase.”  Companies such as building products maker Ply Gem Holdings
Inc. are benefiting as cheaper homes and mortgage  rates  at a
record low combine to boost demand. While foreclosures remain a
hurdle for the industry three years after the end of the last
recession, Federal Reserve Governor Elizabeth Duke said today
that there are indications the “tepid” real estate market is
on the mend.  Today’s report showed gains in measures of current single-
family home sales, the outlook for the next six months and buyer
traffic.  Range of Estimates  Estimates of 47 economists in the Bloomberg survey ranged
from 23 to 27. The group revised April’s reading to 24, from a
previously estimated 25. The gauge, which was first published in
January 1985, averaged 54 in the five years leading to the
recession in December 2007. It reached a record low of 8 in
January 2009.  Builder shares gained after the figures, with the Standard
& Poor’s 500 Supercomposite  Homebuilding Index (S15HOME)  climbing 3
percent at 10:51 a.m. in New York. The broader  S&P 500  gained
0.2 percent.  Among other data today, retail sales rose in April at the
slowest pace of the year, showing mild weather and pre-Easter
shopping may have drawn consumers to stores in the previous
month. The 0.1 percent gain in purchases followed a 0.7 percent
increase, the Commerce Department said.  The builders group’s index of current single-family home
sales climbed to 30 this month, from a revised 25 in April. A
measure of sales expectations for the next six months rose to 34
from a revised 31, and the gauge of buyer traffic increased to
23, the highest since April 2007, from 18.  ‘Beginning to Recover’  “Housing demand is slowly beginning to recover,”  Joseph LaVorgna , chief U.S. economist at Deutsche Bank Securities Inc.
in  New York , said in an e-mailed note. “Banks are showing
increasing willingness to lend to consumers, which should bode
positively for the mortgage market. In turn, this would help
shift the housing recovery into a higher gear.”  The confidence survey asks builders to characterize current
sales as “good,” “fair” or “poor” and to gauge prospective
buyers’ traffic. It also asks participants to gauge the outlook
for the next six months.  In a speech today in  Washington , Duke said that still-
elevated foreclosures are “indicative of a historic level of
homeowner stress, they are down from their post-crisis peaks,
and there are signs that further gradual improvement may lie
ahead.”  There are “some promising signs in the trend of  house
prices  as well” and “somewhat encouraging” indicators of
housing construction activity, Duke said.  “Notwithstanding these signs of improvement in the housing
market, demand for owner-occupied housing remains stubbornly
tepid,” she said.  By Region  Confidence improved among builders in three of the four
U.S. regions, led by the Northeast, where it rose to 32 from 26
today’s data showed. The Midwest showed an increase to 27 from
22, and the South had a gain to 28 from 23. Confidence dropped
in the West to 29 from 31 in April.  Ply Gem, a maker of exterior building products such as
vinyl siding, fencing and stone veneer, reported a 20 percent
increase in sales in the first quarter, in which it also had an
operating profit compared with a loss a year earlier.  “Although our first-quarter sales and earnings improved
over the prior year, overall conditions in the housing market
continue to be challenged,” Gary Robinette, chief executive
officer of the Cary, North Carolina-based company, said on a May
11 conference call with analysts. There are “foreclosures that
still need to be absorbed through the system.”  Higher Unemployment  “The fragile  U.S. economy  and  consumer confidence ; high
levels of unemployment,” and tight lending standards are among
other factors weighing on the outlook, he said.  Work on apartment projects also is getting a lift as the
foreclosure crisis turns more Americans into renters.  Housing  starts  rose to a 685,000 annual pace in April, from
a five-month low of 654,000 in March, according to the Bloomberg
survey median ahead of a Commerce Department report due
tomorrow. Permits, a proxy for future construction, probably
fell last month, economists predicted.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shobhana Chandra in Washington 
 schandra1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net . 