-- Homes for Sale Grow Scarce as Sellers Await Higher Prices
-- B y   J o h n   G i t t e l s o h n   a n d   P r a s h a n t   G o p a l
-- 2012-05-15T17:13:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-15/homes-for-sale-grow-scarce-as-sellers-await-higher-prices.html
A real estate agent near California’s
Silicon Valley seeks sellers by combing property records for
people who’ve owned their houses for at least 40 years. A
Denver-area broker offers half his commission for a listing,
while a counterpart in South  Florida  hosts happy hour gatherings
at bars to loosen up homeowners reluctant to sell.  Real estate agents, who spent the six-year U.S. housing
collapse coaxing buyers off the fence, are now hunting for
sellers as home  inventories  hover near lows last seen in 2005. A
scarcity of properties signals the housing market’s uneven
recovery as purchasers trying to take advantage of record
 affordability  run up against homeowners choosing to stay put in
properties that aren’t worth as much as they owe.  “It’s a sign of transition from a slow slide down to what
hopefully will be a solidly improving market,”  Susan Wachter , a
professor of real estate and finance at the University of
Pennsylvania’s Wharton School, said in a telephone interview.
“We’re not going to have a healthy market until we can have
move-up buyers purchase homes and not simply stay in place.”  The number of homes  listed  for sale in the U.S. fell 22
percent to 2.37 million in March from a year earlier, according
to the National Association of Realtors. That’s a 6.3-month
supply at the current sales pace, which is considered by the
association to be a balance between buyers and sellers. In
April, inventories fell to less than a three-month supply in
markets including San Francisco, Silicon Valley, Denver,
Phoenix, San Diego,  Los Angeles , northern Virginia and Seattle,
according to online brokerage Redfin.  ‘Lack of Sellers’  “The places where the market is most competitive -- like
 Washington , D.C., Phoenix and San Francisco -- are where sales
volume is actually declining,” Redfin Chief Executive Officer
Glenn Kelman said in a telephone interview from Seattle, where
his company’s based. “The limiting factor on sales volume isn’t
a lack of buyers. It’s a lack of sellers.”  Silicon Valley homes were on the market for a median 49
days in April, down 29 percent from a year earlier, according to
Altos Research LLC. That compares with a median 107 days in 30
metropolitan areas tracked by the  Mountain View , California-
based real estate data company.  Phyllis McArthur, a Realtor in San Mateo,  California , sent
letters to 18 homeowners who bought their properties more than
four decades ago, asking if they were willing to sell to
families who want to put their children in the school system.  “I got a call back from one gentleman who said, ‘They’ll
have to carry me out feet first,’” McArthur said. “I said to
him, jokingly, ‘When you feel yourself slipping away, will you
call me?’”  Record Affordability  A housing affordability index that’s based on a combination
of resale prices, household income and  mortgage rates  reached an
all-time high in the first quarter, the National Association of
Realtors reported today. The index shows that a family with the
median income of almost $61,000 could afford a $325,500 house,
which is more than double the median existing single-family home
price of $158,100 in the U.S.  Finding a seller takes work. The average person who bought
in the last decade would lose money on a sale, because  home
prices  have plunged to October 2002 levels, the S&P/Case-Shiller
 index  of home prices in 20 U.S. cities shows. About 11.1 million
homeowners have negative equity, or owe more on their mortgages
than their homes are worth, which limits their mobility,
according to a March 1 report by real estate data provider
 CoreLogic Inc. (CLGX)   Paying the Agent  An additional 2.5 million borrowers have less than 5
percent equity, meaning they probably would lose money after
paying their real estate agent should they sell, CoreLogic said.  Prices haven’t recovered even as demand rises. Existing
home sales this year through March were the highest for a first
quarter since 2007, the National Association of Realtors
reported on May 9. The median price in 146 metropolitan areas
tracked by the group fell 0.4 percent from a year earlier to
$158,100.  While it’s unclear when prices will increase, rising rents
and record-low  interest rates  make now a good time to buy,  Mark Kiesel , a Pacific Investment Management Co. managing director,
said in a May 4 research note about his decision to become an
owner again six years after selling his last house at the peak
of the market in 2006.  The inventory has tightened as investors, drawn by bargain
prices and rising rents, bought 22 percent of homes sold in the
first quarter, according to the National Association of
Realtors. That’s up from 21 percent of deals a year earlier.  Lifestyle Changes  Most home sellers list only if they must move because of
financial distress, a new job or a lifestyle change, such as
divorce, death, growing children or an empty nest, said Cari
Linn, president of the  Minneapolis Area Association of Realtors .
The area’s number of homes for sale fell to a 4.6-month supply
in April from 8.2 months a year earlier.  “One of our biggest challenges is getting inventory,”
Linn said in an interview at a Coldwell Banker Burnet office in
Edina, Minnesota. “We’ve got buyers now who can’t buy
anything.”  Linn sent letters last month to 28 owners in a townhouse
development in Eagan, about 15 miles south of Minneapolis, where
one of her clients was looking for a house, a prospecting
technique she has used rarely since becoming a Realtor in 1982.
She received responses from owners of two units, neither of
which her client wanted.  ‘Domino Effect’  “We’re going to keep looking,” she said. “It’s all about
the domino effect. People have to find a seller to move.”  Fewer bank-owned homes are coming to market as lenders
comply with terms of a $25 billion February settlement to
resolve allegations that the five-largest loan servicers seized
homes without proper documentation. In the first quarter,
foreclosure  filings  in the U.S. fell to the lowest level since
2007, RealtyTrac Inc. said last month.  Resales of foreclosures by  Fannie Mae (FNMA)  and  Freddie Mac , the
government-sponsored mortgage buyers, fell to 77,104 homes in
the first quarter, down 18 percent from a year earlier,
according to company filings.  In Florida, the state with the largest share of homes in
the foreclosure pipeline, median prices are rising and
transactions have declined for bank-owned homes. That defies
predictions the state would face a flood of distressed
properties, according to John Tuccillo, chief economist for the
Florida Association of Realtors.  ‘Seemingly Vast Iceberg’  “This seemingly vast iceberg has appeared on collision
course with the Titanic of the real estate market,” he wrote in
a May 4 report. “In fact, it appears that the market for
distressed properties has stabilized.”  Another source of supply, the inventory of  new homes , fell
to 144,000 in March, the fewest on records dating to 1963, the
Commerce Department reported April 24. Homebuilders, still
reeling from the construction and land-buying spree of the past
decade, have cut the number of so-called spec homes, which are
built without a buyer already lined up.  PulteGroup Inc. (PHM) , the
largest U.S. builder by revenue, reduced its inventory of such
homes to 1,039 as of March 31, down 30 percent from the end of
last year.  “Limited spec production allows our communities to sell
from a stronger market position,” Robert T. O’Shaughnessy,
chief financial officer of the Bloomfield Hills, Michigan-based
company, said in an April 26 earnings call.  Bidding Wars Flare  As sellers sit on the sidelines, bidding wars are flaring
up in Denver, Miami, Minneapolis, Phoenix, Seattle and
Washington, where bargain hunters, sensing a market bottom, have
stepped up shopping.  “The sellers are not willing to move because they don’t
perceive that their house today is worth as much as it might be
a year from now,”  Jay Brinkmann , chief economist for the
Washington-based Mortgage Bankers Association, said in an
interview.  Troy Springston of Denver sent an e-mail to more than 6,000
fellow agents on May 1 asking for homes yet to be listed for
sale and offering half his commission for a deal reached by May
11 for the couple he represents. His clients, who have a baby on
the way, were scheduled to complete the sale of their current
house that day and couldn’t find the right property to buy for
less than $125,000, Springston said. They arranged an extension
of the move-out date to May 18 because they hadn’t yet found a
home to buy, he said.  “She’s due within a month and this has put some stress on
them,” Springston said. “It has just been tough for them to
find something they want because of the super-tight inventory.”  Decline in Listings  In Florida’s Miami-Dade County, the number of listings fell
35 percent in April from a year earlier, to a 5.7-month supply,
according to Esslinger Wooten & Maxwell Inc., a Coral Gables,
Florida-based brokerage owned by  Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/B)  In
neighboring Broward County, the inventory fell 31 percent to a
4.2-month supply, Esslinger Wooten said.  Patti Reid, an Esslinger Wooten agent, hosts monthly happy
hours at bars in central Broward County near the city of Davie,
where she owns a house. She invites empty-nesters who might be
interested in selling a single-family home and buying a
condominium near the coast. The parties have helped Reid find
four homes to sell, all of which landed buyers within a week.  She targets owners in Davie’s 1,600-home Forest Ridge
community, which she calls a “farm area” for cultivating
leads. Prices in Forest Ridge range from $200,000 to $500,000,
down about one-third from the market peak, she said.  ‘Miss an Opportunity’  “I tell them if they sell today or in two years, there
won’t be a considerable amount of appreciation in their house
and they might miss an opportunity to buy at the low end,” Reid
said in a telephone interview.  In Broward, condominiums are gaining value faster than
houses. Condo prices rose 10 percent to $75 a square foot ($6.96
a square meter) in April from a year earlier, compared with a
2.6 percent increase to $80 a square foot for single-family
homes, according to  Esslinger Wooten .  In the Phoenix area, listings fell 64 percent in March from
a year earlier, according to an April 25 report by Michael Orr,
director of the Center for Real Estate Theory and Practice at
 Arizona  State University. Properties marketed by traditional
sellers dropped 31 percent while distressed listings --including
foreclosures and short sales, in which lenders accept prices
lower than the mortgage balance -- plunged 81 percent.  “It’s hard to convey how difficult it is to find and buy a
home that’s under $150,000,” Orr said in a telephone interview.
“We’ve got a two-week supply.”  Investor Purchases  Absentee owners, including investors and vacation-home
buyers, purchased 46 percent of Phoenix area houses in March,
paying a median $116,900, up from $100,000 a year earlier,
according to a May 4 report by DataQuick.  The inventory of homes in Minnesota’s Twin Cities area sank
29 percent in April from a year earlier to 17,312 listings, a
4.6-month supply, the  Minneapolis Area Association of Realtors 
reported May 10. For homes with an asking price below $120,000 -
- those most attractive to investors and first-time buyers --the
supply shrank to 3.1 months in April from 7.6 months a year
earlier as the inventory fell 43 percent to 3,802 listings.  The shortage seems magnified because move-up buyers are
looking in the “safe zone,” near good schools, for three-
bedroom, two-bath houses priced at less than $250,000, said
Travis Callstrom, an agent with Re/Max Advantage Plus in
Minnetonka, about 12 miles west of Minneapolis.  “It’s like the shoe store where everyone wants the size
7,” said Callstrom, who sold about 125 houses last year with
his partner Laura Scott. “That’s the one they run out of
first.”  Economic Improvement  The housing markets in cities such as Minneapolis, Miami
and Phoenix have strengthened amid local economic improvement
and declining unemployment. In places such as Atlanta, Chicago
and  Southern California , the supply of for-sale homes fell in
March as prices continued to drop, according to Realtor.com.  That’s an indication that sellers in those markets are
becoming discouraged, akin to a decline in the  unemployment rate 
when job seekers lose heart, said Jed Kolko, chief economist for
Trulia Inc., a San Francisco-based real estate information
service.  “You can have the inventory down for a lot of reasons,”
Kolko said in an e-mail. “As prices recover in markets
nationwide, individual sellers and banks will put homes on the
market that they’ve been holding onto while demand was weak.”  Two Steps Forward  In recovering markets, owners need to be persuaded that
it’s worth taking a step back by selling for less so they can
take two steps forward to buy more, said Greg Anderson, the
broker at Re/Max Advisors West in Chaska, Minnesota. It’s the
same as selling a stock at a loss to buy shares of a growing
company, he said.  “It’s an old real estate adage: You always buy up in a
down market,” Anderson said. “If you buy up in a down market,
you make money on arbitrage.”  His clients Steve and Lee Ann O’Sell sold their home of 18
years in March for $200,000, about $60,000 less than it would
have fetched in 2006. When it took only eight days to find a
buyer, Lee Ann O’Sell worried the asking price was too low.
Waiting for a higher offer might have allowed another buyer to
grab the house they wanted to buy, Steve O’Sell said.  The O’Sells paid $450,000 for a 4,124-square-foot (383-
square-meter) home, almost twice the size of the old one, with
individual bedrooms for each of their three children and a golf
course outside the backyard where they can walk their two dogs
when the course isn’t busy.  “It’s a major, major upgrade,” Steve O’Sell, a salesman
for Blue Cross-Blue Shield of Minnesota, said as he sat in his
living room overlooking the second hole of the Chaska Town
Course. “Two or three years ago, it would never have crossed
our minds as a possibility.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
John Gittelsohn in Los Angeles at 
 johngitt@bloomberg.net ;
Prashant Gopal in  New York  at 
 pgopal2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  