-- Order ‘Big Short’ for an Out-to-Lunch Congress
-- B y   Z v i   B o d i e   a n d   C o r n e l i u s   H u r l e y
-- 2012-05-15T23:00:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-15/order-big-short-for-an-out-to-lunch-congress.html
For all the criticism of the  Dodd-
Frank Act , one thing the law does right is fill the
informational and analytical blind spots that allowed our
economy to unwittingly approach the precipice of disaster.  Little noted among the law’s 2,300 pages and 16 titles is a
section creating the Office of Financial Research within the
U.S. Treasury Department. The humble pie on which JPMorgan Chase
& Co. chief  Jamie Dimon  is now feasting should be shared
generously with those in Congress who would dismantle this
valuable arm of government.  The OFR has the mission of collecting and analyzing data
about the financial system. The results of its research will be
made available to the new  Financial Stability Oversight Council 
to help it carry out its duties monitoring systemic risks. The
results of its research are also available to the public. The
law banishes the willful blindness and passivity of financial
regulators before the crisis.  There is a movement in Congress, however, that would bring
back the not-so-good old days. And, just to prove their point,
the House Financial Services Committee recently held hearings on
the efficacy of the OFR a day after voting to disband the
office. One representative went so far as to justify eliminating
it on the basis that “everyone knew” about the looming
financial crisis in 2008, so who needs an early-warning system.
Order up another copy of  Michael Lewis ’s “ The Big Short ” for
the good congressman.  Early Achievements  Evidence of the potential good that can come from the OFR
is found in the work it has already undertaken. For example, it
has reached out to experts in the academic community and in the
private sector to establish best practices in risk management.  In December, the OFR, Treasury and the Financial Stability
Oversight Council co-sponsored a major conference bringing
together leaders from the regulatory community, academia,
public-interest groups and the financial-services industry to
discuss data and technology issues and analytical approaches for
mitigating threats to stability. Isn’t this the kind of activity
we all wish was taking place in  Washington  during the lead-up to
the financial crisis?  But the OFR is more than a gabfest among policy wonks. The
first two working papers that the OFR has produced are notable
for their clarity and foresight on systemic risk.  The first paper, “ A Survey of Systemic Risk Analytics ,”
provides a comprehensive examination of the various ways to
measure systemic risk and considers the feasibility of an early-
warning system for financial crises.  In an ideal world, systemic-risk monitoring would work much
like the  National Weather Service , providing advance notice of
hurricanes so that authorities and market participants can put
staff and resources in place, minimize exposure, and plan for
the impending event and immediate aftermath.  Separately, the OFR and the  Financial Stability Board  are
coordinating the development of a standardized legal-entity
registry that will, for the first time, provide consistent
global identification of counterparty financial transactions. It
was, after all, the fear of unknown ties to unidentified
counterparties that spooked investors and policy makers during
the panic of 2008.  The second working paper, “ Forging Best Practices in Risk
Management ,” lays out improvements in the way financial
institutions and their regulators identify and control risk.
Concluding with a helpful list of the most important areas
for continued research, it serves as a virtual roadmap for
modification of the role of risk management in financial firms’
business decisions.  Taking Risks  With this work in place, the OFR is poised to make a
meaningful contribution on issues such as incorporating the
potential for regime shifts (from low-volatility to high-
volatility returns, for example); exploring the correlation
between risk and executive compensation; and determining the
proper relationship between regulation and internal risk
management.  Finally, it’s worth remembering that hedging and risk
bearing are central to the economic role of financial
intermediary firms. But hedging also involves the use of
leverage. As the Commodity Futures Trading Commission and the
Securities and Exchange Commission bring transparency to the
shadow banking system, it is important to have another set of
eyes focused on economic risks that these regulatory agencies or
private actors may have overlooked or chosen to ignore.  For now, it looks like the OFR will survive the misguided
broadsides from some elements in Congress. Because the OFR is
funded by the  Federal Reserve  until this July (and by levies on
systemically significant firms thereafter) it is partly shielded
from congressional interference.  In light of its important mission, however, the OFR
deserves full support -- not just the meek endorsement of a
dysfunctional political establishment. In this regard, the
Senate should move forward with the confirmation of  Richard Berner , President  Barack Obama ’s nominee to lead the OFR, and
Congress should cease holding oversight hearings that are thinly
disguised attempts to undermine the office’s purpose and
legitimacy.  (Zvi Bodie is a professor of management at  Boston
University . Cornelius Hurley is director of Boston University’s
Center for Finance, Law & Policy. The opinions expressed are
their own.)  Read more opinion online from Bloomberg View.  Today’s highlights: Today’s highlights: the View editors on a
 Greek exit from the euro  and tariffs  on Chinese solar products ;
 Margaret Carlson  on  boring white Republicans ; Clive Crook on
 Germany and Greece ;  Peter Orszag  on  small-business woes ;
 Jonathan Weil  on  JPMorgan Chase and regulators ; Rachelle
Bergstein on the  economics of stiletto heels .  To contact the writers of this article:
Zvi Bodie at  zbodie@bu.edu 
Cornelius Hurley at  ckhurley@bu.edu   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  