-- Morgan Keegan Wins Dismissal of Fairfax Racketeer Claims
-- B y   D a v i d   V o r e a c o s
-- 2012-05-15T18:58:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-15/morgan-keegan-wins-dismissal-of-fairfax-racketeer-claims.html
Broker-dealer  Morgan Keegan & Co. (RJF)  and
Exis Capital Management Inc. won the dismissal of racketeering
claims in an $8 billion lawsuit brought by Canadian insurer
 Fairfax Financial Holdings Ltd. (FFH)   New Jersey Superior Court Judge Stephan C. Hansbury in
Morristown ruled that Fairfax couldn’t apply state law in
bringing such claims. Fairfax, in its 2006 lawsuit, accused
investors of conspiring with analysts and researchers to drive
down its stock price by spreading false rumors in a so-called
bear raid.  The allegations “make clear that New York law
presumptively applies,” Hansbury ruled May 11 in an opinion
made public today. Fairfax’s allegations of an enterprise to
deflate its stock value through a conspiracy of lies “clearly
took place in  New York ,” he ruled.  Hansbury will hold a trial in September on the remaining
claims, which include tortious interference and disparagement,
said Fairfax attorney Michael J. Bowe of Kasowitz Benson Torres
& Friedman LLP.  Remaining Claims  “This decision is wrong and we will appeal it,” Bowe said
in a phone interview. “But the fact is the defendants are still
facing a September trial on plaintiffs’ remaining claims
involving the same multiple-billion dollar damages covered by
the dismissed” racketeering claims.  Raymond James Financial Inc. last month completed a $1.2
billion acquisition of Morgan Keegan from  Regions Financial
Corp. (RF)   “We’re pleased that the court refused to allow Fairfax’s
RICO against Morgan Keegan and the remaining defendants to go
forward,” Kathy Ridley, a spokeswoman for Memphis, Tennessee-
based Morgan Keegan, said in an interview. “As the judge
pointed out, Fairfax lost the opportunity for treble damages and
reimbursements of their fees and costs.”  The case is Fairfax Financial Holdings Ltd. v. SAC Capital
Management LLC, L-2032-06, Superior Court of  New Jersey , Morris
County (Morristown).  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Voreacos in  Newark , New Jersey at 
 dvoreacos@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  