-- Morgan Stanley’s Hennessy in 7th Place in Atlantic Cup Sailing
-- B y   A a r o n   K u r i l o f f
-- 2012-05-16T04:01:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-15/morgan-stanley-s-hennessy-stands-seventh-in-atlantic-cup-sailing.html
Morgan Stanley (MS)  Managing Director Mike
Hennessy knew he was in trouble on the first leg of the Atlantic
Cup yacht race when his mom called to heckle him for going the
wrong way.  Hennessy, 45, and co-skipper Merf Owen headed the 40-foot
(12-meter) yacht Dragon offshore shortly after the start of the
640-mile (1,030-kilometer) leg from Charleston,  South Carolina ,
to  New York  City. It was a move that left them in last place for
much of a day, before they catapulted back to seventh in time
for the finish.  “We paid a huge price getting out there -- we were dead
last,” Hennessy said in a telephone interview. “My mom was
calling to taunt me on the cellphone. It was horrible.”  Hennessy and Owen took 82 hours, 17 minutes, 53 seconds to
complete the leg. The leader, Mare, sailed by Jorge Riechers and
Ryan Breymaier, finished in 78 hours, 55 minutes, 13 seconds.  Hennessy said the move began to pay off when Dragon caught
favorable breezes and moved quickly through the fleet, the
largest ever assembled in the U.S. for the Class 40, a boat
designed in  France  in 2005 to make solo and shorthanded ocean
racing accessible to amateur sailors.  “We had a less-than-spectacular start and had decided we
wanted to get out into the Gulf Stream early,” Hennessy said,
referring to the Atlantic Ocean current that runs up the U.S.’s
east coast. “Saturday evening we hit the stream and got a huge
push that vaulted us from 14 to duking it out for fifth.
Ultimately we got pipped into seventh, but coming all the way
back in a fleet of this quality, I can’t complain.”  Sprint Leg Next  Hennessy is scheduled to depart New York in three days for
the next leg of the race, a sprint to Newport,  Rhode Island .
He’ll be sailing with Chris Museler, who won nine U.S. sailing
championship medals from 1998 to 2009. Museler helped Hennessy
put together a team for the  regatta’s final leg , an inshore
series off Newport concluding May 27.  Meanwhile, Hennessy’s catching up with work.  “I’m going to take the next week off, I figured I’d get
some hours in,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aaron Kuriloff in New York at 
 akuriloff@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  