-- Morgan Stanley Investors Back Pay Plan After Gorman’s Cut
-- B y   M i c h a e l   J .   M o o r e
-- 2012-05-15T18:55:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-15/morgan-stanley-investors-back-executive-pay-after-gorman-s-cut.html
More Morgan Stanley shareholders
approved the firm’s executive compensation package for top
managers after Chief Executive Officer  James Gorman  took a 25
percent pay cut and received no cash bonus.  Investors voted 95 percent in favor of the policy in a non-
binding resolution, up from about 79 percent last year,
according to a preliminary tally at the bank’s annual meeting
today in Purchase, New York. Corporate Secretary Martin Cohen
was interrupted in announcing the tally by about 20 protesters
who engaged in an organized chant about executive pay and  income
inequality .  ISS Proxy Services USA and Glass-Lewis & Co., proxy
advisory companies, endorsed the New York-based firm’s pay plans
after ISS last year recommended shareholders vote against it.
 Citigroup Inc. (C)  shareholders rejected an executive pay plan last
month, a first among the six largest U.S. banks, amid criticism
it lets CEO Vikram Pandit collect millions of dollars in rewards
too easily.  Gorman, 53, received a $10.5 million package for 2011, down
from $14 million for 2010, after the bank’s shares dropped 44
percent last year. He got $5.04 million in restricted stock,
$1.94 million in shares tied to company performance, $800,000 in
salary and a deferred cash bonus of $2.72 million that can be
clawed back.  Protester’s Questions  The meeting was held in an auditorium at the headquarters
of  Morgan Stanley (MS) ’s wealth-management unit. The protesters were
allowed in as shareholders, and some asked questions or made
statements about income inequality, the rising cost of
education, the firm’s inability to create jobs in  New York City 
and unethical behavior by the firm.  Gorman said he took umbrage with the assertion that the
firm had engaged in unethical behavior, saying any past mistakes
were bad business decisions rather than a breach of ethics. He
didn’t answer a question about whether regulatory fines meant
the bank was too big to manage.  Each of this year’s 13  director  nominees received at least
93 percent of the votes, according to the preliminary tally.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael J. Moore in  New York  at 
 mmoore55@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  