-- Greenberg, Morrison, Kirkland, Mayer: Business of Law
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 2012-05-15T11:16:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-15/morris-kirkland-mayer-brown-vinson-business-of-law.html
Greenberg Traurig LLP said yesterday
that it has opened an office in Warsaw with a team of more than
50 lawyers formerly with Dewey & LeBoeuf LLP. The firm will
operate as Greenberg Traurig Grzesiak in Poland. Jaroslaw Grzesiak, former managing partner of Dewey’s Warsaw office,
serves as the managing partner and Lejb Fogelman as the senior
partner.  The firm has also added Frank R. Adams from Dewey, who will
be in the London and  New York  offices. Adams was a member of
Dewey’s executive committee and the former global chairman of
Dewey’s corporate finance practice, most recently focused on its
 Europe , Middle East and Africa regions, the firm said in a
statement.  Also joining in Warsaw and London is Federico Salinas, a
U.S. and English law qualified partner from Dewey’s London
office. Salinas is widely experienced in  emerging markets  and
was a founder of Dewey’s Dubai office. He also led Dewey’s
Turkey practice and has experience in international  capital
markets , mergers and acquisitions, and private equity
transactions, the firm said.  Grzesiak said the Poland office was approached by many
firms but chose Greenberg Traurig because “we share many of the
same values -- quality, strength, spirit and clarity of
vision.”  The  Poland  office is Greenberg’s 35th, and its first office
in Eastern Europe. The firm had approximately 1,800 attorneys
with offices in the U.S.,  Latin America , Europe, the Middle East
and  Asia .  Vinson & Elkins Opens San Francisco Office With Six Lawyers  Vinson & Elkins LLP is opening a new office in San
Francisco, with a focus on white-collar, antitrust and complex
commercial litigation matters, as well as intellectual property
law.  Litigation partner Matthew Jacobs, a former federal
prosecutor, will reside in the San Francisco office along with
five attorneys. The firm expects to add more lawyers through
lateral hires.  The new office comes two years after the firm opened a Palo
Alto office to focus on clean energy, venture capital and
intellectual property matters.  “Since Vinson & Elkins has long had a national litigation
and IP practice, it made sense strategically to have an office
in San Francisco,” said T. Mark Kelly, chairman of V&E.
“Opening in San Francisco bolsters our strong Palo Alto office
and gives us a larger Northern  California  presence.”  The San Francisco office is V&E’s sixteenth. The firm has
over 700 lawyers across 16 offices joining six domestic and nine
international offices.  Deals  Morrison & Foerster Handles Ally’s ResCap Unit Bankruptcy  Residential Capital LLC, the unprofitable mortgage company
whose parent  Ally Financial Inc. (ALLY)  is trying to repay a U.S.
government bailout, filed for bankruptcy and plans to sell most
of its assets to  Fortress Investment Group LLC. (FIG)   Morrison & Foerster LLP is the  law firm  handling the
bankruptcy case. The team is led by New York capital markets
partner James Tanenbaum and bankruptcy and restructuring partner
Larren Nashelsky.  Ally is represented by Kirkland & Ellis, LLP. Rick Cieri,
Ray Schrock and Stephen Hessler are the partners for Kirkland.  ResCap listed assets of $15.7 billion and debt of $15.3
billion in a petition filed yesterday in  U.S. Bankruptcy Court 
in  Manhattan . ResCap’s Chapter 11 filing is the biggest so far
this year, based on liabilities, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  “The action by ResCap will enable Ally to achieve a
permanent solution to its legacy mortgage risks and put these
issues behind us,” Ally Chief Executive Officer Michael A. Carpenter said yesterday in a statement. Ally said it also may
sell its international auto-finance and insurance operations to
help repay a $17.2 billion U.S. bailout.  Ally, a Detroit-based bank that specializes in car loans,
is 74 percent-owned by the  U.S. Treasury  after receiving the
bailout. In 2010, the Treasury failed to find a buyer for
ResCap, which originates and services residential mortgages.
Carpenter had said an initial public offering for Ally wouldn’t
happen without progress on a resolution for ResCap.  ResCap’s board voted to declare bankruptcy and arrange a
sale to Fortress and Nationstar Mortgage Holdings Inc. for about
$2.3 billion, ResCap Chairman and CEO Thomas Marano, 50, said in
an interview. Nationstar, which is majority-owned by Fortress,
will buy a portfolio of servicing assets, as well as a mortgage-
origination unit, and business will continue uninterrupted, he
said. Mortgage servicers handle billing, collection and
foreclosures.  Ally agreed to pay $750 million to ResCap to settle any
claims against the parent company, purchase as much as $1.6
billion of securities if others don’t, and provide $150 million
to help finance ResCap’s operations during bankruptcy, according
to a statement.  Barclays Plc (BARC)  will provide $1.45 billion in
financing to ResCap while the company is under court protection,
Marano said.  Skadden Arps Slate Meagher & Flom LLP is representing
Barclays Bank, the firm said. Skadden New York partners include
Sarah Ward, banking group; Ken Ziman, corporate restructuring;
Richard Kadlick, structured finance; and David Ingles, financial
institutions.  In the weeks leading up to the filing, ResCap negotiated
with  bondholders  in an effort to create a so-called prepackaged
bankruptcy. When a majority of creditors who hold about two-
thirds of the amount of a company’s debt vote to support a
reorganization plan, the bankruptcy is considered prepackaged
and can win court approval quicker than normal.  ResCap’s plan has support from 37 percent of junior secured
creditors, according to court papers, below the threshold needed
for a prepackaged bankruptcy. Under the U.S. Bankruptcy Code,
creditors holding more than one-third of any single class of
ResCap’s debt can block the company’s reorganization proposal by
voting against it.  A group of 17 institutional investors reached an agreement
that will give them an $8.7 billion allowed claim related to 392
residential mortgage-backed securities trusts issued by ResCap
affiliates from 2004 to 2008, according to a statement from
Gibbs & Bruns LLP, a law firm representing the investors with
Ropes & Gray LLP.  A separate group of investors represented by law firm
Talcott Franklin PC also agreed to settle their claims against
ResCap over mortgage-backed securities sponsored by the company.
The firm will recommend that all of its clients with MBS claims
against ResCap settle with the bankrupt company, Talcott
Franklin said in a statement yesterday.  ResCap has a preliminary agreement with a bondholder group
represented by White & Case LLP and is negotiating with other
claimants. Gerard Uzzi, a partner in White & Case’s financial
restructuring and insolvency practice is representing the group,
the firm said.  The bankruptcy plan received conditional approval from the
Treasury, an Obama administration official said in early May.
The U.S. concluded that addressing ResCap’s mortgage losses
would put taxpayers in a better position to recoup their
investment in Ally, according to the official.  The case is In re Residential Capital LLC, 12-12020, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  For more, click here.  Moves  Former Dewey Partners Join Mayer Brown, Pillsbury, Paul Hastings  Former California Attorney General John Van de Kamp joined
Mayer Brown LLP’s Los Angeles office as counsel in the
government and global trade practice. Previously, he was of
counsel with Dewey & LeBoeuf LLP in Los Angeles and one of at
least nine lawyers that left the beleaguered firm yesterday for
other firms including Pillsbury Winthrop Shaw Pittman LLP and
Paul Hastings LLP.  Van de Kamp served as California Attorney General from 1983
until 1991, after which he went into private practice at Dewey
Ballantine, the firm that merged with LeBoeuf Lamb Greene &
MacRae in 2007 to form Dewey.  Van de Kamp’s hire makes him one of two former state
attorneys general at Mayer Brown. The other is partner and
former Mayer Brown Chairman Tyrone C. Fahner.  Pillsbury announced that Peter A. Baumgaertner has joined
the firm’s New York corporate and securities practice section as
a partner with a broad, international practice spanning capital
markets, infrastructure projects, commercial lending and
securities.  Litigator Ellen M. Dunn joined Sutherland Asbill & Brennan
LLP’s New York office. She was previously co-head of Dewey’s
U.S. litigation practice, the firm said. She has experience
representing life and property casualty insurers in litigation,
regulatory investigations, administrative hearings and
compliance matters.  Baumgaertner will work with colleagues and clients across
Pillsbury’s offices in London, New York, the  Middle East  and
Asia. His hire continues Pillsbury’s expansion around energy,
communications, transportation and other infrastructure project
work, the firm said.  Litigator Alan B. Howard joined Crowell & Moring LLP, the
firm said in a statement.  Michael Fitzgerald, co-chairman of Dewey’s corporate
finance group and chairman of its Latin America practice, moved
to Paul Hastings with three other lawyers, the Wall Street
Journal reported yesterday. Taisa Markus, Joy Gallup and Arturo
Carrillo are joining Fitzgerald in the corporate department of
Paul Hastings’ New York office, Allan Whitescarver, spokesman
for Paul Hastings confirmed. He said there will be a more formal
announcement later this week.  Dewey is a shell of what was once the 11th-largest U.S. law
firm. More than half the partners have bolted the firm, and 450
employees were fired last week.  Martin Bienenstock , former bankruptcy partner and managing
chairman of Dewey, told the Wall Street Journal the firm is
winding down but not planning to file for Chapter 11 bankruptcy.  Crowell & Moring Adds Two Litigation Partners in New York  Crowell & Moring LLP added two litigation partners to its
New York office. Edwin M. Baum, whose practice is concentrated
on representing business clients in multifaceted commercial
litigation, joined the firm from Proskauer Rose LLP. Alan B.
Howard, a litigator and trial lawyer who has experience handling
domestic and international litigation and arbitration cases,
arrives from Dewey & LeBoeuf LLP.  Baum, the former practice group leader of Proskauer Rose’s
product liability and consumer litigation practice, has
experience counseling clients through matters requiring in-depth
knowledge of multiple substantive disciplines including
financial services, insurance, product liability, professional
liability, unfair competition, theft of trade secrets, and
employment, the firm said in a statement.  Baum regularly serves as counsel for clients facing class
actions, governmental investigations and litigations, or other
complex matters requiring expertise in multiple disciplines. He
frequently counsels clients in transactional matters and
business planning, on assessing potential liabilities, and in
developing action plans to prevent or minimize litigation risks,
the firm said.  “They are both highly seasoned trial lawyers with
experience handling big-ticket matters for some of the world’s
largest corporations. As we continue to deepen the firm’s
national litigation bench, they are terrific additions to our
team in New York,” Kathleen Taylor Sooy, national chairwoman of
Crowell & Moring’s litigation group, said in a statement.  Crowell & Moring has approximately 500 lawyers representing
clients in litigation and arbitration, regulatory, and
transactional matters. The firm has offices in  Washington , New
York, Los Angeles, San Francisco,  London , Brussels, Orange
County, California and Anchorage, Alaska.  Duane Morris Adds Partner, Expanding Private Equity Practice  Duane Morris LLP announced that Piero Carbone joined the
firm’s corporate practice group as a partner in London. He was
previously at Kirkland & Ellis LLP.  Carbone focuses his practice on cross-border corporate
transactions, particularly in the area of private equity. He
mainly advises private equity firms on a variety of
transactions, including venture investments; buy-and-build
transactions; mid-market and large leveraged buyouts; and
public-to-privates, the firm said.  Carbone will expand Duane Morris’ private equity group to
Europe. The firm already has practices in the U.S. and in Asia.
Duane Morris has more than 700 attorneys in the U.S., Europe and
Asia.  Trials  Servier, Founder Fight Drug-Death Cover-Up Claims at Trial  Les Laboratoires Servier and its founder will fight charges
they hid the risks of a diabetes drug suspected of causing as
many as 2,000 deaths as they go on trial for private claims by
victims unwilling to wait on a criminal investigation.  Jacques Servier, 90, and France’s second-largest drugmaker
challenged claims they failed to disclose the risks posed by the
withdrawn drug at a trial that began yesterday in Nanterre. The
executive and company are under investigation by specialized
health judges in nearby Paris over similar claims, their lawyer
said. They are seeking to have the case referred to a higher
court for a ruling on whether Servier can be tried in a private
prosecution while the criminal probe is pending.  “We are under investigation for exactly the same things
that are essentially what is before you now,”  Herve Temime ,
Servier’s lawyer, told Judge Isabelle Prevost-Deprez at
yesterday’s hearing. “It is unthinkable not only for us, but
for all defendants -- it is the end of the very idea of equal
justice.”  Mediator, the drug at the center of the case, was pulled
from the market after 33 years in November 2009 over concerns it
caused heart-valve damage. The move sparked an overhaul of how
France’s drug industry is regulated. More than 600 people joined
the private prosecution at the Nanterre court to speed up their
cases, while others have opted to wait on the criminal
investigation in Paris.  Temime’s challenge could postpone the trial, should judges
agree to refer the issue for consideration by a higher court.
The Paris investigation is expected to conclude this year, the
prosecutors’ office has said.  Servier “refutes all accusations of hiding any evidence of
risk” during the authorization process and in terms of
secondary effects, Lucy Vincent, a company spokeswoman, said
before the hearing. “We have a lot of difficulty in recognizing
our company in the one that is described.”  For more, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in Brooklyn, New York, at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net . 