-- Osborne Says Way Clear for U.K. to Begin Vickers Bank Overhaul
-- B y   G o n z a l o   V i n a
-- 2012-05-15T11:11:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-15/osborne-says-way-clear-for-u-k-to-begin-vickers-bank-overhaul.html
Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  said there is “political agreement” on bank capital
rules among European Union members after securing concessions
that will allow Britain to toughen requirements on its banks.  Osborne said the agreement means Britain can begin
legislation to implement the recommendations of the Independent
Commission on Banking led by former Bank of England Chief
Economist  John Vickers .  “I suspect the markets will be pretty unforgiving to
national regulators who don’t comply with Basel” capital rules,
Osborne told finance ministers meeting in Brussels today.
Amendments agreed on today “will allow us to implement the
Vickers report.”  Osborne argued at a 16-hour meeting earlier this month for
member states to gain additional flexibility to toughen rules
for their banks. His concern then was that proposals could
prevent the U.K. from fully implementing a rule overhaul for its
lenders recommended by Vickers.  Vickers wants banks to erect firewalls around their retail
operations and increase the amount of capital they hold to
protect them from future financial crises. His proposals would
see some banks forced to hold core reserves of 10 percent of
their risk-weighted assets.  Governments and lawmakers in the 27-nation EU face a
January deadline to implement the Basel bank rules, which were
agreed on by the  Basel Committee on Banking Supervision  in the
wake of the 2008 collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. The
measures, known as Basel III, would more than triple the core
capital that banks need to hold to 7 percent of their assets,
weighted for risk. Basel agreements must be implemented into
nations’ laws before they can come into effect.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gonzalo Vina in London at 
 gvina@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  