-- Moser Baer Plans to Revamp Loans, Bonds Amid Solar Glut
-- B y   N a t a l i e   O b i k o   P e a r s o n
-- 2012-05-16T05:22:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-15/moser-baer-slumps-to-13-year-low-on-restructuring-plans-1-.html
Moser Baer India Ltd. (MBI) , the nation’s
biggest solar manufacturer, plans to restructure $738 million of
loans and bonds as it jostles to survive a supply glut that has
claimed at least 10 U.S., German and French panel makers.  The company expects to reach an agreement with banks to
restructure 35 billion rupees ($646 million) of secured debt by
August and may sell new five-year bonds to pay off dollar-
convertible notes maturing in June, Chief Financial Officer
Yogesh Mathur said in a phone interview from  New Delhi . Its 2013
zero-coupon bond is trading at 35 cents on the dollar.  Solar panel prices have plunged  48 percent  in the past year
amid overproduction led by Chinese manufacturers and dwindling
demand in  Europe , the largest market for the equipment. Moser
Baer and Indian peers such as  Indosolar Ltd. (ISLR)  are producing at 20
percent of capacity as sales sputter and industry margins
collapse globally, Bloomberg New Energy Finance said in January.  “The time certainly is not the best” for a new issuance,
said Atul Gharde, a Hong Kong-based credit analyst at SJS
Markets Ltd. “Chinese solar companies are struggling and the
yields of those bonds are at distressed levels.” Even if Moser
Baer were to attract an anchor investor, selling new bonds could
be “quite challenging,” he said.  Moser Baer dropped 0.5 percent to 11.05 rupees at 10:28
a.m. in Mumbai, extending yesterday’s plunge to a 13-year low.
The yield on its zero-coupon bond due in June rose 2.4 percent
to a record, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Failing to Benefit  The biggest panel suppliers including China’s  Suntech Power
Holdings Co. (STP)  and Tempe, Arizona-based  First Solar Inc. (FSLR)  say  India 
is about to become one of the fastest-growing solar markets,
countering waning demand in Europe, where governments are
curtailing clean-energy subsidies. The government seeks to turn
India into a global hub with rules aimed at spawning 5 gigawatts
of domestic solar manufacturing capacity by 2020.  Moser Baer and local competitors failed to benefit from a
50-fold increase in solar power capacity in India since December
2010. Instead, overseas suppliers reaped most of the equipment
orders, said K. Subramanya, former chief executive officer of
Tata BP Solar India Ltd. who resigned this month.  Moser Baer, which makes solar panels and the silicon-based
cells used in them, has $89 million of convertible bonds
maturing on June 21, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The New Delhi-based company is negotiating with bondholders
to either extend the tenure or issue fresh notes to pay them
off, Mathur said. Its cash balance has fallen below $15 million,
he said.  Indian companies may default on 20 percent of $7 billion in
dollar-denominated convertible bond payments due in 2012,  Fitch
Ratings  said in a report on Feb. 21. Moser Baer and  XL Energy
Ltd. (XLE) , a Secunderabad-based competitor, were among 16 companies
identified in the report as likely to reorganize debt.  “Overall, this isn’t good news for the Indian convertible
 bond market ,” Raj Kothari, a London-based bond trader at Sun
Global Investments Ltd., said of Moser Baer’s plans.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Natalie Obiko Pearson in Mumbai at 
 npearson7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  