-- OTP Sees Slower Lending, Uncertainty After Profit Plunged
-- B y   E d i t h   B a l a z s
-- 2012-05-15T10:05:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-15/otp-sees-slower-lending-uncertainty-after-profit-plunged-1-.html
OTP Bank Nyrt. (OTP)  said 2012 lending will
expand at a slower pace and risk costs may not ease as much as
previously projected after Hungary’s largest bank reported
first-quarter profit plunged.  Net income  fell 66 percent in the first quarter to 12.8
billion forint ($56 million) from 37.2 billion forint a year
earlier, after the bank booked 29 billion forint in a special
bank levy for 2012 and had a loss of 1.8 billion forint on
foreign-currency mortgage repayments, it said today in Budapest.  “Our expectations for lending growth have deteriorated,
directly linked to economic growth projections pointing toward
weaker growth in the entire region, except for  Russia ,” deputy
Chief Executive Officer Laszlo Bencsik said. OTP had forecast
credit growth “in the low single digits” and has a “good
chance” of avoiding a drop in lending this year, he said.  OTP, which has subsidiaries in nine countries in central
and eastern  Europe , is increasingly  relying  on its foreign
subsidiaries to boost profitability as Hungarian regulations and
the forint’s weakening took a toll on domestic operations. The
profit contribution from foreign units rose to 42 percent by the
end of March from 32 percent in the previous quarter, chiefly as
a result of Russian and Bulgarian operations.  The bank “may still” meet its profit targets, which the
bank didn’t disclose, Bencsik said, adding that risk costs and
margin developments were key for profitability.  More Risk?  “Uncertainty regarding our projection that risk costs may
decline this year has risen after bad-loan formation accelerated
in the first quarter,” he said.  OTP  shares  declined 1.5 percent to 3,575 forint by 10:47
a.m. in Budapest, the lowest since April 24. The benchmark BUX
 stock index  fell 0.1 percent, dropping for a third day.  “We believe that OTP is undervalued compared to peers and
an IMF/EU financing deal could trigger the rerating of the
stock,” Attila Gyurcsik, an analyst at Budapest-based brokerage
Concorde Zrt. said in an e-mailed note.  Risk costs, including provisions for bad loans, rose 3
percent to 58.7 billion forint in the first quarter as the ratio
of loans overdue by more than 90 days increased to 17.4 percent
from 16.6 percent at the end of 2011. Total provisions for non-
performing loans stood at over 1 trillion forint, Bencsik said.  In the second quarter, OTP will book the entire estimated
loss of revenue for 2012 stemming from a Hungarian government
plan allowing the repayment of foreign-currency mortgages at
below-market rates, Bencsik said.  Tax Effect  He declined to give an estimate on the effect of a planned
financial transaction tax to be introduced in 2013, saying
upcoming negotiations between lenders and the government may
help change the “parameters” of the levy before lawmakers
approve it.  Hungary  is planning to introduce a 0.1 percent financial
transaction tax from 2013 along with other sectoral levies to
help meet budget deficit targets and end the European Union’s
excessive deficit procedure against the country.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edith Balazs in Budapest at 
 ebalazs1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  