-- House Panel Proposes Adding $874 Million for Weapons
-- B y   R o x a n a   T i r o n   a n d   T o n y   C a p a c c i o
-- 2012-05-15T22:06:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-15/house-panel-proposes-adding-874-million-for-weapons.html
The House panel that controls
military expenditures proposed a net increase of $874 million
for weapons over the Pentagon’s budget plans for the year
starting Oct. 1.  The largest amounts that the House Appropriations Defense
subcommittee added in producing a $102.4 billion procurement
request were $562.4 million to buy 11 additional  Boeing Co. (BA) 
F/A-18E/F Super Hornet fighter jets and $447 million to buy
seven more  Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT)  C-130J transport planes,
according to the defense panel’s report obtained today.  The subcommittee also added $300 million for procurement of
Pac-3 Patriot missile interceptors from Lockheed Martin and
 Raytheon Co. (RTN)  and $199 million to buy 10 more UH-60 Black Hawk
helicopters made by United Technologies Corp. than the Army
requested. The panel didn’t specify major cuts it proposed
except a $33.7 million reduction for Boeing’s P-8A surveillance
aircraft.  The full House Appropriations Committee is scheduled to act
May 17 on the recommendations of its defense panel, which added
the money for weapons as part of a $3.1 billion total increase
from about $513 billion that the Pentagon proposed for its
spending that comes under the defense subcommittee’s
jurisdiction.  The full House this week will consider parallel legislation
that authorizes defense spending. That bill calls for $4 billion
more than the Pentagon’s request of $550 billion, which includes
military construction and the Energy Department’s defense
program.  Veto Threatened  The White House budget office today issued a veto threat
over the defense authorization measure. If its “cumulative
effects” would impede the administration’s ability to execute
its new defense strategy and “to properly direct scarce
resources,” President  Barack Obama ’s advisers would recommend a
veto, according to a statement by the Office of Management and
Budget.  The appropriations subcommittee in its proposal also added
$576.3 million to the Pentagon’s $69.4 billion research request.  The panel boosted funding for  General Dynamics Corp. (GD) ’s
Abrams battle tanks by $181 million, enough to help convert an
additional 33 tanks to the latest M1A2 model. The Army wants to
suspend that work at a Lima, Ohio-based tank plant from 2013 to
2015.  Drones, Israel Defense  General Atomics also would get an increase for its MQ-9
Reaper drone. The lawmakers proposed an increase of $155 million
and 12 drones above the Pentagon’s request.  BAE Systems Plc (BA/)  would see an increase of $140 million from
the Pentagon’s request for its Bradley Infantry Fighting
Vehicle.  The request for $2.6 billion in research for the F-35
fighter jet from Bethesda, Maryland-based Lockheed, the
Pentagon’s largest program, was nicked by $16.8 million.  The panel recommended adding $848.9 million for  Israel ’s
missile defense, including $680 million for the Iron Dome system
and $111.4 million for a system called David’s Sling.  Iron Dome, built by Israel’s Rafael Advanced Defense
Systems Ltd., went into operation a year ago and has proved
effective at intercepting short-range rockets, according to
Israeli and U.S. officials. The $680 million also was backed
last week by the House panel that authorizes defense spending.  Israeli Defense Minister  Ehud Barak  is meeting with Defense
Secretary  Leon Panetta  at the Pentagon on May 17, and the
session is intended to include an agreement on more U.S. funding
for Iron Dome, according to an Israeli ministry official who
spoke on condition of anonymity because he wasn’t authorized to
comment in advance.  Rescinded Funds  The appropriations panel also detailed $1 billion in
procurement and research funds approved for this fiscal year
that it seeks to rescind. The largest amounts are $115 million
for the  Air Force ’s Light Attack Armed Reconnaissance program
and $105 million for the Pentagon’s Joint Air-to-Ground Missile.  The panel proposed cutting $66 million from a $99.6 million
development request for  Northrop Grumman Corp. (NOC) ’s MQ-8 Firescout
drone that was originally intended for the Navy’s Littoral
Combat Ship.  Delays on the combat ship have resulted in the drones being
used for other roles and missions, which in turn disrupted the
Firescout’s testing and development schedule, the panel said.  The panel urged the Navy to place the Firescout on
“probation.”  Firescout issues have included a crash and a
drone that lost communications with its control station while
conducting operations, the panel said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Roxana Tiron in Washington at 
 rtiron@bloomberg.net ;
Tony Capaccio in Washington at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  