-- How the Rich and Famous Foil Identity Theft
-- B y   B e n   S t e v e r m a n
-- 2012-05-15T20:34:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-15/how-the-rich-and-famous-foil-identity-theft.html
     Identity thieves generally pretend to be real
people, create some false accounts, and spend like there's no
tomorrow. The rich and famous, on the other hand, already
spend that way and are pleased to maintain their true
identities. Yet they're increasingly falsifying accounts of
their own lives.  It's always been a struggle for the wealthy to hide from
the prying eyes of everyone, from curiosity seekers to
criminals. Now that every transaction is tracked by
retailers, government agencies, and banks, to name a few
digital data hounds, it's nearly impossible to erase the lurid
details of your life.  What the wealthy can do is hire security consultants who
counteract the truth with waves of false information --
stories of homes not purchased, vacation destinations never
visited, and cars never leased. Their hope: False information
obscures the real stuff.  "The only way to truly prevent a breach of privacy is to
wipe the slate clean and create a new identity," says Jeremy
M. Kroll, co-founder of K2 Global Consulting.  "Security by confusion"  That is near impossible for most people. The more
realistic option: Use "security by confusion" to reinvent
yourself, says Christopher Falkenberg, president of Insite
Security. If you’re disturbed that a picture and the address
of your mansion is online, you might flood the net with 18
other photos and addresses linked to you. When juiced by the
techniques of search engine optimization, the false leads will
end up on the first page of search results, while your real
address is buried on page 3 or 4. On the Internet, says
privacy expert and author Frank M. Ahearn, "Not everything can
be deleted and the only answer is deception."  Falkenberg and Ahearn readily admit to performing such
trickery on behalf of their clients because there’s nothing
illegal about it. After all, it’s the lack of rules online
that bedevils people who feel overexposed there, says Case
Western Reserve University law professor Jacqueline D. Lipton.
Except for rules against lying about someone else online --
that would be the ancient offense of "defamation" -- the U.S.
lacks effective online privacy laws, she says.  Without such misinformation, you might find yourself in a
situation like the one that brought Ahearn one of his clients.
In a hotel lobby in Africa on a business trip, the client
struck up a conversation with a stranger who already seemed to
know far too much about him. Perhaps tipped off by a talkative
desk clerk and a few Google searches, his new acquaintance
knew not only that he lives in Scarsdale, N.Y., but
that, according to Zillow.com, he’d paid $4 million for his
home. To any con men, abductors or thieves in the
vicinity, the traveler might as well have painted a target on
his back.  "Love Shack Trust"  Increased online vulnerability means other tried-and-true
privacy protection techniques are being used more often.
Jonathan Crystal, of high-end insurance brokerage Frank
Crystal & Company, sees more clients buying property through
shell corporations or LLCs. While in the past, property
records were stored in a filing cabinet in the county
building, they’re often now online for anyone to see. "There
is a recognition that there is no such thing as ‘quiet wealth’
anymore," Crystal says. By buying through such entities, the
wealthy are following a path forged by celebrities: Britney
Spears has bought properties through the "Love Shack Trust,"
and Sarah Palin admitted to buying Arizona property in 2011
through "Safari Investments LLC."  Ahearn, author of "The Digital Hit Man," goes
further, helping clients construct fictional identities. A
chief financial officer for a major company might travel under
the same name, but as a paint salesman, paying bills with a
credit card in the name of a fictional employer -- a
legitimate LLC or other corporate entity -- and carrying bogus
sales brochures in a suitcase in case hotel cleaning staffers
get curious. Ahearn says his services cost $30,000 per case.
Falkenberg's firm charges $4,000 to $10,000 for routine cases
and much more for complicated situations.  The key to protecting yourself is knowing what
information is already out there, says Kroll, whose K2 Global
Consulting constantly monitors the identities and reputations
of its clients online. "The sooner you know about a potential
threat or issue, the sooner you can rectify it," he says.  Sometimes seemingly innocuous pieces of information can
tip off fraudsters or identity thieves. You might want to make
charitable gifts anonymously, Kroll says, particularly if a
public thank-you for your largesse could make you a target for
criminals. If you’re on the board of a company or nonprofit
organization, be careful about what’s in your biography. Even
the names of your children can give identity thieves valuable
information, Kroll says. "Each fact is a data point that can
be used to breach one’s privacy."  Information Leakage  Security firms go to great lengths to protect client
privacy. They scrub online identities, check out all employees
and work to prevent information "leakage," Falkenberg says. If
you want your home address to be secret, details matter: Don’t
sign up for catalogs in your real name.
Unfortunately, Falkenberg adds, "all of that can be for naught
if a teenager posts a picture on Facebook." A vacation photo
posted by your children or their friends can reveal volumes
about your lifestyle, traveling habits, the location of second
or third homes and maybe even what cars you drive.  Then there is information the wealthy simply can’t
control. More local newspapers are putting back issues online.
An amble through history can be quaint, unless a printed
notice of a zoning hearing or property transaction gives
everyone your home address. "All that is available and there
is really nothing you can do about it," says Theodore F.
Claypoole, an attorney who specializes in privacy at the firm
Womble, Carlyle, Sandridge & Rice, LLP.  Kroll lists a few things individuals would need to do to
completely protect themselves: Never use credit cards; get off
Facebook, LinkedIn and all other social networks; use only
prepaid mobile phones; don’t get a driver’s license or Social
Security number.  In other words: To be truly private, you have to go
low-tech, use cash only, rely on public transportation and
work under the table. Basically, be the opposite of rich. And
that's a price very few are likely to be willing to pay.
 