-- Lloyd’s Register Speaks About China’s Shipbuilding Industry
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   W i e s e   B o c k m a n n
-- 2012-05-15T12:11:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-15/lloyd-s-register-speaks-about-china-s-shipbuilding-industry.html
The Chinese shipbuilding industry,
the world’s biggest, is focusing on quality over productivity
and overcoming deficiencies, including worker training,
retention and research and design, Lloyd’s Register said.  Following are comments from Tom Boardley, marine director
of Lloyd’s Register, a London-based classification society that
monitors compliance with structural rules for building ships.
The company is the world’s second-largest society, covering 18
percent of the global fleet, and it employs 372 people in  China ,
working at 40 of the country’s 200 main yards, he said, speaking
at the China Money & Ships conference in London today.  “We know that the yards have had severe difficulties
recruiting, not so much recruiting but in retaining qualified
management and workers,” he said, adding that  China’s economy 
has been booming.  “As soon as they’re well trained they go back home for
Chinese New Year or holidays and they then discover they can get
a job there. There’s been a huge turnover in staff. But
hopefully with things slowing down, we’re hoping that will
change.  ‘‘For a lot, productivity came first and quality a little
bit later. But certainly all major shipyards have quality as a
major part of their program and we’ve seen them take huge
strides.  ‘‘They were originally offering standard designs and quick
delivery and a good price and that’s what the owner wanted. Now
everyone is looking for the best design, an eco-friendly design
and what we’re seeing now is Chinese yards are showing a huge
amount of flexibility and user friendliness in terms of being
able to offer new designs to shipowners in order to make sure
they can secure orders.  ‘‘Subcontractor turnover has reduced and that’s been a
major problem for yards, which are now investing in training and
development.  ‘‘With the financial slowdown, a lot of the yards have
slowed down their productivity in order to try to improve
quality. Clearly the potential downside is that people are
cutting corners, trying to use cheaper components, trying to use
subcontractors and to be realistic this is a potential downside.
‘‘Obviously it’s caveat emptor (buyer beware) to the buyer.  ‘‘One of the biggest issues, and no surprise to ship
owners, is the quality of welding in China. It is a constant
battle because the training isn’t particularly good and a lot of
people claim to have welding qualifications that when tested
prove to be somewhat lacking.  ‘‘I know a lot of the shipyards now are very rigorous in
making sure that welders are welding to the standards that are
required.’’  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Wiese Bockmann in  London  at 
 mwiesebockma@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alaric Nightingale at 
 anightingal1@bloomberg.net  