-- Parkinson Says RBA ‘Well Placed’ to Respond to Sluggish Growth
-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 2012-05-15T04:13:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-15/parkinson-says-rba-well-placed-to-respond-to-sluggish-growth.html
Australia’s Treasury secretary said
the nation’s central bank is “well placed” to respond to weak
growth with more interest-rate firepower than other advanced
economies.  “If subdued growth in the non-mining economy results in
further increases in spare capacity, putting downward pressure
on inflation, monetary policy is more likely to be an effective
remedy as these sectors are typically more sensitive to  interest
rates  and exchange rates,” Martin Parkinson, the Treasury’s top
bureaucrat, said in a speech today in Sydney. Parkinson also
sits on the central bank’s board.  The  Reserve Bank  of Australia this month cut the overnight
 cash rate  target to a two-year low of 3.75 percent from 4.25
percent, the deepest reduction in three years, after two
quarter-point cuts late last year. Traders are pricing in an 86
percent chance the RBA will lower the rate to 3.5 percent next
month, swaps data compiled by Bloomberg show, as bets rise that
Greece will be forced out of the euro.  “The global outlook is still very uncertain, as it has
been for some time,” Parkinson said. “We are particularly
worried by the euro-zone situation, which is why our forecasts
for European growth are markedly weaker than those of the
 International Monetary Fund .”  Even after the RBA’s May 1 rate reduction,  Australia  has
the highest benchmark borrowing cost among major developed
economies. Policy rates are near zero in the U.S. and  Japan , 1
percent in the euro area and Canada, and a record-low 2.5
percent in neighboring New Zealand.  Mining Boom  Australia’s economy is being driven by the biggest resource
bonanza since the 1850s as  China  and India increase demand for
minerals and energy. In contrast, tourism, manufacturing and
retail industries have suffered under the local currency’s
sustained strength.  The Australian dollar, the world’s fifth-most traded
currency, has gained 33 percent in the past three years as the
mining boom spurs growth. It dropped below parity with the  U.S.
dollar  this week for the first time since December on concern
 Greece  will leave the euro bloc.  Parkinson praised the floating exchange rate, saying it has
helped absorb the nation’s mining investment boom.  “While the high dollar weighed heavily on some sectors of
the economy -- as it continues to do so -- it helped spread the
benefits of the boom and shield the macro-economy from the shock
by helping to bring down the price of imported  consumer goods ,”
Parkinson said.  Fiscal Tightening  Australia’s economy faces headwinds after the government
announced last week it will cut spending for the first time in
at least 42 years as the government ends four years of budget
deficits.  Prime Minister  Julia Gillard  is under pressure to revive
parts of the economy not benefiting from the mining investment
boom. The underlying cash surplus will be A$1.54 billion ($1.54
billion) in the 12 months to June 30, 2013, the government said
May 8. Expenditures are forecast to fall to A$364.2 billion next
year, the first drop in figures dating back to 1971.  Parkinson said Australia’s economy is in a good position to
return to surplus.  “In an economy with unemployment forecast to be not far
from reasonable estimates of its lowest sustainable rate, and
commodity prices remaining near historical highs, it is
appropriate that the budget return to surplus to remain
consistent with the medium-term fiscal objective,” Parkinson
said today.  ‘Political Gesture’  He said the 2012-13 surplus goal isn’t a “political
gesture” that could be delayed.  “The problem with this argument is that if it’s not
appropriate to restore the structural budget position when we
have low unemployment and the economy is expected to grow at
around trend, when will it be appropriate?” he said.  Australia’s jobless rate fell in April to 4.9 percent from
5.2 percent in March as hiring accelerated in mining states
including  Western Australia , the statistics bureau said in
Sydney on May 10. Economists forecast a rise to 5.3 percent.  The employment data contrast with reports in the past month
showing the economy struggling to gain traction, with  core
inflation  slowing to a 13-year low, export and house prices
slumping, and  consumer confidence  weakening.  “To the extent there is weakness across the economy,
monetary policy is well-placed to respond, unlike in many other
advanced economies,” Parkinson said today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  