-- Pentagon Limits F-22 Flight Durations Due to Oxygen Issue
-- B y   D a v i d   L e r m a n
-- 2012-05-15T22:20:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-15/pentagon-limits-f-22-flight-durations-due-to-oxygen-issue.html
The Pentagon said it is imposing new
safety measures on  Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT) ’s F-22 fighter planes,
including limiting flight durations and speeding the
installation of back-up oxygen systems.  The Pentagon announced the steps today as the Air Force
continues to investigate why F-22 pilots are experiencing
symptoms of oxygen deprivation, or hypoxia.  “The idea is to ensure there’s a prudent amount of safety
built into each of these flights,” Navy Captain John Kirby, a
Pentagon spokesman, said at a news conference. While the Defense
Department depends on the plane, “this is an engineering
problem that needs to be solved,” Kirby said.  Two pilots went public with their concerns about the
plane’s safety, citing oxygen deprivation and disorientation, in
a report last week on CBS’s “60 Minutes” program.  At least 12 reported cases of hypoxia symptoms have been
reported since April 2008, Kirby said.  Defense Secretary  Leon Panetta  “is deeply concerned about
pilot safety,” spokesman  George Little  said. “That’s a
paramount concern for him.”  The first retrofit of the plane’s oxygen system will be
completed in December, Kirby said. Planes will be retrofitted
beginning next year at the rate of ten a month.  ‘Deeper We Dig’  “The deeper we dig, the more uncertain I am we’ve found
the root cause yet,” said Senator Mark Warner, a  Virginia 
Democrat who was briefed by the Air Force today and spoke to
reporters in a conference call. Langley Air Force Base in
Virginia is home to some of the F-22 pilots.  Warner said nine pilots and flight surgeons have expressed
their concerns about the plane’s safety.  “It’s an extraordinary step to come forward, even under
anonymity,” said Representative Adam Kinzinger, an Illinois
Republican and former  Air Force  pilot who joined Warner on the
call. “In the pilot culture, that’s not something that’s taken
lightly.”  The stealthy F-22 Raptor, which has never flown in combat,
was grounded for four months last year as the Air Force
struggled to diagnose the troubles with oxygen that have caused
symptoms such as dizziness and blackouts.  The Pentagon order curtailing long-distance flights means
patrols of U.S. airspace over  Alaska  will now be performed by
other aircraft, Kirby said.  Honeywell’s System  Warner, who called for an expanded Air Force investigation
last week, said the Pentagon’s new safety measures were “an
appropriate first step, but I want to see some more of the
data.”  An Air Force notification to Congress last year said that
under certain conditions,  Honeywell International Inc. (HON) ’s On-
Board Oxygen Generating System “does not deliver oxygen as
designed to the pilot, which could result in hypoxia and
decreased flight safety.”  The continuing investigation “failed to reveal a single,
definitive root cause for the hypoxia-like symptoms,” according
to the notification.  Honeywell, based in  Morris Township ,  New Jersey , has said
on its website that its oxygen system “is more reliable, safer
and requires much less maintenance than a comparable stored-gas
system.”  Citing “grave concerns” about the F-22’s safety,
Kinzinger said, “We have a lot of questions that still need
answers.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Lerman in Washington at 
 dlerman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  