-- Pernod Ricard, Kodak, Apple, Novartis: Intellectual Property
-- B y   E l l e n   R o s e n
-- 2012-05-15T11:33:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-15/pernod-fair-use-apple-samsung-novartis-intellectual-property.html
Pernod Ricard SA (RI) , which sells  Havana
Club  rum in every country except the U.S., was dealt a blow in
efforts to sell the liquor in the American market after the U.S.
Supreme Court decided not to intervene in a clash over rights to
the name.  The justices yesterday left intact a U.S. government
agency’s rejection of a bid by Cuba’s state-owned Cubaexport to
renew its U.S. trademark on the Havana Club name.  Pernod has an agreement with Cubaexport dating to 1993
under which it can sell  Havana Club  in countries other than in
the U.S., where it is prevented from doing so by an embargo on
goods produced in Cuba. Bacardi Ltd. has sold a Puerto Rican-
made rum under the Havana Club name in  Florida  since 2006.  Pernod and Bacardi, based in Hamilton, Bermuda, have been
fighting since 1994, when Bacardi applied for a U.S. trademark
for its rum. Paris-based Pernod, which has been trying to
position itself to sell rum in the U.S. under the Havana Club
name should the American embargo on Cuban goods be lifted, said
yesterday in an e-mailed statement that it would instead start
selling a new rum, Havanista, in the U.S. if the ban is revoked.  Havanista is “specifically aimed at the U.S. market” and
will “benefit from the same high-level production processes and
quality requirements as the Havana Club range,” Pernod said.  The U.S. Treasury Department’s Office of Foreign Assets
Control refused to renew Cubaexport’s trademark, relying on a
1998 law making trademarks confiscated by the Cuban government
unenforceable. A federal appeals court in  Washington  upheld the
decision. The law has been applied only to the Havana Club mark.  A different federal appeals court ruled against Pernod on a
separate issue in August. It said consumers wouldn’t be confused
into thinking Bacardi’s Havana Club rum was made in Cuba because
the label says it is made in  Puerto Rico .  Pernod said yesterday it won’t pursue further appeals
against the ruling, which has cost “several million dollars.”  The Supreme Court case is Empresa Cubana v. Department of
the Treasury, 11-945, U.S. Supreme Court (Washington).  For more trademark news, click here.  Copyright  Georgia State Cleared of Most Publisher Infringement Claims  A judge cleared  Georgia State University  of most copyright
violation claims brought by publishers including Oxford
University Press over using unlicensed book excerpts in course
materials.  U.S. District Judge Orinda Evans held the university liable
for five copyright-infringement claims, after conducting a non-
jury trial last year, according to a filing dated May 11 in
Atlanta federal court.  The publishers, who also included Cambridge University
Press and Sage Publications Inc., sued in April 2008, They
listed 99 alleged infringements, in which professors made
portions of works available electronically to students. The
university claimed fair use, which under copyright law means
that small excerpts can be used for purposes such as teaching or
journalism without violation. Georgia State changed its policy
in 2009 to insure that professors adhered to fair use
guidelines.  The Association of American Publishers  said in a statement
yesterday that the judge’s “analysis of fair use principles was
legally incorrect in some places and its application of those
principles mistaken.” The AAP praised some aspects of the
ruling. “The court held GSU’s new policy accountable for
specific infringements,” the AAP said.  Also sued were the university’s board of regents and its
president, Mark Becker.  “The court’s ruling is significant not only for Georgia
State University, but for all educational fair use in general,”
Becker said in a statement. “Georgia State is pleased to have
been a trailblazer in this increasingly complex digital
copyright environment.”  The case is Cambridge University Press v. Becker, 08-01425,
U.S. District Court, Northern District of Georgia (Atlanta).  Korean Memorial Sculptor Underpaid for Stamp Image, Court Rules  The U.S. Postal Service should pay more than $5,000 to the
sculptor of marching soldiers at the  Korean War Veterans
Memorial  in Washington for an image captured on a 37-cent stamp,
an appeals court ruled yesterday.  Frank Gaylord, who designed the stainless-steel models
known as The Column, had won a copyright-infringement case
against the postal service for its use of the sculptures on a
stamp issued in 2002 marking the 50th anniversary of the
armistice. The service had paid $1,500 for rights to a
photograph of the soldiers covered in snow.  Gaylord appealed again after he was awarded $5,000 for the
use of his copyright. The appeals court  said  yesterday the
amount didn’t consider how much Gaylord would have demanded in
negotiations before the image was used without his permission.  The sculptor sought a 10 percent royalty on about $30.2
million worth of stamps, saying that’s consistent with his other
licensing agreements. Instead, a judge with the U.S. Court of
Federal Claims awarded $5,000 based on the highest amount the
postal service said it had paid for an existing image.  The  U.S. Court of Appeals  for the Federal Circuit said
yesterday that the lower court should consider the outcome of a
hypothetical negotiation over total sales, including to
collectors and commercial merchandise.  Gaylord was initially paid $775,000 for his work designing
the soldiers and supervising the steel casting.  The postal service said last week that it lost $3.2 billion
in the quarter ended March 31 and will temporarily run out of
cash in October.  The case is Gaylord v. U.S., 2009-5044, U.S. Court of
Appeals for the Federal Circuit (Washington).  For more copyright news, click here.  Patent  Court Lets Apple Pursue U.S. Ban on Samsung Galaxy Tablet  Apple Inc. (AAPL) , the maker of the iPhone and iPad, can pursue
efforts to halt sales of Samsung Electronics Co.’s Galaxy Tab
10.1 tablet computer in the U.S. while a patent-infringement
case is pending, a U.S. appeals court ruled.  Apple’s patent on a design of the tablet is likely to
withstand validity challenges, so the trial judge should
consider if it’s in the public interest to block sales until a
trial can be held, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Federal
Circuit ruled yesterday. The court  upheld  the trial judge’s
rejection of a pretrial ban on Samsung products, including its
phones, based on three other Apple patents.  The Samsung dispute is the biggest front in Apple’s efforts
to curtail growth of phones that run on Google Inc.’s Android
operating system, the most popular platform for mobile devices.
The Cupertino, California-based smartphone maker contends
Samsung has copied the look and feel of the iPhone and iPad to
lure away customers.  The case ruled on yesterday is one of more than 30 filed in
10 countries between Suwon, South Korea-based Samsung and Apple.
Samsung was forced to delay the release of some Galaxy devices
or alter the product in  Germany , the Netherlands and Australia
because of the legal battle.  Apple and Samsung vie for the title of world’s largest
maker of smartphones. Apple had 23.9 percent of the global
market in the fourth quarter, while Samsung was No. 2 with 23.5
percent, according to data from Boston-based researcher Strategy
Analytics.  The case is Apple Inc. v.  Samsung Electronics Co. (005930) , 12-1105,
U.S. Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit (Washington). The
lower court case is Apple Inc. v. Samsung Electronics Co.,
11-1846, U.S. District Court, District of  California  (San Jose).  For more, click here.  Novartis Sues Lupin, Torrent Over Blood-Pressure Medicine  Novartis AG (NOVN)  sued Lupin Ltd. and  Torrent Pharmaceuticals
Ltd. (TRP)  for infringing patents on its Exforge HCT blood-pressure
medicine.  Lupin, based in Mumbai, and Torrent, based in Ahmedabad,
 India , are seeking to make generic versions of the drug before
the expiration of two patents. Novartis requested a court order
barring the companies from making, using or offering for sale
copies of the drugs until the patents have expired, according to
complaints filed yesterday in federal court in Wilmington,
Delaware.  Novartis, based in Basel, Switzerland, is counting on new
products, including Exforge, to help replace revenue lost when
the company’s best sellers, Diovan for hypertension and Gleevac
for leukemia, start to lose U.S. patent protection later this
year and in 2015, respectively. The two Exforge patents in
dispute expire in 2017 and 2023, according to U.S. Food and Drug
Administration records.  Dawn Chitty, vice president of regulatory affairs at
Torrent’s U.S. offices in Kalamazoo, Michigan, said the company
doesn’t comment on pending litigation. Edith St-Hilaire, a
spokeswoman for Lupin, didn’t immediately return phone and e-
mail messages seeking comment on the lawsuit.  The cases are Novartis Pharmaceuticals Corp. v.  Lupin Ltd. (LPC) ,
12-00595; Novartis Pharmaceuticals Corp. v. Torrent
Pharmaceuticals, 12-00596, U.S. District Court, District of
Delaware (Wilmington).  Nvidia, Intellectual Ventures Jointly Buy IPWireless Patents  Nvidia Corp. (NVDA) , a maker of graphics processors, has teamed up
with Intellectual Ventures to jointly acquire about 500 patents
from IPWireless.  The portfolio covers patents for technology known as long-
term evolution, or LTE, as well as for 3G and 4G networks, Santa
Clara, California-based Nvidia and Intellectual Ventures, based
in Bellevue, Washington, said in a statement yesterday. Terms
weren’t disclosed.  Nvidia is trying to branch out into microprocessors for
phones, lessening its reliance on personal computers. The
company gets most of its revenue from chips used to create high-
end graphics in desktop and notebook computers. Nvidia’s Tegra
processor for mobile devices is designed to compete with
products from  Qualcomm Inc. (QCOM)  and  Texas Instruments Inc. (TXN)   Ownership of the patents was split between Nvidia and
Intellectual Ventures, with Nvidia licensing rights to the
patents it didn’t acquire. IPWireless retains royalty-free
access to the patents.  Kodak Seeks Expressions of Interest in Its Patents by Today  Eastman Kodak Co. (EKDKQ) , the photography pioneer that filed for
bankruptcy in January, is seeking expressions of interest in its
digital-imaging patents by today, the first step in an auction
of the technology.  At this stage, Kodak is only determining who may want to
bid on the portfolios, rather than taking formal offers, the
Rochester, New York-based company said.  The ultimate price may hinge on the outcome of Kodak’s case
with the U.S. International Trade Commission, which is deciding
whether Apple Inc. and  Research In Motion Ltd. (RIM)  violated patents
covering image previews on cameras. Judge Thomas Pender is due
to give his ruling by May 21. A decision against Apple and RIM
may lead the companies to license or buy Kodak’s technology.  Chris Veronda, a spokesman for Kodak, declined to comment,
as did Apple’s Steve Dowling and RIM’s Heidi Davidson.  Kodak is offloading the digital-imaging patents as part of
a plan to shrink the company and focus on printing rather than
photography. It has until June 30 to file the patent-bidding
procedures, which typically name the bidder preferred by the
seller, also known as the stalking-horse. Once the stalking-
horse offer is made public, other potential buyers can submit
competing bids.  Kodak is selling two portfolios of patents: one related to
digital capture, known as DC, and another covering the Kodak
imaging systems and services, known as KISS.  Together, the technology is valued at between $2.21 billion
and $2.57 billion, based on an estimate by  284 Partners LLC , a
patent advisory firm hired by Kodak and cited in a debtor’s
motion it filed before a U.S. bankruptcy court in January.  For more patent news, click here.  Speeches  Hacking Focus to Grow as U.S. Prosecutor Urges Disclosure  Companies need to be quicker to disclose they have been
victims of cyber-crimes, Manhattan U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara
said, telling defense lawyers the government will focus “more
and more” on prosecuting such offenses.  Speaking yesterday at a conference at the Association of
the Bar of the City of  New York , Bharara said law enforcement is
hampered when companies delay revealing they are victims of
computer crimes, as many “routinely” do.  The U.S. announced in March that it had charged six leaders
of an underground hacking movement that targeted the Central
Intelligence Agency and Sony Pictures Entertainment Inc.
Yesterday in Manhattan federal court, accused hacker Jeremy
Hammond pleaded not guilty to charges of stealing client
information from Austin, Texas-based intelligence firm Stratfor.  In his remarks to the bar association, Bharara urged
defense lawyers and the companies they represent to play a
“more central role” in fighting computer crime, whether it’s
by hackers, corporate insiders or foreign groups or nations.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ellen Rosen in New York at 
 erosen14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  