-- Philippine Bonds Decline on Inflation Concern; Peso Rebounds
-- B y   C l a r i s s a   B a t i n o
-- 2012-05-15T09:03:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-15/philippine-peso-falls-as-china-tension-hits-stocks-bonds-drop.html
Philippine 20-year bonds fell,
halting three days of gains, after the central bank said
inflation risks remain. The peso rebounded from a one-month low.  Possible increases in commodity prices still pose a threat
to consumer prices, Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas Governor Amando Tetangco said in an e-mail this week.  Government spending  rose
13 percent in the first quarter from a year earlier to 394.9
billion pesos ($9.3 billion), according to an  April 25 report .
Inflation reached 3 percent in April, accelerating from a 30-
month low in March, official data show.  “Higher government spending may add to inflation
pressures,” said Deanno Basas, investment director for fixed
income at ATR KimEng Asset Management in Manila.  The yield on the government’s 8 percent bond due July 2031
rose three basis points, or 0.03 percentage point, to 5.94
percent as of 4:41 p.m. in Manila, according to Tradition
Financial Services.  The benchmark  share index  fell 2.1 percent, its sharpest
drop in seven months, as the possibility of  Greece  leaving the
euro and a territorial dispute with  China  damped demand for the
Southeast Asian nation’s stocks.  “The risk-off sentiment is affecting all assets,” Basas
said. “Tensions with China partly affecting stocks is something
to keep an eye on.”  The peso closed 0.1 percent stronger at 42.67 pesos per
dollar, prices from Tullett Prebon Plc showed. It touched 42.820
earlier, the weakest level since April 11. One-month implied
volatility, which measures exchange-rate swings used to price
options, rose 50 basis points to 6.50 percent.  Tensions between China and the  Philippines  have risen since
a standoff began last month between ships from both countries
over an island in the  South China Sea . China’s Xinhua News
Agency reported last week that Ctrip.com, the country’s largest
online travel company, and Beijing Caissa International Travel
Service Co. halted tours to the Southeast Asian nation.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Clarissa Batino at 
 cbatino@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at   jregan19@bloomberg.net . 