-- Pimco Says 17-nation Euro Currency Union Will Not Last
-- B y   R i c h   M i l l e r
-- 2012-05-15T13:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-15/pimco-says-17-nation-euro-currency-union-will-not-last.html
Pacific Investment Management Co.,
which manages the world’s largest bond fund, doesn’t see the
European  currency  union surviving in its present form.  “The status quo is no longer an option for Europe over the
three to five year horizon,” Pimco Chief Executive Officer
Mohamed El-Erian wrote in a report outlining the  Newport Beach ,
California-based company’s medium-term economic outlook.  The most probable outcome is that the 17-nation euro area
will evolve into a smaller union centered on France,  Germany ,
Italy and Spain, and underpinned by much stronger coordination
and financing, he said. A “big derailment” of the current pact
is still a risk, according to El-Erian.  The euro fell to its lowest in almost four months against
the dollar yesterday as a leadership vacuum in  Greece  prompted
European officials to weigh prospects for the currency union’s
first departure of a member state. Yields on Spain’s 10-year
government debt climbed to the highest since November, while
German yields reached a record low on haven demand.  Pimco is gloomier about the medium-term outlook for the
world economy than it was a year ago, El-Erian wrote in the
report published today on the company’s website. It sees
advanced economies growing an average 1 percent per year over
the next three to five years while emerging economies expand 5
percent annually. Last year, the  money manager  foresaw growth of
2 percent and 6 percent, respectively.  The U.S. “will look good, relative to Europe,
outperforming in terms of growth and financial stability” over
the next three to five years, El-Erian said.  ‘Legitimate Concerns’  The relative outperformance though “will do little to
alleviate legitimate concerns about growth, jobs, inequality,
debt and deficits,” according to Pimco.  “Extreme polarization” will prevent U.S. policy makers
from striking sweeping agreements to resolve the country’s
troubles, El-Erian wrote. “Political scrimmages rather than
grand bargains” will be the order of the day, he added.  “In the process, the underlying structural fragilities of
the economy will grow, in both economic and financial terms,”
El-Erian said.  The  Federal Reserve  will seek to compensate for that by
continuing to hold  interest rates  down for a number of years,
penalizing savers, he added.  The U.S. central bank has said it expects to keep short-
term rates at “exceptionally low levels” at least through late
2014. Its target for the federal funds rate -- the rate that
commercial banks charge each other for overnight loans --
currently stands at zero to 0.25 percent.  ‘Inflationary Pressures’  Pimco sees inflationary pressures slowly building in the
world economy over the next few years as “structural
impairments” hinder  job creation  and central banks are tempted
to hold interest rates too low for too long.  While  China  and  emerging markets  will continue to expand
faster than the U.S. and  Europe , their growth will be more
volatile than in the past as they seek to reposition their
economies to depend more on domestic demand, according to the
Pimco executive.  Echoing comments first made by Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke 
in 2010, El-Erian called the outlook for the world economy
“unusually uncertain,” with the potential for sudden shocks,
either positive or negative.  Pimco’s outlook was crafted at a three-day forum held last
week at its headquarters and repeats a tradition dating back
almost four decades. The aim of the meeting is to establish the
“guard rails” to observe when investing in coming years.  Among the guests this year were Zhu Min, deputy managing
director of the  International Monetary Fund , and Sheila Bair,
former chairwoman of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rich Miller in Washington 
 rmiller28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  