-- Polish April Consumer-Price Growth Exceeds Economist Forecasts
-- B y   D o r o t a   B a r t y z e l
-- 2012-05-15T12:03:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-15/polish-april-consumer-price-growth-exceeds-economist-forecasts.html
Polish inflation unexpectedly
accelerated in April and remained above the central bank’s
target for a 19th month, supporting arguments for raising
 interest rates .  The headline inflation rate was 4 percent, up from 3.9
percent in March, the  Central Statistical Office  based in Warsaw
said today. The figure was above the 3.9 median estimate of 31
economists in a Bloomberg survey. Prices rose 0.6 percent from
the previous month.  The Narodowy Bank Polski raised its main rate by a quarter-
point to 4.75 percent on May 9, its first increase since last
June and the first such move in the European Union in 2012.
Governor  Marek Belka  said after the decision that  Poland ’s
economy had avoided a “significant” slowdown with inflation
staying “stubbornly high.” The bank didn’t rule out further
tightening.  “Inflation accelerated on an increase in natural-gas costs
and food prices,”  Maciej Reluga , chief economist at Bank
Zachodni WBK in Warsaw, wrote in a note before the report.  Polskie Gornictwo Naftowe i Gazownictwo SA, Poland’s
biggest natural-gas company, introduced new tariffs at the
end of March, increasing prices for the largest industrial
customers by an average of 16 percent and by 7.2 percent for
households.  Consumer price growth has remained above the central bank’s
2.5 percent target since October 2010. It has exceeded the 3.5
percent upper limit of the bank’s tolerance threshold since
January 2011. Poland’s economy will grow 2.7 percent in 2012,
while the euro region will contract 0.3 percent, the Brussels-
based European Commission forecast on May 11.  “We saw that the monthly figures weren’t showing a gradual
fall in the inflation rate,” Belka said in an interview for the
bank’s Obserwatorfinansowy.pl website yesterday. “The inflation
rate is bouncing around 4 percent, but the important thing is
its stubborn persistence at this high level.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dorota Bartyzel in Warsaw 
 dbartyzel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  