-- Pro-Obama Super-PAC Echoes Campaign’s Jobs Attack in Ads
-- B y   J u l i e   B y k o w i c z
-- 2012-05-15T20:06:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-15/pro-obama-super-pac-echoes-campaign-s-jobs-attack-in-ads.html
President  Barack Obama ’s campaign and
a super-political action committee supporting him are using the
same failed Kansas City steel company in television
advertisements meant to portray presumed Republican opponent
 Mitt Romney  as a ruthless businessman.  Priorities Action USA bought about $4 million of air time
for the 30-second spot through the end of May, according to a
person familiar with the ad buy. Like the Obama campaign, the
super-PAC highlights the 2001 bankruptcy of GST Steel, which
Romney’s Bain Capital LLC took over in 1993.  Federal election law requires that super-PACs operate
independently of the candidates they support. Yet U.S. Federal
Election Commission rules leave super-PACs and candidates room
to develop similar strategies, for example by allowing them to
use the same vendors and hire each other’s former employees. The
candidates also are allowed to solicit donations for super-PACs.  “Super-PACs are making a total mockery of the anti-
coordination rules of the  Federal Election Commission ,” said
 Craig Holman , a lobbyist for  Public Citizen , which pushes for
stricter campaign-finance laws. “These are rules that are
easily side-stepped, which throws out the entire notion of
campaign-finance limits.”  Donors are limited to $2,500 per candidate for the general-
election cycle, while super-PACs may accept unlimited amounts of
money from individuals, groups and corporations.  Different Consultants  Priorities and the Obama campaign were using different
media consultants as of the most recent FEC reports, which are
current to the end of March.  Bill Burton , co-founder of
Priorities, was Obama’s 2008 campaign spokesman and a press
secretary in the Obama White House until leaving to create
Priorities USA.  The Obama campaign and the super-PAC were synchronous in
another way this week: Both developed websites they say show
Romney’s real record on business.  Burton and Obama campaign spokesman  Ben LaBolt  said they
didn’t coordinate.  “This line of attack on Romney is obvious,” Burton said,
and GST Steel “is a particularly egregious example of Bain
pushing a company into bankruptcy.”  ‘By the Book’  He said the super-PAC shot the ad months ago and didn’t
know the Obama campaign also planned to release a spot featuring
GST. He said the super-PAC will soon release ads featuring other
companies that didn’t fare well after being taken over by Bain.  LaBolt, in an e-mail, said the campaign follows “all of
the coordination rules and laws by the book.”  Like Priorities, many of the candidate-specific super-PACs
tap close aides and deploy similar strategies, prompting
watchdog groups such as Democracy 21 to call for the U.S.
Justice Department to investigate.  In February, Restore Our Future, a super-PAC supportive of
Romney, used footage from a 2007 Romney campaign ad for a spot
called “Saved.” In both that ad and Romney’s “The Search,” a
father explains how Romney and Bain employees helped him look
for his missing daughter in  New York .  Democracy 21 and the Campaign Legal Center, Washington-
based advocacy groups that support stronger campaign-finance
laws, asked the FEC to investigate whether the super-PAC’s use
of the footage constituted illegal coordination. A spokesman for
the super-PAC said the group followed laws in purchasing the
archival footage.  ‘Meaningless’ Limits  Sheila Krumholz  at the Washington-based Center for
Responsive Politics said that while super-PACs and candidates
might be “technically following the rules, it’s a distinction
without a difference.”  “The limits on donations to campaigns are in place for a
reason, and super-PACs essentially make those limits
meaningless,” she said.  Priorities’ GST ad began airing on network television
today. Kantar Media’s CMAG, a political ad tracker based in New
York, captured it on an NBC affiliate in Norfolk, Virginia. It
also will air in Florida,  Ohio  and Colorado, according to a
statement by the super-PAC.  Obama’s two-minute ad on GST is running in Ohio, Virginia,
 Pennsylvania , Colorado and  Iowa .  Size of Buy Unknown  The Obama campaign didn’t disclose the size or duration of
its purchase. Jonathan Collegio, a spokesman for American
Crossroads, a super-PAC that supports Romney, said the re-
election committee’s buy was less than $100,000.  “No wonder they wouldn’t say how much they were
spending,” Collegio said in an e-mail.  The Obama ad has yet to appear on broadcast television,
according to CMAG.  While the ads feature different former steel workers -- Pat
Wells in the super-PAC spot and Joe Soptic and John Wiseman in
the campaign ad -- both carry the message that the steel plant
sputtered under Bain’s control and filed for bankruptcy in 2001.
Romney left Bain in 1999 to head the  Olympic Games  in  Salt Lake
City .  “ Bain Capital  always made money,” Wells says in the
Priorities ad. “If we lost, they made money. If we survived,
they made money.”  MoveOn Ad  Wells, a St. Louis County, Missouri, resident whose full
name is Glen Patrick Wells, also appeared in a two-minute web
video posted Jan. 6 by MoveOn.org, a group backing Obama’s re-
election. It was viewed more than 56,900 times, according to
YouTube.com. In it, he said he worked 34 years in the steel
mill.  He told The Washington Post at the time that he voted for
Obama’s 2008 Republican opponent,  Arizona  Senator  John McCain ,
and would probably vote for Obama this time even though “I
detest him.”  “Anyone who is willing to put a predatory capitalist in
office deserves to get Obama,” he told The Post Jan. 6.  “We’re going to see a lot of similar messaging this
election cycle,” said Erika Franklin Fowler, director of the
Wesleyan Media Project in Middleton,  Connecticut , which tracks
and analyzes broadcast political ads. “There’s so much wiggle
room for coordination.”  As a counterpoint to the Bain criticism, the Romney
campaign yesterday released a web video about Romney’s private-
equity investment in  Steel Dynamics (STLD) , an Indiana company. The
minute-long web ad doesn’t mention Bain by name.  Responding yesterday to the Obama ad, Romney spokeswoman
Andrea Saul said in an e-mail, “Mitt Romney helped create more
jobs in his private-sector experience and more jobs as governor
of  Massachusetts  than President Obama has for the entire
nation.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julie Bykowicz in Washington at 
 jbykowicz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net  