-- Putin Skips G-8 Meet to Signal Displeasure, Pushkov Says
-- B y   I l y a   A r k h i p o v
-- 2012-05-15T16:40:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-15/putin-skips-g-8-meet-to-signal-displeasure-pushkov-says.html
President  Vladimir Putin  is showing
U.S. President  Barack Obama  his displeasure over the criticism
of Russian elections and the lack of progress on a planned
missile shield by skipping the Group of Eight summit for the
first time as president, said Alexei Pushkov, a senior lawmaker.  The U.S. has “nothing to propose” to Putin at this week’s
meeting, while “strong handshakes and smiles” are probably not
a priority for him as Russia forms a new government, Pushkov,
the head of the foreign-affairs committee in the lower house of
parliament, said in a telephone interview yesterday.  Russia’s relations with the U.S. are showing strains as
Putin begins his third term as president. The two countries have
locked horns over missile defense, the future of Syrian leader
Bashar al-Assad and  Iran ’s nuclear ambitions. Putin has accused
foreign powers of financing the biggest anti-government protests
in a decade to destabilize Russia, saying that U.S. criticism of
a December parliamentary election emboldened the opposition.  “Why does the U.S. think it can be sure the Russian
president will pay a visit?” Pushkov said. “The American side
thinks it can call the parliamentary election illegitimate, send
its ambassador to meet with the radical opposition that shouts
‘Russia without Putin,’ doubt the presidential election and
criticize Russian authorities for half a year.”  Election Fraud  U.S. Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  on Dec. 6 called
for an investigation into “fraud” in Russia’s parliamentary
election two days earlier.  Putin, inaugurated for a six-year term last week, in a May
9 telephone call told Obama that he needed to make decisions on
the new government and would miss the May 18-19 gathering of
world leaders, the White House said. Prime Minister Dmitry Medvedev today submitted his proposals for the new Cabinet to
Putin, the Kremlin said on its website.  Obama’s spokesman,  Jay Carney , has said the U.S. accepts
Putin’s stated reason for skipping the summit. He repeated
yesterday that Obama plans to meet with Putin at the Group of 20
meeting next month in  Mexico  and that he expects to continue
working with the Russian leader as he did with Medvedev without
letting disagreements undermine the broader relationship.  “We have a comprehensive relationship with Russia that’s
built on working together in areas where we agree, and that has
borne significant successes,” Carney said at a briefing when
asked about tension in the U.S.-Russia relationship.  ‘Vague Promises’  Putin is set to become the first Russian leader to
completely miss a G-8 meeting since the country was included in
the group in 1998 after former President  Boris Yeltsin  helped
broker a peace agreement in the former  Yugoslavia . Putin became
prime minister under Yeltsin in 1999, rising to the pinnacle of
power when his predecessor resigned on the last day of the year.  “This official reason could be true, but it’s not the only
one,” Pushkov said, adding that Putin would be more likely to
attend a G-8 meeting held outside the U.S. “Vague promises to
show flexibility on missile defense if Obama gets re-elected”
are probably not more important to Putin than domestic affairs,
he said.  Obama in March told Medvedev that he will have greater
flexibility “after my election” to work out differences over
the planned missile-defense system, according to remarks picked
up by microphones as the two leaders finished a meeting at a
nuclear security summit in  Seoul ,  South Korea .  Russia Visit  He also told Medvedev that his next visit to  Russia 
would be after the  U.S. presidential election  in November,
meaning he will skip the Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation
meeting that Putin is hosting in September in Vladivostok. The
APEC session is being held at the same time as Obama is
scheduled to accept his party’s nomination for president at the
Democratic National Convention.  Efforts to improve relations with the U.S. under Obama’s
so-called “reset” policy were spearheaded by Putin’s
predecessor, Medvedev. Ties have soured of late.  Putin objects to U.S. plans to house parts of a missile
shield in eastern  Europe , saying it would damage the two
countries’ strategic defensive balance. Pre-emptive strikes
against the system are possible as a last resort,  Nikolai Makarov , chief of the country’s General Staff, said May 3.  Russia is also critical of U.S. positions on opposition
protesters in  Syria  and  Iran’s nuclear program , citing the
ouster of  Libya ’s Muammar Qaddafi as evidence Western nations
are pursuing regime change in the  Middle East .  Putin’s Rhetoric  Putin ratcheted up anti-American rhetoric in the run-up to
his March 4 election victory, saying the U.S. “wants to control
everything” and takes decisions unilaterally on issues vital to
the international community.  Russia warned April 26 that it will retaliate against
planned U.S. legislation imposing sanctions against Russian
officials suspected of involvement in the death of anti-
corruption lawyer Sergei Magnitsky after the Obama
administration softened its opposition to the measure.  Such a law would be “a gross interference in Russian
internal affairs and, of course, it won’t have any positive
effect on U.S.-Russian ties, to put it mildly,” Konstantin Dolgov, the Foreign Ministry’s human-rights representative, told
reporters in Moscow today.  A meeting between the two leaders probably wouldn’t yield
progress on issues including missile defense, Syria and the
proposed bill, Pushkov said.  “Russia will insist on the positions it finds important
and expects that the U.S. administration will take these
positions into account,” Pushkov said. “If they don’t, then
Russia will be prepared to downgrade the status of Russian-
American relations. That’s what Putin has indicated.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ilya Arkhipov in Moscow at 
 iarkhipov@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  