-- Ex-Goldman Director Opposes U.S. Request to Limit Trial Defense
-- B y   J o e   S c h n e i d e r
-- 2012-05-15T04:29:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-15/rajat-gupta-opposes-u-s-request-to-limit-defense-at-trial.html
Rajat Gupta , the former  Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. (GS)  director accused of conspiracy in an insider-trading
scheme, shouldn’t be barred from presenting evidence at trial of
his charitable works, his lawyers said.  Gupta is scheduled to go on trial May 21 in  Manhattan 
federal court on charges of  securities fraud  and conspiracy for
allegedly leaking tips to Galleon Group LLC co-founder Raj Rajaratnam. Gupta has pleaded not guilty.  Prosecutors have said evidence of Gupta’s past charitable
contributions and the purported damage the case has had on his
reputation aren’t relevant. Prosecutors have also sought to
block Gupta’s lawyers from speculating before the jury about the
government’s motives in bringing the case.  “The government attempts to hamstring the defense,”
Gupta’s lawyers said in a court filing yesterday. “Mr. Gupta’s
charitable activities are a large component of his background
and a critical element of who he is as a person.”  Prosecutors are attempting to define Gupta to the jury in a
way favorable to the government, excluding “relevant and
important evidence” from the trial, Gupta’s attorneys said.  Prosecutors also asked U.S. District Judge Jed Rakoff to
keep Gupta from telling the jury about his potential prison
sentence if convicted. Gupta is charged with six counts of
securities fraud, each of which carries a maximum prison term of
20 years, and one count of conspiracy, which carries a five-year
maximum. Gupta also faces a fine of as much as $5 million,
prosecutors have said.  Rakoff hasn’t ruled on the requests.  Rajaratnam, who the government alleges was Gupta’s co-
conspirator in the scheme, is serving an 11-year sentence in
federal prison.  The case is U.S. v. Gupta, 11-cr-00907, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joe Schneider in Sydney at 
 jschneider5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  