-- Rand Gains First Day in Six on German Economic Growth
-- B y   R o b e r t   B r a n d
-- 2012-05-15T14:39:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-15/rand-gains-first-day-in-six-on-german-economic-growth.html
The rand fell to its lowest level
against the dollar this year and bonds pared gains after talks
to form a Greek government failed, raising concern that  Europe ’s
debt crisis will worsen and damping appetite for riskier assets.  South Africa ’s currency retreated as much as 0.6 percent to
8.2565 per dollar, the lowest level since Dec. 22. It traded 0.4
percent weaker as of 3:44 p.m. in Johannesburg, a sixth day of
losses. The yield on the nation’s 6.75 percent bonds due 2021
dropped two basis points, or 0.02 percentage point, to 7.79
percent after falling as low as 7.76 percent in earlier trading.  Greece  will hold new elections after Greek President
Karolos Papoulias failed to broker creation of a government
following an inconclusive May 6 vote, Pasok leader  Evangelos
Venizelos  said today. A second Greek election threatens to
extend the political gridlock that has left the country without
a government since the last vote, with polls showing that could
boost the anti-bailout Syriza party to the top spot.  “Risk appetite is going to go right off, flows to  emerging
markets  including South Africa will decline, and that is going
to put their currencies under pressure,” Ian Cruickshanks, head
of strategic research at Nedbank Group Ltd. in Johannesburg,
said by phone. “We certainly saw quite a rash of dollar buying
against the rand” immediately after Venizelos’ statement, he
said.  The standoff in Greece has reignited concern the country
will renege on pledges to cut spending as required by the terms
of its two bailouts negotiated since May 2010, and, ultimately,
leave the euro area, Cruickshanks said.  German Growth  The rand rallied in earlier trading after faster-than-
expected growth in Germany helped the euro area avoid its second
recession in three years. Gross domestic product in the 17-
nation euro region stagnated in the latest quarter compared with
the prior three months, the European Union’s statistics office
in Luxembourg said today. The median forecast of economists
surveyed by Bloomberg was for a 0.2 percent contraction.
 Germany ’s economy expanded 0.5 percent, compared with the 0.1
percent median estimate by economists in a separate survey. The
euro region buys 22 percent of South Africa’s exports.  The debt crisis has already pushed eight euro-region
countries into recession, commonly defined as two consecutive
quarters of contraction, with  Spain ’s economy the latest to
succumb. France said today it recorded zero growth in the first
quarter, in line with economists’ median forecast.  South Africa sold 2.1 billion rand ($257 million) of bonds
maturing in 2018, 2026 and 2041 at a central bank auction today,
with investors bidding for 2.9 times the amount on offer.  The yield on South Africa’s $1 billion 5.875 percent bonds
due 2022 rose one basis point to 3.96 percent. The cost of
insuring South Africa’s dollar-denominated bonds declined for
the first time in six days, dropping 0.7 basis points to 172.1
basis points. Credit default swaps rose to a three-month high
yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Brand in  Cape Town  at 
 rbrand9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  