-- Rangers, Lundqvist Blank Devils 3-0 to Open NHL Eastern Finals
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2012-05-15T04:00:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-15/rangers-beat-devils-3-0-in-nhl-eastern-conference-finals-opener.html
The  New York Rangers  scored three
third-period goals and got 21 saves from goaltender Henrik Lundqvist to beat the  New Jersey  Devils 3-0 in Game 1 of the
 National Hockey League ’s Eastern Conference finals.  Dan Girardi, Chris Kreider and Artem Anisimov had goals
last night at New York’s Madison Square Garden for the Rangers,
who have won the opener of all three series this postseason.  “Getting the first game is always big,” Rangers
defenseman Marc Staal said. “We wanted to get a big win and we
did that. You try to carry that momentum, keep it going and get
the next one at home.”  The Rangers also will host Game 2 of the best-of-seven
series tomorrow, with the Eastern Conference champion advancing
to the Stanley Cup Final against the  Los Angeles Kings  or
 Phoenix Coyotes . The Kings lead the Western Conference finals
1-0 and will be seeking a seventh straight road playoff win in
Game 2 tonight in Phoenix.  After two scoreless periods last night in  New York , the
Rangers broke through less than one minute into the third as
Girardi fired a 47-foot slapshot past Devils goaltender Martin Brodeur for his second goal of the postseason.  “Whoever scored first tonight was going to win,” Devils
coach Peter DeBoer said at a news conference. “They threw a
point shot on the net that found a way through. We threw a lot
of those at the net, too, and didn’t find one through. That was
the story of the game.”  Kreider Scores  Kreider, a rookie, added a power-play goal for the Rangers
with eight minutes left, beating Brodeur to the glove side with
a wrist shot from 21 feet. The score, off a backhanded pass from
Anisimov, came after the Devils’ Steve Bernier received a two-
minute boarding penalty against Girardi.  Anisimov capped the scoring with an empty-net goal with
1:27 left for the Rangers, who have won four of five playoff
series with New Jersey.  As Brodeur was serenaded with sing-song chants of “Mar-
ty” from the Madison Square Garden crowd in the third period,
Lundqvist collected his fifth playoff shutout and second this
postseason. The Rangers, the top seed in the Eastern Conference,
have allowed 26 goals in 15 games this postseason, having
eliminated the  Ottawa Senators  and  Washington Capitals  in seven
games.  “We’re really comfortable playing in the third period and
again we did a good job,” Lundqvist, one of three finalists for
the Hart Memorial Trophy as NHL Most Valuable Player, said in a
televised interview.  1994 Revisited  The only previous time the New York-area rivals met in the
conference final was in 1994, when the Rangers won Game 7 in
double-overtime and went on to win their last Stanley Cup title.
The Rangers’ previous trip to the Eastern Conference finals was
in 1997, while the Devils last made it in 2003, when they won
the most recent of their three Stanley Cup titles.  The Devils lost a second straight Game 1. New Jersey
dropped the opener of its second-round series against the
 Philadelphia Flyers  and then won four straight.  “We’ve been in this spot before,” DeBoer said. “We were
down 1-0 to Philly and we know how to handle this.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  