-- RBA Saw Half-Point Cut Needed to Revive Growth, Minutes Show
-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 2012-05-15T05:39:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-15/rba-saw-half-point-cut-needed-to-revive-growth-minutes-show-1-.html
The  Reserve Bank  of Australia made
its deepest interest-rate cut in three years to help revive
below-average growth, counter rising mortgage costs and shore up
 consumer confidence , minutes of its May 1 meeting showed.  “Growth outside of the mining sector was expected to be
below trend in the near term, affected by the high exchange
rate, softer  government spending  and subdued conditions in the
housing market and building industry,” the minutes released
today in Sydney showed. “With financial markets remaining
unsettled, the risks emanating from  Europe  continued to cloud
the global outlook.”  Governor  Glenn Stevens  slashed the  overnight cash rate 
target by half a percentage point to a two-year low of 3.75
percent, with  core inflation  slowing to a 13-year low, export
and house prices slumping, and  consumer confidence  weakening.
Most economists had forecast a quarter-point reduction. Traders
are pricing in an 84 percent chance of a quarter-point cut at
the RBA’s June 5 meeting.  Australia’s four biggest banks are trying to guard margins
against further erosion from elevated wholesale funding costs,
by passing through less of the central bank’s rate reductions to
mortgage holders. The minutes showed the RBA’s decision on the
size of a cut reflected a need for lower consumer rates.  ‘Necessary’ Cut  “Members noted that interest rates faced by the general
community had tended to increase a little since the board’s
previous change to the cash rate in December,” the minutes
showed, referring to two quarter-point cuts late last year.
“The board decided that a reduction of 50 basis points in the
cash rate was, in this instance, necessary to deliver the
appropriate level of borrowing rates.”  The Australian dollar fell to the lowest this year after
the minutes were released, touching 99.45 U.S. cents before
trading at 99.84 cents as of 2:46 p.m. in Sydney, from 99.58
cents yesterday in  New York .  “The bias is firmly toward further easing given global
uncertainty and domestic weakness in the non-mining sectors,”
said Katrina Ell, an economist at Moody’s Analytics in Sydney.  The RBA, in its quarterly monetary policy statement
released May 4, cut growth and inflation forecasts. It predicted
average growth of 3 percent in 2012, down from a February
estimate of 3.5 percent. Consumer prices will rise 2.5 percent
in the year to December, from a previous prediction of 3
percent; underlying inflation is forecast at 2.25 percent from a
previous estimate of 2.75 percent, the RBA said.  Inflation Target  “Inflation was likely to remain in the lower half of the
target range over the foreseeable future, with cost pressures
expected to be contained given the forecast for moderate growth
in the economy,” policy makers said today, citing staff
estimates.  The central bank aims to keep  inflation  in a 2 percent to 3
percent range on average.  The local currency has fallen 4.2 percent this month
against the  U.S. dollar  on concern  Greece  will leave the euro
bloc. Treasury Secretary Martin Parkinson said today the global
outlook remains uncertain.  “We are particularly worried by the euro-zone situation,
which is why our forecasts for European growth are markedly
weaker than those of the  International Monetary Fund ,”
Parkinson, the Treasury’s top bureaucrat who also sits on the
RBA’s board, said in a speech today in Sydney.  Greece Concerns  Greek President Karolos Papoulias will attempt to persuade
divided party leaders today to accept his proposal for a
government of prominent non-politicians to steer the country and
avert new elections as doubts mount that Greece can avoid an
exit from the euro area.  Greece’s post-election impasse multiplied the signs of
stress in European markets yesterday. The euro fell for the 10th
time in 11 days and stocks surrendered a two-day gain. Bond
yields in recession-wracked  Spain , the next potential candidate
for financial support, touched a five-month high.  Australia’s economy is being driven by the biggest resource
bonanza since the 1850s as  China  and India increase demand for
minerals and energy. In contrast, tourism, manufacturing and
retail industries have suffered under the local currency’s
sustained strength.  “If subdued growth in the non-mining economy results in
further increases in spare capacity, putting downward pressure
on inflation, monetary policy is more likely to be an effective
remedy as these sectors are typically more sensitive to  interest
rates  and exchange rates,” Parkinson said in a post-budget
speech.  Currency’s Retreat  The Australian dollar, the world’s fifth-most traded
currency, has gained about 33 percent in the past three years as
the mining boom spurs growth. It dropped below parity with the
U.S. dollar this week for the first time since December.  Parkinson today praised the floating exchange rate, saying
it has helped absorb the nation’s mining investment boom.  “While the high dollar weighed heavily on some sectors of
the economy -- as it continues to do so -- it helped spread the
benefits of the boom and shield the macro-economy from the shock
by helping to bring down the price of imported  consumer goods ,”
he said.  Even so,  Australia ’s  jobless rate  unexpectedly fell in
April to 4.9 percent from 5.2 percent in March as hiring
accelerated in mining states including  Western Australia , the
statistics bureau said in Sydney on May 10. Economists forecast
a rise to 5.3 percent.  Surplus Goal  Parkinson said Australia’s economy is in a good position to
return to surplus in the fiscal year starting July 1 as Prime
Minister  Julia Gillard ’s government projected last week.  “In an economy with unemployment forecast to be not far
from reasonable estimates of its lowest sustainable rate, and
commodity prices remaining near historical highs, it is
appropriate that the budget return to surplus to remain
consistent with the medium-term fiscal objective,” he said.  The RBA’s minutes reflected concern about residential
construction. Australian  house prices  fell for a fifth
consecutive quarter in the three months through March and demand
for housing finance has remained weak.  “Despite dwelling prices declining relative to incomes and
rises in rental yields, forward-looking indicators implied
little prospect of an imminent recovery in housing
construction,” the minutes showed.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  