-- RBS Said to Lose Three in U.S. Credit Trading as Broker Shrinks
-- B y   L i s a   A b r a m o w i c z
-- 2012-05-15T16:34:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-15/rbs-said-to-lose-three-in-u-s-credit-trading-as-broker-shrinks.html
Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc , the
U.K.’s biggest government-controlled bank, lost its U.S. credit-
trading head and two junk-bond salesmen as its debt-brokerage
team in the region shrinks.  Sean Murdock, who oversaw U.S.  credit trading  since joining
the bank in 2006, was no longer registered with RBS as of April
17, according to Financial Industry Regulatory Authority
records. High-yield bond salesman Gregory Froehlich will join
Deutsche Bank AG, and salesman Thomas Crystal also left the
bank, according to people familiar with the matter.  RBS Chief Executive Officer  Stephen Hester  has eliminated
more than 35,000 jobs at the bank since taking over in 2008 from
 Fred Goodwin , who led the lender into the world’s biggest bank
bailout. The firm announced in January it would shrink its
investment bank and pull out of equities and mergers advice
globally. In November, it scaled back its corporate-debt
brokerage team.  Murdock, who joined the bank’s  Stamford , Connecticut,
office in  2006 , declined to comment, as did Crystal, Froehlich
and  Amanda Williams , a spokeswoman for Deutsche Bank.  RBS appointed Jon Weiss and Adam Siegel as co-heads of U.S.
credit trading, an expansion of their current roles, said Scott Eichel, the bank’s global head of asset-backed products and head
of U.S. credit.  Scaling Back  “Credit products continue to be a core priority for our
franchise,” he said in an e-mailed statement.  RBS fired at least 20 people in its U.S. corporate debt
unit last year as lenders worldwide announced more than 120,000
job cuts. It has given its mergers and acquisitions bankers in
 London  until the end of the year to find a buyer for their
business before it is closed, people familiar with the matter
said in April.  Deutsche Bank hired another RBS credit trader,  Patrick Kennedy , in April, Finra records show.  “Despite the industry and economic headwinds, we have
adjusted to the market and are seeing continued strong momentum
in our high-yield origination business,” said Dick Smith, head
of high-yield  capital markets  for the Americas at RBS. “We have
placed in the top 10 for the first quarter 2012 and for all of
2011.”  Issuance of high-yield corporate bonds in the U.S.  dropped 
72 percent in the three months ended Sept. 30 from the previous
quarter as concern mounted that Greece would be unable to repay
its debt and roil bank balance sheets. While the volume of debt
sales accelerated during the first three months of the year,
concern is again mounting that European leaders will be unable
to prevent a sovereign-debt default.  The Edinburgh-based lender is 12th this year in
underwriting high-yield bonds in the U.S., down from 10th during
all of 2011, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. After
ranking eighth last year in investment-grade bonds, RBS has
fallen to 11th this year, the data show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lisa Abramowicz in  New York  at 
 labramowicz@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  