-- Treasury 10-Year Yield at 7-Month Low on Greek Talks
-- B y   D a n i e l   K r u g e r
-- 2012-05-15T21:12:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-15/treasuries-snap-gain-on-concern-notes-are-too-expensive.html
Treasury 10-year note yields  traded 
at almost a seven-month low after talks to form a Greek
government failed, boosting demand for safe assets.  A report showed international demand for U.S. financial
assets rose in March as investors sought refuge from  Europe ’s
debt crisis. Treasuries fell earlier after European reports
showed the region avoided a recession and  Germany  expanded
faster than economists predicted.  “Once you heard about the lack of a Greek government, the
flight-to-quality bid just popped,” said Justin Lederer, an
interest rate strategist at Cantor Fitzgerald LP in New York,
one of 21 primary dealers that trade with the  Federal Reserve .
“Europe’s really taking a toll on the markets.”  The benchmark 10-year  yield  rose less than one basis point,
or 0.01 percentage point, to 1.77 percent at 5 p.m. in New York,
according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. The 1.75 percent note
maturing in May 2022 fell 1/32, or 31 cents per $1,000 face
amount, to 99 26/32.  The yield rose as high as 1.81 percent. It declined earlier
to 1.76 percent, the lowest since Oct. 4, and reached a record
low 1.67 percent on Sept. 23 after a Group of 20 finance chiefs
failed to ease concern the global economy was on the brink of
another recession.  Europe Watch  “The market is waiting for another shoe to drop” in
Europe, said  Ray Remy , head of fixed income in  New York  at Daiwa
Capital Markets America Inc., a primary dealers that trade
directly with the Fed. “I don’t think the rally is over.”  Treasuries investors raised bets to the highest level in
more than two months that the price of the securities will
advance, according to a weekly survey by JPMorgan Chase & Co.  The percent of “net longs” rose the most since March 5 to
11 percentage points in the week ending yesterday from zero the
previous week. The number of outright longs rose by 9 percentage
points to 26 percent, the most since Feb. 27. The percent of
shorts decreased to 15 percent, from 17 percent. A long position
is a bet that an asset will increase in value, while a short is
a wager it will decrease.  Volatility, as  measured  by the Bank of America Merrill
Lynch MOVE index, rose to 70.3, the most since April 25, and up
from an almost-five-year-low of 56.7 on May 7.  Foreign Demand  Overseas investors boosted their holdings of U.S.
government securities for a ninth consecutive month by $17.8
billion or 0.3 percent to $5.12 trillion, according to the
Treasury Department. Foreign investors held $5.1 trillion in
February.  China , the largest foreign lender to the U.S., increased
its position in Treasuries in March by $14.7 billion or 1.3
percent to $1.17 trillion. China’s holdings fell 0.9 percent to
$1.155 trillion in February, revised data released today by the
Treasury show.  China increased its holdings of longer-term notes and bonds
by $14.6 billion, or 1.3 percent, to $1.166 trillion. Its stake
in short-term bills rose by $100 million to $3.9 billion,
according to the Treasury.  Gross domestic product in the  euro region  was unchanged
last quarter, the European Union’s statistics office said in
Luxembourg. The median forecast of economists surveyed by
Bloomberg was for a 0.2 percent contraction. German GDP rose 0.5
percent from the fourth quarter, exceeding economist predictions
for growth of 0.1 percent.  Greek Politics  Greece ’s decision to hold more elections in the search for
a government led German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  to
call the vote a referendum on whether the country stays in the
euro.  Post-election attempts to form a ruling coalition in Athens
broke down after nine days, sending Greeks back to the polls
next month with surveys giving the lead to an anti-bailout party
that would tear up the conditions attached to 240 billion euros
($307 billion) of aid.  “We’re still keeping yields historically low, related to
Europe,” said  Jim Vogel , head of agency-debt research at FTN
Financial in  Memphis ,  Tennessee . “The only constant here is
that the short-end remains anchored. Everything else seems to be
related to the latest news from Europe.”  Seven-year Treasury yields climbed one basis point to 1.18
percent, after matching the all-time low of 1.1679 percent set
yesterday.  The yield on German 10-year bunds, Europe’s benchmark
security, added one basis point to 1.47 percent.  Fed Sales  The Fed sold $8.6 billion of Treasuries due from February
to May 2014 today, according to the Fed Bank of New York’s
 website . The sales are part of the central bank’s program to
replace $400 billion of shorter-term debt in its holdings with
longer maturities by the end of June to help keep down borrowing
costs.  The U.S. government will sell $13 billion of 10-year
inflation-indexed bonds on May 17.  Bill Irving, manager of the  Fidelity Inflation-Protected
Bond Fund (FINPX) , said he is “cautious” about conventional  U.S. debt 
and Treasury Inflation Protected Securities.  “They are vulnerable in the event that GDP growth
strengthens and yields increase back to more normal long-term
levels,” he wrote in a report on the company’s  website 
yesterday.  Fidelity Investments  is based in  Boston  and oversees
$1.61 trillion.  Price Gauge  A measure of the U.S. cost of living was unchanged in
April, restrained by a drop in energy prices and supporting the
view of some Fed policy makers that inflation will ease. Last
month’s consumer-price index matched the median forecast of
economists surveyed by Bloomberg News and followed three
straight gains that included a 0.3 percent rise in March, Labor
Department data showed today in  Washington .  The  difference  between yields on 10-year notes and similar-
maturity TIPS, a gauge of trader expectations for consumer
prices over the life of the debt, was 2.15 percentage points
after falling to 2.09 points yesterday, the least since Feb. 1.
The figure is close to the 2.15 percentage point average during
the past decade.  The five-year, five-year forward  break-even rate , a measure
of traders’ inflation expectations that the Fed uses to help
guide monetary policy was at 2.56 percent as of May 10. The
figure compares with a 2012 high of 2.78 percent and its five-
year average of 2.79 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Daniel Kruger in New York at 
 dkruger1@bloomberg.net ;
Lucy Meakin in London at 
 lmeakin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  