-- Regulators Snooze While JPMorgan Lights the Fuse
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   W e i l
-- 2012-05-15T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-15/regulators-snooze-while-jpmorgan-lights-the-fuse.html
Don’t worry your pretty little heads,
 JPMorgan (JPM)  Chase & Co. Chief Financial Officer Douglas Braunstein
seemed to assure listeners on the bank’s quarterly earnings
conference call last month. Regulators knew everything
JPMorgan’s chief investment office was doing, he said.  “We are very comfortable with our positions as they are
held today, and I would add that all of those positions are
fully transparent to the regulators,” Braunstein said April 13.
“They review them, have access to them at any point in time,”
and “get the information on those positions on a regular and
recurring basis as part of our normalized reporting.”  In other words: Clearly there wasn’t a problem, because if
there was, the regulators would have seen it. And of course, by
all indications, they didn’t see it, even though they were
embedded in JPMorgan’s offices. On May 10, JPMorgan divulged $2
billion of intra-quarter trading losses and said they might get
worse.  Once again, regulators seem to have been oblivious to huge
risks at a bank they were supposed to be overseeing. To
JPMorgan, however, they also have served a valuable purpose.  Having regulators around the clock at JPMorgan reinforces
market expectations that the government has an obligation to
stand behind the bank should it run into more serious trouble.
Also, lest anyone forget, JPMorgan’s chief executive officer,
 Jamie Dimon , sits on the  board  of the  Federal Reserve Bank of
New York , even as the Fed is one of the agencies now
investigating JPMorgan’s trading debacle.  Personal Benefit  The regulators’ very presence also may be of personal
benefit to anyone at JPMorgan who might face scrutiny later from
federal investigators. Let’s say the Securities and Exchange
Commission were to consider accusing JPMorgan executives of
possible rule violations. If what Braunstein said is true,
there’s a chance these people might defend themselves by saying
that everything they did was right under the regulators’ noses.  This might be one reason the government hasn’t brought a
case, criminal or civil, against former executives of Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc. For several months before it collapsed,
regulators were inside Lehman’s offices full-time, as the
company’s bankruptcy-court examiner,  Anton Valukas , noted in his
2010 report on Lehman’s failure.  If Lehman was lying to investors, the bank’s regulators
should have been able to spot this. As Valukas has  said ,
however, Lehman’s on-site regulators from the SEC may have
lacked the expertise to understand the information they were
receiving from the company. It didn’t occur to them, for
example, that Lehman was manipulating its leverage ratios
through accounting tricks that weren’t disclosed to investors.  We have come to expect similar ineptitude from the Fed, the
Office of the Comptroller of the Currency and other agencies
charged with keeping large banks safe. They failed to prevent
the last banking crisis; their policies even helped cause it.  Nonetheless, the  U.S. Congress  responded by doubling down
on regulators’ abilities to stop the next crisis when it passed
the Dodd-Frank Act in 2010. That law expanded the regulators’
oversight responsibilities. The biggest banks have gotten bigger
since then, and now enjoy the official distinction of being
“systemically important.”  There must be a better system for protecting the public. We
shouldn’t need federal minders permanently camped out at giant
banks’ offices, and we wouldn’t need them there at all if we
didn’t have too-big-to-fail banks such as JPMorgan.  Breaking
them up  is the simplest solution. The trouble is it might take
another spectacular blowup by one of them to break the
industry’s stranglehold on  Washington ’s political machinery.  Basic Principles  Let’s start with some basic principles that should be
obvious but seem long forgotten. A bank’s employees and
regulators should operate at arm’s length. They shouldn’t be so
tight with each other and in such close physical proximity that
a regulator’s failure to object can be held up by management as
a government seal of approval.  No financial institution should be so large that its
collapse could topple the economy. Failed banks should be
 allowed to fail , which isn’t a problem as long as they are too
small to cause a worldwide crisis. And if a bank’s executives
break the law, prosecutors should be able to pursue claims or
charges against them without worrying that they can assert “the
regulators knew everything” as a defense in court.  It’s no surprise that Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben Bernanke 
has rejected calls to break up the big banks. As the largest
ones grow bigger and more important, so do the bureaucracies
overseeing them. No government agency wants to give up power or
influence, any more than a CEO like Dimon wants to take a cut in
pay. (Dimon’s compensation last year was $23 million.)  The only way we will end too-big-to-fail is to break them
all up. Forget the Volcker rule, which has been defanged by
industry lobbying and whining. Bring back the  Glass-Steagall
Act , which Congress repealed in 1999, to separate commercial
lending from  investment banking . Then maximize transparency: The
investments that banks make with federally insured deposits
shouldn’t be a secret. Detailed disclosure of these holdings --
at least monthly, maybe even daily -- should be mandatory, so
that markets can catch whatever the regulators miss.  JPMorgan just gave the country a $2 billion warning.
There’s no sense waiting for a bigger one.  ( Jonathan Weil  is a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  Read more online from  Bloomberg View .  Today’s highlights: the View editors on a  Greek exit from the
euro  and tariffs  on Chinese solar products ;  Margaret Carlson  on
 boring white Republicans ; Clive Crook on  Germany and Greece ;
 Peter Orszag  on  small-business woes ; Rachelle Bergstein on the
 economics of stiletto heels ; and Zvi Bodie and  Cornelius Hurley 
on the  Office of Financial Research.   To contact the writer of this article:
Jonathan Weil in  New York  at 
 jweil6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  