-- Reid Moves to Force U.S. Senate Vote on Two Fed Nominees
-- B y   L a u r a   L i t v a n   a n d   J o s h u a   Z u m b r u n
-- 2012-05-15T21:38:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-15/reid-said-to-plan-to-force-senate-vote-on-fed-nominees.html
U.S. Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid  moved to force a vote on two nominees to the Federal
Reserve Board, setting the stage for a vote as early as this
week.  Reid, who filed a procedural motion today, said the U.S.
needs a “fully functioning Fed” and can’t afford further
delays. He made clear that a $2 billion trading loss at  JPMorgan
Chase & Co. (JPM)  motivated his decision to act now to bolster the
regulatory board.  “They were betting like you would do at a craps table in
Las Vegas,” the Nevada Democrat said. That would be fine, he
said, “if they did it with their own money. But the problem is,
the way Wall Street’s been working, is that heads they win,
tails we lose.”  The Senate Banking Committee on March 29 approved by voice
vote the nominations of Harvard University professor  Jeremy Stein  and Jerome Powell, an attorney and private equity investor
who was a Treasury undersecretary for President George H.W.
Bush.  Senate Minority Leader  Mitch McConnell , a Kentucky
Republican, said both nominees probably will be confirmed.  “I haven’t looked carefully at it, but my impression is
there is bipartisan support,” he said after a closed-door
meeting of Senate Republicans.  Case for Support  The loss announced last week at JPMorgan may bolster the
case for supporters of Stein and Powell, who are experts in the
financial markets, that their expertise is needed at the Fed,
said  Sarah Binder , a senior fellow at the  Brookings Institution 
in Washington who researches the relationship between the Fed
and Congress.  “The story provides nice ammunition for Democrats for
their argument that the Fed Board needs to be fully staffed and
that these two nominees in particular are the right picks,”
said Binder, also a professor at George Washington University.
“In theory the news raises the heat on Republicans for blocking
confirmation. But I don’t see much evidence that Republicans are
chastened by the news.”  JPMorgan Chief Executive Officer Jamie Dimon said May 10
that his firm suffered the trading loss after an “egregious”
failure in a unit managing risks.  Deepened Oversight  The loss has prompted scrutiny from the Fed, which is in
the process of enacting rules aimed at boosting capital and
improving risk-management processes at the biggest banks. The
central bank has deepened its oversight of the largest financial
institutions following the Dodd-Frank Act, the most significant
overhaul of financial regulation since the 1930s.  Republican Senators James DeMint of South Carolina and
 David Vitter  of Louisiana opposed both nominations. Vitter has
said he will object to holding a vote in the full Senate.  “These two Fed nominations and Fed monetary policy are
tremendously important matters,” Vitter said in a statement
before Reid’s move was made public. “Because they are, and
because I have serious concerns with the Fed’s activist, easy
money policies, I’m demanding a Senate debate and vote rather
than just rubber-stamping all this with no debate.”  The nominations would need bipartisan support for Senate
confirmation. While Democrats control 53 votes in the 100-member
chamber, Senate leaders would need the votes of at least 60
senators to advance the nominations to a final vote.  Market Experience  When Powell and Stein appeared before the banking committee
for their nomination hearings earlier this year, they
underscored their experience with  capital markets . Powell
emphasized his work as an investor and investment banker, and
Stein discussed his research on the 1987 stock-market crash and
the effect of monetary policy on the banking system.  Powell was a partner at the private-equity firm the  Carlyle
Group LP (CG)  from 1997 through 2005, where he led the industrial
group within the U.S. buyout fund, according to a biography from
the Bipartisan Policy Center, where he is a visiting scholar.  Stein served in the Obama administration from February to
July 2009 as a senior adviser to the Treasury secretary and on
the staff of the National Economic Council, according to
Harvard’s website.  The Fed’s board includes Chairman Ben S. Bernanke and Vice
Chairman  Janet Yellen , both economists;  Daniel Tarullo , a former
professor at the Georgetown University Law Center;  Sarah Bloom Raskin , a former top bank regulator for Maryland; and  Elizabeth Duke , who had been a community banker.  If confirmed, Powell would fill the term vacated by
Frederic Mishkin, which expires in 2014. Stein would fill the
seat of former governor  Kevin Warsh , with a term that lasts
through 2018.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Laura Litvan in  Washington  at 
 llitvan@bloomberg.net ;
Joshua Zumbrun in Washington at 
 jzumbrun@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  