-- Renren Leads ADRs Rebound on Facebook IPO Price: China Overnight
-- B y   L e o n   L a z a r o f f
-- 2012-05-15T16:52:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-15/renren-leads-adrs-rebound-on-facebook-ipo-price-china-overnight.html
Chinese equities rose for the first
time in nine days in  New York , led by Internet stocks, on
prospects  Facebook Inc. (FB) ’s increased offering price will spur
demand for industry assets.  The  Bloomberg China-US Equity Index (CH55BN)  of the most-traded
Chinese shares in the U.S. added 0.7 percent to 96.10 by 12:48
p.m. in New York, halting a 9 percent slump in the eight days
through May 14. Renren, a social networking website, surged the
most in a month, while Internet bookstore  E-Commerce Dangdang
Inc. (DANG)  climbed the most in three months.  Facebook increased the price range on its IPO to as much as
$38 a share from $35, a regulatory filing yesterday showed,
implying a market value of as much as $104.2 billion. That would
make Facebook worth more than  Citigroup Inc. (C)  and McDonald’s
Corp. Beijing-based Renren reported yesterday a first-quarter
loss of 3 cents a share, below the median forecast for a 4 cents
a share by eight analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  “All the talk on the street about Facebook is driving
retail investors in particular to look for stocks that might
gain on social media in China,” Echo He, a New York-based
analyst who covers Chinese Internet stocks for Maxim Group LLC,
said in a phone interview. “Renren’s second-quarter outlook is
weak because advertising is weak, but investors are hoping it
can do as well as Facebook.”  The  iShares FTSE China 25 Index Fund , the biggest Chinese
exchange-traded fund in the U.S., gained 0.6 percent to $34.93
while the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index added 0.4 percent to
1,343.86. The Shanghai Composite Index fell 0.2 percent
yesterday to 2,374.84 while the Hang Seng  China  Enterprises
Index of Chinese companies traded in  Hong Kong  also broke a
string of eight consecutive declines, gaining 1 percent to
10,084.59.  German, U.S. Data  Germany’s economy expanded more than forecast in the first
quarter, offsetting contractions elsewhere in Europe and helping
the region, China’s largest trading partner, avoid a second
recession in three years.  U.S. auto sales running at the fastest pace in four years
helped boost manufacturing in the New York region in May more
than forecast while strengthening the outlook for a U.S.
economic recovery.  “Investors do remain very nervous but a better outlook for
the  U.S. economy  is certainly helping to calm matters,” Charlie Awdry, portfolio manager of Henderson Global Investors’ 500
million pound ($801 million) China Opportunities Fund, said in a
phone interview from  London . “We still think Chinese earnings
are going to grow, though at a slow pace.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Leon Lazaroff in New York at 
 llazaroff@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tal Barak Harif at 
 tbarak@bloomberg.net  