-- Repsol Sues Argentina in N.Y. Over Initial Public Offering
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 2012-05-15T21:58:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-15/repsol-sues-argentina-over-initial-public-offering-of-company.html
Repsol YPF SA (REP) , the Spanish oil
exploration company, sued  Argentina  in U.S. court in Manhattan
over its initial public offering, seeking unspecified damages
for an alleged breach of contract.  Repsol shares fell to a three-year low in Madrid on April
23 after the newspaper La Nacion reported that Argentina would
seek to pay Repsol nothing for its majority stake in YPF SA,
seized by President  Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner  last month.  Fernandez said on April 16 that compensation for the
seizure will be determined by Argentina’s National Appraisal
Tribunal, the government-chartered tribunal established in 1944
to help determine the value of contested goods involving
companies or government agencies.  In the  New York  complaint filed today, Repsol and Texas
Yale Capital Corp., a financial investment advisory firm based
in Spicewood Texas, allege that Argentina has attempted to
“walk away from the contractual obligations” it undertook when
it chose to come to the U.S. to raise capital through an initial
public offering of its formerly state-owned  oil company .  Argentina has “nearly halved the stock market value” of
YPF, Madrid-based Repsol and Texas Yale Capital allege in the
complaint.  Texas Yale Capital holds shares in YPF through its
ownership of American depositary receipts administered by  Bank
of New York Mellon Corp. (BK) , the plaintiffs said.  IPO Proceeds  The initial sale of ADRs listed on the New York Stock
Exchange “alone delivered proceeds of more than $1.1 billion
directly to Argentina as selling shareholder,” the plaintiffs
said.  Argentina has seized control of YPF’s facilities and
operations without any tender offer, constituting a breach of
its contractual obligations to shareholders, the plaintiffs
said. YPF is the nation’s biggest oil producer.  Repsol earlier today notified Argentine officials it
intends to file a claim with the World Bank’s International
Center for the Settlement of Investment Disputes in Washington,
starting the clock on a six-month period when Fernandez has an
opportunity to negotiate an agreement, the company said in an e-
mailed statement.  The case is Repsol YPF v. Republic of Argentina, 12-
cv-3877, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York
( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in New York at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  