-- U.S. Retail Sales Cool After Warm-Weather Spree: Economy
-- B y   A l e x   K o w a l s k i   a n d   T i m o t h y   R .   H o m a n
-- 2012-05-15T18:14:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-15/retail-sales-in-u-s-cool-on-early-easter-and-seasonable-weather.html
Retail sales  rose in April at the
slowest pace of the year as Americans took a break from a
shopping spree induced by unseasonably warm weather in prior
months and an earlier Easter holiday.  The 0.1 percent gain followed a 0.7 percent increase in
March, Commerce Department figures showed today in Washington.
The April advance matched the  median  forecast in a Bloomberg
News survey.  Sales of clothing declined, while purchases excluding cars,
building materials and service stations -- the category used to
calculate gross domestic product -- rose more than forecast.
Other reports today showed manufacturing in the  New York  region
accelerated more than projected, and confidence among U.S.
homebuilders jumped to a five-year high.  “Consumers overall are still pretty much engaged,” said
 Russell Price , a senior economist at Ameriprise Financial Inc.
in  Detroit , the most-accurate forecaster of retail sales in the
two years through April, according to data compiled by Bloomberg
News. “Manufacturing is still a solid contributor to growth. It
is growing with the pace of demand.”  Stocks swung between gains and losses after the Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index dropped to the lowest level in three months, as
 Greece ’s struggle to form a government tempered better-than-
estimated economic data. The  S&P 500  rose less than 0.1 percent
to 1,338.56 at 2:12 p.m. in New York.  Elsewhere in  Europe ,  Germany  helped the euro area avoid its
second recession in three years as growth in the region’s
largest economy offset contractions in peripheral countries.  German GDP  The economy in the 17-nation euro region stagnated in the
latest quarter compared with the prior three months, the
European Union’s statistics office in Luxembourg said. The
German economy expanded 0.5 percent.  Nine of 13 major categories showed gains in retail sales
last month, led by auto dealers, furniture stores and non-store
retailers that include online merchants. Purchases at
restaurants rose 0.4 percent in April after a 0.9 percent gain
the month before.  “From the industry perspective, we’ve seen a pretty decent
trend in sales over the last year,” G. Price Cooper, chief
financial officer of restaurant chain  Texas Roadhouse Inc. (TXRH) , said
during a May 9 investor conference.  Warmer Weather  Part of the slowdown in retail sales for April may reflect
seasonal events that pulled purchases into the previous month.
The average temperature in March was the warmest on record in
the U.S., and Easter fell on April 8 compared with April 24 the
year before.  Consumer spending , which accounts for 70 percent of the
economy, grew at a 2.9 percent annual rate last quarter, the
most since the final three months of 2010, according to data
from the Commerce Department.  Sustaining such a pace of purchasing may be more difficult
with weaker job growth. Employers took on 115,000 workers last
month, the fewest since October, a Labor Department report
showed May 4. The jobless rate also declined as people left the
work force.  Still, an American Express Co. survey of 541 global finance
executives showed 56 percent are planning to boost payrolls in
the U.S. over the next 12 months. Seventy-five percent of the
American executives forecast “robust” economic growth after
this year.  “Finance executives are looking for ways to stimulate
growth, in part by deploying some of the cash that has built up
on corporate balance sheets in recent years,” Janey Whiteside,
a senior vice president at American Express, said in a
statement.  Effect on GDP  The retail sales category used to calculate GDP increased
0.4 percent after a 0.5 percent increase in the previous month.
The category was forecast to rise 0.3 percent, the Bloomberg
survey showed.  Macy’s Inc., the owner of its namesake and Bloomingdale’s
department stores, this week reported first-quarter profit that
topped analysts’ estimates as sales at stores open at least a
year advanced 4.4 percent. The Cincinnati-based retailer also
boosted its same-store sales forecast to about 3.7 percent this
year from a previous estimate of 3.5 percent.  Same-store sales were “clearly above what we had expected,
and that makes us feel very good about the consumer,” Chief
Financial Officer Karen Hoguet said during a May 9 earnings
call.  Vehicle Sales  Sales climbed 0.5 percent at automobile dealers, after a
0.2 percent increase the prior month, today’s Commerce
Department report showed. Cars and light trucks sold at a 14.4
million  annual rate  in April, up less than 100,000 from the
prior month, according to data from Ward’s Automotive Group.  Manufacturers are getting a boost as auto sales running at
the fastest pace in four years lift demand for goods from glass
and machinery to sound systems.  The Federal Reserve Bank of New York’s  general economic
index  increased to 17.1 this month from 6.6 in April. The median
estimate in a survey of Bloomberg economists called for an
increase to 9. Readings greater than zero signal expansion in
the index, which covers New York, northern  New Jersey  and
southern  Connecticut .  Manufacturing makes up 12 percent of the  U.S. economy  and
about 6 percent of New York’s. Harman International Industries
Inc., a maker of car-audio systems based in  Stamford ,
Connecticut, got a record $2 billion contract in April from a
luxury European automaker whose name it didn’t disclose.  Builder Confidence  Homebuilders are also gaining confidence as cheaper
property prices and mortgage rates at a record low combine to
boost demand.  The National Association of Home Builders/Wells Fargo index
of  builder confidence  rose to 29, the highest since May 2007, a
report from the Washington-based group showed today. The gauge
exceeded the highest projection in a Bloomberg survey in which
the median estimate was 26. Readings below 50 mean more
respondents said conditions were poor.  Americans may also get a break as energy prices subside. A
Labor Department report today showed that the  consumer price
index  was unchanged in April.  The index matched the median forecast of economists
surveyed by Bloomberg and followed three straight gains that
included a 0.3 percent rise in March. The so-called core
measure, which excludes more volatile food and energy costs,
rose 0.2 percent for a second month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Kowalski in  Washington  at 
 akowalski13@bloomberg.net ;
Timothy R. Homan in Washington at 
 thoman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  