-- Retired Cops Paid $500,000 for Time Off Bring Curbs
-- B y   F r e e m a n   K l o p o t t
-- 2012-05-15T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-15/retired-cops-paid-500-000-for-time-off-bring-curbs.html
Two Long Beach,  New York , police
officers who retired this year are being paid a combined 
$1.1 million for accrued time off. That’s equal to an almost 
4 percent tax increase for the New York suburb’s 36,000 
residents.  The city manager, Jack Schnirman, facing a $10 million 
deficit and borrowing costs that have tripled, said he wants 
to cap such payments. From  California  to New Jersey, where 
Governor  Chris Christie  calls them “boat checks,” such deals 
are under assault by officials who say the perks are driving 
up costs to taxpayers and can no longer be justified.  “Terminal payouts are an aspect of a system that needs to
be reformed,” said Howard Cure, head of research at  New York- 
based Evercore Wealth Management LLC, which manages $3.2
billion. “There is nothing illegal about what these employees
are doing. It just seems abusive, especially when compared with
the private sector.”  Almost three years after the end of the longest recession
since the Great Depression, states and municipalities are still
struggling to balance revenue with spending, including costs
such as pension obligations and terminal-leave payments. Tax
collections in the fourth quarter of 2011 grew at the slowest
pace in a year, the Census Bureau said in March.  Investors are betting the liabilities won’t overwhelm
municipal finances. The $3.7 trillion market has earned 4.1
percent this year, beating the 0.7 percent advance for
Treasuries and the best start to a year since 2009, according to
Bank of America Merrill Lynch data.  Minnesota Eyes Curbs  Minnesota lawmakers are considering a measure that would
prevent state and local workers from accruing more than 160
hours of paid time off. The bill was introduced after the St.
Paul Pioneer Press reported in November that state employees
were paid $57 million for unused sick time and $32 million for
accrued vacation time from January 2008 through June 2011.  In  New Jersey , 428 municipalities face liabilities of more
than $825 million for accumulated sick and vacation days, which
would cost an additional $250 for every property taxpayer in the
state, according to the office of Christie, a Republican.  Unions already feeling the pinch from wage freezes,
furloughs and other cost-saving measures may resist giving up
the perk at the negotiating table, said Stephen Madarasz, a
spokesman for the Civil Service Employees Association, New
York’s biggest public-worker union.  Longstanding Practice  “If you’re looking at changing something like this that’s
a longstanding practice, that’s harder to do,” he said.  When Stockton, the central California city trying to avert
bankruptcy, suspended termination checks in February, it was
sued by its police union. City Manager Bob Deis, who invoked
power under the city’s 2011 financial-emergency declaration,
announced the payment halt in a Feb. 24 letter to city
employees.  “Any new surprise may push us into insolvency or
uncontrolled default,” Deis wrote.  Last month, a San Joaquin County judge ruled in favor of
the city.  Chicago is negotiating with its unions after Democratic
Mayor  Rahm Emanuel  temporarily froze payouts for the third-
largest U.S. school system in February. The move followed a
Better Government Association report showing $265 million in
leave disbursements were made to 19,000 employees since 2006.  Duncan’s Check  Among the payouts was $50,000 in vacation compensation for
departing schools chief  Arne Duncan , according to the Chicago-
based watchdog group. Duncan left after nine years to become
President  Barack Obama ’s education secretary.  “People should take a good hard look at whether or not
that policy makes any sense and whether it should be kept in
place in these tight budget times,” Duncan said through an
Education Department spokesman in  Washington , according to the
association.  The school board has since approved a policy that applies
to new nonunion employees and stops sick days from carrying over
year to year, according to an e-mailed statement. Previously,
workers could bank as many as 325 sick days, the equivalent of
16 months, if they had worked at least 20 years. Vacation-day
accrual is capped at 30 days, compared with 66 before.  The New York City suburb of Nassau County on  Long Island 
was downgraded one level by  Fitch Ratings  in December after it
received permission from a  state oversight board  to sell as much
as $450 million in bonds over four years, including $80 million
to cover the costs of unused vacation and sick leave.  Reserve Fund  “The unions could have agreed to give this up but
didn’t,” Brian Nevin, County Executive Edward Mangano’s senior
policy adviser, said in a telephone interview.  Long Beach, a shore community in Nassau, has paid exiting
workers almost $10 million since 2008 as its  reserve fund 
dropped from $8 million to zero, according to city data compiled
by Bloomberg and Schnirman.  The city’s rating was cut five steps by Moody’s Investors
Service in December after it tapped the  bond market  for $4.25
million to meet payroll and cover a $505,000 payment to the
retiring police chief.  It borrowed again last month, paying a 2.5 percent yield
for a one-year loan, compared with 0.77 percent on a similar
maturity in December, Comptroller Jeff Nogid said in an e-mail.  To close a budget gap that’s 12 percent of spending, the
city is considering raising property taxes 40 percent and
cutting 20 percent of its workforce.  “These termination payouts are one of the major drivers of
our deficit,” Schnirman said in a telephone interview. “We
will be seeking a cap so we don’t see these outlandish
payouts.”  Ken Apple, president of the  Long Beach  Police Benevolent
Association, said the payouts are part of the collective-
bargaining agreement and that any change would have to be
negotiated.  “I understand what’s going on in the city, and we’re
always amicable about going to the table,” he said.  Following are pending sales:  NEW YORK CITY plans to sell $800 million of tax-free
general-obligation bonds as soon as next week, according to a
city statement. The refunding debt will be sold to individuals
on May 21 and May 22, and issued to institutions on May 23,
according to the statement.  Standard & Poor’s  rates the bonds
AA, its third-highest grade. Bank of America Merrill Lynch will
lead banks on the sale. (Added May 15)  CHICAGO plans to sell about $597 million in general-
obligation debt as soon as this week, according to an offering
statement. About $306 million will be taxable and the remainder
tax-exempt, with proceeds going toward refunding and capital
projects. Moody’s Investors Service rates the bonds Aa3, fourth-
highest. (Updated May 15)  SAN DIEGO COUNTY REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION COMMISSION plans
to issue about $384 million in sales tax revenue bonds as soon
as next week, according to an offering document. The proceeds
will be used to finance and reimburse the commission for prior
capital projects. Standard & Poor’s rates the bonds AAA, its top
grade.  Barclays Capital  is the underwriter. (Added May 15)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Freeman Klopott in Albany, New York, at 
 fklopott@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  