-- Rich Wife Seduces Sexy Sailor in Paris ‘One Flea Spare’
-- B y   J o r g   v o n   U t h m a n n
-- 2012-05-15T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-15/rich-wife-seduces-sexy-sailor-in-paris-one-flea-spare-.html
Naomi Wallace is the first living
U.S. playwright to make it into the repertory of  France ’s oldest
and most prestigious theater, the Comedie-Francaise.  Tennessee Williams  had been dead for 28 years when he was
admitted in 2011.  Wallace’s astonishing feat may have something to do with a
general policy to promote female authors: In the last decade,
the Comedie-Francaise has staged Marguerite Duras’s “Savannah
Bay” and Marie N’Daye’s “Papa Doit Manger” (Daddy Must Eat).  Since 2006, the company has been run by a woman: Muriel
Mayette, the first female director in its 332-year history.  “Une Puce, Epargnez-La,” or “One Flea Spare,” is one of
the earliest among Wallace’s two dozen plays. It was
commissioned by London’s Bush Theater and first performed there
in 1995. Two years later, the Joseph Papp Public Theater
introduced it to a New York audience.  The Kentucky-born author made her name in the U.K. where
she lives with the father of her children -- which may explain
the English background. The title is a quotation from an erotic
poem by John Donne. The action takes place in  London  in 1665,
the year of the bubonic plague.  William Snelgrave, a rich merchant, and his wife Darcy live
as prisoners in their own house after their servants have been
killed by the epidemic. Their hope that the quarantine will soon
be lifted is dashed when two gatecrashers arrive -- Bunce, a
sexy sailor, and Morse, a precocious 12-year-old girl who says
she’s the daughter of neighbors.  Sex Life  Immediately, the four characters engage in a game of sexual
class warfare. Snelgrave, while insisting on his superior social
standing, prods Bunce into talking about his sex life.  Darcy, who has been horribly burned in a fire shortly after
their marriage and hasn’t been touched by her husband since
then, dreams of raping the sailor.  The strange mix of “Lady Chatterley’s Lover” and Sartre’s
“No Exit” culminates in the landlord being tied to a chair
while the lady explores the proletarian’s body.  In the end, everybody is dead. Only the sailor’s fate
remains unclear.  In an epilogue to the printed text and in the program,
Wallace writes about the sufferings of the working class in the
Victorian age, the oppression of women through the cult of youth
and beauty and AIDS, the epidemic that reached its climax while
she was working on the play.  Her extra tuition can’t make up for the flimsiness and
false profundity of her story.  Poetic Sermons  A fifth character, the guard Kabe, who’s given to poetic
sermons and who, at one point, appears with a bucket of glowing
coals on his head, is no great help.  Director Anne-Laure Liegeois does her best to bring the
contrived plot to life. Her sober set and period costumes will
remind you of the peaceful interiors of Dutch painters.  The 20 short scenes are separated by harpsichord
interludes. The more the plot progresses, the more black birds
appear on the scene, calmly awaiting the inevitable outcome.  It’s not the fault of the actors that their characters
remain ciphers. They are all good. Felicien Juttner, however, is
too skinny to be believable as the sailor who turns the heads of
men and women.  “Une Puce, Epargnez-La” is in repertory through June 12.
Information:  http://www.comedie-francaise.fr .  Rating: **.  (Jorg von Uthmann is a critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
his own.)  Muse highlights include: Warwick Thompson on  London stage ,
Ryan Sutton on  New York   dining .  To contact the writer on the story:
Jorg von Uthmann, in Paris, at  uthmann@wanadoo.fr .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 