-- Richmont Said Still Interested in All or Part of Avon
-- B y   J e f f r e y   M c C r a c k e n   a n d   L a u r e n   C o l e m a n - L o c h n e r
-- 2012-05-16T13:41:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-15/richmont-said-still-interested-in-all-or-part-of-avon.html
Richmont Holdings, a closely held
investor in consumer brands, is exploring an offer for all or
part of  Avon Products Inc. (AVP)  and has approached Avon to express
its interest, according to people familiar with the matter.  Richmont, which approached Avon before Coty Inc. withdrew a
sweetened $10.7 billion bid May 14, is betting Avon would
consider its proposal a friendlier alternative, said the people,
who declined to be identified because the matter is private. As
one option, Richmont may consider offering to buy a minority
stake of 25 percent or more, the people said.  Having fended off the Coty offer, Avon is focused on a
standalone plan and doesn’t take Richmont’s interest seriously,
said another person familiar with the matter.  Whether Avon engineers a turnaround or sells itself, the
company “offers terrific value,” said Josh Strauss, a co-
portfolio manager of Appleseed Fund at Pekin Singer Strauss
Asset Management in  Chicago , which oversees about 1 million
shares of Avon. “This is a business that is inherently fixable.
It may take a couple years, but it’s fixable.”  Richmont has spoken with several private-equity funds and
sovereign wealth funds about collaborating on a bid for the
world’s largest direct seller of cosmetics, said the people.
Richmont contacted Avon before Coty withdrew to say it would be
interested in a bid if the company were running a sales process,
said one of the people.  Victor Beaudet, a spokesman for New York-based Avon,
declined to comment. A phone message left at Richmont
headquarters yesterday seeking comment wasn’t returned.  Avon rose 0.6 percent to $18.82 at 9:39 a.m. in  New York .
The shares gained 7.1 percent this year before today.  Secure Financing  Richmont founder and Chairman John Rochon has lined up what
he considers is sufficiently secure financing with outside funds
to approach Avon, said one of the people. Rochon has been
speaking to a number of Avon shareholders to get their views on
his plans, said one of the people.  Rochon, who founded Dallas-based Richmont 25 years ago,
served as chief executive officer of Mary Kay Inc., a door-to-
door cosmetics seller that awarded its signature pink Cadillacs
to top representatives.  Richmont attempted to take over Avon in the late 1980s and
early 1990s, during Rochon’s tenure at Mary Kay, acquiring 22
percent of its stock at the time.  Coty cited Avon’s “continued delay and unwillingness to
engage in discussions” in withdrawing its bid. Coty said
attempts to speak to Avon board members, including Chairman
 Andrea Jung  and Chief Executive Officer Sheri McCoy, failed
after it received a two-sentence e-mail requesting a deadline
extension.  Avon has posted three straight years of  falling earnings 
and last month hired McCoy as CEO from  Johnson & Johnson (JNJ)  to
replace Jung and pursue a turnaround. The company is also in the
midst of internal and federal investigations into possible
bribery in its overseas operations.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeffrey McCracken in New York at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net ;
Lauren Coleman-Lochner in New York at 
 llochner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  