-- Rob Portman: The Best of the Boring White Guys
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C a r l s o n
-- 2012-05-15T23:00:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-15/rob-portman-the-best-of-the-boring-white-guys.html
The minute Senator  Rob Portman , the
Republican from Ohio who helped Mitt Romney win his state’s
primary, walked into the room, I knew that he would be the
Republican vice presidential candidate.  As he conceded proudly, he is a Boring White Guy, which is
the phrase of the moment after “a Republican official familiar
with the campaign’s thinking”  told Politico  that’s what Romney
is looking for in a running mate. (The actual phrase was
“incredibly boring white guy,” but for our purposes the initials
BWG will suffice.) What could be more perfect? Every steel-gray
hair is the right length and in place. The blue shirt is
unrumpled. He doesn’t try to talk and eat lunch at the same
time. He couldn’t be more affable and well spoken.  As a BWG, Portman has a resume that bespeaks steady,
incremental progress up the political ladder. Member of
Congress? Check, in both chambers. White House official? Check.
Cabinet-level experience? Check.  Those last two are especially important for Portman. Under
 George W. Bush , he served as U.S. trade representative, which
along with speaking Spanish learned while working on a border
ranch with Mexican cowboys, helps with the foreign-policy
requirement. And as director of the Office of Management and
Budget, he advised Bush to issue his first spending vetoes. BWGs
don’t spend money they don’t have.  As befits a BWG, Portman’s 2010 campaign for Senate was as
uneventful as it was successful. He won overwhelmingly, 57
percent to 39 percent, and has served responsibly ever since.  Triple Threat  I’m not picking on Portman, who visited the offices of
Bloomberg View on Monday. BWGs make good husbands, excellent
fathers and bipartisan collaborators, and by all accounts
Portman is all three. There’s many a BWG among Democrats in the
Senate: Herbert Kohl, Benjamin Cardin,  Patrick Leahy  (except for
that part about being a Deadhead) and Dianne Feinstein (except
for that part about being a woman). Aside from the obvious fact
that he is African-American, President Barack Obama is a BWG,
unless he is ordering a hit on  Osama bin Laden  or delivering a
speech onstage.  At this point in the process last time, Romney was at the
top of the list for presumptive Republican nominee Senator  John McCain . Romney was a strong candidate in the BWG sweepstakes: a
private-equity banker from  Michigan  with two Harvard degrees.
But his vetting began just after McCain was famously asked how
many houses he had. He couldn’t remember. When McCain’s advisers
considered their candidate’s choices, they added the number of
Romney’s houses to McCain’s and came up with 13. Romney
immediately dropped off the list.  McCain didn’t want to go the BWG route anyway. He wanted to
shake things up. His first idea was then-Democrat  Joe Lieberman ,
a fusion ticket about which cooler (read: more partisan) heads
prevailed. Eventually he settled on a kind of anti-BWG, and we
all know how that worked out.  Sarah Palin surely fulfilled McCain’s wish for a game
changer, though he just as surely did not know at the time how
badly the changed game could go. For the foreseeable future, she
has pretty much spoiled the chances of a first-term governor of
either gender making the short list. Presidential nominees don’t
repeat the mistakes of past failed candidates.  So what does Portman have aside from being a BWG? He shares
Romney’s cautious, pleasant temperament. Most important, he
seems willing to make arguments he doesn’t quite believe in on
behalf of the man at the top of the ticket. When it comes to
“ vulture capitalism ” at  Bain Capital , which Romney helped found,
Portman equates it with the business of his father, who started
a forklift company. He valiantly defends Bain’s shuttering of a
steel mill as an example of our free-market system at work.  Buddy Movies  Portman’s steadiness steadied Romney in  Ohio  -- no
pretending a waitress  pinched him , no blurting out how many
Cadillacs can fit on his  car elevator , no mention of how  he
likes  “being able to fire people.” Their buddy movie played well
compared with some others. Romney tends to be overshadowed when
he’s with the bouncy Representative  Paul Ryan  of  Wisconsin , who
already has a budget named after him, and Senator Marco Rubio of
 Florida , the savior of the Republican Hispanic vote. Former
Governor Jeb Bush of Florida wouldn’t fit because Romney would
be dogged about why Bush isn’t at the top of the ticket.  With Portman, Romney would get the benefits of Jeb Bush --
someone capable of taking over -- without the unfortunate
comparisons. That’s because Portman, like all BWGs, drinks no
wine before its time (he prefers a made-in-Cleveland  craft beer )
and serves his apprenticeships patiently. He worked for his
dad’s company, served  George Bush  the Elder in the White House
counsel’s office, served George Bush the Younger in two
positions. He’s now a good soldier for Senate Minority Leader
 Mitch McConnell .  Portman could well be president. But in the natural order
of all things BWG, he was born to be vice president first.
And Portman, like all BWGs considered for the No. 2 spot, is now
 letting it be known  -- in a careful, orderly fashion, of course
-- that he may not be as B as some other WGs.  He once smuggled a kayak into  China  to run the Yangtze
River! He met his wife -- then a Democrat! -- on a blind date!
Portman is also a hugger (though in a stolid, Ohio kind of way,
not the kind of cocktail-party air-kiss you expect from, say,
Senator  John Kerry ). Yes, Portman also coaches indoor soccer --
the “indoor” part is what clinches it as a BWG pastime --
because he can’t stray too far from the BWG herd.  The tricky part about being a BWG has always been the B:
making yourself stand out from the pack, but not so much that
you lose the letter altogether. Being a BWG is more exciting
than it sounds.  ( Margaret Carlson  is a Bloomberg View columnist. The
opinions expressed are her own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  Today’s highlights: the View editors on a  Greek exit from the
euro  and tariffs  on Chinese solar products ; Clive Crook on
 Germany and Greece ;  Peter Orszag  on  small-business woes ;
 Jonathan Weil  on  JPMorgan Chase and regulators ; Rachelle
Bergstein on the  economics of stiletto heels ; and Zvi Bodie and
 Cornelius Hurley  on the  Office of Financial Research.   To contact the writer of this article:
Margaret Carlson at   mcarlson3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Michael Newman at   mnewman43@bloomberg.net . 