-- Romney Attacks Obama for Not Cutting Debt Amassed by Bush
-- B y   J u l i e   H i r s c h f e l d   D a v i s
-- 2012-05-17T04:25:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-15/romney-focuses-on-u-s-debt-in-attacking-obama-for-slow-recovery.html
Mitt Romney , attacking President
 Barack Obama  for the second consecutive day for swelling U.S.
deficits, said the president has done “almost nothing to fix”
the debt amassed over eight years by former President  George W. Bush .  Obama as a candidate “was very critical of his
predecessor, because the predecessor put together $4 trillion of
 debt  over eight years,” Romney said yesterday in a speech in
St. Petersburg, where he began a two-day campaign and
fundraising swing through Florida, a hotly contested state. “He
said that doing that was unpatriotic -- irresponsible and
unpatriotic --and he said he would cut the debt in half if he
became president. Instead he doubled it.”  Romney, speaking the day after Bush made an impromptu
endorsement of him as he boarded an elevator at an event in
Washington, said that while Republicans and Democrats share
blame for running up deficits, Obama has made the problem worse.  “It sure is true that you can’t blame one party or the
other for all the debts that this country has, because both
parties, in my opinion, spent too much and borrowed too much
when they were in power,” Romney told about 400 voters at the
Mirror Lake Lyceum, a banquet hall in downtown  St. Petersburg 
where he spoke in front of a digital clock displaying the
national debt and each taxpayer’s share of it.  Campaign Cudgel  “I find it incomprehensible that a president could come to
office and call his predecessor’s record irresponsible and
unpatriotic, and then do almost nothing to fix it,” he said.  Bush began his first term in 2001 with a  budget surplus 
that was wiped out by the cost of two wars and tax cuts
initiated in his presidency, and the  yearly government deficit 
reached $454.8 billion shortly before he left office in January
2009. Under Obama, the deficit rose to $1.42 trillion at the end
of his first year, and is projected by the  Congressional Budget
Office  to be $977 billion in fiscal 2013.  At a fundraiser later in the day -- the first of a four-
stop, almost $10 million money tour Romney is making at lavish
hotels, country clubs and private homes around  Florida  -- the
former Massachusetts governor kept up his criticism of the
president and promised his donors he’d run a more business-
friendly government if elected.  “What I want to do is not just eliminate programs, but
take programs in government that we have and see how many of
them we can push back into the private sector, so they can do a
better job,” Romney told about 200 attendees of a reception at
the Avila Golf and Country Club in Tampa, a gated community
surrounded by 8-foot ivy-covered walls and replete with
Mediterranean-style stucco mansions featuring Spanish roofs,
gilded gates and fountains.  Tenderloin and Sushi  “I know that you get the impression that government
doesn’t like you -- I love you,” Romney told attendees munching
on beef tenderloin, sushi and crab cakes. “I love what you do.
I want to see entrepreneurs and innovators. I want to see more
success. My ambition is to see more and more people able to
enjoy the extraordinary benefits of America, as you have.”  Former U.S. Ambassador to Italy Mel Sembler, a St.
Petersburg-based shopping center developer who helped organize
the event -- with tickets available at $2,500, $10,000 and
$50,000 -- said it had raised $2.3 million. It included a
private lunch for around 50 at the Avila home of real estate
developer and investor Dick Corbett.  Romney was attending another reception last night at
Miami’s historic Biltmore hotel, followed by a dinner at the
Star Island manse of Phillip Frost, chairman of  Teva
Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. (TEVA)   Prairie Fire  As he steps up fundraising, Romney has begun a full-scale
effort this week to use rising  U.S. debt  as a cudgel against
Obama. Campaigning May 15 in  Des Moines ,  Iowa , another
politically competitive state, Romney criticized the $831
billion stimulus enacted near the start of Obama’s term and said
the president failed to hold down joblessness as he promised to
-- criticisms he echoed yesterday.  In Florida, he reiterated his pledge to shutter some
federal agencies, return other programs to states and repeal the
health-care law enacted in 2010 at Obama’s prodding.  Romney also reprised his analogy of the growing federal
debt to a prairie fire visible in the distance. “You don’t say,
‘I’m going to go to bed, because the wind might change,’ you
instead look for someone that says, ‘I’m going to take
responsibility and fix this -- put it out,’” he said. “It’s
high time that we have a president that will stop this spending
and borrowing inferno, and I will.”  Debt Showdown  Romney’s concerns about the debt have been shrugged off by
financial markets, where Treasuries are rallying. Yields on the
government’s benchmark 10-year notes fell to 1.76 percent at 5
p.m.  New York  time yesterday from this year’s high of 2.40
percent almost two months ago, according to Bloomberg Bond
Trader data. The yield is 9 basis points, or 0.09 percentage
point, above the record low and the rates are about a quarter of
the 50-year annual average of 6.49 percent.  Romney’s comments blaming both parties for the debt
conflict come at a time when U.S. House Speaker  John Boehner , an
Ohio Republican, is setting the stage for another showdown with
Democrats over raising the debt ceiling. A prolonged stalemate
last year between congressional Republicans and Obama led to a
downgrade of the U.S.’s AAA credit rating by  Standard & Poor’s 
in early August.  ‘Personal Beef’  Romney also struck a bipartisan tone at the Tampa
fundraiser, telling donors he would never pit one group of
Americans against another. “It’s gotten way too hot -- way too
vicious, frankly, on both sides of the aisle,” he said.  Those remarks came the day after Romney said Obama should
take an example from former President  Bill Clinton .  “Almost a generation ago, Bill Clinton announced that the
era of big government was over,” he said. “President Obama
tucked away the Clinton doctrine in his large drawer of
discarded ideas, along with transparency and bipartisanship.”  Romney added: “Maybe it was a personal beef with the
Clintons.”  Clinton was the last U.S. president to turn a deficit into
a surplus. Obama appointed  Hillary Clinton , his chief rival in
the 2008 Democratic presidential race and the former president’s
wife, as his secretary of state.  Following victories in primaries May 15 in Nebraska and
 Oregon , Romney now has 989 of the 1,144 delegates needed for his
party’s nomination, according to the  Associated Press . Romney
may surpass the needed number before month’s end.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julie Hirschfeld Davis in  Washington  at 
 jdavis159@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net  