-- Romney Runs Against History in Touting CEO Credentials
-- B y   D a v i d   J .   L y n c h
-- 2012-05-15T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-15/romney-runs-against-history-in-touting-ceo-credentials.html
Shortly after his election as
governor of  Massachusetts , Mitt Romney gathered the people who
would fill the state’s top jobs for a get-acquainted luncheon.  As the group tucked in to plates of pasta salad and greens,
Romney -- like the management consultant he once was --
distributed a paper explaining his operating style. About a
dozen bullet points, including “talk to each other, not about
each other” and “family first,” filled the pages.  Beyond the bromides, Romney outlined the disciplined, data-
driven process that had made him wealthy and then helped him
rescue the 2002 Winter Olympics from scandal.  “I have never seen such self-awareness about one’s own
style,” says Dan Winslow, who became Massachusetts’s chief
legal counsel. “He wanted us to understand it.”  If the presumptive Republican nominee wins the presidency,
the approach he spelled out over lunch at the Seaport Boston
Hotel is the style he’d bring to the White House.  Some historians doubt it would work in Washington.  Since 1900, few former businessmen have made it to the Oval
Office. The most prominent was the nation’s 31st president,
Herbert Hoover, whose handling of the economy during the Great
Depression cemented his reputation as a failure.  “Our greatest presidents, like Lincoln and FDR, were
career politicians,” says Bruce Miroff, an expert on the
presidency at the State University of  New York  in  Albany .  Unfamiliar Constraints  The presidency’s unique requirements mean that everyone who
holds the office needs some on-the-job training, something
Romney has done before. Still, the White House would bring
unfamiliar constraints. There’s no equivalent in the corporate
world to the separation of powers that often thwarts a
president’s will. And the job demands political savvy more than
managerial excellence.  “Our entire system of government is meant to preclude
models and skills used in the corporate world, which may be why
presidents with business experience are not our most successful
presidents,” says Barbara Perry, a senior fellow at the
 University of Virginia ’s Miller Center.  Coming from a profit-centered environment where they enjoy
unrivaled authority, executives often stumble amid politics’
fungible goals and multiple power centers, says Mickey Edwards,
who served eight terms as a Republican congressman from
 Oklahoma . And compared with the iron logic of a balance sheet,
the politician’s ability to read the public mood -- an essential
skill for governing -- is amorphous.  Taking Abuse  “You have to like politics,” says former U.S.
Representative William Frenzel, 83, a Minnesota Republican, who
spent 20 years in Congress after a 16-year business career.
“You can’t object to glad-handing. You can’t object to taking
some abuse from people you have no reason to take abuse from.”  The late Richard Neustadt, author of the classic study
“Presidential Power and the Modern Presidents,” rejected the
analogy of the president as an all-powerful CEO, writing:
“Presidential power is the power to persuade.”  George W. Bush  was the first president with a master’s in
business administration. His father,  George H.W. Bush , made a
fortune in oil before entering politics. In their pre-Oval
Office days,  Jimmy Carter  ran a peanut farm and warehouse and
Hoover was a wealthy mining executive and financier.  Of that group, only George W. Bush was re-elected.  ‘Didn’t Inhale’  Now, at a time of broad dissatisfaction with the economy,
Romney, 65, is banking on his private-industry resume to appeal
to voters soured on government dysfunction. In a February ABC
News/ Washington  Post  poll , 48 percent said his business
experience was a major reason to support Romney compared with 12
percent citing it as a reason to oppose him.  On the campaign trail, Romney has played down his tenure as
governor while arguing that his track record as a corporate-
turnaround artist qualifies him to fix the nation’s economy. His
campaign estimates his fortune at as much as $250 million.  “I spent my life in the private sector, not in
government,” he said during a Sept. 22 debate. “I only spent
four years as a governor. I didn’t inhale. I’m a business guy.”  Romney’s first top executive post came in 1984 when his
boss, Bill Bain, asked him to leave his job as a Bain & Co.
 management consultant  to start up a private-equity spinoff,  Bain
Capital  LLC. There the traits that would become familiar to
Romney-watchers first emerged: an appetite for data, a rigorous
work ethic and an aversion to waste.  Keeping Focused  Those who worked with Romney describe him as a confident
executive, who surrounded himself with smart people and
encouraged them to debate their way to a solution in his
presence. Meetings began on time, usually with Romney -- a fan
of “Seinfeld” and “The Simpsons” -- cracking a joke.  Economist  Jonathan Gruber  of the  Massachusetts Institute of
Technology  advised the Romney administration for more than a
year as it developed its 2006 health-care overhaul. At one
meeting, while Romney’s advisers dwelled on the downsides of
various proposals, the governor kept the discussion focused on
health-care coverage as a problem that needed to be solved.  “As a Democrat, coming out of that meeting, I was like,
wow, this guy’s really got what it takes to be president,” says
Gruber.  Gruber now says he’s disappointed with what he calls
Romney’s “disingenuous” campaigning.  Unlike corporate chieftains, who are obligated to represent
a narrow interest, presidents must embody the entire society.
Romney’s experience running a privately held finance company did
little to cultivate mass market sensibilities, perhaps
explaining the frequent missteps that have left him with a
reputation for changing policy positions.  Competing Interests  “Business executives lead teams of like-minded individuals
and communicate the interests that they share, often in
opposition to, or at least in disregard of, others’ interests,”
Miroff wrote in a follow-up e-mail. Politicians “must appeal to
numerous interests, many of them composed of ordinary
Americans.”  In Salt Lake City, arriving after a bribery scandal cost
the 2002 Olympics their local leadership, Romney transformed a
potential disaster into a success that  Harvard Business School 
later turned into a  case study  of management acumen. Romney’s
approach, nonetheless, disappointed some community activists.
Glenn Bailey, then head of Impact 2002 and Beyond, a group that
wanted benefits from the games to be widely shared, says Romney
didn’t act on the fair housing and diversity issues the group
raised.  “He’s a corporate CEO,” says Bailey, now with the anti-
poverty group Crossroads Urban Center in Salt Lake City. “He
expects people to jump when he tells them to.”  Seeing Differences  Along with 25 years in finance, Romney spent four years as
governor and three running the Olympics. Those positions exposed
him to some of the differences between public and private power.  “President Obama can’t match  Mitt Romney ’s record and
experience,” says Andrea Saul, a campaign spokeswoman.  When Barack Obama was elected in 2008, he was in his first
U.S. Senate term and his experience was limited to academia and
work as a community organizer, drawing mockery from Republicans
such as then-Alaska Governor Sarah Palin.  Romney would confront needed adjustments in the White
House. Even his thirst for data could prove problematic, as
earlier presidents captivated by the quantifiable found.
President Lyndon Johnson relied on warped “body counts” as
indicators of phantom progress in the  Vietnam War , and flawed
intelligence on Iraqi weapons programs distorted internal White
House debates over the invasion of  Iraq .  “The calculations a president has to make are not
reducible to numbers,” says Miroff.  From presiding over a $23 billion state budget or the
Olympic Games’ $1.3 billion, Romney would oversee the federal
government’s almost $3.8 trillion in spending.  No Cell Phones  Lacking the line-item veto he wielded in the statehouse,
Romney would bring a reputation for frugality to the task of
shrinking the  budget deficit . Geoffrey Rehnert, who was among
the first executives hired at Bain Capital, remembers Romney’s
reluctance to authorize purchase of an early cellular telephone.  Rehnert, who was working pretty much nonstop in the firm’s
startup phase, wanted the cell phone so he could return client
calls while driving to appointments.  “Cell phones initially were expensive; Mitt thought it was
a waste,” Rehnert says, recalling that Romney wanted him to use
a pay phone instead.  Rehnert, now co-CEO of Boston private-equity firm Audax
Group, got his phone only after what he recalls as “a spirited
debate.”  Making Them Stretch  While former colleagues say Romney brought a comfortable-
with-command style to each of his top jobs, he did more than
bark orders. “He’s as good an executive as I’ve ever seen,”
says Tom Stemberg, founder of Staples Inc., the office supply
company Romney funded at Bain.  Stemberg, who later worked on Romney’s gubernatorial
transition team, recalled a Staples offsite board meeting in
Maastricht,  Netherlands , in the early 1990s, when the company’s
division heads took turns announcing modest earnings targets.  “It’s after dinner. People are getting tired. Some
directors are rolling their eyes,” Stemberg recalls. “Mitt was
wide awake and he started to give us a little spiel.”  Citing his experience with superlative management teams at
corporations such as  General Electric Co. (GE) , Romney told the
exhausted executives: You can decide to be mediocre or you can
decide to be a great company.  With that, the division chiefs, who moments earlier had
offered up easily reachable goals, began competing to promise
the loftiest earnings.  “He would get you to stretch,” Stemberg says.  CEO Model  Tim Murphy, who was secretary of health and human services
in Massachusetts from 2005 to 2007, says Romney’s “CEO model”
explained some initial statehouse stumbles, including an
ambitious plan to reorganize state government, which ultimately
ran aground.  By the time Romney tackled health care, he demonstrated a
more subtle style, Murphy says. Over a year and a half of
effort, the Republican governor -- working with Democratic
Senator Ted Kennedy -- managed to bring home a landmark law.  That 2006 success involved cooperating with the same
Democratic legislature that had blocked his earlier initiatives.  Says Murphy, “This is a guy who learns.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
David J. Lynch in Washington at 
 dlynch27@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at   jcummings21@bloomberg.net  