-- Rupiah Drops to Two-Year Low on Speculation Greece to Exit Euro
-- B y   Y u d i t h   H o
-- 2012-05-15T09:23:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-15/rupiah-drops-to-two-year-low-on-speculation-greece-to-exit-euro.html
Indonesia ’s rupiah weakened to a two-
year low and  government bonds  fell as concern over Greece’s
possible exit from the euro discouraged risk-taking.  The Southeast Asian nation raised 775 billion rupiah ($84
million) from a bond auction yesterday, short of its 6 trillion
rupiah target, according to the debt management office. Global
funds pared 3.83 trillion rupiah from their holdings of
 government securities  last week, finance ministry data show.
Greek President Karolos Papoulias will meet with party leaders
today in an attempt to form a unity government.  “Local-currency notes are still seeing selling pressure
and the rupiah is weakening mostly from the impact of rising
global risk, especially from problems in  Europe ,” said Mika Martumpal, an analyst at PT Bank CIMB Niaga in Jakarta.  The rupiah declined 0.8 percent to 9,309 per dollar, the
weakest level since May 2010, as of 4:13 p.m. in Jakarta,
according to prices from local banks compiled by Bloomberg. One-
month implied volatility, which measures exchange-rate swings
used to price options, held at 8 percent, the highest since
March 29.  Indonesia’s currency has a “relatively high” possibility
of reaching new two-year lows, Joey Cuyegkeng, an economist at
ING Groep NV in Manila, wrote in a report yesterday. “Investors
are concerned about the fiscal reform slippages that would
affect the longer-term prospects of the economy.”  The yield on the government’s 7 percent bonds due May 2022
rose nine basis points, or 0.09 percentage point, to 6.39
percent, the highest since Dec. 1, according to closing prices
from the Inter-Dealer Market Association.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yudith Ho in Jakarta at 
 yho35@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net . 