-- Samsung Wins Dismissal of Some Apple Patent Suit Counterclaims
-- B y   J o e l   R o s e n b l a t t
-- 2012-05-15T03:41:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-15/samsung-wins-dismissal-of-some-apple-patent-suit-counterclaims.html
Samsung Electronics Co. (005930)  won a court
order dismissing some counterclaims by Apple Inc. in a lawsuit
over alleged patent infringement of Apple’s smartphones and
tablet computers.  U.S. District Judge Lucy Koh in  San Jose ,  California ,
yesterday denied most of Samsung’s requests to dismiss Apple’s
counterclaims. She dismissed Apple’s so-called promissory
estoppel counterclaim on the grounds that issue is governed by
French law, which doesn’t allow such a claim.  Apple and Samsung are both members of the European
Telecommunications Standards Institute, a standards setting
 organization  based in  France .  Apple claimed it relied on Samsung’s commitments to license
patents under “fair, reasonable and non-discriminatory terms,”
and argued that Samsung deliberately failed to disclose its
intellectual property rights policy during the standard setting
process for its products operating on wireless networks.  Koh dismissed Apple’s counterclaim that it relied on
Samsung’s licensing commitments, even though Samsung might have
made those commitments without thorough consideration.  The judge also granted Samsung’s request to dismiss Apple’s
breach of contract counterclaim “to the extent that Apple
claims that it has an existing license” to some of Samsung’s
patents.  Galaxy Tab  In its lawsuit, Apple claims that Samsung’s 4G smartphone
and Galaxy Tab 10.1 tablet computer infringe its patents. In
December, Koh ruled against Apple’s request to block Suwon,
South Korea-based Samsung from selling that phone and tablet in
the U.S. That order followed an Australian court ruling lifting
an injunction on the tablet there.  Kristin Huguet, an Apple spokeswoman, referred to the
company’s previous comment on the case.  “It’s no coincidence that Samsung’s latest products look a
lot like the iPhone and iPad, from the shape of the hardware to
the user interface and even the packaging,” Apple said
in previous statements. “This kind of blatant copying is wrong,
and we need to protect Apple’s intellectual property when
companies steal our ideas.”  Samsung, which was the world’s largest seller of
smartphones last year, and Cupertino, California-based Apple
have filed at least 30 lawsuits against each other on four
continents since April 2011.  The case is  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  v. Samsung Electronics Co.,
11-01846, U.S. District Court, Northern District of California
(San Jose).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joel Rosenblatt in  San Francisco  at 
 jrosenblatt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  