-- SAP Considers External Candidates to Oversee Personnel
-- B y   C o r n e l i u s   R a h n
-- 2012-05-16T07:55:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-15/sap-considers-external-candidates-to-oversee-personnel.html
SAP AG (SAP) , the biggest maker of software
used to run enterprises, may hire an external candidate to
become the executive-board member in charge of personnel, after
leaving the position vacant since July.  “We felt that with the transformation that we have, the
right thing for us is to add external DNA into managing our
people agenda, so we may be looking externally,” co-Chief
Executive Officer Jim Hagemann Snabe said yesterday in an
interview at the Sapphire conference in Orlando,  Florida .  SAP is reviewing male and female candidates, and the final
decision is up to the supervisory board, Snabe said. The German
company, which competes with  Oracle Corp. (ORCL)  and  International
Business Machines Corp. (IBM) , aims to add more women as well as
representatives from  Asia  to its top management bodies, he said.  Chief Financial Officer Werner Brandt has overseen SAP’s
human-resources management on an interim basis since Angelika Dammann, the company’s first female board member, stepped down
in July after less than a year.  German Labor Minister Ursula von der Leyen has repeatedly
called for gender quotas in DAX companies’ management and
supervisory boards. She told Bild-Zeitung in April that they
remain behind medium-sized companies, who have increased the
share of women in leading positions to 30 percent.  ‘Frauen-Quote’  Deutsche Lufthansa AG (LHA)  this month appointed Simone Menne,
who has worked for the carrier since 1989, to succeed Stephan Gemkow, making her the sole female chief financial officer in
the DAX index of the 30 largest German companies.  SAP, based in Walldorf,  Germany , set up a global management
board last month, adding Danish-born Lars Dalgaard, the founder
of SuccessFactors, and Robert Enslin, a South African who runs
sales operations, to its top management to assist the executive
board.  “The diversity that we have on our board is a real asset
to us, and I would hope we can continue down that path,” Snabe
said.  SAP last year set a goal of increasing the proportion of
women in management to 25 percent by 2017 from 18 percent at the
time. The company this month named New Zealand-born Geraldine McBride to head its North American operations.  SAP slipped 0.2 percent to 48.05 euros at 9:49 a.m. in
 Frankfurt . The stock is up 18 percent this year, giving the
company a market value of 59 billion euros ($75 billion).  Snabe and co-CEO  Bill McDermott  are rolling out mobile
applications, Web-based software and rapid in-memory processing
software to help achieve a goal of raising annual revenue to 20
billion euros by 2015, from 14.2 billion euros ($18.1 billion)
last year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cornelius Rahn in Orlando at 
 crahn2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  