-- Saudi Fransi Said to Price $750 Million Debt at Lowest GCC Rate
-- B y   D a n a   E l   B a l t a j i   a n d   A l a a   S h a h i n e
-- 2012-05-15T13:04:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-15/saudi-fransi-said-to-price-750-million-debt-at-lowest-gcc-rate.html
Banque Saudi Fransi (BSFR) , partly owned by
 Credit Agricole SA (ACA) , is raising $750 million in Islamic bonds at
the lowest rate among Persian Gulf banks this year, four people
familiar with the matter said.  The Riyadh-based bank priced the five-year sukuk at 185
basis points, or 1.85 percentage points, over the benchmark
midswap rate, the people said, declining to be identified
because the information is private. That’s the lowest rate among
at least eight financial institutions that raised dollar-
denominated debt in the six-member Gulf Cooperation Council this
year, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Lower borrowing costs help Saudi banks raise long-term
funds to meet a surging demand for loans in the biggest Arab
economy. Bank lending in the kingdom, the world’s top oil
exporter, advanced at an annual rate of 12.6 percent in March,
the fastest pace in three years, central bank data show, as a
$500 billion government spending plan encourages private
businesses and consumers to borrow.  “The tight pricing in my view is based on the fact that
there is a big thirst by  emerging markets  credit investors for
hard-currency Saudi paper, given the lack of outstanding U.S.
credits in Saudi and the country’s robust economic drivers and
outlook,” said Gus Chehayeb, Dubai-based director of  Middle
East  and North Africa credit research at Exotix Ltd.  Saudi Arabia’s economy may expand 6 percent this year, the
second-highest pace in the GCC after Kuwait, according to
International Monetary Fund data.  The sale received about $4 billion in bids, the people
said.  Citigroup Inc. (C) ,  Credit Agricole  SA, Deutsche Bank AG
managed the sale, they said, with Credit Agricole also acting as
a global coordinator.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dana El Baltaji in Dubai at 
 delbaltaji@bloomberg.net ;
Alaa Shahine in Dubai at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  