-- Scalia Turns Advocate Against Obama as Queries Criticized
-- B y   G r e g   S t o h r
-- 2012-05-15T11:04:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-15/scalia-turns-advocate-against-obama-as-queries-criticized.html
In January, Supreme Court Justice
 Antonin Scalia  accused the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency
of “high-handedness.” He was just getting warmed up.  Over the next 3 1/2 months, Scalia asked whether federal
immigration policy was designed to “please  Mexico ,” fired off
12 questions and comments in 15 minutes at a government lawyer
in a case involving overtime pay, and dismissed part of
Solicitor General Donald Verrilli’s defense of President  Barack Obama ’s health-care law as “extraordinary.”  Scalia’s tone this year, particularly in cases involving
the Obama administration, is raising new criticism over the
temperament of a justice who has always relished the give-and-take of the Supreme Court’s public sessions. Some lawyers say
Scalia, a 1986 appointee of Republican President  Ronald Reagan ,
is crossing the line that separates tough scrutiny from
advocacy.  “His questions have been increasingly confrontational,”
said  Charles Fried , a Harvard Law School professor who served as
Reagan’s top Supreme Court advocate. While the justice has
always asked “pointed” questions, in the health-care case “he
came across much more like an advocate.”  Scalia’s approach is fueling the perception that the
biggest cases this term, including health care, may be
influenced by politics, rather than the legal principles that he
and other justices say should be their guide. A  Bloomberg News
poll  in March showed that 75 percent of Americans think the
court’s decision on the 2010 law will be based more on politics
than on constitutional merit.  Campaign Issue  “Someone who had just tuned into the health-care argument
might get the impression that the court is a much more partisan
institution than it actually is,” said  David Strauss , a
constitutional law professor at the  University of Chicago Law
School .  The week after the health-insurance argument, Obama showed
a willingness to make the court an issue in his re-election
campaign, saying a ruling striking down the law would be
“judicial activism” by “an unelected group of people.” The
court will probably rule by the end of June.  Scalia, 76, declined to comment for this story, said  Kathy Arberg , a Supreme Court spokeswoman.  The justice has never shied away from controversy. He once
wrote that a colleague’s reasoning in an abortion case “cannot
be taken seriously.” When the court expanded the rights of
prisoners at the U.S. naval base in Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, he
dissented by saying the ruling “will almost certainly cause
more Americans to be killed.”  ‘Nasty’ Question  In 2009, he told a college student she had posed a “nasty,
impolite question” when she asked whether book tours by the
justices undermined their case for banning camera coverage of
arguments. In 2006, he flicked his hand under his chin, using a
dismissive gesture he said was Sicilian, to show his disdain for
a reporter’s question.  In the courtroom, he is quick with one-liners, drawing
laughter more frequently than any other justice during the
court’s current nine-month term, according to DC Dicta, a blog
that tracks the court.  Of late, Scalia’s most pointed remarks have come at the
Obama administration’s expense.  In January, he directed his fire at Malcolm Stewart, a
Justice Department attorney. Stewart was defending the EPA’s use
of administrative compliance orders that demand an end to
alleged environmental violations, in many cases insisting that
recipients restore their land to its previous state.  ‘That’s Very Nice’  Scalia made his contempt clear after Stewart said that
people and companies could seek to change any “infeasible”
requirements.  “Well, that’s very nice,” the justice said. “That’s very
nice when you’ve received something called a compliance order,
which says you’re subject to penalties” of $32,500 per day.  When Stewart said the EPA had modified the order at issue,
dropping a requirement that an Idaho couple replant vegetation
on their property, Scalia scoffed again. “It shows the high-handedness of the agency, it seems to me, putting in there stuff
that is simply not required,” he said.  The court unanimously ruled against the EPA in March,
giving landowners more power to challenge compliance orders in
court.  Target: Verrilli  With health care, Scalia’s primary target was Verrilli, the
administration’s top  Supreme Court  lawyer. Defending the law’s
requirement that Americans get insurance or pay a penalty, the
solicitor general argued that uninsured people often receive
care, even if they can’t pay for it, because of the “social
norms to which we’ve obligated ourselves.”  “Well, don’t obligate yourself to that,” Scalia said.  Later, Scalia called one strand of the government’s defense
-- its contention that Congress could legally enact the law as a
tax -- “extraordinary.”  The following day, he mocked an assertion by another
Justice Department lawyer, Edwin Kneedler, as the court
considered what would happen to the rest of the law should a key
provision mandating that most Americans obtain insurance be
declared unconstitutional. Kneedler said the court should look
at “the structure and the text” of the 2,700-page statute.  “Mr. Kneedler, what happened to the Eighth Amendment?”
Scalia asked, referring to the provision of the U.S.
Constitution that bars cruel and unusual punishment. “You
really want us to go through these 2,700 pages?”  ‘Statute’s Gone’  At times during the health-care debate, Scalia took to
stating his position, rather than asking questions. He all but
declared that he would vote to invalidate the whole law, not
just the insurance mandate. “My approach would say if you take
the heart out of the statute, the statute’s gone,” he said.  In a Labor Department case that concerns claims for
overtime pay by drug-industry salespeople, lawyer Stewart urged
the court to side with the employees and defer to the
department’s interpretation of a federal wage-and-hour law.  Scalia, who directed a  dozen  questions and comments at
Stewart, criticized the department for laying out that position
in court filings, known as amicus briefs, rather than through
formal rulemaking.  “This is part of a regular program that the agency has now
instituted, to run around the country and file amicus briefs --
is that it?” Scalia asked -- again calling the approach
“extraordinary.”  ‘Please Mexico?’  Scalia described as “extraordinary” yet another
administration position, this time when Verrilli urged the court
to strike down  Arizona ’s illegal-immigration law. Scalia
bristled when the solicitor general said “we have to have the
cooperation of the Mexicans,” something Verrilli said the
federal government could best secure without state interference.  “So we have to enforce our laws in a manner that will
please Mexico?” Scalia said. “Is that what you’re saying?”  Not everyone thinks that Scalia has gone too far.  Ilya Shapiro , an opponent of the health-care law who attends eight
to 10 arguments each term, says he sees no change in Scalia’s
approach.  “He’s sarcastic, and he goes right to the heart of the
weakness of the advocate who’s in front of him,” said Shapiro,
a senior fellow at Washington-based  Cato Institute , which
advocates for limited government.  On health care, Scalia was simply trying to “express his
exasperation with the government’s assertion of power,” he
said.  Troubling Pattern  To other Supreme Court lawyers, Scalia’s questions show a
troubling pattern. Rather than merely probing legal arguments,
he has served as a “partisan cheerleader,” said  Doug Kendall ,
president of the Constitutional Accountability Center in
 Washington , which supports the administration on health care and
immigration.  “It’s disturbing to see a justice use oral argument as a
platform for expressing the talking points that you hear each
night on  Fox News ,” Kendall said. “I can’t think of a serious
question that he posed in either argument suggesting that he was
open to have his mind changed.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Stohr in Washington at 
 gstohr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  