-- Scene in D.C.: Dodd, George Stevens, Jim Kimsey, Missoni
-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   G r e e n
-- 2012-05-15T14:41:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-15/scene-in-d-c-dodd-george-stevens-jim-kimsey-missoni.html
“The friends who come to the book
party are really your friends,” said George Stevens Jr. last
night, referring to a crowd that included former Defense
Secretary  William Cohen , AOL co-founder Jim Kimsey, King and
Spalding LLP’s Lloyd Hand and  Motion Picture Association of
America  Chairman and Chief Executive  Chris Dodd .  They were on hand at the MPAA’s headquarters to toast
Stevens on his book “Conversations at the American Film
Institute with the Great Moviemakers: The Next Generation from
the 1950s to Hollywood Today.” Stevens founded the AFI.  MSNBC ’s Chris Matthews talked with Eleanor Clift of “The
McLaughlin Group” about “A Place in the Sun,” which starred
Montgomery Clift, a relative of her first husband. The film
was directed by Stevens’s father, also George Stevens.  Dodd touted the progress of the U.S. film industry. He said
box office is up 17% from last year, thanks in part to highly
popular films such as “The Hunger Games.”  He also alluded to the industry’s success overseas due to
the release in  China  of a 3D version of “Titanic.”  Stevens teased Dodd about the hard life he leads
representing the movie business, which involves attending events
like the glamorous Cannes film festival next week.  “There’s a good chance Dodd-Frank won’t come up while I am
there”, Dodd joked back, referring to the Dodd-Frank Wall
Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, which he spearheaded
when he was a U.S. senator from  Connecticut .  Missoni Talk  Luca Missoni, who runs his family’s fashion label with his
two siblings and serves as the historian and curator for Missoni
SpA, divides his time between  Italy  and  New York .  This week he made his first trip to  Washington  in 25 years
to attend a small dinner party for journalists and industry
insiders last night at the restaurant Fiola.  The meal was a warmup for a talk Missoni will give today at
the Washington Design Center as part of its Capital Design
Lecture Series sponsored by Luxe Interiors + Design magazine.  Jennifer Sergent, the marketing director for the Washington
Design Center, said the Missoni brand is a good example of major
fashion houses venturing into home design and lower-market
labels, like the one Missoni did for Target.  Sales of Missoni products are up 40 percent from last year,
according to Isabelle L’Huillier, a sales director for Stark
Carpet, Fabric, Furniture, Wallcovering.  ( Stephanie Green  is a writer and photographer for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. Any opinions
expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer on this story:
Stephanie Green in Washington at  sgreen57@bloomberg.net  or on
Twitter @stephlgreen.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 