-- Robin Hood Scene: Blankfein, Soros, Neil Young, Rihanna
-- B y   A m a n d a   G o r d o n
-- 2012-05-15T05:46:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-15/scene-last-night-blankfein-soros-neil-young-rihanna.html
The Robin Hood Foundation put  George Soros ,  Steve Cohen ,  Lloyd Blankfein , Stanley Tucci and about
3,800 other guests on a virtual train ride last night at its
annual gala.  The subway-themed event at  Manhattan ’s sprawling Javits
Center featured gigantic projection screens showing New Yorkers
going through the turnstiles and waiting on benches for trains.  The price of admission was $3,000. The total raised last
night was $57.4 million, including $13 million pledged on
electronic devices to Robin Hood and $19 million pledged on the
same devices to a new initiative with the  X Prize Foundation ,
which will offer prizes to find solutions to poverty in  New York 
City and beyond.  “We chose the subway as our theme because the subway
connects  New York City  and Robin Hood connects New York City,”
said the foundation’s executive director, David Saltzman. “It’s
a good way to demonstrate the work we do in different
neighborhoods.”  “I rode the New Lots Avenue subway as a kid,” said
Blankfein, chairman and chief executive of  Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. (GS)  The event badge he wore looked like the MetroCard used to
enter the  subway system .  R Train  Bill Ackman , founder and chief executive of Pershing Square
Capital Management, said he took the R train to the gala.  The event, one of the largest single fundraisers in the
U.S., raised $47.4 million last year with a big donation from
Soros, and $87.8 million in 2010.  Last year the foundation gave $146 million to more than 200
nonprofits providing job training, shelter, meals, education and
health care in New York’s five boroughs.  The subway experience was just one device Robin Hood’s in-
house event-planning staff used last night to explain why guests
were there and who they were helping.  Photographs of clients of the  Children’s Health Fund ,  Women
in Need  and other Robin Hood grantees were shot for the gala by
commercial photographer Jason Knott.  These visuals competed with a parade of business and media
stars who came up to the stage during dinner, among them Howard Schultz, chairman and chief executive of  Starbucks Corp. (SBUX)  and a
gala chairman, Robin Hood board chairman  Lee Ainslie , who runs
Maverick Capital Management LP, and NBC late-night comedians
Jimmy Fallon and Seth Meyers.  Governor, Admiral  Among those at some 400 tables,  Paul Tudor Jones , founder
of Tudor Investment Corp., sat with Soros. Jones started Robin
Hood in his bachelor pad over Chinese take-out 24 years ago.  Cohen, of SAC Capital Advisors LP, sat with New Jersey
Governor  Chris Christie , retired U.S. Navy admiral  Michael
Mullen  and art adviser Sandy Heller. Cohen, the father of a
Brown University graduate who became a Marine, is co-head of the
foundation’s Veterans Advisory Council.  Neil Young , a surprise performer, came on just as guests
dug into grilled cheese and gazpacho. His first song was “Heart
of Gold.” After chocolate cake and coffee, Rihanna kicked off
with “Only Girl” and kept the crowd bobbing along with “Run
This Town” and “Live Your Life.”  Robin Hood serves New York City residents living below the
poverty line ($22,314 annually for a family of four in 2010).
They number 1.8 million according to Robin Hood, representing
one in five  New Yorkers . The Census Bureau counted their total
number in the U.S. at 46.2 million.  It’s the third-largest donor in the U.S. among community
foundations, and No. 30 among all U.S. foundations, based on
 Foundation Center  data.  Doing the Math  Grantees are evaluated on the basis of how much their
programs increase the income of people served. Drawing on
available research and recipient data, Robin Hood develops
mathematical equations to determine the amount of each grant’s
income lift.  “We look at dissimilar assets and compare their value,”
Saltzman said. “It’s what Bloomberg users do every day.”  Some of the factors Robin Hood considers are what income
the person would have been able to earn without the help of the
nonprofit, and how the nonprofit would fare without Robin Hood’s
support.  For example, a job-training program with a high placement
rate for people who would probably have found jobs on their own
has lower priority than an organization lifting people who would
otherwise have had less opportunity.  On the basis of these measures, Robin Hood says that every
$1.15 it grants results in $16 in future revenue for a poor New
Yorker.  Robin Hood board members pay for the cost of the gala, so
that guests’ money goes directly to grantees. In 2010, the event
costs exceeded $8 million according to the organization’s tax
return in that year, the most recent available.  The gala is one of the dozens of events the organization
plans for its supporters. There are also rock concerts and a
“Robin Hood Unplugged” series in which program officers use
flip charts to give presentations about grantees.  ( Amanda Gordon  is a writer and photographer for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. Any opinions
expressed are her own.)  Muse highlights include  Jeremy Gerard  on theater and  James
Pressley  on business books.  To contact the writer on this story:
Amanda Gordon at  agordon01@bloomberg.net  or on
Twitter @amandagordon.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 