-- Schaeuble Says Greek Program Unnegotiable, Help Possible
-- B y   R a i n e r   B u e r g i n
-- 2012-05-15T14:47:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-15/schaeuble-says-greek-program-unnegotiable-help-possible.html
German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  said the adjustment program set up to stabilize
Greece’s debt isn’t debatable and is not being negotiated though
bilateral measures can be taken to help the country.  Euro-region finance ministers meeting in Brussels yesterday
didn’t discuss whether the program’s “architecture” can be
changed, Schaeuble told reporters after European Union finance
ministers met today.  “The fundamental question the second program for Greece is
about -- namely to spare Greece’s financial system, as a part of
the common European monetary union, access to financial markets
for some time and at the same time help it to return to
financial markets at some point in time on the basis of
sustainable growth -- is agreed and not negotiable in its
economic parts, and isn’t being negotiated,” he said. “If we
can help with additional, bilateral measures, that’s an entirely
different question.”  Greece will hold new elections after President Karolos Papoulias failed to broker creation of a government following an
inconclusive May 6 vote, Pasok leader  Evangelos Venizelos  said
today. The impasse has reignited concern the country will renege
on pledges to cut spending as required by the terms of its two
bailouts negotiated since May 2010 and, ultimately, leave the
euro area.  Difficult Situation  The  political deadlock makes Greece’s economic situation
“difficult,” Schaeuble said. Greece’s EU partners can only
await the outcome of the political process, he said.  “The people in Greece must know, and those carrying
responsibility must say it, that what’s been agreed and set in
motion for Greece was an extraordinary effort by all Europeans
and the international community,” Schaeuble said. “All those
involved are ready and determined to do everything possible to
implement this. But for that we need, of course, a government in
 Greece  that can act and we need the support in Greece’s
parliament.”  Most Greeks want the government to stick to its current
financial-aid plan and 81 percent want to keep the euro, an
opinion poll indicated. The survey was conducted on May 10-11
and no margin of error was given.  “If Greece, and this is the will of the great majority,
wants to stay in the euro, then they have to accept the
conditions,” Schaeuble told reporters before leaving Brussels.
“Otherwise it isn’t possible. No responsible candidate can hide
that from the electorate.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rainer Buergin in Brussels at 
 rbuergin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  