-- LSE User Queries Said to Raise Concern About Release Fees
-- B y   N a n d i n i   S u k u m a r
-- 2012-05-16T15:58:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-15/lse-user-queries-said-raising-concern-about-release-fees.html
London Stock Exchange Group Plc (LSE)  is
conducting a study on how it distributes company statements,
fueling speculation banks and brokers will have to pay to
receive the information.  As part of a  consultation  on the workings of its Regulatory
News Service, LSE has asked to be provided with users’ details,
sparking concern it will start charging them because it’s
unlikely to need the data for any other purpose, according to
two people familiar with the matter who declined to be
identified because it is private.  The RNS carries nearly 175,000 statements each year via
data vendors such as  Thomson Reuters  Corp. and Bloomberg LP, the
parent of Bloomberg News. LSE  says  it features more than 70
percent of price-sensitive U.K. announcements. Companies and
public-relations agencies already pay to publish releases and
the exchange risks upsetting its customers if it introduces
charges to receive timely news as well, according to Simmy Grewal, a market structure analyst at Aite Group LLC in  London .  “RNS is information everyone needs to be part of the
market,” Grewal said. “There will be a backlash if they try to
introduce a per-user fee.”  Lucie Holloway, a spokeswoman for LSE, declined to comment
on whether the London-based exchange plans to introduce charges
to receive real-time RNS statements.  Customer Consultation  “LSE announced details of a  customer consultation process 
in respect of its Regulatory News Service, RNS, on Feb. 10
2012,” she said in an e-mail. “The consultation covers a full
analysis of user information and user access and is expected to
conclude in the summer.”  Publicly listed companies in the U.K. must disseminate
statements through one of  seven  approved Regulated Information
Services, or RISs, to ensure that investors receive market-
moving news at the same instant.  The RNS had a monopoly for regulatory statements until
2002, when the U.K.’s Financial Services Authority introduced
competition. At that point, LSE started to charge companies to
publish announcements, having previously provided the service
for free. The FSA “doesn’t look at the commercial agreements
between the primary information providers and those who
distribute the announcements,” said  Chris Hamilton , a spokesman
for the regulator.  Glaxo Slide  Traders rely on the RNS for news that moves the price of
securities. GlaxoSmithKline Plc, the U.K.’s largest drugmaker,
tumbled the most in three months on April 25 after an RNS
statement at 12 p.m. London time showed the company’s first-
quarter profit and sales missed analyst estimates. The shares
sank from 1,444 pence in the moments before the release to 1,425
pence one minute later.  Essar Energy Plc surged 5.3 percent on March 30 after an
RNS release said the company’s Essar Oil unit made
“significant” progress with lenders toward exiting a loan
agreement. BP Plc shares pared their losses on April 18 when
 Europe ’s second-largest oil company used the RNS to tell
investors it reached agreement with plaintiffs to resolve
private claims related to the Deepwater Horizon oil spill.  LSE is seeking to expand sales sources from traditional
equities trading after new market entrants took about 50 percent
of volume in its biggest stocks. The exchange lags behind
Deutsche Boerse AG, NYSE Euronext, CME Group Inc. and
IntercontinentalExchange Inc. in the more lucrative business of
derivatives transactions and is buying LCH.Clearnet Group Ltd.
to expand in the post-trade business.  Monopoly Pricing  “It’s completely understandable why LSE want to do it,”
said Andrew Bowley, managing director for electronic trading
product management at Nomura Holdings Inc. in London. “There
may be resistance depending on the pricing. If there’s monopoly
pricing, there will be outrage.”  LSE made 89 million pounds ($143 million) from its
Information Services business in the fiscal first-half, 27
percent of total revenue. The company, which is due to release
annual results on May 18, doesn’t disclose specific sales from
the RNS, Holloway said.  LSE shares declined 0.8 percent to 989.5 pence at the close
of trading in London today.  Data vendors pay a fee for each RIS, and bundle the feed
for customers, who are prepared to pay a premium for real-time
corporate disclosure as they make investment and trading
decisions. LSE currently charges data providers 20,000 pounds a
year for the RNS, according to its pricing and policy
 guidelines .  ASX Charges  Other exchanges already charge users for receiving company
releases, including  ASX Ltd. (ASX) , operator of  Australia ’s main
bourse, which makes users  pay  for its ComNews service.  The seven RISs are: the RNS;  Business Wire ; PR Newswire;
ONE, owned by Thomson Reuters; News Releases Express, provided
by Marketwire; marCo; and DGAP IR, owned by EquityStory AG. Some
websites such Hemscott distribute corporate disclosures from the
RIS’s free of charge, with a delay.  Under Xavier Rolet, who became LSE’s chief executive
officer in 2009 after a career in  investment banking , Europe’s
oldest independent bourse has forged a strategy of entering
partnerships with the biggest banks, seeking to work with the
customers who set up alternative trading systems that drove
stock trading fees down and grabbed market share.  TMX Takeover  LSE was forced to scrap a planned takeover of  Canada ’s TMX
Group Inc., equity trading market share hasn’t returned and the
company’s fledgling derivatives business hasn’t thrived.  On Jan. 27, LSE said fiscal third-quarter sales rose 6.8
percent to 160.8 million pounds as gains in information and
technology services outweighed a drop in  capital-markets 
revenue. Information-services revenue increased 24 percent to
52.8 million pounds while sales from capital markets fell 3.6
percent to 68.9 million pounds.  “Stock exchanges need additional income as trading
turnover declines,” said Trung-Tin Nguyen, a hedge-fund manager
at TTN AG in Zurich. “In a way it’s understandable, even though
it’s for regulatory, compulsory disclosures. Still, it’s cheeky
if you can’t get around it.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nandini Sukumar in London at 
 nsukumar@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  