-- SEC Trade Halts, Best Buy Departure, Compliance
-- B y   C a r l a   M a i n
-- 2012-05-15T12:31:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-15/sec-trade-halts-best-buy-departure-compliance.html
The U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission halted trading in 379 shell companies over concern
that fraudsters could hijack stocks to steal investor money.  The trading suspensions, the most by the SEC in a single
day, stem from the work of an agency task force that identified
clearly dormant microcap stocks in 32 states and at least six
countries, the SEC said yesterday in a statement.  Microcap shares have long been used for frauds such as
pump-and-dump schemes.  Regulators sharpened their focus on shell companies about
two years ago amid complaints that issuers, many from China,
were using them to enter U.S. markets through so-called reverse
mergers. In a reverse merger, closely held firms buy shells that
let them sell shares on exchanges without the scrutiny that
would surround a public offering.  Several reverse-merger companies have seen their share
prices plummet amid allegations that their financial statements
were inaccurate.  Compliance Policy  Bank Bonus Curbs Endorsed by EU Lawmakers in Vote on Basel Rules  Banks may face tougher bonus curbs including a ban on
awards stemming from carry-trade profits on cheap European
Central Bank loans under proposed changes to a law on Basel
capital rules endorsed by European Union lawmakers.  Lenders should also be forbidden from giving staff bonus
awards that exceed fixed salaries, in the proposals approved by
members of the  European Parliament ’s economic and monetary
affairs committee in Brussels yesterday. The amendments will be
part of the EU assembly’s negotiation position in talks with
governments on the legislation.  Separately, European Union finance ministers reached a
political agreement to boost the amount of core capital and
liquid assets that banks must hold, after resolving U.K.
concerns that the move may hamper its implementation of even
tougher rules.  U.K. Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  said he won
assurances from other nations that the U.K. wouldn’t be impeded
in enacting its separate rules that will force some lenders to
hold core capital equivalent to 10 percent of their assets,
weighted for risk.  Governments and lawmakers in the 27-nation EU face a
January deadline to implement the bank rules, which were agreed
on by the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision in the wake of
the 2008 collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. The measures,
known as Basel III, would more than triple the core capital that
banks need to hold to 7 percent of their risk-weighted assets.
Basel agreements must be implemented into nations’ laws before
they can come into effect.  Today’s deal will allow Denmark, which holds the rotating
presidency of the EU, to begin negotiations on the draft law
with lawmakers in the European Parliament.  Parliament, which approved its negotiation position on the
law yesterday, is seeking to expand the scope of the rules to
include limits on banker bonuses and a requirement for banks to
draw up plans showing how they could be safely wound down if
they failed.  Parliament’s additions to the text mean that “there’s
still quite a long way ahead to go” before work on the
legislation is finished, Osborne said. The U.K. is opposed to
some of the changes made by the assembly, he said.  The first round of talks between Denmark and members of the
assembly is scheduled for May 23.  For more, click here.  Special Section: JPMorgan  JPMorgan Says Ina Drew to Retire, Replaced by Zames as CIO  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  said Chief Investment Officer Ina Drew
will retire after the firm suffered a $2 billion trading loss,
marking the downfall of one of the highest-ranking women on Wall
Street.  Matt Zames, the 41-year-old co-head of global fixed income
in the investment bank, will succeed Drew, New York-based
JPMorgan said yesterday in a statement. The entire London staff
of the bank’s chief investment office, which employs a few dozen
people and where the loss occurred, is at risk of dismissal, a
person familiar with the situation said.  Chief Executive Officer  Jamie Dimon , 56, announced the loss
May 10, assailing his firm’s handling of trading in synthetic
credit positions as “flawed, complex, poorly reviewed, poorly
executed and poorly monitored.” JPMorgan is examining whether
anyone in the unit, which employs a few dozen people in London,
sought to hide risks, though there isn’t yet evidence that’s the
case, the person said.  Drew, 55, was one of two women on the operating committee
at JPMorgan, the biggest and most profitable U.S. bank. Her
office oversees about $360 billion, the difference between money
from deposits and what the bank lends. Drew was named chief
investment officer in 2005, reporting directly to Dimon.  Drew declined to be interviewed for this article  For more, click here.  JPMorgan’s Cavanagh Enlists Rauchenberger to Aid Loss Response  JPMorgan Chase & Co. executive Mike Cavanagh, appointed to
oversee the firm’s response to a $2 billion trading loss,
enlisted Lou Rauchenberger to help coordinate the project.  Cavanagh, the chief executive officer of the bank’s
treasury and securities services group, wrote in a memo to
employees yesterday that Rauchenberger will be the “point
person” organizing the meetings, structure and follow up.  Rauchenberger works in that division and is on the firm’s
executive committee, according to the New York-based bank’s
website.  Senate Banking Committee Plans Hearings on Trading Loss  The U.S.  Senate Banking Committee  will hold hearings over
the next few weeks that are expected to include discussions of
the $2 billion trading loss by JPMorgan. The hearings will
include proposals to overhaul money market funds and address the
economic situation in Europe, Committee Chairman Tim Johnson, a
Democrat from South Dakota, said in e-mailed statement.  The committee will call witnesses from the U.S. Securities
and Exchange Commission, the Commodities Futures Trading
Commission, the  Federal Reserve , the  Federal Deposit Insurance
Corporation , the Consumer Finance Protection Bureau, the Office
of the Currency Comptroller, and the Treasury Department on
enhanced bank supervision.  For more, click here.  Separately, the disclosure of the trading loss will mean
more pressure from regulators and lawmakers on large U.S. banks,
BNA said. The increased attention will boost the likelihood of
tighter rules to implement new restrictions on proprietary
trading. At the same time, it raises the odds for legislation to
separate commercial and investment banking.  For more, click here.  JPMorgan Fallout Could Hurt Liquidity, Rosiak Says  Jason Rosiak, head of portfolio management at Pacific Asset
Management, talked about the implications of JPMorgan Chase &
Co.’s $2 billion trading loss on credit markets.  Rosiak, who talked with  Erik Schatzker  and  Stephanie Ruhle 
on Bloomberg Television’s “InBusiness,” also discussed
investment strategy.  For the video, click here.  Moody’s Said to Delay Bank Downgrades Amid Crisis, JPMorgan  Moody’s Investors Service is delaying ratings downgrades on
more than 100 banks as it assesses the effect of JPMorgan Chase
& Co.’s trading losses and a greater possibility of a euro
breakup, a Moody’s official said.  The Moody’s official declined to be identified as he wasn’t
authorized to comment publicly. Moody’s  said on April 13  that it
would begin downgrading banks, including  BNP Paribas SA (BNP) ,
France’s biggest lender, Germany’s Deutsche Bank AG and New
York-based JPMorgan and  Morgan Stanley (MS) , by early May.  Yesterday, Moody’s spokeswoman Kirsten Knight said the
firm’s schedule for “concluding bank rating reviews” hadn’t
changed. “Moody’s expects to conclude the reviews by the end of
June,” she said in an e-mailed statement. Moody’s declined to
elaborate beyond the statement or comment on when the first
downgrade would occur.  For more, click here.  Levitt Says Derivatives ‘Wonderful’ for Risk Balance  Arthur Levitt , former chairman of the U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission and senior adviser to  Goldman Sachs (GS) , said
derivatives are “very positive for our markets and have gotten
a black eye” after a $2 billion loss by JPMorgan Chase.  Levitt
talked with Bloomberg’s Ken Prewitt and Tom Keene on Bloomberg
Radio’s “Bloomberg Surveillance.”  For the audio, click here.  Dimon Says Regulators Should Look at JPMorgan’s Loss  Jamie Dimon, chief executive officer of JPMorgan Chase &
Co., talked about the company’s $2 billion trading loss and
financial industry regulation. Dimon said he was “dead wrong”
in initially dismissing news reports scrutinizing trades that
led to the loss.  He spoke with David Gregory on NBC’s “Meet the Press.”  For the video, click here, and for more, click here.  Compliance Action  Google EU Probe Delayed by ‘New Elements,’ Almunia Says  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s antitrust probe by European Union regulators
has been delayed by “new elements,” EU Competition
Commissioner  Joaquin Almunia  said yesterday.  Almunia hasn’t received a preliminary report from officials
working on the probe because they had to examine the extra
information, he told Bloomberg Television in an interview,
without elaborating. The EU antitrust chief said he plans to
make a decision on the future of the case soon.  Online travel companies  Expedia Inc. (EXPE)  and  TripAdvisor Inc. (TRIP) 
were among companies in four sets of allegations over Google’s
anti-competitive behavior sent to EU regulators in March and
April, Google said in a regulatory filing last month. Google,
based in Mountain View, California, is under growing pressure
from global regulators probing whether the company is thwarting
competition in the market for Web searches.  Google’s “size and success rightly generate scrutiny,
which is why we’ve worked hard to explain how our business
works, cooperating with the European Commission since this
investigation began,” said Al Verney, a Brussels-based
spokesman for the company. “Because there’s always room for
improvement, we’re happy to discuss any concerns the commission
might have.”  Habib Bank Fined $844,000 Over Money-Laundering Control Failures  Habib Bank AG Zurich was fined 525,000 pounds ($844,000) by
the U.K. financial watchdog for failing to put in place
effective money-laundering controls.  The  Financial Services Authority  also fined a former bank
official 17,500 pounds for failing “to take reasonable care to
establish and maintain” systems to prevent money laundering,
the agency said in an e-mailed statement. The problems at the
bank lasted from 2007 to 2010, the FSA said.  The FSA is leading a crackdown on companies that have
insufficient systems and controls to manage risk.  Both Habib Bank and the former official agreed to settle
with the FSA at an early stage and qualified for a 30 percent
discount. Anjum Iqbal, chief executive officer of the bank in
the U.K., couldn’t be immediately reached for comment.  Courts  SEC Sues China Natural Gas Chairman for Secret Loans to Son  The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission sued a China-
based natural gas company over claims its chairman secretly used
the firm’s money to make $14 million in loans to benefit his
son’s real-estate business.  Qinan Ji, the former chief executive and current chairman
of  China Natural Gas Inc. (CHNG) , arranged the two short-term loans,
one through a sham borrower, in January 2010, the SEC said in a
lawsuit filed yesterday at U.S. District Court in Manhattan. Ji
lied about the loans to the company’s board, investors and
auditors, as well as during an internal investigation into the
matter, the SEC said.  China-based companies listed on U.S. exchanges have faced
increased scrutiny over the past two years after regulators
became concerned that certain firms may not be providing
accurate financial statements to investors.  The SEC is seeking unspecified financial penalties and to
bar Ji from acting as an officer or director of a public
company, according to the complaint.  Ji, a resident of Shaanxi Province, China, could not be
immediately located. A call to a telephone number listed on
China Natural Gas’s website wasn’t answered.  For more, see story about shell companies in top section.  Comings and Goings  Best Buy Chairman Steps Down for Not Raising Dunn’s Conduct  Best Buy Co. (BBY)  founder Richard Schulze will step down as
chairman after a probe found he failed to tell the board about
allegations that then-Chief Executive Officer Brian Dunn was
having an inappropriate relationship with a female employee.  The internal probe found Dunn acted inappropriately, such
as sending multiple e-mails and text messages to the woman,
lending her money and giving her free tickets to concerts and
sporting events, Richfield, Minnesota-based Best Buy said
yesterday in a statement. Schulze will be replaced by director
Hatim Tyabji after the annual meeting on June 21.  Schulze’s resignation marks a complete change at the top of
Best Buy, which has struggled to compete against rivals such as
 Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN)  and  Apple Inc. (AAPL)   Director G. Mike Mikan is serving as Best Buy’s CEO while
the board seeks a permanent replacement. The company has said
that search may take as long as nine months.  For more, click here.  Senator Presses SEC Over Decision to Put Investigator on Leave  U.S. Senator Charles Grassley is pressing the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission to explain how the agency
decided to place the chief investigator in its inspector
general’s office on leave over concerns he posed a threat to
other employees.  In three letters sent yesterday, including one to SEC
Chairman Mary Schapiro, Grassley, of Iowa, asked for a copy of
the “security threat evaluation” that was used to exclude the
investigator, David Weber, from the SEC’s offices. Grassley, the
senior Republican on the Senate Judiciary Committee, also
requested details on any complaints that were filed about Weber.  Weber was suspended last week after some of his co-workers
said they were bothered by his suggestion that he and other
employees in the watchdog office seek authorization to carry
guns as part of their jobs. The concerns were raised after Weber
reported allegations about the conduct of former Inspector
General H. David Kotz to an outside group for review.  SEC spokesman John Nester declined to comment as did
Weber’s attorney, Christopher Mead.  Bafin Wants More Germans at European Regulators, FTD Reports  Germany’s financial regulator Bafin wants to boost the
number of Germans serving at European regulatory agencies,
Financial Times Deutschland reported, citing an interview with
Bafin chief Elke Koenig.  Bafin will try to place more of its own people at the
international regulatory authorities including the European
Banking Authority and the European Securities and Markets
Authority, the newspaper cited Koenig as saying in a preview of
an article for today’s edition.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carla Main in  New Jersey  at 
 cmain2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this report:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 