-- Slovenia Seeks to Lower Borrowing Costs After Adopting Savings
-- B y   B o r i s   C e r n i
-- 2012-05-15T14:22:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-15/slovenia-seeks-to-lower-borrowing-costs-after-adopting-savings.html
Slovenia is pushing to implement
austerity measures to lower its borrowing costs, ease access to
funding from abroad and spur economic growth, the chief of the
government’s forecasting institute said.  The export driven  economy  is at risk of undergoing a deeper
contraction than previously estimated as the European economy
teeters on the brink of recession and another vote in  Greece 
adds to uncertainty on the financial markets,  Bostjan Vasle ,
director of the government’s forecasting institute said in an
interview in Portoroz, Slovenia today.  “Access to funding for our banks, the government and
companies as well is quite limited,” Vasle said. “The main
focus should be to consolidate public finances, which will in
turn enable greater access to funding sources and that in turn
will boost economic growth.”  Lawmakers on May 11 adopted savings measures proposed by
the government as Slovenia seeks to implement the so-called
fiscal compact inspired by  Germany . Slovenia’s second recession
in three years will probably complicate the government’s efforts
to cut the budget gap to below 3 percent of total output by
cutting public sector wages, benefits and other spending.  Slovenia’s borrowing costs started to rise about a year
ago, when voters rejected the pension changes that would have
extended the  retirement age  and eased pressure on public
spending.  Yields Surge  Yields on the benchmark 2021 notes surged past the 7
percent mark in November when the European debt crisis
threatened Italy and  Spain . The yield was at 5.279 percent at
4:20 p.m. in Ljubljana, according to mid-pricing data compiled
by Bloomberg.  The worsening debt crisis in  Europe  and the shrinking
Slovenian economy are affecting business at the country’s banks,
which should reduce dependence on funding from the  European
Central Bank , the Slovenian central bank said yesterday.  “The turmoil on the financial markets is affecting not
only those countries that have great difficulties, but also
Slovenia, since we are a part of these larger processes and our
yields are relatively high,” Vasle said in the interview.  Slovenia, the first post-communist country to adopt the
euro in 2007, is still better off within the euro region,
according to Vasle.  “We have to be aware that Slovenia gained a lot by joining
the single currency since we have achieved some macroeconomic
balance with it,” Vasle said. “If we weigh all the advantages
and disadvantages, I believe Slovenia is still benefiting from
the euro.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Boris Cerni in Ljubljana at 
 bcerni@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  