-- Small Wind Farms to Grow as U.S. Tax Incentives Expand
-- B y   J u s t i n   D o o m
-- 2012-05-16T11:00:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-15/small-u-s-wind-farms-to-grow-as-tax-incentives-expand.html
Installations of wind farms with less
than 20 megawatts of capacity may rise to a record this year if
lawmakers expand a federal tax credit.  At least 44 wind farms were built last year to serve
individual U.S. communities, often with financial support from
local residents. They made up 6.7 percent of the total capacity
installed, up from 5.6 percent in 2010 and the most to date,
according to data compiled by the  American Wind Energy
Association .  “The wind industry is probably going to install more
capacity this year than it ever has,” Jacob Susman, chief
executive officer of  OwnEnergy Inc. , a New York-based developer
of community wind farms, said in an interview yesterday. “And
community wind is the fastest-growing segment within wind.”  Community wind farms  generally have no more than 20
megawatts of capacity. Local residents often are involved in the
development and are typically offered the opportunity to invest
in the projects, according to AWEA. Projects as large as 100
megawatts may also be considered community wind farms if local
residents own at least 33 percent.  Backers tend to be focused on creating a local energy
source and may be less concerned about financial returns than
developers of larger wind farms, said Marguerite Wells, project
manager of  Black Oak Wind Farm , a 20-megawatt project under
construction in upstate New York.  “Being given the opportunity to participate gives people a
different feeling about the projects,” said Wells, who lives
near the Black Oak site in western Tompkins County and is also
involved in green-roofing projects. “My whole background is in
sustainability-related efforts, so I was thinking that if this
wind farm is going to go in my town, I’ve got to be involved.”  Proposed Tax Incentive  The  U.S. Senate  is considering  The Community Wind Act ,
which was introduced in October and offers an investment tax
credit to developers of wind farms as large as 20 megawatts that
go into service before 2016. The subsidy, worth as much as 30
percent of construction costs, is currently available to
projects with as much as 100 kilowatts of capacity.  Smaller wind projects have higher per-unit costs because
they don’t benefit from the scale of installing turbines
totaling hundreds of megawatts of capacity. The investment tax
credit is “more appropriate” for community projects, said
Susman, who is also an AWEA board member.  “This ITC will help to drive down the price at which
community wind projects provide power to local customers, such
as municipal and cooperative utilities, universities and
businesses,” he said.  Wind produced 3 percent of the electricity in the U.S. last
year, up from 1 percent in 2007, according to AWEA.  Tax Credit Ending  Wind companies are planning fewer large projects next year
because another incentive is due to expire at the end of the
year, according to turbine makers. The Production Tax Credit
offers 2.2 cents for every kilowatt-hour of electricity
generated by wind farms.  Vestas Wind Systems A/S (VWS) , the world’s largest turbine
company, cut 2,335 jobs worldwide in January and said it may
eliminate another 1,600 in the U.S. this year if the PTC isn’t
extended. The Bloomberg Wind Energy Index of 64 companies has
 declined  29 percent this year through yesterday.  Black Oak is seeking financing using an intrastate
offering, a model that South Dakota Wind Partners LLC used for a
10.5-megawatt community  project  that began producing electricity
in February 2011, Wells said. Investors must live in the same
state as the project, and may provide either debt or equity
financing.  Raising Capital  “For regional projects, we feel it’s a great way to raise
capital,” said Brian Minish, co-founder of Val-Add Service
Corp., which advised the South Dakota Wind Partners project and
has worked on regional financing for other projects such as
ethanol plants.  The offering for the South Dakota wind project was about
one-third equity and two-thirds debt, Minish said. Equity buyers
qualified for a tax benefit and one of the debt components
offered a yield of about 7 percent, he said. “We raised the
money in about six weeks,” he said. “There are a lot of
opportunities for smaller-scale wind farm operations.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Justin Doom in  New York  at 
 jdoom1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  