-- Smartphone Biz Hurt by Own Success as Chip Supply Shrinks
-- B y   I a n   K i n g ,   A d a m   S a t a r i a n o   a n d   T i m   C u l p a n
-- 2012-05-15T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-15/smartphone-biz-hurt-by-own-success-as-chip-supply-shrinks.html
A new generation of smartphones
running on speedier wireless networks from  Verizon Wireless  and
AT&T Inc. may be held back because makers of a key component
can’t keep up with demand.  Qualcomm Inc. (QCOM) , the largest maker of chips for phones, said
last month it can’t get enough supply of the latest so-called
baseband chips.  Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Co. (2330) , the
biggest contract manufacturer for the industry, has said it
needs to add machinery to keep up with orders.  Qualcomm is currently the main provider of Long Term
Evolution, or LTE, chips that offer the fastest connections to
the Internet, meaning a shortage may crimp supply for new
devices from  Apple Inc. (AAPL) , HTC Corp. and Samsung Electronics Co.
The challenges present a hurdle for the growth of smartphones, a
product category that will generate an estimated $219 billion
this year, according to Bloomberg Industries data.  “It’s looking like a big problem because Qualcomm is the
single source,” said Sravan Kundojjala, an analyst with
Strategy Analytics Ltd. “Whoever is playing in the LTE markets
--  Korea ,  Japan  and the U.S. are very important -- will face
shortages.”  As smartphones such as the iPhone take on more of people’s
everyday computing needs, LTE networks give customers speedier
 Internet access  for browsing the Web, downloading applications
and streaming videos. The fourth-generation system is being
introduced in major metropolitan areas first and will roll out
more broadly globally in addition to existing 3G networks.
Apple’s next iPhone, expected to be released later this year,
will probably work on the faster network, according to analysts.  Old & New  Apple, like other companies, relies on Qualcomm for LTE
components. The San Diego-based company is the only chipmaker
capable of delivering semiconductors that provide both LTE and
connections to older networks -- something necessary for
limiting the number of chips in a phone, keeping them slim and
not sucking battery life, according to market researcher
 Strategy Analytics . That makes its output central to almost all
new phone introductions this year.  “The only player in the market right now is Qualcomm,”
said Kundojjala. “All the others are playing catch-up.”  Although there is demand for at least 30 million of its new
combined LTE baseband chips this year, Qualcomm can only supply
as little has half that number, he added.  Qualcomm Chief Executive Officer  Paul Jacobs  said the
company is trying to bring other suppliers up to speed in
producing its chips and aims to be able to meet all of the
orders it gets by year-end. Taiwan Semiconductor boosted
spending on its plants and also intends to accommodate all
orders by the fourth quarter.  ‘Blasting Off’  “It’s putting a lot of pressure on the industry,” said
Walter Price, a  fund manager  at RCM Capital Management, which
owns shares of Apple and Qualcomm as part of its more than $100
billion in assets. “That market is absolutely blasting off.”  Smartphones have replaced the personal computer business as
the technology industry’s engine of growth. Global smartphone
shipments are projected to hit 655 million in 2012, up from 299
million in 2010, according to Gartner Inc. By comparison, the PC
market will have grown about 5 percent in that period, to 368
million units.  Unlike  Intel Corp. (INTC) ’s dominance in PC chips, Qualcomm,
Broadcom Corp. and other makers of key semiconductors in
smartphones have built their success on outsourcing.  Surprise  That tactic is causing trouble now because the chip
producers aren’t able to keep up. Taiwan Semiconductor and a
handful of other so-called foundries in  Asia  make the chips on a
contract basis. Those companies have been swamped by the demands
of making increasingly complex processors and baseband chips in
the kind of numbers required.  “They were taken greatly by surprise by how much they
need,” said Rick Wallace, CEO of KLA-Tencor Corp., a supplier
of chipmaking machinery. “They are making progress on the
yields but they’re a long way from where they need to get.”  Taiwan Semiconductor’s lead over its rivals means there is
a lack of alternative suppliers as  United Microelectronics Corp. (2303) 
and Globalfoundries Inc. struggle to keep up on the latest
production techniques. Even if other foundries had the capacity
and the technology, it takes customers as long as nine months to
go through the technical process of switching to a new supplier,
according to Randy Abrams, an analyst at Credit Suisse Group.  Nvidia, HTC  Nvidia Corp. (NVDA)  CEO Jen-Hsun Huang said he can’t get enough of
the latest graphics chips from Taiwan Semiconductor to meet
demand. Huang said in an interview last week that he’s glad he
chose to build his Tegra 3 phone-chip processor on older
technology.  “We don’t have much more supply than demand, but every
customer order can be filled,” he said.  The pain from the chip shortage may not be shared equally.
Apple and Samsung, with a growing lead in the smartphone market,
are more important to suppliers and puts them at the front of
the line for parts, according to RCM’s Price.  HTC Corp. (2498) , the fifth-largest maker of smartphones, may be
among those to suffer the most because of the shortage, said
Richard Ko, an analyst at KGI Securities Co. The Taoyuan,
Taiwan-based company’s shipments will be reduced by as much as 2
million units this quarter, Ko said.  “The window of opportunity for HTC to be ahead in the
most-advanced products is shrinking because of the delay,” Ko
said. HTC declined to respond to e-mailed questions.  Front of the Line  Apple, the maker of the top-selling iPhone, hasn’t been
immune. The supply shortages from Qualcomm led analysts
including  Gene Munster  of Piper Jaffray Cos. to say the next
iPhone will come out later than anticipated. Apple’s stock
slumped 10 percent over a 10-day period last month in part
because of Qualcomm’s problems.  Apple CEO  Tim Cook  declined to discuss a potential supply
shortfall during a call with analysts last month. Still, he said
the company is working with suppliers to avoid those kinds of
issues.  “We work very closely with our supplier partners and do
everything that we can do to get supply and sometimes we’re
successful with that and sometimes we’re not,” Cook said April
24. “You can bet that we are focused on anything that we think
may impact us and trying to push every button within our
disposal to work on it.”  Samsung, which is also the world’s second-largest
chipmaker, and Apple, which buys chips from its South Korean
rival, may also be less susceptible because they aren’t as
dependent on Qualcomm as other phone makers.  Flexibility  Samsung, which passed Nokia Oyj to become the world’s
largest maker of phones last quarter, produces many of its own
components. Its smartphone shipments surged 267 percent in the
first quarter while Apple’s jumped 89 percent. All others in the
top five reported declines.  “Our strong partnership with multiple vendors allows
Samsung to have flexibility to react quickly to changes in
consumer and market demands,” the company said in an e-mailed
statement.  Underlining the importance of smartphones, shipments jumped
43 percent even as the total mobile-phone market shrank 1.5
percent, according to research company IDC. Smartphones now
represent more than a third of the market, up from 25 percent in
the first quarter of last year.  Chipmakers haven’t put enough capacity in place because
they didn’t believe the market could grow as quickly as their
customers told them and didn’t want to be stuck with factories
that weren’t operating full-bore, said Andrew Dailey, who
studies supply chains as managing director of MGI Research in
 Mill Valley ,  California .  “Everyone believes in their heart of hearts that
companies, like markets and trees, don’t grow to the sky,”
Dailey said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ian King in  San Francisco  at 
 ianking@bloomberg.net ;
Adam Satariano in San Francisco at 
 asatariano1@bloomberg.net ;
Tim Culpan in Taipei at 
 tculpan1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  