-- Sony, Panasonic Discussing OLED TV Tie-Up, Official Says
-- B y   M a r i k o   Y a s u   a n d   S h u n i c h i   O z a s a
-- 2012-05-15T10:19:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-15/sony-panasonic-discussing-oled-tv-tie-up-official-says.html
Sony Corp. (6758)  and  Panasonic Corp. (6752) ,
Japan’s biggest makers of televisions, are discussing a possible
collaboration on making sets that use new OLED technology, an
official at one of the companies said.  The two companies have held preliminary talks on a
potential tie-up to make TVs with organic light-emitting diode
displays, the official said, declining to be named because the
discussions are private.  A partnership may be key for the two companies, which
reported profit forecasts last week that missed analyst
estimates because of losses from selling TVs, as they try to
catch up with Samsung Electronics Co. and  LG Electronics Inc. (066570) 
The South Korean companies, the world’s two biggest TV makers,
earn a profit from selling sets while Sony and Panasonic are
restructuring by eliminating jobs and seeking partners.  “A tie-up would lower their development costs for OLED TVs
and enable them to gain ground on the industry-leading South
Korean manufacturers,” said  Yuji Fujimori , an analyst for
 Barclays Capital  in Tokyo. “Investors could also see this as an
indication of how these companies are changing under new
management.”  Samsung, LG  Sony Chief Executive Officer  Kazuo Hirai  said April 12 the
maker of Bravia TVs may seek a partner making sets using the
thinner display technology. Sony and Panasonic haven’t set
target dates for introducing OLED models while Samsung and LG
plan to offer 55-inch OLED sets as early as this year.  Seoul-based LG will sell the sets in South Korea first for
about 10 million won ($9,000), Jang Moon Ik, a director of the
TV business, said today.  Sony shares fell 2.3 percent to 1,128 yen in Tokyo today,
the lowest level since August 1980. Panasonic declined 3.1
percent to 560 yen, the lowest level since January 1978.  OLED televisions are as thin as 4 millimeters (0.16 inches)
and produce sharper images than current liquid-crystal-display
models. Shipments of OLED TVs may grow to 2.1 million sets in
2015 from 34,000 in 2012, according to Englewood, Colorado-based
 IHS Inc. (IHS) ’s iSuppli.  Sony, which introduced the first OLED TV with an 11-inch
screen in 2007, is studying the demand for larger sets, Hirai
said in February.  Panasonic President Fumio Ohtsubo said last week the maker
of Viera TVs may seek a partner to save development costs in
OLED sets. Ohtsubo said in January that Panasonic wants to
introduce OLED sets “not long after” Samsung and LG.  Sony and Panasonic are discussing a partnership to cut
development time of OLED sets, the Nikkei newspaper reported
today, without saying where it got the information.  George Boyd , a spokesman for Tokyo-based Sony, and Yuko Hosaka, a spokeswoman for Osaka-based Panasonic, declined to
comment.  “The pace of commoditization of TVs is very high,” said
 Mitsushige Akino , chief fund manager of Ichiyoshi Investment
Management Co., in  Tokyo . “I’m not sure whether Sony and
Panasonic can make a profit even if they have an alliance.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mariko Yasu in Tokyo at 
 myasu@bloomberg.net ;
Shunichi Ozasa in Tokyo at 
 sozasa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  