-- South Africa Unveils $700 Million Manufacturing Support
-- B y   M i k e   C o h e n
-- 2012-05-15T09:43:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-15/south-africa-unveils-700-million-manufacturing-support.html
South Africa  announced a 5.75 billion
rand ($700 million), three-year program to boost investment in
manufacturing and raise economic growth in Africa’s biggest
economy.  Eligible companies can apply for capital-investment grants
and funding to improve their competitiveness and energy
efficiency, Trade and Industry Minister  Rob Davies  said in a
speech in Cape Town today. The Industrial Development Corp., a
state lender, will also set up a loan facility for manufacturers
seeking to modernize and expand, he said.  “The manufacturing sector has experienced a number of
challenges” such as rising electricity prices and a volatile
currency, Davies said. “Many manufacturers are wary about
considering investments. We want to work with manufacturers, to
support manufacturers, to make the kinds of investments that are
going to raise competitiveness.”  Manufacturing accounts for about 15 percent of South
 Africa ’s gross domestic product, down from 21 percent in 1977.
The government sees the industry’s revival as key to its plans
to create 5 million jobs by 2020 and reduce the 25.2 percent
unemployment rate. Funding for the manufacturing support program
for the three fiscal years through March 2015 was allocated in
the February budget.  Manufacturing production shrank 2.7 percent in March from a
year earlier as an economic slowdown in  Europe  damped demand for
exports, the government statistics agency said on May 10.  Companies will have to agree not to fire workers while
receiving support under the program and to meet government
targets that seek to draw more of the country’s black majority
into the mainstream economy, Davies said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mike Cohen in  Cape Town  at 
 mcohen21@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  