-- South Korea Labor Force Grows as Unemployment Rate Unchanged
-- B y   E u n k y u n g   S e o   a n d   C y n t h i a   K i m
-- 2012-05-16T02:20:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-15/south-korea-adds-workers-as-unemployment-rate-unchanged-at-3-4-.html
South Korea  added workers last month
and the  unemployment  rate held at two-month low as demand
increased for jobs in health, social welfare and education.  The  rate  was 3.4 percent in April, Statistics Korea said
today in Gwacheon, south of Seoul, matching the median estimate
in a Bloomberg News survey of 12 economists. The number of
employed people increased 1.9 percent to 24.76 million last
month from a year earlier.  South Korea’s gross domestic product expanded at the
fastest pace in a year last quarter, mostly boosted by
 government spending  and investments by semiconductor chipmakers.
Now, the sovereign-debt crisis in  Europe  threatens to curb the
nation’s exports.  “We expect Korea’s GDP growth to be sub-trend this year as
a whole, which suggests that the  unemployment rate  will drift
upwards,” Sukhy Ubhi, an economist at Capital Economics Ltd. in
 London , said before the release. “Renewed concerns over the
euro-zone debt crisis suggest that business sentiment may
already be turning for the worse.”  The won declined 0.7 percent to 1,161.90 per dollar in
Seoul as of 10:51 a.m., according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
The benchmark Kospi stock index fell 1.2 percent, which compares
with a 1.4 percent decline for the MSCI Asia Pacific Index.  South Korea’s job market is relatively stable in part due
to government policies to encourage long-term employment, said
Lee Sang Jae, a senior economist at Hyundai Securities Co. in
Seoul.  ‘Sooner or Later’  “Still, decent jobs with high incomes have not
increased enough to spur consumption,” he said. “The
escalating European crisis may crimp business sentiment, which
should hurt the job market sooner or later.”  The  Bank of Korea  is likely to keep the key  interest rate 
unchanged this year, setting a record for the longest stretch
that the benchmark has stayed on hold, an adviser to the
government said last week.  “Inflation pressures will bar a rate cut while the slower
economic growth path will prevent them from raising,” said Yun Chang Hyun, who as president of the Korea Institute of Finance
advises the central bank,  finance ministry  and financial
regulators. He spoke in a May 11 interview in Seoul.  South Korea held off from altering borrowing costs for an
11th month last week. The longest pause since the central bank
began setting a rate in 1999 was the 17-month stretch between
February 2009 and July 2010, when the benchmark was at a record
low of 2 percent to counter the effects of the global financial
crisis.  The seasonally unadjusted jobless rate was at 3.5 percent
in April, compared with 3.7 percent in March, today’s report
showed.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eunkyung Seo in  Seoul  at 
 eseo3@bloomberg.net ;
Cynthia Kim in Seoul at 
 ckim170@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  