-- Bond Risk Falls as German Growth Offsets Peripheral Concerns
-- B y   A b i g a i l   M o s e s
-- 2012-05-15T10:12:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-15/sovereign-corporate-bond-risk-falls-credit-default-swaps-show.html
The cost of insuring against default
on European sovereign and corporate debt fell as the German
economy grew more than forecast in the first quarter, helping
the euro area avoid its second recession in three years.  The Markit iTraxx SovX Western Europe Index of credit-
default swaps on 15 governments dropped two basis points to 293
at 11:11 a.m. in London. A decline signals improvement in
perceptions of  credit quality .  Germany  expanded five times as much as economists had
forecast, helping offset contractions in peripheral countries as
the region’s sovereign crisis deepens. Speculation  Greece  will
pay the holders of a foreign-law bond maturing today also helped
underpin sentiment.  “The initial impetus to the market this morning was the
German GDP figure,” said Jeroen van den Broek, head of
developed market credit strategy at ING Groep NV in Amsterdam.
“There’s a bit of relief Greece is committed to repaying its
outstanding bond maturities.”  The 436 million-euro ($559 million) repayment would not
commit a future Greek government to repay the remaining 6
billion euros of other foreign-law bonds that were not tendered
into the country’s debt restructuring, state-run Athens News
Agency reported, without saying how it got the information.  “Some people may see this as a stay of execution,” van
den Broek said. “This will be a short term rally, not something
the market will bounce on for days.”  Contracts on the Markit iTraxx Crossover Index of 50
companies with mostly high-yield credit ratings decreased 2.5
basis points to 713.5, BNP Paribas prices show. The Markit
iTraxx Europe Index of 125 companies with investment-grade
ratings fell three basis points to 166 basis points.  The cost of insuring financial debt also fell, even after
Moody’s Investors Service cut the ratings of 26 Italian banks.
The Markit iTraxx Financial Index linked to senior debt of 25
banks and insurers declined 1.5 basis points to 278.5 and the
subordinated index was five lower at 459.  A basis point on a credit-default swap protecting 10
million euros ($12.9 million) of debt from default for five
years is equivalent to 1,000 euros a year. Swaps pay the buyer
face value in exchange for the underlying securities or the cash
equivalent should a borrower fail to adhere to its debt
agreements.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Abigail Moses in  London  at 
 Amoses5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Armstrong  at 
 Parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  