-- Spirax-Sarco Falls on Strength of U.K. Currency: London Mover
-- B y   C o l m   H e a t l e y
-- 2012-05-15T11:09:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-15/spirax-sarco-falls-on-strength-of-u-k-currency-london-mover.html
Spirax-Sarco Engineering Plc (SPX)  fell the
most in the FTSE 350 Index after saying performance in the four
months through April was hurt by an economic downturn in Latin
America, higher input costs and a strengthening U.K. currency.  The stock declined as much as 7.6 percent after the world’s
biggest maker of steam-driven pumps said that full-year sales
converted to pounds would be cut by more than 3 percent should
sterling continue to strengthen. It was the biggest intraday
drop since December 2008.  Trading “remains difficult” in Europe, while faltering
growth in Latin America, including a decline in Brazilian
industrial production, is weighing on earnings, the company said
today. Spirax-Sarco, based in Cheltenham, England, designs steam
systems used to provide heat in manufacturing and makes pumps
used in applications from mining to wastewater treatment.  “The share-price fall reflects the continuing headwind as
regard to foreign exchange, raw material inflation and signs of
slowdowns in  Latin America ,” said Dominic Convey at Peel Hunt,
the only analyst with a sell recommendation among 15 who share
data with Bloomberg. He reduced his  rating  in February, citing
potential short-term underperformance and the Euro’s weakness.  “It’s a high-quality company as well-positioned as its
competitors to cope with some obvious short-term headwinds,”
Convey said today. Spirax-Sarco’s engineered-solutions customers
span industries from brewing to pharmaceuticals, and it gets no
more than 1 percent of revenue from any single company,
according to its 2011 annual report.  Strong Pound  Sterling reached its strongest level against the euro in
3 1/2 years yesterday, at 79.63 pence per euro, amid the
region’s debt crisis. That hurts profit at Spirax-Sarco, which
took almost 40 percent of 2011 sales from  Europe , the  Middle
East  and  Africa .  “We believe that economic conditions in Europe will remain
sluggish and therefore we are intensifying our focus on cost
reduction and operating efficiency,” Spirax-Sarco said today.
“We remain focused on our strategic priorities to drive sales
growth, especially in  emerging markets .”  The stock  traded  at 1,995 pence, down 7.6 percent, at 12:05
p.m. in  London .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Colm Heatley in Belfast at 
 cheatley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Douglas Lytle at 
 dlytle@bloomberg.net ;
David Risser at 
 drisser@bloomberg.net ; 