-- St. Jude Wins European Approval for Blood Pressure Device
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   F a y   C o r t e z
-- 2012-05-15T20:29:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-15/st-jude-wins-european-approval-for-blood-pressure-device.html
St. Jude Medical Inc. (STJ) , the second-
biggest maker of heart-rhythm devices, won European approval of
its product to treat hypertension by searing the nerves that
contribute to high  blood pressure .  St. Jude received CE Mark approval for the device known as
the EnligHTN renal denervation system, the St. Paul, Minnesota-
based company said today in a statement. The product uses
multiple electrodes to sear the nerves in the arteries that lead
to the kidneys and boost blood pressure. It is used for patients
who don’t respond to conventional medical therapy.  The system will compete against similar products from
Minneapolis-based  Medtronic Inc. (MDT) , the leader in a market
analysts estimate may generate $3 billion in annual sales,
Dublin-based  Covidien Plc (COV)  and closely held Vessix Vascular Inc.,
based in Laguna Hills, California. All four devices use
radiofrequency energy to destroy a tiny portion of the
sympathetic nerves and quell their overactivity.  “The EnligHTN renal denervation system has been successful
in reducing blood pressure in patients with resistant
hypertension,” said Stephen Worthley, a researcher from the
Royal Adelaide Hospital in Australia who is helping develop the
product. The multielectrode device “provides an efficient and
effective alternative treatment for patients with resistant
hypertension and has the possibility to change the way that
hypertension is treated.”  Patient Population  More than 1 billion people worldwide have  hypertension ,
which increases the risk of having a stroke,  heart disease  or
 kidney failure . About 25 percent of patients aren’t able to get
their blood pressure to recommended levels using currently
approved medications, St. Jude said.  The EnligHTN system has multiple electrodes on a catheter
that is threaded into the kidney artery, allowing doctors to
ablate the nerves in an efficient and reliable manner, the
company said. The device can produce four ablations in 90
seconds, potentially saving time, cutting costs and reducing the
exposure to radiation.  St. Jude plans to introduce the device this week at the
 EuroPCR  meeting on interventional technologies in Paris. The
company will present data tomorrow on the safety and
effectiveness of the system.  St. Jude fell 2 percent to $38.89 at the close in  New York .
The shares have fallen 25 percent in the past 12 months.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Fay Cortez in Minneapolis at 
 mcortez@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net  