-- Statement by the IMF Mission to Nicaragua (Text)
-- B y   A i n h o a   G o y e n e c h e
-- 2012-05-15T16:01:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-15/statement-by-the-imf-mission-to-nicaragua-text-.html
Following is the text of the mission
statement from the International Monetary Fund visit to  Nicaragua :  A staff team from the International Monetary Fund (IMF) visited Managua
during May 2-11 to hold discussions on the 2012 Article IV consultation with
Nicaragua. [1] The mission met with the Nicaraguan Vice President,
the Economic Cabinet, the Superintendent of Banks, the Attorney General,
the Comptroller General, the Minister of Energy, the Economic Commission
of the National Assembly, other government representatives, the business
community, labor unions, civil society organizations, and international
donors.
At the end of the visit Mr. Marcello Estevao, the IMF mission chief for
Nicaragua, made the following statement:
“The Nicaraguan economy has recovered strongly from the global financial
crisis of 2008-09. Helped by high export prices, large concessional and
foreign direct investment flows, and broadly appropriate macroeconomic
policies, the economy has averaged growth rates in excess of 4.5 percent
during 2010-11. Inflation rates have remained relatively contained;
fiscal accounts have improved on the back of the 2009  tax reform  and
stronger economic activity; and the international reserve position of the
 Central Bank  has strengthened. In addition, the financial sector remained
stable and credit to the private sector resumed growth.
“The outlook for 2012 is generally positive. Economic growth is projected
to be somewhat lower than in 2011 on the back of weaker global activity,
and inflation to be in a range of about 8 to 9 percent due to energy
price pressures. Risks to this outlook include lower global activity,
an adverse terms-of-trade shock, and sudden changes in concessional
assistance or foreign direct investment. Maintaining prudent
macroeconomic policies will be essential to an appropriate, swift response
to these risks. In this context, keeping public spending pressures at bay,
including by targeting subsidies and moderating wage increases, while
preserving the room for social and infrastructure spending, is a priority.
IMF Staff welcomes the commitment of the fiscal and monetary authorities
to preserve the sustainability of public finances and to keep adequate
international reserve buffers, in the context of the well-functioning
crawling-peg exchange rate regime”.
“Higher economic growth is essential to reduce poverty rates
significantly over the medium-term. In this regard, measures to
further strengthen institutions, reduce labor market informality,
and enhance the effectiveness of public spending while reducing
budget rigidities will be key. Boosting growth and reducing the high
dependence on oil imports require strengthening the electricity sector,
including with predictable rules that attract new investments.
In addition, reforming the pension system is necessary for
inter-generational fairness and long-term fiscal sustainability,
and a more equitable tax system would also generate resources
for needed infrastructure investment and social spending.”  SOURCE:  International Monetary Fund  