-- State Ability to Tax Traveling Workers Limited in U.S. House
-- B y   W i l l i a m   S e l w a y
-- 2012-05-15T20:59:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-15/states-ability-to-tax-traveling-workers-limited-in-u-s-house.html
The U.S. House passed a measure
limiting states’ ability to tax those working temporarily in
their borders, which would ease employee burdens and reduce
revenue for New York.  The House today approved legislation on a voice vote that
would prevent states from taxing the income of workers who visit
for fewer than 31 days. Similar legislation hasn’t advanced in
the  U.S. Senate .  Businesses including  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) ,  American Express Co. (AXP) 
and  Time Warner Inc. (TWX)  have pressed Congress to replace a
patchwork of state tax laws. The shift would cut as much as $100
million a year from New York’s revenue, with smaller reductions
for other states with a large number of visiting workers
including Illinois, Massachusetts and California, according to
the  Congressional Budget Office .  “Tax simplification, on both the federal and state level,
will allow workers and employers to predict their tax
liabilities with accuracy and expend fewer resources researching
the nuances of each state’s respective law,” Representative
Howard Coble, a North Carolina Republican who sponsored the
bill, said on the House floor today. “The money they would have
spent hiring accountants and tax lawyers can then be spent
creating meaningful jobs and growing the economy.”  Most States  The measure would affect most U.S. states, which tax out-
of-state residents from their first day of work or after a
certain time or income level, according to the Council on State
Taxation, a Washington-based taxpayer group that supports the
bill. The legislation is opposed by public employee unions,
which say it would mark a costly intrusion into the taxing
authority of local governments.  The varying state laws can be a burden to employees who
must file taxes in multiple jurisdictions and businesses that
must keep track of where their income is earned.  Dozens of companies, including  AT&T Inc. (T) ,  Hewlett-Packard
Co. (HPQ)  and  Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT)  signed a letter to congressional
leaders urging them to pass the measure. Supporters said it will
simplify tax rules at odds with an increasingly mobile
workforce.  Not all workers would benefit. The limits won’t apply to
the earnings of athletes, entertainers and public figures who
command hefty speaking fees, which states would be allowed to
tax as they do currently.  Little Revenue Effect  States have yet to rebound from the revenue loss brought on
by the recession and the slow pace of economic recovery. Hank Johnson, a Georgia Democrat who supported the bill, said it
would have little effect on most states’ revenue.  “For the vast majority of states, this bill contains
minimal, or no, revenue impact,” Johnson said on the House
floor. “At a time when more and more Americans find themselves
traveling for their jobs, this bill is a common sense
solution.”  Most states give residents a credit for taxes paid for work
elsewhere. The measure’s effects will depend on the difference
between the amount states lose by taxing visiting workers and
how much comes back from their residents.  States such as  New York  that draw a large number of
traveling workers would lose the most, the budget office said,
while nearby states such as Connecticut and New Jersey probably
would gain  tax revenue .  The Federation of Tax Administrators, a Washington-based
nonprofit group that works on behalf of states, recognizes the
need to streamline state tax laws, said Gale Garriott, the
group’s executive director. Still, he said the group favors a
narrower time frame to limit the effect on states such as New
York.  “That would take difficulty off dealing with the revenue
loss,” he said. “There is recognition that this is a situation
that should be addressed.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 William Selway  in  Washington  at 
 wselway@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net . 