-- Statement by the IMF Mission to Mauritania (Text)
-- B y   A i n h o a   G o y e n e c h e
-- 2012-05-15T16:06:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-15/statement-by-the-imf-mission-to-mauritania-text-.html
Following is the text of the mission
statement from the  International Monetary Fund  visit to Mauritania:  A mission of the International Monetary Fund (IMF) led by Mr. Amine Mati,
visited Nouakchott from April 29 to May 14, 2012 to conduct discussions
related to the fourth review of Mauritania’s arrangement under the
Extended Credit Facility (ECF) and consultations under Article IV of
the IMF Articles of Agreement. The mission met with the President of
the Republic and several economic and financial policymakers and also
held productive discussions with members of parliament, academics,
members of the diplomatic corps, and representatives of the banking
and private sectors, unions, the donor community, and civil society.
At the end of its visit, Mr. Amine Mati issued the following statement:
“Economic growth in Mauritania remains sustained despite the effects
of the acute drought and the slowdown in external demand. Real GDP
growth, estimated at 4 percent for 2011, underperformed initial
forecasts, owing essentially to the significant drop in agricultural
production. Inflation remains under control at 5.7 percent, despite
higher international prices of food and petroleum products.”
“In 2011, the Mauritanian economy showed greater resilience to exogenous
shocks as policies were implemented to bolster macroeconomic stability
in the context of the challenging national and international environment.
In effect, fiscal performance was better than expected, with the basic
fiscal deficit amounting to less than 1 percent of GDP, underpinned
by very solid revenue collection, including from the mining sector,
which more than offset emergency spending under the 2011 solidarity
program. Owing to the good performance of mining exports, the external
current account deficit improved significantly, with foreign exchange
reserves doubling to an unprecedented level of US$ 501.6 millions, that
is, the equivalent of [3.3] months of imports. This strong macroeconomic
performance was, however, still insufficient to absorb the country’s
high unemployment and poverty rates.
“Implementation of the solidarity program in 2011 helped mitigate the
impact of rising food and energy prices on the most vulnerable segments
of the population. In 2012, the EMEL program constitutes an appropriate
response to the adverse effects of the drought on people and livestock.
While encouraging the authorities to ensure rapid, efficient, and
well-targeted implementation of this program, the mission noted with
satisfaction the conduct of the survey on vulnerability and poverty
in Nouakchott and the launch of cash transfers to vulnerable groups.
The mission supports the adoption of the new hydrocarbon price structure,
which will make it possible to return to market-based pricing by
end-2012, thus creating additional fiscal space for effective deployment
of poverty-reducing expenditure.
“The mission congratulated the authorities on having successfully met the
end-2011 program performance criteria and structural benchmarks.
The mission also urged the authorities to accelerate the pace of
implementation of structural reforms even more, with regard to the
civil service, public enterprises, public financial management, and
social protection. Further, the authorities are encouraged to continue
improving the business environment, including by implementing the new
procurement code, adopting the new investment code, making tax credit
refund payments on a regular and ongoing basis, and putting in place a
framework for consultation with the private sector.
“For 2012, growth is projected to reach 5.5 percent, buoyed by the
vigorous recovery in agricultural production and the expected uptick in
activity in the building and public works sector. Inflation is set to
remain contained within the 7 percent ceiling. However, the current
account is expected to worsen significantly, largely as a result of
imports under the 2012 EMEL program and infrastructure projects, in
particular, the new power plant and the new airport in Nouakchott.
Mauritania’s economic resilience to exogenous shocks will be further
strengthened by its comfortable foreign exchange reserve position,
equivalent to around 3.8 months of import coverage at yearend.
“The mission conducted discussions under Article IV of the IMF Articles
of Agreement and commended the authorities on their commitment to devise
an optimal mining policy and to implement coherent sectoral, fiscal,
and monetary policies conducive to accelerating the development of an
industrial base and making the Mauritanian economy less vulnerable to
external shocks. The mission supports the authorities’ efforts to put
the economy on a path to sustained and more inclusive growth with a
view to significantly reigning in unemployment and improving the living
standards of the Mauritanian people.
“In view of the satisfactory performance of the program objectives for
2011, Fund staff will recommend that management request the completion
of the fourth review under the three-year ECF arrangement, to be taken
up by the Executive Board in June 2012.”
The mission would like to take the opportunity to thank the Mauritanian
authorities, and all those that it met with, for the warm welcome it
received, the quality of the discussions held and the good conditions
under which its work was conducted.  SOURCE: International Monetary Fund 