-- Statement by the IMF Mission to Paraguay (Text)
-- B y   A i n h o a   G o y e n e c h e
-- 2012-05-15T16:11:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-15/statement-by-the-imf-mission-to-paraguay-text-.html
Following is the text of the mission
statement from the International Monetary Fund visit to  Paraguay :  An International Monetary Fund (IMF) mission visited Paraguay during
May 2-11, 2012 for discussions with government officials and the
private sector, as part of the IMF’s annual Article IV consultations
with its member countries.  At the end of the visit, mission chief
Lisandro Abrego issued the following statement today in Asunción:
“A series of negative supply shocks has adversely impacted economic
performance over the last year. GDP growth slowed to 3.8 percent in
2011, as cement shortages and problems in accessing beef export markets
arose in a context of monetary policy normalization. A severe drought
during the summer growing season caused large agricultural losses.
As a result, under current policies, the mission expects the economy
to contract by 1.5 percent in 2012. Inflation has steadily declined,
reaching 5 percent by end-2011 and 3.3 percent in April, driven mainly
by food prices, notably meat.  Core inflation  (which in the Fund team’s
definition excludes the food basket and fuels) has remained above the
central bank’s target, at 6¼ percent in April. We expect inflation to end
2012 at around 5 percent, aided by subdued local food and global
commodity prices.
“Current macroeconomic policies appear to be broadly appropriate. The
central bank (BCP) has lowered  interest rates  by 225 basis points since
November 2011, bringing the monetary policy rate below its neutral level.
Fiscal policy is set to provide a strong stimulus in 2012. Macroeconomic
policies will thus help cushion the impact of the drought on the
nonagricultural sector, which is projected to grow at over 4 percent.
As favorable weather conditions reappear, the economy is expected to
rebound sharply in 2013, expanding by 8½ percent.
“It is important not to ease macroeconomic policies further. With
non-agriculture GDP near its potential level, economic slack should
quickly diminish as the effects of the recent supply shocks dissipate.
Given the nature of these shocks, additional monetary and fiscal stimuli
would do little to mitigate their impact on the primary sector, and would
only lead to a higher external current account deficit and a more
depreciated  exchange rate , fueling inflationary pressures.
Furthermore, given the strong recovery anticipated for next year and the
likely reversal of the decline in meat prices once the beef export ban is
lifted, inflationary pressures are likely to reappear as we approach 2013.
Against this background, the BCP should stand ready to tighten monetary
policy in a timely manner while allowing for enough exchange rate
flexibility.
“The 2012  budget deficit  is projected at about 2.5 percent of GDP
(from a surplus of 0.8 percent of GDP in 2011), which is scheduled to
be financed through the issuing of bonds in the domestic market (with
the first placement already successfully achieved in the first quarter)
and multilateral loans. Timely congressional approval of these loans
will allow the government to better plan and implement its operations,
especially regarding capital budget execution, and support economic
activity this year. In 2013, fiscal policy should also play a role by
restoring fiscal discipline through the gradual withdrawal of the
strong stimulus being granted this year.
“Higher tax revenues are required to support economic development.
The tax ratio in Paraguay remains one of the lowest in  Latin America .
Insufficient public resources are an important factor behind large
infrastructure gaps, relatively weak social indicators, and high
poverty incidence. In this regard, the mission supports the authorities’
efforts to raise the tax burden, which will also help improve tax equity.
In particular, the personal income tax should be put into effect as
soon as possible, with its overly generous deductions eliminated over
time. The generous deductions and loopholes under the agricultural
income tax (IMAGRO) should be closed. Consideration should also be
given to increasing the financial sector’s tax contribution, including
by broadening the tax base and eliminating exemptions.
“The mission welcomes government efforts to improve public enterprise
monitoring and performance. Public enterprises play an important role
in key sectors, and increasing their efficiency can help ease some
constraints to higher long-run growth while benefiting the Paraguayan
population at large. In this regard, it is important that recent
government efforts to improve their performance are sustained over time,
including through the enactment of appropriate legislation.
“The banking sector remains sound, although the non-performing loans
(NPL) ratio has risen slightly. Introduction of more stringent
provisioning and capital requirements has helped strengthen financial
institutions’ buffers. However, key structural reforms still need to
be implemented. It would important to move forward with the reform of
bank and BCP legislation to support a more effective risk-based
supervision and bring prudential norms fully in line with international
standards. The mission welcomes advances on the program to strengthen
regulation and supervision, and create a financial safety net, in the
cooperative sector. Full implementation of this program will strengthen
the sector and the overall financial system. The mission also supports
the authorities’ plans to improve regulation and supervision of the
pension systems and looks forward to further details on the initiative
to set up a superintendence of pensions.
“The plan to shift public sector deposits in the banking system to a
state-owned bank constitutes a risk to financial sector stability.
Movements in government deposits within normal operations have an impact
on banking system liquidity, and its concentration could have disruptive
effects. It is essential that appropriate legal options are found to
prevent its potentially negative effects.
“It is important that the existing vacancies on the BCP Board of Directors
be filled without delay. With the two open positions and one director
temporarily staying past his mandated term, core operations of the
central bank may soon be compromised.
“The mission supports the authorities’ decision to adopt an
inflation-targeting (IT) regime. The BCP has taken several important
steps, including the publication of a bi-annual inflation report and
the establishment of single a short-term interest rate as its policy
rate. Additional advances would help achieve the BCP’s goal of moving
to a full-fledged IT regime by end-2013. These include strengthening
liquidity forecasting and foreign exchange operations, and completing
the yield curve through a better allocation of long-term instruments.
“Finally, the IMF mission would like to thank the authorities and
private sector representatives of Paraguay for their cooperation and a
very open and fruitful dialogue.”  SOURCE:  International Monetary Fund  