-- Sun Resorts of Mauritius Targets Asia as Europe Wanes
-- B y   K a m l e s h   B h u c k o r y
-- 2012-05-16T11:47:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-15/sun-resorts-of-mauritius-sets-sights-on-asia-as-europe-wanes.html
Sun Resorts Ltd. (SUN) , Mauritius’s second-
biggest hotel operator by market value, is confident of growing
earnings by at least 22 percent as it focuses on  Asia  to offset
a decline in visitors from  Europe .  Earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization for fiscal 2012 will rise to one billion rupees
($34 million) from 817.1 million rupees a year earlier, Chief
Financial Officer Tommy Wong said in an interview in Ebene,
south of the capital, Port Louis, on May 14. “Growth will be
led by diversification to Asia and the fully operational Long
Beach hotel,” he said.  Tourists from Europe, which accounts for 66 percent of
arrivals to the Indian Ocean island nation, fell 2.7 percent in
the first quarter, led by  France , according to Statistics
Mauritius.  While Europe is unlikely to recover from a debt crisis
soon, “there is sustainable growth in emerging markets such as
 China , Russia and  India ,” Wong said. “People there have money
to spend, which we are seeking to tap in the near term through
aggressive marketing.”  Arrivals in April were little changed at 79,137 tourists,
Statistics Mauritius said today. A 5.1 percent drop in visitors
from Europe was compensated for by a 25 percent increase in
tourists from Asia. Visitors from China increased by 71.4
percent for the four months through April.  ‘New Vision’  The leisure operator, which ranks second to  New Mauritius
Hotels Ltd. (NMH)  and derives 60 percent of its income in euros, said
first-quarter net income retreated 2.5 percent to 149.5 million
rupees.  Arnaud Martin, the company’s chief marketing officer who
has 34 years experience in the leisure industry, said the
company is targeting 20 percent of arrivals from  emerging
markets . “We need a new vision; the traditional markets are
under pressure,” he said.  Sun Resorts owns and manages four hotels in Mauritius and
one in Maldives. The Long Beach Hotel, located on the eastern
coast of the island, started full operations in mid-October,
increasing the group’s number of rooms to 1,261. Sun Resorts is
also refurbishing the Ambre Resort & Spa hotel, which it leases,
for 465 million rupees.  The group’s prospects “look promising with the Ambre hotel
and the Long Beach hotel,” Bhavik Desai, a research analyst at
Axys Stockbroking Ltd., said in a phone interview from Port
Louis. “Europe is the big uncertainty. It will be the game
changer.”  Hotel stocks have led the slump in the 38-member SEMDEX
index, which has fallen 3.3 percent this year, with Sun Resorts
retreating 16 percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
The stock traded unchanged at 39.50 rupees by the 1:30 p.m.
close in  Port Louis .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kamlesh Bhuckory in Port Louis at 
 kbhuckory@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  