-- SunTrust’s Rogers Says JPMorgan Loss ‘Black Eye’
-- B y   S t e v e   M a t t h e w s
-- 2012-05-15T14:20:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-15/suntrust-s-rogers-says-jpmorgan-loss-black-eye-.html
SunTrust (STI)  Banks Inc. Chief Executive
Officer William Rogers said the economy in the Southeast, which
has lagged behind the U.S. recovery the past three years, is
accelerating led by new construction of condominiums in Miami.  “Miami is having a remarkably fast recovery,” Rogers said
in an interview in Atlanta, where the lender is based. “ Florida 
as a whole -- and I spend a lot of time in Florida, as you might
imagine -- I am feeling much better about.”  The Miami metropolitan area’s unemployment rate dropped to
8.4 percent in March from 10.6 percent a year earlier, Labor
Department figures show. Florida was one of the centers of real
estate speculation until prices began falling six years ago. The
state’s home prices dropped 49 percent from their peak to
January, the third-biggest drop after  Arizona  and  Nevada ,
according to  CoreLogic , a real estate data firm.  While southern Florida attracted real estate investors who 
bet prices would increase unabated, buying today hasn’t raised
concerns about speculation, Rogers said.  “It is real,” he said. Buyers are “coming from  Latin
America  and a lot of it is Eastern European. Miami is in a
pretty good recovery mode.”  Other metropolitan economies in SunTrust’s regions are
rebounding, Rogers said. Housing in the Nashville,  Tennessee , 
and Washington markets is “back on the upswing,” while  Marco
Island  and Sarasota, Florida, “are showing improvement.”  “We are starting to see some traction,” he said. “In
housing, things are stabilizing to stabilized.”  Georgia Still Lagging  Wells Fargo & Co. economists, in a report this month, said
Florida’s recovery has “gained considerable momentum” and
“all indications point to stronger gains this year.”  The SunTrust CEO said  Georgia  is still lagging, with
Atlanta showing only modest job gains, though “at least it is
not on the downswing.”  “Atlanta is a tough housing market,” he said, and office
real estate in the metropolitan area is “stabilizing and may be
getting better off a pretty low point.”  Mortgage originations have picked up for SunTrust with the
expansion of the  Home Affordable  Refinance Program, which allows
homeowners to refinance regardless of how much their home’s
value has fallen, Rogers said. About 44 percent of Florida
mortgages had negative equity in the fourth quarter compared
with 33 percent for Georgia, according to CoreLogic.  “We are uniquely positioned” to take advantage of HARP
because of SunTrust’s markets in the Southeast, he said. Loans
under the program are “approaching 50 percent” of mortgage
refinancing, he said. SunTrust has focused on making HARP loans
to its existing customers because it has limited resources for
that program, he said.  ‘Grow Disproportionately’  “How long it will continue everybody is sort of
speculating,” Rogers said. “It is a finite group eventually
and you run through it, but I think the running room is pretty
long.”  Even though the Southeast continues to have a higher
foreclosure rate than the rest of the U.S., its long-term 
prospects are brighter because migration and business creation
are expected to continue, Rogers said.  “We are going to grow disproportionately faster than the
rest of the country over the next decade,” he said. “I am
long-term bullish.”  Shares of SunTrust have risen 30 percent through yesterday,
double the 15 percent gain for the KBW Bank Index. SunTrust has
operations in Florida, Georgia, Maryland,  North Carolina ,  South
Carolina , Tennessee, Virginia,  West Virginia  and Washington,
D.C.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steve Matthews in Atlanta at 
 smatthews@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anita Sharpe at 
 asharpe6@bloomberg.net  