-- Super Bowl Costs Indiana Stadium Landlord 38% Above Prediction
-- B y   A a r o n   K u r i l o f f   a n d   M a r k   N i q u e t t e
-- 2012-05-15T16:31:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-15/super-bowl-costs-indiana-stadium-landlord-38-above-prediction.html
The  Indiana  agency that supervised
February’s Super Bowl lost $1.1 million hosting the National
Football League championship game, about 38 percent more than it
predicted.  The Capital Improvement Board of Marion County, which runs
Lucas Oil Stadium and the Indiana Convention Center in
Indianapolis, said earlier that it expected to have a loss of
about $800,000 for the Feb. 5 game, the first Super Bowl the
city hosted.  The authority paid $349,718 in insurance, legal fees and
snow-removal equipment costs it thought would be reimbursed by
the NFL and wasn’t, spokesman Robert Vane said. At the same
time, the board collected $2.9 million more in taxes than in the
previous January and February, he said.  “The economic impact to the city more than offsets any
shortfall,” Vane said in a telephone interview from
Indianapolis. “When you’re talking about marketing the city to
the world, it was well worth it.”  The shortfall will be covered from the Capital Improvement
Board’s cash reserves, Vane said. The board had to prepare its
budget before the NFL determined what expenses it would
reimburse, he said.  NFL owners voted in 2008 to hold the 2012  Super Bowl  in
Indianapolis. The state’s website  describes  a potential economic
impact of $286 million.  A study  from Ball State University in
Muncie, Indiana, said the game may be worth $365 million in
economic activity, noting that figure didn’t account for public-
sector spending.  Longest Zipline  The city prepared for the game with measures including $4
million in public-safety spending and $12 million to turn a
four-lane street into a three-block pedestrian plaza that housed
a week-long Super Bowl village, including what organizers said
was the nation’s longest temporary zipline.  Marc Lotter, communications director for Mayor Greg Ballard, said at the time the game was “putting us in front of
corporate decision-makers, convention planners, event planners
that can have an impact on the city for a long time to come.”  Those numbers may be about three to 10 times higher than
the game’s actual value, however, based on data such as
employment, tax receipts and personal income, according to
Victor Matheson, an economist at the College of the  Holy Cross 
in Worcester,  Massachusetts , who has studied the impact of large
sporting events.  “The budget for the Super Bowl is a fairly small component
of the expenditures of the Super Bowl,” he said in a telephone
interview. “The big expenditure component is the fact that
Indianapolis had to build a brand new, almost entirely taxpayer-
financed stadium to have any chance to attract the Super Bowl in
the first place.”  Hotel Taxes  Paying for the $720 million home of the  Indianapolis Colts ,
where the  New York Giants  beat the New England Patriots 21-17
for the NFL title, forced local officials to raise hotel,
restaurant and rental-car taxes. Public debt for the stadium,
which opened in 2008, eventually rose to $666.5 million, while
the Colts financed about two-thirds of their $100 million share
through local-government issuers.  The board collects about $120.6 million in fees and other
payments to cover running the stadium and other venues, more
than double the $58 million it would have received from taxes in
place before work on the stadium began, according to financial
statements.  Indiana increased efforts to attract sports organizations
and events in 1979 with the creation of the private, not-for-
profit Indiana Sports Corp. The home of the Indianapolis 500
auto race attracted the Pan Am Games in 1987. In 1999, the
 National Collegiate Athletic Association  moved its headquarters
to the city.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Aaron Kuriloff in  New York  at 
 akuriloff@bloomberg.net ;
Mark Niquette in Columbus at 
 mniquette@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  