-- Swaps Committee Rules $1.2 Billion of ResCap Contracts Triggered
-- B y   M a r y   C h i l d s
-- 2012-05-15T16:16:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-15/swaps-committee-set-to-rule-on-1-2-billion-of-rescap-contracts.html
Residential Capital LLC, the
mortgage-lending unit of  Ally Financial Inc. (ALLY) , triggered payouts
on more than $1 billion of contracts linked to its debt,
 according to the committee  of banks and investors that govern
credit-default swaps.  The International Swaps and Derivatives Association’s
determinations committee said on its  website  that ResCap’s
Chapter 11 petitions yesterday in  Manhattan  for itself and 50
units constitute a bankruptcy credit event. The panel of the New
York-based group will hold an auction to settle the contracts.  Banks,  hedge funds  and other money managers had bought and
sold credit swaps that protect against a default on a net $1.2
billion of ResCap obligations as of May 4, according to the
 Depository Trust & Clearing Corp. , which runs a central
repository for the market. Credit swaps pay the buyer face value
if a borrower fails to meet its obligations, less the value of
the defaulted debt.  Zurich-based UBS AG,  Switzerland ’s biggest bank, submitted
the request for a ruling from ISDA’s determinations committee on
May 14, the association said on its  website . The committee for
the Americas is made up of 15 banks and investment firms
including JPMorgan Chase & Co. and D.E. Shaw Group.  ResCap, once among the largest originators of subprime and
Alt-A mortgages, listed assets of $15.7 billion and liabilities
totaling $15.3 billion. The Chapter 11 reorganization for ResCap
is the biggest this year, based on liabilities, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg, and one of the biggest collapses of
a home lender since  Wells Fargo & Co . agreed to acquire Wachovia
Corp. at the end of 2008.  The reorganization plan that ResCap is to file by June 15
is supported by holders of 37 percent of the $2.1 billion of
junior secured notes, according to a court filing. A Chapter 11
filing protects a company from creditors and allows it to
operate while a turnaround is devised.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mary Childs in  New York  at 
 mchilds5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor on this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  