-- Systemic-Risk Firms Will Get ’Robust’ Due Process
-- B y   C h e y e n n e   H o p k i n s   a n d   P h i l   M a t t i n g l y
-- 2012-05-15T23:51:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-15/systemic-risk-firms-will-get-robust-due-process.html
Companies that may be labeled
systemically important to the U.S. financial system would get
“robust due process protections” before any designation, a
Treasury official plans to tell a congressional panel tomorrow.  “Every designation decision will be firm-specific, and
every firm will receive robust due process protections,
including the opportunity for judicial review of any final
designation,” Lance Auer, Treasury deputy assistant secretary,
says in prepared testimony to be delivered tomorrow. The
testimony was obtained by Bloomberg News.  A House Financial Services subcommittee will examine the
impact of a rule issued by the Financial Stability Oversight
Council in April. The rule gives the council the authority to
designate a non-bank company as systemically important and
subject to Federal Reserve supervision.  Large non-bank firms have resisted the designation. Firms
designated as systemic will receive heightened supervision from
the central bank. The Fed could require firms to raise capital
and reduce risky practices. The companies also would have to
file “living wills” so they could be unwound in an orderly
way.  William Wheeler, president of the Americas Division of
Metlife Inc., will testify tomorrow that traditional life
insurance activities do not pose a systemic risk to the  U.S.
economy .  “Whether a sifi designation is a help or a hindrance, it
seems certain that naming a handful of insurance companies as
’too big to fail’ will needlessly distort the competitive
landscape and misallocate capital in the insurance sector,”
Wheeler says in prepared testimony.  The acronym “sifi” refers to a systemically important
financial institution whose failure could pose a threat to U.S.
financial stability. MetLife is the largest U.S. life insurer..  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cheyenne Hopkins at 
 Chopkins19@bloomberg.net ;
Phil Mattingly in Washington at 
 pmattingly@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  