-- U.K. Jobless Probably Rose as King Prepares to Explain QE Halt
-- B y   F e r g a l   O ’ B r i e n
-- 2012-05-15T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-15/u-k-jobless-probably-rose-as-king-prepares-to-explain-qe-halt.html
U.K. unemployment  probably rose to
match a 16-year high in the first quarter, adding pressure on
 Bank of England  Governor  Mervyn King  as he prepares to explain
why policy makers stopped expanding stimulus for the economy
last week.  The jobless rate increased to 8.4 percent, according to the
median forecast of 27 economists in a Bloomberg News survey. The
 Office for National Statistics  will release its labor-market
report at 9:30 a.m. in  London . One hour later, King will speak
at a press briefing on the Bank of England’s new economic
forecasts and its May 10 decision to halt quantitative easing.  Rising unemployment and the government’s fiscal squeeze are
damping domestic demand in the U.K., where the economy has
slipped back into a recession. While some Bank of England policy
makers have grown more concerned about  inflation , a resurgence
of the euro-area debt crisis may further hamper Britain’s
ability to recover.  “A reintensification of the sovereign-debt crisis is
destroying demand in the euro area,” said Philip Rush, an
economist at Nomura International Plc in London. “It is
depriving the U.K. of the external demand that it needs to
rebalance.”  The first-quarter  unemployment rate  increased from 8.3
percent in the three months through February, the forecasts
show. Jobless claims rose by 5,000 in April, according to a
separate survey. That will lift the monthly  claimant-count rate 
to 5 percent from 4.9 percent.  Inflation Outlook  The Bank of England’s Monetary Policy Committee held its
 bond-purchase target  at 325 billion pounds ($522 billion) last
week. King will publish the new forecasts that underpinned the
decision in the quarterly inflation and growth outlook today.  Consumer-price growth quickened to 3.5 percent in March
from 3.4 percent in February, staying above the central bank’s 2
percent target. In the first quarter, inflation was faster than
the bank projected in its last forecasting round in February.  The economy shrank 0.2 percent in the first quarter and the
National Institute of Economic and Social Research said on May
10 that a recovery may only “take hold” in 2013.  Data yesterday showed the  euro area  avoided its second
recession in three years as 0.5 percent growth in  Germany  offset
contractions in peripheral countries. A political impasse in
 Greece  after elections this month has sent  stocks lower , pushed
up bond yields of indebted nations and led European leaders to
ponder the prospect of Greece exiting the currency union.  “The door for more QE may be explicitly held open” by
King at the press conference, said Rush. “But with inflation
forecasts revised up slightly and the risks around the target
balanced, we doubt this event will do anything other than
reinforce expectations that policy is going nowhere for the
foreseeable future.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fergal O’Brien in London at 
 fobrien@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  