-- U.K. Stocks Decline for Second Day; G4S Gains, IAG Falls
-- B y   A l e x i s   X y d i a s
-- 2012-05-15T16:15:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-15/u-k-stocks-advance-as-g4s-smiths-group-rally.html
U.K. stocks  declined for a second day
as Greek leaders called new elections after failing to form a
government for the nation that is struggling with debt and
austerity.  International Consolidated Airlines Group SA (IAG)  led losses
after JPMorgan Chase & Co. downgraded its recommendation on the
stock. Inmarsat Plc also fell.  G4S Plc (GFS) , the security-services
company, rose after posting a 7.5 percent increase in first-
quarter revenue.  The  FTSE 100 (UKX)  dropped 0.5 percent to 5,437.62 at the close
in London, after earlier rising as much as 0.8 percent following
a report that showed faster-than-forecast economic growth in
Germany. The gauge erased gains after Greek Pasok party leader
 Evangelos Venizelos  said new elections will be held. The FTSE
All-Share Index lost 0.6 percent today, while Ireland’s ISEQ
Index was little changed.  “The euro-zone is the crux of the problem,” said Edouard Carmignac, chief investment officer at Carmignac Gestion, which
oversees about 50 billion euros ($64 billion). “It reverberates
worldwide, but that is where it may get nastier,” he said at a
presentation in  London  today.  German  gross domestic product  grew five times as fast as
economists forecast in the first quarter as exports to  emerging
markets  offset waning euro-area demand. In the 17-nation euro
region, GDP stagnated, compared with a median forecast in a
Bloomberg survey that called for a 0.2 percent contraction.  Macro Picture  “It was a real relief if you take into consideration all
the nervousness of the market regarding the macro picture and
developments in  Greece ,” said Stephane Ekolo, strategist at
Market Securities in London, in reference to the European
reports. “But we need more to have a continuation of this
trend.”  In the U.S., reports on retail sales matched economists’
expectations.  International Consolidated Airlines, owner of British
Airways Plc, lost 6 percent to 149.90 pence, the most since
November. JPMorgan cut the stock to neutral, the equivalent of
hold, from overweight. The broker cited a slowdown in  Spain ,
losses in the BMI division and the possibility of a stake
disposal from shareholder Bankia SA.  Separately, British Airways and Deutsche Lufthansa AG may
lose bids to limit compensation to passengers whose flights are
delayed, an aide to the European Union’s top court said in a
non-binding opinion.  Inmarsat, Spirax-Sarco  Inmarsat, the biggest provider of satellite services to the
maritime industry, fell 3.3 percent to 421.4 pence. LightSquared
Inc., a former client of Inmarsat which had missed payments,
filed for bankruptcy yesterday.  Spirax-Sarco Engineering Plc retreated 5.1 percent to 2,050
pence. The company fell the most in the FTSE 350 Index after
saying performance in the four months through April was hurt by
an economic downturn in  Latin America , higher input costs and a
strengthening U.K. currency.  G4S rose 3.2 percent to 275.2 pence. The company said
first-quarter revenue increased 7.5 percent at constant  exchange
rate  from the same period last year, led by demand from emerging
markets. The company said it expects the rate of growth to
improve this year and profit margins to expand in the second
half.  Smiths Group Plc (SMIN)  advanced 1.5 percent to 1,041 pence. The
company said sales and operating profit grew in the nine months
to April 28 from the year-earlier period, driven by improved
volumes and profit margins in some divisions. The company
reiterated its guidance “despite the continued difficult
economic and trading conditions,” it said in a statement.  Renishaw Plc (RSW)  gained 9.4 percent to 1,467 pence, the biggest
jump since January. The manufacturer of inspection equipment
said revenue rose in its third quarter and added that the final
quarter in its fiscal year has “started well.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alexis Xydias in London at 
 axydias@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  