-- U.S. Said to Start Probe of $2 Billion JPMorgan Loss
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o   a n d   S e t h   S t e r n
-- 2012-05-15T19:15:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-15/u-s-said-to-start-probe-of-2-billion-jpmorgan-loss.html
The U.S.  Justice Department  and the
Federal Bureau of Investigation in New York have begun a
criminal probe of  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ’s $2 billion trading
loss, a person familiar with the matter said.  The U.S. is looking into whether criminal wrongdoing
occurred in relation to the losses the bank reported last week,
said the person, who declined to be identified because the
matter isn’t public. The inquiry is in its most preliminary
stage, the person said.  The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission and the
Commodity Futures Trading Commission, which regulates
derivatives trading, also are examining New York-based
JPMorgan’s trading activities, according to people familiar with
those probes.  JPMorgan Chief Executive Officer  Jamie Dimon  said on May 10
that the bank made “egregious” mistakes and that the losses of
about $2 billion tied to synthetic credit securities were
“self-inflicted.”  Chief Investment Office  The trading occurred in a portfolio of credit investments
at a unit of the bank called the Chief Investment Office, which
makes trades to balance the bank’s assets and liabilities. The
unit made trades in credit default swaps.  The losses, which could increase by $1 billion or more,
originated out of a London unit of JPMorgan’s Chief Investment
Office, which is generally responsible for managing the bank’s
interest rate, foreign currency and other economic risks.  The company was trying to reposition a portfolio of
corporate credit derivatives and used a trading strategy that
was “flawed, complex, poorly conceived, poorly vetted and
poorly executed,” Dimon told shareholders today at the bank’s
annual meeting in Tampa, Florida.  At the end of an investigation, the U.S. may consider
filing mail, wire and securities fraud charges, which give
prosecutors “enormous” discretion, said Ellen Podgor, a
professor at Stetson University College of Law in  St.
Petersburg , Florida.  ‘Don’t Need Much’  “You don’t need much if the government decides it would
like to proceed,” Podgor said in a telephone interview.  Larry Hamermesh, a former lawyer with the SEC who is now a
professor at Widener University School of Law, said an
investigation into whether criminal wrongdoing occurred may take
some time.  “Just because things fail doesn’t mean that there’s a
crime,” Hamermesh said in a telephone interview.  He said the U.S. may want to scrutinize the trader who took
the position and supervisors who “bear the responsibility for
what was said to investors.”  “These cases are not easy to win and criminal liability
under  securities law  depends on a show of intention to
mislead,” Hamermesh said. “If it’s simply a screw-up that’s
not going to get the government to home base with a jury.”  Joseph Evangelisti , a spokesman for the bank, declined to
comment on the criminal probe.  Ellen Davis , a spokeswoman for
Manhattan U.S. Attorney  Preet Bharara , declined to comment.
 Robert Nardoza , a spokesman for U.S. Attorney Loretta Lynch in
Brooklyn,  New York , where JPMorgan has some of its operations,
also declined to comment.  The probe was reported earlier by the Wall Street Journal.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in New York at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net ;
Seth Stern in Washington at 
 sstern14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net ;
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  