-- U.S. Stock Futures Extend Gain as New York Manufacturing Expands
-- B y   M i c h a e l   P .   R e g a n
-- 2012-05-15T12:34:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-15/u-s-stock-futures-extend-gain-as-new-york-manufacturing-expands.html
U.S. stock-index futures extended
gains after a report showed manufacturing in the  New York  area
grew faster than forecast, easing concern that economic growth
will slow.  Futures on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index expiring next
month added 0.7 percent to 1,343.0 at 8:33 a.m. in New York.   The Federal Reserve Bank of New York’s general economic
index increased to 17.1 this month from 6.6 in April. The median
estimate in a survey of Bloomberg economists called for an
increase to 9. Readings greater than zero signal expansion in
the so-called Empire State Index, which covers New York,
northern  New Jersey  and southern Connecticut.  Another report showed retail sales in the U.S. rose in
April at the slowest pace of the year, showing unseasonably mild
weather and pre-Easter shopping may have pulled consumers to
stores the prior month. The 0.1 percent gain followed a 0.7
percent increase in March, Commerce Department figures showed.  Stocks fell for a second day yesterday, sending the  Dow
Jones Industrial Average  to a four-month  low, as  Greece 
struggled to form a new government amid growing speculation the
nation may leave the European currency. The decline extended the
 S&P 500 ’s retreat from a four-year high on April 2 to 5.7
percent.   The S&P 500 took longer than usual to fall 5 percent from
its peak this year, a sign that any further retreat in U.S.
stocks will be “contained,” according to  Sam Stovall  of S&P.  The benchmark gauge reached the threshold yesterday after
spending 28 days without losing 5 percent from its April high.
Since 1950, it has taken an average 19 days to fall 5 percent,
based on a study by Stovall, S&P’s New York-based chief equity
strategist.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael P. Regan at 
 mregan12@bloomberg.net  