-- U.S. Extraordinary Rendition Suit Reaches Human Rights Court
-- B y   H e a t h e r   S m i t h
-- 2012-05-16T11:32:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-15/u-s-extraordinary-rendition-lawsuit-reaches-human-rights-court.html
A German man who said he was mistaken
for a terrorist more than eight years ago and tortured by U.S.
agents had his suit against Macedonia heard by the  European
Court  of Human Rights after his claims were rejected in three
countries.  Khaled el-Masri said the Balkan country violated the
European Convention on Human Rights by torturing him, denying
his rights to freedom and privacy, and refusing to adequately
investigate his claims. Macedonian guards turned him over to
U.S. agents after he was mistaken for a terrorist with a similar
name as he tried to visit the country in 2003.  Today’s case at the  Human Rights  court in Strasbourg,
 France , is the furthest el-Masri has been able to pursue his
claims he was a victim of “extraordinary rendition,” a U.S.
practice in which terrorism suspects are transferred to a
different country. The U.S. Supreme Court refused in 2007 to
reinstate his suit against the Central Intelligence Agency.  There is “clear evidence of Macedonian government
collusion with covering up the rendition,” James Goldston,  el-
Masri’s lawyer, told the Grand Chamber of the court today.
“Every investigation, except Macedonia’s insignificant inquiry,
has found evidence of details in his complaints.”  El-Masri took a bus from Ulm,  Germany , on New Year’s Eve,
2003 to visit the Macedonian capital of Skopje, according to
court  documents . Macedonian border guards at the Serbian border
crossing questioned el-Masri, who is of Lebanese descent, about
his German passport. El-Masri, whose name is similar to that of
Khalid al-Masri, a man wanted in connection with the Sept. 11
attacks, was then held him in a hotel for about three weeks.  Stripped, Beaten  He was taken to the airport on Jan. 23, 2004, stripped and
beaten, then drugged and flown to  Afghanistan . There he was held
at a CIA-run facility north of Kabul and interrogated about
whether he had ties to al-Qaeda, according to Human Rights Court
documents. He was returned to  Europe  about four months later and
left on a road in Albania.  El-Masri filed the human rights case against Macedonia
after he was notified his 2008 criminal complaint in the country
was dismissed. He is also pursuing a civil case there.  A lawyer representing the Macedonian government said the
complaint isn’t admissible under the European Convention of
Human Rights because el-Masri waited too long after the criminal
inquiry closed to pursue a claim at the human rights court. He
also described el-Masri as uninterested in following up on the
inquiry’s progress.  ‘Totally Passive’  El-Masri “must have become aware of the ineffectiveness of
the complaint long before” the public prosecutor notified him
that the case had been dropped, said Kostadin Bogdanov, the
lawyer for Macedonia. He was “totally passive and displayed no
initiative in showing a crime had been committed against him.”  Darian Pavli, another lawyer for el-Masri, told the court
that the Macedonian position misrepresented his client’s efforts
to follow up on his complaint in Macedonia and that it was the
duty of the public prosecutor to keep the parties informed about
the investigation.  El-Masri’s Macedonian lawyer, who was present at today’s
hearing, called the prosecutors “several times” and was told,
even after a decision had been made to drop the probe, that
there was nothing new to report, Pavli said. Their response was
“a dismal failure of that duty” to the complainant.  German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  in 2005 said then-Secretary
of State  Condoleezza Rice  privately conceded that the U.S. had
made a mistake in detaining el-Masri. The CIA held him long
after then-agency director George Tenet learned he was innocent,
el-Masri has said.  Dean Boyd, a U.S. Justice Department spokesman, declined to
comment.  Marty Report  Macedonia has disputed el-Masri’s account during an
investigation lead by  Switzerland ’s Dick Marty, saying he was
held while its intelligence officials checked with Interpol for
outstanding warrants, then released at the border, according to
excerpts of the 2006 Marty report published by the court.  The human rights tribunal rules on claims that signatories
to the 1950 human rights convention have failed to uphold rights
guaranteed under the treaty.  El-Masri didn’t attend today’s hearing. He has been in jail
near Ulm for about two years after assaulting his town’s mayor,
said Goldston, who is executive director of the New York-based
 Open Society Justice Initiative , after the hearing. “There is
little question he has suffered from post-traumatic stress,” he
said.  Macedonia was formerly part of  Yugoslavia , distinct from
the Macedonia regions of Greece and  Bulgaria .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Heather Smith in Paris at 
 hsmith26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  