-- U.S. Senate Sends Export-Import Bank Measure to Obama
-- B y   K a t h l e e n   H u n t e r   a n d   B r i a n   W i n g f i e l d
-- 2012-05-16T10:49:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-15/u-s-senate-sends-export-import-bank-measure-to-obama.html
The  U.S. Senate  voted to reauthorize
the Export-Import Bank for three years and increase its lending
authority 40 percent by 2014, clearing the measure for President
 Barack Obama ’s signature.  The 78-20 vote yesterday follows passage of the measure by
the House last week. The bill, H.R. 2072, would raise the bank’s
lending limit to $140 billion. The Export-Import Bank may reach
its current limit of $100 billion by May 31 without the
reauthorization.  “This bank helps American companies sell their products
overseas and hire workers here at home,” Senate Majority Leader
 Harry Reid , a Nevada Democrat, said on the Senate floor.
“Reauthorizing this important legislation is the kind of
consensus proposal that shouldn’t result in any kind of a
partisan fight.”  The 78-year-old bank provides loan guarantees, insurance
and loans to help buyers purchase U.S. exports. Last year it
approved a record $32.7 billion in financing, with more than $6
billion supporting small-business exports, according to a bank
 fact sheet . About $11 billion of the financing benefited large
commercial sales of  Boeing Co (BA) .-manufactured aircraft, it said.  The vote ended a months-long fight for survival for the
bank, which became part of a Tea Party-fueled dispute over
 government aid  to business. After a multimillion-dollar lobbying
campaign, a May 4 deal averted the expiration of the bank’s
charter, set for May 31.  ‘Important Bill’  “This important step will help American businesses create
jobs here at home and sell their products around the world --
all at no cost to taxpayers,” Obama said in a statement
praising Senate passage of the measure.  Voting against the measure were 19 Republicans and Vermont
Senator  Bernie Sanders , an independent who caucuses with the
Democrats.  A May 4 compromise between House Majority Leader  Eric Cantor , a Virginia Republican, and Democratic Whip  Steny Hoyer 
of  Maryland  allowed the House to pass the measure May 9 by a
330-93 vote. It would raise the lending limit to $120 billion
this year, to $130 billion in 2013 and to $140 billion by the
end of the 2014 fiscal year.  “A failure to reauthorize the Export-Import Bank would
have put American exporters at a steep disadvantage to their
international competitors and put at risk nearly 300,000
American jobs,” Senator  Tim Johnson , a South Dakota Democrat
who is chairman of the Banking, Housing and Urban Affairs
Committee, said in a statement. “I’m glad reasonable minds came
together to pass this commonsense bipartisan bill that supports
so many jobs across the nation.”  Opposing Sides  The debate over the Export-Import Bank pitted U.S.
airlines, small-government groups and Tea Party Republicans
against Obama’s administration, the U.S. Chamber of Commerce and
Chicago-based Boeing.  Businesses were facing uncertainty about the future of the
lender, and the Senate vote “takes a lot of doubt out on the
part of exporters and their customers,” Fred P. Hochberg, the
Ex-Im Bank’s chairman, said in an interview. The business
community that supported reauthorization “made their voices
heard on  Capitol Hill ,” Hochberg said.  Senators yesterday rejected a group of Republican
amendments, including a proposal by Tea Party-backed Utah
Senator  Mike Lee  that would have phased the bank out of
existence and barred new loans as of June 1, 2013. Under an
agreement reached yesterday, each amendment needed 60 votes for
adoption.  ‘Corporate Welfare’  “We need to end the corporate welfare that distorts the
market and supports crony capitalism,” Lee said on the Senate
floor. “What’s best for American businesses is getting the
federal government out of their way.”  In the House, 93 Republicans -- more than one-third of the
party’s members in that chamber -- voted against reauthorizing
the bank’s charter.  A group of U.S. carriers led by Atlanta-based  Delta Air
Lines Inc. (DAL)  sued the bank in November, contending that its
financing for non-U.S. competitors, such as  Air India Ltd. (BHARTI) , may
harm domestic industries.  Delta spokesman Trebor Banstetter said that the legislation
represents a “step toward much-needed reforms.” The company
said the measure “requires the bank to hear the views of
adversely affected U.S. companies before it acts” and that it
“directs the administration to seek an end to the government-backed financing of large-cabin aircraft sales through
international negotiations.”  ‘Out of Control’  Two groups that support smaller government and lower taxes,
Heritage Action and the Club for Growth, have urged lawmakers to
oppose the measure.  “The size of government is out of control,” Club for
Growth President  Chris Chocola  said in an interview last month.
“Any reauthorization is going to expose the taxpayers” to
default.  Heritage Action’s communications director, Dan Holler, said
in a telephone interview that Congress’s move to renew the
bank’s charter represents “a missed opportunity for
Republicans” to eliminate a government entity and make the case
that Obama’s policies promote “crony capitalism.”  Washington-based industry groups supporting renewal of the
lender’s charter include the U.S. Chamber of Commerce and the
National Association of Manufacturers, both of which count U.S.
exporters among their members.  The Export-Import Bank “is one of the only tools
manufacturers in the  United States  have to counter hundreds of
billions of dollars in export financing that foreign governments
offer to their exporters,” the  National Association of
Manufacturers  said in a letter to senators.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kathleen Hunter in Washington at 
 khunter9@bloomberg.net ;
Brian Wingfield in Washington at 
 bwingfield3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  