-- U.S. Consumer-Price Index Unchanged; Core Rate Climbs 0.2%
-- B y   T i m o t h y   R .   H o m a n
-- 2012-05-15T12:43:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-15/u-s-consumer-price-index-unchanged-core-rate-climbs-0-2-.html
A measure of the U.S. cost of living
was unchanged in April, restrained by a drop in energy prices
and supporting the view of some  Federal Reserve  policy makers
that inflation will ease.  Last month’s consumer-price index matched the median
forecast of economists surveyed by Bloomberg News and followed
three straight gains that included a 0.3 percent rise in March,
Labor Department data showed today in Washington. The so-called
core measure, which excludes more volatile food and energy
costs, rose 0.2 percent for a second month.  Some companies are holding the line on prices as job growth
shows signs of cooling, limiting wage gains. Slowing inflation
would underscore views of some Fed officials who have said
higher fuel costs will have only a temporary effect, allowing
the central bank to stick to its plan to keep  interest rates  low
at least until late 2014.  “There’s a lot of slack in the economy,” said  Scott Brown , chief economist at Raymond James & Associates Inc. in  St.
Petersburg ,  Florida . Inflation is “sort of at the sweet spot as
far as the Fed is concerned. The recovery is on track but it’s
not especially strong.”  Retail sales  rose in April at the slowest pace of the year,
showing mild weather and early Easter shopping may have pulled
consumers to stores in the previous month, according to other
data today. The 0.1 percent gain followed a 0.7 percent increase
in March, Commerce Department figures showed.  Stock Futures  Stock-index futures held earlier gains after the reports.
The contract on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index maturing in June
rose 0.7 percent to 1,343.5 at 8:41 a.m. in  New York  as economic
growth in  Germany  helped the euro area avoid its second
recession in three years.  A separate Labor Department report showed average hourly
earnings after adjusting for changes in prices were unchanged in
April after a 0.1 percent decrease. Compared with the same month
last year, real earnings fell 0.5 percent.  Estimates from the 80 economists surveyed ranged from a
decrease of 0.1 percent to a 0.3 percent advance.  Consumer prices increased 2.3 percent in the 12 months
ended in April, the smallest gain since February 2011, today’s
report showed.  Year-Over-Year  The gain in the core gauge from March matched the median
forecast of economists surveyed. Core prices were also up 2.3
percent for the last 12 months, matching the year-over-year gain
in March.  A 1.5 percent jump in the cost of used vehicle prices
contributed to the gain in the core measure, as did increases in
medical care services, transportation and apparel.  Today’s report showed energy costs decreased 1.7 percent
from a month earlier, the most since October, after climbing 0.9
percent in March. Gasoline prices dropped 2.6 percent, also the
most in six months. Food costs rose 0.2 percent for a second
month.  “So far, pricing is in line with our expectations,” Hugh Johnston, chief financial officer at  PepsiCo Inc. (PEP) , said on May
10 at a consumer products presentation. “We feel good about the
pricing we have right now.”  The cost of rent climbed 0.2 percent, today’s report
showed.  Federal Reserve  Fed officials, who’ve said energy costs would subside, have
indicated they will hold off on more monetary stimulus unless
prices rise more slowly than their 2 percent target or the
economic expansion falters. Their preferred price gauge, issued
by the Commerce Department and tied to  consumer spending , rose
2.1 percent in the year ended in March.  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said on April 25 that a rise
in gasoline prices “has created a temporary bulge” in
inflation that’s likely to “pass through the system.”  Fuel prices have already started to recede. The cost of a
gallon of regular gasoline at the pump eased to $3.73 on May 14
from a 10-month high of $3.94 reached on April 5, figures from
AAA, the biggest U.S. auto group, show.  A Labor Department report last week showed the cost of
imported goods dropped 0.5 percent in April, the most since
June. Wholesale prices in April fell for the first time in four
months, another Labor Department showed last week.  The CPI is the broadest of three price gauges because it
includes goods and services. Almost 60 percent of the index
covers prices consumers pay for services ranging from medical
visits to airline fares, movie tickets and rents.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Timothy R. Homan in  Washington  at 
 thoman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  