-- U.S. May Empire State Manufacturing Index (Text)
-- B y   E d i t o r :   A l e x   T a n z i
-- 2012-05-15T12:33:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-15/u-s-may-empire-state-manufacturing-index-text-.html
Following is the text of the Empire
State Manufacturing Index.
The May Empire State Manufacturing Survey indicates that
manufacturing activity expanded in  New York  State at a moderate
pace. The general business conditions index rose eleven points
to 17.1. The new orders index inched up to 8.3, and the
shipments index shot up eighteen points to 24.1. The indexes for
both prices paid and prices received were positive but lower in
May, indicating that the pace of price increases slowed.
Employment index readings remained relatively healthy,
suggesting that employment levels and hours worked continued to
expand. Future indexes were noticeably lower than last month,
indicating a positive but somewhat less optimistic view of the
six-month outlook.  In a series of supplementary questions, firms were asked about
past and expected changes in both their input prices (prices
paid) and selling prices (prices received). Respondents
estimated that the prices they paid increased 3.6 percent, on
average, over the past twelve months--down sharply from the 8.1
percent rise reported in last May’s survey. Looking ahead to the
next twelve months, respondents on average predicted a price
rise of 3.5 percent. Firms reported smaller increases in prices
received: the average respondent cited a 1.7 percent increase in
selling prices over the past year (down from 1.9 percent in the
May 2011 survey) and an expected increase of 2.1 percent for the
year ahead.
Activity Expands at a Moderate Pace
The May index for general business conditions rose a solid
eleven points to 17.1, suggesting that activity for New York
State’s manufacturers expanded at a moderate pace. A little more
than 40 percent of respondents reported that conditions had
improved over the month, while 23 percent reported that
conditions had worsened. The new orders index inched up two
points to 8.3, signaling a modest rise in orders. The shipments
index shot up eighteen points to 24.1, its highest level in a
year. The unfilled orders index remained negative, at -4.8. The
delivery time index fell to zero, and the inventories index
inched up four points to 4.8.
Prices Increases Slow
The indexes for both prices paid and prices received retreated
in May. The prices paid index fell eight points to 37.4. Though
still elevated and therefore indicative of significant price
increases, this index has fallen for the past two months,
suggesting that the pace of growth in input prices has been
slowing. The prices received index fell seven points to 12.1,
signaling a moderate though somewhat slower pace of growth in
selling prices. Employment indexes showed reasonable growth in
employment levels and hours worked. The index for number of
employees was little changed at 20.5, and the average workweek
index rose six points to 12.1.
Six-Month Outlook Less Optimistic
Future indexes were positive, but were generally lower,
suggesting that the level of optimism about the six-month
outlook was not quite as high as it has been in recent months.
The future general business conditions index fell fourteen
points to 29.3. The future new orders index fell sixteen points
to 30.1, and the future shipments index declined nineteen points
to 25.3. The future prices paid index climbed seven points to
57.8, suggesting that input prices are expected to accelerate in
the coming months, while the future prices received index held
steady at 22.9. Future employment indexes were positive but
lower in May. The capital expenditures index fell twelve points
to 19.3, and the technology spending index fell six points to
12.1. 