-- Dow Falls to Four-Month Low as Greece Overshadows Economy
-- B y   R i t a   N a z a r e t h
-- 2012-05-15T21:37:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-15/u-s-stock-futures-climb-on-german-growth-groupon-jumps.html
The  Dow Jones Industrial Average (INDU)  fell
to an almost four-month low as Greece’s failure to form a new
government offset better-than-estimated American economic data.  Commodity (SPXL1)  shares tumbled as the Dollar Index extended its
longest rally ever, reducing the appeal of raw materials.  Avon
Products Inc. (AVP)  slumped 11 percent as Coty Inc. withdrew its $10.7
billion offer for the biggest door-to-door cosmetics seller.
 Home Depot Inc. (HD) , the largest U.S. home-improvement retailer,
slid 2.4 percent as it forecast slowing sales gains.  Lennar
Corp. (LEN)  and  D.R. Horton Inc. (DHI)  jumped at least 2.5 percent as
homebuilder confidence climbed to the highest level since 2007.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index fell 0.6 percent to
1,330.66 at 4 p.m.  New York  time, dropping 2 percent in three
days. The Dow lost 63.35 points, or 0.5 percent, to 12,632, the
lowest since Jan. 19. About  7.3 billion  shares changed hands on
U.S. exchanges, or 9 percent above the three-month average.  “It’s fear of European drama,” said Paul Zemsky, the New
York-based head of asset allocation for ING Investment
Management. His firm oversees $160 billion. “It seems obvious
that leaving the euro would be a disaster for Greece and very
costly to its economy. Yet they seem to be on a path where that
could happen. We’ve had some good U.S. economic data, but people
are afraid to hold equities. It’s extremely frustrating.”  Stocks fell for a third day and the euro tumbled to a four-
month low amid concern Greece will leave the shared currency.
The European country will hold new elections after President
Karolos Papoulias failed to broker a governing coalition
following an inconclusive May 6 vote. The impasse offset
American reports showing that manufacturing in the New York
region and homebuilder confidence grew more than forecast.  Safety Demand  Investors’ demand for safety pushed up the  Dollar Index (DXY) , a
gauge of the currency against six major peers, for the 12th
straight day. The dollar gain helped send copper, gold and oil
lower. Gauges of energy and  raw material  shares in the S&P 500
slumped at least 1.4 percent.  Freeport-McMoRan Copper & Gold
Inc. (FCX)  dropped 4.8 percent to $32.65.  Alcoa Inc. (AA)  slid 2.4 percent
to $8.71.  Pacific Investment Management Co., which manages the
world’s largest bond fund, doesn’t see the European  currency 
union surviving in its present form. The most probable outcome
is that the 17-nation euro area will evolve into a smaller union
centered on France, Germany, Italy and Spain, and underpinned by
much stronger coordination and financing, he said.  “The status quo is no longer an option for  Europe  over the
three to five year horizon,” Pimco Chief Executive Officer
Mohamed El-Erian wrote in a report outlining the Newport Beach,
California-based company’s medium-term economic outlook.  Avon Tumbles  Avon tumbled 11 percent, the most in the  S&P 500 , to
$18.71. Coty, the maker of perfumes by Beyonce Knowles and Heidi
Klum, said attempts to speak to Avon board members, including
Chairman Andrea Jung and Chief Executive Officer Sheri McCoy,
failed after it received a two-sentence e-mail requesting a
deadline extension. Coty had given yesterday as a cutoff date
for a response when it made its $24.75-a-share bid last week.  Home Depot retreated 2.4 percent to $48.67 after
forecasting sales this year will slow from the first quarter
because warm weather pulled forward purchases of plants and
gardening equipment.  A measure of  homebuilders  in S&P indexes rallied 2.2
percent on signals of an improving outlook for construction.
Lennar increased 2.8 percent to $29.16.  D.R. Horton  advanced 2.5
percent to $17.33.  JPMorgan Dividend  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  rebounded from the biggest two-day
drop since 2009, climbing 1.3 percent to $36.24. Chief Executive
Officer  Jamie Dimon , responding to shareholders at the annual
meeting after disclosing a $2 billion trading loss last week,
said he sees no reason the bank’s dividend would be affected.  Groupon Inc. (GRPN)  rose 3.7 percent to $12.17, after soaring as
much as 27 percent earlier. The largest daily-deal website
reported first-quarter profit that topped estimates, helped by
lower marketing costs and expanded international sales.  TJX Cos. rose the most in the S&P 500, climbing 6.9 percent
to $42.45. The owner of the  T.J. Maxx (TJX)  and Marshalls retail
chains reported first-quarter profit that beat analysts’
estimates, driven by demand in Europe. Sales rose 11 percent to
$5.8 billion from $5.22 billion a year earlier, matching
analysts’ estimates.  Facebook Inc. (FB)  boosted the price range on its initial public
offering to seek as much as $12.8 billion, signaling that Chief
Executive Officer  Mark Zuckerberg  expects demand for the social
network to withstand recent market turmoil.  New Range  The new range is $34 to $38 a share, a regulatory filing
today shows, indicating a market value of as much as $104.2
billion. That would make Facebook, co-founded in 2004 by
Zuckerberg, worth more than  Citigroup Inc. (C)  and McDonald’s Corp.  Facebook, which has spent more than a week pitching the IPO
to investors across the U.S., raised the range even after the
S&P 500 yesterday slumped to the  lowest level  since February.
That may spell disappointment for investors if the slump
persists, said Bruce McCain, chief investment strategist at the
private-banking unit of KeyCorp.  “They get more money upfront if they can make it go, but
if the enthusiasm is weak out of the gate, it makes it that much
more difficult for the company going forward,” said McCain, who
helps oversee more than $20 billion for the Cleveland-based
bank. “You would think they would be a little more cautious.”  The S&P 500 took longer than usual to fall 5 percent from
its peak this year, a sign that any further retreat in U.S.
stocks will be “contained,” according to  Sam Stovall  of S&P.  28 Days  The benchmark gauge reached the threshold yesterday after
spending 28 days without losing 5 percent from its April high.
 Since 1950 (SPX) , it has taken an average 19 days to fall 5 percent,
based on a study by Stovall, S&P’s New York-based chief equity
strategist.  Among those that took 28 days or longer to occur, only 25
percent eventually turned into  corrections , or retreats of more
than 10 percent, the data show. Stovall said in an e-mail that
he views losses of less than 5 percent as “noise” and those of
between 5 percent and 10 percent as pullbacks.  “The duration of this ‘noise’ likely indicates that the
ultimate decline will be contained, unless new worries emerge or
existing concerns become increasingly intensified in the coming
weeks or months,” Stovall wrote yesterday. “The market will
eventually bottom in a ‘pullback’ mode.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rita Nazareth in New York at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  