-- U.S. Retail Sales Probably Slowed as Labor Market Cooled
-- B y   A l e x   K o w a l s k i
-- 2012-05-15T04:01:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-15/u-s-retail-sales-probably-slowed-as-labor-market-cooled.html
Retail sales  in the U.S. probably
slowed in April as the unseasonably mild weather and pre-Easter
shopping that pulled consumers to stores and malls the prior
month wore off, economists said before a report today.  The 0.2 percent gain in sales would follow a 0.8 percent
March increase and mark the weakest advance in four months,
according to the  median  forecast of 80 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News. Another report may show little change in the
cost of living last month.  Sales at building material, clothing and furniture stores
probably deteriorated in April compared with a weather-induced
gain in the first three months of 2012, the warmest on record.
Weaker employment growth may also make it more difficult for
households to match the pace of spending last quarter, which was
the fastest in more than a year.  “An early Easter and better weather in the prior months
probably pulled some growth forward, so the underlying trend for
consumers is better than the April number should portend,” said
 Russell Price , senior economist at Ameriprise Financial Inc. in
 Detroit . Price was the third-best forecaster of retail sales in
the two years ended in March, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. “Consumers need to see their financial prospects on
firmer footing, and that primarily means they need stronger
employment growth.”  The Commerce Department’s figures are due at 8:30 a.m. in
Washington. Economists’  estimates  ranged from a decline of 0.3
percent to a gain of 0.7 percent.  Retailers’ same-store sales trailed analysts’ estimates in
April for the first time since November, industry data show.
Sales at Target Corp., the second-biggest U.S. discount chain,
rose 1.1 percent, below the 2.9 percent projection.  Warmer Weather  Part of that slowdown may reflect seasonal events that
pulled sales into the previous month. The average temperature in
March was the warmest on record in the U.S., and Easter fell on
April 8 compared with April 24 the year before.  The retail sales category used to calculate gross domestic
product, which excludes sales at auto dealers, building material
stores and service stations, will show a 0.3 percent gain in
April, after a 0.4 percent rise in the prior month, according to
economists surveyed.  Last quarter,  consumer spending , which accounts for 70
percent of the economy, grew at a 2.9 percent annual rate, the
most since the fourth quarter of 2010, according to data from
the Commerce Department.  Sustaining that pace of purchasing, nonetheless, may be
more difficult with weaker job growth. Employers took on 115,000
workers last month, the fewest since October, a Labor Department
report showed May 4. The jobless rate also declined as people
left the work force.  Dining Out  “The consumer environment has been and continues to be
tough,” G. Price Cooper, chief financial officer of restaurant
chain  Texas Roadhouse Inc. (TXRH) , said during a May 9 investor
conference. “It has been that way for a couple of years.
Fortunately, I guess from the industry perspective, we’ve seen a
pretty decent trend in sales over the last year.”  Less expensive fuel will free up some of consumers’ cash
for other goods and services. The average price of a gallon of
regular gasoline fell to $3.73 on May 13 from a peak this year
of $3.94 in early April, according to AAA, the nation’s largest
auto club.  The decline in fuel costs is also showing up in measures of
inflation. The consumer-price index, due at 8:30 a.m., was
unchanged in April after climbing 0.3 percent the prior month,
according to the survey median before a Labor Department report
May 15. Prices rose 2.3 percent over the past year, down from
2.7 percent in March.  Also today, an 8:30 a.m. report from the Federal Reserve
Bank of  New York  is projected to show manufacturing in that
region picked up in May. A 10 a.m. report from the Commerce
Department may show inventories  increased  0.4 percent in March,
according to the Bloomberg survey median.  
To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Kowalski in  Washington  at 
 akowalski13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  