-- Lufthansa, IAG May Lose on Late Flight Cash, Court Aide Says
-- B y   A o i f e   W h i t e
-- 2012-05-15T12:21:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-15/lufthansa-iag-may-lose-on-delayed-flight-cash-court-aide-says.html
Deutsche Lufthansa AG (LHA)  and British
Airways Plc, owned by  International Consolidated Airlines Group
SA (IAG) , should lose bids to limit compensation to passengers whose
flights are delayed, an aide to the European Union’s top court
said in a non-binding opinion.  Passengers may seek compensation of as much as 600 euros
($771) for delays of three hours or more, said Yves Bot, the
advocate general to the EU Court of Justice. He rejected the
airlines’ arguments that the compensation rules unfairly
burdened them with extra costs.  “The proportion of flights for which delay confers
entitlement to the compensation” under EU rules “is less than
0.15 percent,” Bot said in the opinion.  The EU has strengthened  passenger rights  by introducing
rules that boosted compensation for airline travelers stranded
because of overbooking or cancellation. The EU courts have been
asked to rule on the limits of these rules in recent cases over
passengers bumped from their flights and the closing of European
airspace in 2010 due to a volcanic explosion.  Lufthansa is defending itself from a claim by a man
traveling with his sons after a flight from Lagos to  Frankfurt 
was delayed by more than 24 hours. British Airways,  easyJet Plc (EZJ) ,
 TUI Travel Plc (TT/)  and the International Air Transport Association
industry group are challenging the U.K. Civil Aviation Authority
over passenger compensation rules.  In both, local courts were asked to reconsider a 2009 EU
Court of Justice ruling requiring financial amends for flights
delayed by more than three hours.  2009 Ruling  British Airways is “aware of today’s non-binding opinion”
and awaits the final ruling, according to an e-mailed statement.
The 2009 ruling on passenger compensation “has come under
criticism from many parties and we also believe the ruling was
wrong,” the company said.  Lufthansa declined to comment pending a final EU court
decision, said  Peter Schneckenleitner , a spokesman for the
airline.  EasyJet, TUI Travel and IATA didn’t immediately respond to
e-mails seeking comment.  While Bot’s opinion isn’t binding, such advice is followed
by the EU court in the majority of cases.  National tribunals will have the final say. A court in
Cologne,  Germany , will rule on the Lufthansa case. The  High
Court  of Justice in  London  will decide on the challenge by TUI,
British Airways, easyJet and IATA. Judges in both matters asked
the EU court to rule on how the law should be applied.  The cases are  C-581/10  Nelson and Others v Deutsche
Lufthansa AG,  C-629/10  TUI Travel plc, British Airways plc,
easyJet Airline Co. Ltd, International Air Transport Association
v Civil Aviation Authority.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aoife White in Brussels at 
 awhite62@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  