-- UN to Help Give World’s Poor Fairer Share of Carbon Credits
-- B y   C a t h e r i n e   A i r l i e
-- 2012-05-15T09:42:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-15/un-to-help-give-world-s-poor-fairer-share-of-carbon-credits-1-.html
Efforts by the  United Nations  to ease
rules for carbon-cutting projects may encourage investments in
small-scale projects in solar water heaters and efficient
cookstoves in Africa and  Asia .  The UN Clean Development Mechanism’s Executive Board,
regulator of the world’s second-biggest carbon market by traded
volume, agreed last week to consider ways to quicken the
approval procedure for some emission-reduction activities. The
new process would help ease difficulties facing projects that
produce fewer emission reductions than others, including those
that create usable fuel from animal dung and renewable energy
initiatives small enough to power a light-bulb.  “It’s definitely a good thing,”  Gareth Phillips , chief
climate change officer at Sindicatum Sustainable Resources Group
Ltd., a Singapore-based developer of carbon offset projects,
said in a phone interview from Jakarta yesterday. “Small-scale
projects sometimes end up being more complex and harder to do
than normal-scale projects, because the methodologies are
shorter and sometimes didn’t address questions that the auditors
and regulators had, so they were left hanging.” Small-scale
projects are defined by the UN as those generating less than
15,000 tons of credits a year.  Favored-Activities List  UN Certified Emission Reduction credits for delivery in
December have slumped 71 percent in the last 12 months to 3.65
euros ($4.69) a metric ton. The price plunged as a rush of
investments boosted supplies while a failure of nations to agree
on a global climate deal left the Europe Union, where CERs can
be used for compliance with the bloc’s emissions trading system,
as the main market for UN credits. They traded at a record low
of 3.27 euros last month.  China  produces almost two-thirds of
all credits, the first of which were issued in 2005.  The Executive Board wants to consider expanding a list of
favored activities to include those that produce fewer offsets,
according to a May 11 statement. The list identifies projects
that are automatically deemed to require emission credits to
make them financially viable, or “additional.”  CF Partners, a London-based fund that invests in emissions-
cutting projects and matches credits to buyers, said it has
funded rural biogas projects, which can be more difficult to
develop despite the emissions savings and improvement in quality
of life for communities they bring.  “The validation process is challenging when compared with
more proven methodologies,”  David Crowe , primary portfolio
manager at CF Partners, said by e-mail. “Streamlining this
process would encourage us to increase our investment in similar
projects.”  Validation Stage  The CDM Executive Board, which met to discuss new
regulations last week in Bonn, also wants to look at slimming
down or skipping the so-called validation stage, an early check
to ensure a project will actually cut emissions and so may be
approved to win credits.  Sindicatum said expanding the favored-activities list may
make it quicker, easier and probably cheaper for some projects
to get through the approval process. The list would allow the
Executive Board to automatically deem some projects as
additional, rather than seeking proof from each one that extra
revenue from offsets is needed to make it viable.  About a quarter of the world’s population doesn’t have
access to modern cooking fuels or electricity, forcing people to
use kerosene-burning lamps for light, and wood and charcoal to
cook food and boil water to make it safe for drinking, according
to UN Environment Program figures.  ‘Exciting Initiative’  The new process may tempt investors to back projects
previously bypassed in favor of industrial investments that
generate more credits, such as those in China and  India  linked
to hydro-fluorocarbons and adipic acid which make up 62 percent
of all credits issued so far.  “This is an exciting initiative because it could spur a
great many, very beneficial projects in regions that have yet to
fully benefit from the CDM,” Maosheng Duan, chairman of the
Executive Board, said in the e-mailed statement. “The next step
is to come up with a workable proposal, one that reduces
transaction costs yet ensures that the emission reductions
produced are real, measurable and additional.”  Since the carbon offset program started accepting
applications in 2003, it has taken more than a year on average
for projects to complete the so-called validation stage. That
time has shrunk to about 250 days on average for projects,
according to figures for April based on analysis from the UN
Environment Program’s Risoe Center.  Comfort for Investors  Skipping a validation stage is done for some programs that
create voluntary credits, which are used by corporations and
individuals wishing to voluntarily offset emissions rather than
doing so to comply with any laws. Even so, the validation stage
gives investors confidence before committing money to projects,
and removing that step may deter investment, Phillips said.  “From an investor’s point of view there is some comfort
knowing that your project has been registered before you move
ahead with an investment,” he said.  The UN’s carbon market was created by the 1997  Kyoto
Protocol , an agreement ratified by 191 countries, excluding the
U.S., that set emissions limits for developed countries in the
eight years through to 2012. The market is governed by rules
agreed under the Marrakech Accords in 2001. Nations are meeting
this week in Bonn, to continue negotiations on climate
protection agreements after 2012.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Catherine Airlie in London at 
 cairlie@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  