-- Hungary's Stimulus Flop Corners Orban Before IMF Talks Start
-- B y   Z o l t a n   S i m o n
-- 2012-05-16T08:46:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-15/hungary-s-stimulus-crashing-corners-orban-before-bailout-talks.html
Hungarian Premier  Viktor Orban ’s
negotiating hand going into bailout talks with the  International
Monetary Fund  has been weakened after the economy slumped the
most in three years, said economists from London to Budapest.  Hungary is headed toward joining the  Czech Republic  and
 Romania  among eastern European countries in recession as the
euro region’s debt crisis saps demand for their exports. That
adds to pressure on Orban to obtain aid from the IMF and limits
his ability to protect the flat personal income tax, a
cornerstone of his economic policy, said  Neil Shearing , chief
 emerging markets  economist at  Capital Economics  in London.  “As long as the economy isn’t growing, the government’s
room to maneuver in IMF negotiations is limited,” Shearing said
by phone yesterday. “One of the red lines the government has
drawn is that it’s not willing to debate the flat income tax,
while the IMF has been fairly critical. Keeping the tax risks
becoming self-defeating, creating a vicious cycle that’s
difficult to break out of.”  The country, seeking a date to start aid negotiations six
months after requesting financial assistance, is on the brink of
its second recession in three years even after the government
touted a “hidden” $5.3 billion stimulus package, according to
data released yesterday.  Forint, Bonds, CDS  The forint fell 0.5 percent to 295.07 per euro at 10:22
a.m. in Budapest, its weakest in in three weeks, as Greek
political parties failed to form a government and will hold new
elections that may decide whether the country will be the first
euro-area member to drop the common currency.  Hungary ’s benchmark 10-year bonds dropped, raising yields
to 8.49 percent, the highest since April 24, from 8.36 percent
yesterday. Credit-default swaps, measuring the cost to insure
government debt against default, rose to 566.024 basis points
from 559.167 yesterday, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Gross domestic product  plunged 1.3 percent in the three
months to March from the fourth quarter, the most among the 19
 European Union members  that reported output data through
yesterday. That followed economic stagnation in the October-
December period.  The flat personal income tax cut  budget  revenue and drove
Orban to squeeze companies for cash to close budget holes. The
government approved taxes on banking, energy, telecommunications
and insurance companies last week to allay EU concern that its
budget was unsustainable and to unfreeze grants from the bloc.  Bailout Talks  The European Commission last month authorized the start of
bailout talks after Orban pledged to change a central bank
regulation to ensure monetary-policy independence. With
parliament still debating the changes, the IMF hasn’t given a
date for talks, which the government requested in November as
the country’s credit grade was cut to junk, the forint fell to a
record low against the euro and debt auctions failed.  Prospects of a bailout boosted the forint 6 percent against
the euro this year, the sixth-biggest increase in the world,
after a 16 percent drop in the second half of 2011.  In a  country report  published in January, the IMF said it
was “concerned about the underlying composition of fiscal
policy,” citing a “highly regressive mix” of tax and spending
policies. It recommended Hungary “revisit” the levy on
personal incomes.  Minimum Wage  The Cabinet raised the  minimum wage  by 18 percent this year
and urged private companies to compensate lower-income earners
who saw their pay cut by the flat tax, hurting competitiveness
at a time when the jobless rate is at a two-year high.  Mihaly Varga, a former finance minister who is currently
Orban’s chief of staff, will replace Tamas Fellegi as the
minister in charge of IMF negotiations. The change shows the
government’s focus on obtaining the bailout, said  Luis Costa , a
London-based strategist at  Citigroup Inc. (C)   “Varga is probably one of the last credible men in the
government and so should give some impetus to the
negotiations,” Costa said in an e-mail. “We also think that he
has a mandate from Orban to move on some aspects of the talks,
whereas his predecessor Fellegi did not.”  The 16 percent personal income tax introduced in 2011
failed to raise household spending last year after cutting the
burden for higher earners. To bolster state coffers, the
government nationalized private-pension fund savings and levied
special taxes on financial, energy, telecommunication and retail
companies.  Budget Deficit  The measures masked the deterioration of the budget, with
the shortfall reaching 5.25 percent of GDP last year without
one-time revenue, the European Commission said in a May 11
report. It prompted the EU executive to partially suspend
development grants to Hungary from 2013 to enforce fiscal
discipline as  Greece  teetering on the edge of default triggered
investor concern about contagion to the rest of the euro area.  “While others gave in to temptation, we resisted and
rejected austerity, which led the European Commission to charge
that we ruined our structural balance by carrying out a 1.2
trillion-forint hidden economic stimulus last year,” Matolcsy
said on May 9. “That led to a 6 percent increase in real wages,
maintaining growth and boosting the employment rate in a very
tough external environment. We are expecting the same for 2012
and 2013.”  The economy shrank in the third quarter of 2011 from the
previous three months and stagnated in October-December,
according to revised data published by the statistics office
yesterday. The  unemployment rate  was 11.7 percent in the January
to March period, the highest in two years.  ‘International Trends’  The euro region’s crisis is hurting economies across
eastern  Europe , even as  Germany , Europe’s largest economy,
expanded 0.5 percent in the first quarter. Czech GDP dropped 1
percent that period, the third consecutive decline. Romania
slipped into its second recession in four years after its
economy declined 0.1 percent.  Hungary’s slump was “led by international trends” that
“clearly show that Europe is still facing serious growth
challenges,” the prime minister’s office said yesterday in a
statement.  A dearth of lending is exacerbating Hungary’s woes, with
the central bank warning last month of a “severe” credit
crunch as commercial banks curb lending after paying special
taxes and being forced to take losses on foreign-currency
mortgages last year.  ‘Negative Turning Point’  OTP Bank Nyrt. (OTP) , Hungary’s largest lender, yesterday
reported that first-quarter net income plunged 66 percent to
12.8 billion forint because of a bank tax and losses on a
foreign-currency loan repayment plan.  “We are witnessing a negative turning point,” the GKI
research institute in Budapest wrote in a report yesterday.
“The data suggest that the contraction can’t be explained by
the external environment alone and that domestic demand and the
economic policy behind that had a key role.”  Hungary’s economy will contract 0.3 percent this year,
according to the European Commission, while Nomura International
Plc forecast yesterday that GDP will decline 1.3 percent in 2012
and grow 0.3 percent in 2013.  A shrinking economy will make it more challenging for
Hungary to meet its budget-deficit targets of 2.5 percent of GDP
this year and 2.2 percent in 2013. The tax changes announced
last week will probably hurt the economy, Ferenc Karvalits, a
central bank vice president, said in e-mailed answers to
questions from Bloomberg News.  “The impact of this sharply lower growth view is
particularly pronounced on the fiscal outlook,” Peter Attard Montalto, an economist with Nomura in  London , said in e-mailed
comments. “In Hungary it erases many of the gains made by the
convergence report and means a deficit of around 4 percent of
GDP for this year is most likely.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zoltan Simon in Budapest at 
 zsimon@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  