-- Hungary Heads for Recession as Austerity Shackles Growth
-- B y   R a d o s l a v   T o m e k
-- 2012-05-15T11:47:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-15/hungary-heads-for-recession-as-austerity-shackles-growth.html
Hungary is heading toward joining the
 Czech Republic  and Romania in a recession as austerity measures
across  Europe  damp demand for exports and sap  consumer spending .  Hungary’s gross domestic product contracted 1.3 percent in
the first quarter from the previous three months, when the
economy stagnated, while the Czech output  fell  1 percent, the
third quarterly drop. Romania slipped into its second  recession 
in four years, according to flash estimates today from the
countries’ statistics offices.  “A large part of the region was already struggling to
achieve growth even before the euro region’s debt crisis
escalated,”  Neil Shearing , an emerging-market economist at
Capital Economics Ltd. in  London , said by phone. “The data
today painted a pretty downbeat picture and there isn’t much
policy makers can do about it.”  Eastern European economies are dependent on export demand
from the euro region, which is saddled by a sovereign-debt
crisis. Governments across the region have pushed through
austerity measures to reduce their debt burden and fend off
contagion from their western neighbors, eroding domestic demand.  Hungary’s forint rose 0.38 percent to 292.08 per euro at
1:38 p.m. in Budapest, heading for its first closing gain in
three days. The Czech koruna was down 0.19 percent at 25.474
against the common currency at 1:38 p.m. in  Prague  and the
Romanian leu was little change at 4.4424 to the euro at 1:40
p.m. in Bucharest.  The GDP figures contrast with data for the German economy,
which advanced a quarterly 0.5 percent, or five-times faster
than estimated according to a Bloomberg survey. Of east European
countries releasing growth figures today, Slovakia and  Bulgaria 
were positive, reporting 0.8 percent and 0.5 percent quarterly
output growth respectively.  German Influence  Germany  helped the euro region avoid its second recession
in two years as growth in the largest economy in the 17-member
bloc offset contraction among peripheral countries. The
deepening sovereign-debt crisis in the region has raised the
prospect of  Greece  leaving the currency union. Voters in France
and Greece rejected austerity plans by punishing administrations
at the ballot box this month.  “Eastern Europe must wake up to a new reality,” said  Ales Michl , an economist at Raiffeisenbank AS in Prague. “External
demand is going to be weaker than it used to be so the
governments must do their homework and make economies more
competitive to offset this.”  Hungary’s lack of a bailout agreement with the IMF and the
EU prevents the central bank from cutting the trading bloc’s
highest benchmark rate from 7 percent as policy makers seek to
defend the forint, he said.  Romania’s Easing Cycle  Romania’s central bank may also be unable to lower its main
 interest rate  from 5.25 percent after three quarter-point cuts
this year should instability in Greece cause the leu to weaken,
said Vlad Nistor, an economist at BT Asset Management SAI in
Cluj,  Romania .  The Czech contraction, deepened by the effects of consumers
and retailers stocking up on tobacco products in late 2011
before a tax increase, prompted investors to boost bets that
policy makers will reduce borrowing costs at the next meeting in
June.  “The reported contraction exceeded even the most
pessimistic expectations,” Radomir Jac, an economist at
Generali PPF Asset Management in Prague said in an e-mailed
note. “Weak GDP is supportive to the message of the central
bank’s quarterly forecast that recommends easing monetary
policy.”  The Czech central bank, which on May 3 kept the two-week
rate at a record-low 0.75 percent, expects the economy to
stagnate this year and a 1.9 percent expansion in 2013. Premier
Petr Necas plans to cut the budget by 57 billion koruna ($3
billion) to narrow the deficit to 2.9 percent of GDP next year.  Growth Forecasts  The Hungarian government forecasts a 0.1 percent growth
this year, compared with the European Commission forecast for a
0.3 percent contraction.  The resumption of recession in Romania, partially caused
also by freezing weather that disrupted transportation and
supply chains, may prompt the government to scale back plans for
fiscal easing such as an 8 increase in state wages, said Vlad Muscalu, an economist at ING Bank Romania.  The European Commission on May 11 predicted full-year
economic growth at 1.4 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Radoslav Tomek in Bratislava at 
 rtomek@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  