-- Universal’s Okada Considers Partner for Philippine Casino
-- B y   V i n i c y   C h a n   a n d   K a n a   N i s h i z a w a
-- 2012-05-16T10:20:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-15/universal-s-okada-considers-partner-for-philippine-casino.html
Universal Entertainment Corp. (6425) 
Chairman Kazuo Okada, the Japanese billionaire in a legal
dispute with  Wynn Resorts Ltd. (WYNN) , said his company is going ahead
with plans for a casino resort in the Philippines and may tie up
with a local partner.  Okada, whom Wynn Resorts has accused of making improper
payments to gambling regulators in the Philippines, said in an
interview yesterday that he hopes to fund about 70 percent to 80
percent of the Manila project with his company’s capital. While
as much as 30 percent may be financed with debt, a partnership
could reduce the need for a loan, he said.  The expansion plan shows Okada’s ambitions to expand
outside the Japanese pachinko business. Construction on
Universal’s Manila Bay Resorts  began  in January and is scheduled
to be completed by the end of 2013.  “With projects like these the loan portion is usually
bigger,” Okada said in Hong Kong before the opening of a
restaurant by K.O. Dining, a subsidiary of Tokyo-based
Universal. “If we enter into a partnership we may not even need
any loans.” The company is considering a partnership with a
local shopping-mall operator in the  Philippines , he said.  Universal Entertainment shares dropped 2 percent to 1,695
yen at the close of Tokyo trading. The stock is down 20 percent
for the year compared with a 1.4 percent gain for the Topix
Index.  Okada declined to comment yesterday on the Wynn dispute. He
didn’t specify whom he was talking to regarding a Philippines
partnership, saying only that a decision on the arrangement may
be concluded within three months.  The Manila casino resort is scheduled to open in the first
half of 2014 and to include more than 1,000 hotel rooms and 500
gaming tables. The company has said it plans to spend $2.3
billion on its project.  Redemption Forced  Okada, through Universal, had the largest stake in Wynn
until February, when Wynn forcibly redeemed the 20 percent
holding. Wynn accused Okada of improperly giving more than
$110,000 in payments and gifts to regulators and their families,
according to a Feb. 19 statement by the Las Vegas-based casino
operator.  Wynn’s Macau unit ejected the Japanese billionaire from its
board in February and Philippine President  Benigno Aquino 
ordered a probe into payments allegedly made to the nation’s top
gaming regulator.  The Japanese billionaire filed counterclaims in a  U.S.
federal court , saying Wynn Resorts Chairman Steve Wynn runs the
company as his “fiefdom” and asking the court to invalidate
the redemption of his shares at an $800 million discount.  Okada said this month that the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission had asked to interview him in connection with an
inquiry into a $135 million Wynn Resorts donation to the
University of Macau, in  China .  Okada sought a court order in January to back his position
that as a director he was entitled to inspect Wynn Resorts’
books and records regarding the donation.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Vinicy Chan in  Hong Kong  at 
 vchan91@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anjali Cordeiro at 
 acordeiro2@bloomberg.net  