-- Turkey April Budget Surplus Rose After Non-Tax Income Jumped
-- B y   E m r e   P e k e r   a n d   A l i   B e r a t   M e r i c
-- 2012-05-15T12:09:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-15/turkey-april-budget-surplus-rose-after-non-tax-income-jumped-1-.html
Turkey’s  budget surplus  widened 34
percent to 1.4 billion liras ($780 million) in April as a
dividend from the central bank more than offset growth in
 government spending .  Revenue increased an annual 24 percent last month to 29.1
billion liras, with non-tax income jumping to 8.3 billion liras
from 3.4 billion liras a year ago, the  Finance Ministry  in
Ankara said on its  website  today. Revenue from taxes rose 3.5
percent to 20 billion liras, it said.  Turkey’s budget benefited from a one-time central bank
dividend payment of 5.7 billion liras, reversing what would
otherwise be a deficit. Expenditures expanded more than five
times faster than revenue amid a slowdown in the economy. Growth
in 2012 is forecast by the government to to be less than half
the 8.5 percent pace last year.  “This is not very encouraging,” said  Ozgur Altug , chief
economist at BGC Partners, a brokerage in Istanbul. “The
deterioration will become more crystallized with each passing
month. It won’t have short-term impact, but if the trend
continues in the long term. it will carry Treasury borrowing
costs higher.”  Two-year  benchmark bond  yields dropped 3 basis points, or
0.3 percentage point, to 9.53 percent at 1:29 p.m. in Istanbul.
The lira gained 0.28 percent to 1.8046 against the dollar.  Tax Revenue  Turkey’s budget performance has deteriorated as an increase
in tax revenue slowed along with economic growth, Finance
Minister  Mehmet Simsek  said in e-mailed comments. Import-tax
collection fell, spurred by measures to narrow the current-
account deficit. Simsek suggested that tax revenue will rise
again as the economy recovers in the second half.  The government has yet to incur pay raises to public
employees, which will be subtracted from the budget with a five-
month delay, Altug said in a telephone interview. “This month
was saved by transfers from the central bank’s bulky profit and
state-owned lenders’ profits. It brought on great relief.”  Negotiations between unions representing public workers and
the Labor and Social Security Ministry hit a wall yesterday,
when workers rejected a 6 percent pay raise this year and 5
percent increase in 2013. The unions asked the government to
come back with another offer by tomorrow and called for a
nationwide strike today.  Total Spending  Total spending climbed 23 percent to 27.7 billion liras and
spending, excluding interest payments, rose 18 percent, the
Finance Ministry said. Interest spending jumped 64 percent to
4.6 billion liras, according to today’s report.  Excluding interest payments on debt, the budget surplus
last month was 6.1 billion liras compared with a surplus of 3.9
billion liras in April 2011, the Ankara-based ministry said on
its website today.  “Continuation of the weak underlying trend in tax revenues
due to the economic slowdown and heightened primary expenditures
in April recalls existing risks to budget targets,” Ibrahim Aksoy , an economist at  Sekerbank TAS (SKBNK)  in Istanbul, said in an e-
mailed report.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Emre Peker in Ankara at 
 epeker2@bloomberg.net ;
Ali Berat Meric in Ankara at 
 americ@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  