-- Luxembourg, Austria Veto EU Effort to Open Savings Tax Talks
-- B y   R e b e c c a   C h r i s t i e ,   J a m e s   G .   N e u g e r   a n d   J o s i a n e   K r e m e r
-- 2012-05-15T14:57:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-15/luxembourg-austria-veto-eu-effort-to-open-savings-tax-talks.html
Luxembourg and Austria vetoed
negotiations over the extension of a European savings tax,
fearing they would be forced to give up the banking secrecy that
attracts foreign depositors.  The two countries blocked the European Union from starting
talks on updating the seven-year-old tax accord with
 Switzerland , Liechtenstein,  Monaco , Andorra and  San Marino .  Finance ministers from the two countries opposed backdoor
attempts to loosen their banking secrecy rules, while remaining
open to widening the tax beyond interest payments to cover a
broader range of investment products.  “I will be blunt,” EU Taxation Commissioner Algirdas Semeta told reporters after the ministers met in Brussels today.
“The position that Austria and Luxembourg have taken on this
issue is grossly unfair.”  Under the 2005 accord, both countries withhold tax on
interest income paid to depositors from other EU states while
protecting their identities. Other EU states transfer the income
data to the depositor’s home tax authority.  Luxembourg Finance Minister Luc Frieden said the EU needs
to narrow its negotiating plan before his nation could consider
signing off. In particular, he said the commission, the EU’s
regulatory arm, hasn’t been “precise” in its goals.  “What are the international developments?” Frieden told
reporters after the meeting. “No one could tell us. I don’t
give someone a mandate if I don’t know what he is doing. And
secondly there was no real debate.”  ‘Besieged’  Austria  also won’t bow to pressure to loosen its banking
secrecy rules as part of a Europe-wide interest taxation plan,
Finance Minister Maria Fekter said.  “I’m besieged from all sides and you know me: I will stand
my ground,” Fekter told reporters before today’s meeting.  All EU tax decisions require unanimity among the 27
governments.  The EU ministers today did agree to move forward with the
commission’s 2012 review of value-added tax, a wide-ranging
 sales tax  that is one of the bloc’s chief revenue raisers. The
region is looking at whether public-sector entities that compete
with the private sector should pay the tax, and when countries
can lower the VAT on selected industries.  To contact the reporters on this story:
James G. Neuger at 
 jneuger@bloomberg.net ;
 Rebecca Christie  in Brussels at 
 rchristie4@bloomberg.net ;
Josiane Kremer at 
 jkremer4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  