-- Wells Fargo Seeks Reversal of $203 Million Overdraft Damages
-- B y   J o e l   R o s e n b l a t t   a n d   K a r e n   G u l l o
-- 2012-05-15T20:02:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-15/wells-fargo-seeks-reversal-of-203-million-damages-in-appeal-1-.html
Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC)  asked a federal
appeals court to throw out a judge’s order to pay California
customers $203 million for manipulating debit-card transactions
to boost overdraft fees.  Wells Fargo said customers can’t sue under California law
over how the bank deals with debit-card transactions because its
practices are regulated by federal laws that allow Wells Fargo
to determine its own methods for calculating fees.  The judgment should be reversed because the lawsuit claims
are “preempted by federal banking law,” Robert Long, a lawyer
for Wells Fargo, said at a hearing today before a three-judge
panel of the  U.S. Court of Appeals  in San Francisco. The claims
also “fail as a matter of state law,” Long said.  Customers alleged in a 2007 complaint that San Francisco-
based Wells Fargo changed the way it treated daily debit
transactions and cash withdrawals in 1999 so that transactions
with the highest dollar amount posted first, rather than in the
order they occurred.  The practice, which customers alleged was intended to boost
revenue from overdraft fees, led to account holders overdrawing
funds by small amounts multiple times a day, according to the
complaint.  Overdraft Charges  Customers could be charged as much of $34 each time they
overdrew, according to court filings. The bank violated
 California ’s unfair business practices law, customers said.  Three Wells Fargo customers, suing on behalf of thousands
of Californians, won their lawsuit in 2010 when U.S. District
Judge William Alsup in San Francisco agreed that the policy was
unfair, deceptive and fraudulent. Alsup ordered Wells Fargo to
end the practice and pay $203 million to customers who were
charged multiple overdraft fees.  Well’s Fargo’s practice of reordering transactions was
“engineered” for the “sole purpose of generating overdraft
fees,” Michael Sobol, a lawyer for the plaintiffs, told the
court today.  The Office of the Comptroller of Currency, the federal
agency that regulates national banks, has acknowledged that
there are limits to its authority, Sobol said. In this case,
those limits are subject to California law, which Alsup relied
on in his opinion, Sobol said.  Bank of America  More than 30 banks have been sued over similar practices.
 Bank of America Corp.  agreed to pay $410 million last year to
settle customer claims and  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  reached a
preliminary agreement in February to pay $110 million to resolve
a lawsuit. A lawsuit against other banks is pending in federal
court in Miami.  Long, the Covington & Burling attorney for the bank, said
in court papers that customers were warned about the practice,
which was stated in account agreements and allowed by the
 Federal Reserve  and other national bank regulators.  The customer account agreement “expressly authorizes high-
to-low posting and specifically discloses that high-to-low
posting can result in high overdraft fees,” Long wrote.  Richard Heimann, another lawyer representing customers,
said in court papers that Wells Fargo misled customers about the
policy, burying it in fine print and advertising that debit
transactions would “automatically” be deducted from accounts,
which led customers to assume that withdrawals would be posted
in chronological order.  He disputed the bank’s contention that customers can’t sue
Wells Fargo under California’s unfair business practices law,
saying that only claims which interfere with bank operations are
preempted by federal regulation of banks.  Richele Messick, a spokeswoman for Wells Fargo, declined to
comment on the case.|  The appeals court didn’t say when it will rule.  The case is Gutierrez v. Wells Fargo, 10-16959, U.S. Court
of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit ( San Francisco ).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joel Rosenblatt in San Francisco at 
 jrosenblatt@bloomberg.net ;
Karen Gullo in San Francisco at 
 kgullo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  