-- West African Cocoa Areas to Get Rain as Harvest Starts
-- B y   I s i s   A l m e i d a
-- 2012-05-15T17:15:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-15/west-african-cocoa-areas-to-get-rain-as-harvest-starts.html
West Africa, the world’s largest
cocoa-producing region, will get rains over the next seven days,
potentially helping pod development as harvesting of the smaller
of two annual crops starts in  Ivory Coast , according to the U.S.
 National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration .  Most of top growers Ivory Coast and  Ghana  will get 30
millimeters (1.2 inches) to 50 millimeters of rain by May 22,
data on the NOAA  website  show. Some parts of both countries will
get 75 millimeters to 100 millimeters, the data show.  Rains may favor pod development as harvesting of the mid-
crop in top producer Ivory Coast starts after a delay of about a
month. The mid-crop, which usually starts in April, has begun
and is off to a slow start this year,  Laurent Pipitone , director
of the economic and statistics division at the London-based
International Cocoa Organization said today by phone.  “In West Africa, we are seeing an escalation of wet
weather which is deemed beneficial for the coming mid and future
main crops and a respectable arrival figure for Ivory Coast,”
Drew Geraghty, a broker at ICAP Futures LLC in  Jersey City ,  New
Jersey , wrote in a report e-mailed yesterday.  Cocoa delivered to ports for export from Ivory Coast
reached 15,000 metric tons over the past week, beating last
year’s level, according to ICAP. Ivory Coast and Ghana accounted
for 69 percent of global production last season, the ICCO said.  Divided Views  Global cocoa demand will be 40,000 tons to 50,000 tons
higher than supplies in the current season, according to Blommer
Chocolate Co., a Chicago-based processor. That is smaller than
the 71,000 tons shortage the ICCO has forecast and bigger than a
deficit of 19,000 tons estimated by broker Marex Spectron Group.
Rabobank International forecasts a surplus of 14,000 tons.  “The industry seems to be somewhat divided today as to
whether we will have surplus or a deficit based on several
factors,” Kip Walk, Blommer Chocolate’s corporate director of
cocoa and sustainability, said in an interview last week. “I
would view that there is still a greater risk of a slight
deficit, but we are getting to numbers that are close to break
even.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Isis Almeida in London at 
 Ialmeida3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 Ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net . 