-- What Happens When My Health Data Falls Into the Wrong Hands
-- B y   J o r d a n   R o b e r t s o n
-- 2012-05-15T18:12:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-15/what-happens-when-my-health-data-falls-into-the-wrong-hands.html
     If a thief wanted to grab your most personal
information, he would likely find much of it in your medical
records.  Few other types of documents contain as much private data
as your health records, which can include your complete
name, date of birth, Social Security number, insurance
provider name and account number, credit-card
numbers, employer information and, perhaps most
unsettling, detailed diagnostic descriptions.  That's one reason why medical providers are breached more
than any other type of organization, including retailers and
government agencies, according to the Privacy Rights
Clearinghouse, a nonprofit consumer rights group. It has
recorded 690 breaches involving a total of 23 million records
from medical providers since 2005.  Insurance fraud is the most common use of stolen health
data, as thieves often get medical care and prescriptions in
victims' names.  A study by the Ponemon Institute published last year
estimated about 1.5 million people in the U.S. were affected
by medical identity theft in 2011.  Victims can face potentially grave
consequences, according to the World Privacy Forum. When
medical identities are stolen, health records are changed to
reflect the thieves' blood types, diseases and treatments.
Most people find out they're a victim when they get letters
from debt collectors.   Doctors and other health-care workers can also be
culprits, billing for treatments that never occurred.  Beyond insurance fraud, stolen health data can be used
for financial scams, such as opening lines of credit and
taking out loans in victims' names.   Blackmail, as well as job and insurance
discrimination, are worries, too. Health information could be
used to pressure prominent people to pay to avoid the release
of the data. The exposure of data on the Internet could lead
to discrimination against job candidates or insurance
customers.  Because there is no centralized database of health
records, there isn't a single easy way to watch for changes in
your health files. But the World Privacy Forum recommends that
people who are concerned about medical identity theft ask
their insurance companies for a copy of their statement of
benefits and ask their doctors' offices for a copy of their
health files to look for fraudulent procedures. Requesting
your personal credit report can also help by identifying any
unpaid bills that may have gone to debt collectors.
 