-- Wheat Advances Most in Six Weeks on Dry Kansas Weather
-- B y   T o n y   C .   D r e i b u s
-- 2012-05-15T19:30:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-15/wheat-jumps-most-in-two-weeks-as-dry-kansas-weather-curbs-yield.html
Wheat rose the most in more than two
weeks on speculation that dry weather will curb yields in
 Kansas , the biggest U.S. producer of winter varieties.  About 52 percent of the Kansas crop was in good or
excellent condition as of May 13, down from 60 percent a week
earlier, the  U.S. Department of Agriculture  said in a report
yesterday. Most of the state has received little or no rain in
the past week, National Weather Service data show. Wheat prices
have dropped 6.8 percent this year as favorable weather sped
crop development.  “We’re getting anecdotal evidence” from west-central
Kansas that the crop potential is declining, Mike Zuzolo, the
president of Global Commodity Analytics & Consulting in
Lafayette,  Indiana , said in a telephone interview. “The drop in
the good-to-excellent conditions support that anecdotal evidence
that we’re losing yield in Kansas.”  Wheat futures for July delivery advanced 1.7 percent to
$6.085 a bushel at 1:15 p.m. on the  Chicago  Board of Trade, the
biggest jump since April 27.  Dry weather in parts of Ukraine and  Russia  also will boost
prices, Zuzolo said, although east Ukraine and the North
Caucasus region of Russia may get some precipitation in the next
week, forecaster Telvent DTN said today in a report.  “There’s a revival of concerns in Russia with their
potential yield because of dryness,” Zuzolo said. “So the two
major wheat belts in the Northern Hemisphere are cutting yields
coming into the harvest.”  Wheat is the fourth-largest U.S. crop, valued at $14.4
billion in 2011, behind corn, soybeans and hay, government data
show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony C. Dreibus in Chicago at 
 tdreibus@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net . 