-- Whitworth Takes PepsiCo Stake, Meets With Executives
-- B y   J e f f r e y   M c C r a c k e n   a n d   D u a n e   D .   S t a n f o r d
-- 2012-05-16T13:55:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-15/whitworth-said-to-disclose-stake-in-pepsico-as-soon-as-today.html
Activist shareholder Ralph Whitworth
has built a stake worth about $610 million in  PepsiCo Inc. (PEP)  and
held meetings with the soft-drink maker’s executives.  Whitworth’s Relational Investors LLC held almost 9 million
shares as of March 31, or 0.6 percent of shares outstanding,
according to a regulatory filing yesterday. The PepsiCo holding
was the investor’s largest by market value at the end of the
first quarter, according to the filing.  “We have had constructive meetings with Relational,”
 Peter Land , a spokesman for Pepsico, said yesterday in a
telephone interview. “Our senior management meets regularly
with investors, and Relational is a respected institution.”  Whitworth has used his shareholdings to agitate for change
at companies such as  ITT Corp. (ITT)  and defense contractor  L-3
Communications Holdings Inc. (LLL) , pushing for improvement at those
two businesses before they announced spinoffs in 2011.  Hewlett-
Packard Co. (HPQ)  appointed Whitworth to its board last year after he
accumulated a stake in the computer maker.  The investor increased his holding in Purchase, New York-
based PepsiCo to 4.76 million shares at the end of the year from
3.25 million shares as of Sept. 30, according to filings
yesterday. The value of the March stake was calculated using
PepsiCo’s closing price of $67.85 yesterday.  The stock rose 1.2 percent to $68.63 at 9:32 a.m. New York
time. It had gained 2.3 percent this year through yesterday,
while larger rival  Coca-Cola Co. (KO)  increased 9.4 percent.  Chief Executive Officer Indra Nooyi is working to boost
U.S. beverage sales and regain market share from Coca-Cola, the
world’s largest soft-drink maker. Profit this year will decline
about 5 percent on a constant-currency basis, PepsiCo has said.  Marketing Spending  The company said on Feb. 9 it would cut 8,700 jobs and
boost marketing spending for its brands by as much as $600
million. PepsiCo lost share in the U.S. carbonated beverage
market to Atlanta-based Coca-Cola from 2008 through 2010,
according to Beverage Digest, an industry newsletter.  PepsiCo’s struggles have led analysts Ali Dibadj, at
Sanford C. Bernstein & Co.; Jack Russo, from Edward Jones in St.
Louis; and Ann Gurkin, at Richmond, Virginia-based Davenport &
Co., to suggest that the company’s beverage and snacks
businesses could be worth more separate than together. Nooyi has
dismissed such recommendations.  Relational also bought about 11.4 million shares of  Western
Union Co. (WU)  in the first quarter, bringing his total position to
16.9 million shares, according to the filing. He acquired 2.1
million shares of retailer  Abercrombie & Fitch Co. (ANF)  and sold 4.8
million shares of  Freeport-McMoRan Copper & Gold Inc. (FCX) , his
entire position.  Whitworth and David Batchelder founded Relational in 1996
with an initial allocation of $200 million from the California
Public Employees’ Retirement System, the nation’s largest public
pension fund. The two had previously worked for billionaire oil
executive  T. Boone Pickens .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeffrey McCracken in New York at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net ;
Duane D. Stanford in Atlanta at 
 dstanford2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jennifer Sondag at 
 jsondag@bloomberg.net  