-- Good U.S. Jobs News Can Be Found in Big Business
-- B y   P e t e r   O r s z a g
-- 2012-05-15T23:00:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-15/why-have-american-small-business-jobs-gone-missing-.html
Big business, we keep being told, has
been so hampered by regulatory uncertainty over the past few
years, it has been reluctant to hire workers.  So it is surprising to read the results of a little-known
survey from the  Bureau of Labor Statistics : Very large
businesses, it turns out, have been expanding their domestic
workforces relatively rapidly. If, since January 2011,
businesses of all sizes had hired at the same rate as those with
5,000 or more employees, we would have almost 4 million more
jobs today.  The BLS data show that the overall weakness in the U.S.
labor market reflects slow employment growth among smaller
businesses, following a recession that hit them especially hard.  The data come from the bureau’s Job Openings and Labor
Turnover Survey ( JOLTS ), which is commonly used to examine
trends in rates of hiring and job loss. While the monthly
payroll numbers that receive so much attention show the net
change in employment -- the difference between the number of
workers hired and the number leaving their jobs -- the JOLTS
data provide crucial information about why employment is rising
or falling. (For instance, does higher employment reflect more
hires or fewer people losing jobs?)  The JOLTS data are also useful in that they are broken down
by business size. As the economists Alan Krueger, now the
chairman of President  Barack Obama ’s  Council of Economic
Advisers , and Sarah Charnes, at the Treasury Department,  wrote
last year , the JOLTS data are “the most timely government source
of information on employment trends by establishment size.”  Small-Business Contraction  Krueger and Charnes had concluded from the JOLTS data “that
small-business employment was particularly hard hit during the
recession, and that employment continued to contract at small
businesses in the early phase of the recovery while it was
increasing at medium-size and large establishments.” The most
recent BLS data suggest that this pattern has continued.  Business establishments with 5,000 or more employees
expanded their workforces by an average of 0.4 percentage point
a month from January 2011 to February 2012, the most recent data
show. In the same period, in contrast, businesses with 10 to 50
employees expanded by only 0.1 percentage point a month -- and
those with nine or fewer employees actually reduced their net
employment.  These data are based on establishments -- think of a
specific plant, for example -- rather than entire companies.
Since large firms could include many smaller operations, it may
also be useful to examine trends for establishments of more than
and less than 250 workers to get a better sense of how
employment trends are varying by size.  Since January 2011, establishments with more than 250
workers have expanded their employment by an average of 0.25
percentage point per month, compared with an average of 0.15
percentage point for smaller ones. If all establishments had
expanded at the same rate as those of more than 250 workers, we
would have almost 2 million more jobs today. So depending on how
you do the calculation, if, since the start of last year,
employment growth at smaller businesses had matched that at
larger ones, we would now have 2 million to 4 million more jobs.  To be sure, the JOLTS data by establishment size are not an
official BLS data series -- rather, they are “experimental.”
These types of surveys involve sampling problems along with
difficult conceptual issues (such as the potential bias from
establishments that expand into a larger category). The other
relevant BLS employment statistics, the Business Employment
Dynamics data, are unfortunately available only through the
third quarter of 2011, though earlier  patterns in those data
look broadly similar  to what the JOLTS results show.  Private Data Differ  Private-sector indexes show a contrasting pattern. The ADP
National Employment Report, for example, which is based on
statistics from the payrolls that Automatic Data Processing,
Inc. manages, has shown more rapid employment growth over the
past year for businesses with fewer than 500 employees than for
those with more than 500. Similarly, Intuit’s small-business
employment index shows stronger small-business growth than the
JOLTS data do. Those private measures, however, don’t categorize
very large businesses separately -- and the JOLTS data suggest
that the very large businesses are expanding more rapidly than
any others. Furthermore, some analysts say the small businesses
covered by the private-sector indexes may be growing more
rapidly than other small businesses.  The JOLTS data provide insight into what happened in the
labor market last year, when job growth started out strong but
then weakened substantially. In the first quarter of 2011,
according to the JOLTS data, net employment growth for
establishments with fewer than 250 employees was about the same
as that for larger ones. During the rest of the year, though,
net employment growth rates were about a third lower at the
smaller establishments. The Business Employment Dynamics data,
in contrast, show more slowing for large companies -- at least
in the spring of last year, before picking up again in the third
quarter. As more data become available, we’ll be able to
evaluate the apparent discrepancy between these two series and
also examine what has been causing the overall slowdown this
year.  So what are we to make of all this? Krueger had earlier
speculated that “small businesses responded differently to the
financial crisis and subsequent recovery because they had lower
fixed costs associated with hiring and laying off workers than
large employers, and because small companies had less access to
credit.”  More recent data suggest that credit availability has
 improved for small companies . But the JOLTS data highlight the
importance of exploring how the continuing deleveraging process
and resultant sluggish growth in demand is affecting smaller
businesses in particular. With the percentage of  working
Americans  stuck at a depressed level, we sure could use those
extra 2 million to 4 million jobs.  ( Peter Orszag  is vice chairman of global banking at
Citigroup Inc. and a former director of the Office of Management
and Budget in the Obama administration. The opinions expressed
are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  Today’s highlights: the View editors on a  Greek exit from the
euro  and tariffs  on Chinese solar products ;  Margaret Carlson  on
 boring white Republicans ; Clive Crook on  Germany and Greece ;
 Jonathan Weil  on  JPMorgan Chase and regulators ; Rachelle
Bergstein on the  economics of stiletto heels ; and Zvi Bodie and
 Cornelius Hurley  on the  Office of Financial Research.   To contact the writer of this article:
Peter Orszag at  orszagbloomberg@gmail.com   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Mary Duenwald at   mduenwald@bloomberg.net  