-- Won, Rupiah Lead Drop in Asia on Europe Risks; Rupee Rebounds
-- B y   D a v i d   Y o n g   a n d   K y o u n g w h a   K i m
-- 2012-05-15T09:25:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-15/won-rupiah-lead-drop-in-asia-on-europe-risks-rupee-rebounds.html
South Korea ’s won led declines among
Asian currencies as regional stocks slid on speculation slowing
global growth and the European debt crisis will hurt demand for
emerging-market assets.  Korea’s currency fell for a fifth day and  Indonesia ’s
rupiah dropped to a two-year low, after Moody’s Investors
Service downgraded 26 Italian banks yesterday and as Greece
grapples with a political impasse. Pacific Investment Management
Co., manager of the world’s biggest bond fund, said  China’s
economy  may expand at the slowest pace in 13 years.  “The market remains very nervous given the unfavorable
data outcome from China and the political uncertainties in
Greece,” said  Nizam Idris , head of Asia currency strategy at
Macquarie Group Ltd. in Singapore. “The market tends to be
sensitive to risks when dealing with Asian currencies.”  The won closed 0.4 percent weaker at a four-month low of
1,154 per dollar in Seoul, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The rupiah lost 0.8 percent to 9,309, and touched
9,312, the lowest level since May 2010.  Taiwan ’s dollar was
little changed at NT$29.514.  The Bloomberg-JPMorgan  Asia  Dollar Index of regional
currencies reached the lowest since Jan. 17. Its 60-day
historical  volatility  rose to this month’s high of 2.83 percent.
The MSCI Asia-Pacific Index of stocks fell 0.6 percent as
foreign investors cut their equity holdings by $3.9 billion this
month in Indonesia, South Korea, Taiwan and  Thailand .  Italy, Greece  Moody’s cut the ratings of 26 Italian banks by one to four
levels, citing weakened earnings and the economic outlook. In
Greece, President Karolos Papoulias will offer party leaders a
proposal for a government of prominent non-politicians to head
the country.  “The fear now is a story of contagion risk emanating from
Greece,” said  Enrico Tanuwidjaja , a Singapore-based senior
currency analyst at  Malayan Banking Bhd. (MAY)   The Philippine peso climbed 0.1 percent to 42.67 per dollar
and Thailand’s baht gained 0.1 percent to 31.34. Both reversed
losses after an official report showed the German economy grew
0.5 percent last quarter from the final three months of 2011.
Economists predicted a 0.1 percent gain, according to the median
of 40 estimates in a Bloomberg News survey.  The euro area’s gross domestic product was unchanged in the
first quarter from the preceding three months, when it
contracted 0.3 percent, the European Commission said today.
Analysts had predicted a 0.2 percent drop.  Rupee Intervention  India’s rupee rose 0.3 percent to 53.7950 per dollar,
rebounding from a five-month low, on speculation the central
bank sold dollars to curb losses in Asia’s worst-performing
currency this quarter. It earlier fell as much as 0.2 percent to
54.07, near the record low of 54.305 set in December.  “The central bank will likely continue intervening and
regulatory measures will keep coming in,” said Priyanka Kishore,
a foreign-exchange strategist at Standard Chartered Plc in
Mumbai. “Tinkering with the domestic dollar supply is not the
same as encouraging capital inflows, which will need a change in
the global backdrop.”  The  yuan  rose 0.05 percent to 6.3182 per dollar in Shanghai,
according to  China  Foreign Exchange Trade System. The central
bank weakened the currency’s reference rate for a fifth day to
6.3110.  The world’s second-largest economy may grow in the “mid-7
percent range” this year, according to Ramin Toloui, Singapore-
based global co-head of emerging-markets investments at Pimco.
The pace of growth is unlikely to bottom out until the third
quarter, he said.  Elsewhere, Malaysia’s ringgit was little changed at 3.0815
per dollar after touching a two-month low. Vietnam’s dong was
unchanged at 20,850.  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Yong in Singapore at 
 dyong@bloomberg.net ;
Kyoungwha Kim in Singapore at 
 kkim19@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net . 