-- Wrapping Stilettos in Foot-Binding Debate
-- B y   R a c h e l l e   B e r g s t e i n
-- 2012-05-15T23:00:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-15/wrapping-stilettos-in-foot-binding-debate.html
Named for a type of dagger with a
slender blade, the stiletto’s defining characteristic is not so
much the height, but the girth, of its heel.  It was a design innovation, credited to designer  Christian Dior  and shoemaker  Roger Vivier , that arose from postwar plenty,
both in the shoemakers’ toolboxes -- the heel was reinforced with
metal, heavily rationed during World War II -- and in consumers’
pockets.  It was not an ideal walking shoe, but after years of
sacrifice and practicality, women were ready to embrace fashions
that signified sex appeal, status and luxury. The stiletto was a
new kind of shoe precisely because it was so clearly divorced
from function. It was a daring high-wire act demanding
confidence and balance.  The stiletto required a shift, a physical adjustment on the
part of its wearer: Unlike a sturdy wedge, the tall, thin heel
caused enormous pressure to be placed on the ball of a woman’s
foot. In 1953, Picture Post magazine published a series of
 photographs  illustrating “The Hazards of the Stiletto Heel,” in
which model Jean Marsh demonstrated the perils of walking in the
shoes. In one picture, her heel was caught in a manhole cover;
in another, she braced for a fall on an uneven sidewalk. Then
she  rested  over a street drain, one shoe removed as she
exhaustedly rubbed her ankle.  Walking Challenge  Clearly, moving about in such heels was an acquired skill,
not an instinct. Fashion’s new challenges spoke not of Rosie the
Riveter’s workplace, but the salon and, often, the boudoir. If a
woman couldn’t manage dainty, vertiginous stilettos, well then
she hadn’t earned the right to wear them.  The pointy shoe also suggested something smug. Like a car
or a diamond ring, the stiletto classified women by economic
rank and social ambition.  During the war years, upper-middle-class women worked
alongside their blue-collar peers. Afterward, fashion renewed
the class divide. Wearing impractical shoes implied that a woman
had the time and means to think beyond labor and the mechanics
of survival.  It was not the first time in history that footwear
signified such distinctions. In  Europe , from the 14th through
the 17th centuries, women wore a type of shoe that made
stilettos look as sensible as loafers.  Chopines  (known as
pianelle or zoccoli in  Italy ) were slippers with platform soles
as high as 20 inches, worn by a woman of superior rank and
considerable means. They limited their wearers’ range of motion,
and in the most extreme cases, required servants on either side
for support.  Dating back further still, Chinese  foot binding , which
involves reshaping the structure of a young girl’s foot bones,
was a mark of distinction for females of a certain class.
Beginning as far back as 960 B.C., and outlawed as recently as
1912, this practice all but immobilized a woman but ensured a
posh marriage -- and honor for her family.  Like the chopine, the bound foot, called the “lotus foot,”
signaled freedom from manual labor. Sexual politics factored
into it, too. In one account of the origins of foot binding,
Emperor Li Houzhu, also known as Li Yu, who lived in the 10th
century, fell in love with a concubine who bound her own feet
in order to perform a special lotus dance. Entranced, he insisted
she never leave his side.  Fragile, Sexy Feet  From this tale, some say, spread the notion that fragile,
stunted feet were sexually attractive to men of high rank, and
families of a certain echelon began binding the feet of eligible
females. In an alternative history, it was a self-conscious
empress who started the trend. Born with a clubfoot, she was
said to have forced all the ladies of the court to bind their
feet so that her disfigurement would be less conspicuous.  Stilettos echoed these historical fashions, demanding that
wearers prize style over mobility. One French demoiselle who
bought an embroidered pair from Vivier’s boutique returned them
the next day: The beadwork was torn, and the shoes were
uncomfortable. After examining the soles, the manager responded,
“But Madame, you walked in these shoes.”  After Dior, spindly shoes, made of hand-dyed silk or
lavish, supple leather, filled the pages of Vogue. Delicate high
heels allowed women to reclaim their femininity without
overstepping their husbands: a distinction as potentially wobbly
as the shoes themselves.  (Rachelle Bergstein is a writer and editor based in  New
York . This is the third of five excerpts from her new book,
“ Women From the Ankle Down: The Story of Shoes and How They
Define Us ,” which will be published on May 29 by HarperCollins.
The opinions expressed are her own. Read Part  1 , Part  2 , 
Part  4 , Part  5 .)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  Today’s highlights: the View editors on a  Greek exit from the
euro  and tariffs  on Chinese solar products ;  Margaret Carlson  on
 boring white Republicans ; Clive Crook on  Germany and Greece ;
 Peter Orszag  on  small-business woes ;  Jonathan Weil  on  JPMorgan
Chase and regulators ; and Zvi Bodie and  Cornelius Hurley  on the
 Office of Financial Research.   To contact the writer of this article:
Rachelle Bergstein at  rachellebergstein@gmail.com   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Mary Duenwald at   mduenwald@bloomberg.net  