-- Yahoo Interim CEO Faces Challenges of Two Prior Chiefs
-- B y   B r i a n   W o m a c k
-- 2012-05-15T04:37:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-15/yahoo-interim-ceo-faces-challenges-of-two-prior-chiefs.html
Ross Levinsohn has watched two chief
executive officers come and go since he joined Yahoo! Inc. in
2010 as vice president of the Americas. As interim CEO, he’ll
grapple with the same challenges that plagued his predecessors.  Levinsohn stepped into the CEO role this week as  Scott Thompson  resigned after failing to fix errors in his academic
record. Thompson, whose exit also was part of a board
restructuring, had joined the company in January after previous
CEO  Carol Bartz  was fired in September.  Levinsohn, who has held stints at social-networking service
MySpace and search engine AltaVista, must repel challenges from
 Facebook Inc. (FB)  and  Google Inc. (GOOG) , which increasingly attract more
users and advertising dollars. Levinsohn, known for working well
with clients, can use his knowledge of media and the advertising
industry to spur growth at Yahoo, said Sameet Sinha, an analyst
at B. Riley & Co.  “Basically, he’s been around the Internet or media
industry for at least the last 15 years at very prominent
companies,” Sinha said. “He’s known both in  New York  as well
as in Silicon Valley.”  Yahoo had begun to show signs of progress under Thompson,
who eliminated 2,000 jobs and realigned management. In the first
quarter, when Sunnyvale, California-based Yahoo posted its first
revenue growth in more than three years. Still, the increase was
just 1 percent, trailing Google’s first-quarter  sales gain  of 24
percent and Facebook’s 45 percent jump.  User Time  While Yahoo has more than 700 million users, their average
time spent on the site during March was less than two hours, 15
minutes, according to  ComScore Inc. (SCOR)  Google sites attracted more
than three hours of user time, and Facebook had more than six
hours.  The challenges to Yahoo’s business were in place long
before a proxy contest by New York-based hedge fund  Third Point
LLC. (YHOO)  The investor, which sought to put its own directors on the
board, was the first to flag discrepancies in Thompson’s resume,
a finding that led to his resignation.  With Thompson’s departure, the company settled with Third
Point and added three of its nominees to the board. Yet
Levinsohn hasn’t moved beyond Thompson’s larger predicament,
said  Colin Gillis , an analyst with BGC Partners in New York.  “The challenge is essentially similar to what was facing
Scott Thompson” he said. “But at least there’s a very clear
action plan and there’s no longer the divisiveness that was
shaking the company.”  Insider’s Advantage  Gillis said Levinsohn is likely to be considered for the
job of permanent CEO. As a company insider, he may be seen as
having advantages after his two predecessors were hired from
outside the company. Bartz had led engineering-design software
company  Autodesk Inc. (ADSK) , and Thompson had served as president of
 EBay Inc. (EBAY) ’s PayPal unit, an online payments provider.  Newly appointed board chairman, Fred Amoroso, said in a
meeting with employees yesterday that he would like to see
Levinsohn become permanent CEO, according to a person who was
briefed on the matter, who asked not to be identified. The Wall
Street Journal previously reported the remarks.  Levinsohn is more prepared for the challenge than his
predecessors, said Jon Miller, chief digital officer at News
Corp. Levinsohn and Miller worked together at what is now  Fuse
Capital , a venture-capital firm.  “They finally got something right; the last two hires in
particular never had any relationship to how Yahoo gets all of
its money and all of its engagement,” Miller said. “He’s
learned by being directly involved in the industry for a long
time, getting an intuitive feel for what works and doesn’t
work.”  How Companies Work  Levinsohn proved himself at Fuse Capital to be capable of
understanding how companies, large or small, need to operate,
said Roland Van der Meer, a managing director at Fuse.  “He really thinks in the larger strategic scale of what a
bigger company has to do, and needs to do to take advantage of
what’s going on and get ahead of that curve,” he said. “He’s
tough because he knows what’s right and wrong. But at the same
time, he’s just a regular guy.”  Prior to Fuse, he worked at Miller’s employer,  News Corp. (NWSA) 
In 2005, Levinsohn got a call at his desk from Chairman  Rupert Murdoch , who invited him to the company’s cafeteria for a
spontaneous meeting, according to Travis Katz, a former
executive at News Corp. Over lunch, Murdoch told Levinsohn he
was planning to create a new online division and needed someone
to lead it.  Levinsohn jumped at the chance to talk about how a bold new
approach was needed, Katz said.  Meeting With Murdoch  “Ross pitched what he thought the opportunity was to
Rupert and how big it was and how important it was to the future
of the media company,” said Katz, who was part of the initial
Fox Interactive Media team.  After Murdoch interviewed more than two dozen other
internal candidates, Levinsohn got the job.  During his time at News Corp., he was instrumental in
getting the company to buy MySpace, Sinha said. While Levinsohn
was right to see the emerging trend of social media, the site
would later lose users to  Facebook , giving up its lead in the
field. News Corp. later sold off the service.  At an investor conference last year, Levinsohn said MySpace
was once the “shiny object” that made sales to large
advertisers relatively simple during his time there. Now
Facebook is getting that same kind of boost, he said.  Levinsohn knows the advertising industry well, said Roy
Bahat, a former colleague at News Corp. and president of its IGN
Entertainment unit.  “Ross understands what brand advertisers want from the
Internet,” he said. “He understands premium content, great
audiences and thinking at scale. Yahoo would be lucky to have
him long term.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Womack in  San Francisco  at 
 bwomack1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Tom Giles  at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net . 