-- Yankees Inspire Love, Loathing; Money Drives Youth Sports
-- B y   D a v i d   M .   S h r i b m a n
-- 2012-05-15T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-15/yankees-inspire-love-loathing-big-money-drives-youth-sports.html
On the first page of “ Damn Yankees ”
(Ecco, $27.99), Rob Fleder sets out a great truth: “In the
matter of the Yankees, there is no neutral ground, no
 Switzerland .”  Then Fleder steps aside and lets 24 celebrated writers
describe their love and loathing of the greatest and most
reviled sports team in the U.S.  Charging through these pages are the usual suspects:  Babe
Ruth ,  Joe DiMaggio ,  Reggie Jackson ,  Mickey Mantle ,  Derek Jeter ,
 Don Larsen , as well as lesser figures. Even a Red Sox fan like
me has to admit that this volume is a perfect game.  In an era when people are encouraged to share the love, I
actually loved the loathing.  New Englanders aren’t the only ones who hate the Yankees --
there are Mets fans, too. Though as Nathaniel Rich argues, it
isn’t necessarily “hate”: “There is not an animosity between
Mets and Yankees fans so much as a profound philosophical
abyss.”  So enough about the hating. You have to love the 1972 wife
swap between Mike Kekich and Fritz Peterson, which Daniel Okrent
rightly describes as the “biggest trade in Yankees history.”  You have to love  Yogi Berra , who Bill James decrees had the
best season ever by a Yankee catcher (.322 batting average, 28
homers, 124 RBI in 1950).  And you have to love Jim Abbott, who read Hemingway, quoted
Lincoln and did so much charitable work that  George Steinbrenner 
wondered whether he might concentrate more on baseball.  An Imperfect Life  Which brings us to Abbott’s lovely memoir, “ Imperfect: An
Improbable Life ,” written with  Tim Brown  (Ballantine, $26). It’s
the remarkable, affecting chronicle of a ballplayer who was born
without a hand, imperfect (as the title suggests) but
perfectible -- on the mound, at home, in life.  It tells the story of how young Jimmy Abbott worked on
fielding not just ground balls, but also tough questions and
bewildered stares.  This is an unusually reflective sports book, dealing with
unusually uncomfortable questions. Like this one, from Abbott
himself, about the hand that wasn’t there: “I’ve wondered from
time to time if I was carrying it, or it me.”  Or like this realization: “Baseball helped. It leveled the
playing field, then placed me above it -- ten and a half inches
above it, on the pitcher’s mound.”  Nowhere to Hide  Baseball was a haven, but for him it was also heaven. “If
people were going to search me for deficiencies ... they
wouldn’t find them at the end of my fastball, or in my ability
to field a bunt, or on the scoreboard,” he writes. “If they
expected the kid who’d hide in his own right front pocket, well,
baseball pants had no front pockets.”  Along the way he played for the Angels, Yankees, White Sox
and Brewers. He threw a no-hitter. He discovered that “what
drove me were the low expectations people had for me.” Who
cares today that his record was 87-108?  Indeed, it’s Abbott’s conviction that “sports had a
spiritual and therapeutic place in my life, functioning to
comfort and strengthen me” that puts Mark Hyman’s “ The Most
Expensive Game in Town : The Rising Cost of Youth Sports and the
Toll on Today’s Families” (Beacon, $24.95) in such sharp
relief.  In a book that is both investigation and manifesto, Hyman
examines travel teams, college showcases, specialist private
coaches, sports camps, expensive multiple uniform combinations,
and sports for babies (we’re not talking Gymboree anymore) --
all of which warp family schedules, stretch home finances and
pervert priorities.  Energy Drinks  There’s big money here, for companies and families.
Snowboarding and skateboarding, for example, are inextricably
bound to Mountain Dew. That’s without even mentioning the big
bucks surrounding sports drinks and energy drinks.  Hyman is fair-minded enough to acknowledge that many youth
sports programs are positive initiatives, especially when it
comes to encouraging fitness and directing the energy of young
people toward teamwork and skill building. But his conclusion is
inescapable and incontrovertible:  “Some companies and shrewd individuals have colonized
youth sports in ways that have made them much more stressful and
expensive, turning parents and even kids into consumers of
products they had no idea they needed -- or even wanted. In the
end, what’s for sale usually isn’t eye black or any such thing.
Instead, it’s hope -- hope that investing a hundred or a
thousand dollars may advance a child’s sports career just a
little bit.”  Where have you gone, Jim Abbott?  (David M. Shribman is executive editor of the Pittsburgh
Post-Gazette. The opinions expressed are his own.)  Muse highlights include  Jeremy Gerard  on theater and  James
Pressley  on business books.  To contact the writer of this column:
David M. Shribman at  dshribman@post-gazette.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in  New York  at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 