-- Yields Show U.S. Is Facing Lost Decade, Krugman Says
-- B y   J o h n   D e t r i x h e   a n d   T o m   K e e n e
-- 2012-05-15T15:10:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-15/yields-show-u-s-is-facing-lost-decade-krugman-says.html
Yields on debt of nations including
the U.S. and U.K. are at almost the lowest ever because policy
makers have been unable to boost economic growth, according to
economist  Paul Krugman .  German bunds due in 10 years yielded 1.46 percent after
falling to 1.43 percent yesterday, the lowest since at least
1989, as Greece failed to agree to a government, threatening to
deepen Europe’s debt crisis. Treasuries of the same maturity
yield 1.78 percent, compared with a record low 1.67 percent in
September. Gilts touched 1.89 percent yesterday, also the lowest
since at least 1989.  “I don’t actually buy the flight-to-quality story, or at
least it’s way overstated,” Krugman, a Nobel laureate economist
and professor at  Princeton University , said today in a radio
interview on “Bloomberg Surveillance” with Tom Keene and Ken Prewitt. “We’re all looking like we’re heading for lost
decades, which means that policy interest-rates are going to
stay close to zero for a really long time.”  Japan ’s so-called lost decade during the 1990s saw the
 economy  slip in and out of recession and grow at an average rate
of about 1 percent a year after the collapse of a real-estate
bubble.  Fed Policy  Federal Reserve policy makers have said they will probably
keep their target for overnight lending between banks close to
zero, where it’s been since December 2008, at least until late
2014 to boost the economy. The Bank of England has kept its
target  interest rate  at 0.5 percent since March 2009, while the
 European Central Bank  reduced its interest rate to 1 percent in
December.  Investors are asking “when do you think short-term
interest rates are going to rise in the U.S.? When do you think
they’re going to rise in  Germany  or in Britain?” Krugman said.
“The answer is not for years and years to come. We’re all
looking like Japan.”  The global economy is forecast to grow 2.2 percent this
year and 2.9 percent in 2013, according to the median estimate
of economists surveyed by Bloomberg. That compares with an
average of 3.1 percent for the decade up to 2007.  “Anyplace that has a reasonably stable government, and its
own currency and borrows in its own currency, all those interest
rates are very low for a very good reason,” Krugman said. “The
future is looking pretty grim for the real economy in those
places.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
John Detrixhe in  New York  at 
 jdetrixhe1@bloomberg.net ;
 Tom Keene  in New York at 
 tkeene@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  