-- Hyundai Heavy Gains as Surging Yen Squeezes Japan Yards: Freight
-- B y   A n d y   S h a r p   a n d   M a s a h i r o   H i d a k a
-- 2012-05-15T15:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-15/hyundai-heavy-gains-as-surging-yen-squeezes-japan-yards-freight.html
With the Japanese yen up 50 percent
against the dollar in five years, shipbuilder Tsuneishi Holdings
Inc. says the nation’s shipyards may find it impossible to make
money as South Korean and Chinese rivals increase market share.  “Given the yen’s current level, a situation could occur in
which no domestic shipyards can make a profit,” Chairman
Yasuharu Fushimi said in an interview last month near
Tsuneishi’s office in Hiroshima,  Japan .  For Tsuneishi, Japan’s second-largest shipbuilder, the
solution is to move most production to the Philippines and
 China , where wages are also lower. Others may have to follow to
escape a yen whose increase has outpaced all other currencies
against the dollar. A smaller 22 percent rise in the  yuan  and a
20 percent slide in the won have buoyed Chinese and South Korean
shipbuilding.  South Korean shipyards received $50.8 billion of contracts
last year and those in China garnered $21.1 billion, compared
with just $6.1 billion in Japan, according to Clarkson Plc, the
world’s biggest shipbroker. Cost competitiveness is one reason
why shares in South Korean shipbuilders such as  Hyundai Heavy
Industries Co. (009540) ,  Samsung Heavy Industries Co. (010140)  and  Daewoo
Shipbuilding & Marine Engineering Co. (042660)  are worth buying,
according to Seoul-based Tong Yang Securities Inc.  The pain extends beyond shipyards, hurting exporters such
as  Honda Motor Co. (7267)  and  Sony Corp. (6758)  that helped spur Japan’s
development following the end of World War II. The currency’s
jump is adding to the nation’s struggle to escape a legacy of
deflation and depressed growth after asset bubbles burst in the
early 1990s. Lawmakers this year have intensified pressure on
the Bank of Japan to increase the supply of yen to weaken it.  ‘Exceptional’ Won Slide  “Most Asian currencies have depreciated against the yen,
but the Korean won is exceptional because it has depreciated so
much more,” said  Robert Feldman , head of Japan economic
research at Morgan Stanley in  Tokyo  and former International
Monetary Fund economist. “Japan basically has to work on two
fronts: to improve the productivity of the economy as a whole
and to correct this misalignment of nominal exchange rates.”  The won is down 47 percent against the yen in the past five
years.  Japanese yards make an average 15 percent loss on each ship
built, while Korean companies earn a 5 percent profit, Lee Jae Won, an analyst at Tong Yang, said last week.  He predicted Ulsan, South Korea-based Hyundai Heavy’s share
price will jump 61 percent to 430,000 won in the next 12 months,
with stock in Samsung Heavy, which is based in Seoul, rising 27
percent to 48,000 won. Daewoo Shipbuilding, headquartered in
Seoul, will advance to 38,000 won, he said.  Overseas Allure  The  global market share  of Japanese shipyards has almost
halved to 14.5 percent since 2005 as measured by new orders,
according to data compiled by the Shipbuilders’ Association of
Japan. Japan lost its title as the biggest shipbuilder to  South
Korea  in 2000 and fell behind China into third place in 2009.  Closely held Tsuneishi Holdings has responded by shifting
about two-thirds of shipbuilding volume abroad, with yards in
the Philippines’ Cebu province and in Zhoushan, Zhejiang
Province, on China’s east coast.  The company, which plans a third overseas site, is the sole
Japanese yard manufacturing ships abroad on its own, the
Shipbuilders’ Association of Japan said.  “It’s going to be difficult for companies to only build
ships domestically if the yen remains strong,” said Masaya
Sudo, section chief at the Shipbuilding and Ship Machinery
Division of the Maritime Bureau in Japan’s transport ministry.
“There should be more consolidation in the industry to prevent
a situation where work stops coming in.”  Industry Consolidation  That’s a strategy embraced by IHI Marine United Inc., a
unit of  IHI Corp. (7013)  It is due to merge in October with  JFE
Holdings Inc. (5411) ’s Universal Shipbuilding Corp. to create Japan’s
biggest shipbuilder, leapfrogging Imabari Shipbuilding Co. IHI
Marine United says every one-yen appreciation in the dollar
 exchange rate  cuts profits by “several hundred million” yen.  JFE Holdings’ profit from shipbuilding operations declined
29 percent to 12.2 billion yen ($153 million) in the financial
year ended March 31 after it made provisions for losses on
construction projects.  The merged firm will target annual revenue of 500 billion
yen by 2017, according to Shinjiro Mishima, who will be
president of the new entity. It will speed up development of
fuel-efficient and cost-competitive ships, focusing on container
vessels, bulk carriers and  oil tankers , he said in a February
interview.  Another option is to compete for more complex vessels, such
as liquefied natural gas tankers, to draw on Japan’s
technological savvy. Even here, data on new orders last year
show South Korean competitors overwhelming Japanese peers, said
Kunio Sakaida, an analyst at Barclays Plc in Tokyo.  Nuclear Impact  As the yen soared and exporters faded, Japan’s economy
failed to grow in three of the past four years. Gross domestic
product contracted 0.7 percent in 2011, when output was also
hurt by an earthquake, tsunami and nuclear disaster and the
impact of  Europe ’s protracted debt crisis on global growth.  Last month, the  Bank of Japan  expanded its plan for
government-bond purchases by 10 trillion yen, as part of its
efforts to end deflation in the world’s third-largest economy.
This asset-purchase fund has been the main policy tool since the
benchmark  interest rate  was brought to near-zero in the wake of
the worsening of the global financial crisis in 2008.  “The only reliable channel through which the government
and BOJ can achieve a nominal growth rate of 3 percent is
through the exchange rate,” Naohiko Baba, chief economist at
Goldman Sachs in Tokyo and former Bank of Japan analyst, said in
an interview. “The BOJ and government need to weaken the yen
further and further down to the 95-100 yen level.”  Postwar High  The yen reached a postwar high of 75.35 against the dollar
last year, prompting action by the government to restrain its
appreciation. The currency has weakened 4 percent so far in 2012
as the BOJ boosted yen supply by easing monetary policy.  Economic  expansion  may benefit in the first half of this
year as the government’s more than 20 trillion yen in
reconstruction spending filters through, according to RBS
Securities Japan. The bank estimates 3.7 percent annualized
growth in the first quarter.  The risk is that the bump in growth will peter out as the
rebuilding drive wanes, bringing the strength of the yen to the
fore again.  Carlos Ghosn, chief executive officer of Yokohama, Japan-
based  Nissan Motor Co. (7201) , Japan’s second-largest automaker, said
in April the currency is the unpredictable “1,000-pound
gorilla” that makes all Japanese car manufacturers suffer.  “Japanese shipbuilders’ prospects are pretty dim if the
yen stays at the current level of 80 yen,” said Sakaida of
 Barclays Capital . “Customers, especially European ship owners,
prefer vessels built by Korean yards to Japanese ships.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andy Sharp in Tokyo at 
 asharp5@bloomberg.net ;
Masahiro Hidaka in Tokyo at 
 mhidaka@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  