-- 
U.S. Home ‘Shadow Inventory’ Totals Nine Months of Supply, CoreLogic Says

-- B y   J o h n   G i t t e l s o h n
-- 
2011-03-30T14:44:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-30/-shadow-inventory-of-u-s-homes-totals-nine-month-supply-corelogic-says.html
About 1.8 million homes that are
delinquent or in foreclosure loom as additional supply for the
struggling U.S. housing market, according to  CoreLogic Inc. (CLGX)   The so-called shadow inventory amounted to a nine-month
supply of properties as of January, about the same as a year
earlier, the Santa Ana, California-based real estate data
service said in a report today. The company measured homes
ranging from 90 days delinquent on mortgages to properties
seized by lenders in foreclosure proceedings.  Rising inventory threatens to further depress home values
as sales slump. There was an 8.6-month supply of homes for sale
on the open market in February, the National Association of
Realtors reported March 21. A healthy market has about a six-
month supply, according to the Realtors group.  The shadow inventory “illustrates the distressed pipeline
that has to filter through the market before the market is
normalized,” Sam Khater, chief economist for CoreLogic, said in
a telephone interview from Vienna, Virginia. “It’s going to be
a negative drag for some time.”  Home prices  in 20 U.S. cities fell an average 3.1 percent
from a year earlier in January, according to the S&P/Case-
Shiller index. The decline was the biggest on a year-over-year
basis since December 2009, the group said yesterday in New York.  5% Price Decline  CoreLogic, which has its own price gauge, estimates values
will fall another 5 percent before bottoming, Khater said. The
company’s index has dropped about 33 percent from its peak of
April 2006, the company said in a March 10 report.  The total shadow inventory in January was down from about 2
million properties a year earlier, according to CoreLogic.
Mortgage modifications helped reduce the number, Khater said.  About 608,000 homeowners started permanent loan
modifications under President Barack Obama’s Home Affordable
Modification Program as of Jan. 31, up from 117,000 a year
earlier. The  House of Representatives  voted 252-170 yesterday to
eliminate the program, which pays banks and mortgage servicers
to modify monthly payments for delinquent borrowers.  Neil Barofsky , special inspector general for the Troubled
Asset Relief Program, has called HAMP “a failure” and said it
pales in comparison to the record 2.9 million foreclosure
filings in 2010.  Sales Slump  Mounting foreclosures and a U.S. jobless rate close to 9
percent are depressing home sales. Purchases of previously owned
homes dropped 9.6 percent last month and the median price fell
to a nine-year low, according to the Chicago-based National
Association of Realtors.  Oliver Chang, a San Francisco-based analyst at Morgan
Stanley, and  Laurie Goodman , an analyst at Amherst Securities
Group LP in  New York , have estimated that the U.S. shadow
inventory includes as many as 8 million properties. The higher
projections count homes with shorter delinquency periods and
assume more residences will be lost to foreclosure, Khater said.  There were about 4.36 million U.S. home loans that were 90
days late or in foreclosure in February, down 16 percent from a
year earlier,  Lender Processing Services Inc. (LPS) , a Jacksonville,
Florida-based mortgage-data company reported March 28.  New Jersey’s shadow inventory represented more than 20
months of supply as of January, the most of any state, according
to CoreLogic. It was followed by  Illinois , Maryland,  Florida  and
Delaware.  States with the shortest supply --  North Dakota , Alaska,
Wyoming, Montana and Idaho -- never experienced a housing
bubble, Khater said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 John Gittelsohn  in New York at 
 johngitt@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net . 