-- 
AARP May Get $1 Billion on Health Law, House Republicans Say

-- B y   D r e w   A r m s t r o n g
-- 
2011-03-30T22:23:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-30/aarp-stands-to-get-1-billion-from-health-law-it-backed-republicans-say.html
A group of  House Republicans  said
seniors lobby  AARP  will gain as much $1 billion over the next
decade from the 2010 health care overhaul it supported and
should have its tax-exempt status investigated.  AARP represents 37 million people ages 50 and over in the
U.S. Its gains will come from insurance products it endorses and
that will attract customers under the health law, a group of
Republicans on the House Ways and Means committee said in a
 report  released today.  “AARP operates in direct opposition to the needs of their
senior membership,” said Representative Wally Herger, a
California Republican who chairs the House Ways and Means Health
subcommittee. “We think they ought to know what we’ve
uncovered.”  House Republicans are preparing an overhaul of Medicare and
Social Security, the U.S. government health insurance and income
security programs for the elderly. The AARP has been critical of
past Republican attempts to change the programs, mobilizing its
37 million members to stop reductions in benefits.  The House Ways and Means Committee will hold a hearing on
April 1 to discuss the report, co-written by Representative Dave Reichert of Washington, a Republican.  Tax Target  Representative Charles Boustany, a Louisiana Republican,
said that the  Internal Revenue Service  should investigate AARP’s
not-for-profit tax status, which exempts the group from
corporate income taxes. “AARP’s non-profit tax status is now in
question and the appropriate authorities, the IRS,” should
investigate, he said at the press conference.  The report says that AARP’s activities aren’t in the best
interests of members, citing executive salaries higher than
other large nonprofits. AARP Chief Executive Officer Bill
Novelli reported $1.6 million from the organization in 2009,
according to  tax documents .  The group also spent on first-class travel, a Nascar racing
team sponsorship, and luxury resort stays, Herger said.  “These are very troubling findings,” he said at the press
conference in the U.S. Capitol.  That doesn’t mean its nonprofit status is at risk. AARP’s
structure is similar to that of other nonprofits, and its
organization and operations is based on clear rules and court
precedents, said Doug Varley, an attorney at Caplin & Drysdale
in  Washington  who specializes in the taxation of not-for-profit
organizations.  “From a tax point of view, from an IRS perspective, I
think that the report describes some facts, but the facts don’t
add up to a disqualification for their tax status,” said
Varley, who reviewed the report at the request of Bloomberg
News.  AARP Insurance  Boustany also said that AARP was an insurance company, or
at least acting like one. The report makes the same claim,
comparing AARP’s revenue from health insurance to profits by
health insurers. The report does not include insurer revenue.  Of AARP’s $1.09 billion in 2009 revenues, $657 million was
from royalties from products licensed by AARP, according to the
tax documents. That includes insurance products sold by
Minnetonka, Minnesota-based  UnitedHealth Group Inc. (UNH) ;  New York- 
based  MetLife Inc. (MET) ; Richmond, Virginia-based  Genworth Financial
Inc. (GNW) ; and Hartford, Connecticut-based  Aetna Inc. (AET)  UnitedHealth
had revenues of $87.1 billion in 2009.  While it endorses insurance products, AARP doesn’t
underwrite risk, have salesmen, or administer benefits, said
AARP spokesman Drew Nannis. Most insurers fulfill some or all of
those functions.  “AARP is no more an insurance company than we are a travel
company, or an online photography company,” Lee Hammond, AARP
President, said in a conference call with reporters.  Lobbying Efforts  The AARP is one the largest lobbying groups in the U.S.,
with $1.09 billion in revenue in 2009, according to documents
filed with the IRS.  AARP lobbied for policies that would benefit its bottom
line, not its members, according to the report. Cuts to Medicare
Advantage, the private version of Medicare run by health
insurers, would push more people into the program’s supplemental
products such as one provided under AARP’s brand, which offers
extra coverage on top of the government’s Medicare program.  David Certner, AARP’s top lobbyist in Washington, said that
the group supported the cuts to Medicare and Medicare Advantage
in the health law as a way to extend the life of the program,
which provides health coverage to Americans ages 65 and over.
“We’re concerned about the long-term solvency of Medicare and
its financial condition. We want to make sure Medicare is paying
out proper rates,” he said during a conference call with
reporters discussing the report.  Law Not Beneficial  Certner said that supporting the health-care law ran
counter to his organization’s financial interests. The law will
eliminate the need for a product AARP offers with Aetna, called
 AARP Essential Premier , Certner said. AARP Essential Premier is
a comprehensive insurance policy targeted at people ages 50 to
64, according AARP’s Website.  The law sets up insurance “exchanges” where people can
buy subsidized coverage in 2014. Certner said AARP’s top
officials haven’t decided whether to work with an insurer to
sell a product through the marketplaces.  Aetna spokesman Fred Laberge didn’t immediately return an
e-mail requesting comment.  AARP spent $22 million -- the  sixth-most  of all advocacy
organizations -- on lobbying the federal government in 2010,
according to the Washington-based Center for Responsive
Politics. The U.S. Chamber of Commerce, a representative of
American business interests and an opponent of the health-care
overhaul, spent the most at $132 million.  This isn’t the first time Republicans in Congress have
focused on the AARP. In 1995, Senator  Alan Simpson , a Wyoming
Republican who led the Senate Finance Subcommittee on Social
Security and Family Policy, conducted a similar line of inquiry.  In his 1995  hearing , Simpson said that the organization
wasn’t deserving of its nonprofit status, spent large sums on
lobbying, and made a profit on licensed products, such as
supplemental health insurance, sold to its members.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Drew Armstrong in Washington at 
 darmstrong17@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Adriel Bettelheim at 
 abettelheim@bloomberg.net . 