-- 
Abidjan Faces Fighting as Ivory Coast Capital Falls to Ouattara's Forces

-- B y   P a u l i n e   B a x   a n d   O l i v i e r   M o n n i e r
-- 
2011-03-31T01:55:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-30/abidjan-braces-for-violence-as-troops-take-ivory-coast-capital.html
Fighters loyal to  Ivory Coast ’s
President-elect Alassane Ouattara moved south toward the West
African nation’s main city, Abidjan, where residents braced for
a possible last stand by rival  Laurent Gbagbo .  The Republican Forces late yesterday seized Yamoussoukro,
the political capital and the biggest of at least eight towns
taken this week. They also captured the key cocoa-exporting port
of San Pedro in the west and are about 90 kilometers (56 miles)
north of Abidjan in the town of Adzope, according to Meite
Sindou, spokesman for Ouattara’s prime minister,  Guillaume Soro .  “There was barely any resistance from the security
forces” in Yamoussoukro, Sindou said by phone. “They had
already deserted the police stations when the Republican Forces
arrived. Most of them joined our forces, those who refused fled
to Abidjan.”  The advance of the militia to the south has added military
force to the diplomatic and economic pressure on Gbagbo to
relinquish the presidency to Ouattara, who is internationally
recognized as the winner of a Nov. 28 election. Gbagbo, whose
forces have put up little resistance, refuses to cede power,
alleging voter fraud.  San Pedro  fell “without fighting,” Sindou said by phone
late yesterday. “Our troops have moved forward without any
difficulties,” he said.  Ouattara’s militia also captured the western town of Gagnoa
yesterday, Sindou said.  Rapid Advance  The advance has been “much more rapid than expected,”
said Young-jin Choi, the head of the United Nations mission in
the country, in an interview with  CNN . The troops are within
“striking distance” of Abidjan, he said.  Gbagbo’s spokesman, Ahoua Don Mello, didn’t answer calls
made to his mobile phone yesterday. The incumbent president has
called for a cease-fire and talks at the  African Union  as the
rival forces move south.  At the same time, the enrolment of new troops who responded
to a recruitment call last week by Gbagbo’s Youth Minister
Charles Ble Goude began yesterday, according to the website of
state-owned Radio Television Ivoirienne.  Ouattara rejected the call for talks after meeting on March
29 with leaders of four other opposition parties.  Tension is mounting in Abidjan, with at least five people
shot dead in Adjame, a neighborhood that supports Ouattara,
according to Parfait Yao, a witness who saw their bodies.  UN Vote  The UN Security Council voted 15-0 yesterday to freeze the
foreign assets and bar travel by Gbagbo, his wife Simone and top
aides Desire Tagro, Alcide Djedje and Pascal Affi N’Guessan.  The resolution also asked Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon to
send the report of a UN-mandated investigation of alleged human
rights abuses to the council and “other relevant international
organizations” such as the  International Criminal Court .  The rapid advance of the Republican Forces raised hopes the
four-month political crisis will soon be over. The country’s
defaulted dollar-denominated bond rallied 7 percent to 42.688
cents on the dollar yesterday, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Cocoa for May delivery slumped to a 10-week low on hopes
the impasse may ease and pave the way for a renewal of exports
of the chocolate ingredient. The price dropped $70, or 2.3
percent, to $2,987 per metric ton by 5:20 p.m. in  New York .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Pauline Bax and Olivier Monnier in Abidjan via Accra at
   ebowers1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 