-- 
Accepting Gay Employees Is ‘Commercial Imperative,’ Waugh Says

-- B y   L a u r a   M a r c i n e k   a n d   C r i s t i n a   A l e s c i
-- 
2011-03-30T22:32:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-30/accepting-gay-employees-is-commercial-imperative-waugh-says.html
Seth Waugh, chief executive officer
for  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) ’s Americas division, said it’s a
“commercial imperative” for  Wall Street  to accept openly gay
employees.  “All types of diversity make complete economic sense and
serve our shareholders over the long run,” Waugh said today at
“Out on the Street,” a conference hosted by Deutsche Bank AG
to explore how financial institutions can be more accepting of
gays. “It creates a richer mosaic of perspectives.”  The end game is a sense of obliviousness and indifference
to an employee’s sexuality, Waugh said. The goal is to make Wall
Street an “attractive and welcoming” place to work, he said.  “The amount of time and energy and brain function that one
expends on just hiding is incredible,” Mark Stephanz, a vice
chairman at Charlotte, North Carolina-based  Bank of America
Corp. (BAC) , told the audience in New York.  Three years ago, he told his clients, wife and three
children he’s gay, Stephanz said in an interview.  “I thought it would destroy my career, that my clients
would want to deal with the straight guy on the golf course
instead of a gay guy,” said Stephanz, who joined Bank of
America in 1984. “I know there are people who live with the
same fear.”  The key to changing an office environment is having openly
gay senior-level employees in a firm, said Todd Sears, founder
of “Out on the Street,” which is in its inaugural year.  “I want to start a dialogue with senior business managers
around how we can actually move things forward,” Sears told the
audience.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) ,  Citigroup Inc. (C) ,  Morgan Stanley (MS) ,
 Barclays PLC (BARC)  and Bank of America were among participating firms
at the conference.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Laura Marcinek in New York at 
 lmarcinek3@bloomberg.net ;
Cristina Alesci in New York at 
 calesci2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net . 