-- 
Aegon Funds Stick With Gilts as U.K. May Raise Rates More Slowly Than ECB

-- B y   L u k a n y o   M n y a n d a
-- 
2011-03-31T10:20:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-30/aegon-funds-stick-with-gilts-as-u-k-may-raise-rates-more-slowly-than-ecb.html
Aegon Asset Management  is sticking
with U.K. bonds because it expects the  Bank of England  to raise
interest rates more slowly than the  European Central Bank , even
as inflation runs at almost twice the pace of the euro area.  Dutch insurer  Aegon NV (AGN) ’s fund-management unit prefers gilts
to German bunds, said Stephen Jones, who is responsible for 25
billion pounds ($40 billion) as co-head of fixed income. U.K.
policy makers may start raising interest rates in May, though he
said the increases may already be reflected in the price of
gilts, which have declined in five of the past six months.  “We are content holders of gilts, particularly when
compared with other European assets,” Jones said in an
interview at the company’s Edinburgh headquarters. “At the
moment, we are quite happy to be long gilts.”  While U.K. bonds have lost 0.7 percent this year, bunds
have declined 2.1 percent, according to indexes from Bank of
America Merrill Lynch. The extra yield investors demand to hold
10-year gilts instead of comparable bunds has dropped 14 basis
points since March 2, the day before ECB President  Jean-Claude Trichet  said policy makers may raise borrowing costs.  The ECB’s main refinancing rate is double the Bank of
England’s benchmark rate of 0.5 percent. ECB officials signaled
their intentions to increase  interest rates  to contain an
inflation rate that quickened to 2.6 percent in March, the
fastest in more than two years, from 2.4 percent in February.  King’s Response  Bank of England Governor  Mervyn King  said earlier this
month raising rates too soon would be a “futile gesture.” At
the same time, U.K. consumer prices rose 4.4 percent in
February, more than twice the central bank’s 2 percent target.  While King “will have to react to these inflation numbers
by moving away from the emergency level” of rates, “we don’t
see that as being a rout,” Jones said. “The view coming out
from Trichet and the council is very hawkish,” he said.  Investment strategists at Aegon, Scottish Widows Investment
Partnership, Standard Life Investments and Aberdeen Asset
Management Plc all said last week that the biggest risk to
markets is governments and central banks getting it wrong on
spending cuts and interest rates.  The Bank of England has held its benchmark rate at a record
low since March 2009. Analysts surveyed by Bloomberg expect the
cost of borrowing to rise to 1 percent in the fourth quarter of
this year. They expect the ECB in  Frankfurt  to push its main
refinancing rate to 1.75 percent from 1 percent by the end of
the year, according to estimates.  ‘Gentle’ Increase  The move by the Bank of England will be “gentle and it is
already largely priced into fixed-income assets in the U.K.,”
Jones said. “Gilts are able to look through some of the
inflationary pressure and have done over the last couple of
months,” he said on March 23.  Scottish Widows Investment, manager of 68 billion pounds of
bonds from Edinburgh, said this month that gilts will decline
further as investors bet interest rates will increase. Mark Connolly, head of fixed income, said the company remained “some
way from being long gilts.”  The yield on the 10-year gilt declined 2 basis points to
3.65 percent today in  London . That’s up 14 basis points, or 0.14
percentage point, from 3.51 percent at the end of 2010.  Standard Life said last month U.K. government bonds will
start to recover as investors realize interest rates will stay
lower for longer. Too many increases in borrowing costs were
being priced into the market, said Euan Munro, who runs about 65
billion pounds at the company, on Feb. 10.  Gilts returned 0.8 percent in February, after falling in
each of the previous five months, the Bank of America Merrill
Lynch indexes showed.  Aegon’s U.K. fund business oversaw 41 billion pounds in
total from Edinburgh on Dec. 31, up 14 percent from a year
earlier. Aberdeen,  Scotland ’s largest money manager, increased
assets 27 percent to 183 billion pounds in 2010, while Standard
Life’s funds went up 13 percent to 157 billion pounds and they
rose 3.2 percent to 146 billion pounds at Scottish Widows.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lukanyo Mnyanda in Edinburgh at 
 lmnyanda@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  