-- 
Canadian Stocks Rise as Home Prices, U.S. Employment Increase

-- B y   M a t t   W a l c o f f
-- 
2011-03-30T20:48:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-30/agf-management-reunion-gold-valeant-canada-equity-preview.html
Canadian stocks rose for a second
day as gains in Canadian  home prices  and U.S. employment spurred
bank shares and gold and natural gas producers advanced.  Toronto-Dominion Bank (TD) ,  Canada ’s second-largest lender by
assets, advanced 1.8 percent after a report by Teranet Inc. and
 National Bank of Canada (NA)  showed a 0.4 percent increase in home
prices in January.  Valeant Pharmaceuticals International Inc. (VRX) ,
Canada’s largest drugmaker, surged 12 percent after making an
unsolicited takeover bid for Cephalon Inc. Base metals producer
 Lundin Mining Corp. (LUN)  rose 4.9 percent after breaking off a deal
to be bought by  Inmet Mining Corp. (IMN)   The Standard & Poor’s/TSX Composite Index climbed 153.23
points, or 1.1 percent, to 14,083.58.  “It’s a reduction in concerns about the slowdown in the
world economy,” said  Robert McWhirter , who oversees C$140
million ($144 million) as a money manager at Selective Asset
Management Inc. in Toronto. “Now it appears people are becoming
more comfortable moving toward the risk-on strategy.”  The index fell 1.5 percent this month through yesterday,
jeopardizing an eight-month streak of gains. Energy companies
retreated from a peak they’d reached at the outbreak of the
Libyan conflict and insurers and uranium producers dropped after
the Japanese earthquake and tsunami.  The S&P/TSX Financials Index climbed to the highest level
since May 2008. ADP Employer Services said U.S. companies hired
201,000 workers in March.  U.S. Business  TD, which has more than 1,000 U.S. branches, advanced 1.8
percent to a record C$86.40. National Bank, the country’s sixth-
largest lender by assets, rose 2 percent to a record C$78.81
after Chief Executive Officer Louis Vachon told an annual
meeting that the company is considering a stock split.  Manulife
Financial Corp. (MFC) ,  North America ’s fourth-biggest insurer, gained
1.7 percent to C$17.19.  Valeant offered about $5.7 billion in cash for Cephalon, a
Frazer, Pennsylvania-based maker of sleep and pain drugs, saying
Cephalon had rebuffed its attempts to negotiate a friendly
takeover.  The purchase of Cephalon could increase Valeant’s share
price by $20, Louise Chen, an analyst at Collins Stewart LLC,
said in a note to clients.  Soaring Shares  Valeant soared 12 percent to a seven-year high of C$48.58.
The shares have jumped 72 percent this year, the most among
S&P/TSX stocks.  Gold futures advanced for the first time in five days on
demand for alternative investments after  Muammar Qaddafi ’s
forces retook the oil port of Ras Lanuf from rebels.  Barrick Gold Corp. (ABX) , the world’s biggest gold producer,
increased 1.4 percent to C$50.08.  Goldcorp Inc. (G) , the world’s
second-largest gold producer by market value, climbed 1.6
percent to C$48.09.  China  Gold International Resources Corp.,
which mines in China, rallied 3.6 percent to C$5.47 before the
release of its fourth-quarter financial results.  Energy companies rose on the Libyan fighting and a forecast
of below-normal temperatures in the U.S. that led to a gain in
natural gas futures.  TransCanada Corp. (TRP) , the owner of the country’s largest
pipeline system, advanced 1 percent to C$39.18.  Cenovus Energy
Inc. (CVE) , the country’s No. 5 energy company by revenue, increased
1.9 percent to C$38.21.  Bankers Petroleum  Bankers Petroleum Ltd. (BNK) , which produces oil and gas in
Albania, climbed for the first time in seven days, rising 3.7
percent to C$8.12. Jamie Somerville, an analyst at TD, boosted
his rating on the shares to “action list buy” from “buy.”  Lundin rallied 4.9 percent to the highest price since 2008,
C$7.96, after terminating the agreement with Inmet so it could
try to fight off a rival bid from Equinox Mineral Ltd. Lundin
adopted a so-called poison pill that would make it more
difficult for Equinox to succeed in its hostile offer.  Equinox, which mines copper in  Africa , rose for a sixth
day, advancing 2.7 percent to C$5.63. Inmet, which produces base
and precious metals, surged 6.7 percent to C$66.62.  Westport Innovations Inc. (WPT) , which makes natural-gas engines,
jumped 12 percent, the most in nine months, to C$21.10. U.S.
President  Barack Obama  promoted natural-gas-fueled vehicles in a
speech at  Georgetown University  in  Washington  today.  Neo Material Technologies Inc. (NEM) , which makes rare-earth and
zirconium products, rallied 7.5 percent to a record C$9.30 after
increasing 4.6 percent yesterday. The Metal-Pages website said
yesterday that rare-earth processors in China have had to stop
production due to a supply shortage.  To contact the reporter on this story;
Matt Walcoff in Toronto at 
 mwalcoff1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net . 