-- 
Bombardier, DryShips, Lawson, UnitedHealth: U.S. Equity Preview

-- B y   J e n n i f e r   A .   J o h n s o n
-- 
2011-03-31T12:30:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-30/aig-berkshire-dendreon-dynegy-hershey-mosaic-u-s-equity-preview.html
Shares of the following companies
may have unusual moves in U.S. trading. Stock symbols are in
parentheses, and prices are as of 8:00 a.m. in  New York .  Acme Packet Inc. (APKT)  : The maker of devices to
transmit phone calls and video was rated a new “neutral” at
Wedbush Securities Inc.  American International Group Inc. (AIG)   fell 1.3 percent
to $35.59. The  Federal Reserve Bank of New York  said it has
declined the insurer’s $15.7 billion offer to purchase the
residential-mortgage backed securities owned by the central
bank’s Maiden Lane II LLC rescue fund.  Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A)  (BRK/B US) dropped 1.8 percent to
$83.91. The Omaha, Nebraska-based company’s Chief Executive
Officer  Warren Buffett  said David L. Sokol, chairman of several
units of the company, has resigned.  Bombardier Inc. (BBD/B)  : The world’s third-largest
planemaker said quarterly profit rose 80 percent, more than
analysts estimated, as it won business-jet orders and cleared
out inventory that had built up during the recession.  Cincinnati Bell Inc. (CBB)  : The phone company serving
Ohio, Kentucky and Indiana was rated a new “sector perform” at
 RBC Capital Markets .  Dendreon Corp. (DNDN)   added 4.1 percent to $37.00. The
company’s prostate cancer drug Provenge should be covered by the
U.S. government for use in older men, regulators said. The
$93,000 drug regimen is reasonable and necessary for men with
advanced, castrate-resistant prostate tumors who have minimal or
no symptoms of the disease, the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid
Services said.  DryShips Inc. (DRYS)   rose 4.3 percent to $5.14. The
Greek owner of deep-water drilling rigs and vessels that haul
iron ore and coal posted fourth-quarter profit excluding some
items of 20 cents a share. On that basis, analysts on average
estimated 25 cents, according to a Bloomberg survey.  Dynegy Inc. (DYN)  : Seneca Capital plans to continue
talks with the Houston-based power producer that has warned it
may need to seek  bankruptcy protection , according to a
regulatory filing.  General Maritime Corp. (GMR)   declined 7.9 percent to
$1.99. The New York-based shipping company got a $200 million
investment from Oaktree Capital Management LP and a $550 million
revolving line of credit.  Hershey Co. (HSY)  : The maker of Reese’s Peanut Butter
Cups said it’s boosting wholesale prices about 9.7 percent
because of fuel, raw materials and transportation costs. The
company also reaffirmed its 2011 earnings estimate.  Lawson Software Inc. (LWSN)  : The maker of  business
software  reported third-quarter earnings that beat the average
analyst estimate, Bloomberg data show.  Mako Surgical Corp. (MAKO)  : The medical device company
said it received a binding commitment from Hospital Management
Associate Inc. (HMA US) for the establishment of 11 MAKOplasty
sites for orthopedic procedures.  Mosaic Co. (MOS)   slumped 0.9 percent to $79.69.  North
America ’s second-largest fertilizer producer had third-quarter
revenue that fell short of analyst estimates, Bloomberg data
show.  UnitedHealth Group Inc. (UNH)   advanced 1.3 percent to
$45.98. The managed care provider was raised to “perform” from
“underperform” at Oppenheimer & Co.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jennifer A. Johnson in New York at 
 Jjohnson156@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net . 