-- 
Algosaibi Sues Former International Banking Corp. Chief

-- B y   P h i l   M i l f o r d   a n d   D a w n   M c C a r t y
-- 
2011-03-30T00:18:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-30/algosaibi-sues-former-international-banking-corp-chief-1-.html
Former International Banking Corp.
Chief Executive Officer Glenn Stewart was accused in a lawsuit
of aiding a scheme to use forged documents to borrow money in
the name of Ahmad Hamad Algosaibi & Brothers Co.  The civil complaint, filed yesterday in  Los Angeles  federal
court by Al Khobar, Saudi Arabia-based Algosaibi and made public
today, seeks more than $28 billion in damages. Claims include
fraud and unjust enrichment.  Stewart helped Saad Group Chairman Maan al-Sanea use the
Algosaibi “name and credit to secure unauthorized borrowing
from over 100 financial institutions around the world,”
according to the complaint. Al-Sanea is not a defendant in the
suit.  “Once loans were obtained with the forged documents, Al
Sanea, with Stewart’s knowing assistance, channeled some of the
proceeds into servicing previously obtained loans and otherwise
funding the operational costs of his fraud,” according to the
complaint.  Stewart left Bahrain in May during a government probe of
the bank’s collapse and is now in Malibu,  California , according
to a statement from Ryan Stanton of Sphere Consulting in
 Washington , a spokesman for Algosaibi. Stewart had no listed
telephone number in Malibu and couldn’t immediately be located
through Internet searches or e-mail.  Stewart “was a chief architect of the scheme,” according
to the complaint. International Banking Corp. was formed by
Stewart and al-Sanea and was “a sham bank and had no real
customers,” the complaint alleges.  New York Suits  Al-Sanea’s office in  Saudi Arabia  was closed after business
hours and no one was immediately available to comment. A
spokesman for al-Sanea couldn’t immediately be reached for
comment after regular business hours. Mark Bolland, identified
in an earlier report as a London-based spokesman for al-Sanea,
said he wasn’t his spokesman.  Robert Serio, a lawyer for al-Sanea in a lawsuit filed by
Algosaibi in New York state court, didn’t immediately return
phone and e-mail messages seeking comment on the Los Angeles
federal complaint. He has said al-Sanea denied any wrongdoing in
the case before the New York court, which was dismissed by a
judge who said it didn’t belong in the U.S.  In December, al-Sanea lost a jurisdictional challenge to a
lawsuit filed against him in the  Cayman Islands  by Algosaibi
alleging he misappropriated money.  The case is Ahmad Hamad Algosaibi & Brothers v. Stewart,
11cv2596, U.S. District Court, Central District of California
(Los Angeles).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Phil Milford in Wilmington,  Delaware , at 
 pmilford@bloomberg.net ;
Dawn McCarty in Wilmington at 
 dmccarty@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Rovella  at   drovella@bloomberg.net  