-- 
Alstom May Expand Power Division in Asia as Orders Rebound

-- B y   F r a n c o i s   d e   B e a u p u y
-- 
2011-03-30T10:54:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-30/alstom-may-expand-power-unit-in-asia-region-as-orders-rebound.html
Alstom SA (ALO)  may add capacity to its
power equipment and services business in faster-growing markets
such as Asia to exploit a rebound in orders, according to the
division’s head.  “We’re starting to see an investment comeback in the past
two quarters, and we think we will confirm that,” Philippe Joubert said in an interview at Alstom’s headquarters in
Levallois-Perret near Paris yesterday. He was referring to a
“12-month moving average” of quarterly orders, and declined to
be more specific on the January-to-March period.  Alstom, the third-largest power-equipment maker, aims to
strengthen its offerings in Asia, particularly in wind power.
“Sixty percent of the market for new  power plants , all
technologies included, will be in  Asia  over the next 10 years,”
Joubert said.  Alstom, which has ventures in China making power equipment
for dams, coal-fired and nuclear plants in the country, is
building a steam-turbine facility in  India  with Bharat Forge
Ltd. as demand for power equipment shifts from mature markets to
Asia and  South America . Meanwhile, it’s cutting about 4,000 jobs
at sites that make coal- and gas-fired power equipment as
utilities in  Europe  and the U.S. delay spending.  Orders Increase  In the quarter ended in December, orders for power
equipment and services rose 6.9 percent to 2.84 billion euros
($4 billion), the highest level in six quarters, helped by
contracts for gas-fired plants in  Singapore  and India, as well
as renovation and maintenance contracts for French nuclear
plants.  “When markets are tighter, margins are less comfortable
than when plant purchases were booming two or three years ago,”
Joubert said. “Our Asian footprint is becoming Alstom’s
largest, and Alstom’s global footprint allows us to take these
markets in a very competitive way. Prices are falling, which
doesn’t mean that margins are falling across our portfolio.”  This quarter, Alstom Power won a contract worth about 300
million euros to build a gas-fired plant in Singapore, another
worth about 500 million euros to provide power equipment for a
dam in Brazil, a 170 million euro-order to provide steam power
equipment in  Kuwait , and a 540 million euro contract for a plant
powered by oil shale in  Estonia . It also won an extension of a
maintenance contract worth just under 300 million euros in
 Taiwan , and several retrofit orders in nations such as  Poland .  Competitive Pressures  “Whilst Alstom’s order cycle has turned and the mix is
improving, with more orders in gas and hydro, we still think
that low demand in coal in the U.S. and Europe, and competitive
pressures from the Chinese will put pressure on earnings,” said
Daniel Cunliffe, a London-based analyst at RBS, in a March 22
research note.  Alstom shares rose 0.4 percent to 42.27 euros at 12:52 p.m.
in Paris trading, taking this year’s gain to 18 percent. The
shares of bigger rivals General Electric Co. and Siemens AG have
risen 8.6 percent and 4.1 percent, respectively.  Alstom is looking for opportunities to build a plant, buy a
windmill maker or form a partnership to better serve onshore
wind markets in areas such as southeast Asia, Australia and
 Japan , Joubert said.  Brazil  Gas  In Brazil, Alstom may want to make parts for combined-cycle
gas-fired plants as the country taps gas reserves recently
discovered off its coasts.  “Brazil will probably invest in gas,” Joubert said.
“We’ll look at our two-to-four year strategy, and gas will be
part of it.”  The French company already has a production facility in
Brazil that makes turbines for dams and it’s building a windmill
plant in the country.  Alstom is also talking with Russian partners about building
local facilities that will make and upgrade power equipment for
dams, fossil fuels and nuclear plants.  “Nuclear isn’t dead but there will be a pause to check the
safety of plants,” following the accident at Japan’s Dai-Ichi
nuclear plant, Joubert said.  China ’s nuclear plant construction
program will continue, and India has no plan to slow its
progress, he said. Elsewhere, projects may be “more or less
slowed,” though services to the “substantial” installed base
will remain.  European governments and lawmakers should adapt
environmental laws to help Alstom build more pilot projects for
its carbon capture and storage technology, Joubert said.
Otherwise, Alstom will install its technologies in Asia, “which
will end up happening” as Europe dithers, he said.  “Long term, I confirm that the market for new plant
installs will continue to grow by 3 percent to 4 percent per
year, that the market is in Asia, and that about 45 percent of
the technologies used will be CO2-free, and that fossil fuels
will remain very important,” he said. “The CO2 problem will
have to be tackled because we will still need fossil fuels for
several dozen years.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Francois de Beaupuy in Paris at 
 fdebeaupuy@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at   bkammel@bloomberg.net . 