-- 
Tam May Buy Stake in Trip to Regain Market Lead Over Gol

-- B y   F e l i p e   F r i s c h
-- 
2011-03-30T21:06:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-30/tam-may-buy-stake-in-trip-to-regain-market-lead-over-gol-2-.html
Tam SA (TAMM4) , the Brazilian airline that
agreed to be bought by  Lan Airlines SA (LAN)  last year, may purchase a
stake in Trip Linhas Aereas SA to regain domestic market
leadership over  Gol Linhas Aereas Inteligentes SA. (GOLL4)   Tam, based in Sao Paulo, signed a non-binding letter of
intent with Trip Linhas Aereas SA that may result in Tam buying
a 31 percent stake in the Campinas, Brazil-based airline,
according to a regulatory filing. The two carriers are seeking
to strengthen and expand their businesses and haven’t yet
concluded the talks, Tam said in the filing.  “It may improve Tam’s domestic market share, and that’s
the goal,” Rosangela Ribeiro, an analyst at SLW Corretora in
 Sao Paulo , said in a telephone interview today.  Tam lost its leadership in the domestic market last month,
according to Brazil’s aviation authority, known as Anac. Gol
raised its share of the Brazilian market to 39.8 percent in
February, while Tam had 39.6 percent. Tam is still the leader in
the international market, with 85.9 percent compared with Gol’s
12.9 percent last month.  Trip has 43 aircraft and had net revenue of 747 million
reais ($450 million) in 2010, according to the statement. The
company agreed to buy five Embraer 190 jets and five ATR-72-600
planes in January. Trip is controlled by Caprioli, Aguia Branca
and SkyWest Inc.  If the agreement is confirmed,  Brazil ’s antitrust
authority, known as  Cade , will assess whether Tam and Trip’s
routes may overlap each other, said Olavo Chinaglia, a council
member for the authority, in a telephone interview from Brasilia
today.  Lan, based in Santiago, agreed to buy Tam in August in a
$3.5 billion takeover. Chile’s antitrust tribunal, known as
TDLC, said in January it’s reviewing the transaction after a
request from a consumer group. Brazil’s Cade doesn’t plan to ask
for more information from Lan and Tam on the takeover, Chinaglia
said last month.  Tam fell 0.3 percent to 31.75 reais in Sao Paulo at the
market close, while Lan rose 0.6 percent to 12,350 pesos in
Santiago.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Felipe Frisch in Sao Paulo at 
 ffrisch1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Francisco Marcelino at 
 mdeoliveira@bloomberg.net  