-- 
American Airlines Suspends Two of Six Daily Japan Flights as Demand Falls

-- B y   M a r y   S c h l a n g e n s t e i n
-- 
2011-03-30T21:02:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-30/american-airlines-suspends-two-of-six-daily-japan-flights-as-demand-falls.html
American Airlines  suspended two of
six daily Japan flights on declining demand as it prepared to
start a revenue-sharing joint venture with Japan Airlines Corp.  American will drop a daily flight from  New York ’s John F.
Kennedy International to  Tokyo ’s Haneda airport and one of two
daily trips from Dallas-Fort Worth International to Narita
starting April 6, said Ed Martelle, an American spokesman.  The airline on April 1 will kick off the partnership with
Japan Airlines that lets them jointly set fares and flight
schedules, sell tickets and share revenue. American joined  Delta
Air Lines Inc. (DAL)  among U.S. carriers temporarily dropping some
flights to Japan because demand tumbled following the March 11
earthquake and tsunami.  “It’s purely due to passenger demand,” Martelle said
yesterday, declining to quantify the drop in traffic since the
quake, which also crippled a nuclear power plant and released
radiation. “Both carriers understand this is a temporary
situation, so there is no reason for it to have a lasting
impact” on the joint business.  Japan Airlines,  Australia ’s Qantas Airways Ltd., Hong
Kong’s Cathay Pacific Airways Ltd., Singapore Airlines Ltd.,
China Airlines Ltd. and South Korea’s Asiana Airlines Inc. all
have trimmed capacity to Japan since the earthquake as travel
has fallen. Several other carriers, including British Airways
Plc and Air France, have added stops on flights in other
Japanese cities so crews don’t have to overnight in Tokyo.  Reinstatement Plans  American, a unit of Fort Worth, Texas-based  AMR Corp. (AMR) , will
retain its four remaining daily flights. The carrier will
reinstate the suspended ones on April 26 while continuing to
monitor the situation “and make whatever changes we have to
make,” Martelle said.  In addition to the second daily flight from Dallas-Fort
Worth, American is retaining departures from  Chicago  and  Los
Angeles  and one daily route between Kennedy and Narita. American
is the third-biggest U.S. provider of service to Japan,
following Delta and  United Continental Holdings Inc. (UAL)   American is seeing an increase in bookings for Japan
flights on April 29 and May 3 through 5, when the country’s
“Golden Week” occurs, said Jim Faulkner, an airline spokesman.
That is an annual vacation period in Japan when four national
holidays occur, almost consecutively, allowing many to take the
entire week off.  Outbound Bookings Rise  “We’ve seen an uptick in advance bookings on outbounds from
Japan then,” Faulkner said.  Delta, based in Atlanta, said March 22 it was suspending
service to Haneda while maintaining operations at Narita,
Japan’s main overseas gateway.  United Continental continues to operate all of its
regular Japan routes and hasn’t trimmed flights, said Christen David, a spokeswoman for the Chicago-based carrier. There has
been “steady demand” for Japan-U.S. travel, although the
company has seen “measurable decline” in travel to  Japan , she
said.  United Continental isn’t operating its flight from Guam to
Sendai, Japan, because of damage to that airport from the quake
and tsunami, David said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mary Schlangenstein in Dallas at 
 maryc.s@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at   edufner@bloomberg.net  