-- 
Announced U.S. Job Cuts Fell 39% in March From a Year Ago, Challenger Says

-- B y   T i m o t h y   R .   H o m a n
-- 
2011-03-30T11:30:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-30/announced-u-s-job-cuts-fell-39-from-year-ago-challenger-says.html
U.S. employers announced fewer job
cuts in March than the same month last year, even as government
payroll cutbacks climbed to the highest level in a year.  Planned firings decreased 39 percent to 41,528 this month
from March 2010, according to a report today from Chicago-based
Challenger, Gray & Christmas Inc. Public employees accounted for
almost half of all the March job cuts.  “It is difficult to be optimistic about the outlook for
government workers,” Rick Cobb, the outplacement company’s
executive vice president, said in a statement. “The good news
is that other areas of the economy appear to have stabilized in
terms of downsizing activity.”  Dismissals of state and local public workers may restrain
further gains in  consumer spending , which accounts for 70
percent of the world’s largest economy. The highest gas prices
in more than two years may also slow household purchases.  Compared with last month, job-cut announcements fell 18
percent. Because the figures aren’t adjusted for seasonal
effects, economists prefer to focus on year-over-year changes
rather than monthly numbers.  Government and nonprofit organizations announced 19,099 job
cuts, an increase of 17 percent from the previous month,
according to Challenger. So far this year, governments have
planned 41,929 reductions. Telecommunications firms were second
this month with 2,378 planned cuts.  California led all states with 14,954 announced job cuts,
followed by Washington D.C., with 8,080.  The U.S. Postal Service, based in  Washington , said last
week that it plans to eliminate about 7,500 jobs and close seven
administrative offices to cut costs.  Hiring Plans  Today’s report also showed that employers announced plans
in March to hire 10,869 workers after 72,581 the prior month.
Companies in the transportation industry said they plan to add
2,323 workers, Challenger said.  Employers in the U.S. hired about 190,000 workers this
month, and the  unemployment rate  held at 8.9 percent, according
to the median estimate of economists in a Bloomberg News survey
ahead of an April 1 report from the Labor Department.  Challenger’s data do not always correlate with figures on
payrolls or first-time jobless claims as reported by the
government. Many job cuts are carried out through attrition or
early retirement. Some employees whose jobs are eliminated find
work elsewhere in their companies and many announced staff
reductions never take place because business improves. The
totals also include foreign affiliates.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Timothy R. Homan in Washington at 
 thoman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  