-- 
Los Angeles Football Stadium Proposal Lacks Lakers-Like Bond Guarantee

-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   P a l m e r i   a n d   A n d y   F i x m e r
-- 
2011-03-30T05:42:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-30/anschutz-s-los-angeles-stadium-proposal-lacks-lakers-like-bond-guarantee.html
Billionaire Philip Anschutz’s plan
to build a football stadium and convention-center addition in
downtown  Los Angeles  offers the city a financial guarantee that
falls short of what he gave with Staples Center 13 years ago.  The Anschutz subsidiary behind the project is providing no
letter of credit or additional guarantee for $350 million of
municipal bonds related to the development, according to a Feb.
16 proposal, unlike the backing provided for Staples Center.  Without such assurance, Los Angeles taxpayers may be on the
hook if stadium and convention-center proceeds to the city come
up short of what’s needed for the bonds. Anschutz Entertainment
Group President Tim Leiweke has said the company will make up
any shortfall servicing municipal debt needed to finance the
convention-center portion of the $1.35 billion project.  “With no bank, corporate or municipal insurance, you are
possibly looking at the city having to make the payments,”
Jeffrey Appelbaum, an attorney who specializes in stadium
finance at Thompson Hine LLP in  Cleveland , said in an interview.  Michael Roth, a spokesman for Los Angeles-based Anschutz
Entertainment, said he couldn’t immediately comment.  Anschutz Entertainment’s plan for a National Football
League stadium in downtown Los Angeles envisions tearing down
part of the existing convention center and building an extension
with as much as $350 million in municipal bonds.  Payments on the bonds would be backed by taxes and fees
from the stadium and the convention-center addition, with any
shortfall covered by L.A. Event Center LLC, the limited
liability company created for the project, according to the
Anschutz Entertainment proposal.  The plan, outlined in a letter dated Feb. 16, describes the
terms as “similar to that currently in place for Staples
Center.”  ‘No Credit Enhancement’  In 1998, two companies affiliated with Anschutz offered a
letter of credit from a bank to back payments on $45.6 million
in municipal bonds sold to partly finance construction of the
Staples Center basketball and hockey arena for the Los Angeles
Lakers and Kings, according to the prospectus.  Under the current proposal, “No private credit enhancement
will be provided by Developer to support such Bonds.”  “We will privatize the stadium, no hidden agendas,”
Leiweke said at press conference on Feb. 1, the day he unveiled
a stadium naming rights deal with Farmers Insurance Group. “It
will be paid for completely privately, I promise.”  Los Angeles Mayor Antonio Villaraigosa created a commission
on the same day to study the plan with the goal of “helping to
ensure that the interests of taxpayers are protected,”
according to a release.  Limited Liability  The letter of credit backing the $45.6 million in Staples
Center-related bonds came about because then-city councilman
Joel Wachs asked the company to support its pledge to make bond
payments with a stronger guarantee, according to Greg Nelson, a
former aide to Wachs.  In the case of the new stadium, the “promise to guarantee
shortfalls in the bond payments is not coming from Phil Anschutz
or AEG, but from the L.A. Event Center LLC, a subsidiary of
AEG,” Nelson wrote in an e-mail. “The creation of an LLC
protects AEG’s assets. Just the assets of the development
company would be at risk, and those assets are unknown.”  Anschutz, 71, is ranked 34th in the  Forbes Magazine  list of
richest Americans, with a net worth estimated at $7.5 billion.  City Council President Eric Garcetti announced a committee
of five council members to study the proposal on March 29.  “What is the backup? That’s a question we’re going to
ask,” City Councilman Bill Rosendahl said in an interview. “If
Anschutz was willing to offer more of a guarantee then, why
isn’t he willing to do that again?”  The city’s planning department holds a hearing today on the
stadium proposal at the convention center.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Christopher Palmeri in Los Angeles at 
 cpalmeri1@bloomberg.net ;
Andy Fixmer in Los Angeles at 
 afixmer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net ;
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  