-- 
April’s Warming Start Will Give Way to Cold Over Much of U.S.

-- B y   B r i a n   K .   S u l l i v a n
-- 
2011-03-30T11:27:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-30/april-s-warming-start-will-give-way-to-cold-over-much-of-u-s-.html
April may start mild, with near
normal or above temperatures in most of the country, then
probably give way to another round of cooler temperatures as the
weeks progress,  Matt Rogers , president of the  Commodity Weather
Group  LLC, said.  “The first full week of April is setting up to be quite
variable with both warming and cooling episodes expected for the
Midwest, East and South,” Rogers wrote in a note to clients
today. “Right now, it appears as though the warm anomalies will
be overall stronger than the colder ones for the 6-10 day,
favoring a slight warm-dominated week.”  From April 4 to April 8, Rogers forecasts a greater
probability for warm temperatures centered on  Texas  and the
surrounding of states of New Mexico, Colorado Nebraska, Kansas
Oklahoma, Arkansas, Louisiana and Mississippi. Parts of Wyoming,
Missouri and Alabama may also warm.  In the same period, cooler air may take hold in  North
Dakota  and northern Montana, he said.  Natural gas traders monitor weather forecasts to determine
whether temperatures may boost heating or cooling demand.
Predictions of below-normal or above-normal temperatures may
prompt traders to buy or sell gas futures.  New York ’s normal average temperature for early April is
about 48 degrees Fahrenheit (8.8 degrees Celsius), according to
MDA EarthSat Weather in Gaithersburg, Maryland. In Boston, the
normal average temperature is about 45, in St. Louis about 53,
in  Chicago  about 44, in Houston about 66, according to EarthSat.  Gulf Coast  From April 9 to April 13 the warming retreats to the states
along the U.S. Gulf coast, as well as Georgia, South and  North
Carolina .  As the chances for warming decrease, the probability for
colder temperatures rise from Montana south to Kansas and
 Missouri  and east to the upper Ohio Valley and New England,
including New York, according to Rogers.  Yesterday, the U.S. Climate Prediction Center said the
Northeast, upper Great Plains and Pacific Northwest will
probably have cooler-than-normal temperatures from April 4 to
April 8.  The U.S. Gulf Coast will probably have warmer temperatures
while the rest of the nation remains about normal during the
period, according to the  climate center’s  6- to 10-day outlook.  The area of cooler weather is expected to include the West
Coast and western New York State from April 6 to 12, according
to the center’s 8- to 14-day outlook.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian K. Sullivan in  Boston  at 
 bsullivan10@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  