-- 
Marchionne Says Chrysler Share Sale May Be Pushed to 2012

-- B y   T o m m a s o   E b h a r d t   a n d   M a r c o   B e r t a c c h e
-- 
2011-03-30T16:23:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-30/marchionne-says-chrysler-share-sale-may-be-pushed-into-next-year.html
Chrysler Group LLC’s share sale may
be pushed into next year to better “be ready to be a public
company again,” Chief Executive Officer  Sergio Marchionne  said.  “I don’t know”, Marchionne said today at  Fiat SpA (F) ’s
annual meeting in Turin, Italy, when asked if an initial public
offering would take place this year or next. The CEO said in
January he expected a Chrysler IPO in the second half.  An IPO depends on the need for additional liquidity at
Chrysler and the desire of the United Auto Workers union to sell
part of its stake, Marchionne, who runs Chrysler and Fiat, said.  Fiat, which owns a 25 percent stake in  Auburn Hills ,
Michigan-based Chrysler can gain a further 10 percent stake in
Chrysler in two steps if the U.S. carmaker reaches milestones
including some sales goals outside of North America and a
distribution agreement in Latin America. The UAW’s retiree
health fund ownership of the automaker fell to 64 percent in
January after Fiat raised its stake.  Chrysler is close to finalizing a dealership agreement
outside  North America  with “ Brazil  ready to start,” Marchionne
said. Fiat is targeting fast-growing economies to counter losses
in  Europe .  Marchionne today reiterated plans to reach a 51 percent
Chrysler holding by the end of this year, after completing a
refinancing deal for Chrysler. Fiat has an option to raise its
holding to 51 percent after Chrysler repays U.S. and Canadian
government loans.  Industrial Spinoff   Marchionne, 58, this year separated Fiat’s trucks and
tractor units into a separate company to focus on carmaking and
foster more auto alliances. Fiat’s assets, after the spinoff of
Iveco SpA’s trucks and CNH Global NV’s tractors into Fiat
Industrial SpA, include the Maserati and Ferrari luxury brands.  The Italian carmaker is currently selling 1 billion euros
($1.4 billion) in bonds. The five-year notes will be priced to
yield 6.375 percent. It’s the first public sale from Fiat since
it sold 1.5 billion euros of 6.875 percent notes in December
2009, according Bloomberg data.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tommaso Ebhardt in Turin,  Italy , via 
 tebhardt@bloomberg.net ;
Marco Bertacche in Turin, Italy, via 
 mbertacche@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at   cthomas16@bloomberg.net  