-- 
Marcus’s ‘Hawkish’ Comments Don’t Change South Africa Interest Rate View

-- B y   N a s r e e n   S e r i a
-- 
2011-03-30T16:01:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-30/marcus-s-hawkish-comments-don-t-change-south-africa-rate-view.html
South Africa ’s central bank may
hold off on raising interest rates until the third quarter, with
Governor Gill Marcus warning yesterday that the economic
recovery remains “fragile,” said economists at  Citigroup Inc. (C) 
and JPMorgan Chase & Co.  While saying the bank will take “whatever measures we
need” to contain inflation, Marcus also said any action would
be done in a “considered” way. She was speaking to students
and business people in Soweto township in Johannesburg.  “Her comments are a reminder that if inflation requires
it, they have to act,” Jean-Francois Mercier, an economist at
Citigroup, said in a phone interview from Johannesburg today.
“The comments were perhaps more hawkish, but it doesn’t
fundamentally change the message” from the March 24 Monetary
Policy Committee meeting.  The Reserve Bank left its benchmark interest rate unchanged
at a 30-year low of 5.5 percent for a second consecutive meeting
last week as surging food and oil prices threaten to push
inflation outside of the bank’s target range of 3 percent to 6
percent. Inflation was unchanged at 3.7 percent in February.  The rand strengthened as much as 0.8 percent to 6.81765
against the dollar today on expectations that the bank will
increase interest rates. The currency was trading at 6.82020 as
of 4:11 p.m. in Johannesburg.  Not Blinkered  Mercier’s prediction, which is unchanged since before last
week’s MPC meeting, is that the bank will make its first rate
increase in September.  “While the core function and responsibility of the  Reserve
Bank  is tackling inflation, we won’t do it in a blinkered way,”
Marcus said. “But at the same time, we will not be soft on
inflation. Whatever measures we need to take to deal with
inflation should it be rising, we will take it.”  Marcus’s comments are consistent with the MPC statement
last week, preparing the market for an interest rate increase,
Sonja Keller, an economist at JPMorgan in Johannesburg, said in
a note to clients today.  “She combined her hawkish talk on inflation with a
characterization that South Africa’s economy is fragile,”
Keller said. The first interest rate increase will probably be
in November and there are “risks of a September move,” she
said.  Three interest rate cuts last year helped to support the
recovery in  Africa ’s biggest economy, which the bank estimates
will expand 3.7 percent in 2011 and 3.9 percent in 2012.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nasreen Seria in Johannesburg at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at   barden@bloomberg.net . 