-- 
Las Vegas Sports Books Are Wary of VCU’s $50,000 NCAA Tournament Long Shot

-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 
2011-03-30T13:49:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-30/las-vegas-sports-books-are-wary-of-vcu-s-50-000-ncaa-tournament-long-shot.html
Virginia Commonwealth University
would make at least one  Las Vegas  bettor $50,000 richer if it
ends its run in college basketball’s national tournament with a
championship.  The Las Vegas Hilton’s Race and Sports Book three months
ago took a $10 wager on VCU to win the title at 5,000 to 1 odds.
 Virginia Commonwealth  is two victories away from becoming the
national champion after winning five straight games to reach the
Final Four in Houston.  VCU was a 200-1 long shot at the start of the National
Collegiate Athletic Association tournament, while Butler
University, the Rams’ opponent in the national semifinals, had
odds of about 150-1. With at least one of those teams guaranteed
to play for the championship on April 4, the Hilton is among
those sports books eyeing sizeable payouts.  “I can’t give you specific numbers, but it’s probably not
good,” Jay Kornegay, executive director of the  Hilton Race and
Sports Book , said yesterday in a telephone interview. “We have
some liability associated with VCU, so we’re definitely not
rooting for the Rams this weekend.”  Kornegay wouldn’t disclose who placed the bet. Covers.com
reported the 5,000-to-1 wager this week.  The April 2 semifinal between Virginia Commonwealth and
Butler features the two lowest-seeded teams ever to meet in a
Final Four. VCU is the third No. 11 seed to reach the national
semifinals since the tournament began seeding teams in 1979,
while Butler won the Southeast Regional final as a No. 8 seed.  The  University of Connecticut , which was a No. 3 regional
seed, plays the University of  Kentucky , a No. 4 seed, in the
other national semifinal. Without a No. 1 or No. 2 seed in the
Final Four for the first time, Richard Gardner, manager of
Antigua-based Internet sports book  Bodog.com , said this has been
the most unpredictable NCAA tournament in history.  Fairy Tales  “VCU and Butler will reward those who believe in
Cinderella, but the book will be praying that fairy tales do not
come true,” Gardner said in an e-mail.  Gardner said the pre-tournament odds of Connecticut,
Kentucky, Butler and VCU making the Final Four was 250,000-1.  Virginia Commonwealth’s odds of winning its first five
tournament games -- all as underdogs -- were 1,371-1, according
to handicapping information website  Pregame.com .  VCU is a 2 1/2-point underdog against Butler. If the Rams
pull another upset, they’d also be an underdog in the
championship game against either  Connecticut  or Kentucky.  Jimmy Vaccaro, director of sports operations at  Lucky’s
Race and Sports Book  in Las Vegas, said while he took some bets
on VCU at 200-1, a championship for the Richmond, Virginia,
school would only be a minor loss for the book.  “VCU in some places will be a major hit,” Vaccaro said in
a telephone interview. “We escaped. We didn’t get as much as
maybe some of the other places, but we’d be a loser.”  5,000-to-1 Shot  At the Hilton’s sports book, Kornegay said VCU opened the
season with 200-1 odds and was getting no support from bettors.
At one point, the Rams’ championship odds were increased to
9,999-1 and one bettor laid $10 on them at 5,000-1 during the
middle of the season in December, Kornegay said.  Since Virginia Commonwealth started its tournament run, the
Rams have gotten more support from bettors.  While upsets are usually money-makers for sports books
because the public generally likes to bet favorites, VCU became
a popular pick, especially getting 11.5 points against top-
seeded  Kansas  in the regional final.  Connecticut  Jay Rood, sports book director at the  MGM Mirage  in Las
Vegas, said he took a “few tickets” on VCU and Butler at 175-1
and 150-1. He said more people bet on Virginia Commonwealth
after the Rams were lowered to 45-1 after winning their first
three games.  “Not any real serious money, but a bunch of people were
betting $25, $50, $100 on them,” Rood said. “I’d love to see
(a VCU win). It’d be fun. It’d shake up the whole hierarchy.”  Rood said his worst-case scenario is Connecticut winning
the championship. The MGM opened the Huskies at 30-1 odds to
start the tournament, slightly higher than at most other books
in Las Vegas.  “Any Big East team is going to draw a lot of action.
Players like to bet Big East teams, especially if they have some
value on it,” Rood said. “Most of the year, they were in the
neighborhood of 20-1. So we’re actually in a worse spot with
Connecticut than we are with anyone else.”  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  