-- 
Stocks Rise on U.S. Employment Growth as Crude Oil Falls, Treasuries Gain

-- B y   S t e p h e n   K i r k l a n d   a n d   I n y o u n g   H w a n g
-- 
2011-03-30T20:08:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-30/asian-stocks-gain-on-earnings-japan-production-outlook-bonds-yen-fall.html
Stocks rose, extending the biggest
first-quarter rally since 1998 for the Standard & Poor’s 500
Index, as growth in jobs added to signs the economy is
improving. Treasuries climbed after an auction of seven-year
notes, while oil slipped following an increase in inventories.  The  S&P 500  added 0.7 percent at 4 p.m. in New York and is
up 5.6 percent this quarter. The Russell 2000 Index of smaller
U.S. stocks climbed to the highest level since October 2007 and
the Stoxx Europe 600 Index recouped losses since  Japan ’s March
11 earthquake. Seven-year Treasury yields fell 5 basis points to
2.85 percent, while oil slipped 0.5 percent to $104.27 a barrel.
The yen weakened versus its 16 major peers, while  Australia ’s
currency rose to a record versus the dollar.  U.S. companies added 201,000 jobs in March, according to
figures from ADP Employer Services released two days before the
government’s monthly jobs report.  Hitachi Ltd. (6501) ’s main plant will
resume full operation next month, Japan’s Nikkei newspaper said,
while  Agricultural Bank of China Ltd. (601288)  and  Cheung Kong  (Holdings)
Ltd. reported earnings that beat analyst estimates.  “The bulk of the fundamental economic numbers have been
net positive for the marketplace,” said Michael Mullaney, who
manages $9.5 billion at Fiduciary Trust Co. in  Boston . “We’re
starting to see evidence we’re getting job creation, which is
critical for the economy and markets for an ongoing basis. A
little bit of the fear factor has been removed.”  Cephalon, Visa  Telephone companies led gains in all 10 industries in the
S&P 500, which erased its March loss and climbed to an almost
one-month high today. AT&T Inc. rallied 2.2 percent after Chief
Executive Officer Randall Stephenson, making his case for a
proposed takeover of  T-Mobile USA , said the deal would boost
network capacity and improve service for devices such as Apple
Inc.’s iPhone.  Cephalon Inc. surged 28 percent, the most since 1995,
following a hostile takeover bid from Valeant Pharmaceuticals
International Inc. Visa Inc. and Discover Financial Services
climbed at least 2 percent amid speculation that U.S. curbs on
debit-card fees will be delayed or modified.  Treasuries advanced as the highest yields in almost a year
attracted buyers at the government’s $29 billion auction of
seven-year notes. The notes drew a yield of 2.895 percent,
compared with the average forecast of 2.873 percent in a
Bloomberg News survey of 8 of the 20 primary dealers. Bonds
dropped yesterday as Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis President
 James Bullard  said policy makers should consider curtailing its
program of quantitative easing as the economy strengthens.  Cattle, Rubber  Natural gas for May delivery rose as much as 2.7 percent to
lead gains in commodities on forecasts of below-normal
temperatures and a winter storm that may boost demand for the
heating fuel in the Northeast. Live cattle futures climbed as
much as 1.6 percent to a record $1.198 a pound on bets that meat
demand from Japan will climb. Rubber futures rallied 1.2 percent
after floods damaged harvests in  Thailand , the biggest natural-
rubber producer.  About three stocks advanced for every one that fell in the
Stoxx Europe 600 Index which climbed 0.7 percent for a sixth
straight gain, its longest rally of the year.  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP) ,
the world’s biggest mining company, rose 1.4 percent.  Bellway
Plc (BWY)  climbed 4.4 percent as the U.K. homebuilder reported
increased profit.  Bank of Ireland  Bank of Ireland Plc slid 11 percent amid speculation the
government may be forced to take a controlling stake following
tomorrow’s stress tests. After European markets closed, five
people with knowledge of the matter said three of Ireland’s
biggest banks may have to raise a combined 9 billion euros
($12.7 billion) in capital. Bank of Ireland, the country’s
biggest lender by market value, will seek as much as 5 billion
euros, said two of the people.  The yield on Portugal’s five-year bond rose as much as 25
basis points to 9.19 percent amid speculation the Iberian nation
will soon need financial assistance. Portugal may revise
official data for a report to be sent to the European Union
statistics agency, showing a wider 2010  budget deficit , the Wall
Street Journal reported, citing an unidentified spokeswoman. S&P
cut Portugal’s debt rating yesterday, saying the nation will
probably need an international bailout.  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index surged 1.6 percent, erasing
this year’s loss. The MSCI Asia Pacific Index climbed 1.3
percent to the highest in almost three weeks as  Agricultural
Bank of China  advanced 2.7 percent in  Hong Kong  and Cheung Kong
gained 4 percent. FirstRand Ltd. increased 3.2 percent, helping
lead  South Africa ’s FTSE/JSE Africa All Shares Index 1.8 percent
higher, after RMB Asset Management said lenders are trading at
“cheap” valuations.  Micex Rallies  Russia’s Micex climbed 1.5 percent, extending this year’s
gain to 7.6 percent, as brokerages including Credit Suisse Group
AG, Morgan Stanley and JPMorgan Chase & Co. raised share-price
estimates.  The yen depreciated 0.5 percent against the dollar and 0.6
percent per euro. The Australian dollar strengthened to as much
as $1.0338, the most since it was freely floated in 1983, on
prospects that global growth will increase demand for
commodities. The pound rose for the second day against the
dollar, climbing 0.4 percent, after U.K. service companies grew
the most in almost nine years in January.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stephen Kirkland in  London  at 
 skirkland@bloomberg.net ;
Inyoung Hwang in  New York  at 
 ihwang7@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  