-- 
Assad's Egypt Playbook Risks Lebanon-Style Sectarian Split After Protests

-- B y   D o n n a   A b u - N a s r   a n d   M a s s o u d   A .   D e r h a l l y
-- 
2011-03-31T13:55:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-30/assad-egypt-playbook-runs-risk-of-lebanon-style-sectarian-split.html
Syrian President Bashar al-Assad is
following step-by-step a playbook that couldn’t protect  Egypt ’s
 Hosni Mubarak .  From replacing ministers, to pledging reforms and an end to
emergency rule, to expressing sympathy for protesters after
police were sent out to shoot them, Assad has echoed the efforts
of Mubarak to appease a popular uprising that eventually forced
him from office. Yesterday, after two weeks of protest and a
security crackdown that left dozens dead, Assad said he was
saddened by the killings while demanding an end to “sedition.”  Assad predicted two months ago that Syria would be spared
the unrest roiling other Arab countries because its regime is
closer to the people. Whether his pledges can succeed where
Mubarak’s failed will have impact beyond  Syria ’s borders. Even
after pulling troops out of Lebanon in 2005 amid accusations it
supported the killing of Prime Minister Rafiq Hariri, Syria is
still a power broker there and supports the Shiite Hezbollah
group that’s set to dominate the next government. In Gaza,
Syrian ally Hamas is involved in escalating clashes with Israel.  “The greatest danger at the moment is of sectarian
conflict” in Syria and Lebanon, said Patrick Seale, a
biographer of Bashar’s father, Hafez Al-Assad. When Assad’s
security forces “act brutally, as we have seen recently, this
exacerbates sectarian feelings,” he said.  Assad, who inherited power from his father in 2000, has
moved to ease Syria’s economic isolation and encourage foreign
investment.  Investment, Oil  In December the government named Mitsui & Co. of  Japan 
among 16 approved bidders for a contract to build and operate
the country’s first private power plant. Turkcell Iletisim
Hizmetleri AS,  Turkey ’s biggest mobile-phone company, and  France
Telecom SA (FTE)  were among companies selected in November to compete
for the right to run a third cellular service, competing with
two government-run companies. Final bids were due by tomorrow.  The country needs investment to offset declining oil output
which left it a net importer by 2009, according to a  United
Nations report . Crude production, which peaked at 583,000
barrels a day in 1996, probably dropped to about 380,000 barrels
a day last year, according to government estimates.  Assad’s economic measures haven’t been matched by political
changes or the easing of security restrictions, one of the
causes of the recent protests.  More Protesters Killed  Clashes between police and demonstrators in several Syrian
cities, including Daraa in the south and the Mediterranean port
of Latakia, may have led to the deaths of more than 90 people,
according to London-based  Amnesty International .  Protesters surged into the streets of Latakia after Assad’s
speech to express anger at his failure to announce reforms, and
several were killed when security forces opened fire,  Agence
France-Presse  reported citing an activist in the city. The
 Syrian Human Rights Committee , a London-based group, said on its
website that 25 people had died.  Sectarian divisions in Syria, where the Alawite minority
has ruled over a Sunni Muslim majority since the Assad dynasty
took power in 1970, underlie political tensions in the country.  In 1982, Assad’s father crushed a rebellion led by Sunni
militants in the city of Hama, killing as many as 10,000 people
according to estimates cited by  Human Rights Watch .  The current outbreak of unrest is the most serious since
then, and Assad won’t apply violence on that scale, said
Azzedine Layachi, professor of International and Middle East
Affairs at  St. John’s University .  “Bashar cannot do what his father did in the early 1980s
when he flattened an entire town,” Layachi said in comments e-
mailed on March 28. “He is trying to deal with the events with
extra care so as not to lose control.”  ‘Stability Under Assad’  Since the Hama revolt, Syria has largely avoided the kind
of internal conflict that racked its neighbors Lebanon and  Iraq .  “Many Syrians have serious grievances which they want
addressed, but many others appreciate the peace and stability
they have enjoyed under the Assad regimes,” said Seale  In Lebanon, sectarian divisions led to a 15-year civil war
that ended in 1990, and frequent outbreaks of violence since
then. The killing of  Rafiq Hariri  in February 2005, which many
Lebanese blamed on Syria, sparked mass protests and forced Assad
to end a three-decade Syrian military presence in the country.  He also agreed to cooperate with an international tribunal
investigating the murder, in which Assad’s regime and its
Hezbollah ally have denied involvement.  “The regime in Syria was quite surprised by the size of
the public outcry in Lebanon,” said Abdel Halim Khaddam, who
was vice-president of Syria at the time. “It thought its allies
and loyalists inside Lebanon were in control and that the issue
of Hariri wouldn’t have much of an impact,” Khaddam, now an
opponent of Assad, said in a phone interview from Paris.  Hezbollah Ascendant  Syria still has supporters in Lebanon, though. With the
tribunal poised to name suspects, and widespread expectations
that Hezbollah members may be indicted, the Shiite group quit
the national unity government it entered with Rafiq Hariri’s son
Saad, and won support from enough lawmakers to topple it.  Hezbollah opposes the inquiry, saying it’s part of a U.S.
and Israeli-backed plan. The politician mandated to form a new
administration, billionaire Najib Mikati, is a Hezbollah
nominee.  The political vacuum in Lebanon has raised concern that
sectarian violence could flare up again. Since his ouster,  Saad Hariri  has resumed calls for Hezbollah -- which is classified as
a terrorist group by the U.S. and  Israel  -- to disarm its
militias. Hezbollah leader  Hassan Nasrallah  has praised popular
protest movements against Sunni Muslim leaders such as Mubarak,
Jordan’s King Abdullah and Bahrain’s King Hamad.  Antagonism Inflamed  The unrest in Syria and its echoes in Lebanon come as
sectarian tensions “are spreading right across the region,”
partly as a result of the internal conflict in Iraq after the
U.S. invasion in 2003, Seale said.  Bahrain’s rulers have cracked down on mostly Shiite
protesters who represent a majority in the kingdom and are
demanding democracy. King Hamad invited troops from  Saudi Arabia 
and other Sunni monarchies in the Gulf to help restore order.
 Iran , accused by Bahrain of encouraging the unrest, condemned
the intervention, and Shiites in Saudi Arabia,  Kuwait  and Iraq
staged rallies in sympathy with their co-religionists.  That’s one reason even enemies of Assad’s regime --
including Israel, which is technically at war with it, and the
U.S., which classifies Syria as a sponsor of terrorism -- have
been cautious about calling for its downfall.  “Syria is ethnically and religiously diverse and, with the
precipitous removal of central authority, it could very well
implode like Iraq,” David W. Lesch, author of a biography of
Assad, wrote in an op-ed in yesterday’s New York Times.  ‘Reformer’ Assad  A U.S. intervention in Syria like the one targeting  Muammar Qaddafi  in  Libya  is out of the question partly because members
of Congress from both main parties see Assad as a “reformer,”
Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  said March 27.  Israel blames Syria for supporting Hezbollah and Hamas, the
militant group that controls the  Gaza Strip . Israel and Syria
are also in dispute over the Golan Heights, a Syrian territory
occupied by Israel since 1967.  Yet Syria’s border with Israel has been calm since the 1973
Arab-Israeli war, with militants barred from carrying out the
kinds of attacks seen across borders controlled by Hamas in Gaza
and Hezbollah in south Lebanon.  That probably trumps any Israeli desire for Assad’s fall,
said Yoram Meital, director of Ben Gurion University’s Herzog
Center for Middle East Studies in Beersheva, Israel.  “For today’s Israeli decision-makers, keeping the status
quo in Syria with Bashar Assad in power is vastly preferable to
getting into a period of political struggle,” he said. “Since
1973 Israel has had a peaceful border with Syria and it’s been
able to hold onto the Golan Heights. Why change?”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Massoud A. Derhally in Beirut at 
 mderhally@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  