-- 
Assad Sets No Timetable for Change as He Blames Syria Unrest on Conspiracy

-- B y   M a s s o u d   A .   D e r h a l l y
-- 
2011-03-30T18:30:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-30/assad-sets-no-timetable-for-change-as-he-blames-syria-unrest-on-conspiracy.html
Syrian President Bashar al-Assad
said he won’t be rushed into making political changes aimed at
quelling the worst unrest since he inherited power from his
father in 2000 and blamed the turmoil on a “conspiracy.”  Assad said his Baath Party has prepared a draft for
amending the country’s emergency and political party laws and
declined to say when those changes may be implemented.  “Our duty is to provide the Syrian people with the best
not the fastest,” Assad said today in an address to parliament.
“We want to be fast but we don’t want to be rushed.” He also
said “the Syrian people are peaceful but we never hesitated to
defend our interest, causes and values and if the battle was
imposed on us today we welcome it.”  Syria is the latest Middle Eastern country to be hit by a
wave of uprisings that ousted longtime rulers in Egypt and
 Tunisia , and sparked an armed conflict in  Libya . Assad’s regime
is an ally of  Iran  and a power broker in neighboring Lebanon,
where it supports the Shiite Muslim Hezbollah movement. The
country ranks 152 in the Economist Intelligence Unit’s 2010
Democracy Index, below  Afghanistan .  Assad’s speech comes a day after he accepted the
resignation of Prime Minister Muhammad Naji Otri’s government
and follows promises by his regime to expand freedoms and enact
pay increases. More than 90 people have been killed in a
crackdown on dissent since protests began about two weeks ago,
according to unconfirmed reports cited by  Amnesty International .  ‘Opposition Seriously’  “The regime is not taking the opposition seriously,” said
 Shadi Hamid , director of research at the  Brookings Institution ’s
Doha Center in Qatar. “This makes it clear to the opposition
that they are going to have to continue pressing their case.”  In  Washington , Mark Toner, the U.S. State Department
spokesman, said it’s “clear to us” that Assad’s speech
“didn’t really have much substance to it” or describe specific
actions. The speech likely “fell short of the kinds of reforms
the Syrian people expected,” said Toner, who urged Syria’s
government to avoid violence against peaceful demonstrators.  Several people were wounded during demonstrations in the
northern Syrian port city of Latakia, Al Arabiya television
reported today in an onscreen newsflash citing witnesses.  Assad said  Syria  will have a new parliament and local
administrations under elections already scheduled for this year
and that there were no hurdles to changes although there were
some delays.  Packaging Himself  “It seemed very much that he was attempting to package
himself as someone who had always been trying to reform and was
not going to be set off course by these events,” said Chris Phillips, an analyst at the Economist Intelligence Unit in
London. “It was widely rumored that the emergency law would be
lifted, that political parties would be introduced and none of
that was confirmed.”  The regime earlier this month promised to release more than
200 prisoners, change the political parties law, combat
corruption, introduce a media law guaranteeing more freedom,
improve  living standards  for residents of border areas and make
legal changes to ban random arrests.  Assad said changes were delayed in the last decade due to
the 2003 U.S.-led invasion of neighboring  Iraq , the 2005
assassination of Lebanese Prime Minister  Rafiq Hariri  and the
war between  Israel  and Hezbollah the following year.  Many Lebanese groups have accused Syria of planning
Hariri’s killing, a charge Assad’s regime has denied. The
killing sparked mass anti-Syrian rallies in Lebanon, forcing
Assad to pull out his troops from the country, ending a 29-year
presence sparked by the Lebanese civil war.  ‘Serious Grievances’  “Many Syrians have serious grievances which they want
addressed, but many others appreciate the peace and stability
they have enjoyed under the Assad regimes compared to the
catastrophes suffered by Iraq and Lebanon,” Patrick Seale, who
wrote a biography of Assad’s late father, Hafez said in a
telephone interview from  London  yesterday.  Assad said today that Syria was the victim of a “huge
conspiracy” and that his regime is “the last obstacle in the
face of the Israeli plot.”  Syria has been in a state of war with Israel since the
creation of the Jewish state and Syrian state-run media often
refers to Israeli plots against the country.  Major Rallies  Assad’s supporters staged major rallies in several cities
yesterday. The Damascus Securities Exchange canceled yesterday’s
trading session to allow staff to participate in the
demonstrations, according to a  statement  on its  website .  State-run television showed live footage of hundreds of
thousands pouring onto the main streets of Damascus, Aleppo,
Hama and al-Hassakah. The pro-regime marches were a response to
protests in several Syrian cities and towns since mid-March to
demand political reform.  Unconfirmed reports say 37 people were killed in Damascus,
the capital, and other towns including Latakia, Daraa and Homs
since March 25,  Amnesty International said  on its website March
28. In the Daraa governorate, which is in the southwest of the
country near the border with Jordan, at least 55 people died
last week, according to credible sources, Amnesty said.  “The protests have not exactly spread like wildfire, but
they’re escalating,” said Shashank Joshi, an associate fellow
at the  Royal United Services Institute  in London. “They’re
certainly not to the scale where they’re overwhelming the
security services.”  Assad’s father ruled the Arab country for three decades. In
1982, he crushed a rebellion led by Islamist militants in Hama,
killing as many as 10,000 people, according to estimates cited
by  Human Rights Watch .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Massoud A. Derhally in London at 
 mderhally@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  