-- 
AT&T CEO Makes Case T-Mobile Deal Will Boost IPhone Service

-- B y   G r e g   B e n s i n g e r
-- 
2011-03-30T20:08:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-30/at-t-s-stephenson-says-t-mobile-deal-will-improve-network-iphone-service.html
AT&T Inc. (T)  Chief Executive Officer
Randall Stephenson, making his case for a proposed takeover of
 T-Mobile USA , said the deal would boost network capacity and
improve service for devices such as  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPhone.  The acquisition would improve capacity on AT&T’s wireless
network by about 30 percent in some of the largest U.S. cities,
Stephenson said today at an event at the Council on Foreign
Relations in New York. It could also reduce charges for overseas
roaming, he said.  “This transaction is very instrumental” in improving
network service, said Stephenson at the event. “Virtually on
the day you close the deal, getting a 30 percent lift in
capacity in  New York City : that’s a significant improvement in
call quality and data throughput.”  AT&T said on March 20 it had agreed to buy T-Mobile USA
from  Deutsche Telekom AG (DTE) , in a deal that would combine the
second- and fourth-largest U.S. wireless operators to create the
country’s largest. The acquisition, which would leave three
major national wireless players including Verizon Wireless and
 Sprint Nextel Corp. (S) , is subject to regulatory approval.  AT&T said that as part of the purchase it would expand the
rollout of its high-speed wireless technology, helping achieve
the U.S. Federal Communications Commission goal of making
broadband available more widely. AT&T will offer its Long-Term
Evolution, or LTE, technology to an additional 46.5 million
people as part of the deal.  Concerns Unfounded  Stephenson said concerns about the merger limiting
competition in the U.S. are unfounded.  “This is an intensely competitive industry,” he said.
“It is intense before we do this transaction, it will be
intense after we do this transaction.”  Sprint, the third-largest U.S. wireless provider, said
March 28 it would seek to have the deal blocked by U.S.
agencies. The transaction is anticompetitive and would result in
an industry dominated by two carriers, the company said.  AT&T added 66 cents, or 2.2 percent, to $30.71 at 4 p.m. in
 New York  Stock exchange composite trading. The shares have
gained 4.5 percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Bensinger in New York at 
 gbensinger1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at   pelstrom@bloomberg.net  