-- 
Tax Writer Proposes Fines for Layoffs in Offshore Tax-Cut Plan

-- B y   S t e v e n   S l o a n
-- 
2011-03-30T20:35:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-30/tax-writer-proposes-fines-for-layoffs-in-offshore-tax-cut-plan.html
A senior Republican on the  House
Ways and Means Committee  plans to introduce legislation that
would fine U.S. companies that repatriate overseas income
$25,000 each time they cut their total workforce beyond the
company’s average.  Representative Kevin Brady of Texas said today he will
include the penalty in legislation he plans to introduce next
month. The proposal is aimed at giving U.S. companies an
incentive to bring home as much as $1 trillion in profits they
have parked overseas.  The penalty addresses a criticism of legislation enacted in
2004, when companies returned billions of dollars to the U.S.
and then laid off employees.  Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ) , for example,
returned $14.5 billion to the U.S. at a low rate in 2004 and
reduced its workforce by 14,500 employees in 2005.  “We’ve got a great investment in jobs here with this
bill,” Brady said in a telephone interview today.  Companies would be liable to pay the penalty for two years
after they return the profits to the U.S.  Other provisions of Brady’s bill would be similar to
elements of the 2004 legislation. Companies could return their
profits to the U.S. and pay a 5.25 percent tax rather than the
corporate tax rate of 35 percent. Profits could be returned
within the first calendar year of enactment or the following
year, Brady said.  Overseas Profits  Repatriation of overseas profits has gained attention in
Congress in recent weeks as companies including  Cisco Systems
Inc. (CSCO) ,  Google Inc. (GOOG) ,  Duke Energy Corp. (DUK)  and  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  are pressing
for another so-called overseas tax holiday. They have gained an
ally in House Majority Leader Eric Cantor, a Virginia
Republican, who said last week that Congress should pass
repatriation legislation before tackling a  tax-code  rewrite.  Treasury Secretary  Timothy Geithner  and other Obama
administration officials have said they will discuss
repatriation only in the context of a broader tax overhaul.  Ways and Means Committee Chairman  Dave Camp , a Michigan
Republican, and Senator  Orrin Hatch  of Utah, the top Republican
on the Finance Committee, also have said they prefer to look at
repatriation as part of a tax code rewrite.  Brady said his bill doesn’t diminish the goal of rewriting
the nation’s tax laws for the first time in 25 years  “We’re very supportive of comprehensive  tax reform ,” he
said.  A spokeswoman for Camp wasn’t immediately available to
comment on the bill. Brady said the two are “still in
discussions.”  Tax Holiday  Representative Brian Bilbray, a California Republican, has
introduced legislation that would allow companies to return
profits to the U.S. without paying any tax. The repatriated
funds would have to support research and development, new
manufacturing and facility expansion.  The Senate rejected a 2009 proposal for a tax holiday,
which would have cost the government about $30 billion in
revenue.  Tax holidays typically lose revenue over 10 years because
they encourage companies to accelerate repatriations they would
otherwise make in future years. They also provide an incentive
to shift more profits overseas in anticipation of another such
holiday in the future.  To contact the reporter on this story: Steven Sloan in
Washington at 
 rrubin12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  