-- 
Bank of Kigali, Run by ex-Georgian Leader, Sees Growth

-- B y   H e a t h e r   M u r d o c k
-- 
2011-03-31T11:59:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-30/bank-of-kigali-run-by-former-georgia-leader-sees-runaway-profit-growth.html
(Corrects reference to bank-asset ratio to GDP in  Georgia 
in eighth paragraph in story published on March 30.)  Bank of Kigali Ltd. , Rwanda’s
biggest lender by assets, expects “runaway” profit growth this
year as it opens new branches in a country where only one in 10
people have a bank account, Chairman Lado Gurgenidze said.  The bank yesterday posted a 17 percent increase in profit
for the 12 months through December to 6.1 billion Rwandan francs
($10.2 million) as net interest income, the money earned from
interest charges on loans, grew 21 percent.  Over the past 18 months, the lender increased its number of
branches to 33 from 18, Gurgenidze, the former prime minister of
Georgia, said in an interview yesterday in the capital, Kigali.
In addition to the 10 new outlets planned this year, the bank is
“investing like mad” to increase the number of ATMs, offer debit
cards and improve its mobile-phone banking service, he said.  “The ambition has to be to participate in one way or
another in every franc that is being earned or saved or spent in
the country,” he said.  Rwanda is recovering from a genocide in 1994 that left
800,000 people dead, decimating the East African nation’s
economy. Growth this year is forecast at 5.9 percent, compared
with 5.4 percent in 2010, according to International Monetary
Fund statistics.  Bank of Kigali announced plans in December to sell a 25
percent stake in an initial public offering in the first half of
this year. Those plans are on track and the lender plans to sell
the stake by July, Gurgenidze said.  In January,  Heineken NV (HEIA) ’s Rwandan unit, Brassieries et
Limonaderies du Rwanda SA listed on the Rwandan Stock Exchange
after becoming the first company to hold an IPO in the country.  Georgian Comparison  Gurgenidze compared the growth of the Bank of Kigali to the
expansion of the banking industry in Georgia. Banking assets as
a ratio to gross domestic product are about 50 percent in the
former Soviet republic, compared with 15 percent in 2003, after
assets grew from $600 million to $6 billion, he said.  “The same kind of growth is certainly well within reach of
the Rwandan banking sector,” Gurgenidze said. “That is the
attraction and the opportunity of banking sectors in well-run
and reforming frontier markets.”  Gurgenidze stepped down as Georgia’s prime minister in
October 2008, after less than a year in office. He previously
was executive chairman of Bank of Georgia, the country’s largest
lender, and managing director at ABN Amro Bank NV. Bank of
Kigali named him as chairman in October 2009.  Middle Class  Growth in  Rwanda ’s banking industry may also help create a
middle class in the country, which is one of the world’s
poorest, Gurgenidze said.  “If they were able to do it in a few years, why can we not
do it,” Bank of Kigali Managing Director James Gatera said in a
separate interview.  The lender is focusing on expanding its customer base in
Rwanda, Gurgenidze said. It currently serves about 70,000 retail
customers and wants to be able to accommodate half a million
people within two years, he said.  Plans to expand into East African, a market of about 110
million people, are currently not under way, though they may be
considered within the next two to five years, Gurgenidze said.  Bank of Kigali’s assets grew 29 percent last year to 197.8
billion francs, the lender said in a statement on its website.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Heather Murdock in Kigali via Nairobi at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin in Johannesburg at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 