-- 
Bank of America’s Krawcheck Is Said to Narrow Deputy Search to Sieg, Thiel

-- B y   H u g h   S o n   a n d   B r a d l e y   K e o u n
-- 
2011-03-30T18:40:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-30/bank-of-america-s-krawcheck-is-said-to-narrow-deputy-search-to-sieg-thiel.html
Sallie Krawcheck , president of  Bank
of America Corp. (BAC) ’s wealth-management division, narrowed her
search to replace the head of the firm’s 15,500-person brokerage
to deputies including Andrew Sieg and John Thiel, said two
people with direct knowledge of the process.  Sieg runs the retirement services business at  Charlotte ,
North Carolina-based Bank of America, and Thiel is responsible
for the private bank catering to high-net-worth individuals. The
executives are among about four candidates vying to replace Lyle LaMothe, 49, according to the people, who asked for anonymity
because the search is private.  Krawcheck’s choice may help solidify her relationship with
top members of the brokerage, known as the “Thundering Herd”
because of Merrill Lynch’s bull logo. Krawcheck joined Bank of
America from  Citigroup Inc. (C)  in August 2009. The bank purchased
Merrill Lynch & Co. earlier that year, triggering concern that
some of the biggest producers might defect amid a culture clash.  “To pick someone who they can say has been more in the
trenches at Merrill Lynch is a smart move,” said Howard
Diamond, chief operating officer of Diamond Consultants LLC, a
Chester, New Jersey-based executive-search firm. “If Bank of
America does the little things and acknowledges the Merrill
history, that goes a long way in an adviser’s mind.”  Krawcheck, 46, told advisers last week in a town hall
meeting not to expect an announcement soon as she wanted to be
“extremely thoughtful” about selecting their new leader, said
the people. LaMothe said March 4 he’s retiring to pursue
personal interests and is scheduled to leave in May.  Lorenz, Plaus  The search hasn’t concluded and two regional heads who
reported to LaMothe are also being considered for the job, said
one of the people. William Lorenz is director of the U.S.
Southeast area of brokers and Donald Plaus runs the Northeast.  “We’re fortunate to have a deep bench of talented senior
managers in the organization to consider for this important role
and we’re being thoughtful and diligent in the process,” said
Susan Thomson, a spokeswoman for the bank.  Sieg and Thiel both have roots in Merrill Lynch, which is
an important qualification for the brokerage’s next leader, the
people said. LaMothe joined Merrill in 1987 as a financial
adviser in San Bernardino,  California , and held several
supervisory jobs before being promoted to head of U.S. wealth
management in 2009.  Merrill Lynch  Sieg joined Merrill Lynch in 1992 as an analyst in the
firm’s private-client group. He reported to Krawcheck while
running a wealth-management unit at Citigroup and was hired by
her to join Bank of America in 2009. Thiel  began  at Merrill
Lynch in 1989 as a financial adviser in Tampa,  Florida .  The brokerage is the biggest single contributor to
Krawcheck’s business, with almost 80 percent of the division’s
$16.7 billion in 2010 revenue coming from the adviser group. The
unit posted a 4 percent increase in revenue last year to $13.1
billion, or about $854,000 per adviser.  Krawcheck told investors this month that her long-term
target for revenue growth in the wealth-management division is 6
percent to 7 percent per year. Chief Executive Officer  Brian T. Moynihan  has said he expects the unit will help fuel growth at
Bank of America, the largest U.S. lender by assets.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Hugh Son in New York at   hson1@bloomberg.net ;
Bradley Keoun in New York at 
 bkeoun@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at   dscheer@bloomberg.net  