-- 
Bank of Ireland, Two Smaller Banks Said to Need $12.7 Billion of Capital

-- B y   J o e   B r e n n a n
-- 
2011-03-30T23:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-30/bank-of-ireland-two-smaller-banks-said-to-need-12-7-billion-of-capital.html
Three of Ireland’s biggest banks
may have to raise a combined 9 billion euros ($12.7 billion) in
capital after stress tests are published today, said five people
with knowledge of the matter.  Bank of Ireland Plc, the country’s biggest lender by market
value, will seek as much as 5 billion euros, said two of the
people. Irish Life & Permanent Plc will require more than 3
billion euros, while EBS Building Society will need about 1
billion euros, three people said. The people declined to be
identified because the figures haven’t been made public yet. All
three companies are based in Dublin.  Ireland’s international bailout involved as much as 35
billion euros for its lenders, including  Allied Irish Banks Plc (ALBK) ,
which was the country’s biggest lender by assets during the
nation’s decade-long boom. While it isn’t yet known how much
Allied Irish will need, the  central bank  told the company in
November to raise 5.3 billion euros. The state will draw down
about 20 billion euros, the Sunday Business Post said on March
27, without citing anyone.  “These figures are broadly in line with emerging market
expectations,” said  Eamonn Hughes , an analyst with  Goodbody
Stockbrokers  in Dublin, by telephone. “It’ll be a struggle for
Bank of Ireland to keep the government’s stake below 50
percent.”  Officials from Bank of Ireland, Irish Life, the  Finance
Ministry  and Central Bank declined to comment. EBS spokesman
Gerry O’Sullivan did not return calls to his office and cell
phone.  Stress Tests  The government, which already controls 36 percent of Bank
of Ireland, will lay out the banks’ capital needs after the
central bank publishes the stress test results at 4:30 p.m. in
Dublin.  Ireland’s stock exchange will suspend the trading of shares
in Bank of Ireland and Allied Irish Banks with effect from 6:30
a.m., pending publication of the tests and “any subsequent
related announcements by the banks concerned,” the central bank
said in a statement yesterday.  Irish Life  has suspended trading in its shares to April 1.  As part of the tests, Ireland’s banks are also being
directed to hold enough capital to absorb as much as 20 percent
losses on some assets they have to sell to reduce their balance
sheets over the coming years, according to three people familiar
with the situation.  Ireland’s banks are being stress-tested against a worst-
case scenario of lenders’ losing about 10 percent on their Irish
home-loan portfolios, according to three people familiar with
the situation.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joe Brennan in Dublin at 
 jbrennan29@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tim Quinson at   tquinson@bloomberg.net  