-- 
Bank of Korea's Vacant Policy Seat Adds Deadlock Risk to War on Inflation

-- B y   E u n k y u n g   S e o
-- 
2011-03-31T02:04:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-30/bank-of-korea-s-vacant-policy-seat-adds-deadlock-risk-to-war-on-inflation.html
The longest vacancy on the Bank of
Korea’s monetary board since 1998 raises the risk of policy
deadlock as officials struggle to tame inflation while
maintaining growth.  The seat held by Park Bong Heum, a former budget and
planning minister appointed by President  Lee Myung Bak ’s
predecessor, has been empty since April 2010.  The lack of a seventh member means deadlocks on interest-
rate decisions are possible, because Governor Kim Choong Soo has
no casting vote and there have been dissenting voices at every
meeting this year. Data due tomorrow may show that consumer
prices rose 4.8 percent in March, exceeding the central bank’s
target for a third month, according to the median forecast in a
Bloomberg News survey of 15 analysts.  “It’s a mystery and unprecedented for the position to be
vacant so long,” said Kwon Young Sun, an economist at Nomura
Holdings Inc. who worked at the central bank for 14 years
through 2006. “Neither President Lee nor Governor Kim has
clarified the reason, leaving the impression that the monetary
policy board isn’t as important as it should be.”  Kim told reporters on March 10 he’s not in a position to
comment on the vacancy. Officials at the central bank and the
president’s office declined to comment yesterday.  In an interview with Bloomberg Television today, Kim
declined to comment on what the central bank will do regarding
interest rates because it’s “up to the decision by the monetary
policy committee.”  ‘Critical Time’  The downside and upside risks to the economy are about
balanced and there won’t be “much difference” in the bank’s
forecast of 4.5 percent growth this year when it reviews its
estimates in April, Kim said in an interview in Nanjing,  China ,
where he is attending a meeting of leaders and officials from
the Group of 20 nations to discuss reform to the international
monetary system.  The board boosted the benchmark interest rate to 3 percent
from a record-low 2 percent in four moves since Park’s
departure. The nation’s currency, the won, has climbed against
the dollar this year partly because of rising rates.  At least five members must be present for monetary policy
decisions, which are carried by a simple majority. In 2009 and
2010, 19 of 24 decisions were unanimous.  The system functions properly with six members plus the
governor, avoiding any even split, said Lee Sung Nam, a lawmaker
with the opposition  Democratic Party  who was herself a member
from 2004 to 2008.  “It can be a big obstacle to effective policy making at a
critical time when inflation is already threatening our
economy,” Lee said in an interview in Seoul on March 23. “The
market is losing trust in the central bank,”  Inflation Target  Lee proposed a bill in September to lengthen board members’
terms and increase scrutiny of candidates. The measure must be
approved by the National Assembly’s Strategy and Finance
Committee before a vote by lawmakers.  Board members are appointed by the president on the
recommendation of the bank, government departments or industry.
The Korea Chamber of Commerce and Industry, responsible for
recommending Park’s replacement, is still considering
candidates, Sohn Young Ki, a director at the chamber, said on
March 28.  The nation is in the midst of what the president describes
as a “war” on inflation. Consumer prices rose 4.5 percent in
February, the biggest gain in two years and more than the
central bank’s target of 2 percent to 4 percent through 2012.
Rising commodity and energy costs have added to price pressures.  Erik Lueth, a Hong Kong-based economist at Royal Bank of
Scotland Group Plc, said adding one board member may not make
much difference because the Bank of  Korea  is already well aware
of inflation risks.  “Still, over the medium term, a new member would probably
tilt the balance on the board towards the doves,” he said.  Doves and Hawks  Lueth, and Kong Dong Rak, a fixed-income analyst at Taurus
Investment & Securities Co., said they view Governor Kim and
Deputy Governor Lee Ju Yeol as neutral and Kim Dae Sik and Choi Do Soung as “hawkish,” or more likely to push for faster rate
increases. Kang Myung Hun and Lim Seung Tae are “dovish,”
supporting slower moves, they said.  Kang, recommended to the board by the Ministry of Strategy
& Finance, and Lim, by the Korea Federation of Banks, voted
against tightening policy in January, when interest rates rose
to 2.75 percent from 2.5 percent, meeting minutes show.  Kim Dae Sik, recommended by the central bank, and Choi, by
the Financial Services Commission, called for an increase in
September when the board unexpectedly held steady at 2.25
percent. They also sought an increase on Feb. 11 when policy was
left unchanged.  ‘Troubles’ Ahead  “It seems Governor Kim and Deputy Governor Lee have moved
together but they may have conflicting views if economic growth
slows and inflation keeps accelerating,” Kong from Taurus said
yesterday. “Kim does not necessarily share the internal view of
the central bank and has occasionally supported the government’s
policy.” This scenario could put Kim with the doves and Lee
with the hawks, he said.  Choi Seok Won, an analyst at Samsung Securities Co. in
Seoul, said he’s concerned about what will happen in 2012 when
Kim Dae Sik, Choi, Kang and Lee finish their terms. While all
are eligible to continue with the president’s approval, such
reappointments haven’t happened since the present seven-member
system was set up in 1998, according to the  Bank of Korea .  “The central bank will face bigger troubles ahead next
year,” Choi said by telephone on March 23. “Rate decisions
will become more unpredictable.”  Weakened Institution  Governor Kim and Lim are due to stay on the board until
April 2014.  Bae Gyeong Tae, president of the central bank’s labor
union, said 90 percent of the 1,100 members who replied in a
January survey said the authority of the institution has
weakened over the past year, partly because of the vacancy. The
union represents mostly low- to middle-ranking officials and its
members account for about 67 percent of the bank’s workforce.  “Given the seven-member system is stipulated by law, this
is simply not right,” Bae said in an interview in  Seoul  on
March 22.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eunkyung Seo in Seoul at 
 eseo3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  