-- 
Barclays CEO Diamond Says Lender Wants to Remain in London

-- B y   G a v i n   F i n c h
-- 
2011-03-30T18:48:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-30/barclays-ceo-diamond-says-lender-wants-to-remain-in-london-1-.html
Barclays Plc (BARC) , Britain’s third-
biggest bank, plans to keep its headquarters in  London  after
reviewing options including a move to New York.  “London is where we want to be,” Chief Executive Officer
 Robert Diamond  told a conference in London today. “Of course,
it’s our obligation on behalf of our shareholders to look at the
alternatives, but this is home and where we want to stay.”  Barclays has reviewed the costs of moving to New York and
has reviewed the obstacles to a move, the Wall Street Journal’s
“Heard on the Street” column reported earlier today, citing an
unidentified person involved in the process. The bank won’t take
a decision until at least September, after the U.K.’s
 Independent Commission on Banking  reports, the newspaper said.  John Vickers , the Oxford University professor and former
Bank of  England  economist overseeing the government-backed
commission, said in January he was examining ring-fencing, or
subsidiarization, of banks’ operations. That could involve
requiring banks to turn different business lines or overseas
branches into stand-alone subsidiaries.  “The loser would be Barclays” were Vickers to recommend a
geographic split because the bank would be forced to raise
additional capital for its U.S. division, said  Simon Maughan ,
co-head of European equities at MF Global Ltd. in London.  Barclays earned two-thirds of its first-half profit in 2010
from its investment-banking unit, which includes the former
North American unit of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. A spokesman
for Barclays in London declined to comment today.  Options Reviewed  “Any bank, in fact I am sure all banks are responsibly
considering what their options might be,” Chairman Marcus Agius
said when Barclays reported earnings in August. “We are not
anticipating anything we haven’t been prescriptive about, what
might or might not happen.”  New York  Mayor  Michael Bloomberg  said today he would
welcome a decision by Barclays to move to the city.  “I had not known that they had gone from considering to
confirmed that they’re moving here,” he told reporters at a
press conference in the Bronx today. “I hope they move here.
That would be great for us.” The mayor is founder and majority
owner of Bloomberg News parent Bloomberg LP.  Diamond told U.K. lawmakers in January that London was the
“premier financial center in the world.”  HSBC Move  “There has been no city in the world that has benefited
more or been more supportive of foreign trade and flows of
business” than London, Diamond, 59, told the House of Commons
Treasury committee on Jan. 11. “London has become a place that
is recognized as very good for business and very good for
talent. This is the place that we want to succeed.”  HSBC Holdings Plc, Europe’s biggest bank, said on March 7
it prefers to keep its headquarters in London, amid speculation
the lender is preparing to quit the U.K.  HSBC was planning to move its base back to  Hong Kong 
because of Britain’s growing tax and regulatory burdens, the
Sunday Telegraph reported, citing unidentified investors. HSBC
Chairman  Douglas Flint  and Chief Executive Officer  Stuart Gulliver  said in a statement that talk of “imminent change” was
“entirely speculative and presumptuous.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gavin Finch in London at 
 gfinch@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  