-- 
Barry Minkow Pleads Guilty in Lennar Conspiracy Case, Pledges to Cooperate

-- B y   P h i l   M i l f o r d   a n d   S u s a n n a h   N e s m i t h
-- 
2011-03-30T21:35:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-30/barry-minkow-pleads-guilty-in-lennar-conspiracy-case-pledges-to-cooperate.html
Barry Minkow, a convicted
confidence man who started a fraud-detection firm and became a
minister, pleaded guilty in a case involving home builder  Lennar
Corp. (LEN) ’s stock and said he would cooperate with investigators.  Minkow, 45, was accused March 24 in Miami of conspiracy to
commit  securities fraud . He faces as long as five years in
prison and may have to pay more than $500 million in
restitution, prosecutors said. He is free on bail pending his
sentencing June 16.  “My client was deluded and taken advantage of,” Minkow’s
lawyer,  Alvin Entin , told U.S. District Judge Patricia A. Seitz
today at a plea hearing. “That he acted recklessly we don’t
dispute at all.”  The plea stems from a dispute in which Minkow’s  Fraud
Discovery Institute  alleged that Miami-based Lennar operated
ventures “like a  Ponzi scheme .” After the report was released,
the company’s stock fell 20 percent in a day.  “We appreciate the good work of the  Justice Department  in
protecting our public securities markets,” Lennar Chief
Executive Officer Stuart A. Miller said in a statement.  “Conspiring, lying and manipulating the securities markets
to extort money will not be tolerated,” said Lennar attorney
Daniel Petrocelli.  Minkow founded his business after serving a prison term for
fraud from 1988 to 1995.  Minkow’s Business  The San Diego-based company, whose mission is the exposure
of corporate fraud, supports itself by trading against companies
where it found executives misrepresented their credentials or
allegedly committed other types of fraud.  Minkow’s revelations led to resignations of executives at
companies such as  Microsemi Corp. (MSCC)  and  Intrepid Potash Inc. (IPI)   At today’s hearing, the judge asked Minkow, “How did you
get involved in this?”  “I’m not too wise,” Minkow said.  “You need to work on your soul,” the judge said.  “I just don’t want to waste the court’s time” Minkow
said. “I know I am guilty.”  In his plea agreement, signed March 22, Minkow acknowledged
that he “misappropriated material nonpublic information for his
own personal gain by executing numerous trades in options
contracts related to securities issued by Lennar Corp.”  Minkow also agreed to work “in an undercover role to
contact and negotiate with others suspected and believed to be
involved in criminal misconduct.”  Lennar, based in Miami, fell 80 cents, or 4.2 percent, to
$18.27 in New York Stock Exchange composite trading at 4:15 p.m.  The case is U.S. v. Minkow, 11-cr-20209, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of  Florida  (Miami).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Phil Milford in Wilmington, Delaware
at   pmilford@bloomberg.net ;
Susannah Nesmith in  Fort Lauderdale , Florida,
at   susannahnesmith@yahoo.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net  