-- 
Beijing to Stabilize New Home Prices Like Other Cities

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-04-04T00:56:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-30/beijing-aims-to-stabilize-new-home-prices-joining-other-cities-in-curbs.html
(Corrects third paragraph of story published March 30 to
say prices rose in 68 of the 70 cities.)  Beijing  said it wants to keep new
 home prices  steady or declining this year, joining other Chinese
cities in responding to central government measures to keep
housing gains in check.  Beijing said it will stabilize new home prices this year
and aims for a drop from 2010, the local government announced on
its website late yesterday. Shanghai said on March 28 it will
limit gains in new home prices to no more than the pace of
economic growth and average income expansion.  About 40 Chinese cities said they will cap new home prices
below annual economic and disposable per-capita income growth
after local governments were ordered to submit home price
control targets by the end of March. The Chinese government is
intensifying efforts to keep housing affordable after prices
gained for 19 consecutive months to December and climbed in 68
of 70 cities the government monitors in February.  “The capital city of Beijing’s property curbs always are
the most severe among peers,” said Jeffrey Gao, a Shanghai-
based property analyst at Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc.
“But even that target was almost like nothing.”  A gauge tracking property stocks on the Shanghai Composite
Index lost 1.4 percent at the close, the most among five
industry groups on the benchmark measure.  Resolute Measures  Premier  Wen Jiabao  said on March 5 that China will
“resolutely” press ahead with controls on the  property market 
to curb speculation, reiterating a promise to keep housing
affordable. The government will “severely punish”
irregularities in the real-estate market, implement
differentiated credit and tax policies, and hold local officials
accountable for maintaining stable home prices, he said.  Home prices in Beijing rose 28 percent in December from
2009, while Shanghai jumped 26 percent, according to Soufun
Holdings Ltd.  The southern cities of Shenzhen and Guangzhou won’t allow
new-home prices to increase at a pace that exceeds growth for
the local economies and average disposable incomes this year,
the 21st Century Business Herald reported today, citing
statements from the local governments.  Shenzhen’s home price growth may be within 10 percent and
Guangzhou’s home price growth may be within 11 percent,
according to the newspaper’s calculation.  The local governments’ limits only target new homes, which
may include low-cost housing, and push up prices of homes in the
secondary market, said RBS’s Gao.  Government Curbs  China  raised the minimum down payment for second-home
purchases this year and levied taxes on residences in Shanghai
and Chongqing. Beijing and Guangzhou imposed restrictions on
housing purchases last month.  Among the cities that announced targets, most connected
home prices with the cities’ economic and income growth.
Shanghai forecast in January that the city’s economy will expand
8 percent in 2011. It grew 9.9 percent last year from 2009,
while average incomes jumped 10.4 percent.  The northwestern city of Xi’an said home prices will be
capped at 15 percent this year; the western city of Lanzhou set
a 9 percent ceiling, while the northeastern industrial city of
Shenyang set a target of 12 percent, below economic growth and
in line with the average income growth, according to local
government websites.  Evergrande Real Estate Group Ltd. (3333) , China’s second-biggest
developer by sales volume, plans a 39 percent increase in
contracted sales this year to 70 billion yuan, it said yesterday.  China’s smaller cities led gains in home prices last month
with new home prices in the center of Yueyang surging 12 percent
from a year earlier, the most among 70 cities monitored by the
government. They jumped 11 percent in the western city of
Lanzhou. Prices in Beijing climbed 6.8 percent and they rose 2.3
percent in Shanghai, lower than more than 80 percent of the
cities tracked, the data showed.  --Bonnie Cao. Editors: Andreea Papuc, Malcolm Scott  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Bonnie Cao in  Shanghai  at +86-21-6104-3035 or
 bcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  