-- 
Berlusconi to Oversee Transfer of Refugees Fleeing Turmoil in North Africa

-- B y   J e f f r e y   D o n o v a n   a n d   L o r e n z o   T o t a r o
-- 
2011-03-30T11:40:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-30/berlusconi-to-oversee-transfer-of-refugees-fleeing-turmoil-in-north-africa.html
Prime Minister  Silvio Berlusconi 
traveled to the island of Lampedusa to oversee the relocation of
6,200 refugees who have fled turmoil in North Africa and are
straining  Italy ’s ties with its European allies.  Berlusconi has vowed to assure local residents, now
outnumbered by the immigrants, that the island won’t become a
permanent refuge. Italy sent five ships to the island today.
About 1,000 Tunisian immigrants will be repatriated, with the
remaining refugees distributed to facilities across mainland
Italy, the newspaper  Corriere della Sera  said today, without
saying where it got the information.  Italy’s European Union partners have ignored its request to
provide as much as 100 million euros ($140 million) to help with
the crisis. Interior Minister Roberto Maroni, who has warned of
a possible “biblical exodus” of North Africans to  Europe , said
on March 21 that 14,918 Tunisian immigrants had reached Italy
this year, compared with 25 in 2010. Almost all arrived by boat
on Lampedusa, which is closer to North Africa than to Sicily.  “When there are sudden, massive flows of immigrants due to
unexpected events, Europe has to act,” Foreign Minister Franco Frattini said today in remarks broadcast on Sky TG24 television.
“They are not refugees, these Tunisians -- they are simply
economic immigrants.”  Libya  Fighting  Thousands have fled Libya as forces loyal to Muammar Qaddafi’s regime tried to suppress a rebel uprising, prompting
international military intervention to protect civilians. As
many as 12,000 people may have died in the fighting, according
to rebel estimates.  Some Libyans have joined the Tunisians in Lampedusa, Maroni
said last week. All will be considered illegal immigrants unless
they make claims for political asylum that are recognized, he
said.  “ Tunisia  took in 100,000 refugees from Libya without
asking for anything,” Sihem Bensedrine, a spokeswoman for the
National Council for Freedom in Tunisia, told reporters in Paris
on March 25. “So will the Italians please stop breaking our
ears with complaints about 6,000 Tunisian refugees.”  Italy will give Tunisia 80 million euros to train border
guards and buy equipment to help it stop illegal migration to
Europe, Frattini told reporters in Tunis on March 25. Italy will
also provide 150 million euros of credit to help revive
Tunisia’s economy, Frattini said.  The Italian government has been forced to transport food
and water to Lampedusa. Local residents have staged regular
protests, including using fishing boats to block ships carrying
rescued immigrants from entering the port.  January’s first wave of immigrants to Lampedusa was put up
in local hotels before the island’s own detention center was
forced to re-open after two years. The facility, originally
built to house a maximum of 100 people, has often held four
times as many immigrants and been shut due to health concerns.
The center can now take 850 people, according to the office of
the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jeffrey Donovan  at 
 jdonovan26@bloomberg.net ;
Lorenzo Totaro in Rome at 
 ltotaro@bloomberg.ne   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  