-- 
Bernanke Backed by History Betting Volatility Variable Won't Hurt Economy

-- B y   J o s h u a   Z u m b r u n
-- 
2011-03-30T04:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-30/bernanke-backed-by-history-betting-volatility-variable-won-t-hurt-economy.html
Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  is betting that surging prices for food and fuel won’t
wind up breaking the cost of living for Americans. The
historical record shows the odds are in his favor.  The Fed watches two key measures of inflation, known to
economists as headline and core. The first is based on a basket
of goods and services bought by the average American consumer.
The second strips out volatile food and energy prices, providing
a better picture of long-term trends.  While both have averaged about 2 percent a year since 1996,
based on the personal-consumption expenditures index, headline
inflation has jumped as high as 4.5 percent and fallen to minus
1 percent. In the same period, changes in core prices ranged
from increases of 0.7 percent to 2.6 percent.  “From an economist’s perspective, it’s right to focus on
the core,” said  Vincent Reinhart , a former Fed official who is
now a resident scholar at the  American Enterprise Institute  in
Washington. “Appropriately, the Fed’s goal is headline
inflation, but it’s headline inflation in the future, and
therefore core is the good predictor.”  The rate of “pass-through from commodity-price increases
to broad indexes of U.S. consumer prices has been quite low in
recent decades,” Bernanke, a 57-year-old former Princeton
University professor, said March 1 in his semiannual monetary-
policy testimony to Congress. That points to a “temporary and
relatively modest increase in U.S. consumer-price inflation,”
he said.  Testing an Assumption  Surging prices of oil, corn and other commodities are
testing that assumption. Crude oil has jumped 35 percent in the
past six months, corn is up 38 percent and cotton is up 89
percent.  “If you talk to an average family in  New Jersey  and you
say, ‘What is your food bill? What is your gas price? What is
your tuition?’” they are “not going to tell you there’s
deflation,” said Senator  Robert Menendez , a New Jersey
Democrat, when he questioned Bernanke after his testimony. “In
a real context, I’m wondering how this macroeconomic policy is
going to get to the average person in a way that changes their
lives in a more positive way.”  A gallon of gasoline averaged $3.587 on March 28, the
highest since October 2008, according to Heathrow, Florida-based
AAA, the nation’s largest motoring organization. The increase
helped push  consumer confidence  to the lowest level since
August, as the Bloomberg Consumer Comfort Index dropped to minus
48.9 in the week to March 20.  Rise and Fall  David Resler , chief U.S. economist at Nomura Securities
International Inc. in New York, says prices of commodities can
fall just as quickly as they rise. Corn jumped 21 percent from
the start of the year to March 3 before dropping 8 percent. Oil
fell 8 percent between Jan. 1 and Feb. 15, then rose 25 percent
by March 7. Since then, it has declined about 1 percent.  Bernanke is “saying the rate of change is temporary or
transitory, and he’s almost certainly right,” said Resler, the
second most-accurate forecaster of the inflation rate in the
past two years, according to Bloomberg News calculations. Oil
may “move sharply lower” once the crisis in the Middle East
passes, he said. “It’s hard to envision prices continuing to
rise at these rates.”  Rapid moves in oil were even more pronounced in 2008, when
the price of a barrel reached $145 in July because of possible
supply constraints from Middle East conflicts and production
disputes in  Russia . The price dropped to $34 a barrel in
December as tensions eased.  Extremely Rapidly  If the Fed had focused strictly on headline inflation,
which rose to 4.5 percent in July 2008, it likely would have
raised rates in the midst of the recession that began December
2007 and then had to drop them extremely rapidly as overall
prices turned negative, according to  Paul Ashworth , chief U.S.
economist at Capital Economics Ltd. in Toronto. Instead it
continued cuts it began in September 2007, when the federal
funds target rate was 5.25 percent, eventually slashing its
benchmark to near zero by December 2008.  “You can make errors,” Ashworth said. “In 2008 if you’d
followed strictly headline, then you’d look like idiots when
headline inflation was actually below zero in 2009.”  The  bond market  agrees with Bernanke’s assessment.
Investors anticipate inflation of 2.7 percent in the next 12
months, as measured by the difference between yields on nominal
bonds and Treasury Inflation Protected Securities. That reflects
their expectation that the current surge in commodities is
temporary and modest; in the next five years, investors estimate
inflation will average 2.3 percent annually.  Even though the  budget deficit  has grown, the cost of
financing it is now lower than it was before the credit crisis
began in August 2007.  Slack in Economy  Bernanke has said the level of slack in the economy makes
it difficult for companies to raise prices, as 14.5 million
workers remain unemployed. The manufacturing, mining and
electric-and-gas-utilities industries also are using only 77
percent of their capacity, according to Fed data. While core
prices rose 0.9 percent in February from a year earlier, the
most since October, they remain near record lows.  Bernanke and the Federal Open Market Committee said March
15 they will continue to keep  interest rates  near zero and
maintain record monetary stimulus with purchases of $600 billion
in Treasury securities through June. Rising commodity prices
will prove “transitory” and “measures of underlying inflation
have been subdued,” the FOMC said.  Trichet Surprise  The Fed’s approach sets it apart from the  European Central
Bank  and  Bank of England . ECB President  Jean-Claude Trichet 
surprised investors earlier this month when he announced the
central bank may raise its benchmark rate in April from a record
low 1 percent. In the United Kingdom, a 4.4 percent consumer-
price increase in February from a year earlier is pressuring
policy makers to consider raising  England ’s target rate above
its record low of 0.5 percent.  “The implication is that, unless U.S. underlying inflation
begins to rise, the Fed will continue to lag behind the ECB and
the BOE, both of which are much more sensitive to the impact
from commodities-driven headline CPI rates on inflation
expectations,” said Lena Komileva, the global head of G-10
strategy in London for Brown Brothers Harriman & Co.  Maury Harris , chief U.S. economist in  New York  at UBS
Securities LLC, says Bernanke may be falling behind the curve.  “There ought to be some questions about whether the Fed is
on the right track when they say  core inflation  will be
contained,” he said. His team at UBS Securities, the best
inflation forecasters for the past two years according to
Bloomberg calculations, see prices excluding food and energy
rising 1.4 percent this year, compared with the median forecast
of 1.1 percent in a Bloomberg survey.  ‘Totally Implausible’  The Fed’s credibility also is at risk, Harris said.
Ordinary people “find it totally implausible that somebody from
the Fed would play down inflation,” he said.  Inflation expectations among U.S. consumers for the year
ahead jumped to 4.6 percent this month from 3.4 percent in
February, according to a Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan
survey. Expectations for five years from now rose to 3.2 percent
from 2.9 percent.  Reinhart agrees that concepts like core inflation have
little meaning for consumers watching the price of gasoline and
groceries rise from one week to the next.  “When you talk about core, you disconnect yourself from
the public who think ‘What, you don’t drive or eat?’” he said.
Even so, Bernanke is right when he says “the pass-through has
been essentially non-existent” for the last several decades,
Reinhart said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joshua Zumbrun in  Washington  at 
 jzumbrun@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  