-- 
Blackstone’s GSO Agrees to Take Over AIB CLO Business

-- B y   K r i s t e n   H a u n s s
-- 
2011-03-30T18:48:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-30/blackstone-s-gso-agrees-to-take-over-aib-s-collateral-management-business.html
GSO Capital Partners LP, the $31
billion credit investment arm of  Blackstone Group LP (BX) , has agreed
to acquire its first European CLO manager as it expands its
business.  The New York-based manager has agreed to acquire AIB
Capital Markets Plc’s collateral management business, which
consists of four collateralized loan obligations worth more than
1.5 billion euros ($2.1 billion), people with knowledge of the
sale said. After the AIB acquisition, GSO will have 38 CLOs in
the U.S. and  Europe .  Blackstone, the world’s biggest private-equity firm,  bought 
GSO in March 2008 to expand investments in credit, including
leveraged loans.  Stephen Schwarzman , the firm’s chairman and
chief executive officer, said last month on an earnings call
that GSO “is one of our fastest-growing businesses.” The
acquisition is a push by GSO to expand in European loans.  CLOs are a type of collateralized debt obligation that pool
high-yield, high-risk loans and slice them into securities of
varying risk and return. The loans they buy are used to back
acquisitions and leveraged buyouts.  GSO will replace AIB as manager on the CLOs including
Skellig Rock BV and Boyne Valley BV, according to two notices
with the Irish Stock Exchange. It will take over Tara Hill BV
and Clare Island BV, according to postings on the Luxembourg
Stock Exchange. Helen Winning, a Blackstone spokeswoman,
declined to comment.  CLO Consolidation  Berkshire Capital Securities LLC advised on the
transaction, said the people, who declined to be identified
because the terms of the deal are private.  In the U.S., manager consolidation has picked up in the
past year as CLO prices have risen and spreads have tightened,
with at least six firms being sold in 2010.  GSO purchased about $3.1 billion of CLOs from debt manager
Callidus Capital Management LLC last year. On Feb. 15,  Resource
Capital Corp. (RSO)  said it agreed to buy Churchill Pacific Asset
Management LLC from Churchill Financial Holdings LLC, according
to a news release.  The price of the highest-rated U.S. CLO debt rose 3.5 cents
last year, according to data from Morgan Stanley. Yield spreads
on those AAA graded pieces contracted to 175 basis points more
than the London interbank offered rate as of March 3, from a
high of 725 basis points in April 2009. Libor is the rate banks
charge to lend to each other.  In the past four months, Aladdin Capital Holdings LLC and
Resource Capital sold their European CLOs, and earlier this
month Octagon Credit Investors LLC agreed to sell its one
European fund to Ares Management LLC, according to a March 17
notice with the Irish Stock Exchange.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kristen Haunss in New York at 
 khaunss@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Faris Khan at 
 fkhan33@bloomberg.net  