-- 
Bonds Get Safer Versus Brazil on Oil Revenue, U.S. Growth: Mexico Credit

-- B y   A n d r e s   R .   M a r t i n e z   a n d   Y e   X i e
-- 
2011-03-30T21:34:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-30/bonds-get-safer-compared-to-brazil-on-oil-u-s-mexico-credit.html
Mexico ’s surging oil revenue and
economic expansion are pushing the country’s bond risk to a 10-
month low relative to  Brazil .  The cost of protecting Mexican debt against non-payment for
five years with credit-default swaps is 7 basis points, or 0.07
percentage point, less than similar contracts for Brazil, the
biggest gap since May 3, according to prices from data provider
CMA. Investors paid a record 72 basis points more to insure
Mexican debt rather than Brazilian bonds in March 2009 as
slumping exports to the U.S. and declining oil output swelled
the Mexican budget deficit and sparked credit-rating cuts.  The 27 percent rally in crude, Mexico’s second-biggest
export, and growing trade with the U.S. may fuel economic growth
for a second year after the worst recession since 1995 and
increase revenue, according to Finance Minister  Ernesto Cordero .
While inflation in Mexico slowed to 3.1 percent in the 12 months
through mid-March, consumer prices in Brazil rose 6.1 percent
during the period.  “It’s clear with this improvement in GDP prospects and
with inflation expectations that are not accelerating that
investor confidence in Mexico is going north,” said Jean- Dominique Butikofer, who helps oversee about $1 billion of
emerging-market debt at Union Bancaire Privee in Zurich. Mexico
“may have stronger growth than expected, while the jury may
still be out on Brazil,” he said.  Credit Ratings  Mexican dollar bonds posted a return of 1.7 percent this
year, compared with a gain of 0.7 percent for Brazilian debt,
according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s EMBI+ indexes. Mexico’s 5.95
percent dollar notes due in 2019 yield 4.268 percent. Brazil’s
5.875 percent bonds due the same year yield 4.259 percent.  Mexican debt is rated BBB by S&P and Fitch Ratings, one
level above Brazil and the second-lowest investment grade, after
the companies lowered the rankings in 2009 by one step. The
country’s Baal ranking from Moody’s is two steps above Brazil.  An official in the  Finance Ministry ’s press office didn’t
respond to an e-mail seeking comment. A Brazilian Finance
Ministry press official declined to comment.  State-owned  Petroleos Mexicanos , Latin America’s biggest
oil producer, generates about a third of government revenue. Oil
traded at $105 a barrel yesterday and reached a 30-month high on
March 7 as unrest in North Africa disrupted supplies and
threatened to spread to the Middle East.  Pemex, as the company is known, will produce more than 2.6
million barrels of crude a day in 2011, up from a previous
estimate of 2.55 million, Chief Executive Officer  Juan Jose Suarez Coppel  said March 18 at an event in Ciudad del Carmen in
Mexico’s Campeche state. Last year, Mexico’s oil output dropped
to 2.576 million barrels a day, its lowest level in 20 years.  Budget Deficit   Mexico’s budget deficit will shrink to 2.5 percent of gross
domestic product this year from 2.8 percent in 2010, according
to the median estimate of five economists in a Bloomberg survey.
The economy may grow as much as 5 percent this year after a 5.5
percent expansion in 2010, the fastest in a decade, Cordero
said.  Mexican GDP grew 5.85 percent in January from a year
earlier, topping the 5.6 percent expansion forecast by the
median estimate of 11 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  “Higher oil does help Mexico’s external account,”  Henry Stipp , who helps manage about $2 billion of emerging-market
securities at London-based Threadneedle Asset Management, said
in a telephone interview. “Now things start to go back to
normal more or less.”  Default Swaps  Mexico’s five-year default swaps have traded an average of
66 basis points below those of Brazil since 2004, when CMA data
began. It cost as much as 361 basis points more to protect
Brazilian debt in October 2004.  The cost to protect Mexican debt against non-payment for
five years was little changed at 106 today, according to CMA.
Credit-default swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange for
the underlying securities or cash equivalent if the issuer fails
to comply with debt agreements.  The extra yield investors demand to hold Mexican dollar
bonds instead of U.S. Treasuries narrowed 5 basis points to 126
at 5 p.m. New York time, according to JPMorgan.  The peso gained 0.3 percent to 11.91790 per dollar and is
up 3.4 percent this year.  Yields on the TIIE futures contract maturing in July was
little changed at 5 percent.  Central bank Governor Agustin Carstens will increase the
overnight lending rate about 75 basis points to 5.25 percent by
year-end, trading in 28-day interbank rate futures contracts
known as TIIE futures shows. Mexico is the only major Latin
American country that hasn’t boosted borrowing costs in the past
year as consumer prices rise at the third-slowest pace in the
region after Chile and  Peru .  Rate Boosts  Brazil’s central bank raised its benchmark rate by 50 basis
points twice this year to 11.75 percent to stem inflation
running at the fastest pace in 28 months. The country’s economy
may expand 4.1 percent this year after growing 7.5 percent in
2010, according to the median estimate of 14 economists in a
Bloomberg survey.  Mexican policy makers have kept their key lending rate at a
record low 4.5 percent for a record 17 meetings. The economy
shrank 6.1 percent in 2009 after the U.S. slipped into
recession. The  U.S. economy , which buys 80 percent of Mexico’s
exports, may grow 3.1 percent this year after expanding 2.9
percent in 2010, according to the median estimate in a Bloomberg
survey of 68 economists.  A slowdown in the U.S. expansion may push up Mexico’s bond
risk relative to Brazil, according to Jeff Williams, an
emerging-market debt strategist at Citigroup Inc. in  New York .  ‘Main Risk’  Confidence among U.S. consumers dropped more than forecast
in March as fuel costs surged to the highest level in more than
two years.  “The main risk is U.S. data starts disappointing,”
Williams said in a telephone interview. “That’s going to hurt
Mexico’s spread.”  Brazil’s efforts to curb the rally in the real are driving
up its default swaps relative to Mexico, said Union Bancaire
Privee’s Butikofer. The real is up 42 percent against the dollar
since the end of 2008 compared with 15 percent for Mexico’s
peso.  Brazil raised taxes yesterday on corporate loans and bank
bond sales in international markets in a bid to contain the two-
year rally in the real that’s crimping exporters’ profits. The
move follows a tripling of a tax on foreign investors’ fixed-
income purchases to 6 percent in October and central bank dollar
purchases totaling $18.8 billion in the  currency market  this
year.  “The latest growth data in Mexico came out significantly
higher than expected,” Butikofer said. “That is something
where people have paid really strong attention. The  Mexican peso 
has been really floating. We haven’t seen the Mexican central
bank curb capital inflows, hot money. If you look at the two
countries, Mexico is catching up.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ye Xie in New York at 
 yxie6@bloomberg.net ;
Andres R. Martinez in Mexico City at 
 amartinez28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  