-- 
Bovespa Stock Index Futures Rise on Lower Inflation Forecast; Real Gains

-- B y   N e y   H a y a s h i
-- 
2011-03-30T12:24:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-30/bovespa-stock-index-futures-rise-on-lower-inflation-forecast-real-gains.html
Bovespa stock-index futures
advanced, signaling the measure may rise for a second day, after
the central bank cut its inflation forecast and said the economy
is growing at a more “sustainable” pace.  OSX Brasil SA (OSXB3) , the shipbuilder controlled by Brazilian
billionaire  Eike Batista , may be active. The company signed a
letter of intent to construct a platform in the Campos Basin,
according to a regulatory filing. Homebuilder  Brookfield
Incorporacoes SA (BISA3)  may move after it said fourth-quarter net
income climbed to 84.9 million reais ($51.7 million) from 51.6
million reais a year earlier.  Bovespa stock-index futures gained 0.5 percent to 68,025 at
8:13 a.m. New York time. The real strengthened 0.3 percent to
1.6413 per  U.S. dollar .  Brazil’s benchmark equity gauge advanced yesterday after a
report showed credit expanded in Latin America’s largest
economy, bolstering the outlook for economic growth. Steelmakers
rallied on the prospect of industry takeovers.  The economy is growing at a more sustainable pace and
economic activity will continue to ease in coming months after
the government’s so-called macro-prudential measures proved
effective, the central bank said today in its quarterly
inflation report posted on its website.  Inflation  Consumer prices will rise 4.6 percent in 2012, down from a
4.8 percent estimate three months earlier, according to the
central bank’s reference scenario, which assumes  interest rates 
will remain unchanged until the end of next year.  Brazil’s monthly inflation, as measured by the IGP-M  price
index , slowed to 0.62 percent in March from 1 percent in
February, the Getulio Vargas Foundation said. This compares with
the median 0.69 percent forecast in a Bloomberg survey of 28
analysts.  Petroleo Brasileiro SA (PETR4)  may move. Brazil’s state-controlled
oil company found evidence of gas in an offshore well in
Brazil’s Para-Maranhao basin, the Brazilian petroleum regulator
said.  Centrais Eletricas Brasileiras SA (ELET6) , Latin America’s largest
utility, which is controlled by the Brazilian government, may be
active. The company is in talks to buy 10 percent of EDP -
Energias de Portugal SA from the Portuguese government,
newspaper Valor Economico reported, citing an unidentified
person at the Brazilian utility.  ‘Good Deals’  Eletrobras press officials said the company is studying
various possibilities outside Brazil and is interested in doing
“good deals,” Valor said.  Brasil Ecodiesel Industria e Comercio de Biocombustiveis e
Oleos Vegetais SA (ECOD3) , Brazil’s biggest biodiesel maker, may be
active after it said a net loss narrowed to 22.9 million reais
in 2010 from 34.9 million reais in 2009, according to a
regulatory filing.  The Bovespa fell 2.7 percent this year through yesterday as
homebuilders and banks fell on concern faster inflation will
limit growth, outweighing gains in oil and steel producers. The
index trades at 10.7 times analysts’ earnings estimates,
according to weekly data compiled by Bloomberg. That compares to
a ratio of 14 for the Shanghai Composite Index, 7.5 for Russia’s
Micex, and 17.8 for India’s Sensex.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ney Hayashi in  Sao Paulo  at 
 ncruz4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos in New York at 
 papadopoulous@bloomberg.net  