-- 
BP, Spill Partners Harmed Oil Cleanup Crews, Lawyers Say

-- B y   L a u r e l   B r u b a k e r   C a l k i n s
-- 
2011-03-31T00:49:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-30/bp-spill-partners-harmed-oil-spill-clean-up-crews-lawyers-say.html
BP Plc (BP/) , its drilling partners and
11 contractors who made or applied chemical dispersants to
attack the 2010 Gulf oil spill should compensate boat owners,
cleanup crews and residents injured by contact with the toxic
substances, lawyers suing the firms said.  Cleanup workers suffered health problems after accidentally
touching or being sprayed with the dispersants, according to an
amended master complaint filed in  New Orleans  federal court
today as part of the oil-spill litigation consolidated there.  Boat owners were underpaid and vessels were damaged while
working in BP’s post-spill remediation armada, according to the
filing. Gulf coast residents and tourists are also suing over
health problems they say were caused by inhaling fumes and
touching the drifting oil and dispersants.  “Some of these diseases and conditions may be immediately
evident, and others can appear months or years later,”
according to the filing.  In addition to compensation for unpaid wages, bodily harm
and property damage, the complaint seeks unspecified punitive
damages from London-based BP and the other companies for
reckless and negligent behavior. The suit also asks that BP be
required to establish medical- and environmental-monitoring
programs in affected parts of the  Gulf coast .  Deepwater Horizon  More than 4.1 million barrels of crude spilled into the
Gulf of Mexico after  Transocean Ltd. (RIG) ’s Deepwater Horizon rig
exploded and sank while drilling a BP well off the  Louisiana 
coast last April. More than 1.8 million gallons of chemical
dispersants were sprayed over or injected into Gulf waters to
break up the oil, according to the complaint.  Units of Transocean, BP and BP’s co-owners in the well,
 Anadarko Petroleum Corp. (APC)  and Mitsui & Co., are named as
defendants. Also named are  Nalco Holding Co. (NLC) , which made the
dispersants, and 10 companies hired to apply the chemicals to
Gulf waters and shorelines.  Daren Beaudo, a BP spokesman, declined to comment.  Guy Cantwell , a Transocean spokesman, didn’t immediately respond to
a telephone message seeking comment. Teresa Coon, a spokeswoman
for Naperville, Illinois-based Nalco, didn’t immediately return
a call seeking comment.  John Christiansen , Anadarko’s spokesman,
also didn’t immediately reply to a voice message.  ‘Vessel of Opportunity’  BP chartered hundreds of commercial and recreational
fishing boats through its “Vessel of Opportunity” program to
help skim drifting crude, deploy and retrieve oil-absorbent
containment booms, apply dispersants, and burn floating oil at
sea.  Some of the captains in the program claim BP hasn’t paid
them for the period after their boats were laid off from the
cleanup task force yet not formally released from their BP
charters. Some charters went unpaid for a few weeks while others
languished as much as four months, according to the complaint.  Captains in some instances also complained BP used improper
and incomplete cleaning and detoxification procedures that
stripped paint off their vessels after the spilled oil hardened
into a varnish-like substance.  Clean-up crews working onshore and offshore have complained
of respiratory ailments, dizziness, elevated blood pressure,
rashes and chemical burns from coming in contact with the toxic
materials. Components in both the crude oil and in the chemical
dispersants have been shown to cause  birth defects , cancer and
other long-term disorders in sufficient doses, according to the
filing.  The case is In Re: Oil Spill by the Oil Rig Deepwater
Horizon in the  Gulf of Mexico  on April 20, 2010, MDL-2179, U.S.
District Court, Eastern District of Louisiana (New Orleans).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laurel Brubaker Calkins in Houston at 
 laurel@calkins.us.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 