-- 
Brazil Pushes Back Inflation Target to 2012; Cost ‘Too High’ for This Year

-- B y   I u r i   D a n t a s   a n d   M a t t h e w   B r i s t o w
-- 
2011-03-30T21:27:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-30/brazil-pushes-back-inflation-target-to-2012-cost-too-high-for-this-year.html
Brazil’s  central bank  said it will
seek to bring inflation down to its 4.5 percent target in 2012
as the economic costs of meeting the goal this year would be
“too high.” Interest-rate futures yields for 2011 fell.  The central bank will use monetary policy to “ensure the
convergence of inflation to target in 2012,” policy makers said
in their quarterly inflation  report  published today on the
bank’s website. “In the current circumstances, good practice
recommends that one seeks a smoother convergence of inflation to
its target.”  Inflation will slow to 4.4 percent in 2012, down from 5.5
percent in 2011, should policy makers raise the benchmark
interest rate to 12.5 percent from 11.75 percent now and the
 exchange rate  remain stable, according to central bank forecasts
published today. Policy makers estimate inflation will exceed
the 6.5 percent ceiling of the central bank’s inflation target
in the third quarter of this year, before slowing.  Traders trimmed bets on interest rate rises following the
inflation report. Investors are wagering that the central bank
will raise its benchmark interest rate 0.25 percentage point at
its April policy meeting, down from a 0.50 percentage point bet
before the report was published, interest rate futures show.  Carlos Hamilton, the central bank’s economic policy
director, said that a combination of higher borrowing costs,
curbs on  consumer lending  and government spending cuts will be
enough to bring inflation back to its target in 2012.  ‘Big Effort’  “It is unlikely that any government is making such a big
effort, including on the fiscal side, to control inflation as
 Brazil  is,” Hamilton told reporters in Brasilia.  Faster inflation is part of a “generalized” phenomenon
affecting emerging markets, the inflation report said. Countries
including Russia, China and  Poland  have also seen accelerating
price rises, Hamilton said.  The yield on the interest rate futures contract maturing in
January 2012, the most traded in Sao Paulo, fell 13 basis
points, or 0.13 percentage point, to 12.11 percent today. The
real appreciated 1.1 percent to 1.6288 per dollar, its strongest
level since August 2008.  Andre Perfeito , chief economist at Sao Paulo-based Gradual
Investimentos, said he cut his interest rate forecast after
reading the minutes and now expects the bank to raise to 12
percent at its April policy meeting before pausing. Previously
he expected rates to go as high as 12.25 percent this year.  “It’s quite clear that the central bank won’t increase the
rate as much as the market believed was necessary,” Perfeito
said by telephone from  Sao Paulo .  ‘Sacrifice’ Growth  The central bank would have to “sacrifice” economic
growth to a large extent to meet the mid-point of the target
this year, Jose Francisco de Lima Goncalves, chief economist at
Banco Fator SA, said.  The central bank forecasts economic will slow to 4 percent
in 2011, down from 7.5 percent last year, the inflation report
says.  Policy makers said measures to curb credit growth, such as
higher reserve and capital requirements implemented in December,
have a similar effect on inflation as interest-rate increases
and are effective.  Brazil raised a tax on foreign transactions yesterday to
reduce loans local banks and companies seek abroad. The measure,
which may slow the pace of credit expansion in Brazil by
reducing liquidity, is part of President Dilma Rousseff’s effort
to contain inflation by relying on tools that replace rate
increases.  Faster Inflation  Annual inflation quickened to 6.13 percent in the 12 months
through mid-March, its fastest pace since November 2008. The
central bank targets inflation of 4.5 percent plus or minus two
percentage points.  “In the very dovish Inflation Report released today, the
Central Bank reinforced its relatively benign view on domestic
prices’ recent performance,” Enestor Dos Santos, senior Brazil
economist for BBVA in  Madrid , wrote in a report.  Policy makers today said they are ready to reassess their
monetary policy strategy if needed.  Should commodity prices jump again, the central bank
signaled it is ready to raise rates more than originally
planned,  Roberto Padovani , chief economist at Banco WestLB do
Brasil SA, said in a phone interview from Sao Paulo. Padovani
expects the central bank to raise rates in April to 12.25
percent and then pause.  Lifting the Selic  Policy makers raised the benchmark Selic rate 50 basis
points at each of their last two meetings. Last year they
increased the rate by 200 basis points from a record low 8.75
percent.  Monthly inflation as measured by the IGP-M  price index 
slowed to 0.62 percent in March from 1 percent in February, the
Getulio Vargas Foundation said. This compares with the median
0.69 percent forecast in a Bloomberg survey of 28 analysts.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Matthew Bristow in Brasilia at 
 mbristow5@bloomberg.net ;
Iuri Dantas in Brasilia at 
 idantas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  