-- 
Brazil Sugar Producers May Face Increased Delays at Ports

-- B y   K a t i a   C o r t e s
-- 
2011-03-30T15:06:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-30/brazil-sugar-producers-may-face-increased-delays-at-ports-1-.html
Sugar producers in  Brazil , the
world’s biggest exporter of the sweetener, may face increased
delays at ports this year as heavy rain stalls the harvest,
concentrating shipments in peak months, a processor said.  Most sugar-cane crushers probably won’t start processing
the tropical plant until late April or May after above-average
rain in Brazil’s Center-South delayed the harvest this year,
said Paulo Jose Mendes Passos, commercial director at Acucar
Guarani SA, Brazil’s third-biggest sugar and ethanol producer.
Last year, crushers started work in March and early April.  The delay is set to worsen bottlenecks at ports this year
as growers rush to ship the sweetener, Passos said. A record 600
ships loaded sugar last year at Brazil’s Santos port, which
handles about 80 percent of the nation’s shipments of the
sweetener, according to the port’s press office.  “We may face bigger problems at ports this year,” Passos
said March 28 in a telephone interview from  Sao Paulo .
“Shipments will be concentrated in the July and October
contracts, when the lineup tends to be much bigger.”  Sugar shipments from the Santos port increased 20 percent
last year from 500 ships in 2009 after adverse weather cut
output in sugar-producing countries such as  Thailand ,  Australia ,
 Russia  and  Pakistan , the port’s press office said.  Drought  A drought last year pared cane output in the Center South,
where about 90 percent of Brazil’s sugar and ethanol is
produced, he said. Cosan SA Industria & Comercio, whose joint
venture with Royal Dutch Shell Plc is the world’s largest cane
processor, said today in an e-mailed statement that most of its
mills won’t begin crushing this year until mid-April.  Raw-sugar futures for May delivery fell 2.2 percent to
26.42 cents a pound at 10:25 a.m. on ICE Futures U.S. in  New
York . The price has surged 48 percent in the past year.  Guarani may produce 1.5 million metric tons of sugar this
crop year and export 40 percent of that, unchanged from last
year, Passos said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katia Cortes in Brasilia at 
 kcortes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  