-- 
Brazilian Real Reaches Highest Level Since 2008

-- B y   B e n   B a i n   a n d   J o s u e   L e o n e l
-- 
2011-03-30T21:05:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-30/brazilian-real-reaches-highest-level-since-2008-correct-.html
(Corrects date of release of survey in final paragraph.)  Brazil ’s real touched the strongest
level since August 2008 as investors’ increased demand for
higher-yielding, emerging-market assets overshadowed  capital
controls  introduced yesterday.  Brazil’s real gained 0.8 percent to 1.6334 per  U.S. dollar 
at 1:10 p.m.  New York  time, from 1.6463 yesterday. The currency
earlier rose as much as 1.2 percent to 1.6273, and is gaining
the most today among 25 emerging-market currencies tracked by
Bloomberg.  The real is adding to a 1 percent rally yesterday after
President  Dilma Rousseff  imposed a tax of 6 percent on
international bond sales and loans with an average minimum
maturity of as long as 360 days. Companies had paid a 5.38
percent tax on loans as long as 90 days and zero tax when the
operation exceeded three months. The government is seeking to
reduce short-term borrowing abroad, Finance Minister  Guido Mantega  told reporters yesterday in Brasilia.  Brazil’s currency is rising as investors are being
“enticed” by higher-yielding emerging-market assets, “versus
two or three weeks ago where investors were much more cautious
with the headline risks either from the Middle East or  Japan ,”
 Mike Moran , senior currency strategist at Standard Chartered
Bank in New York, said by phone.  ‘Weak Dollar’  “It’s the prevailing weak dollar story,” said Moran.
“It’s the primary driver right now, irrespective of some of
these new measures out of Brazil. The market is overlooking them
and so they should as international issuance, especially for the
one-year money, is a fairly small component of aggregate
inflows.”  Brazil received net inflows of $10.5 billion in foreign
currency flows from trade and financial investments this month
through March 25, compared with $7.4 billion for all of
February, according to the central bank.  The real pared gains after the central bank said in a
statement it will auction as many as 30,000 reverse currency
swap contracts today. Policy makers also said they bought
dollars in the  spot market  today at 1.6360 per dollar.  The tactics are part of an effort by policy makers to
weaken the currency, which has gained 42 percent since the end
of 2008, the most among emerging-market currencies tracked by
Bloomberg during that period.  Yields on Brazilian interest-rate futures contracts tumbled
after policy makers indicated they won’t try this year to meet
their central target for annual consumer price increases.  Yields on futures contracts due in January sank 10 basis
points, or 0.1 percentage point, to 12.14 percent.  Economic Growth  Brazil’s economy is growing at a more sustainable level and
economic activity will continue to ease in coming months after
the government’s so-called macro-prudential measures proved
effective, the central bank said in its quarterly inflation
report posted today on its website. The central bank said it
will seek to bring inflation, running at 6.13 percent in the
year through mid-March, down to its 4.5 percent target in 2012
as the costs of meeting the goal this year would be “too
high.”  “The report was maybe a little more dovish than the market
was expecting,” said Vladimir Caramaschi, chief strategist at
Credit Agricole Brasil SA. “They have reinforced the idea that
they are giving up in trying to target the central part of the
inflation target for 2011. They basically said that they are not
going to try to reach the 4.5 percent in 2011 and that the focus
now is to bring inflation toward this target only in 2012.”  Inflation  The central bank targets annual inflation at 4.5 percent
plus or minus 2 percentage points. Policy makers also said they
revised their forecast for the expansion of Latin America’s
biggest economy this year to 4 percent from a previous
projection of 4.5 percent.  “The market should take that into account, that we are
already an economy which has peaked, and is beginning to
moderate,” Moran said.  Policy makers have raised the benchmark rate by 1
percentage point this year to 11.75 percent to slow inflation.
The central bank may pause after increasing the benchmark for a
third consecutive time by 50 basis points to 12.25 percent in
the April 19-20 meeting, a central bank weekly survey of
economists released on March 28 showed.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ben Bain in New York at 
 bbain2@bloomberg.net ;
Josue Leonel in  Sao Paulo  at 
 jleonel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  