-- 
Brevan Howard Hires Three Goldman Sachs Traders for Its Biggest Hedge Fund

-- B y   J e s s e   W e s t b r o o k
-- 
2011-03-30T16:23:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-30/brevan-howard-hires-three-goldman-sachs-traders-for-its-biggest-hedge-fund.html
Brevan Howard Asset Management LP
hired three  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  employees to trade for its
biggest hedge fund, according to a person briefed on the matter.  Karl Devine, Andrew Dausch and Brad Lord will trade for the
$25 billion Brevan Howard Master Fund Ltd., said the person, who
asked not to be named because the appointments haven’t been
announced. The three will work in Brevan Howard’s London office,
the person said.  Goldman Sachs is losing traders as it complies with a
provision of the U.S.’s Dodd-Frank financial rules that
restricts banks from betting capital for their own accounts.
Devine, Dausch and Lord are opting to trade for the world’s
biggest macro fund instead of following the path of former
Goldman Sachs employees that decided to start their own firms.  “Starting a hedge fund from scratch can obviously be a lot
more rewarding, but it’s essentially starting a business, which
requires time and advice,” said Max Ferri, head of operational
due diligence at Laven Partners, a hedge-fund consultant in
 London . By going to Brevan Howard, "they can focus on what they
do best, which is trading, and can get started right away."  London Connections  So-called macro funds seek to profit from global economic
themes or trends. Brevan Howard co-Chief Executive Officer Nagi Kawkabani didn’t return a phone call seeking comment.  Ed Canaday , a spokesman for Goldman Sachs, declined to comment.  The appointments were earlier reported by Financial News.  Devine’s registration with the U.K. Financial Services
Authority has been inactive since March 17, according to the
regulator’s website. Dausch and Lord’s registrations have been
inactive since March 11.  The three worked in London for Goldman Sachs’s global macro
proprietary desk, which the Wall Street firm decided to close
earlier this year. The eight-person desk trades currencies,
stocks and products tied to  interest rates . In the first quarter
of 2011, New York-based Goldman Sachs began liquidating the
group’s positions, according to a March 1 filing with the
Securities and Exchange Commission.  The macro desk reported financial results as part of
Goldman Sachs’s fixed-income trading division, a person familiar
with the matter said last month. That division generated revenue
of $13.7 billion in 2010, 35 percent of the firm’s total.  Goldman Alumni  Goldman Sachs last year also shut down an equity
proprietary-trading group, known as Goldman Sachs Principal
Strategies.  Pierre-Henri Flamand, the former head of the group, left in
2010 to start a hedge fund. Morgan Sze, who also ran principal
strategies, is founding a hedge fund in  Hong Kong . Ariel Roskis
and Daniele Benatoff, two London-based employees who worked on
the desk, plan to start a fund in the next quarter.  The Dodd-Frank provision that restricts banks from making
speculative bets with their own capital is known as the Volcker
rule. It was named after former Federal Reserve Chairman  Paul Volcker , who advocated separating lending units from  investment
banking . The rule aims to limit risky trading at depository
institutions in response to the worst financial crisis since the
Great Depression.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jesse Westbrook in London at 
 jwestbrook1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  