-- 
Brown's California Dream Snarled by Dysfunction That Felled Schwarzenegger

-- B y   M i c h a e l   B .   M a r o i s   a n d   J a m e s   N a s h
-- 
2011-03-30T13:10:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-30/brown-s-california-dream-snarled-by-dysfunction-that-felled-schwarzenegger.html
California Governor  Jerry Brown ’s
campaign pledge to fix perennial budget jams with his ripened
political acumen failed to overcome the government dysfunctions
that ensnared his predecessor,  Arnold Schwarzenegger .  Brown, a 72-year-old Democrat who was governor from 1975 to
1983, conceded yesterday he lacks Republican support for a June
 referendum  to keep higher sales, income and vehicle taxes from
expiring. Extending them five more years, he had said, was
crucial to closing a $15 billion gap in his $84.6 billion budget
without slashing funds for schools and public safety.  Brown, who promised after his November election to make
state government “more responsive” and “coherent,” was
thwarted by partisan lawmakers entrenched in gerrymandered
districts, the need for a two-thirds majority vote to raise
revenue, a tax structure vulnerable to economic cycles and
constitutional amendments that plucked budgeting power from
elected officials.  “As long as you have the structures that have been wedded
into the constitution, you’re going to have a hard time
governing California,” said Jaime A. Regalado, director of the
Pat Brown Institute of Public Affairs, a part of  California
State University  at  Los Angeles  named for Jerry Brown’s father,
governor from 1959 to 1967.  Specter of IOUs  Without an enacted budget, the state will be unable to
issue $10 billion in planned revenue anticipation notes and may
have to resort to IOUs for the first time in two years to meet
cash-flow needs,  Standard & Poor’s  said today.  In  New York , Democratic Governor  Andrew Cuomo  has more
leeway. He announced an agreement with lawmakers for a $132.5
billion budget that closes a $10 billion deficit with a 2
percent spending cut and no tax increases. If a simple majority
of legislators approve before the fiscal year ends March 31, it
would be the first early state budget since 1983.  Until this year,  California  governors have needed a two-
thirds vote in the Legislature to pass budgets. Assembling such
a supermajority often required compromise between Republicans
and Democrats.  That became more difficult as legislative districts were
drawn to carve out “safe” enclaves for many lawmakers, leading
both Democrats and Republicans to stick to party lines in budget
debates, spurning tax increases or education cuts. The current
budget, overseen by Schwarzenegger, passed three months late.  Legislative Boundaries  Voters, seeking to reduce partisanship, took the power to
draw legislative boundaries away from lawmakers in 2008 and gave
it to a bipartisan commission. In 2010, they replaced
conventional elections with a system in which the top two
finishers in a primary, regardless of party, run against each
other in the general election. The changes take effect this year
and next.  Political control of California’s budget by either party
has been eroded by a series of ballot measures spelling out how
the state must spend its money. A 1988 constitutional amendment,
for example, locks in a minimum level of spending for public
schools and community colleges. In 2004, voters guaranteed
funding for local governments and prohibited the state from
reducing property-tax proceeds to cities and counties.  ‘California Dream’  “All of us in this state are somewhat culpable because the
flip side of the California dream -- which is that all things
are possible -- is that people think all things are possible in
government,” said former Governor Gray Davis, who was recalled
from office in 2003 over budget-deficit issues.  “They are, if you have a commensurate willingness to pay
for it. We don’t,” the 68-year-old Democrat who served as
Brown’s chief of staff in the late 1970s said in an interview.  Democrats, who control both legislative chambers but are
four votes short of the two-thirds supermajority this year,
sponsored a ballot initiative last November that lowered the
threshold for approving budgets to a simple majority. While the
measure prevailed, it didn’t lower the requirement for passing
higher taxes, which gave Republicans the power to thwart
attempts to avoid deep spending cuts by increasing revenue.  Schwarzenegger, a Republican, won two terms as governor
with promises to fix the finances of the most-populous U.S.
state. California, which produces 13 percent of U.S. gross
domestic product, still ran out of money in 2009 and had to pay
bills with IOUs for only the second time since the Great
Depression.  Stopgap Measures  Schwarzenegger resorted to stopgap measures, such as
delaying payments into the next fiscal year, and to borrowing
money to bridge $100 billion of combined budget holes after his
deficit-reduction plans were stymied by the Legislature.  When Schwarzenegger left office in January, with
California’s credit rating the lowest of any U.S. state from
Standard & Poor’s, he shoved onto Brown’s shoulders a $25
billion deficit.  Complicating California’s finances is its reliance on
personal-income taxes. While the state is home to 14 percent of
the companies in the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index including  Apple
Inc. (AAPL) ,  Google Inc. (GOOG) , Chevron Corp. and  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC) , taxes
from individuals generate more than half of  general-fund  money
each year. That makes the state susceptible to revenue swings
during economic cycles.  Vulnerable Taxes  “Our tax structure here is extremely vulnerable to
recessions because we put the burden for our tax income on
people who are in the upper brackets of income,” said Rob Stutzman, a Republican campaign strategist who was
Schwarzenegger’s communications director. “There are too many
people in California who don’t pay income tax.”  Since 2007, when the deepest recession in more than 50
years beset the U.S., California’s income-tax revenue has
plummeted almost 15 percent to $47 billion. The portion of the
general fund derived from income taxes rose to 51 percent in the
last fiscal year, from as little as 11 percent in 1951,
according to budget documents and the  Commission on the 21st
Century Economy .  “Every state has budget problems,” Stutzman said. “Ours
have become as annual as the in-laws coming for Thanksgiving.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michael Marois in Sacramento at 
 mmarois@bloomberg.net ;
James Nash in Sacramento at 
 jnash24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  