-- 
Bunds to Underperform on Permanent German Support for Neighbors, MEAG Says

-- B y   P a u l   D o b s o n
-- 
2011-03-30T11:26:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-30/bunds-to-underperform-on-permanent-german-support-for-neighbors-meag-says.html
German bunds may underperform U.K.
and U.S. bonds as  Europe ’s biggest economy is likely to take on
supporting its weakest euro-region partners as a permanent
burden, according to MEAG Munich Ergo Asset Management GmbH.  “Bunds enjoy a huge  risk premium  right now, which they may
no longer enjoy to the same degree as we are moving to a kind of
transfer union,” where weaker nations such as Ireland and
Portugal are officially supported by their stronger neighbors,
Reiner Back, who oversees more than $150 billion as head of
fixed income and foreign exchange at MEAG in Munich, said in a
telephone interview.  German debt is already lagging behind gilts and Treasuries.
Yields have climbed this year as the nation committed to aiding
the region’s weakest members beyond an initial three-year period
ending in 2013. They were further boosted since March 3, when
European Central Bank President  Jean-Claude Trichet  said
 interest rates  may rise as soon as April to beat back
accelerating inflation.  Chancellor  Angela Merkel  agreed last year on contributions
to international bailouts for Greece and Ireland as euro-area
nations sought to stem the spread of financial contagion. While
Merkel persuaded European Union leaders to lower  Germany ’s
initial share of a future emergency fund on March 24, she also
claimed credit for making so-called peripheral nations in the
region face up to their debt, saying Europe was “growing a bit
closer.”  Peripheral Resolution  Ten-year Treasury notes have outperformed similar-maturity
German bunds this year, cutting the additional yield investors
demand to hold the U.S. securities to 15 basis points as of
12:15 p.m. today in London from 33 basis points on Dec. 31. For
U.K. gilts, the spread has narrowed to 33 basis points from 43
basis points.  “We prefer gilts and Treasuries over bunds,” said Back,
who is 50. “The  European Central Bank  is much closer to hiking
rates than the  Federal Reserve  is, and the yield curve in the
U.S. is so much steeper.”  MEAG had 207 billion euros ($292 billion) under management
as of Dec. 31, 2010, according to its website. It’s the asset-
management arm of  Munich Re , the world’s largest reinsurer.  Two-year German notes yield 157 basis points less than 10-
year bunds, compared with a yield spread of 268 basis points for
U.S. securities.  German bonds may also underperform debt from the most
indebted nations, narrowing yield spreads as the resolution of
the debt crisis approaches, according to Back. The difference in
yield between German debt and securities from Portugal,  Greece ,
Ireland and  Spain  all reached the widest levels in the history
of the euro area in the past six months.  Narrower Spread  “You will see a convergence because the nature of a
transfer union is that if you have a strong government, it has
to give guarantees,” Back said. “At the same time the weaker
governments can draw on these guarantees and therefore their
safety improves. We will on average see higher spreads in the
coming 10 years than we have in the past 10 years, but the
current spreads are too wide.”  The resolution of the crisis may still take some time, and
won’t come soon enough to prevent  Portugal  from joining Ireland
and Greece in seeking a bailout, Back said.  “It’s just not economical for Portugal to fund at the
markets at the levels we currently see,” he said. “When it
becomes cheaper to use the rescue package, why not use it?”  Austerity programs implemented in return for bailouts will
help indebted nations return to a sounder footing, said Back,
who owns peripheral countries’ debt as part of his portfolio.  “The confidence just needs to come back,” he said. “The
difficult period we have right now is a transition period and I
think this is well acknowledged by European governments.”  German government debt securities handed investors a 2.2
percent loss so far this year, according to Bank of America
Merrill Lynch indexes. Treasuries lost 0.4 percent and U.K.
government bonds lost 0.6 percent, according to the indexes.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Paul Dobson in  London  at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  