-- 
Cadiz Seeks Increased Avusa Bid, Says Capitau Takeover May Become Hostile

-- B y   S i k o n a t h i   M a n t s h a n t s h a
-- 
2011-03-30T15:50:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-30/cadiz-asset-management-seeking-increased-offer-of-4-40-a-share-for-avusa.html
Cadiz Asset Management wants
Capitau Holdings Ltd. to boost its 2.7 billion rand ($393
million) bid for  Avusa Ltd. (AVU)  by 15 percent and said shareholders
may face a hostile takeover of the South African media company.  Buyout company Capitau and  FirstRand Ltd. (FSR) ’s private equity
unit, RMB Ventures, are offering 26 rand-a-share in cash for
Avusa. Investors can also choose a reinvestment option of 18
rand in cash per security, plus preference shares at 5 rand each
and stock in a new company to be formed after the takeover at 3
rand apiece.  “The offer is close to the low side of fair value,” Rob Nagel, a portfolio manager at Cape Town-based Cadiz Asset
Management, said in an interview today. “It represents fair
value, but not a buyout premium.” Anything close to 30 rand, or
above “would get our vote,” he said.  Capitau and RMB Ventures approached Avusa Chairman Dumisa Ntsebeza on March 13, Capitau said yesterday. Avusa released a
statement on March 28 saying it received an unsolicited offer
from Capitau, RMB Ventures and other unidentified investors. In
its statement, Capitau said it and RMB Ventures were the only
bidders for Avusa.  Avusa’s lack of communication on the bid may indicate its
unwillingness to cooperate with the suitors, said Nagel, whose
company manages about 3 percent of Johannesburg-based Avusa’s
stock on behalf of clients. Capitau’s offer is only fair to
funds that can invest in shares not listed on the  Johannesburg
Stock Exchange , he said.  Shares Drop  Avusa runs a venture with London-based  Pearson Plc (PSON)  that
publishes Business Day, South Africa’s biggest business
newspaper, the Financial Mail magazine and Summit TV, a business
news channel. Separately, Avusa  publishes  the Sunday Times, the
nation’s largest weekend broadsheet, the Sowetan newspaper and
operates a cinema chain, book stores and a music-recording and
distribution company.  Avusa declined 1 percent to 24.55 rand at the 5 p.m. close
of trading in Johannesburg, falling for a second day, after
surging 18 percent on March 28.  Capitau and RMB Ventures, both based in Johannesburg, have
support from shareholders representing 59 percent of Avusa,
including  Mvelaphanda Group Ltd. (MVG) , which owns more than a fifth
of the company, Capitau said. Mvela Group snapped two days of
gains, falling 1 cent to 3.17 rand.  Capitau , a closely held company, has been involved in
transactions that resulted in  South Africa ’s Foodcorp Ltd.,
Consol Glass Ltd. and Primedia Ltd. being taken private.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sikonathi Mantshantsha in Johannesburg at 
 smantshantsh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at   gserkin@bloomberg.net  