-- 
Carmaker Tesla Sues BBC’s ‘Top Gear’ TV Show Over Electric Roadster Test

-- B y   J a m e s   L u m l e y
-- 
2011-03-30T15:27:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-30/carmaker-tesla-sues-bbc-s-top-gear-over-electric-roadster-test.html
U.S. electric carmaker  Tesla Motors
Inc. (TSLA)  sued the British Broadcasting Corp.’s “Top Gear” show
alleging libel and malicious falsehood.  Tesla claims the show, one of the broadcaster’s most
successful programs, faked a scene that appeared to show Tesla’s
 Roadster  car running out of energy, according to papers filed at
the  High Court  in  London  yesterday.  Tesla, which has lost money every year since it was founded
in 2003, is seeking to become the leader in battery-powered
cars, aided by supply agreements with  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203)  and
 Daimler AG. (DAI)  The  Palo Alto , California-based company said last
month its fourth-quarter net loss widened to $51.4 million from
$23.2 million a year earlier as it increased investment in the
Model S, an electric sedan due in 2012.  In the Top Gear report, first broadcast in December 2008,
presenter Jeremy Clarkson said that, even though the car is
“biblically quick,” and “the first electric car you might
actually want to buy,” its range is limited.  “Although Tesla say it will do 200 miles, we worked out
that on our track it would run out after just 55 miles and if it
does run out it’s not a quick job to charge it up again,”
Clarkson said, according to a transcript of the show included in
the filing.  The report showed the car being pushed into a hangar,
according to the suit. Tesla said the Roadster that was pushed
into the hangar hadn’t run out of power and didn’t need to be
pushed. Top Gear’s allegation that the car’s range is 55 miles
is defamatory because it suggests Tesla “grossly misled
potential purchasers of the Roadster,” the filing said.  International Audience  Top Gear has a U.K. audience of around 6 million viewers
and an international audience of 350 million, the broadcaster
says. It is viewed in more than 100 countries and has been the
most-viewed show on BBC2 for a decade.  This is the second time in less than a year the program has
become involved in a High Court lawsuit. In August, the  BBC  sued
 News Corp. (NWSA) ’s HarperCollins to block it from disclosing the real
name of the “Stig,” the race driver who tested cars on the
show with the visor of his helmet down to hide his identity.  “We can confirm that we have received notification that
Tesla have issued proceedings against the BBC,” the broadcaster
said in an e-mailed statement. “The BBC stands by the program
and will be vigorously defending this claim.”  Nigel Tait, a partner at London law firm  Carter-Ruck , said
in a message that he made the claim on behalf of Tesla.  The case is: HQ11D01162, Tesla Motors Limited & ors vs.
British Broadcasting Corp.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 James Lumley  in London at 
 jlumley1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 