-- 
Cattle Rise to Record as Japan’s Meat Demand May Gain Amid Nuclear Concern

-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   C a m p b e l l   a n d   T o n y   C .   D r e i b u s
-- 
2011-03-30T19:04:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-30/cattle-futures-surge-on-bets-japan-meat-demand-to-gain-on-nuclear-concern.html
Cattle futures surged to a record
on bets that meat demand in  Japan  will increase amid concerns
that farmland and animals were tainted after the March 11
earthquake and tsunami damaged nuclear units.  Retail-beef prices in the U.S. last month climbed to an
all-time high. The nation’s cattle herd dwindled to the lowest
since 1958, and meat exports have surged, spurred by a demand in
emerging markets. Shrinking domestic supplies are increasing
costs for supermarkets and restaurants.  Tyson Foods Inc. (TSN) , the largest U.S. meat processor, said
today that Japan may increase imports in the short term. Global
food prices jumped 25 percent in 2010 and climbed to a record
last month, according to a United Nations index. Surging costs
contributed to uprisings in northern  Africa  and the Middle East
that toppled leaders in Egypt and  Tunisia .  “The Japanese people have an interest in buying U.S.
beef,” said  Don Roose , the president of U.S. Commodities Inc.
in  West Des Moines ,  Iowa . “There’s a concern with the
contamination level. The U.S. and foreign products get a nod”
over Japan’s products and production, he said.  Cattle futures for June delivery gained 1.675 cents, or 1.4
percent, to settle at $1.19575 a pound at 1 p.m. on the  Chicago 
Mercantile Exchange. Earlier, the most-active contract rose to a
record of $1.198. The price has climbed 28 percent in the past
12 months.  U.S. consumers may pay as much as 5.5 percent more for meat
this year with prices rising faster than overall food costs, the
USDA has  forecast . Last week, wholesale beef climbed to the
highest since at least January 2004.  ‘Biggest Concern’  Beef is “probably the biggest concern” among commodity
expenses for Wendy’s/Arby’s Group Inc., Chief Executive Roland
C. Smith said this week. The cost of the meat may rise 15
percent or more this year, the company, the third-biggest U.S.
hamburger chain, has forecast.  Japan was the largest importer of U.S. pork and the third-
largest buyer of U.S. beef last year, government data show. In
Japan’s northeast, hazardous radiation levels are delaying
repair work at the Fukushima Dai-Ichi power plant, site of the
worst nuclear disaster since Chernobyl.  Surging prices of corn, the main ingredient in livestock
feed, have boosted costs for meat producers. In  Texas , the
leading U.S. cattle producer, the worst drought in 44 years is
forcing ranchers to reduce herds.  “With the high price of beef, it’s getting real hard to
move in the States, but export demand is really strong,” said
Troy Vetterkind, the owner of Vetterkind Cattle Brokerage in
Chicago. Japan has “been having to buy more beef, pork and
chicken because of the problems they’ve got, so that’s been a
pretty major factor,” he said.  Smithfield Outlook  More Japanese demand for chilled fresh pork over frozen
products signals the country may have little meat available at
the retail level, Smithfield Foods Inc. Chief Financial Officer
Bo Manly said today at an industry conference.  Hog futures for June settlement fell 0.325 cent, or 0.3
percent, to $1.0315 a pound. Earlier, the price dropped 3 cents,
the CME’s limit. Yesterday, the commodity reached $1.0415, the
highest for a most-active contract since at least April 1986.  Feeder-cattle futures for August settlement rose 1.25
cents, or 0.9 percent, to $1.40575 a pound. Earlier, the price
climbed to a record of $1.409.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Elizabeth Campbell in Chicago at 
 ecampbell14@bloomberg.net ;
Tony C. Dreibus in  London  at 
 tdreibus@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Patrick McKiernan at 
 pmckiernan@bloomberg.net  