-- 
Cherry Blossoms Bloom Alone as Japanese Mourn Victims of March 11 Tsunami

-- B y   K a n o k o   M a t s u y a m a ,   Y u k i   Y a m a g u c h i   a n d   S h u n i c h i   O z a s a
-- 
2011-03-30T18:59:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-30/cherry-blossoms-bloom-alone-as-japanese-mourn-victims-of-march-11-tsunami.html
Cherry trees are blossoming across
 Japan  at a time when people aren’t in the mood to celebrate.  Picnics typically held under the pink-flowering trees to
herald spring’s arrival are being canceled as the nation reels
from the March 11 earthquake and tsunami.  Sanja Matsuri , a
three-day festival in Tokyo that draws about 1.5 million people
in May, was called off in deference to the more than 27,575
people who died or are missing from the disaster.  “We sympathize with the victims and mourn for them,” said
 Toshihiro Nagahama , chief economist at Dai-ichi Life Research
Institute Inc. in Tokyo. “You feel that these things could
happen to you and that makes it harder to enjoy yourself.”  Those sentiments are visible across  Tokyo . In the upscale
Ginza shopping district, alternate street lamps are kept off in
the evenings, and billboards like the 49 foot-by-88 foot Ricoh
Co. sign aren’t illuminated as part of an effort to save energy
amid rolling blackouts.  Il Barocco, an Italian restaurant beneath an elevated
railway in neighboring Yurakucho, is using fewer than half of
its external lights, dimming its candelabras and using heat
intermittently, manager Takashi Misumi said. A paper sign on the
door apologizes to customers for the power-saving measures.  ‘Psychological Impact’  “When you look outside, all the lights are down and that
makes it hard to attract people,” said Misumi, who estimates
that turnover plunged as much as 80 percent after the quake.  Tokyo’s daily electricity demand has fallen by as much as
28 percent since the earthquake, compared with year-earlier
levels, according to Tokyo Electric Power Co., whose leaking
nuclear plant in Fukushima prefecture prompted fears that food
and water would be contaminated with radiation.  “ Consumer spending  remains sluggish and it’s set to worsen
in the short term as the psychological impact of the earthquake
discourages shoppers,” said  Yuichi Kodama , chief economist at
Meiji Yasuda Life Insurance Co. in Tokyo.  Emi Mori, of Tokyo, said she has unplugged appliances,
bought only food she needs immediately and kept her 8-month-old
daughter and husband in the same room to help curb energy use.  “Turning off the power is the first thing we should all be
doing,” Mori, 42, said.  Self-Help  Her response reflects an emerging element of self-help,
said  Rikki Kersten , a politics professor at the  Australian
National University  in Canberra.  “The message is ‘think about the nation ahead of yourself;
restrain your own well-being so that others may rise above their
trauma; put others ahead of yourself,’” Kersten, a former
diplomat posted to the Australian embassy in Tokyo from 1988 to
1991, said in an e-mail.  The clanking, whirring, roaring din from about 200 slot and
pachinko machines provides solace for Tokyo resident Etsuko
Okabe, 71. Okabe grew up in Iwate prefecture, one of the areas
swamped by the tsunami.  “My heart hurts to see the devastation of places so
familiar to me,” she said inside the Ginza Park pachinko
parlor, where she prefers  slot machines  costing 100 yen ($1.20)
to play. “I don’t feel like spending a lot of money on
entertainment and things like eating out.”  Pub Cardinal , an English-style tavern in Ginza, is drawing
about 150 patrons a day, down from the usual 300-400, manager
Masahiro Kurokawa said.  ‘Spending Not Appropriate’  “Customers working nearby come for lunch, but they go
straight home at night,” Kurokawa, 32, said. “They’re worried
that trains won’t operate because of power blackouts and they
won’t be able to get home.”  Four blocks away at the Frank Lloyd Wright-designed
 Imperial Hotel , occupancy has dropped to about 40 percent from
the usual March rate of 80 percent, spokesman Ukou Komatsuzaki
said. The number of foreigners staying at the landmark hotel,
where rooms start at 43,000 yen a night, is down by as much as
80 percent after embassies warned their citizens to leave Japan
because of the threat of radiation, he said.  “You’ll probably see an extended pause in the type of
luxury spending that Japan has been renowned for,” said  Glenn Maguire , chief Asia economist at Societe Generale SA in  Hong
Kong . “Ostentatious spending is not viewed as appropriate in
times of national emergency.”  ‘Nobody in the Mood’  For more than half a century, Sachiko Mitani, 83, prayed
morning and night at seven Shinto shrines for relatives and
friends burned to death inside the  Meijiza  theater in Tokyo that
was fire-bombed during World War II. Now it’s the souls lost in
the tsunami and their families that are the subject of her
intercessions.  “Everyone’s thinking of the survivors,” said Mitani, who
runs a rice wholesale business in the Hamacho district.
“Praying for them is something that I can do.”  A cherry-blossom picnic in her neighborhood park slated for
April was scrapped, and the 90 people planning to attend will
instead donate money to the recovery effort in Sendai, one of
the devastated cities in the northeast, she said.  Tokyo’s 138-year-old  Ueno Park  is advising visitors not to
hold parties among its 1,200 cherry trees, which won’t be
adorned with the usual paper lanterns this year, according to
the park’s website. Tokyo Governor Shintaro Ishihara endorsed
the recommendation, he said March 29.  “Nobody is in the mood for festivities,” Mitani said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kanoko Matsuyama in Tokyo at 
 kmatsuyama2@bloomberg.net ;
Yuki Yamaguchi in Tokyo at 
 yyamaguchi10@bloomberg.net ;
Shunichi Ozasa in Tokyo at 
 sozasa@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Gale at 
 j.gale@bloomberg.net  