-- 
Chile Industrial Output Misses Forecasts; Swaps, Peso Fall

-- B y   R a n d a l l   W o o d s   a n d   S e b a s t i a n   B o y d
-- 
2011-03-30T16:33:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-30/chile-february-industrial-production-grew-1-9-from-year-ago-1-.html
Chile ’s industrial production
increased 1.9 percent in February from the previous year, less
than half as fast as economists forecast, casting doubt on
growth and interest-rate expectations.  The median estimate of 12 economists surveyed by Bloomberg
was for industrial production to grow 4.5 percent in February
after expanding 4 percent in January. Industrial sales grew 3.8
percent, in line with forecasts. The National Statistics
Institute published the data today in Santiago.  The surprisingly slow manufacturing growth in the year
since a devastating earthquake on Feb. 27, 2010 may quell
expectations of central bank interest-rate increases. The median
estimate of 39 economists in a central bank survey on March 9
was that the economy had expanded 6.4 percent in February, a
figure that now looks unlikely, according to Jorge Selaive,
chief economist at Banco de Credito & Inversiones in Santiago.  “The figures are a big surprise and not a happy one,”
Selaive said. “We don’t expect now the economic activity
reading to be higher than 5 percent. This is a bucket of cold
water for those people who were expecting the interest rate to
rise well above the neutral level.”  Cristobal Doberti, chief economist at Bice Inversiones,
estimates economic activity grew 5.8 percent last month and the
rate of growth will reach 5.75 percent by the middle of the
second half of this year. Cesar Guzman, an economist at Banco
Security in Santiago, estimates the economy grew 6.5 percent in
February, he wrote in an e-mail to clients. Doberti and Guzman
both predict the central bank will raise its benchmark interest
rate by 50 basis points on April 12.  Swap Rates  The one-year interest-rate swap rate, which reflects
traders’ views of future rates, gained one basis point to a two-
year high of 5.49 percent as of 11:48 a.m. New York time. It
earlier fell four basis points, or 0.04 percentage point, to
5.44 percent.  The peso was little changed at 482.21 per  U.S. dollar  from
yesterday’s close of 482.05 per dollar.  A survey of 46 traders and investors published last week by
the central bank showed the median estimate was that the bank
would raise its benchmark interest rate to 5.5 percent in six
months and 6 percent in 12 months from 4 percent today.  Declining output of soft drinks and plastics was the
biggest drag on output, the institute said today. February had
the same number of working days this year as last year.  Retail sales grew 16.8 percent and supermarket revenue
increased 10.7 percent in February from the previous year, the
institute said today.  Output Gap  “The economy is being driven by internal demand, mostly in
the private sector,” Doberti said. “Mining and industry are
underperforming, but aggregate economic figures suggest that the
output gap is continuing to close. Salaries are increasing and
imports are more expensive, so costs are rising, which is
consistent with more rate rises.”  Chile’s economy could grow as much as 6.5 percent in 2011,
which would be the fastest expansion in more than a decade,
according to central bank estimates.  Gross domestic product expanded 5.2 percent last year as
internal demand increased 16 percent and consumption rose 9.3
percent, according to the central bank data. Machinery and
equipment purchases grew 39 percent in 2010.  Chilean consumption and machinery purchases will not grow
as fast this year, Finance Minister Felipe Larrain said in a
March 26 interview.  “We will have a very solid pace of expansion of investment
and consumption will continue to grow,” he said at the Inter-
American Development Bank meeting in Calgary. “We are also
expecting exports to pick up.”  Exports of goods and services grew 1.9 percent and imports
increased 30 percent last year, according to central bank data.  Economic activity grew a faster-than-estimated 6.8 percent
in January as industrial production expanded 4 percent.  The economy will grow 8.1 percent in the first quarter from
a year ago, when Chile suffered an 8.8-magnitude earthquake,
according to the median estimate of 40 economists in a March 10
central bank survey.  The Feb. 27 temblor and resulting tsunami killed about 500
people and caused an estimated $30 billion in damage in a swath
of the country that accounts for 18 percent of economic output.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Randall Woods in Santiago at 
 rwoods13@bloomberg.net ;
Sebastian Boyd in Santiago at 
 sboyd9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  