-- 
China to Reduce Short-Term Overseas Borrowing Quota This Year

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-03-30T10:06:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-30/china-to-reduce-short-term-overseas-borrowing-quota-this-year.html
China  will cut domestic financial
institutions’ short-term overseas borrowing quotas from April 1,
signaling it’s stepping up efforts to curb hot money inflows
attracted by yuan appreciation.  The rules will help lower the financial risks of cross-
border capital flows, said the State Administration of Foreign
Exchange in a  statement  published on its website today, without
giving further details. The currency regulator also reduced the
net amount of yuan forward contracts some banks can sell to
clients, according to the statement.  “The new rules will help curb capital inflows which seek
to benefit from currency appreciation,” said  Zhao Qingming , a
senior analyst in Beijing at China Construction Bank Corp., the
country’s second-largest lender. “The regulator is trying to
improve the international balance of payments.”  China’s consumer prices climbed 4.9 percent from a year
earlier in February, exceeding the government’s 4 percent annual
target for a second month, the statistics bureau said on March
11. A stronger currency is attracting capital into the nation,
complicating the central bank’s efforts to contain inflation.  The yuan strengthened 0.08 percent to 6.5559 per dollar as
of the 4 p.m. close in  Shanghai , according to the China Foreign
Exchange Trade System. The currency touched a 17-year high of
6.5549 on March 25 on speculation the government will tolerate
appreciation to help reduce the cost of imports.  SAFE last year cut its quota for 2010 short-term overseas
borrowings by 1.5 percent to $32.4 billion from 2009, according
to a statement on April 29.  People’s Bank of China’s purchases of foreign currency to
counter yuan appreciation increased lenders’ cash holdings in
January by 502 billion yuan, the most in three months, central
bank data showed on March 2.  SAFE also reduced the percentage of prepayments an exporter
can receive and the ratio of deferred payments an importer can
pay.  -- Judy Chen ,  Alfred Cang . Editors: Sandy Hendry, Simon Harvey  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Judy Chen in Shanghai at +86-21-6104-3043 or
 xchen45@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net . 