-- 
China May Raise Rates in Second Quarter, Bank of China Says

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-03-30T05:27:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-30/china-may-raise-rates-in-second-quarter-bank-of-china-says-1-.html
China’s central bank  may raise
 interest rates  once or twice in the second quarter as part of
its measures to curb inflation and deal with negative real
deposit rates,  Bank of China Ltd. (3988)  economists said.  The nation’s economic growth is strong enough to support an
interest rate increase and the flow of global capital back to
the U.S. provides a “window of opportunity,” according to a
 Bank of China  report released in Beijing today.  China has raised interest rates three times and boosted
banks’ reserve requirements six times since the third quarter of
2010 to contain inflation and surging housing prices that are
threatening social stability. The one-year benchmark deposit
rate has lagged behind the consumer-price index for more than a
year, eroding spending power and threatening to cause asset-
price bubbles.  “Inflation pressure is continuing to build and the drought
in northern  China  and political turmoil in North Africa in
particular are exacerbating inflation expectations,” economists
led by Cao Yuanzheng and Zong Liang wrote in the report.  Consumer-price inflation will average 4.9 percent in the
first quarter and 4.7 percent in the three months through June,
they estimate, exceeding the government’s target of 4 percent.  The benchmark one-year deposit rate stands at 3 percent and
the lending rate is 6.06 percent.  Yuan Gains  The room for more increases in banks’ reserve requirement
ratios is limited although the possibility of more adjustments
in the first half of this year still exists, the report said.  The yuan may appreciate 3 percent to 5 percent against the
 U.S. dollar  this year, the bank’s economists estimate, and
exchange-rate reform may accelerate in the second quarter.  That pace of currency gains will benefit the economy as it
matches improvements in productivity, Cao, the bank’s chief
economist, said at a briefing to discuss the report.  China, the world’s fastest-growing major economy will
expand 9.2 percent in the first quarter from a year earlier and
9.5 percent in the second quarter, Bank of China forecast.  Full-year growth will be more than 9 percent, compared with
10.3 percent in 2010, the bank estimates.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  