-- 
Chipotle Lures Investors to U.S. Spinoffs: Chart of the Day

-- B y   G o p a l   R a t n a m   a n d   W e n d y   S o o n g
-- 
2011-03-30T04:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-30/chipotle-lures-investors-to-u-s-spinoffs-chart-of-the-day.html
The success of  Chipotle Mexican
Grill Inc. (CMG) , whose shares have surged 12-fold since it separated
from parent McDonald’s Corp. in 2006, has investors chasing
after U.S. spinoffs in search for the next hidden gem.  The CHART OF THE DAY shows the newly developed Bloomberg
U.S. Spin-Off Index, which includes companies like Time Warner
Cable Inc. and cigarette maker Lorillard Inc., has jumped 163
percent from Dec. 31, 2002, through yesterday. The Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index has increased 45 percent over the same time.  Northrop Grumman Corp. (NOC) , the third-largest U.S. defense
contractor, tomorrow will spin off its shipbuilding unit into a
separate company to be called Huntington Ingalls Industries Inc.
The unit makes nuclear-powered aircraft carriers, submarines and
destroyers at yards in  Louisiana , Mississippi and Virginia.  Other companies that have announced spinoffs since the
start of the year include Liberty Media Corp., Marathon Oil
Corp., Cablevision Systems Corp., Fortune Brands Inc., Motorola
Corp. and ITT Corp. Pfizer Inc.’s shareholders are pushing the
company to divest its nutrition business.  “That’s a brisk start for the year,” said Rob Gutman, an
equity research analyst at New York-based Robotti & Co LLC., who
focuses on spun-off businesses. “The unwinding of a
conglomerate can unlock” the discount that investors typically
apply to such companies, he said in a phone interview. “Pure
plays may get a premium because they could become takeover
targets.”  Denver-based Chipotle was spun off from Oakbrook, Illinois-
based McDonald’s in January 2006, and its market capitalization
tripled to $8 billion after the separation, William Mitchell,
author of Spinoff & Reorg Profiles, a monthly newsletter
published from  Costa Mesa ,  California , said in an interview. Its
value may not have been revealed “if it was still buried inside
McDonald’s,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gopal Ratnam in  Washington  at 
 gratnam1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 Msilva34@bloomberg.net  