-- 
Citadel Said to Shut $200 Million Mortgage Fund After Manager Resigns

-- B y   K a t h e r i n e   B u r t o n   a n d   S a i j e l   K i s h a n
-- 
2011-03-30T19:34:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-30/citadel-said-to-shut-200-million-mortgage-fund-after-manager-resigns.html
Citadel LLC, the $11 billion hedge
fund run by  Ken Griffin , is shutting one of its residential
mortgage funds after Bill King, the portfolio manager, left the
Chicago-based firm, according to three people familiar with the
situation.  King, who joined Citadel in 2008 from JPMorgan Chase & Co.,
left on March 7 following the appointment of Glenn Perillo as
co-manager of the firm’s mortgage funds, according to the
people, who asked not to be identified because the firm is
private.  Some clients in the $200 million mortgage fund for U.S.
investors wanted to take out their money following King’s
departure, prompting Citadel to liquidate the fund, the people
said. It had returned about 9 percent since it opened in June
2010.  Devon Spurgeon, a spokeswoman at Citadel, declined to
comment.  Citadel has been expanding its business beyond its main
multistrategy Wellington and Kensington funds. Those funds
tumbled 55 percent in 2008 and have yet to recoup the losses,
meaning they generate no performance fee income for the firm.
Citadel, whose assets peaked at $21 billion in 2007, runs three
other single-strategy funds.  “Single-strategy funds are more dependent on the portfolio
manager than a multistrategy fund, so if a manager leaves, the
firm is left with a black eye,” said  Geoff Bobroff , an  East
Greenwich , Rhode Island-based consultant who advises money-
management firms.  Citadel also runs a $100 million mortgage fund for offshore
investors that it may also close, the people said.  Funds Up 8.5%  Perillo joined Citadel in 2008 from BlackRock Inc., where
he specialized in residential mortgages. He will continue to
manage a separate $700 million account that invests in mortgage
securities for a sovereign wealth fund.  Griffin worked closely with Perillo on Citadel’s investment
in E*Trade Financial Corp., according to one of the people. In
November 2007, Citadel injected $2.55 billion into the online
broker to help it weather losses from bad loans and shore up its
banking unit. Citadel recently cut its stake to less than 20
percent.  The $7.5 billion Kensington and Wellington funds have
climbed about 7.5 percent this year through yesterday, compared
with a return of 1.3 percent, on average, for multistrategy
funds, according to a daily index compiled by Chicago-based
Hedge Fund Research Inc.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Katherine Burton in  New York  at 
 kburton@bloomberg.net ;
Saijel Kishan in New York at 
 skishan@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  