-- 
Clarke to Take ‘Back to Basics’ Approach as New Australia Cricket Captain

-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 
2011-03-30T04:04:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-30/clarke-to-take-back-to-basics-approach-as-new-australia-cricket-captain.html
Michael Clarke  will focus on the
fundamentals in a bid to return Australia to the top of world
cricket.  Clarke was appointed captain after Ricky Ponting yesterday
ended his record-breaking nine-year run in the role. He’s
charged with reviving a team that has slipped from first to
fifth in the  International Cricket Council ’s Test  rankings  and
relinquished its World Cup title.  “The key is that we go back to basics,” Clarke, who turns
30 in three days, told reporters in Sydney. “Getting out of bed
every day and trying to get better at batting, bowling and
fielding. That’s the one thing I’ll be trying to push with coach
Tim Nielsen.”  Clarke’s first assignment will be next month’s three-match
one-day series in  Bangladesh , where all-rounder  Shane Watson 
will assume the vice-captaincy for the first time.  Ponting, 36, was included in a 14-man squad as a batsman
and Clarke said his predecessor’s presence wouldn’t make it more
difficult for him to stamp his authority on the team. Not since
Kim Hughes resigned in 1984 has an Australian captain continued
after relinquishing the leadership.  “I certainly don’t think Ricky’s any elephant in any
room,” Clarke said. “He’ll allow me to do my job. I’m
confident that if he can continue to play as well as he has for
as long as he has done I’m sure it will work. Bangladesh will be
a great test for that to see how it all unfolds.”  Still Learning  Clarke said he’s keen to keep taking advice and learning
from Ponting, who won 48 of 77 Tests, more than any other
skipper in 134 years of elite cricket. Ponting also led
 Australia  to the 2003 and 2007 World Cup titles and won more
than three-quarters of his 228 one-day matches as captain.  Ponting said Clarke has developed the right qualities and
skills in recent years that make him the “obvious choice” as
his replacement and that he’ll “be there in the background” if
Clarke needs him.  “I expect to adapt very quickly to not being captain,”
Ponting wrote in his  column  in today’s Australian newspaper.
“All I am focused on is being the best player I can be, a great
teammate, an experienced leader around the group and a guy that
my new captain can rely upon to give him something special.”  Chairman of Selectors Andrew Hilditch, whose panel
recommended the appointments of Clarke and Watson, said he
expects Ponting to bat on for several seasons without the burden
of the captaincy.  ‘Good Thing’  “Any player has to perform and score runs and Ricky knows
that better than anybody else but I’m very confident that he’s
got a lot left in him,” Hilditch told reporters. “This will
be a really good thing for his career.”  Ponting’s 12,363 runs at an average of 53.51 place him
second behind  India ’s Sachin Tendulkar on the all-time list of
Test run scorers. In 359 one-day internationals, he’s tallied
13,288 runs at 42.58. Only Tendulkar and  Sri Lanka ’s Sanath Jayasuriya have scored more career runs in the 50-over format.  Although long mooted as Ponting’s successor, online polls
by News Ltd. and Fairfax suggest the Australian public is cool
on Clarke as captain. According to Fairfax, 26 percent of 21,000
respondents favored Clarke, while News Ltd.’s survey placed
Clarke behind Watson and  Michael Hussey .  “I don’t sit here and believe that I can get the whole of
this country to like me,” Clarke said. “Hopefully I can earn
the respect of the doubters.”  The right-hander captained the Twenty20 team following
Ponting’s retirement from the sport’s shortest format and got
his first chance as Test skipper in January’s fifth Ashes when
Ponting was injured. He has 18 wins from 24 one-day games as
captain and led the Twenty20 side to 12 wins from 18 matches.  Under Review  Australia’s slide in the nine-nation Test rankings
followed a 3-1 home series defeat to  England  that prompted a
review of the team’s performances. It was Australia’s first
Ashes loss at home for 24 years and made Ponting the only
Australian captain to lose three Ashes series.  Following the Bangladesh tour, Australia visits Sri Lanka
and  South Africa  for back-to-back Test and one-day series.
Clarke’s team will then return home to face  New Zealand  before
taking on top-ranked India in a best-of-four Test series.  Clarke, a middle-order batsman who averages 46.49 in Tests
and 44.32 in one-dayers, said Australia needs time to achieve
its aim of being ranked No. 1 in all forms of the game.  “We have a lot of talent in our group but we have a lot of
inexperience as well,” he said. “It’s a great start to improve
those basics. I’m not going to reinvent the wheel. My goal is to
get the best out of each player in the Australian cricket
team.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Elser at 
 phegarty@bloomberg.net  