-- 
Coca-Cola Boosts Japan Bottled-Water Output as Demand Rises

-- B y   N a o k o   F u j i m u r a   a n d   F r a n k   L o n g i d
-- 
2011-03-30T12:51:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-30/coca-cola-increases-production-of-bottled-water-in-japan-on-radiation-fear.html
Coca-Cola Co. (KO) , the world’s biggest
soft-drink maker, said its bottled-water plants in  Japan  are
running 24 hours a day to meet demand amid fears of tap water
contamination from a crippled nuclear power plant.  “The irradiated water scare affects every part of Japan,”
Kei Sakaguchi, a Tokyo-based spokesman at unit Coca-Cola (Japan)
Co., said today in a phone interview. “We’re making a full
assessment of our product schedule and gave priority” to some
products including water and tea, he said.  Companies including Coca-Cola, Fast Retailing Co. and
 Toyota Motor Corp.  are trying to lessen disruptions of supply to
survivors of the March 11 earthquake, the strongest on record to
hit Japan, and the ensuing tsunami. The government last week
asked beverage makers to increase production of bottled water
after revelations of rising contamination in water and food
triggered bulk buying.  Coca-Cola may import 1 million cases of  mineral water  from
 South Korea  this weekend to meet demand in the Tohoku region,
the worst affected by the tsunami, as well as Tokyo and its
surrounding regions, Sakaguchi said. Suntory Holdings Ltd. and
Kirin Holdings Co. also boosted orders for imported water.  Nestle SA, the maker of Pure Life and Perrier, donated
20,000 cases, or 500,000 bottles of water to Japan, according to
an e-mailed statement.  Danone (BN) , which manufactures Volvic and
Evian, said in an e-mailed statement that shipments of water to
Japan have increased since the earthquake.  Water Demand  “Demand for bottled water has led to shortages across
various supermarkets and even Japan’s ubiquitous convenience
stores,” research analysts Kentaro Taniguchi and Tomoko
Takanoura wrote in a Euromonitor International report on March
22. “Sales of bottled water may benefit from the expected
shortage of potable water.”  Coca-Cola, Japan’s second-biggest bottled-water maker by
market share, has 28 plants operated by 12 bottlers in Japan and
seven of them produce water, Sakaguchi said. Suntory had 30.9
percent of the nation’s bottled-water market last year, followed
by Coca-Cola’s 15.9 percent and Kirin’s 10.4 percent, according
to Euromonitor International. Coca-Cola sells its bottled water
through brands including Dasani.  Levels of iodine-131 found in  Tokyo ’s tap water on March 22
and March 23 exceeded the recommended limit for infants, the
Tokyo city government said last week. The levels have been below
the limit since March 24, according to data posted on the
government’s website.  Contamination  Elevated readings of contaminated sea water were found
yesterday near Tokyo Electric Power Co.’s damaged Fukushima Dai-
Ichi atomic power plant, Japan’s nuclear safety agency said
today. Workers grappled with ways to reduce toxic radiation at
the site of the world’s worst nuclear disaster in 25 years. The
plant is 220 kilometers (135 miles) northeast of Tokyo.  The death toll from Japan’s worst postwar disaster climbed
to 11,232, with 16,361 people missing, according to the  National
Police Agency  in Tokyo. The earthquake and tsunami devastated
the country’s northern coastline and forced several hundred
thousand people to evacuate.  -- With assistance from Malavika Sharma in  New Delhi . Editors:
Terje Langeland, Vipin Nair  To contact the reporters on this story:
Naoko Fujimura in Osaka at 
 nfujimura@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Longid at 
 flongid@bloomberg.net  