-- 
Coeli to Become Investment Manager for Plenum Power Surge Fund

-- B y   L a r s   P a u l s s o n
-- 
2011-03-30T06:59:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-30/coeli-to-become-investment-manager-for-plenum-power-surge-fund.html
Coeli AB, a Stockholm-based money
manager, will become the investment manager for the Plenum Power
Surge hedge fund, taking over from Plenum Investments Ltd.  Henrik Wennberg, a senior fund adviser at Plenum and co-
founder of Power Surge, will be the head trader when Coeli
acquires the fund on May 1, Plenum Investment’s Chief Executive
Officer Rainer Gruenig said yesterday by e-mail from Zurich. He
declined to disclose any financial details of the accord.  Power Surge, a 43 million-euro ($61 million) fund that
invests in Nordic electricity contracts, lost 4.9 percent in the
first two months of 2011 after gaining 24 percent last year,
data compiled by Bloomberg show. Most  hedge funds  are private
pools of capital whose managers participate in the profit from
speculation on whether the asset prices will rise or fall.  Wennberg, 45, relocated to  Sweden  from  Switzerland  last
year and took on the adviser role. He co-founded Power Surge in
2007 and the now-closed Plenum Power Fund together with Plenum
and Torgeir Terjesen. Wennberg said in an interview last month
that his investment strategy is based on analyzing how changes
in the weather affect electricity prices in the Nordic region,
where more than half of the power is generated from running
water through turbines.  The strategy will remain unchanged and the fund will be
called Coeli Power Surge Fund, Gruenig said. Plenum will provide
back- and middle-office assistance during a transition period
that will last about a month.  Mathias Wennberg, Henrik Wennberg’s brother, and Jukka Virtala, Power Surge’s portfolio managers, resigned from Zurich-
based Plenum early this month, Gruening said.  Wennberg joined Plenum in 2005 from Markedskraft ASA, where
he managed the Elexir power fund together with Torgeir Terjesen.
They began trading for the Plenum Power Fund, which closed in
March 2010, and began the Power Surge fund in 2007.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lars Paulsson in London at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at   sev@bloomberg.net  