-- 
Coffee Farmers May Get Help to Store Beans, Brazil’s Gama Says

-- B y   I s i s   A l m e i d a
-- 
2011-03-30T12:35:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-30/coffee-farmers-may-get-help-to-store-beans-brazil-s-gama-says.html
Coffee farmers may get financial
assistance to store beans, according to Marcos Pinta Gama,
 Brazil ’s permanent representative to international organizations
in  London .  Financing is being discussed at  International Coffee
Organization  meetings this week in London, Gama said in an
interview in London yesterday. Brazil is the world’s largest
producer of coffee.  “We will explore financing possibilities and discuss
problems faced by small and medium-sized coffee producers,
especially the issue of storage,” Gama said. “That will allow
stocks to be kept in producing countries and not in consuming
nations.”  Brazil’s coffee production was 54.5 million bags last year,
according to the  U.S. Department of Agriculture . “Brazil is
already the second largest consumer and according to estimates
it will overcome the U.S., the largest consumer, in four
years,” Gama said.  “Exports only do not constitute guaranteed revenue to
producing countries,” he said. “It’s very important to develop
the domestic market and Brazil is an example to other
producers.”  Increased usage in the South American country as well as in
other developing nations may have “some impact over future
stocks,” Gama said. Inventories in producing nations are
currently at 13 million bags, the lowest since records began,
according to data from the ICO.  Coffee Quality  Brazil’s government is seeking to improve the quality of
coffee produced in the country. “We are investing a lot in fine
cups,” he said. A shortage of fine coffee earlier this year led
prices in the country’s futures exchange, BM&F Bovespa, to climb
above the New York price for the first time since at least 1999,
data compiled by Bloomberg show.  The acceptance of beans from Brazil in the New York
contract on ICE Futures U.S. may be a “stabilizing factor” to
prices, Gama said. Beans from the nation will be included in the
New York contracts from 2013.  Brazil reopened its commodities mission in London last year
to win more influence at international organizations
such as the  International Coffee Organization , the  International
Sugar Organization  and the  International Cocoa Organization .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Isis Almeida in London at 
 Ialmeida3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 Ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net . 