-- 
Colombia’s Top Coffee Province Sees ‘Small’ First-Half Crop

-- B y   H e a t h e r   W a l s h
-- 
2011-03-30T19:17:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-30/colombia-s-top-coffee-province-sees-very-small-first-half-crop.html
Colombia’s largest coffee-growing
province will harvest a “very small” crop in the first six
months after above-average rainfall damaged plants last year, a
growers’ leader said.  Storms last year that knocked the flowers from coffee
plants in the province of Antioquia means “there isn’t a
mitaca,” as the early harvest is known, said Jose Sierra, a
member of the committee representing farmers from the province
at the  National Federation of Coffee Growers , from Medellin.  Coffee has surged 81 percent in a year as adverse weather
worldwide reduces supply of the bean used by specialty growers
like  Starbucks Corp. (SBUX) , the  International Coffee Organization  said
in a report this month. Rainfall in Colombia, the second-largest
producer of arabica beans in the world, has been greater than
growers expected, Sierra said in a telephone interview.  Arabica coffee for May delivery extended gains after his
comments. Coffee rose 3.35 cents, or 1.3 percent, to settle at
$2.6480 a pound at 14:00 p.m. on ICE Futures U.S. in  New York .  Flowering early this year will enable the crop in Antioquia
to recover at yearend, he said. The province, which last year
produced about 1.43 million bags, usually harvests about 35
percent of the year’s total crop in April and May and the
remainder at year-end.  Across  Colombia , coffee production this year will surpass
last year’s 8.9 million bags of output, Sierra said. In 2009,
the Andean nation’s crop fell to a 33-year low of 7.8 million
bags. Each bag weighs 60 kilograms, or 132 pounds.  Brazil  is the world’s largest producer of arabica beans.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Heather Walsh in Bogota at 
 hlwalsh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at   dcrofts@bloomberg.net  