-- 
Consumer Confidence in Euro Region Declines More Than Economists Forecast

-- B y   S i m o n e   M e i e r
-- 
2011-03-30T09:54:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-30/consumer-confidence-in-euro-region-declines-more-than-economists-forecast.html
European confidence in the economic
outlook worsened in March, after surging energy costs and
 Japan ’s earthquake clouded global growth prospects.  An index of executive and consumer sentiment in the 17-
nation euro region slipped to 107.3 from a revised 107.9 in
February, which was the highest since August 2007, the European
Commission in Brussels said today. It had previously reported a
February reading of 107.8. Economists forecast a drop to 107.5,
the median of 25 estimates in a Bloomberg News survey showed.  Crude oil prices have jumped 15 percent this year, leaving
companies and households with less money to spend as the
 European Central Bank  prepares to raise borrowing costs. While
the German economy, Europe’s largest, has powered the region’s
expansion, investor confidence dropped in March, reflecting
concern about the global economic impact of the earthquake and
tsunami in Japan and Middle East unrest.  “There is some concern that economic activity could be hit
by high  oil prices  and events in the Middle East, Africa and
Japan,” said  Howard Archer , chief European economist at IHS
Global Insight in  London . “Consumer confidence was hit
particularly hard in March by increased concerns over inflation
and the economic outlook.”  The euro declined against the dollar after the report,
trading at $1.4085 at 11:33 a.m. in  Frankfurt , down 0.2 percent
on the day.  Faltering Recovery  A gauge of sentiment among euro-region manufacturers held
at 6.6 in March from the previous month, today’s report showed.
Services confidence slipped to 10.8 from 11.2 and an index of
consumer confidence dropped to minus 10.6 from minus 10.
Sentiment among builders fell to minus 25 from minus 24.2.  The region’s recovery is already showing some signs of
faltering. Growth in  Europe ’s services and manufacturing
industries slowed more than economists forecast in March and
German business confidence declined this month. Euro-region
inflation quickened to 2.4 percent in February, the fastest in
more than two years and above the ECB’s 2 percent limit.  Adding to signs of increasing cost pressures, an indicator
measuring households’ assessment of price developments over the
coming 12 months rose to 30.8 from 25.7 in February, the
commission said. A gauge of consumers’ willingness to spend on
big-ticket items slipped to minus 24.1 from minus 23.7 and
households also grew less confident in their ability to save
money. A gauge of euro-region manufacturers’ selling-price
expectations rose to 23.8 from 22.4.  ECB ‘Resolve’  Schaeffler Group , the world’s second-largest maker of
rolling bearings, said yesterday that soaring energy costs may
hurt profitability in 2011.  Benetton Group SpA (BEN) , Italy’s largest
clothing company, plans to “act vigorously in order to counter
the increase in raw-material costs,” Biagio Chiarolanza, co-
chief executive officer, said in a statement on March 15.  European companies have relied on faster-growing markets to
bolster sales as governments from Ireland to  Spain  toughened
budget cuts, eroding consumer demand.  Daimler AG (DAI)  and German
rival  Bayerische Motoren Werke AG (BMW)  have said they plan to boost
their workforces partly to meet surging Chinese car orders.  An indicator of manufacturers’ export order books slipped
to minus 0.5 from minus 0.3 in February and a gauge of
production expectations fell to 17.6 from 19.7. Companies grew
more confident in their ability to hire workers, with a gauge of
employment expectations rising to 8.4 from 6.5.  The ECB has signaled that it may raise its main lending
rate from a record low of 1 percent at the April 7 meeting. ECB
Executive Board member Jose Manuel Gonzalez-Paramo said on March
25 that risks to  price stability  are “very much on the upside”
and that policy makers remain “strongly vigilant.”  The survey “revealed increased signs of inflation
pressure,” said Martin van Vliet, an economist at ING Group in
Amsterdam. “This will undoubtedly strengthen the ECB’s resolve
to hike interest rates at next week’s” meeting.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simone Meier in Zurich at 
 smeier@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  