-- 
Craving Spinach After Fukushima Nuclear Scare: Paul Blustein

-- B y   P a u l   B l u s t e i n
-- 
2011-03-30T19:49:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-30/craving-spinach-after-fukushima-nuclear-scare-commentary-by-paul-blustein.html
Almost every Saturday, my family
goes to a yaoya, or market that sells produce grown to meet
Japanese consumers’ famously picky standards for tastiness,
crispness and freshness. As much as we love the quality, we
often wince at the prices. So my wife and I are looking forward
to the day when we can enjoy a real bargain -- cheap spinach
from Fukushima Prefecture.  Yes, Fukushima is where the March 11 tsunami devastated a
complex of nuclear reactors, leading to partial meltdowns and
the spewing of radioactive matter into the environment. And yes,
spinach from a wide zone around the nuclear facilities was one
of the first crops found unfit for sale -- an ominous harbinger
for agriculture in one of Japan’s most bountiful areas.  Perhaps, then, my hankering for Fukushima spinach sounds
like the bravado of a daredevil or nuclear-power advocate. I am
neither of those things.  Rather, as a resident of the vast metropolitan area
including  Tokyo  and Yokohama that lies within a couple of
hundred miles of the crippled plants, I have been trying to
educate myself about the health risks -- or lack thereof --
facing my family.  The more I learn, the more hysterical the reaction abroad
seems regarding the alleged dangers to anyone living here or
venturing near. Hence my perverse glee upon finding out that
leafy green veggies from Fukushima could conceivably be back on
the market in a few months -- perfectly safe, and presumably at
low prices stemming from shoppers’ chariness.  Steering Clear  Early manifestations of the hysteria -- an exodus from
Japan of foreign bankers and other expats, soaring demand for
iodine tablets on the U.S. West Coast -- were relatively
harmless. More troubling are signs that the jitteriness could
undermine  Japan ’s recovery as the nation’s tainted image leads
to a halt or even a reversal in its integration with the global
economy.  Last week, for example, Hapag-Lloyd AG, the world’s fourth-
largest shipping firm, began keeping its vessels out of Tokyo
Bay. Although few carriers followed suit, vessels coming from
Japan face delays for extra inspections at foreign ports, a
potentially costly burden that some experts say may lead to the
diversion of more shipping away from Tokyo, disrupting the flow
of goods in and out of the country.  The Japanese phrase gishin anki -- roughly, “monsters in
the darkness of doubtful minds” -- captures the fears that fuel
such behavior. When it comes to radiation, most of us
instinctively succumb to gishin anki syndrome -- as did I when
news broke about the damage to the Fukushima plants. Envisioning
lethal particles seeping into our house, I asked my wife, who is
Japanese, where I could buy duct tape to seal our windows.  Soothing News  In days since, our anxiety eased as we watched the news on
Japan’s public broadcasting network NHK. If anything can account
for the relative calm among Japanese over the nuclear issue,
NHK’s news programming may be the single most important factor.  Almost nightly, professors from leading universities have
appeared on NHK to explain the degree of hazard that might be
present in the air, soil and water. Their conclusions have been
consistent: There is no cause for alarm among people living a
substantial distance from the stricken plants.  The night that the Tokyo metropolitan government advised
parents to stop giving tap water to infants, NHK anchors
questioned Kenji Kamiya, president of Hiroshima University’s
Institute for Radiation Biology and Medicine and an authority on
the hibakusha (survivors of the atomic bombs).  Assuring Moms  A kindly-looking man with thick white hair, Kamiya said
that although he understood why mothers would worry, a baby who
happened to drink some tap water should suffer no ill effects,
given the low levels of radioactive material that had been
found; he also assured mothers that they could safely continue
breast-feeding. (The tap water advisory was rescinded after
radiation levels diminished.)  Other nights, top academics in nuclear engineering have
brought perspective to efforts to contain damage at the plant.
They have assured the public that even the worst plausible
outcome would be a far cry from the 1986 Chernobyl disaster, for
a number of reasons. Chief among them is the fact that the
Fukushima reactors shut down immediately after the earthquake,
rendering impossible the massive explosion that occurred at
Chernobyl.  Might all this be part of a monstrous conspiracy to
suppress panic? Even believers in such far-fetched theories
would have a hard time explaining what I found on English
language  websites  and news reports: experts drawing similar
conclusions to the ones on NHK and a virtual absence of
reputable authorities saying the opposite.  Fukushima Spinach  Spinach provides an illustrative example. Radioactive
iodine -- the isotope responsible for causing thyroid cancer in
thousands of children near Chernobyl -- turned up at levels well
above legal limits in spinach samples from Fukushima.  Fortunately, the Japanese can take relatively simple
preventive steps that the callous Soviet authorities didn’t --
i.e., keep the contaminated food off the market until the danger
passes; the radioactivity in iodine almost completely degrades
after a couple of months.  Although other isotopes spread around Fukushima may stay
radioactive much longer, there are two reasons why that
shouldn’t be too worrisome: First, scientific evidence indicates
that those forms of radioactivity aren’t potent carcinogens.
Second, deep plowing of the soil will hopefully get rid of that
material as well.  Cancer Risk  “Hopefully,” of course, isn’t the same as “definitely,”
so meticulous monitoring is essential to ensure safety and
restore public confidence. Still, some perspective is in order
regarding damage caused by the leaks of radioactivity.  According to a calculation by  Peter Caracappa , a health
physicist at  Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute  in Troy,  New York ,
you’d have to eat 820 pounds of spinach at the highest levels of
contamination detected to increase your lifetime cancer risk by
4 percent. So while I wouldn’t relish eating a few chopsticks-
full of Fukushima spinach right now, I wouldn’t shrink in terror
either.  People from Tohoku, the region where the tsunami struck
hardest, are renowned for being even more stoical, selfless and
community-minded than the average Japanese. Yet, admiration and
sympathy for these people doesn’t mean foreigners are obliged to
risk their own health.  If I thought my kids were imperiled, I would join the
evacuation from Tokyo. But the people of Tohoku, and their
compatriots elsewhere in Japan, deserve a lot better than the
gishin anki treatment. It will be a treat -- and privilege -- to
eat their spinach.  (Paul Blustein, a former Tokyo correspondent for the
Washington Post, is an author and researcher affiliated with the
 Brookings Institution  and the Centre for International
Governance Innovation. The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Paul Blustein in Kamakura, Japan at  pblustein@brookings.edu   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at 
 jgreiff@bloomberg.net  