-- 
‘Moral Hazard’ as TARP Legacy Is Unfair Criticism, Treasury Official Says

-- B y   I a n   K a t z
-- 
2011-03-30T15:22:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-30/criticism-of-tarp-moral-hazard-unfair-u-s-official-says-1-.html
Criticism that “moral hazard” is
the main legacy of U.S. taxpayer-funded bailouts is unfair, a
Treasury Department official said.  “We recognize that moral hazard is a real and significant
concern” in the Troubled Asset Relief Program, Timothy Massad,
acting assistant secretary for financial stability, said in a
hearing before a House Oversight Committee panel today. “But to
suggest that it is TARP’s main legacy is to ignore the facts,
and to confuse the response to a crisis with the need to address
the causes of the crisis.”  Massad was responding to criticism from  Neil Barofsky ,
special inspector general for TARP. Barofsky told the House
panel’s TARP subcommittee today that the program’s “most
significant legacy may be the exacerbation of the problems posed
by ‘too big to fail,’ particularly given the manner in which
Treasury executed the bailout.”  TARP largely spared “executives, shareholders, creditors
and counter parties, reinforcing that not only would the
government bail out the largest institutions, but would do so in
a manner that would do little harm to the responsible
stakeholders,” Barofsky said.  In a New York Times op-ed article published today, Barofsky
criticized the Treasury for providing money to banks “with no
effective policy or effort to compel the extension of credit.”  Bush Appointee  Barofsky, appointed by President  George W. Bush  in 2008,
steps down today and will join  New York University ’s law school
as an adjunct professor.  Massad said taxpayers have recovered $6 billion more than
the $245 billion of TARP investments in U.S. banks. The Treasury
estimates that the bank bailouts eventually will “provide a
lifetime positive return of nearly $20 billion.”  Massad also praised the restructuring of  American
International Group Inc. (AIG)  and said the Treasury has made
“enormous progress in recovering our investment” in the New
York-based insurer.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ian Katz in Washington at 
 ikatz2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  