-- 
Crude Oil Falls After U.S. Inventories Rise More Than Forecast

-- B y   M a r k   S h e n k
-- 
2011-03-30T20:04:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-30/crude-oil-futures-fluctuate-as-u-s-inventories-global-equities-increase.html
Crude oil dropped after a U.S.
government report showed a larger-than-forecast gain in supplies
as fuel demand declined to the lowest level in four months.  Oil fell 0.5 percent as inventories climbed 2.95 million
barrels to 355.7 million last week, the Energy Department said.
Stockpiles were forecast to rise by 1.5 million barrels, a
Bloomberg News survey showed. Fuel demand dropped to the lowest
level since November as gasoline consumption decreased to 2.1
percent less than a year ago.  “The U.S. market is very well supplied,” said Jason Schenker, president of Prestige Economics, an energy advisory
firm in Austin,  Texas . “Gasoline demand is now lower than it
was a year ago, which may be a signal that higher prices are
starting to hurt consumers.”  Crude oil for May delivery declined 52 cents to settle at
$104.27 a barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange . Futures
are up 27 percent from a year ago.  Oil volume on the Nymex was 496,986 contracts as of 2:36
p.m. in New York. Volume totaled 448,466 contracts yesterday, 45
percent below the average of the past three months. Open
interest was 1.52 million contracts.  “The lack of volume shows a real lack of commitment to bid
the market in either direction,” said  Addison Armstrong ,
director of market research at Tradition Energy in  Stamford ,
 Connecticut .  Range-Bound Market  Oil in New York has traded between $96.22 and $106.95 a
barrel this month. Futures topped $106 three times since Feb. 28
before retreating.  “We’ve been trading at the same level for a while,” said
 Tim Evans , an energy analyst at Citi Futures Perspective in New
York. “Prices have been close to $104 for a week. There’s not
much to bid on as long as it stays at the same level.”  Inventories at Cushing,  Oklahoma , the delivery point for
New York-traded West Texas Intermediate crude, increased 1.69
million barrels, or 4.2 percent, to 41.9 million, the highest
amount since the government began keeping records in 2004.  “The inventory numbers continue to show that the U.S.
market is well supplied,” said Todd Horwitz, chief strategist
at Adam Mesh Trading Group in  New York . “There’s certainly no
shortage of crude.”  Total fuel demand slipped 3.7 percent to 18.6 million
barrels a day last week, the lowest level since Nov. 26, the
department said. Gasoline consumption fell 2.3 percent to 8.87
million barrels a day, report showed.  Gasoline inventories slipped 2.68 million barrels to 217
million, the lowest level since December, according to the
Energy Department. Stockpiles were forecast to drop 2 million
barrels, the median of 15 analyst responses in the Bloomberg
News survey.  Gasoline Prices  Gasoline for April delivery rose 1.82 cents, or 0.6
percent, to $3.064 a gallon in New York, the highest settlement
since Aug. 27, 2008.  Regular gasoline at the pump, averaged nationwide,
increased 0.8 cent to $3.595 a gallon yesterday, the highest
level since Oct. 2, 2008, the AAA said on its  website .  Oil has advanced 14 percent this year as unrest spread from
 Tunisia  to  Egypt , Libya, Yemen, Bahrain, Oman and  Syria .
Countries in the Middle East and North Africa accounted for 36
percent of global oil production and held 61 percent of proven
reserves in 2009, according to BP Plc, which publishes its BP
Statistical Review of World Energy each June.  “You can sum up the market in one phrase, fear of event
risk,” said Richard Soultanian, co-president of NUS Consulting
Group, a Park Ridge, New Jersey-based energy procurement
adviser. “The U.S. is awash in oil. Prices should be much lower
and would be if it weren’t for geopolitical risk.”  Libyan Conflict  Libyan rebels retreated under fire from Muammar Qaddafi’s
troops as President  Barack Obama  and U.K. Prime Minister  David Cameron  said they may consider sending arms to the opposition
forces.  Insurgents,  after advancing toward Qaddafi’s hometown of
Sirte, withdrew in the face of artillery and rocket attacks as
pro-Qaddafi forces retook control of the oil port of Ras Lanuf.  Oil output from  Libya  has dropped by about 1.3 million
barrels a day to a “trickle” of its normal level since
fighting between government troops and rebel forces forced
companies to suspend operations and evacuate staff, the Paris-
based  International Energy Agency  said this month.  “Some of the fear premium is being taken out of the oil
market,” Horwitz said. “The top is in unless there is a major
escalation in the Middle East.”  Brent oil for May settlement declined 3 cents to end the
session at $115.13 a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures
Europe exchange.  The European benchmark traded at a $10.86 premium over U.S
futures. The difference between front-month contracts in  London 
and New York surged to a record $19.54 on Feb. 21 as unrest
spread in the Middle East and North Africa and stockpiles
climbed at Cushing. The gap averaged 76 cents last year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Shenk in New York at 
 mshenk1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net . 