-- 
Cyprus’ Rating Cut to A- From A by S&P; Outlook Negative

-- B y   P a u l   T u g w e l l
-- 
2011-03-30T15:17:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-30/cyprus-rating-cut-to-a-from-a-by-s-p-outlook-negative-1-.html
Cyprus’s government bond ratings
were cut one step to A- from A by Standard & Poor’s Ratings
Services, citing “significant” exposure of the Cypriot
financial system to  Greece .  An increasing likelihood that Greece will restructure its
debt “heightens the risk that a significant portion of the
Cypriot government’s large financial-sector contingent
liabilities will become explicit liabilities migrating to the
Cypriot government’s balance sheet,” S&P said in a statement.  The potential for financial distress in Cyprus has
increased based on the exposure to deteriorating Greek assets,
according to today’s statement.  S&P said it estimates the Cypriot financial system’s total
exposure to Greece, via loans and securities to households,
corporates and the government sector has grown to 1.7 times
Cyprus’s gross domestic product. The largest component of this
is loans extended through Cypriot subsidiaries in Greece to
Greek customers, with the remaining exposure comprising Greek
sovereign and bank debt.  In the event of a Greek default, S&P said it estimates a
banking system recapitalization cost to the Cyprus government,
over a period of three years, of between 7 percent and 10
percent of GDP.  ‘Vote of Confidence’  Reduced banking-system profit would hurt the government as
the industry is a large contributor to corporate income tax,
which represents an estimated 20 percent of the state’s total
revenue in 2010, S&P said. “In addition, weakening credit
growth and reduced non-resident deposits could stifle Cyprus’
current modest economic recovery and place pressure on its
balance of payments.”  Cyprus’s banking system is “sound” and an increase in
deposits from outside the country over the past 12 months is a
“vote of confidence,” Finance Minister Charilaos Stavrakis
said in an e-mailed statement from the Nicosia-based  Finance
Ministry  today.  Deposits at banks in Cyprus held by other euro-area
residents rose to 4.2 billion euros ($5.9 billion) in February
from 1.72 billion euros a year earlier. Deposits of non-euro-
residents climbed almost 20 percent to 20.6 billion euros,
according to the Central Bank of Cyprus.  S&P cut Cyprus’s sovereign rating by one notch, to A from
A+, on Nov. 16, citing increased vulnerability of its financial
system to Greece. In May, Greece got a 110 billion-euro rescue
from the European Union and the  International Monetary Fund .
Greece’s credit rating was cut two steps to BB- yesterday by
Standard and Poor’s on concern the country may be required to
restructure its debt and bondholders may lose out.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Paul Tugwell in Athens at 
 ptugwell1@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at 
 acullen8@bloomberg.net ; 