-- 
Danish Bank Mergers May Stall as Potential Acquirers Shun Property Risks

-- B y   C h r i s t i a n   W i e n b e r g   a n d   A d a m   E w i n g
-- 
2011-03-30T11:50:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-30/danish-bank-mergers-may-stall-as-buyers-shun-property-risks.html
Denmark’s bank industry may not get
the merger wave the country’s financial regulator says it needs
as potential buyers recoil from small lenders struggling with
bad construction loans.  The country’s banks, which have a quarter of their
corporate loans tied to construction and commercial property,
need to consolidate after the Feb. 6 failure of regional lender
Amagerbanken A/S triggered rating downgrades and threatened to
send funding costs higher, according to Ulrik Noedgaard, the
head of the country’s Financial Supervisory Authority. Two banks
that last month identified themselves as potential buyers are
now signaling they may abandon plans to snap up the lender.  “We’re still in doubt as to what there is in Amagerbanken;
I think a lot of customers have already left and it’s hard to
know what’s left,” said Karen Froesig, chief executive officer
at Sydbank A/S, Denmark’s third-biggest bank, in an interview.
“We haven’t really decided whether we’re interested in
purchasing Amagerbanken.”  Spar Nord Bank A/S, the country’s fourth-largest lender, is
dropping its plans to pursue a purchase of any part of
Amagerbanken, Ole Madsen, the bank’s head of  investor relations ,
said in a phone interview today.  “We have looked at what’s been put up for sale and we
don’t think it would make a good business case for us,” Madsen
said. “We can do better by growing organically.”  ‘Very Exposed’  Danish bank loans linked to construction and commercial
property reached 443 billion kroner ($84 billion), or 24 percent
of corporate lending, in 2009, according to the latest FSA
figures available. Individual writedowns and provisions for the
loans were 6.2 percent of the total, compared with an average of
3.7 percent for all corporate lending, the  FSA data  show.  Denmark’s  property market  will remain “fragile in the
coming years,” Economy Minister Brian Mikkelsen said in a
speech published on the ministry’s  website  today.  “The number of properties for sale is rising while the
number of actual trades is modest and the time it takes to sell
a property is rising,” Mikkelsen said.  “Banks that have been very exposed to the  construction
industry  aren’t of that much interest to us,” Froesig said in a
March 25 interview. “We’re not interested in having a huge
exposure to the property sector.”  Property Losses  Amagerbanken failed after losing money on property
investments,  currency speculation  and some wind-energy projects.
It was left insolvent after writing down 3.14 billion kroner in
the fourth quarter, on top of the 2.99 billion kroner of bad
debts incurred since the beginning of 2008.  Denmark’s bank industry came under pressure after stepping
up borrowing to finance loans amid speculation the property
market would rise.  House prices , which surged an annual 26
percent in the second quarter of 2006, subsequently slumped 28
percent through the second quarter of 2009. Since then, the
number of commercial bankruptcies soared 41 percent through a
November 2010 peak. Homeowner insolvencies are up 75 percent
since the second quarter of 2009, statistics office data show.  Noedgaard estimates a number of the country’s 130 banks
won’t be able to afford higher funding costs unless they’re
absorbed by bigger rivals. Those that don’t get bought will need
to stop operations that rely on wholesale funding, he said.  No Buyers  “No bank would buy another bank with commercial real-
estate problems,” said Jakob Brink, an analyst at Svenska
Handelsbanken AB. “Look at Amagerbanken, nobody wanted to buy
it, they wanted it to be taken to the government first to have
the bad loans out before they made a bid for it.”  Amagerbanken’s collapse set a European Union precedent for
inflicting losses on depositors and senior bondholders. Moody’s
Investors Service 10 days later cut its ratings on five Danish
banks, including Danske Bank A/S, the country’s biggest, as it
factors out the likelihood of government support.  A sale of Amagerbanken is “proceeding according to plan,”
Henrik Bjerre-Nielsen, the chairman of the state winding-down
unit Financial Stability, said in a March 29 interview.  While he declined to comment on whether depositors have
left the bank since its failure, Bjerre-Nielsen said “we know
from experience that many of the good customers want to move on
to other banks, so we want to complete the sale as soon as
possible.” Financial Stability expects a sale in May, he said.  Troubled banks that don’t find buyers may be forced to sell
shares, according to Noedgaard. That may prove difficult after
Danske Bank’s 20 billion-krone issue announced earlier month is
sucking up most of the equity capital available in the Danish
market, said Brink.  “When a bank like Amagerbanken collapses, it naturally
prompts depositors and also wholesale funding sources to rethink
their lending,” Froesig said. “And that creates a challenge
for the sector.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Christian Wienberg in Copenhagen at 
 cwienberg@bloomberg.net 
Adam Ewing at 
 aewing5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tim Quinson at 
 tquinson@bloomberg.net .
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  