-- 
Dendreon Prostate Cancer Drug Proposed in Medicare Coverage

-- B y   C a t h e r i n e   L a r k i n
-- 
2011-03-30T21:41:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-30/dendreon-93-000-a-year-prostate-cancer-drug-backed-for-medicare-coverage.html
Dendreon Corp. (DNDN) ’s prostate cancer
drug Provenge should be covered by the U.S. government for use
in older men, regulators said.  The $93,000 treatment regimen is “reasonable and
necessary” for men with advanced, castrate-resistant prostate
tumors who have minimal or no symptoms of the disease, the
 Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services  said today. The
proposal matches the approved prescribing information and
suggests that doctors may even expand use in some cases, said
 Michael Yee , an analyst at  RBC Capital Markets  in  San Francisco .  The  decision  is critical for Seattle-based Dendreon as
three-quarters of the men approved for Provenge are eligible for
Medicare because they are at least 65 years old. Investors’
skepticism that Dendreon wouldn’t win reimbursement or be able
to satisfy demand for the drug has pushed the shares below the
traded price before Provenge was cleared for sale on April 29.  “This is a positive decision memo that clearly supports
reimbursement for Provenge,” Yee said in an e-mail. It also
leaves “the door open to the local carriers to even consider on
a case-by-case basis, other possible off-label non-covered uses
as well.”  Dendreon rose 61 cents, or 1.7 percent, to $36.15 at 5:17
p.m.  New York  time in extended trading on the Nasdaq Stock
Market. The shares earlier closed down 34 cents, or 1 percent,
to $35.54. Dendreon has dropped 36 percent from a peak of $55.43
on May 3.  $2 Billion Potential  Medicare coverage will help Provenge generate $2.3 billion
in sales in 2014, according to the average estimate of four
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  The Baltimore agency that regulates Medicare coverage began
its review of Provenge last June after regional contractors
voiced concerns about potential use beyond the approved patient
population. The agency will seek comment on its proposal before
issuing a final version by June 30. While the 15 local plans
currently are paying for the drug, supplies have been limited.
Dendreon aims to open new plants this year.  The  American Cancer Society  estimated that 217,730 U.S. men
would be diagnosed with prostate cancer last year and 32,050 men
would die of the disease. Symptoms typically start when patients
have less than a year to live. Of more than 1 million men with
the disease, about 70,000 qualify for Provenge, according to
Robyn Karnauskas, an analyst at Deutsche Bank Securities in New
York. Demand is the “key controversy,” she said in an e-mail.  Four More Months  Studies supporting Provenge approval showed the drug helped
men with prostate cancer live a median of 4.1 months longer.  Medicare would give regional contractors “flexibility to
determine local coverage without the need to reconsider” a
national coverage decision if future studies show more benefits
with Provenge than now supported by the prescribing information,
according to the proposal.  Provenge is the first medicine that trains the body’s
immune system to attack cancer cells as it would a virus. The
 therapy  involves extracting white blood cells from a patient,
mixing them with vaccine components and delivering the
combination as an infusion. Treatment lasts one month with three
doses, each given two weeks apart.  Outside advisers to Medicare  said  in November that they
were confident that Provenge significantly improved survival in
men with advanced tumors. The 10-member panel rated their
confidence in the survival benefits a 3.6, on average, on a 1 to
5 scale with 5 being the most confident.  No cure exists for advanced prostate cancer that has spread
outside the prostate gland. Patients often are given hormone
therapy or chemotherapy drugs such as Paris-based  Sanofi-Aventis
SA (SAN) ’s Taxotere or Jevtana. Those drugs improved survival by 2.4
months in studies and are linked to higher rates of side effects
and longer treatment regimens than with Provenge.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Catherine Larkin in  Washington  at 
 clarkin4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Adriel Bettelheim at 
 abettelheim@bloomberg.net ;
Reg Gale in New York at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  