-- 
Dimon Adds to Wall Street's Pressure on Obama Over Global Competitiveness

-- B y   D a w n   K o p e c k i
-- 
2011-03-30T10:48:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-30/dimon-adds-to-wall-street-s-pressure-on-obama-over-global-competitiveness.html
JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ’s Jamie Dimon,
whose bank avoided losses in the financial crisis, is helping
 Wall Street  turn up pressure on the Obama administration to keep
U.S. regulations competitive with the rest of the world.  Dimon, 55, is the keynote speaker today at a conference on
global capital markets competitiveness hosted by the U.S.
Chamber of Commerce in Washington.  Elizabeth Warren , charged
with setting up the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, and
 Caterpillar Inc. (CAT)  Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Douglas R. Oberhelman are among those scheduled to speak.  “If America adopts a lot of things very different than the
rest of the world,” U.S. competitiveness will be damaged, Dimon
told investors at a Feb. 15 meeting at JPMorgan’s New York
headquarters. JPMorgan’s chairman and CEO said forcing banks to
spin off some derivatives business is “absurd” and other
changes in last year’s Dodd-Frank Act are a “terrible shame.”  President  Barack Obama , who once called Dimon a “savvy”
businessman and defended his $17 million bonus for 2009, has
tried to forge a better relationship with business leaders after
Republicans won control of the  House of Representatives  in
November’s elections.  The Chamber of Commerce has charged that Obama cost the U.S.
economy jobs while pursuing health-care and climate legislation.
The organization spent more than $30 million on the 2010
congressional elections, mostly to back Republicans. The chamber
represents companies such as Caterpillar, the world’s largest
bulldozer maker, and Lockheed Martin Corp.  ‘I Get It’  “I understand that you’re under incredible pressure to cut
costs and keep your margins up,” Obama said in an address to
the chamber in February. “I understand the significance of your
obligations to your shareholders. I get it.”  New rules governing the types of investments banks can make
and restrictions on derivatives transactions may put U.S.
companies at a disadvantage to firms based abroad that aren’t as
tightly regulated, Dimon told investors.  “There’s a tremendous amount of pressure that, not just
 Jamie Dimon , but the whole banking industry is putting on the
administration to try to scale back Dodd-Frank as much as
possible,” said Paul Miller, a former examiner for the Federal
Reserve Bank of Philadelphia and analyst with FBR Capital
Markets in Arlington, Virginia.  Dimon, who is speaking over lunch, told investors last
month that India, China, Japan and  South Korea  don’t have the
same restrictions on financial firms that are found in the U.S.  “And Singapore is licking its chops, hoping that a lot of
the business goes over there,”  Dimon said. “I hope American
policy makers are very careful about putting American companies
at a disadvantage over time.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dawn Kopecki in  Washington  at 
 dkopecki@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at   dscheer@bloomberg.net  