-- 
Dimon Says a Hundred Municipalities in U.S. Won’t ‘Make It’ Out of Debt

-- B y   D a w n   K o p e c k i
-- 
2011-03-30T21:24:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-30/dimon-says-hundreds-of-municipalities-in-u-s-won-t-make-it-out-of-debt.html
JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  Chairman and
Chief Executive Officer  Jamie Dimon  said some municipalities
will need to renegotiate debt and a hundred may not “make it.”  “I wouldn’t panic about what I’m about to say,” Dimon, 55,
said today at a U.S. Chamber of Commerce event in  Washington .
“You’re going to see some municipalities not make it. I don’t
think it’s going to shatter America, I just think it’s a part of
the credit cycle.”  Speculation about widespread municipal-bond defaults
intensified in December when bank analyst Meredith Whitney
predicted that “hundreds of billions” of dollars of municipal
bonds may default in 2011 amid pressure to balance budgets.  JPMorgan, the second-biggest U.S. bank by assets, said in
February its commercial bank’s municipal-debt holdings are
diversified enough to handle a likely increase in defaults. The
number of issuers that can’t manage debts may be about a hundred,
Dimon said today.  “It’s not going to be thousands,” he said. “It’s going
to be maybe a hundred. It’s going to be a small number” out of
roughly 14,000 municipalities.  The commercial bank’s $9.7 billion municipal portfolio has
about 26 percent of its holdings concentrated in local
 government bonds , 22 percent in primary and secondary education,
14 percent in state governments and the rest among higher
education, utilities, airports and other investments, Todd Maclin, chief executive officer of the unit, said in the
presentation last month.  Bond Defaults  Standard & Poor’s  said this month that municipal-bond
defaults in the first two months of 2011 are down 50 percent
from the same period last year. The research followed a report
by the consulting firm of  Nouriel Roubini , the New York
University economist who in 2006 predicted the credit-market
collapse, that said about $100 billion of U.S. municipal debt
will default in the next five years.  Tom Dresslar , spokesman for California Treasurer Bill Lockyer, said comments that fuel fear in the municipal-bond
markets only hurt debt holders and taxpayers.  “Despite the devastation wrought by the captains of our
economy, municipalities remain fundamentally strong as credits
and pose only the tiniest  default risk ,” he said.  Golden Goose  Dimon also said excessive U.S. regulation may “hamstring”
the financial industry and push business overseas where costs
are lower and regulations less stringent. Congress passed
hundreds of new rules in the Dodd-Frank Act last year, and bank
regulators are working on new  capital requirements  for U.S.
banks.  “We’re starting to add up a whole bunch of things which
are negative for America,” he said. New rules on derivatives
may hurt U.S. competitiveness, and “if we have higher capital
limits than the rest of the world, now you’re just starting to
put nails in the coffin.”  He called derivatives laws in Dodd-Frank some of the most
“irrational” legislation he’s ever seen. The Durbin amendment,
which limits debit-card fees, is “basic price-fixing at its
worst,” he said.  “It’s very important that the regulators and our
government, the secretary of the  U.S. Treasury , the chairman of
the  Federal Reserve , that they make sure that when we’re done
with all of this stuff, American banks can compete with the rest
of the world,” Dimon said. “You don’t want to kill one of the
golden gooses of healthy capital markets.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dawn Kopecki in Washington at 
 dkopecki@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  