-- 
Director of China Companies in U.S. Says Never Mind as Resume Proves False

-- B y   D u n e   L a w r e n c e   a n d   N i k o l a j   G a m m e l t o f t
-- 
2011-03-30T15:44:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-30/director-of-china-companies-in-u-s-says-nevermind-as-resume-proves-false.html
Gene Michael Bennett, a director
for at least four Chinese companies trading in the U.S., has
come under the scrutiny of a short seller who says he’s not what
he claims.  Absaroka Capital Management LLC  posted a  letter  on its
website last week saying Bennett didn’t work for the accounting
firm listed in his biography, has no law degree from the
 University of Michigan  and fails to comply with rules of the
audit committee he leads at  China Shen Zhou Mining & Resources
Inc. (SHZ)  Bennett, who hasn’t been accused of anything by regulators,
says he’s done nothing wrong and blamed some of the confusion
about his background on misperceptions.  Absaroka is part of a growing group of investment firms
discovering inconsistencies at Chinese companies that started
trading in the U.S. through takeovers, and that are trying to
profit from their decline. Transactions called reverse mergers
have given hundreds of Chinese corporations access to the
world’s largest capital market, avoiding the scrutiny of initial
public offerings as hunger grows for investments in an economy
that became larger than  Japan ’s last year.  “Bennett was part of the reason why we initially got
concerned about  China  Shen Zhou,” said Kevin Barnes, an analyst
at Cheyenne, Wyoming-based Absaroka. “We don’t understand how
he can have this track record and still be on the board. We
would expect a candidate with a higher duty of care for public
shareholders to be the audit committee chairman.”  Most Shorted  Beijing-based China Shen Zhou, the most-shorted stock on
the NYSE Amex exchange, is among at least 370 reverse merger
companies that obtained U.S. listings since 2004, according to
DealFlow Media Inc., a research firm based in Woodbury,  New
York . In a reverse merger, a closely held corporation buys a
public shell company and retains the U.S. listing.  The Securities and Exchange Commission set up a task force
to look for fraud in overseas companies with listings on U.S.
exchanges, with particular interest in Chinese reverse mergers,
and began a probe last year asking auditors for information on
the firms.  China Green Agriculture Inc. (CGA) , based in Xi’an, and
 Rino International Corp. (RINO) , a Dalian-based maker of water-
treatment equipment, have been the subjects of inquiries from
the agency.  Almost $4 billion of value has been erased from 80 of the
biggest exchange-listed companies after they reached their 2011
peak of about $18.6 billion in January, Bloomberg data show.  Compensation  Bennett, 63, runs a nongovernmental organization called
 American General Business Association  in Beijing that helps
Chinese companies develop business overseas. He’s served on the
boards of at least six Chinese companies listed on U.S.
exchanges since 2007, according to company documents and data
compiled by Bloomberg. He was paid more than $300,000 during
2008 and 2009 by seven companies, according to regulatory
filings. That includes at least $190,000 for his work at the
four firms which are or have been under scrutiny.  At Beijing-based  Duoyuan Printing Inc. (DYP) , now the target of
an SEC investigation, Bennett served as audit committee chair
between April and July 2007 and as CFO until December 2007. The
company was known as Asian Financial Inc. at the time. He has
been a director since October 2008 at  China Agritech Inc. (CAGC) , a
Beijing company that fired its auditor this month and began an
investigation into “allegations made by third parties” that it
didn’t specify.  No Admission  Bennett was a director and on the audit committee of
Kunming-based  China Shenghuo Pharmaceutical Holdings Inc. (KUN)  from
June 2007 to October 2008. China Shenghuo paid $200,000 to
settle, without admitting wrongdoing, a shareholder lawsuit
alleging it misled investors.  He has been a director of  China Pharma Holdings Inc. (CPHI)  since
February 2008. Bennett was named chairman of the audit committee
for  China Fire & Security Group Inc. (CFSG)  in April 2007, and left the
board in September 2008. He was CFO of China Architectural
Engineering Inc. from November 2009 to September 2010. The
company has changed its name to China CGame Inc. He became
chairman of the audit committee and member of the compensation
committee at Shenzhen-based  Global Pharm Holdings Group Inc. (GPHG)  in
February this year.  Bennett, who has been a China Shen Zhou director since
November 2007, said he plans to keep his role. The company has a
stock-market value of $151.6 million, down from a peak of $286.5
million on Jan. 5. Short sales amounted to 62 percent of shares
available for trading as of March 15, making it the most-shorted
stock listed on NYSE Amex, according to exchange data.  ‘Nothing Wrong’  “I have done nothing wrong, and I do not believe the
company has either,” he said in an e-mail on March 23.  China Shen Zhou, which said in its 2010 annual report that
it mines, processes and distributes fluorite, copper, zinc and
lead, fell 22 percent on March 9 after Absaroka  said  the company
exaggerated the size of its mines and raised other issues. The
hedge fund said Bennett lied about his employment history by
saying he worked for accounting firm Grant Thornton LLP,
overstated his educational background in a regulatory filing and
failed to convene enough audit committee meetings.  Bennett said in an e-mail that he worked for Gerbel &
Butzbaugh, and when he left Gerbel, it was negotiating to merge
with a firm that later became Grant Thornton, whose clients
include the  U.S. government  and more than  half the companies  in
the 30-stock  Dow Jones Industrial Average , according to its
 website . China Shen Zhou said in an Oct. 12 filing that Bennett
has “experience working for one of the top auditors in the
world, Grant Thornton.”  No Negotiations  Gerbel & Butzbaugh is now called Gerbel & Co., which is
based in St. Joseph,  Michigan . While Bennett did work for
Gerbel, the company never negotiated to merge with Grant
Thornton or its predecessor, said Marcia Graham, firm
administrator at Gerbel who says she’s worked there for 41
years. Kristi Grgeta, a Grant Thornton spokeswoman, was unable
to confirm any relationship with Gerbel.  “When I left Gerbel & Butzbaugh, they were negotiating
with Alex Grant to merge,” Bennett said in an e-mail. “That
was over 30 years ago. To clarify in the future all references
will be to Gerbel & Butzbaugh CPAs as employer.”  No Law Degree  A China Fire & Security  document  filed with the SEC on Aug.
9, 2007, said Bennett received a law degree from the University
of Michigan. Annual reports for 2008 and 2009 from China Pharma
Holdings say he graduated from “Michigan University.” A press
release from L&L Financial Holdings Inc. in February 2008
announcing Bennett’s appointment as CFO said he took law classes
at the University of Michigan. Bennett resigned from L&L on May
6, 2008, to focus on studying for his doctorate in Hong Kong,
according to a company filing. The Seattle-based company has
renamed itself  L&L Energy Inc. (LLEN)  A telephone message left before
regular business hours in Seattle for L&L Energy Chief Executive
Officer Dickson Lee was not returned.  David Baum, assistant dean at the law school, said in an e-
mail that he found no records of Bennett taking classes there.  Bennett said in a March 24 e-mail that he doesn’t have a
law degree from the University of Michigan and never enrolled.
He said he committed an “error in not correcting a
misconception.” Bennett has an undergraduate degree and
master’s degree in business administration from  Michigan State
University , a separate school, according to data compiled by the
National Student Clearinghouse.  China Shen Zhou’s audit committee met twice in 2008 and
three times in both 2009 and 2010, according to filings. The
company’s  bylaws  say the group must meet at least four times a
year and more when circumstances require.  Frequent Meetings  Bennett said there were frequent meetings by telephone and
in person with management and other board members, adding that,
“in the future all such meetings will be more formalized.”  China Shen Zhou didn’t respond to requests for comment,
including a message left with an office receptionist and two e-
mails. There was no response to messages left for three investor
relations contacts in the U.S.  Eighty reverse merger companies tracked by Bloomberg surged
239 percent as a group between the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index’s
12-year low on March 9, 2009, and Jan. 11, 2010, when their
total value reached about $24.5 billion. They have fallen 40
percent since that peak 14 months ago and 21 percent since their
2011 high on Jan. 12, the data show.  Short Selling  Among the 80 companies, about 9 percent of shares available
for trading have been sold short, compared with 3.7 percent in
the  S&P 500 , data compiled by Bloomberg show. The index includes
companies that, as of January, had a minimum market value of $50
million, traded more than 50,000 shares a day, and were listed
by the New York Stock Exchange, NYSE Amex or Nasdaq Stock
Market. None had IPOs.  “We are continuing to look at foreign-controlled U.S.
companies and the intermediaries who bring them to market,
including repeat players,” said  John Nester , an SEC spokesman.  Absaroka, a hedge fund that aims to make money when stocks
rise or fall, declined to disclose the size of its bet against
China Shen Zhou. Short selling is the sale of borrowed stock in
the hope of profiting by buying the securities later at a lower
price and returning them to the shareholder.  Assessing the quality of company directors is an important
piece of due diligence, according to Kevin Pollack, a money
manager at New York-based Paragon Capital LP who invests in
reverse-merger companies.  “In every investment market, there are a small number of
bad apples that can raise a red flag, such as low quality
directors and promoters,” Pollack said.  Audit Concerns  The Washington-based Public Company Accounting Oversight
Board said in a March 15 report that it found “potential audit
concerns” -- including language barriers and overreliance on
outside consultants -- for firms that sign off on statements for
companies in China. The report focused on corporations that
listed on U.S. exchanges using reverse mergers.  The wave has coincided with increased investment in Chinese
securities. Investors added a net $1.64 billion to the  iShares
FTSE China 25 Index Fund (FXI)  in the past three years, according to
New York-based research firm XTF Inc. That’s the fourth-largest
inflow among 96 ETFs tracking countries, excluding the U.S.  Duoyuan plunged 55 percent on Sept. 13 after the maker of
printing equipment dismissed auditor Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu
CPA Ltd. The SEC is investigating Duoyuan for possible fraud in
the sale of securities, a probe that the company is cooperating
with, according to a March 18 statement. Duoyuan hasn’t filed an
annual report for the year ended June 30, or quarterly reports
for the periods ended Sept. 30 or Dec. 31.  Special Committee  Bennett is a member of a special committee formed by China
Agritech this month, which the company said on March 13 will
“investigate certain allegations made by third parties.” The
next day, China Agritech announced that it fired its auditor,
Ernst & Young Hua Ming.  He resigned from the board and audit committee of China
Shenghuo on Oct. 23, 2008, saying the company lacked good
corporate governance measures.  “To be clear I do not feel the firm is fraudulent in
actions, nor purposely breaking rules and regulations, but they
are uneducated and seemingly unwilling to be educated on what is
necessary to be a good member of Amex or any other credible
market,” he wrote in a letter to the board.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dune Lawrence in New York at 
 dlawrence6@bloomberg.net ;
Nikolaj Gammeltoft in New York at 
 ngammeltoft@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net ;
Gary Putka at 
 gputka@bloomberg.net  