-- 
Dirty Little Secret Unravels in Bermuda Blunder: Jonathan Weil

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   W e i l
-- 
2011-03-30T23:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-30/dirty-little-secret-outed-in-bermuda-blunder-commentary-by-jonathan-weil.html
One of the long-standing raps on
the auditing profession is that too many of its practitioners
suffer from a check-the-box mentality, where rigid adherence to
mindless rules obscures their ability to see the bigger picture.  For once, that mindset has worked to investors’ advantage.  Two weeks ago, the  Public Company Accounting Oversight
Board  released its triennial inspection  report  on the Hamilton,
Bermuda-based affiliate of  KPMG , the Big Four accounting firm.
And it was an ugly one. In one of the audits performed by  KPMG-
Bermuda , the board said its inspection staff had identified an
audit deficiency so significant that it appeared “the firm did
not obtain sufficient competent evidential matter to support its
opinion on the issuer’s financial statements.”  This being the hopelessly timid PCAOB, however, the report
didn’t say whose audit KPMG-Bermuda had blown. That’s because
the agency, as a matter of policy, refuses to name companies
where its inspectors have found botched audits. It just goes to
show that the PCAOB’s first priority isn’t “to protect the
interests of investors,” as the board’s motto goes. Rather, it
is to protect the dirty little secrets of the accounting firms
and their corporate audit clients.  That’s why it gives me great pleasure to be able to break
the following bit of news: The unnamed company cited in KPMG-
Bermuda’s inspection report was  Alterra Capital Holdings Ltd. (ALTE) , a
Hamilton-based insurance company with a $2.3 billion stock-
market value, which used to be known as Max Capital Group Ltd.  One Client  You see, just like their checklist of instructions told
them to do, the folks who wrote this report were kind enough to
disclose the number of U.S.-listed companies that KPMG-Bermuda
had as audit clients at the time it was inspected. That number,
the report said, was one.  The report also said the board’s staff conducted their
inspection in November 2009, and that the audit deficiency they
found was “the failure to perform sufficient procedures to test
the estimated fair value of certain available-for-sale
securities.” Armed with those data points and some stock-
screening software, I quickly found KPMG-Bermuda’s  audit report 
on Alterra’s 2008 financial statements, dated Feb. 19, 2009.  Alterra actually was one of two U.S.-listed companies for
which KPMG-Bermuda signed an audit report that year. The other
one got acquired before the agency’s inspection work began. And
of the two, Alterra was the only one that classified any of its
securities as available-for-sale.  Big Screw-Up  It’s when you look at Alterra’s financial statements that
the magnitude of KPMG-Bermuda’s screw-up becomes apparent.
Available-for-sale securities are the single biggest line item
on Alterra’s balance sheet. They represented almost half of the
company’s $7.3 billion of total assets as of Dec. 31, 2008, and
a little more than half of its $9.9 billion of total assets at
the end of last year.  Now consider that Alterra will hold its annual meeting on
May 2, where shareholders will have the chance to vote on
ratifying KPMG-Bermuda’s appointment as the company’s
independent auditor. Even that doesn’t matter to the PCAOB,
though. A spokeswoman, Colleen Brennan, said the board still
wouldn’t confirm whether Alterra was the unnamed client. Never
mind that the cat is now out of the bag. The board simply
doesn’t care whether investors get the information they need.  Pure Luck  An Alterra spokeswoman, Susan Spivak Bernstein, declined to
comment. As for KPMG-Bermuda, the firm’s managing partner,  Neil
Patterson , didn’t return phone calls.  The board’s inspection report also faulted KPMG-Bermuda’s
work at a different public company where the firm wasn’t the
principal auditor, this time for failing to test revenue
properly. In a Dec. 6 response letter to the board, the firm
said “none of the matters identified by the PCAOB required the
reissuance of any of our previously issued reports.” Still,
considering what the PCAOB’s inspectors found, this seems to
have been nothing more than a stroke of pure luck.  What’s most troubling about the PCAOB’s secrecy here is it
seems to be a matter of choice. Ever since it issued a 2004
 policy statement  on the subject, the board has clung to the
position that a certain section of the  Sarbanes-Oxley Act 
“expressly restricts” it from identifying the names of
companies in the public portions of its inspection reports.  Exempt From Disclosure  The statute doesn’t actually say that, though. The section
in question, titled “Confidentiality,” covers the handling of
information that the board obtains through an inspection. It
says the board can’t be compelled to provide such information in
court proceedings, including civil discovery. It also says the
material is exempt from disclosure under the Freedom of
Information Act. In other words, the board doesn’t have to
disclose it. That’s different than saying it can’t.  In fact, another  section  of Sarbanes-Oxley says the public
portions of the board’s inspection reports “shall be made
available in appropriate detail,” subject to “the protection
of such confidential and proprietary information as the board
may determine to be appropriate.” Put another way, it’s the
PCAOB’s call whether to disclose clients’ names, although the
Securities and Exchange Commission, which oversees the board,
could overrule it. The board has chosen not to.  At least Alterra’s shareholders have been warned. If the
PCAOB ever wants to shake its reputation as just another
watchdog that  doesn’t bark , it should start granting other
investors the same courtesy.  ( Jonathan Weil  is a Bloomberg News columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Jonathan Weil in New York at 
 jweil6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  