-- 
Distance Kept Lockheed F-22 Out of Libya Action, Schwartz Says

-- B y   T o n y   C a p a c c i o
-- 
2011-03-30T20:43:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-30/distance-kept-lockheed-f-22-out-of-libya-action-schwartz-says.html
Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT)  F-22 fighters
haven’t been used over  Libya  to attack air defenses or counter
Libyan jets because they’re not based in the region, U.S. Air
Force Chief of Staff Norton Schwartz said.  “Had the F-22 been stationed in  Europe , in proximity and
therefore more available, it undoubtedly would have been used,”
Schwartz told the Senate defense appropriations subcommittee
today. Because the Libya operation “came together fairly
rapidly, the judgment was made to apply the various resources we
had in close proximity.”  F-22 jets, the most advanced and expensive fighters in the
U.S. arsenal, are based in Virginia,  New Mexico ,  California ,
 Florida , Alaska and  Hawaii , Air Force Major Chad Steffey, a
spokesman, said in an e-mail.  Trade newspapers and blogs have  quoted  private analysts,
such as Loren Thompson of the Arlington, Virginia-based
Lexington Institute, who have said that the F-22 likely was kept
out of the fight because its data links don’t communicate with
other warplanes and it has a limited ground-attack capability.  “The fact the F-22 did not perform in this particular
mission” wasn’t a negative reflection on its usefulness,
Schwartz said. “It was an expedient judgment, putting the plan
together and executing on a very rapid timeline.”  Air Force  Secretary Michael Donley told lawmakers the
aircraft has “some air-to-ground capability, though it is
optimized for air-to-air engagements.”  Less Air-to-Ground Capability  “The air-to-ground capability is somewhat limited”
compared with that of the F-15E fighter-bombers used over Libya,
he said. The F-15E, unlike the F-22, has a capability to drop
laser-guided bombs on moving ground targets. The F-22 carries
two Global Positioning System satellite-guided Joint Direct
Attack Munitions for fixed targets.  Unlike the F-15E, the F-22 has a radar-evading stealth
design. “Had they been required, we would have used them,”
Schwartz said in an interview after the hearing.  The Air Force, in a separate statement to Bloomberg News,
said “the lack of data network capability or any other specific
capability would not be the cause to exclude the F-22 or other
platforms.  ‘‘The F-22 is still undergoing planned capability
modifications to further the aircraft’s long-term air-to-ground
capabilities,’’ it said.  Then-Air Force Chief of Staff General John Jumper in
September 2002 renamed the F-22 the F/A-22 to stress its value
against ground targets as congressional critics questioned its
value. The ‘‘A’’ stood for ground attack. It was dropped several
years later.  Pricey Raptor  The F-22 Raptor now is estimated to cost about $411 million
per jet in inflation-adjusted dollars that amortize research,
development, production, maintenance and construction.  That’s more than triple the $139 million-per-plane
equivalent cost as the program proceeded into fill development
in 1991, the U.S. Government Accountability Office said
yesterday in its latest annual  report  on weapons systems.  Representative Jim Moran, a  Virginia  Democrat on the House
defense appropriations subcommittee, said he’ll press Air Force
leaders on F-22 issues during a budget hearing tomorrow.  ‘‘The F-22 is our most advanced air-to-air fighter” and
“its ability to achieve air supremacy in combat is without
doubt,” Moran said in an e-mail statement.  “Yet, reports that the F-22 continues to lack a secure
communication capability with other U.S. and NATO warplanes, and
that it cannot detect and destroy ground targets on the fly are
troubling, particularly given how much we’ve invested in this
program,” he said.  The GAO reported in December that the jets began corroding
soon after introduction into the U.S. Air Force in 2005 and the
Defense Department plans to spend $228 million through 2016 to
fix the deteriorating aluminum skin panels.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tony Capaccio in Washington at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mark Silva  at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net . 