-- 
Dong May Expand U.K. Offshore Wind Business With Acquisition

-- B y   S a l l y   B a k e w e l l
-- 
2011-03-30T17:52:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-30/dong-energy-may-make-acquisitions-to-enter-offshore-wind-business-in-u-k-.html
Dong Energy A/S, Denmark’s biggest
energy company, said it may expand its offshore wind business in
the U.K. through an acquisition.  Dong, which has installed half the world’s offshore wind
parks, is seeking to build up its business in the U.K., Peter
Gedbjerg, vice president for Dong Energy Power U.K., said today
at a press briefing in  London .  Under the so-called Round 3 initiative, Britain’s  Crown
Estate , which manages the U.K. seabed, awarded in January 2010
nine zones to companies planning to build wind at sea. Dong did
not win a site.  Dong now hopes to enter Round 3 as a development partner
and is considering “some kind of acquisition,” in the next six
months, he said. Dong is talking to the companies involved in
the program looking for “potential synergies,” he said. Round
3 aims to deliver a quarter of the U.K.’s total electricity
needs by 2020, according to the Crown Estate.  The Skaerbaek-based company already has four offshore wind
farms generating electricity in Britain and about 1.3 gigawatts
of offshore power under construction in Europe. It is a partner
in the  London Array  project, the world’s largest consented wind
farm, alongside  E.ON AG (EOAN)  and Abu Dhabi-based Masdar.  “Round 3 will fit very nicely in this pipeline,” Gedbjerg
said.  Dong’s Investment  Dong has spent 2.5 billion pounds ($4 billion) on its U.K.
offshore wind activities so far and could spend the same again
by 2015, Gedbjerg said.  The company is seeking to cut 85 percent of the carbon
dioxide emissions in its  energy supply  by 2040 through offshore
wind and converting coal-fired power stations to biomass and
natural gas, it said.  In addition Dong is interested in offshore wind in  France ,
where the government set a target of building 6 gigawatts of
offshore  wind energy  by 2020, Gedbjerg said.  Dong’s balance sheet alone cannot finance the offshore wind
projects it wants to build, Gedbjerg said. The company needs to
consider other ways of financing. Most will be developed with
partners such as utilities, financial investors and pension
funds, he said.  The company may divest stakes in projects it currently
fully owns such as the Burbo Bank wind farm offshore Liverpool,
though it intends to remain a controlling owner. “If an
interesting offer is put on the table, we will consider that,”
he said.  Dong raised about 6 billion kroner ($1.14 billion) selling
50 percent of its Anholt offshore wind farm this month to the
pension funds PKA and PensionDanmark. Dong’s offshore wind
market share in  Europe  is 24 percent level with the Nordic
region’s largest utility, Vattenfall AB.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sally Bakewell in London at 
 sbakewell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  