-- 
Doris Day Center Gives Abused Horses Sanctuary With Elands, Emu

-- B y   M i k e   D i   P a o l a
-- 
2011-03-30T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-30/doris-day-center-gives-abused-texas-horses-haven-among-elands-camel-emu.html
Five horses huddle together in the
paddock, wary at the approach of humans.  They’re part of a herd of 43 rescued late last year from an
East  Texas  ranch, where they were no longer being fed. These
five were fortunate to end up at the new  Doris Day Horse Rescue
and Adoption Center  in Murchison, Texas.  “I was most struck by the look in the horses’ eyes,” says
center director Anne Favre, recounting the bleak December day
the horses were found. “Horses are usually curious and lively
when you approach them. Some of these were like walking corpses
-- bones protruding from hips, blank stares, horses that could
barely stand.”  The  Humane Society  of the U.S. reported that among the
starving animals at the grisly scene were yearlings and pregnant
mares, emaciated horses clinging to life, as well as dead
creatures and equine skeletons.  The lucky five here in Murchison will be quarantined for
two weeks to check for disease and parasites before release into
a bigger pasture with other horses, where they’ll “live more
like horses do naturally: socially, in a herd,” says Jacques
Favre, Anne’s husband and the facility manager.  Actress Doris Day, a longtime advocate of animal welfare,
contributed $250,000 of the $1 million it took to construct the
12-acre rescue and adoption center. It opens to the public in
mid-May and will be run by the  Humane Society  of the  United
States .  The center is on the grounds of late author Cleveland Amory’s Black Beauty Ranch, a 2,300-acre sanctuary that has been
taking in unwanted animals since the 1970s.  The Doris Day complex will include an education center, a
horse “playground,” and other amenities that suggest refugees
will have a very comfortable existence here. Also under
construction is a staging area for emergency rescues, where
animals can be brought in and cared for after natural disasters.  Animal-Athletes  Horses are more often up against man-made problems, such as
the racehorse industry, notorious for its inability to take care
of the animal-athletes when their racing days are over. These
five rescues had been abandoned by a breeder who could no longer
afford the upkeep, which is increasingly a problem in the horse
set. Many would-be owners underestimate the responsibilities of
caring for even a single horse.  “A lot of people don’t realize how much it costs to keep a
horse,” says Jacques Favre. “They might buy one for a few
hundred dollars, but it can easily cost $6,000 a year to keep.”  Rescues at Murchison will be trained according to
principles developed by equine guru  Pat Parelli , whose
techniques focus on the dynamics of the man-equine relationship.
The horses will be taught that humans are a source of not only
food but also benign companionship. They won’t be “rounded up”
at feeding time, but gradually conditioned to know when and
where they’ll be fed.  Teaching People  “The Parelli program is really about teaching people to
teach horses,” Favre says.  Eventually, horses fit for adoption will be paired up with
humans. It is unclear who is adopting whom exactly, but the
center takes its responsibility for finding the right match
seriously.  I take a tour of the wider sanctuary, which, though mostly
colorless on this gray late-winter day, is teeming with life.
The first animals brought here by Amory were burros,
helicoptered out of  Grand Canyon National Park  over 30 years
ago. Some of them are still alive, including the aptly named
Friendly, who ambles over to nuzzle humans at every opportunity.  Elsewhere roaming freely on the grounds are emus, an
ostrich, elands and a camel. In spacious cages there are macaque
monkeys frolicking in comfortable retirement, their careers as
lab experiments over. A one-armed kangaroo (a boxing injury --
don’t ask) is nurtured like a beloved grandfather.  Candidates for Asylum  Abandoned and abused horses couldn’t find a better refuge.
It is unfortunate that between neglectful owners, cashed-out
breeders, and an endless supply of thoroughbred retirees, there
will be plenty of candidates for asylum.  It’s amazing to see these magnificent animals, so recently
treated shabbily by humans, now interacting with them in harmony
and on somewhat equal terms.  “Horses are very forgiving,” says Jacques Favre. “That’s
how they’ve managed to survive in a human environment.”  (Mike Di Paola writes on preservation and the environment
for Muse, the arts and culture section of Bloomberg News. The
opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Mike Di Paola at  mdipaola@nyc.rr.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in  New York  at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 