-- 
EBay, GSI Commerce Sued by Septa Over $2.4 Billion Buyout

-- B y   M i c h a e l   B a t h o n
-- 
2011-03-30T23:45:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-30/ebay-and-gsi-commerce-sued-by-investor-over-proposed-2-4-billion-takeover.html
EBay Inc. (EBAY) , owner of the largest
e-commerce market, and its takeover target  GSI Commerce Inc. (GSIC) 
were sued by an investor claiming EBay’s $2.4 billion offer is a
“bargain price” and the company is worth more.  Southeastern Pennsylvania Transportation Authority, which
operates trains and buses in the Philadelphia area, filed the
lawsuit yesterday in Delaware Chancery Court in Wilmington
against the companies and GSI officials, including Chief
Executive Officer Michael Rubin.  “The consideration proposed as part of the transaction is
inadequate,” lawyers for Septa, a GSI shareholder, said in
court papers. “GSIC, with its stock price depressed but its
future prospects golden, was a prime target for EBay.”  EBay, based in  San Jose ,  California , agreed to pay GSI
investors $29.25 a share in cash, according to a March 28
statement. GSI shares soared 51 percent on the announcement from
their previous closing price of $19.38.  Michelle Fang, Associate General Counsel at EBay, said in
an e-mailed statement that the company believes “the suit is
without merit.” Steve Somers, a spokesman for  King of Prussia ,
Pennsylvania-based GSI, didn’t immediately respond to an e-mail
seeking comment.  GSI provides e-commerce and marketing services to over
2,000 brands such as Toys “R” Us, the  National Football League 
and Polo  Ralph Lauren , according to court filings.  As part of the transaction, EBay will divest all of GSI’s
licensed sports-merchandise business, which provides e-commerce
operations for all the major U.S. sports including the NFL, and
70 percent of online-retail sites Rue La La and ShopRunner,
court papers show. EBay is selling those assets to NRG Commerce
LLC, a company set up by Rubin, because they aren’t part of its
core long-term growth strategy, according to a statement. EBay
will loan Rubin’s company $467 million.  Septa lawyers claim in court papers the deal is “in
essence, a Rubin-led leveraged buyout of key company assets,”
enabling him to “reap their true value for himself.”  Rubin, who owns 6.4 percent of the company shares, will
invest $31 million in NRG, according to court documents. He
stands to make more than $120 million from the EBay sale,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg News.  The company had about $1.36 billion in sales for fiscal
year 2010, 36 percent more than the previous period. GSI
“appears poised for double-digit future growth” and “the
value of the company’s shares is materially in excess of the
$29.25 offered,” Septa lawyers said in court filings.  GSI has a “go-shop” period to solicit other offers till
May 6. There is a break-up fee of $24 million if GSI terminates
the sale for a better offer, which rises to $75 million if
terminated after May 6, court papers show. EBay has a right to
match any superior proposal.  EBay shares rose 55 cents today, or about 1.8 percent, to
close Nasdaq trading at $31.63. GSI gained 14 cents today,
closing Nasdaq trading at $29.30, 5 cents more than EBay’s offer
price.  The case is Southeastern Pennsylvania Transportation
Authority v. Rubin, CA6323,  Delaware  Chancery Court
(Wilmington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Bathon in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 mbathon@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 