-- 
EBay’s Lowest-Value Takeover Target Generates Losses: Real M&A

-- B y   J o s e p h   G a l a n t e   a n d   R i t a   N a z a r e t h
-- 
2011-03-30T20:14:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-30/ebay-lowest-valuation-takeover-generates-worst-losses-since-02-real-m-a.html
While  EBay Inc. (EBAY)  struck its cheapest
deal for  GSI Commerce Inc. (GSIC) , wringing profits out of the money-
losing Internet company that gets less operating income from
sales than nine out of 10 U.S. rivals may prove more costly.  EBay agreed this week to buy GSI for $1.9 billion,
including net debt, or 20 times earnings before interest, taxes,
depreciation and amortization. That’s the lowest valuation the
 San Jose , California-based company has ever spent, and a quarter
of the multiple offered in 2002 for PayPal Inc., according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. GSI earned less than a penny for
each dollar of sales last year, compared with the 16 percent
average margin for the largest U.S. Internet companies.  GSI, which hosts websites and stores and ships inventory
for retailers such as Mattel Inc. and  Polo Ralph Lauren Corp. (RL) ,
has lost money for three straight years. While EBay says it can
boost GSI’s profitability after divesting sports merchandising
and some retail websites, the shares fell the most in eight
months the day the deal was announced on concern the owner of
the largest online marketplace will need to sink more money into
GSI to take market share from  Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN)  and  Oracle Corp. (ORCL)   “Sometimes the cheapest price turns out to be a very
expensive price,” said Michael Holland, who oversees more than
$4 billion as chairman of Holland & Co. in  New York . “They are
probably going to have to invest to compete. Amazon is the huge
gorilla in the jungle.”  PayPal Retreat  EBay’s 4.3 percent retreat on March 28 was its biggest
decline following an announced takeover of a public company
since plunging 7.1 percent after agreeing to buy PayPal in July
2002, data compiled by Bloomberg show. GSI has also reported
bigger losses than any EBay target since PayPal, the data show.  GSI’s shares surged 51 percent on the day of the
announcement and gained 14 cents to $29.30 today on the Nasdaq
Stock Market, above EBay’s offer price of $29.25, data compiled
by Bloomberg show. EBay rose 55 cents, or 1.8 percent, to $31.63
today.  John Pluhowski, an EBay spokesman, declined to comment.
Kelly Henry, a spokeswoman for King of Prussia, Pennsylvania-
based GSI, didn’t respond to an e-mail requesting comment.  EBay’s agreement to buy GSI for 20 times Ebitda is lower
than any other acquisition of a public company in its 16-year
history, data compiled by Bloomberg show. It agreed to purchase
PayPal for $1.37 billion, valuing the payment service at 79
times Ebitda, the data show. In 2005, the company’s Shopping.com
deal was worth 25 times Ebitda.  GSI’s multiple is still higher than the median of 17 times
Ebitda for  Internet company  takeovers greater than $500 million
in the last five years, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Three-Year Turnaround  Chief Executive Officer John Donahoe is in the second year
of a three-year plan to turn around EBay’s main business, which
has lost buyers and sellers to Amazon, according to Cambridge,
Massachusetts-based Forrester Research Inc.  EBay’s U.S. sales growth of 5.8 percent last year lagged
behind the e-commerce industry’s 13 percent gain, data compiled
by Bloomberg and Forrester Research show. EBay shares had risen
14 percent in the past 12 months before today, trailing Seattle-
based Amazon’s 29 percent climb.  Donahoe, 50, is now aiming to beef up his e-commerce
marketplace by luring retail brands with GSI’s inventory and
website management.  “They are trying to expand their umbrella of services to
the marketplace as they look for sources of growth,” said  Keith Wirtz , who helps oversee $18 billion as chief investment officer
for Fifth Third Asset Management in Cincinnati. “Clearly EBay
is looking to be something well beyond just an online trading
community.”  Amazon, Oracle  GSI’s warehousing business that helps retailers keep track
of and ship inventories goes head-to-head with Amazon. GSI
handles customer service calls and runs retailers’ websites,
competing with  Redwood City , California-based Oracle’s Art
Technology Group. GSI also runs interactive marketing services,
including e-mail campaigns, advertising targeting and analytics,
which are up against  Google Inc. (GOOG)  in  Mountain View ,  California .  EBay said it plans to divest GSI’s licensed sports-
merchandise business, and 70 percent of online-retail sites
ShopRunner and Rue La La, because they aren’t central to its
growth strategy. Michael Rubin, 38, GSI’s founder and CEO, will
head a newly formed holding company with the separated units.  EBay’s drop after the deal was announced was also its
biggest since July. The company will need to invest more money
into GSI to build warehouses and broaden services, said  Colin Gillis , an analyst at BGC Partners LP in New York.  Relative Value  Even with a 53 percent premium over the 20-day trading
average, EBay is paying only 1.5 times sales for GSI. That’s
less than 32 of the 36 U.S.-traded Internet companies with
market values greater than $1 billion, the data show.  GSI hasn’t been able to convert revenue, which grew 35
percent last year to $1.36 billion, into profit in part because
of a 0.7 percent operating margin, which is less than every
large U.S. Internet company except Broomfield, Colorado-based
 Level 3 Communications Inc. (LVLT) , data compiled by Bloomberg show.  “GSI has been a business that’s had inconsistent operating
efficiency over the course of the last several years,” said
 Jordan Rohan , an analyst at Stifel Nicolaus & Co. in New York.  EBay forecasts that revenue from the GSI businesses that
it’s keeping will increase to as much as $1.3 billion in 2013
from $900 million in 2010. The deal will reduce EBay’s 2011
earnings by as much as 34 cents a share, the company said.  ‘Massive Home Run’  The Ebitda margin for the GSI units being folded into EBay
is projected to increase to as high as 21 percent from about 15
percent, EBay told analysts on a conference call this week.
That’s still lower than the approximately 40 percent margin for
the EBay marketplace, which doesn’t include PayPal.  PayPal will double its revenue to as much as $7 billion by
2013 and become EBay’s biggest business in three to five years,
PayPal President Scott Thompson said last month at a meeting
with analysts.  Even though the deal was “expensive,” PayPal ended up
being “a massive home run,” for EBay, said BGC’s Gillis.  EBay says the equity value of the GSI deal is about $2.4
billion, including options, restricted stock and convertible
notes and shares of GSI’s recently acquired Fanatics business.  GSI has until May 6 to solicit other proposals during a so-
called go-shop period that gives EBay the right to match any
superior offer. Suitors may include Amazon or Alibaba Group
Holding Ltd., the parent of Hangzhou, China-based  Alibaba.com
Ltd. (1688) , said Sandeep Aggarwal, an analyst at Caris & Co. in  San
Francisco .  ‘Hear Some Noise’  “We’ll hear some noise related to other bidders, but at
the end of the day I’d imagine EBay is the winning bid,”
Stifel’s Rohan said.  Representatives for Amazon and Alibaba didn’t respond to
requests for comment.  EBay had $6.6 billion in cash and equivalents versus $1.79
billion in borrowings at the end of December, data compiled by
Bloomberg show. Bob Swan, EBay’s chief financial officer, said
in a conference call that the company intends to use its U.S.-
based cash and issue commercial paper, or unsecured debt with a
maturity of nine months or less, to fund the purchase.  The company is rated A2L, the fourth-highest investment
grade, according to Bloomberg’s Company Credit Ratings, which
analyze borrowers based on indebtedness, profitability and other
financial ratios. Doubling its short-term debt to $600 million
would lower EBay’s rating by one level to A1H, the data show.  “Will EBay be able to take advantage of the acquisition
and turn it into real profitable growth?” said Rob Plaza, an
analyst at the private-banking unit of KeyCorp in  Cleveland ,
which oversees $25 billion. “Are they going to be able to
compete against Amazon? That’s a pretty tall order for almost
any company.”  Overall, there have been 5,745 deals announced globally
this year, totaling $569.1 billion, a 23 percent increase from
the $463.9 billion in the same period in 2010, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joseph Galante in San Francisco at 
 jgalante3@bloomberg.net ;
Rita Nazareth in New York at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Daniel Hauck at   dhauck1@bloomberg.net ;
Katherine Snyder at   ksnyder@bloomberg.net ;
 Tom Giles  at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net . 