-- 
EDF Must Improve Reactor Maintenance, Nuclear Regulator Says

-- B y   T a r a   P a t e l
-- 
2011-03-30T13:43:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-30/edf-must-improve-reactor-maintenance-nuclear-regulator-says.html
Electricite de  France  SA, operator
of the country’s 58 nuclear reactors, needs to improve
maintenance at installations and oversight of contractors at the
plants, the atomic regulator said.  “No one can guarantee that there will never be a nuclear
accident in France,” Andre-Claude Lacoste, head of the
country’s  Autorite de Surete Nucleaire , told a parliamentary
commission today. Overall, EDF’s safety record in 2010 was
“fairly satisfactory,” according to the watchdog’s annual
report on atomic safety.  EDF needs to “better anticipate” the requirements of
maintaining reactors and replacing parts, failure of which
resulted in a prolonged halt at one reactor, the ASN said.  EDF’s 58 reactors make it the world’s largest generator of
nuclear power and attention to safety has increased after
 Japan ’s biggest recorded earthquake caused the worst atomic
accident since Chernobyl. The European Union has pledged
“stress tests” on all the region’s 143 reactors and French
Prime Minister Francois Fillon has asked the safety watchdog to
publish the first conclusions by year-end.  The “power struggle” between EDF and the ASN “is what
creates safety,” French deputy Claude Birraux said after the
hearing.  ‘Certain Problems’  “EDF has not sufficiently anticipated certain problems
that are now forcing it to carry out delicate corrective
maintenance operations on a large scale on steam generators in
order to ensure safety,” the report said.  The state-controlled utility failed to provide safety
assurances quickly enough to the watchdog on degradation of a
steam generator at Unit 3 at Bugey, leading to a 20-month halt
of the reactor until the equipment was replaced, the ASN said.  “The most powerful weapon we have is to close a reactor,”
Lacoste said. “Some discussions with EDF are difficult and one
of those was Bugey but we didn’t have to use the extreme
weapon.”  The regulator also said EDF’s oversight of some 20,000
subcontractors needs to be “quickly improved and reinforced.”  “There is progress to be made,” Lacoste said at the
hearing. “It’s extremely complicated and extremely important.”  The safety rating at four nuclear plants -- Saint-Alban,
Chinon, Chooz and Nogent-Sur-Seine -- fell in 2010 compared with
the previous year, the ASN said. Five plants improved: Bugey,
Penly, Tricastin, Civaux and Golfech.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tara Patel in Paris at 
 tpatel2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  