-- 
Mediaset, DMT Discuss Merger of Broadcast and Telecom Towers

-- B y   E l i s a   M a r t i n u z z i   a n d   C h i a r a   R e m o n d i n i
-- 
2011-03-30T15:49:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-30/mediaset-dmt-discussing-merger-of-their-broadcast-telecom-towers-units.html
Mediaset SpA (MS) , the television
company controlled by Italian Prime Minister  Silvio Berlusconi ,
is in exclusive talks with  Digital Multimedia Technologies SpA (DMT) 
to merge their broadcast and telecommunications towers.  The transaction would create a separate Mediaset unit that
would be merged into DMT, the companies said in a joint stock-
exchange statement today. DMT’s shares will continue to be
traded in Milan and Mediaset will control 60 percent of the
combined assets.  “A deal would strengthen Mediaset’s position in the tower
sector and expand its reach in digital terrestrial,” said
Patrizio Pazzaglia, a money manager at Bank Insinger de Beaufort
NV in  Rome . “Controlling infrastructure is becoming more and
more important and it’s positive they’re diversifying from
advertising and content.”  DMT said in December it was reviewing options including
splitting the business into three parts: telecommunications
towers, broadcast towers and real estate. DMT has a 24 percent
share of the Italian broadcast tower market, with about 1,100
towers, according to UniCredit SpA analysts. Combined with
Mediaset, it would rival Rai Way SpA, the current leader with a
42 percent share.  The deal values DMT’s business at 14 times earnings before
interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization for 2011,
according to the statement. The talks will remain exclusive
through June 30 and reaching a final agreement is subject to
Mediaset being exempt from bidding for the remainder of DMT.  Italian law requires companies to bid for the rest when
they purchase a stake of 30 percent or more.  DMT shares rose 16 percent, or 2.9 euros, to 21.5 euros in
Milan after being suspended for part of the session. That’s the
biggest gain in 10 months, giving the company a market value of
243 million euros ($343 million). Mediaset gained 1.7 percent,
or 7.4 cents, to 4.51 euros.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  