-- 
Egypt Ruling Council Issues Interim Constitution, Sees Election This Year

-- B y   M a r i a m   F a m
-- 
2011-03-30T22:34:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-30/egypt-ruling-council-issues-interim-constitution-sees-election-this-year.html
Egypt ’s ruling military council
issued a decree establishing an interim constitution to guide
the country until a permanent document is drafted and said the
first presidential elections after the ouster of President  Hosni Mubarak  will be held in October or November.  The interim measure, announced today by Major General
Mamdouh Shahine, a member of the ruling military council,
replaces the basic law that was suspended after the Feb. 11
ouster of Mubarak. The council will transfer some of its powers
to a new parliament when elected and more of its authority to a
president chosen by the people, Shahine said.  “The Supreme Council of the Armed Forces will continue to
carry out its duties, as outlined in this decree, until a new
parliament is elected,” he told reporters in Cairo. “Then the
new parliament will take powers including legislation. When a
new president is elected, he will take over the remaining powers
of the Supreme Council of the Armed Forces.”  Shahine said on March 28 that a parliamentary vote would be
held in September and that the military council would rule until
a president was elected. The presidential vote would be held a
month or two after the legislative one, he said today. Under the
decree, the council’s powers include passing laws, approving the
budget and the general policies of the country and signing
international treaties, he said.  Protesters Unsatisfied  “Why didn’t the army put all the articles in the
constitutional decree to a referendum?” Emad Gad, an analyst at
the Al-Ahram Center for Political and Strategic Studies in
Cairo, said in a phone interview.  Today’s announcement is the latest addition to a timetable
that some protesters have said is rushed and could let
established forces, such as the Muslim Brotherhood, the largest
opposition group under Mubarak, and members of Mubarak’s former
ruling party, dominate a new parliament.  “Time is very tight,” said Khaled el-Sayed, a member of
an alliance of groups that led the revolt that toppled Mubarak.
“The young forces behind the revolution haven’t yet been able
to organize themselves into parties and organizations.”  The transition to civilian rule, others say, will lead to
stability and end turmoil that has hurt the economy, with growth
slowing, many tourists staying away and factory output hit by
strikes.  Both chambers of the new parliament will elect a
constituent assembly that will draft a constitution which would
then be put to a referendum, Shahine said. “This is one of the
most democratic methods in the world,” Shahine said.  Election Oversight  The 62-article constitution enacts changes approved by
voters in a March 19 referendum. These include presidential  term
limits , wider judicial oversight of elections and fewer
restrictions on presidential candidates. Opponents say the
changes don’t go far enough in advancing democracy.  The document preserves a constitutional article stating
that Islam is the state’s religion and the “principles of the
Islamic Sharia are the primary source of legislation.” No
political parties could be established on “religious basis,”
the decree says.  The decree also keeps a quota that allocates 50 percent of
parliament’s seats to “workers and peasants.” Prominent
businessman  Naguib Sawiris  called the quota
“unconstitutional,” in comments carried by state TV.  The military has had interim authority since Mubarak ceded
power after weeks of protests by demonstrators demanding
political freedoms and an end to his rule.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mariam Fam in Cairo at 
 mfam1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 