-- 
Emerging Borrowers Raising $197 Billion in Busiest Start

-- B y   J a s o n   W e b b   a n d   L i l i a n   K a r u n u n g a n
-- 
2011-03-31T12:27:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-30/emerging-market-borrowers-raise-191-billion-as-turkey-leads-busiest-start.html
Emerging-market borrowers completed
the busiest ever start to a year, selling $197 billion of bonds
on international markets to secure funding while interest rates
in the U.S. and  Europe  stay at all-time lows.  Governments from Turkey to  Hungary  and companies including
Banco do Brasil SA boosted offerings above last year’s record
for a first quarter by $25 billion, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg from 1999. With developing economies growing more
than twice as fast as advanced nations, issuers such as Braskem
SA and United Microelectronics Corp. said they plan further bond
sales to raise at least $11.5 billion.  “This is a pretty good time to be borrowing, absolute
rates are low and prospectively rates are going up,”  Ian McCall , who helps oversee about $500 million of emerging-market
debt as a director at Argo Capital Management Ltd. in London,
said in a phone interview. “So if you’re thinking of borrowing
at some point in say the first three quarters of this year,
you’d probably want to frontload that.”  Sales are surging after near-zero global interest rates and
the  Federal Reserve ’s quantitative easing fueled the biggest
investor flows to emerging-market debt on record in 2010, based
on data from EPFR Global. Turkey sold $1 billion of 30-year
bonds on Jan. 5 at its lowest yield for the maturity, at 6.25
percent. Hungary, the European Union’s most-indebted eastern
member, met about 67 percent of its annual bond issuance target
on March 24 by raising $3.75 billion in its largest foreign debt
sale.  ‘Pretty Good’  The Fed should review whether to wind down its second round
of quantitative easing, the policy of buying Treasuries dubbed
“QE2,” because “the economy is looking pretty good,” Fed
Bank of St. Louis President  James Bullard  said on March 26. An
end to the stimulus measure would be a move toward a policy of
monetary tightening that would eventually include raising
 interest rates , Bullard said.  The yield on two-year U.S. Treasuries has risen to 0.79
percent from 0.33 percent on Nov. 4, the lowest since the
Bloomberg data series began in 1976, amid signs the  U.S. economy 
is recovering. Gross domestic product grew 3.1 percent in the
fourth quarter, the Commerce Department said March 25. Growth
for the period was estimated at 2.8 percent a month earlier.  European Central Bank President  Jean-Claude Trichet  said on
March 3 that “an increase of interest rates” was “possible”
when policy makers next meet in April. The bank kept its
benchmark rate at a record-low 1 percent.  India Railway  “It’s great for these guys to get their bonds out the door
today rather than later so they can lock in the Treasury
yield,”  Scott Bennett , the head of Asian credit at Aberdeen
Asset Management Plc, which oversees $287 billion globally, said
in a phone interview from  Singapore  yesterday. Bennett said he
subscribed to a $200 million bond sale by India Railway Finance
Corp. Ltd. this week.  Sales of developing-nation debt in all of 2010 reached an
all-time high of $710 billion, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  The pace of  government borrowing  may slow as debt costs
increase and the recovery in developing economies cuts the need
to finance deficits, said Rajeev de Mello, who helps oversee
$454 billion as head of Asian investment in Singapore at Western
Asset Management Co., the Pasadena, California-based fixed-come
unit of Legg Mason Inc.  Ruble Sale  Russia has no need to borrow internationally after higher
 oil prices  boosted government revenue, Deputy Finance Minister
 Dmitry Pankin  said in an interview in Moscow on March 16. The
government raised 40 billion rubles ($1.4 billion) in its first
international sale of debt in its own currency on Feb. 24.  The  Philippines , which sold $1.5 billion of 15-year dollar
debt on March 22, had its second  budget surplus  in three months
in January as spending fell, tax collection beat targets and
dividends from state agencies boosted revenue, the government
said on March 15. Improving finances in the Philippines should
reduce its borrowing needs, de Mello said.  “Issuance won’t be going up all that much,” de Mello
said. “The sovereigns are getting higher-than-expected
revenue.”  Developing nation yields, which fell to a low of 5.3
percent in November, climbed to 6.3 percent on March 29 as Fed
policy makers weigh the first steps toward monetary tightening,
JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s EMBI indexes show.  The yield on  Turkey ’s 30-year bonds has risen to 6.5
percent since the January sale. Turkey is rated Ba2 by Moody’s
Investors Service, the second-highest junk rating.  Hungary could have sold triple the amount based on the
orders received, according to an e-mailed statement from AKK,
the debt management agency.  Brazil Bank  Banco do Brasil, Latin America’s biggest lender by assets,
issued 750 million euros ($1.06 billion) of bonds due 2016 in
January. The yield has risen 37 basis points since it first
traded to 4.8 percent today. The Brasilia-based lender’s yield
is still lower than London-based Lloyds Banking Group Plc,
Britain’s biggest mortgage lender, whose euro-denominated bonds
due in 2014 and first sold in 2002 yielded 5 percent today.  Both banks are rated Baa2 by Moody’s, its second-lowest
investment-grade ranking.  Mutual funds seeking higher yields plowed $53 billion into
developing-nation debt in 2010, more than any other year on
record, according to Cambridge, Massachusetts-based EPFR.  Yields on emerging-market company bonds have climbed 45
basis points to 5.8 percent from the low on Nov. 5, according to
the JPMorgan’s Corporate EMBI Index.  Emerging-market economies will probably grow 6.1 percent
this year, compared with 2.6 percent expansion for developed
nations, according to the  International Monetary Fund .  Tax Receipts  While growth will boost government tax receipts, companies
will keep tapping the  debt market  to finance expansion,
according to Stephen Chang, head of Asian fixed income in  Hong
Kong  at JPMorgan Asset Management, which oversees $1.3 trillion
worldwide.  “Corporate issuance should increase as a function of the
economic growth picture in emerging markets and the
corresponding credit growth,” Chang wrote in an e-mailed
response to questions on March 25.  Braskem, Latin America’s largest petrochemicals producer,
may sell 10-year bonds overseas over the next three months,
Chief Financial Officer Marcela Drehmer said on March 22. The
company, which has the highest junk rating at Ba1 from Moody’s,
more than doubled its annual profit to 1.9 billion reais ($1.1
billion) last year.  Strong Issuance  Taiwan-based United Microelectronics, the world’s second-
largest contract maker of chips, said on March 16 it planned to
sell as much as $500 million of five-year convertible bonds
overseas to buy equipment. Sales rose 43 percent in dollar terms
in 2010, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “Issuance will continue to be quite strong,” Vladimir Gersamia, who helps manage $2 billion at Threadneedle Asset
Management in  London , said in a phone interview on March 23.
“The structural theme of emerging markets is developing and
these companies growing, I don’t think it will slow.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jason Webb in London at 
 jwebb25@bloomberg.net ;
Lilian Karunungan in Singapore at 
 lkarunungan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  