-- 
Imperial Vase, Lafite Lure Millionaires to $310 Million Sale

-- B y   F r e d e r i k   B a l f o u r
-- 
2011-03-31T05:13:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-30/emperor-s-vase-lafite-lure-millionaires-to-8-day-310-million-china-sale.html
China’s growing ranks of
millionaires are set to buoy sales at  Sotheby’s (BID)  spring auction
in Hong Kong as collectors seek Qing Dynasty porcelain, Chateau
Lafite wines and multi-million-dollar paintings.  The event may bring in as much as HK$2.4 billion ($310
million), said the New York-based auction house. The eight-day
marathon, from tomorrow to April 8, features two private
European collections of ceramics and contemporary art, including
an 18th-century Chinese vase worth more than $23 million.  “The rarest, most important and finest work is this
Falangcai vase,” Giuseppe Eskenazi, one of the world’s foremost
Chinese art dealers, said. “This is good if not finer than
what’s in the Beijing Palace Museum as well as in  Taiwan  in the
 National Palace Museum .”  Hong Kong’s first major sale of the year will show that
rising wealth in  China  is continuing to drive demand, dealers
said. It has 3,600 lots, about 1,000 more than last April’s
auction in the city, which took a record HK$2.29 billion and
revived prices in most categories to pre-credit-crisis levels.
China overtook the U.S. as the world’s biggest auction market
for fine art last year, according to research company  Artprice ,
benefiting from the support of its government in Beijing.  The “Golden Pheasant” vase was one of the personal
objects belonging to the Qianlong emperor. It goes on sale on
April 7 as the highlight of the Meiyintang collection of 80
works that is estimated to fetch as much as HK$940 million.  Zuellig’s Collection  Meiyintang, which means hall among rose beds, contains 450
items assembled over the past six decades by Stephen Zuellig, a
Swiss businessman whose family made its fortune distributing
pharmaceuticals.  His collection provides an overview of the history of
Chinese ceramics from their origins in the Neolithic period to
the end of China’s Imperial reign in the Qing dynasty in 1911.
The lots represent about 25 percent of the collection, said
Eskenazi, who helped select the pieces for auction.  The demand for Qianlong artworks was shown on March 22 when
a vase with a Qianlong stamp sold in  New York  for $18 million.
On March 26, a scroll painting fetched 22.1 million euros ($31
million) in  France . In November, a Qianlong vase fetched 51.6
million pounds (then $83.2 million) at a Bainbridges sale on the
outskirts of  London .  On April 3, an evening auction will offer 106 works of
Chinese contemporary art from Guy Ullens, founder of Beijing’s
largest private art museum, estimated to raise $16.7 million.  Zhang Xiaogang   “This is a landmark sale with works by leading figures,
including Zhang Xiaogang, Zeng Fanzhi and Liu Xiaodong,” said
Magnus Renfrew, director of Hong Kong International  Art Fair .  Xiaogang’s triptych “Forever Lasting Love” is estimated
to fetch as much as $3.8 million.  Not everyone is happy about the Ullens sale.  “This is an important collection and it is a shame it is
being broken up,” said Claire Hsu, executive director of  Asia
Art Archive  in  Hong Kong . “It belongs in a public museum.”  The growing ranks of Chinese cork sniffers are expected to
lift prices at wine sales from April 1-3. Hong Kong eclipsed the
U.S. in 2010 as the No. 1 wine auction market, based on research
by the  Wine Spectator Magazine . Sales in the former U.K. colony
were $165 million, 40 percent of the global total.  “There’s an auction fever that is almost contagious,”
said Jeannie Cho Lee, a  Master of Wine . “The buyers are more
and more mainland Chinese. Iconic brands seem to sell better
because brand is especially important where there is a culture
of giving and the importance of face.”  Bordeaux, Burgundies  Mainland buyers are particularly keen on the best-known
estates including Bordeaux from Chateau Lafite. Among
Burgundies, a case of Romanee Conti 1990 may fetch $240,000.  Other sales include Chinese scroll paintings, jewelry,
watches, and for the first time, an auction of works to raise
money and awareness for  Clean Air Network , a non-governmental
organization focusing on Hong Kong’s air quality.  It features about 40 artworks -- including a pair of
diseased lungs made of fiberglass, rice and car paint --
displayed alongside “shocking facts about air pollution and
health,” CAN’s Chief Executive Joanne Ooi said.  China had 447,000 millionaires in 2009, a 31 percent
increase from the year before, according to a  report  by
Capgemini SA and Merrill Lynch & Co., ranking it behind the
U.S.,  Japan  and  Germany .  Buyer’s premium, the commission added to the hammer price
of works sold, is 25 percent for the first HK$400,000, 20
percent for lots fetching as much as HK$8 million, and 12
percent above that. The wine premium is a flat 21 percent.  Potential buyers who aren’t represented at the  Hong Kong
Convention and Exhibition Centre  sale can bid via Sotheby’s
 online bidding system .  To contact the writer on the story:
Frederik Balfour in Hong Kong at 
 fbalfour@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 