-- 
Merrill Lynch, Bank of America Win Dismissal of Race, Gender-Bias Lawsuit

-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 
2011-03-30T19:58:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-30/merrill-lynch-bofa-win-dismissal-of-race-sex-bias-lawsuit.html
Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  and Merrill
Lynch & Co. won dismissal of a lawsuit by black financial
advisers that accused them of devising a discriminatory
retention bonus plan after the bank announced a proposal to buy
the securities firm in 2008.  U.S. District Judge Robert Gettleman in  Chicago  yesterday
threw out the case, the second race-related suit filed against
Merrill in the name of Nashville broker George McReynolds.  He is lead plaintiff in a 2005 case claiming the New York-
based securities firm, bought by Bank of America in 2009,
discriminated nationally against African-Americans, suppressing
their ability to economically compete with white colleagues.  “Knowledge of past and even present discrimination
alone,” doesn’t make it “plausible” that the defendants
adopted the retention bonus plan with discriminatory intent, the
judge said. “A remedy lies in challenging those other
violations directly.”  Gettleman specifically exonerated the  Charlotte , North
Carolina-based Bank of America, saying there were “simply no
facts in the complaint” to suggest the lender ever
discriminated against African-Americans.  The largest U.S. lender by assets acquired Merrill Lynch
for $33 billion in an all-stock transaction that closed in
January 2009.  Challenge Rulings  “We have no intention of letting this company escape
liability,” plaintiffs’ attorney Linda Friedman, who filed both
cases, said in a telephone interview today. She said it is too
soon to know whether the dismissed claims will be pursued on
appeal or in the older McReynolds case.  Friedman is seeking U.S. appeals court permission to
challenge rulings in the first case denying the brokers’ ability
to sue as a group. If that denial stands, the more than 200
brokers comprising the class may pursue their claims
individually, she said.  “We’re pleased with the court’s decision,”  Bill Halldin ,
a spokesman for both companies, said in a phone interview.  The dismissed case is McReynolds v. Merrill Lynch & Co.,
08cv6105, U.S. District Court, Northern District of  Illinois 
(Chicago). The pending case is McReynolds v. Merrill Lynch &
Co., 05cv6583, U.S. District Court, Northern District of
Illinois (Chicago).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Harris in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 