-- 
Terror Intelligence Lacking 10 Years After 9/11, Chairmen Say

-- B y   J e f f   B l i s s
-- 
2011-03-30T14:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-30/terror-intelligence-lacking-10-years-after-9-11-chairmen-say.html
U.S. intelligence agencies still
haven’t completed their transformation into an effective
counterterrorism operation almost 10 years after the Sept. 11
strikes, the co-chairmen of a commission that investigated the
attacks said.  The  Federal Bureau of Investigation  is struggling to
balance its intelligence and crime-fighting responsibilities,
said Thomas Kean and Lee Hamilton, the former co-chairmen, in a
joint statement to a Senate panel.  The  director of national intelligence  doesn’t wield enough
power to oversee operations, according to Kean, a former
Republican governor of  New Jersey , and former U.S.
Representative Hamilton, an Indiana Democrat.  The U.S. needs “a clear-eyed appraisal of how the office
of the DNI is functioning, as well as the state of reform in the
FBI,” they told the Senate  Homeland Security  and Government
Affairs  Committee  in  Washington  today. “We have concerns about
each, and our goal should be to strengthen both.”  Still, the FBI,  Central Intelligence Agency  and other
government organizations have made progress and are
communicating better with each other since the 2001 attacks that
killed almost 3,000 people, Kean and Hamilton said. The U.S. is
safer as a result, forcing al-Qaeda to mount smaller, less
deadly strikes, they said.  Further Changes  Without further changes, the U.S. won’t be able to counter
the latest threats from terrorists, such as the “alarming”
conversion of some U.S. residents into militants through blogs
and other Internet content, Kean and Hamilton said.  The DNI’s ability to unify intelligence operations could be
bolstered by legislation clarifying the agency’s oversight of
budget and employees, they said.  While the FBI has been successful at bolstering its
intelligence capabilities, it isn’t clear “that analysts within
the FBI are the drivers of intelligence that they ought to be,”
they said.  The FBI’s increased focus on terrorism also “may have
diminished the bureau’s ability to vigorously enforce the
criminal law and to investigate complex crimes,” Kean and
Hamilton said.  Ten years after muddled radio communications between New
York firefighters and police officers added to the confusion
before the World Trade Center towers fell, first responders
don’t have the necessary radio spectrum, they said.  ‘Unacceptable’ Response  “To date, this recommendation” of the commission
“languishes,” according to the statement. “We find this
unacceptable because quite literally lives are at stake.”  Kean and Hamilton backed President  Barack Obama ’s call for
allocating a swath of the spectrum, known as the D Block, to
public safety.  AT&T Inc. (T)  and  Verizon Communications Inc. (VZ)  also
support Obama’s plan.  House Republicans , T-Mobile USA Inc., a  Deutsche Telekom AG (DTE) 
unit and  Sprint Nextel Corp. (S)  have said the airwaves should be
sold to foster competition by successful bidders who would use
the frequencies to offer services to first responders and
consumers. AT&T has agreed to acquire T-Mobile.  The  Transportation Security Administration  also hasn’t
installed body-scanning machines that can detect explosives
“hidden within the body,” Kean and Hamilton said.  Falling Short  “Despite 10 years of working on the problem, the system
still falls short in critical ways,” they said.  Immigration officials have failed to head off terrorist
suspects before attempted attacks, including Umar Farouk Abdulmutallab, who had a valid U.S. visa before he boarded a
Northwest flight on Christmas Day 2009 allegedly to blow it up,
they said.  “While our government has made improvements, worrisome
vulnerabilities remain,” their statement said.  The U.S. also has failed to activate a government-wide
panel on privacy and civil liberties, they said.  “If we were issuing grades, the implementation of this
recommendation would receive a failing mark,” Kean and Hamilton
said. 