-- 
Estonia Banks May Cut Fees on Card Payments to Placate Watchdog

-- B y   O t t   U m m e l a s
-- 
2011-03-30T07:27:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-30/estonia-banks-may-cut-fees-on-card-payments-to-placate-watchdog.html
Estonian lenders, including local
units of  Swedbank AB (SWEDA)  and SEB AB, may cut fees on card payments,
in line with the competition watchdog, after banks in
neighboring Latvia were fined for operating a price cartel.  The banks have started talks to reduce commissions they
charge from each other on card payments in case the merchant
that receives a card payment is served by a different bank than
the one that issued the card, officials from Swedbank and SEB
said in e-mailed statements yesterday.  Estonia’s Competition Board said on March 22 the banks
need to accelerate the reduction of such commissions, which make
up a “significant” part of service fees charged from the
merchants and affect mark-ups by the merchants.  The Estonian system is based on bilateral agreements
between the banks as opposed to more common multilateral
agreements such as in  Latvia . Still, the watchdog is “not
fully” convinced the Estonian practice, similar to one in
Sweden, significantly improves the competitive situation, it
said then. The board is due to give its final opinion after the
banks have agreed on new fees.  Latvia’s Competition Council fined 22 lenders about 5.5
million lati ($11 million) for colluding on the price for bank-
card transactions and the use of automated teller machines, it
said in a statement on March 18.  The rising share of card payments in Estonia reduces the
cost for each transaction, which allows interbank commissions to
be reduced and, in turn, lower the fees charged from merchants,
Ulla Ilisson, the head of Estonian retail banking unit at
Swedbank, said in a statement late yesterday.  Falling Fees  Card-transaction fees have declined by more than 30 percent
over the last five years, she said, citing the local banking
association. Swedbank is working on lowering maintenance costs
for the card payment system and prices for merchants, she said.  SEB wants other lenders to consider subsidizing card
payments as lower cash circulation benefits the whole society,
Eerika Vaikmaee-Koit, the head of Estonian retail banking and
technology at SEB, said in an e-mail. SEB will reduce its
monthly fees on card terminals for small entrepreneurs to 5
euros from 27 euros, she said.  Estonians made 47 percent of all payments via debit or
credit cards last year, compared with about 70 percent in
Finland and  Sweden , according to Swedbank.  The banks charge merchants 1-1.5 percent on card
transactions and “even more” on Amex card payments, Marika
Merilai, the managing head of Estonian Merchants’ Association
said on March 22. Such fees “aren’t objective and severely
restrict competition in retail,” she said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ott Ummelas in Tallinn at 
 oummelas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Willy Morris at 
 wmorris@bloomberg.net  