-- 
Ethiopia Plans to Build New Hydropower Plant to Generate 5,250 Megawatts

-- B y   W i l l i a m   D a v i s o n
-- 
2011-03-30T15:45:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-30/ethiopia-plans-to-build-new-hydropower-plant-to-generate-5-250-megawatts.html
Ethiopia  will build a new
hydropower plant in the Nile River basin that will generate
5,250 megawatts of electricity, Water and Energy Minister
Alemayehu Tegenu said.  The facility, known as the Grand Millennium Dam of
Ethiopia, will be built at a cost of 80 billion birr ($4.76
billion), Alemayehu told reporters today in Addis Ababa, the
capital. The plant will be situated in the Benishangul-Gumuz
region near the border with Sudan, he said.  The project will be funded by Ethiopia, partly through the
sale of  government bonds , and the Horn of Africa nation’s
international partners, Alemayehu said.  “The Ethiopian government is ready and determined to
complete the project with or without foreign grants or loans,”
he said. No further details on financing or who will build the
plant were provided.  Ethiopia has the second-largest hydropower potential in
 Africa , after the Democratic Republic of Congo, according to the
 World Bank . The country plans to increase its electricity
capacity fivefold to 10,000 megawatts over the next five years,
Alemayehu said.  Some of the power produced by the plant will be exported to
neighboring Sudan and  Egypt , he said. Last month, Burundi became
the sixth nation to sign an agreement on usage of water from the
Nile River, enabling ratification of an accord that may strip
Egypt of its veto power over projects that tap the world’s
longest river.  Egypt and Sudan will benefit more from irrigation from the
reservoir than Ethiopia, according to Alemayehu.  “The dam will doubtlessly benefit all the riparian
countries involved, with disadvantage to none,” he said.  Egypt has not been consulted on the project, Egyptian
Embassy spokesman Mostafa Ahmady said in an interview today from
 Addis Ababa .  To contact the reporter on this story:
William Davison in Addis Ababa at 
 wdavison3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Richardson at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net  