-- 
Europe Commodity Day Ahead: Sushi Purchases From Japan Canceled

-- B y   G l e n y s   S i m
-- 
2011-03-30T06:19:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-30/europe-commodity-day-ahead-sushi-purchases-from-japan-canceled.html
The following are the top stories
on metals, agriculture and shipping.  
EXCLUSIVES:
Sushi Purchases From Japan Canceled Amid Radiation Concerns  Exports of Japanese seafood have been canceled by foreign
buyers on concern that the products may have been contaminated
by radiation leaking from the crippled Fukushima nuclear plant,
a government official said.  New Zealand  Log Exports to Japan May Climb on Quake Rebuild  Log and lumber shipments from New Zealand to Japan may
increase as the country starts to rebuild towns along its
northeastern coast that were destroyed or damaged by this
month’s record earthquake and tsunami.  INDUSTRIAL METALS:
Copper Heads for Quarterly Decline on Speculation Demand to Slow  Copper in  London  declined on speculation global economic
growth may slow after Japan’s worst earthquake on record and
China’s monetary tightening measures this year raised concern
that demand may weaken.  Chinese Aluminum Products Face U.S. Duties Criticized by Embassy  The U.S. Commerce Department imposed dumping and subsidy
duties on $503 million of aluminum products imported from  China ,
a step the Chinese embassy said was “unwelcome” and may harm
trading relations.  Shanghai Futures Exchange, Dalian May Cut Margin Requirements  The Shanghai Futures Exchange, China’s biggest futures
market by turnover, and the  Dalian Commodity Exchange  may reduce
margin requirements on some contracts from next month, according
to separate statements.  MINING:
Lundin Ends Inmet Deal, Adopts ‘Poison Pill’ to Thwart Equinox  Lundin Mining Corp., target of a C$4.3 billion ($4.4
billion) unsolicited cash-and-stock takeover offer from Equinox
Minerals Ltd., will seek alternate bids after ending an agreed
rival deal with Inmet Mining Corp.  BHP Says Has Progressed to Feasibility Study at Olympic Dam  BHP Billiton Ltd. has progressed to a feasibility study at
Olympic Dam and expects a final decision on the project from
state and federal governments in the second half of the year,
according to an e-mailed statement.  PRECIOUS METALS:
Gold Declines on Speculation U.S. May Pare Stimulus on Recovery  Gold fell for a fifth straight day, set for the worst run
since January, on speculation that the U.S. may tighten monetary
policy, possibly paring a stimulus program that has contributed
to the metal’s surge to a record.  AGRICULTURE:
Rubber Production Loss in Thai Floods Estimated at 20,000 Tons  The flooding in southern  Thailand  has caused a loss in
rubber production of 20,000 metric tons in the past seven days,
said Luckchai Kittipol, president of the Thai Rubber Association.
The country’s rubber production totaled more than 3 million tons
in 2010, he said in a phone interview.  Wheat May Advance as Dry Weather Threatens to Curb U.S. Yields  Wheat futures may gain as dry weather persisted in some
growing areas of the U.S., continuing to stress the crop in the
world’s largest shipper.  Rubber Climbs for Second Day as Thailand Floods May Cut Output  Rubber futures climbed for a second day as floods in the
south of Thailand fueled concern that supplies will tighten.  Palm Oil  Gains on Concern U.S. Farmers May Cut Soybean Planting  Palm oil rose on speculation U.S. farmers may plant fewer
soybeans, reducing output of the crop used to make a rival
cooking oil.  Cocoa Arrivals From  Brazil ’s Bahia Region Decline, Hartmann Says  Cocoa arrivals from Bahia, Brazil’s biggest growing region,
declined 34 percent from a week earlier, according to analyst
 Thomas Hartmann .  Cotton Arrivals in  India  Increase 2.3% to 26.4 Million Bales  Cotton sales by growers in India, the second-biggest
producer, climbed 2.3 percent in the season that began Oct. 1,
according to the nation’s biggest buyer.  SHIPPING:
China Cosco Expects 32% Bulk-Cargo Slump on Global Overcapacity  China Cosco Holdings Co., Asia’s largest shipping company
by market value, forecast a 32 percent drop in dry-bulk traffic
this year as expansion in the global fleet outpaces demand.  Japan  Ports Still Open to World’s Biggest Supertanker Operator  Frontline Ltd., the world’s biggest operator of
supertankers, said it will still travel to the ports of Tokyo
Bay, joining other shipping companies in judging the area to be
safe for crew and vessels.  ECONOMIES:
Japan’s Industrial Production Increases Before Earthquake  Japan’s industrial production unexpectedly rose in February,
another sign that the economy was recovering before the nation’s
strongest earthquake this month shut factories and caused power
shortages.  G-20 Criticism of Fed Easing May Be Muted at China Meeting  Group of 20 leaders may limit criticism of the  Federal
Reserve  for flooding the world with money when they meet in
China as  Europe ’s debt crisis and Japan’s disaster take
precedence.  Sri Lankan Growth Quickens to Three-Decade High After War Ends  Sri Lanka ’s economy expanded at the fastest pace in more
than three decades as the end of a 26-year civil war in May 2009
boosted consumer demand and investment.  Taiwan May Raise Key Rate as  Asia  Strives to Curb Inflation  Taiwan will probably increase borrowing costs for a fourth
straight quarter tomorrow, becoming the eighth Asian economy to
tighten monetary policy this month as the region fights price
pressures.  OTHER MARKETS:
Oil Falls as Rising U.S. Stockpiles May Signal Faltering Demand  Oil declined in  New York  as signs of rising U.S. crude
supplies stoked speculation demand may falter in the world’s
biggest consumer of the commodity.  Asian Stocks Rise on Growth Outlook, Japanese Factory Restarts  Asian stocks rose, driving the regional benchmark index
toward its highest level since the March 11 earthquake in Japan,
as Japanese companies began resuming production and those in
China reported earnings that beat estimates.  Aussie Rises to Record, Gains Versus Yen on Growth Prospects  Australia ’s dollar rose to the strongest against the
greenback since it was freely floated in 1983 and strengthened
versus the yen on prospects global growth will boost demand for
commodities.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  