-- 
European Growth May Weaken, Stalling Hiring Plans, Report Shows

-- B y   S i m o n e   M e i e r
-- 
2011-03-30T12:35:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-30/european-growth-may-weaken-stalling-hiring-plans-report-shows.html
Europe ’s economic growth may weaken
over the coming months, prompting companies to keep hiring plans
on hold, the European Commission said.  “The pace of gross domestic product growth in the European
Union is set to moderate into mid-2011,” the Brussels-based
commission said in its e-mailed quarterly labor report today.
“The outlook for unemployment does not point to any major
improvements in the coming months.”  European companies have been reluctant to add workers as
governments from  Spain  to Ireland toughen austerity measures to
narrow budget gaps. With surging energy costs and the aftermath
of  Japan ’s March 21 earthquake clouding global prospects, growth
may weaken this year, the commission said.  The economy may expand 1.8 percent this year, with “the
expected pace of recovery” remaining “uneven” among the 27 EU
member states, it said. While “ Germany  continues to benefit
from the robust external environment and strong domestic demand
dynamics,” other countries grapple with “significant
adjustment challenges.”  The region’s jobless rate may average 9.5 percent this year
and 9.1 percent in 2012, down from 9.6 percent in 2010, the
commission said. Unemployment declined or stabilized in 18
member states in January, the report showed.  “Confidence on labor markets in the EU has continued to
broadly improve, albeit at a slower pace and with divergences
between member states and sectors,” the commission said. “The
EU economy, although still fragile, is recovering at a slightly
faster pace than previously envisaged, but conditions are set to
remain weak and divergent” across member states.  A gauge of sentiment among euro-region manufacturers held
at 6.6 in March, while companies’ employment expectations jumped
to 8.4 from 6.5, according to a commission report released
earlier today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simone Meier in Zurich at 
 smeier@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  