-- 
European Stocks Climb for Sixth Day; U.S. Index Futures Rise

-- B y   A d r i a   C i m i n o
-- 
2011-03-30T07:21:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-30/european-u-s-stock-index-futures-post-gains-asian-shares-move-higher.html
European stocks advanced for a
sixth day, the longest winning streak since December, amid
speculation the economy is strong enough to overcome Japan’s
nuclear crisis. Asian shares and U.S. index futures climbed.  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP)  led mining companies higher as all 19
industry groups in the Stoxx  Europe  600 Index gained.  Sonova
Holding AG (SOON)  tumbled 5.4 percent as the chief executive officer
and chief financial officer resigned after an investigation into
possible  insider trading  at the Swiss hearing-aid maker.  Dixons
Retail Plc (DXNS)  sank 11 percent after the U.K.’s largest consumer-
electronics retailer said earnings will miss most estimates.  The Stoxx 600 rose 0.7 percent to 278.43 at 8:20 a.m. in
 London , recouping the losses that followed Japan’s March 11
earthquake and tsunami. The benchmark has gained 6.2 percent
since this year’s low on March 16 as investors speculated that
Japan will prevent a meltdown at its damaged nuclear power plant
and the U.S., U.K. and  France  began military action in  Libya .  “The situations in  Japan  and the Middle East aren’t going
to derail the global recovery or markets,” Larry Kantor, head
of research at  Barclays Capital , said on Bloomberg Television’s
“On the Move” with  Francine Lacqua . “Valuations are
attractive, and growth, at least in the northern countries, is
solid. There’s still some upside.”  Asian, U.S. Equities  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index gained 1.4 percent today as
Hitachi Ltd. jumped 8.7 percent after the Nikkei newspaper said
the company’s main plant will resume full operation next month
after the Japanese temblor. Futures on the Standard & Poor’s 500
Index climbed 0.4 percent before a monthly jobs report from ADP
Employer Services.  In Libya, rebels were forced to retreat in the face of
artillery and rocket fire from government troops defending
Sirte, cutting short their advance as foreign ministers from
alliance nations met in London to coordinate strategy for
driving  Muammar Qaddafi  from power.  BHP Billiton , the world’s biggest mining company, advanced
1.8 percent to 2,457 pence.  Vedanta Resources Plc (VED) , the largest
copper producer in  India , rose 1.8 percent to 2,278 pence as
Morgan Stanley said the shares have the potential to gain as
much as 64 percent.  Stora Enso Oyj (STEAV) , Europe’s largest paper maker, gained 1.7
percent to 8.24 euros after Morgan Stanley raised its
recommendation on the stock to “overweight” from “equal
weight.”  Bellway, Sonova  Bellway Plc (BWY)  climbed 1.5 percent to 692.5 pence. The second-
worst performing U.K. homebuilder in the past 12 months said
first-half profit rose to 18.5 million pounds after the company
sold more homes at higher prices.  Sonova plunged 5.4 percent 88.25 Swiss francs after CEO
Valentin Chapero and CFO Oliver Walker tendered their
resignations. An external investigation into share sales by
directors and executives before Sonova reduced its profit
forecast on March 16 “showed weaknesses in internal
processes,” Sonova said in a statement.  Dixons retreated 11 percent to 14.92 pence, the biggest
drop in two months. The retailer said full-year earnings will
miss most analysts’ estimates as sales decline because of
weakening consumer confidence.  Randgold Resources Ltd. (RRS)  slipped 1.6 percent to 4,581 pence.
The producer of the metal in West Africa was initiated with a
“sell” rating at Societe Generale SA. The analysts said
Randgold is their least preferred metals and mining stock.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adria Cimino in Paris at 
 acimino1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at   arummer@bloomberg.net . 