-- 
European Bank Debt Dominates U.S. Money-Market Fund Assets

-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   C o n d o n
-- 
2011-03-30T14:40:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-30/european-bank-debt-dominates-u-s-money-market-fund-assets.html
European banks dominated a list of
top issuers to U.S. prime money-market funds, accounting for 44
percent of assets, according to a report by  Fitch Ratings .  Rabobank Group, based in Utrecht,  Netherlands , was the
biggest issuer, selling 3.4 percent of the funds’ assets as of
the end of February, followed by Paris-based  BNP Paribas (BNP)  SA at
3.2 percent and Societe General SA at 2.4 percent, Fitch said.
No U.S. banks were in the top 10.  "The concentration raises some concerns, but you’ll notice
the money funds haven’t been in Ireland for well over a year or
in  Spain  for months," said  Peter Crane , president of money fund
research firm Crane Data LLC in Westborough, Massachusetts. "By
the time you read about a country in the headlines, the money
funds are usually long gone."  Among European nations, funds had the highest concentration
in debt from French banks at 12 percent, followed by U.K. banks
at 8.6 percent, according to the Fitch report. Funds had no
holdings in Ireland or  Portugal  at the end of February, while
Spanish bank holdings fell to 0.2 percent from 0.5 percent in
December.  Holdings Rise  Money-market fund holdings of European debt have risen from
38 percent of assets since the second half of 2006, Robert Grossman, head of Fitch’s macro credit research team in  New
York , said in an interview. The increase was driven by the
banks’ demand for dollar-based holdings, a drop in the number of
U.S. bank issuers because of the financial crisis and the
decreased supply of U.S. asset-backed commercial paper, he said.  European bank assets in dollars rose to more than $8
trillion in 2008 from $2 trillion 1999, according to the Bank
for International Settlements.  European banks’ reliance on U.S. money funds meant that
they were among the largest users of a U.S. government program
to provide emergency short-term funding to companies during the
credit crisis. The U.S. subsidiaries of six European banks, led
by Zurich-based  UBS AG (UBSN) , were among the top 11 companies to tap
the Commercial Paper Funding Facility, according to data made
public by the  Federal Reserve  in December.  The program, opened in October 2008, was designed to help
companies meet short-term funding needs when a run on prime
money-market funds by investors forced the funds to stop buying
commercial paper and other short-term debt.  The report examined the 10 largest U.S. prime money-market
mutual funds, or those eligible to invest in corporate debt,
which held a combined $736 billion. The funds accounted for 45
percent of assets in prime offerings.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Condon in Boston at 
 ccondon4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  