-- 
European Airports Trail Asia in Passenger-Satisfaction Survey

-- B y   S t e v e   R o t h w e l l
-- 
2011-03-30T17:34:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-30/european-airports-trail-asia-in-passenger-satisfaction-survey.html
Europe’s five busiest airports rank
outside the top 90 worldwide in terms of consumer satisfaction,
with Asian terminals dominating the uppermost rankings,
according to research from  Airports Council International .  Amsterdam Schiphol is the best-placed major European hub at
No. 93, with  London  Heathrow, the busiest in the region with 66
million passengers, ranked at 99. Madrid, Frankfurt and Paris
Charles de Gaulle are all lower still, the survey shows.  Singapore, Incheon-Seoul in  South Korea  and  Hong Kong 
occupy the three highest spots, with the top 10 also including
hubs in Beijing,  Shanghai  and  Kuala Lumpur , according to ACI
Airport Service Quality standings based on passenger surveys in
the second quarter of 2010, which were obtained by Bloomberg.  Among major U.S. airports, Dallas-Fort Worth ranks 42nd,
Denver 57th and Atlanta, the world’s busiest hub with 89 million
travelers in 2010, is 69th.  Chicago O’Hare and  Los Angeles , the second- and third-
busiest North American hubs, don’t feature in the survey.  London Heathrow , the home base of British Airways, is
ranked 27 places higher than  Deutsche Lufthansa AG (LHA) ’s Frankfurt
hub and 38 higher than Air France’s headquarters at Paris CDG.  London Rankings  Gatwick airport , EasyJet Plc’s main base and sold by
Heathrow owner BAA Ltd. in 2009 under pressure from antitrust
regulators, ranks 106th. London’s other main airport, Stansted,
Ryanair Holdings Plc’s busiest U.K. base, is placed 111th.  Many Asian airports benefit from government subsidies and
are free of capacity constraints, BAA spokesman Andrew Teacher
said by telephone, adding that the company is investing 1
billion pounds ($1.61 billion) a year to improve Heathrow.  “That is why two-thirds of people now rate us as ‘very
good,’ compared with one-third several years ago,” he said. “The
facts show Heathrow as the second-best hub airport in  Europe .”  ACI’s Airport Service Quality survey is funded by airports
on a voluntary basis, and is never made public, spokeswoman
Nancy Gautier said by telephone, with all participants signing a
confidentiality agreement. The report is used for benchmarking
purposes by 216 terminals worldwide, she said.  “Older airports tend to have a harder time than the new
ones, and many of the airports in  Asia  are new,” Gautier said.
“They also have a real commitment to  customer service  and they
realize that they need a competitive advantage.”  Rankings are devised from identical questionnaires handed
to passengers, according to ACI’s website.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steven Rothwell in London at 
 srothwell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at   cthomas16@bloomberg.net  