-- 
Levy Settlement in Madoff Case to Stand, Judge Rules

-- B y   L i n d a   S a n d l e r
-- 
2011-03-30T19:03:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-30/levy-heirs-220-million-settlement-in-madoff-case-to-stand-judge-rules.html
A $220 million settlement between
the trustee liquidating  Bernard Madoff ’s firm and heirs of
Norman F. Levy will stand, a judge said today, denying a request
by a lawyer to overturn the arrangement because of an alleged
“failure to disclose material information.”  Helen Chaitman, a lawyer for Madoff investors, sought to
overturn trustee  Irving Picard ’s settlement, saying Picard
concealed the scale of Levy’s business with the jailed conman.
Levy’s heirs, whose charity withdrew $305 million more from the
Ponzi scheme than they put in, according to Picard, said the
accord was negotiated in good faith and should have
“finality.”  Levy, who died in 2005 at age 93, transferred $90 billion
to Madoff between 1997 and 2001, including $35 billion in 2001
and $23 billion in 2000, which Bernard L. Madoff Investment
Securities LLC returned in the same amount each year, according
to court documents. The transfers were eight times larger than
all other Madoff customers’ combined transfers for that period.  Picard has said the settlement was “fair and equitable and
should not be disturbed.” Purportedly new facts put forth by
investors seeking to void the deal “are not new, having been
considered by the trustee at the time of the settlement,” he
said in a filing in  U.S. Bankruptcy Court  in  Manhattan .  The settlement avoided potentially “protracted, costly and
uncertain litigation,” he said.  Chaitman didn’t immediately respond to an e-mail seeking
comment.  The case is Securities Investor Protection Corp. v. Bernard
L. Madoff Investment Securities LLC, 08-01789, U.S. Bankruptcy
Court, Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Linda Sandler in New York at 
 lsandler@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Rovella at 
 drovella@bloomberg.net  