-- 
Ex-Cohmad Officer Jaffe to Pay Madoff Investors $1.1 Million

-- B y   L i n d a   S a n d l e r
-- 
2011-03-31T01:17:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-30/ex-cohmad-officer-jaffe-to-pay-madoff-investors-1-1-million-finra-rules.html
Robert Jaffe, former vice president
of Cohmad Securities Corp., must pay $1.1 million in
compensatory damages to investors who alleged he solicited money
from them and invested in Bernard Madoff’s Ponzi scheme, knowing
it was a fraud.  The award by the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority
can’t be appealed, according to a copy of a March 29 dispute
resolution that was e-mailed to Bloomberg News today.  Jaffe, the son-in-law of Boston-based philanthropist  Carl Shapiro , was friends with some of the investors, who resided in
 Massachusetts  or  Florida , and belonged to the same country club
in Massachusetts, their lawyer, Bruce Oakes, said in an e-mail.
They invested with Madoff through Jaffe for seven years through
Madoff’s December 2008 arrest, pooling their money and forming
Turbo Investors LLC to meet the minimums required by the con
man, he said.  “We alleged that Jaffe knew or should have known about the
scheme to defraud and that he was paid an ongoing referral fee
by Madoff for the Turbo investment,” Oakes said. “We are
satisfied that the arbitration panel concluded and found that
Mr. Jaffe engaged in wrongdoing.”  Harvey Bines, a lawyer for Jaffe, said he couldn’t
immediately comment.  Claims Settled  The investors had sought $15 million in punitive damages
and fees, which FINRA denied. Separately, they settled claims
against Cohmad and dropped claims against executives Maurice and
Marcia Cohn, Oakes said.  “Neither Maurice nor Marcia Cohn had ever heard” of the
investors before they filed for arbitration, Steven Paradise,
who represents the Cohns and Cohmad Securities, said in an e-
mail. “Neither of them nor Cohmad earned one penny” from the
investors, he said.  Jaffe and Cohmad, a brokerage that shared a Manhattan
building with Madoff’s firm, were sued in June 2009 by the
trustee liquidating Madoff’s firm, who alleged they were part of
the Madoff network and took more money out of the  Ponzi scheme 
than they put in. A $625 million settlement with Shapiro and 19
family members included $38 million paid on behalf of Jaffe and
others.  Jaffe earlier this month asked a judge to enforce the
settlement and block further lawsuits.  In November, Jaffe, the Cohns and Cohmad settled a U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission lawsuit over what the firm
told and didn’t tell investors whom they referred to Madoff,
agreeing to an order barring them from violating securities laws
governing material misrepresentations and omissions.  “Like many others, including those far more financially
sophisticated than he, Mr. Jaffe was deceived and fooled by
Madoff,” his lawyer in that case, Stanley Arkin, said in a Nov.
1 statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Linda Sandler in New York at 
 lsandler@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Rovella at 
 drovella@bloomberg.net  