-- 
Ex-Taylor Bean Official Will Enter Conspiracy Plea in TARP Bailout Case

-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g
-- 
2011-03-30T19:04:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-30/ex-taylor-bean-official-ragland-to-enter-plea-in-1-9-billion-fraud-case.html
A former Taylor, Bean & Whitaker
Mortgage Corp. official reached a plea agreement on a conspiracy
charge in what prosecutors said was a $1.9 billion fraud that
targeted the U.S. bank-bailout program.  Sean Ragland, 37, is scheduled to appear tomorrow for a
plea-agreement hearing in federal court in Alexandria,  Virginia ,
according to the case docket. Ragland, identified in court
records as having worked in  Taylor Bean ’s finance and accounting
department, is accused of one count of conspiracy to commit bank
and wire fraud.  Ragland, of San Antonio, is the sixth person charged in
what the government called a scheme to deceive financial firms
and the Trouble Asset Relief Program by covering up shortfalls
at the lender. Ocala, Florida-based Taylor Bean was once the
largest non-depository mortgage lender in the U.S., according to
the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.  The fraud contributed to the failure of Colonial Bank,
based in Montgomery, Alabama, according to prosecutors.  Four people, including two former  Colonial Bank  officials,
have pleaded guilty and agreed to help prosecute former Taylor
Bean Chairman Lee B. Farkas. Farkas, charged with 16 counts of
wire, bank and securities fraud, is set to go on trial April 4.  Ragland’s lawyer, Fritz Scheller of Orlando,  Florida , said
“negotiations are still ongoing” in his client’s case.  Peter Carr, a spokesman for U.S. Attorney  Neil MacBride  in
Alexandria, declined to comment.  TARP Funds  Farkas and other conspirators allegedly committed wire and
securities fraud in an attempt to secure $553 million in TARP
funds for Colonial BancGroup, Colonial Bank’s parent,
prosecutors said.  The application for funding included false information, and
Farkas caused Colonial BancGroup to file a false report with the
SEC, according to prosecutors. Colonial never got the funds.  Alabama  regulators seized Colonial Bank in 2009 and the
Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. was appointed as receiver.
Colonial BancGroup and Taylor Bean, once the 12th-largest U.S.
mortgage lender, filed for bankruptcy in 2009.  The cases are U.S. v. Ragland, 11-cr-00162, and U.S. v.
Farkas, 10-cr-00200, U.S. District Court, Eastern District of
Virginia (Alexandria).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in  Washington  at 
 tschoenberg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 