-- 
Texas A&M, Connecticut Advance to Semifinals in NCAA Women’s Basketball

-- B y   N a n c y   K e r c h e v a l
-- 
2011-03-30T04:27:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-30/texas-a-m-connecticut-advance-to-semifinals-in-ncaa-women-s-basketball.html
The University of  Connecticut 
advanced to the national semifinals of the women’s college
basketball tournament for the fourth straight year, and will be
joined there by a Texas A&M University team making its Final
Four debut.  Maya Moore had 28 points, 10 rebounds and seven steals last
night to lead the top-seeded Huskies (36-1) to a 75-40 win
against No. 2  Duke University  in the Philadelphia Regional
final. Sydney Carter was high scorer with 22 points for the No.
2 Aggies in their 58-46 upset of top-seeded Baylor University in
the  Dallas  Regional championship.  Connecticut earned a spot in the  National Collegiate
Athletic Association ’s Final Four against the  University of
Notre Dame  in Indianapolis on April 3. The Big East conference
rivals have met three times this season, with Connecticut
winning all three -- including the Big East tournament
championship game. The Aggies will meet Stanford in the other
semifinal.  “It’s going to be rough,” Moore said. “We know each
other so well and there are not a lot of surprises. It’s going
to be a battle to grind it out. We’re representing well for our
conference. It should be fun.”  Moore became the seventh woman in major college basketball
to reach 3,000 points and the first to accomplish the feat since
Jackie Stiles of Southwest Missouri State University in 2001.  “She does what she always does in big games, lifting us on
her back,” said Huskies coach Geno Auriemma.  Connecticut, which was ahead 30-20 at the half, led by as
many as 37 points against the second-seeded Blue Devils at
Liacouras Center in Philadelphia. The Huskies, who have won two
consecutive national titles, have made it to the national
semifinals four straight seasons and 12 of the past 17.  Jasmine Thomas was high scorer for Duke with 17 points.  In Dallas,  Texas A&M  (31-5) broke an eight-game losing
streak against Baylor, scoring the first seven points and never
trailing in the game.  Brittney Griner had 20 points and nine rebounds for the
Lady Bears (34-3) at the American Airlines Center in Dallas.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nancy Kercheval in Washington at 
 nkercheval@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  