-- 
Text of Buffett Letter on David Sokol Resignation From Berkshire Hathaway

-- B y   E d i t o r :   [ b n : P R S N = 1 5 0 1 1 6 6 1 ]   R i c k   G r e e n   [ ]
-- 
2011-03-30T21:34:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-30/text-of-buffett-letter-on-david-sokol-resignation-from-berkshire-hathaway.html
The following is the text of a news
release issued today by  Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A)  and attributed
to Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Warren E. Buffett.  Warren E. Buffett, CEO of Berkshire Hathaway,  Announces the Resignation of David L. Sokol  This press release will be unusual. First, I will write it
almost as if it were a letter. Second, it will contain two sets
of facts, both about Dave Sokol, chairman of several Berkshire
subsidiaries.  Late in the day on March 28, I received a letter of
resignation from Dave, delivered by his assistant. His reasons
were as follows:  “As I have mentioned to you in the past, it is my goal to
utilize the time remaining in my career to invest my family’s
resources in such a way as to create enduring equity value and
hopefully an enterprise which will provide opportunity for my
descendents and funding for my philanthropic interests. I have
no more detailed plan than this because my obligations from
Berkshire Hathaway have been my first and only business
priority.”  I had not asked for his resignation, and it came as a
surprise to me. Twice before, most recently two or so years ago,
Dave had talked to me of resigning. In each case he had given me
the same reasons that he laid out in his Monday letter. Both
times, I and other Board members persuaded him to stay.
Berkshire is far more valuable today because we were successful
in those efforts.  Dave’s contributions have been extraordinary. At
MidAmerican, he and Greg Abel have delivered the best
performance of any managers in the public utility field. At
NetJets, Dave resurrected an operation that was destined for
bankruptcy, absent Berkshire’s deep pockets. He has been of
enormous help in the operation of Johns Manville, where he
installed new management some years ago and oversaw major
change.  Finally, Dave brought the idea for purchasing Lubrizol to
me on either January 14 or 15. Initially, I was unimpressed, but
after his report of a January 25 talk with its CEO, James Hambrick, I quickly warmed to the idea. Though the offer to
purchase was entirely my decision, supported by Berkshire’s
Board on March 13, it would not have occurred without Dave’s
early efforts.  That brings us to our second set of facts. In our first
talk about Lubrizol, Dave mentioned that he owned stock in the
company. It was a passing remark and I did not ask him about the
date of his purchase or the extent of his holdings.  Shortly before I left for  Asia  on March 19, I learned that
Dave first purchased 2,300 shares of Lubrizol on December 14,
which he then sold on December 21. Subsequently, on January 5, 6
and 7, he bought 96,060 shares pursuant to a 100,000-share order
he had placed with a $104 per share limit price.  Dave’s purchases were made before he had discussed Lubrizol
with me and with no knowledge of how I might react to his idea.
In addition, of course, he did not know what Lubrizol’s reaction
would be if I developed an interest. Furthermore, he knew he
would have no voice in Berkshire’s decision once he suggested
the idea; it would be up to me and Charlie Munger, subject to
ratification by the Berkshire Board of which Dave is not a
member.  As late as January 24, I sent Dave a short note indicating
my skepticism about making an offer for Lubrizol and my
preference for another substantial acquisition for which
MidAmerican had made a bid. Only after Dave reported on the
January 25 dinner conversation with James Hambrick did I get
interested in the acquisition of Lubrizol.  Neither Dave nor I feel his Lubrizol purchases were in any
way unlawful. He has told me that they were not a factor in his
decision to resign.  Dave’s letter was a total surprise to me, despite the two
earlier resignation talks. I had spoken with him the previous
day about various operating matters and received no hint of his
intention to resign. This time, however, I did not attempt to
talk him out of his decision and accepted his resignation.  Effective with Dave’s resignation, Greg Abel, presently
president and CEO of MidAmerican Holding Company, will become
its chairman; Todd Raba, president and CEO of Johns Manville,
will become its chairman; and Jordan Hansell, president of
NetJets, will become its chairman and CEO.  I have held back nothing in this statement. Therefore, if
questioned about this matter in the future, I will simply refer
the questioner back to this release. 