-- 
Fed's Stimulus Exit May Not Wait for Global Turmoil to Pass, Bullard Says

-- B y   S t e v e   M a t t h e w s   a n d   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 
2011-03-30T21:50:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-30/fed-s-stimulus-exit-may-not-wait-for-global-turmoil-to-pass-bullard-says.html
The  Federal Reserve  may need to
begin an exit from record levels of monetary accommodation even
amid global uncertainties in  Japan  and the Middle East, St.
Louis Federal Reserve President  James Bullard  said.  “The process of normalizing policy, even once it begins,
will still leave unprecedented policy accommodation on the
table,” Bullard said at a London dinner hosted by UBS AG,
 Switzerland ’s biggest bank. Fed policy makers “may not be
willing or able to wait until all global uncertainties are
resolved to begin normalizing policy.”  Risks to the current economic outlook include the European
debt crisis, the earthquake and tsunami in Japan, Middle East
turmoil that has contributed to rising oil prices, and the U.S.
fiscal deficits, Bullard said today. Even with these threats,
the  U.S. economy  has been picking up since the second half of
last year, making the exit timing a central question, he said.  If any of the global concerns escalate into an economic
shock, then “all bets are off” for an exit plan, Bullard said.
“The most likely scenario is that these uncertainties are
unwound in relatively benign ways.”  Since last month, Bullard has suggested trimming the Fed’s
plan to buy $600 billion in U.S. Treasuries amid stronger
economic reports. The  Federal Open Market Committee  said March
15 the recovery “is on a firmer footing,” while the labor
market is “improving gradually.” Policy makers reiterated
plans to buy the Treasuries through June to bolster growth.  Improved Data  Bullard said he wants to cut the current round of
quantitative easing because monetary policy should be adjusted
incrementally in response to economic data, which has improved
since last November.  “The economy is stronger and inflation is higher than when
we did the decision,” Bullard said. “So why aren’t you
adjusting policy? If you are not adjusting, you don’t have a
state-contingent policy. It would be an important signal to
send.”  The regional Fed chief said he doesn’t think there is a
growing consensus among Fed policy makers for cutting the
purchase program short.  “I don’t always get my way so it’s very possible
that won’t happen. I’m just saying that I think it’s the right
way of proceeding at this point,” Bullard said.  Exit Plan  Bullard, in response to audience questions, said a
“logical” order for a Fed exit plan would be a “last in,
first out” concept in which the last elements of the Fed’s
accommodation would be reversed at the start. Thus, the Fed
could begin by shrinking its balance sheet including selling
assets, then move on to raising  interest rates , he said.  Increases in interest rates shouldn’t be done mechanically
in quarter-point increments as they were in the last tightening
cycle, Bullard said. Rather, larger moves may be needed to
respond to economic data, he said.  “The natural debate is how and when the exit should
begin,” Bullard said. So far this year, “private sector
forecasters and the FOMC all marked up their forecasts” and
“anecdotal reports” show “profitable businesses with
considerable cash and an improving outlook,” he said.  During an audience question period, Bullard said that
household consumption has been increasing and housing, while
still weak, isn’t worsening.  “I am still relatively sanguine about growth in 2011,” he
said.  Bullard, 50, doesn’t vote on policy this year as part of
the annual rotation. He joined the St. Louis Fed’s research
department in 1990 and became president of the bank in 2008.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Steve Matthews in Atlanta at 
 smatthews@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  