-- 
Fed Has Little Import Incentive to Weaken Greenback, Bank of America Says

-- B y   J o h n   D e t r i x h e
-- 
2011-03-30T17:35:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-30/fed-has-little-incentive-to-weaken-dollar-bank-of-america-s-shin-reports.html
The weak link between import prices
and the dollar is a sign the  Federal Reserve  has little
incentive to undermine the greenback, according to Bank of
America Corp.  The Fed’s trade-weighted dollar index has dropped 5.8
percent in the past year as the Federal Reserve sought to
stimulate the economy by keeping  interest rates  low. At the same
time, import prices excluding automobiles at the end of last
month were little changed from a year earlier, according to the
Labor Department’s U.S. Import Price Index.  The “fairly weak” link between import prices and the
dollar shows the U.S. central bank is unlikely to seek a drop in
the currency to boost inflation and make domestic goods more
attractive abroad or to make its debt easier to repay, John Shin, senior G-10 foreign exchange strategist at Bank of America
Merrill Lynch in  New York , wrote in a report.  “A substantial part of macro global policy disagreement is
that the Fed isn’t proving to be a good steward of the dominant
international currency and that they’re undermining it through
inflation,” Shin said in a telephone interview. “There just
isn’t a lot of juice from a lower dollar to cause higher
inflation.”  Consumer prices excluding food and energy increased 1.1
percent in February from a year earlier, the Labor Department
reported this month. Import prices rose 1.4 percent in February
after increasing 1.3 percent in January.  A 10 percent drop in the  U.S. dollar  equates to about a
percentage-point increase in inflation, according to Shin.  “The relatively modest movements in core import prices are
striking compared to the size of the moves in the dollar,” he
wrote. “The link from a weaker currency to higher prices for
 consumer goods  has still been fairly weak.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Detrixhe in New York at 
 jdetrixhe1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  