-- 
Feinstein Urges U.S. Review of Nuclear Waste Amid Japan Crisis

-- B y   J i m   S n y d e r
-- 
2011-03-30T17:51:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-30/feinstein-urges-u-s-review-of-nuclear-waste-amid-japan-crisis.html
Senator  Dianne Feinstein , a
California Democrat, said the U.S. should re-evaluate how it
regulates nuclear waste as scientists in Japan struggle to
contain radiation from spent fuel rods at a crippled reactor.  “We lack a comprehensive national policy to address the
nuclear fuel cycle, including management of nuclear waste,”
Feinstein, the chairman of a Senate spending panel, said today
at a hearing examining the failure of a Japanese nuclear plant.  The Obama administration is reviewing safety rules at U.S.
plants and may issue recommendations for additional measures to
prevent a similar accident. Nuclear Regulatory Commission
Chairman Gregory Jaczko told lawmakers waste storage may be
examined in the review ordered by the president.  Spent-fuel pools are “very robust structures” that can
safely  store waste  for 100 years, Jaczko told Feinstein, who has
pushed to keep spent-fuel rods in so-called dry casks.  Feinstein told reporters that policymakers have a
responsibility to future generations.  “You can’t just say we’re only going to worry about the
next 100 years,” Feinstein said. “These things are forever.
And we’ve got to worry about forever and see that we should do
the right thing.”  Feinstein said the U.S. should build regional waste
repositories to reduce reliance on spent-fuel pools and dry
casks, where the rods are stored after they’ve cooled in water
for at least five years.  Nuclear Waste  Japan’s reactor crisis has re-opened a political debate
over handling nuclear waste and plans for a storage facility at
Yucca Mountain in  Nevada . The Obama administration canceled the
project in 2009, after $9 billion was spent, and created a
commission to evaluate options.  Jaczko said pools and dry casks can withstand “natural
phenomena.” The spent-fuel pool for reactor 3 at Japan’s
Fukushima Dai-Ichi nuclear plant may have a leak, he said. The
pool at reactor 4 also is damaged, he said.  Senator  Richard Durbin , an Illinois Democrat, said the U.S.
should reconsider its opposition to fuel reprocessing, which
would reduce the amount of waste.  Feinstein said the U.S. should require spent fuel in water
pools be moved to dry cask storage within a set number of years.
She also called for an independent assessment of U.S. nuclear
safety.  The U.S. recommended that Americans living 50 miles (80
kilometers) from the Fukushima plant leave the area, in part
because the NRC thought a spent fuel pool may be empty or low on
cooling water, posing a greater risk radiation might be
released.  Prudent Decision  Jaczko said the decision was prudent based on a limited
amount of information available at the time.  U.S. operators must have plans for moving out residents
living 10 miles from a nuclear plant based on events “that
would happen in a very short period of time,” Jaczko said.  He said there is a possibility that additional protective
steps would be needed under similar circumstances in the U.S. as
was thought to be occurring in  Japan .  Jaczko, who returned yesterday from a trip to Japan, said
he now thinks the safety zone around the Japan plant should be
about 20 miles.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Snyder in Washington at 
 jsnyder24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net  