-- 
Banks, States Have ‘Long Way to Go’ on Foreclosure Settlement, Miller Says

-- B y   J u s t i n   B l u m   a n d   D a v i d   M c L a u g h l i n
-- 
2011-03-31T04:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-30/foreclosure-settlement-long-way-off-iowa-s-miller-says-after-meeting.html
Iowa Attorney General Tom Miller
said Banks and government officials have “a long way to go” to
reach an agreement on mortgage servicing and foreclosure
practices.  The two sides met in Washington yesterday, less than a
month after state  attorneys general  and federal agencies
proposed requirements for how banks handle mortgage-servicing
and home seizures.  “I think that we have a long way to go,” Miller said at a
briefing with reporters at the  Justice Department  in Washington.
“You don’t expect to accomplish a lot of agreement in a first
meeting. That didn’t happen. It was a breaking of the ice in a
very constructive way that we hope lays the groundwork for
solving the issues in the future.”  The 27-page term sheet by government officials was sent
earlier this month to the top mortgage servicers in the U.S. --
 Bank of America Corp. (BAC) ,  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC) ,  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ,
Ally Financial Inc. and  Citigroup Inc. (C)  Representatives of all
five attended the meeting. They didn’t attend the press
conference with Miller and Thomas Perrelli, the associate U.S.
attorney general.  “It was a useful and productive opportunity to discuss
several issues of concern,” Ally spokeswoman Gina Proia said in
an e-mail.  JPMorgan spokeswoman Christine Holevas and Wells Fargo
spokeswoman Terri Schrettenbrunner declined comment.  Mark Rodgers  at Citigroup and Bank of America spokesman  Dan Frahm 
didn’t return calls seeking comment.  ‘A Ways to Go’  Miller, Perrelli and Delaware Attorney General Beau Biden,
who also attended the daylong meeting, declined to comment on
specifics of the discussions.  Yesterday’s “discussion was constructive and useful but we
do still have a ways to go here,” Biden said in a phone
interview after the meeting.  The settlement proposal seeks to force procedural changes
on servicers such as banning companies from initiating
foreclosure proceedings while a loan modification is pending. It
also states that a “substantial portion” of a monetary payment
will go toward a loan modification program that includes
principal reductions of loans. It doesn’t specify a dollar
figure.  “I think everybody recognizes that there are serious
problems and serious issues that need to get resolved,”
Perrelli said. “I think we’re all trying to take them on head
on and to work through them.”  Divisions Over Scope  The proposal has created divisions among state attorneys
general over its scope. At least seven attorney generals,
including Greg Abbott of  Texas  and Pam Bondi of  Florida , have
written Miller about their opposition to some terms, including
forcing principal reductions on lenders. That element could
encourage homeowners who are paying their mortgages to default,
the attorneys general argued.  Oklahoma Attorney General Scott Pruitt said in a phone
interview on March 29 that that viewpoint needed to be expressed
at the meeting. Any agreement that requires principal reductions
is “unacceptable,” said Pruitt, who didn’t plan to attend the
meeting.  “There is not unanimity around making this investigation
about principal and loan modification,” he said.  Before yesterday’s meeting, banks sent officials an excerpt
of their proposal for servicing standards, Geoff Greenwood, a
spokesman for Miller said this week.  Separately in  Washington  yesterday, JPMorgan Chief
Executive Officer  Jamie Dimon  said cutting debt for home
borrowers isn’t the solution to the U.S. mortgage crisis.  Principal reduction for people who are able to pay their
mortgages is “off the table,” Dimon told reporters yesterday
after speaking at a U.S. Chamber of Commerce event. Dimon said
the New York-based bank already reduces principal for some
borrowers.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Justin Blum in Washington at 
 jblum4@bloomberg.net ;
David McLaughlin in New York at 
 dmclaughlin9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net  