-- 
Ex-Madoff Workers Bonventre, Bongiorno, Crupi Lose Bid for Case DismissalL

-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 
2011-03-30T20:06:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-30/former-madoff-employees-lose-motion-to-have-criminal-charges-dismissed.html
Three former employees of convicted
Ponzi schemer Bernard L. Madoff lost a bid to have the criminal
charges against them dismissed.  U.S. District Judge Laura Taylor Swain in  Manhattan  today
denied a request by Daniel Bonventre, Annette Bongiorno and
Joann Crupi to throw out the charges based on their claim that
the government is improperly restricting their access to money
to pay their lawyers. Swain rejected the argument that the
prosecution is interfering with their right to legal counsel.  Prosecutors are asking the court to order the forfeiture of
$154.5 billion, an amount “many orders of magnitude” higher
than the defendants’ assets, the judge said today in a written
opinion. The charges include  securities fraud  and conspiracy.  The constitution “does not prevent the government from
reclaiming its property from a defendant even though the
defendant had planned to fund his legal defense with it,” Swain
wrote.  “We intend to appeal her decision,” said Andrew Frisch, a
lawyer for Bonventre.  Maurice H. Sercarz , a lawyer for Bongiorno, declined to
comment on Swain’s decision. Crupi’s lawyer, Eric R. Breslin,
didn’t immediately reply to a voice-mail request for comment.  Bonventre told Swain in court papers that he rejected four
government attempts to win his cooperation in the Madoff
investigation. Prosecutors said in December they would begin
seizing his assets, he said. Prosecutors say Bonventre’s funds
are traceable to Madoff’s fraud, which Bonventre denies.  Madoff, 72, pleaded guilty in 2009 to orchestrating
history’s biggest Ponzi scheme. He is serving a 150-year
sentence in a North Carolina federal prison.  The case is U.S. v. O’Hara, 10-cr-00228, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Van Voris in U.S. District Court in Manhattan
at   rvanvoris@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 