-- 
Former U.S. Security Adviser Jones Helping Lead Energy Project

-- B y   K i m   C h i p m a n
-- 
2011-03-30T10:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-30/former-u-s-security-adviser-jones-helping-lead-energy-project.html
James Jones , President  Barack Obama ’s former national security adviser, will help lead a new
project focused on making the U.S. more energy-independent,
according to the Bipartisan Policy Center.  William Reilly , co-chairman of Obama’s panel investigating
BP Plc’s Gulf of Mexico oil spill, and former Senators Trent Lott, a Mississippi Republican, and Byron Dorgan, a North Dakota
Democrat, will head the initiative with Jones, a retired Marine
Corps general, the Washington-based center said in an e-mailed
statement released today.  Energy security has gained fresh attention with the BP
spill last year, the current turmoil in oil-producing countries
such as  Libya  and the struggle to control nuclear-power reactors
in  Japan  after an earthquake and tsunami. Obama plans to deliver
a speech on the subject later today.  “Recent events, from unprecedented unrest in the Middle
East and North Africa to the Japanese nuclear crisis to the Gulf
of Mexico oil spill, demand a thorough reassessment of America’s
energy security,” the four leaders of the Bipartisan Policy
Center’s initiative said in the statement.  The center is a nonprofit policy research group formed in
2007 by former Senate majority leaders including Howard Baker, a
Tennessee Republican, and Bob Dole, a Kansas Republican.  The initiative will seek to outline national goals aimed at
tapping more domestic sources of energy and making the U.S. less
vulnerable to global crises that may affect energy supplies and
prices, according to the center.  The group will provide more details when the project
formally begins on April 12, according to the statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kim Chipman in Washington at 
 kchipman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net  