-- 
Former Nicaragua Sandinista Leader Named Libya’s UN Envoy

-- B y   B i l l   V a r n e r   a n d   B l a k e   S c h m i d t
-- 
2011-03-30T19:59:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-30/former-nicaragua-sandinista-minister-named-libya-s-un-envoy.html
Miguel D’Escoto Brockmann, a former
foreign minister of  Nicaragua ’s socialist Sandinista government
and one-time president of the United Nations General Assembly,
has been named by Muammar Qaddafi’s regime as Libya’s ambassador
to the UN.  Libyan Foreign Minister Moussa Koussa informed Secretary-
General Ban Ki-moon of the nomination in a letter dated March
29. The letter says D’Escoto Brockmann was named to the post
because Ali Abdussalam Treki, also a former General Assembly
president who was chosen to represent the Qaddafi government at
the UN, couldn’t get a visa to enter the U.S.  D’Escoto Brockmann, a Catholic priest who was General
Assembly president in 2008 and 2009, once said former U.S.
Presidents  Ronald Reagan  and  George W. Bush  were “possessed by
the demons of manifest destiny.” D’Escoto was Nicaragua’s
foreign minister for the Sandinista government as it fought
U.S.-backed contra rebels during the nation’s 1980s civil war.  He called Reagan a “butcher of my people” for supporting
a rebellion that caused Nicaraguans to suffer “something much
bigger than the Twin Towers,” a reference to the Sept. 11
terrorist attacks on the World Trade Center in  New York .  Nicaragua’s government said in a statement that D’Escoto
Brockmann received instructions from Nicaraguan President Daniel Ortega to “accept this nomination and represent the people and
government of Libya to re-establish peace and defend their
legitimate right to resolve their national conflicts without
foreign intervention.”  Gas on Fire  Ortega, a leader of the Sandinista revolution in 1979, has
said bombings of Qaddafi’s forces are part of a U.S.-led
conspiracy to gain control of Libya’s oil wealth. Venezuelan
President  Hugo Chavez  and former Cuban President  Fidel Castro 
have made the same allegation.  “This military deployment not only terrorizes the Libyan
people but the entire region along the Mediterranean, as if the
tragedy in Afghanistan and  Iraq  weren’t enough,” Ortega said in
a March 19 speech. “The remedy is worse than the illness. You
don’t put a fire out by throwing gas on it.”  Libya’s central bank last month pardoned $195.8 million of
Nicaragua’s $313.6 million debt dating to Ortega’s first term as
president in the 1980s, said Martin Urcuyo, spokesman for
Nicaragua’s central bank.  Qaddafi’s support for the Sandinista movement dates to as
early as the 1970s, when Sandinistas received guerrilla training
in Libya under Qaddafi’s coup-installed government, said Kevin Casas-Zamora, a senior fellow at the Washington-based  Brookings
Institution .  Ortega’s Debt  “There’s an old story here,” Casas-Zamora said. “An old
debt that Ortega is trying to repay.”  Ortega traveled repeatedly to  Libya  to seek support for his
campaign to return to power after he was voted out in a 1990
election, said former Nicaraguan Foreign Minister Francisco Aguirre. Ortega was elected to a second term in 2006 and seeks
to stay in office in a November vote.  The Qaddafi regime hasn’t been represented at the UN since
the credentials of Ambassador Mohammed Shalgham and Deputy
Ambassador  Ibrahim Dabbashi  were withdrawn following Treki’s
nomination. Shalgham and Dabbashi broke with Qaddafi to support
imposition of the no-fly zone and other sanctions against Libya.  Dabbashi, who said he is still working out of Libya’s
mission to the UN and representing the rebel-led Transitional
National Council, called D’Escoto Brockmann a “mercenary.”  Farhan Haq, deputy UN spokesman, said Ban hasn’t received
the letter from Koussa.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bill Varner at the  United Nations  at 
 wvarner@bloomberg.net 
Blake Schmidt in Managua at 
 bschmidt16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva in Washington at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  