-- 
Galleon’s Rajaratnam Talked on Tape About Goldman Board Source

-- B y   D a v i d   G l o v i n ,   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o ,   a n d   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 
2011-03-31T04:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-30/galleon-s-rajaratnam-taped-talking-about-source-on-goldman-sachs-board.html
Raj Rajaratnam, Galleon Group LLC’s
co-founder, told a colleague he had been tipped by a source on
the  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  board and would trade on the leak
about unanticipated losses, according to a wiretapped recording.  “I heard yesterday from somebody who is on the board of
Goldman Sachs that they are going to lose $2 per share,”
Rajaratnam told Galleon’s David Lau on an Oct. 24, 2008,
recording played for jurors yesterday at Rajaratnam’s insider
trading trial. The day before, Goldman Sachs Chief Executive
Officer  Lloyd Blankfein  had briefed board members on the losses.  “He was telling me that the quarter is really bad,”
Rajaratnam told Lau, who worked in Galleon’s Singapore office.  “The street has them making $2.50,” Rajaratnam continued.
“I’m gonna whack it, you know.”  Rajaratnam is on trial for trading on illegal tips from
sources including  Rajat Gupta , a onetime Goldman Sachs director.
Prosecutors previously played a tape of Gupta telling Rajaratnam
about other board talks, and phone records show a call to
Rajaratnam from Gupta’s phone 23 seconds after Blankfein briefed
the board on firm losses in October 2008.  Prosecutors say Galleon saved more than $3 million by
trading on Gupta’s tip about New York-based Goldman Sachs.
Gupta, who denies wrongdoing, faces an administrative action by
the Securities and Exchange Commission for leaking board news.
He has not been criminally charged.  Second Tape  Jurors yesterday heard another Rajaratnam tape that the
government secretly recorded on Sept. 24, 2008. Rajaratnam can
be heard telling a colleague that he had exploited news the day
before that  Warren Buffett ’s Berkshire Hathaway Inc. would
invest $5 billion in Goldman Sachs. Prosecutors say the tip also
came from Gupta.  “I got a call at 3:58,” Rajaratnam is heard on the
recording telling his personal trader, Ian Horowitz, “saying
something good may happen to Goldman.”  Rajaratnam told Horowitz that a junior Galleon trader
wasn’t available to buy shares. “So I went to Gary and say,
just buy me some,” according to the recording. The reference is
to Galleon chief trader and co-founder Gary Rosenbach.  The U.S. says records show Rajaratnam bought $43 million
worth of Goldman stock and made $1 million in the trade.  Smith also testified that during the time period of
September 2008, he saw Gupta making “biweekly” visits to
Rajaratnam’s office. The U.S. also showed the jury Galleon
records showing that Gupta had invested $16.4 million in
Rajaratnam’s Voyager Capital Partners Ltd. fund as late as June
2008.  Published Sources  Rajaratnam has been on trial for three weeks in the largest
crackdown on hedge-fund insider trading in U.S. history. The Sri
Lankan-born money manager is accused of making $45 million from
tips leaked by corporate insiders. Rajaratnam denies wrongdoing,
saying he based trades on research and published sources.  The tapes of the two Galleon calls came in the final
minutes of the testimony of former Galleon trader  Adam Smith ,
who has pleaded guilty and is testifying for prosecutors in
exchange for leniency. Smith explained references in the
recordings, including who “Gary” was.  Earlier, Smith outlined several ways in which, he said,
Galleon concealed trades made with inside information. One
strategy was to sell small quantities of stock that the firm
expected to rise in coming days, he said.  Smith, 39, testified that soon after he joined Galleon in
2002 as an analyst, Rajaratnam took him aside and explained how
the trades worked. If Galleon owned 100,000 shares of a stock
expected to rise in two days, traders would sell 25,000 shares
that afternoon, buy 50,000 shares the next morning and sell
25,000 later the same day, he said.  ‘E-Mail Trails’  “The idea was to put into a record, or show a pattern, of
buying and selling -- selling being inconsistent” with  insider
trading , Smith said. “We could say we made sales beforehand.”  Other gambits included creating phony “e-mail trails”
that justify transactions, manufacturing unneeded research,
avoiding unusual trading patterns, especially in options, and
communicating with overseas analysts by fax instead of e-mail,
which was stored on computers, he said.  Smith admitted to discarding a notebook and his personal
laptop computer the day his boss was arrested in October 2009. A
week later, when Rajaratnam asked him to “take care of” a fax
with “sensitive information” that came from Galleon analyst in
Taiwan, Smith said he threw that away, too.  ‘The Big Fish’  Defense attorney Terence Lynam began cross-examining Smith,
yesterday, asking if was testifying against Rajaratnam to “save
himself” and give the government “the big fish” they sought
by convicting Rajaratnam.  Smith said that in 2010, after leaving Galleon, the U.S.
had wiretapped him committing insider trading while managing a
hedge fund called Polaris Investment Partners Inc.  He said he agreed to cooperate with the government after
they played him wiretaps from 2008 and 2010 in which he was
caught committing insider trading. He also said authorities told
him he could face as long as 25 years in prison if he went to
trial and was convicted.  “Don’t you want to avoid a long prison sentence, and the
best way is to testify in this case today?” Lynam asked.  “The reason I’m here is because I signed the plea
agreement and agreed to testify truthfully,” Smith said.  ‘All Legitimate’  Rajaratnam’s lawyers played for the jury a secretly
recorded Jan. 14 audiotape Smith made for the FBI with Horowitz.
During the call, Smith asked Horowitz if he was aware of inside
information in Galleon trades.  “You didn’t, I didn’t, right?” Smith asked.  “It wasn’t like we knew anything,” Horowitz replied.  “Those were all legitimate,” Smith adds later in the
conversation.  U.S. District Judge Richard Holwell, who is presiding over
the case, told jurors the tape was being offered for the jury to
assess Smith’s credibility.  Lynam asked Smith about his statement on the tape the
Galleon trades were built on legitimate data. Smith said he was
instructed by the FBI to lie to Horowitz in an effort to get him
to implicate himself.  “You want the jury to believe you’re lying then, but
telling the truth now?” Lynam asked.  “The reason is, that if I lie from this day forward, I
face the maximum sentence,” he said. “And if I tell the truth
and nothing but the truth, then I have a chance.”  Lynam asked Smith if Galleon analysts found the easiest way
to communicate was to send a fax, countering his earlier
testimony that the use of faxes was suspicious.  “No, the easiest way to communicate was not a fax,” Smith
said. “My BlackBerry worked anywhere I traveled,  China ,  Korea ,
 Europe ,  Taiwan .”  Lynam reviewed trading records, e-mails and analyst reports
to show that Galleon had lawful reasons to trade in stocks at
issue. In one, a Galleon analyst wrote that Integrated Circuit
Systems Inc. was “shopping itself around,” months before the
company was acquired. Prosecutors say Rajaratnam bought the
stock based on inside information.  The case is U.S. v. Rajaratnam, 1:09-cr-01184, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of  New York  ( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Glovin in Manhattan federal court at 
 glovin@bloomberg.net ;
Patricia Hurtado in Manhattan federal court at   phurtado@bloomberg.net ;
Bob Van Voris in Manhattan federal court at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 