-- 
Generic-Drug Patient Lawsuits May Divide U.S. Supreme Court

-- B y   G r e g   S t o h r
-- 
2011-03-30T17:31:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-30/generic-drug-patient-lawsuits-may-divide-u-s-supreme-court.html
U.S.  Supreme Court  justices
signaled they are divided in a case that will determine whether
generic-drug makers can be sued for not warning patients about
the risk of dangerous side effects.  The nine justices split into almost equal camps today as
they heard arguments in a case involving units of Mylan Inc. and
 Teva Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. (TEVA)  Two women say they
contracted a severe neurological disorder as a result of long-
term use of metoclopramide to treat stomach conditions.  Patient advocates are aiming to extend a 2009 Supreme Court
ruling that permitted failure-to-warn suits under state product-
liability law against brand-name drugmakers. Generic-drug
companies say they are required to copy the packaging inserts
used by brand-name manufacturers and aren’t equipped to propose
changes based on reports of problems.  “This would totally change the way generics do business,”
said Jay Lefkowitz, the lawyer representing the Teva and Mylan
units. Those companies are “not even set up to go and figure
out what label changes would be appropriate.”  The lawyer representing the women, Louis Bograd, told the
justices that a ruling favoring the companies would leave many
injured patients with little recourse. Generic drugs are used to
fill 70 percent of U.S. prescriptions, and a third of them no
longer have brand-name competition, he said.  “If generics are not responsible, in many of these cases
no one is responsible,” Bograd argued.  ‘Home Free’  Generic-drug companies are required under federal law to
tell the  Food and Drug Administration  about any so-called
adverse incidents. Bograd argued the companies in some cases
should take the additional step of urging the FDA to change the
packaging insert, also known as the label.  Justice  Ruth Bader Ginsburg  said that would be only a minor
burden.  “You could propose a revision of the label, and, if you
did that, then you would be home free,” she said. “You would
not be subject to the state suit.”  Justice  Antonin Scalia  disagreed, saying generic-drug
companies lacked the expertise to propose changes and at one
point suggesting a person with only a high school education
could set up a generic-drug company.  “This is a generic manufacturer,” Scalia said. “He
doesn’t know anything about science. He knows how to replicate
this pill exactly. That’s all he really knows.”  Obama Administration  Chief Justice  John Roberts  said a ruling against the
generic-drug companies might prompt them to include a
“boilerplate sentence” seeking a label revision every time
they filed an adverse-incident report.  The Obama administration is backing the patients, Gladys
Mensing and Julie Demahy. Edwin Kneedler, a government lawyer,
argued that a generic company “can’t revise the labeling, but
that doesn’t mean it can do nothing.”  Mensing is suing privately held Actavis Group hf as well as
units of Canonsburg, Pennsylvania-based Mylan and  Petah Tikva ,
Israel-based Teva. Demahy is suing an Actavis unit.  Federal appeals courts let both suits go forward. The
Supreme Court will probably rule by late June.  The case may turn on which of two precedents the court
concludes should apply -- the 2009 ruling in a case involving
Wyeth or a 2001 decision that barred suits claiming FDA product
approval was obtained by fraud.  Comparable Standards  Justice  Sonia Sotomayor  took the first approach, suggesting
that generic and brand-name drug companies should be held to
comparable standards.  “Do you think Congress really intended to create a world
in which consumers can only sue brand-name products?” she asked
Lefkowitz. “Because if that’s the case, why would anybody ever
take” a generic?  Two potential swing votes,  Stephen Breyer  and  Anthony Kennedy , said the 2001 ruling might be the more apt precedent.
Breyer said that decision established that states shouldn’t be
the ones to handle claims that the FDA was defrauded.  “The FDA has to enforce their own stuff,” Breyer said.
“And why isn’t the same true here, that the FDA has to enforce
their own legal requirement to tell us everything you know?”  The cases are Pliva v. Mensing, 09-993; Actavis Elizabeth
v. Mensing, 09-1039; and Actavis v. Demahy, 09-1501.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Stohr in  Washington  at 
 gstohr@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mark Silva  at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net . 