-- 
Portuguese Five-Year Yields Reach Euro-Era Record on Bailout Speculation

-- B y   L u k a n y o   M n y a n d a   a n d   K e i t h   J e n k i n s
-- 
2011-03-30T15:55:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-30/german-10-year-yield-at-14-month-high-before-european-confidence-report.html
Portuguese  government bonds 
declined amid speculation the Iberian nation will soon need
financial assistance.  The declines pushed the nation’s two-, five- and 10-year
yields to the highest since before the euro’s 1999 debut. Greek
securities also fell. Portugal may revise official data for a
report to be sent to Eurostat, the European Union statistics
agency, showing a wider 2010  budget deficit , the Wall Street
Journal reported, citing an unidentified spokeswoman. Standard
and Poor’s cut Portugal’s debt rating yesterday, saying the
nation will probably need an international bailout.  “There’s a lot of speculation about the Portuguese
government’s need for a bailout,” said  Michael Leister , a
fixed-income analyst at WestLB AG in Dusseldorf. “Yesterday’s
downgrades added another layer of pressure. Even at these levels
investors are willing to sell. There seems to be no relief, and
it’s only a matter of time before  Portugal  asks for help.”  Portugal’s two-year note yield climbed 30 basis points to
8.03 percent at 4:47 p.m. in London, after climbing to 8.035
percent. The 5.45 percent security due September 2013 fell
0.605, or 6.05 euros per 1,000-euro ($1,409) face amount, to
94.365.  The yield on Portuguese five-year notes surged above 9
percent for the first time since at least 1997, when Bloomberg
began collecting the data. The securities yielded 9.12 percent
and the 10-year bond yield rose to 8.10 percent, also a euro-era
record, Bloomberg data showed.  CDS Record  The cost of insuring Portuguese government debt rose to a
record. Credit-default swaps on Portugal increased four basis
points to 557, according to CMA prices.  German 10-year bond yields were within two basis points of
the most since January 2010 as a report showed European
confidence in the economic outlook stayed near the highest in
more than three years this month. The 10-year yield was at 3.34
percent, after reaching 3.36 percent, the most since Jan. 11,
2010. Two-year yields dropped two basis points to 1.76 percent,
still set for a fourth month of increases.  An index of executive and consumer sentiment in the 17-
nation euro region slipped to 107.3 from a revised 107.9 in
February, which was the highest since August 2007, the European
Commission in Brussels said today. It had previously reported a
February reading of 107.8. Economists forecast a drop to 107.5,
the median of 25 estimates in a Bloomberg News survey showed.  Quarterly Loss  German government bonds handed investors a loss of 2.2
percent this year while U.S. Treasuries lost 0.3 percent,
according to indexes compiled by the European Federation of
Financial Analysts Societies and Bloomberg. The Portuguese index
declined 7.3 percent while Spanish debt returned 2.7 percent.  The benchmark Stoxx Europe 600 Index advanced 0.7 percent.
 Japan ’s  Nikkei 225 (NKY)  Stock Average climbed to its highest close
since March 11 and the MSCI Asia Pacific Index increased 1.4
percent. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index was 0.6 percent higher.  German 10-year bund yields are set to rise for a second
quarter after European Central Bank policy makers signaled they
may raise  interest rates  as early as next month to combat
inflation, even as the region grapples with a debt crisis that
caused Ireland and  Greece  to seek outside help.  Pacific Investment Management Co. said the ECB will
“attempt” to raise interest rates to around 2 percent over the
next year, depending on the economic reaction to higher
borrowing costs.  ECB Risks  “The risk remains that tighter policy could accentuate the
crisis in the weaker peripheral countries and that the ECB will
not be able to carry out its planned normalization of policy
rates,”  Andrew Balls , the London-based head of European
 portfolio management , said today in a statement on the company’s
website.  The ECB’s main refinancing rate is currently a record low 1
percent.  Portugal, which faces total bond redemptions of about
9 billion euros by June, has no more than 5 billion euros in
cash, analysts at  Barclays Capital  in  London  said. The country
can meet its maturities, Secretary of State for Treasury and
Finance Carlos Costa Pina said.  “Portugal has conditions to face up to the debt redemption
commitments scheduled for 2011, especially the redemptions of
long-term debt that will take place in April and June,” Costa
Pina said in an e-mailed response to questions.  A bailout is “inevitable” for Portugal and unnecessary
for  Spain , according to  Stuart Thomson , a Glasgow-based
portfolio manager at Ignis Asset Management, which oversees
about $121 billion.  ‘Debtors Prison’  “At some time in the second quarter Portugal will be
forced into the debtor’s prison that is the European Financial
Stability Fund,” Thomson said. “If it was able to temporarily
borrow from the EFSF without the stigma of this debtor’s prison,
it would be very good for Spain. However the stigma will prevent
it from going anywhere near there.”  Ignis has no holdings of Greek, Irish or Portuguese bonds,
he said in an interview on Bloomberg Television’s “The Pulse.”  Sovereign rating announcements in  Europe  have had
“significant” spillover effects in the region, revealing their
potential to stir financial instability, the  International
Monetary Fund economists  said in a study.  The research was released yesterday, just as Portugal and
Greece were downgraded by S&P. Cuts to levels near the lowest
investment grade for “relatively large economies” such as
Greece have had a systematic impact on other countries sharing
the euro, the study said.  Italian Sale  Greek 10-year yields climbed six basis points to 12.76
percent, while yields on similar-maturity Irish bonds dropped
one basis point to 10.10 percent.  Italian 10-year bonds snapped a three-day decline, pushing
the yield down by one basis point to 4.78 percent as the country
sold 9.2 billion euros of securities.  Italy sold an additional 3.25 billion euros of the 10-year
bond at an average yield of 4.80 percent. Investors bid for 1.5
times the amount on offer, up from a so-called bid-to-cover
ratio of 1.3 at the previous auction of securities on Feb. 25.  It also sold 4.47 billion euros of notes due in 2014 at an
average yield of 3.24 percent, and 1.46 billion euros of
floating-rate notes maturing in 2017.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lukanyo Mnyanda in Edinburgh at 
 lmnyanda@bloomberg.net ;
Keith Jenkins in London at 
 kjenkins3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  