-- 
Global Accounting Standard Delayed Years by Crisis, Quigley Says

-- B y   M i c h a e l   J .   M o o r e
-- 
2011-03-30T04:00:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-30/global-accounting-standard-delayed-years-by-crisis-quigley-says.html
The worst financial crisis since
the Great Depression may have delayed adoption of a single
global accounting standard “by a couple of years,” said James Quigley, chief executive officer of  Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu .  “The financial crisis may well have slowed that process
down,” Quigley, 59, said in an interview yesterday. “National
regulators, understandably, are thinking ‘How can I protect my
investors in my country?’ You then start traveling a road of
national standards and national regulation, and the momentum we
had toward globalization and global standards to support global
capital markets has been set back.”  The  Financial Accounting Standards Board  is working to
reconcile global accounting standards with the London-based
 International Accounting Standards Board . Even if that doesn’t
happen, the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission this year
may approve the use of IASB’s International Financial Reporting
Standards, known as IFRS.  Aligning the two systems may help investors and regulators
better compare companies’ financial statements around the world.
Members of the two accounting bodies have held monthly, and
sometimes weekly,  meetings  on the issue since 2006.  Moving to one standard isn’t likely to occur before 2015 as
companies and auditors are given time to adjust to the changes,
Quigley said in the interview at Bloomberg’s  New York 
headquarters. U.S. corporate executives have pushed back against
adoption of global accounting standards because of the cost to
implement them, he said.  “I’ve taken the view consistently that we have global
capital markets, and global capital markets need global
standards, and the move to IFRS is a road I would like to see us
travel,” said Quigley, who’s stepping down in June. “There are
some who believe we’ll never get there.”  Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu, one of the so-called Big Four
auditors, has been expanding hiring in emerging markets,
particularly India and  China , Quigley said. The privately held
firm, based in New York, employs 177,000 people, Quigley said,
compared with 150,000 in 2007.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael J. Moore in New York at 
 mmoore55@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net . 