-- 
GM Said to Develop Buick Plug-In Hybrid Using Chevrolet Volt’s Technology

-- B y   D a v i d   W e l c h
-- 
2011-03-30T16:25:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-30/gm-said-to-develop-buick-plug-in-hybrid-using-chevrolet-volt-s-technology.html
General Motors Co. (GM)  is developing a
Buick brand car using the Chevrolet Volt’s plug-in hybrid
technology as the automaker expands its line of fuel-efficient
vehicles, according to two people familiar with the project.  Designers and engineers are working on a version of the
plug-in hybrid Opel Ampera, which was modeled after the  Volt  and
scheduled for sale in  Europe  this year, with a Buick grille and
front-end styling, said the people, who didn’t want to be named
because the plans are private. The Buick version would begin
sales in 2013 if it gets final approval, the people said.  The challenge for GM will be making the car different
enough and adding amenities to justify selling it for a higher
price under the Buick brand, said  Jim Hall , principal of 2953
Analytics Inc., a consulting firm in Birmingham,  Michigan . The
Volt sells for $41,000 before a federal tax incentive of $7,500.  “The Volt is already well-equipped,” Hall said in an
interview. “It’s missing power seats and that’s about it. What
else can you add to make it a premium car?”  The plan could work if GM equips the Buick version with
expensive advanced materials that reduce weight and improve the
car’s electric-only range or driving performance, Hall said  Chief Executive Officer Dan Akerson has said he plans to
sell a car using GM’s Voltec gasoline-electric drive system in
each of the largest U.S. automaker’s four brands. He told
analysts at a conference in January that GM must continue
developing new technology to prepare for higher fuel prices.  Rob Peterson, GM spokesman, declined to comment on a
possible plug-in hybrid Buick and reiterated Akerson’s comments
that GM wants to do more with its Voltec technology.  “We have talked about a variety of ways to leverage the
Voltec drive system,” Peterson said.  Buick, Opel  The Buick version of the car may not be drastically
different than the Ampera or the Volt because GM wants to begin
sales quickly, the people said. Detroit-based GM already shares
vehicles between Buick and Opel, with the new Buick Regal
midsize sedan and the Opel Insignia featuring similar styling.  If the new car is too similar to the Volt, some consumers
may see it as only a look-alike version of another vehicle in
GM’s line, a practice referred as “badge engineering,” said
 Rebecca Lindland , an analyst with IHS Automotive, a research
firm based in Lexington,  Massachusetts .  “Why are they badge engineering?” Lindland said in an
interview. “The Ampera really is just the Volt.”  GM is looking at putting the Voltec system in other future
models, people familiar with the matter have said. Using the
system in larger models is a challenge because they need more
battery power, which adds weight to the car and reduces the
vehicle’s pure electric driving range, Hall said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 David Welch  in Southfield, Michigan, at 
 dwelch12@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kevin Orland at   korland@bloomberg.net . 