-- 
Google Settles Data Privacy Complaint With FTC on ‘Buzz’ Social Network

-- B y   S a r a   F o r d e n   a n d   B r i a n   W o m a c k
-- 
2011-03-30T21:02:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-30/google-settles-privacy-complaint-on-buzz-with-ftc-advocacy-group-says.html
Google Inc. (GOOG)  agreed to settle U.S.
Federal Trade Commission claims that it used deceptive tactics
and violated its own privacy policies when it introduced the
Buzz social-networking service last year.  The proposed settlement bars Google from misrepresenting
how it handles information, obliges the company to follow
policies that protect consumer data in new products and requires
periodic reviews to ensure the policies are followed, the FTC
said in a statement today.  “When companies make privacy pledges, they need to honor
them,”  Jon Leibowitz , the commission’s chairman, said in the
statement. “This is a tough settlement that ensures that Google
will honor its commitments to consumers and build strong privacy
protections into all of its operations.”  Google is grappling with increased government scrutiny from
regulators around the world who say it doesn’t do enough to
safeguard users’ information. They also say the company may use
its dominance of Web search to thwart competition. The proposed
settlement, which doesn’t call for a fine, will be in effect for
20 years, and covers future situations such as Google’s
collection of Wi-Fi data, FTC deputy director Jessica Rich said
on a conference call.  Customer Harm  The settlement stems from a Feb. 16, 2010, complaint filed
by the  Electronic Privacy Information Center , a Washington-based
advocacy group. The center asked the FTC to investigate whether
consumers were harmed when users of Google’s Gmail service found
private e-mail contact information automatically displayed to
other users when they enrolled in Buzz. Ten lawmakers sent a
letter to the FTC on March 25, 2010, urging the commission to
carefully look into the group’s complaint.  “The FTC action is far-reaching,” the center’s Executive
Director  Marc Rotenberg  said by e-mail. “This is the most
significant privacy decision by the commission to date. For
 Internet users , it should lead to higher privacy standards and
better protection for personal data.”  Google said it agreed to an independent review of privacy
procedures every two years and will ask users to give
“affirmative consent before we change how we share their
personal information.”  “We don’t always get everything right.” Google said in a
blog posting today. “The launch of Google Buzz fell short of
our usual standards for transparency and user control.”  Regulatory Issues  Colin Gillis , an analyst at BGC Partners LP in  New York 
said Google wants to avoid the regulatory issues that affected
Microsoft Corp. and slowed down that company’s ability to be
innovative. He rates Google a “hold” and doesn’t own the
stock.  “They have government issues across the world,” Gillis
said. “Their non-operational risks continue to build and they
need to start to reduce these.”  In January, the company announced that Chief Executive
Officer  Eric Schmidt  would step down from his position and
become executive chairman and focus on external relationships,
including outreach to governments.  Google introduced Buzz on Feb. 9, 2010. The service was
linked to a user’s Gmail account “so you don’t have to peck out
an entirely new set of friends from scratch -- it just works,”
Google wrote in an official blog post at the time.  Users weren’t explicitly warned that their e-mail lists
would be automatically visible to the public, the privacy group
wrote in its complaint.  ‘Estranged Spouses’  “Gmail contact lists routinely include deeply personal
information, including the names and e-mail addresses of
estranged spouses, current lovers, attorneys and doctors,” the
center said in its complaint.  Users could hide their lists only by clicking through
several links to un-check a box labeled “Display the list of
people I’m following and people following me,” the group said.
It called on the FTC to take action under Section 5 of the FTC
act, which allows the agency to enforce against unfair and
deceptive trade practices.  Google’s fix allows users to opt in and control how much
information they share. Google said on Feb. 13, 2010, it would
no longer automatically build a Buzz network out of a customer’s
most frequently used contacts and wouldn’t link Buzz to customer
albums on a photo-sharing website called  Picasa , which is also
controlled by Google.  Gmail Lawsuit  In November, Google settled a group lawsuit brought by
Gmail users who claimed the exposure in Buzz’s opening invaded
their privacy. Under that settlement, Google agreed to create an
$8.5 million fund to help finance organizations focused on
Internet privacy education and policy, and agreed to further
educate users about the privacy aspects of Buzz.  The  Electronic Privacy Information Center and other
consumer watchdog groups, including the  American Library
Association  and the  Consumer Federation of America , have also
pointed to privacy issues regarding Facebook Inc. The world’s
largest social-networking site has more than 500-million users
and surpassed Google in weekly hits last year to become the most
visited website in the U.S., according to research firm Hitwise.  The FTC’s Rich, deputy director of the commission’s Bureau
of Consumer Protection, said that the agency has other privacy
actions in the pipeline she declined to identify.  “While this order technically applies only to Google, we
think many of the provisions are good business practices we
expect to see widely followed across the industry,” she said.  Google rose 11 cents to $584.84 in Nasdaq Stock Market
trading. The shares have fallen 2 percent this year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sara Forden in Washington at 
 sforden@bloomberg.net ;
Brian Womack in  San Francisco  at 
 Bwomack1@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net  