-- 
Google’s $5 Billion Wind-Power Bid Draws Opposition on Return Guarantee

-- B y   B r i a n   W i n g f i e l d
-- 
2011-03-30T15:38:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-30/google-s-5-billion-wind-power-bid-draws-opposition-on-return-guarantee.html
A  Google Inc (GOOG) .-backed effort to
build a $5 billion undersea power line supporting wind energy
from New Jersey to  Virginia  faces opposition from state
officials and utilities.  The  Maryland  Public Service Commission and the National
Rural Electric Cooperative Association are among those
questioning  Atlantic Wind Connection ’s request that the  Federal
Energy Regulatory Commission  approve incentives to build the
project, including a guaranteed 13.58 percent return on equity
for its development.  “They want consumers to pay for them to go through the
planning process,” said Jay Morrison, vice president for
regulatory affairs at the cooperatives group based in Arlington,
Virginia, in a phone interview yesterday.  The power line buried beneath the sea floor would serve as
a 300-mile (483-kilometer) transmission backbone linking to wind
turbines off the coasts of  New Jersey ,  Delaware , Maryland and
Virginia.  Trans-Elect Development Company LLC , an independent
transmission company based in Bethesda, Maryland, announced the
project in October.  Google of Mountain View,  California , operator of the
world’s most popular Internet search engine, has a 42 percent
stake in the project, company spokesman Parag Chokshi said in an
e-mailed statement. Investors also include Tokyo-based trading
company Marubeni Corporation and Good Energies, a clean-energy
investment firm based in Zug,  Switzerland . The first phase,
which could be operational as early as 2016 will cost about $1.3
billion, sponsors say.  Project Briefing  The project’s sponsors have scheduled a briefing on its
next development phase tomorrow at the law offices of Dewey &
LeBoeuf LLP, Atlantic Wind’s attorneys, in  Washington .  Atlantic Wind’s future depends on regulatory approval. The
Energy Policy Act of 2005 ordered FERC to create incentive rates
of return for transmission projects, considered on a case-by-
case basis, in order to encourage investment. A transmission
developer can apply for such treatment and separately seek
approval for a rate formula that will determine the costs
ultimately passed along to consumers.  In addition to the guaranteed rate of return on equity, the
Atlantic Wind Connection is asking that all costs of the
project’s construction be included in its rate base and that it
be allowed to recover its costs if the project is canceled for
reasons beyond the sponsors’ control.  ‘Overly Generous’  The incentives sought “could well be overly generous,”
the Maryland regulatory panel said in a January 31 filing with
FERC. Subsidiaries of  Newark , New Jersey-based  Public Service
Enterprise Group Inc. (PEG)  want to ensure that consumers don’t become
saddled with the costs of building the transmission line before
grid operators verify it’s needed, the company said in a
separate filing the same day.  The Atlantic Wind Connection hasn’t asked FERC to approve a
specific rate formula, Bryan Lee, a spokesman for the project,
said in a phone interview. Instead, the requested incentive rate
approval is “designed to provide some certainty for investors”
while regulators and grid authorities consider how best to plan
and pay for new transmission lines, he said.  Sponsors intend to ask FERC for a final rate request later
this year, according to the group’s filing for incentive rates
in December.  Atlantic Wind is also seeking inclusion in regional grid
operator PJM Interconnection’s transmission planning process, as
well as the U.S.  Interior Department ’s approval of a right-of-
way on the Outer Continental Shelf.  The Interior and Energy Departments announced in February a
national strategy to encourage the development of large-scale
offshore wind projects, such as the Atlantic Wind Connection.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Wingfield in Washington at 
 bwingfield3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net  