-- 
Google Adds Features to Make Search, Ads More Social to Take On Facebook

-- B y   B r i a n   W o m a c k
-- 
2011-03-30T20:12:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-30/google-offers-features-to-make-search-ads-more-social-1-.html
Google Inc. (GOOG) , aiming to vie with
social-networking leader Facebook Inc., unveiled tools that help
users recommend other websites while letting companies feature
that information in their advertisements.  The feature, called "+1,’’ lets Google users click a blue
button to indicate their affinity for a company or product, said
Matt Cutts, Google’s principal engineer in search. Google would
also show how many of a person’s friends -- gleaned from Google
user accounts -- also favor those items when they show up in
search results. Google will soon let website publishers feature
the button for their users.  Google, the  Mountain View , California-based owner of the
world’s most popular search engine, is adding social-centric
features to draw more advertisers as Web surfers spend more time
on Facebook. While Google may have 13 percent of the U.S.
display online advertising market this year, Facebook may have
22 percent, according to  EMarketer Inc.  in  New York .  “All of Google’s properties are working on a variety of
ways to make our products more people-centric,” Cutts said in a
telephone interview. “This really is a natural evolution and a
natural progression of our social search.”  With the new service, Google visitors can see which of
their friends have clicked "+1’’ for a website in a search
result. Google will highlight those people in Gmail chat lists,
contacts and other Google services, including Reader -- and
plans later to add people connected via Twitter Inc. Also,
Google will include the number of people in general who have
said they prefer the site, not just online friends.  Rolling Out  The feature begins to roll out to a small set of users
today and to everyone else in the coming weeks, Cutts said.
Google Profile users will be able to see what they have labeled
"+1’’ on a dashboard.  Rival  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  last month expanded a search
partnership with Facebook that was announced last year.
Companies or services that Facebook friends have labeled as
“liked” will show up right below results in Microsoft’s Bing
search engine.  Google has used social interactions for several years in
its search engine, Cutts said. For example, SearchWiki lets
users rank and annotate search results.  “We’ve definitely looked at signals coming from people,”
Cutts said.  Google rose 11 cents to $581.84 at 4 p.m. New York time on
the Nasdaq Stock Market. The shares have fallen 2 percent this
year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Womack in  San Francisco  at 
 bwomack1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Thomas Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  