-- 
Google Tests Fate in China as Mapping Application Deadline Looms

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-03-30T00:19:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-30/google-tests-fate-in-chinese-market-as-mapping-application-deadline-looms.html
Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s defiance of China’s
censorship rules resulted in the world’s most popular search
engine being pulled out of the country 12 months ago. This year,
the dispute may be spilling over to Gmail and maps.  As of yesterday, China’s State Bureau of Surveying and
Mapping hadn’t received an application from Google to keep
offering its service, as required under regulations announced in
May, according to Kou Jingwei, the bureau’s spokesman.  Jessica Powell , a Google spokeswoman, declined to comment on whether the
company has applied. The deadline is tomorrow.  As Baidu Inc. widens its lead in the world’s largest Web
market, a discontinuation of the mapping service would signal
Google’s dimming outlook in  China , according to analysts, after
the company blamed local censors for disruptions in its e-mail
service. The latest clash shows the government hasn’t forgiven
Google’s decision to halt compliance with censorship rules
on Internet searches, said Christopher Tang, a professor of
business administration at UCLA.  “Google faces major problems within China,” Tang said.
“Unless Google is going to change the way they operate, unless
they are willing to apologize to the Chinese government, unless
they are willing to cooperate with the Chinese government to
impose censorship according to the wishes of the Chinese
government. Otherwise, there’s no deal.”  Google British East India  A March 4 opinion piece in the official People’s Daily, the
mouthpiece of China’s Communist Party, compared Google with the
British East India Company, whose sales of opium in the country
was the root of two 19th-century conflicts.  China introduced a new licensing system for Internet
mapping services in May to “address illegal practices” and an
“inadequate awareness of national security,” the official
Xinhua News agency reported March 21. Since 2008, online mapping
services have committed more than 1,000 violations including
unauthorized disclosure of confidential information and mistakes
in drawing the country’s border, Xinhua reported.  As of mid-February, the bureau had granted licenses to 105
websites for mapping services, including Baidu, Sina Corp., a
 Nokia Oyj (NOK1V)  joint venture and  China Mobile Ltd. (941) , Xinhua said. The
bureau has pledged to close unapproved websites.  The Bureau said applications for license must be made by
March 31, to avoid “administrative actions” it will take by
July 1. The Bureau this month vowed “resolute punishment for
serious violations,” such as closing websites, Xinhua said.  License Renewal  “We are examining the regulations to understand their
impact on our maps products in China,” Google said in a
statement.  Google in July was able to renew its Internet-service
license in China through 2012, even after shuttering its
Google.cn site in China and redirecting users to a Hong Kong
site. The company had said it was no longer willing to comply
with online censorship rules on topics such as Tiananmen Square
crackdown in 1989 and Tibet independence.  In the latest round of friction, Google accused local
censors of disrupting its Gmail e-mail service and disguising
the blockage as technical issues on Google’s behalf. China’s 
Foreign Ministry spokeswoman Jiang Yu on March 22 called that
claim “unacceptable.”  “In the 17-19th centuries, the East India Company made
their contribution for the development of a British Empire where
‘‘the sun never sets’’ through the monopoly of trade, the opium
trade and openly looting,” the People’s Daily piece said.
“Google is essentially similar to the East India Company, but
is smarter in its performance than the East India Company.
Google does not burn and loot, and they are also good at
camouflage.”  Opium War  China fought the first Opium War with the British Empire in
1839-42, and a second from 1856-1860.  Beyond Google’s own history of conflict with China’s
censors, the company is now also being perceived as a greater
threat to the government in light of popular unrest throughout
North Africa and the Middle East that has already brought down
regimes in Tunisia and  Egypt , said James Lewis, senior fellow at
the Center for Strategic and International Studies, a
Washington-based policy group.  “Google’s caught in some larger political issues,” Lewis
said. “It’s a very big problem, and the events in the Middle
East have made it a little bit bigger.”  Google executive Wael Ghonim helped set up a website for
Egypt opposition leader  Mohamed ElBaradei  as anti-government
protests in the Middle Eastern country toppled President  Hosni Mubarak . Ghonim’s 11-day detention turned him into a hero for a
disaffected Egyptian youth.  Blocking Facebook  China, the world’s largest Internet market with 457 million
Web users, bans pornography, gambling and content critical of
the ruling Communist Party. It already blocks Google’s YouTube
site as well as social-networking websites run by Facebook Inc.
and Twitter Inc.  The People’s Daily piece, which also called Google “a tool
of U.S. expansionism and hegemony,” ran on other popular
websites in China including  Tencent Holdings Ltd. (700) ’s QQ.com and
Sina Corp.  Without specifically commenting on the People’s Daily
piece,  Mountain View , California-based Google denied that the
U.S. government meddles in its affairs.  “Contrary to assertions made by the Chinese media, every
decision we have made regarding China has been made by Google
alone,” the company said March 7 in an e-mailed reply to
Bloomberg News.  Widening Gap  Baidu accounted for 75.5 percent of China’s search-engine
market by revenue in the fourth quarter, rising from 73 percent
in the previous three months, according to research company
Analysys International. Google’s share dropped to 19.6 percent
from 21.6 percent, the research firm said.  Google may fall further behind as companies such as Sina,
owner of China’s third-most-visited website, said it dropped
Google’s search engine to use its proprietary technology.  Google’s China business is “immaterial to the overall
financials,” so the value of its operations in the country has
more to do with the future than the present, said Clay Moran, an
analyst at Benchmark Co. who rates the shares “buy” and
doesn’t own any.  China contributed about 1 percent of revenue before it
changed its approach in the country to search early last year,
Moran estimates.  Sina stopped using Google’s search service after the expiry
of a contract, Liu Qi, a spokesman at Chinese Web portal
operator, said in an e-mail today. The Shanghai-based company
will instead use its own proprietary technology, he said.  “It’s a lot less strategic than it was a year or two
ago,” Moran said. “Investors prefer to see Google maintaining
a position in the country so that it can potentially benefit
from growth in the future.”  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  