-- 
Carlyle Said to Discuss Buying Network Equipment Maker SagemCom From Gores

-- B y   S e r e n a   S a i t t o   a n d   A n n e - S y l v a i n e   C h a s s a n y
-- 
2011-03-30T22:11:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-30/gores-group-said-to-be-in-talks-with-carlyle-lbo-firms-on-sagemcom-sale.html
Gores Group LLC is in talks with
 Carlyle Group  as well as other private-equity firms to sell
Sagem Communications, a French provider of network equipment and
television set-top boxes, said two people with direct knowledge
of the situation.  Gores, a Los Angeles-based private-equity firm, is using
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. as a financial adviser on SagemCom,
said the people, who declined to be identified because the
matter is private. A deal may value SagemCom at as much as 700
million euros ($989 million), they said. Talks are ongoing and
an agreement may not be reached.  Gores acquired a majority of Rueil-Malmaison, France-based
SagemCom from French aerospace engines maker  Safran SA (SAF)  in 2008
for an enterprise value of 383 million euros.  Private-equity firms are buying and selling assets again
after the financial markets brought deal making to a near halt
for two years. Fund managers have led about $79 billion of
private equity deals this year, nearly twice the amount in the
same period in 2010, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  The sales process is complicated by the fact that some
bidders want Gores to retain a minority stake in SagemCom, said
one of the people. Gores, which primarily invests in
telecommunications and technology companies, is interested in
selling all of the asset, said the other person.  Spokeswomen for Carlyle and Goldman declined to comment. A
Gores spokesman also declined to comment.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Serena Saitto in  New York  at 
 ssaitto@bloomberg.net ;
Anne-Sylvaine Chassany in Berlin at 
 achassany@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jennifer Sondag at   jsondag@bloomberg.net  