-- 
Greece May Need to Break Taboo on Selling Land Outright to Slash Its Debt

-- B y   S h a r o n   S m y t h   a n d   M a r i a   P e t r a k i s
-- 
2011-03-31T07:58:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-30/greece-may-need-to-break-taboo-on-selling-land-to-slash-its-debt.html
Greece ’s plan to raise billions of
euros from state-owned land may fail if the government succumbs
to pressure to keep assets in public hands, according to Miltos Kambourides, managing partner at  Dolphin Capital Partners .  Finance Minister  George Papaconstantinou  said in an
interview this month that he would prefer to offer developers
long-term leases, though he’d consider selling smaller assets
outright. On March 23, the government said it will give details
of the fundraising plan “in the coming weeks.”  “No foreign investors will want to buy a lease and be told
what they should develop on the site,” said Kambourides, 38,
who helped set up his private equity firm seven years ago.
Dolphin, registered in the British Virgin Islands and listed on
the  London  Stock Exchange’s  AIM , is developing seven  luxury
resorts  in Greece with a total investment budget of 2 billion
euros ($2.8 billion).  Papaconstantinou aims to generate 50 billion euros from
state asset sales and property transactions by 2015 to reduce
Greece’s public debt, the highest in the European Union as a
percentage of gross domestic product. Until now, its governments
have shied away from real-estate divestments to avoid criticism
from voters.  ‘No Panacea’  “Asset sales are an important element in the effort to
stabilize the debt level, though they’re unlikely to be a
panacea,” said  Silvio Peruzzo , an economist at Royal Bank of
Scotland Group Plc based in London. He described the
government’s target as “very ambitious.”  Greece’s economy will probably shrink for a third year
under the force of cost-cutting measures that followed an EU-
led, 110 billion-euro bailout last year.  Some companies may be discouraged by the country’s
bureaucracy, said Kambourides, whose company had to collect
2,200 signatures from government departments and ministries to
secure the luxury developments. There’s no single point of
contact for the numerous permits needed, he said.  “It creates a high barrier to entry, which keeps the
competition away, but it’s not good for the country,”
Kambourides said.  Greece is taking steps to promote large-scale developments,
such as speeding up the permit process and defining holiday
homes as a tourist product so developers can build them on
resorts.  New Legislation  “The government’s moving in the right direction in terms
of introducing legislation, but it’s going slowly,” said
Christopher Egleton, executive chairman of  Minoan Group Plc (MIN) , a
London-based developer of leisure and tourist resorts in Greece.  Dolphin, which has bought 1,650 hectares (4,077 acres) of
land in Greece for development since 2006, won’t purchase any
land from the state unless it’s a freehold, Kambourides said.  “The government’s sending out mixed messages, though I
think it will find a way to respond to the needs of investors,”
said Yannis Perrotis, managing director of Athens-based CB
Richard Ellis Atria. His company, an affiliate of the world’s
largest commercial property brokerage, advises on transactions
in Greece and Cyprus.  Dolphin’s property-investment unit,  Dolphin Capital
Investors , is building resorts at sites including  Porto Heli  on
the shores of the Peloponnese and Plaka Bay on the island of
Crete.  Holiday Homes  “Holiday homes are the most profitable part of a resort
and that is what all investors are looking for,” Kambourides
said. He estimates that as many as 25,000 holiday homes could be
sold in a year. That would generate sales of 10 billion euros
and provide a “significant” boost to gross domestic product.  A Feb. 27 poll by MRB Hellas showed that 58 percent of
respondents wanted state land to be developed, not sold. Of that
number, 66 percent supported laws that would stop any sale of
public land. Prime Minister  George Papandreou  said on Feb. 15
that he would propose such a ban.  “The Greek people want to have their cake and eat it
too,” Kambourides said. “They have a wrong concept of
ownership, as if the land sold will be taken to another
country.”  Most developers prefer to buy sites on a freehold basis
because it enables them to build homes that can ultimately be
sold outright, Perrotis said.  Public Access  Land sold by the state would remain accessible to the
public, according to Kambourides. Investment attracted by the
sales will create jobs and lift the economy after Greek
unemployment reached 14.2 percent in the fourth quarter, the
highest since the introduction of the euro.  The  Hellenic Public Real Estate Corporation , the state’s
property-management arm, has already announced that 20 plots of
land, including some on the Aegean island of Samos and the port
of Lavrio, will be offered for development and “ownership will
remain with the Greek state.”  Kambourides began his career at  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) 
working on real estate and private equity transactions in the
U.K.,  France  and Spain. He went on to become a founding partner
of Soros Real Estate Partners before setting up Dolphin.  “The value is definitely there,” Kambourides said. “It’s
more a matter of the government’s ability to carry out an
orderly sales process.”  Property Disputes  The state still has some work to do: Greece is the only
country in  Europe  without a centralized registry of deeds. About
40 percent of registered state properties are disputed and an
additional 25 percent don’t have enough data on their legal
status and are “questionable,” Papaconstantinou told lawmakers
earlier this year.  The cumbersome approval procedures and competing claims
over land resulting in lengthy court battles are both factors
that have deterred foreign investment.  Jones Lang LaSalle  ranked
Greece 29th on its Global Real Estate Transparency Index for
2010, below  Spain , Italy and  Portugal .  “The government still has to prove it can apply the new
legislation,” Kambourides said, “‘Foreign investment will be
harder to attract without a proper land-usage plan and a
completed land registry.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sharon Smyth in  Madrid  at 
 ssmyth2@bloomberg.net ;
Maria Petrakis in  Athens  at 
 mpetrakis@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Andrew Blackman at   ablackman@bloomberg.net ;
Tim Quinson at   tquinson@bloomberg.net . 