-- 
Icahn’s New York Lawsuit Over Lions Gate Bid Dismissed After Canada Ruling

-- B y   K a r e n   F r e i f e l d
-- 
2011-03-30T22:21:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-30/icahn-s-new-york-lawsuit-over-lions-gate-bid-dismissed-after-canada-ruling.html
A New York judge dismissed
billionaire  Carl Icahn ’s lawsuit accusing the board of  Lions
Gate Entertainment Corp. (LGF)  of conspiring with large shareholders
to thwart his hostile bid for the film studio.  State Supreme Court Justice O. Peter Sherwood said today
that the November findings of a Canadian court, which rejected
Icahn’s claim that a debt-for-equity swap that diluted his Lions
Gate interest was improper, prompted his dismissal of the New
York breach-of-contract claim.  Icahn, chairman of New York-based  Icahn Enterprises LP (IEP) ,
sued  Vancouver , British Columbia-based Lions Gate in New York
and Canada in July to reverse the debt-for-equity swap, which
increased director  Mark Rachesky ’s stake to almost 29 percent.
Icahn pulled his hostile bid for the independent film producer
on Dec. 13 after a ruling in the New York case allowed Rachesky
to keep his increased voting power.  “In light of the detailed findings of the Supreme Court of
British Columbia,  Canada , the court has determined to grant
defendants’ motion,” the judge wrote in his decision. “The
complaint will be dismissed.”  Sherwood also tossed claims that the actions of Lions Gate
and the other defendants interfered with Icahn’s contractual
rights and prospective business relations.  Sham Transaction  Icahn claimed the swap was a sham transaction, intended to
protect personal interests, in violation of a standstill
agreement and at Lions Gate’s expense.  Lions Gate said in a statement that it was pleased with
Sherwood’s ruling. Joseph DiBenedetto, an attorney for Icahn,
didn’t immediately respond to a call for comment. Icahn wasn’t
immediately available for comment, a person answer the phone at
his office said.  Icahn said in February 2010 he wanted to increase his
interest and add board members, according to the decision. Icahn
believed the company’s management was “pursuing a misguided and
destructive business strategy,” the judge wrote.  The following month, the Icahn began the first of two
tender offers. Eventually, 15 percent of  Lions Gate  was
tendered, bringing Icahn’s ownership stake to about 38 percent,
the judge said.  On July 9, 2010, Icahn and Lions Gate signed an agreement
for a 10-day truce. Just after the truce expired, the studio
announced the Rachesky deal. Rachesky had increased his stake
through a transaction in which one of his investment funds
bought $100 million of convertible notes from Kornitzer Capital
Management Inc., then exchanged debt for stock.  Icahn’s Interest  Rachesky acquired 16.2 million shares in the exchange,
causing Icahn’s ownership interest to fall from 37.9 percent to
33.5 percent.  In addition to Lions Gate the suit names Rachesky and John Kornitzer, the founder of Kornitzer Capital Management.  Kornitzer is “pleased with the decision,” his attorney
Richard Schulman said in an interview.  Attorney Andrew Rossman, who represents Rachesky, said
“we’re thrilled with the result.”  The British Columbia  Supreme Court  dismissed Icahn’s
Canadian suit on Nov. 1. The court found the board acted
“within its legal rights in the best interest of the company”
when it approved the July transactions. Icahn appealed the
Canadian decision.  “A judgment for Icahn in the present action for breach of
contract would invalidate the judgment of the BC court, which
was premised on a finding of no breach of the standstill
agreement,” Sherwood wrote.  Lions Gate, run from  Santa Monica ,  California , has produced
films including “Precious” and “American Psycho” and the
“Mad Men” television series.  The case is Icahn v. Lions Gate, 651076/2010, New York
state Supreme Court, New York County ( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karen Freifeld in  New York  at 
 kfreifeld@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 