-- 
ICBC Forecasts Loans to Expand at Slowest Pace in 3 Years

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-03-31T02:43:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-30/icbc-forecasts-credit-expansion-to-slow-after-posting-28-profit-increase.html
Industrial & Commercial Bank of
China (1398)  Ltd., the world’s largest lender by market value, said
credit may grow at the slowest pace in three years as Chinese
banks heed a government call to restrain loans.  ICBC plans to advance at least 820 billion yuan ($125
billion) of new loans this year, increasing its total
outstanding by 13.2 percent, Chairman Jiang Jianqing said in
 Hong Kong  yesterday. That compares with the Beijing-based bank’s
19 percent expansion in 2010 and 25 percent in 2009.  The bank’s shares rose to more than a four-month high today
in Hong Kong, on optimism more profitable lending will make up
for the slowdown in credit expansion. ICBC was among four of the
nation’s five largest banks whose 2010 profit beat analysts’
estimates as the spread between loan rates and funding costs
widened. Slower credit growth may help ease concern that
excessive lending will lead to weakened asset quality.  “Loan books will grow at a slower pace compared with last
year because of the government’s tightening measures,” said
Lewis Wan, chief investment officer of Pride Investment Group
Ltd. “Chinese banks will continue to perform well this year as
net interest margins will increase while  credit quality  will
remain good.”  Shares of ICBC rose 1.3 percent to HK$6.46 at 10:05 a.m. in
Hong Kong. Bank of Communications Co. advanced 2.8 percent after
reporting yesterday that profit jumped 30 percent last year.
Agricultural  Bank of China Ltd. (3988) , which raised $22.1 billion in
the world’s largest initial public offering in 2010, rose 3.8
percent.  Loan Forecasts  Construction Bank, the nation’s second-largest lender, this
week said it expects its yuan-denominated loans to grow 13
percent, compared with last year’s 17.8 percent. Bank of  China 
Ltd. said last week lending growth will slow from last year’s
15.2 percent.  The country’s five biggest lenders -- ICBC, Construction
Bank,  Bank of China , Agricultural Bank and Bank of
Communications -- boosted their combined profit by 29 percent
last year to a record 515.1 billion yuan, according to the  China
Banking Regulatory Commission .  Net income at ICBC rose 28 percent last year to 165 billion
yuan, cementing its position as the world’s most profitable bank
for a third year. ICBC’s profit was almost double that of HSBC
Holdings Plc,  Europe ’s largest bank.  ‘No More Tightening’  ICBC’s net interest margin, a measure of profitability of
its loans, widened to 2.44 percent last year from 2.26 percent
in 2009. At Shanghai-based BoCom, the net interest margin
expanded 16 basis points to 2.46 percent in 2010. A basis point
is 0.01 percentage point.  “The surprise came from expanding margins in Q4, and not
much non-performing loan deterioration,” Claude Tiramani, who
manages $50 million of emerging-market stocks at Lutetia Capital
in Paris, said by e-mail. As inflation may “peak in the next
three to four months, the market should aggressively factor in
no more tightening.”  ICBC advanced 1.06 trillion yuan of new loans last year,
taking the outstanding amount to 6.79 trillion yuan.  Loans to local government financing vehicles dropped to
515.1 billion yuan from 649.6 billion yuan at the end of
December, President Yang Kaisheng said yesterday. ICBC has set
aside 19.5 billion yuan in provisions for non-performing loans
to local governments, about 10 times the amount that has gone
bad.  Credit Binge  An unprecedented $2.7 trillion of loans extended by
domestic banks in the past two years has driven inflation to
near a two-year high and fanned concerns that real estate prices
are climbing to unsustainable levels. China faces a 60 percent
risk of a banking crisis by mid-2013 if a property bubble bursts,
according to  Fitch Ratings .  The People’s Bank of China has raised  interest rates  three
times since October and pushed up the ratio of deposits banks
must set aside as reserves to 20 percent, the highest in at
least two decades, for the country’s biggest lenders.  Along with interest rate increases, China in January raised
the minimum down payment for second-home purchases, told local
governments to set price targets on new properties, and
introduced taxes for homes in the cities of Shanghai and
Chongqing.  The country’s real estate market has defied the curbs as
home sale values rose 26 percent in the first two months this
year, according to China’s statistics bureau.  ICBC plans to increase assets by 1.5 trillion yuan this
year and total liabilities by 1.4 trillion yuan, according to
yesterday’s statement.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  