-- 
Mideast Calls for Change to Spare No Country, Kuwaiti Royal Says

-- B y   I n d i r a   A . R .   L a k s h m a n a n
-- 
2011-03-31T17:28:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-30/middle-east-leaders-must-change-to-survive-kuwaiti-royal-says.html
Demands for greater freedom and
representation in the Middle East and North Africa are “a
chain” moving across the region that will spare no regime that
fails to address legitimate demands of its people, Kuwaiti
Sheikh Fahad Al Salem Al Ali Al Sabah warned.  Regimes that don’t change will “be forced to change by the
people,” Fahad, a member of the Kuwaiti royal family and
founder of the Center for Dialogue Among Civilizations and
Defense of Liberty, said in an interview at the Bloomberg
Washington Bureau yesterday. Middle Eastern and North African
leaders, he said, are “hearing the message.”  Fahad criticized the U.S. and other governments for missing
the chance years ago to push  Muammar Qaddafi  to enact political
changes in Libya that might have averted the bloody rebellion
and costly international military intervention now underway.  The U.S. helped push Qaddafi in 2003 to accept
responsibility and to pledge compensation for the bombing of Pan
Am Flight 103 over Lockerbie,  Scotland , and also to abandon
pursuit of biological, chemical and nuclear weapons, Fahad
noted.  “The whole world missed an opportunity” to press Qaddafi
then to make political changes that would have allowed for
greater representation and perhaps addressed the demands
underlying the rebellion that began earlier this year, Fahad
said.  Blood in Streets  He said the world was “too late” in its response to the
Libyan crisis, and that with “blood now on the streets,” it
will be “a long time before  Libya  stabilizes,” regardless of
when the fighting ends.  In Washington and European capitals, government officials
are debating whether to arm Libyan rebels, in addition to
providing air cover, to tip the balance in their favor. Fahad
said he doubted any Arab state would send troops or weapons to
help the rebels, and cautioned the West against doing so, saying
the world doesn’t know enough about the opposition’s membership.  U.S. and European officials have said that Libya’s
opposition Transitional National Council appears to include
serious people committed to a democratic transition and keeping
the country united, and U.S. officials say they haven’t seen
evidence of significant al-Qaeda influence.  Deputy secretary of State  James Steinberg  told Congress
today that the U.S. welcomes “very strong statements” made by
the opposition council yesterday in favor of democracy and
disavowing any connection to al-Qaeda or extremist elements.  Inserting a note of caution about getting involved in
training “very disparate, very scattered” rebel groups who may
have discordant agendas, Defense Secretary  Robert Gates  told
Congress today that “there are many countries that can do
that,” and “frankly, I think somebody else should do that.”  No Military Aid  Fahad said that while his foundation has donated food,
clothing and medicine to assist Libyans caught in the fighting,
it has no plans to send military assistance to the opposition.  Fahad, who was taken as a prisoner of war by  Iraq  from
November 1990 through June 1991, was elected to the board of the
Commercial Bank of  Kuwait , where he served on the executive
committee, before moving to the National Guard and then became
the country’s director of agriculture affairs and fisheries.  The sheikh said he thinks  oil prices  will continue to rise
on instability in oil-producing nations in the Mideast and North
Africa, and said Americans will feel the impact.  Fahad, a son of Sheikh Salem Al-Ali, head of the Kuwaiti
National Guards, is a senior member of the Al-Salem branch of
the Sabah family, and owns a newspaper and television station in
Kuwait.  His Center for Dialogue, with offices in Kuwait,  New York 
and Paris, has a declared mission to “combat ignorance” and
“overturn constant brainwashing of populations orchestrated by
extremists” through greater press freedom and expanded
political representation.  ‘Fix Your House’  Fahad said he has “tried to promote this in Kuwait first,
because I believe that to fix your house gives you more
credibility” before you seek “to fix your neighbor’s house.”
He said his country, a constitutional monarchy, can be “a role
model for the Middle East and the Gulf.”  Freedom House, a Washington-based human rights group,
ranked Kuwait this year among 17 percent of countries in the
Middle East and North Africa that are “partly free,” with
greater political and civil liberties than in  Egypt ,  Jordan  and
 Saudi Arabia , other U.S. allies in the region.  Fahad said his country still “needs more change, more
reform,” especially regarding transparency of finances of
government employees and the ruling family.  “We are very weak on fighting corruption,” he said,
asserting that “forces benefiting from corruption want to
change the constitution of Kuwait” to limit democracy.  Kuwait Parliament  Kuwait’s parliament is widely regarded as the most
independent in the  Persian Gulf , and a number of lawmakers have
asked to question three cabinet ministers, all members of the
ruling family, on April 5. Local newspapers have carried reports
that the cabinet may resign or the emir, Sheikh Sabah Al-Ahmed Al-Jaber Al-Sabah, may dissolve parliament before April 5.  As popular unrest against poverty and autocratic rule has
swept the Arab world this year, protesters who rallied in  Kuwait
City  on March 8 said they were seeking the ouster of Prime
Minister Sheikh Nasser al-Mohammad al-Sabah, not the overthrow
of the government or the monarchy.  The prime minister has survived two non-confidence votes in
parliament since his appointment by the emir in 2006. Members of
the Al-Sabah family hold other key Cabinet posts and the emir
has the final say in all political matters in the Gulf Arab
state, which is OPEC’s fifth-largest producer.  Fahad warned that Yemen, whose longtime ruler President Ali Abdullah Saleh is facing a popular revolt, is “on the same path
of Libya.” The world, he said, should support dialogue among
Saleh and his opposition to avoid a repeat of the violence in
Libya.  Fahad was visiting  Capitol Hill  yesterday to speak with
U.S. lawmakers about unrest in the Middle East and his
suggestions for promoting dialogue and democracy in the region.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Indira Lakshmanan in Washington at   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mark Silva  at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net . 