-- 
Ignatieff Says Reversing Business Tax Cuts May Mean Lower Canada Deficits

-- B y   G r e g   Q u i n n
-- 
2011-03-30T14:43:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-30/ignatieff-says-reversing-business-tax-cuts-may-mean-lower-canada-deficits.html
Canadian opposition Liberal Party
Leader  Michael Ignatieff  said he may reduce the country’s budget
deficits faster than Prime Minister Stephen Harper if he wins
the May 2 election, because he won’t be handcuffed by the cost
of lowering corporate tax rates.  Ignatieff said he plans to devote a “serious” amount of
the savings from reversing income tax cuts for companies such as
Suncor Energy Inc. to deficit reduction. Other money would go to
investments in education and health, he said.  “All we are saying to corporate  Canada  is we have a very
serious deficit,” Ignatieff, 63, said in an interview with
Bloomberg News aboard the campaign plane yesterday. “We have to
get this country back to some fiscal discipline.”  Ignatieff and Harper have opened the campaign by trading
barbs over who would best manage the economy, which was the
fastest growing among Group of Seven nations in the fourth
quarter. Ignatieff has said corporate tax reductions, combined
with spending on military jets and prisons, shows how Harper’s
government has “squandered” the country’s fiscal strength.
Harper has said Liberal spending promises would force the
government to raise taxes, a move that could undermine the
recovery.  Could Be Popular  “They have to show they have a firm grip on the economy,”
said David Mills, who teaches Canadian history at the University
of Alberta in  Edmonton , in a telephone interview. Ignatieff’s
plan to boost the tax burden to companies while avoiding
increases for families could be popular, he said, adding the
pledge is “coming in the middle of tax season” for households
who file by the end of April.  Conservative Finance Minister  Jim Flaherty  earlier
legislated reductions in the corporate income tax rate, lowering
it by 1.5 percentage points to 16.5 percent at the start of this
year, and scheduling a further cut to 15 percent in 2012.
Canadian Chamber of Commerce President Perrin Beatty has lobbied
lawmakers to keep the cuts to sustain business confidence. The
chamber’s board of directors includes executives from Research
In Motion Ltd. and  Royal Bank of Canada. (RY)   Canada was already competitive on business taxes, Ignatieff
said, adding that previous Liberal governments cut the rate to
19 percent from 28. Restoring the previous rate would boost
revenue by C$6 billion ($6.2 billion) annually, Ignatieff said,
and he has earmarked C$2 billion of that to programs to support
education and people who care for sick relatives.  ‘Serious Contribution’  Ignatieff said he may allocate more than C$1 billion of the
remainder to lowering the budget shortfall. “It has to be a
serious contribution,” he said. “We don’t want to take all of
the six billion and then reallocate it, we want to use some of
it for deficit reduction.”  Ignatieff, running his first campaign as opposition leader,
repeated a pledge not to raise taxes on families or small
companies. “We have to make sure the tax system is fair, we
have to make sure that everybody is paying.” He said he will
present a specific spending cost program within a week.  “We can’t have everything that we want and not pay for
it,” Denise Rackus, a 72-year-old retired teacher, said after
attending the opening Liberal campaign rally in an Ottawa
district held by the  New Democratic Party . Harper’s tax cuts are
“very popular with some people, not with me,” she said.  James Sharp, a 24-year-old student who was working in a
computer lab at a college where Ignatieff announced plans for
education funding yesterday, said any money would help with a
debt he predicts will be C$52,000 when he finishes a four-year
degree.  ‘Two-party System’  Sharp plans to vote for the  Green Party  because he doesn’t
want a “two-party system” of Liberals and Conservatives,
adding he would consider voting Liberal if he thought other
voters in his traditionally Conservative area were preparing to
replace the incumbent.  “The Liberals are OK, they are like the lesser of two
evils,” he said. Harper is “very interested in concentrating
power in his own office” and “I like the idea of more parties
spreading the power,” he said.  Canada’s dollar has gained 0.9 percent to 97.23 cents per
 U.S. dollar  since March 24, the day before elections were
triggered by the government’s defeat in the House of Commons.
Yields on Canada’s two-year bonds have risen 8 basis points to
1.79 percent over that time, while the Standard & Poor’s/TSX
Composite Index has fallen 0.1 percent to 14,022.03 in Toronto.  Big Cities  The Liberal leader has spent the opening days of the
campaign in some of Canada’s largest cities -- Ottawa, Montreal,
Toronto and  Vancouver  -- where the party’s support is
concentrated. In contrast, Harper’s Conservatives draw much of
their support from rural areas, particularly in western Canada,
including  Alberta , Harper’s home province.  Alberta is developing oil sand deposits that hold an
estimated 170 billion barrels of recoverable oil, second only to
 Saudi Arabia ’s 265 billion barrels, according to the  Canadian
Association of Petroleum Producers . Those deposits have spurred
investments such as TransCanada Corp.’s proposed pipeline to
deliver crude oil to the  Gulf Coast .  Ignatieff said  oil companies  want “clear rules” that
“drive them towards environmental sustainability.”  “Let’s work with the provinces to get the rules clear,”
Ignatieff said. “We have to create stronger incentives for the
 oil sands  to drive the technology towards CO2 reduction, ponds
reclamation, more efficient water use.”  Clear Rules  Ignatieff also said the government needs better rules on
foreign investment, after Industry Minister Tony Clement started
a review following his government’s rejection of BHP Billiton
Ltd.’s $40 billion bid for Potash Corp. of Saskatchewan last
year.  “We need foreign investment to build the country,”
Ignatieff said. Regulations should be transparent and “require
foreign companies to make specific undertakings with respect to
jobs” and communities, he said. The current law’s requirement
for a transaction to bring a “net benefit” to Canada needs “a
clear definition” he said.  Regarding  London Stock Exchange Group Plc (LSE) ’s February bid
for the owner of Canada’s main bourse,  TMX Group Inc. (X) , Ignatieff
said it needs a careful review so Canada’s expertise in
financing mining and energy companies isn’t lost. “These are
assets that create lots of jobs,” he said.  Carney Fan  Ignatieff said that Bank of Canada Governor  Mark Carney  did
a good job helping the country out of a recession, and he would
accept whatever recommendation the bank makes about potential
changes to its mandate for inflation control. Under the
agreement that expires at year-end, the central bank runs
monetary policy with a 2 percent inflation target.  “I’m a big fan of Mark Carney,” Ignatieff said. “I’m
also a big fan that he gets to make the call.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Quinn in Vancouver at 
 gquinn1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net ;
David Scanlan at   dscanlan@bloomberg.net . 