-- 
IJM Rises Most in Four Months on Building Order Optimism

-- B y   C h a n   T i e n   H i n
-- 
2011-03-30T05:16:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-30/ijm-rises-most-in-four-months-on-building-order-optimism-1-.html
IJM Corp. rose the most in almost
four months in Kuala Lumpur trading after Credit Suisse Group AG
said Malaysia’s second-biggest builder may win more than 5
billion ringgit ($1.7 billion) of new construction contracts.  The stock climbed 3.1 percent to 6.29 ringgit at the 12:30
p.m. local-time break, set for its steepest gain since Dec. 2,
and outpacing the benchmark  FTSE Bursa Malaysia KLCI (FBMKLCI)  Index’s 0.6
percent increase.  IJM’s “management is very optimistic on the prospects for
construction order-book expansion,” Danny Goh, an analyst at
Credit Suisse, wrote in a report today. This “could drive an
upward re-rating of the stock.” He raised his share estimate
for the stock to 8 ringgit from 7.71 ringgit and kept his
“outperform” rating.  Clinching the contracts will allow IJM to double its
existing order-book to a record 10 billion ringgit in the coming
months, Goh said. Prime Minister Najib Razak’s government
unveiled an economic transformation program in September aimed
at attracting investment, including $444 billion of programs
this decade ranging from mass rail to nuclear power, led by
private and government-linked companies.  IJM is in advanced talks with the Malaysian government on
the West Coast Highway project and the extension of the Pantai
Expressway, he said. The company may secure these projects,
valued at more than 5 billion ringgit, in the “near term,” he
said.  IJM Chief Executive Officer Teh Kean Ming is in a meeting
and couldn’t immediately comment, his secretary said.  The company, which also has interests in property and
plantations, is also a front-runner for some hospital contracts
valued at 1 billion ringgit and the upgrading works for the
Ampang line of the light rail transit project, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chan Tien Hin in  Kuala Lumpur  at 
 thchan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey in  Hong Kong  at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  