-- 
Milan’s Swap Banks Violated U.K. Rules, Witness Says

-- B y   E l i s a   M a r t i n u z z i
-- 
2011-03-30T16:57:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-30/milan-s-swap-banks-violated-u-k-rules-prosecution-witness-says.html
The four banks on trial for mis-
selling swaps to Milan violated U.K. rules by failing to tell
city officials they had lost the protection typically given to
clients, a prosecution witness said.  UBS AG (UBSN) ,  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) ,  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and Depfa
Bank Plc entered into a client relationship by agreeing to
arrange a 1.7 billion-euro ($2.4 billion) bond sale in 2005,
David Dobell, a former regulator and partner of London-based
consulting firm CCL Partnership LLP, told a Milan court today.
The banks arranged the swaps through their U.K. units under
English law. “They were required to observe FSA principles,”
he said.  British rules prescribe that a client should be told in
writing that when it will be treated as a market counterparty
rather than an intermediate customer, and so lose the protection
the Financial Services Authority gives to clients signing
contracts under English law, Dobell said. The banks’ advice and
execution weren’t “governed by the observance of FSA rules,”
Dobell said, citing the documents he’d seen.  Prosecutor Alfredo Robledo said the banks misled Milan by
telling the city they could save it about 55 million euros with
a bond sale and a series of swaps. Robledo says the banks earned
101 million euros in hidden fees. The banks deny the charges.  “In my experience, it is rare for an intermediate customer
to opt out,” said Dobell, who in the 1990s worked in the
supervision department of the FSA’s predecessor, the Securities
and Futures Authority.  FSA Rules  By arranging the bond sale, the banks provided advice to
the client and were in breach of the FSA’s rules on integrity,
paying regard to client interests, and ensuring their advice was
suitable, Dobell said.  A spokesman for the FSA declined to comment.  The banks’ duty was to ensure “the advice is suitable and
that the risks have been understood by the client,” he said.
“The FSA doesn’t expect that every transaction is profitable,
but banks must explain all the advantages and disadvantages of a
specific transaction,” enabling Milan to seek further advice.  Deutsche Bank,  Germany ’s biggest bank, lost a case over
 interest-rate swaps  last week in the first ruling by the
country’s highest court on derivative sales. The court said the
Frankfurt-based lender didn’t adequately disclose risks and
ordered it to pay 541,074 euros in damages to its customer, Ille
Papier Service GmbH.  The trial continues in Milan on April 13.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elisa Martinuzzi in Milan at 
 emartinuzzi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  