-- 
Illinois’s Quinn Says Budget-Cutting Governors Wrong

-- B y   T i m   J o n e s
-- 
2011-04-01T17:43:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-30/illinois-s-quinn-says-budget-cutting-governors-have-it-wrong.html
(Corrects to remove erroneous reference to 401(k) plans in 
third paragraph from end of story published March 30.)  For governors cutting education and
health care and going after public-sector employees to balance
budgets, here’s a message from  Illinois  Governor Pat Quinn:
You’re wrong. Not mistaken, not misinformed.  “Just plain wrong,” said Quinn, 62, during a March 22
interview in his Chicago office. “I don’t buy into all these
radical cuts in government as a way to make life better for
ordinary, everyday people.”  Patrick Joseph Quinn III, since 2009 the Democratic governor
of the fifth-largest state, has made his administration a
response to those who charge that government is overlarge and
unsustainable. Thirty-one years after leading a successful
petition drive to reduce the state House from 177 members to
118, Quinn is the vocal defender of a government he spent
decades trying to reform.  Don’t cut, says Quinn. Build instead, he says, referring to
the $5.6 billion spent in the past two fiscal years for 3,240
miles of road repair and upgrading 472 bridges. Republicans and
some Democrats argue the culture of spending must change. Quinn,
who championed a record income-tax increase, is an obstacle,
they say.  “He’s out of touch with economic reality and out of touch
with national and state finances,” said Douglas Whitley,
president and CEO of the Illinois Chamber of Commerce.  Aching to Help  In February, Quinn presented a 2012 budget proposal at
least $1 billion out of balance. James Nowlan, a senior fellow
at the  University of Illinois ’ Institute of Government and
Public Affairs, said it reflected the priorities of a man
“whose every bone aches to do good for little people.  “Pat just can’t say no to people’s needs,” Nowlan said in
a telephone interview. “That’s a part of who he is.”  Quinn said there has to be “a moral dimension to the
operation of our government.”  “Where there is no vision, the people perish,” Quinn told
reporters at a Chicago news conference Jan. 25, quoting the Old
Testament  Book of Proverbs .  The product of Dominican and Jesuit training in high school
and college, Quinn vowed, “We’re not letting anybody perish in
Illinois.”  Paying for such protection is a challenge in a state that
has a backlog of more than $8 billion in bills, pensions
underfunded by more than $80 billion and a retiree health care
liability of $40 billion.  Debt Multiplies  Per-capita state debt has tripled since 2001, to $1,924,
and would almost double to $3,732 next year if lawmakers approve
borrowing, according to a Feb. 15 report from  Chicago ’s  Civic
Federation , a nonpartisan public-interest group. Illinois’s debt
is tied with  California ’s as the lowest-rated in the estimation
of Moody’s Investors Service, and  Standard & Poor’s  has it one
level above California.  The market seems unimpressed with Quinn’s plans. The extra
yield investors demand to hold an Illinois state general
obligation bond maturing in May 2024 rather than top-rated debt
has risen 38 basis points since Jan. 3, according to a Bloomberg
Valuation index. For  Wisconsin , whose Governor Scott Walker has
promised a smaller government, the so-called spread on a general
obligation bond maturing in June 2022 has fallen 7 basis points
over the same period.  ‘Not in Sync’  “The biggest issue with Pat Quinn is his personal
philosophy of populist government, and it’s not in sync with the
times that call for fiscal restraint and living within your
means,” Whitley, the Chamber of Commerce executive, said during
an interview in his Chicago office.  Forty-four states plus the District of Columbia face
projected deficits of $112 billion, according to the  Center for
Budget and Policy Priorities . Republicans and Democrats are
finding economies in education, Medicaid and public employment.
Many cuts, Quinn said, are “foolhardy.”  Illinois produces farm implements from  Deere & Co. (DE)  and
 Navistar International Corp. (NAV) , cars and trucks from  Ford Motor
Co. (F) , Chrysler Group LLC and Mitsubishi Motors Corp. and
pharmaceuticals from  Baxter International Inc. (BAX)  and  Abbott
Laboratories. (ABT)  It’s the headquarters of the airline conglomerate
 United Continental Holdings Inc. (UAL)  and the home of presidents
Abraham Lincoln and Barack Obama.  Wake-Up Call  It’s known also for corruption. Four of the past seven
governors are felons, with the most recent conviction leading to
Quinn’s becoming governor.  Budget trouble is nothing new. Facing a projected current-
year deficit of $13 billion, the General Assembly approved on
Jan. 12 a 67 percent increase in the personal income-tax rate
and a 46 percent boost in the corporate income tax.  “We heard directly from our creditors on  Wall Street  that
if you don’t immediately repair the damage your state has right
now with your fiscal situation, you can’t borrow any more money,
you can’t do anything,” Quinn said. “They’d never said that to
us before.”  Two weeks after the increase, Moody’s reaffirmed the
state’s A1 debt rating, with a negative outlook on the credit.  No Republicans voted for the tax increases. Some businesses
--  Caterpillar Inc. (CAT) , United and Deere -- opposed them.  Letter to the Top  Caterpillar Chief Executive Officer  Doug Oberhelman  told
Quinn in a March 21 letter that at least four other states had
approached the company about relocating since the tax passed,
according to a report by Lee newspapers’ Springfield bureau.  “I want to stay here,” Oberhelman wrote in a copy of the
letter obtained by the newspapers. “But as the leader of this
business, I have to do what’s right for Caterpillar when making
decisions about where to invest.”  New Jersey Republican Governor  Chris Christie  called Quinn
“a disaster” after the tax vote.  “That guy just likes to poke people in the head,” Quinn
said. “People call me names. Big deal.”  Chicago-born Quinn spent most of his career “storming the
ramparts,” said Nowlan of the University of Illinois.  Born on the 173rd anniversary of the Boston Tea Party,
Quinn graduated from  Georgetown University . He started in
politics working for Illinois Governor Dan Walker, a Democrat
who ran against Chicago Mayor Richard J. Daley’s organization.  Goading the Powerful  Quinn helped create a board representing citizens in
utility cases. He created the Coalition for Political Honesty to
advocate constitutional changes.  In 1979, a generation before the Tea Party movement, Quinn
urged citizens to mail tea bags to the governor to protest
legislative pay raises.  “He reminds me of Ralph Nader,” Nowlan said. “A lot of
people get tired of politics, and he has had a laser-like focus
on being a goad to the establishment.”  In the Irish pub that is Democratic politics in Illinois,
Quinn usually drinks alone. He’s not part of the Celtic clans of
Daleys, Madigans, Cullertons and Hynes that for decades have
called the shots from Chicago wards.  He’s been viewed for almost 40 years by the state’s
Democratic powers as a “provocateur,” said Dawn Clark Netsch,
a former state comptroller. “He’s sort of his own person and
likes to think of himself as an outsider.”  Quinn has lost more campaigns than he has won. After
becoming treasurer in 1990, he lost primary bids for secretary
of state,  U.S. Senate  and lieutenant governor. He won his second
try for lieutenant governor in 2002, securing the largely
ceremonial office that is a heartbeat -- or indictment -- away
from the governor’s office.  Funeral After Funeral  As lieutenant governor, Quinn, whose father was a U.S. Navy
veteran of World War II, attended almost every funeral of
Illinois service members killed in Iraq and Afghanistan.  The December 2008 arrest of Democratic Governor Rod Blagojevich on corruption charges prompted lawmakers to remove
him, elevating Quinn to the top office.  “He became the accidental governor,” Whitley said. “He’s
a decent individual, not a crook, and a humble man who wanted to
do good. Illinois government began to work again.”  Governance did not mean acceptance. Quinn eked out a primary
win in March 2010 by one percentage point and defeated
Republican Senator Bill Brady in November by eight-tenths of a
percentage point.  After getting the tax increases in January, Quinn presented
a $52.7 billion budget, including federal dollars, that was at
least $1 billion greater than forecast revenue. The linchpin is
an $8.75 billion bond authorization that would pay years of
accumulated bills.  All to All  Friends and critics said the budget reflected Quinn’s
unwillingness -- or inability -- to cut spending.  “We can’t be all things to all people,” Republican
Senator Kirk Dillard said at a March 25 budget conference in
Chicago.  U.S. Rep. Mike Quigley, a Chicago Democrat, said in a
telephone interview that he hopes the “election was a wake-up
call. I think he recognized some things he needs to do better.”  “Until the economy improves, he’s going to have to make
tough and unpopular choices.”  Quinn says he has made plenty of unpleasant decisions,
including raising the  retirement age  for public employees,
restricting cost-of-living increases that new hires will get
when they are retired and altering the Medicaid system.  “I’m not going to get our state out of the hole that it’s
in in terms of the economy by just severe cuts in education,”
Quinn said. “Lay off teachers? What’s that all about? Is that
going to help us?  “No.”  Pat Quinn at a glance:  Born: Dec. 16, 1948, Chicago (Age 62)  Party:  Democrat  Spouse:  Divorced  Children:  Two sons, Patrick IV, 27; and David, 26  Education:  Bachelor of Arts, Georgetown University, 1971; Juris
Doctor,  Northwestern University , 1980  Luggage:  He carries a tattered, torn and crumbling 29-year-old
briefcase he calls “Betsy.” “It’s flexible,” Quinn says.  Career:  Aide to Governor Dan Walker, 1973-74; created Coalition
for Political Honesty, 1975; 1983 started petition drive to
create the Citizens Utility Board; Illinois Treasurer 1991-1995;
elected lieutenant governor 2002 and re-elected in 2006; assumed
governor’s office in January 2009 after impeachment and removal
of Rod Blagojevich; elected governor 2010  Noteworthy:  Signed into law repeal of capital punishment in
Illinois in March.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tim Jones in Chicago at 
 tjones58@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  