-- 
China Imports Threatening Brazil Industry as Trade Increases, Bacchus Says

-- B y   A d r i a n a   B r a s i l e i r o
-- 
2011-03-30T20:25:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-30/imports-from-china-threaten-brazil-manufacturers-as-bilateral-trade-grows.html
Brazil ’s growing reliance on
imported Chinese manufactured goods is threatening producers in
Latin America’s biggest economy, said James Bacchus, a former
U.S. congressman and World Trade Organization official.  Chinese demand for Brazilian raw materials such as iron ore
and soybeans enabled the Asian nation to overtake the U.S. as
Brazil’s biggest trading partner in 2009. Imports from China are
accelerating in 2011, climbing 47 percent in the first two
months of the year to $4.7 billion, or almost 16 percent of all
Brazil’s purchases, compared with 14 percent in the same period
last year, Trade Ministry data show.  “There is increasing concern about the potential of
deindustrialization,” Bacchus, who now serves as legal counsel
for Brazil on trade disputes at the WTO, said this week at the
Bloomberg Brazil Economic Summit in  Sao Paulo . “We are going to
see this be part of the debate within Brazil about trade and
about how to deal with trade with China.”  Brazil lags behind China and  India  in terms of trade as a
percentage of gross domestic product and needs to improve its
position, Bacchus said at the March 29 summit. Brazil and the
U.S. could show closer cooperation with China and  Europe  to help
reach an accord to remove global trade barriers as “compromises
are going to be needed by all concerned,” he said.  Doha Round   Trade ministers representing 25 countries pledged in
January to conclude a deal in the Doha round of trade talks by
July, 10 years after negotiations started. The ministers agreed
to finalize negotiating texts by April, with a plan for an
overall agreement by July and the conclusion of the legal texts
and schedules over the course of this year.  The current round of discussions focuses on the needs of
 developing countries  and aims to revise agricultural subsidies
and improve access to global markets and service industries.  “The U.S. and Brazil should work together to conclude a
multilateral trade agreement because a number of the bilateral
issues that are most significant between the U.S. and Brazil
cannot be solved on a bilateral basis, especially about
agricultural subsidies,” said Bacchus, a member of the  House of
Representatives  in the early 1990s from  Florida .  Bacchus, a 61-year-old lawyer for international law firm
Greenberg Traurig LLP, said a conclusion of the Doha round is
less likely than Brazil making progress in winning a seat on the
United Nations Securities Council, which he expects will take
several years.  Growing Trade  Brazil’s trade with  China  jumped 53 percent to $56 billion
in 2010 from the previous year, compared with a 30 percent rise
to $45 billion for the U.S., according to Brazil’s Trade
Ministry. Imports from China jumped 61 percent to $25.6 billion
in 2010 from the previous year, and made up 14 percent of all
imports by Brazil last year, compared with 12.5 percent in 2009,
ministry data show.  Exports to China rose 70 percent in the first two months of
2011 from the same period last year. Sales to China made up
almost 15 percent of total Brazilian exports last year, compared
with 13 percent in 2010.  “Brazil has been exporting raw materials, commodities,
 iron ore , other basic ingredients of civilization, and China has
been putting some of those things together and shipping them
back here,” said Bacchus. “The challenge going forward is the
composition of that trade on a bilateral basis.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Adriana Brasileiro in  Rio de Janeiro  at 
 abrasileiro@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Laura Zelenko at 
 lzelenko@bloomberg.net  