-- 
India Beats Pakistan to Meet Sri Lanka in All-Asia Cricket World Cup Final

-- B y   P e t e r - J o s e p h   H e g a r t y
-- 
2011-03-30T18:37:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-30/india-defeats-pakistan-by-29-runs-will-play-sri-lanka-in-world-cup-final.html
Sachin Tendulkar  scored 85 runs as
 India  beat archrival Pakistan yesterday to set up the first all-
Asian Cricket  World Cup  final against Sri Lanka.  India totaled 260-9 in the semifinal in Mohali, Virender Sehwag making 38 and Wahab Riaz taking 5-46. Pakistan was all
out for 231 in the last of its allotted 50 overs as the home
team won by 29 runs. The final is in Tendulkar’s hometown of
 Mumbai  in two days.  “I thought it was brilliant the way we bowled, and the way
we fielded was fabulous,” man of the match Tendulkar told the
post-match presentation. “Going back to Mumbai, especially for
this event, is a wonderful occasion.”  Tendulkar, seeking to become the first man to hit 100
international centuries, led a charmed life yesterday amid
error-strewn fielding. He was dropped four times, three of those
off the bowling of  Pakistan  captain Shahid Afridi, who finally
made up for his teammates’ errors by catching the “Little
Master” off Saeed Ajmal.  “We played well in this whole competition,” Afridi said.
“I’m proud I am the captain of these guys. I think they played
better than us. Sorry to our nation. We tried our level best.”  India, batting first after winning the toss, had grabbed
the initiative through Sehwag. He lashed the bowlers to all
sides of the ground as India reached 39-0 in four overs, 21 of
those runs coming off one over bowled by Umar Gul.  Sehwag’s explosive innings of 38 runs off 25 balls ended
when he was trapped leg-before-wicket by Riaz with the score on
48.  Gambhir Stumped  Gautam Gambhir was stumped for 27 before Riaz inflicted a
double blow in consecutive balls. First he had Virat Kohli
caught, then he clean-bowled key batsman  Yuvraj Singh  with an
inswinging yorker to leave the score on 141-4.  After Tendulkar left with the score on 187-5, captain
Mahendra Singh Dhoni (25) was lbw to Riaz, Harbhajan Singh was
stumped, and Riaz took his fifth wicket when Zaheer Khan was
caught behind. Ashish Nehra was run out, and Suresh Raina ended
on 36 not out.  Pakistan had a solid start, reaching 44 before  Kamran Akmal ,
on 19, was caught by Yuvraj off Zaheer.  Then Mohammad Hafeez, who’d batted steadily for 43, flicked
an easy catch to wicketkeeper Dhoni off Munaf Patel. Asad Shafiq
went for 30, bowled by Yuvraj, who struck again two overs later
when he had Younis Khan (13) caught by Raina. That left the
score at 106-4.  Scoring Rate  Umar Akmal began to hit out and scored two sixes in his 29.
He and Misbah ul-Haq added 36 for the fifth wicket before Akmal
was bowled by Harbhajan Singh, and the game swung to India as
the scoring rate slowed. Abdul Razzaq, a potential danger for
India, was bowled by Munaf Patel for 3, and Afridi (19) then
went for a big hit and was caught by Sehwag at 184-7, followed
by Riaz, caught by Tendulkar off Nehra.  Umar Gul , who’d struggled when bowling, was lbw to Nehra
for 2. Then Zaheer had Misbah (56) caught out to wrap up the
victory as Pakistan paid the price for delaying a “power-
play,” a phase that helps batsmen by restricting the placement
of the fielding team.  “It’s a dream before the start of the tournament,” Dhoni
said. “Throughout the tournament we didn’t have easy games,
that’s the beauty of this game -- nothing comes easy. Overall we
are quite ready for the final, but you have to be on your best
on that day.”  India, Pakistan and Sri Lanka have each won the World Cup
once, in 1983, 1992 and 1996, respectively.  “It was like a final today, because if India and Pakistan
are playing the pressure is double,” Harbhajan said. “We
bowled really well and fielded really well and deserved to
win.”  India is favored in the final, according to U.K. bookmaker
William Hill Plc. It’s an 8-13 bet, meaning a successful $13
wager would bring in $8 plus the original stake. Hill is
offering odds of 5-4 for  Sri Lanka , which beat  New Zealand 
earlier this week by 5 wickets to reach the final.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter-Joseph Hegarty in London at 
 phegarty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  