-- 
ING Is Likely to Merge Online-Banking Unit With U.S. Lender, JPMorgan Says

-- B y   M a u d   v a n   G a a l
-- 
2011-03-30T10:06:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-30/ing-is-likely-to-merge-online-banking-unit-with-u-s-lender-jpmorgan-says.html
ING Groep NV (INGA)  will probably seek to
divest its U.S. online-banking unit by merging it with a local
lender rather than an international competitor, according to
analysts at JPMorgan Chase & Co.  A merger or disposal with a U.S. “domestically focused”
party would be preferential, London-based analysts Duncan Russell and Marine Collas wrote in a note to investors. “The
reason is that ING Group would still have ING Direct throughout
the rest of the world, and thus it cannot risk the newly
acquired company moving into these markets and competing with
it,” they said.  ING is under European Union orders to divest its U.S.
online lender, ING Direct USA, before 2013 as a condition for
gaining approval for state aid. The Amsterdam-based company may
“free up” about 3.4 billion euros ($4.8 billion) for aid
repayment by selling the unit for $10 billion, a minimal selling
price, JPMorgan said, adding it considers $12.5 billion a
“fairer price.”  ING has talked in recent months with  Citigroup Inc. (C) , CIT
Group Inc. and Chrysler Financial Corp., according to people
with knowledge of the matter.  ING’s U.S. bank had total deposits of $77.7 billion at the
end of last year and assets of $87.8 billion, according to the
Federal Deposit Insurance Corp.  Bailout Conditions  The unit held $40 billion in net loans and leases, which
gave it a Tier 1 capital ratio, a measure of financial strength,
of 26.8 percent at the end of 2010, compared with an average of
12.7 percent for all banks, according to the  FDIC figures . The
bank’s return on assets was 0.3 percent in 2010, less than half
the industry average of almost 0.7 percent.  ING also had to consent to divesting its insurance unit by
the end of 2013 to gain approval for a bailout that included 10
billion euros of state aid and the transfer of the risk on 21.6
billion euros of U.S. mortgage assets. In addition, the company,
which traces its roots to 1743, has to sell some Dutch retail-
banking assets. Some of the EU requirements are subject of an
appeal at the EU’s General Court in Luxembourg.  Ending the risk-transfer transaction with the Dutch state
would be a requirement for any deal, which ING would probably
want to complete sooner rather than later, JPMorgan said.  “The fortunate thing here is that the difference between
the break-even price for the Dutch government and the current
market price has narrowed significantly, making it easier to
unwind the transaction,” Russell and Collas said.  A merger would be more likely than an initial public
offering or a trade sale, the analysts said. This would result
in a higher asset yield for ING Direct and allow ING to exit
gradually and benefit from “value upside” resulting from a
merger, they said.  For Related News and Information:  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maud van Gaal in Amsterdam at 
 mvangaal@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net  