-- 
ING Groep Estimates Bigger Impact on Capital Levels From Basel III Rules

-- B y   M a u d   v a n   G a a l
-- 
2011-03-30T12:57:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-30/ing-estimates-bigger-impact-from-basel-iii-requirements-on-capital-ratio.html
ING Groep NV (INGA) , the biggest Dutch
financial-services company, said its capital strength under
Basel III rules may be hurt more than previously estimated.  Requirements proposed by the  Basel Committee on Banking
Supervision , if applied at the end of last year, would have cut
the firm’s core Tier 1 ratio to 8.3 percent from 9.6 percent
under  Basel II  rules, according to a  presentation  published on
ING’s website. At the end of the third quarter, the company had
estimated an impact of 70 basis points. A basis point is one
hundredth of a percent.  Global regulators are overhauling bank capital and
liquidity requirements because existing rules, known as Basel
II, failed to protect lenders from insolvency during the
financial crisis. The new requirements are scheduled for full
implementation by 2019.  “The impact is larger than previously guided, driven by
mark-to-market effects and fine tuning of regulations,”  Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  analysts, including Johnny Vo, wrote in a note
to clients. “We believe investors should not be too concerned
as the impact is for an immediate implementation of the
regulation, the core Tier 1 ratio remains relatively healthy
after the impact, and finally this equation does not include
asset disposals.”  ING dropped as much as 3.5 percent in Amsterdam trading
today, and the shares were down 2.7 percent at 9.13 euros as of
1:30 p.m. local time.  Repayment Schedule  The company received 10 billion euros ($14 billion) of
state aid in 2008 and also transferred the risk on 21.6 billion
euros of U.S. mortgage assets to the Dutch government. ING,
which paid back 5 billion euros in December 2009, said earlier
this month that it will redeem another 2 billion euros in May
and the remainder a year later.  The new assessment of the Basel III impact doesn’t change
the repayment plan, Frans Middendorff, a spokesman at ING, said
in an e-mail today. “When we announced on March 7 that we
intend to repay the Dutch State from retained earnings, the
guidelines on implementation with respect to Basel III released
in December were already known and taken into account.”  ING has to divest its insurance operations, its U.S. online
lender and some Dutch assets before 2013 under European Union
conditions for approving the state aid.  The firm will have 7.2 billion euros in capital after the
divestments, repayment of all state aid and redemption of the
holding debt, according to Cor Kluis, a Utrecht-based analyst at
Rabo Securities, who said he doesn’t expect ING to sell shares
to raise capital.  ‘Big Cash Pile’  “Solvency-wise ING doesn’t have an issue,” he said. “ING
is repaying the Dutch state from strength, and after all planned
divestments and paybacks they will have a big cash pile next to
the bank.”  Global regulators earlier this month agreed on additional
capital rules for banks whose failure would disrupt the global
economy, according to two people familiar with the discussions.  The Basel Committee decided lenders will face a sliding
scale of additional  capital requirements  based on their size,
interconnectedness with other financial institutions, scale of
international operations and the ability for other banks to
absorb its functions, said one of the people, who declined to be
identified because the talks are private.  “It is not yet clear whether ING will be earmarked as a
systematically important bank and what the required additional
buffer would possibly be,” it said in the presentation.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maud van Gaal in Amsterdam at 
 mvangaal@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  