-- 
Iran Influence in Azerbaijan May Unsettle BP's Oil Investments

-- B y   Z u l f u g a r   A g a y e v   a n d   H e n r y   M e y e r
-- 
2011-03-31T17:16:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-30/iran-influence-in-azerbaijan-may-unsettle-bp-s-oil-investments.html
Hajiaga Nuri, an elder in an
impoverished village north of  Azerbaijan ’s capital of Baku, is
part of the region’s first Islamic push against a pro-Western
leader after similar regimes were ousted in the Middle East.  Nuri, 59, plans to join a march against the government next
month led by a banned Islamic party that Azeri authorities say
has Iranian links. The party’s stated goal: to fight against the
regime of President Ilham Aliyev, a U.S. ally they accuse of
suppressing Muslims. In Tunisia and  Egypt , by contrast,
demonstrators mostly called for secular democracy.  “I want to live only under Islamic law,” Nuri said as
women wearing black headscarves and bearded men walked by walls
in Nardaran bearing religious inscriptions. The Shiite theocracy
of neighboring Iran is “friendly and brotherly,” he added.  Azerbaijan’s energy transit routes to  Europe  bypass  Russia ,
making the former Soviet satellite a crucial partner for the
West and  oil companies  such as the U.K.’s  BP Plc. (BP/)  Azeri
officials accuse Iran of trying to stir up Islamic protests to
weaken Aliyev, 49.  That in turn would make the country less safe for U.S. and
European investment, said  Theodore Karasik , director of research
at the Dubai-based Institute for Near East and Gulf Analysis.  “Iran isn’t seeking to overthrow Aliyev but to destabilize
the situation in the country so that it scares away Western
investors,” Karasik said.  Iranian Television  Azeri-language programs of Iran’s Sahar 1 television
channel, beamed into Azerbaijan over official protests,
criticize the government’s domestic and foreign policies and say
that Western companies are plundering the country’s oil riches.
Iran’s Shiite religion is shared by two-thirds of the 9-million
population in Azerbaijan; almost a quarter of  Iran ’s 75 million
people are ethnic Azeri.  “The efforts to instigate unrest here are contrary to the
agreement that Azerbaijan and Iran signed not to act against
each other’s interests,” Ali Hasanov, an aide to the Azeri
president, said in a March 28 phone interview.  Iranian Ambassador Mohammad Baqer Bahrami attended the
March 18 funeral in Nardaran of the former leader of the Islamic
Party of Azerbaijan, Haji Alikram Aliyev, who isn’t related to
the president.  ‘General Instability’  “While Iran ultimately might be interested in the
overthrow of the government in Baku, as it is with certain
Middle Eastern regimes, it is more realistically aiming for
general instability in Azerbaijan,” Austin, Texas-based
intelligence-consulting group Stratfor said in a research note
earlier this month.  Companies led by London-based BP have invested more than
$31 billion in Azerbaijan’s oil and gas fields since the 1991
Soviet collapse. Azerbaijan can pump as much as 1.2 million
barrels of oil a day to  Turkey  through the Baku-Tbilisi-Ceyhan
pipeline, a project funded in part by Western governments to
allow Caspian energy supplies to circumvent Russia.  The country may also be a major source of natural gas for
the European Union-backed 7.9 billion-euro ($11-billion) Nabucco
pipeline to be built across Turkey. Tamam Bayatli, a BP
spokeswoman in Azerbaijan, said the company doesn’t comment on
political issues.  Street Protests  The concern in Azerbaijan comes after street protests
helped overthrow Tunisian leader Zine El Abidine Ben Ali in
January. Egyptian President  Hosni Mubarak  stepped down after 30
years about a month later following a popular uprising.  In Bahrain, which is ruled by a Sunni royal family and has
a Shiite majority, neighboring Gulf allies have sent troops to
shore up the government on the grounds that Iran was influencing
the opposition.  King Hamad bin Isa Al Khalifa on March 21 said Bahrain had
foiled “an external plot” to subvert security and stability.
The former head of the U.A.E. air force, Major General Khaled
Bu-Ainnain, a day later described the unrest as a “Shiite plot
supported by Iran.”  Aliyev, who took over from his father in 2003, is already
facing separate protests led by secular pro-democracy opponents,
who staged several demonstrations in early March demanding the
president’s resignation. Youth activists who have launched a
campaign on the Facebook Inc. social-networking website plan to
hold nationwide protests on April 2 along with supporters of
secular opposition parties.  Nothing to Lose?  State media in Iran has blamed “anti-religious” policies
by Aliyev, such as banning Islamic headscarves at schools, for
causing the Islamic unrest.  “The people want to rise up. The devout have nothing to
lose,” said the Islamic Party’s acting head, Elchin Manafov.
“We are ready to be martyred for God, for our country and
people, and for the protection of our values.”  At least 10,000 people will take part in an April 8
demonstration in Azadliq (Freedom) Square if government
permission for the rally is granted, he said.  Azeri Interior Minister Ramil Usubov vowed to crack down on
unsanctioned protests as the secular opposition plans a major
demonstration in the capital on April 2, in defiance of a police
ban, to demand President Aliyev’s resignation.  “No one should have any doubt that moves to undermine
stability and peace in the country will be resolutely thwarted,”
Usubov said in comments broadcast on state television today.  Iranian Financing  The Iranian government appears to be financing the Islamic
Party, Nasib Nasibli, a former Azeri ambassador to Iran, said in
a March 24 interview. “Iran doesn’t want to see a democratic,
pro-Western system in Azerbaijan, it wants to see pro-Iranian
Islamists in charge here,” he said.  The leader of the party, Movsum Samadov, was arrested in
January after calling for the overthrow of the government and
harshly criticizing the headscarf ban. The rule provoked
demonstrations after it was introduced by the Education Ministry
in December.  Manafov, a soft-spoken, bearded man in his thirties,
dismissed allegations that his party has close ties with Iran,
saying that Iranians provide it only with “moral” support.  Aliyev turned down an invitation from Iranian counterpart
 Mahmoud Ahmadinejad  to visit Tehran on March 27 to join Nowruz
holiday celebrations, Iran’s state-run Fars news service
reported March 23. Aliyev’s office declined comment.  Iranian Foreign Ministry spokesman  Ramin Mehmanparast 
wasn’t available to comment when called at his office and cell
phone.  In Nardaran, the scene of regular protests over the past
decade in which demonstrators have burned U.S., British and
Israeli flags, residents call every day into Iran’s Sahar 1 TV.  Since the 1979  Islamic Revolution , “international
imperialism has been unable to turn Iran from its path,” said
Nuri, the village elder.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Zulfugar Agayev in Baku via the Moscow newsroom at
;
Henry Meyer in Moscow at 
 hmeyer4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Hellmuth Tromm at   htromm@bloomberg.net 
Willy Morris at   wmorris@bloomberg.net  