-- 
Irish Life Said to Weigh Sale of Life, Fund Management Units

-- B y   J o e   B r e n n a n
-- 
2011-03-30T13:07:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-30/irish-life-said-to-weigh-sale-of-life-asset-management-units.html
Irish Life  & Permanent Plc, the
nation’s only government-guaranteed bank to avoid a bailout, is
weighing a sale of its profitable life assurance and investment
management units, three people with knowledge of the talks said.  The government is pushing for the sale of the divisions to
reduce the amount of money it will need to inject into Irish
Life’s unprofitable banking arm, said the people, who declined
to be identified because a decision is yet to be made. They are
worth 1.75 billion euros ($2.46 billion) in all, according to
Eamonn Hughes, an analyst at  Goodbody Stockbrokers  in Dublin.  Irish Life today suspended trading in its shares until
April 1, a day after the results of stress tests on the
country’s lenders are revealed. The government may take a
majority stake in the lender,  the Irish Times  said yesterday.  Gerry Hassett, chief executive officer of Irish Life &
Permanent’s Irish Life Retail unit, said the parent will decide
on the future ownership of his division. The company will do
“whatever it can” to minimize any cost to the state of
rescuing the banking arm, Hassett said in an interview with
Dublin-based broadcaster RTE Radio today. If that means the life
division has to be sold, “so be it,” he said, adding that a
“range of outcomes” is being discussed.  Spokesmen for Irish Life, the  Finance Ministry  and central
bank in Dublin all declined to comment.  Shares Tumble  Shares in Irish Life, which traces its roots back to  1884 ,
when a precursor to its banking arm was formed, have more than
halved in value since Ireland applied for an international
bailout for its banks and agreed to carry out the stress tests.  The tests examine how banks would manage bad loans and
losses from forced asset sales. The results will be published by
the central bank at 4:30 p.m. tomorrow.  Irish Life may require more than 1 billion euros to allow
its banking unit to operate without support from the company’s
life and pension operations, Hughes said in a note to clients
yesterday. The stress tests “may drive this base figure higher
again,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joe Brennan in Dublin at 
 jbrennan29@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  