-- 
Italian Secondary Market for Solar Parks Is Set to Boom, Developers Say

-- B y   M a r c   R o c a
-- 
2011-03-30T15:02:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-30/italian-secondary-market-for-solar-parks-is-set-to-boom-developers-say.html
The secondary market for
operational photovoltaic parks in Italy is set to grow as
several gigawatts in projects are completed, developers
including  Etrion Corp. (ETX)  and the private equity group RenGen
Energy say.  “A large number of operational plants will come to market
soon as private equity groups exit their investments,” Marco 
Northland, chief executive officer of Geneva-based Etrion said
today at a conference in Milan. “This means more opportunities
for mergers and acquisitions.”  Italian solar capacity more than quadrupled last year to 
about 5.5 gigawatts after the government approved some of 
 Europe ’s highest feed-in tariffs, according to the latest
figures by the trade group GIFI. Another 1.5 gigawatts could be
connected to the grid by July as projects that were completed
last year and are plugged before the end of June qualify for
2010 tariffs, according to the association.  Many of this projects were developed by private equity
firms and most will sell to investors seeking lower returns such
as pension funds, Alberto Binello, investment manager for U.K.-
based RenGen Energy said on the sidelines of the conference.
“Once all projects eligible for the second Conto Energia are
connected, the secondary market will flourish,” he said.  The second Conto Energia, or solar bill, in  Italy  was
substituted by a third in January and a fourth one is now being
worked on by the government as it seeks to reduce rates faster
and curb the boom in installations. On March 3, the government
said the fourth law would be published by the end of April and
be effective as of June.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Marc Roca in London at 
 mroca6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Randall Hackley at 
 rhackley@bloomberg.net  