-- 
Gbagbo Seeks Cease-Fire and Talks as Rebels Move South, Threaten Capital

-- B y   O l i v i e r   M o n n i e r   a n d   P a u l i n e   B a x
-- 
2011-03-30T14:11:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-30/ivory-coast-rebels-advance-south-closing-in-on-abidjan-and-key-cocoa-port.html
Troops loyal to  Alassane Ouattara ,
the internationally recognized winner of  Ivory Coast ’s November
presidential election, are moving south, closing in on the
capital and a key cocoa-exporting port as incumbent President
Laurent Gbagbo calls for a cease-fire and talks.  The Republican Forces plan to advance on the capital,
Yamoussoukro, today, said Meite Sindou, spokesman for Ouattara’s
prime minister,  Guillaume Soro . Shops and the city’s market are
closed and the streets free of traffic, said resident Serge
Kipre.  “The police are out with small trucks and four-by-fours,
and they are wearing balaclavas,” Kipre said by phone. “We are
all bracing ourselves for the arrival of the Republican
Forces.”  The advance of the Republican Forces adds military force to
the diplomatic and economic pressure on Gbagbo to step down. The
insurgents have seized at least six towns this week and moved to
within 240 kilometers (149 miles) of Abidjan, the commercial
capital and Gbagbo’s base, Sindou said.  Buyo, about 120 kilometers from the key western cocoa-
producing town of Daloa, was taken by the Republican Forces
today, said Lass Com, spokesman for the group, in an e-mail.
Fighting also erupted overnight in Tiebissou, which lies between
the rebel headquarters in Bouake and Yamoussoukro, residents
said.  Dialogue  “We have to start talks to resolve this crisis,” Ahoua
Don Mello, a spokesman for Gbagbo, said in a phone interview
broadcast on the website  Abidjan.net . “We are hoping a dialogue
will bring everybody to reason. Faced with direct violence, we
are stretching out a hand in peace -- for the moment.”  Ouattara rejected the call for dialogue after meeting
yesterday with leaders of four other opposition parties,
including that of former President Henri Konan Bedie.  The coalition of parties “believes that all peaceful
avenues to convince  Laurent Gbagbo  to acknowledge his defeat
have been exhausted,” according to a statement published today
in Abidjan’s Le Patriote newspaper.  The capture of Yamoussoukro would set the stage for urban
warfare in Abidjan, said Rinaldo Depagne, an analyst for
 International Crisis Group .  “Diplomacy is over, now it’s war,” he said by telephone
today from Dakar,  Senegal . “They are basically preparing for
the battle of Abidjan in two or three days.”  Top Cocoa Producer  Until now, the loyalty of the army and police has proved
key to Gbagbo’s ability to retain control of much of the world’s
top cocoa producer. He refuses to hand power to Ouattara,
alleging fraud in the Nov. 28 election.  “It seems the security forces of Laurent Gbagbo refused to
fight when the rebels entered the town,” said Modeste Kouao, a
resident of the eastern town of Abengourou, which was captured
yesterday.  Gbagbo called for talks mediated by the  African Union ,
 Agence France-Presse  reported, citing an interview with Mello.
He said the African Union had invited the rivals to talks in
 Ethiopia  on April 4.  Pro-Ouattara forces had concentrated their campaign on the
western cocoa-producing region, taking the towns of Duekoue,
Guiglo and Daloa in the past few days, Sindou said. Duekoue sits
on a major north-south highway linking the west with the port of
 San Pedro .  “Except in Duekoue, there was no real resistance,” Sindou
said. The fighters also seized the central-west town of
Zuenoula, he said late yesterday.  Fighting  No all the towns gave up without a fight. Sindou said
Bouafle, which is 60 kilometers west of Yamoussoukro, and the
central town of Tiebissou were captured today. “Tiebissou was
very difficult, there was heavy fighting,” he said by phone.  Michael Kouakou, a resident of Tiebissou, said he can still
hear heavy artillery.  “We are scared and we don’t know what’s going on,” he
said. “The electricity is cut, we can’t make any outgoing phone
calls.”  The insurgents’ advance boosted  Ivory Coast ’s defaulted
dollar-denominated bonds to their highest in almost three
months, rallying 3.9 percent to 41.417 cents on the dollar by
2:29 p.m. in  London .  Cocoa for May delivery fell to the lowest in more than two
months, declining 32 pounds, or 1.6 percent, to 1,965 pounds
($3,147) a ton at 2:30 p.m. on NYSE Liffe in London today, after
gaining 2.4 percent yesterday.  “Gbagbo is isolated financially, politically, and now he’s
losing ground militarily,” said Drew Geraghty, a commodity
broker at ICAP Futures LLC in  Jersey City ,  New Jersey . “Traders
are taking this as a sign that the  risk premium  is coming out of
the market.”  Human-Rights Abuses  The Republican Forces trace their roots to an uprising of
mutinous military officers in 2002 that led to the division of
the country into a rebel-held north and government-controlled
south. The election was meant to unify the country, which was
once the second-biggest economy in West Africa.  “All parties to the conflict have committed serious human-
rights violations including unlawful killings and rape and
sexual violence against women,” U.K.-based  Amnesty
International  said in an e-mailed statement yesterday.  Rebels fired on and missed a United Nations helicopter that
was flying over Duekoue on March 28, the UN mission in the
country said in a statement.  Com, the fighters’ spokesman, said troops thought the
helicopter belonged to Gbagbo.  “There was a lot of confusion,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Olivier Monnier and Pauline Bax in Abidjan via Accra at 
   ebowers1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at   asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 