-- 
Ivory Coast Capital Controlled by Ouattara Troops Amid Tensions in Abidjan

-- B y   P a u l i n e   B a x   a n d   O l i v i e r   M o n n i e r
-- 
2011-03-30T20:05:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-30/ivory-coast-capital-controlled-by-ouattara-troops-amid-tensions-in-abidjan.html
Ivory Coast  fighters loyal to
President-elect  Alassane Ouattara  gained control of the capital,
Yamoussoukro, as they advanced south toward Abidjan, the
country’s biggest city and power base of rival  Laurent Gbagbo .  “There was barely any resistance from the security forces,”
said Meite Sindou, spokesman for Ouattara’s prime minister,
 Guillaume Soro . “They had already deserted the police stations
when the Republican Forces arrived. Most of them joined our
forces, those who refused fled to Abidjan,” he said by phone.  Yamoussoukro, with a population of 808,000, is the largest
of at least eight towns taken by Ouattara’s fighters this week.
Their advance to the south has added military force to the
diplomatic and economic pressure on Gbagbo to relinquish the
presidency to Ouattara, who is internationally recognized as the
winner of a Nov. 28 election. Gbagbo’s forces have put up little
resistance.  The advance has been “much more rapid than expected,” said
Young-jin Choi, the head of the UN’s mission in the country, in
an interview with  CNN . The troops are within “striking distance”
of Abidjan, he said. They also neared the key cocoa-exporting
port of  San Pedro , where people were staying indoors, according
to Frederic Gba, a resident who spoke by phone.  Troops Enrolment  Gbagbo’s spokesman, Ahoua Don Mello, did not answer calls
made to his mobile phone today. Enrolment of prospective new
troops who responded to a recruitment call last week by Gbagbo’s
Youth Minister Charles Ble Goude began today, according to the
website of state-owned Radio Television Ivoirienne.  Tension mounted in Abidjan, with at least five people shot
dead in Adjame, a neighborhood that supports Ouattara, according
to Parfait Yao, a witness who saw their bodies.  The Republican Forces fighters neared Adzope, which lies
about 90 kilometers (55 miles) north of Abidjan, Sindou said.
The rapid advance of the republican forces raised hopes the
four-month political crisis will soon be over. The country’s
defaulted dollar-denominated bond rallied 7 percent to 42.688
cents on the dollar, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Cocoa for May delivery slumped to a 10-week low on signs
the impasse may ease and pave the way for a renewal of exports
of the chocolate ingredient. The price dropped $70, or 2.3
percent, to $2,987 per metric ton by 3:37 p.m. in  New York .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Pauline Bax and Olivier Monnier in Abidjan via Accra at 
   ebowers1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at   asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 