-- 
Ivory Coast's Gbagbo, Wife, Three Aides Have Foreign Assets Frozen by UN

-- B y   B i l l   V a r n e r
-- 
2011-03-30T23:32:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-30/ivory-coast-s-gbagbo-hit-by-un-with-asset-freeze-travel-ban.html
The United Nations  Security
Council  today froze the foreign assets and barred the travel of
Ivory Coast’s incumbent leader  Laurent Gbagbo , his wife and
three top aides, and said he should give up his fight for the
presidency of the world’s leading cocoa producer.  The UN’s principal policy-making panel voted 15-0 to adopt
a resolution that condemns Gbagbo’s refusal to accept the
African Union’s declaration that  Alassane Ouattara  is the
lawful winner of the Nov. 28 presidential election. The text,
drafted by France and  Nigeria , demands an immediate end to
attacks on civilians, calls on UN peacekeepers to “use all
necessary means” to protect them, and tells security forces to
recognize Ouattara’s authority.  “Gbagbo must go,” French Ambassador  Gerard Araud  told
reporters after the vote. “It is the only way to avoid a full-
fledged civil war and maybe bloody violence in the streets of
Abidjan.”  The vote came amid reports that rebel fighters loyal to
Ouattara took control of the capital, Yamoussoukro, and moved
close to the commercial center Abidjan. They have advanced
“much more rapidly than expected” and security forces loyal
to Gbagbo aren’t fighting back, Young-jin Choi, the head of the
UN peacekeeping mission, said in an interview with  CNN .  North, South Divide  Ivory Coast has been divided between a government-
controlled south and a rebel-held north since a 2002 uprising
of army soldiers. The insurgents back Ouattara while Gbagbo,
who has led the West African nation for the past decade,
refuses to cede power, alleging voter fraud in parts of the
north. The UN has 9,000 soldiers and civilian police there.  “Post-election violence which claimed 830 lives has
disfigured our country,’  Ivory Coast ’s Ambassador Youssoufou
Bamba said. “Today it appears necessary to put an end to the
cycle of violence and to call time on impunity in Ivory Coast.  “Ivorians want to re-establish peace and respect for
human life,” Bamba said. “The very painful sacrifices
experienced by our brave population during the post-election
crisis are but a reflection of the deep yearning for the
emergence of democracy.”  Cocoa Falls  Cocoa fell to a 10-week low. Cocoa for May delivery slid
$70, or 2.3 percent, to $2,987 a metric ton on ICE Futures U.S.
in New York. Earlier, the price touched $2,973, the lowest
since Jan. 14.  Ivory Coast’s defaulted Eurobonds surged to the highest in
three months. The $2.3 billion bonds due 2032 advanced 6.2
percent to 42.357 cents on the dollar, the highest price since
Jan. 4, as of 4:30 p.m. in  London , according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. The yield fell 45 basis points to 8.141 percent.  The UN resolution targets Gbagbo, his wife, Simone, and
top aides Desire Tagro, Alcide Djedje and Pascal Affi N’Guessan. The U.S. Treasury Department barred Americans from
conducting financial or commercial transactions with the same
five people in January.  The text asks Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon to transmit
the report of a UN-mandated investigation of alleged human
rights abuses to the  Security Council  and “other relevant
international organizations” such as the  International
Criminal Court .  “This resolution sends a strong signal that Mr. Gbagbo
and his followers should immediately reject violence and
respect the will of the Ivorian people,” U.S. Ambassador Susan Rice said. Gbagbo’s adherence to it would allow Ivory Coast’s
citizens to “reclaim their country and rebuild a vibrant
economy that was once the admiration of all of  Africa ,” she
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bill Varner in  New York  at 
 wvarner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  