-- 
Ivy League Alumni Quit Admissions Interviews as Success Slips

-- B y   J a n e t   L o r i n
-- 
2011-03-30T04:01:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-30/ivy-league-alumni-quit-admissions-interviews-as-success-slips.html
With admissions notifications from
Ivy League colleges going out as early as today, it’s more than
just applicants awaiting the results.  Alumni interviewers like  University of Pennsylvania 
graduate  Andrew Ross  say they’re getting annoyed that fewer of
the students they endorse win acceptance. Some are ignoring
calls to do more and others are quitting the volunteer job
altogether. Ross has interviewed more than 50 applicants in a
decade and only seen two or three get in.  “Is it worth it to interview if I’m not going to have any
influence on the students getting in?” said Ross, 33, who lives
in Gaithersburg,  Maryland , and runs a children’s entertainment
business. “If it doesn’t mean much, then they should find a
better way to use our time. It just kind of feels ridiculous.”  As competition for admission soars, Ivy League colleges
that enlist their graduates as interviewers to build loyalty are
angering them instead. Admissions deans at Penn in Philadelphia;
 Brown University  in Providence,  Rhode Island ; and  Dartmouth
College  in Hanover,  New Hampshire , say they use alumni
interviews to confirm impressions of student applicants, glean
details and personalize the process. Frustrated alumni may stop
volunteering or reduce their donations, said Doug Ulene, 48, a
20-year volunteer for Brown who now coordinates efforts in
southwest Westchester County in suburban New York.  Long-Term Consequence  “If alums start becoming disenchanted with the process and
it changes their feelings toward the university, it may end up
being a bad thing for the university in the long haul,” Ulene
said.  Alumni sign up for interviews to stay connected to their
college, to meet high school students in their communities and
to try to understand the admissions process for their own
children, Ulene said.  All eight Ivy League institutions in the northeastern U.S.
say their applications rose to records this year. At Penn, the
increase was 17 percent to more than 31,600. Last year, 14
percent won admission, a rate that will drop this year because
the number of seats isn’t increasing, said Eric J. Furda, Penn’s
 dean of admissions.   Ross, the Penn graduate, says his acceptance rate has
fallen in the past five years. None of his recommended students
made it in. The frustration was part of the reason he stopped
donating to the school a few years ago, he said.  Not everyone is discouraged by their acceptance track
record. Eric Vayle, an alumnus of  Stanford University , near  Palo
Alto , California, began volunteering for its pilot alumni
interviewing program three years ago. Only one of Vayle’s 12
students have gained admission.  Brightest Minds  “I don’t see this as a reflection on me,” said Vayle, 45,
a commercial real-estate consultant in Atlanta. “This is an
interesting diversion that allows me to touch some of the
brightest minds. In the end, part of me wants to sell
Stanford.”  Harvard University ,  Yale University  and  Princeton
University  began interviewing applicants in-person in the 1920s
as a tool to identify Jews, according to Jerome Karabel, author
of “The Chosen: The Hidden History of Admission and Exclusion
at Harvard, Yale, and Princeton” (Houghton Mifflin, 2005).  “To ensure that ‘undesirables’ were identified and to
assess important but subtle indicators of background and
breeding such as speech, dress, deportment, and physical
appearance, a personal interview was required, a final screening
device usually conducted by the Director of Admissions or a
trusted alumnus,” wrote Karabel, a professor of sociology at
the University of  California , Berkeley.  Yale Response  “That a number of the Ivies tried to limit Jewish
enrollment in the 20’s and 30’s seems clear,” Jeffrey Brenzel,
dean of undergraduate admissions at Yale, said in an e-mail
about Karabel’s research.  Yale doesn’t have an “independent basis for evaluating
what role alumni interviewing might or might not have played in
that process,” Brenzel said. “Certainly alumni interviewing
does not have such a role today.”  No official records at Princeton support Karabel’s
conclusion, said Emily Aronson, a spokeswoman for the
university. Harvard has “no information to provide” about
Karabel’s research while present-day alumni interviews “have
helped ensure that  Harvard College  is more diverse now --
ethnically, religiously, geographically and in terms of
financial means -- than any time in history,” Jeff Neal, a
Harvard spokesman, said in an e-mail.  As interviewers drop out these days,  Brown  volunteer
coordinators, such as Shawna Draper Schaffner in Orange County,
California, must spend more time recruiting.  Recruitment Blitz  Schaffner, 32, sent 150 individual e-mails to alumni in her
area, beginning in December. The search yielded four new
volunteers, she said.  Ben Harvey ignored Brown’s January e-mail asking graduates
to meet with high-school students. The 32-year-old party and
concert producer in  New York  had met with one to five applicants
annually, for five years. None of his candidates have made it
into Brown, so he quit.  “I put so much time into it, and there was very little
payoff,” Harvey said.  After none of the nine students that Liz Larsen interviewed
over five years got into  Dartmouth , she ignored an October e-
mail asking for help, she said.  “I’ve had some really outstanding candidates, and I’ve
written them glowing reviews and they’ve been rejected,” said
Larsen, 35, the mother of 4-year-old twins in Newton,
 Massachusetts , and a  management consultant .  ‘Really Passionate’  Students take the meetings seriously. Trevor Nash’s seven
interviews took him on a tour of Atlanta, from a Starbucks
coffee shop for Dartmouth and a  Barnes & Noble Inc. (BKS)  bookstore
for Harvard in Cambridge, Massachusetts; to a physician’s office
at Piedmont Hospital for Yale in  New Haven ,  Connecticut ; and the
law firm of  King & Spalding , for Princeton in Princeton,  New
Jersey .  When possible, Nash e-mailed the alumnus a three-and-a-
half-page resume the night before and prepared talking points
about his pursuits.  “I wanted to show I was really passionate and you can’t
get that through when you’re writing your activities on two
lines on an application,” Nash, 18, said.  While the information in an interviewer’s report often
confirms impressions garnered from essays, transcripts and
recommendations, the alumni interview has made a difference in
about 10 percent of 4,000 cases in Stanford’s pilot program,
said Rick Shaw, dean of admission and financial aid.  Shifting Expectations  While a student’s intelligence may be apparent on paper, a
passionate conversation about physics “may be quite powerful in
an interaction,” Shaw said.  Stanford has told alumni that few students will win
admission, Shaw said. This year, Stanford admitted 7.1 percent
of its applicants, the lowest share in the university’s history,
said Bob Patterson, director of admission.  Princeton University , which last year interviewed 99
percent of applicants, has tried to change interviewers’
expectations, shifting the focus from “trying to get students
in” to being ambassadors for the university, said Janet Rapelye, dean of admission.  Princeton graduate Beth Flaming, 38, met with about 15
students in more than eight years as an alumni interviewer for
the school. Only one got in. Flaming, a Chicago lawyer and the
mother of two young children, stopped interviewing three years
ago.  “I’ve always thought it was an ambassador-type role,”
said Flaming. “That being said, what great purpose is being an
ambassador to 20,000 people who are not going to get in?”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Janet Lorin  in New York   jlorin@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonathan Kaufman at 
 jkaufman17@bloomberg.net . 