-- 
Japan Tests Farmland Soil Samples for Radioactivity Near Fukushima Plant

-- B y   A y a   T a k a d a
-- 
2011-03-30T06:33:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-30/japan-begins-testing-farmland-samples-for-radioactivity-near-fukushima.html
Japan  is testing soil samples from
farmland in prefectures hit by radiation leakage from the
crippled Fukushima nuclear power station to assess whether crops
can be planted there.  The Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Fisheries plans
to complete testing of 150 samples by the mid-April, when rice
growers in the region are scheduled to start sowing, said Yukiko
Yamada at the ministry’s food safety and consumer affairs bureau.  Hazardous radiation levels are delaying repair work at the
Fukushima Dai-Ichi power plant, site of the worst nuclear
disaster since Chernobyl. Damaged reactors at the plant may take
three decades to decommission and cost operator Tokyo Electric
Power Co. more than 1 trillion yen ($12 billion), analysts said.  “We will advise each of the local government offices,
based on the test results, whether farmers in the prefectures
can go ahead with planting,” Yamada told reporters in  Tokyo 
today. Testing will begin with samples from rice paddies and
later cover soil for other crops, she said.  Rice production in Fukushima and neighboring Ibaraki and
Miyagi prefectures amounted to 1.22 million metric tons last
year, representing 15 percent of the country’s total output.  The government discovered 163,000 becquerel per kilogram of
radioactive cesium and 1.17 million becquerel of radioactive
iodine in soil in Iitate village, about 40 kilometers (25 miles)
from the plant.  Tolerance Level  The health ministry tentatively set tolerance levels of
radioactivity in each food. For grains including rice, the level
is set at 500 becquerel per kilogram of cesium and 100 becquerel
per kilogram of uranium.  Rice may absorb cesium from soil as it grows in paddies for
about five months. The ministry must check how much cesium in
soil can be transmitted to rice, Yamada said.  The government has restricted vegetable shipments from
Fukushima and three neighboring prefectures after it discovered
products with higher-than-acceptable levels of radioactivity
through random testing. Japan has suspended raw-milk shipments
from Fukushima and Ibaraki prefectures.  Japan, the largest corn importer, is self-sufficient in
rice. The main growing regions are in the northern island of
Hokkaido, away from the affected area, followed by Niigata and
Akita prefectures in the northwest.  Food-rice stockpiles held by the private sector and the
government are forecast to climb 2.5 percent to 3.24 million
tons by the end of June because of declining consumption,
according to the agriculture ministry. The volume is the biggest
in eight years and equivalent to almost five months of
consumption, the ministry said in July.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aya Takada in Tokyo at 
 atakada2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  