-- 
Nikkei 225 Advances to Highest Close Since March 11 as Production Restarts

-- B y   A k i k o   I k e d a
-- 
2011-03-30T07:20:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-30/japanese-stocks-rise-on-growth-outlook-nissan-hitachi-advance.html
Japanese stocks rose, sending the
 Nikkei 225 (NKY)  Stock Average to its highest close since March 11, as
companies resumed production halted by an earthquake and tsunami
and as a weaker yen boosted the outlook for export earnings.  Hitachi Ltd. soared 8.7 percent, the most in the Nikkei
225, after the Nikkei newspaper said the electronics maker
expects to resume full production at its main plant next month.
Nissan Motor Co., Japan’s third-largest automaker by market
value, gained 3.8 percent after saying it expects factories to
return to normal by the end of June. Toyota Motor Corp., which
is the world’s biggest carmaker and gets about 70 percent of its
revenue abroad, rose 2.3 percent.  “The rebound in stocks is being led by companies that rely
on foreign demand, since the economic recovery outside  Japan  is
strong,” said Seiichiro Iwamoto, who helps oversee $35 billion
in Tokyo at Mizuho Asset Management Co. “People had expected
companies to restart operations in July or later, but it seems
to be happening earlier than expected, and that’s good news for
the stock market.”  The Nikkei 225 Stock Average rose 2.6 percent to 9,708.79
at the 3 p.m. market close in Tokyo, the highest since March 11.
The broader Topix index gained 1.9 percent to 866.09, with more
than six times as many stocks advancing as declining. Both
gauges increased the most since March 22.  The Trade Ministry said today that industrial production
unexpectedly increased in February, another sign that the
economy was recovering after its first quarterly contraction in
five quarters in the October-December period, before the
nation’s strongest earthquake shut factories and caused power
shortages.  Worst Performer  The Nikkei’s 9.4 percent drop from the day before the March
11 quake to yesterday made it the worst performer among indexes
for the world’s largest markets this year, after the temblor and
tsunami killed more than 10,000 people, razed homes and
factories and crippled the Fukushima Dai-Ichi plant northeast of
 Tokyo .  Hitachi surged 8.7 percent to 437 yen. The electronics
maker expects to have its main factory in full operation next
month, the Nikkei newspaper reported, citing the plant’s general
manager.  “People are buying back Hitachi shares as they start to
see the momentum in the company’s resuming operations,” said
Hideyuki Ookoshi, general manager at Chibagin Securities Co. The
company has its main factories in areas that were damaged by the
earthquake and tsunami, so “the shares had been sold, pricing
in the worst-case scenario.”  Restarting Operations  IHI Corp., a maker of heavy machinery, climbed 6.4 percent
to 200 yen after the company resumed partial operations at its
No. 1 and No. 2 factories in Soma, Fukushima prefecture, where
it produces aircraft parts and turbines.  Nissan Motor  gained 3.8
percent to 731 yen.  Futures on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index gained 0.4
percent today. The index rose 0.7 percent to a three-week high
yesterday in New York as Home Depot Inc. drove consumer
companies higher and energy shares rose amid speculation
production will increase in the Middle East.  U.S. employers added 190,000 jobs in March, according to
economist forecasts before the Labor Department’s April 1
payrolls report. The  unemployment rate  held at 8.9 percent in
March, economists estimated. The jobless rate fell below 9
percent in February for the first time in 22 months.  Toyota advanced 2.3 percent to 3,330 yen, and was the
biggest single boost to the Topix. Kyocera Corp., an electronics
maker that gets more than half of its sales abroad, climbed 3.9
percent to 8,360 yen. TDK Corp., the world’s No. 1 maker of disk
drive heads, jumped 4.4 percent to 4,825 yen.  Yen Boosts Exporters  The yen weakened as low as 116.96 against the euro today,
the lowest level in 10 months. Against the dollar, Japan’s
currency depreciated to 83.01 from 81.64 yesterday. A weaker yen
boosts the value of overseas income at Japanese companies when
converted into their home currency.  Mitsui Mining & Smelting Co., which produces non-ferrous
metals such as lead and copper alloys, soared 6.8 percent to 284
yen. The company was rated “outperform” in new coverage by
Mitsubishi UFJ Morgan Stanley Securities Co. The industry group
that includes Mitsui Mining had the biggest increase among the
33 groups in the Topix.  The London Metal Exchange Index of prices for six
industrial metals including copper and aluminum gained 0.9
percent yesterday. Crude oil for May delivery increased 0.8
percent to $104.79 a barrel in  New York , rising for the first
time in four days.  The Nikkei 225 has dropped 5.1 percent this year, the
biggest drop among indexes for the world’s largest equity
markets. Shares in the gauge trade at 16.7 times estimated
earnings on average, compared with 18 times at the end of last
year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Akiko Ikeda in Tokyo at 
 iakiko@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at   ngentle2@bloomberg.net . 