-- 
Japan Urged to ‘Seize This Moment’ or Risk Another Lost Decade After Quake

-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   A n s t e y   a n d   M a y u m i   O t s u m a
-- 
2011-03-31T07:53:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-30/japan-urged-to-seize-this-moment-or-risk-another-lost-decade.html
Japan  begins forging a road map for
recovery from its worst postwar disaster next month, a process
that may determine whether it sheds the legacy of the 1980s
bubble or has a third “lost decade” of stagnation and
deflation.  Key to the result: whether the nation’s companies end an
aversion to borrowing, taking on debt to propel domestic
investment and wage gains, and whether policy makers embrace a
stimulus financed by  Bank of Japan  money creation, analysts said.  Prime Minister  Naoto Kan  aims to compile in April the first
of what he says may be multiple supplementary budgets. With
lawmakers advocating a range of amounts and financing options,
Morgan Stanley MUFG Securities Co. calculates that a “bold”
plan would yield 2.7 percent annual growth for 2012 to 2015, and
a “cautious” one means a 1.1 percent annual pace of
contraction.  “The only time you can get things done is in moments of
genuine crisis and catastrophes -- there’s a small opportunity
to do an extraordinary amount,”  Malcolm Gladwell , author of
“The Tipping Point,” who writes for New Yorker magazine, said
in an interview with Bloomberg Television. “Japan -- a country
whose politics were in deadlock and sluggish for many, many
years -- I hope they can seize this moment and accomplish a
lot.”  All Options  Kan told lawmakers two days ago that a debate will be
needed on all options to pay for rebuilding from the record 9.0-
magnitude earthquake and tsunami that hit March 11. The initial
spending package is likely to be around 3 trillion yen ($36
billion), about the same as after the 1995 Kobe quake, according
to Takuji Aida, senior Japan economist at UBS AG in Tokyo.  The catastrophe struck an economy that suffered stagnation
for much of the past two decades, with the benchmark  Nikkei 225 (NKY) 
Stock Average still lingering 73 percent below its December
1989 peak. Public debt was already twice the size of gross
domestic product, a legacy of failed stimulus packages and
limited revenue gains. The BOJ’s benchmark interest rate was
near zero after policy makers cut it to help end deflation.  Some lawmakers from both the ruling  Democratic Party  of
Japan and  Liberal Democratic Party  have called for a 20 trillion
yen reconstruction package, financed by central bank purchases
of government debt. Such a step is allowed if approved by the
Diet in special circumstances.  ‘Window’ Open  By contrast, senior DPJ officials including the head of its
fiscal committee and deputy chairman of its tax panel have
recommended higher taxes to help pay for rebuilding. Cabinet
members have also signaled they will dispense with a planned 5
percentage point cut to the corporate  tax rate .  “The window is not likely to be open for more than a few
months” to set a “bold” course of action that changes the
economy’s direction, said  Robert Feldman , head of Japan economic
research at Morgan Stanley in Tokyo. Feldman’s bold scenario
envisages 40 trillion yen of total new spending, with no tax
increases and 50 percent financing by the BOJ.  BOJ Governor Masaaki Shirakawa has repeatedly opposed
monetizing the debt. He said March 25 that abundant cash was
already being made available to financial institutions, and that
the bank was buying a “large amount” of bonds in the secondary
market. Directly financing deficits “would lead to a limitless
expansion of currency issuance, spur sharp inflation and yield a
big blow to people’s lives,” he said March 22.  The central bank is considering offering temporary loans to
banks to encourage lending to companies with cash-flow problems
in the aftermath of the quake, according to three people
familiar with the matter. The plan may be presented to the BOJ’s
board as early as next month, the people said, speaking on
condition of anonymity because the discussions weren’t public.  Inflation Welcome  A group of DPJ lawmakers including Yoichi Kaneko submitted
a proposal to Finance Minister  Yoshihiko Noda  on March 18
calling for BOJ financing for a 20 trillion yen package. LDP
Diet member Kozo Yamamoto advocated a similar response.  Because Japan is already in deflation, the risk of
monetizing the debt is low, according to some analysts. Consumer
prices, excluding fresh food, haven’t sustained a 1 percent
increase in sequential years since the early 1990s. BOJ board
members identify stable prices as an inflation rate of around 1
percent.  Concerted BOJ quantitative easing now would help produce
inflation, allowing nominal gross domestic product to climb,
Prasenjit Basu, an economist at Daiwa Capital in  Singapore ,
wrote in a report this month. Nominal GDP, which is unadjusted
for price changes, shrank 7.1 percent to 479.2 trillion yen last
year from its 1997 peak of 515.6 trillion yen.  ‘Exacerbating’ Debt Problem  “Japan’s nominal GDP has either been stagnant or declined
each year during its long period of deflation, exacerbating its
debt-sustainability problems,” Basu wrote.  In Morgan Stanley’s “cautious” scenario, the BOJ avoids
financing deficits, the government enacts a total of 10 trillion
yen of spending and the  sales tax  is increased 2 percentage
points, to 7 percent, to help pay for rebuilding. Real GDP,
which is adjusted for prices, contracts 1.1 percent on average
over the 2012 to 2015 period.  Cheap borrowing costs in recent years hadn’t helped Japan
escape stagnation because companies weren’t willing to take on
debt, after they struggled with the aftermath of the plunge in
stock and land prices in the 1990s. Average bank loans
outstanding only rose in four of the years since 1993.  Borrowing as a percentage of assets slid to an average of
43.7 percent last decade from 69 percent in the 1990s as
companies de-leveraged. The figure stood at 42 percent at the
end of March 2010, the most recent BOJ data available.
Willingness to borrow again may help propel growth, said Richard Koo at the Nomura Research Institute Ltd. in  Tokyo .  ‘Debt Rejection’  “There’s been a debt-rejection syndrome, and we needed a
shock to get out of it -- this may actually do it,” said Koo,
chief economist at the research arm of Japan’s biggest brokerage.
“Companies will have to borrow money because they’ve got to get
themselves back in production.”  Firms from Sony Corp. to Nikon Corp. suspended production
in the wake of the temblor, which devastated Japan’s northeast
and left more than 27,000 people dead or missing. Toyota Motor
Corp. closed 18 facilities.  Reflecting the initial economic toll of the quake, data
released today showed that Japan’s manufacturing deteriorated at
the fastest pace in at least nine years in March.  The index of purchasing managers fell to 46.4 from 52.9,
the Japan Materials Management Association and Markit Economics
said in a joint release, the biggest drop since the survey began
in October 2001. A number below 50 indicates a contraction.  Economic Expansion  Aida at UBS calculated that the more companies lower their
savings, the faster GDP may climb. He estimated a zero percent
corporate savings rate, along with a measure of optimism about
fund-raising among smaller companies, would yield a 2.6
percentage point bump to economic expansion.  Kan, who took office in June, has yet to lay out how he
plans to deploy the supplemental budget. The Cabinet Office last
week estimated the damage caused by the disaster at 16 trillion
to 25 trillion yen.  The temblor struck in the afternoon of a day when Kan’s
political future was cast in doubt by revelation he had accepted
a campaign donation from a non-Japanese citizen. The controversy
has since disappeared, with Kan inviting  Sadakazu Tanigaki , the
head of the LDP, to join his cabinet and Tanigaki pledging to
cooperate on the supplementary budget.  “The instincts of the DPJ are on the cautious side;
however, the DPJ is also practical, and realizes that it must
support the economy and economic revival,” said Feldman, who
has analyzed Japan’s economy since the 1980s bubble years.
“After an initial period of caution, I expect a swing toward
the bold scenario.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Anstey at 
 canstey@bloomberg.net ;
Mayumi Otsuma in Tokyo  at
 motsuma@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Anstey at 
 canstey@bloomberg.net  