-- 
Japan 10-Year Bonds Fall for Second Quarter as Recovery Signs Sap Demand

-- B y   Y o s h i a k i   N o h a r a   a n d   M a s a k i   K o n d o
-- 
2011-03-31T07:35:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-30/japan-s-government-bonds-may-rise-as-radiation-concern-spurs-safety-demand.html
Japan ’s  government bonds  fell,
completing a second quarterly loss, as signs the global economic
recovery remains resilient spurred demand for higher-yielding
assets.  Ten-year yields rose to a two-week high before a report
forecast to show the U.S. added jobs in March for a sixth month.
Bonds reversed gains as weakness in the yen against the dollar
and euro earlier in the day supported equities. Losses in bonds
were limited as the nation’s ongoing nuclear crisis sustained
demand for safer assets.  “There seem to be plenty of U.S. business managers who are
rather confident in the economic outlook, including the labor
market,” said Yuichi Onsen, who helps oversee the equivalent of
$31 billion as chief strategist at T&D Asset Management Co. in
 Tokyo . “The recovery in overseas economies is putting upward
pressure on Japanese bond yields.”  The yield on the 1.3 percent bond due March 2021 rose one
basis point to 1.255 percent as of 3:40 p.m. in Tokyo at Japan
Bond Trading Co., the nation’s largest interdealer debt broker.
The price fell 0.089 yen to 100.398 yen. The yield was the
highest since March 16.  Benchmark 10-year yields have gained 14.5 basis points in
the quarter that ends today. A basis point is 0.01 percentage
point.  Ten-year bond futures for June delivery fell 0.02 to 139.55
as of the afternoon close at the Tokyo Stock Exchange.  U.S. Jobs  Employers in the U.S. added 190,000 workers and the
 unemployment rate  held at 8.9 percent in March, according to the
median estimate of economists in a Bloomberg News survey before
the Labor Department reports the data today.  The yen fell to as low as 83.21 per dollar today, the
weakest since March 11. It reached 117.54 per euro, the lowest
since May 13. The  Nikkei 225 (NKY)  Stock Average rose 0.5 percent.  The  United Nations ’ nuclear watchdog agency warned that a
potential uncontrolled chain reaction at Japan’s crippled
Fukushima nuclear power plant could cause further radiation
leaks.  A partial meltdown of fuel in the No. 1 reactor building at
the Fukushima plant may be causing the isolated reactions, Denis
Flory, nuclear safety director for the UN’s International Atomic
Energy Agency, said at a press conference in Vienna yesterday.
The plant was damaged in a tsunami that followed a magnitude-9.0
earthquake that struck Japan’s northeast coast on March 11.  “As many investors want to assess the impact of the
earthquake, the market’s liquidity will continue to be thin,”
 Kazuhiko Sano , chief strategist at Tokai Tokyo Securities Co.,
wrote in a research note to clients. “Bonds are likely to
fluctuate with 10-year yields around 1.25 percent.”  Japanese government bonds have handed investors a 1.9
percent return in the fiscal year that ends today and a 0.6
percent loss since the end of December, according to indexes
compiled by Bank of America Merrill Lynch.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yoshiaki Nohara in Tokyo at 
 ynohara1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at   rswift5@bloomberg.net . 