-- 
Japan Manufacturing Deteriorates at Fastest Pace in Nine Years After Quake

-- B y   A k i   I t o
-- 
2011-03-31T01:10:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-30/japan-manufacturing-shrinks-most-since-2009-in-first-sign-of-quake-impact.html
Japan ’s manufacturing deteriorated
at the fastest pace in at least nine years in March,
underscoring forecasts for the economy to shrink in the
aftermath of the March 11 earthquake.  The index of purchasing managers fell to 46.4 from 52.9,
the Japan Materials Management Association and Markit Economics
said in a joint release today, the biggest drop since the survey
began in October 2001. A number below 50 indicates a contraction.  The March 11 quake and tsunami in northeastern Japan shut
factories of companies from  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203)  to  Sony Corp. (6758) ,
crippled a nuclear energy plant, and has led to a 7 percent drop
in the Nikkei 225 Stock Average. An electricity shortage after
the disaster is threatening to exacerbate Japan’s post-disaster
slump as even intact factories move to conserve power.  “There most certainly will be a recession,” said
 Yoshimasa Maruyama , a senior economist at Itochu Corp. in Tokyo,
who predicts the economy will contract for two more quarters
after shrinking at the end of 2010. “We’re going to see big
constraints on the supply side for a considerable while.”  Before the temblor, the world’s third-largest economy was
showing signs of picking up. Booming demand in  China  helped
export growth accelerate and industrial output unexpectedly
increased for a fourth month in February.  Unemployment Slides  In an indication of improvements in the domestic economy,
the  unemployment rate  fell to a two-year low in February and
retail sales beat analysts’ forecasts.  This month’s disaster has prompted analysts to downgrade
their growth projections for the nation’s economy. Economists at
Goldman Sachs cut their forecast for the year starting April to
0.7 percent from its initial estimate of a 1.3 percent expansion.
 Capital Economics  Ltd. is projecting gross domestic product will
probably drop for two more quarters, with zero growth for 2011
as a whole.  New orders fell at the fastest pace in two years, while
lead times lengthened and output slid, according to today’s
report.  Japan Tobacco Inc., the world’s third-largest publicly
traded cigarette maker, said it won’t ship products domestically
from March 30 to April 10 because of damage to five of its
plants. Nissan Motor Co. Chief Executive Officer  Carlos Ghosn 
said it will take the automaker until mid-April to resume major
production at its plant in Iwaki, Fukushima prefecture.  Rolling Blackouts  Tokyo Electric Power Co. has begun rolling blackouts in the
capital and its surrounding area after a tsunami knocked out its
Fukushima Dai-Ichi nuclear plant. Toyota Motor said automakers
may want to consider taking turns in running assembly lines to
save energy, while companies such as  Tokyo  Steel Manufacturing
Co. are already shifting production west because of the power
disruptions.  The suspension of manufacturing after disaster may be even
worse than the reported figure, David Rea, Japan economist at
Capital Economics in  London , said before today’s report.  “This is what statisticians call survivor bias,” Rea said.
“Businesses that haven’t been able to send back their responses
are the ones that have been damaged the most.”  Markit and JMMA said they received only 5 percent of the
average number of replies from respondents in the Tohoku region,
which incurred the most damage from the disaster. Data was
collected between March 11 and March 25.  The PMI report surveys purchasing managers on whether
measures such as orders, product prices and inventory levels
have increased or decreased from the previous month. The
government’s industrial production report, scheduled for release
on April 28 by the Trade Ministry, measures actual amounts
produced by factories.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aki Ito in Tokyo at 
 aito16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst in  Hong Kong  at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  