-- 
Japan Increases Tariffs for Surplus Solar Power From Schools, Businesses

-- B y   S t u a r t   B i g g s   a n d   C h i s a k i   W a t a n a b e
-- 
2011-03-30T05:57:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-30/japan-increases-tariffs-for-surplus-solar-power-from-schools-businesses.html
Japan  will raise the preferential
rates for surplus solar power produced by businesses and schools
by 67 percent in the year starting April 1.  Utilities will pay 40 yen (48 U.S. cents) a kilowatt-hour
for the power, compared with the current rate of 24 yen, to
promote non-residential installations of solar power, the
Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry  said  in a statement
today.  The measure will cut the tariff for surplus solar power
generated by homes to 42 yen from 48 yen because of lower
installation costs, according to the statement.  Japan, which introduced a solar feed-in tariff in November
2009, is aiming to supply 10 percent of its primary energy from
renewable sources by 2020. In 2009, 3 percent of the country’s
energy came from renewable sources, according to preliminary
figures released in November.  The plan for changing tariffs predates the magnitude-9
earthquake which struck off Japan on March 11, producing a
tsunami that crippled Tokyo Electric Power Co.’s Fukushima Dai-
Ichi nuclear plant and caused rolling blackouts in eastern and
northern parts of the country.  A Japanese trade ministry panel proposed the changes in
February and allowed a month for public consultation before
approving the tariffs.  Japan’s government plans to secure about 1 trillion yen
($12 billion) in the April supplementary budget to implement
measures to bolster  energy efficiency  to ease post-quake power
shortages, the Nikkei newspaper reported on March 28.  The trade ministry may allocate about 100 billion yen to
extend the eco-points program, which encourages consumers to buy
more energy-efficient goods, in the greater Tokyo and northern
areas, the newspaper reported, without saying where it got the
information.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stuart Biggs in Tokyo at 
 sbiggs3@bloomberg.net ;
Chisaki Watanabe in Tokyo at 
 cwatanabe5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  