-- 
Japanese Oil Ports Still Open to World’s Five Largest Crude-Tanker Lines

-- B y   A l a r i c   N i g h t i n g a l e   a n d   C h r i s   C o o p e r
-- 
2011-03-30T08:37:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-30/japanese-oil-ports-still-open-to-world-s-five-largest-crude-tanker-lines.html
The world’s five biggest oil-tanker
companies will still travel to the ports of Tokyo Bay, joining
other shipping lines in judging them safe for crew and vessels.  Mitsui O.S.K. Lines Ltd., Frontline Ltd., Teekay Corp.,
Nippon Yusen Kaisha and NITC Co., whose ships can hold enough
oil to supply  Japan  for 100 days, all said there is no
disruption to their services. All vessels are avoiding a 30-mile
exclusion zone around the crippled Fukushima Dai-Ichi nuclear
plant, about 220 miles to the north of Tokyo.  Record-high readings of contaminated sea water were found
yesterday near the plant, which was damaged by a magnitude-9
earthquake and 23-foot tsunami on March 11, Japan’s Nuclear and
Industrial Safety Agency said today. The  International Maritime
Organization , a United Nations agency, said on March 21 there
was no medical basis for restricting shipping and the U.S. Navy
said March 28 any radiation on vessels can be scrubbed off with
soap and water and isn’t harmful to people’s health.  “The isotopes in question have a very short lifespan, so
owners are probably not yet concerned about the effects of going
into  Tokyo  Bay,” said Petter Narvestad, a shipping analyst at
Fondsfinans AS in Oslo. “Should the radiation spread, that may
change the picture.”  The Baltic and International Maritime Council, representing
two-thirds of the world’s merchant fleet, said March 28 it had
not been informed that any shipping line was avoiding Japan
because of the threat of radiation. Japan has more than 200
commercial ports.  Liberian Registry  The Liberian Registry, which represents about 11 percent of
the world’s merchant fleet, lifted its recommendation that ships
stay 100 nautical miles away from a section of Japan’s east
coast. Captains should now follow the guidance of the Japanese
government, which is to stay 30 kilometers (19 miles) away from
the Fukushima plant, the registry said in a March 25 notice.  The U.S. Coast Guard advised all ships to stay 50 miles
away from the Fukushima plant, the U.S. Department of
Transportation said in a notice March 18. Any U.S.-bound ship
passing through this limit should submit the information to the
U.S. Coast Guard, according to the notice.  Shipping lines sailing into nuclear zones are  not insured 
if their crew or vessels are affected by radiation, according to
information on the website of the U.K. P&I Club, which insures a
fleet drawn from more than 50 nations.  Government Agencies  While Teekay ships are calling at Tokyo Bay, the company is
taking the advice of government agencies and taking vessels
outside the exclusion zone to the north, Graham Westgarth,
president of Teekay Marine Services, said by e-mail yesterday.
The Hamilton, Bermuda-based company is the third-largest tanker
operator, according to Clarkson Research Services Ltd., a unit
of the world’s biggest shipbroker.  Iran ’s NITC Co. will accept bookings to Tokyo, Chartering
Manager Nasrollah Sardashti said by e-mail from Tehran
yesterday. NITC is the fifth-largest owner, according to data
from Clarkson Research Services.  Mitsui O.S.K., Frontline, Teekay, NYK and NITC have a
combined carrying capacity of about 65 million deadweight tons,
according to Clarkson. That’s equal to about 477 million
barrels. Japan’s oil consumption averaged 4.4 million barrels a
day in 2009, according to data from BP Plc.  There were 66 oil ports and  terminals  operating normally in
Japan as of March 29, with five closed and three partially open,
according to  Inchcape Shipping Services , which handles as many
as 4,000 port calls in Japan every year.  Management Unit  Frontline, based in Hamilton,  Bermuda , and the biggest
supertanker operator, is only avoiding the exclusion zone around
Fukushima, Jens Martin Jensen, Singapore-based chief executive
officer of the company’s management unit, said in an e-mail
yesterday.  NYK, Japan’s largest shipping line by sales, maintained
normal shipping services for liquefied-natural gas, oil or dry
bulk commodities, Jun Katayama, a spokesman, said by phone
yesterday. Mitsui O.S.K., operator of the world’s largest
merchant fleet, has also made no changes to its services in LNG,
oil and bulk shipping, according to Eiko Mizuno, a spokeswoman.  Tokyo Bay ports are safe and don’t pose a safety threat,
Andrew Linington, a spokesman for Nautilus,  Europe ’s largest
union for shipping officers, said March 23. The union took
advice from the U.K.’s Maritime and Coastguard Agency.  The situation in tankers is similar to that in container
shipping, where five of the six largest owners are maintaining
services to Tokyo Bay. The fourth biggest, Hapag-Lloyd AG, is
diverting vessels to docks in the south of the country.  Mediterranean Shipping  A.P. Moeller-Maersk A/S, Mediterranean Shipping Co. and CMA
CGM SA, the three biggest container shipping lines, said they
are maintaining routes to Tokyo and Yokohama, Japan’s two
busiest container ports. Evergreen Marine Corp., the fifth-
largest container line, is serving Tokyo and Yokohama as usual,
and Neptune Orient Lines Ltd.’s APL unit, the sixth-biggest, is
doing so for Yokohama.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alaric Nightingale in London at 
 anightingal1@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stuart Wallace at 
 swallace6@bloomberg.net ; 