-- 
Japan Landlords to Stall Sales, Fundraising on Quake

-- B y   K a t h l e e n   C h u   a n d   K a t s u y o   K u w a k o
-- 
2011-04-12T06:48:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-30/japan-s-reits-to-stall-sales-fundraising-as-earthquake-dents-confidence.html
(Corrects the number for the  Bank of Japan ’s purchase
program in seventh paragraph in story published March 31.)  Japan’s real estate investment
trusts may stall property sales and suspend fundraising plans in
the short term as the nation’s strongest  earthquake , tsunami and
nuclear crisis damp investor appetite for assets.  United Urban Investment Corp. (8960) , a Tokyo-based REIT, canceled
a plan to raise as much as 64.9 billion yen ($783 million) four
days after the March 11 earthquake. Rival  Invincible Investment
Corp. (8963)  dropped a 4.8 billion yen share sale to a Fortress
Investment Group LLC unit on March 23.  “Deals under agreement may be scrapped because buyers may
get cold feet,”  Dan Fasulo , managing director at Real Capital
Analytics Inc., a New York-based research firm, said in a phone
interview. “You will see a bunch of previously agreed
transactions being canceled due to the fact that confidence has
fallen apart in the short term.”  The slowdown in sales may hurt the recovery of the world’s
second-most active real estate market. Credit Suisse Securities
( Japan ) Ltd. halved its 2011 estimate for investments by Japan’s
REITs, known as J-REITs, to 500 billion yen from 1 trillion yen.  “We had expected J-REITs to double their purchase in 2011
from last year, but now I expect them to suspend acquisitions
over the near term until a recovery in investment unit prices
can be confirmed,” said  Masahiro Mochizuki , an analyst at the
local unit of Credit Suisse Group AG in Tokyo. The  property
market  will probably take three to six months to recover,
Mochizuki said.  The Topix Real Estate Index fell 0.4 percent at the close
of trading in Tokyo, while the Tokyo Stock Exchange REIT Index
rose 1.2 percent.  Canceling Deals  The  Topix Real Estate Index (TPREAL)  has fallen 13 percent since the
March 11 earthquake. The REIT index has gained 13 percent since
March 16, almost recouping a loss of as much as 14 percent
following the temblor, after the Bank of Japan said it will
double purchases of Japanese REITs to 100 billion yen.  “Because of the effect of the earthquake we canceled” the
sale, Akiko Watanabe, a spokewoman at Consonant Investment
Management, which manages Invincible assets, said on March 29
declining to give further details.  The decision to cancel the new issuance was made “after
taking into account such factors as the effect of the earthquake,
recent equity market conditions, and related factors,” United
Urban said in a March 15 statement. Hiroshi Nakamura, a
spokesman of Japan REIT Advisors Co., which manages assets of
United Urban, declined to comment on March 29.  Tokyo  had $18.9 billion of property sales last year,
trailing only  London ’s $23.9 billion, according to Real Capital.  Japan’s real estate investment trusts more than doubled
their acquisitions to 544.4 billion yen last year, according to
the  Association for Real Estate Securitization , driving prices
higher after a two-decade slump.  Nuclear Damage  The quake and tsunami damaged a nuclear plant owned by
Tokyo Electric Power Co. 220 kilometers (138 miles) north of
Tokyo, sparking the worst nuclear crisis since Chernobyl in 1986
as radioactive materials leak into the atmosphere.  Power plants 
in the country’s northeast were damaged by the tsunami,
resulting in blackouts in Tokyo and affecting production at
manufacturers such as Toyota Motor Corp. and Canon Inc.  The earthquake may hurt “undercapitalized” property
owners that have loans maturing, said Martin Lamb, a director of
Asia-Pacific real estate investment at Russell Investments.  “Unfortunately, those owners will be more distressed,”
Lamb said. “The velocity of the property recovery will slow, at
least in the short term. People will want more information
before they make long-term commitments.”  More Selective  The total defaulted loans from commercial mortgage-backed
securities reached 463.2 billion as of February, according to a
report by Moody’s Investors Service released on March 7, on top
of 1.42 trillion yen of debt from the asset-backed securities
that will mature in the next two years.  Banks may become more selective after the quake, said Shoji Misawa, a managing director and head of global coverage group at
 Orix Corp. (8591) , the Tokyo-based real estate financier.  “Lenders will become cautious and be more careful in terms
of evaluating properties and land sites when they provide
financing to investors,” Misawa said. “We will probably focus
more on providing lending to better quality buildings such as
those in central Tokyo that have proven to withstand strong
earthquake.”  Mizuho Securities Co. said a recession in Japan is “almost
certain,” while  Stephen Roach , nonexecutive chairman of Morgan
Stanley  Asia , said in a March 16 Bloomberg Television interview
that Japan’s economy may be pushed into its fifth recession in
the post-bubble period. The economy shrank in the fourth quarter.  Firm Demand  “The investment interest by overseas investors may remain
low for a while because it’s difficult to predict Japan’s
economic outlook at the moment,” said Takashi Ishizawa, a real
estate analyst at Mizuho Securities Co. in Tokyo.  Still, Japan is likely to stage a rebound in the second
half, according to a Bloomberg survey of nine economists.  “I don’t see any significant negative impact on property
prices in the long run as a result of the recent earthquake or
tsunami,” said Buddy Ferrie, general manager of Investment
Services at property consulting firm Colliers International in a
phone interview in Tokyo.  Shares of the nation’s biggest developers and REITs may
bounce back because the quake had “almost no effect” on their
buildings, especially those in Tokyo, said Curtis Freeze,
founder of Prospect Asset Management Inc., which manages $280
million and has invested in Japan for more than two decades.  Limited Damage  “Demand for housing, condominiums, real estate office will
be quite firm,” Freeze said in a Bloomberg Television interview
on March 22.  Mitsubishi Estate Co. said on March 28 that it completed
buying two buildings in central Tokyo from  Lone Star Funds  on
March 14. Japan’s second-largest developer decided to go ahead
with the purchase after confirming that no damage had been done
to the buildings, said Ryuichiro Funo, a spokesman.  Property damages were limited to less than 0.1 percent of
the portfolio values of REITs, whose buildings “apparently
suffered little damage,” Moody’s said in a March 24 report.  Japan’s average land prices nationwide fell 3 percent in
2010, narrowing from a 4.6 percent drop a year earlier,  the
Ministry of Land, Infrastructure, Transport and Tourism  said in
a March 17 report. Land prices declined every year since 1991,
except for 2006 and 2007.  “What’s unusual about this event is that with the nuclear
power plant situation unresolved, it is not clear what the
future path is and how that will affect the economy and demand
for real estate,” said Russell Investments’ Lamb.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kathleen Chu in Tokyo at 
 Kchu2@bloomberg.net ;
Katsuyo Kuwako in Tokyo at 
 kkuwako@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  