-- 
Jefferies Lures Morgan Stanley’s Lipacis to Cover Semiconductor Industry

-- B y   L a u r a   M a r c i n e k
-- 
2011-03-31T04:00:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-30/jefferies-lures-morgan-stanley-s-lipacis-to-cover-chipmakers.html
Jefferies Group Inc. (JEF)  hired Mark Lipacis from Morgan Stanley to cover the semiconductor industry
as the firm adds analysts and bankers to challenge larger Wall
Street rivals, according to a person with knowledge of the move.  Lipacis will be based in Jefferies’ San Francisco office,
said the person, who asked not to be identified because the
hiring isn’t public yet. Lipacis is on 90-day leave from Morgan
Stanley, the person said. Both firms are based in New York.  In his previous job at Prudential Equity Group, Lipacis was
one of the first analysts to predict that new products from
 Advanced Micro Devices Inc. (AMD)  would take market share from  Intel
Corp. (INTC)  and damage the larger company’s profit in 2006. Intel
sales slumped 9 percent that year and profit fell 42 percent.  Jefferies is luring talent from Wall Street competitors to
boost equity trading and win a bigger share of mergers and
acquisitions. The staff increased 17 percent to 3,084 employees
in the 11 months through Nov. 30, primarily at the fixed-income
and investment-banking businesses.  Equity trading revenue grew 1.8 percent to $177.4 million
in the quarter ended Feb. 28 from $174.3 million in the three
months ended March 31 last year. The firm ranks as the 16th
most-active adviser in deals this year, up from 24th in all of
2010, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Tom Tarrant , a Jefferies spokesman, said he wasn’t allowed
to comment, citing the firm’s policy. Sandra Hernandez, a
spokeswoman for New York-based  Morgan Stanley (MS) , declined to
comment. A message left for Lipacis at his Morgan Stanley office
wasn’t immediately returned.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laura Marcinek in New York at 
 lmarcinek3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net . 