-- 
Jamie Dimon Says Debt Default by U.S. Would Be ‘Catastrophic’

-- B y   R e b e c c a   C h r i s t i e   a n d   D a w n   K o p e c k i
-- 
2011-03-31T04:00:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-30/jpmorgan-s-dimon-says-u-s-debt-default-would-be-catastrophic-.html
JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  Chief
Executive Officer  Jamie Dimon  said companies, insurance funds
and investors would lose access to markets if the U.S. appears
to be headed toward a default related to its debt limit.  “If the United States actually defaults on our debt it
would be catastrophic,” Dimon, 55, said at a U.S. Chamber of
Commerce event in  Washington  yesterday, when asked what may
happen if the U.S. fails to increase its $14.29 trillion debt
limit.  The government will reach its legal debt limit between
April 15 and May 31 if Congress doesn’t act, the U.S. Treasury
Department said March 1. The department, which may provide an
updated timeline in early April, has said it could get an extra
eight weeks before it exhausts emergency steps to avoid
breaching the limit.  “The Treasury is on track to bump into the debt ceiling in
the second half of May,” said  Lou Crandall , chief economist at
Wrightson ICAP LLC in  Jersey City ,  New Jersey . “Our own
estimates suggest that they will need to start using accounting
gimmicks in late May, and will exhaust the normal bag of debt-
ceiling tricks at some point in July.”  Dimon, who’s also chairman of New York-based JPMorgan, the
second-biggest U.S. bank by assets, said the U.S. would be
“crazy” to leave the debit-limit question unresolved and that
market participants eventually would need to take “drastic
action.”  ‘Snowballing’  “Companies like us, every single company with Treasuries,
every insurance fund, every requirement, it will start
snowballing,” Dimon said. “All short-term financing would
disappear.”  U.S. Senator  Marco Rubio , a Florida Republican, has said he
won’t approve a debt-limit increase without a range of tax-and-
spending reforms.  “We need to use the debt limit itself as the way to ensure
that America’s debt limit begins to decline, not always go up,”
Rubio said in a March 29 television interview with Fox News.
“How about the debt limit starting to go down? These are the
kinds of things that I hope we’ll focus on.”  Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  has said the nation
will suffer “catastrophic damage” if it loses investors’
confidence. He also has said it would be “unworkable” to give
priority to payments on the national debt over other government
obligations, as proposed by U.S. Senator Pat Toomey, a
Pennsylvania Republican.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rebecca Christie in Washington at
 rchristie4@bloomberg.net 
Dawn Kopecki in Washington at 
 dkopecki@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net 
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  