-- 
Kan Drops Child Allowance Increase as Disaster Spending Takes Priority

-- B y   S a c h i k o   S a k a m a k i   a n d   T a k a s h i   H i r o k a w a
-- 
2011-03-30T06:24:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-30/kan-drops-proposed-child-allowance-increase-to-fund-earthquake-rebuilding.html
Japan’s Prime Minister  Naoto Kan 
abandoned a proposal to increase cash handouts to families with
young children to win opposition approval for spending plans to
rebuild areas devastated by this month’s earthquake and tsunami.  The government in a statement said it was withdrawing a
bill to raise a monthly allowance of 13,000 yen ($156) per child
to 20,000 yen for children under 3. Chief Cabinet Secretary
Yukio Edano said talks were proceeding to extend the current
allowance for six months from the fiscal year beginning April 1.  “As the current law expires when the fiscal year ends, it
will be very inconvenient for households and municipalities
unless” the allowance is extended, Edano told reporters today.
“It’s important to start a new year without causing trouble.”  The  Liberal Democratic Party  and other opposition groups
had called for dropping the allowance increase, and hardened
their stance given the need to secure funding after the March 11
earthquake and tsunami left more than 27,000 dead or missing and
caused as much as 25 trillion yen in damage, according to
government estimates. Kan yesterday said more than one spending
package may be needed and that he’s considering dropping a
planned 5-percentage-point cut in corporate taxes.  Funding the package remains an issue for a country with the
world’s largest public debt. Raising taxes would risk stunting
growth in an economy that was showing signs of recovery before
the disaster. Opposition legislators have also called on Kan’s
 Democratic Party of Japan  to roll back highway toll discounts.  “You have to finance this recovery and the question is how
to do it,” LDP lawmaker Taro Kono said in an interview yesterday.
“We can’t afford the child benefits and free highway tolls.”  Political Battles  Kan’s government has pledged to keep government bond sales
at 44.3 trillion yen for the next fiscal year to finance a 92.4
trillion yen budget. Japan’s public debt is about 200 percent of
gross domestic product.  Before the quake hit, Kan was battling with the opposition
lawmakers who refused to pass legislation authorizing sales of
deficit covering bonds. His approval ratings plunged and calls
for him to resign rose amid party campaign finance scandals.  Now, Kan’s popularity has risen as his administration copes
with  Japan ’s biggest crisis since World War II. A Kyodo News
poll released on March 27 showed 67.5 percent of the public
support higher levies to fund reconstruction, and his approval
rating rose 8.4 percentage points to 28.3 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sachiko Sakamaki in Tokyo at 
 ssakamaki1@bloomberg.net ;
Takashi Hirokawa in Tokyo at 
 thirokawa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  