-- 
Kazakhstan May Lift Interest Rates, Boost Reserve Ratios to Cap Inflation

-- B y   D a r y n a   K r a s n o l u t s k a   a n d   N a r i m a n   G i z i t d i n o v
-- 
2011-03-30T12:32:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-30/kazakhstan-may-lift-interest-rates-boost-reserve-ratios-to-cap-inflation.html
Kazakhstan ’s  central bank  may lift
borrowing costs for a second time this year and boost reserve
requirements to combat inflation that is breaching its target
range, Governor Grigori Marchenko said.  “We will discuss the inflation forecast and a possible
rate increase once again at April’s meeting,” Marchenko said in
an interview in Prague yesterday. The regulator may revise its
price-growth target from the current 8 percent, he said.  Policy makers in the biggest energy producer in central
 Asia  raised the refinancing rate on March 9 for the first time
since November 2007. The inflation rate jumped to 8.8 percent
last month, the highest since April 2009. The regulator may also
increase minimum  reserve requirements  for lenders in April or
May to drain “excessive liquidity” held by banks, Marchenko
said.  “Inflation is caused by changing world prices for oil and
food,” Marchenko said while attending a financial conference in
the Czech capital. “We see the same process we had in 2008,
when inflation peaked, but on a smaller scale now.”  The National Bank of Kazakhstan has loosened currency
controls, allowing the tenge to appreciate to damp inflation. It
returned to a “managed” free float by abolishing the tenge’s
trading corridor on Feb. 28.  The currency has gained 1.1 percent so far this year
against the dollar, trading at 145.695 today, Bloomberg data
show. The regulator has intervened on the domestic  currency
market , buying $1.8 billion in January, $2.7 billion in February
and $1 billion so far this month to stem the appreciation,
according to Marchenko.  ‘Comfort Level’  “We don’t see any reason for the tenge’s sharp
appreciation,” Marchenko said, adding he doesn’t expect the
currency will rise above 140 per dollar this year. “We think
the tenge’s rate will find its comfort level and it’s quite
possible we have already reached it.”  The bank’s currency interventions won’t spur inflation
because the regulator has been able to “sterilize” its tenge
sales, he said.  “We can allow ourselves to sterilize our foreign currency
interventions of $1 billion to $1.5 billion with no problems,”
Marchenko said.  The dollar will probably account for a smaller share of the
nation’s gold and foreign-currency holdings and the central bank
plans to adopt a new strategy for reserve investments in the end
of April, Marchenko said.  A stronger currency benefits the economy without
undermining exporters because commodity prices remain high, he
said.  “We have a situation when three main sectors of our
economy win, or at least don’t lose,” Marchenko said. “One
shouldn’t expect a sharp appreciation of the tenge as we will
deal with it.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Daryna Krasnolutska in  Prague  via Kiev newsroom at 
   dkrasnolutsk@bloomberg.net ;
Nariman Gizitdinov in Almaty at 
 ngizitdinov@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Willy Morris at   wmorris@bloomberg.net 
Steve Voss at   sev@bloomberg.net  