-- 
Kennedy Pal Goes AWOL as Tea Party Cashes In: Margaret Carlson

-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C a r l s o n
-- 
2011-03-30T23:00:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-30/kennedy-pal-is-awol-as-tea-party-cashes-in-commentary-by-margaret-carlson.html
It’s painful to lose a re-election
campaign, no matter what. It’s even more painful if you won 69
percent of the vote in the prior election.  It’s enough to make a grown man cry, as  Utah  Senator  Robert Bennett  did the day he lost the Republican nomination last May.
As stolid as the Wasatch Mountains, the low-key, 6-foot-6
Bennett held his seat for 18 years, winning extra federal
funding and support for the 2002  Olympic Games  in Salt Lake City
and many other worthy Utah projects -- toxic accomplishments in
the new earmark-phobic environment.  “It took me 24, OK maybe 48, hours to get over it,”
Bennett tells me as we walk to a lunch in Brussels hosted by the
 German Marshall Fund , one of his affiliations since being
involuntarily retired from Congress. He’s adjusted to his new
life teaching and consulting -- who wouldn’t like  Europe  in the
spring and not having to beg people for campaign money? -- and
no longer loves the institution he left.  “I’d gotten tired of being told to plot against Democrats
to make them look bad, to drop my health-care bill with  Ron Wyden ,” the Democratic senator from  Oregon . “The games were
getting old.”  Bennett could be the canary in Utah’s mine. The state’s
senior senator, the spotlight-loving, organ-playing  Orrin Hatch ,
77, is one of the Tea Party’s top targets in 2012. Polls show
him losing to almost any challenger. Republican Representative
Jason Chaffetz, among others, is mulling whether to take him on.
The senator who beat Bennett,  Mike Lee , hasn’t endorsed Hatch.
It’s ugly out there.  Consorting With Enemy  Hatch, with 34 years of Senate service, suffers the
drawbacks endured by a senior anybody: earmarks, “ranking
member” and bipartisanship are bad words. Bennett had a great
statewide network and found out, as he puts it, that he was in
“a contest to see who could run the worst campaign.”
Consorting with the enemy, as Bennett did on the Wyden-Bennett
health-care bill, is punishable by banishment.  That’s why you don’t hear Hatch boasting of his long
friendship with Ted Kennedy, or the watercolor Kennedy painted
for Hatch’s Capitol office, or their co-sponsored legislation
that provided health coverage for low-income children. To
conservatives, providing vaccinations is an impermissible
expansion of government.  As for President Barack Obama’s health-care overhaul,
Hatch, who  supported a bill  in 1993 that also would have
required Americans to buy coverage,  now calls  Obamacare
unconstitutional and, in a lapse of Mormon decorum, “an awful
piece of crap” and a “dumbass program.”  Shift on Immigration  To play to immigration anxieties, he voted against the so-
called Dream Act, a benign measure that would permit children
brought to the U.S. illegally before age 16 to gain legal
residency by attending college or serving in the military. He
once was a co-sponsor.  To offset his vote for Elena Kagan to be solicitor general,
he voted against her, and loudly, for the  Supreme Court . The
 third-leading seeker  of earmarks in the Senate in 2010, he now
favors a moratorium. Greater government oversight of  food
safety ? No. Balanced-budget amendment? You bet he’s introduced
one.  Hatch is also disarming the enemy by hiring them, including
Jason Powers, the consultant who guided Lee to victory. It may
sound like a form of legal bribery, but Hatch is paying Tea
Partiers who become “organizers” of his campaign $2,500 a
month.  ‘Made a Mistake’  And he’s groveled. Everywhere Tea Partiers go, so goes
Hatch. Unable at first to nab a formal invitation to join the
headliners, Kentucky Senator  Rand Paul  and Minnesota
Representative  Michele Bachmann , at a Tea Party Express town
hall in  Washington  last month, Hatch invited himself. At the
Conservative Political Action Conference, he was heckled over
his vote for the bank bailout and said, “I probably made a
mistake voting for it.”  To forestall similar mistakes, Hatch regularly seeks the
advice of the head of the 10,000-member Utah Tea Party, David
Kirkham, owner of Kirkham Motorsports in Provo, which makes a
limited-edition aluminum car that James Bond would be proud to
drive. Kirkham holds caucus training meetings among his $50,000
Cobras, teaching folks how to take over the arcane nominating
process. He’s warmed to Hatch, a personable guy, and says the
senator has drunk enough tea laced with apologies for past
heresies that it’s no longer iced.  Other Options  “There are worse candidates than Hatch,” Kirkham allows,
“ Jon Huntsman , for one.” The reference is to the former Utah
governor who is stepping down April 30 as Obama’s ambassador to
 China . All bets are off, however, if Chris Herrod, a
tightfisted, anti-immigration, global-warming-denying state
representative, runs. The Tea Party would universally line up
behind him, Kirkham predicts, and there’d be another Bennett in
the making.  In Brussels, Bennett the former senator still attracts a
crowd -- at least until a current senator, such as Mark Warner
of  Virginia , enters the room. That’s how power works.  Though he’s endorsing Hatch, you couldn’t blame Bennett if
he’d feel partly vindicated were Hatch to lose. It would be nice
to believe it wasn’t personal, even if he’s already over it.  ( Margaret Carlson , author of “Anyone Can Grow Up: How
 George Bush  and I Made It to the White House” and former White
House correspondent for Time magazine, is a Bloomberg News
columnist. The opinions expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Margaret Carlson in Washington at 
 mcarlson3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  