-- 
Kenya's Inflation Rate Climbed to 9.19% in March as Food Prices Increased

-- B y   S a r a h   M c G r e g o r   a n d   J o h n s t o n e   O l e   T u r a n a
-- 
2011-03-30T14:56:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-30/kenya-s-inflation-rate-climbed-to-9-19-in-march-as-food-prices-increased.html
Kenyan inflation accelerated for
the fifth straight month in March, bringing more pressure to
bear on the  central bank  to raise  interest rates  further.  The inflation rate climbed to 9.19 percent from 6.54
percent in February, the Nairobi-based  Kenya National Bureau of
Statistics  said in an e-mailed statement today. Prices in the
month rose 2.28 percent, while food costs increased by 15.1
percent from a year earlier, it said.  Kenya’s central bank increased its key lending rate by a
quarter of a percentage point to 6 percent on March 22, warning
that higher food and fuel prices may push inflation higher
still. The increase reversed a cut two months earlier.  “The ‘shock value’ of the rise is immense, with the lagged
effect of price pressures suggesting that  Kenya  will almost
certainly achieve double-digit inflation this year,” said  Razia Khan , head of Africa economic research at Standard Chartered Plc
in  London .  Inflation in East Africa’s biggest economy may accelerate
in the next few months as political unrest in the Middle East
and North Africa sends crude prices surging, and amid delays in
harvesting domestic food crops, the  Central Bank of Kenya  said
on March 28. The government targets inflation at 5 percent.  “A further increase in inflation will force the central
bank to review its benchmark rate upward, which would have a
direct impact on businesses access to credit,” Eric Musau, an
analyst at African Alliance in Nairobi, said in an interview.  Currency Depreciation  Kenya’s currency depreciated as much as 6.3 percent against
the U.S. currency this year, falling to a 17-year low of 86.15
per dollar on March 14, on higher demand from oil importers as
global crude prices surge. The shilling has gained 2.2 percent
since the central bank raised the key lending rate on March 22,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The  exchange rate  will be a “key concern, and more
tightening may well be needed to ensure relative currency
stability,” Khan said.  Rising oil prices are also posing a threat to inflation.
The maximum retail price of gasoline in Kenya’s capital,
Nairobi, rose for the third straight month in March, climbing
2.8 percent to 100.9 shillings ($1.20) a liter.  Food prices are forecast to rise “for at least a couple of
months” because of a time gap between the onset of rains and
the harvest ripening, the central bank said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sarah McGregor in Nairobi at   smcgregor5@bloomberg.net ;
Johnstone Ole Turana in Nairobi at 
 jturana@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Richardson at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net  