-- 
NCAA's Emmert Will Seek Bigger Scholarships to Help Athletes With Expenses

-- B y   C u r t i s   E i c h e l b e r g e r   a n d   M a s o n   L e v i n s o n
-- 
2011-03-30T18:07:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-30/ncaa-s-emmert-will-seek-bigger-scholarships-to-help-athletes-with-expenses.html
National Collegiate Athletic
Association President Mark Emmert said he will push for more
financial support for student athletes that would help them
cover expenses such as laundry and transportation home.  While stating that he is steadfastly opposed to
compensating students for playing sports, Emmert said he wants
to restart a discussion that was proposed by his predecessor,
Myles Brand, at college sports’ governing body.  “I want to draw a very clear line between covering the
legitimate costs of attendance at a university and paying
student-athletes to play games,” Emmert said in a telephone
interview. “This is not about pay-for-play. This is about
whether we are providing appropriate support for these
students.”  USA Today  reported Emmert’s interest in addressing student
athletes’ expenses. He said he plans to bring up the issue at
the NCAA’s April board meetings.  Emmert’s comments come as college sports are getting record
television contracts. The NCAA last April signed a 10-year, $14
billion television contract with  CBS Corp. (CBS)  and  Time Warner
Inc. (TWX) ’s  Turner Sports  to air the college basketball men’s
tournament. Football’s Bowl Championship Series last year began
the first season of a $125 million-a-year accord and several
college conferences signed their own television deals.  NCAA Mandate  Under the current NCAA mandate set decades ago, student
athletes can receive scholarships that cover tuition, fees, room
and board, books and supplies. Federal rules allow for schools
to provide additional aide which could include ancillary
expenses such as transportation, laundry and clothing.  “There is often a gap, it varies from school to school,”
said Emmert, who was the president of the  University of
Washington  before joining the NCAA. “It typically runs around
$2,000 or $2,500, and so the question is do we want to close
that gap so we are providing student athletes with the full cost
of attendance.”  Emmert last April succeeded Brand to become the fifth NCAA
president. Brand, who died in 2009, brought up the proposal
without success.  “If you add $2,000 or $3,000 or $4,000 to the cost of an
individual scholarship and multiply that by all the athletes in
Division-I, that’s a lot of students, so many universities look
at this and say, “Gee, we couldn’t afford that,” Emmert said.
“I just want to put it on the table as a conversation topic.”  There is no timetable for such legislation, which could
take more than a year to gain approval, if it does at all,
Emmert said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Curtis Eichelberger in  New Orleans  at 
 ceichelberge@bloomberg.net 
Mason Levinson in  New York  at 
 mlevinson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net . 