-- 
Deal Rush Pushes Takeovers to Most Expensive Since Lehman

-- B y   Z a c h a r y   R .   M i d e r
-- 
2011-03-30T22:00:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-30/new-deal-rush-pushes-takeovers-to-most-expensive-since-lehman.html
Corporate executives in the first
quarter paid the most for takeovers since before the collapse of
 Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. (LEHMQ) , kicking off what investment
bankers say may be the busiest year for deals since 2007.  Acquirers paid a median 9.2 times earnings before interest,
taxes, depreciation and amortization for companies in the
period, the most since the second quarter of 2008, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. Valuations are still lower than
during the last M&A boom, when they peaked at 11.4 times Ebitda.  AT&T Inc. (T) ,  Duke Energy Corp. (DUK) , and  Deutsche Boerse AG (DB1) 
announced deals to leapfrog their biggest rivals, bringing
takeovers to $567 billion as of March 29 and beating last year’s
pace, Bloomberg data show. Shareholders are pushing executives
to part with the funds they amassed in the recession and make
bold moves, according to Andrew Bednar, a founding partner at
investment bank Perella Weinberg Partners LP in  New York .  “Equity markets will not reward corporate executives for
managing cash,” said Bednar, who is advising NYSE Euronext on
its $9.3 billion merger with  Deutsche Boerse  and counseled J.
Crew Group Inc. directors on a sale to TPG Capital. “They will
be measured by how well they strategically invest cash.”  The value of global takeovers may increase 15 percent to 20
percent this year, extending a 27 percent rebound in 2010,
according to estimates from Bednar and David DeNunzio, a vice
chairman at  Credit Suisse Group AG. (CSGN)  Last year’s jump to $2.22
trillion followed the slowest 12 months for deals since 2003.  ‘Pent-Up Appetite’  Buyers, sitting on more than $3.3 trillion of cash
globally, were undeterred by market volatility triggered by
rebellions in the Middle East, $100 a barrel oil and the
earthquake and tsunami in  Japan .  “The pent-up appetite for dealmaking does seem to be
coming unleashed,” said Scott Sonnenblick, a partner at
Linklaters LLP in New York. “Japan put a blip in credit
markets, but that’s a problem of weeks, not of months.”  The market reaction to deals is helping boost executives’
confidence, said Patrick Ramsey, co-head of Americas mergers and
acquisitions at  Charlotte , North Carolina-based  Bank of America
Corp. (BAC)  In some of the quarter’s biggest deals, shares of both
buyers and sellers surged on the announcements.  Stock Gains  AT&T has climbed 9.9 percent to its highest level since
2008 since disclosing its $39 billion planned purchase of
 Deutsche Telekom AG (DTE) ’s T-Mobile USA unit this month.  Valeant
Pharmaceuticals International Inc. (VRX)  surged 13 percent today on
the New York Stock Exchange after the Canadian drugmaker made an
unsolicited bid to buy  Cephalon Inc. (CEPH)  for about $5.7 billion.  “Investors are applauding strategic activity,” Ramsey
said.  At the same time, shareholders are less willing to defer to
management’s judgment on takeover valuations, said Credit
Suisse’s DeNunzio. In one of the biggest transactions to fail
this year, shareholders of  Dynegy Inc. (DYN)  scrapped a sale to  Carl Icahn  in February, three months after a previous effort to be
bought by  Blackstone Group LP (BX)  also collapsed. Investors are
challenging the sales of  Smurfit-Stone Container Corp. (SSCC)  and
Danisco A/S.  “You’re going to see more merger votes become
problematic,” said DeNunzio, who is based in New York.  Falling Premiums  Premiums have dropped to the lowest since the third quarter
of 2007. Public companies demanded an average 17 percent premium
to sell themselves in the quarter, down from 31 percent at the
start of 2009, after the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index jumped more
than 90 percent from its March 2009 low.  “Companies recognize the importance of being focused on
core businesses,” while investors are playing an increasing
role in urging companies to consider breakups, said Robert Kindler, head of M&A at  Morgan Stanley (MS) , which topped Bloomberg’s
M&A league tables in 2010 and is second so far this year.  Sara Lee Corp. (SLE) ,  Marathon Oil Corp. (MRO) ,  ITT Corp. (ITT) , Marriott
International Inc., and  Fortune Brands Inc. (FO)  all disclosed plans
to split into two or more pieces in the past few months. In the
cases of Fortune and ITT, the announcements came after activist
investors built stakes.  Consolidation is taking place across virtually all
industries, with natural resources and financial services
remaining busy, said Henrik Aslaksen, Deutsche Bank AG’s London-
based global head of mergers.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  analysts
this month forecast that Allergan Inc.,  Citrix Systems Inc. (CTXS)  or
 Mead Johnson Nutrition Co. (MJN)  may be the next big takeover target.  “There are very good levels of activity and visibility
into the second quarter is pretty good,” said Hernan Cristerna,
 JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ’s head of European M&A in  London . JPMorgan
took the biggest share of M&A advisory work in the quarter.
“It’s too early to tell how macro events will affect the
market, but there is a real ‘can do’ attitude among companies
and that is a different sentiment to this time last year.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zachary R. Mider in New York at 
 zmider1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Jennifer Sondag  at 
 jsondag@bloomberg.net . 