-- 
New Hampshire House Votes to Withdraw From Regional Carbon Trading Market

-- B y   E h r e n   G o o s s e n s
-- 
2011-03-30T20:47:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-30/new-hampshire-house-votes-to-withdraw-from-regional-carbon-trading-market.html
New Hampshire’s  House of
Representatives  voted today to pull the state out of a regional
program to cut carbon dioxide emissions in the Northeast.  The repeal of the  Regional Greenhouse Gas Initiative , or
RGGI, through House Bill 519 passed by a vote of 251 to 108 and
will now be sent to the state Senate.  Opponents of RGGI say the 10-state program burdens
businesses that are forced to pay higher electricity bills, and
that repealing it may help local economies.  “Businesses are sick of the mandates and electricity
prices going up, and may say ‘I have the opportunity to move to
a Southern state, so I’m going to do it,’” Representative James Garrity, chairman of the House Science, Technology and Energy
Committee, said in an interview today. “That’s what we’ve been
hearing not only on RGGI but on any energy or climate
legislation that results in higher rates to subsidize good
causes.”  RGGI requires operators of  power plants  to buy permits,
called allowances, to account for carbon dioxide released from
smokestacks. The allowances can be bought and sold in a
secondary market.  Power companies pass on these expenses and Garrity
estimated that customers of Public Service of New Hampshire, a
unit of  Northeast Utilities (NU)  and the state’s largest utility,
would be paying at least $8 million a year to fund the
initiative by 2012.  “The people who really get hurt in this are the industrial
and commercial customers,” said Garrity, a Republican.  More State Opposition  Other states may also withdraw from RGGI. New Jersey’s
Republican Governor  Chris Christie  said March 24 that he is re-
evaluating his state’s commitment to the program.  “States inclined to pull out of RGGI are motivated not out
of a need for alternatives but for less regulation,” Thomas Marcello, senior analyst at Bloomberg New Energy Finance in New
York, said today in an interview.  “Repealing RGGI puts more money in the pockets of  New
Hampshire  citizens through lower electric bills,” House Speaker
 William O’Brien , a Republican, said today in a statement.  The bill is opposed by New Hampshire Governor  John Lynch , a
Democrat who has said that exiting RGGI would deprive the state
of $12 million a year in carbon-allowance sales. The funds help
consumers and businesses “reduce their electric use and
costs,” Lynch said in a Feb. 10 letter to lawmakers. A
spokesman for Lynch reiterated today the governor’s opposition
to the bill.  Republicans hold more than two-thirds of the seats in New
Hampshire’s House and Senate, giving them enough votes to
override a potential veto from Lynch.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ehren Goossens in  New York  at 
 egoossens1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  