-- 
AIG’s $15.7 Billion Bid for Maiden Lane Mortgage Bonds Rejected by NY Fed

-- B y   A n d r e w   F r y e   a n d   C a r o l i n e   S a l a s
-- 
2011-03-31T04:00:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-30/new-york-fed-declines-aig-s-offer-for-maiden-lane-ii-mortgage-bond-assets.html
American International Group Inc. (AIG) ,
the bailed-out insurer, was rebuffed by the  Federal Reserve Bank
of New York  in its bid to repurchase a portfolio of mortgage-
backed securities for $15.7 billion.  The New York Fed will instead sell the assets individually
and in blocks, the regulator said yesterday in a  statement 
posted on its website.  BlackRock Inc. (BLK) , the New York Fed’s
investment manager, will issue the first bid list next week,
according to the statement.  “We had anticipated we would have the opportunity to buy
these assets at a fair price by January 2011 and earn a return
on them for the benefit of the U.S. taxpayer,” Mark Herr, a
spokesman for New York-based AIG, said in an e-mailed statement.
“Now, we must make up for lost time and lost earnings.”  AIG handed the mortgage bonds, known as  Maiden Lane II , to
the New York Fed in 2008 in exchange for a cash injection that
helped save the company from collapse. The insurer, which sold
non-U.S. businesses and returned to profit last year, said it
was bidding for the securities to boost investment returns.  The New York Fed and the Board of Governors “judged that
the public interest in maximizing returns from any sale and
promoting financial stability would be better served by an
alternate approach,” according to the statement  AIG, which is 92 percent-owned by the U.S. government, made
public on March 10 a bid for the pool of mortgage bonds. The
U.S. government’s rescue of AIG, initiated in 2008, is valued at
$182.3 billion.  Maiden Lane II  Maiden Lane II holds assets that AIG had purchased with
collateral turned over by Wall Street banks through securities-
lending deals. When the housing market collapsed, AIG couldn’t
reimburse banks that wanted their collateral back, prompting the
Fed to make about $22.5 billion available to Maiden Lane II to
take the assets off the company’s balance sheet.  The value of some of the securities subsequently rebounded
and the bonds have paid coupons, reducing the Fed’s investment
in the facility. At the same time, AIG has lowered its
obligations under the bailout by selling units including non-
U.S. life insurers and a consumer lender.  AIG Chief Executive Officer  Robert Benmosche , 66, told the
New York Times DealBook that the New York Fed’s decision is “a
huge problem” for the company. He hasn’t decided whether to bid
on some of the Maiden Lane II assets, DealBook reported.  Jonathan Hatcher, an analyst at Jefferies Group Inc. in New
York, said the government will be able to attract more investor
interest through its plan to sell the assets in pieces.  “That’s a huge block, which there’s a limited number of
bidders for,” Hatcher said in a phone interview. “If they’re
going to break it up into much more digestible-size pieces, I
think theoretically they should get the best execution.”  Other Bidders  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN) , Morgan Stanley and  Barclays Plc (BARC)  are
each seeking groups of investors to make bids, people with
knowledge of the discussions said last week.  The securities, backed by so-called subprime, Alt-A and
other home loans, had a face value of about $39 billion when
turned over to the Fed. The figure is now about $31 billion,
after homeowners defaulted, moved or refinanced, according to
AIG’s disclosures.  “We have been told that someone else was putting together
a bid,” Benmosche said in an interview with the Financial Times
this month. “I think we can offer a little more, but the price
we offered is about it. Until I see a competing bid, I’d have to
wait and see.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrew Frye in  New York  at 
 afrye@bloomberg.net ;
Caroline Salas in New York at 
 csalas1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net ;
Dan Reichl at   dreichl@bloomberg.net  