-- 
News Corp.'s Fox Tells Time Warner Cable to Halt Use of Channels on IPad

-- B y   A n d y   F i x m e r   a n d   A l e x   S h e r m a n
-- 
2011-03-30T20:35:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-30/news-corp-s-fox-tells-time-warner-cable-to-halt-use-of-channels-on-ipad.html
News Corp. (NWSA) ’s Fox Networks Group
told  Time Warner Cable Inc. (TWC)  to stop streaming cable channels
including FX to its pay-TV subscribers’ iPads, saying such use
isn’t authorized.  The company sent a letter demanding the New York-based
cable operator stop providing the channels,  Scott Grogin , a Fox
spokesman in Los Angeles, said today in an interview.  News Corp. joins  Scripps Networks Interactive Inc. (SNI)  in
challenging Time Warner Cable over transmission of live TV
signals via an application on Apple Inc.’s iPad without consent.
Time Warner Cable customers with  Internet service  are able to
use the app to watch programming within their homes.  “The app continues to be available and continues to
function the same as the day we launched it,” Alex Dudley, a
Time Warner Cable spokesman, said in a telephone interview.  The cease-and-desist letter may be a precursor to a lawsuit
filed by Fox, according to Jonathan Handel, an entertainment
attorney at TroyGould in  Los Angeles . The legal issues will
likely focus on how the programming rights’ contracts were
worded, he said.  “These cases occur under a cloud where contracts were
signed in a pre-existing world when new technologies weren’t
around yet,” Handel said in a telephone interview. “If they
had anticipated the new technology and talked about it
specifically, you wouldn’t have the problem.”  Time Warner Cable has argued there is no difference between
an iPad and a portable TV because the iPad app can only be
watched at home. There are 32 channels on Time Warner’s app,
including  Viacom Inc. (VIA/B) ’s MTV,  Discovery Communications Inc. (DISCA) ’s
Animal Planet and Comcast Corp.’s Bravo and CNBC.  First to Market  Time Warner Cable is the first cable provider to release an
iPad app that streams live TV.  Cablevision Systems Corp. (CVC)  said it
will introduce a similar product this quarter.  Jim Maiella, a spokesman for Bethpage, New York-based
Cablevision, declined to say if the company had received any
cease-and-desist letters from networks.  Scripps has “not granted iPad video streaming rights to
any distributor and is actively addressing any misunderstandings
on this issue,” according to an e-mailed statement from the
Knoxville, Tennessee-based programmer.  News Corp., controlled by Chairman and Chief Executive
Officer Rupert Murdoch, gained 25 cents to $17.51 at 4 p.m. New
York time in Nasdaq Stock Market trading. The Class A shares
have risen 20 percent this year.  Time Warner Cable rose 98 cents to $71.43 on the New York
Stock Exchange and has increased 8.2 percent this year.
Cablevision rose 1 cent to $34.33 and is up 1.4 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andy Fixmer in Los Angeles at 
 afixmer@bloomberg.net ;
Alex Sherman in New York at 
 asherman6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net ;
Peter Elstrom at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net  