-- 
Nokia Rating Cut for First Time by S&P on Smartphone Share

-- B y   D i a n a   b e n - A a r o n
-- 
2011-03-30T13:39:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-30/nokia-debt-rating-cut-one-level-to-a-by-standard-poor-s-outlook-stable.html
Nokia Oyj (NOK1V) , the world’s biggest
maker of mobile phones, had its debt rating cut for the first
time by  Standard & Poor’s , which cited market share losses and
“weaker” operating margins at the Finnish company.  The long-term rating was lowered one step to A- with a
stable outlook, S&P said in a statement today. S&P has since
June 1998 ranked the debt A, the sixth-highest of 10 investment
grades. Moody’s Investors Service has an equivalent A2 rating.
Nokia had about 5.3 billion euros ($7.5 billion) in long-term
debt at the end of last year.  “The downgrade reflects the revision of our business risk
profile assessment on Nokia to ‘satisfactory’ from ‘strong,’”
S&P analysts Matthias Raab and Patrice Cochelin wrote in today’s
report. “Nokia’s smartphone portfolio will make further
significant market share losses during 2011 and 2012 until it
has completed its adoption of Microsoft’s Windows Phone software
as its new primary software platform for smartphones.”  Chief Executive Officer Stephen Elop, 47, said Feb. 11 that
Nokia would adopt Windows Phone 7 as its main operating system,
tapering off product lines based on its Symbian software. The
CEO now has to help Microsoft attract developers to Windows
Phone 7 while trying to keep them loyal to Symbian to keep up
sales.  Android Vs. Symbian  Credit-default swaps on Nokia rose 3 basis points to 117,
approaching the highest since January 2009, according to CMA
prices at 11:45 a.m. in  London .  A basis point on a contract protecting 10 million euros
($14 million) of debt from default for five years is equivalent
to 1,000 euros a year. Swaps pay the buyer face value in
exchange for the underlying securities or the cash equivalent
should a borrower fail to adhere to its debt agreements.  The rating change isn’t expected to affect Nokia’s
financial position or financing costs, said James Etheridge, a
company spokesman. He confirmed the securing of a new undrawn
1.5 billion-euro  credit line  mentioned in the report, which he
said was arranged to replace a previous facility of about $2
billion.  Rival  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s Android will displace Symbian this year
as the top-selling system used in handsets that enable users to
browse the Internet and download movies and songs, while
Microsoft will have a share of about 5.5 percent, International
Data Corp. said yesterday. Symbian’s share may fall to 0.2
percent in 2015 from 20.9 percent this year, according to the
Framingham, Massachusetts-based researcher.  Pricing Pressure  Nokia will encounter “high competitive price pressure”
that is likely to push the devices operating margin into single
digits during the two-year transition period, before recovering
to at least 10 percent in 2013, S&P said today.  Android handsets from vendors such as  China ’s  ZTE Corp. (000063) 
with prices as low as $150 are grabbing market share from
Nokia’s smartphones as well as the high end of its feature-phone
line. Nokia aims to offer Windows Phones at a wide range of
prices, Elop said on Feb. 11.  The S&P analysts said they could lower the ratings further
if Nokia’s smartphone market share falls below 20 percent or if
the device margin drops below 5 percent during the 2011-2012
transition period “with limited prospects for a meaningful
recovery thereafter.”  Nokia’s share of smartphone sales by volume declined to
30.8 percent in the fourth quarter from 50.8 percent when  Apple
Inc. (AAPL)  began shipping its iPhone in 2007, according to Gartner
Inc. figures. Its overall share of the mobile market tumbled to
about 27 percent from 36.7 percent in the same period.  The company will have to pay “meaningful” royalties to
Microsoft and book expenses on restructuring its research and
development organization, S&P said.  Nokia shareholders will vote on a 40 euro cent per-share
dividend payment in its  annual general meeting  on May 3. S&P
said it expects the payout to be “largely covered” by free
operating cash flow.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Diana ben-Aaron in Helsinki at 
 dbenaaron1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  in Berlin at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  