-- 
North, South Sudan Build Up Military Forces in Abyei, UN Commander Says

-- B y   M a r a m   M a z e n
-- 
2011-03-30T16:28:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-30/north-south-sudan-build-up-military-forces-in-abyei-un-commander-says.html
Sudan ’s northern and southern
regions are building up military forces in  Abyei , a disputed
border region hit by a series of violent clashes since January,
the head of the United Nations  peacekeeping force  said.  “We have evidence that both sides have militarized
Abyei,” Major General Moses Obi, commander of the UN’s 10,000-
member force, told reporters today in Khartoum, Sudan’s capital.
“The rhetoric is on the high side and it’s not helpful.”  Both sides have introduced weapons such as rocket-propelled
grenades and vehicles mounted with machine guns into the region,
Obi said. The UN mission is monitoring the implementation of a
2005  peace agreement  that ended a two-decade civil war between
the north and south.  “We think they should abide by their own agreement and get
them out of Abyei,” Obi said.  Abyei is disputed by the Ngok Dinka, who consider
themselves southerners, and Misseriya nomads, supported by
President Umar al-Bashir’s government in Khartoum.  Oil-rich  Southern Sudan  is set to become independent in
July after almost 99 percent of its voters chose in a January
referendum to secede from the rest of country,  Africa ’s biggest
by landmass. Abyei was supposed to vote at the same time to
decide whether to be part of the north or south. The plebiscite
was postponed because of disputes over who is eligible to vote.  Vote Dispute  The Ngok Dinka say they alone should be allowed to vote in
the region’s referendum. The Permanent Court of Arbitration in
the Hague, in a 2009 ruling, set Abyei’s borders to the area
around Ngok Dinka settlements, largely excluding the Misseriya.  Clashes in Abyei in January killed at least 70 people,
according to  Southern Sudan ’s army, while five more died on
March 22 in an attack on a village, the area’s chief
administrator, Deng Arop, said.  Fighting in the area three years ago between the armies of
northern and southern Sudan killed 89 people and forced more
than 90,000 people to flee their homes, according to the UN.  The  Permanent Court of Arbitration , in its ruling, set key
 oil fields , including Heglig and Bamboo, outside of the Abyei
region. Those fields and Diffra in Abyei are run by the Greater
Nile Petroleum Operating Co., which is 40 percent owned by
Beijing-based China National Petroleum Corp.  Abyei accounts for less than 2,500 barrels a day, according
to Sudan’s Oil Ministry.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maram Mazen in Khartoum at 
 mmazen@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 