-- 
Nuclear Curbs Will Hurt Climate, Energy Security Goal, IEA Economist Says

-- B y   A l e x   M o r a l e s
-- 
2011-03-30T11:38:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-30/nuclear-curbs-will-hurt-climate-energy-security-goal-iea-economist-says.html
Slowing the expansion of nuclear
power will harm efforts to fight climate change, push up energy
prices and set back goals to secure power supplies, said  Fatih Birol , chief economist at the  International Energy Agency .  Cutting in half the projected new nuclear installations
during the next 25 years may add 500 million tons of carbon
dioxide output to the global total in 2035, equivalent to five
years of extra emissions growth, Birol said today in a telephone
interview from Paris.  “There will be increased difficulty in adding new nuclear
 power plants , and there will be increased pressure in some
countries to close earlier the existing nuclear power plants,”
after the Japanese crisis, Birol said. “That would increase the
cost of energy for the entire world. It’ll also be bad news for
energy security because there is less diversification of the
energy mix, and it’ll be bad news for climate change.”  The figures show the difficulty policymakers face in
balancing the need for energy with increased safety concerns
surrounding nuclear power after radiation leaked from the Tokyo
Electric Power Co.’s Fukushima Dai-Ichi facility.  President  Barack Obama  is making a speech today about the
future energy mix in the U.S. and will offer new incentives to
spur oil and gas production, according to two administration
officials.  Japan ,  China ,  India , Britain, Switzerland and  Germany 
are reviewing their nuclear plans based on lessons learned at
Fukushima.  The IEA, which advises 28 nations on energy policy, in
November projected the world will add 360 gigawatts of new
nuclear generating capacity to the existing 390 gigawatts by
2035. Since the accident at the Fukushima, the agency modeled
the possible consequences of a halving of that new build to 180
gigawatts, Birol said.  Climate Goal  Birol said that cutting back on nuclear plans would make it
harder to meet a goal agreed by 193 nations at United Nations
 climate change  talks in Copenhagen in 2009 and Cancun in 2010 to
try to contain global warming to 2 degrees Celsius (3.6 degrees
Fahrenheit). The level of emissions expected in 2035 would
instead be reached in 2030, he said.  Assuming the gap is filled equally by coal, gas and
renewables, emissions will rise, as will coal and gas prices,
Birol said. The agency hasn’t predicted the magnitude of the
price increases, he said, noting that some reactions to the
Japanese crisis have been “too abrupt.”  The figure showing what would happen by cutting the nuclear
expansion in half is an estimate, not a forecast of how policy
will turn out in the IEA nations, Birol said.  “We all as energy actors, producers and users have to
derive major lessons” from Fukushima, Birol said. “It’s still
important to have a realistic assessment of the global energy
future, and nuclear still needs to play a role,” he said,
citing reasons of “climate change,  energy security  and having
affordable energy for the citizens of the world.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Morales in London at 
 amorales2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  