-- 
Obama’s Job Approval Rating Reaches Lowest Level, Poll Finds

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   D .   S a l a n t
-- 
2011-03-30T11:01:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-30/obama-s-job-approval-lowest-level-libya-action-opposed-in-poll.html
President  Barack Obama ’s job
approval reached its lowest level, and nearly half of Americans
surveyed opposed the U.S. military intervention in Libya, a
 Quinnipiac University poll  found.  Also, 50 percent of the registered voters surveyed by the
Hamden, Connecticut-based university’s polling institute said
Obama didn’t deserve re-election in 2012, according to results
released today, compared with 41 percent who said he should
receive a second four-year term.  Obama’s overall approval rating in late March was at 42
percent, down from 46 percent in a March 3 Quinnipiac survey and
at its lowest level in all the university’s surveys on the
president, said  Peter Brown , the polling institute’s assistant
director.  The survey found 48 percent disapproving of Obama’s
performance, up from 46 percent in March. Half of independent
voters surveyed voiced disapproval for Obama’s handling of his
job, with 39 percent approving.  Voters said they disapprove of the U.S. action in  Libya , 47
percent to 41 percent. Most were interviewed before Obama
delivered a televised March 28 speech explaining his policy in
Libya. Fifty-eight percent said he hadn’t provided clear goals
for getting involved, and 74 percent said they were concerned
that the U.S. would be in a long-term war.  At the same time, 65 percent backed using U.S. military
force to protect Libyan civilians, and 53 percent supported
using cruise missiles to destroy that country’s air defenses.  ‘Noose Has Tightened’  Obama, in an interview with the “CBS Evening News”
yesterday, said Libyan leader Muammar Qaddafi’s reign is nearing
its end under pressure from sanctions and the intervention of an
international military force.  The “noose has tightened” around Qaddafi as “people around
him are starting to recognize that their options are limited and
their days are numbered,” Obama said.  The Quinnipiac telephone survey of 2,069 registered voters
was taken March 22-28; it has an error margin of plus-or-minus
2.2 percentage points  Brown said Obama “receives negative ratings on his
handling of the  budget deficit , the economy, foreign policy,
health care and energy policy” in the poll.  In a hypothetical 2012 race with an unnamed Rebublican
opponent, voter sentiment was statistically tied: 36 percent for
Obama, 37 percent for a Republican.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jonathan D. Salant  in  Washington  at 
 jsalant@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mark Silva  at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net . 