-- 
Obama’s Libya Sequel Means Protecting U.S. First: Jane Harman

-- B y   J a n e   H a r m a n
-- 
2011-03-30T01:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-30/obama-libya-sequel-means-protecting-u-s-first-commentary-by-jane-harman.html
On Monday night, President  Barack Obama  right-sized the mission in Libya. His speech explained the
limits of our role and our interests in Libya, though the extent
of our commitment to the new NATO command is still evolving.  Perhaps the most important part of the speech -- at least
to me -- was the effort to reconcile Obama’s view that  Muammar Qaddafi  must leave office with a mission limited to protecting
the Libyan people.  The clarification was important. Essentially, our president
said that regime change needs to be a local call. Outside
interventions should protect populations engaged in peaceful
protest from wholesale slaughter and, hopefully, set the
circumstances where people can determine their own leadership.
He cited  Iraq , which the U.S. invaded in 2003, as the wrong
approach.  Of course the ghosts of Rwanda and Bosnia were in that
 National Defense University  auditorium, where Obama delivered
his prime-time speech. In one case, the world stood by as tens
of thousands perished. In the other, a no-fly zone didn’t
prevent the humanitarian catastrophe in Srebrenica. Only arming
the Bosnians and Croats and brokering a cold peace at  Dayton,
Ohio , ended the killing.  Compelling as the Libyan case is, the context is totally
different. It is post 9/11 and the U.S. is heavily involved in
two military interventions in  Muslim countries . Operation
Odyssey Dawn, as the Libyan operation has been dubbed, marks the
third. The cost to the U.S. of this intervention is already more
than $300 million, and our expenses as a NATO partner could
easily take this number to $1 billion.  Command and Control  NATO has assumed command and control of this mission, but
the same unique capabilities that made the U.S. the initial
leader will continue to be in demand, ensuring that the U.S.
maintains a pre-eminent role.  Successfully sidelining Qaddafi will require continued
strike operations against his government units and military
infrastructure, along with diplomatic and information operations
designed to weaken the resolve of the regime and its military
forces. The mission also will require more air attacks,
refueling tankers, surveillance and intelligence gear, which
only the U.S. possesses.  Even if the international coalition is successful in
isolating Qaddafi, there will be a long and bumpy road ahead to
help create stability and democratic institutions in a country
ruled by an iron fist for 40 years.  Greater Threats  Libya  can’t just be viewed as a one-off. What the
president’s speech didn’t do was to put Libya in context of the
larger transformation taking place in the Middle East. Yemen,
Pakistan and  Iran  pose greater strategic threats to the U.S.
What is the U.S. plan when unrest destabilizes them?  This is a zero-sum game militarily, and the opportunity
cost is deeply concerning.  The president’s 2009 Cairo speech began to sketch an
overarching strategic narrative for the U.S., one that explains
our role in the world and how we see our future.  Now we need the sequel. Military might alone won’t solve
our problems. There is no question that staying on the right
side of history is important. But unless we prioritize
carefully, we may well end up compromising our core security
interest, which is protecting the U.S. homeland from the most
dangerous threats.  (Jane Harman, formerly a U.S. representative from
 California , is president and chief executive officer of the
Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars. The opinions
expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
 Meg.King@wilsoncenter.org   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  