-- 
Obama Calls for Incentives to Spur U.S. Oil, Gas Production

-- B y   R o g e r   R u n n i n g e n   a n d   N i c h o l a s   J o h n s t o n
-- 
2011-03-30T19:38:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-30/obama-planning-incentives-to-spur-u-s-oil-gas-production.html
President  Barack Obama  said there
are no “quick fixes” for higher energy costs and the U.S. must
embark on a long-term plan to tap domestic resources, cut usage
and develop alternatives to fossil fuels.  The turmoil in the Middle East and North Africa that has
driven up  oil prices , the earthquake in Japan that triggered a
nuclear emergency, and increasing competition for resources from
the rapidly growing economies of China and  India  underline the
challenges the U.S. faces, Obama said in a speech today.  He called for new incentives to boost production of oil,
natural gas and biofuels, tougher fuel-efficiency standards for
vehicles and greater reliance on cleaner sources of energy,
including nuclear power. The goal, Obama said, is to cut oil
imports by a third in a decade.  “We cannot keep going from shock when gas prices are up to
trance when they go back down,” Obama said at  Georgetown
University  in Washington. “The  United States of America  cannot
afford to bet our long-term prosperity and our long-term
security on a resource that will eventually run out.”  Obama’s energy policies have come under fire from
congressional Republicans as the cost of gasoline rises. Prices
are up more than 20 percent this year and are 33 percent higher
than a year ago. The national average price of regular gasoline
at the pump was $3.587 a gallon yesterday, AAA said on its
website. That’s the highest since Oct. 2, 2008.  ‘Down This Road’  “We have been down this road before,” Obama said. Cutting
by one-third the 11 million barrels of oil imported daily by the
U.S. in 2008 is a goal that is “reasonable, achievable and
necessary.”  Increased domestic production and reduced imports may help
U.S. national security, Michael Greenstone, a professor of
economics at the  Massachusetts Institute of Technology , said in
a statement.  “However, this plan is unlikely to affect the price that
families pay at the pump because, even with enhanced production,
the U.S. will account for a small share of what is a world
market for petroleum,” Greenstone said.  Obama’s address follows release of a report yesterday by
the  U.S. Interior Department  that said the  Gulf of Mexico  alone
may have as much as 11.6 billion barrels of untapped crude --
enough to meet U.S. demand for almost two years -- and 59.2
trillion cubic feet of natural gas. Fewer than half the leases
on federal land are active, it said.  Shorter Leases  The specific incentives for drilling are still being
developed by the Interior Department, according to a White House
fact sheet. Some, including shortening lease terms and requiring
drilling to begin before an extension is granted, are already
being employed for offshore leases. The department is evaluating
using a graduated royalty structure to encourage more rapid
production, as is done in  Texas , the largest oil-producing state
in the U.S.  Obama said he wants to boost offshore oil exploration and
production “as long as it’s safe and responsible.”  “If you’re going to drill in deep water, you’ve got to
prove that you can actually contain an underwater spill,” he
said. “That’s just common sense.”  Obama’s address comes almost a year after he announced he
would allow expanded oil and natural-gas drilling off the East
Coast as part of a plan to increase domestic production while
also encouraging conservation and developing alternatives.  Expanded Drilling  The administration dropped its plan for expanded drilling
after the  oil spill  at  BP Plc (BP) ’s Macondo well in the Gulf of
Mexico, the worst in U.S. history. A moratorium on deep-water
drilling was lifted in October, with tougher safety, inspection
and environmental-protection rules required for permits.  Since tougher standards were put in effect, the
administration has approved 39 new shallow water permits and an
additional seven deep water permits.  “Any claim that my administration is responsible for gas
prices because we’ve, quote unquote, shut down oil production,
any claim like that is untrue,” Obama said.  Industry representatives and congressional Republicans
accused the White House of stalling on drilling permits. Erik
Milito, upstream director at the  American Petroleum Institute ,
said in an e-mail yesterday that the administration “has been
delaying, deferring or denying access to our oil and natural gas
resources here at home.”  Expand Production  Obama also suggested the administration may review plans to
expand production areas offshore.  “We’re also exploring and assessing new frontiers for oil
and gas development from  Alaska  to the Mid- and South
Atlantic,” he said.  Obama reaffirmed his support for nuclear power in the wake
of the crisis in  Japan , where authorities are struggling to deal
with a crippled atomic plant and radioactive contamination
following an earthquake and tsunami. Nuclear plants provide
about 20 percent of U.S. electrical power.  “It has important potential for increasing our electricity
without adding carbon dioxide to the atmosphere,” he
said. “But I’m determined to ensure that it’s safe.”  The U.S. also must exploit its reserves of natural gas in
shale, he said.  Obama said he directed Energy Secretary Steven Chu to
oversee work by the federal government, industry, environmental
groups and states to develop recommendations on the use of
fracking chemicals for shale extraction “without polluting our
water supply.”  Hydraulic Fracturing  In hydraulic fracturing, or fracking, millions of gallons
of chemically treated water are forced underground to break up
rock and allow gas trapped in shale formations to flow. Shale
gas in states such as  Wyoming , Texas,  Louisiana  and
 Pennsylvania , once thought too expensive to tap, is now being
drilled by hydraulic fracking.  In December, the Energy Department more than doubled its
estimate of U.S. shale gas reserves to 827 trillion cubic feet.
Shale gas, 14 percent of U.S. supply in 2009, is expected to
account for 45 percent in 2035. The U.S. has enough natural gas
to heat homes, run power stations and supply manufacturers for
110 years.  Environmental groups say fracking has contaminated
groundwater and should be regulated by the Environmental
Protection Agency. Obama said he wants more information on the
chemicals used in fracking and will seek recommendations from
experts on best practices to protect public health and the
environment.  Broader Plan  As part of the broader plan to cut energy use, Obama is
directing all government agencies by 2015 to purchase only
vehicles that use alternative fuel or run by hybrid or electric
power.  “The federal government is going to lead by example,” he
said.  In the face of calls in Congress to cut federal spending,
Obama defended a 12 percent increase, to $29.5 billion, in the
budget for the Energy Department in fiscal 2012. He said
government support has helped advances in alternative energy,
including batteries and wind turbines.  Spending cuts in such critical areas “would eliminate
thousands of private sector jobs, terminate scientists and
engineers” and leave unfunded the “talent we desperately need
for the 21st century.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Roger Runningen in  Washington  at 
 rrunningen@bloomberg.net ;
Nicholas Johnston in Washington at 
 njohnston3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  