-- 
Hoenig Says Fed Shares Blame for Higher Commodity Prices; Urges Tightening

-- B y   V i v i e n   L o u   C h e n
-- 
2011-03-30T19:27:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-30/hoenig-blames-fed-for-higher-commodity-prices-urges-monetary-tightening.html
The  Federal Reserve ’s “highly
accommodative” monetary policy is partly to blame for rapidly
increasing global commodity prices, said Kansas City Fed
President  Thomas Hoenig , who called on colleagues to raise the
benchmark interest rate toward 1 percent soon.  “Once again, there are signs that the world is building
new economic imbalances and inflationary impulses,” Hoenig, the
central bank’s longest-serving policy maker and lone dissenter
at meetings last year, said in a speech today in  London . “The
longer policy remains as it is, the greater the likelihood these
pressures will build and ultimately undermine world growth.”  Fed policy makers, who affirmed plans on March 15 to buy
$600 billion in  Treasury securities  through June, disagreed this
week over whether to curtail the purchases, end them early or
keep the program in place. St. Louis Fed President  James Bullard 
said the plan may need to be cut by about $100 billion. The
Boston Fed’s  Eric Rosengren  said that high unemployment and low
 core inflation  mean it’s still too soon to withdraw record
monetary support for the economy.  The  Federal Open Market Committee  “should gradually allow
its $3 trillion balance sheet to shrink toward its pre-crisis
level of $1 trillion,” Hoenig, 64, said in his remarks at the
 London School of Economics  and Political Science. “It should
move the U.S. federal funds rate off of zero and toward 1
percent within a fairly short period of time.”  Improving Trends  “Policy should acknowledge the improving economic trends
and begin to withdraw some degree of accommodation,” he said.
“If this is not done, then the risk of introducing new
imbalances and long-term inflationary pressures into an already
fragile recovery increase significantly.”  Other Fed officials, including Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke ,
have rejected the idea that their policies fueled gains in
commodity prices, pointing instead to rising demand among
emerging-market economies and disruptions in supplies.  Bernanke, in testimony to Congress on March 1, said
commodity prices “have risen significantly in terms of all
major currencies,” and not just the dollar.  As of yesterday, crude oil jumped 35 percent over six
months as turmoil in the Middle East threatened to disrupt
supplies. Corn rose 38 percent, and cotton climbed 89 percent.  In its March 15 statement, the FOMC said the economic
recovery “is on a firmer footing.” It said the effects of
higher fuel and commodity costs on inflation will be
“transitory,” and officials “will pay close attention to the
evolution of inflation and inflation expectations.”  Adding Workers  Companies in the U.S. added more workers in March, a sign
the labor market may be strengthening, data from a private
report based on payrolls showed today. Employment increased by
201,000 workers, according to figures from ADP Employer
Services.  Other data released this week point to challenges for the
recovery. Confidence among U.S. consumers dropped more than
forecast this month as fuel costs surged to the highest level in
more than two years, according to the Conference Board’s
confidence index yesterday. Another report showed  home prices  in
20 cities fell in January by the most in more than a year,
raising the risk that sales will keep slowing.  Fed officials have purchased $1.7 trillion of mortgage debt
and Treasuries through March 2010 to pull the U.S. out of the
recession. The Fed’s second round of purchases, announced in
November, has come under fire from Republican leaders in
Congress who say it risks inflating asset-price bubbles and
stoking inflation.  Eight Dissents  As a voting member of the FOMC last year, Hoenig dissented
against the Fed’s pledge to keep rates “exceptionally low” for
“an extended period,” the decision to reinvest proceeds from
maturing mortgage-backed securities, and the current round of
bond purchases. His eight straight dissents tied former Governor
Henry Wallich’s record in 1980 for most dissents in a single
year.  “You have to remember I’m not advocating tight monetary
policy,” the regional bank president said in response to
audience questions after his speech. “I’m advocating a non-
crisis policy. Zero is a crisis policy that by itself should be
temporary.”  A neutral level for the fed funds rate in the long run is
likely more than 2 percent, Hoenig said. Neutral refers to a
level for the Fed’s interest-rate target for overnight loans
between banks that neither over-stimulates nor unnecessarily
slows the pace of the economy.  “You can’t measure precisely neutral any more than you can
precisely measure the long-term sustainable unemployment level,
but you can estimate it over a long period,” he said. “I don’t
know exactly what that is. Probably above 2 percent.”  Hoenig is retiring on Oct. 1 after a 20-year career as
leader of the Kansas City Fed, one of the Fed’s 12 regional
banks. The Kansas City Fed has begun a search for his successor.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Vivien Lou Chen in  San Francisco  at 
 vchen1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz in Washington at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  