-- 
Offshore Wind Power Valued at $273 Billion by 2050 in Study

-- B y   A l e x   M o r a l e s
-- 
2011-03-31T10:33:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-30/offshore-wind-power-valued-at-273-billion-by-2050-study-says.html
The global offshore wind-power
market could be worth up to 170 billion pounds ($273 billion) a
year by 2050, the U.K. government-funded Carbon Trust said.  Britain is likely to take about 10 percent of the market,
which includes installation, operation and maintenance of
turbines at sea, the trust said today in a statement. The
industry may employ 230,000 people in the country in 2050 and
generate 100 billion pounds for the U.K. economy between now and
then, the trust said.  “Offshore wind is a strategically important economic asset
for the U.K. that can deliver long-term growth and energy
security,” said Benj Sykes, director of innovations at the
trust. “If we seize this green-growth opportunity, the U.K.
will benefit from hundreds of thousands of new jobs, a booming
new export market and billions of pounds of business benefits.”  The U.K. has more offshore wind power capacity than any
nation and is betting on the technology to help cut greenhouse
gas emissions and meet European energy targets. The government’s
plans have attracted manufacturers including  Germany ’s  Siemens
AG (SIE) , Fairfield, Connecticut-based  General Electric Co. (GE)  and
 Spain ’s Gamesa Corporacion Tecnologica SA, and developers such
as  Centrica Plc (CNA) ,  RWE AG (RWE)  and  E.ON AG. (EOAN)   Nuclear Power, CCS  The Carbon Trust’s central forecast is for global offshore
wind capacity to reach 440 gigawatts by 2050, valuing the market
at 56 billion pounds a year. According to the report, that could
rise to 1,150 gigawatts and almost 170 billion pounds, depending
on the growth of nuclear power and carbon capture and storage,
or CCS, which traps greenhouse gases and stores them
underground.  “The central scenario does assume substantial carbon
capture and storage and substantial nuclear,” Jason Eis, senior
strategy manager at the trust, said today in a telephone
interview. “If those technologies are not acceptable to the
public, or take a long time to come onstream, we move toward the
high scenario.”  Eis said the study assumes governments are aiming to keep
the global temperature rise to below 2 degrees Celsius (3.6
degrees Fahrenheit) since industrialization, and that the U.K.
aims to cut emissions by 80 percent from 1990 levels in 2050.
Government incentives for offshore wind are assumed to remain in
place until at least 2020, he said.  Vestas Wind Systems A/S, the Randers, Denmark-based
turbine-maker with the biggest share of installed offshore
turbines, yesterday unveiled a new 7-megawatt machine for use at
sea. It said the U.K. was among a cluster of countries in and
near the  North Sea  where it may build a plant to make them.  U.K. Hubs  Gamesa, GE and Siemens have already announced plans for
U.K. offshore wind turbine manufacturing and research hubs to
cater for demand created by the country’s third round of seabed
licensing.  In January 2010, the government awarded licenses for 32.2
gigawatts of offshore wind projects to companies including
Centrica, RWE,  Statoil ASA (STL) , EDP Renovaveis and  Scottish &
Southern Energy Plc. (SSE)  That added to about 8 gigawatts of
concessions made in two previous licensing rounds.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Morales in London at 
 amorales2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  