-- 
Ohio House Approves Bill to Curb Benefits for Public Workers

-- B y   A l i s o n   V e k s h i n   a n d   M a r k   N i q u e t t e
-- 
2011-03-30T21:55:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-30/ohio-house-approves-bill-to-curb-unions-for-government-workers.html
The Republican-led Ohio House
approved a bill limiting collective bargaining for about 360,000
state and local government workers and requiring minimum
contributions for health care and pensions.  The House voted 53-44, returning the measure to the Senate
to concur with changes it made. The Senate approved a version of
the bill March 2 and Republican Governor  John Kasich  has said he
supports it.  “I am happy today to be part of giving back to local
governments the tools necessary to manage their budgets both
today and in the future, to manage their expenses and to be
returning traditional management rights to those who were
elected to make those decisions,” Representative Joseph Uecker,
the Republican chairman of the House Commerce and Labor
Committee, said before the vote. The remark prompted heckling
from the audience in the House chamber.  Ohio Democrats have vowed to ask voters to repeal the
measure. That would require collecting more than 231,000 valid
voters’ signatures within 90 days of its approval, thereby
preventing it from taking effect until the vote, according to
the secretary of state’s office. That would happen in November
or in November 2012, depending on when Kasich signs the bill,
the secretary’s office has said.  Not Just Numbers  “These folks are not numbers on a page or lines on a
graph,” state Representative Matt Szollosi, assistant
Democratic leader, said during debate on the bill. “They are
people with families, often times living paycheck to paycheck.”  “They do not deserve to be slapped in the face and put
further into harm’s way, because the liberty groups or Tea Party
groups or whoever is pulling the Republican strings right now
have demonized public workers,” Szollosi said.  Similar legislation that passed this month in  Wisconsin 
championed by Republican Governor  Scott Walker  has been
challenged in court by Democrats, who also are seeking recall
elections of eight Republican senators.  With states facing combined shortfalls that may reach $112
billion during the next fiscal year, Kasich and Walker say the
bills will help balance budgets without raising taxes and give
state and local governments tools to control costs.  Democrats and union leaders say the Republican governors,
who both took office in January, are trying to bust unions and
limit their support of Democratic candidates. The bills have
sparked weeks of protests at the statehouses in Madison and
Columbus.  Into the Bone  Tim Alger, 38, a firefighter from Portsmouth,  Ohio ,
protesting the bill outside the House chamber, said it would cut
his family’s income by 10 percent at a time when he already
lives paycheck to paycheck.  “All the fat’s been cut and now they’re going to cut into
what we need,” said Alger, who has already stopped contributing
to his son’s college account so as to pay his monthly bills.  Ohio  House Republicans  made changes to the bill, including
prohibiting contracts that require employees who are not part of
a union to pay “fair share” fees and banning deductions for
contributions to a political action committee, according to  an
analysis  by the Ohio Legislative Service Commission.  Limited Negotiations  The bill continues to allow collective bargaining only for
wages, hours and working conditions. The House added a provision
saying that safety force could still bargain over equipment
issues, the commission said. Leaders of Ohio police and fire
unions had said their members would otherwise be endangered.  The measure would eliminate binding arbitration to resolve
impasses in contract negotiations with police and fire unions,
and makes all public-employee strikes illegal. It removes the
proposed fine and jail time for violating the no-strike
provision, the commission said.  The bill also preserves requirements that employees pay at
least 15 percent of the premium costs for their health insurance
and forbids public employers from paying any of the employees’
share of their pension costs. It replaces automatic pay
increases for public workers with merit-based pay.  A Quinnipiac University poll conducted March 15-21 found
that Ohio voters disagree with limits on state worker contracts
when asked about “collective-bargaining rights,” 54 percent to
35 percent. When the question was rephrased to just “collective
bargaining,” the margin was 48 percent to 41 percent, according
to the poll released March 23.  -- With assistance from Lisa Aurand in Columbus, Ohio. Editors:
Stephen Merelman, Walid El-Gabry  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mark Niquette in Columbus, Ohio, at 
 mniquette@bloomberg.net ;
Alison Vekshin in  San Francisco  at 
 avekshin@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  