-- 
Tokyo Electric Investors May Be Wiped Out After Nuclear-Radiation Crisis

-- B y   P a v e l   A l p e y e v
-- 
2011-03-31T02:06:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-30/tokyo-electric-investors-may-be-wiped-out-after-nuclear-radiation-crisis.html
Tokyo Electric  Power Co.’s
shareholders may be wiped out by clean-up costs and liabilities
stemming from the worst nuclear accident since Chernobyl.  The company faces claims of as much as 11 trillion yen
($133 billion), if the crisis lasts two years, that could lead
to nationalization, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Investors, including Mitsushige Akino and Edwin Merner, also
said shareholders should brace for further losses.  Tokyo Electric has tumbled more than 70 percent, the worst
performer on the  MSCI World (MXWO)  Index, since the March 11 earthquake
and tsunami knocked out cooling systems at the Fukushima Dai-
Ichi nuclear plant and caused radiation to leak. Should the
crisis persist, the company may be unable to repay bondholders
and be taken over by the government, Merrill said.  “Some sort of capital reduction or dilution is inevitable
depending on the degree of shareholder responsibility,” said
Akino, who oversees about $450 million in  Tokyo  at Ichiyoshi
Investment Management Co., not including Tokyo Electric’s stock.
“It’s not yet clear whether it will be down to zero or just
halved, but it won’t be what it is now.”  Tepco rose 6.7 percent to 497 yen at 10:17 a.m. on the
Tokyo Stock Exchange, snapping a six-day drop that wiped out 58
percent of the company’s market value. The company, valued at
3.5 trillion yen before the 9-magnitude earthquake struck
northeastern Japan, is now valued at about 800 billion yen.  Worst-Case Scenario  “We are aware that compensation may be huge and haven’t
decided how to make the payment,” said Osamu Yokokura, a
spokesman at the utility known as Tepco. He declined to comment
on Merrill’s estimate.  Under the “worst-case” scenario, Tepco would be unable to
absorb the losses even after a capital reduction and debt-to-
equity swap of state-guaranteed debt, Yusuke Ueda, a credit
analyst at Merrill, wrote in a report March 29. The utility may
face claims of less than 1 trillion yen if the crisis is
resolved within two months and as much as 3 trillion yen if it
takes about six months, Ueda wrote.  Should claims reach 10 trillion yen to 11 trillion yen,
bankruptcy laws may be invoked, Merrill wrote. Still, it’s
“very unlikely” Tepco will go bankrupt because of its
importance as a provider of electricity, Ueda wrote.  Dai-Ichi Life Insurance Co., Tepco’s second-largest
shareholder after  Japan  Trustee Services Bank Ltd., owns 55
million shares, or a 3.4 percent stake, according to
shareholding data compiled by Bloomberg. Based on yesterday’s
closing price of 466 yen, the value of those shares had declined
by about 83 billion yen in the past three months, more than the
50 billion yen profit Dai-Ichi is forecasting for the fiscal
year to March 31.  Spread Widens  The yield on Tepco’s 50 billion yen in 1.814 percent notes
due in 2020 rose to a record high 2.492 percent yesterday,
according to Japan Securities Dealers Association prices on
Bloomberg. The spread widened to 140 basis points from 89 basis
points in one day.  “It’s becoming clear that Tepco cannot recover from this
by itself, the government’s involvement is very likely, but the
question is to what extent,” said  Yoshihiro Okumura , who helps
manage the equivalent of $365 million at Chiba-Gin Asset
Management Co. in　Tokyo. “The issue is bigger than Tepco, it
has to do with the country’s energy policy.”  Koichiro Gemba, Japan’s national strategy minister, told
reporters on March 29 a government takeover of Tepco is
something to be discussed.  “There will be a debate on how Tepco should exist or be,”
he said. “Containing the situation is necessary more than
anything else.”  Hospitalized President  Tepco Chairman Tsunehisa Katsumata, who took charge after
President Masataka Shimizu became hospitalized for high  blood
pressure , yesterday said he wants the power utility to remain
out of government control.  Japanese Prime Minister  Naoto Kan  earlier this week blamed
inadequate tsunami defenses at the plant for nuclear crisis,
saying that safety standards set by the utility were too low.  “This is not a problem that can be fixed by changing
management teams, the very outlook has to change,” said  Yuuki Sakurai , president at Fukoku Capital Management Inc., which
manages the equivalent of $8.6 billion in Tokyo. “It’s too
early to talk about nationalization yet.”  Four of the plant’s six reactors became unusable after sea
water was used to cool them. The reactors need to be
decommissioned,Katsumata said yesterday, without giving a
timeframe.  The damaged reactors need to be demolished after they have
cooled and radioactive materials are removed and stored, said
Tomoko Murakami, a nuclear researcher at the Institute of Energy
Economics, Japan. The process will take longer than the 12 years
needed to decommission the Three Mile Island reactor in
 Pennsylvania  following a partial meltdown, said Hironobu
Unesaki, a nuclear engineering professor at  Kyoto University .  Nuclear Incidents  Japanese authorities rated the Fukushima accident a 5 on
the  International Atomic Energy Agency ’s 7-step  scale for
nuclear incidents , under which each extra point represents a 10-
fold increase in seriousness.  Tepco’s importance as an electricity supplier to the
nation’s capital may protect it, according to Yoshihiro Nakatani, a senior  fund manager  who helps oversee $851 million
at Asahi Life Asset Management Co. in Tokyo.  “An increase in the damages figure means deeper
involvement by the government,” said Nakatani. “Tepco is
guaranteed a stable  cash flow  as the provider of electricity for
Tokyo metropolitan area, so it’s unlikely to being allowed to
implode.”  Tepco had cash, near cash and marketable securities
amounting to 677.4 billion yen as of Dec. 31. The company had
total assets of 13.8 trillion yen, or about 3 trillion yen more
than its liabilities.  Debt Ratings Cut  Moody’s Japan K.K. and  Standard & Poor’s  cut their ratings
on Tepco’s bonds on March 18 and put the debt on review for
additional downgrades, citing concerns over the nuclear crisis.  The Ministry of Health, Labor and Welfare earlier this week
warned that radioactive contamination in food is likely to
increase as the result of the disaster. Some 99 products,
including milk and vegetables, were found to be contaminated in
Tokyo and five prefectures to its north and east as of late
March 26, according to the ministry.  “When do you think the nuclear problems can be over? When
you know that then you can talk about some kind of
nationalization, or recapitalization or restructuring,” said
Edwin Merner, Tokyo-based president of Atlantis Investment
Research, which manages about $3 billion in assets. “Right now
it’s not the problem, the problem is the meltdown.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Pavel Alpeyev in Tokyo at 
 palpeyev@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net . 