-- 
Tokyo Electric Faces Claims That Might Rise to $132 Billion, Merrill Says

-- B y   P a v e l   A l p e y e v   a n d   T o s h i r o   H a s e g a w a
-- 
2011-03-30T11:00:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-30/tokyo-electric-faces-claims-that-might-rise-to-132-billion-merrill-says.html
Tokyo Electric  Power Co., the
utility crippled by the worst nuclear accident since Chernobyl,
faces claims of as much as 11 trillion yen ($132 billion) if the
crisis lasts two years, Bank of America Merrill Lynch said.  Under such a “worst-case” scenario,  Tokyo  Electric would
be unable to absorb the losses even after a capital reduction
and debt-to-equity swap of state-guaranteed debt, Yusuke Ueda, a
credit analyst at Merrill, wrote in a report yesterday. The
utility known as Tepco may face claims of less than 1 trillion
yen if the crisis is resolved within two months and as much as 3
trillion yen if it takes about six months, Ueda wrote.  Tepco spokesman Osamu Yokokura declined to comment on
Merrill’s estimates. The company is still considering how to
compensate people for damages, he said, declining to comment on
details such as the time frame and amount.  Existing shareholders are likely to face capital
reductions, though it’s “very unlikely” Tokyo Electric will go
bankrupt because of its importance as a provider of electricity,
according to the Merrill report.  Four of Tokyo Electric’s six reactors at Fukushima Dai-Ichi
nuclear plant became unsalvageable after seawater was used to
cool them after the March 11 earthquake and tsunami knocked out
generators running its cooling systems. Japanese Prime Minister
 Naoto Kan  said yesterday the entire station north of Tokyo will
likely be decommissioned.  The damaged reactors need to be demolished after they have
cooled and radioactive materials are removed and stored,
according to Tomoko Murakami, a nuclear researcher at the
Institute of Energy Economics,  Japan . The cost of dismantling
the reactors may exceed 1 trillion yen, according to Murakami.  Tokyo Electric tumbled 18 percent, extending this year’s
drop to 77 percent, to close at 466 yen on the Tokyo Stock
Exchange today, giving the company a market value of 748.9
billion yen.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Pavel Alpeyev in Tokyo at 
 palpeyev@bloomberg.net ;
Toshiro Hasegawa in Tokyo at 
 thasegawa6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net ;
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  