-- 
Tepco’s Reactors May Take 30 Years, $12 Billion to Scrap

-- B y   S h i g e r u   S a t o ,   Y u j i   O k a d a   a n d   T s u y o s h i   I n a j i m a
-- 
2011-03-30T08:36:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-30/tokyo-electric-s-damaged-reactors-may-take-30-years-12-billion-to-scrap.html
Damaged reactors at the crippled
Fukushima Dai-Ichi nuclear plant may take three decades to
decommission and cost operator  Tokyo  Electric Power Co. more
than 1 trillion yen ($12 billion), engineers and analysts said.  Four of the plant’s six reactors became useless when sea
water was used to cool them after the March 11 earthquake and
tsunami knocked out generators running its cooling systems. The
reactors need to be decommissioned, Tepco Chairman Tsunehisa
Katsumata said today. He couldn’t give a timeframe.  All the reactors, including Units 5 and 6, will be shut
down, and the government hasn’t ruled out sealing the plant in
concrete, Chief Cabinet Secretary Yukio Edano told reporters
today in Tokyo.  The damaged reactors need to be demolished after they have
cooled and radioactive materials are removed and stored, said
Tomoko Murakami, a nuclear researcher at the Institute of Energy
Economics, Japan. The process will take longer than the 12 years
needed to decommission the Three Mile Island reactor in
 Pennsylvania  following a partial meltdown, said Hironobu
Unesaki, a nuclear engineering professor at  Kyoto University .  “Lack of public support may force the decommissioning of
all six reactors,” said Daniel Aldrich, a political science
professor at  Purdue University  in  Indiana . Tepco “will try to
salvage two if it can find public support, which may be
unlikely.”  The damaged reactors will take more than a few weeks to
stabilize, Katsumata, who took charge of Tepco’s response after
President Masataka Shimizu was hospitalized, told reporters.  Kan’s Criticism  Prime Minister Naoto Kan yesterday blamed inadequate
tsunami defenses at the plant for the world’s worst nuclear
accident since Chernobyl in 1986, saying that the safety
standards set by Tepco were too low. Efforts to cool fuel
rods at the four reactors have been hindered by detection of
radiation levels that can prove fatal for a person exposed
for several hours.  The utility is focusing on bringing the crisis at the
Fukushima Dai-Ichi plant under control and can’t comment on the
power station’s future, Naoyuki Matsumoto, a spokesman for
Tepco, said by telephone yesterday.  Japan  is studying various ways to cool water at the plant’s
reactors and fuel-rod ponds, Chief Cabinet Secretary Edano said.
It will take “considerable time” until the temperature drops
and is stable, he said.  Covering the plant with fabric and removing contaminated
water to a tanker are among options under consideration for
reducing the threat from radiation, Edano said.  ‘Considering Possibilities’  “Specialists are considering various possibilities and
means to contain the nuclear power plant situation and minimize
radiation effects in surrounding areas and harm to health,” he
said. “We haven’t reached a conclusion about what means are
possible or effective.”  Japanese authorities rated the Fukushima accident a 5 on
the  International Atomic Energy Agency ’s 7-step  scale for
nuclear incidents , under which each extra point represents a 10-
fold increase in seriousness.  At Pennsylvania’s Three Mile Island in 1979, one reactor
partially melted in the worst U.S. accident, earning a 5 rating.
Its $973 million repair and cleanup took almost 12 years to
complete, according to a  report  on the  World Nuclear
Association ’s website. More than 1,000 workers were involved in
designing and conducting the cleanup operation, the report said.  Chernobyl Sarcophagus  Ukraine is unable to fund alone the cost of a new
sarcophagus to cover the burned out reactor at Chernobyl, due to
be in place by 2014. The 110 meter-high arched containment
structure has a 1.55 billion euro ($2.2 billion) total  price tag 
and the London-based  European Bank for Reconstruction and
Development  has so far raised about 65 percent of that.  The Fukushima reactors may take about three decades to
decommission, based on Japan’s sole attempt to dismantle a
commercial reactor, said Murakami of the Institute of Energy
Economics.  Japan Atomic Power Co. began decommissioning a 166-megawatt
reactor at Tokai in Ibaraki Prefecture near Tokyo in 1998 after
the unit had completed 32 years of operations, according to
documents posted on the company’s website. The project will be
completed by March 2021, or after 23 years of work, and cost
88.5 billion yen, the documents show.  Japan Atomic took three years through June 2001 to
stabilize and remove nuclear fuels from the reactor core.  “It looks indisputable that Tepco will go ahead and
dismantle the four reactors, and costs may exceed 1 trillion
yen,” said Murakami, who worked at Japan Atomic for 13 years
and was involved in the decommissioning of the Tokai plant.
“Removing damaged fuels from the reactors may take more than
two years, and any delays would further increase the cost.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Shigeru Sato in Tokyo at 
 ssato10@bloomberg.net ;
Yuji Okada in Tokyo at 
 yokada6@bloomberg.net ;
Tsuyoshi Inajima in Tokyo at 
 tinajima@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net ;
Clyde Russell at 
 crussell7@bloomberg.net  