-- 
Oman Index Drops to One-Month Low on Arrests; Bank Muscat Falls

-- B y   A l a a   S h a h i n e
-- 
2011-03-30T11:48:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-30/oman-index-drops-to-one-month-low-on-arrests-bank-muscat-falls.html
Oman’s benchmark stock index
declined to the lowest level in a month, leading a drop in
Persian Gulf markets, after arrests in the sultanate fueled
concern political unrest will worsen.  Renaissance Services SAOG (RNSS) , a provider of services to the
oil and gas industry, fell for an eighth day and Bank Muscat
SAOG retreated 1.8 percent. The  MSM30 Index (MSM30)  decreased for a
fourth day, falling 1.8 percent to 6,225.36, the lowest since
Feb. 28, at the 1 p.m. close in Muscat. The measure is down 7.8
percent this year driven by a wave of popular uprisings in the
Middle East that sparked protests in the northern Omani city of
Sohar. The  Bloomberg GCC 200 Index (BGCC200)  has lost 3.5 percent in 2011.  “Political issues will remain the key driver in the
region,” said Tariq Qaqish, director and fund manager at Al Mal
Capital PSC in Dubai.  Popular unrest in the Middle East has led to the ouster of
the presidents of Tunisia and  Egypt  this year. Omani authorities
arrested people suspected of involvement in Sohar’s riots and
will put them on trial after investigations are concluded, the
state-run Oman News Agency reported yesterday, citing a
statement by the Prosecutor General. Demonstrators took the
streets to demand more jobs, higher pay and more representative
political institutions.  Kuwait Drop  Renaissance Services tumbled 3.9 percent to 1.015 rials.
Bank Muscat, Oman’s biggest bank by assets, fell to 0.708 rial.  Kuwait’s benchmark measure lost 0.5 percent.  Agility (AGLTY) 
dropped 5 percent, the most in two weeks, to 380 fils. Kuwait’s
storage and transport company, which is accused of overbilling
the U.S. military, was properly notified by prosecutors of the
charges, a federal judge said, reversing an earlier ruling.  Dubai’s  DFM General Index (DFMGI)  lost 0.8 percent and Abu Dhabi’s
 ADX General Index (ADSMI)  was little changed. Qatar’s  QE Index (DSM)  declined
0.1 percent and Bahrain’s BB All Share Index gained 0.4 percent.
Saudi Arabia’s Tadawul All Share Index rose less than 0.1
percent at 2:23 p.m. in Riyadh.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alaa Shahine in Dubai at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  