-- 
Only Fed Can Keep Inflation in Check: Caroline Baum

-- B y   C a r o l i n e   B a u m
-- 
2011-03-30T13:45:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-30/only-fed-ensures-inflation-won-t-happen-here-commentary-by-caroline-baum.html
(Corrects spelling of Schaumburg in 16th paragraph.)  Consumers expect inflation of 3.2
percent in the next five-to-10 years. Investors expect 2.8
percent.  Who’s right? And why should we care?  We don’t know the answer to the first question. I will try
to answer the second in 800 words or less.  When I listen to academics and Federal Reserve policy
makers talk about inflation expectations, seemingly imbuing them
with a life of their own, it sounds like something out of a
textbook that’s suited for an econometric model.  What a surprise to learn that it is! Inflation expectations
evolved from something called rational expectations theory, the
idea that people make economic decisions based on previous
experience and expectations about the future.  Rather than a school of economic thought, rational
expectations should be viewed as “a ubiquitous modeling
technique used widely throughout economics,” economist Tom
Sargent explains in an  essay  in the Concise Encyclopedia of
Economics.  He should know. Sargent, a professor at  New York 
University, is one of the pioneers of rational expectations
theory, on which much of modern macroeconomics is based. It
underlies efficient-markets theory, the  permanent income
hypothesis  and the  augmented Phillips curve , which describes the
relationship between inflation and unemployment.  The theory is a central tenet underlying the debate about
government intervention in the economy. Opponents of fiscal
stimulus claim that the public’s expectation of higher taxes
will offset any temporary benefit from  government spending .  QED  That’s because human beings behave rationally. Never mind
that we just lived through the mother of all housing bubbles,
with folks buying homes they couldn’t afford with loans they
couldn’t repay. Human beings are rational. Quod erat
demonstrandum.  If businesses expect raw materials prices to rise, they
will buy more today and stockpile them for the future.  The notion of inflation expectations affecting behavior has
been extended to consumers, erroneously in most cases. If
households expect gasoline prices  to rise, they don’t go out
and purchase a 1,000-gallon storage tank for the front lawn. At
best, most of us keep two gallons in a gas can to fill the lawn
mower.  “Who do I negotiate with when I fill the tank?” says  Jim
Glassman , senior economist at JPMorgan Chase & Co. “I’m a price
taker. The more we are price takers, the less inflation
expectations matter.”  Which Prices?  Years ago, I was so agitated by the Fed’s fixation on
inflation expectations at the expense of policies that affect
actual inflation, I decided to test my theory that the public
doesn’t know or doesn’t care.  I conducted a simple survey on inflation, present and
future, that confirmed my suspicions. You can read about it
here.  For their part, businesses care a lot about prices: the
prices of things they buy and sell.  “A rise in raw materials is a sign of inflation to the
businessman,” says Sandra Westlund-Deenihan, president and
design engineer at  Quality Float Works Inc. , a 96-year-old
family run business in Schaumburg,  Illinois , that makes liquid
level-control devices.  The company adjusted to soaring input costs by ordering in
bulk, shopping around, even asking customers to send customized
boxes “so we aren’t bearing the shipping costs,” she says.  Different Strokes  Right now any manufacturer that purchases crude materials -
- everything from cotton to steel scrap -- is bound to have an
inflated set of inflation expectations. So will consumers whose
major purchases are food and energy.  “I can’t believe the news there’s no inflation,”
Westlund-Deenihan says. “They’re not touching it. We have a
bottom line.”  Lastly, financial markets telegraph investors’ inflation
expectations via the spread between nominal and inflation-
indexed Treasuries. This measure is imperfect as well,
influenced as it is by preferences for the most liquid (nominal)
Treasuries when safety concerns are paramount.  Inflation expectations, then, mean different things to
different people.  I did find two academics to walk me through the Fed’s
inflation expectations fog. Former Fed governor Randall Kroszner, now a professor at the University of Chicago’s Booth
School of Business, and Michael Bordo, an economics professor at
 Rutgers University  in  New Brunswick ,  New Jersey , patiently
explained a situation where the public’s inflation expectations,
if unaligned with the Fed’s goal, could have an undesirable
effect on the economy.  Doubting Thomases  Three decades ago, when  Paul Volcker  arrived at the Fed
determined to wring inflation out of the system, businessmen
didn’t believe him. They’d heard that story before. They offered
employees wage increases in line with past inflation, not with
what Volcker promised for the future.  When inflation fell, companies found themselves caught
between higher costs and lower prices. The cost structure forced
many out of business. Others had to fire workers. The recession
was deeper than it would have been if the public had been
convinced of Volcker’s intent.  Point taken, although I’m still not sure inflation
expectations are as important as they’re cracked up to be.  What is important is Fed credibility. And actions speak
louder than words. Policy makers may be comfortable that
inflation expectations are well anchored and the output gap, or
degree of economic slack, is large enough to drive a semi
through. But overnight  interest rates  at zero are creating
speculative demand for real and financial assets. The Fed
ignores these expectations at its own risk.  ( Caroline Baum , author of “Just What I Said,” is a
Bloomberg News columnist. The opinions expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Caroline Baum in New York at 
 cabaum@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  