-- 
Optimism Among U.S. Chief Executives Surpasses Pre-Slump High, Survey Says

-- B y   A l e x   K o w a l s k i
-- 
2011-03-30T16:41:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-30/optimism-among-u-s-chief-executives-surpasses-pre-slump-high.html
Optimism among U.S. chief executive
officers surpassed the highest level reached before the
recession as more business leaders projected increased sales,
investment and hiring, a survey showed.  The  Business Roundtable’s  economic outlook index increased
to 113 in the first quarter, the highest point since records
began in 2002, from 101 in the previous three months, the
Washington-based group said today. Readings greater than 50
coincide with an economic expansion. The previous peak was 104
in the first three months of 2005.  “Companies have given strong signals about their
willingness to expand,”  Ivan G. Seidenberg , chairman of the
Business Roundtable and chief executive officer of  New York- 
based  Verizon Communications Inc. (VZ) , said in a press conference.
“As we keep a steady flow of  capital investment , we’ll
certainly see sales forecasts go up, and as we do that we’ll
start to see hiring.”  None of the 142 CEOs surveyed said they expected a decline
in sales in the next six months, and 92 percent projected an
increase, paving the way for more hiring and investment in
equipment. A gain in capital spending plans points to further
strength in manufacturing, the industry that’s propelled the
economic expansion.  Consumer Pessimism  Growing confidence among executives contrasts with
pessimism among American consumers, whose spending makes up 70
percent of the world’s largest economy. The Bloomberg Consumer
Comfort Index last week dropped to the lowest level since August
as costlier gasoline strained household finances.  The average price of regular gasoline at the pump was $3.60
a gallon on March 29, the highest since October 2008, according
to AAA, the nation’s biggest motoring organization.  “Business sentiment is driven a lot by corporate profits
and probably the political outlook with the Republicans taking
control” of the  House of Representatives  in the November
elections, said  Scott Brown , chief economist at Raymond James &
Associates Inc. in  St. Petersburg ,  Florida . “For the consumer,
however, it’s all about gasoline prices, and that seems to be
the big worry at this point.”  Earnings for companies in the Standard & Poor’s 500 Stock
Index may have risen 12 percent in the first quarter from a year
earlier, while sales rose 7.8 percent, based on Bloomberg data
collected from analysts’ estimates.  Earnings for the fourth quarter reached a record $1.68
trillion at an annualized rate, Commerce Department figures
show. For all of 2010, profits climbed 29 percent, the biggest
annual gain since 1948.  Stocks Climb  Rising corporate profits have helped propel a 5.6 percent
gain this year in the  S&P 500 . The index was up 0.6 percent to
1,327.95 at 12:12 p.m. in  New York , extending the biggest first-
quarter rally since 1998.  The share of respondents in the  Business Roundtable  survey
projecting increased sales in the next six months rose 12
percentage points from the fourth quarter.  Business Roundtable Chairman Seidenberg said energy costs
haven’t yet affected executives’ forecasts.  “It’s too early to suggest that there’s any permanent
impact on the momentum that we’re reporting in our results,”
Seidenberg said. “You have to see the prices stabilize over
some period of time, like 30 to 60 or even 90 days.”  The Business Roundtable’s survey was taken from Feb. 28 to
March 18. The group is an association of CEOs of corporations
representing a combined workforce of more than 13 million
employees and almost $6 trillion in annual revenue. Members
include Chicago-based  Boeing Co. (BA) , Atlanta-based  Coca-Cola Co. (KO) 
and Charlotte, North Carolina-based Bank of America Corp.  Hiring Plans  Fifty-two percent of CEOs said they will add to payrolls,
up from 45 percent in the fourth quarter and the largest share
on record. Some 62 percent said they plan to spend more on
equipment, up from 59 percent.  The business leaders’ forecast supports March employment
data. Companies in the U.S. added 201,000 workers this month
after a revised 208,000 gain in February, according to figures
from ADP Employer Services released today. Economists project a
Labor Department report in two days will show businesses
employed 210,000 new workers in March, while the jobless rate
held at 8.9 percent.  Roundtable member  General Motors Co. (GM)  is among companies
taking on more staff to meet increased demand. The Detroit-based
company will recall the last of its laid-off workers by
September, United Auto Workers Vice President Joe Ashton said
last week.  Economic Growth  The chief executives in the Business Roundtable survey
forecast U.S. economic growth of 2.9 percent this year compared
with the 2.5 percent projection in the previous survey. The 2011
projection is comparable to the 3 percent median estimate of
economists surveyed by Bloomberg News from March 4-10.  “Both anecdotally and through the survey, the CEOs are
looking at their forecasts and seeing demand pick up,”
Seidenberg said. “That’s partly because GDP is little higher
than it was at this time last year and  consumer spending  looks a
little stronger, so people are willing to deploy capital and
replenish inventories.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Kowalski in Washington at 
 akowalski13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  