-- 
Horizon Lines Said to Weigh April Bankruptcy as Convertible Bonds Plummet

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   K e e h n e r   a n d   S h a n n o n   D .   H a r r i n g t o n
-- 
2011-03-31T14:54:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-30/horizon-lines-said-to-weigh-april-bankruptcy-as-convertible-bonds-plummet.html
Horizon Lines Inc. (HRZ) , the shipping
company that agreed to pay a $45 million fine to resolve price-
fixing charges, may file for bankruptcy as soon as April,
according to three people familiar with the matter.  Horizon Lines failed to receive bondholder approval to
waive a default after the fine and may be forced to seek court
protection if talks with creditors to restructure its debt fail,
the company said in a March 28 regulatory filing. The company
may seek to swap its debt for equity to avoid bankruptcy, said
the people, who declined to be identified because the talks are
private.  Jim Storey, a spokesman for  Charlotte , North Carolina-based
Horizon Lines, didn’t return two calls and an e-mail seeking
comment. Stephen Fraser, interim chief executive officer, didn’t
return a message left on his voicemail.  Legg Mason Inc. (LM)  and its Western Asset Management Co. unit,
 BlackRock Inc. (BLK) , Pioneer Investment Management Inc. and Angelo
Gordon & Co. own about 85 percent of the company’s $330 million
in 4.25 percent convertible notes due August 2012, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  The notes dropped 2.25 cents to 77.75 cents on the dollar
as of 10.47 a.m. in  New York , according to Trace, the bond-price
reporting system of the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority.
The securities declined from 91.1 cents on March 28, Trace data
show.  Shares of Horizon Lines fell 32 cents, or 25 percent, to 95
cents at 10:49 a.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite
trading. The stock has dropped 78 percent this year and
decreased from as high as $36.55 a share in July 2007.  Houlihan Lokey  Three years of mostly declining container volumes amid the
worst recession since the Great Depression are being exacerbated
by the U.S. Justice Department fine and a proposed $20 million
settlement in a class action lawsuit. Moody’s Investors Service
downgraded Horizon Lines two levels to Caa3, its third-lowest
rating on March 29.  The operator of  container ships  between the continental
U.S.,  Alaska , Hawaii and the nation’s territories expects to be
in default on the terms of its convertible notes during the
second quarter, the company said in the filing. It expects to
violate the terms of its senior credit facility in the third
quarter.  The Justice Department settlement and pending civil
litigation “could prevent the company from accessing credit
markets” and refinancing its convertible notes, according to a
presentation by investment bank Houlihan Lokey, which is
advising creditors. Horizon Lines is being advised by Moelis &
Co. and Kirkland & Ellis LLP.  Fines, Settlement  Since the start of 2008, Horizon’s container volumes have
declined for all except two quarters, compared with year-earlier
periods. Earnings for the year ended Dec. 26 fell to $96.4
million before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization
costs and excluding charges related to the Justice Department
investigation and other costs, the company said March 3. That
dropped from $115.4 million in 2009.  In addition to the fines and settlements from price-fixing
charges, the shipper is facing increased debt costs, according
to the Houlihan presentation. While the $45 million Justice
Department fine is spread out over five years, with only $2
million due in the first two years, it faces additional
settlement payments of $10 million from the class action
settlement after making payments of $5 million over the past two
years.  Litigation Costs  Other litigation costs could stem from litigation and
potential settlements with shipping customers in  Hawaii , Guam
and Alaska, according to the bondholder presentation.  Horizon is also facing costs to replace an aging fleet.
Twelve vessels it owns that operate on domestic routes under the
U.S.’s Jones Act have an average age of 36 years, according to
Houlihan.  “Based on information provided by industry analysts and
Horizon’s competitors that have purchased similar vessels in
recent years, it is likely that Horizon will need to invest in
excess of $1.2 billion over the next decade,” Houlihan said in
the bondholder presentation.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jonathan Keehner in New York at 
 jkeehner@bloomberg.net ;
Shannon D. Harrington in New York at 
 sharrington6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net ;
Pierre Paulden at 
 ppaulden@bloomberg.net  