-- 
Mortgage Brokers Lose Attempt to Block Fed Rule on Fees

-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g   a n d   C l e a   B e n s o n
-- 
2011-03-30T21:02:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-30/mortgage-brokers-lose-attempt-to-block-fed-rule-on-fees-1-.html
Two trade groups representing
mortgage brokers lost a challenge to a Federal Reserve rule that
limits commissions for loan officers in mortgage transactions.  U.S. District Judge Beryl Howell today rejected the groups’
request to stop the provision from taking effect on April 1,
finding that public policy interests outweigh harm to the
mortgage broker industry.  “The board has reasonably concluded that the rule will
further public policy interests, a position that is further
supported by the Dodd-Frank Act, which also includes provisions
restricting certain loan-compensation practices,” Howell said
in a 46-page opinion, referring to the law that overhauled the
financial industry last year.  The National Association of Mortgage Brokers and the
National Association of Independent Housing Professionals filed
separate lawsuits saying new lending regulations unfairly
penalize brokers, who won’t be able to pay loan officers from
consumer-paid fees. The groups asked the court for a temporary
restraining order and a preliminary injunction.  The Fed rule, part of the central bank’s effort to fix
weaknesses in mortgage finance, is aimed at preventing mortgage
originators from receiving more compensation for selling home
loans with higher  interest rates .  Mike Anderson , government affairs chair of the National
Association of Mortgage Brokers, said the organization will file
an appeal.  ‘Very Disappointed’  “Obviously, we’re very disappointed,” he said. “We’re
not finished yet. We’re resilient. We’re going to do what we can
to amend Dodd-Frank, and we’re going to keep fighting.”  The Dodd-Frank law, the most sweeping overhaul of financial
regulation since the 1930s, created a new Consumer Financial
Protection Bureau that must also write regulations to prevent
loan officers from steering customers into costly loans.  Marc Savitt, president of the National Association of
Independent Housing Professionals, also said his organization
would appeal. Mortgage brokers currently disclose their
commissions on loans to borrowers, he said.  “There’s absolutely no way anybody can say with a straight
face that this is an unfair and deceptive practice,” Savitt
said.  The cases are National Association of Mortgage Brokers v.
Board of Governors of the  Federal Reserve System , 11-cv-00506,
and National Association of Independent Housing Professionals
Inc. v. Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, 11-cv-
00489, U.S. District Court,  District of Columbia  ( Washington ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in Washington at 
 tschoenberg@bloomberg.net ;
Clea Benson in Washington at 
   Cbenson20@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 