-- 
Total Says U.K. Tax Rise May Reduce North Sea Exploration Spend

-- B y   T i m   F a r r a n d
-- 
2011-03-30T11:57:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-30/total-says-u-k-tax-rise-may-reduce-north-sea-exploration-spend.html
     March 30 (Bloomberg) --  Total SA (FP) , Europe’s third largest
oil producer, is reviewing its planned 170 million pound ($273
million) annual spending on exploration in the U.K.  North Sea 
because of the tax increase on oil production profits.  “It could have an impact on exploration, not this year but
later on,” said Patrice de Vivies, senior vice president for
Northern Europe at Total. “The change came as a shock, it came
quite suddenly. My chairman has written personally to the
Chancellor asking for a meeting.”  Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  raised taxes on
oil profit to 62 percent from 50 percent to pay for a lower
consumer levy on gasoline. It’s the third change in a decade
which has seen the government’s take double. Statoil ASA,
 Norway ’s biggest energy producer, said yesterday that it put on
hold a $10 billion plan to develop the Mariner and Bressay
fields.  Vivies said Total had planned to spend 150 million pounds
to 170 million pounds in the U.K. on exploration every year. He
said the change would not affect jobs at Total,
though staff numbers at contractors servicing the U.K. North Sea
may be hurt.  The tax change may also affect investment in mature fields
where more money needs to be spent to maximize recovery, said
Vivies in an interview today at an oil and gas conference in
Aberdeen, Scotland.  “The impact could also be that companies that intended to
sell assets will speed up this decision because it’s clear that
it has a negative impact on the value of assets,” he said.  Total is the second-biggest producer in the U.K. after  BP
Plc (BP/) , accounting for about 8 percent of the country’s total oil
and gas output. Osborne defended the tax increase yesterday,
which he introduced to pay for a cut in the tax motorist pay for
gasoline after prices rose to a record 133 pence a liter ($8 a
gallon) this month.  “Our expectation is that it will not damage investment,”
Osborne told lawmakers in  London  yesterday. “With current  oil
prices , the prospects are for increased investment. It’s still
very profitable to invest to exploit these resources.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Swint in London at 
 bswint@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  