-- 
Lloyd’s of London Full-Year Profit Declines 44% on Earthquakes, Oil Spill

-- B y   O l i v e r   S u e s s
-- 
2011-03-30T12:56:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-30/lloyd-s-of-london-full-year-profit-falls-to-3-5-billion-after-claims-rose.html
Lloyd’s of  London , the world’s
oldest insurance market, said full-year profit fell 44 percent
on claims related to catastrophes such as the earthquake in
 Chile  and the Deepwater Horizon  oil spill  in the  Gulf of Mexico .  Pretax profit declined to 2.2 billion pounds ($3.5
billion) from 3.9 billion pounds a year earlier, the London-
based market said today in a statement. Lloyd’s didn’t provide a
net income figure.  “This is a solid result in a year with a slightly higher-
than-average number of natural catastrophes,” Chief Executive
Officer Richard Ward said in the statement. “We are working
hard to make sure claims are dealt with swiftly so communities
in Japan, New Zealand and  Australia  can rebuild and recover.”  Lloyd’s insurers were last year hurt by earthquakes in
Chile and  New Zealand  as well as the explosion of the Deepwater
Horizon rig, which caused a leak of crude oil into the Gulf of
Mexico, and flooding in Australia. As a result, they posted
their largest losses on record outside of the U.S.  This month’s earthquake and tsunami in Japan, which killed
more than 11,000 people, may cost the insurance industry as much
as 2.5 trillion yen ($30 billion), according to catastrophe
modeling firm AIR Worldwide. Lloyd’s didn’t provide details on
its claims from the disaster.  Claims in Japan  “We expect to publish details on claims from Japan in
May,” Finance Director Luke Savage said in a telephone
interview. “There is no reason to believe that any Lloyd’s
business will face problems meeting the claims.”  Lloyd’s, which operates as a society of members, is not
publicly listed. Its members including Catlin Group Plc and
Hiscox Plc.  Hamilton, Bermuda-based Hiscox said in separate statement
today that its exposure to the earthquake in  Japan  will be
“between $60 million and $150 million with a mean loss of $100
million,” based an insured market loss of about $24 billion.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Oliver Suess in Munich at 
 osuess@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net 
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  