-- 
Toyota's Ability to Meet Record Demand for Prius Hybrid Hindered by Quake

-- B y   A l a n   O h n s m a n
-- 
2011-03-31T20:24:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-30/toyota-s-ability-to-meet-record-demand-for-prius-hybrid-hindered-by-quake.html
Toyota Motor Corp. (7203)  posted record
sales of its Prius hybrid in the first two months of this year.
 Japan ’s strongest earthquake hindered the company’s ability to
keep that pace.  Rising gasoline prices, along with low-cost leases and
loans, helped Prius sales jump 47 percent in the first two
months of 2011. With most of Japan’s auto production halted
after the March 11 temblor and tsunami, Toyota may be unable to
meet demand for the world’s top-selling hybrid.  “Toyota doesn’t have enough vehicles to sell when demand
for its cars, especially the Prius, is drastically recovering
because of higher gas prices,” said  Koji Endo , a Tokyo-based
analyst at Advanced Research Japan. “They can’t take
advantage.”  The natural disaster that left  more than 27,000 people dead
or missing  forced Japan’s automakers to close factories due to
shortages of parts and electricity. The Prius, rated by the U.S.
government as getting 50 miles per gallon, and two new Lexus
hybrids were the first models put back into production as Toyota
tries to meet demand for them.  The carmaker still may need weeks to restore Prius assembly
to the pre-disaster level, said  Jim Hall , an industry analyst at
Birmingham, Michigan-based 2953 Analytics. Prius sales in the
U.S. likely will end the year below the Toyota City, Japan-based
company’s initial target, Hall said.  Toyota’s American depositary receipts, each representing
two ordinary shares, fell 71 cents to $80.25 at 4:15 p.m. in
New York Stock Exchange composite trading. They have dropped
8.3 percent since the day before the earthquake.  Prius a ‘Priority’  In Los Angeles, sales of the model in the first two months
of 2011 exceeded that of Toyota’s Camry sedan, the best-selling
U.S. passenger car, said Billy Rinker, general sales manager of
 Toyota of Santa Monica .  Tight Prius inventory “is definitely something we’ve seen
before when gas prices jump,” said Rinker, whose dealership
says it’s the top U.S. seller of the car.  Steve Curtis , a spokesman for Toyota’s U.S. unit, declined
to say how soon Toyota might return to pre-earthquake production
levels.  “We’re going to do everything we can to minimize the
impact of this situation for customers,” Curtis said. The
resumption of production of the model at Toyota’s  Tsutsumi plant 
in Aichi, central Japan, on March 28 indicates “Prius
production is a priority,” he said.  Gasoline Prices  Since its U.S. introduction in 2000, demand for the Prius
has tracked gasoline prices, surging in 2007 and early 2008 when
fuel prices rose rapidly, and falling in 2009 as retail fuel
prices plunged amid a recession. The model’s best year in the
U.S. was 2007, when drivers bought 181,221.  Toyota sold 24,174 of the Prius in the U.S. through
February, compared with 16,452 a year earlier, according to
Autodata Corp.  Before the March 11 disaster,  Bob Carter , Toyota’s group
vice president for U.S. sales, expected the Prius to match or
top the 2007 record, depending on supply.  “Demand is so strong right now that it is conceivable we
could reach those kinds of numbers” in 2011, Carter said in a
March 3 interview.  A gallon of regular unleaded gasoline cost an average of
$3.59 in the U.S. on March 28, according to  AAA’s Daily Fuel
Gauge website . That’s up 17 percent from $3.07 on Jan. 1.  500 Parts  Toyota also made a renewed marketing push for the car in
advance of the scheduled mid-year release of the Prius v wagon
as the carmaker plans to introduce a  hybrid line bearing the
Prius name .  Interest in the Prius among online shoppers considering a
new vehicle rose more than 30 percent from the start of the
year, Edmunds.com, the  Santa Monica , California-based pricing
and auto data service, said March 18. That was about triple the
11 percent overall increase in consideration for hybrids and
small cars, Edmunds said.  About 500 parts were in short supply in Japan after the
temblor,  Paul Nolasco , a Tokyo-based spokesman for the carmaker,
said this week.  Toyota will build the hybrid vehicles at a rate of about 50
percent of normal capacity,  Kyodo News  reported March 28,
without saying where it got the information.  Battery Lines  Among the Toyota factories making the Prius and key
components for it, a subsidiary’s battery plant in Miyagi,
northern Japan, received minor damage during the earthquake,
said  Shiori Hashimoto , a Tokyo-based spokeswoman for the
automaker. Toyota hasn’t decided when production will resume,
she said.  “One of the constraints for Toyota’s hybrids is the supply
of batteries,” said Jeff Liker, an engineering professor at the
 University of Michigan  in  Ann Arbor  who specializes in
researching Toyota.  Two other battery lines closer to Toyota’s manufacturing
hub in central Japan were unharmed by the quake, Liker said.  “When you lose capacity, unless you have the ability to
produce additional batteries, you simply cannot make up lost
production,” Hall said. “It’s physically impossible to make up
lost ground.”  It is “possible but unlikely” that Toyota will match its
2007 sales of the Prius, Hall said.  Month’s Supply  A supply shortage would likely drive up prices for the
model. The hybrid is selling at the manufacturer’s suggested
retail price, or MSRP, at dealerships including Atkinson Toyota
in Bryan,  Texas , said Paul Atkinson, president of the
dealership.  Tom Ryan, managing partner of  Metroplex Toyota  in  Dallas ,
said that may change if output doesn’t recover soon.  “Production will dry up, so these cars will go for MSRP or
higher,” he said. “If gas prices go up, we sell these cars at
MSRP. Other dealers will put an adjustment on it of $500 or a
$1,000 above MSRP or higher.”  Don Mushin, general manager of  Toyota of Hollywood  in  Los
Angeles , took additional allocations of Prius cars when supply
in the U.S. surged last year. Now he says the company has about
a month’s supply left.  Best-Selling Hybrid  “I wish I’d taken a whole lot more,” Mushin said. “We’re
the third-largest Prius dealer in the country and have 100 or so
cars on the ground, with maybe another 40 in the pipeline.”  Mushin and Vicki McCoy, a spokeswoman for El Monte,
California-based  Longo Toyota , the largest U.S. Toyota dealer,
said they aren’t marking up Prius prices. Selling vehicles for
more than MSRP goes against their dealership policies, they
said.  “I hope no one pushes the prices up,” said Adam Sims, co-
owner of  Toyota of Sunnyvale  in Sunnyvale,  California . “By the
nature of the disaster, it would be an ugly thing to do.”  Sims, like Atkinson, Mushin and McCoy, said he is selling
the Prius at the sticker price.  The model is selling for an average of $26,100 this week,
based on Truecar.com’s “no-haggle” pricing index. That’s about
$900 more than in mid-February, according to the Santa Monica,
California-based company. By comparison, midsize sedans such as
Toyota’s Camry or Honda Motor Co.’s Accord averaged $23,909.  Even if Prius sales don’t reach a record in 2011, the car
remains the world’s best-selling alternative powertrain vehicle
almost 14 years after it was introduced in Japan, outselling
 General Motors Co. (GM) ’s plug-in Chevrolet Volt and Nissan Motor
Co.’s all-electric Leaf.  “Prius is still the iPhone of the hybrid world, the model
by which competitors are measured,” said Chris Chaney, senior
analyst with San Diego-based market researcher Strategic Vision
Inc. The Toyota model is still in a “sweet spot,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alan Ohnsman in Los Angeles at 
 aohnsman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kae Inoue at 
 kinoue@bloomberg.net  