-- 
Corzine, Paulson Clashed at Goldman Over Mellon Deal, Book Says

-- B y   C h r i s t i n e   H a r p e r
-- 
2011-03-30T23:04:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-30/paulson-clashed-with-corzine-at-goldman-over-secret-mellon-deal-book-says.html
Henry M. Paulson won joint control
of  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  in 1998 after exposing that Jon S. Corzine had held private talks about merging the firm with
Mellon Bank, according to a book excerpt in  Vanity Fair .  The magazine’s May issue includes part of William D. Cohan’s “Money and Power: How Goldman Sachs Came to Rule the
World,” which is being published next month by Doubleday. The
article says that in early 1998, while Corzine was still Goldman
Sachs’s sole chief executive officer, he met to discuss a
potential deal with Frank V. Cahouet, Mellon Bank’s then-CEO.  Corzine told Paulson, who was then serving as a senior
partner and chief operating officer, that talks were preliminary,
the article says. Paulson later learned from J. Christopher Flowers, a Goldman Sachs partner who was advising Corzine in the
negotiations, that Corzine had presented Cahouet with specifics
on how the deal’s economics would work and named people who
would run business units, the story says.  Paulson asked Corzine to describe the talks at a management
committee meeting the next day and, after Corzine provided
little information, Paulson called in Flowers, who gave a fuller
description, according to the excerpt. Most members of the
committee were upset with Corzine for discussing a deal without
telling them, although some were upset at Paulson for how he
handled it, the article says. It quotes Corzine as saying that
the extent of the merger talks were “deeply exaggerated” to
undermine his leadership.  Talks Abandoned  The talks were abandoned and, in June 1998, Paulson became
co-chairman and CEO of Goldman Sachs after threatening to leave
if Corzine remained sole CEO and winning the backing of most of
the firm’s management committee, the excerpt says.  Corzine, 64, who is now chairman and CEO of New York-based
 MF Global Holdings Ltd. (MF) , left Goldman Sachs in 1999 and later
became a U.S. Senator from  New Jersey  and then the state’s
governor. Paulson, 65, ran Goldman Sachs until June 2006, when
he became U.S. Treasury Secretary until January 2009.  The magazine was on sale at newsstands in New York
yesterday. Tiffany Galvin, a spokeswoman at MF Global, said
Corzine was travelling and couldn’t be immediately reached for
comment. Michele Davis, a spokeswoman for Paulson, said she
couldn’t immediately comment.  Cohan, a contributing editor to Bloomberg News, wrote “The
Last Tycoons” in 2007 about the history of Lazard Ltd. and
“House of Cards” in 2009 about the 2008 collapse and sale of
Bear Stearns Cos.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christine Harper in  New York  at 
 charper@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at   dscheer@bloomberg.net . 