-- 
Paulson-Calpers Group Must Disclose Holdings, Lehman Says

-- B y   L i n d a   S a n d l e r
-- 
2011-03-30T22:25:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-30/paulson-calpers-group-must-disclose-details-about-itself-lehman-says.html
Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. said
it’s entitled under bankruptcy rules to know more about a
bondholder group including hedge fund Paulson & Co. that filed a
competing plan to liquidate the bank.  A group including New York-based Paulson and the  California
Public Employees’ Retirement System  filed a payout plan in
December for the defunct firm that they said would spread an
estimated $57.5 billion more equally among creditors than would
Lehman’s own proposals. The group yesterday asked a judge to
consider its plan along with a new Lehman plan at a June 28
hearing.  The disclosure provision, called Rule 2019, allows a judge
to deny a voice in court to an entity that doesn’t comply,
Lehman said in a bankruptcy court filing today. The group must
reveal the claims its members hold, how much they paid, when
they were acquired, and members’ names and addresses, Lehman
said.  The group “should be directed to fully comply with Rule
2019 or otherwise be denied further participation in these
Chapter 11 cases,” it said.  Gerard Uzzi, a lawyer for the group, declined to comment.  Calpers is the largest U.S. public pension Fund. Another
member of the group, Pacific Investment Management Co., runs the
world’s largest bond fund, and group member Canyon Partners LLC,
based in  Los Angeles , is a hedge fund.  Once the fourth-largest investment bank, Lehman filed the
biggest bankruptcy in U.S. history in September 2008, listing
$613 billion in debts.  The case is In re Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc., 08-13555,
 U.S. Bankruptcy Court , Southern District of  New York 
( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Linda Sandler in New York at 
 lsandler@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 