-- 
Pemex’s Proved Oil Reserves Decline for 12th Year in a Row

-- B y   C a r l o s   M a n u e l   R o d r i g u e z
-- 
2011-03-30T14:30:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-30/pemex-s-proved-oil-reserves-decline-for-12th-year-in-row-on-project-delays.html
Petroleos Mexicanos , Latin
America’s largest oil producer, said crude proved reserves
dropped for a 12th consecutive year after the company faced
delays bringing online new projects.  Proved reserves fell 1.4 percent to the equivalent of 13.8
billion barrels of oil in 2010, the  Mexico  City-based company
said today in a presentation on its website.  After two years of delays, the state-owned company, which
is spending about  $23 billion  this year, will open production
projects to private companies to maximize output from older or
closed fields. Pemex’s crude production dropped 1 percent to
2.576 million barrels a day last year.  Last year, Mexico’s National Hydrocarbons Commission as
well as independent auditors disagreed with Pemex regarding the
amount of so-called possible and probable oil-equivalent
reserves at the Chicontepec development, where the company
estimates it has 18.5 billion barrels of both types of oil
reserves, according to a March 1 company presentation.  The commission last fall questioned Pemex’s claims of
probable and possible oil and gas reserves in its northern
region requiring the company to produce more evidence to back up
the estimates for the Chicontepec project that represented about
58 percent of the possible reserves reported a year ago.  Chicontepec Concerns  Chicontepec is a field with small pockets of oil and low
pressure spread across the states of Puebla, Hidalgo and
Veracruz near the  Gulf of Mexico  in central and eastern Mexico.  Proved reserves are those that have a reasonable certainty
of being recoverable under existing economic and political
conditions with current technology.  Probable and possible reserves are unproved reserves that
indicate the relative degree of uncertainty about their
existence, 50 percent and 10 percent, respectively, according to
the  Society of Petroleum Engineers  and World Petroleum Council.  Proved reserves are the only type the U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission allows  oil companies  to report to investors.  In 2007, Pemex forecast output of 660,000 barrels a day by
2015 for Chicontepec. Last year, Pemex cut that forecast to
150,000 barrels. Chicontepec is producing 47,000 barrels of oil
a day as of last week, according to a preliminary Pemex report.  In 1938, Mexico’s President Lazaro Cardenas seized the
assets of companies that later became  Chevron Corp. (CVX)  and  Exxon
Mobil Corp. (XOM) , the world’s largest oil company. Mexico created
Pemex later that year. It prohibited private and foreign
companies from exploring or producing oil until October 2008
when the law was revised. Pemex is the only domestic refiner.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carlos Manuel Rodriguez in Mexico City at 
 carlosmr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net . 