-- 
Philippine 25-Year Bonds Gain as Government Curtails Supply

-- B y   C l a r i s s a   B a t i n o
-- 
2011-03-30T09:46:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-30/philippine-peso-halts-drop-on-rate-rise-speculation-bonds-gain.html
Philippine 25-year peso bonds rose
as demand for the debt increased after the government said it
doesn’t plan to offer debt maturing in more than 10 years in the
coming quarter.  The government  will auction  bills and bonds due in four-,
seven and 10-years, Treasurer  Roberto Tan  said in a notice
posted on the Bureau of the Treasury website today. The Treasury
will shun longer-maturity notes because of investor concerns
interest rates may rise, Deputy Treasurer Eduardo Mendiola said
today. Central bank Governor Amando Tetangco said yesterday the
authorities are “ready to undertake further action” to cap
inflation.  “Lack of supply on the long-end pushed yields lower,”
said Speedy Delfino, a fixed-income trader at Bank of Commerce
in Manila. “The central bank’s vigilance and its resolve to
rein in inflation is also being received positively by the
market.”  The yield on the 8.125 percent December 2035 peso bond fell
four basis points to 7.975 percent, the lowest level since Jan.
5, according to prices from Tradition Financial Services Inc.  The Treasury raised the amount of bills it will sell at
individual auctions next quarter to 9 billion pesos ($207
million) from 8.5 billion pesos, according to the memo. The
government typically sells bills or bonds weekly.  ‘Stronger Peso’  The peso halted a two-day drop and was little changed at
43.433 per dollar as of the 4 p.m. close of trading from 43.455
yesterday, according to Tullett Prebon Plc.  “The bias is for a stronger peso over the medium-term on
the view that  interest rates  will rise further,” said Ricky Cebrero, treasurer at  Philippine National Bank  in Manila. “The
central bank will be there to smooth volatility.”  Inflation may exceed 5 percent in some months of this year
and is likely to peak in the second or third quarter, Tetangco
said yesterday. The average inflation rate this year may be near
the top end of the central bank’s target range of as much as 5
percent, he said.  Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas last week raised the rate it
pays lenders for overnight deposits to 4.25 percent, the first
increase since August 2008. The next policy meeting will be on
May 5.  To contact the reporter for this story:
Clarissa Batino in  Manila  at 
 cbatino@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  