-- 
Portugal Can Meet 2011 Bond Redemptions as Debt Matures, Costa Pina Says

-- B y   J o a o   L i m a   a n d   A n a b e l a   R e i s
-- 
2011-03-30T11:05:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-30/portugal-can-meet-2011-bond-redemptions-as-debt-matures-costa-pina-says.html
Portugal  is in condition to meet
its debt maturities this year, Secretary of State for Treasury
and Finance Carlos Costa Pina said.  Portugal can meet “debt redemption commitments scheduled
for 2011, especially the redemptions of long-term debt that will
take place in April and June,” Costa Pina said in an e-mailed
response to questions.  The country should do everything within its reach to avoid
external aid, the secretary of state said. “Resorting to
external aid implies being out of the markets for at least five
years, with a worsening of financing conditions for the private
sector, companies and families,” Costa Pina said.  Portugal has about 9 billion euros ($12.7 billion) of bond
redemptions coming due in April and June and faces weeks of
political uncertainty after Prime Minister  Jose Socrates 
resigned on March 23 in the wake of a parliamentary defeat of
his proposed austerity measures. Elections are expected in May
or June. Investor concern about a possible bailout and the
collapse of the government pushed the yield on the country’s 10-
year bond to a record 8.03 percent today.  Debt Sales  The country intends to sell as much as 20 billion euros of
bonds this year to finance its budget and cover maturing debt.
Portugal also faces bill maturities in July, August, September,
October and November. Alberto Soares, head of Portugal’s debt
agency, yesterday said it had already carried out 36 percent of
this year’s estimated issuance of medium and long-term debt.  Standard & Poor’s yesterday downgraded Portugal for the
second time in four days. S&P now rates Portugal lower than
Ireland, which sought European help in November after the cost
of bailing out its banks overwhelmed public finances.  Greece  was
downgraded by S&P yesterday to BB-, three levels below
investment grade.  The difference in yield that investors demand to hold
Portugal’s 10-year bonds instead of German bunds reached 468
basis points today, the most since November. Portugal’s five-
year bond yield also jumped to a record 9.05 percent today,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “The cost of financing was substantially worsened by the
political crisis triggered by the opposition,” Costa Pina said.
“A clarification of the political situation is urgent.”  Austerity Support  The biggest opposition party, the  Social Democrats , say
they still support efforts to cut the budget gap to 4.6 percent
of gross domestic product this year and 3 percent next year,
even though they voted against the latest austerity package.
Socrates has urged the opposition to detail what measures it
will put in place to fulfill the deficit-reduction goals.  “Its incomprehensible that everyone is against everything,
without presenting another path or alternative measures,” Costa
Pina said.  Finance Minister Fernando Teixeira dos Santos on March 11
had presented additional deficit-cutting measures equal to 4.5
percent of GDP over three years, including a reduction in
pensions of more than 1,500 euros a month and further cuts in
tax benefits.  The government forecasts debt as a percentage of GDP will
climb to 87.9 percent in 2011 and 88.1 percent in 2012 from 82.4
percent last year. That ratio will start falling in 2013 to 87.4
percent, and will drop to 85.3 percent the following year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joao Lima in Lisbon at 
 jlima1@bloomberg.net ;
Anabela Reis in Lisbon at 
 areis1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Tim Quinson at 
 tquinson@bloomberg.net ;
Angela Cullen at 
 acullen8@bloomberg.net  