-- 
Portugal Holds Crisis Talks as President Moves to Call Vote

-- B y   J o a o   L i m a
-- 
2011-03-31T15:10:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-30/portugal-crisis-talks-loom-as-president-consults-on-election.html
Portuguese President Anibal Cavaco Silva is consulting former leaders, the last hurdle to calling
early elections, as he seeks to end a political impasse that has
raised borrowing costs and prospects for a bailout.  Prime Minister  Jose Socrates  resigned on March 23 after
opposition parties rejected his deficit-cutting plan that aimed
to prevent Portugal from following  Greece  and Ireland in seeking
a European Union rescue. Cavaco Silva began meeting in Lisbon
today with the Council of State, an advisory body including past
presidents that must be consulted to set the date of the vote.  Portugal is already raising taxes and implementing the
deepest spending cuts in more than three decades as it tries to
narrow its budget gap, curb debt and bring down record financing
costs. Under Portuguese law the election can’t be held before
the last week of May, meaning it will likely fall between two
bond redemptions  Portugal  faces on April 15 and June 15 that
total 9 billion euros ($13 billion).  “At this stage it makes sense for Portugal to go” into
the European Financial Stability Facility and “take up official
loans in order to refinance its upcoming maturities,”  Andrew Bosomworth , a money manager at Pacific Investment Management
Co., said in a March 29 interview with Francine Lacqua on
Bloomberg Television’s “On The Move,” referring to the EU’s
bailout mechanism.  Deficit Release  The president’s consultations began hours after Portugal
reported a budget deficit of 8.6 percent of gross domestic
product for 2010, higher than the 7.3 percent gap the government
had previously forecast. Eurostat, the EU’s statistics office,
has required “methodological changes” in some countries and
costs related to a 2008 bank failure were added to last year’s
accounts, Finance Minister Fernando Teixeira dos Santos said.  Portugal’s two-year government bond yield climbed to 8.15
percent, topping the rate on the nation’s 10-year debt for the
first time since 2006. The difference in yield that investors
demand to hold Portugal’s 10-year bonds instead of German bunds
reached a euro-era record of 500 basis points. The 10-year bond
yield rose to a euro-era record of 8.370 percent, and the five-
year bond yield also jumped to a record 9.597 percent.  Downgrades  Standard & Poor’s  on March 29 downgraded Portugal for the
second time in a week to BBB-, the lowest investment grade,
saying the country will “likely access” Europe’s rescue fund.
Portugal is rated lower than Ireland, which in November became
the first to request aid from the  European Financial Stability
Facility , set up after Greece’s rescue in April 2010.  Portugal’s current government doesn’t have the power to
request a bailout afterSocrates resigned last week, Teixeira
dos Santos said today. “The government is not in conditions and
does not have the powers to request any type of external aid,”
he said. “The government will guarantee that there is the
necessary financing for the country to face its responsibilities
and honor its commitments.”  Dutch Finance Minister Jan Kees de Jager today said
Portugal has to make “the first step” if it decides it needs
aid and has to “outperform” market expectations regarding its
ability to put public finances back on a solid footing.  Portugal can meet “debt redemption commitments scheduled
for 2011, especially the redemptions of long-term debt that will
take place in April and June,” Secretary of State for Treasury
and Finance Carlos Costa Pina said earlier this week.  Debt Sales  Alberto Soares, head of Portugal’s debt agency, said on
March 29 that it had already carried out 36 percent of this
year’s estimated issuance of medium and long-term debt. Portugal
intends to sell as much as 20 billion euros of bonds this year
to finance its budget and cover maturing debt.  Bond issuance in the second quarter “will be subject to
market conditions, either through regular or extraordinary
auctions,” government debt agency IGCP said today on its
website. It announced plans to carry out bill auctions in April,
May and June.  Costa Pina said elections could help Portugal’s borrowing
costs. “The cost of financing was substantially worsened by the
political crisis triggered by the opposition,” he said. “A
clarification of the political situation is urgent.”  Setting Date  Under Portuguese law, the elections may be held no sooner
than 55 days after being called, meaning the soonest the ballot
could take place would be the final week of May, more than two
years early.  Opinion polls indicate that Socrates, who will lead the
Socialists in the next vote, will lose the election. The  Social
Democrats  led the Socialists by 42.2 percent to 32.8 percent in
a survey of voters’ by television station TVI, reported on its
website on March 27. The party would still lack a majority in
parliament based on the projection.  Socrates became prime minister in 2005 and his Socialist
Party won re-election in 2009 without a majority in parliament.
The Social Democrats agreed in October to let the government’s
2011 budget proposal pass by abstaining in parliament. Their
opposition to the new austerity measures announced on March 11,
which included a reduction in some pensions and cuts in tax
benefits, was key to toppling Socrates.  Deficit Goals  Cavaco Silva on March 28 said the country’s three biggest
political parties pledged their commitment to meet the current
deficit targets. The government set a goal for a deficit of 4.6
percent of GDP in 2011, and aims to reach the EU limit of 3
percent in 2012.  It forecasts debt of 87.9 percent of GDP this year and 88.1
percent in 2012 from 82.4 percent last year. That ratio will
start falling in 2013.  Achieving the economic growth needed to bring the debt back
to pre-crisis levels may prove difficult given the country’s
track record. Portugal’s economic growth has averaged less than
1 percent a year in the past decade, one of  Europe ’s weakest
growth rates. Portugal’s unemployment rose to 11.1 percent in
the fourth quarter, the highest since at least 1998, as the
economy contracted for the first time in a year.  Standard & Poor’s left its outlook on Portugal negative
after its March 29 rating cut, saying that the deficit and debt
goals might prove unachievable.  “The negative outlook reflects our view that the
macroeconomic environment could weaken beyond our current
expectations and that a political impasse could undermine the
effective implementation of Portugal’s adjustment program,
leading to non-negligible policy slippages,” S&P said in an e-
mailed statement.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joao Lima in Lisbon at 
 jlima1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Tim Quinson at 
 tquinson@bloomberg.net . 