-- 
U.K. Says Libyan Minister Koussa Has Resigned in London

-- B y   B i l l   V a r n e r
-- 
2011-03-30T22:29:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-30/qaddafi-foreign-minister-koussa-resigns-post-arrives-in-london-u-k-says.html
Muammar Qaddafi’s foreign minister,
Moussa Koussa, has quit and flown to  London , where he was
meeting with British officials, a statement by the U.K. Foreign
Office said.  “He traveled here under his own free will,” the statement
said. “He has told us that he is resigning his post,” after
arriving from Tunisia on March 30. Koussa “is one of the most
senior figures in Qaddafi’s government, and his role was to
represent the regime internationally -- something that he is no
longer willing to do.”  Koussa crossed yesterday into Tunisia from Libya through
the border post of Ras Jedir, the state-run Tunis Afrique Presse
news agency reported, citing its own correspondent. He traveled
to Tunisia on a “private visit” and not as an official guest,
the agency said, citing unnamed people.  Koussa isn’t subject to the travel ban imposed by the
 United Nations Security Council  on Qaddafi and other top
government officials.  The defection is “going to hurt Qaddafi at home,” said
Robert Danin, senior fellow for Middle East and Africa studies
at the Council on Foreign Relations, speaking by telephone from
 Jerusalem . “It’s also going to have the effect, I fear, of
further radicalizing Qaddafi, because Moussa Koussa had played
such a central role in Libya’s re-engagement with the world, and
was trusted by Qaddafi,” he said.  “This is a very big loss for Qaddafi,” said  Elliott
Abrams , Senior Fellow for Middle Eastern Studies at the Council
on Foreign Relations in  Washington . “It’s the closest person to
him who has defected and he certainly knows where all the bodies
are buried, since he buried many of them.”  The U.K. Foreign Office statement encouraged other Qaddafi
supporters to “abandon him and embrace a better future for
 Libya .”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bill Varner in New York at 
 wvarner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  