-- 
Rand Gains as Marcus’ Inflation Comments Fuel Talk of Interest Rate Rise

-- B y   R o b e r t   B r a n d
-- 
2011-03-30T14:39:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-30/rand-gains-as-marcus-inflation-comments-fuel-talk-of-interest-rate-rise.html
The rand strengthened to its
highest level in more than two weeks against the dollar after
central bank Governor Gill Marcus said the bank won’t be
“soft” on inflation, fueling bets  interest rates  may rise.  The rand advanced as much as 0.7 percent in Johannesburg,
and traded 0.6 percent stronger at 6.8174 as of 4:14 p.m. It
appreciated 0.9 percent to 9.5884 per euro.  Policy makers will take “whatever measures we need” to
prevent rising oil and food costs from driving consumer prices
beyond the upper end of its target margin, Marcus told
businesspeople and students in Soweto last night. Investors
drove nine-month forward rate agreements, which are used to
speculate on interest rates, up 4 basis points, or 0.04
percentage point, the highest in a week. Higher interest rates
would boost rand’s carry-trade appeal.  “The chance of an interest-rate hike is just a little bit
higher,” said Ian Cruickshanks, head of treasury strategic
research at Johannesburg-based Nedbank Capital, a unit of  South
Africa ’s No. 4 bank. “Certainly, the interest-rate differential
is a real factor” in the rand’s advance, he added.  In a carry trade, investors borrow funds in nations where
interest rates are low, such as the U.S., to fund purchases in
countries with higher yields. South Africa’s benchmark interest
rate is 5.5 percent, compared with a rate of 0.25 percent in the
U.S. The carry trade contributed to the rand’s 8 percent gain
against the dollar over the past 12 months.  Metals, Stocks  “Given that any rate hike in South Africa will be in the
order of 50 basis points against a 25 basis-point hike abroad,
the spread between South African rates and those abroad are set
to widen,” Tradition Analytics researchers led by Johannesburg-
based Quinten Bertenshaw said in an e-mailed research note.  The prices of metals including copper, platinum and gold
rose today, fueling the rand’s gains. Mining accounts for 14
percent of South Africa’s economy and 50 percent of its exports,
according to government data. South Africa’s benchmark stock
index climbed as much as 1.9 percent, led by mining companies
including Anglo American Plc and BHP Billiton Plc.  “The stock market is up, and that was also a trigger to
get back into the rand,” Nedbank’s Cruickshanks said. “Higher
commodity prices are good for the trade account, good for the
current account, good for the rand.”  Government bonds  retreated the most in more than a week.
The 13.5 percent bond due September 2015 dropped 27 cents, or
0.2 percent, to 120.803 rand, the biggest decline since March
17. The yield climbed 6 basis points to 7.86 percent.  ‘Bearish’ for Bonds  Marcus’ comments “are bearish for the  bond market ,”
Bertenshaw wrote. Higher interest rates reduce the returns of
fixed-interest securities such as bonds relative to cash.  The South African Reserve Bank said on March 24 that
inflation will probably average 4.7 percent in 2011, up from a
previous estimate of 4.6 percent, and reach 5.7 percent in 2012,
compared with an earlier projection of 5.3 percent. Inflation
was unchanged at 3.7 percent in February.  Borrowing by households and businesses rose an annual 5.4
percent, more than the 5.2 percent media estimate of 11
economists surveyed by Bloomberg and up from 5 percent in
January, the Pretoria-based  Reserve Bank  said on its website
today.  Higher credit extension may be a sign inflation pressures
are building, and “the risks of an earlier increase have
risen,”  Carmen Altenkirch  and Dennis Dykes, analysts at
Johannesburg-based Nedbank Group Ltd., said in a research note
after the release of the credit data.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Brand in  Cape Town  at 
 rbrand9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  