-- 
Ranieri Says Risk Rule May Hurt U.S. Housing-Market Withdrawal

-- B y   L o r r a i n e   W o e l l e r t
-- 
2011-03-30T20:58:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-30/ranieri-says-risk-rule-may-hurt-u-s-housing-market-withdrawal.html
Lewis Ranieri, a mortgage-bond
pioneer, said proposed rules requiring lenders who securitize
home loans to shoulder more risk may “complicate” a U.S.
government withdrawal from the housing market.  Federal regulators yesterday proposed requiring that a
homebuyer make a 20 percent down payment and have the best
credit to qualify for the cheapest mortgages. The standard,
called a qualified residential mortgage, would make it harder
for people to buy homes, Ranieri, 64, chairman of Ranieri
Partners LLC, said today in a phone call with reporters.  “It will complicate the withdrawal of the government
guarantee from the mortgage market,” Ranieri said. “The
proposal attempts to define a riskless loan, not a gold
standard. The original intent was to reward low-risk behavior
while allowing regulators to levy a premium on high-risk
behavior.”  It will push borrowers to loans guaranteed by  Fannie Mae 
and  Freddie Mac , which are backed by the U.S. government and
exempt from the rule, he said. It also “benefits big-bank and
big-balance-sheet institutions” including real estate
investment trusts, which have less need to securitize loans
because they can hold them on their books, he said.  The administration of President  Barack Obama  has proposed
eventually winding down Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, which have
been under U.S. conservatorship since September 2008, and
drawing private capital back into the mortgage market.  The risk-retention rule, mandated by the Dodd-Frank law
that overhauled financial regulations last year, would apply to
asset-backed securities such as bonds backed by credit-card
balances, auto loans and leases, and student debt.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lorraine Woellert in  Washington  at 
 lwoellert@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lawrence Roberts at 
 lroberts13@bloomberg.net . 