-- 
Real Estate Crash Catches Up to Cities as Property Taxes Slide

-- B y   W i l l i a m   S e l w a y   a n d   H e n r y   G o l d m a n
-- 
2011-03-30T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-30/real-estate-crash-catches-up-to-cities-as-property-taxes-slide.html
The real-estate crash is catching
up to U.S. municipalities.  Cities, counties and school districts had been sheltered
from the full impact of the slump because of the lag between
when realty prices fluctuate and values are reset by local tax
assessors. That’s changing as property rolls are adjusted to the
current market and residents push to have their taxes cut.  Local officials are now facing the consequences. Property-
tax revenue dropped in the last three months of 2010 at the
fastest pace since  home prices  slipped from their peak more than
four years ago, the  Census Bureau said  yesterday. The decline
may continue as values fall further, adding strains to cash-
strapped localities that already fired workers, halted projects
and cut spending because of the recession that began in 2007.  “The story had been a question about why property taxes
weren’t declining,” said Christopher Hoene, research director
for the Washington-based  National League of Cities . “What the
census is picking up is that’s been happening and it’s likely to
keep happening for the next few quarters.”  The decline for local governments contrasts with a recovery
for U.S. states led by income and sales taxes. Their collections
in the fourth quarter climbed by $13 billion to $177.8 billion,
the biggest jump since 2006, according to the census data
released yesterday.  “Cities are by no means out of the woods,” Hoene said.
“They have got another year or two of dealing with either
declining revenues or pretty slow growth.”  Western Values  In Maricopa County,  Arizona , the county assessor reported
last month that values of all property dropped by 12 percent for
the next tax year, the  second straight  double-digit decline. In
 Los Angeles , the second most-populous U.S. city, property taxes
for the year ending June 30 are projected to fall 1.7 percent to
$1.42 billion, according to a  March 1 report  by the controller.  The strain may mean credit-rating cuts this year for local-
government debt, which trades in the $2.93 trillion municipal
 bond market , Moody’s Investors Service said in a report this
month.  “This is the first year that most local governments are
seeing a decline in their property-tax revenues,” said Julie Beglin, a vice president with Moody’s public finance group in
New York.  Local and state property- tax revenue  slid $5.3 billion, or
2.9 percent, in the fourth quarter from a year earlier to $177.1
billion, the Census Bureau said. All but $3.7 billion went to
municipalities. The slump in the most-active period for real
estate revenue outpaced a 2.5 percent drop in the first quarter
of 2010, the only other significant decline since prices peaked
in 2006.  Urban Decline  Residential real estate prices in 20 U.S. cities dropped by
the most in more than a year in January, a report yesterday
showed. The S&P/Case-Shiller index of property values fell 3.1
percent from January 2010, the biggest year-on-year decrease
since December 2009. That’s prompting homeowners to seek
reductions in the assessed value of their properties.  “One of the symptoms of a depressed real estate market has
been a proliferation of successful tax appeals,” said William Dressel, executive director of the  New Jersey  State League of
Municipalities. They’ve come “after a municipality has already
assessed a property, collected taxes and made payments to local
school boards and county governments,” he said.  Workers Let Go  Montclair, New Jersey, officials had to remake their budget
when tax appeals reduced revenue to $51 million from an expected
$53 million in the current budget year, Town Manager  Marc
Dashield  said in a telephone interview.  “We were forced to stop providing additional books and
periodicals in our library, abolish community pre-kindergarten
and lay off 12 municipal workers,” he said.  Only 15 percent of counties raised property taxes to make
up for the lost revenue, according to a survey by the  National
Association of Counties .  Such a strategy can draw voters’ ire, as  Carlos Alvarez,
the former mayor of Miami-Dade County,  Florida , found out. He
was thrown out in a recall election on March 15 after he boosted
property-tax rates last year to make up for a drop in home
values.  “We’re hearing from many government officials they feel
this isn’t a time when they can raise tax rates on their
citizens,” said Beglin, the Moody’s analyst.  Anticipatory Cuts  Hoene, the  National League of Cities  analyst, said local
governments have been anticipating the revenue slide and cutting
budgets to compensate. They’ve eliminated 377,000 jobs, or 2.7
percent of payrolls, since employment peaked in September 2008,
according to the U.S. Labor Department.  “They’ve been making a whole series of significant cuts to
balance their budgets,” said Hoene.  In Florida, after four years of falling property values,
cities are cutting into core services like police, said Ken
Small, a finance and tax analyst at the  Florida League of
Cities .  “It’s not, ‘We’re going to cut travel.’ That was already
done,” Small said in a telephone interview from Tallahassee.
“It’s eliminating departments or making serious cuts to
services.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 William Selway  in  Washington  at 
 wselway@bloomberg.net  and
Henry Goldman in  New York  at 
 hgoldman@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net . 