-- 
Treasuries Rise as Yields Attract Buyers at Government Seven-Year Auction

-- B y   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s   a n d   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r
-- 
2011-03-30T21:42:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-30/treasury-seven-year-note-yields-fall-before-29-billion-government-auction.html
Treasuries rose, with seven-year
notes snapping a nine-day losing streak, as the highest yields
in almost a year on a $29 billion auction of the securities
eased concern the  Federal Reserve  may curtail  U.S. debt 
purchases as the economy strengthens.  Bonds rose earlier as a private report before the Labor
Department’s payrolls figures on April 1 showed companies added
fewer jobs than forecast. U.S. debt dropped yesterday as Federal
Reserve Bank of St. Louis President  James Bullard  said policy
makers should consider ending purchases of Treasuries earlier
than planned under its quantitative easing policy.  “The general message one takes away is that there is still
strong demand for Treasuries from foreign investors at these
levels, especially in the intermediate sector,” said Anshul Pradhan, an interest-rate strategist in New York at Barclays
Plc, one of the 20 primary dealers obligated to bid in U.S.
government debt sales.  The yield on the existing seven-year note dropped six basis
points, or 0.06 percentage point, to 2.84 percent at 5:28 p.m.
in  New York , according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. The 2.75
percent security maturing in February 2018 increased 11/32, or
$3.44 per $1,000 amount, to 99 13/32.  The seven-year note yield earlier touched 2.92 percent, the
highest level since March 9. The nine consecutive days of gains
ended yesterday made up the longest losing streak for the
maturity since the government resumed selling it in 2009 after a
break of almost 16 years. The benchmark 10-year note yield fell
five basis points to 3.44 percent today.  Indirect Bidders  At the auction, indirect bidders, an investor class that
includes foreign central banks, purchased 49.4 percent of the
notes, compared with an average of 51 percent for the past 10
sales. Direct bidders, non-primary dealer investors that place
their bids directly with the Treasury, bought 8.8 percent of the
notes, compared with the 10-sale average of 8.1 percent.  The bid-to-cover ratio, which gauges demand by comparing
total bids with the amount of securities offered, was 2.79,
compared with an average of 2.90 for the previous 10 sales. The
notes drew a yield of 2.895 percent, compared with the average
forecast of 2.873 percent in a Bloomberg News survey of eight
primary dealers.  The Treasury also sold $35 billion in two-year securities
on March 28 and the same amount of five-year debt yesterday at
the highest auction yields in almost a year.  Bonds rose earlier after ADP Employer Services said
companies added 201,000 jobs in March after an increase of
208,000 in the previous month. The median forecast of 34
economists in a Bloomberg News survey was for a gain of 208,000.  ‘Still Moderate’  “A report like today’s is healthy, but it’s not going to
send the Fed running for the exits,” said  Dan Greenhaus , chief
economic strategist at Miller Tabak & Co. in New York. “The
nature of the recovery depends on job growth, which currently is
still moderate.”  The U.S. jobless rate held at 8.9 percent this month,
economists forecast before the Labor Department’s report later
this week. Unemployment fell below 9 percent in February for the
first time in 22 months.  The difference between yields on 10-year notes and Treasury
Inflation Protected Securities, a gauge of expectations for
consumer prices over the life of the debt known as the break-
even rate, has widened to 2.45 percentage points, from 1.82
percentage points six months ago.  The  Fed  bought today $6.988 billion of government debt
maturing from October 2013 to February 2015 as part of its
program of quantitative easing to support the economic recovery
by keeping borrowing costs low.  Bullard’s View  The central bank may need to begin an exit from record
levels of monetary accommodation even amid global uncertainties
in  Japan  and the Middle East, Bullard said today.  “The process of normalizing policy, even once it begins,
will still leave unprecedented policy accommodation on the
table,” Bullard said at a  London  dinner hosted by UBS AG,
 Switzerland ’s biggest bank. Fed policy makers “may not be
willing or able to wait until all global uncertainties are
resolved to begin normalizing policy.”  The central bank may need to trim about $100 billion from
its plan to buy $600 billion in Treasuries because the U.S.
recovery has gained strength, Bullard told reporters yesterday
at a financial conference in Prague.  Bullard, who has rotated this year into a nonvoting
position with the Fed, said in Marseille on March 26 that the
central bank should review whether to complete a second round of
quantitative easing due to end in June because of strong
economic reports.  Rate Bets  Traders have increased bets that policy makers will raise
borrowing costs at their January meeting. Fed funds futures
showed a 51 percent chance of a boost in the target rate for
overnight lending between banks, compared with 44 percent odds a
week ago. The Fed has kept its benchmark at zero to 0.25 percent
since December 2008.  Treasuries headed for a quarterly decline on speculation
the global economic recovery will withstand Japan’s earthquake
turmoil,  Libya ’s military conflict and  Europe ’s debt crisis.  U.S. government securities have lost 0.3 percent since Dec.
31, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch indexes. The
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index has gained 5.6 percent.  The central bank’s “highly accommodative” monetary policy
is partly to blame for rapidly increasing global commodity
prices, according to Kansas City Fed President  Thomas Hoenig ,
who said in a speech today in London that policy makers should
raise the benchmark interest rate toward 1 percent soon.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cordell Eddings in New York at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net ;
Susanne Walker in New York at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  