-- 
Fukushima Workers Threatened by Heat Bursts; Sea Radiation Rises

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   T i r o n e ,   S a c h i k o   S a k a m a k i   a n d   Y u r i y   H u m b e r
-- 
2011-03-31T13:23:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-30/record-high-levels-of-radiation-found-in-sea-near-crippled-nuclear-reactor.html
Japan ’s damaged nuclear plant may
be in danger of emitting sudden bursts of heat and radiation,
undermining efforts to cool the reactors and contain fallout.  The potential for limited, uncontrolled chain reactions,
voiced yesterday by the  International Atomic Energy Agency , is
among the phenomena that might occur, Chief Cabinet Secretary
Yukio Edano told reporters in  Tokyo  today. The IAEA “emphasized
that the nuclear reactors won’t explode,” he said.  Three workers at a separate Japanese plant received high
doses of radiation in 1999 from a similar nuclear reaction,
known as ‘criticality.’ Two of them died  within seven months .  Tokyo Electric Power Co., the Fukushima Dai-Ichi plant’s
operator, and Japan’s nuclear watchdog, dismissed the threat of
renewed nuclear reactions, three weeks after an earthquake and
tsunami triggered an automatic shutdown.  Tokyo Electric  has been
spraying water on the reactors since the March 11 disaster in an
effort to cool nuclear fuel rods.  “The reactors are stopped, so it’s hard to imagine re-
criticality,” occurring, Tsuyoshi Makigami, a spokesman for the
utility, told a news conference today.  A partial meltdown of fuel in the No. 1 reactor building
may be causing isolated reactions, Denis Flory, nuclear safety
director for the IAEA, said at a press conference in Vienna.
This might increase the danger to workers at the site.  ‘Ethereal Blue Flash’  Nuclear experts call such reactions “localized
criticality.” They consist of a burst of heat, radiation and
sometimes an “ethereal blue flash,” according to the U.S.
Energy Department’s Los Alamos National Laboratory  website .
Twenty-one workers worldwide have been killed by criticality
accidents since 1945, the site said.  The IAEA acknowledged “they don’t have clear signs that
show such a phenomenon is happening,” Edano said.  Radioactive chlorine  found March 25 in the No. 1 turbine
building suggests chain reactions continued after the reactor
shut down, physicist  Ferenc Dalnoki-Veress  of the James Martin
Center for Nonproliferation Studies in Monterey,  California ,
wrote in a March 28  paper . Radioactive chlorine has a half-life
of 37 minutes, according to the report.  Japan’s Nuclear and Industrial Safety Agency said there’s
no possibility of uncontrolled chain reactions. Boron, an
element that absorbs neutrons and hinders nuclear fission, has
been mixed with cooling water to prevent this, Hidehiko
Nishiyama, a spokesman for the agency, told reporters today.  Ocean Contamination  Contamination of seawater found near the 40-year-old plant
has increased. Radioactive iodine rose to 4,385 times the
regulated safety limit yesterday from 2,572 times on Tuesday,
Nishiyama said. No fishing is occurring nearby and the sea is
dispersing the iodine so there is no health threat, he said.  There was 180 becquerel per cubic centimeter of radioactive
iodine-131 found in the ocean 330 meters (1,082 feet) south of
the plant. Drinking one liter of fresh water with that level
would be equivalent to getting double the annual dose of
radiation a person typically receives.  Workers have averted the threat of a total meltdown by
injecting water into the damaged reactors. The complex’s six
units have been reconnected with the  power grid  and two are
using temporary motor-driven pumps. Work to repair the plant’s
monitoring and cooling systems has been hampered by discoveries
of hazardous radioactive water.  Dismantling the plant and decontaminating the site may take
30 years and cost Tokyo Electric more than 1 trillion yen ($12
billion), engineers and analysts said. The government hasn’t
ruled out pouring concrete over the whole facility as one way to
shut it down, Edano said. Tokyo is 135 miles (220 kilometers)
south of the Dai-Ichi power plant.  Dumping Concrete  Dumping concrete on the plant would serve a second purpose:
it would trap contaminated water, said Tony Roulstone, an atomic
engineer who directs the University of Cambridge’s masters
program in nuclear energy.  “They need to immobilize this water and they need
something to soak it up,” he said. “You don’t want to create
another hazard, but you need to get it away from the reactors.”  The process will take longer than the 12 years needed to
decommission the Three Mile Island reactor in  Pennsylvania 
following a partial meltdown in 1979, said Hironobu Unesaki, a
nuclear engineering professor at  Kyoto University .  Investors Wiped Out  Moody’s Japan K.K. cut its rating on Tokyo Electric and
warned it may reduce it further, saying the problems at
Fukushima “appear far from being resolved” and the company is
likely to remain unprofitable for a long time. Senior secured
and long-term issuer ratings were downgraded to Baa1 from A1,
Moody’s said in a statement.  Tokyo Electric’s shareholders may be wiped out by clean-up
costs and liabilities stemming from the nuclear accident, the
worst since Chernobyl. The company, known as Tepco, faces claims
of as much as 11 trillion yen if the crisis lasts two years and
potential takeover by the government, according to a March 29
Bank of America Merrill Lynch report.  Radiation “far below” levels that pose a risk to humans
was found in milk from California and  Washington , the first
signs Japan’s nuclear accident is affecting U.S. food, state and
Obama administration officials said.  The U.S. is stepping up monitoring of radiation in milk,
rain and drinking water, the Environmental Protection Agency and
 Food and Drug Administration  said yesterday in a statement.  Radiation levels in the U.K. are normal and extra testing
isn’t needed to protect the  food supply , the Food Standards
Agency said.  The  number of dead and missing  from the earthquake and
tsunami had reached 27,690 as of 10 a.m. today, Japan’s  National
Police Agency  said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jonathan Tirone in Vienna at 
 jtirone@bloomberg.net ;
Sachiko Sakamaki in Tokyo at 
 ssakamaki1@bloomberg.net ;
Yuriy Humber in Tokyo at 
 yhumber@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Patrick Chu at 
 pachu@bloomberg.net 
-0- Mar/31/ :23 GMT 