-- 
Romanian Central Bank May Leave Benchmark Rate at Record Low

-- B y   I r i n a   S a v u
-- 
2011-03-30T21:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-30/romanian-central-bank-may-leave-benchmark-rate-at-record-low.html
Romania’s central bank will
probably leave its benchmark interest rate unchanged at a record
low for a seventh meeting as  Europe ’s highest borrowing costs
boost the leu and helps tame inflation.  The  Banca Nationala a Romaniei  will leave the Monetary
Policy Rate at 6.25 percent today, according to all 19
economists in a Bloomberg survey. The central bank will announce
its decision after 11 a.m. in Bucharest.  Central banks around the world are struggling to contain
inflation as food prices advance and the price of oil rises amid
turmoil in the Middle East. Romania increased its value-added
 tax rate  last year, which prompted the central bank to pause its
rate-cutting cycle aimed at boosting the recession-hit economy.  The bank “doesn’t have any justification to cut rates
yet” because of accelerating inflation and “it doesn’t mind a
bit of currency appreciation right now,” said  Raffaella Tenconi , a London-based economist at Bank of America Merrill
Lynch, who sees the benchmark rate unchanged this year. “At
this stage, inflation is purely externally driven.”  Policy makers stopped lowering borrowing costs in June
after cutting rates four times to combat the worst recession on
record and a 5 percentage-point government increase in the VAT
to 24 percent that helped boost the inflation rate to 8 percent
in December, the highest in more than two years.  The Ceska Narodni Banka kept its two-week repurchase rate
at a record low since May, a quarter-point below the ECB’s
benchmark. Czech policy makers voted 5-1 on March 24 to leave
the rate at 0.75 percent. The Magyar Nemzeti Bank in Budapest
kept its two-week deposit rate at 6 percent four days later.  Weak Recovery  “If the external shocks soften, domestic recovery remains
weak and the leu appreciates, there is scope for a small
loosening” of the central bank’s monetary policy, Tenconi said.
Telephone bills, gasoline, rent and many other goods and
services in  Romania  are gauged in euros and charged in lei,
meaning a stronger leu has an immediate impact on inflation.  The inflation rate should remain between 7.2 percent and
7.5 percent “until the summer” and then begin to fall toward 4
percent at the end of the year, Governor Mugur Isarescu said on
March 9. Consumer prices rose in February, more than economists
had forecast, to 7.6 percent because of global fuel and food
costs.  Tenconi forecast Romania’s inflation rate advanced to 7.8
percent in March, “remaining pretty high” because of food and
non-food prices. The strengthening of the leu, which rose 3.9
percent against the euro so far this year, should help damp
inflation, “but only on the margin,” Tenconi said.  The central bank raised its 2011 inflation forecast on Feb.
7 to 3.6 percent from a November forecast of 3.4 percent because
of rising global fuel and food prices. The rate will probably
drop to 3.2 percent in 2012.  -- With assistance from Barbara Sladkowska in Warsaw. Editors:
Alan Crosby, Balazs Penz  To contact the reporter on this story:
Irina Savu in Bucharest at 
 isavu@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  