-- 
Saab Resumes Car Production After Component-Makers Halt Supplies

-- B y   O l a   K i n n a n d e r
-- 
2011-03-30T08:18:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-30/saab-resumes-car-production-after-component-makers-halt-supplies.html
Saab Automobile, the Swedish
carmaker owned by  Spyker Cars NV (SPYKR) , resumed production at its main
plant after stopping yesterday because component-makers cut off
deliveries to the factory.  “Certain suppliers halted supplies to Saab Automobile
pending discussions about payments and supply terms,” Spyker
said in a statement today. “Saab Automobile expects to resolve
these issues in the short term.”  Spyker said last month it’s selling its sports car-division
to Vladimir Antonov, the Russian businessman who helped finance
Spyker’s purchase of Saab, to help reduce debt.  Saab Chief Executive Officer Jan-Aake Jonsson, who’s been
with the company for almost 40 years, said March 25 he will step
down on May 19 to spend time with his family. Spyker said then
that Saab was on track with its business plan, which includes
producing a new version of the 9-3 model next year.  Spyker’s share plunged as much as 91 cents, or 21 percent,
to 3.35 euros, the biggest intraday drop since Oct. 29. The
shares traded down 8.5 percent as of 10:16 a.m. in Amsterdam.  “The production stop was short and was a consequence of
that we lacked certain parts,” spokesman Eric Geers said. “As
we run Just in Time production, it is not unusual with this type
of halt from time-to-time. Production is back to normal now.”  Hakan Skott, the metal workers union representative on
Saab’s supervisory board, said he’s not aware of any immediate
cash problems at the Trollhaettan, Sweden-based carmaker.  “I haven’t heard anything other than that we’re paying our
bills,” he said late last night.  “Much ado about nothing,” Spyker Chief Executive Officer
Victor Muller told Bloomberg News in a text message today when
asked about the supplier payment issue.  Muller met with Sweden’s National Debt Office on March 28
to discuss Saab’s finances, he wrote, describing it as a “very
good meeting, no problem.”  Editors: Chad Thomas, Kim McLaughlin  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ola Kinnander in  Stockholm  at 
 okinnander@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at   cthomas16@bloomberg.net  