-- 
Salesforce.com to Buy Radian6 for $340 Million to Add Web-Tracking Service

-- B y   A a r o n   R i c a d e l a   a n d   G r e g   B e n s i n g e r
-- 
2011-03-30T20:06:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-30/salesforce-com-to-buy-radian6-for-340-million-to-add-web-tracking-service.html
Salesforce.com Inc. (CRM) , the largest
supplier of customer-management software, agreed to buy Radian6
Technologies Inc. for about $340 million in cash and stock to
add software that lets companies keep abreast of the social Web.  The price includes $276 million in cash and $50 million in
stock, Salesforce said today in a statement. Radian6 tracks
what’s being said about companies and their products on websites
such as Facebook, Twitter, YouTube, and LinkedIn.  Dell Inc.,  General Electric Co. (GE)  and PepsiCo Inc. use
Radian6 to spot sales opportunities on those sites or respond to
customer complaints, Salesforce Chief Marketing Officer Kendall Collins said in an interview. Chief Executive Officer Marc
Benioff has been releasing new products and making acquisitions
to expand use of Salesforce’s own software beyond its stronghold
of corporate sales staffs.  In December, Salesforce agreed to buy Heroku Inc. for $212
million to tap the surging market for applications written in
the Ruby programming language. Last year, Salesforce began
selling Chatter, social-networking software for businesses
that’s now used by 80,000 companies.  “Social-media integration is increasingly a key decision
criteria in every CRM deal,” said Collins, referring to customer
relationship management software.  Salesforce, based in  San Francisco , said the acquisition
will boost its fiscal 2012 revenue by about $45 million to $50
million and reduce earnings per share, excluding some items, by
about 11 cents.  ‘Very Complementary’  The company also agreed to pay an additional $10 million in
stock and $4 million in cash to Radian6’s founders. The purchase
should close in May, Collins said. Closely held Radian6, based
in Fredericton,  New Brunswick , has about 300 employees, he said.  Jason Maynard, an analyst at Wells Fargo Securities in San
Francisco, said in a note to clients today that Radian6 tripled
its revenue last year and already works in partnership with
Salesforce.  “The deal is very complementary, and should enhance all of
Salesforce’s product lines,” said Maynard, who has a “market
perform” rating on Salesforce, and doesn’t own shares.  Jive Software, which competes with Radian6 and Salesforce,
considered buying Radian6 more than a year ago and passed, Jive
CEO Tony Zingale said in an interview.  “For the  shareholder value  it will deliver to their client
base, they way overpaid,” Zingale said. “It’s overkill for the
typical Salesforce client.”  Collins said Radian6 is a leader in its field and has
“breakthrough technology.”  Salesforce rose $7.09, or 5.6 percent, to $134.49 at 4 p.m.
in New York Stock Exchange composite trading. The shares have
gained 1.9 percent this year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Aaron Ricadela in San Francisco at 
 aricadela@bloomberg.net   Greg Bensinger in New York at 
 gbensinger1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at   pelstrom@bloomberg.net  