-- 
Saudi Arabia Camels Get No Relief as Ukraine Grain Curbs Boost Feed Prices

-- B y   M a r i a   K o l e s n i k o v a   a n d   K a t e r y n a   C h o u r s i n a
-- 
2011-03-30T12:31:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-30/saudi-arabia-camels-get-no-relief-as-ukraine-grain-curbs-boost-feed-prices.html
Ukraine , once the world’s largest
barley exporter, extended curbs on grain shipments, potentially
driving prices higher and denying supply to consumers including
the 1 million camels owned by Saudi Arabia’s Bedouin.  Ukraine approved an extension of quotas on exports to July
1, Agriculture Minister Mykola Prysyazhnyuk said in Kiev today.
The limits, imposed in October, were scheduled to end tomorrow.
Saudi Arabia, the largest global barley importer, has turned
instead to growers including  Australia  for supply, according to
the  U.S. Department of Agriculture .  Feed-barley futures traded on the Australian Stock Exchange
jumped 51 percent in the past year as Russia also restricted
exports and crops from  Canada  to  Kazakhstan  were ruined by
flooding and drought. The extreme weather also meant global food
prices reached a record last month, contributing to riots across
northern  Africa  and the Middle East that already toppled leaders
in Egypt and  Tunisia .  “If the quota system in Ukraine goes into the next year,
the traditional customers will have to source somewhere else,
and that could be very bullish for the prices,” said Pierre
Begoc, general director of the Kiev branch of Agritel, a Paris-
based consultant to 2,000 farmers. “It’s clear for us that the
country will have enough goods to export. The question is
whether they export it or not.”  Barley Harvest  Ukraine’s farmers will probably reap 45.5 million metric
tons of grain this year, 16 percent more than last year,
according to the median estimate in a Bloomberg survey of 12
traders, producers and analysts. The barley crop may expand 24
percent to 10.5 million tons and wheat 13 percent to 19 million
tons, the survey showed.  The government also raised the export quota for corn by 2
million tons, Prysyazhnyuk said today. The nation exported 8.5
million tons of grain since July 1, compared with 21.1 million
tons a year earlier, according to Liza Malyshko, an analyst at
researcher UkrAgroConsult in Kiev.  Saudi Arabia  uses about 80 percent of its barley imports to
feed camels, sheep and goats, according to the USDA. The
Bedouin use the grain to feed their camels, Deputy Agriculture
Minister Abdullah Al-Obaid said in an interview March 16.  “The majority of barley is going directly to Bedouins, who
are scattered around the kingdom,” he said by phone.  Record Imports  Saudi Arabia wants to cut its barley imports more than 50
percent by 2015 by using a mixture of grains that should lower
costs, the deputy minister said. The kingdom will import a
record 11.9 million tons of grain in the 12 months through June
30, the  United Nations  estimated last month.  Australian feed-barley futures rose 6.1 percent this year
to A$209 ($215.52) a ton as of today’s close. Malting barley,
used to make beer, gained 42 percent since futures started
trading on NYSE Liffe in May.  Ukraine restricted grain exports to curb domestic prices,
with this year’s inflation projected by the central bank to be
from 9 percent to 11 percent. That compares with the median
estimate for a 2.3 percent gain in U.S. consumer prices in a
Bloomberg survey of 64 economists.  The former Soviet country produced 8.5 million tons of
barley in the current marketing year, compared with 11.8 million
a year earlier, the USDA estimates. Exports will slump to 3.2
million tons in the 12 months through September, compared with
5.75 million tons a year earlier.  Ukraine has 41.6 million hectares (102.7 million acres) of
agricultural land covering 69 percent of the country, growing
everything from potatoes to grains to sunflowers, according to
the Agriculture Ministry and Statistics Office.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Maria Kolesnikova in London at 
 mkolesnikova@bloomberg.net ;
Kateryna Choursina in Kiev at 
 kchoursina@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter in London at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  