-- 
Saudi Aramco Awards Contracts for Red Sea Oil and Gas

-- B y   W a e l   M a h d i
-- 
2011-03-30T17:45:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-30/saudi-aramco-awards-contracts-for-red-sea-oil-and-gas-1-.html
Saudi Aramco , the world’s largest
state-run oil company, awarded two contracts to Saudi Arabia’s
Shoaibi Group to search for oil and gas in the Red Sea.  Shoaibi Group and its international partners started in
February to survey parts of the Red Sea, the Khobar, Saudi
Arabia-based firm said today in an e-mailed reply to Bloomberg.  The contracts are with U.K.’s ARKeX and  Norway ’s
 Electromagnetic GeoServices AS. (EMGS)  Shoaibi and its partners will
need until the end of the second quarter to complete the
exploration and data-compilation work. The company didn’t
disclose the value of the contracts.  “We are excited that these technologies have been selected
by Saudi Aramco to enhance their understanding of the potential
reservoirs in their  Red Sea  exploration program,” Shaoibi said.  Saudi Aramco plans to produce natural gas this decade off
the Red Sea coast to increase domestic supplies to power-
generation and water-desalination plants. “We’re exploring very
aggressively in the Red Sea,” Aramco Chief Executive Officer
Khalid Al-Falih said last December.  Shoaibi Group has formed other joint ventures to be based
in Khobar with international geophysical and seismic surveying
services companies. It formed two joint ventures last year, one
with Global Geophysical Services, the other with Norway’s
Petroleum Geo-Services Co., known as PGS, to provide seismic
services in Saudi Arabia.  The group is also forming ventures with international gas
services companies as Saudi Aramco expands its gas-supply
networks.  Shoaibi Group joined with France’s Prosernat on March 21
to form Prosernat  Saudi Arabia  Ltd. The new company, called
PNSA, will offer services for natural gas treatment and carbon
capture and storage.  Saudi Arabia is forecast to increase natural-gas production
by 40 percent in the next four years to 4.5 billion cubic feet
per day in 2014, Shoaibi said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Wael Mahdi in Khobar at   wmahdi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at   sev@bloomberg.net  