-- 
Scene Last Night: Anna Wintour, Bee, Seth Meyers, Sam Waterston

-- B y   A m a n d a   G o r d o n
-- 
2011-03-30T14:12:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-30/scene-last-night-anna-wintour-seth-meyers-diane-kruger-sam-waterston.html
At Christie’s last night, bidders
including actor Sam Waterston put up their paddles to protect
the coral reefs of Belize, the wolves of the Rockies and the
glaciers of the Himalayas.  It was the second annual Green Auction:  Bid to Save the
Earth , benefiting Central Park Conservancy, Conservation
International, Oceana and the  Natural Resources Defense Council .
(An online auction at  http://www.bidtosavetheearth.com  runs
through April 7.)  “There are some superficial events in  New York City ,”
said Seth Meyers, head writer for “Saturday Night Live” and the
auction’s emcee. “I probably have friends who are at a vodka
launch. And I’ll have to tell them, ‘Sorry I wasn’t there, I was
saving the Earth. Hope you had fun with your vodka.”  This party did have vodka, as well as chardonnay and
Champagne. The food, by the restaurant Rouge Tomate, included
grass-fed beef tartar and arctic char crudo.  “I love the diversity of nature,” said actress Diane
Kruger.  The second part of the evening was devoted to Runway to
Green, for which designers created outfits that reflect a
planet-friendly interest in sustainable manufacturing.  Model Coco Rocha and others showed 32 looks, including a
yellow-and-brown batik gown by Thakoon and a wedding dress by
Oscar de la Renta made from 100 percent organic natural ivory
cotton-tulle.  Model Kate Dillon said of nature, “I love how it puts me
in my place.”  Along the runway, Vogue editor Anna Wintour had a front-row
seat with her daughter, Bee Shaffer. Also observing was Lauren
Santo Domingo, co-founder and creative director of  Moda
Operandi , which gives consumers the chance to buy clothes off
the runway before they hit stores.  After the fashions, rapper Nicki Minaj performed in a green
beehive wig.  Young Concert Artists  At Jazz at  Lincoln Center , the nonprofit  Young Concert
Artists  celebrated its mission of helping musicians to begin
solo careers. Artists are chosen by audition and given
promotional support with two prestigious concerts.  “When I won this, I was 15, and I was extremely shy and
frightened,” said violinist Karen Gomyo, one of the alumni of
the program who performed earlier.  “One of my mentors in science, James Watson, who
discovered DNA, is here tonight,” said the organization’s
chairman, William Haseltine, shortly before lamb chops were
served. “I like having the chance to give others a leg up
too.”  Gomyo and three others performed Maurer’s Sinfonia
Concertante for Four Violins in A minor.  (Amanda Gordon is a writer and photographer for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. Any opinions
expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer on this story:
Amanda Gordon in New York at  agordon01@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 