-- 
Scotch Whisky Export Volume Declines as European Markets Weaken

-- B y   C l e m e n t i n e   F l e t c h e r
-- 
2011-03-30T12:07:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-30/scotch-whisky-export-volume-declines-as-european-markets-weaken.html
The volume of Scotch whisky exports
declined last year as a weaker second half erased gains in the
first six months.  The volume of the spirit shipped from Scotland fell 2
percent in 2010 to 1.06 billion bottles, the Scotch Whisky
Association  said today . That followed a 3 percent increase in
the first half. The value of Scotch exports last year rose 10
percent as drinkers bought more expensive varieties.  Diageo Plc (DGE) , the world’s biggest distiller, last month
reported first-half revenue and profit that missed analysts’
estimates, hurt by declining sales in  Europe . Shipments of
Scotch to  Greece  declined 26 percent last year, while exports to
Spain fell 15 percent, the Scotch Whisky Association said.
Drinkers in France bought 8 percent fewer bottles of the spirit,
though the value of exports to the country rose 4 percent.  Shipments to the U.S., the largest market by revenue, rose
19 percent, more than an 8 percent increase in volume.  Eight of the top 10 export markets grew in value in 2010,
reflecting “continued premiumization across the industry,” the
SWA said in the statement. Single malt exports rose 18 percent,
while blended Scotch whisky shipments increased 5 percent.  Drinkers in Mexico, Brazil,  South Africa  and South Korea
helped sales grow. Distillers including Diageo, the maker of
Johnnie Walker whisky, and  Pernod-Ricard SA (RI) , which owns the
Glenlivet and Chivas Regal whisky brands, have reported
increasing demand in emerging markets for their spirits,
offsetting sluggish conditions in Europe, where government
spending cuts are dampening consumer confidence.  The Scotch Whisky Association, based in Edinburgh,
Scotland, derives its information from the U.K.’s HM Revenue and
Customs data, based on company declarations of shipments. Scotch
is defined as whisky which has been produced and matured in
Scotland, according to the SWA. The bottle size quoted in the
SWA’s data totals 700 milliliters.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Clementine Fletcher in  London  
 cfletcher5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at   cperri@bloomberg.net . 