-- 
SEC Votes 5-0 to Seek Comment on Compensation Committee Rule

-- B y   J o s h u a   G a l l u
-- 
2011-03-30T15:31:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-30/sec-will-vote-to-seek-comment-on-compensation-committee-rule.html
The U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission voted to seek comment on a measure that would require
public companies to disclose possible conflicts of interest for
company board members and consultants who set executives’ pay.  SEC commissioners voted 5-0 to approve the measure, part of
the agency’s rulemaking under the Dodd-Frank Act, at a meeting
in  Washington  today. The proposal expands on a 2009 rule that
requires disclosure of similar conflicts.  Dodd-Frank, the regulatory overhaul enacted in July, took
aim at executive compensation after lawmakers faulted incentives
that rewarded risk-taking for helping to spark the subprime
mortgage crisis. Groups including labor unions have urged
regulators to tighten rules for consultants, saying they may
recommend larger payouts for top executives to win business.  Under the SEC’s proposal, each member of a compensation
committee would also have to be an independent member of the
board of directors, the agency said in a statement. When
employing a pay adviser, a firm would need to consider whether
that adviser has any personal or business relationship with a
member of the compensation panel and if so, how much that person
has received in fees.  The SEC is already seeking comment on a separate measure
that would prohibit pay packages that might lead to “material
financial loss” for companies. That rule would compel firms
with more than $50 billion in assets to defer at least 50
percent of incentive-based pay for executives for three years
and subject packages to possible clawbacks for company losses.  The public comment period on today’s proposed rule will
last through April 29.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joshua Gallu in Washington at 
 jgallu@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lawrence Roberts at   lroberts13@bloomberg.net . 