-- 
Securitization Skin-in-the-Game Rules Permit Hedging Stakes

-- B y   J o d y   S h e n n
-- 
2011-03-30T17:29:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-30/securitization-skin-in-the-game-rules-permit-hedging-stakes-2-.html
A U.S. government proposal
requiring bond issuers or lenders to keep stakes in securitized
loans allows the companies to offload some of the retained risk,
even as portions of the  draft rules  prohibit hedging.  Companies packaging loans and leases into bonds will be
barred from buying default protection tied to the “particular”
asset-backed securities in which they must hold slices,
according to the proposal, released for public comment yesterday
by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. and  Federal Reserve .  Regulators said the rule, designed to curb dangerous
lending, permits other hedging tactics, potentially reducing how
much the regulation will depress the flow of credit. Congress
mandated last year that agencies create the provisions,
reflecting a view that a lack of skin in the game among lenders
and bond issuers helped fuel the  shoddy mortgages  that sparked
collapses in  housing  and financial markets.  “That the institutions can do a variety of hedging almost
negates all the advantages,” said  Anthony Sanders , a professor
of real estate finance at  George Mason University  in Fairfax,
 Virginia , and former head of mortgage-bond research at Deutsche
Bank AG. “Risk-retention may not make a lick of difference if
the bank in question can hedge out most of the risk.”  Companies will be able to use derivatives and other hedging
instruments tied to “overall market movements,” such as in
currencies,  home prices  or a “broad category of asset-backed
securities,” according to the proposal. They could also buy
default protection on “similar assets originated and
securitized by other sponsors.”  Dodd-Frank  Under the rule, firms could purchase credit-default swaps
referencing indexes of bonds that include the ones they keep
parts of as long as classes of their securitizations represent
no more than 20 percent of the benchmark, according to the
draft. That could include so-called  ABX indexes  tied to subprime
mortgages, regulators said.  Credit-default swaps on structured-finance securities offer
payments if the debt isn’t repaid on schedule, in return for
regular insurance-like premiums.  Last year’s Dodd-Frank financial overhaul law directed
regulators to write the rule, saying the agencies should
“prohibit a securitizer from directly or indirectly hedging or
otherwise transferring the credit risk that the securitizer is
required to retain.” Issuers must generally retain at least 5
percent of risk, according to the rules.  ‘Tie the Hands’  It would be misguided for regulators to “tie the hands”
of individual banks that decide they want to shed risk after
building up sizable amounts of securitization stakes, said
Clifford Rossi, a former senior risk officer at Countrywide
Financial Corp., Washington Mutual Inc. and Citigroup Inc.  “At the same time, if every institution takes this view,
then you solve for nothing in trying to shut down systemic risks
from building up,” said Rossi, now executive-in-residence at
the University of Maryland’s Center for Financial Policy in
 College Park .  Before the market for bonds backed by riskier U.S. home
loans shut in 2008, banks including  Goldman Sachs Group (GS)  Inc. and
Deutsche Bank bought protection in the credit-default swap
market even as they sold new mortgage-linked securities. That
helped offset later losses from debt held on their balance
sheets, the companies have said.  Merrill Lynch & Co., UBS AG and Citigroup were among banks
whose hedges against defaults on specific mortgage-tied
securities failed during the crisis as the creditworthiness of
the bond insurers providing protection collapsed.  Bear Stearns, Goldman  Some investment banks hedged in equity markets as the
crisis grew. In late 2007, Bear Stearns Cos. bet against the
shares of banks that bought default protection from Ambac
Assurance Corp., the debt guarantor said this year in a lawsuit,
citing internal e-mails. A Goldman Sachs trader that year also
recommended his firm wager against Bear Stearns’s shares,
according to e-mails cited at a Senate hearing last year.  Yesterday’s proposal includes risk-retention exemptions for
certain high-quality residential mortgages, as well as for
commercial-mortgage securitizations in which a third-party firm
buys the riskiest slices after reviewing the loans. Hedging
rules for those commercial-mortgage investors, known as B-piece
buyers, are similar to the regulations intended for banks and
issuers.  Hedging Bets  In one period before defaults soared, more than half the
buyers of the riskiest slices of collateralized debt obligations
used to repackage home-loan securities paired those purchases
with other wagers that mortgages would default, according to the
final report of the Financial Crisis Inquiry Commission.  Purchasers of the riskiest portions of mortgage bonds that
weren’t placed into CDOs also often entered into “short” bets
against home-loan debt, the panel said. The buyers of these
slices had traditionally worked to monitor the credit risk of
the deals, so “it was no longer clear who -- if anyone -- had
that incentive,” the FCIC said.  The type of hedging allowed by yesterday’s proposal would
encourage issuers to make loans in their deals better than those
of competitors, said Dan Castro, head of structured finance
strategy at BTIG LLC in  New York . Higher-quality debt would
outperform hedges tied to the broader market in either good
times or bad, he said.  “That’s just the way the math works,” Castro said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jody Shenn in New York at 
 jshenn@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  