-- 
Senator Coburn Plan to End Ethanol Credit Tests Republican Tax Principle

-- B y   R i c h a r d   R u b i n   a n d   S t e v e n   S l o a n
-- 
2011-03-30T04:00:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-30/senator-coburn-s-plan-to-end-ethanol-credit-tests-no-tax-increase-pledge.html
Senator Tom Coburn is trying to
challenge the proposition that all tax breaks are created equal.  The effort by the Oklahoma Republican  to end a tax credit 
for ethanol places him in conflict with farm-state senators who
want to keep the tax incentive. It also puts him at odds with
tax-cut advocates in the  Republican Party , who argue that
eliminating the tax break would result in an unacceptable tax
increase. The proposal could reach the Senate floor this week.  A vote would force many Republicans to choose between their
no-tax-increase pledge and their desire to reduce the  budget
deficit  by cutting what they view as waste. Coburn’s amendment
reaches beyond the ethanol debate and draws attention to tax
expenditures, which reduce federal revenue by more than $1
trillion a year. They range from the mortgage interest deduction
to tax credits for security cameras in fertilizer warehouses.  “Continuing to issue blanket defenses of all tax
expenditures is a profoundly misguided embrace of progressive,
activist government and a strategy for tax complexity, tax
deferment, excessive spending and unsustainable deficits,”
Coburn  wrote yesterday  to  Grover Norquist . He is president of
 Americans for Tax Reform , a Washington advocacy group that
established the “no-new-taxes” pledge.  Norquist’s group, which opposes ending tax breaks that
aren’t paired with offsetting tax cuts, responded later in the
day. In a  letter , the group stated its opposition to the ethanol
tax credit but said Coburn’s amendment would violate the no-tax-
increase pledge because it would increase federal revenue.
Coburn is among 40 Republican senators who have signed the
pledge, according to the group.  Meaningful Distinction  The philosophical debate between Coburn and Norquist turns
on the question of whether there is a meaningful distinction
between targeted tax breaks and targeted spending.  “If the government lets  Tom Coburn  keep a dollar of his
own money, that is not the same thing as the government stealing
a dollar from Ryan Ellis and giving it to Tom Coburn,” wrote
Ryan Ellis, the group’s tax policy director. “The differences
between tax relief and spending are unambiguous.”  Pledges to prevent tax increases are akin to pledges to
prevent changes to Social Security, because they create barriers
to discussion of the government’s alternatives, said Maya MacGuineas, president of the  Committee for a Responsible Federal
Budget , a Washington group that supports  deficit reduction .  “Ending mistargeted tax breaks should be a conservative’s
dream,” she said. “This is exactly what you want to be doing
to improve how capital’s allocated in the economy.”  In an interview, Ellis said proposals such as Coburn’s
amendment weaken Republicans’ negotiating position.  ‘Blood in the Water’  “If Republicans are supporting a net tax increase, that
will limit their ability to have a strong hand in any of their
future budget dealings,” he said. “Democrats will then smell
blood in the water.”  Congress last extended the ethanol tax break in December
2010 as part of a package of extensions of expiring tax cuts.
The main tax credit, which provides 45 cents a gallon to
blenders, is scheduled to expire at the end of the year.
Coburn’s proposal would eliminate it upon enactment of the
legislation he seeks to amend -- a small-business measure.  Coburn maintains that the credit is a giveaway to ethanol
refiners. He points to a  report issued  by the Government
Accountability Office, saying that the credit duplicates the
government’s biofuels production mandate.  Republican Senator John Thune of  South Dakota  said ending
the credit in the middle of the year would hurt businesses’
plans and create uncertainty in the market.  “I think we’re better served talking about the types of
issues that unite us,” he said.  Tax Pledge  It’s not yet clear if Coburn’s amendment will be voted on
or when it will occur. He said yesterday that he would
ultimately get a vote.  Coburn has an ally in  Arizona ’s  Jon Kyl , the Senate’s
second-ranking Republican. Kyl, who is listed as a no-new-taxes
pledge signer, said in an interview yesterday he would support
Coburn’s proposal, though it would mean a tax increase for those
affected.  “I absolutely support striking the subsidy,” he said.
“In fact, I support striking any of the so-called tax
expenditures, which are just another way for taxpayers to be
writing a check. They are spending by the government, and we
shouldn’t have those in the  tax code .”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Richard Rubin in Washington at 
 rrubin12@bloomberg.net 
Steven Sloan in Washington at 
 ssloan7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  