-- 
Senate Measure to Stop EPA Rules Would Aid China, California's Boxer Says

-- B y   K i m   C h i p m a n
-- 
2011-03-30T19:38:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-30/senate-measure-to-stop-epa-rules-would-aid-china-california-s-boxer-says.html
A Senate measure to block the
Environmental Protection Agency from regulating greenhouse gases
would help  China  dominate world sales of clean-energy
technology, Senator  Barbara Boxer  said.  Boxer, a California Democrat, spoke on the Senate floor
today as lawmakers debated amendments that would slow or stop
the EPA’s regulation of greenhouse-gas emissions blamed for
 climate change . A measure by Republican Leader Mitch McConnell
of  Kentucky  would go the furthest, prohibiting the rules under
the Clean Air Act.  If the McConnell amendment passes, “we are ceding our
leadership in environmentally clean technology to China,” said
Boxer, chairman of the Senate Environment and Public Works
Committee. “That’s the last thing we want to do. They are
already surpassing us in solar production, and we created it.”  The EPA’s rules, which took effect in January, became the
administration’s lever to limit  greenhouse gases  after Congress
failed to pass legislation backed by President  Barack Obama  to
create a cap-and-trade system for pollution allowances.
Republicans and some Democrats say the EPA rules will hurt the
economy and argue the federal Clean Air Act was never intended
to regulate emissions such as carbon dioxide, an odorless,
invisible gas unlike smog.  Only McConnell’s measure will “rein in the EPA and protect
jobs,” Senator  John Barrasso , a Wyoming Republican, said today.  The EPA-related amendments are attached to legislation
intended to help small businesses.  Democrats’ Amendments  Along with McConnell’s measure, at least three Democratic
lawmakers are offering EPA-related amendments. Senator Debbie Stabenow, a Michigan Democrat, would let the Obama
administration move ahead with its limits on  carbon emissions 
while also giving companies incentives to develop new energy
technologies.  “My amendment is a common-sense approach,” Stabenow said
today in an e-mailed statement.  Senator Max Baucus, a Montana Democrat, plans to submit an
amendment aimed at protecting some farmers and small-business
owners from the EPA rules, while Senator Jay Rockefeller, a West
Virginia Democrat, proposes delaying the EPA carbon regulations
by two years.  McConnell said votes to stop the EPA greenhouse-gas limits
will show voters where lawmakers stand on the regulations
opposed by industry groups such as the U.S. Chamber of Commerce.  “It will be an opportunity for everybody to go on record
so folks at home will know how senators feel about this massive
over-regulation, which is going to have an extraordinarily
adverse impact on our economy,” McConnell told reporters
yesterday.  EPA Administrator Lisa Jackson has said Obama would veto
any attempt to take away her agency’s power to regulate carbon.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kim Chipman in Washington at 
 kchipman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net  