-- 
Shell Wins Approval for Deep-Water Drilling Permit in Gulf

-- B y   J i m   S n y d e r
-- 
2011-03-30T19:28:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-30/shell-wins-approval-for-deep-water-drilling-permit-in-gulf-1-.html
 Royal Dutch Shell Plc won a U.S.
permit to drill a deep-water well in the  Gulf of Mexico  where
exploration was banned after the BP Plc blowout 11 months ago.  Shell, based in The Hague, can drill in waters about 137
miles (220 kilometers) south of Lafayette,  Louisiana , at a depth
of 2,721 feet (829 meters), according to a statement today from
the Bureau of Ocean Energy Management, Regulation and
Enforcement. The Interior Department unit on March 21 approved
Shell’s exploration plan for the Gulf.  The company must comply with “rigorous new safety
standards” adopted after the April 20 blast on the Deepwater
Horizon drilling rig, which killed 11 workers, ruptured the well
and spilled 4.9 million barrels of crude into the Gulf. The
Obama administration halted deep-water drilling after the
blowout, a ban that was lifted in October.  “The completion of this process further demonstrates that
we are proceeding as quickly as our resources allow to properly
regulate offshore oil and gas operations in the most safe and
environmentally-responsible manner,”  Michael Bromwich , director
of the bureau of ocean management, said in a statement.  Shell will drill in a section of the Gulf known as the
Garden Banks, in block 427, the agency said.  Marine Well Containment Co., a group Shell set up with
three partners, will provide equipment in case of a blowout,
according to the exploration plan.  The regulator has allowed  Noble Energy Inc. (NBL) ,  Exxon Mobil
Corp. (XOM) ,  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP)  and ATP Oil & Gas Corp. to resume work
on wells that were suspended after BP’s April 20 spill.  Chevron
Corp. (CVX)  on March 24 received the first U.S. permit for a new deep-
water well since the moratorium was lifted, the agency said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Snyder in Washington at 
 jsnyder24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net  