-- 
Sleek ‘Macbeth’ Flaunts Male Weird Sisters, Comely Lady: Review

-- B y   P h i l i p   B o r o f f
-- 
2011-03-30T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-30/sleek-kinetic-macbeth-flaunts-male-weird-sisters-comely-lady-review.html
Early in “Macbeth,”  Annika Boras 
appeals to the spirits to unlock Lady Macbeth’s hidden cruelty
and “unsex” her.  The specters don’t comply, thankfully. The last thing this
lucid and fast-paced production by New York’s adventurous
 Theatre for a New Audience  needs is more males. Even the weird
sisters are played by guys, and creepy guys at that.  Last fall, Boras’s sexy Russian princess heated up Sarah Ruhl’s whimsical “ Orlando .” As the power-mad wife of the
Scottish usurper, she’s a cerebral siren in a form-fitting black
gown. When she lets her braided hair down in Act II and goes off
the rails, it’s discomfiting and convincing.  John Douglas Thompson, a gifted young classical actor,
delivers an understated Macbeth -- valiant, handy with a sword
and quietly introspective when he crumbles. If you’re in the
market for a larger-than-life murderous thane, a la Patrick Stewart, you’d better readjust your expectations.  The Duke on 42nd St. theater in Times Square has just 192
seats that wrap around three sides of the stage. It feels like
the multiracial cast of 16 is doing Shakespeare in your living
room. So able are the actors that you may not notice that at
least one, playing different characters, dies twice.  They are in almost non-stop motion under Arin Arbus’s
kinetic staging.  Marcus Doshi  designed the shadowy, ghostly
lighting.  Julian Crouch  did the sets and masks vaguely recalling
“Clockwork Orange” that marauders wear when killing Lady
Macduff and her son.  “Macbeth” is one of Shakespeare’s shortest plays and this
sleek edition sails by faster than most without sacrificing any
understanding.  Through April 22 at 229 W. 42nd St. Information: +1-646-
223-3010;  http://www.tfana.org/season/macbeth/overview .
Rating: **1/2  (Philip Boroff is a critic for Muse, the arts and leisure
section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer on this story:
Philip Boroff in  New York  at 
 pboroff@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 