-- 
Sokol Denies Wrongdoing in Stock Purchases Before Berkshire's Takeover Bid

-- B y   A n d r e w   F r y e
-- 
2011-03-31T13:35:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-30/sokol-resigns-from-berkshire-after-investing-in-takeover-target.html
David Sokol , who resigned yesterday
as a top manager at  Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A) , said he did nothing
unethical when he bought stock in a company that he later
proposed as a takeover target to Chairman Warren Buffett.  “I don’t believe that I did anything wrong,” Sokol told
CNBC today in a televised interview. “I can understand the
appearance issue and that’s why we made it public.”  Sokol, 54, bought about 96,000  Lubrizol Corp. (LZ)  shares in
January, less than two weeks before recommending the company as
a target, Buffett said yesterday in a statement. Sokol had
started confidential talks with Lubrizol the month before,
according to a regulatory filing last week. Lawyers at the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission were reviewing Buffett’s
statement and discussing the matter, according to one person
with knowledge of the talks.  “The SEC is going look at that deal to check for insider
buying and selling, so if there’s an issue, the time to clean it
up is now,” said Daniel Genter, president of RNC Genter Capital
Management in  Los Angeles , which oversees about $3.7 billion.  Berkshire Class A shares fell $1,919, or 1.5 percent, to
$126,184 at 9:32 a.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite
trading. Sokol was chairman of Berkshire’s MidAmerican Energy
Holdings and its roofing unit Johns Manville. He was also CEO of
NetJets Inc., Berkshire’s luxury-flight subsidiary.  Sokol told CNBC that Buffett decides all acquisitions.
Sokol had “no authority whatsoever” over investment decisions,
he said in the interview. “I couldn’t spend a dollar of
Berkshire’s money buying a security.”  Share Purchases  Sokol bought 96,060 Lubrizol shares on Jan. 5, 6 and 7,
Buffett said. Berkshire agreed to buy the firm for $9 billion on
March 14. The stock purchases may have given Sokol a profit of
about $3 million, according to Buffett’s disclosure and data
compiled by Bloomberg. Sokol’s compensation from MidAmerican
totaled $59.5 million in the last five years, according to the
unit’s SEC filings.  “It’s just a classic case of someone not fitting into that
Buffett culture,” said Lawrence G. McDonald, president of
McDonald Advisory Group in New York and author of “A Colossal
Failure of Common Sense: The  Inside Story  of the Collapse of
Lehman Brothers” with  Patrick Robinson . “That’s the type of
thing you might do at another hedge fund, but you don’t do it at
Berkshire.”  Buffett said in the statement that he thought Sokol’s stock
purchases were legal. Sokol said he didn’t trade on inside
information, according to a statement from Fox Business Network.  Buffett’s Interest  “I didn’t think Warren would be interested in buying
Lubrizol anyway,” Fox Business Network cited Sokol as saying in
an interview. “The only reason  Warren Buffett  mentioned it in
the release is because it would have to be brought up anyway
when Berkshire put the purchase up for a vote.”  Ann Thelen and Tina Potthoff, spokeswomen for MidAmerican,
didn’t return calls and e-mails seeking comment from Sokol.
Debbie Bosanek, an assistant to Buffett, confirmed his
statement.  A surge in options trading in the week before the takeover
suggests that investors may have been speculating with insider
information, according to Ophir Gottlieb, head of client
services at Livevol Inc., a San Francisco-based provider of
options-market analytics. Call trading surged to 2,931 contracts
on March 9, and open interest for the April $110 calls jumped to
2,654 from 41.  Scouting Acquisitions  Sokol joined Omaha, Nebraska-based Berkshire in 2000 when
he sold MidAmerican, which he led as CEO, to Buffett for about
$9 billion. Under Berkshire, Sokol retained a minority equity
stake in MidAmerican and expanded the unit by buying a natural
gas pipeline and power producers in California and the U.K.  Sokol relinquished the CEO job in 2008 and broadened his
duties at Berkshire by scouting deals like an investment in
China’s BYD Co. and a rescue for Constellation Energy Group Inc.  “He was the heir apparent,” said  David Kass , a professor
at the University of Maryland’s Robert H. Smith School of
Business. “The exercise of his recommending Lubrizol to Warren
Buffett was like a CEO in training.”  Sokol instructed  Citigroup Inc. (C)  on Dec. 13 to arrange a
meeting with Lubrizol CEO James Hambrick, according to an  SEC
filing  last week. The two men spoke on the telephone on Jan. 14
and met on Jan. 25. Sokol told Buffett he was a shareholder in
Lubrizol, the Wickliffe, Ohio-based maker of engine lubricants,
when the two men first discussed a possible deal, according to
the statement yesterday.  ‘Passing Remark’  “It was a passing remark and I did not ask him about the
date of his purchase or the extent of his holdings,” Buffett
said. Buffett learned about the size and dates of the purchases
“shortly before I left for  Asia  on March 19,” he said.  Sokol’s stake as reported by Buffett would have been worth
about $9.92 million on Jan. 7, based on the closing price on the
 New York  Stock Exchange. The shares have risen about 30 percent
to $134.01 since Buffett’s deal was announced, boosting the
stake, if Sokol still owns it, to $12.9 million.  “I don’t attribute this to a failure of character or a
scheme, but rather more of an honest oversight that happens in
the hustle and the bustle of trying to get jobs done and the
enthusiasm that comes about from a good idea,”  Thomas Russo , a
partner at Berkshire investor Gardner Russo & Gardner, said of
Sokol’s trades. “There’s way too much at stake to risk for such
small reward.”  ‘Totally Honorable’  Berkshire said in February it has four candidates to
succeed Buffett as CEO, without publicly identifying them.
Investors including Buffett biographer Andrew Kilpatrick had
said Sokol was the most likely successor. On March 23, Buffett
said at a news conference in  India  that Ajit Jain, Berkshire’s
reinsurance head, would win the support of directors if he
decided to seek the top job.  “I really feel about him like I would a brother or a
son,” Buffett said of Jain. “He’s not only excelled at every
single task he’s taken on in insurance, but he’s behaved in a
way that’s been totally honorable.”  Buffett said in the statement that he hadn’t asked for
Sokol’s resignation and that it came as a surprise. Twice in
years past Sokol had considered resigning and been persuaded to
stay, Buffett said. Berkshire is “far more valuable today”
because of Sokol’s service, Buffett said. Sokol said he will
devote his career to investing his family’s resources and may
start an enterprise, according to Buffett’s statement.  “There likely will be an investigation,” said  Jacob Frenkel , an attorney at Shulman Rogers Gandal Pordy & Ecker in
Potomac,  Maryland , and a former SEC lawyer specializing in fraud
and stock manipulation cases. “If all we have here are
purchases before making a recommendation, and the decision to
pursue an acquisition doesn’t commence until after the
transactions are completed, that wouldn’t satisfy the definition
of  insider trading .”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Frye in New York at 
 afrye@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Reichl at   dreichl@bloomberg.net  