-- 
Sonova Chairman Says Swiss Exchange Is Reviewing Warning

-- B y   A l l i s o n   C o n n o l l y   a n d   G i l e s   B r o o m
-- 
2011-03-30T11:20:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-30/sonova-chairman-says-swiss-exchange-is-reviewing-warning-1-.html
Sonova Holding AG (SOON)  Chairman Robert Spoerry said the Swiss stock exchange is reviewing the hearing-
aid maker’s delayed profit warning, which led to the
resignations of top executives after the company commissioned a
probe of possible  insider trading .  Chief Executive Officer Valentin Chapero and Chief
Financial Officer Oliver Walker resigned, and Spoerry took over
as chairman from Andy Rihs, who remains on the board, the
Staefa, Switzerland-based company said today.  “We were late and we are fully prepared to cooperate with
the authorities,” Spoerry said in an interview after a press
conference in Zurich.  Sonova said it hired the law firm  Homburger AG  to
investigate share sales by company insiders in the period
leading up to the March 16 announcement of a reduced profit
forecast. Sonova shares fell 23 percent on that day. The company
said Homburger found no evidence Rihs knew of the announcement
when he sold 300,000 shares on March 8.  The SIX Swiss Exchange can’t confirm preliminary
investigations have begun, said Stephan Meier, an exchange
spokesman, citing its policy.  SIX Swiss Exchange Regulation, the exchange’s regulatory
unit, "is continuing to monitor Sonova’s activities and we note
the company’s statement today regarding the delay of the March
16 profit warning,’’ Meier said by e-mail.  Company directors and managers sold about 2.4 million
shares and warrants from Feb. 1 to March 16, according to the
exchange’s website. Sonova cut its forecast for earnings before
interest, taxes, and amortization, and also reduced its revenue
prediction, citing the November recall of its Advanced Bionics
hearing aid and regulatory difficulties that slowed the
introduction of Phonak hearing aids in the U.S.  Sonova shares fell as much as 9.4 percent to 84.5 francs
today, trading at 85.7 francs as of 1:14 p.m. in Zurich. That
valued the company at 5.66 billion francs ($6.14 billion).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Allison Connolly in  Frankfurt  at 
 aconnolly4@bloomberg.net ;
Giles Broom in Zurich at 
 gbroom@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kristen Hallam at   khallam@bloomberg.net . 