-- 
Sonova CEO Chapero Quits After Profit Warning Spurs Insider-Trading Probe

-- B y   A l l i s o n   C o n n o l l y   a n d   M a t t h i a s   W a b l
-- 
2011-03-30T08:25:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-30/sonova-ceo-chapero-cfo-walker-resign-over-handling-of-2011-profit-warning.html
Sonova Holding AG (SOON)  said its
chairman, chief executive and finance chief are resigning their
posts after a delayed profit warning prompted an investigation
into possible  insider trading  at the Swiss hearing-aid maker.  Chief Executive Officer Valentin Chapero and Oliver Walker,
Sonova’s chief financial officer, have handed in their
resignations, the Staefa, Switzerland-based company said in a
statement today. Chairman Andy Rihs will also step down from his
post while remaining on the board, Sonova said. The board
appointed Robert Spoerry as its new chairman. Alexander Zschokke
will be interim CEO.  The resignations came after an external investigation into
share sales by directors and executives before Sonova reduced
its profit forecast on March 16. Sonova cited the recall of an
implant, a delay in introducing new products and currency swings
as the cause of the warning. The stock fell as much as 9.4
percent in Zurich trading. The company has lost almost 30
percent of its value in the past month.  The investigation “showed weaknesses in internal
processes,” Sonova said in the statement. “It came to the
conclusion that internal rules were not enforced” and the
profit warning was published too late, the company said.  ‘Sanctions and Fines’  A Sonova board member sold 300,000 shares on March 8 at
125.07 francs each, for a total of 37.5 million francs ($41
million), according to transaction notices on the SIX Swiss
Exchange website. An executive member of the board sold 800
shares at 127 francs each on March 4, for 101,600 francs,
according to the website.  Company directors and managers sold about 2.4 million
shares and warrants between Feb. 1 and March 16, when the new
forecast was issued, the exchange said.  The outcome of the outside probe could be, in the worst
case, “sanctions and fines,” Ingeborg Oie and colleagues at
Jefferies International in  London  wrote in a note to clients.  Sonova scaled back its sales growth forecast on March 16,
saying revenue in the year ending March 31 would rise about 7
percent, down from an earlier estimate of between 8 and 10
percent. It blamed the November recall of its Advanced Bionics
hearing aid and regulatory difficulties that slowed the
introduction of the Phonak hearing aids in the U.S.  The company’s strategy remains “absolutely intact,”
Zschokke said at a press conference today.  Oie and colleagues, who rate the stock a “hold,” said
Sonova’s troubles creates an opportunity for rivals to gain
market share.  Jefferies had forecast that Sonova would outgrow the
overall hearing-aid market in the coming year “based on our
expectation of strong execution from an experienced management
team,” Oie wrote. “The transition creates more uncertainty
around these assumptions.”  Sonova dropped 6.35 francs, or 6.8 percent, to 86.95 francs
at 10:17 a.m. in Zurich.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Allison Connolly in Frankfurt at 
 aconnolly4@bloomberg.net 
Matthias Wabl in Zurich at 
 mwabl@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at 
 acullen8@bloomberg.net 
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  