-- 
Sonova Probed in Chairman's Sales as Swiss Consider Stricter Insider Laws

-- B y   A l l i s o n   C o n n o l l y   a n d   M a t t h i a s   W a b l
-- 
2011-03-31T15:47:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-30/sonova-probed-as-swiss-consider-stricter-insider-trading-laws.html
Sonova Holding AG (SOON) , the world’s
biggest hearing-aid maker by sales, said it’s under
investigation after Chairman Andy Rihs and other top executives
sold shares days before the Swiss company cut sales and profit
forecasts.  Sonova issued the profit warning too late and failed to
impose a timely black-out period that would prohibit company
insiders from trading shares and options, said Robert Spoerry,
who replaced Rihs as chairman yesterday. Chief Executive Officer
Valentin Chapero and Oliver Walker, Sonova’s chief financial
officer, resigned and Rihs stepped down from his post while
remaining on the board, the company said.  “We were late and we are fully prepared to cooperate with
the authorities,” Spoerry, 56, said in an interview yesterday
after a press conference in Zurich. An independent probe
commissioned by the board over the last two weeks found no
evidence of insider trading, he said.  Interim CEO Alex Zschokke, 46, and interim Chief Financial
Officer Paul Thompson, 44, also sold shares in the days leading
up to the March 16 profit warning, Spoerry told analysts on a
conference call yesterday, according to a transcript published
on the company’s  website  today. Holger Schimanke, a spokesman
for the company, didn’t immediately respond to a request seeking
the dates and size of the trades.  No Trading Ban  Zschokke and Thompson exercised options which vested March
1. They were “not aware” that the company planned to cut its
profit forecast and no trading ban was in place at the time,
Spoerry said on the call. Sonova fell 23 percent on March 16,
when the company lowered its predictions.  They believed their trades, which were placed as early as
January, were made in “good faith,” said Daniel Daeniker, a
partner at the Zurich-based law firm Homburger AG, which
conducted the internal probe.  Chapero and Walker resigned because it was their
responsibility to impose the trading ban, Spoerry said,
according to the transcript.  The Sonova investigation by stock exchange authorities and
a possible probe by the Zurich Prosecutor’s Office come three
months after the Swiss government proposed stricter laws on
 insider trading  and market manipulation, which would apply to a
broader group of people. Currently, companies found guilty of
delaying profit warnings face a fine of as much as 10 million
francs ($10.9 million).  Swiss Law  “There are still people in corporate Switzerland who lack
the sensitivity on what is acceptable and what isn’t,” said
Monika Roth, an attorney specializing in corporate law in
Binningen, Switzerland. “There are still some shortcomings when
it comes to insider information and compliance, and it’s good
that the prosecutor is looking at this.”  Swiss law already makes it illegal for company managers,
board members and public officials to abuse confidential
information for their own financial gain and sets a maximum
three-year prison term for the offense. The Zurich Prosecutor’s
Office deals with 10 to 12 legal proceedings a year concerning
insider trading, said Corinne Bouvard, a spokeswoman.  The proposed changes would bring  Switzerland  into line with
European Union laws, the government said in January. A
consultation period on the legislation is set to end April 30.  Sonova fell 0.7 percent to 81.85 francs at the 5:30 p.m.
close of Zurich trading, giving it a market value of 5.41
billion francs.  Sonova directors and managers sold about 2.4 million shares
and warrants between Feb. 1 and the forecast, according to the
SIX Swiss Exchange website.  ‘Good Faith’  Rihs, 68, sold the 300,000 shares on March 8 at 125.07
francs each, for a total of 37.5 million francs, according to
the company and the exchange website. He is the second-largest
shareholder with a 9.5 percent stake, according to Bloomberg
data.  The former chairman said he made the trades “in good
faith” and has offered to buy back the shares at the original
price. He told reporters at the press conference that he would
step down as chairman to avoid further damage to the company’s
reputation.  “You have to wonder whether the chairman of the board
didn’t know how the business is doing, and if so, how is that
possible?” said Roth, the corporate attorney in Binningen.  ‘Emotional Role’  Rihs should stay on the board because “he plays an
emotional role with the company,” Spoerry said in the
interview. He formed the hearing-aid maker, then known as Phonak
Holding AG, in 1985 from a previous company owned by his father,
Ernst, who died in 1980, according to Sonova’s  website .  He also owned the Phonak cycling team, which disbanded in
2006 after member and Tour de France winner  Floyd Landis  failed
drug tests.  Rihs became chairman in 1992 and was CEO until April 2000,
according to the company website. His term on the board expires
next year. He had planned to step down this year or next, he
said in a 2009 interview with Cash.  The board includes  Anssi Vanjoki , executive vice president
and general manager of  Nokia Oyj (NOK1V) ’s mobile solutions unit; Ronald van der Vis, CEO of  Esprit Holdings Ltd. (330) ,  Asia ’s third-biggest
clothier by market value; and Heliane Canepa, the former CEO of
 Nobel Biocare Holding AG (NOBN) , based in Glattbrugg, Switzerland.  Name Change  The company changed its name to Sonova from Phonak in 2007.
It employs more than 7,200 people worldwide as of Sept. 30 and
had annual sales of 1.5 billion francs in fiscal 2010, according
to Sonova’s website. Sonova specializes in high-end hearing aids
with wireless communication systems. It advertises its Lyric
hearing aid as “the contact lens for your ear.”  The stock exchange notified the company of its
investigation on March 25, Daeniker told investors on the call.
Stephan Meier, a stock exchange spokesman, said he couldn’t
confirm that preliminary investigations of Sonova have begun,
citing exchange policy.  “The SIX Swiss Exchange Regulation is continuing to
monitor Sonova’s activities and we note the company’s statement
today regarding the delay of the March 16 profit warning,”
Meier said by e-mail.  The internal probe by Homburger reviewed more than 200,000
company e-mails and didn’t reveal any evidence that Rihs knew
that profit warning would be published a week later, Spoerry
said.  The transition of the management team creates an
opportunity for competitors to gain market share, Jefferies
International Ltd. analysts including Ingeborg Oie wrote in a
note.  “It’s quite unusual that all three key people would leave
at the same time,” Oie said in an interview.  The company said it’s still estimating any additional costs
related to the events but Spoerry told investors on the call it
would likely be a single-digit million number.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Allison Connolly in Zurich at 
 aconnolly4@bloomberg.net ;
Matthias Wabl in Zurich at 
 mwabl@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  