-- 
Southern Sudan Plans to Issue New Currency When Independence is Declared

-- B y   M a t t   R i c h m o n d
-- 
2011-03-30T09:52:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-30/southern-sudan-plans-to-issue-new-currency-when-independence-is-declared.html
Southern Sudan  plans to release its
own currency when it declares independence in July as the region
establishes a financial system to manage its oil wealth.  Called the South  Sudan  pound, the value of the currency
will be controlled in a “managed float” by the  Bank of Southern
Sudan , which will serve as the central bank of the independent
nation, its director general, Othom Rago Ajak, said in an
interview.  “We have not decided how many pounds to the dollar,”
Finance Minister David Deng Athorbei told reporters yesterday in
Juba, Southern Sudan’s capital. A European company is printing
the currency, he said, without naming it. “We are still
maintaining some secrecy because we are still not yet an
independent country.”  The printer of the South Sudan pound will release the new
notes once either the U.S. or the U.K. recognizes  Southern Sudan 
as an independent nation, Athorbei said. Almost 99 percent of
Southern Sudanese voters chose to secede from the north and form
an independent country in a January referendum.  At independence, Southern Sudan will assume control of
about three-quarters of Sudan’s current oil production of
490,000 barrels a day, pumped mainly by China National Petroleum
Corp.,  Malaysia ’s Petroliam Nasional Bhd. and India’s Oil &
Natural Gas Corp.  The two regions currently split revenue from sales of oil
pumped in the south. Southern Sudan receives its share in either
dollars or euros, Ajak said on March 26.  Old Currency  Still unsettled is the issue of what to do with the old
Sudanese pounds that Sudan has been using since the north and
the south signed a  peace agreement  in 2005 that ended a two-
decade civil war. The authorities in Khartoum, Sudan’s capital,
are also planning to issue a new currency.  “There are still discussions on how to get rid of this
currency when the south gets its new currency,” Rabie Abdel Ati,
a senior member of President Umar al-Bashir’s  National Congress
Party , said by phone today from Khartoum. “If the south prints a
new currency, this means the north has to change its currency as
well.”  Southern Sudan wants the north to buy back the old pounds,
Ajak said.  The authorities in Khartoum have proposed either destroying
the old notes in Southern Sudan or transporting them back to the
north, Gabriel Changson Chang, the south’s minister of culture
and a member of the committee negotiating financial issues with
the north, said during a March 27 interview in Juba.  “Either collect them and send them to the north and they
will only pay for transport or the north will send a witness to
watch us burn all of the notes,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matt Richmond in Juba via Johannesburg at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin in Johannesburg at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 