-- 
South Africa Stocks Climb to a 3-Week High as BHP Studies Copper Expansion

-- B y   S i k o n a t h i   M a n t s h a n t s h a
-- 
2011-03-30T15:49:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-30/south-african-stocks-rise-to-3-week-high-as-copper-boosts-miners.html
South African stocks jumped to a
three-week high as Credit Suisse AG added  Anglo American Plc (AGL)  to
its “high conviction ideas” list and  BHP Billiton Plc (BIL)  began a
study into expanding its Olympic Dam Project to boost copper
production.  The FTSE/JSE Africa All Share Index rallied 1.8 percent to
32,274.61 at the 5 p.m. close of trading in Johannesburg, the
highest closing level since March 7. BHP Billiton, the world’s
biggest mining company, climbed 2.2 percent to 269.72 rand, the
highest in three weeks.  Anglo American Plc (AAL) , part owner of the
world’s biggest platinum and diamond producers, rose 1.2 percent
to 356.10 rand, a second day of increases.  Melbourne-based BHP expects government decisions on
approval for the Olympic Dam expansion project, which will boost
annual copper output in the second half to 750,000 metric tons
over 30 years from 180,000 tons, it said today in an e-mailed
statement. Anglo American, the diversified miner that
makes up 11 percent of the benchmark  stock index , was ranked
among 15 companies from eastern  Europe , the Middle East and
Africa on Credit Suisse’s list of stocks set to outperform.  “Demand for commodities across the world is still
rising,” Chris Gilmour, an analyst at Absa Private Clients
Asset Management in Johannesburg, said by phone today.
Destruction by  Japan ’s earthquake and tsunami this month “will
also help the commodities situation as the country rebuilds
destroyed infrastructure,” Gilmour said.  Anglo Platinum Ltd., the world’s biggest producer of the
metal, surged 2.1 percent to 683.07 rand, the highest in almost
three weeks. Platinum snapped four days of losses as plants
resumed production in quake-hit Japan, with Nissan Motor Co.,
Japan’s third-largest automaker by market value, saying it
expects factories to return to normal by the end of June.
Platinum is used to make pollution-control devices in
automobiles.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sikonathi Mantshantsha in Johannesburg at 
 smantshantsh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  