-- 
Spanish Cajas Block Four-Way Merger in Obstacle to Bank Industry Overhaul

-- B y   C h a r l e s   P e n t y   a n d   E m m a   R o s s - T h o m a s
-- 
2011-03-31T07:13:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-30/spanish-cajas-block-merger-in-threat-to-bank-industry-overhaul.html
Three Spanish savings banks
rejected a plan to merge into the nation’s third-largest caja,
forcing  Caja de Ahorros del Mediterraneo (CAM)  to seek a state
bailout.  Cajastur, Caja de Extremadura and Caja Cantabria voted
against combining their businesses with CAM in a new entity
known as Banco Base. CAM said it would seek support from the
state rescue fund, which operates by taking ordinary shares with
 voting rights , meaning at least partial nationalization of any
lender that seeks help.  The decision, two days after a  Bank of Spain  deadline for
lenders to submit capital-raising plans, may complicate
government efforts to rebuild confidence in Spain’s financial
system by shepherding savings banks into mergers and
strengthening their capital. CAM and Cajastur agreed  last May 
with lenders in the regions of Cantabria and Extremadura to
explore a merger that would create a bank with 124 billion euros
($175 billion) of assets.  “This shows that this is anything but a clean process,”
said Cesar Molinas, an independent consultant and former head of
European fixed-income strategy at Merrill Lynch & Co., in an
interview, “The longer it takes the higher the cost is going to
be because the balance sheets can deteriorate by the day.”  Banco Base, which sought 1.49 billion euros from the state
fund last year, had planned to seek an additional 2.78 billion
euros from the rescue pool. That’s almost double the amount the
Bank of Spain said the lender would have to raise to meet
minimum  capital requirements . Banco Base was one of a dozen
Spanish lenders that  need  a combined 15.2 billion euros in
capital, the regulator said on March 10.  Raising Capital  Cajastur is now free from the terms of the merger contract
it signed last July because “the necessary condition” to set
it in motion wasn’t reached, the bank said. CAM said it “deeply
regrets the decision taken by its partners” and will press
ahead with the Banco Base project.  Lenders that need to raise capital must have their
recapitalization plans approved by April 28, the Bank of Spain
said in a statement yesterday, as it called on the Banco Base
cajas to present their new strategies “immediately.”  Spain is rushing to bolster confidence in the economy and
its banks as investors increase bets that  Portugal  may be forced
to follow Greece and Ireland in seeking a European bailout. The
Socialist government, which tightened capital requirements for
lenders on Feb. 18, is implementing the deepest austerity
measures in three decades to rein in the euro region’s third-
largest budget deficit.  Bank Combinations  Those efforts brought down the nation’s borrowing costs
even as yields on Portuguese debt reached record highs. The gap
between Spanish and German borrowing costs was 187.4 basis
points today, up from 186.7 yesterday though still more than a
percentage point below the euro-era high of 298 basis points
reached Nov. 30, after Ireland sought a rescue.  The merger to create Banco Base was part of a process that
shrank the number of Spanish savings-bank groups to 17 from 45
as regulators pressured them to combine to cut costs and absorb
losses from loans to property developers. The Banco Base members
were the only savings banks of the 40 involved in mergers that
hadn’t yet approved the process.  “You can be absolutely sure that our members knew our
numbers in detail and that these numbers have figured in the
minutes of Banco Base for months,” said Maria Dolores Amoros,
general director of CAM, in a statement. “What has changed is
the financial scenario and the demands of the Bank of  Spain  and
the government, not CAM’s numbers.”  CAM, with assets of about 74 billion euros, and Cajastur
were each set to have 40 percent of Banco Base. Caja de
Extremadura was to hold 11 percent and Caja Cantabria 9 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Charles Penty in Madrid at 
 cpenty@bloomberg.net 
Emma Ross-Thomas in Madrid at 
 erossthomas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net 
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  