-- 
Starbucks CEO Says Japan Disruption Tempered by Chain’s Size

-- B y   M a t t h e w   T o w n s e n d   a n d   L e s l i e   P a t t o n
-- 
2011-03-30T20:30:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-30/starbucks-ceo-schultz-says-japan-disruptions-tempered-by-chain-s-scale.html
Starbucks Corp. (SBUX)  Chief Executive
Officer  Howard Schultz  said his coffee chain’s scale will help
it withstand this month’s natural disasters in Japan, which
shuttered more than 10 percent of its stores there.  “The impact financially will be diminished because of the
size of Starbucks,” he said in a talk yesterday at the 92nd
Street Y in  New York  with Norman Pearlstine, chief content
officer for Bloomberg and chairman of Bloomberg Businessweek.
“It’s an extremely important market, not only for its size and
profitability, but the emotional connection we have with the
Japanese people.”  Schultz, 57, is promoting his book “Onward: How Starbucks
Fought for Its Life Without Losing Its Soul,” out yesterday.
His coffee chain, the world’s largest, entered  Japan  15 years
ago, its first market outside  North America . The 9.0-magnitude
earthquake and its ensuing tsunami, which has left more than
27,000 people dead or missing, shuttered about 100 of
Starbucks’s 900 Japanese locations, with about 10 permanently
destroyed, he said.  The company has about 17,000 locations in more than 50
countries. Schultz also told Pearlstine “there is a gold-rush
mentality by every western brand known to mankind rushing into
 China ” and that many of these companies will fail. Starbucks
has about 400 stores on mainland China with plans to grow to
1,500 cafes by 2015.  Profit Doubles  Schultz, who first joined Starbucks almost three decades
ago, took back the reins in 2008 after sales growth sagged
during a too-quick store expansion. He revived the business by
closing more than 800 cafes and now aims to get into more
people’s homes, offering Starbucks coffee through grocery stores
and introducing single-cup brewing machines.  His strategies helped profit more than double in the year
ended Oct. 3, surpassing $940 million. Starbucks and other food
makers now face mounting expenses for ingredients such as coffee
beans and sugar, forcing them to raise prices or cut into
earnings. In January, Starbucks’s 2011 profit forecast missed
analysts’ projections, partly on surging commodity costs.  The Seattle-based company fell 14 cents to $36.72 at 4 p.m.
New York time in Nasdaq Stock Market trading. The shares have
risen 14 percent this year.  Schultz has expanded further into the single-cup market
this year, forging partnerships with closely held Courtesy
Products and  Green Mountain Coffee Roasters Inc. (GMCR)  The deal with
 Green Mountain  may be worth $1 billion, Schultz said. Starbucks
also makes single-serve Via instant coffee.  Beer, Wine  The company also has flirted with the idea of expanding
into sales of alcohol by testing beer and wine at a few
locations.  “It’s succeeded, but we don’t know what to do with it,”
Schultz said.  Schultz joined Starbucks about 10 years after it opened its
first store. The company, named for the first mate in the novel
“Moby Dick,” had more than 11,000 cafes in the U.S. and over
5,800 international locations as of January.  Starbucks credits Schultz with bringing Italian coffeehouse
traditions to the U.S. after he traveled to Milan in the 1980s.
Schultz left the CEO position in 2000 after 13 years at the helm
before returning in 2008.  Schultz also wrote “Pour Your Heart Into It: How Starbucks
Built a Company One Cup at a Time,” published in 1997. In the
book, he recounts growing up in a working-class neighborhood in
 Brooklyn , New York.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Matthew Townsend in New York at 
 mtownsend9@bloomberg.net ;
Leslie Patton in Chicago at 
 lpatton5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  