-- 
Del Frisco’s $90 Wagyu, $100 Lobsters Lure Suckers: Ryan Sutton

-- B y   R y a n   S u t t o n
-- 
2011-03-30T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-30/suckers-flock-to-del-frisco-s-for-90-wagyu-100-lobsters-ryan-sutton.html
The first tip-off that Del Frisco’s
isn’t really a New York steakhouse came when the bartender
pitched me a pineapple martini.  It’s hard to imagine something similar happening at any of
 Manhattan ’s top beef bastions. Strip House? Minetta? Nah. At Del
Frisco’s, it’s the signature drink.  A Dallas-based chain whose Midtown outpost was the
country’s highest-grossing steakhouse in 2010, Del Frisco’s also
ranks among the worst. Dinner for two can easily exceed $400
after tax and tip. No wonder they ring up $34 million a year in
sales.  They know New York prices here, but not New York quality.
An “ Ultimat ” vodka martini, advertised at $23, is
indistinguishable from $13 versions elsewhere. Red meat entrees
average out at $55. A $90 American Wagyu ribeye, the Japanese-
style cut famed for its melt-in-the-mouth marbling, has the same
texture as, and just a hint more flavor than, the $60 cuts.  So why’s this place packed as better spots struggle?
Perhaps it’s the location; Del Frisco’s anchors  Rockefeller
Center ’s McGraw-Hill tower. Is it the advertisements that
compel? Its television spots are ubiquitous on taxi cab screens.  Barkeep? Barkeep?  Maybe it’s the  rewards plan . Earn 40,000 points and get a
$2,800-value dinner for you and nine friends. Cool. Now tell me:
If they can keep track of my spending, why can’t my bar bill be
transferred to my dinner check? Flagging the bartender to close
out tabs requires the hand waving skills of a runway crew.  Hosts bark your name when your table is ready. The tri-
level space has 550-seats, three bars and two escalators. “This
place used to look like a trading floor,” the managing director
of a hedge fund tells me. Not anymore. A guy next to me ordered
a chocolate martini. Dude!  Floor-to-ceiling windows bespeak Sun Belt monumentalism,
though upstairs tables offer storybook views of Manhattan. Then
there’s the claustrophobic back room, where my date and I basked
in the angry red glow of a giant Fox News ticker. Not romantic.  Mealy tomatoes are $14. Caesar salad tastes pre-fabricated.
The burnt cheddar on a $16 burger does a fine impression of a
drink coaster.  Oysters sometimes arrive carelessly shucked with their
bellies popped and liquor drained.  Soggy Toast  Correctly preparing tuna tartare requires a sharp knife;
They must be using plastic here, given the mushy mess that
arrives for dolloping on soggy toast. Tangy beef tartare, on the
other hand, is excellent -- when the server remembers to bring
it.  The crab cake is fine; it had better be for $20. The
creamed spinach and mashed potato sides are decent enough too.
Bread was offered during two out of four visits. A bone-in strip
($60) arrived sans bone. Eat your friend’s bland filet ($68)
while waiters sort out the mistake.  Portions are Texas-size, perhaps bigger than at any other
city meatery. But I may as well be at  Outback . The wet aging
favored here produces juicy meat minus the mineral tang and
depth of flavor you get with dry aging. USDA Prime steaks are
fatally overseasoned and lack char. The $65 ribeye is greasy,
salty and has the mouthfeel of a sponge.  Lobster of Oz  Want some surf with that? The cheapest lobster tail on a
recent evening was over $100 after tax. The 16-ouncer was so
overcooked that it was harder to cut than our similarly hopeless
porterhouse. The crustacean tasted like carpet. Returning it
would have been a fool’s errand, since we’d have just gotten
another thawed import from  Australia .  Most of the 15 reds sold by the glass are New Worlders,
beginning at $9 and topping out at $45 for a pour of  Silver
Oak ’s 2003 Cab. Whites range from $10 to $30 (for  Far Niente ’s
2006 Chardonnay).  Europe  is better represented on the vast wine
list, where anything sub-$100 can be considered a bargain.
Toasty, clean-on-the-palate  Nicolas Feuillatte  champagne,
reasonably priced at $65, will make both the meat and fish
eaters at your table happy.  You can spend $1,000 on  Chateau D’Yquem  -- no trick there
for the world’s priciest Sauternes. But you’d expect a great
dessert to go with it and again you’ll be disappointed by leaden
cheesecake, pedestrian bread pudding and a tasty, if supermarket
quality lemon cake.
Rating: 1/2 *  The Bloomberg Questions  Price: Steaks are $36-$90. Set lunch for $32.  Sound Level: Loud when full, 80-85 decibels.  Date Place: No.  Inside Tip: Don’t eat steak? Try the $42 sea bass.  Special Feature: Free jellybean bin by the door.  Will I be back: Doubtful.  Del Frisco’s Double Eagle Steakhouse is at 1221 Sixth Ave;
Information: +1-212-575-5129;  http://www.delfriscos.com   
Sound-Level Chart (in decibels):  51 to 55: You can converse sotto voce. 56 to 60: Speak up,
please. 61 to 65: Lean in if you want to hear your date. 66 to
70: You’re just pretending to hear one another. 71 to 75: Heads
turn because you’re yelling. 76 to 85: Ear-splitting din.  (Ryan Sutton writes about New York City restaurants for
Muse, the arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. The
opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Ryan Sutton in New York at  rsutton1@bloomberg.net  or
qualityrye on  http://twitter.com/qualityrye   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 