-- 
Sushi Exports From Japan Canceled on Concern Over Radiation Contamination

-- B y   A y a   T a k a d a
-- 
2011-03-30T04:03:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-30/sushi-purchases-from-japan-canceled-amid-concerns-about-radiation-leakage.html
Exports of Japanese seafood have
been canceled by foreign buyers on concern that the products may
have been contaminated by radiation leaking from the crippled
Fukushima nuclear plant, a government official said.  At least 10 orders have been withdrawn since the March 11
earthquake and tsunami damaged the power station, Hiromi Isa,
trade office director at Japan’s Fisheries Agency, said in an
interview in  Tokyo  yesterday. The cancellations were made even
as the government assured the food’s safety, Isa said.  Sushi restaurants and hotels, including Shangri-La Asia’s
luxury chain, dropped Japanese seafood from their menus because
of radiation fears. Global fishing companies such as  Hong Kong ’s
 Pacific Andes International Holdings Ltd. (1174)  could benefit from
increased demand to replace Japanese produce. Japan exported
565,295 metric tons of fish and other marine products worth
195 billion yen ($2.41 billion) last year.   “We’ve heard from Japanese exporting companies that fish
purchases have been canceled and buyers have been asking for
discounts,” Isa said. He declined to identify companies and
countries involved, or the size of the withdrawn orders.  Radioactive iodine in seawater near the stricken plant 
climbed yesterday to 3,355 times the allowable limit,  Japan ’s
nuclear safety agency said today.  Import Curbs  Nations from  Australia  to the U.S. have limited Japanese
food imports after elevated radiation levels were found outside
an evacuation radius around the Fukushima plant. Singapore
banned seafood imports from Fukushima, Ibaraki, Tochigi and
Gunma while allowing shipments from other Japanese prefectures.  “Our test results showed no fish were contaminated by
higher-than-acceptable levels of radioactivity,” Isa said. “We
can issue certificates for the origin of fish if required by
overseas governments as a condition for imports.”  Japan exported 120,416 tons of mackerel last year and 
79,767 tons of tuna. The nation’s total output of marine products
amounted to 5.43 million tons in 2009, according to the Ministry
of Agriculture, Forestry and Fisheries.  Since last week, the  Fisheries Research Agency  has tested
samples from five types of fish caught off the coast of Choshi
city in Chiba prefecture, the fishing area south of the
Fukushima nuclear plant. The institute has been monitoring
radioactivity in Japanese marine life for the past five decades,
after nuclear arms testing by the U.S. and the former  Soviet
Union  raised concerns about contamination.  Alfonsino, Mackerel  The institute detected 3 becquerel per kilogram of cesium-
137 in anchovy, but nothing in samples from alfonsino, mackerel,
spear squid and olive flounder. The level was far below the
standard set by Japan’s health ministry of 500 becquerel per
kilogram for fish.  “Unlike mercury, radioactive cesium won’t be accumulated
or concentrated in fish as it is discharged,” said Takami
Morita, a researcher at the Fisheries Agency. Radiation is also
diluted in seawater, lowering the contamination risk.  Japan’s health ministry requires each prefectural governor
to test agricultural and marine products for radioactive
contamination and restricts shipments from regions where tainted
foods are discovered. The ministry has tentatively set tolerable
levels of radioactivity for each product.  The government has restricted shipments of raw milk and
vegetables from Fukushima and neighboring prefectures after it
discovered contaminated products.  To alleviate concerns, Japan will explain the safety of its
products sold in the domestic and overseas markets to the  World
Trade Organization , Isa said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aya Takada in Tokyo at 
 atakada2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  