-- 
Switzerland Shouldn’t Rush to Stricter Bank Rules, Ermotti Says

-- B y   E l e n a   L o g u t e n k o v a
-- 
2011-03-30T19:55:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-30/switzerland-shouldn-t-rush-to-stricter-bank-rules-ermotti-says.html
Sergio Ermotti ,  UBS AG (UBSN) ’s designated
head of European business, said Switzerland shouldn’t rush to
implement stricter rules for its biggest banks before other
countries.  “The recent crisis jump-started the political engine of
reforms. This political machine needs to slow down here in
Switzerland,” Ermotti, who is due to start as head of  Europe ,
Middle East and  Africa  at the biggest Swiss bank on April 1,
said today in a speech in Lugano, Switzerland. “It is not the
time to gamble or to rush.”  The Swiss government, which had to prop up UBS in the 2008
financial crisis, proposed changes to banking laws that require
UBS and  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN)  to hold capital equal to at least
19 percent of assets, weighted according to risk, by 2019. That
compares with a 10.5 percent requirement set by the  Basel
Committee on Banking Supervision  for lenders worldwide.  If other regulators don’t follow Switzerland in tightening
requirements, a crisis elsewhere can still hurt the Swiss banks,
Ermotti said. He said the comments represented his opinion and
weren’t necessarily the views of UBS.  Swiss banks will have to make more money than international
rivals while fulfilling stricter requirements or be forced to
divest businesses and invest in other banks, Ermotti said. It’s
“wishful thinking” to consider that Swiss financial
institutions can in the future only focus on private banking, he
added.  Ermotti, 50, left UniCredit SpA, Italy’s biggest bank, in
October after a management shakeup. He’s a Swiss national and
worked 18 years at Merrill Lynch & Co. before joining UniCredit
in 2005 as head of markets and investment banking. He was named
a deputy chief executive officer of the Italian lender in July
2007.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elena Logutenkova in Lugano at 
 elogutenkova@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  