-- 
U.K. Stocks Halt Six-Day Rally on Irish Bank Capital; HSBC Drops

-- B y   S a r a h   J o n e s
-- 
2011-03-31T16:36:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-30/u-k-stocks-advance-as-bhp-mining-companies-rally-in-london.html
U.K. stocks dropped in the final
minutes of trading, halting the longest stretch of gains in six
months, after Irish regulators instructed four banks to raise 24
billion euros ($34 billion) in additional capital.  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA) ,  Barclays Plc (BARC)  and Standard Chartered Plc
all fell more than 1 percent. Irish lenders were suspended in
Dublin.  Kingfisher Plc (KGF)  led retailers lower after  Mothercare Plc (MTC) 
cut its guidance and U.K.  consumer confidence  held near a two-
year low.  The FTSE 100 slid 39.54, or 0.7 percent, to 5,908.76 at the
4:30 p.m. close in London, trimming its quarterly gain to 0.2
percent. The gauge had rallied for the previous six days. The
 FTSE All-Share Index (ASX)  fell 0.7 percent while Ireland’s ISEQ Index
lost 0.4 percent.  Ireland’s central bank announced at the close of trading
that  Allied Irish Banks Plc (ALBK)  must raise 13.3 billion euros in
additional capital and Bank of Ireland Plc will require 5.2
billion euros.  Irish Life  & Permanent Plc and EBS Building
Society must raise the remaining 5.5 billion euros.  “This has exhausted about 70 percent of the bank fund set
up last year,” said Ioan Smith, a director at Knight Capital
 Europe  Ltd. in London. “The first blush is that it is slightly
‘better’ than expectations, but the market is awaiting Noonan’s
plans for a radical restructure of the sector.”  Allied Irish, EBS  Speaking to parliament after the close of trading,
Ireland’s Finance Minister  Michael Noonan  said Allied Irish and
EBS are to be merged. Irish Life will sell its life assurance
and investment management units and Noonan said “in all
likelihood” the government will end up with a majority stake in
the company.  HSBC, Europe’s largest bank, dropped 2.3 percent to 641
pence, Barclays lost 2.2 percent to 277.55 pence and  Standard
Chartered Plc (STAN)  retreated 1.1 percent to 1,617 pence.  Kingfisher, Europe’s biggest home-improvement retailer,
dropped 3.3 percent to 245.9 pence. Next, the owner of more than
500 fashion stores in the U.K. and Ireland, retreated 1.5
percent to 1,980 pence and  Dixons Retail Plc (DXNS) , which yesterday
said earnings will miss analysts’ estimates, tumbled 8.2 percent
to 12.57 pence.  Shares of Mothercare sank 9.5 percent to 400 pence after
the retailer lowered its full-year guidance for gross margins in
the U.K., citing weak consumer demand.  Consumer Confidence  A report today by GfK NOP Ltd. said consumer confidence in
the U.K. stayed close to the lowest since March 2009 this month
and Britons became more reluctant to make major purchases. The
index of sentiment held at minus 28 from February and was down
from minus 15 a year ago.  Randgold Resources Ltd. (RRS)  paced advancing shares, surging 8.8
percent to 4,968 pence, amid speculation the four-month
political crisis in the  Ivory Coast  may soon end following the
rapid advance of the Republican Forces loyal to President-elect
Alassane Ouattar.  Randgold, which controls the Tongon gold deposit in the
Ivory Coast, also advanced after the company forecast
“significant” production increases and lower cash costs per
ounce of gold, driven by expected improvements in mineral grades
and new mining projects over the next five years.  ARM Holdings Plc (ARM)  advanced 2.2 percent to 575 pence after
BofA Merrill Lynch Global Research raised its recommendation for
the designer of semiconductors to “buy” from “neutral.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Jones in  London  at 
 sjones35@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  