-- 
U.S. Mortgage Applications Decline Most in Six Weeks as Refinancing Slumps

-- B y   A l e x   K o w a l s k i
-- 
2011-03-30T11:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-30/u-s-mortgage-applications-fell-7-5-last-week-on-refinancing.html
Mortgage applications in the U.S.
fell last week by the most since the period ended Feb. 11 as
higher  interest rates  discouraged home buying and refinancing.  The  Mortgage Bankers Association ’s index of loan
applications decreased 7.5 percent in the week ended March 25.
The group’s refinancing measure dropped by 10 percent, while the
gauge of purchases fell 1.7 percent.  A slide in home prices may idle potential buyers who
anticipate even lower values in coming months. Foreclosures are
adding to the excess supply of distressed properties, leaving
some Americans with bigger mortgages than their homes are worth,
hampering relocation.  “If people are not sure when homes prices should bottom,
they’re going to be less likely to want to invest in a home,”
Celia Chen, an economist at Moody’s Analytics Inc. in  West
Chester ,  Pennsylvania , said before the report. “Weaker demand
will weaken  home prices , making it more difficult for those who
are distressed to sell their homes.”  Residential real estate prices dropped in January by the
most in more than a year, raising the risk that U.S. home sales
will keep slowing. The S&P/Case-Shiller index of property values
in 20 cities fell 3.1 percent from January 2010, the group said
yesterday.  Rising interest rates are a hurdle as well. The average
rate on a 30-year fixed loan increased last week to 4.92 percent
from 4.80 percent, the mortgage bankers group said. Borrowing
costs have increased since reaching 4.21 percent in October, the
lowest since the group’s records began in 1990.  The average rate on a 15-year fixed mortgage increased to
4.16 percent from 4.02 percent.  Refinancing Share  The share of applicants seeking to refinance a loan fell to
64.3 from 66.4 percent.  Home sales haven’t recovered for the U.S. spring selling
season, usually the busiest time for buyers,  Lennar Corp. (LEN)  Chief
Executive Officer Stuart Miller said during a conference call
with investors yesterday.  “The long-awaited selling season of 2011 has not yet
defined itself as the beginning of a recovery cycle,” Miller
said. “We continue to believe that the housing recovery will
take time and patience and will be inconsistent and uneven”  Miami-based Lennar, the second-most profitable U.S.
homebuilder last year, unexpectedly reported net income for the
first quarter after booking a lawsuit settlement and adding
income from its distressed-investing unit.  Purchases of new homes fell in February to the lowest level
on record, the Commerce Department said on March 23. Builders
started construction on 479,000 dwellings at an annual pace last
month, almost matching the record-low 477,000 rate reached in
April 2009.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Kowalski in Washington at 
 akowalski13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  