-- 
U.S. Treasury Sees $24 Billion Profit From Rescue Programs

-- B y   R e b e c c a   C h r i s t i e
-- 
2011-03-30T20:48:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-30/u-s-treasury-sees-24-billion-profit-from-rescue-programs-1-.html
The Treasury Department said today
the U.S. government’s financial rescue programs will earn a
combined profit of about $24 billion, based on current market
conditions.  The new estimate includes the Troubled Asset Relief
Program, for which Congress approved $700 billion, along with
rescue efforts by the Federal Reserve and other regulators.
Losses from support to  Fannie Mae ,  Freddie Mac  and other housing
programs should be offset by profits from the Treasury’s
investments in banks and purchases of mortgage-backed
securities, along with Fed earnings, the Treasury said in a
statement.  Treasury projections now show a combined $28.1 billion loss
from TARP and related support to  American International Group
Inc. (AIG) , the department said. Most of those expected losses come
from housing programs and support to the  auto industry .  Support for Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, the two government-
backed mortgage companies that have been in conservatorship
since 2008, is expected to cost $73 billion, the Treasury said.  Other programs are expected to make a profit. The Treasury
projected a $13.5 billion gain from sales of its portfolio of
mortgage-backed securities, which were purchased to support the
housing finance market in 2008 and 2009.  Profits From Fed  A program to backstop money-market mutual funds generated
$1.2 billion for the government coffers, and the  Federal
Reserve ’s programs are expected to generate a profit of $110
billion for taxpayers, the Treasury said.  The Treasury said today that it has received $251 billion
to date from its program to inject capital into U.S. banks,
through a combination of repayments, warrant sales and
dividends. This is $6 billion more than the $245 billion spent
on that program.  The capital purchase program is expected to turn a $12.4
billion profit overall. Including related programs that
supported  Citigroup Inc. (C)  and Bank of America Corp., the Treasury
expects about $20 billion in profits from TARP banking
initiatives.  “The direct fiscal costs of the financial stability
program are extremely low and almost without historical
precedent,” said Tim Massad, acting assistant secretary for
financial stability, on the Treasury’s website today. He said
Americans were “rightfully angry” that  Wall Street  needed such
a broad-based rescue and said new financial regulations will
help to prevent future bailouts.  Also today,  Neil Barofsky , special inspector general for
TARP, said in a congressional hearing that the effort’s “most
significant legacy” may be establishing a precedent for future
bailouts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rebecca Christie in Washington at  rchristie4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  