-- 
Radiation ‘Far Below’ Risk Levels Found in U.S. Milk Samples

-- B y   K i m   C h i p m a n   a n d   S t e p h a n i e   A r m o u r
-- 
2011-03-31T16:28:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-30/u-s-epa-finds-some-radiation-in-milk-will-step-up-monitoring-nationwide.html
Radiation “far below” levels that
pose a risk to humans was found in milk from California and
 Washington , the first signs Japan’s nuclear accident is
affecting U.S. food, state and federal officials said.  The U.S. is stepping up monitoring of radiation in milk,
rain and drinking water, the Environmental Protection Agency and
 Food and Drug Administration  said yesterday in a statement.  While the agencies said the amounts detected are “far
below levels of public health concern,” including for infants
and children, advocacy groups such as  Public Citizen  disagreed.  “There continues to be a significant risk of increased
radiation releases that could result in detrimental health and
safety impacts to American populations,”  Tyson Slocum , research
director of the energy program at  Public Citizen , said in an
interview. “The emphasis appears to be on downplaying the
risks.”  Radioactive  iodine-131  was found in a March 25 milk sample
from Spokane that is more than 5,000 times lower than risk
levels set by the FDA, according to the agencies. Iodine-131 was
found in a March 28 milk sample in California, the state
Department of  Public Health  said. The reading also is below risk
levels, Mike Sicilia, a spokesman, said yesterday.  The U.S. is tracking radiation from the Fukushima Dai-Ichi
nuclear power station, which was crippled by the March 11
earthquake and tsunami that knocked out power needed to keep
nuclear fuel rods cool and undamaged.  ‘Very, Very Low’  The amount of iodine-131 in the Washington milk was 0.8
picocurie per liter, according to the agencies. A picocurie is
one-trillionth of a curie, a measurement of a radiological dose.
Similar findings are likely in the coming days, the agencies
said.  Ira Helfand, a director of  Physicians for Social
Responsibility , said the amount found in the milk is “very,
very low” and wouldn’t require anyone drinking it to take
potassium iodine pills, an antidote to prevent thyroid damage in
the event of dangerous exposure.  While any exposure “raises the risk of getting cancer,”
the levels reported in Spokane pose “very, very, very low
health consequences” Helfand said in a telephone interview from
Springfield, Massachusetts.  “I’m much more worried about the situation for people in
Japan,” he said.  Milk from  California , the biggest producing state, is safe
based on government findings, Jennifer Giambroni, spokeswoman
for the California Milk Advisory Board, said in an e-mail.  ‘Highest Priority’  “Consumer safety is the highest priority for dairy farmers
and dairy-foods companies,” Giambroni said. “The  dairy
industry  will continue to work closely with federal and state
government agencies to ensure that we maintain a safe milk
supply.”  California produced about 40 billion pounds of milk in
2007, valued at $7.3 billion, according to the  California
Department of Food and Agriculture  website.  Consumers should have no concern about radiation in fruits
and vegetables, said Patrick Delaney, spokesman for the
Washington-based  United Fresh Produce Association , which
represents produce companies.  “At this point, there isn’t a danger of contamination,”
Delaney said in an interview.  In  Japan , government officials asked farmers to keep cows
and cattle in barns as radioactive contamination of milk spread
from Fukushima prefecture, north of  Tokyo . Japan restricted raw-
milk shipments from Fukushima and neighboring Ibaraki prefecture
after tainted products were found in random testing.  Japan Contamination  As many as 99 products, including milk and vegetables such
as spinach, were found contaminated in Tokyo and five regions to
its north and east as of March 26, according to a statement on
the Japanese health ministry’s  website .  In the U.S., elevated levels of radioactive material in
rainwater were reported in Pennsylvania and Massachusetts,
according to the EPA. Radiation levels have been “very low,”
pose no health concern and were to be expected, according to the
agency’s website.  The EPA said it’s reviewing the data from Pennsylvania and
 Massachusetts . The levels are above normal background amounts
reported for the areas, according to the agency.  “Radiation is all around us in our daily lives, and these
findings are a minuscule amount compared to what people
experience every day,” Patricia Hansen, an FDA senior
scientist, said in the statement.  Iodine Half Life  Iodine-131 has a half-life of eight days, and the level
found in milk and dairy products is “expected to drop
relatively quickly,” the agencies said. Radiation gets into
milk when dairy cows eat contaminated grass.  Hansen said the radiation in Spokane is tiny compared with
levels a person receives watching television or taking a round
trip cross-country flight.  Any exposure to radiation carries some risk for U.S.
residents, according to a report on the the Japanese crisis by
 Physicians for Social Responsibility , a Washington-based
advocacy group focused on preventing nuclear war.  “There is no lower limit of exposure under which there is
no damage and which can be considered safe,” according to the
report. “Any amount of radiation will damage cells.”  Consumers are posting concerns on websites such as
 democraticunderground.com , which said it was founded to protest
the  Bush administration . An anonymous March 30 post urged people
to buy dry milk because of radiation in Washington state.  An anonymous poster at  godlikeproductions.com  said he might
buy Nido whole milk power, made by  Nestle SA (NSRGY) , a packaged food
company headquartered in Vevey,  Switzerland .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kim Chipman in Washington at 
 kchipman@bloomberg.net ;
Stephanie Armour in Washington at 
 sarmour@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net  