-- 
Risk-Retention Rules, Insider Trading, AT&T: Compliance

-- B y   E l l e n   R o s e n   a n d   C a r l a   M a i n
-- 
2011-03-30T12:25:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-30/u-s-risk-retention-rules-insider-trading-at-t-compliance.html
U.S. regulators  proposed  a rule
that would require sponsors of asset-backed securities to retain
at least 5 percent of the credit risk of the assets underlying
the securities.  The rule, required by the 2010 Dodd-Frank legislation, will
be proposed by several federal agencies, according to a
statement released by the  Federal Reserve  yesterday.  Regulators “sought to ensure that the amount of credit
risk retained is meaningful, while taking into account market
practices and reducing the potential for the rule to negatively
affect the availability and cost of credit to consumers and
businesses,” the Fed said. Treasury Secretary  Timothy F.
Geithner  said the proposed risk-retention rule “will help
promote better standards for underwriting and securitizing
mortgages.”  The 367-page proposed rule took six agencies eight months
to write. It provides exemptions, including for asset-backed
securities guaranteed by the U.S. government, and for mortgage-
backed securities that are composed exclusively of “qualified
residential mortgages,” a term that will be defined in the
proposal, the central bank said. Banks and bond issuers who meet
high underwriting standards may also be exempt from rules
requiring them to keep a stake in loans they securitize,
according to a draft proposal.  Companies including JPMorgan Chase & Co. and  Ford Motor Co. (F) 
had told regulators that imposing a single method for retaining
risk on different types of bonds would force expensive changes
on sectors that already retain risk, such as auto lending. That
would make loans scarce and raise borrower costs, they said.  In addition to the Fed, the Federal Deposit Insurance
Corp., the Securities and Exchange Commission, the Department of
Housing and Urban Development, the Federal Housing Finance
Agency, and the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency need
to approve the rule before it is formally proposed.  For more on the rules, click here. To watch an interview
with  Sheila Bair  on the rules, click here.  Compliance Policy  FDIC Seeks Comment on ‘Living Wills’ for Financial Firms  The Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. will seek comment on
proposed rules for so-called living wills under which
systemically important financial firms would outline how they
could be unwound in the event of a collapse.  The FDIC voted 5-0 to approve the proposal, part of the
agency’s expanded authority under the Dodd-Frank Act, at a
meeting in  Washington  yesterday.  Dodd-Frank “appropriately places the responsibility on
financial companies to develop their own resolution plan,” FDIC
Chairman Sheila Bair said. “We will require these institutions
to make substantial changes to their structure” if necessary.  The proposal, part of a joint rulemaking with the Federal
Reserve, will require financial companies to provide information
on credit exposures, funding, capital and cash flows. The plans
are designed to help firms “rationalize” their business models
and mitigate some of the risks that exacerbated the credit
crisis after  Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. (LEHMQ)  collapsed in 2008.  Under the proposal, U.S. bank holding companies with at
least $50 billion in assets as well as foreign-based lenders of
similar size with operations in the U.S., will need such plans,
the FDIC said. Of the 124 firms that will have to come up with
plans, 26 are U.S. bank holding companies, the agency said.  “My concern with the rule is that the resolution plans it
requires are novel, complex, and untested,” said  John Walsh ,
who serves on the FDIC board as acting Comptroller of the
Currency. “No company has ever prepared such a plan, much less
adapted operations to it, and no such plan has ever been tested
in a crisis.”  EU Insurance Rules May Hamper Bond Sales of U.S. Banks  New regulations imposed by the European Union on European
insurance companies may impede efforts by large U.S. banks to
raise  debt capital , according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Capital requirements for European insurers will be
implemented next year, under a program known as Solvency II.
Under the rules, the longer the duration of a bond an insurer
owns, the higher the capital reserve the insurer will be
required to hold. For example, capital reserves held against a
five-year bond will be about half the amount held against an
equivalent 10-year bond.  Historically, European insurers have been significant
buyers of the long-term debt of U.S. banks. Some European
insurance companies say they may become reluctant to buy longer-
dated bonds because holding so much in reserves will be too
costly. For U.S. banks that rely on European insurers, this may
pose a problem.  Bloomberg Government examined two outstanding bonds issued
by  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  as a case study in whether these
regulations will affect U.S. banks. One of the bonds matures in
2020 and the other, a trust preferred security, matures in 2037.  At the end of 2009,  JPMorgan  had $110 billion of
outstanding debt and trust preferred securities with maturities
of longer than five years. This represents 37.3 percent of
JPMorgan’s outstanding bonds and hybrid capital.  The top 20 holders of these two bonds owned on average 37.6
percent of the outstanding issues. European insurers represented
about 16.5 percent of the top 20.  Howard Opinsky, JPMorgan’s managing director of corporate
communications, says that European insurers own significantly
less of the bank’s outstanding debt than the 16.5 percent would
suggest, though he couldn’t estimate how much they held. He said
the bank hadn’t considered the impact of the European rules,
adding that the bank had “very diversified funding options.”  For more, click here.  Power Plants  Face EPA Cooling-Water Rules to Protect Fish  Utilities such as  Entergy Corp. (ETR)  face U.S. rules aimed at
preventing fish from being sucked into cooling-water systems and
costing industry $384 million a year, the Environmental
Protection Agency said.  The Obama administration’s proposal introduced yesterday
will affect more than 1,200 facilities and save billions of
aquatic organisms, including 615 million fish and shellfish a
year, the agency said in an e-mailed statement.  The EPA rule, part of a court settlement with environmental
groups, will cover power plants and factories that pull water
from rivers or lakes to cool machines. Existing facilities will
work with states to determine how to meet the requirements while
new units will have to use closed-cycle cooling, a system that
draws less water and ensnares fewer fish.  “The EPA’s approach is likely to minimize the industry’s
cost of compliance,” Hugh Wynne, an analyst at Sanford
Bernstein & Co. in  New York , wrote yesterday in a report to
clients.  The EPA’s pending proposal under the  Clean Water Act  had
been singled out by energy companies, industry groups and
Republican lawmakers as a regulation that may burden electric
utilities and cause some coal-fired power plants to shut down.  Representative  Fred Upton , a Michigan Republican, in
December said the rule might cost utilities as much as $300
million per site for coal-fired plants and as much as $1 billion
for nuclear generators, exceeding the EPA’s projections.  Entergy, a New Orleans-based owner of coal-fired and
nuclear power plants, has said the rule may force it to spend
$1.2 billion building two cooling towers at its Indian Point
plant along the Hudson River north of  New York City .  Two environmental groups, the  Natural Resources Defense
Council  and Riverkeeper, criticized the EPA for shifting the
matter to the states. The proposal won’t stop plants from
harming billions of fish that get pinned against screens
covering water intake pipes, according to the organizations.  For more, click here.  U.K. Bribery Act Won’t Apply to Sports Events, Client Meals  Britain’s Bribery Act won’t prevent companies from treating
clients to tickets for sporting events or fancy dinners as the
U.K. clarified the law before it takes effect in July.  Prosecutions under the law must be based on the public
interest and it will be up to the  Serious Fraud Office  and  Crown
Prosecution Service  to use common sense in enforcement actions,
U.K. Justice Secretary Kenneth Clarke said today.  The act is considered by some lawyers as one of the
strictest anti-corruption laws in the world, along with the U.S.
Foreign Corrupt Practices Act. Under the law, U.K. companies
without adequate controls to prevent corruption may be
prosecuted if a bribe is paid by third parties on their behalf
anywhere in the world, even if company officials didn’t know.  The act had been delayed several times as business groups
lobbied the ministry to publish detailed guidance to make the
law more business-friendly and clarify provisions that may be
too vague to defend in a prosecution. The proposal was
criticized over clauses that would have classified fancy dinners
or sports tickets for foreign officials as bribes.  The U.K. SFO and Crown Prosecution Service, which will be
responsible for enforcing the law, will also publish guidance
today, spokespeople for both agencies said.  For more, click here.  U.K. to Reform No-Win No-Fee to Brake ‘Compensation Culture’  The U.K. will change how lawyers are paid in “no-win no-
fee” court cases to stop spiraling legal costs from harming the
legal system, Justice Secretary Kenneth Clarke announced
yesterday.  “Success fees” will be paid out of damages awarded to
claimants -- with a cap of 25 percent -- rather than by
defendants who are currently liable for as much as 100 percent
of the winning lawyer’s base costs on top of their usual fee,
the  Ministry of Justice  said. The reforms will also see a 10
percent increase in general damages.  The reforms will cut costs for businesses and public
agencies, Justice Minister Jonathan Djanogly said, with the
 National Health Service  saving 50 million pounds ($80 million) a
year that it currently pays in success fees. A supermarket chain
informed the department that 60 percent of the pay-outs it makes
on legal claims goes to lawyers with 40 percent going to the
injured parties, Djanogly said, without identifying the company.  The department also opened a consultation on reforms to the
civil justice system, including encouraging more use of
mediation, small claims court and online services to settle
cases.  Compliance Action  U.S. Charges FDA Chemist in $3 Million  Insider-Trading  Scheme  A U.S. Food and Drug Administration chemist and his son
were arrested by federal authorities and accused of reaping at
least $3 million from trading on nonpublic information related
to drug-approval applications.  Cheng Yi Liang, 57, and Andrew Liang, 25, face charges of
conspiracy to commit securities and wire fraud, according to a
Justice Department statement yesterday. The Securities and
Exchange Commission, in a parallel civil suit filed at federal
court in Greenbelt,  Maryland , said the elder Liang made $3.6
million by trading shares of 19 firms before 27 FDA decisions
since 2006.  Federal law bars the FDA from disclosing that a drug
application has been filed, whether it is conducting a review
and whether it has issued a so-called complete response letter
that describes specific deficiencies in the application,
according to the lawsuit. The FDA only discloses information
when it approves a new drug, the SEC said.  The chemist, who worked for the FDA’s  Center for Drug
Evaluation and Research , violated his duty as a federal employee
not to engage in financial transactions using nonpublic
government information and not to use such information for his
personal benefit, according to the SEC. The agency is seeking
disgorgement of illegal profits and unspecified fines.  “The insider trading laws apply to employees of the
federal government just as they do to Wall Street traders,
corporate insiders, or hedge fund executives,” said Daniel
Hawke, head of the SEC’s market abuse unit.  Liang, identified in the SEC suit as a resident of
Gaithersburg, Maryland, didn’t respond to a phone call seeking
comment.  “FDA is aware that one of its employees has been charged
with insider trading,” Erica V. Jefferson, a spokeswoman for
the agency, said in an e-mail statement. “The agency is
cooperating fully with the authorities and will review the
situation and take any appropriate action.”  The SEC’s case is Securities and Exchange Commission vs.
Cheng Yi Liang, 8:11-cv-00819-RWT, District of Maryland
(Greenbelt Division). The criminal cases are U.S. v. Chen Yi
Liang, 8:11-mj-01236-WGC, and U.S. v. Andrew Liang, 8:11-mj-
01237-WGC, District of Maryland.  For more, click here.  AT&T’s T-Mobile Purchase Faces Scrutiny by N.Y. Authorities  AT&T Inc. (T) ’s proposed $39 billion purchase of  T-Mobile USA 
will undergo a “thorough review” by New York authorities for
possible anti-competitive impact, state Attorney General  Eric
Schneiderman  said yesterday.  AT&T said March 20 that it agreed to buy T-Mobile from
 Deutsche Telekom AG. (DTE)  The acquisition would combine the second-
and fourth-largest U.S. wireless providers. The deal may take a
year to win government approval, as U.S. regulators determine
whether the transaction will reduce customer choice.  Schneiderman said the potential impact of the merger may be
greater in Upstate cities such as Rochester, Albany, Buffalo and
Syracuse, where there are fewer wireless options, than in New
York City. He said he is also concerned about the impact on
consumers who have T-Mobile as a “low-cost option.”  The attorney general’s review will weigh the benefits to
New Yorkers against the anti-competitive risks. Schneiderman
said he will “closely scrutinize” AT&T’s argument that the
merger may be beneficial because of expanded coverage of the
company’s next-generation wireless network to underserved rural
areas with poor service.  “We look forward to sharing information with the AG’s
office and remain excited about the significant consumer and
competition benefits that this transaction will provide,
including improved  customer service  and expanded high-speed LTE
wireless coverage to additional residents and areas across New
York State and the rest of the U.S.,” Mike Buckley, an AT&T
spokesman, said by e-mail.  Bank’s Mortgage Shortcuts May Have Dodged $20 Billion in Costs  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  and  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC)  led U.S.
mortgage servicers that may have jointly avoided more than $20
billion in costs since 2007 by cutting corners on collections
and foreclosures, confidential estimates by the Consumer
Financial Protection Bureau show.  The fledgling bureau provided the analysis in a seven-page
Feb. 14 presentation to state  attorneys general  led by Iowa’s
Tom Miller, who are pressing banks to accept billions of dollars
in fines and concessions, including principal reductions on home
loans, after a probe of foreclosure practices. A $5 billion
penalty would be “too low,” and banks can afford more, the
agency found.  “Rough estimates suggest that the largest servicers may
have saved more than $20 billion through under-investment in
proper servicing during the crisis,” the bureau wrote in the
document. “A penalty based on servicing costs avoided would
have little effect on Tier 1 capital ratios,” a measure of
financial strength, it said.  JPMorgan Chase & Co. and  Citigroup Inc. (C) , both based in New
York, are also among banks listed as saving the most money. The
estimate, spanning the period from 2007 to Sept. 30 last year,
assumes that “effective special servicing” of delinquent
mortgages would have boosted firms’ costs 75 basis points
annually. A basis point is one-hundredth of a percentage point.  In talks on a mortgage-servicing settlement, regulators and
state attorneys general in February floated a possible $20
billion to $25 billion penalty for banks, according to two
people briefed on the talks.  Banks are resisting the penalties on grounds that federal
agencies haven’t found widespread examples of unjustified home
seizures. John Walsh, acting Comptroller of the Currency, told
lawmakers last month that his agency’s investigation had found
only a “small number” of wrongful foreclosures.  The presentation, with seven slides, was published on the
Huffington Post’s  website  on March 28 after business hours in
Washington. Its authenticity was confirmed to Bloomberg News by
a person with knowledge of the discussions.  Spokesmen for Citigroup, Bank of America and Ally declined
to comment. JPMorgan spokeswoman  Kristin Lemkau  wasn’t
immediately available.  For more, click here.  Dying Banks Kept Alive Show Secrets Fed’s Data Will Reveal  U.S. regulators closed Chicago-based  Park National Bank  in
October 2009 when it owed $345 million to one of the lowest-cost
lenders in town: the Federal Reserve’s discount window. Park
National had been a constant customer at the window for more
than 18 months before it failed, records show.  That glimpse into the loan program, gleaned through the
Freedom of Information Act, will be expanded this week with an
unprecedented view of the secret lifelines the Fed extended to
hundreds of banks. Officials plan to release documents that
amount to more than 6,000 pages, according to court records.
Bloomberg LP, the parent company of Bloomberg News, and News
Corp.’s Fox News Network LLC requested the records under FOIA,
then sued after the central bank refused to release them.  Without identifying them as of yet, Fed officials say all
the discount window loans made during the worst financial crisis
since the 1930s have been repaid with interest. Cases such as
Park National’s show how the lending amounted to a secret public
subsidy, with few questions asked.  “Solvency is the big issue,” said Arthur Wilmarth, a
professor at George Washington University Law School in
Washington. “Was the Fed keeping banks alive when they should
have died?”  Banks were able to tap the window for loans at rates below
the market after subprime mortgage defaults contributed to
record losses for them and credit markets began to seize up.  “The Fed really provided an inexpensive source of
funding,” Daniel Watts, the former executive vice president at
Park National in charge of all business lines, said in a
telephone interview. The Federal Deposit Insurance Corp.
estimates Park National’s closure  cost  its insurance fund $656
million. The FDIC typically repays discount window loans in the
process of resolving a failed bank.  The Fed is expected to release this week documents related
to discount window lending from August 2007 to March 2010,
including the peak month of October 2008, when loans hit $111
billion.  The disclosures, the first of their kind for a lending
program that dates to 1914, will provide the fullest view yet of
which banks needed the most public help during the crisis. From
now on, data about the program will be available only after a
two-year lag, under provisions in the  Dodd-Frank financial
regulatory law  that Congress adopted last year.  For more, click here.  Bank-Client Compensation in U.K. Rose 11% in 2010 Second Half  Compensation paid by U.K. banks and other financial
companies to dissatisfied customers rose by 11 percent in the
second-half of 2010, as sales of payment-protection insurance
triggered extra complaints.  Banks, insurers and investment firms paid out 454 million
pounds ($729.5 million) in compensation between July 1 and Dec.
31, the  U.K. Financial Services Authority  said today on its
 website .  Complaints about “advising, selling and arranging” rose
47 percent from the first half of the year, reaching 538,427,
the FSA said. This was “mainly caused” by dissatisfaction
about PPI.  PPI is used to cover payments on credit cards and mortgages
in case of illness or unemployment. The FSA published new rules
in August on how consumer complaints about PPI should be
handled.  Kaupthing’s Former Luxembourg Offices Raided in U.K. Probe  Law enforcement agencies from three countries raided
businesses and homes in Luxembourg, including Kaupthing Bank
hf’s former offices, as part of a U.K. investigation into the
collapse of the Icelandic bank.  Luxembourg police and investigators from U.K. and Icelandic
prosecutors executed search warrants on three businesses and two
residences March 28, the U.K. Serious Fraud Office said.  The SFO is investigating “decision-making” at Kaupthing,
the last of Iceland’s three biggest banks to collapse in 2008,
which allowed some investors to take out large loans before its
demise.  Luxembourg police spokesman Vic Reuter said 73
investigators participated in the searches at sites including
Kaupthing’s former offices, which are now part of Banque
Havilland SA.  Banque Havilland said in a statement that the raids weren’t
related to its activities and that it was cooperating with the
authorities.  For more, click here.  Rambourg Says FSA Ends Probe, Won’t Take Disciplinary Action  Guillaume Rambourg, the former  Gartmore Group Ltd. (GRT)   fund
manager  who quit amid a Financial Services Authority probe last
year, said the U.K. regulator won’t penalize him over
allegations of improper  stock trading .  The FSA concluded its investigation and informed Rambourg
that it doesn’t plan to take any disciplinary action against
him, the former fund manager said in a statement yesterday.
Rambourg, 40, said in a statement that he plans to manage money
again and “can now put the events of the past year behind me.”  Gartmore suspended Rambourg a year ago with the London-based
firm’s then chief executive officer, Jeffrey Meyer, saying he
may have improperly directed buy and sell orders to favored
brokers. Rambourg returned to Gartmore in April as an investment
analyst, only to quit two months later after the FSA announced
it had opened an investigation into his actions.  FSA spokesman Chris Hamilton confirmed Rambourg’s statement
was accurate. Hamilton declined to comment further.  Rambourg will have to apply to the FSA if he wants to
manage money again either at a firm or on his own.  Courts  AmEx Loses Bid to Dismiss Foreign-Exchange Fee Suit  American Express Co. (AXP) , the world’s biggest credit-card
issuer by purchases, must face a class-action lawsuit accusing
it of conspiring to fix foreign-currency conversion fees.  U.S. District Judge William Pauley in New York yesterday
rejected a bid by AmEx to dismiss the group lawsuit originally
filed in 2004. He said AmEx failed to provide documentation to
support its defense.  “That Amex cannot pinpoint the precise date of its
decision to implement a foreign exchange fee is arresting,”
Pauley said in his ruling. “The lack of internal company
documentation raises suspicion.”  The plaintiffs, holders of Visa or MasterCard credit cards
issued by more than a dozen banks including Citigroup Inc. and
Bank of America Corp., allege that AmEx engaged in a price-
fixing conspiracy with banks and also conspired to include
compulsory arbitration clauses in cardholder agreements.  The plaintiffs said the price-fixing scheme began when AmEx
met with representatives of other banks in May 1999, Pauley said
in his decision. After the meeting, Amex raised its foreign-
exchange conversion fee to 2 percent from 1 percent, and some
other banks also raised their fees, according to the ruling.  AmEx argued there was no evidence that the fee increases
resulted from a conspiracy involving the New York-based company,
according to the ruling. AmEx also said the plaintiffs lacked
standing under the arbitration clause to bring a conspiracy
claim because they couldn’t demonstrate a “threatened loss.”  While “the plaintiffs are not AmEx cardholders, they
nevertheless suffered reduced choice in the marketplace as a
result of AmEx’s alleged collusion with the banks,” Pauley said
in his ruling.  Joanna Lambert, an AmEx spokeswoman, said in an e-mailed
statement, “While we don’t comment on the specifics of pending
litigation, we do note that the judge’s decision makes no
findings other than the plaintiff may proceed with its case. We
intend to continue to vigorously defend the case.”  The case is Ross v. American Express Co., 04-cv-05723, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  Merrill Lynch Wins Dismissal of CDO Derivative Lawsuits  Bank of America Corp.’s Merrill Lynch won dismissal of
lawsuits brought by investors who said they experienced losses
as a result of aggressive investments in collateralized debt
obligations.  U.S. District Judge Jed Rakoff in New York on March 28
dismissed the two so-called double derivative suits brought on
behalf of the company in 2007 and 2009. The investors wanted the
largest U.S. lender by assets to force its Merrill unit to bring
claims against the subsidiary’s officers and directors, he said.  The allegations in the complaints describe “the kind of
risky behavior by high-ranking financiers that helped create the
economic crisis from which so many Americans continue to
suffer,” the judge said in his written ruling.  Rakoff concluded the shareholders failed to show that the
Charlotte, North Carolina-based bank’s board was “so involved
in the underlying wrongdoing alleged in the derivative complaint
that it could not impartially consider a demand to pursue claims
against the Merrill officers and directors.”  Shirley Norton , a spokeswoman for Bank of America, which
acquired Merrill Lynch in 2009, said she didn’t have an
immediate comment.  CDOs are securities backed by corporate loans, mortgages,
auto loans, credit cards and other assets that are sliced into
layers carrying different levels of risk.  The cases are In Re: Merrill Lynch & Co. Securities
Litigation, 07-CV-09633, and N.A. Lambrecht v. O’Neal, 09-cv-
08259, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  Ex-Galleon Employee Says Firm Used Insider Tips for ‘Edge’  Adam Smith , a former Galleon Group LLC portfolio manager,
testified that the firm used insider tips as an “edge” in a
strategy to make money when company revenue figures differed
from the Wall Street consensus.  Smith, 39, told jurors in the criminal trial of Raj
Rajaratnam yesterday that part of his job was “getting the
number” -- learning revenue figures before they became public -
- from insiders at publicly traded companies including  Intel
Corp. (INTC) , the world’s largest semiconductor maker,  Intersil Corp. (ISIL) 
and Synaptics Inc.  “Research is sort of doing your homework ahead of time,”
Smith told jurors. “Getting the number is more like cheating on
the test.”  Smith has pleaded guilty and is cooperating with
prosecutors. Yesterday, he told federal court jurors in
Manhattan that he continued trading on inside information after
leaving Galleon, and even after the October 2009 arrest of
Rajaratnam.  The case is U.S. v. Rajaratnam, 1:09-cr-01184, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  For more, click here.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ellen Rosen in New York at 
 erosen14@bloomberg.net ;
Carla Main in  New Jersey  at 
 cmain2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net  