-- 
U.S. Spy Agency Is Said to Investigate Nasdaq Hacker Attack

-- B y   M i c h a e l   R i l e y
-- 
2011-03-30T15:03:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-30/u-s-spy-agency-said-to-focus-its-decrypting-skills-on-nasdaq-cyber-attack.html
The  National Security Agency , the
top U.S. electronic intelligence service, has joined a probe of
the October cyber attack on  Nasdaq OMX Group Inc. (NDAQ)  amid evidence
the intrusion by hackers was more severe than first disclosed,
according to people familiar with the investigation.  The involvement of the NSA, which uses some of the world’s
most powerful computers for electronic surveillance and
decryption, may help the initial investigators --  Nasdaq  and the
FBI -- determine more easily who attacked and what was taken. It
may also show the attack endangered the security of the nation’s
financial infrastructure.  “By bringing in the NSA, that means they think they’re
either dealing with a state-sponsored attack or it’s an
extraordinarily capable criminal organization,” said Joel Brenner, former head of U.S. counterintelligence in the Bush and
Obama administrations, now at the  Washington  offices of the law
firm Cooley LLP.  The NSA’s most important contribution to the probe may be
its ability to unscramble encrypted messages that hackers use to
extract data, said Ira Winkler, a former NSA analyst and chief
security strategist at  Technodyne LLC , a Wayne, New Jersey-based
information technology consulting firm.  The probe of the attack on the second biggest U.S. stock
exchange operator, disclosed last month, is also being assisted
by foreign intelligence agencies, said one of the people, who
declined like the others to be identified because the
investigation is confidential and in some cases classified. One
of the people said the attack was more extensive than Nasdaq
previously disclosed.  Motive Undetermined  Investigators have yet to determine which Nasdaq systems
were breached and why, and it may take months for them to finish
their work, two of the people familiar with the matter said.  Disclosure of the attack prompted the House Financial
Services Committee in February to begin a review of the safety
of the country’s financial infrastructure, according to the
committee’s chairman,  Spencer Bachus , an Alabama Republican.  The widening investigation may also complicate Nasdaq’s
ability to strike deals to buy or merge with other exchanges at
a time when several competitors have announced such moves,
according to Alexander Tabb, a partner at Tabb Group LLC, a
financial-markets research firm based in Westborough,
 Massachusetts .  “For an organization like Nasdaq, it does have an impact
on the overall perception of their security, their resiliency
and their value,” Tabb said. “For potential partners of the
company, that has to be a concern.”  Exchange Acquisitions  More than $20 billion of exchange acquisitions have been
announced in the past five months, including Singapore Exchange
Ltd.’s $8.3 billion offer for ASX Ltd., London Stock Exchange
Group Plc’s agreement to acquire TMX Group Inc. for $3.1
billion, and  Deutsche Boerse AG (DB1) ’s $9.5 billion deal for  NYSE
Euronext. (NYX)   Nasdaq operators will be hard pressed to assure potential
partners that they have resolved the matter, Tabb said.  “Uncertainty in the functioning of the market is the
biggest blow-back to this event,” Tabb said.  Nasdaq reported in February that the breach of its
computers was limited to a single system known as  Directors
Desk , a product used by board members of companies to exchange
confidential information. The company said that as far as
investigators could determine, no data or documents on that
system were taken.  Other Systems  The NSA-assisted probe is now focused on how far the attack
may have reached, including the breach of other systems, said
one of the people familiar with the probe.  Frank De Maria, a Nasdaq spokesman, declined to comment on
the effect the security breach might have on the company’s
future strategic moves. He said Nasdaq is pursuing its probe and
has no new information about the scope of the attack.  “With every company now, searching the networks for break-
ins and insuring they’re secure has got to be a full-time job,”
De Maria said in an interview.  NSA spokeswoman Vanee Vines declined to comment and
referred all questions to the  Federal Bureau of Investigation ,
the lead agency in the investigation. Jenny Shearer, a
spokeswoman for the FBI, declined to comment.  Directors Desk, where the break-in was discovered, is
designed to allow directors and executives of Nasdaq client
companies to share private files, nonpublic information that
cyber criminals could trade on. Nasdaq bought Directors Desk in
2007 as part of its effort to diversify into corporate services.  Sophisticated hackers often enter computer networks through
a single system, like Directors Desk, then hop to other secure
parts of a computer network, the people familiar with the
investigation said.  Network Vulnerabilities  Tabb said investigators are likely trying to chart which
parts of Nasdaq’s network might have been accessible through
Directors Desk and to ensure those vulnerabilities weren’t
exploited -- a time-consuming process, he said.  Brenner, the former counter-intelligence chief, said he
couldn’t independently confirm the NSA’s role in the probe. He
said the agency rarely gets involved in investigating cyber
attacks against companies.  Brenner said that the NSA played a part in probing the 2009
attack against  Google Inc. (GOOG) , saying that represented “a major
change” for the agency, which monitors the electronic
communications of foreign entities and helps secure the networks
of U.S. government agencies.  “It’s part of an increasing awareness that the distinction
between economic and national security is rapidly breaking
down,” he said.  Unique Tools  The NSA, based at Fort Meade,  Maryland , has the
government’s most detailed knowledge of cyber attackers and
their methods, Brenner said. A 2008 executive order signed by
President  George W. Bush  expanded the NSA’s responsibilities to
include monitoring U.S. government computer networks to detect
cyber attacks.  The NSA could help identify and analyze electronic clues
left behind by the hackers, including communication between the
malicious software used in the attack and the outside computers
that controlled it, Winkler said.  One challenge in analyzing the scope of cyber attacks is
that the information captured by intruders is often sent out in
an encrypted form, making it difficult to tell what was taken,
according to the FBI.  Stealthy Software  Another obstacle, Brenner said, is that the most
sophisticated cyber attacks employ stealthy software that’s
programmed to go dormant for months and can be altered by
hackers in response to changing security measures. That makes it
difficult for investigators to be sure they’ve found all the
malicious software and removed it from the network.  “In theory, the NSA should have the ability to reconstruct
the data that is being obfuscated,” said Winkler, the former
NSA analyst.  One line of inquiry pursued by investigators is whether the
attack is linked to state-based cyber espionage or sabotage,
which would raise national security concerns, one of the people
familiar with the probe said.  De Maria, the Nasdaq spokesman, said in February in
response to an article in the Wall Street Journal that the
exchange had been hacked, that there was no evidence the trading
platform the company runs was breached.  Security dangers include the potential for intruders to
alter trading algorithms and cause a market crash, according to
Larry Dignan, who writes for ZDNet, a technology publication
that’s a unit of CBS Interactive.  Doubts on Trades  Brenner said intruders might do just as much damage by
manipulating trading to create doubt about the validity of
trades. More than 93 billion shares were traded on the Nasdaq
exchange in the fourth quarter of 2010, equal to almost 20
percent of the U.S. equities market, according to the company’s
final quarterly report to the Securities and Exchange Commission
last year.  Initial reports that the computers used in the attack were
based in  Russia  weren’t correct, the people familiar with the
probe said. The investigation has yet to determine the origin of
the attack, they said.  The attack’s sophistication doesn’t rule out that an
organized crime group was responsible, Brenner said. Criminal
enterprises have narrowed the skills gap with state-sponsored
hackers, launching attacks that can penetrate even the best-
guarded computer networks, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story: Michael Riley in
Washington at   michaelriley@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 