-- 
U.S. Confident Allied Campaign Will Push Qaddafi Force Back

-- B y   N i c h o l a s   J o h n s t o n   a n d   R o g e r   R u n n i n g e n
-- 
2011-03-30T22:57:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-30/u-s-confident-allied-campaign-will-push-qaddafi-force-back-1-.html
The Obama administration is
confident that the air campaign by the U.S. and its allies will
push  Muammar Qaddafi ’s loyalists back after they forced rebels
to retreat, White House press secretary  Jay Carney  said.  The U.S. is looking “very closely” at whether to give
more assistance to opposition groups in Libya, though no
decision has been made, Carney said at a briefing.  “We’re assessing and reviewing options for all types of
assistance that we could provide to the Libyan people, and have
consulted directly with the opposition and our international
partners about these matters,” Carney said in a later
statement.  The New York Times  reported earlier  that Central
Intelligence Agency operatives have been deployed in Libya to
gather intelligence and make contact with rebel groups. British
intelligence officers are also in the North African country,
directing airstrikes and compiling information about Libyan
military assets, the Times said.  The newspaper, citing unidentified American officials,
said the agents have been in  Libya  for several weeks working
against forces loyal to Qaddafi.  Presidential Finding  ABC News and Reuters, citing unidentified officials,
reported that Obama has signed a presidential finding that
would authorize covert assistance to rebel groups. The finding
sets up a legal framework to provide aid, Reuters said.  Carney, in his statement, said he wouldn’t comment on
“intelligence matters.”  The U.S. and its allies have been involved in a United
Nations-authorized military operation in Libya for 11 days to
enforce a “no-fly zone” and protect civilians from attacks by
forces loyal to Qaddafi.  Obama has said the military operation will be “limited”
and won’t involve a deployment of U.S. ground troops.  He told NBC News yesterday, as part of a series of
interviews with broadcast networks, that the U.S. will be
providing rebel groups “direct assistance,” which he said
initially would be humanitarian aid, communications equipment
and possibly transportation assistance.  The president said no decision had been made on providing
military assistance.  “It’s fair to say that if we wanted to get weapons into
Libya, we probably could,” Obama told ABC News. “We’re
looking at all our options at this point.”  Republicans and Democrats in Congress are expressing
concern about the U.S. arming anti-Qaddafi forces about which
little is known.  “I’m not encouraged to think that we want to get any
further engrossed in this,” Democratic Representative John Tierney of  Massachusetts  said after a briefing at the Capitol
from administration officials.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nicholas Johnston in Washington at 
 njohnston3@bloomberg.net ;
Roger Runningen in Washington at 
 rrunningen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  