-- 
Huaneng Power Shares Drop as Profit Slides, Misses Estimates

-- B y   W i t h   a s s i s t a n c e   f r o m   W a n g   Y i n g .   E d i t o r s :   P a u l   G o r d o n
-- 
2011-03-30T04:15:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-30/huaneng-power-shares-drop-as-profit-slides-misses-estimates-2-.html
Huaneng Power International Inc. (902) , a
unit of  China ’s biggest power producer, posted a 32 percent
decline in profit last year, missing analysts’ estimates, as the
utility paid more for coal to generate electricity.  Net income fell to 3.35 billion  yuan  ($511 million), or
0.28 yuan a share, from 4.93 billion yuan, or 0.41 yuan, the
previous year, the company said in a  filing  to the Hong Kong
stock exchange yesterday. That’s less than the 3.95 billion-yuan
mean forecast of 16 analysts in a survey compiled by Bloomberg
Data. The utility didn’t report fourth-quarter figures.  China controls electricity tariffs to contain inflation
while the average benchmark price for power-station coal for
immediate delivery at Qinhuangdao, China’s largest port for the
fuel, rose 25 percent last year. About 73 percent of the
nation’s power is produced by coal-fired generators, according
to the China Electricity Council.  “The outlook for the whole coal-fired power generation
industry doesn’t look optimistic this year as fuel prices may
keep rising and inflation concerns are likely to prevent the
government from increasing electricity prices until the middle
of the year,” Juliet Zhu, an analyst with CLSA Asia-Pacific
Markets, said by telephone from  Shanghai  today.  The stock fell as much as 3.6 percent, the biggest decline
since March 15, to HK$4.35, and was at HK$4.44 at the midday
break in Hong Kong. The shares dropped as much as 1.4 percent in
Shanghai.  “Coal prices remain at high levels and there is still a
possibility of tight coal supply during certain periods in some
regions which will bring about new challenges to the stable fuel
supply and control of fuel costs,” according to the statement.
Huaneng Power paid 67.9 billion yuan to purchase coal last year,
an increase of 51 percent from 2009, it said.  Huaneng’s profitability will continue to be affected by
high coal prices as it has invested less in developing its own
mines than rivals such as  China Resources Power Holdings Co. (836) ,
according to a research note published by Citigroup Global
Markets on Feb. 18.  ‘Short-Term Uncertainty’  In 2011, “China faces various new challenges including
maintaining stable and relatively rapid economic development,
managing inflation expectations and adjusting economic
structures,” Huaneng said. “The short-term uncertainty of the
national economy will affect the growth of power demand.”  Net income this year may be 4.72 billion yuan, according to
a mean estimate of 16 analysts. Huaneng increased power
generation by 26 percent last year to 257 billion kilowatt
hours, the company said in a  statement  on Jan. 18. The power
producer’s board of directors recommended a cash dividend of 0.2
yuan per share for 2010, it said.  The Hong Kong-listed  stock  is rated a “buy” by 14 of 29
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. Fourteen rate it a “hold.” The
 shares  have gained 9.2 percent this year, compared with a 0.7
percent rise in the benchmark Hang Seng Index. 