-- 
Tullow Sells Uganda Stakes to CNOOC, Total for $2.9 Billion

-- B y   B r i a n   S w i n t   a n d   F r e d   O j a m b o
-- 
2011-03-30T17:04:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-30/tullow-oil-to-receive-2-9-billion-from-cnooc-total-ugandan-partnership.html
Tullow Oil Plc (TLW)  sold stakes in three
Ugandan exploration blocks to  Total SA (FP)  and  Cnooc Ltd. (883)  for $2.9
billion, paving the way for the development of the Lake Albert
Basin after the deal was delayed by a tax dispute.  Tullow will retain a one-third interest in the blocks, the
company said today in a statement. Once Tullow makes tax
payments to  Uganda , final approval will be granted by the
government. Oil production may start later this year or in early
2012, Andy Oliver, head of operations in Uganda, told reporters
in the capital Kampala.  The deal moves Heritage Oil Plc and Tullow closer to ending
the tax dispute that’s held up plans to develop the East African
nation’s oil industry for a year. While both companies still
dispute the amount owed, Tullow together with China National
Offshore Oil Corp. and Total can now start working toward the
goal of producing at least 200,000 barrels of oil a day from the
venture in 2015.  “It’s a great deal for all concerned,” Tullow Chief
Executive Officer Aidan Heavey said in an interview. “There’s
probably close on $10 billion that’s going to be spent
developing the basin.”  Last year, London-based Tullow paid about $1.5 billion to
 Heritage Oil Plc (HOIL)  for its interests in Block 1 and 3A in the Lake
Albert basin, which holds 1 billion barrels of oil reserves.
Uganda withheld final approval of the deal until the tax issue
was resolved.  Deposited Taxes  Heritage deposited $404.9 million in taxes claimed by the
Ugandan government in two different accounts. The sale of the
assets to Tullow “is not taxable in Uganda,” Heritage
reiterated today in a statement.  Tullow, acting as an agent for Heritage appointed by the
Ugandan government, will pay $313.4 million in disputed taxes to
the authorities within 10 business day, it said today. The
payment will be split equally with Cnooc and Total, Ian
Springett, Tullow’s chief financial officer, told investors on a
conference call.  As part of the agreement, Tullow will pay stamp duty on the
purchase from Heritage levied at 1 percent. It will also have to
pay capital gains tax on the transaction pending the resolution
of a dispute between the government and Heritage.  Tullow also disputes the payment of $472.7 million to the
government in respect of capital gains tax for the sale of the
stakes to Total and Cnooc. Heavey said he expects the final tax
bill to be less.  ‘Still Uncertain’  “While the tax situation is still uncertain, this closes
the chapter on a saga that has been running for over a year,”
said Phil Corbett, an analyst at Royal Bank of Scotland Group
Plc, which is Tullow’s in-house broker.  Tullow rose 1 percent to 1,459 pence in London. Heritage
fell 0.4 percent to 289.9 pence. Total was up 0.4 percent in
Paris. Cnooc advanced 2 percent to HK$19.46 in  Hong Kong .  Today’s agreement includes Tullow’s interests in
exploration Areas 1, 2 and 3A in Uganda. The companies plan to
have Total become the operator of Block 1, Tullow operate Block
2 and have Cnooc take control of Block 3A, Heavey said. New
licenses have also been given for EA-1 and an onshore area of
EA-3A, as well as the rights to develop the Kingfisher
discovery.  The partners and the Ugandan government are discussing
plans to build a 20,000 barrel-a-day  oil refinery  to supply fuel
to the domestic market, Chief Operating Officer Paul McDade also
said today. The companies plan to deploy five drilling rigs in
the second half of the year to explore the fields, which may
hold an additional 1.5 billion barrels of crude resources.  Total today said the Ugandan fields may pump as much as
300,000 barrels a day. Tullow’s McDade said that this target
still has to be appraised and will require “material success”
in exploration.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Swint in  London  at 
 bswint@bloomberg.net 
Fred Ojambo in Kampala at 
 fojambo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  