-- 
UPS Braces for Unknowns in Record Logistics Operation at London Olympics

-- B y   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 
2011-03-30T03:00:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-30/ups-braces-for-unknowns-in-record-logistics-operation-at-london-olympics.html
United Parcel Service Inc. (UPS) , the
world’s largest package-delivery company, is preparing for its
biggest one-time logistics operation at the  London 2012
Olympics .  UPS will deliver 30 million items, ranging from 1 million
pieces of sporting equipment such as javelins, racing bikes or
sailing boats to anti-doping equipment and the Olympic medals,
to 34 competition and training venues. The London Games, which
start on July 27 next year, will eclipse the  2008 Beijing
Olympics , when UPS moved 19 million items, Alan Williams, the
company’s London 2012 sponsorship and operations director, said
in an interview.  The shares of UPS have risen almost 15 percent in the past
year as the Atlanta-based company takes advantage of the
economic recovery. UPS and its competitor FedEx Corp. deliver
products and documents, making them economic bellwethers.  UPS’s participation in the  London  Games may boost growth
further, Williams said. The company’s brand awareness in  China 
increased by one-third after it provided logistics during the
Beijing Games.  “One of the main reasons we’re here is that showcase
element, showing our capability to our customers and potential
customers,” Williams said. “Therefore the end result would be
driving growth for UPS on a global basis.”  UPS on Feb. 1 posted adjusted fourth-quarter profit of
$1.08 a share, which exceeded the average $1.05 projection of 23
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. Revenue rose 8.4 percent to
$13.42 billion, as the company shipped more packages than
expected during the holiday season.  UPS yesterday opened a 331,000-square-foot warehouse and
distribution facility located 33 miles (54 kilometers) north of
London in  Stevenage , the first of its kind in the U.K. A second
warehouse will open in Tilbury in the next few months.  “The biggest challenge is the sheer scale,” Williams
said. “The key thing with the Olympics is that it’s a temporary
supply chain. There are a lot of unknowns in Olympic
logistics.”  UPS in 2000 ended a worldwide endorsement of the
 International Olympic Committee  because a renewal of the so-
called TOP category sponsorship was deemed too expensive. UPS
had joined the TOP program, which gives companies the right to
use the Olympic rings in advertising anywhere, in 1994. The
company acted as worldwide partner for the 1996 Atlanta Games,
the 1998 Nagano  Winter Games  and the 2000 Sydney Olympics.  After dropping the global sponsorship, UPS has been
involved as a domestic logistics provider to the  Olympic Games 
in Beijing and now London 2012.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Rossingh in London at 
 drossingh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  