-- 
James Murdoch Moves A Step Closer to Succeeding Father at News Corp.

-- B y   B r e t t   P u l l e y
-- 
2011-03-30T20:54:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-30/murdoch-s-son-james-appointed-news-corp-s-deputy-chief-operating-officer.html
James Murdoch, son of  News Corp. (NWSA) 
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Rupert Murdoch, moved a
step closer to succeeding his 80-year-old father with his
promotion to deputy chief operating officer.  After heading the company’s operations in  Asia  and  Europe ,
James, 38, will broaden his responsibilities to include News
Corp.’s entire global business. That includes the Fox Television
Network, the Wall Street Journal and the Twentieth Century Fox
film studio in the U.S., as well as newspapers and digital
television operations in Europe and Asia.  In his new position, James will move to News Corp.
headquarters in  New York , returning to the city where his career
began after stints in Hong Kong and  London .  “He’s stepping into the role after being groomed around
the world,” said  David Joyce , an analyst at Miller Tabak & Co.
in New York. “It’s part of the overall family plan to have
James mostly in charge.”  In the newly created deputy COO role, James will continue
to report to chief operating officer  Chase Carey  and oversee
operations in Europe and Asia, the company said today. Carey
would likely become CEO if  Rupert Murdoch  should need to be
replaced in the near future, with James succeeding him later,
Joyce said.  News Corp. rose 25 cents to $17.51 at 4 p.m. New York time
in Nasdaq Stock Market trading. The stock has climbed 20 percent
this year.  Return to New York  The return to New York, where James attended grade school
at the Horace Mann School in the Bronx, comes after a circuitous
journey within News Corp., a company he joined in 1996 after
dropping out of  Harvard University  and starting a hip-hop
recording label.  In 2000, James was sent by his father to Asia, where he
became chairman and CEO of News Corp.’s money-losing Star
television businesses in Asia. He was based in  Hong Kong , and
spent much of his time in  India , developing the nascent pay-TV
market there.  In 2003, at the age of 30, the younger Murdoch moved to
London, and became CEO of British Sky Broadcasting Group Plc, in
which News Corp. holds a controlling stake. In 2007, he was put
in charge of the company’s operations throughout Europe and
Asia, a portfolio that includes digital television distribution
and newspapers, and accounts for 20 percent of the News Corp.’s
$32.8 billion annual revenue.  Film and Television  In his new job, James will have the opportunity to round
out his experience at the company by also working closely with
the film, television and newspaper content-related businesses in
the U.S. In addition to New York, where his father is based,
James will also spend time in  Los Angeles , home to the company’s
entertainment businesses, according to News Corp. spokeswoman
Alice Macandrew.  “He had already been earmarked for this succession,” said
Alex de Groote, a media analyst at Panmure Gordon & Co. in
London. “He’s being groomed for the top job having done his
time at Sky and at News International.”  James Murdoch ’s sister, Elisabeth, 42, is expected to
return to News Corp. after the company announced in February the
purchase of her U.K.-based television production company, Shine
Group Ltd. News Corp. shareholders have filed a lawsuit claiming
nepotism in response to the $675 million purchase of Shine.  Another Murdoch son, Lachlan, 39, left News Corp. in 2005
after serving as deputy COO, the same title James will now hold.
He moved from New York to  Australia , and remains on the News
Corp. board.  Six Children  Rupert Murdoch, at the company’s annual meeting last
October, reiterated that he has no plans to retire. He has said
he’d like to be succeeded by one of his children. He has six
children, including Prudence, Lachlan, James and Elisabeth from
his first two marriages, and two young daughters with his
current wife, Wendi Deng, a former executive from his Asia Star
TV whom he married in 1999.  “They need to groom the Murdoch children some more, and
Chase is a great one to be learning from,” Joyce said,
referring to the chief operating officer.  News Corp. in March won preliminary U.K. government
approval for its 7.8 billion-pound ($12.5 billion) bid to take
full control of  British Sky Broadcasting Group Plc (BSY) , the U.K.’s
biggest pay-TV broadcaster, after agreeing to spin off the Sky
News channel. The deal, News Corp.’s biggest, still needs
approval from BSkyB shareholders, who want the New York-based
company to raise the bid.  For James Murdoch, the U.K. government decision comes as he
fights off phone-hacking claims against the company’s News of
the World tabloid. Celebrities including actress Sienna Miller
have filed more than a dozen lawsuits, claiming that their phone
voicemails were hacked by the News Corp-owned newspaper.  James is also leading the effort to get readers to pay for
online content amid losses at the U.K. newspapers. He’s
introduced online paywalls at the Times and News of The World
and removed all news content from search engine  Google Inc. (GOOG)  He
also introduced a paid-for iPad news publication called The
Daily in tandem with Apple Inc.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brett Pulley in New York at 
 bpulley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net  