-- 
Turkey Gold Beats Banks as Erdogan Fights Inflation Worries

-- B y   S t e v e   B r y a n t   a n d   I l a n   K o l e t
-- 
2011-03-31T10:41:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-30/turkey-gold-beats-banks-as-erdogan-fights-saver-inflation-fears.html
Turkish Prime Minister  Recep Tayyip Erdogan  is struggling to persuade fellow Turks that their banks
are as good as gold.  For every Turk who saved in a deposit account last year,
three opted for gold or cash, a December MasterIndex survey
showed. Those who deposit their lira at banks refuse to do so
for more than a few months, according to the survey commissioned
by MasterCard Worldwide.  Failure to align deposits with increasingly long maturities
of bank loans may put banks at risk, marring Erdogan’s nine
years of record economic growth and market performance.
Inflation slowed to 4.2 percent in February from about 70
percent in 2002, the year Erdogan’s party came to power.  “It’s hard to change ingrained behavior and Turks like to
remain liquid,” said Michael Gomez, co-head of emerging markets
at Pimco, manager of the world’s biggest bond fund, in a
telephone interview from Munich. “One would be remiss not to
pay attention to depositor behavior. They have been through many
cycles.”  It’s getting worse. The average maturity of lira  bank
deposits  fell to 1.7 months in 2010, from 2.8 months in 2002,
when Erdogan, who’s seeking re-election June 12, first came to
office, according to Turkish central bank data.  Decades of Instability  Erdogan said today he’s trying convince 74 million Turks
that he has put an end to decades of instability. Prior to his
two-term-old administration, the average government lasted 16
months, he told an audience at Bloomberg in London.  “What we’ve brought is stability and I’ve always told
people that they have to become accustomed to it,” Erdogan
said. The investment the country draws is proof that executives
outside Turkey can see the change, he said.  The median age here is 29, and even people that young have
already survived military rule, a succession of failed
coalitions, an overnight  currency devaluation , a banking crisis,
a 1999 earthquake that killed 17,000 people and inflation that
peaked at 130 percent in January 1995.  “This is a generation who lived through extremely high,
chronic and volatile inflation, without knowing what  interest
rates  would be even a week ahead,” said Eli Koen, the co-head
of emerging Europe equities at Union Bancaire Privee in  London 
and manager of $65 million in the Turkish Equity fund. He says
Turkish banks are an “exciting long-term growth opportunity.”
Turkish authorities are “absolutely right” to try to shift the
maturity structure, he said.  Financial Crisis  In 1987, 51 percent of deposits were less than a year in
maturity, according to the Banks Association of Turkey. It was
90 percent by the end of 2010. A 2001 financial crisis drove 20
lenders into receivership and forced a bailout whose cost to the
country ended up being $160 billion, Deputy Prime Minister  Ali Babacan , who leads economic policy, said on Feb. 21.  The aftermath of that crisis helped bring Erdogan to
office, pledging balanced budgets and progress toward European
Union membership.  Now, the 57-year-old prime minister needs to convince Turks
of what investors are indicating: that decades of financial
instability are over. Erdogan, who as a boy sold pastries by the
roadside in Istanbul’s Kasimpasa district, is aiming for a third
term. If victorious, he could become the country’s longest-
serving leader since competitive voting began in 1950.  New Constitution  He’s campaigning on the promise of a new constitution, the
first not prepared under military rule, and a record of economic
growth that puts  Turkey  closer to meeting the standards for euro
membership than many of the 17 countries that belong to it.
Turkey’s ratio of debt to gross domestic product fell below the
euro’s criterion of 60 percent in 2004; this year’s budget
deficit goal is 2.8 percent of GDP, below the 3 percent target.  The economy expanded 8.9 percent in 2010, according to
figures from the state statistics agency in Ankara today.  Since Erdogan took office, the main ISE National-100 share
index has quadrupled in dollar terms, outperforming the MSCI
Emerging Market Index. GDP per person has almost tripled, to
$10,043 in 2010, according to the Treasury. A 2005 currency
overhaul stripped six zeroes from the inflation-ravaged lira.  Over the same period, the maturity of  government borrowing 
has extended to 57 months from 9 months and the average term of
bank loans has lengthened. The result of shortening deposit
maturities is a widening mismatch between the terms at which
banks borrow and lend, which “constitutes a risk to the
stability of the system,” according to a December 2010 central
bank report on financial risks.  Longer Deposits  In a bid to get Turks to make longer deposits, central bank
Governor Durmus Yilmaz as recently as March 10 sponsored a
conference on Financial Education and Awareness. Success would
strengthen the banking industry, including  Akbank TAS (AKBNK) , the
lender part-owned by Citigroup Inc., spur growth and reduce
Turkey’s reliance on external financing.  Extending maturities is “part of what we have been
doing,” Yilmaz said in an interview on March 15. Longer savings
maturities “means more long-term funding for the banks and
that’s good for the overall economy.”  Bulent Gedikli, one of Erdogan’s financial advisers, on
Jan. 30 called on the 32,000 people who control half of about
587 billion liras ($378 billion) in deposits to lead the way in
extending maturities.  ‘Change in Fundamentals’  “Turks find it harder than foreigners to see the change in
fundamentals,” said Cevdet Akcay, chief economist for Yapi &
Kredi Bankasi AS, the lender part-owned by  Italy ’s UniCredit
SpA. “Turks are slowly starting to believe that the lira is a
credible currency. Believing in it as a long-term investment
tool will take longer.”  With the benchmark interest rate at a historic low of 6.25
percent, the central bank is encouraging banks to offer more
interest on longer deposits. Yilmaz on March 23 raised the
reserves banks must set aside against liabilities such as
deposits for the third time in four months. He’s penalized
short-term deposits more than long-term, opening up a spread for
the first time.  The reserve rate varies from 15 percent for immediate-
access accounts to 5 percent for savings accounts of over a
year. At  Turkiye Is Bankasi (ISCTR)  AS, the lender with the most
deposits of non-state banks in September, according to the Banks
Association of Turkey, savers can earn 8 percent on yearlong
deposits and 6.75 percent on those for one month.  Credit Rating  Moody’s Investors Services rates Turkish credit Ba2, two
notches below investment grade, with a positive outlook.
 Standard & Poor’s  rates the country an equivalent BB, also with
a positive outlook.  Still, the 2001 crisis was only a decade ago. “Anyone on
the street now with money to save remembers the overnight
devaluation, the political rows that sparked financial crises,
and most importantly, triple digit inflation,” said Mehmet
Demiray, managing partner at Virtua Arastirma, an Istanbul-based
polling company. “It’s no surprise they think short-term and
steer toward investments that are as liquid and convertible as
possible.”  That Turks avoid long-term bank deposits doesn’t signal a
mistrust of the financial industry, according to the  Banks
Association of Turkey . It’s a sign that “financial stability
hasn’t yet been enough to change customer habits,” it said in
response to e-mailed questions from Bloomberg News.  ‘Limited Deposits’  Customers can dictate terms because “banks compete
fiercely both on price and maturity to draw limited deposits,”
it said. Additionally, many depositors roll over one-month
accounts for years, so that “while maturities are short, the
time they spend with banks is much longer. This prevents a
strong economic incentive for banks to lengthen maturities.”  Banks aren’t only competing with each other for savings.
They also face strong rivalry from gold, foreign currency and
real estate. Those investments are seen as safer and higher
yielding, according to Zeynep Copur, an associate professor at
Hacettepe University in Ankara who’s studied savings habits
among families in the capital.  “Families want to feel secure and opt for instruments that
can be immediately converted into cash,” she said.  Islamic lender  Kuveyt Turk Katilim Bankasi AS  on March 22
opened the first of 180 automated teller machines through which
it will sell gold coins.  “If I had anything to invest it’d be gold,” said Meric
Bada, a 24-year-old selling half-kilo bags of roasted chestnuts
from a barrow in a central Ankara park. “Banks just don’t
provide the kind of return that gold does.”  Earn Interest  It’s not just gold that banks are competing with. Some
Turkish Muslims prefer not to earn interest at all and instead
invest their savings in profit-sharing arrangements with local
businessmen, according to Virtua’s Demiray.  Nebahat Akpan, a headscarved 36-year-old mother of one boy,
said she’d removed the 80,000 liras from the sale of a family
minibus from the bank as soon as possible. “For religious
reasons I can’t leech off interest,” she said.  Instead, she bought an apartment and hopes to earn about
380 liras a month in rent, an annual return, excluding  capital
gains , of about 5.7 percent.  “That’s money I can use each month,” she said.  The obstacle to longer-term savings “is that people have
become accustomed to doing business in a certain way,”
according to Vedat Akgiray, head of the Capital Markets Board.
“We have to change it. That’s it, there’s nothing more.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Steve Bryant  in Ankara at 
 sbryant5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 