-- 
Vestas Chief Unveils New 7-Megawatt Offshore Wind Turbine

-- B y   A l e x   M o r a l e s
-- 
2011-03-30T15:50:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-30/vestas-chief-executive-engel-unveils-new-7-megawatt-offshore-wind-turbine.html
Vestas Wind Systems A/S today
unveiled a new 7-megawatt wind turbine aimed at helping the
Danish company vie with  Siemens AG (SIE)  of  Germany  for the biggest
share of the offshore wind power market.  The new V164 machine is the first in Vestas’s history
specifically designed for offshore wind, Chief Executive Officer
Ditlev Engel said in London. Video at Vestas’s presentation
showed the blades will sweep an area three times the size of the
football field at Wembley Stadium. The turbines will be taller
than the London tower known as the Gherkin, and that part of the
machine above the waves will weigh 800 tons.  Vestas and Munich-based Siemens are vying for supremacy in
the offshore wind market. Of the 3,045 megawatts of installed
sea-based wind capacity in Europe by the end of last year, 1,391
megawatts are from Vestas machines while Siemens has 1,357
megawatts, according to Bloomberg New Energy Finance data. Once
demand is enough, a new plant will be built to make the machines
at a site that has yet to be chosen, Engel said.  “The facility, wherever it is placed, will need to serve
the European market,” Engel said in an interview. “It’ll be
one facility servicing  Europe . The U.K. has the largest demand
but there are other countries now working to update their
offshore plans. You have a whole cluster of countries around the
North Sea,” he said, citing the Netherlands,  Belgium ,  France ,
Germany and Scandinavia.  ‘Vote of Confidence’  "This is a vote of confidence in the offshore wind sector,
and if the conditions are right could bring significant
investment to the U.K.," Gordon Edge, director of policy at the
industry lobby group RenewableUK, said in an e-mailed statement.  Vestas plans to complete the turbine design and begin
construction of a first prototype in the fourth quarter of next
year. Serial production at the new plant would start in the
first quarter of 2015. First, Vestas needs order commitments
from customers, and they in turn need governments to provide
long-term clarity on incentives for offshore wind, Engel said.  “Our customers need the visibility and clarity from
government in order to make the commitment to us,” Engel said.
“We’re not going to put it on the market in the old-fashioned
way -- meaning that you build the plant and hope to sell them.
Now the capital commitment is so huge, where it’s like the big
capital-goods companies. We say ‘you buy, and we’ll make it.’”  The new turbine has more than twice the capacity of the V90
and V112 models currently made for offshore use by the Randers,
Denmark-based company. Those models also have onshore versions.
It’s the single largest research and development investment
Vestas has made, Engel said, declining to give further details.  ‘Visible Order Pipeline’  “Such an investment is not something we’d go into without
seeing a visible order pipeline,” Engel said.  New installations of offshore  wind turbines  may surge 70
percent this year, topping 2010’s record 51 percent gain, the
European Wind Energy Association said on Jan. 31. The U.K. has
more than 40 percent of the total, and in January 2010 awarded
licenses for 32.2 gigawatts of offshore wind projects to
companies including  Centrica Plc (CNA) ,  RWE AG (RWE)  and  Statoil ASA. (STL)   Siemens,  Spain ’s Gamesa Corporacion Tecnologica SA and
 General Electric Co. (GE)  each plan research centers and
manufacturing hubs in Britain. Vestas plans to build the
prototype blades for the V164 at its research facility on the
Isle of Wight, southern  England , head of technology research and
development Finn Stroem Madsen said.  Each new Vestas turbine will be able to provide electricity
for 6,500 homes, Madsen said. The turbine has a greater capacity
to generate electricity than any machine currently working at
sea, according to New Energy Finance. Companies including
 REpower Systems AG (RPW)  and Areva Wind GmbH have commercialized 5-
megawatt offshore turbines and the German manufacturer Enercon
GmbH has a land-based 7.5-megawatt generator.  ‘Can Go Bigger’  “There is basically no limit on how big wind turbines can
go,” Madsen said in an interview. “I expect it will go bigger
but this one will certainly see us beyond 2020.”  Vestas shares climbed 2.6 percent today in Copenhagen
trading, boosting their gains this year to 28 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Morales in  London  at 
 amorales2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  