-- 
Clinton Sends Special Envoy Stevens to Size Up Libyan Opposition Leaders

-- B y   N i c o l e   G a o u e t t e
-- 
2011-03-30T13:11:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-30/veteran-arabic-speaking-envoy-stevens-leads-u-s-talks-with-libya-rebels.html
The U.S. special envoy to Libyan
opposition leaders has one overarching task: to figure out
exactly who they are.  John Christopher Stevens, known as Chris, is a 20-year
Arabic-speaking veteran of the State Department who has been a
senior diplomat in the Libyan capital, Tripoli, and had postings
in Damascus, Cairo and other Middle Eastern locales.  Stevens, 50, will arrive in Benghazi, the unofficial
opposition capital, by next week, according to an administration
official who wasn’t authorized to speak publicly. His job will
be to establish better links with the rebel leadership, the
Interim Transitional National Council, and draw a clearer
picture of the various tribal groups among the forces fighting
 Muammar Qaddafi .  “This is going to be a very challenging assignment,” said
Robert Pelletreau, former ambassador to  Egypt , Bahrain and
Tunisia. “You needed somebody with Chris’s experience and
maturity on the one hand, and his broad knowledge of the Arab
world.”  In testimony before Congress yesterday, U.S. Admiral James Stavridis, supreme allied commander-Europe for the North
Atlantic Treaty Organization, said that while opposition leaders
appeared to be “responsible men and women” there also were
“flickers in the intelligence” of potential ties to al-Qaeda
and Hezbollah.  ‘Locus of Opposition’  As charge d’affaires at the now-vacated U.S. embassy in
Tripoli, Stevens described Qaddafi as a “notoriously
mercurial” figure who avoids eye contact. “Alternatively, he
can be an engaging and charming interlocutor,” Stevens wrote,
in a cable prepared for the visit of then-Secretary of State
 Condoleezza Rice  in 2008.  He also researched eastern Libya’s “historical role as a
locus of opposition,” detailing the unemployment and government
mistreatment of the region that were driving young men to
radicalism, including some who went to Iraq to fight U.S.
forces.  Those cables and others were released by WikiLeaks group.
The State Department refuses to comment on their content or
veracity.  In 1996, Stevens worked for Pelletreau, who was assistant
secretary for Near East affairs from 1994 to 1997. Stevens “has
a good deal of cross-cultural comfort,” the former ambassador
said.  Much to Learn  While U.S. officials are now in frequent contact with the
Libyan opposition and Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  has met
twice with its special envoy, Mahmoud Jebril, there still is
much to learn about them, said Gene Cretz, the U.S. ambassador
to  Libya  now based in Washington due to security concerns.  The U.S. doesn’t “know everything about who we’re dealing
with,” Cretz said in a March 25 briefing.  Stevens is already familiar with some opposition members
from his posting in Tripoli, said Jon Alterman, director of the
Middle East program at the  Center for Strategic and
International Studies , a Washington policy group.  While Cretz awaited confirmation as ambassador to Libya in
2008, Stevens was in Tripoli. He effectively ran the embassy
there, said Alterman, who worked with Stevens at the State
Department from 2000 to 2001.  Libya Experience  “He’s not the kind of person who goes out in the field and
puts something together on the fly and sells it to the bosses
back home,” Alterman said in a phone interview. “When you’re
dealing with an uncertain opposition, you want someone who’s not
going to send misleading signals, who’s going to be warm, but
not sloppy. And given that he has experience in Libya, he seems
to me to be a very good choice.”  David Mack, a former ambassador to the  United Arab
Emirates , warned of potential pitfalls involved in trying to
assess the political process of another country in transition.
“When Jebril talks with the Secretary of State, you want to
make sure that he is not just talking for himself,” Mack said.  Mack referred to Ahmed Chalabi, the Iraqi exile politician
who provided the U.S. with faulty information about Iraqi
weapons of mass destruction. President  George W. Bush  based his
decision to start the  Iraq  War in part on those claims.  “It’s up to our political leaders and diplomats to be
discriminating and careful and sort out genuine motives from
what people claim are their motives,” Mack said.  Ronald Bruce St John, an independent scholar and author of
several books on Libya, said Stevens will be dealing with an
opposition leadership populated by a mix of “former regime
hacks” and a few émigrés.  Committed to Democracy?  “I have two questions: do they understand what democracy
is, and are they really committed to democracy as we understand
it in the West?” he said in a telephone interview from his home
in  New Mexico . Four decades of Qaddafi’s rule has left Libya
without the basic civil-society organizations that support
democracy, he said.  “Will he find democrats? Sure,” said  Elliott Abrams ,
senior fellow at the Council of Foreign Relations, in an e-mail.
“He will also find minor tyrants, Islamists, and of course
tribal leaders whose main interest is the tribe, not the nation.
As in  Tunisia , Egypt, and elsewhere, the transition to democracy
in Libya will be very difficult.”  News of Stevens’s imminent departure for Libya came as
 France  named its own envoy to the rebels. Antoine Sivan, 53, who
speaks Arabic and has worked in French embassies in Qatar and
Iraq. He left France two days ago for Benghazi, according to
Agence France Presse. France’s government was the first to
recognize the council as Libya’s legitimate government.  ‘Unflappable’ Personality  The State Department has sought to keep Stevens’ role low
profile, refusing to release his official biography. Clinton,
appearing on Sunday morning talk shows this week, mentioned him
in passing only as an unnamed “young diplomat.”  Stevens, who hails from the San Francisco Bay area, served
in the  Peace Corps  in  Morocco . He studied at the  University of
California , Berkeley, from 1978 to 1982, according to a brief
resume he posted on the Linked-In social-networking site. He
studied law at the University of California’s Hastings College.
In 2010, he received a master’s degree in national security
studies from the  National Defense University , based in
 Washington , D.C.  Joan Mower, the director of development and international
media training at  Voice of America , the government owned radio
network, was in Stevens’s 1992 foreign-service class. Stevens
“has an unflappable, but not nerdy personality” she said. “He
listens to people. He’s the quintessential diplomat.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicole Gaouette in Washington at 
 ngaouette@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  