-- 
Visa, MasterCard Gain on Possible Delay of Debit-Card Curbs

-- B y   J u s t i n   D o o m
-- 
2011-03-30T20:36:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-30/visa-mastercard-jump-on-possible-u-s-delay-of-debit-card-curbs.html
Visa Inc. (V)  and  MasterCard Inc. (MA) , the
two biggest U.S. payment networks, posted their biggest gains of
the year on speculation that U.S. curbs on debit-card fees will
be delayed or modified.  Visa advanced $2.03, or 2.8 percent, to $74.23 at 4:15 p.m.
in New York Stock Exchange composite trading, the most since
December for the San Francisco-based firm. MasterCard rose
$1.95, or 0.8 percent, to $253.66 after gaining as much as 4.2
percent, the best showing for the Purchase, New York-based firm
in 2011.  Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said yesterday
that the central bank wouldn’t meet an April 21 deadline to come
up with a final rule on debit-card transaction fees. The so-
called Durbin amendment’s cap on “swipe” fees, mandated by the
Dodd-Frank law that overhauled the financial industry last year,
must be in place by July 21.  “There is increasingly a likelihood that the harsh first
draft may be watered down significantly,” Christopher Brendler,
an analyst at Stifel Nicolaus & Co., wrote to investors today.
“This delay and Bernanke’s comments add to the growing
political momentum against the Durbin amendment. Last week,
Durbin himself tried to delay a vote on the Tester bill until
after the April 21 Fed release of the final rules.”  U.S. Senator Jon Tester, a Montana Democrat, is pushing for
a vote as soon as this week on a bill that could delay the cap
by two years.  Brendler rates both Visa and MasterCard “buy,” according
to his note. New York-based  American Express Co. (AXP)  may also
benefit to a lesser extent from the delay, he wrote.  To contact the reporter for this story:
Justin Doom in New York at 
 jdoom1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  