-- 
Wind, Clessidra, Antin Said to Be in Talks to Buy Metroweb

-- B y   C h i a r a   R e m o n d i n i   a n d   E l i s a   M a r t i n u z z i
-- 
2011-03-30T17:30:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-30/vodafone-wind-among-investors-said-to-be-in-talks-to-acquire-metroweb.html
Wind Telecomunicazioni SpA and
Antin Infrastructure Partners SAS are among investors in talks
to buy  Metroweb SpA , owner of the largest fiber-optic network in
Milan and the region of Lombardy, after preliminary bids were
reviewed, people with knowledge of the matter said.  Six bidding groups were granted access to Metroweb’s
financial data and will evaluate whether to make a binding
offer, said two of the people who asked not to be identified
because the discussions are private.  Buyout firm Clessidra Sgr SpA and groups formed by  Intesa
Sanpaolo SpA (ISP)  and F2i SpA, and Antin, working with  Societe
Generale (GLE)  SA, will carry out due diligence, two of the people
said.  Vodafone Group Plc (VOD) , the world’s largest mobile-phone
operator, and Axa Private Equity’s infrastructure unit are the
other bidders, one of the people said.  “In Italy, there is a structural lack of fast broadband
infrastructure and this is one of the few assets in this area,”
said  Alessandro Frigerio , a fund manager at RMJ Sgr in Milan.
“It has great appeal for telcos as well as financial
investors.”  Lazard Ltd. (LAZ)  is advising on the sale and binding bids are
due by the beginning of May, one of the people said. First-round
bids came in at between 430 million euros ($606 million) and 450
million euros, two of the people said.  Wind, Italy’s third-largest mobile-phone operator, and
Antin, which is backed by  BNP Paribas (BNP)  SA, declined to comment,
as did Clessidra, Intesa, F2i and Metroweb. A spokesman for
Vodafone in Italy and a spokeswoman for Axa Private Equity also
declined to comment.  Stirling Square  Metroweb has about 6,600 kilometers (4,100 miles) of cables
and the potential to reach one million households. In 2006,
 Stirling Square Capital Partners , a London-based private equity
firm, bought 76.5 percent of Metroweb from Milan’s municipal
utility  A2A SpA (A2A) , which holds the remaining stake in the company.  Milan-based Metroweb had 2010 earnings before interest,
taxes, depreciation and amortization of about 42 million euros
and revenue of about 52 million euros. That compares with Ebitda
and sales of 29.6 million euros and 39 million euros
respectively in 2006 when Stirling took over.  Metroweb, led by Chief Executive Officer Alberto Trondoli,
is an independent open network access provider that offers its
infrastructure to third parties including Telecom Italia SpA,
 FastWeb SpA (FWB) , Vodafone and Wind.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chiara Remondini in Milan at 
 cremondini@bloomberg.net ;
Elisa Martinuzzi at 
 emartinuzzi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at   kwong11@bloomberg.net ;
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  