-- 
Wal-Mart Discrimination Case Reveals Gender Gap at High Court

-- B y   G r e g   S t o h r
-- 
2011-03-30T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-30/wal-mart-discrimination-case-reveals-gender-gap-at-high-court.html
A gender gap emerged at the U.S.
 Supreme Court  as the court’s three female justices tussled with
their male colleagues over a nationwide discrimination suit
against  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT)   Justices Ruth Bader Ginsburg,  Sonia Sotomayor  and Elena
Kagan all voiced at least qualified support yesterday for the
class-action suit, which claims women across the country were
victimized by Wal-Mart’s practice of letting local managers make
subjective decisions about pay and promotions. The dispute marks
the first gender-bias case the court has considered with three
women on the bench.  The three took the lead in  questioning  Wal-Mart’s attorney,
Theodore Boutrous. Ginsburg spoke about how corporate decision-
makers tend to hire people like themselves, while Sotomayor
endorsed the use of statistical analysis in discrimination
cases. Kagan balked when Boutrous said the workers’ case was
based on an “incoherent theory.”  “I guess I’m just a little bit confused as to why
excessive subjectivity is not a policy that can be alleged” as
the basis of a job-discrimination suit, said Kagan, the newest
justice.  Their queries put them at odds with Justices Antonin Scalia
and  Anthony Kennedy , who questioned whether the women had
pointed to a corporate policy that violated their rights under
the main federal job-bias law, known as Title VII. The justices
are considering whether potentially a million female employees
at Wal-Mart have enough in common to warrant allowing a single
nationwide suit against the company.  Against Discrimination  Scalia said the company had an “announced policy against
sex discrimination” and expressed disbelief when the lawyer
representing the women argued that the reality was just the
opposite.  “Do you think you’ve adequately shown that that policy is
a fraud and that what’s really going on is that there is a
central policy that promotes discrimination against women?”
Scalia said.  Ginsburg, who was a leading anti-discrimination advocate
before she became a judge, left little doubt that she took a
different view about the pervasiveness of gender bias in the
workplace. She likened the case to a successful suit in the
1970s against American Telephone and Telegraph Co. over the use
of a “total person” test to make promotion decisions.  “The idea wasn’t at all complicated,” Ginsburg said. “It
was that most people prefer themselves and so a decision-maker,
all other things being equal, would prefer someone that looked
like him.”  The Wal-Mart case “sounds quite similar,” Ginsburg said.  Sotomayor Interjects  Sotomayor interjected more than a dozen times, often
focusing on technical questions and at one point suggesting a
middle ground that would allow a more narrow class action to go
forward.  She challenged Boutrous when he argued that the plaintiffs
hadn’t shown a nationwide pattern of lower pay for women. The
justice said the plaintiffs’ expert witness had concluded that
the pay disparity between men and women at Wal-Mart was much
higher than at 10 competitors.  “Why is that kind of statistical analysis inadequate to
show that a policy of some sort exists?” Sotomayor asked.  Each of the three female justices “had a very different
style,” said Marcia Greenberger, co-president of the National
Women’s Law Center. Having three women on the bench for a
gender-discrimination case “in and of itself was extraordinary
to see,” she said.  Breyer Alone Concurs  Justice  Stephen Breyer  was the lone male justice who
suggested he agreed with his female colleagues. He joined
Sotomayor in asking Boutrous why the justices couldn’t at least
allow a limited class action seeking an injunction against the
company. “We’ve got a common issue,” Breyer said.  The case ultimately may divide the court along familiar
lines, leaving those four in dissent.  Kennedy, often the court’s swing vote, suggested the
workers could press a nationwide class action only if they could
show the company tolerated gender discrimination through
“deliberate indifference.”  He also told the workers’ lawyer that the complaint “faces
in two directions.”  “You said this is a culture where  Arkansas  knows, the
headquarters knows, everything that’s going on,” Kennedy said.
“Then in the next breath, you say, well, now these supervisors
have too much discretion. It seems to me there’s an
inconsistency there, and I’m just not sure what the unlawful
policy is.”  The case is  Wal-Mart Stores  v. Dukes, 10-277.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Stohr in  Washington  at 
 gstohr@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mark Silva  at   msilva34@bloomberg.net . 