-- 
Winter Storm Watch Is Issued for U.S. Northeast With Foot of Snow Possible

-- B y   B r i a n   K .   S u l l i v a n
-- 
2011-03-30T18:11:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-30/winter-storm-warning-issued-for-u-s-northeast-with-foot-of-snow-possible.html
A  winter storm watch  has been
issued for eastern New York, parts of northern  New Jersey  and
most of New England, where as much as 12 inches of snow may fall 
by week’s end, according to the  National Weather Service .  The system will be the second to move through the area this
week, said Lauren Nash, a weather service meteorologist in
 Upton, New York . The first will arrive tonight and may bring
light snow to areas north of  New York City , she said.  “It is pretty much going to be on and off starting tonight
through Friday night,” Nash said. “There is still uncertainty
where the snow-rain line is going to set up, so there is still a
possibility that the city could see some flurries or light
snow.”  Parts of 11 counties around  New York  City are covered by
the watch and may receive 5 to 10 inches (13 to 25 centimeters)
of snow, including New York’s Westchester and Orange;
 Connecticut ’s Fairfield and New Haven; and New Jersey’s Passaic,
Bergen and Essex, according to the weather service.  “The best chance for snow in the city will be Friday when
the low pulls away and it will wrap the cold air in,” said Rob Carolan, a meteorologist with Hometown Forecast Services in
Nashua, New Hampshire.  NYC Accumulation  Carolan said the snow probably won’t accumulate on New York
City’s streets and won’t amount to more than an inch.  The storm watch also extends north to the Canadian border
and includes parts of Vermont,  New Hampshire ,  Maine  and
 Massachusetts . Areas of western and central Massachusetts, as
well as northern Connecticut and southern New Hampshire, may
receive as much as 12 inches of snow.  Carolan said he expects the  heaviest snow  to fall in an
area from north of Poughkeepsie, New York, across northwestern
Connecticut and western Massachusetts into Vermont, Maine and
New Hampshire.  “Heavy snow could lead to travel issues for the Friday
morning commute as untreated surfaces will be slippery with poor
visibility possible at times,” the weather service said. “The
snow could also be wet and heavy, presenting problems for tree
branches and power lines.”  Fourteen years ago, another March 31-April 1 storm left
25.4 inches of snow in  Boston  and 33 inches in neighboring
Worcester, according to the weather service.  Since December, 61.9 inches of snow has fallen in Central
Park, the third-snowiest season on record, according to the
weather service. The top snow season was 1995-96, when 75.6
inches fell  in Central Park .  Boston has had 79.5 inches of snow, according to the
weather service.  Next week, another large storm may pass through the area,
threatening rain on Boston for the Red Sox home opener at Fenway
Park against the  New York Yankees  on April 8, Carolan said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian K. Sullivan in Boston at 
 bsullivan10@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  