-- 
World Bank Would Restrain Finance for Coal Power in Energy Strategy Draft

-- B y   S a n d r i n e   R a s t e l l o
-- 
2011-03-30T15:08:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-30/world-bank-would-restrain-coal-finance-in-energy-strategy-draft.html
The  World Bank  is considering
limiting its financing of coal-fired  power plants  to the poorest
countries as part of a new energy strategy, a draft prepared for
the board of directors shows.  Staff at the Washington-based lender have made proposals
seeking to reconcile the need for broader energy access in
developing economies with the challenges of  climate change . They
also stressed the “tremendous potential” for developing
hydroelectric power in the document dated March 16, a copy of
which was obtained by Bloomberg.  World Bank President Robert Zoellick last year urged
countries to move away from “the binary choice of either power
or environment” after the institution was criticized for
approving a $3.75 billion loan to help  South Africa ’s state-
owned electricity supplier build one of the world’s largest
coal-fired plants.  “An estimated 1.4 billion people live without electricity,
and many in  developing countries  are faced with recurrent power
outages,” the report said. The strategy focuses on how the
World Bank “can make a significant contribution to the global
goals of reducing energy poverty and achieving sustainable
development.”  Under the proposals, the bank could only support new coal
power projects for countries that get all of their funding at
the institution from the  International Development Association ,
the arm that lends to the poorest countries. This suggests that
countries like India and  Vietnam , which don’t get loans only
from IDA, would not be eligible.  ‘Good First Step’  Steve Kretzmann, a spokesman for the non-profit
organization Oil Change International, who has seen the report,
said in a telephone interview that the proposed move on coal was
a “very good first step.”  At the same time “if their two priorities are energy
poverty reduction and low-carbon energy, fossil fuels should
entirely be phased out, not just coal but oil and gas as well,”
he said.  Under the proposals, the bank would support natural gas
“where its lower emissions potential can be realized.”  Roger Morier, a spokesman for the bank, confirmed that the
management had submitted a proposed strategy to the relevant
committee of the board of directors, which will discuss it next
month. It will then be posted on line for a round of public
consultation and submitted to the board for endorsement early in
the U.S. summer.  Protecting Rivers  International Rivers , a Berkeley, California-based
nonprofit group that aims to protect rivers and human rights,
said it’s concerned that the report’s call for more hydropower
will result in the support for large dams.  Such dams are a “risky and inappropriate solution for the
problems of climate change,” Zachary Hurwitz, a policy
coordinator at the organization, said in a statement. “The
 World Bank  should stay ahead of the curve and support market-
ready renewable technologies, such as wind and non-dam kinetic
hydropower projects, rather than the large dams of the past.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sandrine Rastello in Washington at 
 srastello@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  