-- 
World Bank Says Russia May Miss Inflation Target This Year

-- B y   S c o t t   R o s e   a n d   I l y a   A r k h i p o v
-- 
2011-03-30T14:12:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-30/world-bank-says-russia-may-miss-inflation-goal-in-2011-correct-.html
Russia  will overshoot the central
bank’s inflation target this year as the government ramps up
spending before nationwide elections, the  World Bank  said.  Consumer prices will probably rise 8 percent to 9 percent
this year, the lender said in a  report  released today. Gross
domestic product may gain 4.4 percent this year and 4 percent in
2012, the World Bank said.  The central bank has boosted  reserve requirements  four
times and raised its main rates to combat the fastest price
growth among the so-called BRIC economies. Russians see
inflation as the biggest challenge facing the country, according
to a poll by the  VTsIOM  research center.  “The upside risks for inflation, associated with
additional fiscal spending during the election cycle, will
remain in 2011 and 2012,” analysts headed by Zeljko Bogetic,
the  World Bank ’s lead economist for Russia in Moscow, said in
the report. Consumer-price growth won’t fall below 8 percent
this year “unless the fiscal stance is tightened.”  Finance Minister Alexei Kudrin said Feb. 24 he is under
“strong” pressure to increase spending to help win voters
before national elections.  The next nationwide parliamentary vote is due in December,
followed by presidential elections early next year.  ‘Achievable’ Target  Central bank Chairman Sergey Ignatiev said yesterday the
regulator expects inflation to slow to between 6 percent and 7
percent this year and urged policy makers to cap spending and
balance the budget. Russia’s target of 3 percent to 5 percent is
“achievable” within the next six years, Ignatiev said.  “Inflation is Russia’s main problem in the long term,”
Bogetic told reporters in Moscow today, adding that Russia may
experience a return of the so-called oil curse when high
commodity prices prompt “unjustified government expenditures
and lower budget discipline.”  Russia may be able to balance the budget in the next two
years, Bogetic said. Policy makers aim to narrow the shortfall
to 3.6 percent in 2011 from last year’s gap of 3.9 percent.  Budget Deficit  The government expects the budget to remain in deficit
through 2014 based on an average price for Urals crude oil, the
country’s main export blend, of $75 this year and $78 in 2012.
Russia may balance its budget this year if oil averages about
$115 a barrel, or more than 50 percent above the government’s
target price, Finance Minister Alexei Kudrin said on March 14.  The inflation rate rose to an annual 8.8 percent in 2010,
triggered by the worst drought in at least 50 years. A surge in
food prices since last summer has had an effect on Russian
households equivalent to a 5 percent loss in consumption, the
World Bank said in the report.  Private consumption will need to take over from investment
demand as the main driver of Russian expansion in the second
half as unemployment falls, according to the report.  “Growth will depend on sustained gains in consumption and
the rate of recovery with respect to longer-term credit to the
private sector,” the World Bank said. “The downside risks
associated with highly volatile  oil prices  and global demand
will remain.”  The number of Russians living in poverty fell by about
700,000 last year to 12.7 percent of the population, according
to the report. That proportion may decline to 11.2 percent in
2011 and 10 percent the following year, the bank said.  The poverty level is falling because of higher minimum
wages and pension increases, Bogetic said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Scott Rose in Moscow at 
 rrose10@bloomberg.net ;
Ilya Arkhipov in Moscow at 
 iarkhipov@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Willy Morris at 
 wmorris@bloomberg.net . 