-- 
Yemen’s Opposition Lists Key Demands as Demonstrations Continue

-- B y   M o h a m m e d   H a t e m
-- 
2011-03-30T14:54:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-30/yemen-s-opposition-lists-key-demands-as-demonstrations-continue.html
Tens of thousands of protesters
took to the streets across  Yemen  to condemn an explosion at a
weapons factory this week that killed more than 100 people and
which the government blamed on al-Qaeda.  Members of the opposition, including organizations
representing youth, held a press conference today in the
capital, Sana’a, calling for an end to the 32-year rule of
President Ali Abdullah Saleh and listing key demands. Anti-
government protests in Yemen have been taking place for more
than two months, inspired by revolts that overthrew the
presidents of Tunisia and  Egypt . A crackdown in Sana’a earlier
this month killed as many as 46 protesters.  The demands, delivered by opposition representatives
Thiyazan al-Hakimi and Abdullah Nsherm, include the removal of
Saleh and a ban on his family from involvement in military and
civil affairs as well as the abolition of the constitution and a
six-month transition period during which parliament and the
Shura Council are dissolved.  The demonstrators also want local councils, governors, the
supreme judiciary council and the general prosecutor dismissed
and a supreme constitutional court set up. They are calling for
the creation of a national transitional council of five members
-- including someone representing youth -- who had no
affiliation to the Saleh regime.  Other demands include abolishing the Ministry of
Information and permitting freedom of media ownership and
independence as well as freedom of expression. They want the
state security apparatus, national intelligence agencies and the
national defense council dismantled and replaced by a national
security organization under the Interior Ministry that is
responsible only for investigating and preventing foreign
threats to domestic security.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mohammed Hatem in Sana’a at 
 mhatem1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 