-- 
Yen Declines to a 3-Week Low Versus the Dollar on Search for Higher Yields

-- B y   A l l i s o n   B e n n e t t   a n d   J o h n   D e t r i x h e
-- 
2011-03-30T21:11:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-30/yen-falls-to-three-week-low-versus-the-dollar-in-search-for-higher-yields.html
The yen fell to almost a three-week
low versus the dollar amid demand for higher-yielding assets.  The Japanese currency weakened for a fifth straight day
against the dollar as a private report showed U.S. companies
added jobs in March and Kansas City Federal Reserve President
 Thomas Hoenig  said the central bank should reduce its economic
stimulus measures. Brazil’s real rose to its strongest in two
and a half years as the search for yield outweighed more  capital
controls . The euro erased losses against the dollar as technical
levels were triggered.  “You have remarkably resilient risk appetite this week and
equity markets are doing well globally,” said  Vassili Serebriakov , a currency strategist at  Wells Fargo & Co . in New
York. “The change in theme from the Fed has the dollar is doing
well against major currencies outside of the commodity bloc like
the euro and the yen but it’s still weaker against commodity
currencies like the Aussie.”  The yen depreciated 0.5 percent to 82.89 against the dollar
at 5:05 p.m. in New York, from 82.48 yesterday. It earlier slid
to 83.18, the weakest level since March 11, when Japan was
struck by its biggest earthquake on record.  The euro rose 0.1 percent against the dollar to $1.4127,
after earlier falling as much as 0.4 percent.  ‘Euro Took Off’  “The euro took off from $1.41 area, you can see that that
was a very good resistance level for the better part of the
day,” said C.J. Gavsie, managing director for foreign exchange
trading in Toronto. “So, obviously, there was some very good
sellers at that point at a technical level.”  The  MSCI World (MXWO)  Equity Index gained 0.9 percent and the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index rose 0.7 percent.  The extra yield investors receive by purchasing two-year
Treasuries versus comparable Japanese debt rose to 60 basis
points, or 0.60 percentage point, almost the widest since Feb.
14.  “Interest-rate differentials weigh against the yen,” said
Jon Wetreich, currency strategist at Brown Brothers Harriman &
Co. in New York. “The  European Central Bank  couldn’t be any
more clear that rates are going up. The  Bank of England  has been
reasonably hawkish, and now we’re getting comments from certain
Fed members indicating, not that rates are going up anytime
soon, but everyone is getting the news that quantitative easing
is over.”  Yen Weakness  Japan ’s currency has weakened 2.1 percent against the
dollar in the first quarter and 7.3 percent against the euro.
Those declines accelerated in March with the yen losing 2.2
percent against the dollar and 1.6 percent to the euro in the
past nine days.  U.S. employment increased by 201,000 this month, according
to ADP Employer Services. The median estimate in the Bloomberg
News survey was for a 208,000 gain.  The private report precedes the Labor Department’s nonfarm
payroll numbers to be released April 1. U.S. payrolls added
190,000 in March, according to the median estimate of 81
economists.  “Policy should acknowledge the improving economic trends
and begin to withdraw some degree of accommodation,” the Fed’s
Hoenig, the central bank’s longest-serving policy maker and the
lone dissenter at Fed meetings last year, said in the text of a
speech today at the  London  School of Economics and Political
Science. “If this is not done, then the risk of introducing new
imbalances and long-term inflationary pressures into an already
fragile recovery increase significantly.”  Euro Strength  Europe ’s common currency has strengthened 5.5 percent
versus the dollar this year as euro-region policy makers
stiffened anti-inflation views. The ECB will increase its main
refinancing rate by a quarter-percentage point to 1.25 percent
at its April 7 meeting, according to the median forecast of 20
economists in a Bloomberg News survey.  The seven-day relative strength index of the dollar versus
the yen was 74.58 today, advancing above 70 for the first day
since Feb. 16. Readings above that level indicate an asset’s
value may have increased too fast and the move may reverse.  “It’s more yen-specific than this Fed idea,” said  Jens Nordvig , a managing director of currency research in New York at
Nomura Holdings Inc. The earthquake’s “hit to exports going
forward is going to be significant, that’s part of the reason
why the yen-weakness dynamic is potentially taking hold.”  Fed Talk  St. Louis Federal Reserve President  James Bullard  is also
scheduled to speak in London today, while Richmond Fed President
Jeffrey Lacker is due to give congressional testimony.  Brazil ’s real rose to its strongest level since August 2008
as investors’ increased demand for higher-yielding assets
overshadowed capital controls introduced yesterday.  Brazil’s real gained 1.1 percent to 1.6288 per  U.S. dollar 
after President  Dilma Rousseff  imposed a tax of 6 percent on
international bond sales and loans with an average minimum
maturity of as long as 360 days.  Policy makers have raised the benchmark rate by 1
percentage point this year to 11.75 percent to slow inflation.
The central bank may pause after raising the benchmark interest
rate a third consecutive time by 50 basis points to 12.25
percent in the April 19-20 meeting, a central bank weekly survey
of economists showed yesterday.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Allison Bennett in  New York  at 
 abennett23@bloomberg.net ;
John Detrixhe in New York at 
 jdetrixhe1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  