-- M23 Rebels Battle Congo Forces for Control of Mineral-Rich City
-- B y   M i c h a e l   J .   K a v a n a g h ,   F l a v i a   K r a u s e - J a c k s o n   a n d   S a u l   B u t e r a
-- 2012-11-20T00:48:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-20/m23-rebels-battle-congo-forces-for-control-of-mineral-rich-city.html
M23 rebels in the eastern part of
the  Democratic Republic  of Congo gained ground on government
forces as fighting reached the outskirts of a provincial capital
in a fight for control of the resource-rich region.  Alarmed by the escalating violence, the  United Nations 
Security Council is seeking sanctions on leaders of the M23,
which is composed of soldiers who deserted Congo’s army in
April, as well as ways to choke off the group’s weapons supply.
It demanded an immediate end to “any and all outside support to
the M23,” an indirect reference to neighboring Rwanda.  “The situation is very dire,”  Gerard Araud , the French
ambassador to the UN, told reporters yesterday in  New York .
Rwanda “obviously” will be part of a resolution drafted by
 France , though “I guess a delicate part” of it, he said.  UN peacekeepers are struggling to contain the advance of
M23 rebels suspected of getting help from Rwanda. An M23
offensive has brought the rebels within five kilometers (three
miles) of the city of Goma, the capital of North Kivu province,
said Kieran Dwyer, the spokesman for UN peacekeeping operations.
Rebel mortar rounds landed yesterday near UN peacekeepers’
positions, including at the city’s airport, Araud said.  Congo and Rwanda have fought directly or by proxy since the
late 1990s. At stake in the eastern part of Congo bordering
Rwanda and  Uganda  are deposits of tin ore, gold, tungsten and
coltan, a mineral used in laptops and mobile phones. The
fighting in  Africa ’s second-largest country has left civilians
without protection and created a security vacuum.  Militia Country  Armed groups, including the Democratic Forces for the
Liberation of Rwanda, a mainly Hutu militia that opposes the
Rwandan government, have thrived in eastern Congo’s remote hills
for more than a decade.  “More than 50,000 people have fled camps and homes in Goma
or on the outskirts of the town since Nov. 18,” said Tariq
Riebl, humanitarian coordinator for the international relief
organization Oxfam, in an e-mailed statement yesterday.  “If fighting intensifies further, there are very few
places people can go for safety,” Riebl said. “With almost 2.5
million people now displaced across eastern Congo, this
catastrophe requires a concerted humanitarian and diplomatic
response.”  The UN began evacuating its non-essential staff while
peacekeepers will remain to protect civilians, Dwyer said. About
8,100 peacekeepers have already been placed on high alert.  While  Rwanda  hasn’t been directly implicated in the
attacks, M23 forces appeared to be well-equipped and have
supplies such as night-vision goggles that indicate they are
getting outside assistance, according to UN peacekeeping chief
Herve Ladsous.  Accusations Flying  Rwanda has rejected the findings of a UN group of experts
monitoring an arms embargo on Congo. Their 44-page report said
Rwandan officials have commanded the seven-month rebellion.  Accusations have flown that the violence has spilled over
the borders. At least three people were injured and one person
was killed yesterday when “weapons” were fired into Rwanda,
Rwandan army spokesman Brigadier General Joseph Nzabamwinta said
by phone.  Congolese Minister of Communication Lambert Mende said he
wasn’t aware of the incident in a phone interview yesterday from
the capital, Kinshasa. The UN’s Dwyer said reports of firing
from Congo into Rwanda couldn’t be confirmed.  The chances for a negotiated end to the hostilities appear
slim. The M23 rebels have called for the Congolese army to leave
Goma and insist on direct talks with the government. Both
requests have been refused.  The M23 “invites all the inhabitants of the city of Goma
and its environs to keep their calm and to follow peacefully the
evolution of the situation from their homes,” a rebel commander
known as Colonel Sultani Makenga said in a statement yesterday.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michael J. Kavanagh in Kinshasa at 
 mkavanagh9@bloomberg.net ;
Flavia Krause-Jackson in United Nations at 
 fjackson@bloomberg.net ;
Saul Butera in Nairobi at 
 sbutera2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net ;
 Paul Richardson  at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net  