-- Abu Dhabi’s Taqa Plans Bonds as Yields Outperform: Arab Credit
-- B y   A n t h o n y   D i P a o l a
-- 2012-11-20T21:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-20/abu-dhabi-s-taqa-plans-bonds-as-yields-outperform-arab-credit.html
Abu Dhabi National Energy Co. (TAQA)  plans
to sell bonds as the state-run power provider seeks to refinance
$2 billion of debt with borrowing costs near record lows.  The yield on the company’s December 2021 bonds has slid 231
basis points, or 2.31 percentage points, since the utility known
as Taqa sold the securities 11 months ago. That compares with a
185 basis-point decline in HSBC/Nasdaq Dubai’s Middle East
Conventional Corporate U.S. Dollar Bond Index. Another Abu
Dhabi-owned business, International Petroleum Investment Co.,
began meeting investors in Europe last week to sell debt.  Companies in Abu Dhabi, capital of the  United Arab
Emirates , are tapping bond markets to pay for expansion.
Government-affiliated businesses in oil-rich states of the
 Persian Gulf  are partnering with private ones to build
refineries, chemical factories and plants to process natural
gas. The U.A.E. holds 6 percent of the world’s proven crude
reserves, most of them in  Abu Dhabi .  “The cost of money will absolutely be lower” for Taqa
than rates on its existing debt, Hemant Dharnidharka, head of
credit research at SJS Markets Ltd. in Bangalore, said by
telephone yesterday. The company could sell now at a coupon of
3.6 percent, he said. “For corporates, it makes sense to lock
in these lower rates.”  Yield Tumbles  The yield on Taqa’s 5.875 percent bonds maturing in
December 2021 plunged from 5.78 percent on Dec. 7, 2011, when
the securities started trading, to a low of 3.33 percent on Nov.
8. They traded yesterday at 3.47 percent, data compiled by
Bloomberg show.  The HSBC/Nasdaq Dubai corporate index showed regional
yields slumping over the same period to 3.57 percent yesterday
from 5.41 percent in December. The Abu Dhabi government’s 6.75
percent bonds due in 2019 yielded 2.12 percent yesterday, down
1.46 basis points from December.  “We need to refinance payments next year,” Taqa’s Chief
Financial Officer Stephen Kersley said on a conference call on
Nov. 14. “We like to go out at a time that’s convenient for us,
not at the last minute.”  Taqa holds stakes in businesses generating power or
producing oil and gas in the  Middle East , North Africa,  India ,
 North America  and the  North Sea .  Kersley declined to comment on when the company would sell
bonds. A Taqa official who declined to be identified said last
week that the utility has hired  BNP Paribas SA (BNP) , Citigroup Inc.,
HSBC Holdings Plc, Standard Chartered Plc and  National Bank of
Abu Dhabi PJSC (NBAD)  for a bond sale that could come this year.  U.S. Recovery  Borrowing costs have eased worldwide as central banks pump
cash into economies by cutting interest rates and as high  oil
prices  leave crude exporters flush with cash, Ahmad Alanani,
Middle East director at Exotix Ltd., an investment bank, said by
phone in Dubai yesterday. Risks to low borrowing costs in the
Middle East include a potential U.S. economic recovery, he said.  “We could see rates move against us next year,” Alanani
said. “That’s good for equity and bad for debt.” Most Persian
Gulf currencies, including the U.A.E. dirham, are pegged to the
dollar, so local  interest rates  tend to mirror those in the U.S.  Still, state-owned borrowers in Abu Dhabi benefit from
backing by the government with the second-lowest credit risk in
the Middle East, according to data provider CMA, which is owned
by McGraw-Hill Cos. and compiles prices quoted by dealers in the
privately negotiated market.  Seventh-Highest  Moody’s Investors Service ranks Taqa, owned 75 percent by
the Abu Dhabi  government , as A3, the agency’s seventh-highest
rating. Taqa, which raised $2 billion in loans this week, owes
$4 billion next year. That includes about $2 billion in bonds
due in August, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  International Petroleum Investment, a refinery investor
known as IPIC, is gauging interest in  Europe  this month in a
possible bond sale, a person familiar with the discussions said
Nov. 14. The meetings began in Frankfurt and Munich on Nov. 15
and are set to end in Paris on Nov. 22, the person said.  IPIC, rated at Moody’s fourth-highest investment grade, has
$3 billion in loans due next year, according to a presentation
to investors. It has an additional $1 billion in bonds maturing
in 2015, data on Bloomberg show. The yield on IPIC’s 5.5 percent
bonds expiring in March 2022 tumbled from 5.83 percent when the
securities began trading on Nov. 1, 2011, to a record low of
3.44 percent on Oct. 19. The bonds yielded 3.57 percent
yesterday.  Officials at Taqa declined to comment yesterday. IPIC
didn’t immediately respond to an e-mail seeking comment.  “IPIC is one of our top picks” among corporate borrowers
in the Middle East and North Africa, UBS AG analysts led by
Kathleen Middlemiss and Tatiana Boroditskaya wrote in a Nov. 19
note. They cited government ownership and the “implicit state
support” for many borrowers as reasons for their assessment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anthony DiPaola in Dubai at 
 adipaola@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  