-- Agrium Investors Gain From Agrium Spinoff Push
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   D o n v i l l e ,   K a t i a   D m i t r i e v a   a n d   E r i c   L a m
-- 2012-11-29T13:53:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-20/agrium-investors-gain-from-agrium-spinoff-push.html
(Corrects percentages in fourth paragraph below ‘Moral
Battle’ subhead in story first published on Nov. 20.)  Activist investor  Jana Partners
LLC ’s campaign for changes at  Agrium Inc. (AGU)  is fueling speculation
it will ultimately boost  shareholder value  even if it doesn’t
force the fertilizer company to spin off its retail farm-supply
unit.  Jana prompted  Marathon Oil Corp. (MRO)  and McGraw-Hill Cos to
consider spinoffs, and the New York-based hedge fund said
yesterday it raised its stake in the Calgary-based company to
6.2 percent and picked five board nominees. Agrium resisted,
saying it’s on the right path, has the support of most
shareholders and believes Jana won’t succeed.  “It’s not necessarily going to be a binary event where one
loses and one wins,”  Sachin Shah , a  Jersey City , New Jersey-
based special-situations strategist at Tullett Prebon, said
yesterday in a telephone interview. “It’s probably going to be
a compromise where Agrium says some of these ideas are good,
Jana gets two to three directors and the stock goes up.”  Jana is turning up the heat on Agrium six months after it
began talks with the company. Its campaign follows activist
investor  William Ackman ’s successful proxy battle that led to
the ouster of  Canadian Pacific Railway Ltd. (CP) ’s Chief Executive
Officer  Fred Green .  “There’s quite a hurdle for them to get over to persuade
guys like us to support them,” Peter Letko, co-founder of Letko
Brosseau and Associates Inc. in  Montreal , which holds about 2.5
million Agrium shares, said yesterday by telephone. Agrium’s
management has done a “superb job” running the company, he
said.  Shares Rising  Agrium has  climbed  5.7 percent in Toronto since Aug. 13,
the day before Jana made public its proposals for the company.
It was little changed today, closing at C$101, giving the
company a market value of C$15.1 billion ($15.2 billion). The
shares have gained 48 percent this year.  Jana, Agrium’s largest  shareholder , is proposing a tax-free
separation of the company’s network of farm-supply outlets from
its wholesale fertilizer arm. The fund also has urged Agrium to
boost capital returns, improve disclosure and reduce costs, Jana
Managing Partner Barry Rosenstein said Oct. 1 in an investor
presentation. The changes may add $50 to Agrium’s share price,
Rosenstein said.  “I don’t know whether it’s going to be hard or easy, but I
know that we have a compelling case that shareholders seem to be
reacting very positively to,” Rosenstein said yesterday in a
telephone interview.  ‘Integrated Strategy’  “Agrium remains committed to its highly successful
integrated strategy,” the company said yesterday in a
statement. “Agrium’s shareholders have overwhelmingly rejected
Jana’s ideas. As a result, we believe Jana’s attempt to run its
own slate for Agrium’s board is almost certain to fail.”  Wilson said Nov. 7 that Agrium has improved its financial
transparency, elaborating on data showing returns on operating
capital and profit margins. The company also has pledged to
report same-store sales twice a year, in the second and fourth
quarters.  Agrium sells seeds, fertilizers and herbicides to farmers
in its chain of outlets, while its wholesale business produces
crop nutrients such as ammonia, potash and phosphorus. Agrium
generated 59 percent of its third-quarter  revenue  from its
retail unit, compared with 37 percent in its wholesale
fertilizer business, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  ‘Company’s Success’  Agrium should be kept together because the retail unit
informs the wholesale fertilizer unit, said  Raymond Goldie , an
analyst at Salman Partners Inc. in Toronto, who recommends
investors buy the stock.  “The key to the company’s success in marketing are the
people on the ground -- the management,” Goldie said yesterday
by phone. “The job of the board of directors isn’t necessarily
to have expertise in the industry, but to make sure that the
company follows correct and appropriate procedures.”  The argument for Jana, which oversees about $3.5 billion in
investments and commitments, is that the market likes pure plays
and anything that uses that business model tends to have a
greater value than a company with diverse interests, Goldie
said.  “Jana thinks that if you spin out the company into two,
they’re going to be worth two-and-a-half,” he said. “The
counter argument is that there are advantages to vertical
integration of a company.”  Jana is an event-driven fund, meaning it generally invests
in companies undergoing changes such as mergers, spinoffs and
bankruptcies. By raising its stake in Agrium to more than 5
percent, the fund has the right to call a special meeting of
Agrium shareholders.  ‘Moral Battle’  “I don’t think Jana has won the moral battle yet, other
than being a highly public disgruntled shareholder,” Chris Damas, a Barrie, Ontario-based analyst with BCMI Research, said
yesterday in an e-mail.  The market is skeptical that any of Jana’s proposals will
go through, said investor Troy Patton, president of Archer
Investments Corp.  “For Jana, this is more about staying in the limelight and
so that their name is out there,” Patton, whose company manages
$83 million including Agrium shares, said yesterday by phone
from Indianapolis.  Investment advisers control at least 78.3 percent of
Agrium, according to  data  compiled by Bloomberg based on
holdings disclosed by investors.  Hedge funds  own at least 11.4
percent of disclosed positions, the data show.  ‘Compelling Argument’  “Canadian pension funds prefer to make their views known
or instigate change through dialog rather than costly, public
proxy battles or litigation,” Andrew MacDougall, a Toronto-
based mergers-acquisitions lawyer at Osler, Hoskin & Harcourt
LLP, said July 9 in a  note  to clients.  “However, the CP Rail battle shows that in the current
low-yield environment, institutional shareholders are willing to
support change if someone else spearheads a proxy battle and
provides a compelling argument for change,” MacDougall wrote.  By deliberately seeking to oust just five of Agrium’s 11
directors, Jana may be trying to avoid a formal change in
control that could disrupt agreements between Agrium and its
bondholders,  Robert Schulz , a professor at the University of
Calgary’s business school, said yesterday by phone.  “It’s really not about the numbers -- its about having the
right people on the board,” Rosenstein said yesterday. “I
don’t think anybody can make any argument, and certainly the
company didn’t make that argument today, that we don’t have the
right people here.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Katia Dmitrieva in Toronto at 
 edmitrieva1@bloomberg.net ;
Eric Lam in Toronto at 
 elam87@bloomberg.net ;
Christopher Donville in Vancouver at 
 cjdonville@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  