-- AIDS Recedes as Home-Grown Funding Exceeds International Aid
-- B y   S i m e o n   B e n n e t t
-- 2012-11-20T13:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-20/aids-recedes-as-home-grown-funding-exceeds-international-aid.html
Spending on AIDS by the countries
hit hardest by the disease exceeded foreign aid for the first
time last year, as developing nations lessened their dependence
on rich countries that curbed donations to battle deficits.  Low- and middle-income countries have doubled spending on
AIDS to $8.6 billion since 2005, compared with international
funding for the disease that stalled at $8.2 billion last year,
the Joint United Nations Programme on HIV/AIDS, or  UNAIDS , said
in its annual report on the epidemic today.  Those investments helped curb deaths, which have dropped by
about a quarter globally since peaking in 2005, according to the
report. Still, the virus is spreading in the  Middle East , North
Africa, eastern Europe and Central Asia as epidemics driven by
sex between men and injecting drug users go unchecked by poorly
targeted or inadequately funded government programs.  “In many cases the investments are not sufficiently
targeted at where the epidemic is really happening,” Peter Ghys,
UNAIDS’s chief of data for action, said in a telephone interview.
Some countries spend on preventing mother-to-child transmission
instead of making investments that would have a bigger impact
such as needle-exchange programs or condoms, Ghys said.  Sex Work or Drugs  New infections rose by 37 percent in the Middle East and
North Africa between 2001 and 2011, and by 7.7 percent in
eastern  Europe  and Central Asia, the report said.  “In the general population levels of HIV are quite low,
but in several key populations in many of the countries in North
Africa and Middle East there is substantial prevalence being
measured,” Ghys said. “In  Iran , most of the transmission is
linked to injecting drug users. If you go to  Morocco  the current
assessment is that most of the transmission is linked to sex
work.”  New infections also climbed in  Bangladesh ,  Indonesia , the
 Philippines  and  Sri Lanka . New cases fell by 42 percent in the
Caribbean, the region with the steepest decline.  Globally, the number of people newly infected with HIV last
year fell to 2.5 million from 2.7 million in 2010, and AIDS-
related deaths declined to 1.7 million from 1.9 million. The
number of people with access to antiretroviral drugs has risen
63 percent over the past two years, according to the report.  While sub-Saharan Africa remains the region hit hardest by
the disease, accounting for more than 70 percent of new HIV
infections and AIDS-related deaths last year, the research shows
that new cases have dropped by a quarter since 2001 and deaths
have fallen by a third since 2005.  South Africa , the nation with
the most HIV infections, increased spending five-fold between
2006 and 2009.  About $24 billion a year will be needed by 2015 to meet
targets of reducing new infections through sex and needle
sharing by half, eliminating new infections among children, and
expanding treatment to 15 million people, the report says.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simeon Bennett in Geneva at 
 sbennett9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  