-- Al-Qaeda ‘Cancer’ Spreads With U.S. Chasing, Panetta Says
-- B y   G o p a l   R a t n a m
-- 2012-11-21T05:00:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-20/al-qaeda-cancer-spreads-with-u-s-chasing-panetta-says.html
Al-Qaeda and affiliated terrorist
groups have spread beyond Afghanistan and  Pakistan  and must be
pursued by other countries with help from U.S. military
commandos, Defense Secretary  Leon Panetta  said.  “We have slowed the primary cancer -- but we know the
cancer has also metastasized to other parts of the global body”
despite American military gains against al-Qaeda in Pakistan,
Afghanistan, Somalia and Yemen in the last decade, Panetta said
in a speech yesterday in Washington.  The group and its surrogates have adapted “by becoming
even more widely distributed, loosely knit and geographically
dispersed” and are looking to establish themselves in a wide
swath of North Africa, Panetta said.  The continuing fight against the terror group “will
largely take place outside declared combat zones,” carried out
by U.S. Special Operations Forces and through assistance to
countries so they “can be effective in combating terrorism on
their own,” Panetta said at an event organized by the  Center
for a New American Security , a policy research group in
Washington.  Panetta described al-Qaeda links to the September 11 attack
on the U.S. diplomatic compound in Benghazi,  Libya , that led to
the death of Ambassador Chris Stevens and three other Americans.
He made no reference to criticism from Republicans of the Obama
administration’s initial account of a spontaneous demonstration
that was “hijacked” by “extremists” who weren’t further
identified.  Libya Attack  “We are also concerned about Libya, where violent
extremists and affiliates of al-Qaeda attacked and killed
innocent Americans in Benghazi,” Panetta said yesterday. “With
respect to that attack, let me be clear: we will work with the
Libyan government to bring to justice those who perpetrated
these attacks.”  Republicans such as Senator  John McCain  of  Arizona  have
said the administration may have played down an al-Qaeda
connection for political reasons during President  Barack Obama ’s
re-election campaign. Intelligence officials, speaking on
condition of anonymity, said they shaped the original account to
protect intelligence sources.  Panetta said “we are continuing to ramp up Special
Operations Forces” even as the Pentagon’s budget comes under
pressure because of budget deficits and debt and the military’s
size is being cut back. The forces trained to conduct commando
operations, such as the one that killed al-Qaeda leader Osama
bin Laden, already have doubled in size from 37,000 on Sept. 11,
2011, to 64,000 today and “will grow to 72,000 by 2017,” he
said.  The U.S. also is expanding its fleet of Predator
surveillance drones and Reaper attack drones “over what we have
today,” Panetta said.  Afghanistan Transition  Panetta said the U.S. and its NATO allies are on course to
hand over security responsibilities in  Afghanistan  to Afghans
after 2014, as Obama has pledged.  “This transition is our goal and it is the Afghans’ goal
as well –- but it will require continued commitment by the
international community and the  United States  to help Afghan
forces achieve it,” Panetta said.  The U.S. won’t turn away from its efforts to prevent al-
Qaeda from returning to Afghanistan, which he called the
“historic epicenter for violent extremism.”  The U.S. also will continue to keep pressure on al-Qaeda in
Somalia, Yemen and Pakistan, Panetta said. Acknowledging the
difficulties in relations between the U.S. and Pakistan, Panetta
said the national interests of both countries involve
“defeating the terrorists on Pakistani soil.”  Panetta praised Michele Flournoy, his former under
secretary for policy, who was co-founder of the Center for a New
American Security. She has been among those cited as a potential
successor to Panetta in Obama’s second term.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gopal Ratnam in  Washington  at 
 gratnam1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  