-- Allianz Sees Volatile Equities on Spain Bailout, Banking Union
-- B y   A n n e t t e   W e i s b a c h
-- 2012-11-20T14:02:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-20/allianz-sees-volatile-equities-on-spain-bailout-banking-union.html
Allianz Global Investors, a fund
management unit of  Allianz SE (ALV) , expects volatility in equity
markets to persist next year as investors focus on a probable
bailout of Spain and arguments over European banking union.  “Under the current macroeconomic environment, I think it
is very risky to speculate on a surge in equity prices,” global
chief investment officer Andreas Utermann said at a press
conference in Frankfurt today.  Spain needs to refinance 207 billion euros ($264 billion)
of debt next year and the  International Monetary Fund  is
pressuring it to seek a bailout. European policy makers are
attempting to hammer out a banking union, with countries
including  Germany  and the Netherlands opposing plans for the
 European Central Bank  to regulate all of  Europe ’s lenders.  “If Spain will not ask for a bailout at the latest early
next year, spreads will rise again and force the country to do
so,” Utermann said. Europe’s leaders have won time from the
ECB’s bond-buying program and it’s very important that they use
it and find a compromise on the banking union and more fiscal
consolidation, he said.  Allianz  Global Investors is part of the Munich-based
insurer’s Allianz Asset Management, led by management board
member Jay Ralph. The larger entity also includes Pacific
Investment Management Co., which runs the world’s largest bond
mutual fund.   Investors should focus on companies that have diversified
their operations internationally and that pay high dividends,
Utermann said. He expected the outperformance of the German
stock market to stall, mirroring the country’s economic
performance.  “There is not a market I would recommend, so stock picking
is essential,” he said.  The U.S. might “surprise on the upside” as the economy is
more dynamic than Europe and President  Barack Obama  and the
Republicans may reach a compromise to avoid tax increases and
spending cuts, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Annette Weisbach in Frankfurt at 
 aweisbach1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  