-- Analyst Says BlackBerry May Avoid ‘Worst-Case Scenario’
-- B y   H u g o   M i l l e r
-- 2012-11-20T21:11:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-20/analyst-says-blackberry-may-avoid-worst-case-scenario-.html
Research In Motion Ltd. (RIM)  climbed as
much as 4.7 percent after Jefferies & Co. raised the stock’s
rating to hold, saying the struggling maker of the BlackBerry
may avoid a “worst-case scenario.”  RIM’s new BlackBerry 10 phones, due to be unveiled on Jan.
30, now have a 20 percent to 30 percent probability of success,
said  Peter Misek , a Jefferies analyst in  New York . Misek, who
had previously rated RIM the equivalent of a sell, also
increased his target price to $10 from $5.  After years of losing ground to Apple Inc.’s iPhone and
Google Inc.’s Android, RIM is counting on the BlackBerry 10
smartphones to resurrect its fortunes. While the BB10 operating
system is still more likely to fail than not, it has won the
support of wireless carriers, improving its prospects, Misek
said in today’s report.  “We have been surprised by the strongly positive initial
feedback on BB10 from carriers,” he said. “We expected a more
muted response, given BB10 is two years late and RIM’s market
share has plunged from 20 percent to 5 percent. Our theory is
that carriers see BB10 as one of their last chances to avoid
being locked into a long-term smartphone OS duopoly.”  RIM shares rose 1.2 percent to $9.71 at the close in New
York. The shares, down 33 percent this year, traded as high as
$10.04 earlier in the session.  The rosier outlook follows a prediction from Pacific Crest
Securities analyst earlier this month that the BlackBerry 10
would be dead on arrival.  “We believe BB10 is likely to be DOA,”  James Faucette , a
Pacific Crest analyst in  Portland ,  Oregon , said in a report.
“We expect the new OS to be met with a lukewarm response at
best and ultimately likely to fail.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hugo Miller in Toronto at 
 hugomiller@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  