-- Tanker Glut Seen at 22-Week Low as Asian Crude Demand Gains
-- B y   R o b   S h e r i d a n
-- 2012-11-20T16:43:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-20/tanker-glut-seen-at-22-week-low-as-asian-crude-demand-gains-1-.html
A glut of the largest  oil tankers  in
the  Middle East  is poised to fall to the lowest in 22 weeks as
crude shipments to refineries across Asia increase because of
colder weather.  There are 12 percent more very large crude carriers for
hire over the next 30 days than there are likely cargoes,
according to the median  estimate  of seven shipbrokers and owners
surveyed today. That’s a 2.5 percentage-point decline from the
previous week and the smallest surplus since June 19.  South Korean, Chinese and Japanese demand for oil shipments
strengthened before winter in the three countries starts to
boost refinery processing rates, Dahlman Rose & Co., the New
York-based investment bank, said in an e-mailed report
yesterday. Tankers hired for loading during November in the
 Persian Gulf  reached 141, the most since December, according to
data from the Marex Spectron Group.  “Cargoes for loading in November took away a lot of the
vessel supply overhang,” Stockholm-based Per Mansson, the
managing director of shipbroker Norocean Stockholm AB, said by
phone today. “Demand will probably continue for a little while,
one or two weeks at best.”  The tankers are  earning  $28,316 a day on the Middle East-
to-Asia voyage, more than double those of a week earlier,
according to figures today from the  Baltic Exchange , a London-
based publisher of prices on more than 50 maritime routes.  The exchange’s assessments don’t reflect speed cuts aimed
at reducing fuel costs, the main expense for owners, who can
boost returns by slowing tankers on return journeys after
unloading cargoes. Marine  fuel , or bunkers, rose 0.3 percent to
$621.26 a metric ton, the highest since Nov. 1, data compiled by
Bloomberg from 25 ports showed today.  Benchmark Voyage  Charter costs for VLCCs on the benchmark voyage climbed 0.7
percent to 55.97 industry-standard Worldscale points, exchange
data showed. Rates have jumped 56 percent in 10 sessions. Each
of the ships can haul 2 million barrels of oil.  The Worldscale system is a method for pricing oil cargoes
on thousands of trade routes. Each individual voyage’s flat
rate, expressed in dollars a ton, is set once a year. Today’s
level means hire costs on the benchmark route are 55.97 percent
of the nominal Worldscale rate for that voyage.  The Baltic Dirty Tanker Index, a broader measure of oil-
shipping costs that includes vessels smaller than VLCCs, was
unchanged at 723 points, according to the exchange.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rob Sheridan in London at 
 rsheridan6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alaric Nightingale at 
 anightingal1@bloomberg.net  