-- Apple, Ravensburger, General Mills: Intellectual Property
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 2012-11-20T12:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-20/apple-ravensburger-general-mills-intellectual-property.html
Apple Inc. (AAPL) , the maker of the iPad
and iPod, has received a U.S. patent on virtual page turning.  Patent D670,713, which was issued Nov. 13, is a design
patent.  According to the patent, the design covers the appearance
of the animated images as they sequentially transition between
the images. Cupertino, California-based Apple says the process
by which one image transitions to another isn’t part of the
claimed design.  Application for the patent was filed in December, with the
assistance of Sterne, Kessler, Goldstein & Fox PLLC of
 Washington .  Samsung Gets Review of Loss in Trade Case Against Apple  Samsung Electronics Co. will get another chance to persuade
a U.S. trade agency that Apple Inc.’s iPhone and iPad infringe
its patents.  The U.S. International Trade Commission said it will review
“in its entirety” the Sept. 14 findings that cleared Apple of
claims it violated four Samsung patents. Notice of the decision
was posted on the agency’s website.  DOJ, FTC Team Up to Offer Public Workshop on Patent Assertion  The U.S.  Justice Department  and the Federal Trade
Commission are holding a joint public workshop to explore the
effects of what it calls “patent assertion entity activities”
on innovation, competition and antitrust enforcement and
policy.”  The Dec. 10 workshop will look at the economic and legal
implications of the patent assertion entity activity, as
distinct from the “non-practicing entity” activity on such
areas as developing and transferring technology.  The Justice Department and the trade commission are
soliciting comments on these issues from the public both before
the workshop and until March 10. Comments can be submitted to
 http://ATR.LPS-PAEPublicComments @usdoj.gov.  The event is free at the trade commission’s satellite
office in Washington.  Among the participants are Peter Detkin, the vice chairman
of  Intellectual Ventures ; Scott Burt, vice president and chief
 intellectual property  counsel  at Mosaid Technologies Inc. ; and
Sarah Guichard, vice president of patents and standards
strategy,  Research in Motion .  For more patent news, click here.  Trademarks  Australia Blocks Honduran Call for WTO to Probe Tobacco Packages  Australia  blocked a request by  Honduras  for World Trade
Organization judges to investigate the legality of an Australian
law that prohibits the display of  tobacco companies ’ logos,
labels and trademarks.  Honduras challenged the Australian ban on April 4, saying
it violates global rules on intellectual property. The Geneva-
based WTO agreed on Sept. 28 to examine a similar Ukrainian
complaint against the plain-packaging rules. Australia won’t be
able to block a second Honduran request for judges to rule.  Beginning Dec. 1, cigarettes in Australia will have to be
sold in dark brown packets, with no symbols or images and the
same font for all brands. Global tobacco companies on Aug. 15
lost a legal to challenge to the law, the first requiring
cigarettes to be sold in uniform packages, after Australia’s top
court ruled the government didn’t benefit from the removal of
trademarks.  Philip Morris International Inc. (PM) ,  Imperial Tobacco Group
Plc (IMT) ,  British American Tobacco Plc (BATS)  and  Japan Tobacco Inc. (2914)  had
claimed the government illegally seized their intellectual
property by barring the display of trademarks.  Smoking kills 15,000 Australians annually and costs about
A$31 billion ($32 billion) in yearly health and workplace
expenses, the government says. With 15 percent of the population
age 14 or over smoking daily, it’s the country’s top drug and a
preventable health issue, Australian officials say.  Honduras and Ukraine say the law is based on insufficient
scientific evidence and that the plain-packaging rules will
unnecessarily restrict trade because Australia’s public-health
goal can be met by other means.  The Dominican Republic said on Nov. 9 said it will also ask
the WTO to investigate its  complaint  against the Australian
plain-packaging law in its first challenge at the trade arbiter.
The request will be included on the Dispute Settlement Body’s
Dec. 17 agenda, the  Dominican Republic  said in a statement.  “These unprecedented measures will undermine the Dominican
Republic’s tobacco industry, in particular its premium cigar
sector,” according to the statement. “By prescribing
standardized plain packaging, the tobacco market will be driven
towards commoditization, with declining prices, and increasing -
- rather than falling -- consumption and illicit trade.”  Ravensburger Says ‘Memory’ Apps Infringe Its European Trademarks  Ravensburger AG, a German game company, has informed Apple
Inc.  that applications sold in the Cupertino, California-based
company’s  App Store  with “Memory” in their names infringe its
European trademarks, the Gamasutra game-industry news website
 reported .  “Memory” is one of the board games Ravensburger sells,
Gamasutra reported.  Darren Murtha, one of the developers of the “Preschool
Memory Match” application told Gamasutra he had to remove his
game from sale in 43 countries because of the Ravensburger
objection.  He said he would change the name of the app in those
countries and release a new version of the application in 2012,
Gamasutra reported.  General Mills Bests Indian Dairy Co-Op in ‘Trix’ Trademark Fight  General Mills Inc. (GIS) , the U.S. cereal giant, won a trademark
dispute in  India  against a dairy cooperative, India’s Economic
Times  reported .  The dispute involved the “Trix” trademark originally
registered in India in 1977 by the Gujarat Cooperative Milk
Marketing Federation, and used through 1987 for a chocolate bar,
according to the Economic Times.  General Mills India Pvt. Ltd. filed an application to
register “Trix” -- used in the U.S. for its fruit-flavored
cereal. In July India’s Intellectual Property Appellate Board
directed that country’s registrar of trademarks to cancel the
dairy cooperative’s right to the trademark.  The dairy cooperative filed an appeal, and the Gujarat High
Court said there was no merit in its petition and affirmed the
cancellation of the mark.  For more trademark news, click here.  Copyright  THQ Sued Over Use of Fighter’s Tattoo in UFC Computer Game  THQ Inc. (THQI) , makers of the Company of Heroes and Darksider
computer games, was sued for copyright infringement by an
 Arizona  tattoo artist.  According to the complaint filed Nov. 16 in federal court
in Phoenix, a lion tattoo placed on the right ribcage of martial
arts competitor  Carlos Condit  is infringed in THQ’s “ UFC
Undisputed 3 ” game. The game includes images of a number of
 Ultimate Fighting Challenge  contenders.  The game features a computer-generated depiction of Condit,
which includes “an exact reproduction of the lion tattoo,”
tattoo artist  Chris Escobedo  said in his pleadings.  Escobedo claims a website associated with the game also
displays an unauthorized copy of the tattoo.  He claims he is harmed by the Agoura Hills, California-
based company’s actions and that his exclusive rights to
reproduce and distribute the image are infringed.  Escobedo says the infringement is “willful, intentional”
and in disregard of his own rights.  He asked the court for an award of all profit attributed to
the alleged infringement, and money damages.  Agoura Hills, California-based THQ didn’t respond
immediately to an e-mailed request for comment.  Escobedo said in a  statement  that even if THQ had asked, he
wouldn’t have agreed to the recreation of the tattoo by an
animator.  The case is Christopher Escobedo v. THQ Inc., 2:12-cv-
02470-JAT, U.S. District Court, District of Arizona (Phoenix).  Trade Secrets/Industrial Espionage  Ambassador to Canada Says No Industrial Espionage by Chinese  China’s ambassador to  Canada , Zhang Junsai, denied Chinese
companies are involved in industrial espionage and called for
anyone who believed otherwise to provide proof, Agence France-
Presse  reported .  Speaking on a Canadian Broadcasting Corp. radio program,
Zhang said that those who made such allegations were falling
into a “Cold War mentality,” according to AFP.  The ambassador claimed that even the U.S. couldn’t provide
evidence of Chinese industrial espionage, AFP reported.  He was making reference to conclusions made by a panel from
the U.S. House of Representatives that several Chinese telecom
companies were enough of a security threat that they shouldn’t
be allowed to enter into U.S. contracts or acquire U.S.
companies, according to the news service.  For more copyright news, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in Oakland,  California , at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 