-- Argentine Unions Block Roads in First Fernandez-Era Strike
-- B y   E l i a n a   R a s z e w s k i
-- 2012-11-20T20:26:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-20/argentine-unions-block-roads-in-first-fernandez-era-strike-3-.html
Argentina ’s biggest trade unions
blocked highways and halted train, bus and port services in
their first general strike against President  Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner  to protest  rising prices  and higher taxes.  Trash piled up along sidewalks of near empty streets in
Buenos Aires while flights were disrupted and banks shuttered.
The one-day stoppage by workers represented by the General Labor
Confederation and the Argentine Workers Association is the first
stoppage in at least nine years, according to union leaders.  “The strike reflects the discontent of the people with the
government, with the economy and with the lack of response,”
said Geronimo Venegas, who represents 850,000 farm workers.
Inflation of 27 percent is “freezing the domestic market
because it’s hurting workers’ purchasing power,” he said by
phone today.  Fernandez, 59, was re-elected by a landslide in October
2011 on policies to increase wages and pensions to stimulate
consumption. Since then, her popularity has plunged as rising
prices erode purchasing power, workers pay more taxes and growth
in  South America ’s second-largest economy stalled. Today’s
stoppage follows a Nov. 8 protest by about 2 million people
demonstrating against Fernandez’s failure to combat crime and
rein in inflation.  Slowdown, Confidence  Union demands include an increase in the threshold at which
wages start to be  taxed  and an increase in the minimum salary to
3,500 pesos ($729) per month from the 2,875 pesos the government
has announced for February 2013. As wages rose an average 25
percent this year, in line with the inflation rate estimated by
private economists, more workers have become subject to income
taxes.  “The government should listen to the silence that was in
the streets, in factories today,” Hugo Moyano, head of the
General Labor Confederation told reporters today. “We will
continue with our claim over the income tax payments -- workers
shouldn’t pay taxes for their work.”  According to Venegas, about 100 percent of workers joined
the strike in some parts of the country.  Unemployment rose to 7.6 percent in the third quarter, the
highest since the second quarter of 2010, the government’s
statistics institute reported yesterday.  ‘Tired of Lies’  “We are standing up because we are sick and tired of
lies,” Geronimo Venegas, a union leader who represents 850,000
agriculture workers, told reporters yesterday. “The government
takes part of our salaries as income taxes, has abolished some
social security handouts and uses and wastes pensioners’
funds.”  The strike is “extortive and inappropriate,” Interior and
Transport Minister Florencio Randazzo said yesterday, according
to the presidential website. He said that the strike is
political as it seeks to damage the government.  The economy of the world’s third-largest soybean exporter
stalled in the second quarter for the first time since 2009, as
the global crisis and a slowdown in  Brazil  led to lower demand
for Argentine goods.  Port workers adhered to the strike, Guillermo Wade, an
official at the port exporters chamber, said by telephone from
Rosario, the riverside town from which most of the country’s
soybeans and oilseed products are shipped.  Confidence, Borrowing Costs  The slowdown in activity led confidence in the government
to fall for a fifth consecutive month in October, according to a
poll released by Torcuato Di Tella University on Oct. 31. The
confidence  index  dropped 36 percent from a year earlier, the
survey of 1,209 people showed. Confidence fell 1 percent in
October from September to 1.67 on a scale of zero to five.  Argentina, which defaulted on a record $95 billion of debt
in 2001 and remains locked out of international  capital markets ,
has the highest borrowing costs of major emerging-market
economies.  The extra yield investors demand to own Argentine debt over
U.S. Treasuries fell 4 basis points, or 0.04 percentage point,
to 1,167 basis points at 12:04 p.m. in  Buenos Aires , according
to JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s EMBI Global index.  The popularity of Fernandez, who first took office in 2007,
has plunged by more than half since her re-election with 54
percent of votes, according to a survey by Buenos Aires-based
pollster Management & Fit.  Waning Popularity  The Oct. 18-29 survey showed her approval rating dropped to
28 percent from 63.3 percent a year earlier. The poll of 2,100
people had a margin of error of 2.3 percentage points.  Fernandez’s loss of backing comes at a time when supporters
are seeking to amend the constitution to allow her to run for a
third term in 2015. Lawmaker Diana Conti said in an Oct. 31
interview with Radio Continental that the present system, which
sets a maximum of two consecutive terms, is “ridiculous.”  In the Management & Fit poll, 66 percent of respondents
opposed a reform of the charter, while 27.5 percent were in
favor.  As a constitutional amendment will require the approval of
two-thirds of Congress, Fernandez’s supporters are counting on
the 2013 mid-term elections to add lawmakers to her coalition.  Fernandez has sidestepped questions about her political
future, saying “it doesn’t depend on me,” on Sept. 28, during
an exchange with students at  Harvard University  in Cambridge,
 Massachusetts .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eliana Raszewski in Buenos Aires at 
 eraszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Sanders at 
 psanders@bloomberg.net  