-- Asian Economies Aim for Trade Deal as Sea Dispute Set Aside
-- B y   D a n i e l   T e n   K a t e   a n d   S h a m i m   A d a m
-- 2012-11-21T02:38:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-20/asia-s-top-economies-aim-for-trade-deal-as-sea-dispute-set-aside.html
China ,  Japan  and  South Korea  started
talks on a free-trade agreement vital to an Asia-wide deal in a
move to forge closer economic ties even as they spar over
disputed islands.  The countries, representing three of  Asia ’s four biggest
economies, will hold the first round of talks early next year,
they said in a joint  statement . Those negotiations are key to
the Regional Comprehensive Economic Partnership, a 16-nation
accord also announced yesterday that Southeast Asian countries
called “the world’s biggest regional free trade deal.”  “The missing piece of the jigsaw puzzle as far as Asia is
concerned is the agreement among the three Northeast Asian
countries,” said  John Ravenhill , a professor at Canberra-based
 Australian National University . “The negotiations that were
supposed to have started between those three countries have been
put on hold because of the disputes over the  South China Sea  and
other islands.”  Competing visions for an Asia-Pacific trade bloc reflect
the struggle for dominance by economic powers over a region that
is increasingly a driver of global growth. U.S. President  Barack Obama  is seeking to expand trade ties with Asian nations and
regain economic influence among countries that are growing more
reliant on China in an area that contains sea lanes vital to
world commerce.  Clinton Invitation  Last week Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  welcomed China
and other Asian nations to join the 11-country Trans-Pacific
Partnership that the U.S. aims to combine with other regional
trade agreements to transform global commerce. Thailand and
Japan are interested in joining the talks,  Ben Rhodes , White
House deputy national security adviser, said yesterday.  “They’re committed to getting those negotiations concluded
with an aim to doing so next year so that they can complete that
trade agreement,” he said in Phnom Penh,  Cambodia , after Obama
met with leaders from countries involved in the TPP talks.  The discussions on trade proceeded even as China’s
territorial disputes surfaced at five days of meetings in
Cambodia hosted by the  Association of Southeast Asian Nations 
that ended yesterday. Obama, who met with Japan’s Prime Minister
 Yoshihiko Noda  and Chinese Premier  Wen Jiabao  separately
yesterday, called the U.S.-Japan military alliance the
“cornerstone” of regional security.  Increasing Severity  “With the increasing severity of the security environment
in East Asia, the importance of the Japan-U.S. alliance is
increasing evermore,” Noda, who faces re-election next month,
said in a meeting with Obama. “I would like to proceed with
concrete cooperation to develop our alliance.”  China has demanded that Japan withdraw from its September
purchase of islands known as Senkaku in Japan and Diaoyu in
China. Anti-Japan protests have reduced China sales at  Toyota
Motor Corp. (7203) , Nissan Motor Co. and Honda Motor Co.  “It’s not good, to be honest,” Qin Gang, a spokesman for
China’s foreign ministry, told reporters yesterday, referring to
his country’s relationship with Japan. “But the reason is not
on China’s part.”  Wen downplayed the disputes yesterday and urged leaders to
focus on maintaining the peace and stability that has
underpinned Asia’s economic growth since World War II, according
to Fu Ying, China’s vice foreign minister. China has been
Asean’s largest trading partner since 2009.  “We do not want to give overemphasis to the territorial
disputes and the differences,” she told reporters. “We do not
think it’s a good idea to spread the sense of tension in this
region.”  China Reliance  Southeast Asia  is growing more reliant on trade with China,
which is a gateway for shipments to advanced economies,
according to the Organization for Economic Cooperation and
Development. The RCEP includes China, Japan, India, South Korea,
 Australia  and  New Zealand , an area with more than 3 billion
people representing about a quarter of the world economy,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The 16 countries are targeting to complete negotiations by
2015,  Singapore  Trade Minister Lim Hng Kiang told the Straits
Times newspaper Nov. 17. TPP countries aim to complete the
agreement by next October, Australian Prime Minister  Julia Gillard  told reporters yesterday. Her country is one of six
involved in both sets of trade talks.  ‘Two Pathways’  “We now look like we’re going to have two pathways to the
one destination, a Free Trade Area of Asia and the Pacific,”
Craig Emerson, Australia’s trade minister, told reporters.
“This is very heartening and if one set of negotiations lends
momentum to the other set of negotiations, that is all good and
that is entirely possible.”  The U.S. describes the TPP as a “21st century” agreement
that seeks to uphold labor rights, reform state-owned
enterprises and instill stricter protections for patents in
addition to tackling traditional issues such as tariffs and
market access. The TPP would be the first trade deal negotiated
by the Obama administration and would be the biggest for the
U.S. since the  North American Free Trade Agreement .  “The TPP will lower barriers, raise standards, and drive
long-term growth across the region,” Clinton said in Singapore
on Nov. 17. “Better jobs with higher wages and safer working
conditions -- including for women, migrant workers, and others
too often excluded from the formal economy -- will help build
Asia’s middle class and rebalance the global economy.”  ‘Help the World’  RCEP on the other hand is “aimed at engaging Asean’s
external partners in a new broader and deeper economic
partnership agreement,” said Termsak Chalermpalanupap, a
visiting research fellow at the  Institute of Southeast Asian
Studies  in Singapore. Asean is attempting to create an economic
zone modeled after the European Union, without a common
currency, by the end of 2015.  Indonesia, Southeast Asia’s biggest economy, will be
putting all its “energy and resources” on the Asean-led deal,
Trade Minister  Gita Wirjawan  said in Phnom Penh on Nov. 17.
Indonesia’s government is unsure if the TPP would be “net
beneficial” to the country, he said.  “Some of us are joining the discussion on the TPP, those
who are ready, those who are willing and those who have less
problems in the complex discussion,” Surin Pitsuwan, Asean’s
secretary-general, told Bloomberg Television on Nov. 19. “But
here in the region all 16 of us are working on the new
architecture so that we can make use of the existing free-trade
agreements that we already have. We need to work together to
move forward so that we can help the world.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Daniel Ten Kate in Phnom Penh at 
 dtenkate@bloomberg.net ;
Shamim Adam in Phnom Penh at 
 sadam2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  