-- Asian Stocks Outside Japan Advance on U.S. Home Sales
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   B u r g o s
-- 2012-11-20T11:54:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-20/asian-stocks-rise-third-day-as-u-s-home-sales-beat-estimates.html
Asian  stocks  outside Japan gained,
with a regional index poised to advance for a second day, as
U.S. home sales beat economist estimates, boosting optimism in
the world’s largest economy.  Techtronic Industries Co. (669) , a power tools maker that gets 72
percent of sales from North America, rose 3.5 percent in  Hong
Kong . Osaka Securities Exchange Co. added 1.9 percent after
shareholders approved its merger with Tokyo Stock Exchange Group
Inc. Olam International Ltd. sank 7.5 percent in Singapore as it
resumed trading after short-seller  Carson Block  questioned the
commodity trader’s accounting methods.  The  MSCI Asia Pacific Excluding Japan Index (MXAPJ)  gained 0.3
percent to 435.95 as of 8:52 p.m. in Tokyo, with about the same
number of shares rising as falling. The measure rose for a
second day after President  Barack Obama  started talks with
Republicans and Democrats on a U.S. budget agreement to avert
the so-called fiscal cliff. Failure to strike a deal will
trigger more than $600 billion in automatic tax increases and
spending cuts that may throw the country into a recession.  “There’s a greater sense of urgency to resolve the fiscal
cliff,” said Ng Soo Nam, Singapore-based chief investment
officer at Nikko Asset Management, which oversees about $165
billion. “Both sides seem more willing to strike some sort of
compromise. Barring any shocks, economic data in the U.S. is
suggesting a steady recovery.”  Australia’s S&P/ASX 200 Index gained 0.6 percent. The
 Reserve Bank  of Australia said more interest-rate reductions may
be appropriate to spur economic growth as the nation’s mining
boom wanes, minutes of its Nov. 6 policy meeting showed today.  BOJ Meeting  South Korea’s  Kospi Index (KOSPI)  climbed 0.6 percent. Taiwan’s
Taiex Index added 0.2 percent, while Singapore’s Straits Times
Index increased 0.3 percent. Hong Kong’s Hang Seng Index fell
0.2 percent. China’s Shanghai Composite Index lost 0.4 percent.  Japan’s  Nikkei 225 Stock Average (NKY)  slipped 0.1 percent, its
first decline in five days, as brokerages and utilities
retreated after a rally fueled by speculation next month’s
elections will yield a new government advocating more economic
stimulus. The  Bank of Japan  today held off from more monetary
easing after expanding asset purchases in September and October.
The decision was predicted by 22 economists surveyed by
 Bloomberg News .  Futures on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index were little
changed after falling as much as 0.3 percent today. The  S&P 500 
rose the most in two months yesterday as Obama expressed
confidence on a budget agreement with Congress and sales of
previously owned U.S. homes climbed in October.  Talks Constructive  House Speaker  John Boehner , a Republican, last week
described U.S. budget discussions as constructive and said he
would accept increased government revenue coupled with spending
cuts. Congress is now in recess for Thanksgiving until Nov. 26.  “Confidence is growing that a U.S. budget deal can be
reached, as politicians from both parties continue to make some
positive comments on working together,” said Stan Shamu, a
Melbourne-based strategist at IG Markets, a provider of trading
services for equities, currencies and commodities. “Better-
than-expected existing home sales data has also helped to lift
sentiment.”  Exporters to the U.S. advanced. Techtronic jumped 3.5
percent to HK$15.50 in Hong Kong.  Quanta Computer Inc. (2382) , the
world’s top contract manufacturer of laptops, rose 1.9 percent
to NT$70.30 in Taipei. LG Display Co., the world’s second-
largest maker of liquid-crystal displays, climbed 4 percent to
36,050 won in  Seoul .  Samsung Patents  Samsung Electronics Co., the world’s biggest maker of
smartphones, gained 2.4 percent to 1.364 million won in Seoul.
The U.S. International Trade Commission said yesterday it will
review “in its entirety” a judge’s Sept. 14 findings that
cleared Apple of claims it violated four Samsung patents. The
commission, which has the power to block imports of products
that infringe U.S. patents, is scheduled to make a final
decision on Jan. 14.  Osaka Securities Exchange Co. added 1.9 percent to 326,000
yen. Shareholders approved a $1.6 billion merger with Tokyo
Stock Exchange Group Inc. in a bid to reinvigorate the country’s
securities markets. The combined company, called the Japan
Exchange Group, could save 7 billion yen ($86 million) a year by
integrating their information technology systems.  Fletcher Building Ltd. rose 3.7 percent to NZ$7.65 in
Wellington after New Zealand’s biggest maker of building
products said operating profit will rise as much as 22 percent
in the year ending June 30.  Lee & Man Paper Manufacturing Ltd. (2314)  jumped 11 percent to
HK$4.20 in Hong Kong. The maker of packaging products posted
higher first-half profit and announced an interim dividend of 5
Hong Kong cents per share.  Olam Slumps  Of the 565 companies on the  MSCI Asia Pacific Index (MXAP)  that
includes Japan that posted quarterly results since Oct. 1, and
for which earnings estimates were available, 55 percent fell
short of expectations, according to  data  compiled by Bloomberg
News.  Among stocks that declined today, Olam slumped 7.5 percent
to S$1.61 in Singapore. Block, a lawyer who has successfully bet
against Chinese companies that trade in North America after
questioning their accounting methods, said he is betting against
the stock. Olam, which had a record level of shorts as of Nov.
15, is booking profits on transactions before it’s clear how the
deals will work out, Block said.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index gained 11 percent from this
year’s low on June 4 through yesterday as central banks added
stimulus to spur economic growth and data showed a slowdown in
China may be ending. The Asian benchmark index traded at 13.4
times estimated earnings, compared with 13.3 times for the  S&P
500 Index  and a multiple of 12.1 for the Stoxx Europe 600.  France today lost its top  credit rating  with Moody’s
Investors Service, dealing a blow to President  Francois
Hollande ’s efforts to show budget credibility as Europe’s
second-largest economy stalls.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Burgos in Singapore at 
 jburgos4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  