-- Atlantic Equities Closes U.S. Unit a Year After Buying It
-- B y   Z e k e   F a u x
-- 2012-11-20T16:07:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-20/atlantic-equities-closes-u-s-unit-a-year-after-buying-it.html
Atlantic Equities LLP , the London-
based brokerage that provides research on U.S. stocks to
European clients, is ending a foray into the greater New York-
area market, its chief executive officer said.  The brokerage is closing its office this week in Greenwich,
 Connecticut , which it formed last year by buying brokerage
Execution Noble LLC, Christopher Middleton, the CEO, said today
in a telephone interview. Atlantic Equities’s core business is
unaffected, and some of the nine U.S. salesmen and traders may
be offered positions in  London , he said.  Atlantic Equities, which employs about 30 people in London,
bought Execution Noble as a way to start marketing its research
to institutional investors in the U.S. The business was hampered
by low trading volumes, which also contributed to the closures
this year of ThinkEquity LLC, Rodman & Renshaw LLC and WJB
Capital Group Inc.  “It’s really acknowledging that this route into the U.S.
market was going to be a lot more difficult to achieve than we
envisaged, despite the best efforts of the team there,” said
Middleton, 45, who has led the company since 2003, when he and
his team left Cazenove Group Plc.  Small brokerages that makes trades by phone or sell
research are finding it harder to earn commissions as money
managers buy and sell fewer securities and execute more
transactions electronically. Average daily volume for U.S.
equities has dropped 36 percent since 2009. The average fee to
trade a share of stock fell 31 percent in the period, according
to Investment Technology Group Inc.  Ticonderoga Securities LLC, Oscar Gruss & Son Inc., Auriga
Holdings LLC, Pritchard Capital Partners LLC, and Kaufman Bros.
LP have also fired equity traders or shut their doors this year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Zeke Faux in  New York  at 
 zfaux@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  