-- Australia Predators, Turkey, Frankfurt Talks: Compliance
-- B y   C a r l a   M a i n
-- 2012-11-20T12:24:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-20/australia-predators-turkey-frankfurt-talks-compliance.html
Australia should charge professional
investors if they use predatory trading strategies in the equity
market, according to  ASX Ltd. (ASX) , the operator of the country’s
main stock exchange.  The statement was made by ASX Chief Executive Officer Elmer
Funke Kupper, according to notes of a speech delivered in
Melbourne yesterday. Funke Kupper didn’t elaborate as to how or
who would identify and charge this form of trading.  Governments in Australia, Hong Kong and Singapore are
considering the extent to which high-frequency trading and other
electronic strategies should be regulated. Firms using high-
frequency tactics say they serve as market makers on electronic
exchanges. The computerized infrastructure of equity markets has
come under scrutiny in the past three years following  Knight
Capital Group Inc.’s (KCG)  $457 million loss in August and the
American flash crash of May 2010. The fastest firms can now
execute a trade in under 10 microseconds.  The Australia Securities and Investment Commission, the
nation’s financial regulator, last month said some high-
frequency traders submit and then cancel thousands of rapid-fire
quotes for stocks, decreasing the ease with which a security can
be bought and sold.  ASX has suffered declining equity-trading volumes in its
first year after losing its monopoly as Australia’s only public
bourse with the entry of Nomura Holdings Inc.’s Chi-X Australia
Pty. ASIC has consulted investors and brokerages on electronic
trading and final rules are expected soon.  Special Section: Frankfurt Conference  Frankfurt Split Shows Europe Tension in Fitschen Rules Push  The effort to establish a euro-area banking regulator in
Frankfurt is exposing deepening fault lines among the city’s
banks as policy makers jostle over the shape of the industry.  Deutsche Bank AG co-Chief Executive Officer  Juergen
Fitschen , an advocate, is among top executives and officials
meeting at the Euro Finance Week conference in the currency
union’s financial capital yesterday. At the center of the debate
will be how much power the European Central Bank, based in
Frankfurt, should be allowed to wield.  The argument pits Fitschen, who favors centralized ECB
regulation, against more than 1,500 smaller banks that lend more
cash to Europe’s biggest economy than he does. The discord over
banking union mirrors a wider dispute between politicians,
regulators and central banks across the continent that has led
the Bundesbank, also based in Frankfurt, to lock horns with the
ECB. At stake is a revival of last year’s bank share sell-off,
prompted by foot-dragging on steps to stem Europe’s debt crisis.  European leaders in June agreed to hand oversight and the
authority to wind down failed banks to the ECB as a precondition
for the European Stability Mechanism, the 500 billion-euro ($638
billion) permanent rescue mechanism, to lend directly to
financial institutions. The policy is designed to help break the
link between states and lenders.  For more, click here.  Frankfurt Panelists Discuss Single Bank Supervisor  Peter Praet, head of economics at the European Central
Bank, participated in a panel discussion at the Euro Finance
Week conference in Frankfurt. The other speakers were Lars Feld
of the  Walter Eucken Institute , Uwe Froehlich, president of the
Bundesverband der Deutschen Volksbanken und Raiffeisenbanken,
and  Gerhard Schick , the finance spokesman of Germany’s Green
Party.  Reinhard Schmidt of Goethe University and Udo Steffens of
the Frankfurt School of Finance moderated.  For the video, click here.  BaFin’s Koenig Says 2016 Is Realistic Start Date for Solvency II  Solvency II won’t begin in 2014, Elke Koenig, the president
of Germany’s financial markets supervisor BaFin, said in a
speech at the Euro Finance conference in Frankfurt.  2016 is much more realistic, or perhaps even 2017, Koenig
said.  ECB Shouldn’t Be Single Bank Supervisor, Stark Says  Juergen Stark, former European Central Bank chief
economist, discussed the outlook for Greece, European Central
Bank “credibility” and plans for a European banking union.  He spoke from Frankfurt with  Guy Johnson  on Bloomberg
Television’s “The Pulse.”  For the video, click here.  Fitschen Says Banks Must Be Able to Be Innovative  Deutsche Bank AG Co-Chief Executive Officer Juergen
Fitschen discussed European banking industry culture,
remuneration and re-nationalization. He spoke at Euro Finance
Week in Frankfurt.  For the video, click here.  Compliance Policy  Turkey Sees Room for 60 Banks to Operate, Regulator Says  Turkey expects to allow about 60 foreign and local banks to
operate as an increasing number of institutions apply for
licenses, according to Mukim Oztekin, head of the  Banking
Regulation and Supervision Agency .  About 49 banks are currently operating in Turkey, Oztekin
said yesterday.  Italy’s largest retail bank, Intesa Sanpaolo SpA applied to
Turkey’s regulator to open a branch and Bank of Tokyo-
Mitsibushi, a unit of Japan’s biggest lender  Mitsubishi UFJ
Financial Group Inc. (8306) , has made a formal application, he said.  “Both these banks meet our criteria.” he said. Standard
Chartered Bank is interested in opening a branch or carrying out
investment banking activities in Turkey, while South Korean
banks were also interested, Oztekin said, without giving names.  U.K. Businesses Back Income Tax Overhaul, Sunday Telegraph Says  The U.K. national insurance and income tax should be
merged, according to 79 percent of the respondents in a survey
of 1,125 businesses conducted by the  Institute of Directors , a
membership organization of business leaders, according to the
Sunday Telegraph.  The move would “reduce costs, drive up wages and create
jobs,” the survey found, according to the newspaper.  National insurance should be replaced with new rates of
income tax from 2017, according to the report, the newspaper
said.  Compliance Action  U.S. Banks Have Provided $26.1 Billion Under Foreclosure Accord  The five largest U.S. mortgage servicers have provided
about $26.1 billion for borrowers so far under a $25 billion
settlement over abusive foreclosure practices, according to a
court-appointed monitor.  The aid included $2.6 billion in principal relief for about
22,000 borrowers, the Office of Mortgage Settlement Oversight
said in a report released yesterday. Lenders including  Bank of
America  Corp.,  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC)  aided
a total of 309,385 borrowers, according to the report.  The report is required under the settlement agreement filed
in federal court in February, which was reached after attorneys
general from all 50 states announced a probe into foreclosure
practices following disclosures that banks were using faulty
documents to seize homes. It is a preliminary estimate of banks’
efforts, not a formal assessment of progress toward meeting
their obligation to spend $20 billion on borrower relief and an
additional $5 billion in payments to states and the federal
government.  The banks, also including  Citigroup Inc. (C)  and Ally Financial
Inc., negotiated the agreement with federal agencies, including
the  Justice Department , and 49 states.  About $17 billion of the agreement will pay for mortgage
debt forgiveness, forbearance, short sales and other assistance
to homeowners. Servicers will also provide $3 billion in
refinancing to lower homeowners’ interest rates.  Deutsche Bank’s X-Trackers to Offer Physical-Replication ETFs  Deutsche Bank AG will follow  Societe Generale SA (GLE)  in
offering exchange-traded funds backed by bonds and shares amid
concern over the use of derivatives to track the performance of
underlying indexes.  The Frankfurt-based bank’s DB X-Trackers unit, Europe’s
second-largest ETF manager, will, as of next month, sell ETFs on
a number of benchmark equity indexes, joining existing swap-
based products, the company said in a statement yesterday.
SocGen’s Lyxor Asset Management said in September it will offer
funds that buy physical assets.  Regulators and companies such as Fidelity Investors have
criticized ETFs that use derivatives to mimic stock, bond or
currency returns. They have argued that clients risk losing
money if the banks writing the swaps become insolvent. Managers
of synthetic-replication methods say their products follow the
underlying investments more accurately than ETFs that have to
buy the physical assets. They also argue that their reporting
standards are often higher than mutual funds.  AIG Opts Against Contesting Systemic-Risk Designation, CEO Says  American International Group Inc. (AIG) , the first non-bank to
disclose it’s under consideration to be labeled a potential risk
to the financial system, said it won’t contest such a
designation, which could lead to tighter capital rules.  Chief Executive Officer  Robert Benmosche  said in a Nov. 1
letter to the office of the Financial Stability Oversight
Council that the company would “welcome supervision by the
Federal Reserve.”  Federal regulators are evaluating which non-banks should be
subject to additional oversight as systemically important
financial institutions to prevent a repeat of the bailouts that
were undertaken in 2008 to stabilize the economy. Benmosche has
 scaled back  risk and sought to assure investors, clients and
regulators that AIG is better able to weather a downturn.  AIG received a rescue in 2008 that swelled to $182.3
billion to prevent the firm from collapsing amid the financial
crisis. The New York-based insurer is still 16 percent  owned  by
the U.S., which has recouped the cost of the bailout. Jim
Ankner, a spokesman for the insurer, declined to comment.  Prudential Financial Inc. (PRU) , the second-largest U.S. life
insurer, and General Electric Co.’s finance arm are also under
review to be designated systemically important. The oversight
council can still consider other companies.  Ads by 19 Mortgage-Related Companies Probed by Two U.S. Agencies  U.S. regulators are investigating 19 mortgage-related
companies over potentially misleading advertisements, including
some that used  Facebook Inc. (FB) ’s website, the agencies announced
yesterday.  The Consumer Financial Protection Bureau said in the
statement it had opened investigations into six companies. The
Federal Trade Commission, the other agency involved in the
probes, is looking at 13 firms, Thomas Pahl, the FTC’s assistant
director in the division of financial practices, told reporters
on a conference call.  Neither agency released the names of the companies.  The consumer bureau and the FTC also announced they had
sent warning letters to 32 mortgage-related companies that the
agencies said may be violating the Mortgage Acts and Practices
Advertising Rule.  The rule, which is jointly enforced by both agencies, does
not apply to traditional depositories, so yesterday’s actions
affect only non-banks. The agencies’ warning letters urge the
companies to review the rule to assess compliance, and do not
accuse them of legal wrongdoing.  For more, click here.  Courts  Celgene, Sanofi Executives Charged in Insider Trading Case  Executives at health-care companies  Celgene Corp. (CELG) ,  Sanofi (SAN) 
and  Stryker Corp. (SYK)  were among six people charged for their roles
in an insider-trading ring that prosecutors said generated $1.48
million in illicit profit.  John Lazorchak, 42, director of financial reporting at
Celgene, regularly tipped others to nonpublic information on
acquisitions, quarterly earnings results and regulatory news,
according to a Federal Bureau of Investigation complaint filed
yesterday in federal court in Newark, New Jersey.  Mark Cupo, 51, the director of accounting and reporting at
Sanofi-Aventis, now known as Sanofi; and Mark Foldy, 42, a
marketing executive at Stryker Corp., also were charged.
Prosecutors said most of the profit went to Lawrence Grum, 48,
and Michael Castelli, 48, who also tipped friends and family.
The case involves two sets of high school friends and at least
one witness who secretly recorded Grum for the FBI.  Michael Pendolino, 43, a high school friend of Lazorchak,
also was charged in the FBI complaint. The Securities and
Exchange Commission sued the six men, as well as a seventh,
James Deprado, claiming they made $1.7 million in illicit
profit.  The six men charged by the FBI all appeared yesterday in
handcuffs in court in Newark, where bail was set. Lawyers for
the six men declined to comment.  Brian Gill, a spokesman for Summit, New Jersey-based
Celgene, said the company learned Nov. 18 that Lazorchak would
be charged and Lazorchak was fired yesterday morning.  Jean-Marc Podvin, a spokesman for Paris-based Sanofi, the
parent of Sanofi-Aventis, didn’t immediately return a call.  “Mr. Foldy is no longer an employee and we have no further
comments,” Jo Johnson, a spokeswoman for Kalamazoo, Michigan-
based Stryker, said in an e-mailed statement.  The case is U.S. v. Lazorchak, 12-mj-6755, U.S. District
Court, District of New Jersey (Newark).  For more, click here.  Stanford’s Accountants Guilty of Hiding $7 Billion Fraud  Two former accounting executives were convicted of helping
Texas financier R. Allen Stanford hide a Ponzi scheme that
bilked investors of $7 billion.  A jury of seven men and five women in federal court in
Houston deliberated for 16 hours over three days before
convicting Stanford’s ex-Chief Accounting Officer Gilbert Lopez,
70, and former Global Controller Mark Kuhrt, 40, of conspiring
to hide a fraud scheme built on bogus certificates of deposit at
Antigua-based Stanford International Bank Ltd.  The men were each found guilty yesterday of 9 of 10 wire
fraud counts and one count of conspiracy to commit wire fraud.  The men face prison terms of more than 20 years when they
are sentenced Feb. 14 by U.S. District Judge David Hittner, who
presided over the trial. Hittner ordered both men to be taken
into custody over the government’s recommendation that they
remain free on bond, citing the international nature of the
scheme and the “potential contacts out there.”  Lawyers for both defendants said they will appeal the
verdicts.  The case is U.S. v Lopez, 4:09-cr-0342, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of Texas (Houston).  For more, click here.  Interviews/Hearings  U.K. Loan Insurance Redress ‘Mad,’ Ex-HBOS Director Says  Charles Dunstone, a former chairman of retail risk at HBOS
Plc, said the levels of compensation provided to customers who
claim they were wrongly sold payment-protection insurance are
“mad.”  Payment protection insurance wasn’t improperly sold in the
way the U.K.’s Financial Services Authority says it was, he told
a Parliamentary Commission on Banking Standards committee
yesterday. Dunstone retired from HBOS in 2008.  Lloyds Banking Group Plc (LLOY) , which bought HBOS in 2009, this
month set aside an additional 1 billion pounds ($1.6 billion) to
compensate clients wrongly sold loan insurance, bringing its
total earmarked for redress to 5.3 billion pounds. U.K. lenders
have set aside about 11 billion pounds after regulators ordered
them to compensate customers who were forced to buy, or didn’t
know they had bought insurance to cover their repayments on
mortgages, credit cards and other loans.  Earlier, Dunstone said he was “surprised” at the extent
of losses incurred by HBOS’s corporate lending unit after he
left the bank. HBOS became part of Lloyds in a government-
brokered takeover that required more than 20 billion pounds of
taxpayer aid.  FTN’s Low Waiting to Hear More on Mortgage Regulation  Christopher Low, chief economist at FTN Financial, said
mortgage banking regulation “may have gone too far.” Low
talked with Bloomberg’s  Tom Keene  on Bloomberg Radio’s
“Bloomberg Surveillance.”  For the audio, click here.  Arthur Levitt Says Financial Regulation Has Slowed  Arthur Levitt, former chairman of the U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission, says the pace of regulation in the
financial markets has slowed. Levitt talked with Bloomberg’s Tom
Keene on Bloomberg Radio’s “Bloomberg Surveillance.”  For the audio, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carla Main in New York at 
 cmain2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  