-- Aviva Names Ex-AIA Head Wilson as Chief Executive Officer
-- B y   H o w a r d   M u s t o e
-- 2012-11-20T16:51:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-20/aviva-names-ex-aia-head-wilson-as-chief-executive-officer.html
Aviva Plc (AV/) , the U.K.’s second-biggest
insurer by market value, named Mark Wilson chief executive
officer, six months after  Andrew Moss  stepped down.  Wilson, a former CEO of  AIA Group Ltd. (1299) , takes over in
January, when Chairman John McFarlane, 65, relinquishes his
executive powers, the London-based insurer said in a statement
today.  By choosing an outside successor, the insurer passed over
Finance Director Pat Regan and Trevor Matthews, CEO of the
insurer’s U.K. unit, who were viewed by analysts as possible
replacements. Following Moss’s departure in May after a
shareholder revolt over pay and strategy, McFarlane pledged to
exit 16 businesses that tie up 6 billion pounds ($9.5 billion)
of capital to build reserves depleted by the European sovereign
debt crisis.  Wilson’s background at AIA “has included the disposal of
non-core operations and turning around of non-performing
units,” said Matthew Preston, an analyst at Berenberg Bank in
 London , who rates the firm buy with a 480 pence 12-month price
target. “Given Aviva’s focus on U.K. and European markets
Wilson perhaps has less experience there than other names
bandied around.”  Aviva rose rose 1.2 percent to 335.2 pence in London,
valuing the company at 9.87 billion pounds.  Base Salary  Wilson will receive as much as 5.39 million pounds,
comprising a base salary of 980,000 pounds an annual bonus of as
much as 1.5 million pounds and a long-term incentives of as much
as 2.94 million pounds, the insurer said. Moss’s base salary was
960,000 pounds.  Regan, who joined Aviva in 2010 from  Willis Group Holdings
Plc (WSH) , where he was finance director, was the top internal
candidate to replace Moss, according to analysts Eamonn Flanagan
at  Shore Capital Group Ltd. (SGR)  and Barrie Cornes at Panmure Gordon
& Co.  “I would particularly like to take this opportunity of
thanking Pat Regan and the other members of the team for this
achievement and the support that they have given me,” McFarlane
said in the statement.  Wilson had been CEO of AIA, the Hong Kong-based life
insurer, when it was owned by American International Group Inc.
AIG CEO  Robert Benmosche  replaced Wilson in 2010 with  Mark Tucker , saying in a staff memo that “it is critical that we put
the best team on the field to ensure the success of AIA’s IPO.”  Wilson, 46, had spoken directly to AIG board members to
advocate for an initial public offering of AIA, a person with
knowledge of the plan said at the time. Benmosche had demanded
more control over AIA at a board meeting, pushing for Wilson’s
departure, the person said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Howard Mustoe in London at 
 hmustoe@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  