-- Baidu Says $1.5 Billion Bond Issue Will Be ‘War Chest’
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-11-21T05:12:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-20/baidu-said-to-plan-two-part-dollar-bond-sale-in-debut-issue-1-.html
Baidu Inc. (BIDU) , owner of  China ’s most-
popular search engine, said the $1.5 billion raised in its debut
bond issue will serve as a “war chest” for strategic uses
including possible acquisitions.  Raising U.S. dollars inexpensively will allow the company
to retire some existing debt and also provides flexibility to
look at ways of expanding the business, Kaiser Kuo, a spokesman
for Beijing-based Baidu, said in an e-mailed response to
questions today. “Our operations outside of China, though very
modest at present, are growing,” he said.  Baidu, which accounts for more than three-quarters of
China’s search-engine market by sales, is expanding in mobile as
users migrate from personal computers to portable devices such
as smartphones. Chief Executive Officer Robin Li needs to find
new revenue sources as slowing economic growth in China damps
demand for advertising, leading the company to project fourth-
quarter sales growth will be the slowest in three years.  “Our bond offer is really about having a ready war chest
that gives us flexibility for a range of future strategic
uses,” Kuo said in the e-mail. “While we have no specific M&A
deals pending currently, we will as always be attuned to
opportunities and will make prudent acquisitions.”  Purchases of some Chinese companies may also require U.S.
dollars, so it can’t be assumed that proceeds will only be used
for cross-border transactions, he said.  Two-Part Sale  Baidu sold $750 million each of 2.25 percent, five-year
debentures to yield 160 basis points more than similar-maturity
Treasuries, and 3.5 percent, 10-year securities at a relative
yield of 185 basis points, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and JPMorgan Chase & Co. managed
the transaction, Bloomberg data show.  Moody’s Investors Service assigned a first-time grade of A3
to Baidu, the ratings company said Nov. 5.  Baidu had  total liabilities , including long-term loans, of
8.5 billion  yuan  ($1.4 billion) as of Sept. 30, according to its
third-quarter financial statement. Third-quarter net income
climbed 60 percent from a year earlier to 3.01 billion yuan, or
8.59 yuan an American depositary receipt, the company said.  Baidu  accounted  for 78.6 percent of China’s search-engine
market by revenue in the third quarter, according to Analysys
International, a researcher focused on the Chinese Internet
market.  The company’s “leading position is supported by its well-
established brand, continuous improvement of information search
algorithms, growing user base, and continuous launches of new
services and products,” Alan Gao, a Moody’s analyst, wrote in
the report.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Sarika Gangar in  New York  at 
 sgangar@bloomberg.net ;
Edmond Lococo in Beijing at 
 elococo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  