-- Banks Hiring for Home Loans as U.S. Rebounds
-- B y   H e a t h e r   P e r l b e r g
-- 2012-11-20T21:25:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-20/banks-hiring-for-home-loans-as-u-s-rebounds-mortgages.html
U.S. banks that have been earning
record profits from home loans are adding or transferring
thousands of staff to catch up with demand for refinancing after
shortages blocked homeowners from getting lower rates.  Employment tied to mortgages rose 9 percent this year
through September to 285,000, the most since 2008, according to
the Bureau of Labor Statistics, as lenders responded to Federal
Reserve efforts to push down borrowing costs, President  Barack Obama  loosened requirements, and housing recovered from a six-
year slump. Even as banks added staff, they failed to keep pace,
and kept  mortgage rates  “much higher” than they should be to
curb demand, said Vipul Jain, an analyst at Morgan Stanley.  Those constraints are lifting after banks built up units to
handle the highest level of  refinancing  since 2009.  JPMorgan
Chase & Co. (JPM) , the biggest  U.S. bank  by assets, has transferred
3,500 people from servicing to mortgage originations and  Wells
Fargo & Co. (WFC)  has expanded its operations staff by at least 25
percent this year. The hiring comes before a potential
acceleration in volume after President Obama’s re-election saw
debt yields tumble and increased the possibility of expanded
programs to help homeowners improve rates.  “The trend in headcount is upward,” Jain said in a
telephone interview. “During the next three to six months,
we’re expecting a 10 percent increase in capacity.”  Record Income  Banks are adding home loan staff after the top five
companies reported a record $8.35 billion in income from
mortgage banking during the third quarter, according to
newsletter Inside Mortgage Finance. In contrast, the six largest
U.S. banks have reduced headcount by more than 25,000 in the
twelve months ended in September, as regulators demand more
capital and global growth slows, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Lenders profited as the Fed encouraged refinancing by
purchasing mortgage bonds to push down borrowing costs to record
lows, known as quantitative easing, or QE. While 30-year  rates 
are 3.34 percent, down from 5.05 percent in February 2011, they
could be lower based on bond prices, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  “Capacity constraints are a big issue in the mortgage
market right now and even though mortgage rates have dropped
post QE3, there is more room for them to drop from here,” Gary Kain, the president of  American Capital Agency Corp. (AGNC)  the second-
largest mortgage REIT with $102 billion of assets, said on a
Nov. 1 conference call with investors.  The  gap  between rates for the loans and the bonds into
which they’re packaged is 1.27 percentage points, about 59
percent higher than the 5-year average. It reached a record 1.7
percentage points in September.  High Margins  At JPMorgan, the biggest U.S. bank by assets, mortgage-
production margins are “very high” at “well over” 2 percent,
up from less than 1 percent historically, Chief Executive
Officer  Jamie Dimon  said on an Oct. 12 conference call about its
record $5.7 billion in quarterly earnings.  “Since lenders can’t meet the demand they raise mortgage
rates to temper it,” said Jain.  The time it takes banks to close on loans also indicates
the industry’s failures. Mortgage refinancings completed in
October took an average of 57 days, up from 47 days in June and
42 days a year earlier, according to data compiled by
Pleasanton, California-based Ellie Mae.  To keep up with mounting application volumes, Wells Fargo
added about 7,000 fulltime employees that process, close and
underwrite  mortgage loans  since the second quarter of 2011,
Michael Heid, president of Wells Fargo’s home-loan unit said
this month at a presentation in  Boston , which showed its hiring.  Wells Hiring  After adding more than 2,500 people to underwrite loans
this year, more than half from outside of the company, the bank
is hiring to fill more than 1,000 open underwriting positions,
said Tom Goyda, a spokesman for the company.  The bank made or bought the largest number of home loans
originated in the first nine months of 2012, with 30.3 percent
of the market, according to Inside Mortgage Finance.  The lender can scale down dramatically, as it did in 2010
when staff in the unit was cut by 5,000 during a six-month
period as rates rose and volumes dropped off, Heid said.  JPMorgan, the second-largest lender, increased its mortgage
origination operations by 50 percent this year to 10,200. That
will increase its ability to handle refinancing volume and
improve ability to rapidly grow or shrink originations capacity,
according to a Nov. 1 company presentation at the Boston
conference.  JPMorgan Transfers  Rather than hiring from outside, JPMorgan moved 3,500
employees from servicing mortgages to making them, according to
spokeswoman  Amy Bonitatibus .  “By leveraging our skilled and experienced employees, we
avoid the costs of recruiting, hiring and training new employees
and of paying severance for roles we no longer need,”
Bonitatibus said in an e-mail.  Mortgage origination volume at the bank reached $47 billion
in September, a 29 percent rise from the prior year, according
to the company. Most of the employees across the country new to
the origination side of the businesses will serve as loan
officers, which work directly with customers to help them buy or
refinance homes by processing applications and collecting
financial documents. There are still about 400 open sales
positions in the department, Bonitatibus said.  The New York-based lender agreed this month to buy  MetLife
Inc. (MET) ’s $70 billion mortgage-servicing business, which will
increase its own servicing arm by more than 5 percent, according
to a statement. This gives JPMorgan a pool of borrowers whose
loans it can service and offer to refinance, increasing fees.  ‘Fat Fees’  Some of the extra staff may be added to the servicing side
where banks can earn “fat fees,” Walt Schmidt, a mortgage
strategist in  Chicago  at FTN Financial, the brokerage unit of
 First Horizon National Corp. (FHN) , said in a telephone interview.  “They don’t necessarily want to turn over the current
borrowers too quickly,” Schmidt said. While more employees will
increase the speed of processing loans, banks don’t want to lose
the high fees produced through their mortgage servicing books,
he said.  The failure of central bank policy to loosen mortgage
credit has frustrated Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  and  Shaun Donovan , secretary of the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban
Development. They’ve expressed concern that banks are preventing
qualified borrowers from taking advantage of the record low
interest rates.  High Scores  Borrowers whose loans closed in October had an average
credit score of 750, according to Ellie Mae. Homebuyers with
Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac loans made down payments averaging 21
percent.  Some homeowners may also be postponing refinancing in
anticipation that rates will continue to fall lower, which could
lead a wave of prepayments that negatively impact securities
tied to the loans, according to Merrill Ross, an analyst with
Baltimore-based Wunderlich Securities Inc.  Prepayments on loans backing  Fannie Mae ’s 5 percent
securities, filled with loans with rates averaging about 5.5
percent, rose to a pace that would erase 35.1 percent of the
debt in a year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. That
exceeded August’s 33.3 percent pace even as  Hurricane Sandy 
delayed some closings and was the highest in at least a decade.  Mortgage REITs  Mortgage bond investors monitor prepayment rates since they
influence returns. Bondholders risk losses when buying debt for
more than 100 cents on the dollar as the value can be erased
when homeowners take out new mortgages too quickly to repay
existing debt. With debt trading below face value, returns
increase when repayments accelerate.  Real estate investment  trusts  that invest in mortgage debt
declined 0.3 percent today in  New York . They’ve declined 7.9
percent, including reinvested dividends, since the Fed said it
would buy an additional $40 billion of the securities a month in
September.  “The lull in refinancing activity could lead bond
investors to believe the worst prepayment activity is over, and
RMBS portfolio managers could buy assets that have less value
than they currently anticipate, Ross said in a telephone
interview. ‘‘That attitude is dangerous. People have to
anticipate that the Fed is going to get what it wants.’’  To contact the reporter on this story:
Heather Perlberg in New York at 
 perlberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rob Urban at 
 robprag@bloomberg.net  