-- Chelsea Faces Champions League Elimination; Barcelona Advances
-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 2012-11-21T00:15:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-20/barcelona-beats-spartak-moscow-to-advance-in-champions-league.html
Chelsea moved to the brink of
elimination from soccer’s  Champions League  after a 3-0 loss at
Juventus, while Barcelona and  Bayern Munich  were among four
teams advancing to the last 16.  Defending champion Chelsea’s loss dropped it to third place
in Group E behind Juventus with one game remaining. The Blues
must beat Nordsjaelland and have  Shakhtar Donetsk , which
advanced last night, defeat Juventus to avoid becoming the first
titleholder to exit at the group stage.  “Before the game we had our destiny in our own hands, but
not anymore,” Chelsea goalkeeper  Petr Cech  told ITV. “Now we
have to do our bit to win and hope destiny will be kind to us.”  Barcelona clinched the top spot in Group G by beating
Spartak Moscow 3-0, while Bayern Munich and Valencia both
advanced from Group F after a 1-1 draw. The top two teams in
each of the eight groups move into the knockout rounds in
Europe’s elite club competition.  Group E leader Shakhtar progressed after beating
Nordsjaelland 5-2. Manchester United, which had already won
Group H, lost 1-0 at Galatasaray. Celtic was denied a spot in
the next round by a 2-1 loss at Benfica, Cluj defeated Braga 3-1
and Lille beat BATE Borisov 2-0.  Among tonight’s eight matches, Manchester City faces
elimination as it hosts record nine-time European champion Real
 Madrid , while Arsenal takes on Montpellier at home.  Cech Wrongfooted  Chelsea, which would have advanced with a win last night in
Turin,  Italy , fell behind in the 38th minute as  Fabio Quagliarella  redirected  Andrea Pirlo ’s low drive past Cech with
the goalkeeper moving the other way. Chelsea defender  Ashley Cole  then cleared Stephan Lichtsteiner’s close-range attempt off
the line a minute later.  Juventus made it 2-0 in the 61st minute as  Arturo Vidal ’s
shot deflected off Ramires past Cech, who was again moving in
the direction of the original effort. Sebastian Giovinco then
sealed the win in stoppage time as he poked the ball past the
onrushing Cech from just outside the penalty area.  “We had to give our best to beat the European champions
and we did it,” Juventus defender Leonardo Bonucci said. “We
are not a team that was built to defend, so we will try to get
the three points in the last game of the group, even if we know
that a draw could be enough for us to qualify.”  Shakhtar sealed a place in the round of 16 for the second
time in three seasons as Luiz Adriano scored three goals and
Willian added the other two in the victory in Denmark.  Barcelona took a step toward its fourth European Cup title
in eight seasons with the win at Moscow’s Luzhniki Stadium.  Messi’s Goals  Lionel Messi  scored twice to tie for the competition lead
with five goals. The Argentine now has 80 goals in 2012, five
away from the record for goals scored in a calendar year set by
former Bayern Munich and Germany striker Gerd Muller in 1972.  Dani Alves  also scored for Barcelona, which is guaranteed
first place in its group after Benfica’s win against Celtic.  Ezequiel Garay’s goal in the 71st minute gave Benfica the
win in Lisbon that left it tied with Celtic for second place.
Ola John opened the scoring for Benfica in the seventh minute
before Georgios Samaras’s 32nd-minute header tied the game.  Celtic will advance if it gets a better result in its final
game against Spartak than Benfica does against Barcelona.  “I was disappointed with the lack of composure about us
and the nervousness on the ball,” Celtic manager Neil Lennon
told  Sky Sports . “However, we have one more crack at it and
know what we have to do.  Bayern Advances  Bayern Munich, last season’s runner-up, moved on with 10-
man Valencia after their draw in  Spain .  Valencia’s Antonio Barragan was sent off in the 33rd minute
for his second yellow card. The Spanish club took the lead in
the 77th minute on a goal from Sofianee Feghouli, and Bayern’s
Thomas Muller tied the score five minutes later.  Djibril Sidibe and Gianni Bruno scored as Lille beat BATE
in the group’s other game for its first win. Sidibe was sent off
after getting his second yellow card in the 74th minute.  Group H winner  Manchester United ’s perfect run of four wins
ended with its loss to Galatasaray in  Turkey .  Burak Yilmaz’s second-half goal lifted Galatasaray into a
tie for second place with Cluj, which beat Braga 3-1 on a first-
half hat trick from Rui Pedro. Galatasaray is at Braga and Cluj
visits United in the final group matches.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in London at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  