-- Barry Callebaut, Mondelez See Cocoa Trading Sideways
-- B y   I s i s   A l m e i d a   a n d   O l i v i e r   M o n n i e r
-- 2012-11-20T09:39:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-20/barry-callebaut-mondelez-see-cocoa-trading-sideways.html
Cocoa prices, which averaged about
$2,328 a metric ton this year, will trade sideways in the season
that started last month, according to chocolate makers  Barry
Callebaut  AG and  Mondelez International Inc. (MDLZ)   While the global cocoa market will face a small shortage in
2012-13, chocolate demand will be “slightly” below historical
levels, said Steven Retzlaff, president of global sourcing and
cocoa at Barry Callebaut, the largest maker of bulk chocolate
and a supplier to  Nestle SA. (NESN)  The market will be easier to
predict this year as the weather hasn’t been extreme, said Tim Cofer, European president for Mondelez, which spends $6 billion
a year buying raw materials and has a 15 percent share of the
chocolate market.  “From a weather conditions standpoint, we are not seeing
severe droughts or floods, so in the near-term, it looks like a
more predictable and sideways market,” Cofer said yesterday in
an interview in top producer Ivory Coast at a conference
organized by the London-based International Cocoa Organization,
which represents 41 members.  Cocoa has climbed 15 percent on ICE Futures U.S. in  New
York  this year, partly on speculation dry weather in West
Africa, which accounts for about 70 percent of the world’s
supplies, would damage 2012-13 crops. Price gains have been
limited by a slowdown in global demand and excess supplies from
the previous two seasons.  Supply Surpluses  Bean processing slid 0.7 percent in 2011-12, according to
London-based broker Marex Spectron Group. Cocoa supplies
exceeded demand in both 2010-11 and 2011-12, Judy Ganes-Chase,
president of J. Ganes Consulting LLC, said in an interview in
Abengourou, eastern Ivory Coast.  “On the supply side, I don’t think we will see the same
supply level as the previous year,” Retzlaff said in an
interview in Abidjan,  Ivory Coast ’s commercial capital, adding
that crops in West Africa were likely to be smaller. “We were
fortunate that in the past two crop years we’ve had surpluses.”  Global chocolate sales by weight will rise 2.2 percent next
year after growing 1.5 percent in 2012, according to data from
Euromonitor International Ltd. Sales grew by 2.2 percent in
2011, according to the London-based consumer research company.  The long-term average growth in chocolate sales is 2
percent to 3 percent, Juergen Steinemann, Zurich-based Barry
Callebaut’s chief executive officer, said on a media call on
Nov. 7. In  Europe , chocolate sales volume was unchanged in the
first 9 months of 2012, Cofer said. Western Europe accounts for
32 percent of global chocolate demand, followed by  North America 
at 20 percent, according to accounting company KPMG LLP.  Encouraging Quality  While the cocoa season in West Africa has been slow to
start, Barry Callebaut is “very encouraged” by the quality of
the beans in Ivory Coast, which is “very good,” Retzlaff said.
Farmers in both Ivory Coast and  Ghana , the world’s second-
largest producer, are still holding “a lot of cocoa” up-
country, he said. Global cocoa production will be 4.05 million
to 4.2 million metric tons in 2012-13, up from 3.99 million tons
a year earlier, Ganes-Chase estimates.  Cocoa prices also climbed on speculation industry reforms
in Ivory Coast would disrupt shipments. The West African nation
is making changes to its cocoa sector that include selling 70
percent to 80 percent of the crop before the harvest starts and
providing a price guarantee to farmers that is 60 percent of
international values.  Cocoa gained as much as 3.4 percent on Nov. 14 after
President  Alassane Ouattara  dissolved the government. A new
government will be formed this week, Massere Toure, head of the
presidency’s communications, said on Nov. 18. Cocoa reached a
32-year high last year after a disputed election in Ivory Coast
in November 2010 resulted in five months of violence and a ban
on bean exports.  Political Instability  “Obviously, political instability that we have seen more
recently in Ivory Coast was not friendly to the market and
caused quite a bit of concern on supply,” said Cofer, of
Deerfield, Illinois-based Mondelez. “I see more political
stability right now.”  The cocoa market may face ongoing supply shortages by 2020
if companies don’t invest in boosting productivity, according to
Mondelez. About 50 percent of all the raw materials the company
buys are tropical commodities including cocoa and coffee. Cocoa
supplies could outpace demand by as much as 1 million tons in
the next 10 years, Barry Callebaut estimates. That would equate
to about 25 percent of global production.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Isis Almeida in London at 
 ialmeida3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Deane  at 
 jdeane3@bloomberg.net  