-- Bayer Abandoning Schiff Thwarts Bets on Bid War: Real M&A
-- B y   B r o o k e   S u t h e r l a n d ,   T a r a   L a c h a p e l l e   a n d   S a r a h   S h a n n o n
-- 2012-11-20T21:24:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-20/bayer-abandoning-schiff-thwarts-bets-on-bid-war-real-m-a.html
Bayer AG (BAYN) ’s concession of defeat in
the bidding war for  Schiff Nutrition International Inc. (SHF)  thwarted
traders who were betting that the vitamin industry’s most
expensive deal would get even pricier.  Bayer,  Germany ’s biggest drugmaker, said today that it
won’t raise its $34-a-share bid for U.S. vitamin maker Schiff
because the price would have been too high.  Reckitt Benckiser
Group Plc (RB/) ’s surprise tender offer last week at $42 a share
trumped Bayer by 24 percent and valued Schiff at 4.3 times
sales, the highest multiple on record for a vitamin and
nutrition products deal larger than $100 million, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  Today’s announcement wiped out some returns for traders who
had pushed  Schiff’s shares  as much as 6 percent above Reckitt
Benckiser’s offer price in anticipation of an escalating bidding
war for the seller of Airborne cold-prevention remedies and
MegaRed krill oil. While Bayer was looking to bolster its North
American consumer health products to more than the current 6
percent of sales, Reckitt Benckiser Chief Executive Officer
Rakesh Kapoor was willing to pay up for a company with a U.S.
foothold in what he says is a $30 billion global market for
vitamins and supplements.  “It shows he has got a bit of chutzpah; he’s going to be
decisive when he needs to be,”  Martin Deboo , an analyst at
Investec Plc, said in a phone interview from  London , referring
to Kapoor. “This is a sensible deal even though the multiple is
quite high. Reckitt has proved to be reliable in deliveries of
synergies even against demanding acquisition multiples.”  Dropping Out  On Oct. 30, Leverkusen, Germany-based Bayer said it had
agreed to buy Salt Lake City-based Schiff for $34 a share, or
about $1.1 billion including net debt, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Reckitt Benckiser trumped Bayer’s bid
with an unsolicited tender offer last week at $42 a share, or
about $1.4 billion, the data show.  Bayer said today in a filing with the U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission that while a combination would still be
logical, a competitive bidding process “would result in a price
outside Bayer’s set financial criteria.” Bayer declined to
comment beyond the filing, a spokesman said.  Bayer still thinks Schiff is “a good business, but they
will not pay more than they think it is worth,”  Alistair Campbell , a London-based analyst at Berenberg Bank, wrote in an
e-mail. “They have stressed that they are disciplined on M&A
and always have a clear idea about what the valuation means in
terms of making sure there’s some value created for Bayer
shareholders. I think raising the offer for Schiff simply
crosses that line, so this is Bayer M&A discipline in action.”  Traders’ Bets  Becky Herrick, a spokeswoman for Schiff who works at LHA,
didn’t immediately respond to a phone or e-mail messages seeking
comment on Bayer’s decision and whether the company would agree
to a deal with Reckitt or solicit other buyers.  “We cannot comment on Bayer’s decision,” a representative
for Reckitt Benckiser said in an e-mailed statement. “We stand
by our offer and look forward to reaching an agreement based on
due diligence.”  Schiff  shares  had closed above $42 on each of the last two
days and reached as high as $44.50 as traders who profit from
mergers and acquisitions wagered that Bayer would match or
exceed Reckitt Benckiser’s bid. Peter Lobravico, New York-based
vice president of merger arbitrage trading and sales at Wall
Street Access Corp., was among those who had projected higher
bids.  ‘Knockout Bid’  “Reckitt delivered a knockout bid,” he said today in a
phone interview. Bayer “didn’t want to get involved in the
bidding war. They thought maybe the end game was going to wind
up at a price even much higher than the current Reckitt offer.”  Lobravico said traders only lost money if they bought the
stock after the Reckitt Benckiser offer was disclosed.  Today, Schiff shares fell 5.2 percent to $41.86.  Reckitt Benckiser’s bid values Schiff’s equity at the
highest multiple to its trailing 12-month sales of any similar-
sized deal in the vitamin and nutrition industry, data compiled
by Bloomberg show.  Still, Schiff’s  sales  are projected to rise 45 percent in
the year ending in May from the prior year, according to
analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg. Based on estimated
fiscal 2013 sales of $376.5 million, Reckitt Benckiser is paying
about 3.3 times revenue. The industry median is about 2.7.  “The deal is not cheap, but if you consider the potential
for top line and margin improvement as well as some synergy
benefits, multiples do not seem crazy,” Pinar Ergun, a London-
based analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein & Co., said in a phone
interview.  Heartburn Relief  In announcing its bid on Nov. 15 after the close of U.S.
trading, Slough, England-based Reckitt Benckiser said it expects
“significant synergies” from a takeover of Schiff.  Reckitt Benckiser, the maker of Strepsils cold remedies and
Gaviscon heartburn relief, and Schiff have products that are
already sold by some of the same retailers, such as Wal-Mart
Stores Inc. and  Costco Wholesale Corp. (COST) , and there’s an
opportunity to sell Schiff’s brands through other distribution
channels, Kapoor said on a conference call last week.  “Reckitt’s looking at it and saying this is a $30 billion
pie of which Schiff has such a small sliver,”  Sachin Shah , a
 Jersey City , New Jersey-based special situations and merger
arbitrage strategist, said in a phone interview. “They’re
willing to pay above Bayer because they see the opportunity.
It’s a little unfortunate that Bayer is bowing out, but that was
the risk.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tara Lachapelle in  New York  at 
 tlachapelle@bloomberg.net ;
Brooke Sutherland in New York at 
 bsutherland7@bloomberg.net ;
Sarah Shannon in London at 
 sshannon4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sarah Rabil at 
 srabil@bloomberg.net  