-- Belgium Reins in Labor Costs, Raises Taxes in Budget Deal
-- B y   J o h n   M a r t e n s
-- 2012-11-20T15:10:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-20/belgium-reins-in-labor-costs-raises-taxes-in-budget-deal.html
The Belgian government agreed to
rein in wage growth and reduce social security contributions for
employers to restore competitiveness as it raised a tax on
investment income for the second time to cut the  budget deficit .  Salary increases will be limited to inflation adjustments
for the next two years and employers will get a 400 million-euro
($512 million) annual reduction in labor costs, Belgian Prime
Minister Elio Di Rupo told reporters in Brussels today. It took
his six-party coalition more than a month to complete budget
talks, cutting the  deficit  to 2.15 percent of gross domestic
product next year from an estimated 2.8 percent in 2012.  Toughening the Competition Act, designed 16 years ago to
keep labor costs from rising faster than those in neighboring
countries, and making changes to the consumer price index basket
should help Belgium preserve an automatic link between wages and
inflation and gradually restore competitiveness at the same
time. Belgian labor costs should rise 1.6 percentage points
slower than those in neighboring countries in the next two
years, according to government estimates.  “It will take six years of wage moderation and additional
tax reductions to eliminate Belgium’s wage handicap
completely,” Economy Minister Johan Vande Lanotte said today.
“It’s better to do this gradually. We’ve seen in the nineties
there’s always a backlash when you do it too abruptly.”  Competition Act  Belgian labor costs have outpaced those in  Germany , France
and the Netherlands by 5.2 percent since 1996, according to
government estimates. Labor unions say employment subsidies
should also be taken into account, reducing the gap to 3.4
percent.  An amended version of the 1996 Competition Act will force
employers and labor unions to reduce that gap further during
their biennial national wage negotiations in 2015 and 2017,
while safeguarding indexation. In return, the government pledged
to lower social security contributions by an additional 0.5
percent twice, which is more than the 0.3 percent cut that will
take effect in April 2013.  “Since mid-2010, Belgian labor costs per unit of output
have risen 2.5 percentage points faster than the average
increase in our neighboring countries,” Johan Van Gompel, an
economist at KBC Bank NV in Brussels, wrote in a note last week.
“The main reasons are slower productivity growth and relatively
 steeper inflation  that was passed through via automatic wage
indexation.”  Fight Inflation  Changes to the index basket, such as using scanning data
from supermarket counters and taking into account discounts
during the sales season to better reflect actual purchasing
trends, should slow labor cost increases by 0.4 percentage
points in the coming years, according to government estimates.  “ Belgium  is a wealthy country, with very rich citizens and
a highly indebted government,” said Finance Minister Steven Vanackere. “So Belgians should be happy when the government
takes measures to curb inflation.”  The Belgian federal government’s 2013 budget includes 1.38
billion euros of spending cuts, more than half of which from a
slowdown in welfare expenditure, and 2.08 billion euros of
additional revenue when taking into account the reduction in
labor costs for employers.  Tax dodgers will get a final chance next year to declare
previously unreported income at a penalty rate of 15 percent and
repatriate their capital at a 35 percent levy, which should
bring in an additional 513 million euros next year.  Capital Gains  Di Rupo’s government also agreed to tax investment income
at 25 percent, one year after the rate was raised to 21 percent
from 15 percent. The measure should generate 361 million euros
of extra revenue next year, Vanackere said.  Capital gains  made
by investment companies will be taxed for the first time, at a
0.4 percent rate, bringing in an estimated 98 million euros.  The tax on premiums for individual life insurance contracts
will rise to 2 percent from 1.1 percent, which should generate
almost 140 million euros of additional revenue. A bank levy
should bring in an extra 50 million euros, according to Budget
Minister Olivier Chastel.  Investors have rewarded Belgium for sticking to its deficit
targets since it took the country a record 541 days to form a
government after the June 2010 elections. Risk-adjusted returns
show Belgian  government bonds  gained 2.98 percent this year, the
best performance in the euro region after Irish bonds.  French Gap  The country sold 10-year bonds at a record low yield of
2.418 percent last month and bondholders now have to pay less to
protect Belgian government debt against non-payment than to
insure French bonds, according to credit-default swap prices
compiled by Bloomberg.  The gap between credit-default swaps on Belgium and  France 
is now a negative 3 basis points, compared with a record 156
basis points in November 2011. Moody’s Investors Service cut
France’s credit rating to Aa1 from Aaa yesterday. Belgium’s
rated two steps lower at Aa3 by Moody’s.  Credit-default swaps pay the buyer face value if a borrower
fails to meet its obligations, less the value of the defaulted
debt. A basis point equals $1,000 annually on a contract
protecting $10 million of debt.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Martens in Brussels at 
 jmartens1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jerrold Colten at 
 jcolten@bloomberg.net  