-- Billionaire Ofer to Dodge ‘Villains’ Tag With Potash Sale
-- B y   D e v o n   P e n d l e t o n   a n d   S h o s h a n n a   S o l o m o n
-- 2012-11-21T15:33:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-20/billionaire-ofer-to-dodge-villains-tag-with-potash-sale.html
Israel Corp. (ILCO) , the Tel Aviv-based
holding company controlled by billionaire Idan Ofer, may reap 15
times its investment in  Israel Chemicals Ltd. (ICL)  if a $13.5 billion
takeover bid by  Potash Corp. of Saskatchewan Inc. , the world’s
largest fertilizer maker, is approved by Israeli regulators.  The deal, which could become the biggest acquisition ever
in the Middle East, would allow Ofer, 57, to reduce the holdings
he controls in his native country. The Ofer family has endured
almost a decade of criticism for allegedly buying state assets
at discounted prices, damaging the  Dead Sea  and selling an oil
tanker to a front company for Iran.  “They have been portrayed as villains in the media,” said
Gilad Alper, a senior analyst at Excellence Nessuah Investment
House Ltd. in  Ramat Gan ,  Israel . “This is a way of getting out
of the public eye and ending the constant quarreling with the
government and environmentalists.”  Potash, which owns 14 percent of Israel Chemicals, would
become the world’s biggest producer of the mineral compound used
to make fertilizer if the acquisition is approved. Executives at
the Saskatoon, Saskatchewan-based company held talks with Israel
Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu  and met with government
agencies about the “possibility of a merger,” Israel Corp.
said Oct. 31 in a statement to  Tel Aviv ’s stock exchange.  Harvested Minerals  Israel Corp., which controls 52 percent of Israel
Chemicals, has plunged 7.5 percent since the announcement as the
chances of the deal being approved have diminished amid
escalating security concerns. Israel Chemicals’ minerals are
harvested from the salt-rich Dead Sea along the border with
Jordan, and analysts said the Israeli government is concerned
that foreign ownership would hinder its ability to defend the
boundary should unrest in the kingdom boil over. A bomb exploded
on a bus in Tel Aviv around midday today near the city’s
military headquarters, sending 21 people to the hospital,
according to police spokesman  Micky Rosenfeld .  Motti Scherf, a spokesman for Ofer, said the billionaire
declined to comment on the talks. An Israel Corp. spokesman,
Elad Cohen, also declined to comment on the discussions.  Ofer, who is worth $5.6 billion according to the  Bloomberg
Billionaires Index , owns 46 percent of Israel Corp. and was
chairman of the  investment company  until 2010. The entity has
interests in shipping, oil refining and power generation. He
also controls a 71 percent stake in Houston-based  Pacific
Drilling SA (PACD) , the seventh-largest public U.S. drilling company by
market capitalization and, with his brother Eyal, splits
ownership of Sammy Ofer Group Monaco, the shipping group started
by their father.  Outside Israel  The acquisition of Israel Chemicals by Potash would make
Israel Corp. the largest shareholder in the Canadian fertilizer
company. According to Guil Bashan, an analyst at IBI-Israel
Brokerage & Investments, a merger would bring a welcome return
for Israel Corp. shareholders.  “About 85 percent of the total value of Israel Corp.
derives from its position in Israel Chemicals,” he said in a
phone interview Nov. 13. “Right now, it’s trading at a huge
discount to its net asset value.”  Israel Chemicals today reported a 9 percent drop in third-
quarter to $395 million, beating the $385 million median
estimate of three analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. Sales fell 3.7
percent to $1.82 billion, compared with a $1.86 billion median
estimate of four analysts.  Israel’s Richest  The deal would accelerate Ofer’s efforts to expand Israel
Corp.’s investments beyond Israel. In 2007, the company
partnered with Chery Automobile Co., China’s biggest car
exporter, to collaborate on a new brand of passenger cars. Three
years later, Israel Corp.’s Peruvian unit got authorization to
set up a power plant in the central Andean region of
Huancavelica. About 74 percent of the company’s revenue was
generated outside Israel last year.  The company also owns a 28 percent stake in electric car
services provider Better Place Inc. Idan Ofer is the company’s
chairman. On Nov. 19, Israel Corp. said it completed an
investment of $33 million as part of a commitment of as much as
$67 million in the unprofitable Tel Aviv-based company, due to
its “cash flow needs.” Moshe Kaplinsky, the CEO of the five-
year-old company’s Israel operations, stepped down Nov. 14, six
weeks after the resignation of founder and global CEO Shai
Agassi.  The Ofer family’s $10 billion fortune is rooted in
shipping. Romania-born Sammy Ofer became Israel’s richest man
building a fleet of hundreds of freight ships in the 1970s. The
billionaire spent most of his time in Monaco, and his
international armada was managed through closely held Sammy Ofer
Group Monaco.  Shakshuka System  Idan, Sammy’s youngest son, has lived outside his home
country for almost half of his life. After attending  London
Business School , he spent 15 years in  Hong Kong  and  Singapore ,
where he helped acquire and run Tanker Pacific Management Pte
Ltd., one of the family’s ship-management companies.  In 1997, Israel Corp. paid the Israeli government 667
million shekels ($171 million) to raise its stake in Israel
Chemicals to 42 percent from 25 percent. That holding is now
valued at 9.9 billion shekels, based on the company’s Nov. 20
close, giving the company a return of 15 times its investment.
Two years later, Idan acquired a controlling interest in Israel
Corp. That  stake  is now worth $2.2 billion.  In 2004, Israel Corp. agreed to buy the government’s 48.6
percent interest in Haifa-based Zim Integrated Shipping Services
Ltd., a container shipping company, for $115 million. A 2008
documentary by Israeli investigative journalist Miki Rosenthal,
The Shakshuka System, said that the government sold Zim for
below its market value after succumbing to pressure from the
Ofers and Israel Corp.  Iran Sale  Ofer sued Rosenthal for libel in July 2009, claiming the
documentary was one-sided and skewed. An out-of-court agreement
was reached in February 2010 ending their dispute. Most Israeli
television channels wouldn’t air the program which included in-
depth reporting of many of the Ofers’ dealings with government.  At the time of Sammy Ofer’s death in June 2011, the
family’s assets had been divided between his sons Idan and Eyal,
with Idan overseeing Israel Corp. and Eyal taking control of
real-estate interests, among other assets. Eyal, who serves on
the board of  Royal Caribbean Cruises Ltd. (RCL) , has a net worth of
$5.1 billion, according to the Bloomberg Billionaires Index.  In May 2011, the U.S. State Department imposed sanctions on
Tanker Pacific Management for selling an oil tanker valued at
$8.7 million to a United Arab Emirates company that the U.S.
Treasury Department had designated as a front for the Islamic
Republic of Iran Shipping Lines. According to a State Department
fact sheet, the Iranian company was deemed by the U.S. and the
European Union as having a role in supporting Iran’s nuclear
proliferation activities.  No Knowledge  Tanker Pacific Management issued a statement that said,
“it had been misled by the buyers,” and had put in place
“enhanced due diligence measures.” The family says it had no
knowledge of the sale by Tanker Pacific.  A sale to Potash Corp. would also relieve the Ofers of
dealing with pressure from environmental groups and the Israeli
government, both of whom have accused Israel Chemicals of
contributing to the shrinking water levels in the Dead Sea. The
salty inland lake sank a record 1.5 meters (4.9 feet) in the
past 12 months because of industry use and evaporation,
according to the Hydrological Service of Israel.  Half the drop was caused by Israel Chemicals and Jordan’s
 Arab Potash Co. (APOT) , said Gidon Bromberg, Israeli director of the
Friends of Earth  Middle East . He said the organization plans to
fight the possible acquisition.  Earlier this year, Israel Chemicals agreed to pay 80
percent of the $1 billion cost of dredging the Dead Sea’s
southern basin. The company also agreed to double the royalties
it pays to the Israeli government.  Declining Level  “The main reason for the declining sea level is the
increased usage of the water that used to flow to the Dead Sea
in the past, especially from the Jordan River, by all countries
in the region,” Dead Sea Works, which is owned by Israel
Chemicals, said in an e-mailed statement last month.  An acquisition would need the backing of the Government
Companies Authority, the Anti-Trust Authority and the Israel Tax
Authority. The government’s so-called golden share in Israel
Chemicals, a type of share that gives its holder veto power over
any changes to a company’s charter, allows it to prevent a
takeover by parties hostile to the country and to protect
natural resources.  Public Outcry  A Potash acquisition could also help deflect attention in a
country that has become more vocal about its dissatisfaction
with the gap between rich and poor. Along with other billionaire
families, the Ofers were the target of a countrywide protest
last summer by thousands of Israelis who pitched tents in Tel
Aviv,  Jerusalem  and other towns to demand lower housing and food
prices.  The public outcry has been a concern to such families,
according to Raphael “Raffi” Amit, a professor at the
 University of Pennsylvania ’s Wharton School, who has focused his
research on wealthy families and their businesses.  “Israel is a small country,” he said in a phone interview
Nov. 15. “There are many, many political parties and everyone
has more than one opinion.”  If Ofer can sell Israel Chemicals to Potash Corp., the
family will “get a lot of money and a lot of peace of mind,”
said Alper of Excellence Nessuah Investment House.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Devon Pendleton in  New York  at 
 dpendleton@bloomberg.net ;
Shoshanna Solomon in Tel Aviv at 
 ssolomon22@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Matthew G. Miller at 
 mmiller144@bloomberg.net  