-- Billionaire Brothers Debt Recast Boosts Essar Bond: India Credit
-- B y   P r a t i s h   N a r a y a n a n   a n d   A b h i s h e k   S h a n k e r
-- 2012-11-20T06:05:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-20/billionaire-brothers-debt-recast-boosts-essar-bond-india-credit.html
A planned recast of $4.8 billion of
debt by billionaire brothers Shashikant and Ravikant Ruia helped
drive the biggest rally in  Essar Energy Plc’s (ESSR)  convertible bonds
since they were issued two years ago.  The 4.25 percent notes due 2016 of the Indian refiner and
power producer, part of the Ruias’ Essar Group, surged 19
percent this quarter, reducing the yield by 580 basis points to
a one-year low of 15.47 percent, data compiled by Bloomberg
show. The group will extend overseas-loan maturities and switch
some of its rupee liabilities into dollar-based ones, according
to two people with direct knowledge of the matter.  Indian companies borrowed $8.7 billion abroad last quarter,
the most in a year, as central bank Governor Duvvuri Subbarao
held the highest interest rates in the region. The  average yield 
on Indian dollar debt slid 246 basis points to 4.37 percent in
2012, HSBC Holdings Plc data show. That’s less than half the
rate for five-year AAA rupee corporate bonds and approaching the
4.14 percent for Chinese U.S. currency notes.  “This is something that plays a huge role in increasing
confidence,” Hemant Dharnidharka, head of credit research at
SJS Markets Ltd. in Bangalore, said in an interview yesterday.
“In the current benign market, it’s much easier to go ahead and
refinance. So if they refinance now for about five years, the
management can focus on the business rather than worry where the
funds will come from.”  ‘Pruning Cost’  Essar is reorganizing liabilities to reduce the debt burden
accumulated to finance part of its $18 billion expansion since
2008, the people said, asking not to be identified because the
matter is private.  “The swapping of rupee debt with foreign debt is a
beginning toward” aligning financing costs with global levels,
Essar’s Mumbai-based spokesman  Manish Kedia  said yesterday by
telephone. “These efforts are neither driven by any compulsion
to refinance or restructure but by the strategy of pruning
financing cost as much as possible.”  India boosted the cap on foreign borrowings that don’t need
approvals to $750 million from $500 million in September 2011
and said it may permit the total annual limit on overseas
borrowing to exceed $30 billion “on a case-by-case” basis.  Selling Shares  The Ruias may sell shares in the U.S. steel unit Minnesota
Steel Industries LLC, or in other group companies including
Essar Energy,  Essar Ports Ltd. (ESRS)  and  Essar Shipping Ltd. (ESL)  to reduce
obligations, the people said. The group’s owners plan to offer
some of their shares in  Essar Oil (ESOIL)  Ltd., Essar Shipping and Essar
Ports to comply with regulatory norms and have no plans to cut
their holding in Essar Energy, Kedia said in an e-mail last
week.  Essar, which bought Minnesota Steel in 2007, is in talks
with banks for an initial public offering for the U.S. unit,
Chief Executive Officer Prashant Ruia said in June.  Net debt, or liabilities minus cash, at Essar Energy rose
to 7 billion rupees ($128 million) in March from 3.4 billion
rupees two years earlier, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Essar Steel Ltd., another group company, has total debt of
about 230 billion rupees, the people said, after more than
doubling capacity to 10 million metric tons at Hazira in Gujarat
state and building a pellet plant in the eastern state of
Odisha. Essar Oil increased its refining capacity to 20 million
tons from 10.5 million tons this year.  Debt at Peak  “Right now, debt levels are at a peak,” said Puneet
Bhatia, an analyst at ratings assessor Credit Analysis &
Research Ltd., or CARE, in Mumbai. “With the commencement of
new projects and expected incremental cash flow, resources
available for debt servicing stand augmented.”  The Reserve Bank of  India  has approved Essar Steel’s
proposal to switch about $430 million of its rupee loans into
dollar debt, according to the people. The company also plans to
borrow the maximum $750 million loan allowed by the central bank
under the automatic approval route for importing equipment, one
person said. The steelmaker failed to pay overseas bondholders
in 1999 to become the first Indian company to default on an
international debt.  Essar Oil, a unit of Essar Energy, said on Oct. 9 it may
raise as much as $1.5 billion in overseas loans after receiving
the RBI’s approval. The refiner had 156.3 billion rupees in
liabilities and 20.6 billion rupees of cash and equivalents as
of March 31, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Cheaper Funds  “Essar Oil has received the RBI’s approval to raise up to
$1.5 billion in external commercial borrowings,” Rabin Ghosh, a
Mumbai-based spokesman for Essar Oil, said in an e-mail
yesterday. “These will be used to swap our rupee debt to
foreign debt which is cheaper by about five to six percentage
points.”  RBI’s Subbarao has held the repurchase rate at 8 percent
since a 50 basis point cut in April that was the only reduction
since 2009. Central bank rates are at 3 percent in  China , 2.75
percent in South Korea and 5.75 percent in  Indonesia . Ten-year
sovereign bond yields are at 8.20 percent in India, compared
with 3.52 percent in China and 1.62 percent in the U.S.  The yield on the 8.15 percent debt due June 2022 climbed
one basis point to 8.20 percent today, offering an  extra  amount
of 658 basis points over Treasuries, as the rupee rose 0.4
percent to 54.875 per dollar. Rupee-denominated sovereign notes
returned 8.7 percent this year, trailing the 11.5 percent earned
by Indonesian securities in the best performance among Asia’s 10
biggest markets, HSBC indexes show.  Default Swaps  Bond risk for Indian companies has slid this year. The
average cost of five-year credit-default swaps insuring against
non-payment by seven local issuers declined 156 basis points to
305, according to data provider CMA, which is owned by McGraw-
Hill Cos. and compiles prices quoted by dealers in privately
negotiated markets.  Essar Energy’s equity-linked notes are headed for a fourth
month of gains. The group is aiming at a 30 percent jump in
revenue in three years to $35 billion as it taps demand for
infrastructure in Asia’s third-largest economy, Prashant Ruia
said in June.  “Essar had defaulted many years ago, but thereafter they
have been doing quite OK,” said SJS’s Dharnidharka. “Their
businesses are generating cash. Earlier the concern was how they
are going to go ahead but fortunately for them, in the last few
years their businesses have picked up. That’s a big positive.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Pratish Narayanan in Mumbai at 
 pnarayanan9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net ;
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  