-- BNP Joins Credit Agricole Seeing French IPO Market Revival
-- B y   A d r i a   C i m i n o
-- 2012-11-21T08:10:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-20/bnp-joins-credit-agricole-in-seeing-revival-of-french-ipo-market.html
France’s initial public offerings
market may rebound from a three-year slump, rekindling Cie. de
 Saint-Gobain (SGO)  SA and Lagardere SCA’s plans to sell shares in
their units, bankers at the country’s largest lenders said.  French IPOs raised 239 million euros ($306 million) this
year, a quarter of the amount raised in 2009 and a far cry from
the 14.1 billion-euro peak in 2005, data compiled by Bloomberg
show. The number of issues slid to 11 this year from 16 in 2011
as the three-year-old European sovereign-debt crisis rattled
financial markets. Globally, IPOs raised $117 billion, little
changed from $122 billion in 2009.  Bankers, including Thierry Olive of  BNP Paribas SA (BNP)  in
Paris, say there’s potential for a rebound in the French market
as investors seek new opportunities. Saint-Gobain pulled the IPO
of its Verallia packaging unit in 2011, while Lagardere canceled
its stake sale in pay-television channel  Canal Plus  France.  “We can have a return of the Verallia and Canal Plus
operations,” said Olive, global head of equity capital markets
at BNP Paribas, which was among the lead managers for the
Verallia sale before Saint-Gobain shelved it. “Investors want
to buy a dream. Verallia is the type of company that offers
resilience in an economic rebound.”  The European Commission predicted this month that France’s
gross domestic product will expand 0.4 percent in 2013 after 0.2
percent growth this year.  French IPOs may also be spurred by successful sales in
neighboring  Germany , said Jean-Michel Berling, global head of
equity capital markets at  Credit Agricole  CIB in Paris.  German Example  “Issues such as Canal Plus and Verallia could resurface,”
he said in an interview. “Some large IPOs in countries such as
Germany have recently done well so we can hope that will inspire
others.”  Telefonica Deutschland Holding AG, the German unit of
Spain’s biggest phone company, climbed in its trading debut on
Oct. 30 after completing Europe’s biggest IPO this year. The
shares rose 3.6 percent to 5.80 euros in  Frankfurt , valuing the
Munich-based carrier at 6.5 billion euros.  The  Stoxx Europe 600 (SXXP)  declined 11 percent last year as the
region struggled to contain the debt crisis. The index rebounded
15 percent from this year’s low on June 4 as European Central
Bank President  Mario Draghi  said he would do everything to
protect the single currency and the  Federal Reserve  opted for a
third round of asset purchases.  France’s benchmark  CAC 40 Index (CAC)  has advanced 9.6 percent
this year after falling 17 percent in 2011. The gauge slipped
0.3 percent to 3,452.47 at 9:10 a.m. in Paris today.  SocGen Leads  Societe Generale SA (GLE)  is heading for its third consecutive
year as biggest underwriter of French equity and equity linked
deals with 18 issues worth 1.56 billion euros, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. BNP Paribas holds the third spot with
869.3 million euros and Credit Agricole is in ninth position
with 257 million euros in deals, the data show.  Of the equity deals on which  Societe Generale  worked, only
four were IPOs. They were all in the health-care field, with
values of less than 41 million euros each.  “SocGen has a strong franchise and track record in
delivering these companies to market and following them post
IPO, so we know the investors that are interested in this
space,” Luis Vaz-Pinto, global head of  equity capital markets 
at Societe Generale in Paris, said in a phone interview. “It’s
a sweet spot for us.”  The bank’s largest deal this year was a 327 million-euro
sale of additional shares for  Eutelsat Communications SA (ETL)  on Jan.
13, Bloomberg data show.  Accelerated Operations  Larger IPOs in less specialized industries have been
scarce, with investors and issuers favoring accelerated
operations that can be completed between market swings,
according to Vaz-Pinto.  “Blocks and convertibles take a day to place and can be
structured quickly,” Vaz-Pinto said.  To be sure, the economic turmoil in the euro area may
extend that trend as it roils markets and caps equity capital
markets, or ECM, operations, said  Credit Agricole (ACA) ’s Berling.
Moody’s Investors Service followed  Standard & Poor’s  in
stripping France of its top  credit rating  Nov. 19, citing a
worsening growth outlook for Europe’s second-largest economy.  “For more developments in ECM activity, we have to see
less volatility in the market,” Berling said. “As long as
there is uncertainty, we can only do rapid operations that limit
the scope of ECM business. IPOs are the backbone of our
activity. When they dry up, there are fewer needs for financing
that follow, so it is a vicious cycle.”  Seven Weeks  Work involved for “an IPO in France takes about seven
weeks, plus the additional preparation time,” Vaz-Pinto said.
“As we have seen in this past year, there are very few periods
of seven weeks of stability.”  Still, there’s a “lot of pent up demand and that should
bode well for 2013,” he said.  Saint-Gobain in June said it will resume the sale of a
minority stake in Verallia once markets calm down. Sophie Chevallon, a Saint-Gobain spokeswoman, said the group has no
timetable for the sale. Verallia, which makes bottles and jars,
had been seeking to raise at least 785 million euros.  Lagardere (MMB) 
in February said an IPO of  Canal Plus France (AN)  remains the main
scenario for the unit. It didn’t return calls seeking comment.  French banks say they are optimistic there’ll be an
improvement in the nation’s IPO market. BNP’s Olive said that
even concerns about the debt crisis may not damp activity.  “There has been market pressure on Italy and Spain,”
Olive said. “Regarding France, companies that have
international business, such as Verallia, will be able to issue
shares.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adria Cimino in Paris at 
 acimino1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Vidya Root at 
 vroot@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  