-- BOJ Refrains From Loosening as Analysts See Stimulus in December
-- B y   T o r u   F u j i o k a   a n d   M a s a h i r o   H i d a k a
-- 2012-11-20T03:23:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-20/boj-refrains-from-loosening-as-analysts-see-stimulus-in-december.html
The  Bank of Japan (8301)  held off from
monetary easing after expanding asset purchases in September and
October, switching the focus to a December meeting where more
measures are forecast to shore up a shrinking economy.  The asset fund stayed at 66 trillion yen ($812 billion) and
a credit-lending facility was unchanged at 25 trillion yen, the
central bank said in Tokyo today after a two-day meeting. All of
22 economists surveyed by  Bloomberg News  had forecast no change.  Opposition leader Shinzo Abe, the leading contender to
become prime minister after a Dec. 16 election, has called for
unlimited easing and an increase in the central bank’s inflation
goal to as much as 3 percent from 1 percent. His comments last
week triggered the biggest two-day decline in the yen against
the dollar in a year as investors speculated that more
aggressive monetary loosening is looming.  “The BOJ would likely come under increasing pressure,”
 Chotaro Morita , chief strategist for fixed income at Barclays
Plc in Tokyo, said before today’s decision. “The December
monetary policy meeting is scheduled to take place after the
presumed election date, suggesting pressure for additional
easing could exert an influence at an early stage.”  The central bank kept its key  interest rate  unchanged
between zero and 0.1 percent and monthly purchases of  government
bonds  at 1.8 trillion yen, today’s statement showed.  Next Meeting  Attention shifts to a BOJ policy meeting scheduled three
days after the election, with 16 economists forecasting easing.
 The world’s third-largest economy  is heading for a technical
recession as analysts forecast a 0.4 percent annualized
contraction this quarter after a 3.5 percent decline in the
three months through September.  The BOJ will next month expand its purchase of Japanese
government bonds and treasury bills by 5 trillion yen each, said
 Izuru Kato , chief market economist in Tokyo at Totan Research
Co. Barclays’ Morita said he sees potential for additional
stimulus in January or February.  The yen traded at 81.27 per dollar as of 12:16 p.m., after
the policy decision, after yesterday touching a seven-month low
of 81.59.  Twenty-five percent of respondents in a Nikkei Newspaper
poll released yesterday said they favor Abe’s Liberal  Democratic
Party , while 16 percent chose the ruling Democratic Party of
Japan.  Panasonic Corp. (6752) , Japan’s second biggest TV maker, plans to
cut 8,000 jobs in the second half of this fiscal year as weak
global demand and a strong yen hurt profits. Panasonic and Sharp
Corp. are among those expecting losses the year ending in March.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Toru Fujioka in  Tokyo  at 
 tfujioka1@bloomberg.net ;
Masahiro Hidaka in Tokyo at 
 mhidaka@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  