-- Brazil’s Caixa Plans to Begin Investment Bank by Second Quarter
-- B y   F r a n c i s c o   M a r c e l i n o
-- 2012-11-20T02:00:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-20/brazil-s-caixa-plans-to-begin-investment-bank-by-second-quarter.html
Caixa Economica Federal,  Brazil ’s
biggest mortgage lender, plans to start its investment-banking
unit by the second quarter of 2013, according to Chief Financial
Officer Marcio Percival.  The new division will oversee online trading, capital
markets and the creation of investment funds, Percival said
yesterday in a phone interview.  “These activities, which are now scattered inside Caixa,
will have a focus,” Percival said. “We are going to get into
the market to work in all the areas an investment bank works.”  State-controlled Caixa and  Banco do Brasil SA  expanded
credit and gained market share from non-government rivals as
President Dilma Rousseff urged lenders to cut profits to
“civilized” levels. Caixa’s loan portfolio rose 43 percent to
324.5 billion reais ($156 billion) in the third quarter from a
year earlier, the Brasilia-based company said in an e-mailed
statement. Total credit in Brazil  expanded  16 percent in
September from a year earlier, according to the central bank.  The new division, which will be staffed with current
employees, is expected to be authorized by the central bank in
the first quarter, Percival said. Caixa plans to lend 100
billion reais in the current quarter and end 2012 with its loan
book expanding 42 percent from a year earlier, he said.  Caixa may sell bonds denominated in reais or dollars in
overseas markets by April or May, Percival said. Last month, the
bank tapped international bond markets for the first time,
selling $1 billion of five-year notes and $500 million with a
maturity of 10 years.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Francisco Marcelino in Sao Paulo at 
 mdeoliveira@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net 
CEFN3 BZ <Equity> 