-- British Land Earnings Gain on Leasing, Higher Rental Income
-- B y   S i m o n   P a c k a r d
-- 2012-11-20T16:46:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-20/british-land-earnings-gain-on-leasing-higher-rental-income.html
British Land Co. (BLND) , the U.K.’s second-
largest real estate investment trust, said first-half profit
rose 4 percent after it cut vacancies and raised rental income.  Profit excluding changes in asset values and one-time items
increased to 136 million pounds ($216 million), or 15.2 pence a
share, in the six months through September from 130 million
pounds, or 14.6 pence, a year earlier, the London-based company
said in a statement today. Net asset value was little changed at
596 pence a share.  Chief Executive Officer Chris Grigg has focused on boosting
occupancy at the company’s retail properties and attracting
enough tenants to planned developments to justify starting
construction work. British Land plans to add 2.3 million square
feet (214,000 square meters) of offices in central  London 
through 2014 to benefit from an anticipated increase in rents
and values.  “There’s nothing in these results that you can pick holes
in - they’re pretty robust,” said  Alan Carter , an analyst at
Investec Securities who has a buy rating on British Land shares.
“The market will eventually realize that it’s a more defensive
place than Land Securities,” he said.  British Land was unchanged at 515 pence in London trading,
giving the company a market value of 4.61 billion pounds. The
stock has declined 5.2 percent during the past three months,
while the 12-member  FTSE 350 Real Estate Investment Trust Index (F3REITS) 
has dropped 2.2 percent.  New Chairman  Chris Gibson-Smith will step down as chairman of British
Land effective Dec. 31 after six years, the company said today.
John Gildersleeve will take over the post from Jan. 1.  The company said it leased 953,000 square feet of space
during the six-month period, renewing or extending existing
tenants’ leases.  Hedge fund Aspect Capital Ltd. agreed to lease 24,520
square feet at 10 Portman Square, near London’s Oxford Street,
British Land said in a separate statement. Law firm Hill
Dickinson LLP also agreed to rent 32,000 square feet at
Broadgate Tower in the  City of London , which British Land co-
owns with funds managed by  Blackstone Group LP. (BX)   Neither Aspect Capital nor Hill Dickinson was immediately
available to comment.  Net rental income rose 2 percent in the fiscal half to 142
million pounds, lifted by rent increases, new leases, the
expiration of tenant incentives and  acquisitions .  London Purchases  British Land bought Clarges Estate in London’s Mayfair
district for 129.6 million pounds during the period and plans a
191,500 square-foot residential and office redevelopment.
British Land also agreed to pay 90 million pounds for a shopping
center under construction in Hereford, west England, that’s
scheduled to open in 2014.  The company agreed to or completed disposals that raised
235 million pounds in the six-month period, including the sale
of stakes in seven food stores across the U.K. and a shopping
center in Cambridge.  “The decisions we have taken in recent years are ensuring
we are not only delivering good results today but also building
growth into our portfolio for the future,” Grigg said in the
statement.  Net income  fell to 112 million pounds in the first half
from 332 million pounds a year earlier as the value of British
Land’s real estate stagnated.  The company will pay a  dividend  of 6.6 pence a share, in
line with the payout it announced in May, when it presented
full-year results. That brought the total first-half payout to
13.2 pence a share.  Net debt  totaled 4.78 billion pounds, or 46 percent of the
value of British Land’s real estate. That compares with a 45.6
percent loan-to-value ratio at the end of June.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simon Packard in London at 
 packard@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Blackman at 
 ablackman@bloomberg.net  