-- Buy Buffett Rail Debt, Sell Canadian National: JPMorgan
-- B y   Z a c h a r y   T r a c e r   a n d   C h a r l e s   M e a d
-- 2012-11-20T19:06:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-20/buy-buffett-rail-debt-sell-canadian-national-jpmorgan.html
Warren Buffett ’s railroad debt is a
better investment for bond buyers than  Canadian National Railway
Co. (CNR) ,  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  said.  The extra yield that Burlington Northern Santa Fe’s 10- and
30-year bonds pay over similar-maturity Canadian National debt
makes them attractive, analysts led by Mark Streeter wrote today
in a research note. BNSF is owned by Buffett’s  Berkshire
Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A)   BNSF’s profit improved to $937 million in the third quarter
from $766 million a year earlier as shipping volumes increased.
The railroad benefits from strong positions shipping coal and
oil as well as a “robust” freight network, JPMorgan said.  “We think the best swap at the quality end of the rail
spectrum is to sell  Canadian National  credit and buy BNSF,” the
analysts wrote. “BNSF credit should trade basically on top of
or slightly through and not behind peers.”  BNSF’s $650 million of 4.375 percent bonds maturing in 2042
yielded 3.93 percent yesterday, according to Trace, the bond-
price reporting system of the Financial Industry Regulatory
Authority. That’s 43 basis points, or 0.43 percentage point,
more than the yield on Montreal-based Canadian National’s $250
million of 3.5 percent securities maturing the same year, which
traded at 99.9 cents on the dollar today.  BNSF was Buffett’s biggest takeover when Omaha, Nebraska-
based Berkshire acquired the railroad in a $26.5 billion deal in
2010. The company is an “all-in wager” on the  U.S. economy ,
the billionaire said at the time. Buffett, 82, is Berkshire’s
chairman and chief executive officer.  Bonds from BNSF may be undervalued because some insurers
have limits on how much debt they can own from Berkshire
companies, the JPMorgan analysts wrote. Buffett’s implicit
backing adds “significant value” to the bonds, they said.  Canadian National, the nation’s biggest railroad, said
third-quarter  net income  rose less than 1 percent to C$664
million ($665 million). It said adjusted full-year profit may
climb as much as 15 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Zachary Tracer in  New York  at 
 ztracer1@bloomberg.net ;
Charles Mead in New York at 
 cmead11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at 
 dkraut2@bloomberg.net ;
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  