-- Campbell Declines After Saying Inventories Could Hurt Profit
-- B y   R e n e e   D u d l e y
-- 2012-11-20T21:25:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-20/campbell-quarterly-profit-tops-estimates-amid-higher-prices.html
Campbell Soup Co. (CPB) , the world’s
largest soup maker, fell the most in more than 10 months after
saying earnings this quarter could be “negatively impacted”
amid high soup inventories and an increase in marketing
spending.  Campbell  declined  2 percent to $36.21 at the close in New
York, the biggest one-day drop since January. The shares have
gained 8.9 percent this year.  Chief Financial Officer Craig Owens said on a conference
call today that earnings per share in the second quarter ended
Jan. 31 will likely lag behind the company’s annual profit
growth rate because U.S. stores stocked up early on broth and
ready-to-serve soups for the holiday season. Retailers
accelerated holiday buying in the first quarter in part because
Thanksgiving is early this year, Owens said.  “Coming into the quarter, we had a higher level of
inventory,” Chief Executive Officer Denise Morrison said on the
conference call. “We maintained that and so coming out of the
quarter, we’re still at those levels. So we just wanted to
manage people’s expectations.”  Net income in the first quarter fell 7.5 percent to $245
million, or 78 cents a share, from $265 million, or 82 cents, a
year earlier, the Camden, New Jersey-based company said today in
a statement. Excluding acquisition and restructuring expenses,
profit totaled 88 cents a share. The average of 17 analysts’
 estimates  compiled by Bloomberg was 85 cents.  Morrison has been working to boost sales in the company’s
Simple Meals business, its largest unit, by adding new varieties
of soups and sauces. Sales in the Simple Meals unit rose 3
percent to $896 million in the quarter, driven by a 2 percent
increase in prices.  ‘Slackening’ Demand  Revenue increased 8 percent to $2.34 billion. Analysts
projected $2.37 billion, the average of  estimates  compiled by
Bloomberg.  Sales of U.S. beverages, which include V8 vegetable juice,
declined 5 percent in the quarter. Morrison said “beverages
continued to be challenged by slackening consumer demand.”  During the quarter, Campbell completed the acquisition of
Bolthouse Farms, which contributed $171 million to a total of
$323 million in its foodservice unit.  After lowering marketing spending in the first quarter, the
company plans to increase outlays for new products this quarter,
including Campbell’s Go! soup and Skillet sauces, Owens said.  U.S. soup sales increased 2 percent in the first quarter,
driven by volume gains in Campbell’s Chunky canned soups.  The company in September said it would close two plants
employing more than 700 workers to help save $30 million a year.  Hurricane Sandy  might have given the company a small boost
as shoppers in affected areas stocked up on canned soups before
the storm, David Driscoll, an analyst for Citigroup Inc. in New
York, said in a report before the results were released.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Renee Dudley in New York at 
 rdudley6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  