-- Canadian Dollar Falls Versus Most Currencies as Crude Oil Drops
-- B y   K a t i a   D m i t r i e v a   a n d   A l l i s o n   B e n n e t t
-- 2012-11-20T22:14:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-20/canadian-dollar-gains-versus-most-currencies-on-refuge-demand.html
The Canadian dollar fell against
most of its most-traded peers as speculation a cease-fire
agreement will be reached in the Middle East sent the price of
crude oil down from a one-month high.  The currency’s losses were limited after posting its
biggest gain in a month against its U.S. counterpart yesterday
on optimism the International Monetary Fund is considering
classifying the so-called loonie and  Australia ’s dollar as
reserve currencies.  “Any risk-on, the pull back for the dollar versus  Canada 
will not be significant,” said  Dean Popplewell , head analyst in
Toronto at the online currency-trading firm Oanda Corp. “Canada
will only get a greater boost if it moves against the crosses,
especially the euro. There are so many unknowns going in to
year-end -- in the U.S., and obviously how secure our concerns
are with the Middle East.”  The Canadian dollar dropped less than 0.1 percent to 99.68
cents per U.S. dollar at 5 p.m. in Toronto. It touched 99.55
yesterday, the strongest since Nov. 8, as it gained as much as
0.6 percent, the most since Oct. 17. One Canadian dollar buys
$1.0032.  Oil, Canada’s largest export, declined 2.2 percent to
$87.34 a barrel in New York. The futures contract closed at
$89.28 yesterday, the highest settlement since Oct. 19.  Egyptian President Mohamed Mursi said that what he termed
as Israeli aggression against Gaza will end today,  Egypt ’s
state-run Middle East News Agency reported. Talks to end the
fighting were put on hold as  Israel  continued to bomb the
territory, killing at least 33 Palestinians today and bringing
the death toll for the week to 135.  Risk Assets  “We’re very much range-bound today after yesterday’s
rally,” David Bradley, director of foreign-exchange trading in
Toronto at Scotia Capital Inc., a unit of Canada’s third-largest
bank, said in a phone interview. “I wouldn’t be surprised by a
little Canadian dollar weakness as risk assets wind down before
the U.S. Thanksgiving holiday.”  Gains in currencies linked to global growth prospects were
also limited as euro-zone finance leaders meeting in Brussels
try to fill a 15 billion-euro ($19 billion) hole in  Greece ’s
finances as the sovereign-debt crisis continues for a third
year.  The loonie has climbed 1.3 percent this year against nine
developed-nation counterparts tracked by Bloomberg Correlation-
Weighted Indexes. The euro has declined 2.6 percent, with the
U.S. dollar dropping 1.4 percent, and the yen leading decliners
with a 7.8 percent drop.  Technical Analysis  The Canadian dollar may be ready to break its U.S. rival’s
“bullish trend momentum that has been in place since
September” after the greenback failed to breach strong
resistance around C$1.0050, James Chen, chief technical
strategist at FX Solutions LLC, said in a note to clients.  If the price stays below C$1.0050, and also breaks below
0.9900, Chen said, it could dive down and re-test 98.00 and even
96.30 cents, a level last seen in August 2011. If the U.S.
dollar does break through the C$1.0050 resistance range, it
could reach C$1.0230, he said. Resistance is an area on a chart
where sell orders may be clustered.  The loonie erased earlier gains after Canadian  wholesale
sales  fell at the fastest pace in 19 months in September, with
automobiles and personal goods leading declines across every
major category, Statistics Canada said today in Ottawa. Sales
dropped 1.4 percent in September to C$48.8 billion ($49
billion). The decline exceeded all 13 forecasts in a Bloomberg
economist survey.  Junk bonds are losing their appeal as investors grow more
concerned that a U.S. budget showdown will undermine demand in
the nation’s commodity-driven economy. The difference in yields
on U.S. dollar-denominated Canadian junk bonds and federal
government benchmarks reached 575 basis points, or 5.75
percentage points, at the end of last week, the widest since
August, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch index data.  Canadian bonds declined for the second day, pushing the
yield on the 10-year benchmark security up two basis points, or
0.02 percentage point, to 1.75 percent. The 2.75 percent note
fell 21 cents to C$108.69.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Allison Bennett in New York at 
 abennett23@bloomberg.net ;
Katia Dmitrieva in Toronto at 
 edmitrieva1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  