-- Carrefour to Sell Indonesia Stake to Partner for $671 Million
-- B y   P a u l   J a r v i s
-- 2012-11-20T08:25:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-20/carrefour-to-sell-indonesia-stake-to-partner-for-671-million.html
Carrefour SA (CA) , France’s biggest
retailer, agreed to sell its 60 percent stake in its Indonesian
unit to local partner CT Corp. for 525 million euros ($671
million) in the latest move to exit peripheral businesses.  The transaction will give CT Corp. full control of
Indonesia’s third-largest retailer, which has 84 outlets and had
revenue of 1 billion euros in 2011, Carrefour said today in a
statement. The 25-year-old buyer will become Carrefour’s
exclusive franchisee in the Asian country.  Carrefour is cutting jobs and exiting overseas markets it
doesn’t dominate to generate cash and reduce debt as part of a
three-year turnaround plan formulated by Chief Executive Officer
Georges Plassat. The retailer this month sold its Malaysian unit
to Aeon Co. for 250 million euros. It is also exiting Singapore
and Greece and agreed last month to sell its Colombian stores to
Chilean retailer  Cencosud SA (CENCOSUD)  for 2 billion euros.  “Carrefour’s retrenchment brings in further cash to reduce
indebtedness and increases its focus on western  Europe , China
and core  Latin America ,” Darren Shirley, an analyst at Shore
Capital, wrote in a note. “The process of international
consolidation continues apace.”  Carrefour has also put its Polish and Turkish units under
review and is considering a combination of the latter with
competitor  Migros Ticaret AS (MGROS) , people with knowledge of the
situation said in September. And the company is preparing a
$4.9-billion initial public offering of its Atacadao cash-and-
carry unit in  Brazil , Veja magazine reported Oct. 27.  Shares Gain  Carrefour  rose  as much as 1.7 percent in Paris trading and
was up 1.5 percent at 18.40 euros at 9:04 a.m., leading gains in
France’s benchmark  CAC 40 Index. (CAC)   The French retailer, which has been present in Indonesia
since 1998, said it has “full confidence” in CT Corp.’s
ability to develop the brand and strengthen its market position.
The transaction will be completed in January, subject to
approval by Indonesia antitrust authorities, Carrefour said.  CT Corp., the Indonesian conglomerate with interests
spanning retail, media and financial services, approached
lenders seeking a bridge loan of about $750 million to fund the
purchase, three people familiar with the matter said last month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Paul Jarvis  in London at 
 pjarvis@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  