-- China Foreign Investment Falls for 11th Time in 12 Months
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-11-20T04:26:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-20/china-foreign-direct-investment-falls-for-11th-time-in-12-months.html
Foreign direct investment  in  China 
fell for the 11th time in 12 months as labor costs rose, an
economic slowdown threatened to drag growth to a 13-year low and
a territorial dispute with  Japan  weighed on trade.  Investment dropped 0.2 percent in October from a year
earlier to $8.31 billion, the Ministry of Commerce said in
Beijing today. FDI inflows in the first 10 months of the year
declined 3.5 percent to $91.7 billion, while non-financial
outbound investment rose 25.8 percent to $58.2 billion.  The decline in inflows highlights challenges for new
Chinese leadership headed by  Xi Jinping , who took the reins of
the ruling Communist Party last week in a once-a-decade power
handover, as officials seek to reverse a  growth  slowdown. The
world’s second-largest economy may expand by 7.7 percent this
year, the weakest pace since 1999, based on the median estimate
of analysts surveyed by  Bloomberg News .  “Inward FDI will decelerate much faster next year,” given
the economic slowdown and rising labor costs, said Shen Jianguang, chief Asia economist at Mizuho Securities Asia Ltd.
in Hong Kong. “Outward FDI will continue the current trend of
strong growth” and may surpass inbound investment within one
year, Shen said.  The Shanghai Composite Index, China’s benchmark stock gauge,
fell 0.3 percent as of the 11:30 a.m. local-time break. The
gauge had declined 16.5 percent in the year through yesterday.  Yuan Steps  Separately today, People’s Bank of China Governor  Zhou Xiaochuan  reiterated that the nation will promote the
convertibility of the  yuan , increase its exchange-rate
flexibility and push forward looser controls on  interest rates .  Inbound investment in the first 10 months of 2011 rose 15.9
percent; last month’s drop was the smallest since May.  Other data are pointing to a growth recovery, with exports
rising at the fastest pace in five months and industrial output
and retail sales exceeding forecasts.  Economists have scrapped projections for any easing of
monetary policy in the rest of 2012. Analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg News Nov. 14-19 see China holding its reserve-
requirement ratio at 20 percent through the end of the year,
based on the median estimate. That compares with the median
forecast for a 0.5 percentage-point cut in last month’s survey.  Tensions from the Japanese government’s purchase of
disputed islands in the  East China Sea  have led to protests in
China and boycotts by tourists.  Airline Capacity  All Nippon Airways Co., Japan’s biggest carrier, said Nov.
16 that it will extend capacity cuts on China routes into next
month. Chinese visitors to the country slumped 33 percent in
October, according to data from the Japan National Tourism
Organization, while Japanese trips to China may drop as much as
70 percent until the end of March, said JTB Corp., Japan’s
biggest travel agency.  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203) ,  Honda Motor Co. (7267)  and  Panasonic Corp. (6752) 
reported damage to their operations in China in September as
thousands marched in demonstrations sparked by the purchase of
islands known as Diaoyu in China and Senkaku in Japan.  Japanese investment in China slowed in October, data from
the Commerce Ministry show. Investment rose 10.9 percent in the
first 10 months to $6.08 billion, compared with a 17 percent
increase in the January-September period to $5.62 billion.  The drop in last month’s inbound FDI “relates to a weak
global investment flow and possible delays in Japan investment
projects,” said Zhang Zhiwei, chief China economist at Nomura
Holdings Inc. in  Hong Kong . “China will continue to be a net
recipient of FDI flows, although China’s outbound investments
will continue to grow at a higher rate than inbound
investments.”  --Zhou Xin. Editors: Scott Lanman, Rina Chandran  To contact the reporter on this story:
Xin Zhou in Beijing at 
 xzhou68@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  