-- Youngest China Politburo Member Takes Bo Xilai Chongqing Job
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-11-20T09:20:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-20/china-s-youngest-politburo-member-takes-bo-xilai-s-chongqing-job.html
Sun Zhengcai, the youngest member of
the Chinese Communist Party’s new Politburo, was appointed party
boss of Chongqing, the southern Chinese municipality led by Bo Xilai until his ouster over a murder scandal.  Sun, 49, replaces Zhang Dejiang, who was named to the
party’s ruling Politburo Standing Committee in a once-a-decade
leadership transition that concluded last week, the Xinhua News
Agency reported today. Zhang took over the municipality in March
after Bo was removed and later stripped of his party membership
over a case in which his wife was convicted of murdering a
British businessman.  Formerly agriculture minister and party secretary in Jilin
province, Sun may become a top leader in the country’s political
transition a decade from now, according to political analysts
including Bo Zhiyue, senior research fellow at the National
University of  Singapore ’s East Asia Institute. Sun got a spot on
the 25-member Politburo in the transition, which saw Vice
Premier Xi Jinping appointed general secretary of the Communist
Party.  Bo’s wife was convicted in August of murdering British
businessman Neil Heywood, and Bo himself now faces charges that
he abused his power, made “severe mistakes” and bore “major
responsibility” in his wife’s murder case, according to the
official Xinhua News Agency.  When he took over Chongqing, Zhang said Bo had brought
“great damage” to the Communist Party’s image and that the
country must deepen reform of its legal system. Based on his No.
3 rank in the new Politburo Standing Committee, Zhang is slated
to become head of the National People’s Congress,  China ’s
legislature, though no announcement has been made.  Youngest Members  Chongqing is one of four municipalities that report
directly to the central government. The others are Beijing,
Tianjin and  Shanghai . The municipalities’ party secretaries are
typically drawn from the Politburo.  Yu Zhengsheng, also named to the Politburo Standing
Committee, stepped down as Shanghai party secretary today,
Xinhua said. He was replaced by Politburo member Han Zheng, it
said.  Hu Chunhua, 49, joins Sun as the youngest members of the
new Politburo by at least six years. The two could succeed
China’s new leaders in 2022, said Joseph Cheng, a political
science professor at the City University of Hong Kong.  Sun spent a year studying in the U.K. and has an advanced
degree in agriculture, according to Cheng Li, a senior fellow at
the Washington-based Brookings Institution. In 2002, Sun was
named party secretary of Beijing’s Shunyi area, where many of
the city’s international schools and western-style villas are
located.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Nicholas Wadhams in Beijing at 
 nwadhams@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  