-- China’s Richest Woman Divorces Husband, Fortune Declines
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-11-20T08:38:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-20/china-s-richest-woman-divorces-husband-fortune-declines.html
Longfor Properties Co. (960)  Chairwoman Wu
Yajun is no longer  China ’s richest woman after divorcing Cai Kui
and transferring about 40 percent of the developer’s shares the
couple used to own to her ex-husband.  Her stake in Longfor, which Wu co-founded with Cai, dropped
to 43 percent from a combined 72 percent, while Cai retains 29
percent, according to filings from  Hong Kong ’s stock exchange.  Wu’s net worth is estimated at $4.2 billion, down from $7.3
billion as of 5:30 p.m.  New York  time yesterday, according to
the Bloomberg Billionaires Index. Yang Huiyan, an executive
director of  Country Garden Holdings Co. (2007)  and the daughter of
company founder Yang Guoqiang, becomes China’s richest woman
with a fortune of $5 billion, the index shows. The country’s
richest individual is  Zong Qinghou , chairman of Hangzhou Wahaha
Group Co., who at $19 billion is ranked No. 35 globally.  “We expect the change won’t affect Longfor’s daily
operations or the chairwoman’s control,” said Wendy Luo, a Hong
Kong-based analyst at Barclays in a research note today, who has
an “Overweight” rating on the stock.  Longfor’s  shares  dropped 4.2 percent -- the most in two
months -- in Hong Kong. The divorce was filed on Aug. 6,
according to the Barclays report, citing Longfor management.  Hong Kong billionaire Peter Woo, chairman of property
developers Wheelock & Co. and Wharf (Holdings) Ltd., became the
third-largest shareholder of Longfor after raising his stake to
5 percent in September.  Former Reporter  Wu, a native of China’s largest municipality Chongqing, was
born in 1964. In 1988, almost a decade after China’s former
leader  Deng Xiaoping  opened up the country for economic reforms,
Wu quit her “iron rice bowl” job and started working for an
industry newspaper affiliated with the Ministry of Construction.
She spent six years as a journalist covering real estate.  After encountering a flurry of problems buying her first
apartment -- an 861-square-foot flat in Chongqing --Wu decided
to build better homes in China, and co-founded the predecessor
of Longfor Properties in 1994 with her husband.  Longfor sold its first residential project in 1997, for
$157 per square meter, more than double the average  household
income  in China at the time. Since then, Wu has expanded Longfor
into 13 other Chinese cities and moved its headquarters to
Beijing. The company raised $1 billion in a 2009 initial public
offering in Hong Kong.  The share split between the co-founders won’t violate debt
covenants, said a Longfor spokesman based in Beijing who
couldn’t be identified according to company policy.  The  Bloomberg Billionaires Index  takes measure of the
world’s wealthiest people based on market and economic changes
and Bloomberg News reporting. Each net worth figure is updated
every business day at 5:30 p.m. in New York. The valuations are
listed in U.S. dollars.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Michael Wei in Shanghai at 
 mwei13@bloomberg.net ;
Bonnie Cao in Shanghai at 
 bcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  