-- China’s Communist Paper Calls for Closer U.S. Ties Under Xi
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-11-20T06:02:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-20/china-s-communist-paper-calls-for-closer-ties-with-u-s-under-xi.html
China and the U.S. should deepen
cooperation and become more interdependent, the Communist
Party’s flagship newspaper said in a commentary today, signaling
that new leader Xi Jinping may seek closer ties.  The People’s Daily  commentary , written by the same author
who has criticized U.S. motives in Asia in the past, included
comments from experts in U.S.-China relations such as former
White House National Security Council Asia directors  Kenneth
Lieberthal  and  Douglas Paal .  “Given the complex changes in the international situation,
Sino-U.S. cooperation and coordination are more urgent and
important than ever before,” the article said, before printing
the experts’ opinions in question-and-answer format. It said the
U.S. and China must “ceaselessly use cooperation to deepen
mutual interdependence and create a win-win situation for China-
U.S. relations and for the world.”  The commentary appeared less than a week after Xi succeeded
President  Hu Jintao  as general secretary of China’s ruling
Communist Party. Relations between the world’s two biggest
economies have been strained by the U.S. pivot toward Asia,
which Chinese state media have said could embolden U.S. allies
such as Japan and the Philippines in territorial disputes.  The publication of the commentary suggests that Xi, who
visited the U.S. in 1985 and returned for an official visit in
February, is seeking warmer ties and better communication with
the U.S., said  Zhu Feng , a professor of international relations
at  Peking University  in Beijing.  Important Moment  “Both countries just finished off leadership renewals, so
I think it’s a very very important moment,” Zhu said. “This is
not just a signal but it’s a good reflection of Xi’s personal
commitment to improve relations with the United States.”  Paal served in the administration of former President
 George H.W. Bush , while Lieberthal worked under former President
 Bill Clinton . Other experts quoted in the commentary included
Undersecretary of State  Robert Hormats  and Stapleton Roy, U.S.
ambassador to China from 1991 to 1995.  Today’s commentary was written by Zhong Sheng, who wasn’t
identified. Commentaries under the same byline in the past year
have criticized U.S. policy on the South China Sea and Iran. On
July 9, Zhong Sheng  wrote  that the U.S. pivot toward Asia
exacerbated tensions in the region.  The People’s Daily yesterday published remarks in which Xi
told fellow leaders that the party could “perish” unless they
address corruption and social unrest. Peking University’s Zhu
said the two articles highlighted Xi’s priorities as he takes
over leadership.  Xi spent time in Iowa in 1985 learning about U.S. farming
techniques. He returned to Iowa in February on a visit in which
he also met President  Barack Obama . Xi is set to take over the
ceremonial post of state president from Hu in March.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Michael Forsythe in Beijing at 
 mforsythe@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  