-- China Rules Out New Climate ‘Regime,’ Setting Up U.S. Conflict
-- B y   A l e x   M o r a l e s
-- 2012-11-20T18:59:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-20/china-sets-up-u-s-conflict-by-ruling-out-new-climate-regime-.html
China , India, South Africa and
 Brazil  said a climate agreement expected to take effect in 2020
won’t be a “new regime,” potentially setting up a
confrontation with the U.S., which is seeking to eliminate a
firewall in negotiations between developed and developing
nations.  The four countries are reining in expectations for the
Durban Platform, according to a statement released following a
meeting of the so-called Basic bloc in Beijing. Delegates at
United Nations treaty talks in the South African city agreed in
December that nations will hammer out a new deal to fight
climate change by 2015 and implement it five years later  The statement may set up a conflict with the U.S. at two
weeks of  UN climate talks  that start next week in Doha, Qatar.
The U.S. has said any climate deals must treat nations equally,
a shift from the Kyoto Protocol that has separate terms for
developed and developing countries.  “The Durban Platform is by no means a process to negotiate
a new regime, nor to renegotiate, rewrite or reinterpret the
convention and its principles and provisions,” the countries
said, referring to the UN Framework Convention on Climate
Change. The outcome of the discussions are governed by “in
particular the principles of equity.”  At last year’s discussions, the U.S. opposed inclusion of
the concept of “equity” in the Durban mandate because lead
envoy Todd Stern said it could be used to perpetuate a
“firewall” that assigned developed countries binding emissions
targets under the Kyoto Protocol, while setting no enforceable
greenhouse-gas goals for big developing countries such as  India 
and China.  Equity Discussions  On a conference call with reporters that followed the
Durban talks, Stern was asked whether he’d said “if equity’s
in, we’re out,” in the final discussions that crafted the
mandate.  “I might have, but that’s certainly the idea,” Stern said
in the Dec. 13 teleconference.  “We just thought that that would be a distraction that
would tend to drive people back into the old paradigm and we
didn’t want to go there,” Stern said. The “key element” of a
new deal is “to include all the major players in the same legal
system kind of together,” he said.  China is willing to cooperate with the U.S. to push climate
change negotiation progress, Xie Zhenhua, vice chairman of
National Development and Reform Commission, told reporters in
Beijing yesterday. “Developed nations should make greater
efforts to cut emissions,” he said.  China and the U.S. in July agreed that greater climate-
protection efforts are needed before a binding global treaty
comes into force in 2020, joining nations at a meeting in
 Germany  to acknowledge that current pledges fall short.  Greenhouse Gas Record  The UN’s World Meteorological Organization said yesterday
that concentrations in the atmosphere of the three main heat-
trapping gases, carbon dioxide, methane and nitrous oxide, rose
to a record. The International Energy Agency said earlier this
month that rising concentrations of the gases threaten to render
impossible the UN goal of containing the temperature rise since
industrialization to 2 degrees Celsius (3.6 degrees Fahrenheit).  Agreeing to a second round of emissions reduction targets
for parties to the Kyoto Protocol that will be implemented from
January is the “key deliverable” from Doha, the Basic
countries said. “Developed countries should take the lead and
scale up ambition” for emissions-slashing and climate aid
efforts between now and 2020.  Second Round  The U.S. never ratified Kyoto, so it isn’t subject to its
targets, while  Japan ,  Canada  and New Zealand have all said they
won’t take part in a second round of commitments. That leaves
the 27-nation European Union and  Australia  as the main countries
seeking new targets.  Russia  has indicated it may not take on new
targets, though has yet to fully spell out its stance.  The Basic countries said those developed nations not taking
part in the so-called second-commitment period of Kyoto should
take on “ambitious and comparable emissions reduction targets”  “The original idea when negotiating the climate change
convention is developed nations will take the lead in reducing
their emissions and in providing the resources for developing
nations to change their economy that will be necessary for their
efforts,” Brazilian envoy Andre Correa do Lago told reporters.
“This is not happening.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Morales in London at 
 amorales2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  