-- Chrysler’s Dart Misses Consumer Reports Recommendation
-- B y   C r a i g   T r u d e l l
-- 2012-11-20T11:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-20/chrysler-s-dart-misses-consumer-reports-recommendation.html
Chrysler Group LLC’s Dodge Dart, the
automaker’s first car based from a vehicle architecture supplied
by majority owner  Fiat SpA (F) , won praise from Consumer Reports
while falling just short of earning the magazine’s
recommendation.  The Dodge Dart SXT netted a road-test score of 64 and the
Dart Rallye was awarded a 61, Yonkers, New York-based Consumer
Reports said in an e-mailed statement. The magazine tests cars
for handling, efficiency, comfort and ease of use and the review
of the Dart will be published in its January issue.  Sergio Marchionne, chief executive officer of Chrysler and
Fiat, called the Dart the most important new model for Auburn
Hills, Michigan-based Chrysler since Fiat took control in
mid-2009. The Dart’s quiet cabin and “nimble” handling places
the SXT behind  General Motors Co. (GM) ’s Chevrolet Cruze among small
sedans that Consumer Reports recommends.  “The Dart is the first decent compact car from Dodge in
decades,” Jake Fisher, director of Consumer Reports’ Auto Test
Center, said in the statement. “It has some solid positives.
But overall it can’t yet measure up to the best in class.”  Chrysler’s engineers based Dart on Fiat’s “compact wide”
platform, which was developed in  Italy  and forms the basis of
the Alfa Romeo Giulietta. The architecture for Dart was
lengthened by 12 inches (30.5 centimeters) and widened by about
2 inches for buyers in North America.  ‘Stalls Out’  The January 2013 issue will be the first to include test
results for Dart, which debuted in June. Consumer Reports said
the car “stalls out” with its powertrains, calling its
standard four-cylinder engine “underpowered” and its optional
turbocharged counterpart “raspy.”  Consumer Reports has built credibility with customers by
buying all the cars it tests and foregoing advertising. The Dart
Rallye that the magazine bought is equipped with the
turbocharged engine and had “drivability issues” when mated
with the optional dual-clutch automated manual transmission,
Consumer Reports said.  Fuji Heavy Industries Ltd. (7270) ’s Subaru Impreza topped Consumer
Reports’ rankings of small sedans with a road-test score of 82,
followed by  Hyundai Motor Co. (005380) ’s Elantra with an 80 and  Mazda
Motor Corp. (7261) ’s Mazda3 with 78. GM’s Cruze, the only other small
sedan that the magazine recommends in its January issue, scored
a 70 with the turbocharged engine and 68 with the conventional
four-cylinder engine.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Craig Trudell in Southfield, Michigan at 
 ctrudell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  