-- Chrysler Dodges Tech Troubles by Letting Ford Blunder
-- B y   C r a i g   T r u d e l l
-- 2012-11-20T23:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-20/chrysler-dodges-tech-troubles-by-letting-ford-blunder.html
Chrysler Group LLC is emerging a
leader in touch screens by letting Ford Motor Co. and General
Motors Co. jump ahead and stumble.  Blunders with the systems, which handle tasks from
entertaining with Pandora Internet radio to reading  text
messages  and mapping out directions, have dragged on  Ford’s (F) 
showings in surveys by Consumer Reports and J.D. Power &
Associates. The No. 2 U.S. automaker said last month that it
expects to fall short with  quality metrics  for a second straight
 year . GM’s system for its Cadillac brand has drawn negative
comparisons with Ford’s in early reviews by Consumer Reports.  While its rivals plunged ahead with advanced controls and
abandoned trusty knobs and buttons, Chrysler has moved more
slowly with its simpler Uconnect system. In-car technology is
gaining extra weight as industrywide quality of powertrains,
design and interiors gets closer to parity.  “We’ve definitely seen a shift in terms of what breaks,”
Jake Fisher, the director of  Consumer Reports ’ Auto Test Center,
said in an interview at Bloomberg’s  Detroit  bureau. He picked up
his iPhone from a conference room table: “Now, it’s this as
opposed to transmissions and engines.”  Consumer Reports, regarded as credible because it forgoes
advertising and buys the cars it tests, published an Aug. 22
post on its website: “Why the MyFord Touch control system
 stinks .” Plagued by issues with its electronics, Ford’s
namesake brand fell seven spots to second-to-last place in the
magazine’s auto-reliability survey announced last month. Its
luxury nameplate Lincoln plunged 12 spots, the biggest drop.  ‘Growing Pains’  “We want to be a leader in technology, and so we’re having
a few growing pains,”  Bill Ford , the chairman of Dearborn,
Michigan-based Ford, told reporters Nov. 19 in Detroit. “Our
customers are telling us it’s absolutely the right way to go.”  Without improving its system, Ford may be unable to keep
David Cheslow as a customer. The 65-year-old life insurance
agent said that the screen in his 2013 Ford Edge “froze” and
went black on three separate occasions yesterday. He’s had
similar problems since buying the sport-utility vehicle in July.  “I wouldn’t go for another Ford unless I knew that it was
working the way that it’s supposed to,” said Cheslow, who lives
in Elizabeth,  New Jersey , and owned two other Ford vehicles
before purchasing the Edge.  GM (GM)  sought to top Ford early this year with its Cadillac
User Experience, or CUE, system with tablet computer-style touch
screens. Early indications from Consumer Reports’ testing is
that CUE is “not any better” than Ford’s system, Fisher said
in an Oct. 29 interview.  More Designers  Chrysler, which introduced its Uconnect system in 2003, has
been relatively quiet in marketing its technology compared with
GM and Ford. The automaker has introduced updated versions of
its touch screens into new models as they debut rather than
blanketing its whole lineup with its latest up-to-date system.  “We’re doing more thoughtful integration,” Marios Zenios,
Chrysler’s head of connectivity, said in an interview from the
Uconnect command center in Chrysler’s Auburn Hills,  Michigan ,
headquarters.  When Zenios joined Chrysler in 2008, the automaker employed
three people who specialized in the field of human machine
interface, in which designers and engineers work on the layout
and software of devices to make them easy to use. Chrysler now
has “quite a force” of such personnel, he said, declining to
provide a specific figure.  Automakers’ Challenge  Chrysler has reason to be mum about details concerning its
Uconnect staff, said Andrew Watt, chief executive officer of
iTalent LLC. Watt’s recruiting firm has been tapped by
automakers and suppliers for eight to 10 searches this year to
fill positions related to mobile technology in vehicles.  “Any intelligence about what’s going on when it comes to
this talent, you keep to yourself,” said Watt, who is based in
Troy, Michigan. “These are niche skills and this is the kind of
content that attracts young buyers to cars. The only way to get
these people is to take them from someone else.”  Automakers face a challenge because virtually all consumers
say they want technology and tie-ins between their mobile phones
and cars, Zenios said. Customers, though, vary in how much they
use in-car systems. Also, users are less forgiving of
technological mishaps from behind the wheel.  “As long as you manage technology, it will be your
friend,” said Zenios, who worked on in-car telecommunications
systems for GM,  Daimler AG (DAI) , and  Bayerische Motoren Werke AG (BMW) 
during his 22 years with Motorola Inc. “The minute you do
something for technology’s sake, it may not work out very well
for you in automotive.”  ‘Learning Curve’  Chrysler, majority-owned by Italian carmaker  Fiat SpA (F) ,
“didn’t reinvent the wheel” in developing features such as the
navigation system within Uconnect, said Consumer Reports’
Fisher, a former engineer for Detroit-based GM.  “The Chrysler system is probably the best one that I’ve
used,”  Dave Sullivan , a product analyst for Tustin, California-
based AutoPacific Inc., said in a telephone interview. “It’s
the fastest, it’s got great resolution. The screen has nice, big
buttons on it. It doesn’t crash. The navigation is simple.”  Like Bill Ford, AutoPacific’s Sullivan attributes Ford’s
first-mover strategy for the automaker’s ills in consumer
surveys. The namesake Ford brand slid to 27th from 23rd a year
ago and fifth in 2010 in  Westlake Village , California-based J.D.
Power’s initial-quality study that was released in June.  “There’s a learning curve for all these automakers,”
Sullivan said. “They’ve never really been software people
before. They’ve always been engineering nuts and bolts. This is
what happens when you want to be first.”  ‘Misplaced Progress’  The Cadillac CUE system debuted in the XTS and ATS sedans
that GM introduced this year and is spreading throughout the
brand’s lineup. The world’s largest automaker equipped its touch
controls with haptic feedback -- meaning that the car’s buttons
vibrate when touched -- in an effort to outdo Ford’s systems.  “The haptic feedback is nice, but we found that you still
have to take your eyes off the road to make sure you’re tapping
the right spot,” Jim Travers, a Consumer Reports associate
editor, wrote in a June 22  review  of the XTS. “Having to
relearn how to use a button just for the sake of looking ‘high
tech’ -- as there are no functional advantages to these flush
controls -- is misplaced progress.”  The CUE system’s buttons are “fussy” and flipping through
screens is a “chore,” Tom Mutchler, a Consumer Reports
engineer, said in an Oct. 19  review  of the ATS. “That’s really
something of a shame, because the annoying controls detract from
what otherwise is a really rewarding car to drive.”  MyLink, IntelliLink  GM is taking a different approach from Cadillac for
 Chevrolet , its high-volume brand, with a system branded as
MyLink, and for Buick and GMC with IntelliLink. With MyLink, GM
uses a concept it calls “smart phone, dumb radio,” in which
the in-car system embeds features from the phone and amplifies
them over a display, said Scott Fosgard, a GM spokesman.  “If you set CUE aside, GM’s got a system in the Sonic and
the Spark that’s pretty competitive,” said AutoPacific’s
Sullivan, referring to MyLink.  In addition to competitive pressures, U.S. automakers are
being scrutinized by regulators led by Transportation Secretary
Ray LaHood, who has said his department is on a “rampage”
against behind-the-wheel distractions.  U.S. Guidelines  The government issued guidelines this year to quell in-dash
distractions, recommending that no task for drivers take longer
than two seconds and that cars be stopped and in park before
users can enter navigation commands or use social networking
sites such as  Facebook (FB)  and Twitter. The guidelines stop short of
recommending limits on devices.  Chrysler put its latest Uconnect system in new pickups
introduced late this year with a feature intended to curb
distraction from texting while driving. A phone paired with the
Uconnect system can notify a vehicle’s occupants of a received
text and “read” the message over the audio system. A reply to
the message can be made audibly, using voice-to-text software
developed by  Nuance Communications Inc. (NUAN)   “I don’t want the people touching the phone no matter
what,” Zenios said. “Keep it in your pocket or keep it in your
purse, and then let the system alert you in the right way.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Craig Trudell in Southfield, Michigan at 
 ctrudell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  