-- Archbishop Says Church Lost Credibility on Women Bishops
-- B y   T h o m a s   P e n n y
-- 2012-11-21T12:46:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-20/church-of-england-rejects-plan-for-women-bishops.html
The Church of England has lost
credibility and has “a lot of explaining to do” after
rejecting women bishops yesterday, Archbishop of Canterbury
 Rowan Williams  said.  Williams was speaking after an emergency meeting of bishops
in London today to plan their next move following the governing
 General Synod’s  rejection of a plan to allow women to join their
number. While bishops and clergy voted for the change, lay
Anglicans failed by six votes to give it the required two-thirds
majority.  “Whatever the motivations for voting yesterday, whatever
the theological principle on which people acted and spoke, the
fact remains that a great deal of this discussion is not
intelligible to our wider society,” Williams told the Synod.
“It seems as if we are willfully blind to some of the trends
and priorities of that wider society. We have some explaining to
do, we have as a result of yesterday undoubtedly lost a measure
of credibility.”  The vote was the latest stage in a process that  started in
1975 , when the Synod agreed that “there are no fundamental
objections to the ordination of women to the priesthood.” The
church voted for women to be ordained as priests in 1992,
leading some Anglicans to switch to the Roman Catholic Church.
Provision for a code of practice to cater for parishes that
object to women bishops on theological grounds did not go far
enough to prevent further conflict, opponents said yesterday.  Vote Breakdown  The House of Bishops, one of the Synod’s three divisions,
backed the measure by 44 votes to three, with the House of
Clergy supporting it by 148 to 45. Even so, the proposal failed
to get the required two-thirds majority in the  House of Laity ,
elected by church congregations and religious communities, with
only 132 votes in favor and 74 against.  “A clear majority of the General Synod today voted in
favor of the legislation to consecrate women as bishops,”
 Graham Jones , the Bishop of Norwich, said in an e-mailed
statement after yesterday’s decision. “There is now an urgent
task to find a fresh way forward.”  “This leaves us with a problem,” Jones said. “Forty-two
out of 44 dioceses approved the legislation and more than three-
quarters of members of diocesan synods voted in favor. There
will be many who wonder why the General Synod expressed its mind
so differently.”  Cameron ‘Sad’  “I’m a strong supporter of women bishops and I’m sad at
the way the vote went,” Prime Minister  David Cameron  told
lawmakers in the House of Commons today. “The time is right for
women bishops, the time was right many years ago, they need to
get on with it and get with the program.”  The “no” vote means it won’t be possible to put new
legislation on women bishops until the next General Synod comes
into being in 2015, unless senior church leaders known as the
“Group of Six” give permission, the church said in an e-mailed
statement.  A meeting of the Synod scheduled for February may be
postponed until July to enable a deal to be hammered out,
Williams said. The bishops agreed that a meeting in February
would be “too close for comfort,” he said.  “The idea that there’s a readily available formula just
around the corner is an illusion,” Williams said. “But every
day we fail to resolve this to the Church of  England ’s
satisfaction is a day in which our credibility is diminished in
the public’s eyes. We can’t afford to hang about.”  ‘Personal Sadness’  Williams, who will make way for Justin Welby, the Bishop of
Durham, as the head of the church at the end of the year after a
decade in office, said he felt “a deep personal sadness” at
the Synod’s failure to approve women bishops.  Opposition for some in the church is based on the belief
that God intended men, rather than women, to be in leadership
roles, while for others the compromise was not good enough to
avoid future argument and provide for those opposed to women
bishops.  Welby, who was at a hearing of the Parliamentary Commission
on Banking Standards today, used his Twitter account to express
his unhappiness at yesterday’s vote.  “Very grim day, most of all for women priests and
supporters,” he wrote. “Need to surround all with prayer and
love and co-operate with our healing God.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Thomas Penny in  London  at 
 tpenny@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  