-- Citadel Acquires 6.3% Stake in Teen Retailer Abercrombie
-- B y   S a p n a   M a h e s h w a r i
-- 2012-11-20T18:28:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-20/citadel-acquires-6-3-stake-in-teen-retailer-abercrombie.html
Billionaire  Ken Griffin ’s Citadel
LLC bought a 6.3 percent stake in  Abercrombie & Fitch Co. (ANF) ,
adding to increased interest in the teen retailer by hedge funds
in the past three months.  Griffin and funds of Chicago-based Citadel held 5.2 million
Abercrombie shares as of Nov. 14, according to a regulatory
filing today. The hedge fund is the third-largest investor, data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  Citadel made the purchase after activist investor Ralph Whitworth’s Relational Investors LLC built a 5 percent  stake  in
the  New Albany , Ohio-based company, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. The investor has pressed for changes at the
retailer, a person familiar with the matter said in September.  Abercrombie surged a record 34 percent on Nov. 14 after
raising its annual profit forecast and posting third-quarter
earnings that exceeded analysts’ estimates. It was a reversal
compared with August, when the retailer reported an 8 percent
decline in same-store sales in the six months ended in July and
forecast a 10 percent decline for the second half of the year.  Citadel, which has pressured E*Trade Financial Corp. to
sell itself as the company’s largest shareholder,  trades  about
13 percent of U.S. equity volume through its securities unit,
according to its website.  Abercrombie’s shares had declined 10 percent this year
through yesterday, compared with a 25 percent increase in the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Retailing Index. The stock fell 2.2
percent to $42.83 at 12:36 p.m. in  New York .  Activist investor  Daniel Loeb ’s Third Point LLC exited its
position in Abercrombie in the second quarter, selling 1.85
million shares, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  -- With assistance from Allan Lopez in New York. Editors: Cecile
Daurat, Kevin Orland  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sapna Maheshwari in New York at 
 sapnam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  