-- Citicoline Supplement Doesn’t Help Brain Injury in Study
-- B y   N i c o l e   O s t r o w
-- 2012-11-20T21:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-20/citicoline-supplement-doesn-t-help-brain-injury-in-study.html
A dietary supplement sold as a brain
stimulant failed to help head trauma patients improve in
function and thinking in a study, challenging the drug’s use as
a treatment option for the condition, researchers said.  Patients with traumatic brain injury who were given the
supplement, citicoline, scored similarly on function and
cognition tests as those given a placebo, according to the study
published today in the  Journal of the American Medical
Association . Previous animal research and pilot clinical studies
had suggested the supplement might reduce cerebral injury caused
by head trauma, stroke or aging.  Citicoline, available as a supplement for more than a
decade, is used mostly outside the U.S. for brain injury as well
as in stroke and  Alzheimer’s disease , said  Ross Zafonte , the
lead study author. Today’s findings call into question the
supplement’s use for head trauma, he said.  “We were disappointed to find that it did not appear to
make a difference in outcome at 90 and 180 days post-injury,”
Zafonte, a professor and chairman of physical medicine and
rehabilitation at  Harvard Medical School  in  Boston  and vice
president of medical affairs at the Spaulding Rehabilitation
Network, said in a Nov. 19 telephone interview. “We are
heartened in some ways by the fact that we’ve taken a worldwide
therapy that should now very much be questioned and we have now
brought that into the light.”  Each year in the U.S., about 235,000 patients are
hospitalized for nonfatal  total brain injuries , 1.1 million are
treated in emergency rooms and 53,000 die, according to an
accompanying editorial. About 3.2 million Americans are living
with a disability following hospitalization for head trauma, the
authors of the editorial wrote.  Protecting Cells  Citicoline was thought to work by helping to protect and
restore nerve cells after brain injury, Zafonte said. The
treatment is an approved drug in 59 countries, he said. In the
U.S., it is sold as a supplement over the counter.  The study included 1,213 patients at eight U.S. trauma
centers who were given citicoline or a placebo for 90 days
starting within 24 hours of the injury.  The researchers found that on the Glasgow Outcome Scale-
Extended, which measures levels of function a person has after a
brain injury, 35.4 percent of those in the citicoline group
improved compared with 35.6 percent in the placebo group. For
other scales of improvement the rates ranged from 37.3 percent
to 86.5 percent in the citicoline group and from 42.7 percent to
84 percent in the placebo group.  Few Options  The findings show that no single treatment may be
sufficient to benefit patients with traumatic brain injuries,
said  Robert Ruff  and  Ronald Riechers , both doctors of neurology
at the Cleveland VA Medical Center in  Ohio , in the accompanying
editorial.  “Future studies of traumatic brain injury should be
designed to incorporate multiple treatment interventions and
comprehensive traumatic brain injury rehabilitation
strategies,” they wrote.  The study was sponsored by the U.S. National Institute of
Child Health and Human Development. Spanish drugmaker,  Ferrer
Grupo , which makes citicoline, supplied the drug for the study.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicole Ostrow in  New York  at 
 nostrow1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  