-- Clinton Shuttles in Mideast in Bid for Gaza Cease-Fire
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   F e r z i g e r   a n d   C a l e v   B e n - D a v i d
-- 2012-11-20T23:26:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-20/clinton-shuttles-in-mideast-in-bid-for-gaza-cease-fire.html
Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton 
will shuttle today through  Jerusalem , the West Bank and Cairo in
a bid to salvage a proposed cease-fire intended to halt a
weeklong torrent of Palestinian rockets and Israel air strikes.  Clinton arrived in Israel and met with Prime Minister
 Benjamin Netanyahu  in Jerusalem shortly before midnight after
Egyptian plans to announce a truce at a Cairo press conference
fell through. Representatives of Hamas, which rules the Gaza
Strip and is considered a terrorist organization by Israel, the
U.S. and European Union, said they were seeking a cease-fire.  Clinton, speaking alongside Netanyahu before heading into
his office, said it is “essential to de-escalate the situation
in Gaza” and reach a “durable outcome that promotes regional
stability.” She said she would take that message to Palestinian
Authority President  Mahmoud Abbas  at his Ramallah headquarters
today and later to Egyptian President Mohamed Mursi, whose
mediation efforts she praised.  The rocket barrages from Gaza and Israeli air strikes
entered a second week amid the Egyptian-led truce efforts, with
the number of Palestinians killed reaching 137 and Israeli
deaths climbing to five. Palestinians fired 189 missiles,
rockets and mortars into  Israel  yesterday, 51 of which were
intercepted by Israel’s Iron Dome defense system, the army said.  Netanyahu told Clinton he would “prefer” a diplomatic
solution that stops Hamas’s rocket attacks against Israel. “But
if not, I’m sure you’ll understand Israel will have to take
whatever action is necessary to defend its people,” he said as
the two made broadcast remarks.  Cease-Fire Pending  Neither Clinton nor Netanyahu commented directly on whether
a cease-fire was near. Earlier, Mursi said an accord would be
reached within hours, and Hamas scheduled a press conference at
9 p.m. local time to announce it before letting the matter drop.  Israel has postponed a decision on launching a ground
invasion into the  Gaza Strip , giving international negotiators a
chance to craft a cease-fire, said a government official who
spoke on condition of anonymity because of the sensitivity of
the matter. If talks fail, Israel is prepared to invade, he
said.  Israel says any truce must guarantee the end of rocket
attacks, while Hamas is demanding an end to the blockade of Gaza
and the permanent opening of its border with  Egypt .  Oil Declines  The Israeli military has carried out more than 1,480 air-
strikes on Gaza, while Hamas and other Palestinian militias have
fired more than 1,200 rockets since the Nov. 14 killing of Hamas
military leader Ahmed al-Jabari.  Israeli aircraft struck what was described as a Hamas
operations center on the 7th floor of a high-rise building in
Gaza City and said the action was meant partly as a warning to
media organizations that have have offices there, among them,
 Agence France-Presse .  “Warning to reporters in Gaza,” the army said in a
message on the Twitter Inc. social network site. “Stay away
from Hamas operatives & facilities. Hamas, a terrorist group,
will use you as human shields.”  Oil declined on expectations of a cease-fire. Crude oil for
January delivery declined $2.53 to settle at $86.75 a barrel on
the  New York  Mercantile Exchange. It was the biggest decrease
since Nov. 7. Israel’s shekel strengthened for a third day and
 government bonds  rose.  United Nations Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon, who met with
Netanyahu in Jerusalem yesterday, said rocket attacks on
civilians were unacceptable, and urged restraint by Israel. He
said nobody would benefit if the conflict escalated.  Palestinian Rockets  The Gaza operation is the first major military initiative
taken by Netanyahu in the seven years he has served as prime
minister, including his first term from 1996 to 1999. A poll
published by the Haaretz daily yesterday showed that 84 percent
of Israelis approve of the operation, and Netanyahu is favored
to win re-election in elections set for Jan. 22.  “It’s ironic given Netanyahu’s hawkish reputation that
when he’s finally taken military action, it’s been fairly
restrained and precise,” said  Gerald Steinberg , a political
scientist at Bar Ilan University outside  Tel Aviv . “It also
answers some of the criticism about his indecisiveness, which
has come from both sides of the political spectrum.”  Israel has massed armor on its border east of Gaza and is
calling up 75,000 reservists for a possible ground operation. An
incursion would be the first since December 2008, when fighting
left more than 1,100 Palestinians and 13 Israelis dead.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jonathan Ferziger in Tel Aviv at 
 jferziger@bloomberg.net ;
Calev Ben-David in Jerusalem at 
 cbendavid@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  