-- Cnooc Said to Agree on Canada Demands for Nexen Takeover
-- B y   T h e o p h i l o s   A r g i t i s   a n d   A n d r e w   M a y e d a
-- 2012-11-20T21:15:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-20/cnooc-said-to-agree-on-canada-demands-for-nexen-takeover.html
Cnooc Ltd. (883) ,  China ’s biggest offshore
oil and gas producer, has accepted management and employment
conditions set by the Canadian government as it seeks approval
for its $15.1 billion takeover of  Nexen (NXY)  Inc., according to two
people familiar with the matter.  Negotiators for the Canadian government adopted many of the
conditions requested by Alberta Premier Alison Redford last
month, which include guarantees that at least 50 percent of
Nexen’s board and management positions be held by Canadians, the
two people said on condition they not be identified because
negotiations are confidential. There are still commercial issues
being negotiated such as the extent of capital spending
requirements and other matters related to Cnooc’s status as a
state-owned enterprise, one of the individuals said.  Nexen stock jumped almost 7 percent last week, the biggest
weekly gain since state-owned Cnooc bid for the Calgary-based
 oil company  in July, suggesting investors are growing more
optimistic the deal will be approved by the Canadian government.  Recent statements from Prime Minister  Stephen Harper  and
federal cabinet ministers provide “favorable indications”
Cnooc’s takeover of Nexen will soon be approved, as well as the
separate bid the government is reviewing by  Malaysia ’s state-
owned energy company for Calgary-based  Progress Energy Resources
Corp. (PRQ) , said Kyle Preston, an oil and gas analyst at National
Bank Financial Group in Calgary.  “I think we’re close,” Preston said in a phone interview
yesterday. “The government is looking at both the Cnooc-Nexen
and the Progress-Petronas deals, which I think gives the
appearance they’d like to make a decision on both at the same
time and outline what the new framework is going to be for this
net benefit test.”  Rejected Bid  The Canadian government is reviewing the sale of Nexen
under the country’s foreign-takeover law, which specifies
transactions need to have a “net benefit” to the country in
order to win approval. Canada extended its review of the deal
for a second time on Nov. 2, setting the deadline to Dec. 10.  While Prime Minister Harper has called it a national
priority to sell more of his country’s energy resources to  Asia ,
he has said the Nexen sale raises “difficult policy questions”
and the government will release a new policy framework on
foreign investment when it completes the review of the Nexen
takeover.  Canada rejected a C$5.2 billion ($5.2 billion) bid by
Petroliam Nasional Bhd. for  Progress Energy  on Oct. 19, giving
Petronas, as the Malaysian company is known, 30 days to appeal
or make concessions. Last week, Industry Minister Christian
Paradis said his decision on the Progress Energy takeover could
come after Nov. 18.  Rigorous Review  Peter Hunt, a spokesman for Cnooc in Canada, declined to
comment on the company’s negotiations with the federal
government, when reached by phone in Calgary. A phone message
left for Progress Energy spokesman Greg Kist seeking comment
yesterday was not immediately returned.  “The proposed transaction is undergoing a rigorous review
under the Investment Canada Act and the required time will be
taken to determine whether it is likely to be of net benefit to
 Canada ,” said Margaux Stastny, a spokeswoman for Paradis, in an
e-mail.  “State-owned enterprises represent a different type of
player, and obviously those are some of the issues that are
before us,” Harper said during a conference organized by the
Canadian American Business Council in Ottawa yesterday.  Investment by Chinese state-owned companies in Canada’s
energy industry has become a contentious issue over the past
three months, with opposition parties calling for a public
review and some lawmakers from the governing  Conservative Party 
openly opposing it.  Maintain Workforce  Other recommendations made by Redford’s government are for
Cnooc to maintain workforce levels for at least five years, to
strengthen commitments to keep planned  capital spending  and to
clarify plans for research and development, a person familiar
with Alberta’s demands told  Bloomberg News  last month on
condition they not be identified because the request was
confidential.  In the July 23 announcement of its $27.50 a share bid,
Cnooc pledged to follow through on Calgary-based Nexen’s capital
spending plans and maintain the company’s employment level and
management, without giving details or a time frame.  Beijing-based Cnooc has also promised to make Calgary the
head office of its North and Central American operations, as
well as list its common shares on the Toronto Stock Exchange.  Nexen dropped 1.1 percent to $25.14 today in  New York .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Theophilos Argitis in Ottawa at 
 targitis@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Mayeda in Ottawa at 
 amayeda@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  