-- Colombia Freezes as Interbolsa Hits Hottest Market: Andes Credit
-- B y   M a t t h e w   B r i s t o w   a n d   V e r o n i c a   N a v a r r o   E s p i n o s a
-- 2012-11-20T21:12:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-20/colombia-freezes-as-interbolsa-hits-hottest-market-andes-credit.html
The collapse of Colombia’s largest
brokerage is burning foreign investors who piled into what had
been one of this year’s hottest  emerging markets .  Yields on $5 billion of dollar bonds sold by Colombian
banks have jumped since the government was forced to take over
 Interbolsa SA (INTBOL) ’s brokerage this month, pushing up borrowing costs
by an average 26 basis points, or 0.26 percentage point, from a
record low on Oct. 17. That’s about five times the average
increase in yields of emerging-market financial institutions’
 bonds  in the same period, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.  Interbolsa’s implosion sparked concern that regulators are
failing to contain financial risk after the nation’s biggest
lending boom in four years led banks to issue $3.6 billion of
bonds overseas this year, more than they sold in the previous 12
years combined, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The
 bond market  seized up for six days after the failure and the
benchmark  stock index  is headed for its worst month since June.  “If you start to peel back the onion, what else are you
going to see?” said Raymond Zucaro, who helps manage about $240
million of emerging-market debt at SW Asset Management in
Newport Beach,  California . “It’s not like it was some obscure
little broker in the middle of nowhere. It was the largest
one.”  ‘Bad Business’  Yields on benchmark Colombian peso bonds due in 2024 have
soared 18 basis points over the past month, the worst 30-day
selloff since May, to 6.2 percent while the cost to insure the
country’s debt against default climbed to the highest in more
than a year relative to neighboring  Peru ’s. The IGBC benchmark
stock index slid 4.25 percent while the peso weakened 1.1
percent, its worst slump in three months.  The declines cut into a rally that had driven the peso up
7.9 percent this year as banks repatriated funds from their
record overseas debt offerings. Yields on the government’s peso
bonds due 2024 reached a record low 6.01 percent Oct. 19.  Interbolsa’s brokerage, one of 10 government-authorized
market makers for Colombia’s debt market, will be liquidated.
Regulators stepped in after Interbolsa said Nov. 1 that it
couldn’t make a payment on a 20 billion peso ($11 million) loan
because it was facing a “temporary” funding shortage.  Finance Minister  Mauricio Cardenas  said in a Nov. 5
interview the failure was caused by “bad business decisions”
that don’t reflect any system-wide risk. The press office of
Bogota-based Interbolsa didn’t return a telephone call or an e-
mail seeking comment.  Liquidity Window  As part of the government-orchestrated effort to avoid
disruptions in financial markets,  Bancolombia SA (BCOLO) , the country’s
largest bank, took over from Interbolsa transactions in the
government bond market worth 1.6 trillion pesos ($880 million).  The measures, which also include letting brokerages use a
so-called liquidity window at the central bank and appointing
Bancolombia to take over Interbolsa’s equity operations, have
failed to reverse a selloff in the nation’s financial bonds.  “Whenever this type of issue happens with a major player
in any market, it generates a little bit of uncertainty, of
systemic uncertainty,” said Marco Aurelio de Sa, head of
trading at  Credit Agricole SA (ACA) ’s Miami brokerage.  Bancolombia’s $1.2 billion of notes due 2022 sank 2.43
cents from an Oct. 17 record high to 102.94 cents on the dollar,
pushing yields up 30 basis points to 4.75 percent.  Banco de
Bogota SA ’s $600 million of debt due 2017 fell 1.31 cents to
106.32 cents on the dollar over the same period, driving up
yields 29 basis points to 3.35 percent.  ‘Much Higher’  Local government bond trading volume, which is typically
low in December, will probably rebound in January, Maria Fernanda Suarez, Colombia’s director of public credit, said in
an interview at her Bogota office yesterday.  “A situation like we had with Interbolsa created levels of
uncertainty much higher than what we had previous to the
event,” Suarez said. “The reading I have is that a lot of bank
treasuries and many institutional investors have said for now,
‘I’ll stay put.’ I’d expect a recovery at the start of 2013.”  Bancolombia and  Grupo Aval Acciones y Valores (AVAL)  SA, the
banking group that controls Banco de Bogota, the nation’s
second-biggest lender, led debt issuance by Colombian financial
firms this year with a combined $2.2 billion. Both are rated
Baa3 by Moody’s Investors Service, the lowest investment-grade
level.  In Latin America, only Brazilian banks have sold more
international bonds this year.  Investment Grade  The Colombian bond sales have helped fund a 16 percent
increase in  lending  in the 12 months through August, propelling
economic growth that has surged in the last decade as the army
retook swathes of jungle and plains from rebels and freed up
land for investment in mining and energy.  That helped Colombia last year to earn its first
investment-grade ratings since 1999. Colombia is rated Baa3 by
Moody’s and an equivalent BBB- by  Standard & Poor’s , data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  Economists surveyed by Bloomberg forecast the $332 billion
economy will expand 4.5 percent this year, compared with 2.9
percent for  Latin America  as a whole, as the government predicts
foreign direct investment will soar to $17 billion from a record
$13.2 billion last year.  Colombia’s 4.5 percent average growth in the past decade is
more than double  Mexico ’s and tops the average expansion in
 Brazil , according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The peso has also appreciated 47 percent against the dollar
in the past 10 years, making it one of the five best-performing
currencies in the world, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  ‘Sound Fundamentals’  Those “sound fundamentals” will help spark a rebound in
Colombia’s dollar bonds, including the bank securities,
according to Isabel Olivos, a fixed-income analyst at Santiago,
Chile-based financial firm Munita, Cruza & Claro SA.  Colombia’s corporate  borrowing costs  are 4.11 percent on
average in international markets, less than those in Brazil,
 China ,  India  or  Russia , according to JPMorgan indexes.  “People will start focusing on the country’s sound
fundamentals and the credibility of the central bank,” she
said. “The impact will only be temporary” because the
liquidity crisis was confined to a single brokerage.  The bond  market  still hasn’t recovered after Interbolsa’s
collapse caused trading to seize up.  There were no trades in the government’s benchmark peso
bonds due 2024 on the central bank’s platform known as SEN on
Nov. 13, six days after regulators said they were liquidating
Interbolsa because they were unable to find buyers for the
brokerage.  Default Swaps  The cost to protect Colombian debt against non-payment for
five years fell one basis point to 101 basis points at 4:09 p.m.
in  New York , according to data compiled by Bloomberg. It costs
101 basis points to insure debt issued by Peru against default.
On July 9, it was 22 basis points more expensive to insure Peru
than Colombia against default.  Credit-default swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange
for the underlying securities or cash equivalent if the issuer
fails to comply with debt agreements.  The extra yield that investors demand to own Colombian
government dollar bonds instead of  U.S. Treasuries  narrowed
seven basis points to 124 basis points, according to JPMorgan’s
EMBI Global Index. The peso strengthened 0.1 percent to 1,816.8
per dollar.  Yields on Colombia’s dollar bonds due July 2021 rose three
basis points to 2.43 percent. Yields have declined two basis
points this month even as those for bank bonds rose.  ‘Sensible Reaction’  While it’s unlikely that other financial institutions are
facing the kind of cash shortage that caused Interbolsa to fail,
the specter of further takeovers is depressing demand for bonds
issued by banks and brokerages, according to David Olivares, an
analyst at Moody’s. He said Moody’s isn’t considering lowering
Colombian banks’ ratings.  The bond selloff is “a sensible reaction,” Olivos said in
a telephone interview from Miami. “It’s difficult to know if
there’ll be more cases. We can’t rule it out.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Matthew Bristow in Bogota at 
 mbristow5@bloomberg.net ;
Veronica Navarro Espinosa in New York at 
 vespinosa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net ;
 Michael Tsang  at 
 mtsang1@bloomberg.net  