-- Commodity Weather Revises December Temperature Outlook to Colder
-- B y   B r i a n   K .   S u l l i v a n
-- 2012-11-20T13:14:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-20/commodity-weather-revises-december-temperature-outlook-to-colder.html
Commodity Weather Group LLC said
December may be colder than predicted in its initial seasonal
outlook, which would mean greater demand for energy to heat U.S.
homes and businesses this winter.  Temperatures for the month are expected to be lower than
last year and below the 10-year average, according to the
Bethesda, Maryland-based company’s new forecast. The heating
season, which runs from November to March, will also be cooler
and require more energy, it said.  “The overall winter seems to be aiming for a colder answer
than last year but is still warmer” than the winters of
2009-2010 and 2010-2011, CWG President  Matt Rogers  said in an e-
mail interview. He predicted “a lot of week-to-week variability
that will keep weather forecasters busy with the twists and
turns.”  The gas-weighted heating-degree days value for December
will probably be 879, or 28 more than the previous forecast and
109 higher than last year, CWG said. The values are calculated
by subtracting the daily average temperature from a base of 65
degrees to show energy demand. Higher numbers mean cooler
weather and more energy needed for heating.  The overall heating-degree days value from November to
March was raised to 3,810.8, compared with last year’s figure of
3,164.5 and the 10-year average of 3,732.2.  Winter Demand  Winter starts on Dec. 1 for meteorologists, while the
calendar marks the season change on Dec. 21. The winter months
are when the most natural gas and heating oil are consumed, and
cooler-than-normal weather in the high-population areas of the
East Coast and Midwest helps boost demand for energy to warm
homes and businesses.  Rogers said there is a chance December may even be colder
in the eastern U.S. than currently forecast if a stronger
blocking pattern develops in the North Atlantic. The pattern,
called the North Atlantic Oscillation, can bottle cold air up in
the eastern U.S. and cause temperatures to drop below normal for
days at a time.  Rogers said he doesn’t expect this winter will reach the
levels of 2009-10 and 2010-11, when the North Atlantic blocking
caused cold to grip the eastern and southern U.S., setting snow
records across the country.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian K. Sullivan in Boston at 
 bsullivan10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  