-- Congo Rebels Seize Eastern City of Goma as Thousands Flee
-- B y   M i c h a e l   J .   K a v a n a g h
-- 2012-11-20T16:48:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-20/congo-rebels-seize-eastern-city-of-goma-as-thousands-flee-1-.html
Rebel forces in resource-rich
eastern  Democratic Republic  of Congo said they captured the city
of Goma, amid fighting that aid workers said forced tens of
thousands of people to flee.  “All of Goma is under the control” of the M23 rebels,
including the airport, Lieutenant-Colonel Vianney Kazarama, a
spokesman for the fighters, said in a phone interview today. A
corridor is being created to allow members of the national army
to leave, he said. Army spokesman Colonel Olivier Hamuli didn’t
answer two calls to his mobile phone seeking comment.  Congolese President  Joseph Kabila  appealed for calm and
said “all options are still on the table” regarding how the
government will respond. His comments, broadcast on state
television, were recorded before he left for Kampala, the
capital of neighboring Uganda, the broadcaster said. The
interviewers in the video weren’t aware Goma had fallen.  M23 resumed fighting against government forces last week,
ending an unofficial three-month cease-fire. The renegade group
is composed of soldiers that deserted Congo’s army in April and
is headed by General Bosco Ntaganda, who is wanted by the
 International Criminal Court  on war-crimes charges. At stake in
the eastern part of Congo bordering  Rwanda  and Uganda are
deposits of tin ore, gold, tungsten and coltan, a mineral used
in laptops and mobile phones.  ‘Strategically Import’  Goma, about 1,659 kilometers (1,031 miles) east of
Kinshasa, is situated on the border with Rwanda at the northern
edge of Lake Kivu. Historically, it has been the main transit
point for minerals from the region.  “Strategically, it’s very important” for the M23, Koen
Vlassenroot, the director of the Conflict Research Group at the
University of Ghent in  Belgium , said in a phone interview.
“It’s easier to control the territory they already have in the
north and further south and west. Goma is also an important
economic hub.”  Congo, which is almost the size of Western Europe, is the
world’s largest  cobalt  producer and was the 10th-largest
exporter of copper last year, according to CRU Group, a London-
based research company.  Freeport McMoRan Copper & Gold Inc. (FCX)  of the U.S., Baar,
Switzerland-based  Glencore International Plc (GLEN) , and Minmetals
Resources Ltd., based in  Hong Kong , have copper and cobalt
projects in the country.  Randgold Resources Ltd. (RRS) ,  AngloGold
Ashanti Ltd. (AU)  and Banro Corp. are investing in gold mines.  ‘Political Dialogue’  A UN group of experts monitoring Congo’s arms embargo has
accused Rwanda and Uganda of backing the rebels, allegations
both governments deny.  “What happened today in Goma is a clear indication that
the military option has failed to bring about a solution to this
crisis and that political dialogue is the only way to resolve
the ongoing conflict,” Rwandan Foreign Minister Louise Mushikiwabo said in a statement.  Uganda has told Congo’s government and the rebels that it
supports a negotiated settlement, Asuman Kiyingi,  Uganda ’s
minister of state for regional affairs, said by phone from
Kampala today.  In an interview on Congolese national television,
Communication Minister Lambert Mende blamed Rwanda for the M23
advance, and said the government would negotiate with Rwanda and
not the rebels. Congo and Rwanda have fought directly or by
proxy since the late 1990s. A 2009 peace deal between Congo and
Rwandan-backed rebels improved relations between the two
countries until the M23 rebellion began seven months ago.  Panic, Flight  On Nov. 13, the UN imposed sanctions on M23 commander
Colonel Sultani Makenga for violations of international law,
including rape and the use of child soldiers. The council is
planning more sanctions against M23 leaders.  Escalating violence around Goma, which is the capital of
Congo’s North Kivu province, forced about 60,000 people to flee
a displacement camp in eastern Congo in panic,  Medecins Sans
Frontieres , the Geneva-based medical charity, said in an e-
mailed statement.  UN peacekeepers remain in Goma to protect civilians, UN
spokesman  Madnodje Mounoubai  said by phone from the capital,
Kinshasa.  “We still have our people in place and we’re carrying out
our monitoring of human rights violations to make sure there is
no violence against the people,” he said. The peacekeepers
won’t attack the rebels “unless there is a direct threat to us,
the civilians or to our installations.”  University Protests  The first M23 troops entered Goma last night, Kazarama
said. “Our plan is to neutralize the government of Kabila” he
said.  In Kinshasa, police used tear gas to disperse university
students who gathered in a city square to protest Goma’s fall.  “We wanted to protest peacefully but our police stopped
us,” said Yannick, a student at the Institute Superior of
Architecture and Urban Planning in Kinshasa who declined to give
his full name for security reasons. “We realize that our
government can no longer do anything about the situation in the
east,” he said, blaming the “international community” for not
supporting the government.  In Kisangani, a city of about 800,000 in the center of the
country, protesters set fire to the headquarters of Kabila’s
political party, the UN’s Mounoubai said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael J. Kavanagh in Kinshasa at 
 mkavanagh9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  