-- Credit Suisse to Revamp Investment Banking, Private Bank
-- B y   E l e n a   L o g u t e n k o v a
-- 2012-11-20T17:02:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-20/credit-suisse-to-reorganize-investment-banking-private-bank.html
Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN) , the second-
largest Swiss lender, named Gael de Boissard co-leader of the
 investment-banking  division and said it will merge asset
management with the private bank to speed cost cutting.  De Boissard, 45, will join the executive board and lead the
fixed-income business at the investment bank, while current
chief Eric Varvel, 49, will head equities and advisory, the
Zurich-based company said in a statement today. Three executive-
board members, including Walter Berchtold, the chairman of
private banking, will leave as part of the revamp.  Chief Executive Officer  Brady Dougan  reaffirmed Credit
Suisse’s commitment to a fully-fledged investment bank three
weeks after UBS AG, the biggest Swiss bank, announced it would
cut 10,000 jobs and shrink debt trading to focus on  money
management . Dougan said Credit Suisse has already adapted the
securities division to stricter regulation and will look to
expand the debt unit as some rivals retrench.  “We’re moving into a world where the structure is much
less that everybody is going to be in every business,” Dougan,
53, said in an interview today. “The fixed-income business
particularly is going to have to dramatically change. Our market
shares in fixed-income business are stable and growing.”  Credit Suisse fell 1.7 percent to 21.19 francs in Swiss
trading. The stock has  declined  4 percent this year, compared
with a 29 percent gain in  UBS. (UBSN)   Cost Targets  The reorganization will create a firm with two divisions,
investment banking and  wealth management , that would each be
expected to produce half the  profits  of the group when markets
normalize, Dougan said. The structure will be effective Nov. 30,
the bank said.  The investment bank  contributed  about 39 percent to the
group’s pretax profit in the first nine months of this year. The
move will also accelerate and potentially increase the cost
savings Credit Suisse is targeting, Dougan said.  Credit Suisse said last month it will trim a further 1
billion francs ($1.06 billion) in annual costs by the end of
2015, adding to a 1 billion-franc savings program from July and
a 2 billion-franc expense reduction achieved since last year.
Dougan declined to say how much the bank expects to save through
the revamp or how many jobs may be cut.  Integrated Bank  “The full executive board is committed to an integrated
bank structure and driving close collaboration across our
divisional and regional core franchises,” Dougan and Chairman
Urs Rohner said in a memo to employees. “We will reduce
complexity, be more coordinated between businesses and more
agile as a firm.”  Hans-Ulrich Meister, 52, who headed the  private bank , and
Robert Shafir, 54, who headed asset management, will lead the
combined private banking and wealth management unit, which will
include the Swiss trading business. Business heads in wealth
management and in asset management will continue to report to
Meister or to Shafir, respectively.  The reorganization “is mostly about combining activities
and sharpening the focus on the cost-saving programs, and that’s
really indicative of the wider pressures in the industry,” said
Otto Dichtl, managing director at Knight Capital  Europe  Ltd., in
an interview with Bloomberg Television’s Linzie Janis.  UBS Cuts  UBS plans to trim about 100 billion francs of risk-weighted
assets by the end of 2017, after already cutting a similar
amount over the past year. The investment bank will focus on its
advisory businesses, equities, foreign exchange and precious
metals, while keeping limited capabilities in rates and credit.  UBS last month made 49-year-old  Andrea Orcel , co-CEO of the
investment bank since July, the sole head of the unit. Carsten Kengeter, 45, stepped down from the executive board to take
charge of winding down the fixed-income businesses UBS is
exiting.  Analysts including Kian Abouhossein from JPMorgan Chase &
Co. and Huw van Steenis from Morgan Stanley said after UBS’s
move that Credit Suisse would also benefit from scaling down the
capital-intensive debt businesses to boost the investment bank’s
return on equity.  Dougan said Credit Suisse’s management expects return on
equity at the investment bank can be pushed up to 15 percent
through the cost cuts and risk-weighted asset reductions the
bank has announced, though investors aren’t yet convinced. The
bank’s Basel III normalized after-tax ROE at the investment bank
was 11 percent for the first nine months of this year.  Executives Depart  The four managers heading the two divisions at Credit
Suisse will also have regional responsibilities, reducing the
number of people on the executive board to nine from 11.  Varvel will run the Asia-Pacific region, while de Boissard
will serve as the head of Europe, the  Middle East  and  Africa .
Osama Abbasi, 44, and Fawzi Kyriakos-Saad, 50, who headed those
regions since 2010, will leave the company, as will Berchtold,
50, who became chairman of private banking in August 2011 as
Meister took charge of the business. Meister and Shafir will
continue to head  Switzerland  and the Americas, respectively.  London-based de Boissard will additionally be CEO of the
bank’s U.K. entities, Credit Suisse International and Credit
Suisse Securities (Europe) Ltd.  De Boissard, a French national, has held various senior
roles within fixed income since joining  Credit Suisse First
Boston  in 2001 from New York-based JPMorgan, where he ran the
European debt business. He joined JPMorgan’s Paris office in
1990 and held various positions in trading through the years. De
Boissard has a degree in Russian from the University of
Volgograd and a math and civil engineering degree from the Ecole
Polytechnique in Palaiseau,  France .  Asia Appointment  Helman Sitohang, 47, was named head of the investment bank
in the Asia-Pacific region, according to an internal memo
confirmed by Credit Suisse spokeswoman Victoria Harmon. Sitohang
will continue to be based in  Singapore  in this newly-created
role, which comes in addition to his current responsibilities as
the CEO for  Southeast Asia  and co-head of the emerging-markets
council, according to the memo.  The more “compact” management structure will allow Credit
Suisse to better execute on its cost targets and meet the
demands of regulators, Dougan said.  “This allows us to have a simpler, more straightforward
structure for the business,” he said. “Regulators are
increasingly focused on legal-entity management and in addition,
as you know, through the whole resolution regime, regulators are
focused on simpler structures for the business overall.”  Asset Management  Within the new private banking and wealth management
division, Meister will be responsible for running client
businesses in Switzerland, Europe, the Middle East, Africa and
Asia-Pacific, while Shafir will be responsible for products and
lead the client business in the Americas. Meister and Shafir
will be jointly responsible for the Swiss trading business and
the unit that caters to ultra-high-net-worth individuals.  Asset management is now the smallest of Credit Suisse’s
three divisions and contributed 13 percent to the group’s pretax
profit in the first nine months of the year. The bank agreed in
2008 to sell part of its traditional asset-management business,
which oversaw about 75 billion francs, to Aberdeen Asset
Management Plc. The unit had 368.9 billion francs under
management at the end of September, of which 141.8 billion
francs is managed for private-banking clients.  ‘Close Links’  Credit Suisse said in July it would sell two private-equity
units to comply with new limits on investments in  hedge funds 
and private-equity funds. The bank also said last month it would
try to sell the exchange-traded funds business, which had 16.1
billion francs under management at the end of September.  The bank said a year ago it planned to boost pretax profit
at the private-banking division by 800 million francs by 2014.
The company, which already integrated its Clariden Leu private
bank with the rest of wealth management, said this month it
plans to merge retail and private-banking units in Switzerland
from next year, cutting 300 jobs and saving about 50 million
francs in annual costs.  “The merger of asset management and wealth management was
natural given the close links,” said  Christopher Wheeler , a
London-based analyst at Mediobanca SpA. “Clearly the Swiss
business is being ring-fenced under Meister.”  Dougan said Credit Suisse decided to integrate the Swiss
trading businesses into the combined money-managing division to
improve execution for clients and reduce costs rather than
defining which businesses would be systemically-relevant.  “Hopefully the last thing people are thinking with us is
resolvability and what might happen,” Dougan said.  The changes “will create one of the world’s leading
integrated wealth management businesses and one of the first
global investment banks that is in alignment with the new
regulatory reality,” Rohner, 52, said in the statement. “We
are convinced they will help us focus on our strengths in our
chosen businesses and markets globally.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elena Logutenkova in Zurich at 
 elogutenkova@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  