-- U.S. Corporate Credit Swaps Fall; Baidu Sells $1.5 Billion Bonds
-- B y   P e t e r   R a w l i n g s
-- 2012-11-20T22:15:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-20/credit-swaps-in-u-s-fall-on-housing-starts-baidu-offering-debt.html
A gauge of U.S. corporate credit
risk fell after a report showed that the pace of U.S. housing
starts unexpectedly climbed in October to a four-year high.  The Markit CDX North America Investment Grade Index, a
credit-default swaps benchmark that investors use to hedge
against losses or to speculate on creditworthiness, declined 1.6
basis points to a mid-price of 101.5 basis points at 5:12 p.m.
in New York, according to prices compiled by Bloomberg.  Stronger-than-expected economic data may allay investor
concern that the recovery will falter and hinder companies’
ability to repay debt. Beginning  home construction   increased  to
an 894,000 annual rate in October, up from a revised 863,000
pace in September, Commerce Department figures showed today in
 Washington . Economists’ median estimate in a Bloomberg survey
called for starts to slip to 840,000.  “Housing has definitely in the last three months been one
of the growth engines,” Mark Pibl, head of credit strategy at
New York-based Cortview Capital Securities LLC, said in a
telephone interview. A continuation of yesterday’s rally has
outweighed “idiosyncratic risk stories” such as those of
Hewlett-Packard Co. and Best Buy Co., he said.  Contracts protecting the debt of Hewlett-Packard jumped to
the highest on record after the company reported an $8.8 billion
impairment charge.  Best Buy (BBY)  posted a $10 million fiscal third-
quarter net loss as sales at established stores fell more than
expected.  Budget Deficits  The credit-swaps index, which typically falls as investor
confidence improves and rises as it deteriorates, dropped the
most in almost a year yesterday as President  Barack Obama 
expressed confidence that he will agree on a budget compromise
with Congress. The contracts pay the buyer face value if a
borrower fails to meet its obligations, less the value of the
defaulted debt. A basis point equals $1,000 annually on a
contract protecting $10 million of debt.  An agreement on ways to reduce long-term  federal budget 
deficits could remove an impediment to growth, said Federal
Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  in remarks to the  Economic Club
of New York . Failure to avoid the so-called fiscal cliff of $607
billion in spending cuts and tax increases set to take effect
next year would pose a “substantial threat” to the recovery,
Bernanke said.  Baidu Inc. (BIDU) , the owner of China’s most-popular search
engine, issued $1.5 billion of dollar-denominated bonds in its
debut offering. The company sold $750 million each of 2.25
percent, five-year notes to yield 160 basis points more than
similar-maturity Treasuries and 3.5 percent, 10-year notes at a
relative yield of 185 basis points, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  Risk Premium  The average relative yield on speculative-grade debt
narrowed 8 basis points to 5.93 percentage points, led by
spreads on the bonds of  utility companies , which dropped 29
basis points to 13.11 percentage points, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  The  risk premium  on the Markit CDX North America High Yield
Index, a gauge of U.S. speculative-grade corporate debt risk,
declined 11.3 basis points to 523.1 basis points, Bloomberg data
show.  The U.S. two-year interest-rate swap spread, a measure of
stress in credit markets, decreased 0.72 basis point to 12.25
basis points, according to Bloomberg prices. The spread
typically narrows when investors favor assets such as corporate
bonds and widens when they seek the perceived safety of
 government securities .  Hewlett-Packard  Credit swaps protecting the debt of  Hewlett-Packard (HPQ)  surged
28.7 basis points to 374.2 basis points, poised for the highest
level on record, as of 3:30 p.m. in New York, according to data
provider CMA, which is owned by McGraw-Hill Cos. and compiles
prices quoted by dealers in the privately negotiated market.  The world’s largest computer maker reported fourth-quarter
results that included an $8.8 billion impairment charge linked
to the 2011 acquisition of Autonomy Corp. The  Palo Alto ,
California-based company said most of the charge is linked to
“serious accounting improprieties, disclosure failures and
outright misrepresentations at Autonomy.”  Contracts tied to Best Buy rose 3.3 percentage points to
21.8 percent upfront, according to CMA, after reporting same-
store sales fell 4.3 percent last quarter, more than the 3.3
percent drop estimated by analysts. The upfront price is in
addition to 5 percent a year, meaning it would cost $2.18
million initially and $500,000 annually to protect $10 million
of the company’s debt.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Rawlings in  New York  at 
 prawlings@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  