-- CRH Wields $1.9 Billion for M&A as U.S. Housing Rebounds
-- B y   T i m   C a t t s
-- 2012-11-21T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-20/crh-wields-1-9-billion-for-m-a-as-u-s-housing-rebounds.html
CRH Plc (CRH) , the world’s second-largest
maker of construction materials, has the capacity for as much as
$1.9 billion of acquisitions in the next 18 months as the U.S.
housing market rebounds, Chief Executive Officer Myles Lee said.  “We see quite a lot of opportunities coming across our
desks at the moment,” Lee said in an interview at Bloomberg’s
headquarters in New York. “We still have quite a bit of
firepower in our balance sheet.”  CRH has completed about 400 million euros ($513 million) of
 takeovers  this year and may boost spending to between 1 billion
and 1.5 billion euros if opportunities with  “good value”
emerge, Lee said. The potential for those is growing with “some
sellers moderating their expectations and our own sense of
confidence in markets such as the U.S. coming back,” he said.  Acquisitions by Dublin-based CRH peaked in 2006, when it
spent 2.3 billion euros on deals, the company said this week in
a presentation to investors. That included the $1.28 billion
acquisition of  Ashland Inc. (ASH) ’s road-paving unit in the company’s
largest-ever purchase, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  CRH reduced spending on acquisitions, which hasn’t exceeded
1 billion euros annually since 2008, after credit markets froze
and the global economy stalled in the wake of Lehman Brothers
Holdings Inc.’s collapse.  Right Valuations  Deciding whether and how much to re-accelerate the pace of
deals now is “all about returns, and if we see the
opportunities that make sense in terms of our business footprint
and if we can get the valuations right in terms of the
negotiating process,” Lee said.  CRH shares have dropped 9.5 percent to 13.90 euros in
Dublin so far in 2012, following declines in four of the past
five years as the economic slump eroded construction demand.
That compares with a  5.7 percent gain  in the 21-company Stoxx
600 Construction & Materials Index.  The company predicts earnings before interest, taxes,
depreciation and amortization this year of 1.6 billion euros,
trailing 2011’s results, as disruptions stemming from  Hurricane
Sandy ’s impact on the east coast of the U.S. hurt sales,
executives said in a presentation to investors.  The storm may improve 2013 results, boosting demand for
construction materials in hard-hit areas including New York and
New Jersey, where CRH has a strong presence, Lee said in the
interview yesterday.  U.S. Housing  The company may also benefit as the housing market in the
U.S. recovers, Lee said. Americas  sales  accounted for 45 percent
of CRH’s revenue last year, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Housing starts rose 3.6 percent last month to an 894,000
annual rate, the fastest since July 2008 and exceeding all
estimates in a Bloomberg survey, Commerce Department figures
showed yesterday in  Washington .  “We feel the housing market is finally beginning to lift
off and we expect it to continue, barring any fiscal-cliff
debacle,” Lee said.  Cie. de Saint-Gobain SA  is the world’s largest maker of
construction materials by revenue.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tim Catts in New York at 
 tcatts1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net . 