-- Croatia Gets Boost From Graft Conviction Ahead of EU Report
-- B y   J a s m i n a   K u z m a n o v i c
-- 2012-11-21T13:33:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-20/croatia-gets-boost-from-corruption-conviction-ahead-of-eu-report.html
Croatia ’s conviction of Ivo Sanader,
the highest-ranking official in the former Yugoslav region ever
sentenced for corruption, helps quell criticism of the Adriatic
nation’s justice system and pushes the country closer to
European Union entry next year.  A district court in Zagreb yesterday found Sanader, a
former prime minister, guilty of bribery and abuse of power
involving Hungarian refiner  Mol Nyrt. (MOL)  and  Austria ’s Hypo Alpe-
Adria-Bank International AG. Sanader, who was sentenced to 10
years in jail, will appeal the verdict, his lawyer said.  Croatia, which is set to become the 28th member of the EU
in July, has prosecuted corruption cases in the past three
years, targeting government officials and members of the former
ruling party. The nation needs to improve its judicial system
and fight corruption as it approaches a final assessment by the
 European Commission  early next year.  “The fight against corruption is one of the cornerstones
of rule of law in any country, and Croatia has made great
strides in this area,” the commission said in an e-mailed
response to questions yesterday, adding it has “taken note” of
the verdict.  The yield on the bond maturing in 2019 declined to 4.213
percent at 2:08 p.m. in Zagreb from 4.285 percent yesterday,
according to mid-pricing data compiled by Bloomberg.  International Arrest  Sanader, 59, was the leader of the Croatian Democratic
Union, which ruled the country for 17 of 22 years after the end
of communism in 1990. He was elected premier in 2003 and 2007,
and left office without saying why in 2009. He was arrested in
December 2010 in Austria on an international warrant and was
extradited to Croatia in July 2011.  He was indicted for allegedly taking a bribe of 10 million
euros ($12.7 million) from  Hungary ’s largest refiner Mol Nyrt.
between 2008 and 2009, when he was premier. The judge found him
guilty of taking 5 million euros. In exchange, he arranged with
 Zsolt Hernadi , Mol’s chief executive officer, to give the
Hungarian company controlling rights over  INA  in a January 2009
shareholding agreement, Judge Turudic said.  “The message here is that crime doesn’t pay and that the
perpetrator will be punished,” Turudic told Sanader after
reading the verdict yesterday. “Since you committed crime as a
high-ranking official, this verdict is a message to all the
bearers of political power.”  Mol Response  Mol “categorically rejects” the accusations, which were
formed as part of a “political case” and were lacking
evidence, crime or motive, the company said in a statement on
its website after the verdict.  Sanader was also found guilty of taking a bribe of 3.6
million kuna ($610,000) from the Austrian bank between 1994 to
1995, when he was deputy foreign minister. In exchange, the
Croatian government at the time took a loan of 140 million
Austrian schillings ($14 million), the Alpine nation’s currency
at the time, from Hypo bank, the court said.  Sanader is also being tried, along with his former
political party, on bribery and corruption charges in another
case, related to allegedly siphoning money from state companies.
The party is accused of illegally gaining 31.6 million kuna,
while Sanader received 15 million kuna, prosecutors have
alleged.  “Obviously yesterday’s verdict is a positive sign showing
that the judiciary in Croatia has been reformed and that
Croatian courts feel up to the task of fighting high-level
corruption cases,” Steven Blockmans, at analyst at the Center
for European Policy Studies in Brussels, said by phone.  Sanader also has to return 5 million euros and 3.6 million
kuna of received bribes, and pay court costs of 36,000 kuna, the
court ruled yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jasmina Kuzmanovic in Zagreb at 
 jkuzmanovic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  