-- Croatia Ex-PM Sanader Guilty of Bribery in Mol, Hypo Case
-- B y   J a s m i n a   K u z m a n o v i c
-- 2012-11-20T13:11:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-20/croatia-ex-pm-sanader-guilty-of-bribery-in-mol-hypo-case.html
A Croatian district court found
former Prime Minister Ivo Sanader guilty of bribery and abuse of
power involving Hungarian refiner Mol Nyrt. and  Austria ’s Hypo
Alpe-Adria-Bank International AG.  Judge Ivan Turudic today sentenced Sanader to 10 years in
prison. He will appeal, according to his attorney, Cedo
Prodanovic. The  Supreme Court  would deliver a final verdict
following the appeal. Sanader, who was taken to Remetinec prison
after the verdict, will remain there during an appeal because
the sentence is longer than five years.  “Without a doubt, you have committed these criminal acts,
abusing the powers of your office as prime minister and,
earlier, as deputy foreign minister,” said Turudic after
reading out the verdict in the Zagreb court.  Croatia , which is set to become the 28th member of the
European Union in July, has prosecuted corruption cases in the
past three years, targeting government officials and members of
the former ruling party. The nation needs to improve its
judicial system and fight corruption as it approaches a final
assessment by the European Commission early next year.  Sanader, 59, was the leader of the  Croatian Democratic
Union , which ruled the country for 17 of 22 years after the end
of communism in 1990. He was elected premier in 2003 and 2007,
and left office without saying why in 2009. He was arrested in
December 2010 in Austria on an international warrant and was
extradited to Croatia in July 2011.  EU Drive  “A positive for Croatia as the EU had criticized the
country for not doing enough to rein in graft and corruption,
and this will further cement the country’s drive for EU
accession by July 2013,” Timothy Ash, the London-based chief
emerging-market economist for Standard Bank Group Ltd., said in
a note.  The yield on the bond maturing in 2017 declined to 4.322
percent at 1:37 p.m. in Zagreb from 4.399 percent yesterday,
according to mid-pricing data compiled by Bloomberg.  Sanader was indicted for allegedly taking a bribe of 10
million euros ($12.7 million) from  Hungary ’s largest refiner Mol
Nyrt. between 2008 to 2009, when he was premier. The judge found
him guilty of taking 5 million euros. In exchange, he arranged
with Zsolt Hernadi, Mol’s chief executive officer, to give the
Hungarian company controlling rights over INA in a January 2009
shareholding agreement, Judge Turudic said.  Turudic said Sanader had been behind the 2009 shareholding
agreement in which Mol won control of INA, adding that Croatian
officials who were negotiating with Mol at the time were acting
under Sanader’s instructions.  ‘Criminal Act’  “Since then Mol has been completely in charge in running
and controlling INA,” Turudic said. “While it is completely
understandable why this was Mol’s aim, it was against the
interest of Republic of Croatia and was achieved through a
criminal act.”  Turudic said it was “proved without a doubt that you have
received bribes, as a result of your agreement with  Zsolt
Hernadi .”  Mol said it “categorically rejects” the accusations,
which were formed as part of a “political case” and were
lacking evidence, crime or motive, the company said in a
statement on its website after the verdict.  Sanader was also found guilty of taking a bribe of 3.6
million kuna ($610,000) from the Austrian bank between 1994 to
1995, when he was deputy foreign minister. In exchange, the
Croatian government at the time took a loan of 140 million
Austrian schillings ($14 million), the Alpine nation’s currency
at the time, from Hypo bank, the court said.  Appeal Chances  Sanader also has to return 5 million euros and 3.6 million
kuna of received bribes, and pay court costs of 36,000 kuna,
Judge Turudic said.  “We have a real basis for appeal and real chances to
succeed,” Sanader’s lawyer Prodanovic said today outside the
courthouse.  Prosecutors asked for a 15-year sentence. Sanader has
maintained his innocence. Either party can appeal the verdict
within 15 days.  “The verdict holds a promise that the kind of government
that we had with Sanader is not possible anymore,” said Jelena
Lovric, the chief political analyst at Europa Press Holding,
Croatia’s largest newspaper publisher. “The question now is
whether the anti-corruption fight has boiled down to the fight
against Sanader, or whether it shall go on.”  More Charges  Sanader is also being tried, along with his former
political party, on bribery and corruption charges in another
case, related to allegedly siphoning money from state companies.
The party is accused of illegally gaining 31.6 million kuna,
while Sanader received 15 million kuna, prosecutors have
alleged.  The government in October 2011 asked the prosecutor general
to “take all necessary measures” to protect its ownership and
management rights in  INA  until the verdict is reached in
Sanader’s case.  The verdict has to be binding to have any effect on the
contracts linked to Sanader’s briberies, said Davor
Derencinovic, professor of criminal law and criminology at
Zagreb’s Faculty of Law.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jasmina Kuzmanovic in Zagreb at 
 jkuzmanovic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  