-- Cuomo Says N.Y. Will Probably Miss Deadline for Fracking Rules
-- B y   F r e e m a n   K l o p o t t
-- 2012-11-20T16:50:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-20/cuomo-says-n-y-will-probably-miss-deadline-for-fracking-rules.html
Governor  Andrew Cuomo  said  New York 
will probably miss a Nov. 29 deadline to issue regulations on
hydraulic fracturing for natural gas, restarting a public review
that may delay drilling for months.  The state, which has been studying fracking for more than
four years, issued a moratorium in 2010 so regulators could
conduct an environmental survey and develop rules. In September,
the Cuomo administration said Health Commissioner Nirav Shah
would further analyze the issue with the help of an outside
panel, whose members were chosen last week.  “We want a proper process,” Cuomo said today on Albany
radio station Talk 1300. “We want it as expeditiously as
possible. I don’t see how we get it done by next week.”  Cuomo, a 54-year-old Democrat who has been mentioned as a
potential presidential candidate in 2016, has been under
pressure from energy companies and some municipalities in the
state’s Southern Tier to allow drilling. They say it would
encourage the type of economic development seen in states from
 Wyoming  to  Pennsylvania . Environmental groups and residents
opposed to fracking sent 80,000 messages to the Environmental
Conservation Department during the last comment period.  It may already be too late for New York to cash in on the
boom that led natural-gas companies to spend $20 billion on
leases, drilling rigs and royalty payments in Pennsylvania from
2008 to 2010, and the $5 billion in additional economic output
that  Ohio  is forecast to get by 2014.  Prices Plunge  Since New York began developing rules in July 2008,
natural-gas prices have plunged by about 70 percent.  Talisman
Energy Inc., (TLM)  a Calgary-based company that has about 250,000
acres under lease in New York, has said it’s unlikely to be an
active driller in the state until prices rebound.  Fracking, in which millions of gallons of chemically
treated water and sand are forced underground to break up shale
and free trapped gas, has been linked to groundwater
contamination in Pennsylvania, high ozone levels in Wyoming and
to headaches, sore throats and difficulty breathing for people
living close to wells in  Colorado . The federal Environmental
Protection Agency is studying the effects on drinking water.  New York sits on the northern edge of the Marcellus Shale,
which may contain 490 trillion cubic feet of gas, enough to
supply the U.S. for two decades, according to Terry Engelder,
professor of geosciences at  Pennsylvania State University . The
U.S. Energy Department said the formation may hold 141 trillion
cubic feet, enough to meet U.S. demand for about six years.  Fracking already has been banned in more than 20 New York
towns, according to Karen Edelstein, a geographic information-
systems consultant in Ithaca.  Anschutz Exploration Corp.  and
Cooperstown Holstein Corp., a dairy farm, have appealed
decisions by New York judges that upheld two bans on oil and gas
drilling.  Cuomo has said local governments should maintain the right
to block drilling.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Freeman Klopott in Albany, New York, at 
 fklopott@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  