-- Defense Cuts Likely in Any Budget Deal, EADS Chief Says
-- B y   L a u r a   L i t v a n
-- 2012-11-20T17:59:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-20/defense-cuts-likely-in-any-budget-deal-eads-chief-says.html
Defense companies should brace for
years of Pentagon spending cuts even if automatic reductions set
to begin in January are averted, said  Sean O’Keefe , who heads
EADS  North America .  Any debt-reduction compromise between Congress and
President  Barack Obama  to avoid the so-called fiscal cliff is
still likely to make deep cuts in defense and other programs,
according to O’Keefe, chairman and chief executive officer at
the U.S. unit of  European Aeronautic, Defence & Space Co. (EAD)   “Every industry and every company that is doing business
contractually with the U.S. government is, I think, girding for
the probability that there’s going to be a major adjustment,
whether it’s by this mechanism or by some other” devised as an
alternative, O’Keefe said in an interview for Bloomberg
Television’s “Conversations with  Judy Woodruff ” set to air on
Nov. 22.  O’Keefe, 56, said he’s also preparing his company and its
workforce for the possibility an agreement won’t be reached.  Such a failure would mean $607 billion in U.S. tax
increases and spending cuts beginning in January. Over a decade,
the automatic cuts would reach $1.2 trillion, with more than
$500 billion stemming from defense.  O’Keefe said he’s already notified workers at the Herndon,
Virginia-based company that some may get layoff notices if the
cutbacks take effect. Some EADS contracts may be reduced by 10
percent to 20 percent, although determining where the spending
cuts would hit is an “evolving process,” he said.  Companies such as  Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT) , the world’s
largest defense contractor, have campaigned against the
automatic cuts as devastating and warned they may respond by
eliminating thousands of jobs.  Honeywell’s View  Others, such as executives at  Honeywell International Inc. (HON) ,
have said defense cuts approaching the magnitude of the across-
the-board process known as sequestration are inevitable even if
a more precise method of targeting the reductions is preferable.  “We recognize these cuts are going to occur,” Mike
Madsen, president of Honeywell’s defense and space unit, said
yesterday on a conference call for investors. “They need to
occur. That’s the right thing to happen actually. We’re probably
a little different in that regard, and that we’re not really
trying just to push it back.”  Failed Merger  In the interview, O’Keefe said that EADS, based in the
Netherlands, has “turned the page” after the October collapse
of its planned merger with London-based  BAE Systems Plc. (BA/)  He said
EADS will build on partnerships with other companies, including
Bethesda, Maryland-based Lockheed Martin, to boost its business.  EADS and BAE faced government resistance to a merger,
primarily from officials in  Germany . At the start, EADS
executives thought they had a 50-50 chance of completing a
merger, he said.  “The fact that that didn’t converge and come together was
probably a testimony of the fact that it was a longer shot than
50-50, but we certainly tried,” he said. “And it was one that
we’re much happier for having made the effort and disappointed
by the outcome, but much more pleased to have done so than not
at all.”  O’Keefe, a former chancellor of  Louisiana State University 
in  Baton Rouge  and former administrator of the National
Aeronautics and Space Administration, said his life was changed
by the Aug. 9, 2010, plane crash that that killed former  Alaska 
Republican Senator  Ted Stevens  and four other people.  O’Keefe and his son, Kevin, were among four survivors when
the small plane crashed 10 miles northeast of Aleknagik, Alaska.
The group was on a trip to fish for silver salmon.  He said his good fortune at surviving the crash of the
DeHavilland DHC-3T gives him some inspiration to face adversity,
and that he now views each day as a “bonus.”  “It’s an opportunity every day, and it’s a different way
of looking at the world and one that makes some of the
challenges that I now confront seem not nearly as significant”
as before, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laura Litvan in Washington at 
 llitvan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  