-- Dish Objects to Rule on Adding Smartphone Service to TV
-- B y   T o d d   S h i e l d s   a n d   A l e x   S h e r m a n
-- 2012-11-21T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-20/dish-could-offer-u-s-smartphone-service-under-proposal.html
Dish Network Corp. (DISH)  said its ability
to add mobile-phone service to satellite television offerings
could be crippled by a U.S. proposal to limit power for the
planned network.  The second-largest-U.S. satellite TV provider needs
regulators’ approval to start wireless services that could
compete with largest U.S. mobile provider Verizon Wireless and
No. 2  AT&T Inc. (T)  Dish in a May filing told the FCC that, to
succeed, the company has to expand beyond video distribution to
provide bundles including voice and data services.  Federal Communications Commission Chairman Julius Genachowski yesterday offered fellow commissioners a proposal to
regulate Dish’s airwaves use and auction for commercial use a
swath of government-owned frequencies known as the H block
that’s near those owned by the satellite provider, Neil Grace,
an FCC spokesman, said in an interview.  “These actions will promote competition, investment and
innovation, and advance commission efforts to unleash spectrum
for mobile broadband,” Grace said in an e-mailed statement.  Dish, in an e-mailed statement, said the FCC plan would
require its mobile network to use lower power than the company
wanted.  The proposal “could cripple our ability to enter the
business,” Dish Executive Vice President R. Stanton Dodge said
in the statement. “The good news is that the proposed order is
not final.”  Dish will ask the five-member commission to modify the
proposal that as drafted would “render useless” part of the
company’s airwaves, Dodge said.  Sprint Nextel  The FCC has weighed how to prevent interference if Dish
starts a powerful ground-based network on frequencies now
designated for faint signals from satellites.  Sprint Nextel Corp. (S)  asked the agency for limits on the
power of gear such as handsets to avoid interference to the H
block, which Sprint may seek to buy at auction, Larry Krevor,
the company’s vice president of government affairs, said in a
Nov. 14 briefing for reporters and analysts.  Dodge, the Dish executive, said the FCC appeared to have
backed Sprint’s proposal.  John Taylor, a Sprint spokesman, said in an interview the
company was pleased the FCC is moving forward with the H block
auction and with rules for Dish’s spectrum.  “We remain hopeful that the commissioners will decide to
support Dish’s plans to build a new wireless network, while
taking the steps necessary to protect” nearby airwaves, Taylor
said.  Mobile Broadband  The FCC under Genachowski is trying to accommodate rising
demand for mobile Internet service as consumers turn to
smartphones and data-hungry tablets. The agency in 2010 voted to
ease restrictions on smartphone use of the airwaves Dish now
owns.  An attempt last year by the FCC to repurpose satellite
airwaves for smartphone use foundered. The agency reversed its
tentative approval to LightSquared Inc. after officials said the
mobile service would interfere with global positioning system-
based navigation gear, and the company filed for bankruptcy.  Dish, based in Englewood,  Colorado , first asked for FCC
approval in August 2011 after paying about $3 billion for
airwaves from bankrupt satellite companies DBSD North America
Inc. and TerreStar Networks Inc. in deals  announced  last year.  The agency in March approved Dish’s taking control of the
airwaves, and said it would write the rules that Genachowski has
now proposed.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Todd Shields in Washington at 
 tshields3@bloomberg.net  or
Alex Sherman in  New York  at 
 asherman6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  