-- The Petraeus Reality Show, Episode 2
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C a r l s o n
-- 2012-11-20T23:30:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-20/the-petraeus-reality-show-episode-2.html
About the response to  my last
column , I’m of two minds, which is one too many for a columnist
to have.  On the one hand, I know women are still trapped in a “Mad
Men” world, where the boss gets promoted and the secretary gets
fired when an affair is discovered. In politics, when a male
candidate loses, he is just another failed candidate; when a
female candidate loses, her defeat is somehow representative.  Four years ago, after then Senator  Hillary Clinton  lost to
then Senator  Barack Obama  in the Democratic presidential
primary, we all had to suffer through pages of commentary about
whether the party could ever afford to nominate another woman.
This year, after  Mitt Romney ’s loss, there is no such talk about
whether Republicans will ever nominate another of his kind
again. His kind is pretty much the only kind they have.  The lesson: Female solidarity requires that I show
understanding and sympathy with the women in the David Petraeus
affair. When one woman is maligned, we all are.  On the other hand, the women of the Petraeus affair are
larger than life. If a man did what Paula Broadwell and Jill Kelley are accused of doing, the story line would be the same.  And Petraeus, although he’s the reason anyone is paying any
attention at all, has become a cipher. Did you see pictures of
him as he arrived at, or departed from, the Capitol last week  to
testify  about Benghazi before Congress? No, you did not --
because in a rare display of bipartisanship, members of the
Senate and House intelligence committees joined hands to make
sure the general was whisked in and out unseen.  The lesson: The less the news media can find out about the
star of the show, the more they will focus on the bit players.  Flying High  This is especially true when the star has a coterie of
current and past colleagues, journalists, high government
officials and public-relations and legal counsel to protect him.
Both Broadwell and Kelley have hired crisis managers, too.
Kelley’s is  so well-known  for guiding the unschooled through
roiling waters that there is a TV show, “Scandal,” modeled on
her life.  Broadwell and Kelley flew close to the sun. The grad
student with a penchant for resume inflation became the
biographer and mistress of probably the most famous general
since George Patton. Petraeus could have asked David McCullough
to write his biography -- but he chose Paula Broadwell. She had
so little experience that she had to hire a ghostwriter.  Then something happened between the general and his
biographer, and the affair ended, but she had invested so much
that she didn’t want anyone else to have Petraeus’s affection.
So she ended up sending threatening e-mails to her romantic
rival.  Her rival, as it turns out, was  a doyenne  of military party
planning. Kelley has diplomatic inviolability, if not immunity,
as she hosted dinners and fundraisers for nothing more than the
chance to rub an occasional four-star elbow and get the odd e-
mail answered.  Broadwell was a careerist. Kelley followed the advice of a
bygone era to “hang a lamb chop in the window” to secure a place
in the social firmament. Her soirees earned her passes to the
White House and letters from both Petraeus and another four-star
general, John Allen, in support of Kelley’s sister in a child-
custody case in which the judge found her to be “psychologically
unstable” and lacking “respect for the importance of honesty and
integrity in her interactions.”  What kind of sisterhood would keep a female journalist from
writing about all of this? Just as those “Real Housewives” (and
Kelley and her sister  actually appeared  on an episode of a
reality show) always end up scrapping with each other over the
crumbs of society, Broadwell and Kelley found the headquarters
of CentCom weren’t big enough for both of them. They brought
each other down. It’s impossible to avert our eyes.  Not Fair  No, it’s not fair that Petraeus’s setback is undoubtedly
temporary, like  Bill Clinton ’s was, while Kelley’s fate -- if
not Broadwell’s -- may more closely resemble  Monica Lewinsky ’s.
Lewinsky, you may not remember, went on to sell handbags.
Clinton is merely the  third-most-admired man  in the whole world.  This is not to say that sexism and its despicable cousin,
ageism, aren’t rampant in the coverage of women. Would anyone
pound on the 70-year-old  Mitch McConnell  for keeping his job as
minority leader of the Senate? Yet that’s what happened to 72-
year-old House Minority Leader  Nancy Pelosi  last week when she
declined to step aside for the 73-year-old Minority Whip Steny Hoyer. When people talk about Hillary Clinton running for
president in 2016, they are quick to note she will be 69 in four
years, as if being the same age as  Ronald Reagan  when he first
ran would make her impossibly old. Of course, if you believe
women age in dog years, in 2016 she would be 483, which does
sound kind of old.  I digress. Regarding coverage of the Petraeus affair: It’s
not so much sexism rearing its ugly head as it is opportunism.
Every life is interesting, if you examine it closely enough, and
if you’re famous -- even temporarily, even accidentally -- you
will be examined.  It is through a combination of bad judgment and bad fortune
that Paula Broadwell and Jill Kelley find themselves at the
center of attention. It is not only because of their gender. In
fact, if a powerful woman were playing the part of Petraeus in
this saga, I’m confident we would be using the same microscope
to examine the men fighting over her.  Instead of Paula and Jill, it would be all about Paul and
Jack. What a story that will be.  ( Margaret Carlson  is a Bloomberg View columnist. The
opinions expressed are her own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on why  Republican governors
should start health-insurance exchanges ; Stephen L. Carter on  a relevant
Thanksgiving sermon from 1812 ; Clive Crook on  how to bridge the
fiscal cliff ; Costas Meghir, Dimitri Vayanos and Nikos Vettas on
 reinventing Greece’s economy .  To contact the writer of this article:
Margaret Carlson at   mcarlson3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
 Michael Newman  at   mnewman43@bloomberg.net  