-- Medtronic Second-Quarter Profit Falls on Litigation Costs
-- B y   A n n a   E d n e y   a n d   M i c h e l l e   F a y   C o r t e z
-- 2012-11-20T21:03:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-20/medtronic-second-quarter-profit-falls-on-litigation-costs.html
Medtronic Inc. (MDT) , the world’s biggest
maker of heart-rhythm devices, said second-quarter profit fell
26 percent on legal costs related to a patent dispute.  Net income  in the three months ended Oct. 26 decreased to
$646 million, or 63 cents a share, from $871 million, or 82
cents, a year earlier, the Minneapolis-based company said in a
statement. Profit excluding a $245 million charge for litigation
costs and other items was 88 cents a share, matching the average
of 23 analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Revenue increased 1.8 percent to $4.1 billion. The
company’s drug-coated Resolute Integrity stent, used to keep
open heart arteries, bolstered sales after it was introduced in
 Japan  during August. The recently introduced Restore Sensor
helped boost revenue of spinal cord stimulators, said Derrick Sung, an analyst with Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. in  New York .  “We view the quarter as in-line,”  Matthew Taylor , an
analyst at Barclays Plc in New York, wrote in a note to clients
today.  Medtronic rose 2 percent to $42.66 at the close of New York
trading. The shares have gained 12 percent this  year .  The company reaffirmed its  earnings  forecast for fiscal
2013 of $3.62 to $3.70 a share.  Future Sales  The market for heart rhythm devices and spinal products
that comprise half of Medtronic’s revenues is no longer
plummeting, said Chief Executive Officer Omar Ishrak, in a
telephone interview. Defibrillator implants rose about 5
percent, a rate that hasn’t been seen in some time, said Chief
Financial Officer Gary Ellis. That bodes well for future sales
since the revenue follows implants, he said.  “Our performance in these markets has been good,”
Ishrak said. “We have taken share in both of these markets.”  Medtronic kept the guidance conservative based on the
January 2013 implementation of a tax on the medical device
industry and the uncertain renewal of a research and development
tax credit, Ellis said.  The device manufacturer anticipates paying as much as $175
million each year to comply with the new tax, Ellis said.  “We have to manage that as a headwind and cost,”
Ishrak said. “We can’t invest in other things because we have
to pay that tax.”  While the 2.3 percent excise tax was conceived as the
industry’s contribution to a health care overhaul that would
eventually provide more patients by expanding insurance
coverage, the benefit to Medtronic isn’t clear cut, he said.
Those getting insurance may not need the company’s products.  New Tax  From a business management and planning perspective, the
company is planning to account for the tax as a cost that isn’t
passed along to customers, Ishrak said. In reality, there may be
cost-sharing, depending on the product and situation, he said.  “How exactly pricing plays out, we will see,” Ishrak
said. “The dynamics are brand new for this market.”  Medtronic expects to return  cash flow  to investors with
dividends and buybacks, Ishrak said on a conference call.  The legal costs were from a patent dispute with Edwards
Life Sciences Corp. that centered on Medtronic’s CoreValve
System, one of the company’s transcatheter aortic valves. A
federal appeals court earlier this month affirmed an April 2010
federal district court ruling in  Delaware  that Medtronic’s
system infringed a single patent held by Edwards, according to
statement from Medtronic.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anna Edney in Washington at 
 aedney@bloomberg.net ;
Michelle Fay Cortez in Minneapolis at 
 mcortez@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net  