-- EFSF Says Bond Sale Delayed After Moody’s France Downgrade
-- B y   K a t i e   L i n s e l l
-- 2012-11-20T16:43:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-20/efsf-says-bond-sale-delayed-after-moody-s-france-downgrade-1-.html
The European Financial Stability
Facility said it delayed a sale of three-year euro benchmark
bonds after France was downgraded by Moody’s Investors Service.  The transaction was pulled because the EFSF’s so-called
deeds of guarantee require new bond issues to be covered by
member states with ratings similar or better than the facility’s
own grade, the European Union’s temporary bailout fund said in
an e-mailed statement. EFSF’s bonds declined.  Moody’s cut France’s long-term debt rating to Aa1 from its
top grade, citing slowing growth for  Europe ’s second-largest
economy. The Luxembourg-based fund, which is rated Aaa by
Moody’s and one step lower at AA+ by Standard & Poor’s, was
formed in 2010 to provide loans to cash-strapped EU countries.  “EFSF will look to bring its new three-year euro benchmark
offering once the issuer is able to satisfy the deeds of
guarantee language,” EFSF Chief Financial Officer Christophe Frankel said in the statement. “EFSF is currently unable to
proceed until this technical aspect is resolved.”  The three-year securities were initially marketed at a
yield range equivalent to the swap rate to two basis points
below the benchmark, according to people familiar with the deal.
The offering attracted more than 3 billion euros ($3.8 billion)
of potential orders, according to the EFSF.  Downgrade Backdrop  The EFSF, backed by the guarantees of euro member states,
will be replaced by the European Stability Mechanism that
started Oct. 8 and relies on paid-in capital by European
governments to fund bailouts. The EFSF will continue with
existing programs for  Greece ,  Portugal  and Ireland, while aid
for the Spanish banking sector will be transferred to the ESM.  “The EFSF must learn to live with the backdrop of
intermittent downgrades of its member countries,” said Georg Grodzki, the London-based head of credit research at Legal &
General Investment Management Ltd., which manages $622 billion
of bonds. “Downgrades or negative outlook changes are likely to
remain regular occurrences for Eurozone members for the next
couple of years.”  The yield on EFSF’s 1.125 percent bonds due 2017 rose 3.1
basis points to 15.1 basis points more than the benchmark swap
rate, data compiled by Bloomberg shows. The spread narrowed to
12.3 basis points on Nov. 19, the smallest gap since the notes
were sold on Oct. 15.  Ratings Concern  Moody’s will assess the implications of  France ’s downgrade
for EFSF’s and ESM’s ratings, focussing on whether the support
available from the remaining top-rated guarantors and
shareholders is “consistent with the EFSF and ESM retaining the
highest ratings,” the ratings firm said in a statement.  “People won’t just be worried about this deal today, but
that it raises the question what will the ESM’s rating be in a
year’s time,” said Gary Jenkins, founder of Swordfish Research
Ltd. in Amersham,  England . “This could cause a problem because
a lot of the sovereign wealth funds only want to invest in
Europe where it’s AAA. At a minimum it will put the price of
EFSF bonds up.”  JPMorgan Chase & Co, Morgan Stanley and Natixis were
managing the bond sale for EFSF.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katie Linsell in London at 
 klinsell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Armstrong at 
 parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  