-- Egypt Reaches IMF Loan Agreement for Up to $4.8 Billion
-- B y   M a r i a m   F a m ,   A b d e l   L a t i f   W a h b a   a n d   A h m e d   A .   N a m a t a l l a
-- 2012-11-20T16:22:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-20/egypt-signs-imf-loan-accord-for-up-to-4-8-billion-in-funds.html
Egypt reached a preliminary
agreement with an International Monetary Fund team for a loan of
as much as $4.8 billion that officials say is necessary to
support the ailing economy and attract more funding.  The “22-month standby arrangement” for the loan, which
will carry an interest rate of about 1.06 percent, will be
distributed in eight quarterly tranches if it is approved by the
IMF’s board, Andreas Bauer, who headed the fund’s technical team
to the country, told reporters today. Planning Minister Ashraf el-Arabi said the board will review the agreement next month.  Since last year’s uprising that ousted  Hosni Mubarak , the
economy of the Arab world’s most populous country has been
battered.  Foreign reserves  have plunged by more than 50 percent
while protests and unrest have stunted productivity and cut key
revenue sources such as foreign investment and tourism.  “Although not unexpected, the news is positive -- in terms
of the relief it will bring from the pressure on Egypt’s
external and fiscal deficits, but also in terms of the
confidence it suggests the IMF has in Egypt’s policy makers,”
said Liz Martins, Dubai-based senior economist at HSBC Middle
East Ltd.  Investor Confidence  “The deal has long been seen as a prerequisite for a
turnaround in investor confidence and release of further
funding,” said Martins. “Attention will now turn to the
conditions of the deal, and the implications for fiscal and
exchange-rate policy.”  The  benchmark EGX 30 Index  of stocks, which declined as
much as 2.2 percent before the IMF agreement was announced,
rallied to close down 0.1 percent at 5,409.89. The nation’s 5.75
percent dollar-denominated bonds due in April 2020 rose for the
first time in three days, sending the yield eight basis points,
or 0.08 of a percentage point, lower to 5.27 percent at 4:53
p.m. in Cairo, according to prices compiled by Bloomberg.  The IMF said in an e-mailed statement that the Egyptian
authorities “plan to reduce wasteful expenditures, including by
reforming energy subsidies and better targeting them to
vulnerable groups.”  Tax Reform  The government also intends “to raise revenues through tax
reforms, including by increasing the progressivity of income
taxation and by broadening the general  sales tax  to become a
full-fledged value-added tax,” the IMF said.  The resources generated will be used to boost social
spending and infrastructure investment, and to gradually reduce
the  budget deficit  from almost 11 percent in the last fiscal
year that ended in June to 8.5 percent of gross domestic product
in 2013-2014, it said.  “Monetary and exchange-rate policies will be geared toward
ensuring declining inflation over the medium term, enhancing
Egypt’s international competitiveness to stimulate trade and
attract capital inflows, and increasing international reserves
to protect against external shocks,” the fund said in its
statement.  The Cabinet said today it targets raising international
reserves to $19 billion by the end of the next fiscal year from
the current level of $15.5 billion. It also said it plans to
implement a flat corporate tax of 25 percent instead of the
current two-tier system and to transition to a full
implementation of VAT in 2014.  Averting Crisis  Today’s news about an agreement has “greatly reduced the
risk of a balance of payments crisis in the country,”  Capital
Economics  Ltd. said in an e-mailed research note. While
“radical policy reforms are unlikely in the very near-term,”
the “conditions attached to the IMF deal should ultimately pave
the way for a return to strong growth in the medium-term,” it
said, adding the board’s approval should be “straightforward,”
and “disbursements can start from early 2013.”  Capital Economics said the IMF statement made little
mention of the issue of  currency devaluation .  “The pound
currently looks significantly overvalued and we estimate that it
might need to fall by around 20 percent in order to restore
competitiveness,” it said. “Private capital inflows are
unlikely to return until the issue of currency devaluation is
put to bed,” it said, adding it expects the pound may fall to
as low as 7.5 per dollar by the end of next year.  The currency, subject to a managed float, retreated 0.1
percent today to 6.1053 a dollar, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg, bringing its decline on the year to 1.2 percent.  Economic Targets  During the IMF’s visit to Egypt, the government unveiled an
economic program that targets growth of 3.8 percent in the
fiscal year through June 2013, from 2.2 percent last year,
rising to 6.5 percent by 2015-2016 and 9.8 percent in 2021-2022.  Mona Mansour, chief economist at Cairo-based investment
bank CI Capital Holdings, said such targets sounded very
optimistic. “What matters is having in place an economic reform
plan that is endorsed by the public and that has an
implementable timeframe in order to receive money from the
IMF,” she said.  The loan talks took place amid opposition from some
activist groups who object to what they say is a lack of
transparency in the process. They say they worry that the loan
will come with stringent conditions and undermine  Egypt ’s
economic independence. Egyptian and IMF officials say the
country’s economic program is a homegrown one.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Mariam Fam in Cairo at 
 mfam1@bloomberg.net 
Abdel Latif Wahba in Cairo at 
 alatifwahba@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  