-- Heineken Sees Boost From ‘Not for Bond’ Tequila Beer Desperados
-- B y   C l e m e n t i n e   F l e t c h e r
-- 2012-11-20T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-20/heineken-sees-boost-from-not-for-bond-tequila-beer-desperados.html
A beer created in  France  and
flavored by Mexican tequila to appeal to younger drinkers from
 Russia  to  Brazil  is providing a fillip for  Heineken (HEIA)  NV as growth
slows in more traditional European markets.  Desperados , introduced by the Dutch brewer in 1995, saw
sales gain 26 percent  last year  compared with 5.4 percent volume
growth for the eponymous Heineken brand and has the potential to
continue achieving “double-digit” improvements, according to
Willem Jan van der Hoeven, Heineken’s head of global brands.  The Amsterdam-based company still sells more than 17 times
as much Heineken, based on Euromonitor International estimates,
illustrating the potential of Desperados. Both brands bettered
Heineken’s consolidated beer volume, which grew 3.2 percent on
an organic basis.  “When I look at the world, I look to see where I can
shoulder-rub with other categories,” Van der Hoeven said in an
interview in  London . Desperados offers drinkers an alternative
to spirits on a night out, he said.  As beer sales increase at a slower pace, particularly in
developed markets where wines and spirits are posing a bigger
challenge, brewers such as Heineken are having to seek growth
outside of plain lager. Competitors including  Anheuser-Busch
InBev NV (ABI)  and  Carlsberg A/S (CARLA)  have been buying or creating cider
brands, while the increasing popularity of small craft beers in
the U.S. has spurred renewed interest in novel brands.  No Choice  “Alternatives to beers have existed for more than just a
couple of years now, but brewers these days have realized they
have to diversify and they don’t really have a choice,” said
Spiros Malandrakis, an analyst at research company Euromonitor.  Made using real tequila from  Mexico , the lime-tasting
Desperados was created to offer a different take on beer.
Introduced initially across European countries including Germany
and  Poland , it is now available from Russia to Brazil, though
not in the U.S., where laws prohibit the sale of the drink
because it mixes beer and spirits.  The brand’s volume last year was 157 million liters,
according to estimates supplied by Euromonitor, compared with
2,740 million liters for the Heineken brand.  With an alcohol content of 5.9 percent, Desperados
crucially has a less bitter taste to appeal to younger palettes.
It’s also better-suited to female tastes, Van der Hoeven said.  The executive, who also oversees the Strongbow cider,
Amstel and Sol brands, said Desparados provides a “nice
benefit” for the Heineken brand, by helping to capture young
drinkers who may later switch to Heineken and Sol.  Not for Bond  By contrast, Desperados “isn’t for  James Bond ,” he said,
referring to the Heineken brand’s promotional partnership with
the movie franchise.  Priced at almost double the average price of mainstream
beers in most markets, Desperados helps to boost both revenue
and  profit , according to Van der Hoeven.  The brand’s marketing is skewed toward bars and the
Internet, as well as festivals and gigs, he said, targeting
occasions where people may choose to drink spirits.  Van der Hoeven, who worked on the Most Interesting Man
branding campaign for Heineken’s Dos Equis brand, said he’s
particularly pleased with  an advertisement  on Desperados’
Facebook page which invites viewers to play along with its plot,
including interacting with a snake and crafting the tattoo of
one of the characters. The video got 10 million consumers
engaged, he said, declining to comment on the level of spending
on the brand.  Growth Drivers  Heineken has said it expects overall marketing spending to
be 11 percent to 13 percent of sales. That’s lower than average
of food companies and the 17 percent to 18 percent of spirits
companies, Nomura analysts estimate, saying “we could question
whether this level of spend is adequate in the longer term.”  As the Heineken brand and company becomes more global,
illustrated by the recent purchase of control of  Asia Pacific
Breweries Ltd. (APB) , smaller brands such as Desperados may prove to
be the main growth drivers for the Dutch company. Moreover, as
business becomes tougher in developed markets -- where Heineken
is suffering from the dual effects of government budget cuts and
high unemployment -- novel beers may prove a boon.  “They’re trying to push alternative products instead of
their flagship brands,” Malandrakis said.  Still, according to Van der Hoeven, there’s still scope for
established brews to grow in harmony with innovative brands.  “There’s still a lot of need for a very good
straightforward lager,” the executive said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Clementine Fletcher in London at 
 cfletcher5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  