-- Tellabs Plans Buyback After Shares Fall to 19-Year Low
-- B y   S c o t t   M o r i t z
-- 2012-11-20T21:15:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-20/tellabs-plans-buyback-after-shares-fall-to-19-year-low.html
Tellabs Inc. (TLAB) , the telephone-network
equipment manufacturer that lost its top executive to cancer
this year, will actively  repurchase  as much as $224.6 million
worth of its stock to win back shareholders’ favor.  Tellabs, which hit a 19-year low last week, gained 2.2
percent to $2.78 at the close in New York after the company said
in a statement it would “actively” repurchase the stock. The
company last month forecast a drop of as much as 24 percent in
fourth-quarter sales compared to a year earlier, which would
make it the eighth consecutive quarter of revenue declines.  Investors including Dialectic Capital Management LLC and
Third Avenue Management LLC are seeking a greater say in company
decisions after the revenue slide and the diagnosis of cancer
for two top executives. At its current price, Tellabs is trading
only 9 percent above its level of cash on hand, according to
Simon Leopold, an analyst with Raymond James & Associates Inc.  “Tellabs has had a lack of catalysts lately,” said
Leopold, who is based in New York. “The resumption of buybacks
demonstrates confidence.”  Leopold has a neutral rating on Naperville, Illinois-based
Tellabs, which had $942 million in cash and equivalents at the
end of last quarter.  Setbacks, Prospects  The company, under former Chief Executive Officer Rob Pullen, attempted to shift from slower-selling telephone network
switches to more popular equipment for wireless network
operators. Pullen died of cancer in July. In August, Chairman
Mike Birck, a co-founder, said he was diagnosed with leukemia
and said he wouldn’t seek re-election to the board.  The leadership setbacks follow the loss of a big piece of
sales to  AT&T Inc. (T)  and come amid weak demand in  Europe , said Sam Greenholtz, an independent industry strategist in Westminster,
 Maryland .  “They’ve got no leadership role in the market,” said
Greenholtz in a phone interview.  Third Avenue has increased its stake in Tellabs to 9.6
percent, saying in a Nov. 7 filing that it may get involved with
decisions on topics like strategic alternatives and board
composition. Dialectic, which has a stake of about 3 percent
according to data compiled by Bloomberg, struck an agreement in
April to appoint two members to Tellabs’s board.  Tellabs has hopes for growing demand in Europe, where
wireless carriers look to speed up networks to accommodate
smartphones, acting Chief Executive Officer Dan Kelly said
during a presentation to investors last week.  Costs Increasing  Kelly also reiterated that operating costs would increase
in the fourth quarter by about $10 million, or about 10 percent
above third-quarter levels, mostly because of an increase in
research.  “We are investing for growth, and we are going to grow,”
said Kelly. “Our customers are still very engaged.”  The move to spend more money on research as sales decline
prompted two investors of the 15 in attendance at the conference
to ask about the company’s stated goal to reduce costs and focus
on profitability.  “We recognize that we need to be continually listening to
our large shareholders and evaluating our options,” said Kelly
in an interview after his presentation.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Moritz in  New York  at 
 smoritz6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  