-- Emerging ETF Slips as French Cut Tempers Technology Rally
-- B y   M a r i a   L e v i t o v   a n d   J u l i a   L e i t e
-- 2012-11-20T23:13:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-20/emerging-stocks-rise-as-tech-companies-gain-on-demand-outlook.html
The exchange-traded fund tracking
emerging-market stocks dropped for the first time in four days
as France’s credit downgrade overshadowed the biggest rally in
technology shares in five weeks.  The  iShares MSCI Emerging Markets Index  ETF retreated 0.2
percent to $41.04 in  New York , paring a 2.4 percent advance in
the previous three days. OAO Rostelecom dropped on reports
investigators searched the chief executive officer’s house.
Chipmaker  Inotera Memories Inc. (3474)  fell to a record low.  LG Display
Co. (034220)  drove a  jump  in developing-nation technology shares as
Hyundai Securities Co. said demand for LCD TVs will rise.  Cemex
SAB (CEMEXCPO) , the largest cement maker in the Americas, rose the most in
a month after U.S. housing starts unexpectedly climbed.  The MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index rose 0.2 percent to 979.49
as 364 stocks fell while 316 rose. Moody’s Investors Service cut
France to Aa1 from Aaa yesterday, citing the worsening growth
outlook for Europe’s second-largest economy. A 15 billion-euro
($19.2 billion) gap in  Greece ’s accounts is being discussed in a
meeting of euro-area finance ministers today.  “There is a lack of trigger, no news on the key issues,
the U.S. fiscal cliff and Greece, plus France’s downgrade may
have soured sentiment,”  Gaelle Blanchard , an emerging-markets
strategist at Societe Generale SA in  London , said by e-mail.
“The mini-rally we saw yesterday lacks fuel to gain momentum.”  The  Standard & Poor’s  500 Index jumped 2 percent for its
biggest gain in two months yesterday, while the emerging markets
ETF gained the most since Sep. 13. The 21 countries in the MSCI
emerging market index send about 26 percent of their exports to
the European Union and 17 percent to the U.S. on average, data
compiled by the World Trade Organization show.  Ratings  Moody’s downgrade follows Standard & Poor’s decision to
strip France of its AAA credit rating in January.  “Yesterday’s positive U.S. action probably drove the ETF
higher than it should have been, and there wasn’t that much
follow-through in Asia,” Greg Lesko, who helps manage about
$700 million at Deltec Asset Management in New York, said by
phone from New York. “It outperformed the index decently.”  Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said the central
bank doesn’t have the tools to offset the potential harm to the
economy from the automatic spending cuts and tax increases that
could take effect in January. While both sides said talks on
Nov. 16 between President  Barack Obama  and Congress over the so-
called fiscal cliff were “constructive,” the  Congressional
Budget Office  has warned the U.S. risks a recession if spending
cuts and tax rises aren’t resolved.  Talks to end fighting between Israel and Palestinian groups
extended today as the army renewed its bombardment of Gaza and
militants fired more rockets at the Jewish state.  Micex Drops  The extra yield investors demand to own emerging-market
debt over U.S. Treasuries fell 6 basis points, or 0.06
percentage point, to 296 basis points, according to JPMorgan
Chase & Co.’s EMBI Global Index.  The  Chicago Board Options Exchange Emerging Markets ETF
Volatility Index (VXEEM) , a measure of options prices on the fund and
expectations of price swings, climbed 2.3 percent.  Russia’s Micex Index declined 0.2 percent as oil slid from
the highest level in a month. Hungary’s BUX Index sank 1.5
percent to the lowest close since Sept. 6. Brazil’s markets were
closed for a holiday.  Cemex rose 4.3 percent in Mexico City, the most in a month.
New-home construction in the U.S. jumped 3.6 percent in October,
the fastest since July 2008 and exceeding all estimates in a
Bloomberg survey.  The  Hang Seng China Enterprises Index (HSCEI)  of mainland companies
listed in Hong Kong slipped 0.6 percent. The  Shanghai Composite
Index (SHCOMP)  lost 0.4 percent after  foreign direct investment  in China
fell for the 11th time in 12 months as labor costs rose. Trading
volumes slumped to the lowest level since Dec. 12, 2011,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Won, Lira  South Korea’s  Kospi (KOSPI)  index added 0.6 percent after Citigroup
Inc. predicted the nation’s stocks will advance next year as
economic growth revives and valuations recover. Mexico’s IPC
index gained 0.9 percent.  South Korea’s won rose to a 14-month high and the Turkish
lira strengthened 0.2 percent versus the dollar after the
central bank narrowed its interest-rate corridor for a third
month, leaving the benchmark repo rate of 5.75 percent
unchanged.  The rand declined for the first time in three days as metal
prices dropped amid concern a credit-rating cut for France
signals a worsening economic outlook for the euro area, South
Africa’s biggest regional trading partner.  Technology Rally  A gauge of technology companies was the main  gainer  among
the 10 industry groups in the  MSCI Emerging Markets Index. (MXEF)  The
MSCI Emerging Markets/Information Technology Index climbed 1.4
percent, the most since Oct. 16. Material stocks gained 0.3
percent.  The index of emerging market stocks has climbed 6.9 percent
this year, less than an 8.3 percent gain by the  MSCI World Index (MXWO) 
of developed countries. The gauge of developing-nation stocks
trades at 11.3 times estimated profit, compared with the MSCI
World’s 13.2, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Rostelecom slumped 2.1 percent. Prosecutors searched the
country home of CEO Alexander Provotorov, who previously headed
Moscow-based fund Marshall Capital, Interfax reported, citing
unidentified law enforcement officials. A house belonging to
Konstantin Malofeev, founder of Marshall Capital, which holds
about 10 percent of state-run Rostelecom, was also searched and
he himself detained, according to the news service.  Inotera dropped 6.6 percent in Taipei on its sixth day.  LG Display  LG Display jumped 4 percent in Seoul, the most since Oct.
29, after Hyundai Securities forecast a 15 percent surge in TV
demand in  North America  this quarter. Topeka  Capital Markets 
said demand for Apple’s products remains strong and that a
recent slide in the U.S. company’s share price is unfounded.  Mol Nyrt. (MOL)  slipped 3.7 percent to the lowest close since
Sept. 7 after a Croatian court found former Prime Minister Ivo
Sanader guilty of taking bribes from Hungary’s largest refiner,
a charge that both parties denied.  China Construction Bank Corp. (939)  lost 0.9 percent to the
lowest since Oct. 10 in  Hong Kong  after foreign direct
investment in China fell.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Saeromi Shin in Seoul at 
 sshin15@bloomberg.net ;
Maria Levitov in London at 
 mlevitov@bloomberg.net ;
Julia Leite in New York at 
 jleite3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  