-- Henderson Sells 24 U.K. Properties to Repay $265 Million CMBS
-- B y   S i m o n   P a c k a r d
-- 2012-11-20T12:49:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-20/henderson-sells-24-u-k-properties-to-repay-265-million-cmbs.html
Henderson Group Plc’s (HGG)  Caspar
Property Fund sold its real estate to two buyout firms to repay
about 167 million pounds ($265 million) of commercial mortgage-
backed securities.  Mountgrange Investment Management LLP  and Patron Capital
Ltd. agreed to buy the fund’s 24 remaining buildings for 184
million pounds, according to a statement today. The proceeds
will pay off CMBS sold in 2004 by Epic (Caspar) Plc.  “As a complex, distressed deal with potential to add value
through creativity and active asset management, this opportunity
fits our investment criteria perfectly,” Patron Capital
Managing Partner Keith Breslauer said in the statement.  Henderson has been selling the  Caspar fund’s  real estate as
its high level of leverage compounded the effect of a slide in
U.K. property prices. The asset manager hired Drivers Jonas
Deloitte LLP in April to sell the last 24 buildings, comprising
offices, stores and warehouses, in a single transaction.
Mountgrange said it was chosen as the preferred bidder from
about a dozen offers for the properties.  The Caspar fund bought 61 properties in 2004 and financed
the transaction with CMBS. The bonds and mezzanine loans totaled
about 600 million pounds, more than 80 percent of the estimated
value of the properties at the time of the bond sale, according
to the 2004 securitized-loan prospectus.  The transaction “means we are able to return equity to
investors,” said Martin Payne, the fund’s manager. The  property
slump in 2008  to 2009 caused debt to rise to as much as 109
percent of the value of the fund’s real estate, he said.  Asset Sales  Prior to today’s sale announcement, the Henderson fund had
raised 469 million pounds from asset sales. Senior bondholders
are set to vote tomorrow on an extension of debt that matured
Oct. 30, which was originally scheduled to give Henderson time
to sell the properties.  Most of the properties sold to the venture between
Mountgrange and Patron Capital are in  London  and southeast
 England . Patron is investing through its 3 billion-euro ($3.8
billion) Patron Capital LP IV fund, which it set up to purchase
distressed real estate in  Europe .  The Mountgrange-Patron venture has raised about 94 million
pounds from the sale of nine of the properties to three asset
management companies. The buyout firms plan to cut vacancies at
the remaining 15 buildings, potentially lifting the rental
income return to as much as 11 percent of the purchase price
from a current 8.7 percent.  “Many of the sites have been investment-constrained, so,
with our combined expertise, we see plenty of scope to increase
returns,” Mountgrange Senior Partner Manish Chande said in the
statement.  Mountgrange’s investment was made by its Real Estate
Opportunity Fund, for which it raised about 300 million pounds
from investors in 2009.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simon Packard in London at 
 packard@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Blackman  at   ablackman@bloomberg.net . 