-- Entrepreneurs Curb Expansion Plans as Loans Plunge
-- B y   K a t r i n a   N i c h o l a s
-- 2012-11-20T18:31:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-20/entrepreneurs-curb-expansion-plans-as-loans-plunge.html
Syndicated loan volumes in  India 
slumped to the lowest since the global financial crisis started
as the highest borrowing costs among  Asia ’s major economies made
companies curb expansion and banks limit risks.  Lending fell 64 percent to the equivalent of $14.7 billion
since June 30 from a year earlier and the least since $11.4
billion in the same period of 2008, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. The average interest margin on U.S. dollar loans
for Indian companies is 285 basis points, 28 basis points higher
than borrowers in the rest of Asia outside of  Japan .  Central bank Governor Duvvuri Subbarao this quarter cut his
economic growth estimate to 5.8 percent, the slowest since 2003,
and ordered local lenders to set aside record reserves as
troubled credits double. Billionaire Gautam Adani’s Adani Power
Ltd. deferred 6,500 megawatts of capacity addition, while Sajjan Jindal’s JSW Energy Ltd. delayed expansion of a 3,200 megawatt
project in the state of Maharashtra.  “Entrepreneurs have cut back on investing, and hence
borrowing, and on top of that merger and acquisition volumes
have plunged,” said Birendra Baid, the Asia head of loan
syndication at Deutsche Bank AG, the fifth-largest arranger of
foreign deals in India this year. “Until the policy environment
improves, we’re not going to see a jump in loans.”  Baid spoke in a telephone interview before an  Asia Pacific
Loan Market Association  conference today in Mumbai.  Reliance Loan  Reliance Industries Ltd. (RIL) , which runs the world’s largest
refinery complex, is paying a margin of 220 basis points, or 2.2
percentage points, more than the London interbank offered rate
on part of $1.5 billion it borrowed for five years in September,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  By contrast, PTT Exploration & Production Pcl,  Thailand ’s 
biggest publicly traded oil and gas explorer, paid a starting 
margin of 85 basis points to finance the acquisition of Cove 
Energy Plc. The margin eventually increases to 185 basis points.  Reliance is rated Baa2, the second-lowest investment grade
by Moody’s Investors Service and just one rank lower than PTT
Exploration, at Baa1.  “Loan pricing in India rose faster than in other markets
in Asia partly because some large Indian deals were pushed
through at very tight pricing and these deals traded very poorly
in the secondary market,” said Deutsche Bank’s Baid.  ‘Unpleasant Surprise’  Some 54 loan transactions in all currencies have been
signed since June 30, versus 80 in the first half and 248 in all
of 2011, data compiled by Bloomberg show. Foreign loans fell 66
percent to $4.9 billion this half versus the same period of 2011
and local-currency lending is down 56 percent to 539 billion
rupees ($9.8 billion).  The  Reserve Bank  of India last month increased the cash
buffer that local banks must set aside for restructured debt to
2.75 percent from 2 percent after a report showed 5.37 percent
of standard loans were being reworked as of June, up from 4.69
percent in March.  Subbarao cut his growth forecast for the year through March
from a previous estimate of 6.5 percent. The central bank’s
overnight lending rate, at 8 percent, is the highest of the
major economies in Asia.  The new provisions were an “unpleasant surprise,” K.R.
Kamath, chairman of Punjab National Bank, said on Oct. 30.  State
Bank  of India, the nation’s largest lender, will have to set
aside more than 3 billion rupees to comply, according to
Chairman Pratip Chaudhuri.  Tata Communications  Mergers and acquisitions in India this half totaled $8.5
billion, down from $22.7 billion in the first six months of the
year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Tata Communications Ltd., controlled by India’s biggest
business group, had lined up acquisition financing of as much as
$2 billion to help fund a possible bid for Cable & Wireless
Worldwide Plc, people familiar with the matter said in March.
The Mumbai-based company was “unable to reach agreement with
C&W on an offer price” and abandoned its plans, Tata
Communications said in a statement issued April 19.  “Indian loan volumes have typically come off the back of
cross-border acquisitions, as well as regular capital expansion
funding,” said Atul Sodhi, the head of Asia-Pacific loan
syndication in  Hong Kong  at Credit Agricole SA, and chairman of
the APLMA. “With the global environment what it is, I can’t
imagine many companies in India or anywhere else needing
significant funds to expand.”  Government Bonds  Elsewhere in India’s markets, the yield on the benchmark
8.15 percent sovereign bond due in 2022 increased one basis
point to 8.20 percent in Mumbai yesterday, according to the
central bank’s trading system. Yields rose to a one-week high on
speculation a drop in cash in the banking system will reduce
demand for debt.  The  extra yield  investors demand to buy 10-year Indian
bonds over U.S. Treasuries was little changed at 657 basis
points yesterday. The spread rose to as much as 661 on Nov. 16,
the highest in more than two months.  Rupee-denominated notes returned 9.2 percent this year, the
second-best performance among the 10 Asian markets monitored by
HSBC Holdings Plc. Indonesian bonds offered 11.4 percent and
South Korean debt returned 7 percent.  The rupee was little changed at 55.095 against the dollar
yesterday, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Foreign Banks  Credit risk for government-controlled SBI, considered a
proxy for the sovereign by some investors, touched a 15-month
low of 239.8 basis points on Nov. 7. The cost of insuring the
lender’s debt for five years against non-payment using credit-
default swaps has since increased 10 basis points, according to
data provider CMA.  The market share for lending by foreign banks in India is
also shrinking. Four of the top 10 arrangers of loans year-to-
date were international banks, down from five in 2009 and seven
in 2007, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Syndicated financing in India has declined more sharply
than in other markets around Asia, Bloomberg-compiled data show.
Hong Kong loans are up 7.57 percent since June 30 compared with
the same period of last year while bank borrowing in  Singapore 
is down 32 percent.  “From a very strong ‘momentum’ that prevailed until 2010,
sentiment turned negative pretty quickly for India due to the
policy and political environment,” Deutsche Bank’s Baid said.
“Most Asian banks are able to raise money at substantially
lower costs than what the Indian banks have to pay.”  Risk Appetite  Allegations of corruption in the 2008 sale of mobile phone
licenses and a federal probe into allocation of coal mining
contracts this year have roiled Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh ’s
administration, with a political gridlock stalling legislation.
About 102 bills are  pending  in parliament, according to New
Delhi-based  PRS Legislative Research , a monitoring group.  The most recent session of parliament that ended on Sept. 7
was the least productive in 17 months amid clashes between the
government and opposition parties.  The  yield premium  on dollar bonds sold in  Indonesia  was 260
basis points on Nov. 19 versus a  spread  of 372 basis points for
notes in the U.S. currency in India, JPMorgan Chase & Co.
indexes show. Both nations are ranked Baa3 by Moody’s Investors
Service, the rating company’s lowest investment grade.  “During the financial crisis when balance sheet
availability from foreign banks reduced, numerous local banks
stepped up,” said Sameer Chandra, the Mumbai-based director of
loan syndications at Citi India, a unit of Citigroup Inc. “But
this time, there’ll be a likely tightening of incremental
approvals from many local banks, which have been experiencing a
rise in restructured loan portfolios, and only a few global
banks appear to have higher risk appetite.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katrina Nicholas in Singapore at 
 knicholas2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Shelley Smith  at   ssmith118@bloomberg.net  