-- Aid for Slovenia’s Adria, Latvia’s AirBaltic Probed by EU
-- B y   A o i f e   W h i t e
-- 2012-11-20T17:20:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-20/eu-probes-state-aid-for-slovenia-s-adria-latvia-s-airbaltic.html
Government aid for Slovenia’s Adria
Airways d.d. and  Latvia ’s AirBaltic AS faces European Union
probes over concerns that state support wasn’t granted on market
terms.  The European Commission will examine about 85.5 million
euros ($109.6 million) in capital increases given to Adria by
the Slovenian government and the sale of a unit to state-owned
companies, it said in an e-mailed statement today.  The Brussels-based regulator will also investigate the
terms offered on 57.6 million lats ($106.1 million) of Latvian
state loans to AirBaltic among other state measures.  EU rules restrict amounts of aid nations can give to prop
up carriers weighed down by the bloc’s sovereign debt crisis and
high  oil prices . Malev,  Hungary ’s unprofitable state-owned
airline, went bankrupt earlier this year after the EU ordered it
to repay state loans and guarantees. Barcelona-based Spanair
also collapsed and SAS Group is shrinking its business amid the
economic turmoil.  “Adria Airways believes that all capital boosts in the
period 2007-2011 for the company and its units don’t represent
state aid” because all transactions were made on the same terms
as a private investor, the Brnik, Slovenia-based company said in
an e-mail. Adria will “offer unlimited help and support to all
involved in order to prove the necessity of measures being
probed.”  Government Payments  The EU regulator must approve all large government payments
to companies under rules that forbid states from paying
companies’ running costs. It often requires restructuring
measures from companies that seek state aid and can order firms
to repay aid already received.  The investments were made “according to the market economy
investor principle and therefore are not in contradiction with
EU norms,” the Latvian Transport Ministry said in an e-mailed
statement.  Peter Bajec, a spokesman for the Slovenian  finance
ministry , declined to comment.  The EU separately ended a probe into Polskie Linie Lotnicze
LOT SA’s sale of units, saying the Polish carrier’s transactions
were made under market conditions and weren’t a form of state
support. Regulators had to examine the sale to check there
weren’t hidden subsidies because no open and transparent tender
had been organized, the EU said in a statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aoife White in Brussels at 
 awhite62@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 