-- Euro Rises to 2-Week High Amid Greek-Aid Meeting; Krona Slides
-- B y   J o s e p h   C i o l l i
-- 2012-11-20T22:15:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-20/euro-touches-nine-day-high-before-greece-meeting-as-krone-rises.html
The euro touched an almost two-week
high against its U.S. counterpart as the region’s finance
ministers met in Brussels to discuss ways to plug a 15-billion
euro ($19 billion) hole in  Greece ’s finances.  The yen dropped for a fifth day against the dollar even
after  Bank of Japan (8301)  Governor Masaaki Shirakawa said the
opposition party’s proposals to weaken the currency are
unrealistic. Sweden’s krona declined as the country’s central
bank was forecast to cut its benchmark  interest rate  twice by
February to combat unemployment. Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S.
Bernanke  warned that the U.S. risked falling back into recession
unless lawmakers averted the so-called fiscal cliff.  “Euro-zone leaders have been successful in coming up with
month-to-month programs that address liquidity issues, but don’t
yet address long-term sovereignty issues,” Carl Forcheski, a
director on the corporate currency sales desk at Societe
Generale SA in  New York , said in an interview on Bloomberg
Television’s “Lunch Money” with Sara Eisen. “They’ll come up
with some sort of a plan at least to get Greece over for the
next year or two.”  The euro was little changed at $1.2817 at 5 p.m. New York
time after rising to $1.2830, the highest level since Nov. 7.
The shared currency traded in a range around its 200-day moving
average for a second straight day. It rose 0.4 percent to 104.69
yen.  Japan ’s currency fell 0.3 percent to 81.68 per dollar.  Risk Currencies  Risk-correlated currencies such as the  New Zealand dollar ,
Australian dollar and South African rand depreciated as
commodities fell globally.  New Zealand ’s dollar slipped 0.4 percent to 81.71 U.S.
cents. The so-called Aussie decreased 0.2 percent to $1.0387.
The South African rand fell 0.2 percent to 8.8420 per dollar
after declining as much as 0.7 percent.  The  Standard & Poor’s  GSCI Index of raw materials declined
1.2 percent and crude-oil futures slipped 2.2 percent to $87.34
per barrel in New York.  The Swedish krona was the biggest decliner after SEB AB
forecast in a  report  that the Riksbank will lower the country’s
repo rate to 1 percent next month and further to 0.75 percent in
February. The currency decreased 0.6 percent to 6.7666 per
dollar.  ‘Substantial Threat’  Bernanke said that an agreement on ways to reduce long-term
 federal budget  deficits could remove an impediment to growth,
while failure to avoid the fiscal cliff -- $607 billion in
automatic tax increases and spending cuts scheduled to take
effect at the beginning of 2013 unless Congress acts -- would
pose a “substantial threat” to the recovery.  “Cooperation and creativity to deliver fiscal clarity --
in particular, a plan for resolving the nation’s longer-term
budgetary issues without harming the recovery -- could help make
the new year a very good one for the American economy,”
Bernanke said today in a speech in New York.  Euro-area finance chiefs continued to work to agree on
extra financing for Greece. Recycling European Central Bank
profits on Greek bonds, charging Greece lower interest rates and
extending repayment deadlines are among the options under
consideration. The gap was created after EU lawmakers last week
gave the nation an extra two years to reach its budget-deficit
goals.  European finance ministers have “good” chances of
clinching a deal on Greece’s financing and are determined to
keep the  International Monetary Fund  involved in the program,
Luxembourg Prime Minister  Jean-Claude Juncker  said.  ‘Event Risk’  Juncker told reporters that “Greece has delivered” before
chairing a meeting of euro-area finance ministers in Brussels
today.  “Greece remains an event risk for the euro,” said Kasper Kirkegaard, a senior currency strategist at  Danske Bank A/S (DANSKE)  in
Copenhagen.  BOJ Governor Shirakawa told reporters in  Tokyo  he wants
people to respect the bank’s independence and that unlimited
money printing would be damaging. He spoke after the BOJ said it
would keep its asset fund at 66 trillion yen ($807 billion) and
a credit-lending facility unchanged at 25 trillion yen. All 22
economists surveyed by  Bloomberg News  had forecast no change.  Shinzo Abe, leader of the  Liberal Democratic Party  and
favored to topple Japan’s prime minister in Dec. 16 elections,
has advocated an increase in the central bank’s inflation goal
to as much as 3 percent from 1 percent. The BOJ is scheduled to
hold a policy meeting three days after the election.  Shirakawa’s comments were “sharp rebuke to Shinzo Abe,”
Boris Schlossberg, managing director of foreign exchange at BK
Asset Management, an investment advisory firm in New York, wrote
today in a note to clients. “It appears that the BOJ will not
cooperate with Mr. Abe should he be elected in December, thus
forcing him to implement his more dramatic proposals.”  Dollar, Yen  The 14-day relative strength index for the dollar against
the Japanese currency has been above 70 the past two days, the
level that some traders see as a sign an asset’s move may change
direction.  The dollar will remain locked in a 19-month trading range
versus the yen until it breaks through key technical levels and
approaches its yearly high set in March, according to  MacNeil Curry , head of foreign-exchange and interest-rates technical
strategy at Bank of America Merrill Lynch in New York.  A break above 81.88 will open up resistance at 82.67 yen,
the 78.6 percent retracement of a March 2012 rally that saw the
dollar reach 84.18, its 2012 high, Curry said. Resistance is an
area where sell orders may be clustered.  France Downgrade  The euro dropped earlier after Moody’s cut  France  by one
grade to Aa1 from Aaa and said the nation’s outlook remains
negative “as a result of its deteriorating economic
prospects.”  The move followed similar action by Standard & Poor’s in
January. Since S&P’s rating action, French  government bonds  have
returned 9.4 percent, compared with 3.4 percent for German debt,
and 2.5 percent for that of the U.S., according to Bank of
America Merrill Lynch data.  “There is probably more downside until the knee-jerk
reaction is out of the way,” Steven Englander, Citigroup Inc.’s
New York-based global head of Group of 10 strategy wrote of the
euro in an e-mail to clients. “This more reflects an already
existing reality than new information for the market, so the
downside should be relatively limited.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joseph Ciolli in New York at 
 jciolli@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  