-- Italian Soccer Match Drowned in Auto Ads as Buyers Vanish
-- B y   T o m m a s o   E b h a r d t ,   C h r i s t i a n   W u e s t n e r   a n d   M a t h i e u   R o s e m a i n
-- 2012-11-20T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-20/european-carmakers-boost-ad-spending-in-battle-for-share.html
When Juventus took on Lazio in a
marquee soccer match last weekend, Italian television viewers
also witnessed another high-stakes clash: a battle to win over
increasingly scarce car buyers.  Volkswagen AG (VOW) ,  Renault SA (RNO)  and  Fiat SpA (F)  are among the seven
auto brands that bought ads during the 15-minute halftime break.
Cars dominated advertising before and after the match, too, as
the manufacturers push for market share even in  Italy , where
demand is heading for a 33-year low.  Open a European newspaper or magazine, scan billboards
across the region, or visit a website aimed at readers there,
and the story is the same.  Contrary to an overall decline in European ad spending, the
 auto industry  through September forked out 3.9 percent more
money in  Germany , the U.K.,  France , Italy and  Spain  -- the
region’s biggest markets, according to data from consumer
research company Nielsen.  “Carmakers are pushing ads as much as possible to conquer
any potential buyer in a market that’s getting smaller and
smaller,” said Andrea Boaretto, a marketing professor at Milan
Polytechnic’s business school. “The risk is that consumers get
overloaded by car commercials.”  This year’s marketing budgets aren’t a one-off increase.
The auto industry has boosted ad spending since the global
recession in 2009, even though demand in the region is headed
for a fifth straight annual decline, to its lowest level since
1995. Last year, carmakers spent 8.2 billion euros ($10.5
billion) on traditional media ads, 14 percent more than they did
two years earlier, according to Nielsen.  Contest for Celebrities  The hunt for an edge has even spilled over to contests for
the allegiance of celebrities. To promote its i electric-car
brand at an event this month in  New York ,  Bayerische Motoren
Werke AG (BMW)  recruited “Pulp Fiction” star  Uma Thurman , who last
year appeared in commercials for Alfa Romeo’s Giulietta
hatchback.  “Brands compete even more fiercely for their share of
static or declining markets,” said Ian Rotherham, global
account director at MediaCom, an agency that handles ad
placement for VW. “Next year will be tough.”  PSA Peugeot Citroen (UG) , which secured government guarantees to
shore up its ailing auto business and is planning to cut some
8,000 jobs, has continued to spend to maintain its image with
consumers.  “What we want to preserve is our visibility,” said
Guillaume Couzy, head of marketing at the Peugeot brand. “We
don’t want to relax the pressure.”  Promoting Incentives  In addition to plugging new models and raising awareness,
incentives played a key role in ads featured during the Nov. 17
Juventus-Lazio match as pricing becomes a focus in crisis-hit
 Europe . In Italy, Fiat is offering rebates of as much as 5,000
euros on natural gas-powered versions of the 500 and Panda
models.  In Germany,  General Motors Co. (GM) ’s Opel brand is promoting a
30-day money-back guarantee in a campaign featuring Juergen Klopp, the popular coach of the Borussia Dortmund soccer team.
Customers who buy or lease a car can give it back if they’re not
satisfied and have driven less than 3,000 kilometers (1,865
miles), according to the program.  Dealer discounts in Germany surged last month to an average
of 12.5 percent off the list price, the highest level in more
than two years and up from 11.1 percent a year ago, according to
trade publication Autohaus PulsSchlag.  “We are seeing carmakers advertising prices in Germany in
a way unseen previously,” said Olivier Korte, media director at
Zenithmedia, which manages the marketing budget for Toyota Motor
Corp. “Value for money at the moment sells best. This trend
will go on.”  Hyundai’s Mark  Hyundai Motor Co. (005380) ’s image of offering solid design and
features at a reasonable price has helped it capture 3.4 percent
of the European auto market in the first 10 months of 2012,
compared with 2.9 percent a year ago. That image has been shored
up by spending on big events like sponsorship of the European
soccer championships this summer.  With the auto market forecast to decline again next year,
the Korean carmaker is looking to maintain its position rather
than push for growth in 2013, said Mark Hall, Hyundai’s head of
marketing in Europe. Regardless, the crisis has left its mark on
automotive advertising strategies, which have become more sales-
focused than in the past.  “Not that long ago, when carmakers launched new models,
they would concentrate 100 percent on brand-led messages for the
first 12 months,” said Hall. “Now, brands introduce new
models, and in a matter of weeks, you see price and offer
messages.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tommaso Ebhardt in Milan at 
 tebhardt@bloomberg.net ;
Christian Wuestner in Berlin at 
 cwuestner@bloomberg.net ;
Mathieu Rosemain in Paris at 
 mrosemain@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  