-- Hewlett-Packard’s Explanation Just Makes No Sense
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   W e i l
-- 2012-11-20T21:09:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-20/hewlett-packard-has-way-more-explaining-to-do.html
Here’s the problem with Hewlett-
Packard Co.’s explanation today for why it took an  $8.8 billion
writedown  related to its purchase of Autonomy Corp.: The numbers
don’t make sense.  HP  said  “more than $5 billion” of the writedown “is
linked to serious accounting improprieties, misrepresentation
and disclosure failures discovered by an internal investigation
by HP and forensic review into Autonomy’s accounting practices
prior to its acquisition by HP.”  One reason the previous number seems odd is that Autonomy
showed only $3.5 billion of total assets as of June 30, 2011.
That was the date of the last  balance sheet  Autonomy publicly
disclosed before it was bought by HP in November 2011.  Perhaps it’s true that Autonomy somehow committed more than
$5 billion of financial-reporting improprieties with only a $3.5
billion balance sheet. I’m not sure how this is possible. But if
it is, HP should explain. So far the company hasn’t.  HP said in its 2011  annual report  that it paid $11 billion
for Autonomy, a software company based in Cambridge,  England . In
connection with the acquisition, HP initially recorded $6.6
billion of goodwill and $4.6 billion of other intangible assets.
HP later revised the goodwill to $6.9 billion and reduced other
intangibles by about $300 million, according to its most recent
 quarterly report .  The goodwill figure is especially telling. Goodwill is the
bookkeeping entry that a company records when it pays a premium
to buy another company. More precisely, it’s the difference
between the purchase price and the fair market value of the
acquired company’s net assets. Goodwill can’t be sold by itself.
The goodwill in this instance tells you that HP paid $6.9
billion more than it believed Autonomy’s net assets were worth.  Now HP is writing down some of that goodwill and  blaming  it
on supposed financial-reporting improprieties by Autonomy. This
also doesn’t make sense. HP didn’t record the goodwill because
it was lied to by Autonomy. HP recorded the goodwill because it
knew Autonomy’s identifiable assets were worth much less than it
paid.  HP provided few details today to back up its allegations,
which Autonomy’s former top executives are denying. HP put no
hard numbers on the actual accounting errors it alleged. During
a conference call with investors, HP Chief Executive Officer  Meg Whitman  said: “The board relied on audited financials --
audited by Deloitte -- not Brand X accounting firm but
Deloitte.”  That doesn’t explain why HP paid $11 billion for Autonomy.
As I wrote in a  Ticker post  on Oct. 4, it was obvious well
before today’s news that HP needed to book more huge losses to
write down goodwill and other intangibles. HP’s leaders just
want investors to think the debacle is other people’s fault.
What a shock.  ( Jonathan Weil  is a Bloomberg View columnist.  Follow  him on
Twitter.)  Read more breaking commentary from Bloomberg View at  the Ticker .
 