-- Ex-Citigroup CDO Creator Stoker Who Beat SEC Joins StormHarbour
-- B y   D o n a l   G r i f f i n
-- 2012-11-20T16:34:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-20/ex-citigroup-cdo-creator-stoker-who-beat-sec-joins-stormharbour.html
Brian Stoker, who fended off
regulators’ claims that he helped  Citigroup Inc. (C)  mislead
investors in a $1 billion deal, has joined StormHarbour
Securities LP in a sales position.  Stoker, 41, will focus on the sale of structured products
such as collateralized debt obligations, or CDOs, and mortgage-
backed securities, according to Sohail Khan, a StormHarbour
managing principal and former Citigroup executive. Stoker
started yesterday as a managing director and will have more
responsibilities “over time,” Khan said.  The hire comes three months after a jury cleared Stoker of
any wrongdoing in a $1 billion CDO offering Citigroup sold in
2007. The U.S. Securities and Exchanges Commission alleged that
the New York-based bank failed to tell investors that it had
picked about half of the CDO’s underlying assets and was betting
they’d decline. Stoker, who helped to structure the deal, argued
that he wasn’t responsible for the way the deal was pitched to
investors.  “Was I concerned? Did I think about it before we offered
him a job? Yes I did,” Khan, 40, said in a telephone interview.
“This is a guy who took the road less traveled and came out
clean. I’ve known him and I’ve a lot of faith in him personally
and as a firm we’re going to stand by people who do the right
thing.”  The SEC sued Stoker and Citigroup separately. The
 Washington-based regulator  said that Stoker knew or should have
known that Citigroup was creating the CDO deal so it could bet
against the assets, which he failed to tell investors. His
lawyers argued that the clients who bought into the offering
were sophisticated investors who knew what they were doing.  Citigroup Settles  “He said, ‘Look, I didn’t do anything wrong, I want my
name cleared,’” Khan said. “That tells you a lot about
personal character. I have tremendous respect for that.”  The 15 or so clients lost almost their entire investments
while Citigroup, the third-biggest U.S. lender, reaped at least
$160 million in fees and profits from its wager against the CDO
assets, the SEC alleged.  While Stoker fought the SEC, Citigroup agreed last year to
pay $285 million to settle the allegations. U.S. District Judge
Jed Rakoff rejected the settlement, in which the bank wasn’t
required to admit any liability. That ruling is on appeal.  Stoker has been “ostracized” by Wall Street firms because
of the publicity surrounding the case, Khan said.  “I’ve got four boys and the one thing I always tell them
is fight for what you believe in,” Khan said. “I can’t say
that to my kids and at the same time ostracize somebody because
he did that.”  Khan’s Role  Stoker declined to comment when reached by e-mail,
referring questions to Khan.  The two men previously worked together at Citigroup.
Stoker, who left the bank in 2008 for a hedge fund, helped to
structure deals involving CDOs, securities that are backed by a
pool of bonds, loans or other assets. Khan was the lender’s top
seller of fixed-income products, according to a profile on New
York-based  StormHarbour’s website .  Khan played a role in the CDO deal and was called by the
SEC to testify in Stoker’s trial, according to court filings.
Citigroup told potential investors that the CDO’s assets were
independently selected by  Credit Suisse Group AG. (CSGN)  In fact,
Citigroup selected about half of the assets and was betting
they’d decline, the SEC alleged. Khan acted as a go-between as
the two banks hashed out which assets would end up in the CDO,
the SEC said.  The SEC, which  fined  Credit Suisse $2.5 million for its
role, didn’t charge Khan with any wrongdoing. In 2009, he was
among a group of Citigroup executives including Fredrick Chapey
and Antonio Cacorino who left to form StormHarbour.  ‘Product Savvy’  StormHarbour is expanding into selling complex products
such as mortgage-backed securities and collateralized loan
obligations, or CLOs, Khan said. CLOs are a type of CDO that
bundle loans and slice them into securities of varying risk and
return. Investors are attracted to the higher yields such
products can offer, Khan said.  “It’s still an area where there’s a lot of opportunity,”
he said. “There’s a lot of people who are searching for yield,
who are willing to look at some things that are a little less
liquid but offer compelling risk reward.”  Selling these opaque products requires “product-savvy”
executives with contacts in the industry, Khan said.
StormHarbour said in May it made 13 senior hires for its London
office, including former executives at Deutsche Bank AG,  UBS AG (UBSN) 
and  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)   Stoker, who has worked for Merrill Lynch & Co. and Dallas-
based hedge fund Carlson Capital LP, has “the right DNA,” Khan
said.  “It’s a combination of having somebody who understands the
product, has the right character, and can really explain
something,” Khan said. “It’s something that you don’t find
often and with Brian we have that.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Donal Griffin in  New York  at 
 dgriffin10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  