-- Ex-DocX President Pleads Guilty in Florida in Robo-Sign Case
-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 2012-11-20T23:46:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-20/ex-docx-president-pleads-guilty-in-florida-in-robo-sign-case-1-.html
The former president of DocX LLC
pleaded guilty to a federal criminal charge in  Florida  and will
plead guilty to three state charges in Missouri arising from the
robo-signing of mortgage documents by her company.  Lorraine “Lori” Brown, 56, of Alpharetta,  Georgia ,
pleaded guilty to one count of conspiracy to commit mail and
wire fraud before a Jacksonville, Florida, federal judge today,
according to U.S. prosecutors and her attorney, Mark Rosenblum.  “Lorraine Brown participated in a scheme to fabricate
mortgage-related documents at the height of the financial
crisis,” Assistant Attorney General Lanny Breuer said in a
statement.  “She was responsible for more than a million fraudulent
documents entering the system, directing company employees to
forge and falsify documents relied on by property recorders,
title insurers and others,” Breuer said. “Appropriately, she
now faces the prospect of prison time.”  Brown, who founded the company later acquired by
Jacksonville-based  Lender Processing Services Inc. (LPS) , faces a
maximum sentence of five years in prison, according to Breuer.  ‘Grace, Dignity’  “Lori didn’t expect to be in this position, but now that
she is she’s facing it with grace and dignity,” Rosenblum said
in an e-mailed statement. His client had waived indictment and a
criminal charging document was filed against her earlier today.  “Without doubt this is a difficult day for Lori, but it’s
also a good day. By negotiating a settlement to her situation
and entering her guilty plea, Lori has started the process of
getting on with the rest of her life,” Rosenblum said.  Brown also agreed to plead guilty to felony charges of
forgery and perjury and the misdemeanor making a false
declaration in  Missouri  where a Columbia grand jury in February
returned a 136-count indictment against her and DocX.  Lender Processing agreed to pay $2 million to resolve the
charges against its unit in August.  “DocX’s robo-signing practices were the worst in the
country,” Missouri Attorney General Chris Koster said today in
a statement. “Surrogate-signing crosses the threshold into
criminal activity. This agreement brings to justice the person
most responsible for these activities and upholds the principle
that when you sign your name to a legal document, it matters.”  Brown will serve a sentence of at least two and not more
than three years in prison, he said.  Signing Practices  Rosenblum said he didn’t have a Missouri plea entry date.
“We are available at the court’s convenience,” he said. U.S.
Magistrate Judge Monte C. Richardson in Jacksonville ordered
Brown released on her own recognizance after she entered her
guilty plea today.  Lender Processing was unaware of Brown’s actions, said
Michelle Kersch, a company spokeswoman.  “Ms. Brown actively concealed from LPS the surrogate
signing practices that she implemented at DocX,” Kersch said,
citing Brown’s plea agreement. “When LPS discovered these
practices in November 2009, it immediately discontinued the
practices, terminated Ms. Brown and shut down the operations of
DocX.”  The company “remediated” the documents in question and
has cooperated with the criminal probes, she said.  The Florida case is U.S. v. Brown, 12cr198, U.S. District
Court for the Middle District of Florida (Jacksonville). The
Missouri cases are State v. DocX LLC, 12BA-CROO433, and State v.
Brown, 12BA-CR00430, Boone County, Missouri, Circuit Court
(Columbia).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Harris in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  