-- Ex-Fannie Mae Official Is Dismissed From Shareholder Suit
-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g
-- 2012-11-20T22:57:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-20/ex-fannie-mae-official-is-dismissed-from-shareholder-suit.html
Leanne Spencer, a former senior vice
president and controller at  Fannie Mae (FNMA) , was dropped from a
shareholders’ securities fraud suit over claims she helped hide
a $6.3 billion overstatement of earnings from 2001 to 2004.  U.S. District Judge Richard Leon in Washington ruled today
that the investors failed to show Spencer was told that  Fannie
Mae  committed fraud or violated accounting standards before
signing off on the company’s financial statements.  Spencer is the third ex-Fannie Mae official to be dismissed
from the case. Leon earlier dropped former Chairman  Franklin Raines  and former Chief Financial Officer J. Timothy Howard.  “Plaintiffs, as they did with Raines and Howard, have
stitched together a patchwork quilt of evidence that they allege
demonstrates Spencer’s intent to deceive Fannie Mae’s
investors,” Leon said in a 30-page ruling. “I disagree.”  The  Ohio  Public Employees Retirement System and the State
Teachers Retirement System of Ohio in 2004 sued Fannie Mae, the
former executives and Fannie’s auditor,  KPMG . U.S. investigators
in 2006 accused Howard and other executives of overstating
profit from 2001 to June 2004 to meet targets and trigger
bonuses.  Lawyer’s Reaction  Leon’s ruling vindicates Spencer and ends her “eight-year
nightmare,” David Krakoff, a lawyer for Spencer, said in an e-
mailed statement.  “The court ruled that the plaintiffs were entitled to
nothing because there was no proof that Ms. Spencer had
manipulated earnings or violated federal securities laws,”
Krakoff said.  Dan Tierney, a spokesman for Ohio Attorney General Mike DeWine, didn’t immediately respond to a telephone message
seeking comment.  The case is In Re Fannie Mae Securities Litigation, 1:04-
cv-01639, U.S. District Court,  District of Columbia 
(Washington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in Washington
at   tschoenberg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 