-- Exxon, Shell Said to Face Delay on Kashagan Output Boost
-- B y   N a r i m a n   G i z i t d i n o v
-- 2012-11-20T09:45:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-20/exxon-shell-said-to-face-delay-on-kashagan-output-boost.html
Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM) ,  Royal Dutch Shell
Plc (RDSA)  and their partners in Kazakhstan’s Kashagan oil field face a
delay of at least two years on a plan to boost output 20
percent, reducing the time they have to recoup costs in the $46
billion project that’s already running eight years late,
according to two people with knowledge of the matter.  Kazakhstan has told the partners to put the $5 billion
step-up plan, taking output to as much as 450,000 from 370,000
barrels day, on hold until they study how the start of
production next year affects the deposit, the people said,
asking not to be identified because the information is private.  After costing almost double early estimates, Kashagan
output may start in March. The Caspian Sea field, a high-
pressure reservoir with lethal levels of hydrogen sulfide lying
70 kilometers (44 miles) from shore, is one of the world’s
biggest finds of the past four decades.  North Caspian Operating Co., Kashagan’s operator, is
working on the development of the gas re-injection project,
NCOC, as the venture is known, said in an e-mailed response to
questions. Exxon, Shell,  Eni SpA (ENI)  and  ConocoPhillips (COP)  referred
questions to NCOC, while shareholders  Total SA (FP)  and state-owned
KazMunaiGaz National Co. didn’t reply to e-mailed requests.  Force Oil  Exxon and Shell are seeking operational control as the
venture weighs an even more expensive second phase to take
production to 1 million barrels a day, 54 percent of
Kazakhstan’s 2011 crude output.  Work on the interim project, which involves injecting
natural gas back into the field to help force out more oil, was
due to start this year.  President  Nursultan Nazarbayev  urged the  nation  to tap
domestic gas output to “walk away from dependence” on imports
in a January speech. In September, he called for a review of
Kashagan’s further expansion plans.  The partners plan to build a system to pump gas back into
the field, pushing oil output to as much as 450,000 barrels a
day, according to the website of Eni, the operator until
Kazakhstan tightened control over the project in 2008. In
October of last year, Oil and Gas Minister Sauat Mynbayev said
the field may reach that level of production in 2016.  Gas Demand  Kazakhstan’s demand for gas is set to double by 2030 from
12.1 billion cubic meters this year, according to the Oil and
Gas Ministry. KazMunaiGaz National and China National Petroleum
Corp. plan to complete the first part of a pipeline in the
fourth quarter of next year that may carry as much as 10 billion
cubic meters from  Kazakhstan ’s oil-rich west to its highly
populated southern region.  Before the step-up program can begin, the reinjection
technology must be tested and the Kashagan partners must
determine “how much it will accept, how engineering
infrastructure will behave,” KazMunaiGaz Chief Executive
Officer Lyazzat Kiinov said on Oct. 2. “All these are big,
complex questions.”  Shell and Exxon are negotiating to gain operating control
and boost their shares of Kashagan, to ensure it will be
profitable before embarking on the second phase, people said in
August. The companies have warned they may exit the project
unless Kazakhstan extends the venture’s production-sharing
agreement, or PSA, by 20 years beyond its 2041 deadline. The
accord allows the investors to recoup costs before the
government takes its share of oil revenue.  “Discussions are ongoing with the PSA authority,” NCOC
said by e-mail. Kazakhstan’s Oil and Gas Ministry oversees the
Kashagan agreement.  Fiscal Environment  The second phase was suspended about 18 months ago because
the “fiscal environment” didn’t support the investment, Shell
Chief Financial Officer Simon Henry said Nov. 1 on a conference
call. Shell urged the partners to agree on terms for the second
phase, according to statement that day.  Shell, Exxon, Eni, Total and KazMunaigaz each hold 16.8
percent of Kashagan, after the international partners agreed in
2008 to cut their stakes in favor of the state.  Japan ’s  Inpex
Corp. (1605)  has 7.56 percent.  ConocoPhillips is considering a sale of its 8.4 percent
stake in Kashagan, Mynbayev, who is also KazMunaiGaz chairman,
said last month. ConocoPhillips declined to comment on a
potential sale,  John McLemore , a spokesman for the company, said
by e-mail.  The budget for the first phase may almost double to $46
billion by the time oil is exported, a person with knowledge of
the matter said in January. An early cost estimate put the tab
at about $24 billion.  -- Editors: Torrey Clark, Will Kennedy  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nariman Gizitdinov in Almaty at 
 ngizitdinov@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at   sev@bloomberg.net  