-- Fed Regional Bank Directors Saw Housing Rebound, Spending Gains
-- B y   J e f f   K e a r n s
-- 2012-11-20T19:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-20/fed-regional-bank-directors-saw-housing-rebound-spending-gains.html
Directors at the  Federal Reserve ’s
regional banks said at their September and October meetings that
they saw more signs of stronger U.S. housing, a rise in  consumer
spending  and gains in energy and agriculture.  “Most directors observed further signs of recovery in the
housing sector, including growth in construction and sales,”
according to minutes released today in  Washington  summarizing
the discussions. Several directors said “consumer spending had
picked up, most notably for automobiles” while some said the
“energy and agricultural sectors had remained strong.”  Manufacturing “was generally judged to have weakened” and
economic activity was “mixed” across specific industries,
board members of the 12 reserve banks said, the minutes show.
Directors maintained their outlook for “moderate economic
growth over the coming months” and noted that businesses face
uncertainty about a potential U.S. fiscal contraction known as
the fiscal cliff and the slowing global economy.  “Businesses continued to be cautious about hiring and
investing, largely in response to domestic fiscal and regulatory
uncertainty and downside risks associated with strains in global
financial markets,” the minutes show.  The  Federal Open Market Committee  is scheduled to meet Dec.
11-12 after expanding record stimulus in September with an
announcement of new bond buying. It maintained the policy at the
Oct. 23-24 meeting. Policy makers have one 2012 meeting left to
decide whether to extend Operation Twist, the program to extend
the maturity of securities in the Fed’s portfolio. Operation
Twist expires in December.  Rate Unchanged  Recommendations about changing the discount rate, which has
been at 0.75 percent since February 2010, were similar to those
at earlier meetings. The Boston Fed’s directors urged a quarter-
percentage point reduction, to 0.5 percent, while the Kansas
City Fed repeated its request for a quarter-point rise to 1
percent. The other 10 banks didn’t request a change.  Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said in a speech in  New York  today
that an agreement on cutting  federal budget  deficits could
remove an impediment to growth, while failure to avoid the
fiscal cliff would pose a “substantial threat” to the
recovery.  The fiscal cliff refers to $607 billion of tax increases
and spending cuts that will automatically come into force at the
beginning of 2013 unless lawmakers act.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeff Kearns in Washington at 
 jkearns3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  