-- Fed’s OIG Reviewing Supervision of JP Morgan After Loss
-- B y   C r a i g   T o r r e s
-- 2012-11-20T00:20:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-20/fed-s-oig-reviewing-supervision-of-jp-morgan-after-loss.html
The  Federal Reserve ’s Office of
Inspector General is conducting an “evaluation” of how the Fed
Board and the Federal Reserve Bank of  New York  supervised
 JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s (JPM)  chief investment office after losses
exceeding $6.2 billion in the first nine months of 2012.  The OIG said in its semi-annual report to Congress that it
initiated a “scoping review” and “subsequently initiated
evaluation work” on the JPMorgan incident involving  credit
derivatives  trades.  The evaluation aimed to “assess the effectiveness of the
Board’s and FRB New York’s consolidated and other supervisory
activities regarding” JPMorgan’s Chief Investment Office and
“identify lessons learned for enhancing future supervisory
activities,” the OIG said in its semiannual report, which
Inspector General Mark Bialek submitted October 26.  JPMorgan, the largest U.S. bank, suffered losses on a bet
on credit derivatives in a London unit of the chief investment
office. Chief Executive Officer  Jamie Dimon , 56, said
“egregious mistakes” were made in risk management.  At least a dozen state, national and international
enforcement agencies are investigating the trades, news of which
initially erased as much as $51 billion in market value.  JPMorgan’s losses occurred in a part of the bank the Fed
does not directly oversee. The Fed has responsibility for
JPMorgan’s holding company and its affiliates, while the chief
investment office was housed in the national bank which is
overseen by the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency,
according to June 19 testimony by Comptroller  Thomas Curry .  All Facets  Curry told the House Financial Services that the OCC had 65
onsite examiners at JPMorgan “who are responsible for reviewing
nearly all facets of the bank’s activities and operations,
including commercial and retail credit, mortgage banking,
trading and other capital markets activities.”  In a scoping review inspectors “figure out how far they
are going” to look into an issue, said Gilbert Schwartz, a
partner at Schwartz & Ballen in Washington and a former Fed
attorney.  Fed OIG spokesman John Manibusan didn’t immediately respond
to an e-mail and a phone message seeking comment. New York Fed
spokesman  Jack Gutt  also didn’t immediately respond to an e-mail
or phone message requesting comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Craig Torres in Washington at 
 ctorres3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  