-- Fed’s Lacker Opposes Linking Policy to U.S. Unemployment
-- B y   S t e v e   M a t t h e w s   a n d   C a r o l i n e   S a l a s   G a g e
-- 2012-11-20T15:59:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-20/fed-s-lacker-opposes-linking-policy-to-u-s-unemployment.html
Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond
President  Jeffrey Lacker  said he opposes a proposal to tie
central bank stimulus to the U.S.  unemployment rate  because such
a move may spur inflation.  “Crisp numerical thresholds may work well in the classroom
models used to illustrate policy principles, but one or two
economic statistics do not always capture the rich array of
policy-relevant information about the state of the economy,”
Lacker said today in a speech in  New York .  Lacker’s comments highlight the challenge to  Fed officials 
as they try to find a consensus on new ways to provide a
forecast for monetary policy. Measures such as inflation and the
unemployment rate could augment or replace the Fed’s current
commitment to keep the main  interest rate  near zero through at
least mid-2015.  Policy makers “generally favored” an approach linking the
duration of record-low interest rates to “economic variables,”
according to minutes of their Oct. 23-24 meeting released last
week. Four Fed policy makers have backed this plan, which was
first proposed by Chicago Fed President  Charles Evans  last year.  “This approach would place great weight on a single
indicator of labor market conditions, one that can easily lead
you astray,” Lacker said at the Shadow Open Market Committee
Symposium. The panel is a group of independent economists who
meet to evaluate the Fed’s policy choices.  “This risk seems particularly germane now,” he said,
given “the difficulty of disentangling the trend and cyclical
components” of a decline in participation in the  labor force .  Constrain Credit  The Richmond Fed chief said Congress may need to constrain
Fed credit policy should the central bank not set such limits
itself.  “If the Federal Reserve cannot limit credit policy of its
own accord, legislation may be the best option,” he said. “And
the restraint of credit policy would not be complete unless
limits on reserve bank lending are complemented by limits on the
Fed’s ability to buy private sector assets.”  During an audience question period, Lacker said Fed
stimulus would be unable to bring about a faster recovery
without risking a loss of  price stability .  “ Monetary policy  is not likely to be able to raise growth
rates very significantly now,” Lacker said. And if it were to,
“I doubt” it could do so “without raising inflation.”  The Richmond Fed leader also warned that with further
expansion of the Fed balance sheet, “the riskier the exit
becomes” from record stimulus. “ That is something we need to
think carefully about,” Lacker said.  Held Back  The recovery has been held back by a combination of
consumers who “seem awfully cautious” and have “hunkered
down” following the recession three years ago as well as
businesses facing uncertainty in government regulatory and  tax
policy , he said.  The  S&P 500  fell less than 0.1 percent to 1,386.69 at 10:24
a.m. in New York. The  Dow Jones Industrial Average  dropped 22.84
points, or 0.2 percent, to 12,773.12.  Lacker was the only policy maker to cast a dissenting vote
at the  Federal Open Market Committee ’s Oct. 23-24 meeting in
which officials maintained $40 billion in monthly purchases of
mortgage-backed securities and affirmed their zero-interest-rate
forecast. He has dissented from every FOMC decision this year.  There is “ample room for skepticism about the effect of
the Fed’s asset purchases,” Lacker said, adding the movement of
Treasury yields around the time of policy announcements has been
“ambiguous.”  Repeated Criticism  Lacker said interventions into the housing market “may be
contributing to the perception that Federal Reserve credit
policy is adrift.”  The Fed president repeated his criticism of purchases of
mortgage-backed securities as a “credit market intervention”
that improperly favors one industry, housing, over others such
as small businesses.  In addition, purchasing mortgage securities may encourage a
continued reliance on government-sponsored agencies, when “the
housing sector would be better served by a new model that relies
less on government credit subsidies,” Lacker said.  Chicago Fed President Charles Evans has proposed holding
interest rates near zero until unemployment falls to 7 percent
so long as inflation does not breach 3 percent. Minneapolis Fed
President  Narayana Kocherlakota  has suggested continuing with
zero rates until unemployment falls to 5.5 percent so long as
inflation remains below 2.25 percent.  Critical Presidents  Other Fed presidents have been critical of the idea.
Philadelphia Fed President  Charles Plosser  last week said
thresholds could “create more confusion than clarity,” while
St. Louis Fed President  James Bullard  said last month that tying
policy to unemployment “is a mistake” because the jobless rate
doesn’t necessarily give a complete measure of the labor
market’s health.  Additional bond purchases may complicate an eventual exit
from record stimulus and risk a surge in inflation, Lacker said
last week in Charleston,  West Virginia .  Lacker, 57, has been president of his regional bank since
2004. He was previously the Richmond Fed’s director of research.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Steve Matthews in Atlanta at 
 smatthews@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  