-- Fiat Tumbles on Cash Concerns Amid European Losses
-- B y   T o m m a s o   E b h a r d t   a n d   F r a n c e s c a   C i n e l l i
-- 2012-11-20T12:07:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-20/fiat-tumbles-on-cash-concerns-amid-european-losses.html
Fiat SpA (F)  tumbled on investors’
concerns that the Italian carmaker will need to raise fresh cash
to finance Chief Executive Officer  Sergio Marchionne ’s plans to
combine with Chrysler Group LLC.  The shares  dropped  as much as 5.9 percent to 3.28 euros,
making it the worst performer in  Italy ’s benchmark  FTSE MIB
Index (FTSEMIB)  and in the  Bloomberg European Autos Index. (BEAUTOS)  The stock was
down 4.7 percent as of 1 p.m. in Milan trading, valuing the
company at 4.16 billion euros ($5.33 billion).  Fiat may need to raise between 1.6 billion euros and 2.9
billion euros to finance the purchase of the remaining shares in
Chrysler, Philippe Houchois, a London-based UBS analyst said
today in a note. Marchionne said last month that “everything is
on the table” to raise capital. A Fiat spokesman had no comment
on the matter.  “Fiat may have to start paying around fair value for more
Chrysler shares” as the prospect of an initial public offering
nears, Houchois said. UBS downgraded Fiat today to neutral from
buy on the potential for a capital increase with Chrysler’s
value being contested in the U.S.  Fiat is in a court dispute with  Auburn Hills , Michigan-
based Chrysler’s minority shareholder regarding the price that
it has to pay to boost its ownership to almost 62 percent. The
United Auto Workers’ retiree health-care trust has said Fiat
must pay at least $342 million for the holding, more than double
the $140 million that Fiat has said that it owes.  Cash Flow  Increasing its stake in Chrysler would help Fiat access the
 cash flow  of the U.S. carmaker to finance a turnaround of the
Turin-based company’s unprofitable European operations. Fiat
shares have lost more than 15 percent since Marchionne presented
a plan on Oct. 30 to boost production in Europe by expanding its
lineup of upscale models.  Fiat reported 20 billion euros of available liquidity at
the end of the third quarter, down from 22.7 billion euros as of
June 30. Marchionne said last week that Fiat doesn’t need to
access Chrysler’s cash to finance its plan in  Europe .  Wider losses in Europe caused Fiat to cut its 2014 profit
goal by 31 percent to 5.2 billion euros. Marchionne has said
Fiat needs to fix its business in the region ahead of finishing
a full merger with Chrysler.  At least eight analysts have cut their  recommendations  on
Fiat since the European restructuring plan was announced, while
none have raised them, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  With sales set to fall in Italy to the lowest in more than
30 years, Fiat will reduce production at its car plants in
the country, a union official said today by phone.  The carmaker today announced temporary layoffs in December
and January at its Melfi facility, where it builds the Grande
Punto model, Roberto Di Maulo, head of the Fismic Union, said
today by phone. Fiat may reduce December production to one week
at all its Italian plants, except its Sevel light-commercial
vehicle site, Di Maulo said.  -- With assistance from Craig Trudell in Southfield,  Michigan .
Editors: Chris Reiter,  Chad Thomas   To contact the reporters on this story:
Tommaso Ebhardt in Milan at 
 tebhardt@bloomberg.net ;
Francesca Cinelli in Milan at 
 fcinelli@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  