-- First Lady Offers Hug, $10,000 for After-School Programs
-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   G r e e n
-- 2012-11-20T16:50:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-20/first-lady-offers-hug-10-000-for-after-school-programs.html
In the East Room of the White House
yesterday,  Michelle Obama  handed out hugs, plaques and praise
for the “boundless promise” offered to young artists and
scholars on a “shoestring budget.”  The honorees were 12 after-school programs that received
National Arts and Humanities Youth Program Awards, including
$10,000 in federal grants. They included the New-York Historical
Society, the Urban Assembly at Bronx School of Law, Government
and Justice, and the Next Step at Gala Hispanic Theatre in
Washington.  The first lady pointed to the rising grades and graduation
rates among students who participate in music, dance, writing,
and other after-school initiatives.  “We’re looking for another four years to do even more,”
she said, referring to the Obama administration’s commitment to
the arts.  The awards are administered by the President’s Committee on
the Arts and the Humanities, which counts  Anna Wintour  and Sarah Jessica Parker as members, as well as the National Endowment for
the Arts, the National Endowment for the Humanities and the
Institute of Museum and Library Services.  In the audience were Kennedy Center Honors producer George
Stevens, the co-chairman of the President’s Committee on the
Arts and Humanities, and James Leach, the chairman of the
National Endowment for the Humanities.  Mariachi Masters  They were entertained by the Mariachi Master Apprentice
Program from San Fernando, California, another award recipient.  Louise Mirrer, the president and chief executive of the
New-York Historical Society, attended on behalf of the
organization.  She introduced her date, 17-year-old Jonathan Brown, a
fourth-year student at Frederick Douglass Academy in Harlem who
is part of the society’s winning program, which connects young
history and art buffs with museum professionals.  Tonight the society holds its annual History Makers Gala at
the  Pierre Hotel  in Manhattan honoring Walter Isaacson and
Wynton Marsalis.  Financial figures expected to attend include  Byron Wien ,
Sanford I. Weill,  Arthur Samberg , Joseph A. DiMenna, Richard
Gilder and  Roger Hertog .  Mirrer said the gala could raise as much as $2.4 million.
About $100,000 of the society’s $20 million budget goes to the
program that was honored yesterday.  ( Stephanie Green  is a writer and photographer for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of  Bloomberg News . Any opinions
expressed are her own.)  Muse highlights include Laurie Muchnick on  books , Patrick
Cole on  music .  To contact the writer on this story:
Stephanie Green in Washington at  sgreen57@bloomberg.net  or on
Twitter @stephlgreen.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 