-- French Downgrade Widens Gulf With Germany as Talks Loom: Economy
-- B y   J a m e s   H e r t l i n g   a n d   L e o n   M a n g a s a r i a n
-- 2012-11-20T12:12:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-20/french-downgrade-widens-gulf-with-germany-amid-eu-budget-dispute.html
France ’s loss of the top  credit
rating  at Moody’s Investors Service may weaken President
 Francois Hollande ’s leverage in European budget talks and deepen
concern in  Germany  over its neighbor’s lagging competitiveness.  The downgrade late yesterday of Europe’s second-biggest
economy underscores the concern expressed by allies of German
Chancellor  Angela Merkel  that the Socialist Hollande’s failure
to recognize the urgency of France’s woes risks a deepening of
Europe’s slump.  “This downgrade will certainly increase pressure on France
big-time,”  Jan Techau , director of the Carnegie Endowment for
International Peace office in Brussels, said today in a phone
interview. “It gives Germany more of an edge over France.”  With French bonds rallying since  Standard & Poor’s  stripped
the country of its AAA credit rating in January, the impact of
the Moody’s downgrade may be more political than financial. Just
last week, German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  spoke out
against his countrymen calling France the “sick man” of
Europe. The day before, France’s  Liberation  newspaper ran a
front-page article highlighting German anxiety about Hollande’s
policies.  “Our most important partner has received a little bit of
an admonishing assessment from a rating agency -- but France’s
rating is still very stable,” Schaeuble said in speech to
parliament in Berlin today.  French debt fell today, with 10-year yields rising 5 basis
points to 2.12 percent, though that’s still close to the record
low of 2.002 percent reached Aug. 3, showing investors don’t
share German concerns.  Confidence Comment  The spread between French and German government 10-year
debt is about 72 basis points, down from more than 200 basis
points a year ago and 143 basis points when Hollande took office
in mid-May.  “I don’t want to downplay this decision, but France
remains one of the top-rated countries,” French Finance
Minister  Pierre Moscovici  said at a press conference today in
Paris. “There will not be a loss of confidence between France
and Germany.”  Heading into a summit beginning Nov. 22 in Brussels to
deliver the next seven-year European Union budget, France has
opposed proposals to cut farm spending as unacceptable, while
Germany is seeking to contain EU expenditures.  Start Reforms  France is Germany’s closest partner in Europe and it
“would be good if the Socialists there would courageously
initiate real structural reforms now,” said  Volker Kauder , head
of the parliamentary group of Merkel’s Christian Union bloc,
according to a  Spiegel  magazine report this month. Germany would
like Hollande to “move a little more” toward Merkel, Kauder
was quoted as saying.  Hollande has mainly moved in the opposite direction. He
lowered the  retirement age  for some workers, imposed a tax of 75
percent on earnings over 1 million euros ($1.28 million) and
lifted the minimum wage. He has also consistently pressed Merkel
to ease her push for austerity to fight Europe’s three-year-old
debt crisis.  France is on track to roughly match last year’s record
trade deficit, according to the  Finance Ministry , and
 unemployment  has jumped to a 13-year high as companies such as
 PSA Peugeot Citroen (UG)  SA and  Alcatel-Lucent (ALU)  slash thousands of
jobs.  France’s benchmark unemployment rate rose to a 13-year high
of 10.2 percent in the second quarter as the economy suffered
its first contraction since 2009 before rebounding in the
following three months.  German Performance  By contrast, Germany has sustained economic growth all year
so far and the Federal Labor Agency’s key unemployment rate was
at a two-decade low in August before it rose by 0.1 percentage
point to 6.9 percent the next month.  “The relationship between France and Germany on economic
terms is like a shotgun marriage,” Fredrik Erixon, head of the
European Center for International Political Economy in Brussels,
said in a phone interview today. “Germany is helplessly
watching the deterioration of the French economy, knowing that
it will have an impact on Germany and the euro area -- but
without Berlin being able to do much about it.”  Elsewhere today, Chinese foreign direct investment fell for
a fifth month in October. The  Reserve Bank  of Australia said
more interest-rate reductions may be appropriate to spur growth
as the nation’s mining boom wanes, according to minutes of the
Nov. 6 policy meeting at which it held its key rate.  In the U.S., a Commerce Department report may show that
housing starts fell in October after reaching a four-year high
the previous month. Builders broke ground on 840,000 houses at
an annual rate last month, down from 872,000 in September,
according to the median forecast of economists in Bloomberg News
survey.  To contact the reporters on this story:
James Hertling in Paris at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net ;
Leon Mangasarian in Berlin at 
 lmangasarian@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net ;
Vidya Root at 
 vroot@bloomberg.net  