-- French Downgrade No Bar to Hollande as Investors Weigh Cut
-- B y   D a v i d   G o o d m a n   a n d   J o h n   D e t r i x h e
-- 2012-11-20T18:42:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-20/french-downgrade-no-bar-to-hollande-as-investors-weigh-moody-s.html
French President  Francois Hollande ’s
government will probably be able to keep borrowing at record-low
 interest rates  even after Moody’s Investors Service’s decision to
downgrade the nation’s debt.  The drop in French bonds today put only a small dent in the
9.4 percent rally since  Standard & Poor’s  stripped the country
of its AAA status in January. The gains are more than double the
rest of the global government bond market, according to Bank of
America Merrill Lynch indexes, surpassing those of the U.S. and
top-rated Germany, the U.K. and Australia.  The gains underscore how downgrades by credit-ratings
companies, far from being a signal that prices will fall, may
offer investors buying opportunities. The U.S. has been deemed
more creditworthy by investors since S&P removed the nation’s
AAA grade in 2011, with 10-year note yields dropping to a record
this year. For France, Europe’s second-biggest economy, further
declines in borrowing costs would provide a spur to Hollande’s
socialist government as it struggles with a record trade deficit
and an  unemployment rate  at the highest in 13 years.  “When ratings moves are announced there is often something
of a headline shock but I don’t think the Moody’s downgrade is
telling investors something they don’t already know,” said Mark Dowding, a senior fixed-income manager at BlueBay Asset
Management in London, which oversees $47 billion. “I don’t
think French bonds are going to be sold off considerably in the
short term.”  Bond Declines  The yield on France’s 10-year bonds rose eight basis
points, or 0.08 percentage point, to 2.15 percent today, the
biggest jump since Oct. 5. That compares with the record low of
2.002 percent on Aug. 3  Moody’s yesterday removed the country’s top rating, cutting
the debt one level to Aa1 and maintaining its negative outlook.
S&P lowered the rating by one level to AA+ from AAA on Jan. 13.  Since the January downgrade, global sovereign bonds have
gained 4.1 percent through yesterday, according to the Bank of
America indexes. German bonds advanced 3.4 percent in the
period, while U.K. gilts rose 2.8 percent. Australian debt
returned 6.7 percent, while  U.S. Treasuries  handed investors 2.5
percent, the indexes show.  Moody’s cited the worsening growth outlook for the French
economy in its downgrade. The nation’s debt burden will peak at
91 percent of gross domestic product next year, the 2013 budget
estimates.  German Burden  “In some ways this was expected but it’s another sign that
things continue to deteriorate in Europe,” said  John Wraith , a
fixed-income strategist at Bank of America Merrill Lynch in
London. “The downgrade raises concerns about the structure of
the  euro zone  and adds more of a burden on to the shoulders of
German sovereign creditworthiness.”  Predicting the consequences of a rating change by S&P or
Moody’s may be little better than flipping a coin, with yields
moving in the opposite direction than suggested 47 percent of
the time, according to data compiled by Bloomberg in June on 314
upgrades, downgrades and outlook changes going back to 1974.
Yields were measured after a month relative to U.S. Treasury
debt, the global benchmark.  “Any over-reaction and selloff today in France is perhaps
a buying signal because historically you get downgraded, you
don’t widen, you tighten,”  Bill Blain , a strategist at Mint
Partners in London, said today in an interview with  Mark Barton 
on Bloomberg Television’s “Countdown.” “I don’t think there’s
any reason to think that fundamentally France should be widening
dramatically yet.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 David Goodman  in London at 
 dgoodman28@bloomberg.net ;
John Detrixhe in  New York  at 
 jdetrixhe1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Dobson  at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net  