-- Frontline Seen Rising 36% on Record Chinese Oil Cargoes: Freight
-- B y   R o b   S h e r i d a n
-- 2012-11-20T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-20/frontline-seen-rising-36-on-record-chinese-oil-cargoes-freight.html
China  is using the most supertankers
in five months to meet record demand for oil imports,
diminishing a glut of shipping capacity and returning  John
Fredriksen ’s Frontline 2012 Ltd. to profit.  The number of carriers bound for Chinese ports rose 32
percent since August, according to ship-tracking data compiled
by Bloomberg. Monthly imports averaged an all-time high of 22.26
million metric tons this year, customs data show. Shares of
Frontline 2012, formed in December by the richest shipping
investor, will gain 36 percent within 12 months, according to
the average of six analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Rising oil shipments add to signs that China’s growth is
accelerating, after slowing for seven quarters. Freight swaps
used by traders to bet on future shipping costs indicate
December will give owners the best returns since May. Rates have
been unprofitable almost every day since June, according to data
from the  Baltic Exchange , the London-based publisher of freight
prices on more than 50 maritime routes.  “It’s been a tough year, but Chinese crude demand is
finally boosting rates,” said Simon Newman, the London-based
head of tanker research at ICAP Shipping International Ltd., a
unit of the world’s biggest broker of transactions between
banks. “China is one of the few countries that can influence
demand at short notice.”  Fuel Costs  Rates climbed yesterday to $28,265 a day, the highest level
in almost six months. They were negative in all but 10 sessions
starting July 5, according to the Baltic Exchange, which means
owners have to contribute to fuel costs. Freight swaps
anticipate returns will advance to $21,918 in December, the
highest monthly average since May, data from Marex Spectron
Group show.  Shares of Frontline 2012 rose 40 percent to 25.25 kroner in
Oslo this year and will reach 34.28 kroner within 12 months, the
analysts’ estimates show. The Hamilton, Bermuda-based company’s
six very large crude carriers, each holding 2 million barrels of
oil, mostly compete for single-voyage charters and benefit when
spot rates jump, said Bjorn Kristian Roed, an analyst at Danske
Markets in Copenhagen.  Frontline 2012 was created with ships and orders for new
vessels bought from Frontline Ltd., in which Fredriksen is also
the largest shareholder. The billionaire split the company after
it lost $529.6 million last year and said it risked running out
of cash after the worst rout in rates in more than a decade.
That’s allowing him to reap gains as rates rebound.  OSG Filing  Not all owners have endured the slump. Overseas Shipholding
Group Inc., the New York-based tanker owner with 111 ships in
its fleet, filed for  Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection  on Nov.
14. General Maritime Corp., the second-biggest U.S. owner, did
the same a year ago. The VLCC fleet expanded three times faster
than trade since 2008 and companies added the most new vessels
since the 1980s, data from Clarkson Plc show.  Tankers trading on the Saudi Arabia-to-Japan route, the
benchmark voyage for settling freight swaps, earned an average
of $10,459 a day since the start of this year, Baltic Exchange
data show. They need $10,670 to cover crew, insurance, repairs
and other running costs, according to data from Moore Stephens
LLP, a London-based consultant that tracks the industry’s
expenses.  While shipments to China are growing, those to the U.S. are
contracting because domestic oil production is running at its
highest since 1998. The world’s largest crude buyer imported an
average of 8.7 million barrels a day this year, the least since
1999, according to U.S. Energy Department data.  European Recession  Europe , which accounts for about 16 percent of oil demand,
entered its second recession in four years as governments
imposed tougher budget cuts. Gross domestic product in the 17-
nation euro area will fall 0.1 percent in the fourth quarter
after a 0.2 percent decline in the previous three months.  Other vessel classes are also contending with gluts. The
Baltic Dry Index, a measure of costs across four types of
vessels hauling coal and iron ore, fell 35 percent since the
start of January. A gauge reflecting charges for six types of
containers slid 16 percent in the past year, data from the
Hamburg Shipbrokers’ Association show.  Frontline 2012  will report  a net profit of 10.4 million
kroner ($1.8 million) for the first three months of 2013,
according to the mean of three analyst estimates compiled by
Bloomberg. The company is expected to have a net loss of 4.56
million kroner in the current quarter.  Energy Consumption  Europe’s biggest VLCC owner is Antwerp, Belgium-based
 Euronav NV. (EURN)  Its shares advanced 19 percent to 4.50 euros since
the start of this year and will gain another 24 percent to 5.60
euros in 12 months, according to the average of six analyst
estimates.  Fredriksen-backed companies, which also include Ship
Finance International Ltd., are the second-biggest owners of
supertankers after Tokyo-based Mitsui O.S.K. Lines Ltd.,
according to data from Clarkson, the world’s biggest shipbroker.  China’s energy consumption climbed to the equivalent of 2.6
billion tons of oil last year from 1.1 billion tons in 2002,
according to BP Plc data. Its economic growth will accelerate in
this and the next three quarters, according to the median of 30
economist estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  The nation’s oil consumption will gain 4.3 percent to 9.6
million barrels a day in the current quarter from a year
earlier, the  International Energy Agency  predicted last month.
Demand will average 9.7 million barrels a day in 2013, 3.2
percent more than in 2012, the Paris-based group said. China is
the biggest destination for laden VLCCs, with about 13 percent
of the fleet heading to its ports at any time.  Persian Gulf  Tanker rates are also rising because traders booked at
least 141 VLCCs to load crude in the  Persian Gulf  during
November, the most since December 2011, according to Marex
Spectron data. Surplus shipping capacity in the world’s largest
oil-loading region dropped to 14 percent on Nov. 13, the least
since June, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “Fewer vessels in the  Middle East  are a sign that demand
for crude in China is increasing,” said Roed of  Danske Markets ,
whose recommendations on the shares of shipping companies
returned 9.6 percent in the past six months. “Ship owners will
succeed in increasing rates.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rob Sheridan in London at 
 rsheridan6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alaric Nightingale at 
 anightingal1@bloomberg.net  