-- Gasoline Declines on Refinery Startup, Clinton Mideast Visit
-- B y   B a r b a r a   P o w e l l
-- 2012-11-20T15:10:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-20/gasoline-declines-on-refinery-startup-clinton-mideast-visit.html
Gasoline fell as Hess Corp. returned
its New Jersey refinery to full production and on optimism that
U.S. Secretary of State Hillary Clinton can broker a truce
between  Israel  and members of the Islamist Hamas movement.  Futures slid as Hess’s Port Reading refinery ran at full
rates for the first time since  Hurricane Sandy ’s Oct. 29
landfall in New Jersey. Israel postponed a decision on launching
a ground invasion into the Gaza Strip, giving international
negotiators a chance to craft a cease-fire, a government
official said as Clinton flew to the region.  “The expectation is a diplomatic breakthrough will be
achieved,” said  Andy Lipow , president of Lipow Oil Associates
LLC in Houston.  Gasoline for December delivery fell 1.18 cents, or 0.4
percent, to $2.7427 a gallon at 10:09 a.m. on the  New York 
Mercantile Exchange.  Futures settled yesterday at the highest level this month
amid concern that Israel’s attacks on the Gaza Strip might
spread unrest in the Middle East, disrupting oil supplies.  The Energy Department will probably report tomorrow that
gasoline supplies rose 1 million barrels last week, according to
the median estimate of 11 analysts in a survey by Bloomberg.  East Coast supplies fell to a four-year low in the week
ended Nov. 9 as Sandy disrupted production and distribution.
Imports recovered after hitting the lowest level since December
1999 in the prior week. MasterCard Inc.’s SpendingPulse report
showed demand at the pump in the seven days ended Nov. 9 slid to
the lowest since March.  Supplies Rising  “Hess Port Reading coming back is bringing us down a bit
and gasoline supplies are going to build a little bit as we see
the imports go back up and on weak demand,” said Phil Flynn,
senior market analyst at Price Futures Group in  Chicago .  December-delivery heating oil gained 0.19 cent to $3.077 a
gallon on the exchange, after settling yesterday at the highest
level since Oct. 30. The department will probably report that
supplies of distillates, including heating oil and diesel,
declined 1 million barrels, according to the survey.  The average nationwide cost for  regular gasoline  slipped
0.4 cent to $3.412 a gallon, AAA said today on its website.
That’s the lowest price since July 16. The pump price reached a
2012 high of $3.936 on April 4.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Barbara J Powell in Dallas at 
 bpowell4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  