-- Geffen as Star-Making ‘Master’; Lohan as Bruised Liz: TV
-- B y   G r e g   E v a n s
-- 2012-11-20T03:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-20/geffen-as-star-making-master-lohan-as-bruised-liz-tv.html
In “Inventing  David Geffen ,”
singer Jackson Browne recalls the day he phoned his old pal and
manager to offer congratulations on a particularly lucrative
business deal.  “Who would have thought,” the rock star teased Geffen,
“that it would take a billion dollars to make you happy?”  After watching this “American Masters” installment
directed by Susan Lacy, who wouldn’t?  Fantastically ambitious even by the outsized standards of
Hollywood, Geffen -- the inspiration for the uber-agent in Joni Mitchell’s “Free Man in Paris” -- emerges here as a modern-day
 Jack Warner  (whose mansion Geffen owns).  Geffen’s blessing and onscreen presence no doubt opened
some security gates for Lacy. The roster of 50 interviewees
reads like an Oscar-party door list: Elton John,  Steven Spielberg , Mike Nichols,  Barry Diller ,  Rahm Emanuel , Steve Martin, Yoko Ono, Lorne Michaels, Frank Rich, Clive Davis, Cher.  And like any nervous party crasher, Lacy turns overly
polite once inside. “Geffen,” as is typical with “American
Masters,” is as much tribute as profile.  “He’s as accomplished and as visionary as any of the great
media moguls of all time,”  Tom Hanks  says.  Says Browne (with a bit more flair): “He was the Medici of
rock ‘n’ roll.”  All the same, Geffen’s story is irresistible.  Mailroom Rise  Raised in hardscrabble Brooklyn (“You better learn to love
to work,” his corset-stitching mother advised), Geffen pushed
his way from the mailroom of the William Morris Agency to the
heights of Hollywood.  By the early 1970s, Geffen and business partner Elliot
Roberts were a cornerstone of the fledgling California soft-rock
movement, plotting the careers of Browne, Mitchell, Crosby
Stills & Nash,  Neil Young  and the Eagles.  “Inventing David Geffen” offers terrific footage of these
rockers in their prime: Browne recording “Doctor My Eyes” in
1974; Crosby, Stills, Nash & Young at the Fillmore East;
Mitchell performing “Free Man in Paris.”  Geffen conquered film as well: His first production was
“Risky Business,” making a star of then-unknown  Tom Cruise .  By the time he co-founded DreamWorks Studios with Spielberg
and  Jeffrey Katzenberg  in 1994, he was wealthy enough to donate
his share of the profits to his charitable foundation. Openly
gay, Geffen has been a major contributor to AIDS organizations
(his relationships, with the exception of a high-profile 1970s
romance with Cher, are not detailed in the film).  Backing Obama  His early backing of Barack Obama marked a crucial shift in
Hollywood’s political allegiances. He famously withdrew support
from  Hillary Clinton  in 2005, saying she was too “polarizing”
to defeat Republican  John McCain .  “I think it was the first effective slam against Hillary
Clinton,” Diller says.  With power like that, Geffen could surely withstand more
scrutiny than he gets from Lacy. His notoriously fierce
combativeness is duly (and enticingly) noted, but largely
unexplored.  “Don’t get in a fight with David,” says David Crosby.
“He doesn’t forget. He doesn’t give up. And he always wins.”  We should have heard from some losers.  “Inventing David Geffen” airs on PBS’s “American
Masters” tonight at 8 p.m. New York time. Rating: ***1/2  Lohan’s Liz  Dolled up like a Halloween-parade  Elizabeth Taylor , an
affectless Lindsay Lohan isn’t even the worst thing in
Lifetime’s abysmal “Liz & Dick.”  That would be Lloyd Kramer’s dreary direction. Or maybe a
set design that renders the famously costly “Cleopatra” with
cable-access production values.  Or maybe Christopher Monger’s script. “I won’t live
without you!” Liz screams. “Go away, you harridan,” yells
 Richard Burton , his sing-songy Welsh growl effectively imitated
by Grant Bowler.  The husky-voiced Lohan doesn’t bother with Taylor’s little-
girl bray. Bad lighting could be blamed for what look like
bruises on Lohan’s legs in a “Cleopatra” love scene, but this
distracted, depressing performance is all hers.  “Liz & Dick” airs Sunday, Nov. 25, on Lifetime at 9 p.m.
New York time. Rating: *  (Greg Evans is a critic for Muse, the arts and leisure
section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are his own.)  Muse highlights include Patrick Cole on  music , Laurie
Muchnick on  books .  To contact the writer on the story:  Greg Evans  at
 gregeaevans@yahoo.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 