-- Governors Have No Excuse Not to Build Insurance Exchanges
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2012-11-20T23:30:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-20/governors-have-no-excuse-not-to-build-insurance-exchanges.html
Ever since health-care reform was
passed in 2010,  Bobby Jindal  of Louisiana,  Rick Perry  of Texas,
 Scott Walker  of  Wisconsin  and several other prominent Republican
governors have vowed not to create the state insurance
marketplaces, known as  exchanges , the law requires.  Many of them say it’s impossible to comply with the law
because the  U.S. Department of Health  and Human Services hasn’t
given them enough information to move forward. Governor  Bob McDonnell  of  Virginia , writing on behalf of the Republican
Governors Public Policy Committee, has sent President  Barack Obama  a  list of 17  questions asking exactly what the exchanges
will look like.  This strikes us as a bit of a smoke screen. In fact, it
stretches the bounds of credulity as 17 states and the  District
of Columbia  are  working  on their online exchanges and six more
have pledged to work with HHS to build joint state-federal
exchanges.  The exchanges will basically take the form of  websites ,
designed to lead people through the process of selecting an
insurance plan, based on price and coverage. In the process,
users will be able to determine whether they qualify for
subsidies or for Medicaid. (The existing Massachusetts  Health
Connector  is a model for what most exchanges are expected to
look like.) To design and plan such a website doesn’t require
knowing, as McDonnell demands, for example, how the federal
government will manage pools of high-risk patients.  Guidance Delayed  It’s true that HHS delayed until this week issuing guidance
on the benefits that insurance plans will be required to
provide. It’s also true that the department was a little slow to
come out with its rules on enrollment periods, rate increases,
catastrophic-care plans and the ways in which premiums can vary.
It’s eminently possible that these delays were attributable to
politics (that is, a presidential election). Yet this
information has arrived in plenty of time; the plain fact is
that states didn’t need it in order to decide whether to go
ahead with an exchange.  HHS has been mostly eager to  assist states  in exchange-
building and to be flexible about deadlines. The department has
disbursed about $2 billion in grants to help states plan and
design their websites. And it postponed by  one month  last week’s
deadline for states to declare their intention to create their
own exchanges.  Here’s something else that has been lost amid the
questions: Any state that opts out of the effort will be stuck
with a one-size-fits-all insurance exchange that, paradoxically,
will be built by the federal government. In effect, the state
will abdicate its traditional authority over health-insurance
operations, and will be helpless to tailor its exchange to suit
the desires of either local insurers or residents.  Such a state wouldn’t save money either, as the federal
government is footing the bill for creating exchanges and, under
the law, once exchanges are in operation, they are to be self-
supporting -- through fees paid by insurance companies.  Perhaps prompted by this month’s election results, a few
encouraging signs of softening have appeared.  In Florida ,
Governor  Rick Scott , who began his political career by opposing
the Affordable Care Act, is now saying, “Let’s have a
conversation” about the law. Presumably, that means he will
consider at least partnering with the federal government to
create Florida’s insurance exchange.  Last week, Governor Terry Branstad of  Iowa  reluctantly said
his state will  work on  building its own exchange. And Governor
 John Kasich  of  Ohio , even while reiterating his opposition to
the law,  signaled  that his state will help run its exchange.  Continuing Resistance  Still, 14 governors and one state legislature say they are
sticking with their declaration not to play ball. A dozen more
states have made no decision.  At this point, a state that has done absolutely nothing to
prepare probably has too little time to create its own exchange
before October 2013, when HHS says it must be ready. Still,
there is time enough to join in partnership with HHS; the
deadline for deciding to do that is not until mid-February. In
such partnerships, the federal government could provide the
 information technology , while the states would work with
insurance companies on plans and provide guidance for residents.  HHS has made it clear that after federally operated
exchanges are up and running, states may eventually take over
operations. This seems like wasted effort. States have the
information they need to move on insurance exchanges. Governors
who care about fiscal responsibility, strong state government
and the basic welfare of their residents would do well to get
with the program.  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights:  Margaret Carlson  on  Paula Broadwell and female
solidarity ; Stephen L. Carter on  a relevant Thanksgiving sermon
from 1812 ; Clive Crook on  how to bridge the fiscal cliff ; Costas
Meghir, Dimitri Vayanos and Nikos Vettas on  reinventing Greece’s
economy .  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 