-- Greece Needs Growth, Not Austerity
-- B y   C o s t a s   M e g h i r ,   D i m i t r i   V a y a n o s   a n d   N i k o s   V e t t a s
-- 2012-11-20T23:30:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-20/greece-needs-growth-not-austerity.html
Greece’s economy and society are
imploding.  Gross domestic product has declined more than 20 percent
since 2008. The  unemployment rate  has tripled, and now stands at
25 percent, with joblessness among youth at twice that level.
Crime is on the rise, as are racist incidents, and ideologies of
the extreme right and left are gaining significant support.  Worse, current policies aren’t stemming the economic
decline. The new three-party government elected in June has
focused its energies on negotiating a new package of austerity
measures to meet the conditions set by the so-called troika (the
 European Central Bank , the European Commission and the
 International Monetary Fund ) for the disbursement of the next
tranche of the bailout loan.  The reforms that are the only pathways to growth, such as
building a well-functioning public administration and
liberalizing markets, are resisted by Greek politicians and
vested interests. They are also greatly underemphasized by the
troika’s push for austerity.  Unless there is a change of course, Greece is headed for
disaster: further declines in GDP, a possible chaotic default on
its debt, extremist political parties in power, and isolation
from  Europe . The European Union also stands to lose because a
Greek meltdown would reverse the decades-long process of
integration and undermine the credibility of the single
currency. And  Greece ’s creditors won’t get any of their money
back.  Debt Reduction  To avoid such an outcome, which could occur soon, Greece’s
European partners should devise a long-term strategy with two
mutually reinforcing objectives: a drastic reduction of Greece’s
debt and a thorough overhaul of the country’s dysfunctional
economy.  Greece’s debt is projected to rise to 189 percent of GDP
next year, from 129 percent in 2009. This is despite the
restructuring of privately held debt and severe austerity
measures that have almost wiped out the government’s primary
 deficit .  Most of the increase in the  debt-to-GDP ratio  can be
attributed to the large decline in GDP. Further austerity
measures, designed to generate the large primary surplus
necessary to begin reducing the debt, will cause GDP to fall
further, making the debt-to-GDP ratio even larger. This will
make it impossible for Greece to ever repay its debt in full.
Its European partners should recognize this state of affairs and
write off a significant fraction of the debt. This would allow
Greece to grow and repay the rest.  Writing off Greece’s debt can be done in a way that
preserves, and even promotes, incentives for reform. A portion
of the officially held debt -- 50 percent or more -- should be
set aside to be written off gradually over the next five years
or so, on the condition that Greece completes a set of
institutional and market changes. The steps include making the
public administration more efficient, speeding judicial
proceedings, reducing corruption and liberalizing markets.  Achievement of these milestones could be monitored using
existing indexes designed by institutions such as the  World Bank 
and the IMF. Such a system would not only promote reform, but
would put Greece’s debt, which cannot be repaid in full in any
case, to good use.  More generally, the troika should emphasize structural
changes rather than the rapid accumulation of a primary surplus.
The initial emphasis on reducing the deficit was appropriate
given the unsustainably large budget shortfall.  Retaining Talent  However, continued  austerity  will be counterproductive
because it undermines reform. For example, deep salary cuts in
the public administration are causing talented personnel to
leave, thus impairing an already weak system and worsening the
core problem of low public-sector productivity. The agencies in
charge of essential tasks such as tackling  tax evasion ,
supervising financial markets and prosecuting white-collar
criminals, are often short of funds, equipment and the ability
to attract talent. The troika should ensure that those funding
needs are met, regardless of the effect on the deficit.  And it is hard to imagine how the Greek politicians and
vested interests who have successfully resisted reform could
continue to block institutional changes that are the condition
for writing off a large part of the debt and averting disaster.  An emphasis on transformation and debt reduction would be
welcomed by the Greek population, whose support is necessary for
these efforts to succeed. Giving voters the chance to back debt
relief in exchange for reforms will dim the appeal of the
extremist parties.  The only way forward is to overhaul the  Greek economy . For
the population, that means recognizing that resisting structural
reforms would be suicidal. For its part, the troika should
acknowledge that further budget cuts would be catastrophic, and
could only lead to a continuing deterioration of the economy and
to the severing of Greece’s links with Europe.  (Costas Meghir is a professor of economics at Yale
University; Dimitri Vayanos is a professor of finance at the
 London School  of Economics; and Nikos Vettas is a professor of
economics at the Athens University of Economics and Business.
The opinions expressed are their own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on why  Republican governors
should start health-insurance exchanges ;  Margaret Carlson  on  Paula
Broadwell and female solidarity ; Stephen L. Carter on  a relevant
Thanksgiving sermon from 1812 ; Clive Crook on  how to bridge the
fiscal cliff .  To contact the writers of this article:
Costas Meghir at  c.meghir@yale.edu 
Dimitri Vayanos at  d.vayanos@lse.ac.uk 
Nikos Vettas at  nvettas@aueb.gr   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Max Berley at   mberley@bloomberg.net  