-- Green Mountain Names Coca-Cola’s Brian Kelley as CEO
-- B y   L e s l i e   P a t t o n
-- 2012-11-20T21:26:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-20/green-mountain-coffee-appoints-coca-cola-s-brian-kelly-as-ceo.html
Green Mountain Coffee Roasters Inc. (GMCR) ,
the maker of Keurig K-Cups and brewers, named Coca-Cola Co.’s
Brian Kelley as chief executive officer to succeed Lawrence J. Blanford, who is retiring.  Blanford, who said in February he planned to retire, helped
the board identify a successor. Kelley, 51, has worked five
years at Coca-Cola, where he led the integration of the
acquisition of Coca-Cola Enterprises assets to create the
refreshments unit, Green Mountain said today in a statement.  Green Mountain, based in Waterbury,  Vermont , has been
facing increasing competition from private-label capsules made
by  Kroger Co. (KR)  and  Safeway Inc. (SWY)  that fit into Keurig brewers.
It’s also facing pressure from  Starbucks Corp. (SBUX) , which recently
began selling its own single-serve coffee and latte maker,
called the Verismo.  “Kelley not only brings experience but also credibility to
the  Green Mountain  story, which has been on a rocky road over
the past year,” William Chappell, an analyst at SunTrust
Robinson Humphrey in Atlanta, wrote in a note today. Chappell
 upgraded  the stock from neutral to buy on the announcement.  The  shares  rose 2 percent to $27.87 at the close in New
York. Green Mountain has declined 38 percent this year.  Kelley will be Green Mountain’s third chief executive.
Blanford has been CEO since assuming the role from the company’s
founder, Bob Stiller, in 2007.  Kelley, who will also become Green Mountain’s president
Dec. 3, joined Coca-Cola in 2007 and was slated to become
president of refreshments in January. He’s also led Sirva Inc.,
a provider of relocation services, and worked at Ford Motor Co.
and  Procter & Gamble Co. (PG)   Green Mountain is scheduled to report fourth-quarter
 earnings  on Nov. 27. Analysts project net income will fall about
4.3 percent from a year earlier, which would be the first
decline in seven quarters, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Leslie Patton in Chicago at 
 lpatton5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  