-- Michelin Awards 100 Stars to Swiss Restaurants
-- B y   R i c h a r d   V i n e s
-- 2012-11-20T09:28:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-20/michelin-awards-100-stars-to-swiss-restaurants.html
Two restaurants in  Switzerland  were
awarded a second Michelin star today, while another nine won
their first as the star total reached 100 for the first time.  Tanja Grandit, one of the few women chefs in  Europe  with a
star, got her second at  Stucki , in Basel, for her aromatic
dishes.  Ecco on Snow , an Italian restaurant at the Giardino
Mountain hotel in St. Moritz, achieved the same accolade.
Clouds, in Zurich, was among venues to achieve a first.  “With a record 93 restaurants awarded the Bib Gourmand
label (for inexpensive good food), the new guide’s selection
also demonstrates the ability of Swiss chefs to create high-
quality, fixed-price menus that are affordable even to diners on
the tightest budgets,” Michelin said in an e-mailed release.  Switzerland now has two restaurants with three stars, 18
with two and 80 with one. Three stars mean exceptional cuisine,
worth a special journey; two are for excellent cooking, worth a
detour; one denotes a very good restaurant in its category.  Michelin & Cie (ML) , the world’s second-biggest tiremaker,
produced its first guide in 1900. It was free of charge until
1920 and intended for chauffeurs. The volume contained practical
information, including street maps and tips on repairing tires.
The company is based in Clermont-Ferrand, France.  (Richard Vines is the chief food critic for Muse, the arts
and leisure section of  Bloomberg News . He is U.K. and Ireland
chairman of the World’s 50 Best Restaurants awards. Opinions
expressed are his own.)  Muse highlights include  Mark Beech  on music,  Amanda
Gordon ’s Scene Last Night and  Jeremy Gerard  on U.S. theater.  To contact the writer on the story:
Richard Vines in  London  at 
 rvines@bloomberg.net  or  http://twitter.com/Richardvines .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 