-- Clinton to Visit Jerusalem Amid Gaza Conflict, U.S. Says
-- B y   H a n s   N i c h o l s
-- 2012-11-20T09:09:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-20/hillary-clinton-to-visit-jerusalem-amid-gaza-conflict-u-s-says.html
President  Barack Obama  has
dispatched Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  to Jerusalem,
Ramallah and Cairo as the U.S. seeks an end to fighting between
Israelis and the Palestinians in Gaza.  “The goal on that trip is for everybody to use their
voices, their influence, for a peaceful outcome,” U.S. Deputy
National Security Adviser  Ben Rhodes  said today at a briefing in
Phnom Penh, Cambodia, where Obama is attending the East Asia
Summit. “The U.S. bottom line is that Hamas must stop rocket
attacks on Israel.”  Clinton will begin her trip by meeting with Israeli Prime
Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu  in Jerusalem, and assist efforts by
regional leaders to end the hostilities between Hamas and
Israel, as both sides continued fighting.  After stopping in Jerusalem, Clinton will travel to the
 West Bank  to speak with Palestinian leaders who don’t control
Gaza. She will then meet with Egyptian leaders in Cairo, where
United Nations Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon is scheduled to
hold meetings today.  Rhodes stopped short of saying that Clinton would join
Egyptian-led efforts to broker a cease-fire and he didn’t
specify if she would meet with Egyptian President Mohamed Mursi.  Ending Fire  “As the president said the other day, we believe that
Israel has a right to defend itself, Israel will make decisions
about its own security,” Rhodes said. “At the same time, if we
can achieve the goal of ending rocket fire peacefully, that’s
clearly preferable.”  Palestinians fired 26 rockets into Israel today, according
to police spokesman  Micky Rosenfeld , and Israel continued its
attacks on Hamas and related targets in the  Gaza Strip . Hamas is
considered a terrorist group by Israel, the U.S. and the
European Union.  Obama has been monitoring the situation during his three-
day trip in southeast Asia and spoke to Mursi twice last night.
Clinton was traveling with Obama as he visited Thailand, Myanmar
and Cambodia on his first foreign trip since winning re-
election. She departed directly from Phnom Penh this afternoon,
White House spokesman Tommy Vietor said.  “She’s going because we have been in discussions with
these leaders and we want to carry those forward and obviously
the center of gravity for those discussions is in the region,”
Rhodes said. “I don’t want to predict what the outcome of those
discussions will be.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Hans Nichols  in Phnom Penh at 
 hnichols2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nicholas Wadhams at 
 nwadhams@bloomberg.net  