-- IMF Says Euro-Area Reforms Needed for Portugal to Succeed
-- B y   J o a o   L i m a
-- 2012-11-20T17:34:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-20/imf-says-euro-area-reforms-needed-for-portugal-plan-to-succeed.html
Reforms are needed in the euro area
to ensure that  Portugal  succeeds with its financial aid program
and regains access to bond markets, the  International Monetary
Fund  said.  “While implementation of the adjustment program remains
the key for mending Portugal’s own deep-seated economic
problems, these domestic efforts will need to be complemented by
reforms of euro-area arrangements to clear a path not only
toward a durable return to market financing for Portugal but
also to avoid a repeat of the build-up of unsustainable
imbalances in the future,” the IMF said in a statement after
concluding a regular mission to the country.  Portugal is battling rising joblessness and a deepening
recession as it raises taxes to meet the terms of a 78 billion-
euro ($100 billion) bailout from the European Union and the IMF.
Prime Minister Passos Coelho has said that if the country can’t
tap bond markets by September 2013 due to “external reasons,”
it would be able to count on continued international support.  European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  on Sept. 6
said bond purchases may be considered for euro-area countries
currently under bailout programs, such as Greece, Portugal and
Ireland, when they regain bond- market access .  OMT Possibility  Outright Monetary Transactions “would not apply to
countries that are under a full adjustment program until full-
market access will be obtained,” Draghi said Oct. 4. “The OMT
is not a replacement” for a lack of primary-market access, he
said.  “The public commitment by European leaders to provide
adequate support to Portugal until market access is restored,
provided the program is on track, provides a valuable safety
net,” the Washington-based lender said today. “To overcome
credit market segmentation and restore an appropriate monetary
policy transmission, it would also be important to further
clarify the eligibility criteria for the ECB’s Outright Monetary
Transactions as the country starts regaining bond-market
access.”  Coelho said Nov. 12 it “shouldn’t be acceptable” that
when the ECB lowers interest rates, yields often rise in so-
called peripheral countries.  Yields Fall  Portugal’s  10-year bond yield  is now 8.2 percent, while
two-year debt yields 5.1 percent. The difference in yield that
investors demand to hold Portugal’s 10-year bonds instead of
German bunds has narrowed to 6.8 percentage points from 16
percentage points on Jan. 31. The cost of the loans Portugal is
receiving as part of its financial aid program is 3.6 percent,
Finance Minister Vitor Gaspar said Nov. 6.  The government plans to implement an “enormous” increase
in taxes on wages and other income to meet budget deficit
targets in 2013, when the economy is set to shrink for a third
year, Gaspar said Oct. 3. Portugal needs to push deeper reforms
to cut state spending, Coelho said later that month.  “The main focus will have to be on further rationalizing
public sector pay and employment as well as reforming pensions
and other social transfers, aiming at more efficient public
services and more equitable re-distribution,” the IMF said in
the statement. “At the same time, while it will be difficult to
reduce the overall tax burden in the coming years, there is
scope to reduce tax distortions and simplify the tax system.”  The government yesterday said it forecasts  debt  will rise
to 120 percent of gross domestic product this year before
peaking at 122.3 percent in 2014. It aims to reach a deficit of
5 percent of GDP in 2012 and narrow it to 4.5 percent in 2013.  Portugal yesterday completed the sixth quarterly review of
its bailout program. The next review is scheduled for February.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joao Lima in Lisbon at 
 jlima1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Foxwell at 
 sfoxwell@bloomberg.net  