-- Indian Rupee Volatility Drops to 8-Month Low on U.S. Optimism
-- B y   J e a n e t t e   R o d r i g u e s
-- 2012-11-20T11:45:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-20/indian-rupee-volatility-drops-to-8-month-low-on-u-s-optimism.html
Implied volatility in  India ’s rupee
dropped to an eight-month low as U.S. housing data that beat
analysts’ estimates brightened the outlook for a global economic
recovery.  Sales of previously owned homes in the world’s largest
economy, and India’s third-biggest trading partner, climbed 2.1
percent in October to an annual rate of 4.79 million, compared
with 4.69 million the previous month, official data showed
yesterday. While the rupee will be boosted by the Indian
government’s efforts to improve public finances and attract
investment, the currency’s gains will be limited by the
shortfall in the nation’s  current account , the broadest measure
of trade, according to Morgan Stanley.  “We see prospects for a steadily appreciating rupee in
coming months,” strategists at Morgan Stanley, including
London-based  Hans Redeker , wrote in a research note today.
India’s current-account deficit “will serve as a drag on rupee
appreciation, especially during periods of risk aversion,” the
report said.  One-year implied volatility in the rupee, a measure of
exchange-rate swings used to price options, fell 10 basis
points, or 0.10 percentage point, to 10.55 percent. The rate is
the lowest since March 26.  The rupee declined 0.1 percent in the spot market to
55.0950 per dollar in Mumbai, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The currency, which earlier today rose as much as 0.5
percent, will strengthen to 53.3000 by the end of March, Morgan
Stanley forecasts. It touched 55.1950 on Nov. 16, the weakest
level since Sept. 13.  Greek Funds  The outlook for the U.S. economy also got a lift by
optimism a deal can be reached with Congress to avoid spending
cuts and tax increases that threaten to tip the country into a
recession. House Speaker John Boehner and White House Press
Secretary Jay Carney described a Nov. 16 meeting on the so-
called fiscal cliff as “constructive.”  Euro-area finance ministers meet in Brussels today as they
seek an agreement to help  Greece  with a 15 billion euro ($19
billion) shortfall in its finances.  Three-month onshore rupee forwards were at 55.95 per
dollar, compared with 55.94 yesterday, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Offshore non-deliverable contracts were
unchanged at 55.93. Forwards are agreements to buy or sell
assets at a set price and date. Non-deliverable contracts are
settled in dollars.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeanette Rodrigues in Mumbai at 
 jrodrigues26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net  