-- India Said to Consider Reworking Foreign Debt Holding Limits
-- B y   S i d d h a r t h a   S i n g h
-- 2012-11-20T07:37:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-20/india-said-to-consider-reworking-foreign-debt-holding-limits.html
India  is considering raising bond-
holding limits for foreign buyers in categories about to exhaust
quotas to boost capital inflows, two finance ministry officials
with direct knowledge of the matter said.  The  Reserve Bank  of India is studying a proposal from the
ministry to increase the cap on so-called old category
government securities to $15 billion from $10 billion, the
people said, asking not to be identified citing rules. Overseas
investors may be able to buy as much as $25 billion of similar
corporate debt, versus a previous limit of $20 billion, the
officials said.  The government is seeking to enhance the supply of debt
securities that are in demand, while reducing the limit on those
including long-term notes issued by infrastructure companies.
Policy makers plan to retain the ceiling for total debt
ownership by foreigners at $66.5 billion, of which $20 billion
is for rupee-denominated sovereign notes, the people said.  Boosting inflows may help bridge a shortfall in India’s
current account, which widened to a record $21.8 billion in the
first quarter of 2012 before narrowing to $16.6 billion in the
three months through June. The gap drove the rupee to a record
low in June. Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh ’s chief economic
adviser Chakravarthy Rangarajan said yesterday that a high
deficit fuels currency volatility.  “Given the kind of current-account deficit concerns,
capital flows need to get encouraged,” said Shubhada Rao,
Mumbai-based chief economist at  Yes Bank Ltd. (YES)  “Although the
fiscal deficit is mostly domestically financed, the increase in
foreign investment limit will be incrementally positive for the
government as the borrowing program is huge.”  Debt Limits  Overseas  funds  holdings of rupee debt was $32.5 billion as
of Nov. 16,  which is 49 percent of the total ceiling, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Foreigners have used 94 percent of the old government debt
category and 84 percent of old corporate debt category limits as
of Oct. 31, according to data on the Securities & Exchange Board
of India’s  website . Overseas investments in long-term debt sold
by infrastructure companies was just 31 percent of the $12
billion limit.  The government has a record borrowing program of 5.69
trillion rupees for the fiscal year ending March as it seeks to
reduce the fiscal deficit to 5.3 percent of gross domestic
product from 5.8 percent last year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Siddhartha Singh in  New Delhi  at 
 ssingh283@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sam Nagarajan at   samnagarajan@bloomberg.net  