-- Indian Stocks Gain Most in Two Weeks Before Parliament Co
-- B y   S a n t a n u   C h a k r a b o r t y
-- 2012-11-20T12:46:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-20/indian-stocks-close-little-changed-before-parliament-conv.html
Most Indian stocks declined, with
below-average trading volumes, before the nation’s parliament
reconvenes for a winter session that will provide a test of the
government’s economic reform agenda.  About three stocks dropped for every two that rose on the
BSE India  Sensitive Index (SENSEX) , which fell 0.1 percent to 18,329.32
at the close. Volumes in the 50-stock S&P CNX  Nifty (NIFTY)  Index were 7
percent below the 30-day average, data compiled by Bloomberg
show.  Infosys Ltd. (INFY) , the second-largest software exporter, slid
for the first time in three days.  Reliance Industries Ltd. (RIL) , the
owner of world’s largest oil-refining complex, retreated to a
11-week low. The Sensex lost 2 percent last week.  Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh ’s Congress party needs to
rally its ruling coalition when parliament convenes from Nov. 22
to Dec. 20 and secure support from parties outside of the
grouping to push through measures to enable greater foreign
investment. The government is reaching out to parties to secure
backing, Finance Minister Palaniappan Chidambaram said Nov. 16.  “If we don’t see too much of movement in reforms, there is
scope for disappointment in the markets,” Sanjeev Prasad,
senior executive director and co-head of Kotak Institutional
Equities, told Bloomberg TV India today. “It is not a cheap
market. Good quality companies are trading very expensive.”  The Sensex has advanced 19 percent this year, driven by
foreign flows and policy steps. The gauge, the best performer
this year among benchmark measures in nations with at least $1
trillion in value, trades at 15 times estimated earnings, data
compiled by Bloomberg show. The MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index
trades at a multiple of 11.3. Foreigners have bought a net $19
billion of shares this year, the most among 10 Asian markets
tracked by Bloomberg, excluding China, the data show.  Land Rover  Infosys fell 1.4 percent to 2,324.75 rupees. Reliance slid
1.2 percent to 765.35 rupees, the lowest close since Sept. 3.
 ITC Ltd. (ITC) , Asia’s second-biggest tobacco company, dropped 0.4
percent to 280.55 rupees.  Housing Development Finance Corp. (HDFC) , the
largest mortgage lender, surged 2.3 percent to 782.05 rupees,
the steepest gain since Sept. 21.  Tata Motors Ltd. (TTMT) , the owner of
Jaguar and  Land Rover , gained 0.8 percent to 266.10 rupees, the
most since Nov. 8.  The S&P CNX Nifty Index closed little changed at 5,571.55,
with 31 of 50 stocks on the measure declining. India VIX, which
gauges the cost of protection against losses in the Nifty, fell
5.2 percent to 15.81, the first decline in seven days.  Policy Deadlock  Failure to win lawmakers’ support could extend 24 months of
policy paralysis that have contributed to growth slowing to near
a three-year low and threaten to undermine the government ahead
of elections due by May 2014. The nation’s gross domestic
product will increase 5.8 percent in the year through March 31,
the central bank said on Oct. 30, the slowest pace since 2003.  The Trinamool Congress party, a former Singh ally, plans to
push for a vote of no-confidence in the government over its move
to allow foreign supermarket chains to hold a majority stake in
retail outlets. The main opposition  Bharatiya Janata Party  is
planning a nationwide protest tomorrow, targeting the
administration over rising prices, graft and the retail plan.  “It will be difficult for the government to aggressively
push reforms amidst the increased opposition,” A.K. Prabhakar,
senior vice president at Anand Rathi Financial Services Ltd. in
Mumbai, said by phone.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Santanu Chakraborty in Mumbai at 
 schakrabor11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  