-- Lithuania May Partly Replace Nuclear Power With Wind, Lobby Says
-- B y   T o r s t e n   F a g e r h o l m
-- 2012-11-20T08:52:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-20/lithuania-may-partly-replace-nuclear-power-with-wind-lobby-says.html
An expansion of wind power in
 Lithuania  may help the country to improve its energy
independence and offset a shortfall caused by closure of nuclear
capacity.  Installed wind power capacity is likely double to 500
megawatts by 2015, five years ahead of schedule, paving the way
for energy independence without nuclear power, according to
Lithuania’s  wind energy association .  Last month, more than 60 percent of voters in a non-binding
referendum rejected construction of a nuclear reactor that’s
intended to replace the Ignalina atomic plant. Closing that
plant under an agreement that followed accession to the European
Union triggered an energy deficit in 2009, Ignalina having
previously provided as much as 85 percent of Lithuania’s power.  As a result,  electricity imports  surged to a record 75
percent of power use in the second quarter of this year,
prompting the outgoing government to list  energy independence  as
a key priority.  “The newly elected government will have to make a new
energy strategy, where onshore and offshore wind power possibly
could take the place of nuclear power,” Aleksandras Paulauskas,
the wind association’s executive director, said today by e-mail.  While plans by developers to build as much as 4,000
megawatts of onshore wind capacity are unlikely to be realized,
new cross-border cables will help feed as much as 1,000
megawatts of wind power into the national grid, with a 700-
megawatt link to  Sweden  and one of 500 megawatts to  Poland ,
Paulauskas said. Both are expected to become operational in
December 2015, along with a new 250-megawatt generator at the
 Kruonis pumped storage hydropower plant . They can be used by
public utility  Lietuvos Energija AB (LNR1L)  to offset wind-power
fluctuations, he said.  Last year,  wind turbines  provided  0.47 terawatt-hours  of
electricity, or 4.5 percent of Lithuania’s total power,
installed capacity having more than tripled to 179 megawatts
since 2006, according data from grid operator Litgrid and the
country’s wind power associations.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Torsten Fagerholm in Helsinki at 
 tfagerholm@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  