-- Liverpool Opens Talks for Chelsea’s Sturridge: Soccer Roundup
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2012-11-20T06:32:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-20/liverpool-opens-talks-for-chelsea-s-sturridge-soccer-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of soccer
stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable Internet links.  Sturridge Talks  Liverpool has opened negotiations to sign Chelsea striker
 Daniel Sturridge  in January after failing to secure a loan deal
for the player in the offseason, the  Daily Mirror reported .  Chelsea wants to sell because the 15 million-pound ($23.8
million) rated forward would be able to engineer a move on a
free transfer this time next year, the Mirror added.  Persuading Pep  Chelsea owner  Roman Abramovich  will try to persuade former
Barcelona coach Pep Guardiola to take over as manager before the
next European summer if he fires Roberto Di Matteo, the  Daily
Mail reported .  Guardiola, who’s taking a yearlong break from the game and
has given Chelsea hints that he wants the job, has made it clear
he doesn’t want to take a new position before the start of next
season, the Mail added.  Overseas Option  Arsenal’s Theo Walcott is open to a move abroad and is a
target for several European clubs as contract negotiations with
the Gunners continue to stall, the  Guardian reported .  The England forward, who could sign a pre-contract
agreement in January with any overseas club, cannot agree to
join another Premier League team until the end of the season,
the newspaper added.  Improved Offer  Arsenal manager  Arsene Wenger  will recommend that the
club’s board offers Walcott an increase on the 75,000-pounds-a-
week deal already tabled, the  Daily Mirror reported .  The Gunners believe they may be able to persuade Walcott to
re-sign for a salary in excess of 80,000 pounds a week because
he wants to stay with the club, the newspaper added.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  