-- J.C. Penney Rating Cut Three Levels by Moody’s
-- B y   S a p n a   M a h e s h w a r i
-- 2012-11-20T21:13:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-20/j-c-penney-rating-cut-three-levels-by-moody-s.html
J.C. Penney Co. (JCP) ’s junk-grade credit
rating was cut three levels by Moody’s Investors Service because
of concern the department-store chain’s overhaul will cause
deeper sales declines and consume more cash than expected.  The rating was cut to B3, six levels below investment
grade, from Ba3 with a negative outlook and may be lowered again
if J.C. Penney’s sales declines accelerate, Margaret Taylor, a
Moody’s analyst in New York, wrote in a note today. Standard &
Poor’s and Fitch Ratings also downgraded the Plano, Texas-based
retailer after it reported a wider third-quarter loss than
analysts estimated this month.  J.C. Penney’s sales have fallen by more than 20 percent for
three straight quarters as Chief Executive Officer  Ron Johnson ’s
turnaround plan struggles to take hold. Comparable-store sales
dropped 26.1 percent in the third quarter as he transforms most
of the company’s stores into collections of 100 branded shops
and reduces coupons and sale events by marketing items at an
“everyday low price.”  Moody’s, which projected a 20 percent decline in third-
quarter sales, anticipates “fourth-quarter gross margins will
severely decline as a result of the need to actively clear
excess inventory,” Taylor wrote today. “This, when combined
with continued sizable sale declines in the fourth quarter, will
lead to earnings and credit metric bottoming out at levels
significantly weaker than expected.”  J.C. Penney doesn’t comment on agency ratings and
speculation, Joey Thomas, a spokesman, said today in an e-mail.  J.C. Penney’s credit metrics will fall to levels indicative
of a Ca grade for its fiscal 2012, she wrote. The company also
will likely draw down cash balances in 2013 for new shops,
requiring use of its $1.5 billion revolving  credit line , she
wrote.  ‘Adequate Liquidity’  The retailer,  with  about $2.87 billion of long-term debt,
doesn’t have a bond maturity until 2015, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. That, along with the company’s “adequate
liquidity,” will offer it flexibility to develop a strategy to
make up for drops in sales and gross margins as it rolls out its
“compelling” new shop concept, Taylor wrote.  The company’s $400 million of 5.65 percent notes due in
June 2020 traded at 84.5 cents on the dollar to yield 8.48
percent as of 11:44 a.m. in New York, according to Trace, the
bond-price reporting system of the Financial Industry Regulatory
Authority. J.C. Penney’s shares rose 2.9 percent to $17.24 at
the close in  New York .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sapna Maheshwari in New York at 
 sapnam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello in New York at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net . 