-- Japanese Stocks Gain on U.S. Housing Data, Stimulus Hopes
-- B y   N o r i e   K u b o y a m a
-- 2012-11-20T07:37:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-20/japanese-stocks-gain-on-u-s-housing-data-stimulus-hopes.html
Japan’s Topix Index halted a three-
day advance, with the gauge finishing the day little changed, as
brokerages and utilities retreated after a rally fueled by
speculation elections next month will yield a new government.  Daiwa Securities Group Inc. (8601)  fell 1.4 percent after gaining
13 percent in the past three days as polls showed an opposition
party pushing for more stimulus may win elections called last
week.  Kansai Electric (9503)  Power Co. sank 4 percent.  Osaka
Securities Exchange Co. rose 1.9 percent after shareholders
approved its merger with  Tokyo  Stock Exchange Group Inc.  The Topix fell less than 0.1 percent to close at 762.04.
The gauge yesterday capped the biggest gain in a three-day
period since March 2011 as the yen weakened amid speculation the
opposition Liberal Democratic Party will advocate for looser
monetary policy. The  Nikkei 225 Stock Average (NKY)  dropped 0.1
percent to 9,142.64 today.  “Share prices right now pretty much reflect a new
government,” said Seiji Iwama, who manages about 45 billion yen
($554 million) at Daiwa SB Investments Ltd., a unit of Daiwa
Securities Group Inc. in Tokyo. “Now the focus is shifting on
to the question of whether the U.S. can deal with its fiscal
cliff.”  Futures on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index slid 0.2 percent
today. The gauge gained 2 percent yesterday as sales of
previously owned U.S. homes climbed in October. President  Barack
Obama  expressed confidence Congress can reach a budget deal to
avoid $607 billion of automatic tax increases and spending cuts
that, if allowed to come into force, might push the country into
a recession next year.  France Cut  In  Europe ,  France  lost its top credit rating with Moody’s
Investors Service, dealing a blow to President Francois
Hollande’s efforts to show budget credibility as Europe’s
second-largest economy stalls. The move follows Standard &
Poor’s January downgrading of the country.  Japanese shares erased gains after the Bank of Japan
refrained from adding to stimulus, keeping its asset-purchase
fund at 66 trillion yen and its credit-lending program at 25
trillion yen. All of 22 economists surveyed by Bloomberg
forecast no change.  Brokerages dropped today, retreating after an index of the
shares gained 10 percent in the three days through yesterday,
the most among the Topix’s 33 industry groups.  Daiwa Securities slid 1.4 percent to 345 yen today.
Ichiyoshi Securities Co. slumped 1.7 percent to 471 yen.  Bourse Merger  SBI Holdings Inc., which operates an alternative trading
platform that competes with  Japan ’s traditional exchanges, led
declines among brokerages. The shares dropped 2 percent to 635
yen after shareholders of the country’s two biggest bourses
agreed to a merger.  Osaka Securities climbed 1.9 percent to 326,000 yen as
owners of the shares approved a merger with Tokyo Stock Exchange
Group Inc. The tie-up is the first step by Japan’s government to
create a national exchange trading stocks, commodities and other
securities to cope with equity volumes that have shrunk by more
than 3 percent since 2005 as trading shifts to  greater China .  Kansai Electric lost 4 percent to 714 yen. The stock
gaining 18 percent in the past three days on speculation
elections will yield a win for the LDP, which supported the
nuclear industry during in its five decades in power.  Shikoku Electric Power Co., which jumped 24 percent in the
same period sank, 3.4 percent to 1,040 yen.  Shipping lines climbed the most among the Topix’s 33
industry groups today after the  Baltic Dry Index (BDIY) , a measure of
hauling rates for commodities, jumped 1.7 percent yesterday,
rising for a seventh day.  Mitsui O.S.K. Lines Ltd., Japan’s second-biggest shipping
line by revenue, jumped 3.6 percent to 204 yen. Kawasaki Kisen
Kaisha Ltd. rose 1 percent to 105 yen.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Norie Kuboyama in Tokyo at 
 nkuboyama@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  