-- Japan Exchange Clears Last Hurdle as Shareholders OK Deal
-- B y   A n n a   K i t a n a k a   a n d   T o s h i r o   H a s e g a w a
-- 2012-11-20T07:52:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-20/japan-exchange-clears-last-hurdle-as-shareholders-approve-merger.html
Shareholders of  Osaka  Securities
Exchange Co. and Tokyo Stock Exchange Group Inc. approved a $1.6
billion merger of  Japan ’s biggest bourses in a bid to
reinvigorate the country’s securities markets.  Owners of the companies approved the transaction at
extraordinary meetings in Tokyo and Osaka. Tokyo Stock Exchange
bought 66.7 percent of the smaller exchange after a tender offer
that ended in August, making today’s votes largely procedural.
Shares of the Osaka exchange jumped as much as 6.4 percent
today, the most since the deal was announced last November.  The merger is the first step by Japan’s government to
create a national exchange trading stocks, commodities and other
securities to cope with  equity volumes  that have shrunk by more
than 3 percent since 2005 as trading shifts to greater  China .
Exchanges globally are seeking to merge as alternative trading
venues gain market share and the demand for faster and cheaper
transactions pushes costs up and margins down.  “They will need to compete with the rest of  Asia ,” said
Nader Naeimi, Sydney-based head of dynamic  asset allocation  at
AMP Capital Investors Ltd., which manages about $120 billion.
“They can do it better as a joint force rather than
individually.”  The 134-year-old Tokyo exchange, home to Toyota Motor Corp.
and Canon Inc., hosted the biggest non-U.S. equity market by
value as of June 30, according to the World Federation of
Exchanges. Only the  New York  Stock Exchange and the Nasdaq
market are larger, the data show.  Rice Futures  Osaka, which was established in 1878 and has its roots in a
futures exchange for rice during Japan’s Edo period, is the only
domestic venue where  futures  on the Nikkei 225 Stock Average
change hands.  About 7 billion yen ($86 million) a year could be saved
through integrating information technology systems, the Tokyo
and Osaka bourses said in their merger document last November.
TSE president Atsushi Saito had his pay cut in August after the
company was reprimanded by regulators for computer errors that
disrupted trading twice this year.  Japan’s reputation as a financial hub has been hurt by the
 Nikkei 225 (NKY) ’s  77 percent  slide since 1989, an economy that is
threatening to fall into its third technical recession in four
years, and accounting scandals at companies including Olympus
Corp.  Shrinking Market  The value of shares listed in Japan has shrunk 10 percent
since the start of 2005, according to  data  compiled by
Bloomberg. Mainland China’s equity market grew sevenfold in the
period, while Hong Kong’s market capitalization increased by 166
percent to become the world’s No. 4 market, the data show.  “The merger by itself won’t help boost the presence of
Japan’s financial market,” said Tatsushi Maeno, head of
investment at PineBridge Investments Japan Co., which manages
about $11 billion globally. “Investors are looking for economic
growth and Japan has lagged behind the rest of Asia.”  Average daily trading volume on the first section of the
Tokyo Stock exchange has fallen 11 percent to 2 billion  shares (8697) 
this year from 2011, and is down more than 3 percent since 2005,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The number of new listings on Japan’s exchanges has also
tumbled. So far this year, only 53 firms have announced plans to
list, compared with 201 during the same period in 2006, when the
Nikkei 225 completed a four-year rally, data compiled by
bloomberg shows. In mainland China, some 265 companies have
announced plans to list this year, according to the data.  ‘Top Priority’  “One of our top priorities is to encourage small and mid-
sized companies to list on our exchanges,” TSE president Saito
said today at a briefing after the shareholders’ meetings. “We
need to do what we can to stimulate the economy.”  The deal in Japan comes as  Hong Kong  Exchanges & Clearing
Ltd., operator of Asia’s second-largest equity market by value,
awaits regulatory approval of its takeover of the London Metal
Exchange. TMX Group Ltd., owner of  Canada ’s main stock exchange,
was acquired in September by Maple Group Acquisition Corp. as
part of a takeover that combined it with a clearing house and
Alpha Group, one of its competitors.  Regulators and politicians in Brussels, Washington and
Canberra have helped scuttle at least another $32 billion of
exchange takeovers since the start of last year, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  The TSE won control of Osaka in a tender offer that closed
Aug. 22, valuing the smaller exchange at 129.6 billion yen ($1.6
billion). The deal will be completed via a share swap that
values TSE at 1.7 times Osaka.  ‘Money maker’  The company will retain Osaka’s listing on the Jasdaq
Exchange, according to the bid document. Shares of the merged
exchange are also scheduled to start trading on the first
section of the  Tokyo  Stock Exchange on Jan. 4, Saito said on
Oct. 29.  “I feel a connection with the company,” said Osaka
shareholder Katsuji Fujikura, an 82-year-old native of the city
who said he voted for the merger and plans to hold on to his
stake. “I think it’s a good idea to become more globally
competitive and I’m keeping the stock because I hope the
combination with Tokyo will be a money maker.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anna Kitanaka in Tokyo at 
 akitanaka@bloomberg.net ;
Toshiro Hasegawa in Tokyo at 
 thasegawa6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  