-- Jets Can Point to More Than Sanchez for Record, Testaverde Says
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2012-11-20T18:12:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-20/jets-can-point-to-more-than-sanchez-for-record-testaverde-says.html
Vinny Testaverde says he can relate
with the struggles of New York Jets quarterback  Mark Sanchez ,
who has shouldered much of the blame for the team’s 4-6 start.  Testaverde, 49, played seven of his 21 National Football
League seasons with the Jets, compiling a 35-26 record as a
starter and taking the club to the American Football Conference
championship game in 1998. Sanchez is 31-26 in four seasons as
the Jets’ starter and, like Testaverde, he’s yet to fulfill the
expectations that came with being a first-round draft pick.  Sanchez, 26, is the  29th-rated quarterback  among the
league’s 32 starters this season and has completed an NFL-low
53.5 percent of his passes. Testaverde said the Jets’ erratic
running game and inexperienced receiving corps may be as much to
blame as Sanchez for the team’s worst start since 2007.  “I can tell you this from experience, quarterbacks kind of
usually go with the talent around them,” Testaverde said in a
telephone interview. “When the talent is playing well, the
quarterback plays well. When the guys don’t play so well, the
quarterback looks bad. This might be along those lines. They
have some injuries, that’s a part of it, and the running game
hasn’t helped him out like it needs to.”  The Jets halted a three-game losing streak last week with a
27-13 win over the  St. Louis Rams , as Sanchez completed 15 of
his 20 passes for 178 yards and a touchdown. The victory helped
at least temporarily quiet those calling for Sanchez to be
benched in favor of backup  Tim Tebow , including Testaverde, who
now said Sanchez will remain the starter.  Tebow’s Impact  “Tim is not a guy who’s going to come into a game for
three or four plays and have a big impact on a game,”
Testaverde said. “He’s a guy that has to be in there down after
down, wearing down the defense, and then doing his thing at the
end of the game like he did so many times in Denver.”  Tebow has thrown a total of seven passes in 10 games,
completing six, while rushing for 87 yards on 29 carries.  “I know Sanchez is  Rex Ryan ’s guy, but when things aren’t
going well, when you’re not winning, you have to make a change
for the betterment of the team, for all your guys,” Testaverde
said. “But I’m just glad they were able to play well last week.
Let’s see what that does going into this week’s game.”  Sanchez and the Jets are 6 1/2-point underdogs in their
Nov. 23 Thanksgiving Day game against the AFC East-leading New
England Patriots. The Patriots (7-3) are coming off a 35-point
rout of the  Indianapolis Colts  in which they scored a franchise-
record 59 points.  Turkey Prognosticator  Testaverde didn’t make a prediction for this week’s game,
instead leaving that to a wild turkey named Jimmy Junior, who
picked the Patriots to win as part of a promotion for Wild
Turkey Bourbon. Testaverde helped to train the bird, which he
called “the world’s first football-picking turkey.” In
addition to the Patriots, Jimmy Junior today in New York picked
the  Dallas Cowboys  to beat the  Washington Redskins  and the
 Detroit Lions  to defeat the Houston Texans in the NFL’s other
two Thanksgiving Day holiday games.  “Hopefully he’ll make some great predictions, and he won’t
be getting stuffed on Thanksgiving,” Testaverde said.  After the Patriots, the Jets’ remaining opponents --
 Arizona , Jacksonville,  Tennessee ,  San Diego  and Buffalo -- all
have losing records and are a combined 17-33.  “I’ve been with teams that looked like we were out of it
and we bounced back,” Testaverde said. “With a little bit of
luck involved, we were able to make the playoffs and make a run
at it. They’re in the same situation. If they just stay
confident and shield themselves from the outside distractions, I
think they’ll continue to play like they did last week.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in  New York  at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  