-- Kot Addu Power May Get $300 Million Pakistan Dues in Few Months
-- B y   F a s e e h   M a n g i   a n d   K h u r r u m   A n i s
-- 2012-11-20T19:01:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-20/kot-addu-power-may-get-300-million-pakistan-dues-in-few-months.html
Kot Addu Power Co. (KAPCO) , Pakistan’s
biggest non-state electricity producer, may soon receive an
overdue payment of about $300 million from the government to
help increase output as the nation faces a record power shortage.  A payment “in the next few months will improve our working
capital management, help the cleansing of our expensive debt and
help make a better impression on our profit,” Aftab Mahmood Butt, chief executive officer, said in an interview in Lahore
yesterday. “It’s an election year so the government wants
maximum production.”  Delayed payment of dues by state-owned grid companies is
making it difficult for private electricity producers in
Pakistan to operate, many of whom are forced to run below
capacity. The delays lead to so-called circular debt in the
nation’s energy industry that amounts to as much as 400 billion
rupees ($4.2 billion), according to Invest Capital Markets Ltd.
in Karachi.  The government sold bonds worth 82 billion rupees in
September to make payments to electricity producers. Kot Addu
received 29 billion rupees in overdue payments at the time,
which helped the company pay funds owed to  Pakistan  State Oil
for fuel supplies to its plant. Pakistan, scheduled to hold
general elections by early next year, has faced violent protests
over electricity outages lasting as long as 18 hours a day.  “Pakistan State Oil and the power sector were the biggest
beneficiaries of the September sale, as the supply of fuel
improved, electricity generation became efficient, and power
blackouts lessened,” said Abdul Azeem, research analyst with
Invest Capital. Kot Addu uses an average 60 percent of its
1,600-megawatt capacity, he said.  Shares Gain  Kot Addu’s  shares  have gained 13 percent this year,
compared with a 45 percent increase in the benchmark KSE100
index. The shares rose 0.2 percent to 46.61 rupees in Karachi
yesterday.  The company’s  net income  rose 47 percent to 1.75 billion
rupees in the quarter ended Sept. 30, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  The government owes 54 billion rupees to Kot Addu as of Nov.
20 and the power producer in turn is late on 25 billion rupees
of payments to Pakistan State Oil, including financial charges,
Butt said.  The company is expected to continue making dividend
payments, said Butt, 42, who has been CEO since 2008. Kot Addu
has been paying dividends to its shareholders twice a year since
the company was listed on the exchange in 2005, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  Plant Efficiency  Kot Addu is spending 500 million rupees this year to
improve efficiency through a fuel treatment plant, converting
boilers from oil to coal and better interconnection of machinery,
Butt said.  Pakistan is seeking to set up  power plants  to help overcome
a record electricity shortage that has closed factories and led
to riots. The nation’s electricity shortfall rises to as much as
5,000 megawatts a day in the summer.  Kot Addu’s plant, located in the central Punjab province,
uses furnace oil, natural gas and diesel to generate electricity,
which is sold to the state-owned Water and Power Development
Authority.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Faseeh Mangi in Karachi, Pakistan at 
 fmangi@bloomberg.net ;
Khurrum Anis in Karachi, Pakistan at 
 Kkhan14@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Hobbs at 
 Ahobbs4@bloomberg.net  