-- Nasty Mozart Pushes Maria Schneider Into Jazz Composing
-- B y   P a t r i c k   C o l e
-- 2012-11-20T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-20/nasty-mozart-pushes-maria-schneider-into-jazz-composing.html
Jazz composer  Maria Schneider 
struggled with her Mozart piano lessons as a child. That might
well have been her first push toward a different end of music.  Schneider, 51, has been ranked as jazz’s top composer and
arranger in the  DownBeat magazine Critics poll  for the past 3
years. Her Maria Schneider Orchestra has been the poll’s top
big-band choice each year since 2008. Her 2004 album, “Concert
in the Garden,” was the first CD sold only on the Internet to
win a Grammy Award.  She also figured out how to get paid decently -- a
challenge in the big-band world where gig payments are sliced
many ways. Her recordings on  ArtistShare , an online music site,
allow her to generate income from fans who help finance a CD as
well as from record sales.  Schneider leads her band tonight through Sunday at  New
York ’s Jazz Standard. She talked to me last week during a break
from a record-mixing session.  Cole: How did you discover music?  Schneider: A woman named Evelyn Butler moved to Windom,
 Minnesota , where I was born, from  Chicago . She started teaching
piano lessons, and I was the incredible beneficiary of her move.
There was no division between classical and jazz for her. I was
8 years old when I wrote my first song.  Horrifying Mozart  Cole: Why didn’t you stick with the piano?  Schneider: I listened to a young girl play Mozart who had
won a competition. She was perfection! It was horrifying for me
to watch. I said, “OK, I can toss that off my list.” I don’t
know that girl’s name or where she went. She probably lives in
my building in New York! You know how those things go.  Cole: Why were you intimidated by Mozart’s piano works?  Schneider: Mozart is so hard to play and play well. It’s
seemingly simple, but it’s very, very difficult to play. You
can’t hide when you play Mozart. Back when I started with Mrs.
Butler, I knew I didn’t have great technique. I knew I was a
musician, but I wasn’t a performer.  Cole: You studied music theory at the  University of
Minnesota  and later worked with the legendary Gil Evans and Bob
Brookmeyer. What did you learn from them?  Schneider: Gil really inspired me to try to find my own
voice. They were both very strong personalities. You can’t look
at them and say, “I want to do that.” You have to say, “I’m
going to be as dedicated as they are.”  Cole: What’s the advantage of recording with an online
venture like ArtistShare instead of a traditional record
company?  No Middlemen  Schneider: You eliminate the middlemen. Under the old way,
the record store, distributor and record company are taking a
cut. You end up with nothing because the record company has
built in a huge profit margin.  If I could have watched a musician make music as fans do
through ArtistShare, I would have learned more. Many of my fans
have become friends. It’s not just the money, it’s the support.  Cole: I understand your love of bird-watching was partly
the inspiration for your Grammy Award-winning composition
“Cerulean Skies.”  Schneider: Being in nature was central to my childhood.
When I delve into the world and look at trees, and you look at
the magnificence of birds, their path to migration, it’s really
inspiring. My reason for making music is the joy of expressing
the beautiful things in life.  The Maria Schneider Orchestra performs at the Jazz
Standard, 116 E. 27th St. in  Manhattan  tonight through Sunday
(excluding Thanksgiving Day) at 7:30 and 9:30 p.m. (and 11:30
p.m. as well on Friday and Saturday). Information: +1-212-576-
2232;  http://www.jazzstandard.net/red/index.html .  (Patrick Cole is a reporter for Muse, the arts and leisure
section of  Bloomberg News . The opinions expressed are his own.
This interview was adapted from a longer conversation.)  Muse highlights include  Greg Evans  on  TV , Laurie Muchnick
on  books .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patrick Cole in New York at 
 pcole3@Bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in New York at 
 Mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net  