-- Nestle Purchase of Pfizer Unit Blocked in Mexico
-- B y   C r a y t o n   H a r r i s o n
-- 2012-11-20T21:02:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-20/nestle-purchase-of-pfizer-unit-blocked-in-mexico.html
Nestle SA (NESN) ’s acquisition of  Pfizer
Inc. (PFE) ’s infant-nutrition unit in  Mexico  was blocked by the
nation’s antitrust agency, which said the deal would hurt
consumers.  The transaction, part of an $11.9 billion deal to buy
Pfizer’s worldwide nutrition business, would give Vevey,
Switzerland-based Nestle market share of as much as 88 percent,
depending on the type of baby formula, the agency said today in
a statement. That would lead to price increases of as much as
11.5 percent, it said.  The setback for Nestle may force the company to seek a
buyer such as Danone SA for some assets, said Jon Cox, head of
Swiss research at Kepler Capital Markets in Zurich. Nestle and
New York-based Pfizer can also file an appeal within 30 business
days, the antitrust agency said.  “ Danone (BN)  is obviously very interested in those parts that
can’t be part of the deal for regulatory reasons,” Cox said in
an e-mail. “Nestle might be reluctant to sell to Danone as it
is obviously a tough competitor in the segment on a global
basis.”  Mexico is Nestle’s fifth-largest market by sales, trailing
the U.S., France, Brazil and Germany, according to its 2011
 annual report . Pfizer gets more than 80 percent of its nutrition
revenue from  emerging markets , the company’s 2011 annual report
showed. Chinese authorities approved the infant-nutrition
transaction earlier this month.  Joan Campion, a Pfizer spokeswoman, referred a request for
comment to Nestle. Nestle’s press office didn’t immediately
return an e-mailed request for comment. Agnes Berthet-
d’Anthonay, a spokeswoman at Paris-based Danone, also didn’t
immediately reply to an e-mail message.  Nestle fell 0.3 percent to 59.15 Swiss francs in Zurich.
Pfizer rose 0.6 percent to $24.28 at the close in New York.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Crayton Harrison in Mexico City at 
 tharrison5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Jarvis  at 
 pjarvis@bloomberg.net  