-- New York Apartment Dwellers Sue Over Sandy-Related Damage
-- B y   C h r i s t i e   S m y t h e   a n d   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h
-- 2012-11-20T23:51:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-20/new-york-apartment-dwellers-sue-over-sandy-related-damage.html
Tenants of an apartment complex in
Manhattan’s Financial District sued their landlords over claims
they failed to protect the property from extensive flood damage
during  Hurricane Sandy .  Residents of the towers at 2 Gold Street and 201 Pearl
Street alleged that the buildings’ manager, TF Cornerstone Inc.,
was negligent in preparing for the storm and in protecting the
849-unit property from looting.  As much as 15 feet (4.5 meters) of water from the storm
entered the property through a parking garage entrance and
flooded the buildings’ basements, according to the complaint
filed yesterday in state court in Manhattan.  “No sandbags were placed in front of the entrance to the
parking garage, nor were any other effective precautions taken
with respect to the garage entrance and the perimeter of the
property,” according to the complaint, which was filed on
behalf of all residents in the towers.  Salt water damaged the boiler, electrical switchboards and
a 20,000-gallon oil tank located 30 feet below ground, which
ruptured and spilled oil into the floodwaters, according to the
complaint. The complex was evacuated before the storm hit on
Oct. 29. TF Cornerstone has told tenants the buildings cannot be
reoccupied until at least March 1, according to the complaint.  Gas Masks  The plaintiffs, Michael Cashwell and David Barker, said in
the complaint that they have seen workers in hazardous materials
suits and gas masks at the property.  Tenants returning to retrieve personal property have seen
many apartment doors unlocked and wide open with “numerous”
items of personal property missing, according to the complaint.  Representatives of TF Cornerstone, a  Manhattan  development
and management firm, didn’t immediately respond to a call
seeking comment. On a  website  for the property, TF Cornerstone
said that the buildings continue to be staffed 24-hours-a-day.
The company said its staff members are entering apartments to
remove trash and items from refrigerators and check gas and
plumbing fixtures.  “Please be assured that security has been, and will
remain, our paramount concern,” the company said on the
website.  On a  marketing website , the complex is described as “the
centerpiece of Manhattan’s fastest growing residential area,”
with amenities including a 24-hour concierge, pool, roof deck,
solarium and fitness center.  The case is Cashwell v. 2 Gold LLC, 158155-2012, Supreme
Court of the State of New York, County of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Christie Smythe in New York at 
 csmythe1@bloomberg.net 
Chris Dolmetsch in New York at 
 cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 