-- News Corp. to Acquire 49% of YES Network at $3 Billion Value
-- B y   A n d y   F i x m e r   a n d   S c o t t   S o s h n i c k
-- 2012-11-20T21:07:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-20/news-corp-to-buy-49-of-yes-network-with-option-for-80-stake.html
News Corp. (NWSA) , the media company led by
 Rupert Murdoch , agreed to buy 49 percent of the YES Network, the
cable channel that carries New York Yankees baseball games, in a
deal that values the pay-TV outlet at about $3 billion.  News Corp. is acquiring the stake from the Yankees,  Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and other investors, the companies said today
in a statement. Murdoch can raise the stake to 80 percent after
three years. Other financial terms weren’t announced.  Acquiring YES strengthens News Corp.’s regional sports
 business  by adding the Yankees, a marquee Major League Baseball
team, and the  National Basketball Association ’s Brooklyn Nets.
YES also negotiated a five-year extension of its agreement to
carry Yankees games through 2042, program rights that underpin
the valuation, people with knowledge of the situation said.  “This is a tremendous opportunity to enhance News Corp.’s
industry-leading portfolio of sports properties, while also
strategically re-entering the New York market,”  James Murdoch ,
deputy chief operating officer, said in the statement.  News Corp. will be able to raise its stake in YES to 80
percent in three years, based on a $3.8 billion valuation for
the channel, said the people, who weren’t authorized to speak
publicly. The company plans a national sports channel next year
to compete with Walt Disney Co.’s ESPN and NBC Universal’s NBC
Sports, and is seeking extended rights to  Los Angeles Dodgers 
pay-TV telecasts.  Three Decades  The YES extension secures three decades of Yankees games
for the channel. The rights contract provides for about a 5
percent increase each year from the current $85 million annually
the network pays for the games, reaching about $350 million by
the contract’s end,  the people said.  “This kind of deal is not for the fainthearted,” Marc Ganis, president of Chicago-based consultant Sportscorp Ltd.,
said in a phone interview before the announcement. “It’s
something that only a very confident, well-capitalized
management and ownership can do.”  News Corp. rose 0.2 percent to $24.01 at the close in New
York. The Class A shares have gained 35 percent this year.  The Yankees held a 34 percent stake in the channel founded
by their late owner,  George Steinbrenner . Goldman Sachs and
 Providence Equity Partners  Inc., which helped fund the network
in 2001, together own 40 percent. The remainder is held by the
former owners of the Nets.  Investor Comment  “From a startup in 2001 to the largest regional sports
network in the U.S., this has been a remarkable achievement,”
 Jonathan Nelson , chief executive officer of Providence Equity
Partners, said in an e-mailed statement. “We believe YES has a
very bright future in the years ahead.”  News Corp. is vying with  Time Warner Cable Inc. (TWC)  for TV
rights to baseball’s Los Angeles Dodgers on a regional sports
network in Southern California.  “A lot of this is the chess match between News Corp. and
Time Warner,” Chris Bevilacqua, an industry consultant who is
representing the Big East Conference in its contract talks with
 Walt Disney Co. (DIS) ’s ESPN, said via telephone. “If you’re going to
be an RSN leader, you want anchors on both coasts. That’s a
pretty strong move.”  YES Network generates more than $200 million in annual
earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization,
Forbes reported in April.  “It’s the Yankees and it’s the biggest market in the
country,” Bevilacqua said. “It’s a heck of an asset.”  The Dodgers were sold at auction earlier this year for a
record $2.15 billion, fueled by the expiration of the team’s
broadcast contract with Fox Sports at a time when there’s a
premium being paid for live sports.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andy Fixmer in  Los Angeles  at 
 afixmer@bloomberg.net ;
Scott Soshnick in New York at 
 ssoshnick@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  