-- NHL Asks for NHLPA Proposal After First Labor Talks in a Week
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2012-11-20T05:25:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-20/nhl-asks-for-nhlpa-proposal-after-first-labor-talks-in-a-week.html
The  National Hockey League  held a
90-minute meeting with the NHL Players Association during which
it asked the union to make a proposal detailing its position on
economic issues for a new collective bargaining agreement.  Last night’s negotiations were the first between the NHL
and the NHLPA since Nov. 11.  NHL players have been locked out since Sept. 16, the day
after the old labor contract expired, and the league has
canceled all regular-season games through Nov. 30. The two
sides, which have been unable to agree on proposed changes to
player contract rights and the sharing of hockey-related
revenue, will probably meet again today.  “We’ve made a couple comprehensive proposals in a row,”
NHL Deputy Commissioner Bill Daly told reporters. “We’d like to
know where they are on all of the issues. We asked them to think
about putting together a comprehensive proposal for us to
consider. That’s where it stands.”  Daly and NHL Commissioner Gary Bettman represented the
league’s negotiating team yesterday along with Toronto Maple
Leafs General Manager Brian Burke, and owners  Ted Leonsis  of the
 Washington Capitals , Murray Edwards of the Calgary Flames and
Jeremy Jacobs of the  Boston Bruins .  Daly said the NHL wants to “see where we are and how close
we might be on economics before we are necessarily tackling
where exactly we are on player contracting.”  NHLPA Executive Director Donald Fehr and special counsel
Steve Fehr headed yesterday’s union negotiating team that also
included 18 players, NHL.com said.  The NHL has canceled a total of 327 regular-season games
since the start of the lockout. Among them is the annual Winter
Classic scheduled for Jan. 1. Daly said the league would have to
make a decision on canceling more games if an agreement on a new
labor contract isn’t reached soon.  “I understand there is a lot of frustration in the
process,” Daly said. “I’m frustrated in terms of being where
we are and not playing hockey.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in  New York  at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  