-- Nigerian Bank Governor Sanusi Says Inflation May Rise Year-End
-- B y   M a r a m   M a z e n
-- 2012-11-20T16:21:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-20/nigerian-bank-governor-sanusi-says-inflation-may-rise-year-end.html
Nigerian Central Bank Governor
Lamido Sanusi made the following comments after a meeting today
of the bank’s monetary policy committee in Abuja, the capital.  On  inflation  outlook this and next year:  “Our own estimate is that we probably might have an uptick
of inflation in December. We do think the headline numbers and
food numbers will probably be somewhat lower, actually heading
toward 10 percent” early next year.  “A significant part of that would be the base effects.
Remember that in early January this year there was an increase
in oil prices and therefore a sharp uptick of inflation, so
unless you have a similar shock in December, the base effect is
likely to lead to a moderation in those headline numbers.  ‘‘But that doesn’t mean you have a moderation in the
underlying inflationary pressures, because if you look at the
food index for October, what was interesting was that food
prices weren’t driven by one or two commodities. It was an
across-the-board increase.  ‘‘When you’ve got such broad-based pressures, you tend to
be a bit cautious in forecasts of a deceleration that is very
quick.’’  On naira stability:  ‘‘For the naira, our stance remains the same. We’ve always
considered a stable exchange rate critical to the anchoring of
price expectations. We’re under no pressure to change. We’re not
looking for a strong appreciation. We’re also not looking for a
strong depreciation. We’re an open economy.  ‘‘Unfortunately we’re too import-dependent. Therefore, a
weak currency doesn’t import our exports, given the fact that
we’re an oil producing country, whose commodity is denominated
in dollars anyway and whose price is determined by the
international markets. So we don’t get much mileage by weakening
our currency.  ‘‘In the same vein, there’s no benefit in running down
reserves to have a very strong currency. You make imports cheap,
you increase the import-dependent nature of the economy, and you
reduce your ability to cope with external shocks.  ‘‘So, the key is to have stability. The key is to build up
reserves. But far more important for the government to make
progress on the structural reforms in the power sector, in the
agricultural sector, which will then reduce the dependence of
the economy on oil and the vulnerability to commodity price
shocks.”  On concerns over the global economy:  “The slowdown in the U.S. is just one part of the problem.
 Europe  is in recession. The rest of the  emerging markets  are
slowing down. The only thing keeping the oil price up is the
uncertainty and instability in the Middle East. And if it goes
down we might find ourselves in a situation where we’re
basically moving from one end to another as far as monetary
policy is concerned.  ‘‘So in view of all those uncertainties, we’ve done well so
far. We believe we should continue to hold our position until we
have clarity on what’s happening outside there.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maram Mazen in Abuja at 
 mmazen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nasreen Seria at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net  