-- Nigeria’s Naira Declines as Central Bank Leaves Rates Unchanged
-- B y   C h r i s   K a y
-- 2012-11-20T14:44:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-20/nigeria-s-naira-declines-as-central-bank-leaves-rates-unchanged.html
Nigeria ’s naira weakened as the
central bank kept the benchmark  interest rate  on hold to counter
accelerating inflation.  The currency of  Africa ’s biggest oil producer slipped less
than 0.1 percent to 157.9 a dollar at 3:20 p.m. in Lagos, the
commercial capital, after gaining 0.4 percent yesterday, the
most since Oct. 4, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The  Central Bank of Nigeria , led by Governor Lamido Sanusi,
left the rate unchanged at a record 12 percent today at the
monetary policy committee’s final meeting this year, meeting the
expectations of all 13 economists surveyed by Bloomberg. The
 inflation rate , which rose to 11.7 percent in October on
widespread flooding of farms, is still above the bank’s target
of less than 10 percent.  “The MPC will not ease until it is more comfortable with
the future direction of inflation and less anxious about the
global landscape,” Gregory Kronsten, the London-based head of
economic and fixed-income research at FBN Capital Ltd., wrote in
an e-mailed note to clients today.  Sanusi is trying to curtail price increases and bolster the
naira to curb import costs by keeping interest rates higher and
boosting capital reserve requirements for banks. Sanusi lifted a
requirement last year for foreign investors to hold local-
currency debt for at least one year.  “The naira outlook remains uncertain over the medium term
and will continue to be affected by strong import demand, a
structural imbalance between dollar supply and demand and
acceleration in inflation,”  Ecobank Transnational Inc. (ETI) 
analysts, led by Paul-Harry Aithnard in Paris, wrote in a
research note today.  Borrowing Costs  Yields on 10-year naira debt fell 14 basis points to 12.46
percent, according to yesterday’s prices compiled on the
Financial Markets Dealers Association website. Borrowing costs
on the nation’s $500 million of Eurobonds due January 2021
declined two basis points to 4.4 percent today.  The Debt Management Office is scheduled to sell 50 billion
naira ($316 million) of 10-year and 7-year bonds tomorrow. The
central bank is offering 116.18 billion naira of Treasury bills
in two days.  Ghana ’s cedi snapped three days of gains, dropping 0.5
percent to 1.8868 in Accra, the capital.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Kay in Abuja at 
 ckay5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vernon Wessels at 
 vwessels@bloomberg.net  