-- Nintendo Warns Wii U Buyers About Damage During Software Updates
-- B y   C l i f f   E d w a r d s
-- 2012-11-21T02:14:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-20/nintendo-warns-wii-u-buyers-to-prevent-damage-during-updates.html
Nintendo Co. warned buyers of its
new Wii U not to turn off the console while downloading a
mandatory firmware update after some customers complained their
devices were damaged during the process.  “It may take an hour or more to perform the system
update,” the company said in an e-mail yesterday. “Powering
off the console during the update may damage your system.”  The warning and the update comes as the Kyoto, Japan-based
company, in order to get the machine into U.S. stores for the
 holiday shopping season , didn’t include a new TV-viewing service
in its first new console since 2006. Pressure is mounting on
President Satoru Iwata to repeat the success of the Wii console
after the 3DS handheld player failed to meet sales expectations
in overseas markets, prompting Nintendo to cut its profit goal
70 percent last month.  Kristie Tomkins, an outside spokeswoman for Nintendo with
the firm Golin Harris, said customers can troubleshoot their Wii
U by checking  http://support.nintendo.com  or calling 1-800-255-
3700. Yasuhiro Minagawa, a Kyoto-based spokesman for Nintendo,
referred questions to his U.S. counterparts.  Nintendo fell 0.9 percent to 10,200 yen as of 11 a.m. in
Osaka trading, widening its year-to-date decline to 3.8 percent.  The company introduced the Wii U in the U.S. weeks before
 Europe  and  Japan  to take advantage of the holiday shopping
season that starts Friday, said  Reggie Fils-Aime , Nintendo’s
North America president. The console is selling well, and
Nintendo will have enough supply for the “Black Friday”
kickoff to the shopping season.  Amazon, Hulu  Nintendo also said Amazon.com’s Instant Video and Hulu
LLC’s download services would be available later. Features such
as the company’s Miiverse social network, Wii U Chat and eShop
are part of the software update, according to the e-mail.  The high-definition console, offered in two versions
costing about $300 and $350 with a 6.2-inch touch screen
controller called the GamePad, is mostly sold out, Fils-Aime
said. The company plans to restock store shelves before Friday,
he said in an interview on CNBC.  IHS Screen Digest expects Nintendo to sell 3.5 million Wii
U consoles in the U.S. this year. The industry has been counting
on a new console upgrade cycle to revive lackluster retail
video-game sales.  Mixed Reviews  The length of time it takes for the Wii U’s firmware to
download has been noted in reviews on websites including
Wired.com and CNET.com.  Wired  cautioned that users must spend “a good part of
Christmas morning and some of Christmas afternoon updating the
operating system first.”  CNET said  “some OS loading times are
too long.”  In its review, Engadget reserved judgment on the product
until it spends more time with the post-update features.  Iwata, 52, told analysts and investors Oct. 25 the Wii U
may be in short supply this year because production only began
“this summer,” according to Nintendo’s website. The machine
goes on sale in Europe and  Australia  on Nov. 30 and in Japan
Dec. 8.  Nintendo and rival console makers  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  and  Sony
Corp. (6758)  all face increased competition in the gaming market as
consumers turn to smartphones and tablets such as  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s
iPad to play free games like “Hill Climb Racing.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cliff Edwards in  San Francisco  at 
 cedwards28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  