-- TNK-BP’s Lazurenko Fraud Case Can’t Be Tried in U.K., Judge Says
-- B y   K i t   C h e l l e l
-- 2012-11-20T15:17:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-20/tnk-bp-s-lazurenko-fraud-case-can-t-be-tried-in-u-k-judge-says.html
TNK-BP, the Russian oil venture
between  BP Plc (BP/)  and a group of billionaires, can’t sue Igor
Lazurenko, former head of logistics, in the U.K. over its
allegations of fraud, a court ruled.  TNK-BP’s claim should be dealt with by Russian courts,
Judge Andrew Sutcliffe said in a written decision today in
London ending a worldwide freezing order against about $39
million in assets the venture said were linked to the fraud.  “Russia is the natural forum for the determination of this
dispute,” Sutcliffe said. There is an issue that needs to be
tried, he said, while calling TNK-BP’s claim “weak” on facts.  BP ended all legal disputes with its Russian partners in
TNK-BP this month, paving the way for a sale of its stake in the
Moscow-based venture to OAO Rosneft and an end to its public
spat with Mikhail Fridman and the other investors. Rosneft
agreed in October to buy BP’s stake for cash and shares, and pay
cash for the billionaires’ half.  TNK-BP sued Lazurenko, his wife, business partners and
several affiliated companies, saying he solicited payments from
suppliers to award them contracts and funneled money into a
Montenegro hotel business. Lazurenko, who fled  Russia  in April,
told the court he had documents showing TNK-BP was involved in
fraud with senior government officials. The venture called the
claims blackmail and said they were unproven.  “TNK-BP is consulting with its legal team with regards to
a possible response and the future pursuit of its claims against
Mr. Lazurenko,” company spokeswoman Katja Ulanova said in an e-
mail.  Lazurenko’s lawyer, Michael Armstrong, didn’t immediately
respond to an e-mail seeking comment.  TNK-BP disciplined 92 people last year in an internal
corruption probe that led to 37 criminal cases.  The Russian Department of Internal Affairs is investigating
a separate criminal complaint against Lazurenko over oil
contracts, Judge Sutcliffe said in his ruling.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kit Chellel in  London  at 
 cchellel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  