-- Obama Pushes Health Law Forward With Rules for Insurers
-- B y   A l e x   W a y n e
-- 2012-11-20T19:52:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-20/obama-pushes-health-law-forward-with-rules-for-insurers.html
UnitedHealth Group Inc. (UNH)  and other
health insurers would be able to vary their premiums based only
on age, tobacco use, family size or geography under proposed
U.S. rules meant to protect people with pre-existing illnesses.  In addition, the Department of Health and Human Services
 outlined  conditions and services insurers must cover, and laid
out rules to let companies expand  employee wellness programs ,
according to proposed regulations posted online today. The rules
also include a concession to pharmaceutical companies that may
force health plans to offer a wider variety of branded drugs.  The proposals mark the Obama administration’s move to begin
formalizing core provisions of the 2010 Affordable Care Act. The
 first rule  targets 50 million to 129 million Americans who have
conditions such as diabetes and cancer that insurers have cited
to deny coverage or increase premiums, the department said in
its filing. That practice would have to end in 2014.  The ban on medical underwriting “is of course intensely
important to cancer patients and survivors who for too long have
been charged exorbitant rates or denied care altogether,” said
Stephen Finan, senior director of policy at the American Cancer
Society’s lobbying arm, the Cancer Action Network.  Insurers will be able vary premiums based on age, and are
limited to charging their oldest customers three times as much
as their youngest ones. The regulation must go through a public
comment period and may change before taking effect.  Drug Choice  The second rule requires insurers to cover a broad set of
conditions and services, such as emergency room treatments,
hospitalization, drugs and pediatric care. The government let
states pick benchmark plans for benefit packages matching those
requirements, and today published a list of those plans. Most
are offered by state Blue Cross and Blue Shield companies.  The government backtracked from an  initial  proposal made in
December that would have let health plans cover as few as one
drug per class of medicine, a move opposed by drugmakers and
patient-advocacy groups that argued it would limit choices.  The federal government instead proposed that insurers can
cover the same number of drugs per class as state benchmark
plans, which are typically greater than the single-drug option
the Obama administration had considered. The change is a win for
pharmaceutical companies, which had lobbied for coverage of more
medicines, said Dan Mendelson, chief executive officer of
Avalere Health LLC, a Washington-based consulting company.  Benchmark plans in most states, possibly all of them, cover
more than one branded drug per class, he said in an interview.  Plan Costs  The policy “will significantly broaden access to branded
pharmaceuticals for patients who buy their insurance on the
exchange,” Mendelson said. It will “make exchange offerings
more consistent with employer offerings.”  The cost of exchange plans may increase as a result, he
said, although insurers can use management strategies such as
higher co-payments for brand drugs to control spending.  Under the government’s wellness proposal, employers can
award workers as much as 30 percent of the cost of their health
coverage if they participate in programs such as joining a gym
or attending health seminars. The limit now is 20 percent,
according to a news release.  Workers could earn as much as 50 percent of the cost of
their coverage if they participate in tobacco cessation
programs, according to the proposed rule.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Wayne in Washington at 
 awayne3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  