-- Oil Falls on Signs Gaza Cease-Fire Imminent
-- B y   M a r k   S h e n k
-- 2012-11-20T20:24:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-20/oil-falls-as-israel-postpones-ground-assault.html
Oil tumbled from a one-month high as
Hamas said a draft accord for a cease-fire that would end
fighting between Israel and Palestinian groups in the  Gaza Strip 
is almost ready.  Futures dropped 2.8 percent after Hamas official Osama
Hamdan said by phone from Beirut that the cease-fire will take
effect at midnight. His comments came as U.S. Secretary of State
 Hillary Clinton  flew to the region to join truce talks. Prices
surged 2.7 percent yesterday as the conflict escalated.  “Crude is down because cooler heads are prevailing in the
 Middle East ,” said  Stephen Schork , president of the Schork
Group Inc., an energy advisory company in Villanova,
Pennsylvania. “The huge run-up yesterday is being exorcised.”  Crude oil for January delivery declined $2.53 to settle at
$86.75 a barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange . It was the
biggest decrease since Nov. 7. The contract surged to $89.28
yesterday, the highest settlement since Oct. 19. Prices have
dropped 12 percent this year.  Brent oil for January settlement slipped $1.87, or 1.7
percent, to end the session at $109.83 a barrel on the London-
based ICE Futures Europe exchange.  After the oil market settled,  CNN  quoted an unidentified
Egyptian official as saying that there would be no announcement
of a truce tonight. Nymex futures pared their decline to $87.01
in electronic trading at 3:23 p.m.  The conflict in Gaza threatens further instability in the
Middle East and North Africa after a wave of uprisings since
last year, including one in Libya that almost entirely cut the
nation’s crude exports. The region accounted for 36 percent of
global oil output and held 52 percent of proved reserves in
2011, according to  BP Plc (BP/) ’s Statistical Review of World Energy.  ‘Every Headline’  “The possibility of a cease-fire in the Middle East makes
yesterday’s move look overdone,” said  Michael Lynch , president
of Strategic Energy & Economic Research in Winchester,
Massachusetts. “We will be paying attention to every headline
from the region.”  Clinton will visit Jerusalem, Cairo and the West Bank town
of Ramallah, said  Ben Rhodes , White House deputy national
security adviser. “The goal on that trip is for everybody to
use their voices, their influence, for a peaceful outcome,” he
said at a briefing in Phnom Penh, Cambodia.  An Israeli official, who spoke anonymously because of the
sensitivity of the matter, said that if talks failed, Israel was
prepared to invade. Israeli officials have said any cease-fire
must include a long-term agreement with Hamas to halt the firing
of rockets that can hit 4.5 million people, or half the
country’s population.  Clinton Visit  “The fact that Clinton is flying to the region at least
shows that the U.S. is getting moderately involved in finding a
solution,” said Bill O’Grady, chief market strategist at
Confluence Investment Management in  St. Louis , which oversees
$1.4 billion.  Prices also decreased on speculation that an Energy
Department report tomorrow will show that U.S. crude inventories
rose to a four-month high last week. Stockpiles probably
increased by  1 million barrels , according to the median of 11
analyst responses in a Bloomberg survey.  U.S. output increased 32,000 barrels a day to 6.71 million
in the week to Nov. 9, the fastest rate since May 1994, the
department’s report showed. Production was up for 10 weeks, the
longest string of gains since 2008. Inventories also may have
increased as Phillips 66’s 238,000-barrel-a-day Bayway refinery
in New Jersey remained shut after  Hurricane Sandy , which hit the
East Coast on Oct. 29.  The Energy Department is scheduled to release its weekly
report at 10:30 a.m. tomorrow in Washington. The industry-funded
 American Petroleum Institute  in Washington will publish its own
stockpile data today.  U.S. Economy  Price declines will be limited because of the improving
U.S. economic outlook, said  Phil Flynn , senior market analyst at
the Price Futures Group in Chicago.  New-home construction unexpectedly climbed to a four-year
high in October, more evidence of a revival in the industry
that’s helping propel the  U.S. economy . Housing starts rose 3.6
percent to a 894,000 annual rate, the fastest since July 2008
and exceeding all estimates in a Bloomberg survey, Commerce
Department figures showed today in Washington.  “The housing starts number was explosive and may be a
harbinger of things to come,” Flynn said. “Optimism about the
economy should lead to more of a risk-on trade once the Israeli-
Palestinian situation moves from the forefront.”  Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said in a speech
in New York today that an agreement on ways to reduce long-term
 federal budget  deficits could remove an impediment to growth.  Electronic trading volume on the Nymex was 561,481
contracts as of 3:23 p.m. Volume totaled 492,706 contracts
yesterday, 6.9 percent lower than the three-month average. Open
interest was 1.47 million, the least since Aug. 21.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Shenk in New York at 
 mshenk1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  