-- Olam Declines After Muddy Waters Questions Accounts
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   Y u n   a n d   J o n a t h a n   B u r g o s
-- 2012-11-20T12:46:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-20/olam-slumps-after-muddy-waters-block-questions-accounts.html
Olam International Ltd. (OLAM)  slumped the
most in six months in  Singapore  trading after short-seller
 Carson Block  questioned the agricultural commodity trader’s
accounting methods.  The shares fell 7.5 percent to S$1.61 at the close, the
lowest since May 16. The bonds dropped in Asian trade. Block
said he is betting against the stock because Olam, which had a
record level of shorts as of Nov. 15, is booking  profits  on
transactions before it’s clear how the deals will work out. The
company is “aggressive” in reporting gains on its biological
assets, including plantations, crop, and cattle.  “We consider these statements as having no merit and being
fairly baseless assertions,” Chief Executive Officer Sunny Verghese said today on a conference call. “There was a
deliberate attempt to create panic among our shareholders.”  Block, a 36-year-old lawyer who founded investment firm
 Muddy Waters  LLC, has successfully bet against Chinese companies
that trade in  North America  after questioning their accounting
methods. One target, tree-plantation operator Sino-Forest Corp.,
slumped 74 percent before eventually filing for  bankruptcy
protection  in March.  “We will need to see how both sides are able to articulate
their arguments,” said  Alan Richardson , a Singapore-based  fund
manager  who helps oversee about $82 billion for Samsung Asset
Management, which doesn’t own Olam shares.  Olam will wait for Block to publish his report and answer
any queries about it, Verghese said.  Bonds Tumble  The company, whose second-biggest shareholder is
Singapore’s state-investment company Temasek Holdings Pte
according to data compiled by Bloomberg, is down 24 percent this
year in Singapore, compared with a 12 percent gain in the
benchmark Straits Times Index. The stock dropped 21 percent in
over-the-counter trading in  New York  yesterday, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  Olam’s dollar-denominated bonds due 2017 plunged to a
record and were at 91.5 cents on the dollar at 3:54 p.m. in
Singapore, according to BNP Paribas SA prices. The company’s net
debt was $5.7 billion as of Sept. 30, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  The company may consider buying back shares and intervene
in the  bond market  if necessary, Verghese said on the call,
adding he has never traded a single of his Olam shares.  The supplier of 20 goods from cocoa to rubber said its
financial statements have been audited by Ernst & Young LLP and
are in compliance with the Companies Act and Singapore Financial
Reporting Standards. The company “reserves the right to take
strong and appropriate action with regard to any unsubstantiated
or baseless assertions,” Olam said.  Peanuts, Cotton  CIMB Group Holdings Bhd. analyst Lee Wen Ching downgraded
Olam from neutral to trading sell on expectations of “selling
pressure once trading resumes as fear overrides the group’s
long-term growth plans,” she said today in an e-mailed report.  Singapore-based Olam, which handles more than 90 percent of
world trade in peanuts and is one of the top six cotton traders,
is “heavily” indebted and aggressive in how it reports what
the company calls biological gains on investments, Block told
the Ira Sohn Investment Conference in  London .  Block “is not acting alone” and the company believes he
visited Olam’s Singapore office on Nov. 1 in disguise, Verghese
said.  ‘Leap of Faith’  Olam will fail and recoveries for investors will be
“negligible,” Block said. “It’s a leap of faith to think the
company is being honest with its valuation” gains, he said.  “While the accusations are serious, we believe Block’s
argument is inconsistent as the group will not fail even if the
entire value of its biological assets is written off,” UOB-Kay
Hian Holdings Ltd. analyst Eugene Ng said in an e-mailed note.
“The stock is likely to see near-term impact from this piece of
news and could trade lower toward its net asset value of S$1.35
before more clarity emerges.”  Short interest as a percentage of Olam shares outstanding
rose to a record 13.4 percent on Nov. 15, according to data
compiled by Markit and Bloomberg.  Block profited from taking a short position in Hong Kong-
and Missisauga, Ontario-based Sino-Forest by borrowing and
selling the stock, then repaying the borrowed shares at a lower
price. The timber company plunged in Toronto trading before
being suspended in August last year after Muddy Waters accused
it of fraud in a June 2011 report.  The Ontario Securities Commission accused several
executives including the former CEO  Allen Chan  of involvement in
a “complex fraudulent scheme” to inflate assets and revenue.  Muddy Waters Targets  Other companies targeted by Muddy Waters include New
Oriental Education & Technology Group Inc. Block said last month
he’s “more convinced than ever” that the Beijing-based company
is misleading investors. In February, Muddy Waters issued its
fifth report on  Focus Media Holding Ltd. (FMCN) , claiming the Chinese
advertising company overstated its network.  Shanghai-based Focus Media’s  American depositary receipts 
have gained 24 percent in New York trading this year,
notwithstanding Block’s allegations. The company is now the
subject of a $3.5 billion buyout offer by a group of private
equity firms including Carlyle Group LP. The deal, if completed,
would be  China ’s largest leveraged buyout.  “As it pertains to Sino-Forest, he was able to unearth
something others weren’t,” said  John Goldsmith , deputy head of
equities at Montrusco Bolton Investments Inc. in Toronto, who
sold his Sino-Forest shares for a loss in June 2011, seven days
after Muddy Waters published its report on the company. “He,
ultimately, was proven correct. You have to at least listen.”  Nigerian Origin  John Armitage, co-founder of Egerton Capital Ltd., is also
shorting Olam, he said at the investment conference in London
yesterday.  Olam was founded in 1989 in  Nigeria  by the Kewalram Chanrai
Group as an export company to secure foreign currency, according
to Olam’s website. Today, Olam is the fifth-largest publicly
traded global wholesaler of agricultural products ranked by
revenue, after Bunge Ltd., Archer-Daniels-Midland Co., Noble
Group Ltd. and Glencore International Plc., according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  The company supplies food to 12,300 customers in 65
countries and employs more than 18,000 people, the website says.  Stephen Forshaw , a spokesman for Temasek, referred to the
comments by Olam when contacted today for comment. Olam’s
auditor Ernst & Young declined to comment due to client
confidentiality, spokeswoman Donna Liew said by e-mail. The firm
was also the auditor for Sino-Forest before resigning in April.
The  Singapore Exchange  also declined to comment.  Biological Assets  The first-quarter net income of S$43.2 million ($35.3
million) included a gain of S$10.1 million on account of “fair
valuation of biological assets,” Olam said in a Nov. 14
statement. It said then that it started making such valuations
on a quarterly basis in the third quarter of fiscal 2012 and
“hence there was no operational gain/loss booked in the
corresponding period” a year earlier.  The company had previously reported fair value changes of
biological assets twice a year, Executive Director Shekhar Anantharaman said at a briefing last week in Singapore.  “It is no different from the treatment of the past in
terms of how we look at bio gains,” he said.  Valuation Gains  Net gains on biological assets accounted for S$111 million,
or 30 percent of fiscal 2012 earnings, UOB’s Ng said. Those
gains are expected to fall to 9 percent of group earnings by
fiscal 2015, he said. Biological assets account for 6.6 percent
of Olam’s assets and about 20 percent of shareholder equity,
according to Ng.  “We value the company excluding the valuation gains, so I
don’t think it’s that big of a concern to us,”  Carey Wong , an
analyst at OCBC Investment Research Pte. in Singapore, said by
phone. CIMB’s Lee also says she excludes biological assets when
she makes profit forecasts.  Overall, Olam said its quarterly profit rose 26 percent,
while sales gained 45 percent to S$4.69 billion.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michelle Yun in  Hong Kong  at 
 myun11@bloomberg.net ;
Jonathan Burgos in Singapore at 
 jburgos4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Hobbs at 
 ahobbs4@bloomberg.net  