-- Tolkien Estate Sues Warner Over Lord of the Rings Games
-- B y   E d v a r d   P e t t e r s s o n
-- 2012-11-20T21:46:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-20/tolkien-estate-sues-warner-over-lord-of-the-rings-games.html
The estate of J.R.R. Tolkien sued
 Time Warner Inc. (TWX) ’s  Warner Bros . Entertainment unit, alleging it
doesn’t have the right to license gambling games with “Lord of
the Rings” characters and story elements.  “Not only does the production of gambling games patently
exceed the scope of defendants’ rights, but this infringing
conduct has outraged Tolkien’s devoted fan base, causing
irreparable harm to Tolkien’s legacy and reputation and the
valuable goodwill generated by his works,” the estate said in a
complaint filed yesterday in federal court in  Los Angeles .  Under the merchandising agreement between the estate and
Warner Bros., the movie studio and its subsidiaries have only
the right to sell and license tangible objects, according to the
complaint. These rights don’t give Warner Bros. permission to
license online slot machine games and casino slot machines based
on the late author’s books, the estate said.  The estate, which also says it retains the rights to any
downloadable-only video games based on the books, accuses Warner
Bros. of copyright infringement and breach of contract and asks
for at least $80 million in damages.  Warner Bros. spokesman  Paul McGuire  had no immediate
comment on the lawsuit.  Warner Bros.’ New Line Cinema and Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer Inc.
will release “The Hobbit: An Unexpected Journey” on Dec. 14.
It is the first of three planned movies based on Tolkien’s
“Hobbit.” The movie trilogy based on “Lord of the Rings”
generated $6 billion in global revenue, according to the
estate’s complaint.  The case is Fourth Age Ltd. v. Warner Bros., 12-9912, U.S.
District Court, Central District of  California  (Los Angeles.)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edvard Pettersson in Los Angeles at 
 epettersson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 