-- Home Starts in U.S. Probably Posted Best Two Months Since 2008
-- B y   S h o b h a n a   C h a n d r a
-- 2012-11-20T05:00:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-20/home-starts-in-u-s-probably-posted-best-two-months-since-2008.html
Housing starts in October probably
capped the strongest two months in four years, indicating U.S.
residential  construction  is improving, economists said before a
report today.  Builders broke ground on 840,000 houses at an annual rate,
following the prior month’s 872,000 pace, the best back-to-back
reading since mid-2008, according to the  median  estimate of 82
economists surveyed by Bloomberg. Housing  permits , a proxy for
future construction, may show the gains will be sustained.  Record-low  mortgage rates  and less risk that property
values will keep falling may continue to attract buyers, giving
the economy a lift and benefitting companies such as  Toll
Brothers Inc. (TOL)  Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  is among
those that have singled out housing as one of the industries to
nurture in order to spur the economic recovery.  “The foundations for housing are getting better,” said
Kevin Cummins, an economist at UBS Securities LLC in  Stamford ,
 Connecticut . “Prices have stabilized, and people are feeling a
bit more confident.”  The housing data are due from the Commerce Department at
8:30 a.m. in Washington. Estimates in the Bloomberg survey
ranged from 780,000 to 873,000.  Building permits may have eased to an 864,000 annual rate
from a four-year high of 890,000 in September, according to the
median forecast of economists surveyed. Construction
applications that are higher than the projected level of starts
signal construction will continue to strengthen.  Sandy’s Influence  The Northeast may be one area of the country that saw a
setback in October as Sandy, the biggest Atlantic storm in
history, struck the region late in the month, according to
economists at UBS. Nonetheless, the share of activity in the
affected area is small by comparison, with an estimated 60,000
permits issued in 2011, or less than 10 percent of the U.S.
total, they estimated.  Given the superstorm came ashore Oct. 29, the fallout on
housing is more likely to be seen in November data, according to
the UBS economists. In many cases, the rebuilding of damaged
homes may be extensive enough to constitute a new start, and
construction may rise in later months as the region recovers,
they said.  Data this week reinforced signs of a turn in residential
real estate. Purchases of previously-owned houses rose 2.1
percent in October to a 4.79 million annual rate, exceeding the
median forecast of economists surveyed by Bloomberg, the
National Association of Realtors reported. Inventories dropped
to the lowest level in almost a decade.  Gaining Confidence  The National Association of Home Builders/Wells Fargo index
of  builder confidence  climbed in November to a six-year high of
46, the Washington-based group said yesterday. The group’s gauge
of current single-family home sales advanced to the highest
level since May 2006 as it jumped by the most since September
2002.  Toll Brothers, the Horsham, Pennsylvania-based luxury
homebuilder, is among companies saying the market probably will
keep improving.  “We’re in a strong phase of the recovery,”  Martin Connor ,
chief financial officer, said during a conference presentation
on Nov. 15. “It’s a function of five years of pent-up demand
being released,” and “affordability and rising prices is also
spurring people to buy.”  Investors remain upbeat about the industry. The Standard &
Poor’s Supercomposite  Homebuilding (S15HOME)  Index has surged 72 percent
this year through yesterday, outpacing a 10 percent gain for the
broader  S&P 500 (SPX)  gauge.  Mortgage Rates  Low borrowing costs and cheaper properties indicate home
buying is coming within reach of more Americans. The average
rate on a 30-year fixed mortgage dropped to  3.34 percent  in the
week ended Nov. 15, the lowest in records dating to 1971,
according to McLean, Virginia-based  Freddie Mac .  “Continued weakness in housing -- reflected in falling
prices, low rates of new construction, and historic levels of
foreclosure -- has proved a powerful headwind to recovery,” Fed
Chairman Bernanke said in a Nov. 15 speech in Atlanta,  Georgia .
“It is encouraging, therefore, that we are seeing signs of
improvement in the housing market in most parts of the
country.”  
To contact the reporter on this story:
Shobhana Chandra in  Washington  at 
 schandra1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  