-- ONGC Said to Plan Bond Sale to Fund Azeri Stake: Corporate India
-- B y   R a k t e e m   K a t a k e y
-- 2012-11-21T04:44:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-20/ongc-said-to-plan-bond-sale-to-fund-azeri-stake-corporate-india.html
Oil & Natural Gas Corp. (ONGC) ,  India ’s
biggest energy explorer, is planning to sell dollar bonds to
fund a $1 billion acquisition in  Azerbaijan , according to a
person with direct knowledge of the matter.  The company may raise almost the entire purchase cost
selling the notes next quarter through its unit ONGC Videsh
Ltd., the person said, asking not to be identified because a
final decision hasn’t been made. The planned sale will be the
New Delhi-based parent’s biggest borrowing in three years.  ONGC Videsh, which needs $20 billion of investment to boost
overseas production more than sixfold by 2030, is seeking
cheaper funds abroad as rupee borrowing costs are about twice as
much. State-owned ONGC is unable to lend to its unit as the
discount it gives on crude oil sales to Indian refiners on
government orders is depleting its cash reserves.  “The parent needs the cash for its own capital
expenditure,” Kamlesh Kotak, Mumbai-based vice president of
research at brokerage firm Asian Markets Securities Pvt. said by
phone yesterday. “It makes a lot of sense to raise debt in
dollars because earnings from the field will be in dollars and
that guards against currency fluctuations.”  ONGC Videsh, which invests in and operates the parent’s
assets abroad, agreed to buy a 2.72 percent interest in the
Azeri, Chirag and Guneshli fields in Azerbaijan from  Hess Corp. (HES) ,
as well as a 2.36 percent stake in the Baku-Tbilisi-Ceyhan
pipeline, according to a Sept. 8 statement. The acquisition will
add to ONGC’s overseas reserves by 9 percent and increase
production by about 11 percent.  The deal may close in the first quarter of 2013, according
to the statement.  Biggest Since Imperial  ONGC Chairman Sudhir Vasudeva and Finance Director A.K. Banerjee didn’t answer two calls each to their mobile phones
seeking comment.  The Azerbaijan purchase is ONGC’s biggest since 2009, when
it bought Imperial Energy Plc, which has assets in  Russia , for
1.4 billion pounds ($2.2 billion). The takeover was financed by
selling one-year commercial paper for 52.5 billion rupees ($951
million).  The explorer refinanced that debt a year later through a
$200 million loan and a bond and commercial paper sale in India
equivalent to $800 million. ONGC and its units have 48.1 billion
rupees of  debt  outstanding, including 34.4 billion rupees
borrowed by ONGC Videsh, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Dollar Debt Premiums  ONGC Videsh’s plans to sell foreign currency bonds follows
Bharat Petroleum Corp. and  NTPC Ltd. (NTPC)  as average premiums for the
nation’s dollar debt over  U.S. government debt  fell 32 basis
points to 388 this quarter, HSBC Holdings Plc data show. It was
367 basis points on Oct. 25, the narrowest since May 2011,
according to the data.  Indian companies have raised $9.39 billion selling bonds
overseas so far this year, compared with $9.17 billion in the
same period last year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Bharat Petroleum, India’s second-biggest state-run refiner,
sold $500 million of 10-year bonds last month at a yield of
4.625 percent. NTPC, the biggest electricity generator, raised a
similar amount priced to yield 4.75 percent in September.  ONGC’s long-term foreign-currency debt is  rated  Baa1 by
Moody’s Investors Service, the third-lowest investment grade.
Bharat Petroleum and NTPC are rated Baa3, the lowest investment
grade.  Capital Expenditure  “ONGC will probably get a better rate than Bharat
Petroleum as it has a stronger balance sheet and has very little
debt now,” said Hemant Dharnidharka, head of credit research at
SJS Markets Ltd. in Bangalore. “Raising the money wouldn’t be a
problem as there’s a lot of cash currently available with
banks.”  ONGC is spending 335.8 billion rupees on a capital
expenditure plan in the year ending March 31 and 340.1 billion
rupees next year, the person said. ONGC had net cash reserves of
about 120 billion rupees as on March 31 and that may decline to
about 40 billion rupees at the end of this financial year,
Finance Director Banerjee said Nov. 8.  The company reported its biggest  profit  decline in almost
four years after it gave $63.05 discount on every barrel of
crude it sold to Indian state-run refiners in the quarter ended
Sept. 30, according to a Nov. 8 statement. Its selling price of
$46.80 a barrel in the three months was 43 percent lower than a
year earlier.  ‘Cash Squeeze’  “There’s a squeeze in their cash position and that’s
worrisome,” said Neelabh Sharma, a Mumbai-based analyst with
BOB Capital Markets Ltd., a unit of state-run  Bank of Baroda. (BOB) 
“This will continue for another year at least when they may
start increasing oil production.”  The lower profit has made ONGC the worst performer in the
10-member  BSE Oil & Gas Index (BSEOIL)  this month. The shares declined
0.2 percent to 251.50 rupees as of 10:11 a.m. in Mumbai trading,
taking this year’s drop to 2.1 percent compared with a 19
percent increase in the benchmark  Sensitive Index. (SENSEX)   The government orders ONGC and smaller rival  Oil India Ltd. (OINL) 
to sell crude oil to refiners including  Indian Oil Corp. (IOCL)  at a
discount to partly compensate them for selling fuels below cost.
The discounts have affected ONGC’s ability to acquire assets
overseas, Chairman Vasudeva said in August.  ONGC is mandated by the Indian government to acquire oil
and gas assets around the world to help meet the nation’s energy
needs. Demand in  Asia ’s second-biggest energy consumer is
forecast to more than double by 2035 to 49.2 quadrillion British
thermal units from 24.4 last year, according to the U.S. Energy
Information Administration.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rakteem Katakey in  New Delhi  at 
 rkatakey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  