-- Los Angeles Diesel Drops as Phillips 66 Plant Said to Start Unit
-- B y   L y n n   D o a n
-- 2012-11-20T23:06:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-20/los-angeles-diesel-drops-as-phillips-66-plant-said-to-start-unit.html
Spot diesel in  Los Angeles  fell
against futures as  Phillips 66 (PSX)  was said to be starting a
hydrocracker at its Los Angeles-area refinery after finishing
planned maintenance.  The 139,000-barrel-a-day  plant  will take about a week to
return the unit, which makes oil products such as gasoline and
fuel oil, to normal operations, a person familiar with the work
said today. The hydrocracker was scheduled to be shut about Oct.
16 for a maintenance turnaround, two people with knowledge of
the schedule said last month.  Dennis Nuss, a Phillips 66 spokesman at the company’s
headquarters in Houston, declined to comment on the
hydrocracker’s startup. “Planned maintenance is still under
way” at the refinery, he said by telephone today.  California-grade, or CARB, diesel in Los Angeles fell 1.5
cents to 4 cents a gallon over heating oil futures traded on the
 New York Mercantile Exchange  at 4:11 p.m. East Coast time, data
compiled by Bloomberg show. The same fuel in  San Francisco 
jumped 5 cents to a premium of 2.5 cents a gallon.  State-blend gasoline, or Carbob, in Los Angeles climbed 0.5
cent to 10 cents a gallon over Nymex gasoline futures.  Valero Energy Corp. (VLO)  reported flaring at the Wilmington
refinery in Southern California over the weekend because of
“process and storage issues,” a state regulatory filing shows.
No units were shut, and there was no impact on production,  Bill Day , a spokesman at the company’s headquarters in  San Antonio ,
said by e-mail yesterday.  Carbob in San Francisco slipped 0.5 cent to reach parity
with futures.  Conventional 84 sub-octane gasoline to be blended with
ethanol in  Portland ,  Oregon , dropped 2.5 cents to 19 cents a
gallon under gasoline futures, the biggest discount for the fuel
since Nov. 2. Low-sulfur diesel in Portland also fell 1 cent to
6.5 cents a gallon over heating oil futures.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lynn Doan in San Francisco at 
 ldoan6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  