-- How to End the Great Fiscal Wars
-- B y   C l i v e   C r o o k
-- 2012-11-20T23:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-20/how-to-end-the-great-fiscal-wars.html
In one way, the so-called fiscal
cliff threatening the  U.S. economy  is less dangerous than widely
supposed. In another, it’s more.  First, as many have said, the cliff is really a slope. At
year’s end, the tax cuts passed in 2001 and 2003 automatically
expire, and a deliberately brainless process of sequestration
starts to cut public spending. But the  full fiscal effects  of
both events don’t arrive all at once. The changes would have to
be sustained -- or be expected to be sustained -- to drive the
economy into a recession.  Neither is likely. Businesses and consumers would see any
start down the slope as temporary. They would expect some
resolution of the fiscal problem in short order. Meanwhile,
various maneuvers could be used to postpone the harm. The
 Internal Revenue Service  could delay the additional tax
withholding, for instance. Departments and agencies could think
about how to phase in cuts over the course of the year.  When a government defaults, that’s it -- so the debt
ceiling really is a cliff (as it were). The fiscal slope is a
less brutal kind of government dysfunction. Now that gauging
various degrees of government paralysis has become the main task
of U.S. political analysts, the difference is probably worth
noting.  Cliff Notes  What matters, though, is not the damage that a temporary
change in fiscal policy will cause at the end of the year, but
the harm that the prevailing uncertainty over policy has already
caused -- and will keep causing, even if the fiscal slope is
avoided. That’s why being told that the cliff isn’t a cliff is
small consolation.  Big U.S. companies are scaling back their investment plans
at the fastest pace in almost three years, according to a new
Wall Street Journal review of securities filings and conference
calls. Confidence in the domestic economy is low. Weaker
economies abroad, especially in  China  and the  euro zone , aren’t
helping. The U.S. needs clarity about the fiscal outlook, and
that will be hard to achieve.  Suppose Congress and  Barack Obama ’s administration simply
leave policy unchanged for six months -- no tax increases, no
sequesters -- while they negotiate a big new fiscal agreement.
That would avoid the immediate threat, but wouldn’t resolve the
underlying uncertainty. A deal like that would be better than
falling down the slope, for sure, but it wouldn’t dispel the
confusion or get the economy growing.  For that, the country needs what it has needed for the past
few years: a grand fiscal bargain. Call it  Simpson-Bowles  for
slow learners. Eventually, Congress and the administration will
get around to the plan put forward by the National Commission on
Fiscal Responsibility and Reform, or something close, because in
the end they will have no choice. But a plan like that is too
complicated to design by Dec. 31.  On so compressed a timescale, the best that can be hoped
for is an agreement to avoid the fiscal slope plus a statement
of principles to shape the bigger deal. For that declaration to
be of any use, it must be credible -- and it can be credible if,
and only if, both sides startle everybody by saying what they
are willing to give up. If a deal to avoid the slope just
postpones the entire discussion, allowing Democrats and
Republicans to press their maximal demands again next year, it
will achieve little. If both sides yield just a bit, and do it
now, that would be a success.  Mutual Compromise  What would this offer of compromise look like? The main
sticking point is tax rates. Democrats want to reverse the Bush
administration’s tax cuts for couples making more than $250,000.
Republicans say they are willing to discuss revenue increases,
but refuse to countenance higher rates even for the rich.  The two sides should agree at once to restore the pre-Bush
tax rates for couples making more than $1 million a year --
pending a comprehensive  tax reform  that raises revenue mainly by
capping  deductions . Under this formula, each side gains
something and loses something.  Democrats gain a more progressive  tax code , but give ground
on higher rates for couples making between $250,000 and $1
million. Republicans limit the scope of higher marginal rates
and get the commitment to the base-broadening approach they say
they favor, but concede higher rates right now for the very
rich.  On public spending, neither side wants sequestration. The
immediate fix is simply to lift the threat of it. The forward-
looking commitment should abolish the recurring calamity of the
debt-ceiling procedure -- and, ideally, set an adjustable cap on
federal spending as a share of gross domestic product. What that
number should be, how to adjust it according to demographic or
other circumstances, and what to do if it’s breached would have
to be argued -- strenuously, no doubt -- next year.  The issue couldn’t, and shouldn’t, be settled once and for
all. Mere convergence on the principle would be a notable,
confidence-boosting achievement. In effect, it would be a
promise to limit the scope of the fiscal wars -- a commitment to
moderation.  As before, each side would be getting and conceding
something important. Both would be renouncing the ambition to
carry through a fiscal revolution -- either to shrink or enlarge
the role of government, as the case may be -- in return for the
same promise from the other side. Since neither party can expect
to seize, much less retain, total control of  Washington , that’s
a worthwhile exchange of concessions. And never fear, in the
composition of federal spending, Democrats and Republicans would
still have plenty to argue about.  Between now and Dec. 31, the challenge isn’t just to avoid
the fiscal slope. It’s to do so in a way that provides clarity
and restores confidence. Another postponement isn’t good enough.
There must be an exchange of concessions. The bigger, the
better.  (Clive Crook is a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on why  Republican governors
should start health-insurance exchanges ;  Margaret Carlson  on  Paula
Broadwell and female solidarity ; Stephen L. Carter on  a relevant
Thanksgiving sermon from 1812 ; Costas Meghir, Dimitri Vayanos
and Nikos Vettas on  reinventing Greece’s economy .  To contact the writer of this article:
Clive Crook at  clive.crook@gmail.com   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
James Gibney at   jgibney5@bloomberg.net  