-- How to Unite Egypt, Hamas, Israel Against a Common Threat
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2012-11-20T00:10:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-20/how-to-unite-egypt-hamas-and-israel-against-a-common-sal.html
Hamas’s ambitious demands for a
cease-fire make clear that it will continue to sacrifice more
Palestinian lives rather than stop fighting with the Israeli
military.  Each hour of bloodshed that passes raises the odds that
 Israel  will invade the Hamas-controlled Gaza Strip, greatly
increasing the stakes of the hostilities. So far, in an exchange
of air and rocket attacks, three Israelis and about 100
Palestinians have died. When Israeli forces last conducted a
ground assault on Gaza in 2008-9,  13 Israelis and more than
1,300 Palestinians  were killed.  Israel’s effort to limit strikes to Hamas members and
facilities is already falling short. Targeting a Hamas
communications antenna, Israel also destroyed journalists’
offices over the weekend. Gaza officials say a third of
Palestinian fatalities have been women and children. For its
part, Hamas makes no effort in its rocket and mortar attacks on
Israel to avoid civilian losses.  Egypt offers the best hope for securing a cease-fire, given
its ties to both Israel and Hamas. Hamas sprang from the Muslim
Brotherhood, whose Freedom and Justice Party rules Egypt.  Why would anyone expect Egyptian President Mohamed Mursi,
who has come out solidly  on the side  of Hamas, to help? For one
thing, he faces the same threat that confronts not just Hamas
but also Israel: the surge among Salafis, Islamists more extreme
even than Hamas.  Creating Havoc  The current conflict was  sparked  by the firing of  hundreds 
of rockets into Israel from Gaza, mainly by Salafis. Since the
collapse of authority in Egypt’s  Sinai Peninsula  that
accompanied President  Hosni Mubarak ’s fall, Salafis have created
havoc there as well, killing 16 Egyptian border soldiers in
August. Hundreds of illegal smuggling tunnels between Gaza and
Sinai have enabled Salafis to come and go between the two areas
and to easily move arms into Gaza.  Fearful  that the Salafis would steal its mantle of
resistance, Hamas increasingly disregarded the de facto cease-
fire it had observed with Israel since the 2008-9 incursion. Its
fighters began to take part in rocket and mortar strikes; its
security forces turned a blind eye to attacks by other groups.  Mursi, on the other hand, has opted to get tough, cracking
down on Salafi violence in Sinai after the deaths in August.
Even if he were prepared to put up with Salafi lawlessness, he
would have to contend with an Egyptian military establishment
that certainly is not.  What’s more, Mursi knows that to stay in power he and the
Freedom and Justice Party must win elections, and they will only
do so if Egypt’s economy improves. Inflaming the conflict by
encouraging Hamas could put that goal at risk. The country
relies on the European Union for $6.3 billion in annual
assistance and on the U.S. for $1.5 billion in annual aid, $1
billion in debt forgiveness and support for a $4.8 billion
International Monetary Fund loan. Working to end the fighting
could earn Mursi considerable goodwill.  So how might Egypt broker a cease-fire? To begin, Mursi and
his deputies should explain to Hamas officials what is off the
table. Hamas has demanded that Israel end its restrictions on
what enters and leaves the  Gaza Strip . This is an audacious
request, coming days after Hamas for the first time  deployed
rockets  capable of reaching Israel’s major cities,  Tel Aviv  and
 Jerusalem . Hamas says it built the rockets and launchers; much
more likely, they were imported from  Iran .  Second, Hamas wants a guarantee that Israel will no longer
target its leaders, such as security chief Ahmed al-Jabari, who
was assassinated Nov. 14 by Israel. In any agreement, Israel
will surely retain the freedom to choose its response to Hamas
aggression. And Israel has no reason to stop the violence before
Hamas, especially given that Hamas was the provocateur.  Avoiding Destruction  What would Hamas get in a cease-fire? For now, it would
avoid an Israeli invasion and the death and destruction that
would go with it. The longer play would be to align  Egypt , Hamas
and Israel against the Salafis and restore the relative
stability that existed before the rise of the ultra-extremists.  Egypt would have to get serious about finding and closing
the Gaza-Sinai tunnels. Hamas, which taxes tunnel commerce,
won’t like that. Yet if weapons and terrorist smuggling can be
cleaned up, eventually Israel could be coaxed into regularizing
Gaza’s borders, a goal that Hamas supports because it would
encourage economic activity.  The Egyptians will also need to counter the Salafi threat
in  Sinai  itself. The Israelis have already allowed Egyptian
deployments in Sinai beyond the limits specified in the Egypt-
Israel peace treaty. They could help more by  temporarily lifting 
troop restrictions. To stanch Salafi recruitment, Sinai needs
economic rehabilitation, too. U.S. and European donors should
support job-creation efforts in agriculture and tourism.  Beating back the Salafi threat offers a chance to return to
an imperfect but preferable status quo. The choice is up to
Hamas, to accept help against its internal foe or face another
debacle in Gaza.  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on  how California voting reforms
hint at wiser politics ;  Jeffrey Goldberg  on  Hamas-Israel
fighting ; William Pesek on  Christine Lagarde ’s  giving short
shrift to Asia ;  Ramesh Ponnuru  on  Republicans’ leverage in
fiscal-cliff negotiations ; Betsey Stevenson and  Justin Wolfers 
on the  forecasting prowess of crowds ; Cass R. Sunstein on the
 broken Senate confirmation process ;  Megan Greene  on why  the euro
is sunk  if German intransigence continues.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 