-- Pakistan Stocks Best as Violence Ignored: Riskless Return
-- B y   F a s e e h   M a n g i ,   M i c h a e l   P a t t e r s o n   a n d   S h i k h a r   B a l w a n i
-- 2012-11-21T11:44:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-20/pakistan-stocks-best-as-violence-ignored-riskless-return.html
Pakistan  is handing equity investors
the world’s best risk-adjusted returns as terrorist attacks,
power blackouts and a war with Taliban insurgents fail to curb
gains in  consumer spending  that sent  profits  to a record high.  The KSE 100 Index, the benchmark for Pakistan’s $43 billion
equity  market , rose 7.3 percent in the past three years when
adjusted for price swings, the top gain among 72 markets
worldwide, according to the BLOOMBERG RISKLESS RETURN RANKING.
Pakistan had lower stock volatility than 82 percent of the
nations including the  U.S. (SPX)  Over five years, Pakistan’s risk-
adjusted returns ranked eighth.  The country’s 190 million people are boosting purchases
three times faster than Asian peers as higher rural incomes and
record  remittances  outweigh fighting on the Afghan border,
violence in Karachi that led to at least 2,100 deaths this year
and power outages that sparked rioting. The region’s fastest
 earnings growth  may increase economic stability, according to
Karachi-based Atlas Asset Management Ltd. Foreign investors
added to  holdings  for five straight months, lured by  Asia ’s
lowest  valuations  and biggest dividend yields.  “Stocks are very cheap and there are some very good
businesses in Pakistan,” said Andrew Brudenell, whose HSBC
Frontier Markets Fund has returned 18 percent this year, beating
92 percent of  peers  tracked by Bloomberg, and holds more shares
in the country than are represented in benchmark indexes. “We
still think there’s some positive growth to come from the
markets.”  Record High  The KSE 100 returned 52 percent this year through
yesterday. The gauge climbed 49 percent since al-Qaeda leader
Osama bin Laden was killed by U.S. commandos during a raid on
his compound in Abbottabad 18 months ago. It increased less than
0.1 percent to a record close of 16,256.97 today.  The risk-adjusted return, which isn’t annualized, is
calculated by dividing total return by volatility, or the degree
of daily price variation, giving a measure of income per unit of
risk. A higher volatility means the price of an asset can swing
dramatically in a short period, increasing the potential for
unexpected losses.  The  Sri Lanka Colombo All-Share Index (CSEALL) ’s 6 percent risk-
adjusted return was the second-biggest worldwide in the past
three years, while the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index of U.S.
companies had a 1.9 percent gain.  Profits Surge  Equity  volatility  is low in Pakistan partly because
investors are no longer surprised by violence in the country,
according to Muhammad Umair Chauhan, who oversees the equivalent
of $127 million as the chief investment officer at Lakson
Investments Ltd. in Karachi. Terror attacks have killed more
than 40,000 people in Pakistan, President Asif Ali Zardari said
in a speech in Tehran in August, without giving a time frame.  Earnings in the KSE 100 index advanced 45 percent during
the past year, the largest gain among 17 Asian equity indexes,
and this month hit the highest level since Bloomberg began
tracking the data in 2005.  Consumer spending in Pakistan has increased at a 26 percent
average pace the past three years, compared with 7.7 percent for
Asia, according to data compiled by Euromonitor International, a
consumer research firm. While the growth in Pakistan may slow to
6.6 percent in 2012, it will still exceed the 5.3 percent pace
in Asia, according to Euromonitor estimates.  Engro Foods Ltd. (EFOODS) , a Karachi-based seller of dairy products,
reported a 214 percent jump in net income for the third quarter,
while  Unilever Pakistan Ltd. (ULEVER) , a unit of the world’s second-
biggest consumer-goods company, had a 36 percent gain, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Foreign Buyers  Dividends in Pakistan have also climbed at the fastest pace
in the region. Payouts increased 49 percent in the past 12
months, giving the  KSE 100 index  a dividend yield of 6.6
percent, double the 3.3 percent average in Asia, Bloomberg data
show.  “When corporate profitability is good, investors tend to
ignore factors such as political instability and violence in the
city,” said Chauhan, who’s based in Karachi, the commercial hub
that generates more than half of the country’s tax revenue.  Foreign investors have purchased a net $153 million of
Pakistan shares since the beginning of July, according to data
from the Karachi Stock Exchange. Overseas holdings amount to
about 20 percent of the bourse’s free float, or shares available
for trading, according to Adnan Katchi, the head of
international equity sales at Arif Habib Ltd.  Debt Rally  Bond investors are also growing more confident. Pakistan’s
international debt, rated Caa1 at Moody’s Investors Service, or
seven levels below investment grade, has returned 32 percent
this year, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s Next Generation
Markets Index. Yields hit a two-year low of 8.5 percent on Oct.
26.  “There has been a consistent flow into the market,”
Muhammad Asim, the head of equities at Arif Habib Investments
Ltd., which oversees about $365 million, said in an Oct. 22
phone interview from Karachi.  Relatively low trading volumes on the Karachi Stock
Exchange may make it difficult for investors to sell their
holdings should  volatility  increase. About $41 million of shares
in the KSE 100 changed hands daily on average during the past
year, compared with $1.3 billion for stocks in Russia’s  Micex
Index (INDEXCF)  and $10 billion for the Shanghai Composite Index in China,
the largest emerging market, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Karachi Violence  Regulators imposed emergency trading limits in an attempt
to halt a tumble in stocks during the global financial crisis in
2008. While the curbs prevented the  KSE 100 index (KSE100)  from falling
for almost four months, the gauge  plunged  48 percent in less
than two months after the restrictions were lifted.  Pakistan’s economic growth has been restrained by
terrorism, lawlessness, power cuts and political instability.  A 14-year-old female Pakistani activist in the Swat Valley
was shot in the head by Taliban gunmen on Oct. 9, while a police
investigator and four other people were killed in a suicide
attack in the northwestern city of  Peshawar  this month.  Violence and extortion in Karachi have spurred more than
30,000 merchants to leave the city in the past two years,
according to Atiq Mir, chairman of All Karachi Traders’
Alliance, which has 650,000 members. Power blackouts lasting as
long as 18 hours a day have caused textile factories to shut.  Ashfaq Parvez Kayani, Pakistan’s army chief, clashed with
Zardari’s administration this year over claims the government
sought U.S. help to prevent a coup following bin Laden’s death.
Zardari’s predecessor,  Pervez Musharraf , seized control of
Pakistan in 1999. The former general stepped down as president
in 2008 to avoid impeachment charges.  Volatile Politics  “People will turn their focus towards political
triggers,” Sajjad Anwar, who oversees about $520 million as the
chief investment officer at NBP Fullerton Asset Management Ltd.,
said in an Oct. 22 phone interview from Karachi. “I am
expecting a correction, and some of the big players are on the
selling side. Investors will rethink after the earnings season
ends.”  Pakistani companies have found ways to cope with
instability.  TRG Pakistan (TRG) , which manages  call centers  in the
country’s three biggest cities, splits up teams of employees
working for a single client across several locations, Nadeem Elahi, the firm’s country head, said in an interview on Nov. 13.  That allows the company to maintain operations if unrest or
transport strikes in one part of the nation prevent workers from
reaching the office, he said. TRG  shares  have gained 248 percent
in Karachi trading this year.  Unilever, Colgate  Engro Foods, which has climbed 243 percent, monitors the
movement of delivery trucks with electronic trackers and insures
inventory against looting and theft, Afnan Ahsan, the company’s
chief executive officer, wrote in an e-mailed response to
questions on Nov. 14.  “As a home-grown Pakistani company we continue to maintain
a positive outlook on the growth potential of the country and
its markets,” Ahsan wrote. “To guard against security concerns
our teams continuously monitor on-ground developments.”  Consumer-related companies are leading gains on Pakistan’s
stock market.  National Foods Ltd. (NATF) , whose products include snack
foods and fruit preserves, jumped 362 percent this year.
Unilever Pakistan has returned 81 percent and  Colgate-Palmolive
Pakistan Ltd. (COLG) , a unit of the world’s largest toothpaste maker,
climbed 145 percent.  Unilever and Colgate-Palmolive said last year they are
sending sales representatives into rural areas, where higher
crop prices have lifted the incomes of farmers and money
transfers from Pakistanis overseas have boosted consumers’
spending power.  Crop Boost  The S&P GSCI Agriculture Spot Index has increased 37
percent during the past three years, amid surging prices for
wheat, Pakistan’s biggest food crop. Remittances from Pakistan’s
6.3 million citizens living overseas jumped 34 percent in
October from a year earlier to a record $1.4 billion, government
figures show. Private consumption makes up about 75 percent of
Pakistan’s gross domestic product, according to the nation’s
annual economic survey.  The country is luring more of the world’s biggest consumer
brands as spending increases.  Debenhams Plc (DEB) , the U.K.’s second-
largest department-store chain, and Nine West Group Inc., a
seller of women’s shoes and handbags owned by New York-based
 Jones Group Inc. (JNY) , opened their first Pakistan outlets this year.  Lucky Cement  “Companies can make excellent returns in particularly hard
to operate in markets with limited competition,”  Slim Feriani ,
who oversees about $800 million as the chief investment officer
of Advance Emerging Capital in London, said in e-mailed comments
on Oct. 25. The firm’s London-listed  Advance Frontier Markets
Fund (AFMF)  has investments in Pakistan, Feriani said.  Stocks outside consumer industries are also rallying.  Oil &
Gas Development Co. (OGDC) , Pakistan’s biggest company by market value,
has jumped 28 percent this year after output rose and the energy
shortage spurred the state-owned producer to step up exploration
efforts.  Lucky Cement Ltd. (LUCK) , the nation’s biggest producer, has
advanced 99 percent as the Karachi-based company’s annual profit
climbed to a record and construction increased in the wake of
flooding this year that left more than 280,000 people in relief
camps.  Policy makers have taken steps to boost economic growth and
support the equity market. Pakistan’s central bank lowered
borrowing costs twice since August, cutting the benchmark
interest  rate  to 10 percent from 12 percent as inflation eased
to a three-year low in October. Regulators relaxed rules tied to
the nation’s capital-gains tax in January.  Relative Value  The government is targeting growth of 4.3 percent this
financial year through June, compared with 3.7 percent for the
previous year.  “Companies are doing well so ultimately the economy
prospects will get better,” Muhammad Abdul Samad, the chief
investment officer of Atlas Asset Management, which oversees
about $90 million, said in a telephone interview in Karachi on
Nov. 5.  Even after its rally, the KSE 100 index is valued at 8
times reported 12-month earnings, a 25 percent discount versus
its five-year average.  The gauge is less expensive than equity indexes in every
major Asian market. Russia’s Micex index, the cheapest stock
measure among major markets worldwide, is valued at 5.9 times
profits.  Shares of Islamabad-based Oil & Gas Development trade for 8
times profit, compared with 11 times for the  MSCI All-Country
World Energy Index (MXWD0EN) , according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Even after more than quadrupling this year, National Foods is
valued at 21 times earnings, less than the average multiple of
28 for global peers.  “We don’t think Pakistan stands out as having had too
strong a move,” said Brudenell, the  fund manager  at HSBC Global
Asset Management. “There is upside from these levels.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Faseeh Mangi in Karachi at 
 fmangi@bloomberg.net ;
 Michael Patterson  in London at 
 mpatterson10@bloomberg.net ;
Shikhar Balwani in Mumbai at 
 sbalwani@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net ;
Naween A. Mangi at 
 nmangi1@bloomberg.net  