-- Pakistan Court Scraps Blasphemy Case Against Christian Girl
-- B y   A u g u s t i n e   A n t h o n y
-- 2012-11-20T07:41:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-20/pakistan-court-scraps-blasphemy-case-against-christian-girl-1-.html
A court in  Pakistan  ordered the
scrapping of blasphemy charges against a Christian girl, in a
case that triggered worldwide concern over the misuse of
controversial laws to target religious minorities.  “The court has ordered to quash the First Information
Report against the girl, which means there are no charges
against her anymore,” Rana Abdul Hameed, the lawyer
representing the 14-year-old, said by telephone from Islamabad
today. “That means the girl has been acquitted.”  The girl, accused of burning pages from the Koran, was
released on bail on Sept. 7 after police detained an Islamabad
imam, or prayer leader, for allegedly framing the minor. The
judge said in his order today that no one had seen the girl
setting fire to the Islamic holy book, Geo television reported.  Pakistan’s blasphemy law, passed in 1987 under the army
rule of General Muhammad Zia ul-Haq, stipulates imprisonment and
even death for those who insult the Koran or the  Prophet
Muhammad . While no one has been executed by the state under the
law, seven Christians were killed amid riots in 2009 in Punjab
province over alleged blasphemy cases.  The case against the girl drew condemnation in Pakistan and
overseas from rights activists who have long criticized the
blasphemy law for being discriminatory toward religious
minorities in predominantly Muslim Pakistan, a country of 190
million people.  Christian Fear  In Pakistan, most criminal cases begin when a complainant
lodges with police a so-called First Information Report.  Hundreds of members of Islamabad’s Christian community left
their homes in the wake of the girl’s arrest saying they feared
for their lives. Christians make up just 1.6 percent of
Pakistan’s population.  Salman Taseer, the governor of Punjab, was shot dead by one
of his bodyguards last year after he called publicly for changes
to the blasphemy law. In March 2011, as many as four gunmen
ambushed and killed Shahbaz Bhatti, the 42-year-old minister for
minorities’ affairs and himself a Christian.  The Pakistani Taliban claimed responsibility for killing
Bhatti in leaflets found at the scene, saying it was revenge for
heading a government-appointed committee to review the blasphemy
law.  Controversy over the law escalated in 2010 after a court
used it to sentence a Catholic woman, Aasia Bibi, on charges of
insulting the Prophet Muhammad. Taseer had visited Bibi in jail
and persuaded President Asif Ali Zardari to review her case and
consider ordering clemency for her.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Augustine Anthony in Islamabad at 
 aanthony9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  