-- Panasonic Cut by Moody’s to Level Over Junk on Forecast
-- B y   M a r i k o   Y a s u
-- 2012-11-20T22:56:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-20/panasonic-rating-cut-to-baa3-by-moody-s-outlook-negative.html
Panasonic Corp. (6752) , the Japanese
electronics maker facing a second straight annual  loss , had its
long-term  credit rating  cut to one level above junk by Moody’s
Investors Service, which cited challenging market conditions.  The company’s long-term rating was lowered two levels to
Baa3, the lowest among Moody’s 10 investment-level rankings.
Panasonic’s Prime-3 short-term rating remains under review for
possible reduction, according to a statement from Moody’s, which
assigned a negative outlook for the long-term ranking.  Borrowing costs in the corporate  bond market  have climbed
for Panasonic along with  Sharp Corp. (6753)  and Sony Corp. as record
losses and widening deficit forecasts sapped investor confidence
in Japanese electronics exporters. This is Moody’s third cut for
Panasonic this year and comes as the Osaka-based based  maker  of
televisions, cameras, home appliances and solar panels may need
to spend more to close unprofitable units.  “Panasonic may need to undertake additional restructuring
measures,” Moody’s said yesterday. “Challenging market
conditions will continue to hinder the timely recovery of
Panasonic’s  financial profile .”  Net  debt  rose to about 1.1 trillion yen as of September
from 740 billion a year earlier, according to Moody’s, which
initiated its latest review of Panasonic’s rating on Nov. 1.  Borrowing Costs  The extra yield investors demand to own Panasonic  debt  has
more than tripled since Oct. 31, the day the company forecast
its second-biggest loss, raising refinancing costs as 150
billion yen of notes mature in March, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  The spread on Panasonic’s 1.081 percent bonds due March
2018 has jumped to 203 basis points as of yesterday, compared
with about 64 basis points on Oct. 31, according to the Japan
Securities Dealers Association.  The maker of Viera televisions and Lumix cameras  forecasts 
a 765 billion yen ($9.4 billion) net loss for the year ending in
March 2013. That would be the second-biggest loss in company
history after the 772 billion yen net loss in the previous year.  Panasonic fell 3.8 percent to close at 407 yen in Tokyo
trading before Moody’s announcement yesterday, extending its
 loss  this year to 38 percent. That compares with this year’s 8.1
percent gain by the benchmark Nikkei 225 Stock Average.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mariko Yasu in Tokyo at 
 myasu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  