-- Paragon Falls as Lender’s Payout Plan Disappoints: London Mover
-- B y   P e t e r   W o o d i f i e l d
-- 2012-11-20T16:57:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-20/paragon-falls-as-lender-s-payout-plan-disappoints-london-mover.html
Paragon Group Cos, (PAG)  a U.K. provider
of mortgages to landlords, posted its biggest fall in nine weeks
after analysts including Peter Lenardos at RBC Capital said its
plan to increase dividends is too modest.  Paragon’s intention to target a payout of three times to
3.5 times earnings by 2016 represents a slow increase that will
still be below the average for comparable companies, Lenardos
said in a note today.  The  stock declined  3.7 percent, the biggest drop since
Sept. 18, to close 9.3 pence down at 240.7 pence. It was the
worst performer in the  FTSE 350 Financial Services Index. (F3OTHR)  The
 volume of shares  traded was more than three times the three-
month daily average.  “The new dividend policy, while welcomed, is still
conservative given the company’s excess cash position and
ongoing cash generation,” Lenardos said. The  payout  this year
represents a yield of 2.4 percent compared to an average of 4.7
percent for companies in the financial services index, he said.  The stock’s decline came even as Paragon reported pretax
profit of 95.5 million pounds ($152 million) for the fiscal year
ended Sept. 30, beating the average estimate of 92.6 million
pounds from 12 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. It paid a final
dividend of 4.5 pence a share, compared with a Bloomberg
estimate of 3 pence.  “There should be an expectation that dividend growth will
exceed earnings growth until at least 2016,” Chief Executive
Officer Nigel Terrington said in a telephone interview.  U.K. Rentals  Paragon increased lending on new buy-to-let mortgages by 45
percent to 184.3 million pounds in the last fiscal year and
expects to lift that further this year as more U.K. residents
rent homes.  The proportion of households in England living in private
rented accommodation in 2010-2011 rose to 16.5 percent, or 3.6
million households, the highest level since at least 1980,
according to the  English Housing Survey  published in February.  Paragon has 500 million pounds available for lending,
Terrington said. It spent 113 million pounds last year buying
packages of loans from banks and is looking to invest a similar
amount this year.  “The proportion of deals we are looking at is as big as it
has ever been,” he said.  James Hamilton , an analyst at Numis Securities Ltd., cut
his recommendation on the stock to sell from buy on the grounds
that Paragon is a high-risk business with a return on equity of
almost 9 percent that is “miles below” its cost of equity.  Risky Business  “The return to the highest risk area of lending,
residential mortgages, is a concern,” Hamilton said in a note
today. “The good news is that with their uncompetitive funding
costs their market share is now minimal.”  Hamilton is the only analyst surveyed by Bloomberg with a
 sell rating  on Paragon. One analyst has a neutral recommendation
and 12 say investors should buy the stock.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Woodifield in Edinburgh at 
 pwoodifield@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Lytle at   dlytle@bloomberg.net  