-- Pension Fund Gains Mean Worker Pain as Aramark Cuts Pay
-- B y   M a r t i n   Z .   B r a u n   a n d   W i l l i a m   S e l w a y
-- 2012-11-20T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-20/pension-fund-gains-mean-worker-pain-as-aramark-cuts-pay.html
Rick Thorne worked as a custodian in
Chelmsford,  Massachusetts , schools for 22 years, earning $20 an
hour cleaning floors, cutting grass and setting up for
assemblies in the community, about 30 miles (48 kilometers)
northwest of Boston.  In March 2011, the 5,500-student system put its custodial
contract out for bid. Aramark Corp., a Philadelphia-based global
food-service and facility-management company, agreed to clean
the town’s seven schools for $841,000 annually, $400,000 less
than the custodians’ union. Aramark offered Thorne and other
members their jobs back, at $8.25 to $8.75 an hour. They
declined.  “I was like family. I knew all the kids,” said Thorne,
55, who’s still unemployed. “It’s brutal. It gets worse every
day.”  Aramark’s owners aren’t remote shareholders. They include
the $50.8 billion  Massachusetts Pension Reserves Investment
Trust , which manages the assets of the Middlesex County
Retirement System. The system pays Thorne a $1,500 monthly
pension.  Massachusetts and 36 other state and local retirement funds
have committed more than $5 billion to the four private-equity
investment pools that bought Aramark in 2007, according to
Preqin Ltd., a London-based research firm. The beneficiaries of
these pension systems have reaped returns of as much as 15.6
percent annually from the funds, at least partly at the expense
of fellow public employees who’ve lost jobs to Aramark.  ‘Cruel Irony’  “It’s a cruel irony to think that for some workers, their
pension money is being invested in a manner that could
ultimately strip them of their pension or drastically reduce
their pension benefit,” Jim Durkin, a spokesman for the
 American Federation of State, County, and Municipal Employees,
Council 93 , said in a statement. The council represents 30,000
government workers in Massachusetts.  “We would like to see a more thoughtful and considerate
approach to future investments of public pension funds and we
will be encouraging that here in Massachusetts,” Durkin said. 
Private-equity firms borrow money to buy companies and then seek
to maximize profit, often by reducing labor costs. The
investment firms drew fresh scrutiny during the presidential
campaign of  Mitt Romney , co-founder of Bain Capital Partners
LLC, for the impact the practice can have on jobs and the tax-
preferences given to executives.  Less Attention  Much less attention has been given to a key backer of the
private-equity industry: public-employee pension funds, which
pour billions of dollars into corporate takeovers. With the
stock market stalled and interest-rates at record lows, private
equity deals have promised relatively high returns, which public
officials need to pay benefits for workers retiring in coming
decades.  For the 25 years ending June 30, 2012, the  Cambridge
Associates LLC U.S. Private Equity Index , comprised of 986
private equity funds formed between 1986 and 2012, has returned
13.1 percent, net of fees. The  Standard & Poor’s 500  has
returned 8.62 during the same time period.  Yet public-employee unions have been silent about their
role in fueling the rise of private equity, which made Romney a
multi-millionaire and others, such as  Henry Kravis  of  KKR & Co.
LP (KKR)  and  Steve Schwarzman  of  Blackstone Group LP (BX) , billionaires.  Globally, public pensions have sunk about $435 billion into
private-equity firms, almost a third of total investments in the
industry, according to Preqin. That’s twice the amount put in by
corporate pension funds, the next biggest investors.  ‘Pretty Quiet’  “The unions have been pretty quiet, and one of the reasons
is there is this conflict,” said Eileen Appelbaum, an economist
with the labor-backed  Center for Economic and Policy Research in
Washington . “On the one hand, they represent current workers,
and on the other, their pension funds are heavily invested in
private equity. Private equity promises big gains.”  The reticence stands in contrast to public pension
criticism of the labor and governance practices of companies
such as  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT) , whom they accused of labor-law
violations.  The  California Public Employees’ Retirement System , the
nation’s largest pension, has a policy that restricts new
investments with private-equity firms that run companies
involved in outsourcing government jobs, unless the investment
staff recommends doing so based on potential returns.  Calpers committed to invest $300 million in Thomas H. Lee
Equity Partners VI LP, one of the four funds that bought
Aramark. Thomas H. Lee hasn’t submitted an investment proposal
to Calpers since fund VI was raised, said Amy Norris, a Calpers
spokeswoman.  Calpers hasn’t withheld an investment in a private equity
fund as a result of the policy, said Norris.  Highest Return  The Massachusetts Pension Reserves Investment Management
Board, which manages the state fund, is directed by the
Legislature to get the highest return within an acceptable level
of risk for all state taxpayers, said Michael Trotsky,  executive
director  and chief investment officer.  The fund owns positions in almost 9,000 companies,
including some through its 2006 investment of $125 million in
Thomas H. Lee Equity Partners VI.  “Even if it were appropriate to dive into each of these
individual companies that our managers are invested in, to do so
would be impractical, if not impossible,” Trotsky said. “PRIM
hires investment managers who have full discretion.”  The pension only avoids investing in certain companies if
directed by the Legislature. Massachusetts has forbidden the
fund from taking stakes in companies that do business in Iran or
Sudan or sell tobacco. It doesn’t prohibit holding positions in
those that eliminate government jobs.  Financial Crisis  In recent years, some private-equity firms have focused on
companies like Aramark that provide services to state and local
governments, which are still struggling in the aftermath of the
18-month recession that began in December 2007. States have
closed budget deficits of more than half a trillion dollars
since fiscal 2009, when tax collections stumbled. By October,
state- and local-government payrolls had tumbled 605,000 since
2008.  In May 2011, private-equity firm Clayton Dubilier & Rice
LLC snapped up Emergency Medical Services Corp., which contracts
with communities and government agencies to provide 911
emergency-response services.  Bus Operator  The Carlyle Group LP (CG) , the second-largest private-equity
firm by assets, bought Illinois Central School Bus LLC, the
fifth-largest school bus operator in North America, in June
2010. In August, KKR, in partnership with  GDF Suez SA’s (GSZ)  United
Water, won a 40-year contract to run Bayonne, New Jersey’s water
and sewer operations in exchange for a $150 million up-front
payment. Riverside County, California, and Osceola County,
Florida, outsourced their libraries to  Library Systems &
Services LLC , owned by Massachusetts-based private-equity firm
Islington Capital Partners LLC.  Thomas H. Lee Partners LP,  Warburg Pincus  LLC, CCMP Capital
Advisors LLC and the buyout unit of Goldman Sachs Group Inc.
staked a claim in the market in 2007. The group teamed up with
Aramark Chairman Joseph Neubauer to buy the company for more
than $8 billion.  Robin Weinberg, a spokeswoman for Boston-based Lee,
declined to comment. Ed Trissel, a spokesman for Warburg Pincus,
didn’t respond to messages and e-mails requesting comment.
Andrew Cole, a spokesman for CCMP and Andrea Raphael, a
spokeswoman for Goldman Sachs declined to comment. The three are
based in New York.  Baseball Parks  Aramark employs about 250,000 people in 22 countries,
providing dining services to universities, jails and schools, as
well as uniforms and custodial services. It runs facilities or
food service at 12  Major League Baseball parks  such as Fenway in
Boston and Citi Field in New York and 11 National Football
League stadiums, including  Heinz Field  in Pittsburgh and M&T
Bank Stadium in Baltimore.  The company’s steady stream of cash attracted the private-
equity firms because it could support debt to finance the
takeover. More than $6 billion was borrowed for the deal.  Four years later, the group rewarded itself as Aramark
borrowed $600 million, helping to fund a $711 million dividend
payment, a regulatory filing shows.  Goldman Sachs Capital Partners V returned 15.6 percent as
of June 30, said Howard Bicker, executive director of the
Minnesota State Board of Investment. CCMP Capital Investors II 
returned  15 percent as of March 31, according to the New York
City Employees’ Retirement System.  The Warburg Pincus Private Equity IX fund  returned  10.2
percent as of June 30, according to the Washington State
Investment Board. Thomas H. Lee Equity Partners VI  returned  2.8
percent as of March 31, according to Calpers.  Union Battles  Aramark has a long history of battles with organized labor.  The company has clashed repeatedly with UNITE-HERE, a union
of hotel, food-service and gaming workers. The union has  staged
protests  at Citizens Bank Park in Philadelphia and the Consol
Energy Center in Pittsburgh, rallying in support of higher wages
and access to health-care benefits. The union has also joined
with students at colleges, including  Pennsylvania State
University  and the  Massachusetts Institute of Technology , to
press for better pay and benefits for campus food-service
workers.  Aramark’s business is part of a decades-old trend to save
taxpayers money by hiring private companies to manage school
cafeterias, run buses, and oversee other functions such as
building and ground maintenance once handled by public
employees. That has been costly to workers, said  Janice Fine , a
Rutgers University assistant professor of labor studies who has
studied outsourcing.  ‘Lower Paying’  “The evidence is incontrovertible that the jobs went from
being good, full-time blue collar jobs to being lower paying,
part-time jobs often with minimal or no benefits,” Fine said.
Rutgers is based in New Brunswick,  New Jersey .  That’s what happened to Carol Sanders when Aramark took
over in New Orleans’s public schools in 2010.  Sanders, 52, began working for the Orleans Parish school
board in 1982. She raised three children and purchased a home in
the city on her cook’s pay. She had medical benefits, paid days
off and was making $15 an hour when Aramark was hired to run
food service for the Recovery School District, which took over
Orleans Parish schools after the city was devastated by
 Hurricane Katrina .  One of the company’s owners, the Warburg Pincus IX fund,
received a $100 million investment from the  Teachers’ Retirement
System of Louisiana , the pension system Sanders paid into.  Aramark cut Sanders’s time on the job in half, to 20 hours
a week, leaving her working split shifts -- 2 hours in the
morning and 2 more into the early afternoon, five days a week.
Her pay dropped to $9 an hour. She went without medical
insurance and began drawing $200 a month in  food stamps .  ‘Barely Surviving’  “I raised a family on Orleans Parish, now I can’t raise
myself on it,” Sanders said. “I’m barely surviving.”  In August, she was laid off and is waiting to be called
back. She’s relying on family to pay her mortgage.  “It’s just a struggle for me,” Sanders said. “By the
skin of my teeth, I am still in it.”  Thomas Sueta, an Aramark spokesman, declined to comment.  In  Baton Rouge , the state capital, Phil Griffith, the chief
investment officer of the Teachers’ Retirement System of
 Louisiana , said pension managers focus on the returns from
private-equity investments. They pay less attention to the
effect the funds may have on jobs in companies the firms buy.  ‘Fiduciary Responsibility’  “We take a kind of hands-off approach, which is from a
fiduciary responsibility,” Griffith said. “We manage it for
return and for our own constituents. We don’t get into, ‘Does
that mean it lays off public workers?’”  “The only thing we look at is the security of the trust,
not whether or not it creates jobs or takes away jobs, whether
it be public employees in Louisiana or public employees
throughout the country,” Griffith said.  “Our responsibility is to the trust -- the decisions of
school boards to outsource those positions are outside our
control,” he said. “I am not happy that folks don’t have jobs,
but I don’t think it’s a direct impact of our investment.”  Like many communities, Chelmsford, Massachusetts, strained
to keep up with rising employee-benefit costs while investing in
the classroom, said Janet Askenburg, the School Committee head.  After considering outsourcing for years, the committee
sought bids for janitorial work in March 2011 and received 10
responses. Aramark made the low bid, and the board gave the
custodians represented by Council 93 an opportunity to match it.
They couldn’t.  Sick Days  “We were going to give back sick days, cut pay,” said
Mike Greenwood, president of the local union, who worked in the
school system for 13 years and is 60 years old.  Aramark offered to hire the 24 affected workers at $8.25 to
$8.75 an hour. None of the custodians, who made $19 on average,
accepted.  Firing higher-paid employees in unions and outsourcing the
work to Aramark’s non-union labor let the town spend $250,000 to
hire more teachers, Askenburg said. The school system also had
$129,000 in severance and unemployment costs.  “It was a tough decision but also a bit of a no-brainer as
well,” she said, adding that the committee and the
superintendent were running the system like a business. “If we
were to run this based on emotions and feelings, we wouldn’t
have made this decision.”  Aramark employs 27 custodians in Chelmsford’s seven
schools, at an average wage of $12 an hour, said Kathleen
McWilliams, business manager for the schools. They receive
health benefits, contributing a third of the cost, and can
enroll in a 401(k) retirement-savings plan, she said.  Seeking Jobs  Greenwood, whose wife has cancer, and Thorne still don’t
have new jobs, 16 months later. Both get pensions through the
Middlesex County Retirement System. The school district
continues to pay two-thirds of their health insurance. Thorne
has sought jobs at a local police department, a school and a
hockey rink. Had he worked eight more years for Chelmsford, his
monthly pension would’ve more than doubled.  “If you can hire a 30-year-old or a 55-year-old, who are
you going to hire?” Thorne said.  After a choppy transition to the new custodians, “the
schools have never been cleaner,” Askenburg said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Martin Z. Braun in New York at 
 mbraun6@bloomberg.net 
William Selway in Washington at 
 wselway@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeffrey Taylor at 
 jtaylor48@bloomberg.net  