-- Philippine Consumer Shares Lure Funds on Growth: Southeast Asia
-- B y   I a n   S a y s o n
-- 2012-11-21T05:35:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-20/philippine-consumer-shares-lure-funds-on-growth-southeast-asia.html
The  Philippines ’ biggest fund
managers are buying more consumer and  property  stocks as
prospects for an investment-grade credit rating and lower
borrowing costs drive the benchmark index to a record.  The  Philippine Stock Exchange Index (PCOMP)  jumped 26 percent this
year through yesterday’s close, driving valuations to 15.5 times
estimated 2013 earnings, the most among 15 Asian-Pacific markets
tracked by Bloomberg. The measure is trading at its biggest
premium to the  MSCI Emerging Markets Index (MXEF)  since Aug. 3 as
analysts predict a 12 percent increase in the Philippine gauge’s
earnings in the next 12 months.  BPI Asset Management Inc.’s Paul Joseph Garcia is buying
food and drink manufacturers as the slowest inflation rate in
four months gives the central bank room to cut record-low
borrowing costs to shelter the economy from the global slowdown.
Metropolitan Bank & Trust Co.’s Allan Yu is investing in
homebuilders and retailers amid expectations the Philippines
will win an investment-grade  credit rating  as early as 2013.  “We have started to take positions for the coming year,”
Garcia, who helps manage about $18.5 billion as senior vice
president at BPI Asset, said by phone yesterday. “The
Philippines is still expensive relative to other Asia-Pacific
markets but that’s the premium you pay for earnings certainty.”  Government Spending  Garcia predicts the Philippine Stock Exchange Index may
climb another 18 percent through 2013 to 6,500. The gauge could
rise 5.4 percent to 5,800 by the end of this year, said Yu, who
helps manage $10.3 billion at Metropolitan Bank, the nation’s
second-biggest bank by assets. The  measure  rose 0.6 percent to
5,535.05 at 1:35 p.m. in  Manila  today, heading for a record
close.  Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas lowered its  overnight borrowing
rate  for the fourth time this year on Oct. 25 after second-
quarter economic growth slowed to 5.9 percent, from 6.3 percent
in the previous three months. President  Benigno Aquino  is
increasing spending and seeking more than $16 billion of
investments in roads and airports to spur economic growth to as
fast as 7 percent in 2013.  The Philippine stock index’s increase this year compares
with a 13 percent climb by the MSCI  Southeast Asia  Index and the
MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index’s 7.1 percent advance. The Southeast
Asian measure trades for 14.1 times estimated profit, a 25
percent premium to the emerging-market gauge’s multiple of 11.3.  There is little room for further stock gains in the
Philippines and other Southeast Asian nations because prices
reflect the region’s earnings prospects, Sakthi Siva, a Credit
Suisse Group AG strategist, wrote in a Nov. 7 note.  Stock Rally  The 10 largest consumer stocks in the 268-member  Philippine
All-Share Index (PASHR) , including Universal  Robina (URC)  Corp. and  Pepsi-Cola
Products Philippines Inc. (PIP) , have climbed an average 70 percent
this year amid prospects of increased consumption, which
accounts for 74 percent of the economy. Growth in second-quarter
 consumer spending  accelerated to 5.7 percent from 5.1 percent
the previous three months, government data show.  The All-Share index’s five biggest consumer companies trade
at an average 26 times reported profit, compared with the
gauge’s 18.5  multiple . Manila-based Robina, the nation’s largest
maker of snack foods, rose 63 percent this year and is valued at
20.2 times. Pepsi-Cola, based in Muntinlupa City, surged 171
percent and trades for 27 times.  “Consumer stocks have already gone up but the sector
remains attractive,” said BPI Asset’s Garcia, who prefers
retailers and gaming stocks. There is a “50 percent chance”
the central bank may cut  interest rates  in the first half of
2013, spurring consumer spending, he said.  Ayala Land  While lower borrowing costs have driven the  Philippine
Stock Exchange Property Index (PPROP)  up by 42 percent this year, the
gauge’s valuation of 18.6 times estimates for 2013 profit is at
the narrowest premium to the Philippine Stock Exchange Index
since May 11, weekly data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Robinsons
Land Corp. (RLC) , the nation’s second-largest mall operator has surged
70 percent this year, while  Ayala Land Inc. (ALI) , the Philippines’
biggest developer, climbed 54 percent.  “The property sector should continue to be a preferred
sector as low interest rates will perk up demand for real
estate,” Metropolitan Bank’s Yu said by phone on Nov. 15. He
favors home developers and builders with rental income.  Moody’s Investors Service, Standard & Poor’s and Fitch
Ratings raised their ratings on Philippine debt in the past 16
months as the government reduced its  budget deficit  from a
record high in 2010. Moody’s lifted its rating to Ba1, one step
below investment grade, on Oct. 29, saying the nation may reach
that status if it continues its reforms and lowers debt.  Overseas investors  bought a net $2.02 billion of Philippine
shares this year, exceeding the record $1.35 billion posted in
2007, according to figures compiled by Bloomberg dating to 2000.  “Expectations the Philippines will achieve investment-
grade status are supported by strong fundamentals,” Yu said.
“This will drive more overseas funds into this market.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ian Sayson in Manila at 
 isayson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  