-- Breivik Fan Arrested for Plotting Bomb Attack in Poland
-- B y   P i o t r   S k o l i m o w s k i   a n d   K o n r a d   K r a s u s k i
-- 2012-11-20T15:24:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-20/poland-arrests-man-planning-bomb-attack-on-government.html
A Polish academic authorities say
was fascinated with Norwegian mass murderer Anders Behring Breivik and upset over the economy was arrested on suspicion of
plotting to kill the nation’s president and blow up Parliament.  An analysis of Breivik’s Internet purchases of explosives
before he massacred 77 people last year led to the suspect’s
arrest on Nov. 9, Prime Minister Donald Tusk said today. The 45-
year-old “expert in explosives” from the Agricultural
University in Krakow was trying to set up a group to kill
President  Bronislaw Komorowski  and other officials during a
session of Parliament, according to prosecutors.  “This individual didn’t hide his fascination with
Breivik,” Tusk told journalists after the government met in
Warsaw today. “We’ve never dealt with such a case before.”  The suspect, whose name wasn’t made public, planned to
detonate four tons of explosives from a car parked outside
Parliament, Mariusz Krason of the Appellate Prosecutor’s Office
in Krakow said at a news conference in Warsaw today. Poland’s
 Internal Security Agency  detained two others in connection with
the planned attacks.  While the man wasn’t a member of any political party, “he
described himself as being nationalistic, xenophobic and anti-
Semitic,” Krason told reporters. A search turned up explosives,
remote-controlled detonators, weapons and ammunition, he said.  Economic Situation  “He believed the economic and political situation in
 Poland  is going in the wrong direction and the change requires
taking radical steps,” Krason said. The suspect, who faces as
many as five years in prison, didn’t admit to planning attacks
and said he was “acting on suggestions from other people,”
according to Krason.  With Poland’s jobless rate stuck above 12 percent, public
disaffection has grown and Tusk’s government has fallen behind
the opposition Law and Justice party in some polls. Growth in
the European Union’s biggest eastern economy has slowed to its
weakest pace in almost three years amid a drop in demand from
the crisis-hit euro region, Poland’s main market for exports.  Breivik, who also expressed disaffection with his nation’s
politics, bombed the Norwegian premier’s office, killing eight,
and took 69 lives in a shooting spree at a youth camp in July
last year. In August, he was sentenced to 21 years in jail, with
an option for extensions, after all five judges found him
mentally fit for prison.  Guns, Ammunition  Polish prosecutors played a video recording at today’s news
conference of what they said were test explosions conducted by
the suspect. They also showed photographs of guns, ammunition
and license plates found during the search.  “We wanted to organize the news conference a week ago, but
the case required further investigation and discretion,” Krason
said.  The foiled attacks follow the killing of an opposition Law
and Justice party employee in Lodz in 2010. Six policemen were
injured and 132 people were arrested in Warsaw on Nov. 11 after
demonstrators clashed with police during marches to commemorate
the country’s Independence Day.  “The danger was real,” Artur Wrona, head of the Appellate
Prosecutors Office in Krakow, said at the news conference. “In
 Norway , they also didn’t suspect that they had a Breivik in
their midst, but we all know how it ended.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Piotr Skolimowski in Warsaw at 
 pskolimowski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  