-- Quebec Raises Taxes and Cuts Spending to Reach Budget Balance
-- B y   F r e d e r i c   T o m e s c o
-- 2012-11-20T21:16:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-20/quebec-raises-taxes-and-cuts-spending-to-reach-budget-balance.html
Quebec  Finance Minister Nicolas Marceau said the province will keep a pledge to eliminate its
deficit for the first time in four years by raising income and
consumption taxes and capping infrastructure spending, in a
budget that drew immediate criticism from opposition lawmakers.  The province’s books will be balanced in the year starting
April 2013 “and will stay balanced in subsequent years,”
Marceau told reporters today. By excluding C$1.8 billion ($1.8
billion) in costs linked to the closing of a nuclear power
plant, Quebec will meet its goal of a C$1.5 billion deficit in
the year that ends March 31, documents show.  Marceau’s budget is the first introduced by the Parti
Quebecois government under Premier Pauline Marois since it won
the Sept. 4 election, ending nine years of Liberal Party rule.
Marois failed to win a majority of seats in the election,
meaning her government depends on support from opposition
parties to pass laws.  “We are seeing through to completion the plan to restore
fiscal balance, which was left unfinished by the former
administration,” Marceau said today in the text of a speech
he’s giving at the provincial legislature in Quebec City.  Marceau’s predecessor, Liberal Raymond Bachand, said his
party would oppose the budget, calling it irresponsible and
incomplete. Still, Bachand said Liberal lawmakers, the second-
largest group in the legislature, hadn’t decided whether to vote
against the document, which could trigger new elections.  The third-largest party, Coalition Avenir Quebec, will vote
against the budget, leader Francois Legault said.  Borrowing Plans  Quebec plans to borrow about C$15 billion in the 2013-14
fiscal year, budget documents show. That’s down from C$17.3
billion in the current year, C$4.4 billion of which was pre-
funded. Debt issuance is forecast to rebound to C$17.3 billion
in 2014-15.  Quebec bonds have underperformed the Bank of America
Merrill Lynch Canadian Provincials & Municipals Index since the
Parti Quebecois returned to power.  Yields on Quebec debt relative to Canadian federal
government bonds widened by 4 basis points to 106 between Sept.
3 and Nov. 16, the data show. Average spreads on the provincial
debt index widened by 2 basis points to 80 over the same period.  Next year’s budget includes a C$400 million contingency
reserve, which rises to C$500 million starting in 2014-15,
budget documents show.  “For bondholders, it’s quite reassuring that Mr. Marceau
intends to balance the books quickly and to keep the long-term
plans of debt reduction,” said  Sebastien Lavoie , assistant
chief economist at Laurentian Bank of Canada in  Montreal .  Alterations Possible  The budget is “a sign of openness to other parties that
need to support this budget,” Lavoie said. “Will there be
alterations? It’s always a possibility.”  To reach its budget goals, Quebec will introduce a new tax
bracket for residents earning at least C$100,000 starting next
year, Marceau said today. Income above that level will be taxed
by the province at 25.75 percent, up from 24 percent. The
measure will raise C$74 million this fiscal year and C$326
million in 2013-14, budget documents show.  The government will raise taxes on tobacco and alcohol,
moves that it expects will bring in C$230 million next year. A
carton of 200 cigarettes will cost an additional C$4, Marceau
said.  Quebec residents already pay the second-highest tax rates
in  Canada . Total taxes for a Quebec family with two or more
people equal 45.7 percent of income, exceeding the 44.2 percent
average for Canada, according to a June  report  by the Fraser
Institute, a Vancouver-based free-market research organization.  Bank Tax  To boost revenue, Quebec will increase and extend by five
years a tax on financial institutions such as  Royal Bank of
Canada (RY) , which was set to expire in 2014. The move will generate
C$80 million in 2013-14 and C$211 million the following year,
Marceau said.  Program spending will climb 1.8 percent in 2013-14 and 2.4
percent in 2014-15, the government said. Quebec will cap
infrastructure spending at C$9.5 billion a year for the next
five years, C$1.5 billion less than planned by the previous
government.  Quebec will eliminate a flat tax to raise money for health
care -- introduced two years ago by the Liberal government --
and replace it next year with a levy based on income, Marceau
said.  Electricity rates will be indexed to inflation starting in
2014, Marceau said, abandoning a plan by the previous government
to boost prices by 20 percent over five years.  Job Cuts  Hydro-Quebec, the state-owned power producer, will
eliminate 2,000 positions through attrition. Other government
corporations will also cut costs, allowing the province to save
C$290 million next fiscal year, the minister said.  Marceau’s first budget also contains measures aimed at
spurring business investment.  Quebec will introduce a 10-year tax holiday for investment
projects of at least C$300 million in industries such as
minerals and wood processing and data processing. The exemption
will apply to projects approved in the next three years, the
government said.  “A window has opened for investment in Quebec,” Marceau
told reporters. “These are good times to invest. The private
sector has a lot of liquidity, interest rates are low and the
Canadian dollar is high.”  Tax credits for pharmaceutical companies will be raised to
27.5 percent from 17.5 percent to support research, the
government said. Quebec will also provide C$125 million in
matching funding over five years for “research partnership
projects” with drug companies.  Slow Growth  Economic growth adjusted for inflation will slow to 0.9
percent this calendar year before rebounding to 1.5 percent in
2013 and 2 percent in 2014, budget documents show.  The province’s previous budget -- introduced March 20 by
Bachand -- had forecast growth of 1.5 percent in 2012.  Departing from a campaign pledge, Marceau said Quebec will
seek input from mining companies before changing the provincial
royalties system. Marois had vowed during the campaign to boost
royalties because she argued the province didn’t get enough from
resource extraction.  Marceau’s budget comes a day after Cliffs Natural Resources
Inc.  said  it would delay part of its Bloom Lake mine expansion
in Quebec. The U.S. company cited volatility in iron ore prices
and declining use of the mineral by North American steelmakers.  To contact the reporter for this story:
Frederic Tomesco in Quebec City at 
 tomesco@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at   dscanlan@bloomberg.net  