-- Rafael Nadal Resumes Practice After 5-Month Injury Break
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 2012-11-20T12:00:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-20/rafael-nadal-resumes-practice-after-5-month-injury-break.html
Rafael Nadal , an 11-time Grand Slam
tennis champion, has resumed training after being sidelined by
injury since June.  “Today my first tennis practice after all these weeks,”
Nadal said on his Facebook page. “Getting better and hope to
continue with the positive trend,” he added. He was pictured in
an indoor court with his uncle and long-time coach,  Toni Nadal .  The 26-year-old Spaniard is practicing today for the first
time since August in his home town of Manacor on the island of
 Mallorca , his publicist Benito Perez-Barbadillo said in an e-
mail.  Nadal, who’s dropped two spots to No. 4 on the ATP World
Tour rankings, has committed to playing an exhibition tournament
in  Abu Dhabi  in Dec. 27-29. It’s a warm-up for the Australian
Open, which starts Jan. 14 in Melbourne.  After winning a men’s record seventh  French Open , Nadal was
upset in the second round of Wimbledon by then 100th-ranked
Czech Lukas Rosol in June. His earliest exit in one of the four
majors turned out to be his last match of the season.  After Wimbledon, Nadal initially tried to get ready to
defend his Olympic gold medal at the  London Olympics  in August.
A week after his defeat to Rosol, he said he was suffering from
tendinitis in one of his knees and that doctors told him to rest
for two weeks. In July 19, he withdrew from the  London  Games,
saying he wasn’t fit enough to compete and that it was “one of
the saddest moments” of his career.  Until today, he hadn’t struck a tennis ball since pulling
out of the U.S. Open on Aug. 15, Perez-Barbadillo said.  Missed Tour Finals  Nadal, who won the title in  New York  in 2010, announced on
his website on Sept. 3 that he’d miss at least two months after
he was diagnosed with a partial tear of a patella tendon as well
as knee inflammation. While Nadal rehabilitated in the swimming
pool at his home, he also pulled out of the season-ending ATP
World Tour Finals in London on Nov. 5-12 and the Davis Cup final
against the Czech Republic last weekend.  Although 2012 marks Nadal’s longest injury-related lay-off,
he’s frequently been sidelined with physical ailments. He missed
defending his Wimbledon title in 2009 because of tendinitis, and
has also struggled with a shoulder injury and a recurring stress
fracture in a foot.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Rossingh in London at 
 drossingh@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 