-- Ramsay Seeks U.K. Rights to Batali Name Spotted Pig
-- B y   R i c h a r d   V i n e s
-- 2012-11-20T00:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-20/ramsay-seeks-u-k-rights-to-batali-name-spotted-pig.html
Gordon Ramsay has applied for the
U.K. trademark on The Spotted Pig, the name of the New York
gastropub whose celebrity owners include the musicians Jay-Z and
Bono and the chef Mario Batali.  The British television chef’s company, Gordon Ramsay
Holdings International Ltd., submitted the  application  on Oct. 2
and it was published for comment on Nov. 9, according to the
U.K. government’s Intellectual Property Office website.  Batali and the Spotted Pig’s chef-owner April Bloomfield
didn’t immediately respond to voicemails seeking a response.
Gordon Ramsay Holdings had no comment.  Anyone who opposes the U.K. application has two months in
which to enter an objection. This wouldn’t be the first time a
Batali restaurant has been flattered in this way.  London  has a
Babbo, the name of one of Batali’s venues in New York.  “We didn’t have a trademark for  England ,” Batali said in
an interview last year. “You need a specific one for England.
We had one for  Italy , we have one for Spain, we have one in
 Thailand . I don’t know why we didn’t have one in London.”  Ramsay’s application was earlier reported by the Sunday
Mail, in  Scotland , which quoted an unidentified spokesman for
the chef’s company as saying it regularly seeks trademarks and
there were no current plans beyond that.  Bloomfield and the Spotted Pig’s founder, Ken Friedman,
have expressed an interest in opening a restaurant in London.  Bloomfield Comeback  “I would love to come back and open somewhere,”
Bloomfield said in an interview in October. “Ken and I talk
about it all the time. I don’t know if it would be like the
Pig.”  Ramsay was  quoted in the New York Post  in 2008 as saying he
planned to open a casual venue in New York similar to his
Foxtrot Oscar in London, which he said was an “amazing
neighborhood bistro along the lines of The Spotted Pig.”  Batali was  cited in the Observer  in January 2009 as saying
he wouldn’t accept bookings from Ramsay’s office. That was after
the U.K. chef called Batali “ Fanta Pants .” The New Yorker said
Ramsay would need to call him personally for a table.  “I’ve never met him face to face,” Batali said in the
Bloomberg interview. “We’ve traded insults in the papers a
couple of times, not because we know each other or even not like
each other. Our medias just pushed us apart. I’m sure I would
like him in person.”  Batali has other detractors. He apologized in November 2011
after comparing bankers to Hitler and Stalin. Ramsay’s last
known  brush with a pig  was when he compared the Australian TV
reporter Tracy Grimshaw to one. Ramsay also apologized.  (Richard Vines is the chief food critic for Muse, the arts
and leisure section of Bloomberg News. He is U.K. and Ireland
chairman of the World’s 50 Best Restaurants awards. Opinions
expressed are his own.)  Muse highlights include  Mark Beech  on music,  Amanda
Gordon’s  Scene Last Night and  Jeremy Gerard  on U.S. theater.  To contact the writer on the story:
Richard Vines in London at 
 rvines@bloomberg.net  or  http://twitter.com/Richardvines .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 