-- Ravens Safety Reed Has One-Game Suspension Cut to $50,000 by NFL
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2012-11-21T05:01:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-20/ravens-ed-reed-has-one-game-suspension-cut-to-50-000-by-nfl.html
Ed Reed will play for the  Baltimore
Ravens  this weekend against the  San Diego Chargers  after the Pro
Bowl safety’s one-game National Football League suspension for
illegal hits was reduced to a $50,000 fine.  Reed appealed the NFL’s penalty for repeated violations of
a rule banning helmet-to-helmet hits against a defenseless
opponent. His blow to the head of Pittsburgh Steelers receiver
Emmanuel Sanders three days ago was his third such hit in three
seasons.  “I’m grateful to continue playing this game with my
teammates,” Reed told reporters yesterday at a charity event.
“The rules of the game have changed. Over my career I’ve never
been that guy, and I don’t plan on being that guy.”  Ted Cottrell, the hearing officer in the appeal, reduced
Reed’s penalty yesterday after determining the player’s actions
didn’t warrant a one-game ban without pay. The sanction would
have cost Reed about $450,000 in salary and forced him to miss
the Nov. 25 game at  San Diego .  “I have determined that your actions were egregious and
warrant significant discipline,” Cottrell said in a letter to
Reed that was distributed by the NFL. “However, I do not
believe that your actions were so egregious as to subject you to
a one-game suspension without pay.”  Cottrell conducted the appeal by telephone with Reed and
representatives from the NFL Players Association.  Ravens General Manager Ozzie Newsome said in a statement
yesterday that the appeals process gave Reed the chance to
answer questions about his play. Newsome added that he believes
Reed “clearly tries to play within the rules on every down.”  Reed received a $21,000 fine and an unnecessary roughness
penalty following a September hit on New England Patriots
receiver Deion Branch, and a $10,000 fine for roughing the
passer after an unnecessary blow to the head of New Orleans
Saints quarterback Drew Brees in 2010.  “None of those were with intent to injure or to harm in
any way,” Ravens coach  John Harbaugh  told reporters two days
ago. “Ed respects the game. He respects his fellow players.
After the New England one, he and Branch, they knew right away,
and they were hugging each other. He’s got tremendous respect
for the game, and we stand behind him.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in  New York  at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  