-- RBA Considered More Easing May Be Appropriate: Minutes
-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 2012-11-20T01:42:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-20/rba-considered-more-easing-may-be-appropriate-minutes.html
The  Reserve Bank  of Australia said
more interest-rate reductions may be appropriate to spur
economic growth as a mining boom wanes, minutes of its Nov. 6
policy meeting showed, sending the nation’s currency lower.  “Members considered that further easing may be appropriate
in the period ahead,” according to the  minutes  released today
in Sydney. “While a gradual recovery in both dwelling and other
business investment was anticipated, assisted in part by the
lower level of  interest rates , there was also uncertainty about
the timing and magnitude of this pick-up.”  At the meeting, the central bank held the  overnight cash-
rate target , citing a better global outlook and faster domestic
inflation, after five cuts in the prior year to help extend a
21-year run without a recession. RBA Governor  Glenn Stevens 
lowered the benchmark by 1.5 percentage points to 3.25 percent
from November 2011 to October this year as the bank aims to help
industries including construction rebound to offset a slower
pace of resource investment.  “The decision to keep rates on hold earlier this month
seems to be more finely balanced than previously thought,” said
 Savanth Sebastian , an economist in Sydney at a unit of
 Commonwealth Bank of Australia. (CBA)  “While the likelihood of a
further rate cut has increased in a broader sense, the Reserve
Bank is still in a holding pattern.”  Currency Reaction  The so-called Aussie dollar fell 0.1 percent to $1.0408 as
of 12:14 p.m. in Sydney, from yesterday in  New York , after
earlier reaching $1.0425, the strongest since Nov. 14.  “There were tentative indications that housing activity
may be reaching a turning point,” policy makers said in the
minutes. “The effects of the earlier reductions in the cash
rate were, meanwhile, continuing to work their way through the
economy, and members expected that further effects of these
changes were yet to be observed.”  The RBA, in a Nov. 9 statement, reduced its 2013 growth
forecast as lower investment in  iron-ore , coal and natural-gas
projects and the government’s pledge to deliver an election-year
 budget surplus  restrain the economy.  “Members noted that the spot price for iron ore had
recently increased in line with a rise in steel production and
prices, but remained well below levels seen earlier in the
year,” the minutes showed. “In contrast, spot prices for both
thermal and coking coal had declined further.”  China Link  A quarter of Australia’s exports, or about 5 percent of
gross domestic product, goes to  China  and 60 percent of those
shipments are iron ore.  “There were signs that the pace of growth in China may
have stabilized,” according to the minutes. “For the global
economy, data received over the previous month had been somewhat
more positive.”  In the new forecasts, consumer prices were projected to
rise 2 percent to 3 percent in the year to December 2013 and
underlying inflation the same rate, little changed from three
months ago, the central bank said. The central bank targets
underlying inflation in a 2 percent to 3 percent range.  Recent indicators suggest “that economic growth was more
moderate in the September quarter,” the minutes showed, with
the economy expanding “around trend pace” in recent months,
compared with above-trend growth earlier in the year. “Leading
indicators of labor demand had softened a bit further,
suggesting modest near-term employment growth was likely.”  Higher Unemployment  Australia ’s unemployment rate rose to a 2 1/2-year high of
5.4 percent in September and held at that level in October.
Monthly employment growth this year has averaged 10,900 jobs,
less than the average of 17,200 a month in the prior five years,
according to government data compiled by Bloomberg.  The local currency is little changed this month as a better
outlook for China, Australia’s key trading partner, offsets
concern about the U.S. political stalemate over budget cuts and
tax increases. The Aussie has averaged about $1.03 in the past
two years, compared with 73 U.S. cents in the prior decade.  In today’s minutes, the RBA said the currency “remained at
a high level” and noted that the increase of some prices of
internationally traded goods “suggested that the downward
pressure on tradables prices from the earlier appreciation of
the  exchange rate  was waning.”  Projects Put Off  Australia’s economy grew about 4 percent in the first half
of 2012 from a year earlier on the strength of resource-industry
investment and  consumer spending . Weaker commodity prices and
the elevated currency prompted mining companies including  BHP
Billiton Ltd. (BHP)  and  Fortescue Metals Group Ltd. (FMG)  to put off
projects and cut jobs in recent months.  “Conditions in the mining sector had declined since
earlier in the year,” policy makers said in the minutes,
attributing the less optimistic assessment to lower commodity
prices. “Exports were estimated to have been weak in the
September quarter, owing to softer global demand for coal.”  Traders were pricing in a 68 percent chance Stevens will
reduce the key rate by a quarter point to 3 percent at the next
meeting in December, up from 64 percent before the release of
the minutes, swaps data compiled by Bloomberg showed.  After the October rate cut, “the average interest rate on
outstanding housing loans was now about 75 basis points below
the post-1996 average,” policy makers said in the minutes.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  