-- Treasuries Fall as Bernanke Says Deficit Deal Aids Growth
-- B y   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r
-- 2012-11-20T22:09:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-20/treasuries-snap-loss-as-france-cut-boosts-safety-bid.html
Treasuries fell as Federal Reserve
Chairman Ben S. Bernanke said an agreement to reduce long-term
U.S. deficits may remove an impediment to economic growth and
crimp haven demand.  U.S. 10-year note yields rose to a one-week high after a
report showed housing starts unexpectedly increased last month
to a four-year high. Volatility in U.S. government bonds dropped
to the lowest since 2007. The central bank purchased $1.85
billion in longer-term debt today as part of its so-called
Operation Twist program to boost growth.  “There’s some optimism they will come to some agreement to
address the fiscal cliff,” said Larry Milstein, managing
director in New York of government-debt trading at R.W.
Pressprich & Co. “The fiscal cliff is driving our market more
than any other issue right now.”  The benchmark 10-year  yield  increased five basis points, or
0.05 percentage point, to 1.67 percent at 4:59 p.m. in New York,
according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. The 1.625 percent
security due in November 2022 dropped 15/32, or $4.69 per $1,000
face amount, to 99 20/32. The yield reached the highest level
since Nov. 8.  The 30-year bond yield climbed six basis points to 2.82
percent, set for the longest streak of increases since the five
days ended Aug. 9.  Position Protection  “A majority of traders are taking chips off the table,”
said Michael Franzese, senior vice president of fixed-income
trading at ED&F Man Capital Markets in New York. “If they reach
an agreement, Treasuries will go up in yields.”  The Securities Industry and Financial Markets Association
recommends a full market  close  Nov. 22 for the Thanksgiving Day
holiday and an early close at 2 p.m. New York time on Nov. 23.  Volatility in U.S. government bonds dropped to the lowest
in more than five years before the U.S. Thanksgiving holiday.
Bank of America Merrill Lynch’s  MOVE index , which measures price
swings for Treasuries based on options, fell to 54.7 yesterday,
the least since June 2007.  Treasury trading volume rose to $233.4 billion as of 4:01
p.m., from $177 billion yesterday. That figure compares with the
2012 daily average of $241 billion, according to ICAP Plc, the
largest inter-dealer broker of U.S. government debt.  “We’ll see nothing major until there’s an announcement
from  Washington ,” said Justin Lederer, an interest-rate
strategist at primary dealer Cantor Fitzgerald LP in New York.
Investors are watching for any progress on the fiscal cliff, he
said.  Budget Talks  The fiscal cliff refers to $607 billion of tax increases
and spending cuts that will automatically come into force at the
beginning of 2013 unless lawmakers act. President  Barack Obama 
wants to impose higher taxes on the wealthy and reduce spending
while Republican lawmakers oppose raising taxes.  “Cooperation and creativity to deliver fiscal clarity --in
particular, a plan for resolving the nation’s longer-term
budgetary issues without harming the recovery -- could help make
the new year a very good one for the American economy,”
Bernanke said today in a speech in New York to the Economic Club
of New York. “Failure to avoid the so-called fiscal cliff would
pose a substantial threat to the recovery.”  The Fed’s next policy meeting is Dec. 11-12.  Bernanke said U.S. central bankers are looking “very
carefully” at proposals to link changes in monetary policy to
specific economic thresholds, such as the jobless rate which
stood at 7.9 percent in October.  Fund Target  The Fed now ties its outlook for the benchmark interest
rate to a calendar date. The central bank has said the federal
funds rate, which was set to the zero to 0.25 percent level in
December 2008, is likely to remain “exceptionally low” at
least through mid-2015.  The central bank bought Treasuries maturing from February
2036 to May 2042 today to help cap borrowing costs, according to
the Fed Bank of New York’s  website .  Treasuries have returned 2.7 percent this year as of Nov.
19, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch indexes. The  MSCI
All-Country World Index (MXWD)  of stocks handed investors an 11 percent
gain, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Treasuries remained lower as housing starts rose 3.6
percent to a 894,000 annual rate, the fastest since July 2008,
after a 863,000 pace in September, Commerce Department figures
showed today in Washington. The median estimate of 82 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg called for starts to fall to 840,000.  Economic Data  “The market reaction is muted, primarily because while the
data is showing us some signs of strength, it’s kind of taking a
back seat to what’s going on in Washington,” said Thomas Simons, a government-debt economist in New York at Jefferies
Group Inc., one of 21 primary dealers that trade with the
central bank. “It’s a thin week.”  Treasuries were supported earlier as Moody’s Investors
Service cut  France ’s top credit rating after the market closed
yesterday to Aa1 from Aaa, boosting demand for the safest
assets.  Investors in Treasuries cut bullish bets this week after
increasing them to the most in almost four months the week after
Obama won re-election, according to a survey by JPMorgan Chase &
Co.  The proportion of net longs was at two percentage points in
the week ending yesterday, according to JPMorgan, down from 11
percentage points the week ending Nov. 13. Investors raised
neutral bets to 68 percent from 59 percent, the survey reported.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Susanne Walker in New York at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  