-- Republican West Concedes in Florida U.S. House Race
-- B y   M i c h a e l   C .   B e n d e r   a n d   J a m e s   R o w l e y
-- 2012-11-20T17:36:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-20/republican-west-concedes-to-patrick-murphy-in-florida-house-race.html
U.S. Representative  Allen West , a
first-term Republican backed by the Tea Party, conceded his race
in  Florida  to Democrat Patrick Murphy after two weeks of
challenging the Nov. 6 election results.  Murphy, 29, a first-time candidate, won by 1,904 votes, or
0.58 percentage point, in a district that includes part of Palm
Beach County and two counties to the north. He will be the
youngest House member in the next Congress.  “While a contest of the election results might have
changed the vote totals, we do not have evidence that the
outcome would change,” West said in a statement.  West’s concession leaves one undecided U.S. House race. In
 North Carolina , Democratic Representative Mike McIntyre leads
Republican challenger David Rouzer by 655 votes of 336,739 cast,
according to the state Board of Elections.  Rouzer, a state senator, today requested a recount, in a
statement citing the closeness of the race and an “irregularity
previously found” in results of one county. If McIntyre’s lead
holds, Democrats would gain eight U.S. House seats and
Republicans would control the chamber, 234 to 201, for the 113th
Congress starting in January.  Outspoken Freshmen  West, who in April told constituents that about 80 House
Democrats were “members of the Communist Party,” and Illinois
Representative  Joe Walsh  were the two most outspoken freshmen
Republicans who lost re-election. Walsh stirred controversy and
condemnation from doctors last month when he said abortion is
“absolutely” never necessary to save a pregnant woman’s life.  The losses of the two Tea Party-backed freshmen don’t
signal a political setback for their movement, said  David Wasserman , a political analyst for the non-partisan Cook
Political Report in  Washington .  What’s most significant is “there are more Tea Partiers
who are newly coming to Washington than exiting,” Wasserman
said. “All over the country there are new Republicans who,
while they may not be as vociferous or provocative as Allen West
and Joe Walsh, they will be greater in number.”  Wasserman cited three newly elected lawmakers, Trey Radel
and Ron DeSantis from Florida and Robert Pittenger in North
Carolina, who “won primaries running as the most conservative”
Republican.  Black Republicans  West, 51, a retired Army lieutenant colonel and one of two
black Republicans in the House, raised about $17 million, more
than any candidate for the chamber except Speaker  John Boehner ,
an  Ohio Republican . Murphy, vice president of a unit of his
family-owned Coastal Construction Group Inc. of  South Florida ,
raised $3.68 million.  West had contested the results of his election, which were
outside the margin required for an automatic recount. He accused
the St. Lucie County elections office of missteps in counting
ballots.  St. Lucie County Elections Supervisor Gertrude Walker said
her office double-counted some ballots and didn’t count others
on election night. The office agreed to a partial recount, in
which West picked up 535 votes. As the recount continued in the
county, where registered Democrats outnumber Republicans, Murphy
gained votes.  The contest was one of about two dozen toss-ups this year
in the 435-member House, according to the Cook Political Report
and Rothenberg Political Report, Washington-based nonpartisan
newsletters that analyze elections.  ‘Gracious’ Concession  Murphy said West’s concession was “gracious.”  “I campaigned on a message of reaching across the aisle to
get things done,” Murphy said in a statement. “I am excited
and honored to get to work.”  The race in one of Florida’s most evenly divided districts
was a test of whether the tactics used by the  Tea Party  in 2010
would work for incumbents, and whether a re-election campaign
could be won with scant direct contact with voters. West held
few public events and made little face-to-face contact with
voters less than a month before Election Day, opting instead for
advertising broadsides against Murphy.  One of West’s TV ads included Murphy’s mug shot from a 2003
arrest on charges, later dropped, of disorderly intoxication and
possessing a fake driver’s license. The picture was set against
one of West in military fatigues.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michael C. Bender in Tallahassee at 
 mbender10@bloomberg.net ;
James Rowley in Washington at 
 jarowley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  