-- Rifle-Toting Terrorists Pose Great Threat to Power Grid
-- B y   B r i a n   W i n g f i e l d
-- 2012-11-20T21:12:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-20/rifle-toting-terrorists-pose-great-threat-to-power-grid.html
An attack on the power grid by
terrorists -- even ones armed with relatively simple weapons -- is
among the greatest threats to the reliability of the nation’s
power system, the chairman of the U.S. Federal Energy Regulatory
Commission said.  “There are ways that a very few number of actors with very
rudimentary equipment could take down large portions of our
grid,” FERC Chairman Jon Wellinghoff said today at a Bloomberg
Government breakfast in  Washington . “I don’t think we have the
level of physical security we need.”  The security of the power-network components such as
transformers “is an equal if not greater issue” than
cybersecurity, Wellinghoff said.  The agency two months ago created an office to help reduce
risks to the electric grid and natural-gas and oil facilities. A
terrorist attack on the system could cost hundreds of billions
of dollars and result in thousands of deaths, according to a
2007 report that was declassified and released by the National
Academy of Sciences on Nov. 14.  The FERC, which regulates the interstate transport of
electricity, natural gas and oil, this year also has ramped up
its enforcement against energy-market manipulation. Wellinghoff
predicted that a recent surge in filings against energy traders
would plateau, and said he had not decided whether to consider
another term as chairman when his current one expires next year.  ‘Very Unsettling’  “A coordinated physical attack is a very, very unsettling
thing to me,” Wellinghoff said.  Transformers, which alter the voltage of electricity, are
often custom built for utilities and can take 18 to 36 months to
make, according to Wellinghoff. They are also inadequately
protected, often surrounded only by chain-link fences, he said.  An attacker “could get 200 yards away with a .22 rifle and
take the whole thing out,” Wellinghoff said. For a “couple
hundred bucks” a utility could install metal sheeting to block
the view of transformers, he said. “If you can’t see through
the fence, you can’t figure out where to shoot anymore.”  The report released last week by the  National Academy of
Sciences  called for the government to work with utilities to
create a stockpile of transformers and other equipment that
would be used in the event of an emergency. The Edison Electric
Institute, a Washington-based industry group for publicly traded
utilities, is leading a pilot program to install additional
devices.  Utilities’ Efforts  Wellinghoff said utilities aren’t doing enough to protect
the physical components of the grid. The FERC can work with
power companies to make them aware of the security issues,
develop strategies to lessen the risks and help them recover
their costs, according to the agency’s chairman.  “If you do all those things then you might be able to get
them to move,” Wellinghoff said. The FERC doesn’t currently
have the authority to order utilities to take immediate grid-
protection safety measures, he said. Wellinghoff said he would
like to see Congress grant a government agency, though not
necessarily the FERC, authority to more quickly respond to a
potential threat to the nation’s infrastructure.  The agency on Sept. 20 announced the creation of its Office
of Energy Infrastructure Security, led by Joseph McClelland, the
FERC’s former director of reliability, to identify ways to
lessen the risk of physical and cyber security threats. The unit
will also work with other government agencies and the private
sector, according to a  statement .  Expiring Term  Wellinghoff has served on the commission since 2006 and has
been chairman since 2009. His term as chairman expires at the
end of June, and he said he hasn’t decided whether he will
consider an additional one.  He has overseen the growth of the FERC’s enforcement office
after Congress in 2005 granted the agency the authority to fine
those who jeopardize the grid’s reliability up to $1 million per
day per violation.  The FERC is currently investigating separate instances of
alleged market manipulation by  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ,  Barclays
Plc (BARC)  and Deutsche Bank AG, among other probes.  “We’re in full enforcement mode,” Wellinghoff said.
“We’re not at war with anybody. We’re simply trying to ensure
that these markets are operating in a full and fair manner.”  The FERC in March reached a record $245 million settlement
with Constellation Energy Group Inc. over alleged energy trading
violations in  New York . The company didn’t admit any wrongdoing.  Proposed Penalties  Barclays has vowed to challenge the FERC’s proposal for a
record $469.9 million in penalties related to alleged market
manipulation in the western U.S. from late 2006 to 2008, and
Deutsche Bank has disputed the agency’s proposed penalties of
$1.6 million, saying the bank has done nothing wrong. The FERC
on Nov. 14 suspended a JPMorgan unit’s energy-trading authority
for providing inaccurate information to regulators, a penalty
the bank says is unwarranted for what it called an inadvertent
error.  Wellinghoff said he believes the fines proposed so far are
adequate to deter traders from trying to game the markets. He
also said the agency’s enforcement actions have probably
“reached a plateau and will sort of stabilize out” now that
the FERC’s enforcement office is well-staffed with about 200
people.  The FERC is now overseeing a U.S. energy infrastructure
that is trying to adapt to extreme weather conditions such as
superstorm Sandy, which pummeled the Northeast in late October,
cutting power to more than 8 million homes and businesses.  While the storm primarily affected lower-voltage  power
lines , Wellinghoff said the disaster might help foster a broader
look at the definition of electric-grid reliability and
encourage the use of “distributed” generation, such as power
produced by solar panels at a private residence.  “We have to start anticipating what will be our future
with respect to both natural events and also events that may be
perpetrated by those who would do us harm in the areas of
physical and cybersecurity,” Wellinghoff said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Wingfield in Washington at 
 bwingfield3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  