-- Trina Stokes Slide on Loss as FDI Pared: China Overnight
-- B y   Y e   X i e   a n d   L e o n   L a z a r o f f
-- 2012-11-20T21:42:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-20/trina-stokes-slide-on-loss-as-fdi-pared-china-overnight.html
Chinese stocks retreated from a one-
week high in  New York  as foreign investment data stoked concern
over the economy and  Trina Solar Ltd. (TSL)  sank to a record low after
posting its fifth consecutive quarterly loss.  The  Bloomberg China-US Equity Index (CH55BN)  of the most-traded
Chinese shares in the U.S. slid 1.1 percent to 90.60 yesterday,
after climbing 2.7 percent over the previous two days. Trina,
China’s third-largest producer of solar panels, led declines on
the gauge, while  Cnooc Ltd. (883)  traded at a  discount  to  Hong Kong 
for the first time in three days as oil declined.  Qihoo 360
Technology Co. (QIHU) , owner of China’s most popular Web browser, rose
to a two-month high after posting better-than-estimated
quarterly profit.  Trina joined 19 other companies in the China-US index,
including  Huaneng Power International Inc. (HNP)  and  Yanzhou Coal
Mining Ltd. (YZC) , in reporting third-quarter earnings that trailed
 analysts’ forecasts.  Foreign direct investment in  China  fell 0.2
percent last month, data yesterday showed, highlighting risks to
growth in the world’s second largest economy as a new generation
of leaders prepare to take over power in March.  “The economy has bottomed, but it’s not picking up yet,”
Elena Ogram, who manages $50 million of emerging-market assets,
including Chinese stocks, at Bank am Bellevue AG in Zurich, said
by phone yesterday. “When you look at earnings releases, they
failed to provide positive surprises. Companies are waiting for
policy direction and they are not budgeting for next year
because of the political transition.”  Yingli Tumbles  The  iShares FTSE China 25 Index Fund , the biggest Chinese
exchange-traded fund in the U.S., slid 1 percent, the biggest
drop in a week, to $36.19. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index rose
0.1 percent to 1,387.82 as a report showing an unexpected
increase in U.S. housing starts offset a tumble in Hewlett-
Packard Co. shares.  Trina and  Yingli Green Energy Holding Ltd. (YGE) , the sixth-
largest silicon-based solar module producer, led the decline in
Chinese U.S.-listed shares after Trina reported its loss and cut
its full-year shipment forecast for a second time.  Changzhou, China-based Trina plunged 8.8 percent to $2.19
in New York, while Yingli fell 5.8 percent to $1.3, the lowest
levels on record. Both stocks have lost more than 65 percent
this year.  Trina’s net loss widened to $57.5 million in the third
quarter from $31.5 million a year ago and gross margins fell to
0.8 percent from 10.8 percent, the company said in a statement
yesterday. Full-year shipments will be between 1.55 gigawatts
and 1.6 gigawatts, compared with the range of 1.75 gigawatts to
1.8 gigawatts the company forecast in August.  Global Glut  Solar manufacturers are contending with a global glut
that’s driving down prices and eating into profitability as
governments from  Europe  to the U.S. reduce support for the
industry. Panels prices have dropped about 20 percent in the
past year, Bloomberg New Energy Finance data show.  The Bloomberg China-US measure has lost 3.5 percent this
month, reversing a three-month rally triggered by optimism
 China’s economy  may be rebounding from a slowdown over the past
seven quarters. China’s FDI inflows in the first 10 months of
the year declined 3.5 percent to $91.7 billion, the Commerce
Ministry said yesterday.  Chinese leadership -- headed by  Xi Jinping , who took the
reins of the ruling Communist Party last week in a once-a-decade
power handover -- is facing the slowest growth in a decade,
according to economists, after expansion of more than 10 percent
annually over the past 10 years. Gross domestic product may
increase by 7.7 percent this year, the weakest pace since 1999,
based on the median estimate of analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  ‘Bounce Along Bottom’  “We’re probably going to bounce along the bottom for a
while, and markets are going to reflect that,” Derrick Irwin,
who helps manage $2.5 billion at the Wells Fargo Advantage
 Emerging Markets  Equity Fund, said in a phone interview
yesterday from Boston. “We haven’t been increasing allocations
meaningfully in China.”  The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  of domestic shares lost 0.4
percent to 2,008.92 yesterday, the lowest level since Sept. 26,
while the Hang Seng China Enterprises Index slipped 0.6 percent
to 10,227.24.  Qihoo rose 2.1 percent to $24.2 after it reported third-
quarter adjusted earnings of 20 cents a share, beating an
average forecast for 14 cents from six analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg. The company, which started a search engine in August,
 expects  revenue to be as much as $94 million this quarter,
compared with the median analysts’ estimate of $90.3 million.  Buy Recommendation  Analysts led by Tian X. Hou at T.H. Capital LLC. maintained
their buy rating for Qihoo, saying the company may commercialize
its search engine business as soon as December to further boost
growth.  “While we do not expect significant revenue generation in
fourth quarter of 2012 and first quarter of 2013, the potential
could be significant,” the analysts wrote in a report.  Perfect World Co. (PWRD) , an online games operator based in
Beijing, jumped 4.3 percent, the most in three weeks, to $10.89
in the U.S. The company said third-quarter revenue increased to
$110 million, exceeding the median analysts’ estimate of $104
million.  American depositary receipts of Cnooc, China’s largest
offshore oil producer, lost 0.4 percent to $208.33. The ADRs
traded at a 0.5 percent discount to the company’s Hong Kong
stock, the first time in three days, data compiled by Bloomberg
show. Crude oil tumbled 2.8 percent to $86.75 a barrel on the
 New York Mercantile Exchange  on speculation a potential cease-
fire between Hamas and  Israel  may ease tension in the  Middle
East .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ye Xie in New York at 
Leon Lazaroff in New York at 
 yxie6@bloomberg.net 
 llazaroff@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story: Emma O’Brien
at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net  