-- Trina, JinkoSolar Sales Fall on ‘Irrational’ Panel Prices
-- B y   E h r e n   G o o s s e n s   a n d   C h r i s t o p h e r   M a r t i n
-- 2012-11-20T21:08:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-20/trina-jinkosolar-sales-fall-on-irrational-panel-prices.html
Chinese solar manufacturers  Trina
Solar Ltd. (TSL)  and  JinkoSolar Holding Co. (JKS)  reported lower third-
quarter revenue as panel prices continued to drop, an
“irrational” pattern that Trina is taking steps to curtail.  Both companies reduced prices in the quarter and Trina
Chief Financial Officer Terry Wang said he won’t go lower to
chase market share even with the Changzhou, China-based
company’s factories running at half-speed.  Overcapacity and a global supply glut have driven down
prices 21 percent in the past year, leading to losses at almost
every manufacturer. Trina’s efforts to impose a floor on solar-
panel prices may prompt rivals to follow suit, potentially
steering the industry back toward profitability, said  Mark Bachman , an analyst at Avian Securities Inc. in  Boston .  “It’s the first hint of rational behavior we’ve seen from
a Chinese manufacturer,” Bachman said today in a telephone
interview. “We could see more manufacturers wake up and follow
Trina’s lead.”  Trina’s sales were $298 million, down 38 percent from a
year earlier, according to a statement today. Solar-panel
shipments fell 9.2 percent from the prior quarter to 380
megawatts as the company opted to focus on profitable contracts.
Shipments in the current quarter will be unchanged or will
increase as much as 5.2 percent to 400 megawatts.  “We see profitability as number one and the focus for
now,” Wang said during a conference call today. “Market share
is going to be secondary.” As a result, the company’s factories
are running at about 50 percent of capacity.  ‘Irrational Pricing’  Trina’s panel price declined sequentially and the company
didn’t give the figure. That was due in part to “the irrational
pricing practices by some competitors,” Chief Executive Officer
Gao Jifan said in the statement.  There are signs that the industry may have reached a
temporary bottom.  Panel prices  averaged 79 cents a watt on Nov.
5, according to Bloomberg New Energy Finance, up from 67 cents
on Sept. 24, the lowest since the London-based research company
began tracking the market in November 2010.  Jinko’s price in the third quarter was 68 cents a watt,
Chief Financial Officer Zhang Longgen said during a conference
call today. The company said in September its price in the
second quarter was 74 cents a watt.  Chasing Share  The company continues to focus on sales over profits,
Bachman said, as are many of it peers. Other Chinese
manufacturers, “they’re all still chasing market share,” he
said.  Jinko, based in Jiangxi,  China , shipped 280 megawatts of
panels in the quarter, up 28 percent from a year earlier, while
revenue fell 22 percent to 1.39 billion  yuan  ($223 million),
according to a statement today. It reported a net loss of 54.8
million yuan, compared with net income of 68.1 million yuan.
Shipments in the current quarter will be 250 megawatts to 300
megawatts.  The company’s gross margin was 9.9 percent, up from 3.7
percent a year earlier.  “JinkoSolar’s still producing pretty good margins and that
shows they’re doing something right,” Bachman said. “They got
in later than a lot of their peers so they’ve got newer, more
efficient equipment.”  Jinko’s American depositary receipts, each worth four
ordinary shares, increased 1.1 percent to $3.55 at the close in
New York. Trina’s ADRs, worth 50 shares, fell 8.8 percent to
$2.19.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ehren Goossens in  New York  at 
 egoossens1@bloomberg.net ;
Christopher Martin in New York at 
 cmartin11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  