-- Trina Solar Shifts Strategy in Fight Against Low Prices
-- B y   E h r e n   G o o s s e n s   a n d   C h r i s t o p h e r   M a r t i n
-- 2012-11-20T23:04:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-20/trina-solar-shifts-strategy-in-fight-against-low-prices.html
Trina Solar Ltd. (TSL) , China’s third-
largest maker of solar panels, is shifting its focus to
profitable orders and away from deals aimed primarily at gaining
market share, in an effort to curtail “irrational” pricing.  “We see profitability as number one and the focus for
now,” Chief Financial Officer Terry Wang said during a
conference call yesterday. “Market share is going to be
secondary.”  Wang said the Changzhou, China-based company won’t continue
to cut prices to chase sales even with its factories running at
half-speed. Overcapacity and a global supply glut have driven
down the industry’s average panel price by 21 percent in the
past year, and Trina is among the first to take steps to impose
a floor. Others may follow suit, said  Mark Bachman , an analyst
at Avian Securities Inc. in  Boston .  “It’s the first hint of rational behavior we’ve seen from
a Chinese manufacturer,” Bachman said yesterday in a telephone
interview. “We could see more manufacturers wake up and follow
Trina’s lead.”  Trina reported third-quarter sales of $298 million, down 38
percent from a year earlier, according to a statement yesterday.
Solar-panel shipments fell 9.2 percent from the prior quarter to
380 megawatts as the company opted to focus on profitable
contracts. Shipments in the current quarter will be unchanged or
will increase as much as 5.2 percent to 400 megawatts.  ‘Irrational Pricing’  The company said its panel price declined sequentially
without giving the figure. That was due in part to “the
irrational pricing practices by some competitors,” Chief
Executive Officer Gao Jifan said in the statement.  Solar  panel prices  are starting to rise. They averaged 79
cents a watt on Nov. 5, according to Bloomberg New Energy
Finance, up from 67 cents on Sept. 24, the lowest since the
London-based research company began tracking the market in
November 2010.  Trina may find it difficult to unilaterally hold its
pricing ground, according to  Gordon Johnson , an analyst with
Axiom Capital Management in  New York .  “The idea that somehow they’re going to determine pricing
is just funny,” Johnson said in an interview. “They’ve said
this before and they were wrong.”  It will be hard for the company to convince the rest of the
industry to fall in line, he said.  “A cartel works when you have three or four guys,”
Johnson said. “When you have 50 guys, it doesn’t work. Cartels
don’t work in oversupplied, commodity markets.”  Chasing Share  Other companies continue to focus on sales over profits,
including  JinkoSolar Holding Co. (JKS)  and many of it peers, Bachman
said. Chinese manufacturers, “they’re all still chasing market
share,” he said.  Jinko, based in Jiangxi,  China , shipped 280 megawatts of
panels in the quarter, up 28 percent from a year earlier, while
revenue fell 22 percent to 1.39 billion  yuan  ($223 million),
according to a statement yesterday. It reported a net loss of
54.8 million yuan, compared with net income of 68.1 million
yuan. Shipments in the current quarter will be 250 megawatts to
300 megawatts.  Jinko’s price in the third quarter was 68 cents a watt,
Chief Financial Officer Zhang Longgen said during a conference
call yesterday. The company said in September its price in the
second quarter was 74 cents a watt.  Suntech Power Holdings Co. was China’s largest panel maker
by capacity last year, followed by  Canadian Solar Inc. (CSIQ) , which
makes most of its products in the country, according to
Bloomberg New Energy Finance.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ehren Goossens in New York at 
 egoossens1@bloomberg.net ;
Christopher Martin in New York at 
 cmartin11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  