-- Rostelecom Shares Drop on Reports CEO Is Investigated
-- B y   I l y a   K h r e n n i k o v   a n d   E k a t e r i n a   S h a t a l o v a
-- 2012-11-20T15:20:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-20/rostelecom-shares-drop-on-reports-ceo-is-investigated.html
OAO Rostelecom,  Russia ’s state-run
telephone operator, fell the most in more than a week after
Interfax reported investigators searched a house belonging to
the company’s chief executive officer.  Prosecutors searched the country home of Alexander
Provotorov, who previously headed Moscow-based fund Marshall
Capital, Interfax reported, citing unidentified law enforcement
officials. A house belonging to Konstantin Malofeev, founder of
Marshall Capital, which holds about 10 percent of state-run
Rostelecom, was also searched, according to the news service.  Rostelecom fell as much as 4.5 percent and closed down 2.1
percent at 120.38 rubles in Moscow, the biggest drop since Nov.
8 and valuing the company at about $11.3 billion (354 billion
rubles). Rostelecom canceled a briefing Provotorov planned to
give to reporters after the company releases third-quarter
earnings tomorrow.  The  Interior Ministry  said it’s probing allegations of
embezzlement but that its investigation “isn’t directed against
Rostelecom.” The case involves “certain individuals who
allegedly were privy to embezzlement of a loan by one of the
banks,” the ministry said in a statement on its website,
without elaborating.  The  Vedomosti  newspaper reported in its online edition
today that state-run  VTB Group (VTBR) , the country’s second-largest
lender, is seeking repayment of about $200 million for loans
which ended up going to companies linked to Malofeev. Malofeev
was questioned as a witness in this criminal case and wasn’t
detained, Marshall Capital said today by e-mail.  Prime Minister  Dmitry Medvedev ’s government has sought to
replace Provotorov with Vadim Semenov, a classmate of Medvedev
who is currently head of state telecoms holding Svyazinvest,
Rostelecom’s parent company, the Kommersant newspaper reported
last month, citing Communication Ministry documents.  The press service of VTB and Rostelecom spokeswoman Kira
Kiryukhina declined to comment.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ilya Khrennikov in Moscow at 
 ikhrennikov@bloomberg.net ;
Ekaterina Shatalova in Moscow at 
 eshatalova@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  