-- Rupiah Weakens for Fourth Day After Foreign Funds Sell Stocks
-- B y   L i a u   Y - S i n g
-- 2012-11-20T08:15:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-20/rupiah-weakens-for-fourth-day-after-foreign-funds-sell-stocks.html
Indonesia ’s rupiah declined for a
fourth day after overseas investors pulled money from local
stocks on concern the nation hasn’t managed to rein in its
current-account deficit.  Government bonds  were steady.  Foreign funds sold $21 million more shares than they bought
yesterday, taking net sales to $336 million in November,
exchange data show. The current-account shortfall will be 2.2
percent of gross domestic product in the fourth quarter, Perry Warjiyo, executive director for economic research and monetary
policy at the central bank, said Nov. 13. The deficit was 2.1
percent of GDP in the preceding three months, official data
show.  “There’s a lot of skepticism that Indonesia has overcome
its current-account deficit problems,” said  Thomas Harr , head
of Asia local markets strategy at Standard Chartered Plc in
Singapore.  The rupiah fell 0.1 percent to 9,635 per dollar as of 3:03
p.m. in Jakarta, prices from local banks compiled by Bloomberg
show. The currency has weakened almost 6 percent this year, the
worst performance among the 11 most-traded Asian currencies
tracked by Bloomberg. One-month implied volatility, which
measures exchange-rate swings used to price options, fell five
basis points to 4.65 percent.  Pressure on the rupiah to weaken is likely to remain due to
dollar purchases by corporates, especially toward the end of the
year,  Bank Indonesia  said in a quarterly report posted on its
website yesterday.  The yield on the government’s 7 percent notes due May 2022
was 5.41 percent, according to prices from the Inter Dealer
Market Association.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Liau Y-Sing in  Kuala Lumpur  at 
 yliau@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net  