-- Russian Retail Sales Growth Unexpectedly Slows on Incomes
-- B y   O l g a   T a n a s
-- 2012-11-20T14:12:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-20/russia-s-retail-sales-growth-unexpectedly-slows-as-incomes-stall.html
Russian  retail sales  growth
unexpectedly slumped in October after unemployment increased for
the first time since January and slower-than-estimated gains in
wages and incomes curbed consumer purchasing power.  Receipts at merchants rose 3.8 percent from a year earlier,
the slowest pace since February 2010, after a 4.4 percent
increase in September, the  Federal Statistics Service  in Moscow
said in an e-mailed statement today. The median  forecast  of 16
economists surveyed by Bloomberg was for 4.5 percent. The
jobless  rate  rose to 5.3 percent from 5.2 percent.  Faltering domestic demand poses risks to the world’s
largest energy exporter, which has relied on household
confidence to insulate the economy from  Europe ’s debt crisis and
slowing growth in  China . Smaller gains in consumption are also
hurting companies such as  X5 Retail Group NV (FIVE) , Russia’s largest
food retailer by sales, which today reported third-quarter
profit that missed analyst estimates.  The economic figures “can be linked to slower growth in
incomes, wages and a relatively high level of the inflation
rate,”  Alexander Morozov , chief economist for Russia at HSBC
Holdings Plc in Moscow, said by phone.  Russian equities fell, heading for the biggest drop in a
week, with the Micex Index losing 0.3 percent to 1,393.99 by
5:47 p.m. in Moscow. The ruble is the top performer among more
than 20 emerging-market currencies tracked by Bloomberg today,
gaining 0.5 percent against the dollar.  Consumer’s Plight  “The Russian consumer’s financial position deteriorated
further in October,” Johannesburg-based Tradition Analytics
said in an e-mailed research note. “It is evident that rather
prominent inflationary pressures are weighing on the consumptive
sector as inflation eats into the disposable income of
consumers.”  The pace of price growth has surged past the central bank’s
target of 5 percent to 6 percent this year, forcing policy
makers to raise  interest rates  in September. The inflation rate
unexpectedly fell to 6.5 percent last month from a year earlier,
compared with 6.6 percent in September.  Real average wages increased 5.2 percent in October from a
year earlier, missing the median estimate of 6.1 percent, the
service said. Disposable incomes advanced 2.4 percent, below
economists’ forecast for 4 percent growth.  Fixed-capital investment unexpectedly jumped 4.9 percent
from a year earlier and surged 14.4 percent on a monthly basis.
Economists forecast a 1 percent decline from 2011.  “The acceleration of investment is seasonal and relates to
the fact that toward the end of the year investment programs are
implemented more actively,” Dmitry Kharlampiev, director for
macroeconomic research at OAO Petrocommerce Bank in  St.
Petersburg , said by e-mail.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Olga Tanas in Moscow at 
 otanas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  