-- Russian Rail to Lock in Locomotives as Tycoons Encroach
-- B y   E k a t e r i n a   S h a t a l o v a
-- 2012-11-20T20:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-20/russian-rail-to-lock-in-locomotives-as-tycoons-encroach-freight.html
OAO  Russian Railways  is planning to
spend 259 billion rubles ($8.3 billion) in the next three years
on locomotives to defend a market that billionaire investors
such as steel magnate  Vladimir Lisin  are seeking to enter.  Russian Railways Chief Executive Officer  Vladimir Yakunin 
is resisting government plans to reduce state dominance in the
industry and to sell a stake in the company itself. Lisin last
month bid to wrap up his purchase of Russian Railways’ biggest
cargo unit, accounting for 40 percent of its railcars, in a
transaction that was part of the privatization plan.  “Russian Rail clearly doesn’t want to part with a source
of  cash flow  like locomotives after losing control over
freight,” Kirill Kazanli, an analyst at Citigroup Inc. in
Moscow, said by phone. Locomotives earn back their purchase
price “significantly” faster than railcars do, he said.  Prime Minister  Dmitry Medvedev ’s government is targeting
proceeds of 260 billion to 270 billion rubles from state asset
sales next year, following 223 billion rubles of sales this year,
Economy Minister Andrei Belousov said on Oct. 25. That is less
than the 300 billion-ruble plan approved by the Cabinet in June.
Last year, before  Vladimir Putin  resumed the presidency after
Medvedev, such sales reached 121 billion rubles.  With the shaky global economy eroding valuations, some of
the asset sales may be delayed. The sale of a stake in OAO
Sovcomflot, the owner of the world’s largest number of tankers,
was delayed from this year to next as overcapacity drove down
prices and squeezed valuations. Yakunin has opposed a government
proposal to offer a stake of Russian Railways as early as next
year, this month calling for a delay of four to five years.  Locomotive Revenue  Russian Railways, which owns all the country’s national
rail lines, increased its three-year investment program to 1.1
trillion rubles this month for fleet and infrastructure upgrades,
while fighting to maintain the revenue streams provided by its
control over the locomotive market. One goal is to convince the
government that the company can meet the country’s
transportation needs and keep private investors out, said Andrey Rozhkov, an analyst at IFC Metropol in Moscow.  The premium investors demand to hold Russian Rail’s bonds
due in April 2022 over the country’s sovereign debt of similar
maturity grew to 128 basis points, or 1.28 percentage points on
Nov. 13, the widest in almost four months, as the company plans
to borrow more to fund investments.  Rising Ratio  Investors have reacted negatively to Russian Railways’
plans to increase its ratio of debt to earnings before interest,
taxes, depreciation and amortization to 2.2 from 0.56 in 2011,
said Igor Golubev, a bond analyst at Nomos Bank in Moscow.  Russian Railways, based in Moscow, kicked off the expansion
last week by confirming a deal to purchase 221 engines from
 Siemens AG (SIE) ’s Russian venture with Sinara Group by 2016 and
awarding the venture an order for 675 more from 2016, worth 2.5-
billion-euro ($3.2 billion). Putin and German  Chancellor Angela Merkel  attended the signing ceremony.  The government is supposed to be opening the locomotive
market to non-state investors this year under a development
program for the freight market to 2015 published on the  Economy
Ministry ’s website. The measure was part of Russia’s plan to
create more competition in the market and attract private
investment.  “Liberalization of the locomotive park has stalled as
Russian Railways tries to convince the government to keep
private investors out of the market,” Rozhkov said by phone.  Run Down  More than 97 percent of Russia’s locomotives belong to
Russian Railways, according to Sergey Maltsev, CEO of freight
operator  Globaltrans Investment Plc. (GLTR)  “The park is
catastrophically run down, which hurts hauling capacity,”
Maltsev said. A full revamp would require the purchase of 1,000
engines a year to 2015, he said.  OAO Freight One, the Moscow-based operator that Lisin
bought from Russian Railways, is ready to invest as much as 100
billion rubles in five years to buy locomotives, Oleg Bukin, the
CEO of the unit, said in April.  Lisin’s fortune of $15.5 billion places him 46th on the
Bloomberg Billionaire Index of the richest people in the world.  Russian Railways plans to buy more than 770 locomotives
annually under its three-year spending program, compared with a
total of 2,200 in the previous five years.  With engines contributing about 35 percent of its revenue
last year, Russian Railways has no incentive to share the market,
according to analyst Rozhkov. About 30 percent of the cost of
moving freight in  Russia  is payment for engines, compared with
50 percent for infrastructure use and 20 percent for railcars,
he said.  Rental Rates  Non-state operators may be squeezed after investments
swelled fleets. Average rental rates for boxcars in Russia have
fallen to 1,100 rubles ($35) a day from 1,400 rubles in the
second quarter on oversupply and Russian Railways’ low prices,
business newspaper Kommersant said yesterday, citing
unidentified people familiar with the market and estimates by
INFOline-Analitika.  Operators have spent 850 billion rubles to purchase new
cars since 2003, when they first received the right to operate
their own fleets, the press service of the Market Council, which
represents private operators, said Nov. 19.  Investors are continuing to push for access to the
lucrative market. Russian Railways isn’t moving fast enough,
even with its expanding purchases, to replace worn-out engines,
said Globaltrans’ Maltsev, who also is president of the  council .  “Without market mechanisms in this sector, it’s impossible
to solve the problem,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ekaterina Shatalova in Moscow at 
 eshatalova@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Denis Maternovsky in Moscow at 
 dmaternovsky@bloomberg.net  