-- Rutgers Joins Big Ten Citing Strengthening Athletics, Academics
-- B y   M a s o n   L e v i n s o n
-- 2012-11-20T19:14:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-20/rutgers-follows-maryland-to-big-ten-leaving-big-east-conference.html
Rutgers University  is moving to the
Big Ten Conference, ending a more than two-decade affiliation
with the Big East as it looks to strengthen its athletic,
financial and academic standing.  One day after the University of  Maryland  said it would join
the Park Ridge, Illinois-based league following a 59-year run as
a charter member of the Atlantic Coast Conference, Rutgers,
based in New Brunswick, New Jersey, further broadened the Big
Ten’s U.S. East Coast footprint by becoming its 14th school.  “This is exactly the right conference for Rutgers,”
school President Robert Barchi said in a statement. “Our
university is one of the nation’s leading research universities
and our student-athletes excel in the classroom and on the
playing field.”  The Scarlet Knights’ application was unanimously accepted
by the other members of the Big Ten, Barchi said in a televised
news conference.  Rutgers, which led U.S. public schools in athletic-
department spending directed from university budgets and student
fees last year, will reap millions more directly from athletics
with the new conference affiliation. Having yesterday approved
the acquisition of a medical school as part of a restructuring
of the state’s higher education system, Rutgers is joining a
highly regarded research consortium consisting mostly of Big Ten
universities.  Rutgers beat Princeton 6-4 in the first intercollegiate
football game in 1869, and defeated Boston College in the first
Big East football game in 1991. It became a conference member
for all sports in 1995.  Conference Lineup  In the Big Ten, it will join  Illinois ,  Indiana ,  Iowa ,
Maryland,  Michigan , Michigan State,  Minnesota ,  Nebraska ,
Northwestern, Ohio State, Penn State, Purdue and  Wisconsin .  The conference, with a television network that reaches 73
million cable and satellite subscribers, paid its schools $24.6
million last year, according to the Washington Post. Big East
schools took in $6 million, according to the Star-Ledger of
 Newark , New Jersey. The Big Ten also will renegotiate its
television contract in 2017, which probably will further raise
the value of the deal. With Penn State reaching the Philadelphia
market, Rutgers and Maryland gives the conference a presence
from New York to Washington, D.C.  “Our job at Rutgers starting today is to create new value
for the Big Ten,” Athletic Director Tim Pernetti said at the
news conference.  Sports Subsidy  Rutgers funneled $28.5 million from its university budget
and student fees into sports for the fiscal year that ended in
June 2011, the most among 54 U.S. public universities in the
biggest football conferences, based on data compiled by
Bloomberg. It was at least the second straight year that Rutgers
led the list.  Pernetti reduced athletic-department spending by $4
million, or 6.3 percent, in fiscal 2011. Still, the school’s
faculty council voted in March to demand cuts of $5 million in
university funding of athletics by fiscal 2016.  Medical School  Rutgers’s boards of governors and trustees voted yesterday
to merge with the University of Medicine and Dentistry of New
Jersey. With entry to the Big Ten, Rutgers will also gain access
to the  Committee on Institutional Cooperation , a consortium of
Big Ten schools and the University of Chicago that collaborate
in research initiatives.  Rutgers’s exit from the Big East will leave  16 schools
participating  in most sports in the conference as of July 1,
2014, with Pittsburgh and Syracuse moving to the ACC a year
earlier and Notre Dame going to the ACC for all sports except
football at an undetermined date. As of July 2015, there would
be 12 teams committed to Big East football.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mason Levinson in  New York  at 
 mlevinson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  