-- Salesforce Matches Estimates on Larger Software Deals
-- B y   R y a n   F a u g h n d e r   a n d   A a r o n   R i c a d e l a
-- 2012-11-21T21:21:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-20/salesforce-matches-estimates-on-larger-software-deals.html
Salesforce.com Inc. (CRM)  rose the most in
almost nine months after fiscal third-quarter sales beat
analysts’ estimates as the software maker benefited from
contracts with large corporate customers.  The shares increased 8.8 percent to $158.78 at the close in
New York, for their biggest daily gain since Feb. 24. The stock
has advanced 56 percent this year.  Chief Executive Officer  Marc Benioff  is signing bigger
enterprise agreements that give customers broad access to
Salesforce’s software, following the company’s Dreamforce
conference in September. That’s helping to stave off competition
from  Oracle Corp. (ORCL) ,  SAP AG (SAP)  and  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) , which are buying
companies that offer business-management tools over the Internet
and gaining traction in an area Salesforce pioneered.  “Do not underestimate Salesforce’s achievements,”  Richard
Davis , an analyst at Canaccord Genuity Inc., wrote in a research
report. Sales growth in excess of 25 percent “when a company is
generating more than $3 billion in revenues is unprecedented in
 business software .”  For the fiscal third quarter, which ended in October, sales
rose 35 percent to $788.4 million, San Francisco-based
Salesforce said yesterday in a statement. That beat analysts’
average $776.6 million estimate, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Profit excluding some items was 33 cents a share,
compared with analysts’ 32-cent estimate.  Billings -- the amount Salesforce charged customers during
the third quarter -- rose 31 percent to $742.9 million from a
year earlier. That compares with the $733.8 million average
estimate of analysts.  Cloud-Computing  A $220.3 million net loss in the period compared with a
loss of $3.76 million a year earlier. Salesforce said it
incurred a $149 million tax-related charge, while spending on
marketing and sales rose 41 percent.  Salesforce, the  largest maker  of online customer-management
software, is using its own  acquisitions  -- including Rypple and
Buddy Media Inc. -- to expand beyond its core product into new
areas such as human resources and social media marketing.
Customers rent Salesforce’s  products  for annual fees and access
them through a Web browser instead of installing programs on
their own computers.  “Cloud-related companies are seeing growth hold up a lot
better than other technology businesses,” Derrick Wood, an
analyst at Susquehanna Financial Group, said in an interview.
“Traditional tech companies are seeing a lot of deceleration in
growth.”  Sales for the fiscal fourth quarter, which ends in January,
will be $825 million to $830 million, Salesforce said. That
compares with the $829.9 million  average  estimate of analysts,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Profit excluding some
items will be 38 to 40 cents a share, compared with analysts’
average 40-cent estimate.  Revenue for the 2014 fiscal year that starts in February
will increase to $3.8 billion to $3.85 billion, the company
said. Analysts on average predicted sales of $3.83 billion.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ryan Faughnder in New York at 
 rfaughnder@bloomberg.net ;
Aaron Ricadela in  San Francisco  at 
 aricadela@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  