-- Saudi Arabia Moves Mortgage Law Forward With Regulations
-- B y   Z a i n a b   F a t t a h
-- 2012-11-20T13:15:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-20/saudi-arabia-moves-mortgage-law-forward-with-regulations.html
Saudi Arabia’s central bank issued
regulations on real estate financing, leasing and supervision of
financial companies as the kingdom attempts to ease a housing
shortage by opening up its mortgage market.  The changes were announced yesterday on the  website  of the
 Saudi Arabian Monetary Agency , or SAMA. Regulations governing
the enforcement of foreclosures and mortgage registrations as
part of a broader package of changes haven’t been issued yet.  The mortgage law, which has been debated for more than a
decade, will overhaul the kingdom’s home-finance market, from
registering mortgages to allowing judges to prosecute police
officers who fail to carry out eviction orders. The changes
could boost residential lending to about $32 billion annually,
according to estimates by  Capitas Group International  Ltd., a
Saudi company focused on  Islamic finance .  The rules will lead to the creation of licensed private
mortgage providers as well as a state-run company for
refinancing resembling  Fannie Mae  and  Freddie Mac  in the U.S.
The Saudi Real Estate Refinancing Corp. would have minimum
capital of 2 billion riyals ($533 million) and would be
responsible for issuing Islamic bonds or securities backed by
mortgages or real estate, according to a draft of the
regulations.  The central bank says regulators must approve any new
financial products before they are put on the market. It also
requires lenders to get approval to hire senior managers.  Cumbersome Rules  Those requirements may prove cumbersome to financial
companies and may delay the introduction of products that could
help them to be competitive, said Nasser Nubani, general counsel
at Capitas.  SAMA is “erring on the side of caution and that is
completely justified in this economic environment,” Nubani
said. “However, there needs to be an assessment of how much
these supervision regulations will affect the day-to-day
business of these companies. They may have to amend that
requirement.”  The central bank is seeking comment on the draft
regulations within 30 days.  Home lending in  Saudi Arabia  grew at the fastest pace in at
least four years in the second quarter, evidence that banks in
the largest Arab economy are more willing to take risk as the
mortgage law progresses. Real estate financing jumped 83 percent
to a record 48 billion riyals from the year-earlier period
according to central bank data.  Even so, fewer than 4 percent of all home purchases in the
kingdom have been funded through mortgages. Currently, most
buyers rely on savings or help from family. The government’s
Real Estate Development Fund provides low-income buyers with
interest-free loans.  The regulations “fully tackle issues” facing the real
estate market including speculation and price bubbles and the
need for a property price index, Mahmood Akbar, an analyst at
Saudi Arabia-based NCB Capital, wrote in a report today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zainab Fattah in Dubai on 
 zfattah@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Blackman at 
 ablackman@bloomberg.net  