-- Scene in London: Theo Fennell, Orlebar Brown at Walpole
-- B y   A m a n d a   G o r d o n
-- 2012-11-20T11:31:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-20/scene-in-london-theo-fennell-orlebar-brown-at-walpole.html
On his next resort holiday, a man
ought to pack  Orlebar Brown  swim shorts. The five-year-old
company won the Walpole award for Best Emerging British Luxury
Brand last night.  If that’s not a good reason, see  Daniel Craig  swimming in
them in “Skyfall.”  The annual awards ceremony held by  Walpole , a trade group
representing more than 180 brands, offered plenty of fashion
tips.  “They are not like baggy boxer shorts,” Orlebar Brown
founder Adam Brown said. “The tailoring is based on a suit
trouser, so any shape can look good in them.”  One limited-edition style, priced at 195 euros ($250),
features a luscious photograph of Ocean Drive. They’d be just
the thing for the barely five minutes of pool time allowed at
 Art Basel Miami Beach .  Before beach getaways, there are some holiday presents to
give. Cufflinks by jewelry designer Theo Fennell emerged as a
winning choice.  “Men have beautiful watches to buy, but most cufflinks are
badly made and so dull,” Fennell said. “I wanted to make
cufflinks that guys could recognize were miniature works of
art.”  His pairs, which start at 8,250 euros, are whimsical and
oddly shaped, with images of Aston Martins, fish, or a picture
of the owner’s choice.  Handmade Craftsmanship  The way they’re made, by hand in his workshop above his
store, is critical to Fennell, who won the award for the Best
Luxury Craftsmanship.  “It needs to be made with love, made with heart, and it
needs to have real sentimentality to it,” Fennell said in his
acceptance remarks. “Otherwise it’s just what’s in a store at
the airport.”  As for women, the Walpole Award judges put a spotlight on
Emma Hill, creative director of  Mulberry (MUL) , who took home the
award for British Luxury Brand. Her latest collection has a most
excellent dress for holiday soirees, with red lace, flared silk
skirt, and external brassiere. It costs $2,600.  “A man would definitely want to buy it for his wife,”
Hill said.  All that talk of shopping worked up an appetite. Banqueting
House in Whitehall served carrots buried in dirt, actually a
combination of nuts and olives.  Jonnie Peacock, Gold medalist sprint runner in the
Paralympics, wouldn’t touch them. Peacock and Olympic Gold
medalist rower Katherine Grainger received the Walpole Medal of
Excellence.  Pumpkin, Pecan  Hill said she’s making pumpkin pie this week, for a
celebration of Thanksgiving in London. She’ll be using canned
pumpkin, imported from the U.S., which she buys at  Panzer’s .  At first she was suspicious of the confection, “like
Americans are suspicious of mince pie,” she said. She acquired
a taste for it when she lived in the U.S. and she much prefers
it to pecan pie.  Other award winners last night: the  Royal Academy of Arts ,
for British Cultural Excellence; Jaguar, for Best Luxury Brand
Overseas (an award sponsored by Virtuous Retail, which at the
March 2013 opening of its first shopping center in Surat,  India ,
will be giving away some Jaguars);  Burberry (BRBY) , for British Luxury
Brand Online; and  Brown’s Hotel , for Best Luxury Service.  “We have wonderful packages for Christmas,” said Rocco Forte, chairman and chief executive of Rocco Forte Hotels, and
owner of Brown’s. “Children under 12 stay for free.”  The 11th edition of the Walpole Awards for Excellence were
sponsored by Coutts, represented by Chief Executive Michael Morley.  ( Amanda Gordon  is a writer and photographer for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of  Bloomberg News . Any opinions
expressed are her own.)  Muse highlights include  Mark Beech  on music,  Richard Vines 
on food and  Jeremy Gerard  on U.S. theater.  To contact the writer on this story:
Amanda Gordon in  London  at  agordon01@bloomberg.net  or on
Twitter @amandagordon.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 