-- Schiff Bidding Seen Making Most Expensive Deal Pricier
-- B y   T a r a   L a c h a p e l l e   a n d   B r o o k e   S u t h e r l a n d
-- 2012-11-20T08:00:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-20/schiff-bidding-seen-making-most-expensive-deal-pricier.html
Schiff Nutrition International Inc. (SHF) 
has traders betting that what’s already the most expensive deal
in the vitamin industry is about to get even pricier.  Shares of Schiff ended yesterday 5.1 percent above a $42-a-
share bid from  Reckitt Benckiser Group Plc (RB/) , which last week
topped  Bayer AG (BAYN) ’s $34 offer for the Salt Lake City-based maker
of Airborne cold-prevention remedies and other supplements. No
other U.S. transaction valued at $1 billion or more is trading
that far above its deal price, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg, signaling traders who profit from acquisitions
anticipate a higher offer.  Investors are betting Bayer will match or exceed the $1.4
billion bid and push Reckitt Benckiser to pay up for a bigger
foothold in the $30 billion market for vitamins and supplements,
said Tullett Prebon Plc. Schiff would give Bayer more sales in
the U.S. and brands such as MegaRed krill oil that complement
its over-the-counter medicines, said DZ Bank AG.  Johnson &
Johnson (JNJ)  or  Pfizer Inc. (PFE)  may also weigh bids, Wall Street Access
Corp. said. Reckitt Benckiser’s offer values Schiff at 4.3 times
sales, already the vitamin industry’s most expensive deal larger
than $100 million, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  “The market is definitely pricing in a higher bid,” Peter Lobravico, New York-based vice president of merger arbitrage
trading and sales at Wall Street Access Corp., said in a
telephone interview. “These are both very deep-pocketed
companies and this is a small asset in the grand scheme of
things. This one is really going to come down to whoever is
willing to pay the higher price. The market knows that and
that’s why it is trading 5 percent through what is already an
extremely large premium.”  ‘Significant Synergies’  Becky Herrick, a spokeswoman for Schiff who works at LHA,
didn’t respond to a phone or e-mail message seeking comment.  Christian Hartel, a spokesman for Leverkusen, Germany-based
Bayer, declined to comment on Reckitt Benckiser’s counterbid,
and declined to comment when asked if Bayer would raise its
offer. A representative for Reckitt Benckiser declined to
comment on whether it would be prepared to raise the offer if
the bidding for Schiff escalated.  In announcing its bid on Nov. 15 after the close of U.S.
trading, Reckitt Benckiser said it expects “significant
synergies” from a takeover of Schiff. The Slough, England-based
company said it’s prepared to sign a merger agreement
“substantially similar” to the one Schiff has with Bayer and
“looks forward to engaging with Schiff’s board and is confident
that they will recognize it as a superior proposal.”  Next Steps  Bayer held meetings to assess the situation and evaluate
next steps, three people close to the company who declined to be
identified because the deliberations are private said last week.
No final decision had been made on whether it would make a
counterbid or walk away, the people said then.  Bayer’s Oct. 29 agreement with Schiff allows the U.S.
company to accept an unsolicited higher offer within 30 days,
provided it pays Bayer a $22 million breakup fee.  Schiff’s shares traded above $42 in the two days since
Reckitt Benckiser announced its bid, as merger-arbitrage traders
bet that the company would receive an even higher offer.  “Arbs believe there is the potential for a bidding war,”
Andrew Rosen, managing director of equity derivatives at United
First Partners LLC, an event-driven research firm, said in a
phone interview. “This is a sensible strategic bolt-on
acquisition for these guys and that tends to encourage a bidding
process.”  No Prescriptions  Yesterday’s trading indicated that investors expected a
counterbid of at least $46, Rosen said.  A takeover of Schiff would help Bayer,  Germany ’s biggest
drugmaker, bolster its U.S. sales of treatments that don’t
require prescriptions, according to Peter Spengler, a Frankfurt-
based analyst at DZ Bank. Sales of consumer health products in
North America accounted for just 6.3 percent of the aspirin
manufacturer’s 36.5 billion euros ($46.7 billion) of revenue
last year, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  “For Bayer, it’s important to increase its footprint in
the U.S. in over-the-counter products,” Spengler said in a
phone interview. While Bayer ranks as one of the top-three over-
the-counter drugmakers worldwide, it’s only among the 10 largest
in the U.S., he said.  Schiff’s products, such as MegaRed krill oil that promotes
heart health, also complement many of the medicines Bayer makes
and it could leverage those brands globally, he said.  ‘Game-Changer’  Revenue at Schiff, which paid $150 million to buy Airborne
Health Inc. in March, may jump 45 percent in the year that ends
May 31 to about $377 million, according to  analysts’ estimates 
compiled by Bloomberg. That’s still just 1 percent of what
Reckitt Benckiser Chief Executive Officer Rakesh Kapoor says is
a  $30 billion  global market for vitamins, minerals and
supplements.  That was a “game-changer” for investors that were ready
to sell to Bayer for $34 a share, said Sachin Shah, a Jersey
City, New Jersey-based special situations and merger arbitrage
strategist at Tullett Prebon.  “Nobody knew the market opportunity was that great until
Reckitt’s CEO pointed it out,” Shah said in a phone interview.
“Reckitt’s looking at it and saying this is a $30 billion pie
of which Schiff has such a small sliver. They’re willing to pay
above Bayer because they see the opportunity.”  Vitamin Leader  Reckitt Benckiser, the maker of Strepsils cold remedies and
Gaviscon heartburn relief, and Schiff have products that are
already sold by some of the same retailers, such as Wal-Mart
Stores Inc. and  Costco Wholesale Corp. (COST) , and there’s an
opportunity to sell Schiff’s brands through other distribution
channels, Kapoor said on a conference call with analysts the
next day.  An acquisition of Schiff would propel Reckitt Benckiser to
the U.S. leader in vitamins and supplements and help shield it
from other seasonal businesses, according to Deborah Aitken, a
London-based analyst for Bloomberg Industries.  Investors are anticipating that Bayer will at least match
the $42 a share that Reckitt Benckiser is willing to pay and
that the bidding won’t stop there, Shah said.  “Reckitt’s not messing around,” he said. “Reckitt’s CEO
has given himself room to bid even higher if Bayer comes back
in. The market is saying that this situation is going to
continue and I would probably agree.”  Other companies, including J&J, the world’s biggest maker
of health-care products, or Pfizer, the biggest drug maker,
could seek to compete in the bidding for Schiff, said Lobravico
of Wall Street Access.  Deep Pockets  Food manufacturers with nutrition lines may also be lured
to the company, whose products include Tiger’s Milk energy bars,
he said.  Schiff “kind of crosses the line between health care and
the food industry,” Lobravico said. “There probably is a list
of five to 10 other companies with deep pockets that could step
in here as well.”  Al Wasilewski, a spokesman for New Brunswick, New Jersey-
based J&J, declined to comment on whether the company would be
interested in bidding for Schiff.  “Pfizer Consumer Healthcare will continue to drive growth
through core brands,” Mackay Jimeson, a spokesman for  New York- 
based Pfizer, wrote in an e-mail. He declined to comment on
whether the company would be interested in acquiring Schiff.  While Schiff’s product line is attractive and Bayer has the
resources to boost its bid, the company tends to be “extremely
disciplined in terms of M&A valuation” and may be hesitant to
counter Reckitt Benckiser’s offer, according to Alistair Campbell, a London-based analyst at Berenberg Bank.  Not Crucial  “To push on more from here, I think probably is a stretch
too far for them in terms of valuation,” Campbell said in a
phone interview. “Bayer does want to try to grow the health-
care side of the business, but I don’t think Schiff was ever an
absolute must-have target for them. It’s a good target. But I
don’t get the sense that strategically, it’s a crucial thing to
have.”  The competing bid from Reckitt Benckiser values Schiff’s
equity at 4.3 times sales in the last 12 months, compared with a
revenue multiple of 3.5 based on Bayer’s offer, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. Reckitt Benckiser is ascribing the
highest valuation to Schiff’s revenue of any deal for a maker of
vitamins and nutrition products greater than $100 million, the
data show. The industry median is 2.7.  Bidding Room  “Reckitt Benckiser was more aggressive in terms of a price
they were willing to bid,” Ronald Koehler, a Frankfurt-based
analyst at Main First Bank AG, said in a phone interview.
“Already that value is kind of stretched” and a bid from Bayer
topping that “is definitely something that they would have
difficulty explaining to investors.”  There’s still room to boost the price without overpaying,
according to Tullett Prebon’s Shah. He estimates that Reckitt
Benckiser is valuing Schiff at 3.5 times estimated sales for
2013. Increasing that by one “turn” to 4.5 times sales would
imply $55 a share, which is likely the ceiling, Shah said.  “After that it becomes just ego-oriented and the chances
of value destruction for the acquirer’s shareholders are
probably high,” he said. Still, “I am betting that it doesn’t
take very much for it to get to the $50 level and get to that
one turn extra of payment.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tara Lachapelle in  New York  at 
 tlachapelle@bloomberg.net ;
Brooke Sutherland in New York at 
 bsutherland7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sarah Rabil at 
 srabil@bloomberg.net  