-- Securitized Debt to Gain as Yield Search Persists, Barclays Says
-- B y   J o d y   S h e n n
-- 2012-11-20T17:50:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-20/securitized-debt-to-gain-as-yield-search-persists-barclays-says.html
Mortgage- and asset-backed
securities, which have gained as much as 60 percent this year,
will benefit in 2013 as weak global economic growth and central
bank actions keep  interest rates  low, according to Barclays Plc.  The  U.S. economy  may be damaged by fiscal consolidation
even if a so-called cliff of spending cuts and tax increases is
averted, while  Europe  is in “much worse shape” with high
levels of indebtedness,  Ajay Rajadhyaksha , the bank’s New York-
based head of rates and securitized research, said yesterday in
a report. To offset the austerity, monetary policy in developed
countries will remain accommodative, he said.  “In this world, we expect strong demand for yield from
investors but reluctance to go too far down in quality in
credit: in short, a supportive environment for securitized
products,” Rajadhyaksha wrote.  Next year’s “search for yield” will extend the trend that
stoked gains in 2012, he said. Higher prices mean that the types
of U.S. residential- and commercial-mortgage-backed securities
with the most credit risk will probably fail to repeat this
year’s performance, after some subprime housing debt rose 40
percent to 60 percent and so-called AJ classes of CMBS returned
35 percent, according to the report.  Still, that debt remains attractive as supply declines and
it offers better yields after forecasted losses than risky
corporate notes, Rajadhyaksha said. U.S. housing is also
recovering, with prices likely to climb 4 percent next year,
after gains of 5.5 percent in 2012, he said.  ‘More Valuable’  Low yields will also make bonds with little or no credit
risk attractive even at lower spreads, since an extra 1
percentage point is “far more valuable” when the 10-year
Treasury is “at 2 percent than when it is at 4 percent,” he
said. The Treasury  note  yielded 1.65 percent at 12:37 p.m. in
 New York .  Risks to government-backed mortgage bonds include strength
in the U.S. economy that would lead the  Federal Reserve  to end
its purchases of the debt, and a rise in benchmark yields that
would also hurt fixed-rate CMBS, he said. Europe’s debt crisis
and government interference in the home-loan market could hurt
other U.S. residential securities, and most types of securitized
debt would suffer in a sharp economic downturn, he said.  “None of these appears to be likely scenarios to us and
are definitely not our base case,” he wrote. “Instead, the
securitized markets look set to have a good 2013.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jody Shenn in New York at 
 jshenn@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  