-- Serbia, IMF to Resume Talks in Spring as Economy Teeters
-- B y   G o r d a n a   F i l i p o v i c   a n d   M i s h a   S a v i c
-- 2012-11-20T16:55:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-20/serbia-imf-to-resume-talks-in-spring-as-economy-teeters.html
Serbia and the  International
Monetary Fund  will resume talks on a possible loan next spring
as the Washington-based lender called for measures to cut
government debt without choking economic growth.  Serbia’s fiscal deficit is “unsustainably large,” public
debt has “increased significantly,” inflation is “volatile”
and unemployment “elevated,” the IMF said in an e-mailed
statement today after wrapping up a week-long mission to
Belgrade. The economy will contract 2 percent this year amid a
difficult global environment and with a modest recovery expected
next year, said the Washington-based lender said.  Fiscal consolidation is “an urgent priority” as Serbia
faces “numerous challenges” and “addressing the economic
challenges requires appropriately balancing fiscal consolidation
and growth objectives,” it said in the statement.  Prime Minister  Ivica Dacic ’s Cabinet has drafted a 2013
budget targeting a fiscal deficit of 3.6 percent of economic
output, down from 6.7 percent at the end of this year. The
target is “overly ambitious” and “there remains scope for
improving the quality of the 2013 budget,” the IMF said. Serbia
will need years of sustained fiscal consolidation to reduce its
public debt to below a legal cap of 45 percent of gross domestic
product through more spending cuts.  Fixing Finances  Recent measures toward fixing public finances, including an
increase in the sales tax and steps to streamline public
spending, “may not translate into the full needed adjustment”
in 2013, the IMF said.  “The IMF said that cutting the  budget deficit  next year by
2 percentage points of GDP would be realistic,” Finance
Minister  Mladjan Dinkic  told reporters in Belgrade. “We agreed
on most issues, which gives us reason for optimism. And those we
didn’t agree on are not reasons for pessimism.”  Serbia needs the IMF “for credibility and the market is
already appreciating our efforts toward fiscal consolidation,”
Dinkic said. The country doesn’t need IMF cash “either for the
budget or for foreign-currency reserves” after last week’s
Eurobond sale, he said.  Serbia will be looking for a three-year precautionary loan
program, Dinkic said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gordana Filipovic in Belgrade at 
 gfilipovic@bloomberg.net ;
Misha Savic in Belgrade at 
 msavic2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  