-- Shake Shack to Open in London as Meyer Finds Site
-- B y   R i c h a r d   V i n e s
-- 2012-11-20T09:41:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-20/shake-shack-to-open-in-london-as-meyer-finds-site.html
Shake Shack, the burger joint that
attracts long lines in New York’s Madison Square Park, is to
open a branch in London’s  Covent Garden  market in mid-2013.  It will be the first U.K. outpost for restaurateur  Danny Meyer , whose  Union Square Hospitality Group  owns venues across
Manhattan, including Union Square Cafe and Gramercy Tavern.  “I’m positively in love with London’s thriving food
culture,” Meyer said today in an e-mailed release. “I adore
the city and have always enjoyed the time I’ve spent there over
the years.”  Shake Shack started as a hot-dog cart in Madison Square
Park. It was created by Meyer to support  Madison Square Park
Conservancy ’s first art installation.  In 2004, Meyer won the bid to open a permanent kiosk,
serving burgers, hot dogs, frozen custard, shakes, beer and wine
and more, Shake Shack’s website says. There are now Shacks in
New York, Connecticut,  Florida , Washington DC and  Pennsylvania ,
and in Dubai and  Kuwait City .  “For some time now, an enormous number of friends in
London have asked when we would bring our first restaurant to
the city,” Meyer said in the release. “We looked high and wide
for just the right time and spot, and at last I think we’ve
found it in Covent Garden.”  Gramercy Tavern  Meyer started Union Square Cafe in October 1985, at the age
of 27. Gramercy Tavern followed in July 1994. He added Eleven
Madison Park and Tabla in 1998 and formed the Union Square
Hospitality Group. He subsequently sold Eleven Madison Park to
manager William Guidara and chef  Daniel Humm ; Tabla has closed.  He has written a book, “Setting the Table.” Jason Atherton of Pollen Street Social distributes it to his managers
and expects staffers to read it.  “Danny is the quintessential modern restaurateur,”
Atherton said in a telephone interview. “He just gets what it
takes to make this industry work. It doesn’t matter if you are
selling chicken wings or three-Michelin-star food.”  Other New York restaurants in Meyer’s group include Blue
Smoke, the Modern and Maialino.  (Richard Vines is the chief food critic for Muse, the arts
and leisure section of  Bloomberg News . He is U.K. and Ireland
chairman of the World’s 50 Best Restaurants awards. Opinions
expressed are his own.)  Muse highlights include  Mark Beech  on music,  Amanda
Gordon’s  Scene Last Night and  Jeremy Gerard  on U.S. theater.  To contact the writer on the story:
Richard Vines in  London  at 
 rvines@bloomberg.net  or  http://twitter.com/Richardvines .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 