-- Shell May Delay Australian Arrow LNG Plan to 2014, CEO Says
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-11-20T12:41:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-20/shell-may-delay-australia-s-arrow-lng-project-to-2014-ceo-says.html
Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA) , the world’s
biggest liquefied natural gas supplier, may delay until 2014 a
decision on its Arrow LNG venture that’s forecast to cost $20
billion amid rising expenses for energy projects in  Australia .  “We are in preparation of a potential final investment
decision of that project somewhere in the 2013/14 time frame,”
Chief Executive Officer  Peter Voser  said in Beijing today.  Costs for LNG plants are surging in Australia as it moves
to challenge Qatar as the world’s biggest exporter of the fuel
amid rising demand in  Asia .  Arrow Energy Ltd ., owned by Shell
and  PetroChina Co. (857) , said in March that it planned to decide in
late 2013 whether to develop the LNG export project on
Queensland state’s  Curtis Island .  “Cost inflation is showing in many different segments and
that forces us to find other ways of constructing our projects,
or taking final investment decisions at the right time or
postponing,” Voser said.  Energy companies in Australia are going ahead with seven
LNG projects at a cost of about $180 billion even as rising
construction expenses and competition threaten future
developments. In addition to Shell,  BG Group Plc (BG/) ,  Santos Ltd. (STO) 
and  ConocoPhillips (COP)  are also developing LNG ventures on the coast
of the northeastern Australian state.  Shell is examining plans to combine its Arrow gas resources
with third parties,  Andy Brown , director of international
production,  said  Nov. 15. “With three projects under
construction at Curtis Island, it makes sense to think about the
best value solution for Shell, and get the timing of an LNG
project right,” he said.  Estimated Cost  Deutsche Bank AG has estimated that Arrow would cost more
than $20 billion.  “We’re certainly open to” collaborating with Arrow, Peter Cleary, vice president of strategy and corporate development at
Santos, said today in an interview in Sydney. “It’s in
everyone’s best interests to look at the efficient use of the
footprint we’ve already got.”  Gorgon LNG, another Australian project in which Shell has a
25 percent stake, is “progressing in accordance with our
estimates,” Voser said. Operator  Chevron Corp. (CVX)  is reviewing the
cost of the A$43 billion ($45 billion) venture, which is 50
percent complete, according to Voser.  In 2009, Shell had assumed a higher budget “and a later
start up schedule than the first gas in 2014 that was expected
by the operator,” Brown said last week. “Today, our cost
estimates are higher again” and “we remain conservative on the
start-up date.”  Fourth Unit  Gorgon, approved by Chevron in 2009, may cost about A$50
billion, Deutsche Bank estimated in a Sept. 14 report.  The partners are reviewing a plan to build a fourth
production unit at Gorgon after finding more than 40 trillion
cubic feet of gas, Brown said. “That’s a decision which could
come in 2013 and we are taking on the learning from the base
project first,” he said.  Shell is devoting a “significant” portion of the more
than $20 billion earmarked for investment in natural gas
projects through 2015 to supply LNG to  China , Voser said.
Furthermore, it’s in “exploratory discussions” on raising LNG
deliveries into the country, he said, without giving details.  The Hague-based company may also increase its planned
annual spending of about $1 billion on unconventional gas
projects in the country, depending on exploration and test-well
results and if Shell gets more acreage to drill, he said.  Very Promising  Gas resources in China are “very promising” and it’s
important to quantify those resources, Voser said. The country
may hold 1,275 trillion cubic feet of “technically
recoverable” shale gas, or 12 times the size of its
conventional natural gas deposits, according to a U.S. Energy
Information Administration report published in April. That’s
almost 50 percent more than the 862 trillion cubic feet held by
the U.S., the EIA said.  Shell has partnered with  China National Petroleum Corp. ,
parent of PetroChina, on shale gas exploration at the Fushun-
Yongchuan block in Sichuan province in western China. The
schedule for commercial production will be determined in part by
the outcome of a 15-well drilling program that will start at the
end of the year or in early 2013, according to information e-
mailed by Shell China’s press office today.  “The pace of developments in China is going to continue in
the same way,” Voser said. “There will always be short to
medium-term economic variations. We take a long-term view and we
see a very strong development in the Chinese economy.”  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Chua Baizhen in Beijing at 
 bchua14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  