-- Shell Links Malaysia Field to Murphy Unit for Early Start
-- B y   E d u a r d   G i s m a t u l l i n
-- 2012-11-20T13:41:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-20/shell-links-malaysia-field-to-murphy-unit-for-early-start-1-.html
Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA) , which has
been operating in  Malaysia  for more than a century, linked its
 Gumusut-Kakap  oil field with production facilities belonging to
 Murphy Oil Corp. (MUR)  to start early output from the deposit.  The field, located about 120 kilometers (78 miles) off the
coast, was connected by pipeline to Malaysia’s first deep-water
development, Shell said today in an e-mailed statement. As many
as 25,000 barrels of oil a day will be pumped from two wells
under the first phase, according to Petroliam Nasional Bhd, a
partner in the project.  Shell, which drilled its first well in Malaysia in 1910,
will start full-scale production from Gumusut-Kakap from 19
wells at the end of 2013, The Hague-based company said. The
project is one of Shell’s main Malaysian undertakings with
partners that include  ConocoPhillips. (COP)   The connection to the Kikeh production facility is an
“innovative solution” that will allow for the first oil to be
pumped ahead of the completion of the floating production
system. That unit is being made by  Malaysia Marine and Heavy
Engineering Holdings Bhd (MMHE)  in Johor, said Iain Lo, chairman of
Shell Malaysia. “Gumusut-Kakap is a project of national
importance.”  Shell is working on several projects in Malaysia and Brunei
with about 350,000 barrels oil equivalent a day of potential
production,  Andy Brown , Shell’s director of international, said
Nov. 15. Shell already produces 300,000 barrels a day, or almost
10 percent of its total output, from the two countries and makes
4.5 million tons of liquefied natural gas a year, about 20
percent of the total.  The Anglo-Dutch company has brought on-stream an additional
1 billion cubic feet of gas a day of output in the last 12
months off Sarawak. The company also made the Tukau Timur Deep
gas discovery in the third quarter of the year  off Malaysia .  Shell last year announced three projects worth about $1.7
billion in investment to develop the Gumusut-Kakap project off
Sabah. They include plans to build a diesel processing unit at
Port Dickson refinery and a solid wax plant in Bintulu.  Last November, it agreed with Petronas to increase output
at Malaysia’s Sarawak and Sabah coasts by as much as 100,000
barrels of oil equivalent a day. Shell is also finalizing plans
for the Malikai development off Sabah.  In Brunei, Shell is examining plans to invest in the
development of the Maharaja Lela South project, which is
operated by  Total SA (FP) , to supply shallow water gas to Brunei LNG
Sdn., according to Brown.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eduard Gismatullin in London at 
 egismatullin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  