-- Shirakawa Pushes Back With Criticism of Abe Unlimited Easing
-- B y   T o r u   F u j i o k a
-- 2012-11-20T11:04:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-20/shirakawa-pushes-back-with-criticism-of-abe-s-unlimited-easing.html
Bank of Japan (8301)  Governor Masaaki Shirakawa pushed back against pressure on the central bank,
criticizing the unlimited easing advocated by opposition leader
Shinzo Abe and urging respect for the BOJ’s independence.  “I want respect for the BOJ’s independence as it’s doing
its utmost to conduct appropriate monetary policy,” Shirakawa
told reporters in  Tokyo  today.  Without naming Abe, Shirakawa said that unlimited money-
printing could worsen the national debt and that a 3 percent
inflation goal, also suggested by the opposition leader, would
be unrealistic. A shrinking economy and an election on Dec. 16
are encouraging politicians to press the central bank for more
aggressive action to spur growth and counter deflation.  “These kind of comments from Shirakawa are rare, and were
aimed at Abe,” said  Hideo Kumano , chief economist at Dai-Ichi
Life Research Institute in Tokyo and a former central bank
official. “He wants politicians to respect what the BOJ has
done and tone down the pressure.”  Abe, head of the  Liberal Democratic Party  that is leading
in polls to win next month’s vote, helped drive the yen to a
seven-month low yesterday by fueling speculation that more
easing is likely. The government taking office after the
election will have extra room to reshape policy by choosing the
central bank’s top three officials.  “The best option is to have an inflation target,” Abe
told reporters in Tokyo today. “Whether 2 percent is better or
3 percent is better should be left for the experts to discuss.”  Shirakawa Leaving  Shirakawa, criticized by politicians for his perceived
failure to reverse more than a decade of deflation, ends a five-
year term on April 8. His deputies Hirohide Yamaguchi and
Kiyohiko Nishimura exit in March. Central bank policy makers
refrained from easing today after a two-day meeting, as the
government announced 1 trillion yen ($12 billion) of spending to
support growth.  The yen rose as much as 0.3 percent to 81.14 per dollar
following today’s decision, after touching 81.59 yesterday, its
lowest since April 25 as Abe’s comments drove speculation on the
prospects of more easing. The currency traded at 81.23 as of
5:37 p.m. in Tokyo.  Abe said on Nov. 17 that he may ask the BOJ to buy
construction bonds to support  government spending  and would
choose someone in favor of inflation targets as Shirakawa’s
successor,  Kyodo News  reported.  Directly buying government debt “is on the top list of
taboos when the  International Monetary Fund  advises developing
nations on their central bank systems,” Shirakawa said at
today’s press conference. “No developed nations are doing it.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Toru Fujioka in Tokyo at 
 tfujioka1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  