-- Sifton Thanksgiving Rules Cover Crispy Skin, Prostitution
-- B y   L a u r i e   M u c h n i c k
-- 2012-11-20T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-20/sifton-thanksgiving-rules-cover-crispy-skin-prostitution.html
No appetizers. No garlic. No
marshmallows (unless you grew up with them, maybe). No irony.  These are a few of the rules for Thanksgiving laid down by
Sam Sifton, who has clearly given the subject a lot of thought.  Currently the national editor of the  New York Times (NYT) , Sifton
has served as the paper’s restaurant critic and dining editor.
He’s also answered its Thanksgiving helpline, fielding questions
about what to do with a mother-in-law who wants beef tenderloin,
or which part of the turkey to stuff.  Over lunch at Bloomberg world headquarters in  Manhattan , we
talked about his new book, “ Thanksgiving: How to Cook It
Well ,” which gives us all the answers.  Muchnick: So no garlic, huh?  Sifton: Garlic on Thanksgiving is an abomination, and I say
that unreservedly. I have no problem with garlic in regular
life. But I think putting it into your Thanksgiving is wrong.  Muchnick: Yet you put soy sauce on your turkey.  Sifton: Yeah, I know. Well, I am large, I contain
multitudes, I contradict myself.  Muchnick: How do you feel about French string beans with
dried onion rings?  Sifton: When I was doing the helpline a couple of years
ago, someone wrote me from  France  to say that they wanted to
recreate that dish and they were having a hard time finding the
onion rings. I suggested putting a piece of cardboard through a
shredder and crumbling it over the top.  Crisp Bits  I do find that a weird dish, though there’s nothing wrong
with the textural element. It’s hard to find texture in
Thanksgiving, right? That’s one of the reasons we obsess over
the skin, because we’re looking for those crisp bits. It’s why
bacon shows up in some of the dishes.  Muchnick: How many people are you expecting this year?  Sifton: I think we’ll probably have close to 30, so a few
turkeys will be made.  Muchnick: Different kinds or the same?  Sifton: I like doing different kinds and different
techniques. Like most people, I have a number of ovens. Wait,
like most people I only have one oven so I’ll roast one and then
I’ll probably fry one as well.  Muchnick: As a New Yorker, one of the things that struck me
about the book is that it presumes the reader cooks. But I have
to ask you, as a former restaurant critic, what you think of
dining out on Thanksgiving.  Chef Talk  Sifton: My presumption is you do cook. I spend a lot of
time talking to chefs about cooking Thanksgiving because in a
previous life I ran the dining section, and Thanksgiving comes
around like a cold every fall. So I had to deal with, “What are
we going to do this year? How are we going to prepare the
bird?”  I’m taking a digression -- I’ll be back to restaurants in a
second.  If you write about Thanksgiving every year, it can’t always
be the same. One of the reasons I hope this book will be
interesting to people is that it doesn’t get involved with what
the food media has to get involved in every year, which is
fabulous new ways to make turkey. People don’t need fabulous new
ways to make turkey; they need one way, the right way to make
turkey.  Once they are comfortable with that, they can move onto
other stuff, which brings me to restaurants.  When you talk to chefs about what it is they serve in their
restaurants on Thanksgiving, it’s turkey and all the fixings,
again and again. Even in places where you’d least expect it,
like Italian places. I think that’s cool because it’s a chance
for the overwhelming number of people who go out for
Thanksgiving to go to their favorite restaurants and get the
Thanksgiving meal.  Better Food  Muchnick: So if you go to a restaurant, you’ll get food you
could cook for yourself but don’t. It’s slightly better when
they do it.  Sifton: Yeah, except there’s something better ... I mean,
this is never the case with -- boy, I’m in a deep thicket of
weeds here because I’m trying to decide whether I want to make a
sort of prostitution analogy. But with Thanksgiving I think
there are times when you can make it better at home.  Muchnick: Fair enough.  Sifton: Thanksgiving is really an all-day affair. You show
up, you see your cousins, somebody is preparing the stuff,
finally the meal is served. You take a break between the main
course and the dessert to play football or smoke or drink or do
whatever it is you want to do. I just don’t think that’s
available to you in a restaurant.  After Eating  Muchnick: What do you do to recover from eating 3,000
calories in one meal?  Sifton: The recovery process requires stomach stimulation,
right? So one thing we can do is take a walk. Much more
effective and important, however, is the application of alcohol
to the stomach lining.  So Calvados after the meal, or a dry whisky or bourbon or
something. That allows you to then eat dessert, which gives you
the sugar rush that propels you to the couch for the football
game where you fall asleep. Then the hunger awakens you and you
have your first sandwich of the Thanksgiving weekend. I’ve made
a study of it.  “Thanksgiving: How to Cook It Well” is published by
Random House (133 pages, $18). To buy this book in North
America, click  here .  (Laurie Muchnick is an editor for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
her own. This interview was adapted from a longer conversation.)  Muse highlights include  Jeremy Gerard  on theater and  Greg
Evans  on TV.  To contact the writer on the story:
Laurie Muchnick in New York at 
 lmuchnick@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in New York at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 