-- Stalin’s Solution; New Christmas Musical; Revivals: Stage
-- B y   J e r e m y   G e r a r d
-- 2012-11-20T03:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-20/stalin-s-solution-new-christmas-musical-revivals-stage.html
In Nathan Englander’s intensely
moving new play, “The Twenty-Seventh Man,” a bleak jail cell
lit by a single light bulb provides the setting for an unlikely
literary salon.  Here three lions of Russian Yiddish writing are imprisoned:
Zunser, the greatest of them all; Korinsky, a linguistic master
and devout party loyalist and, in a drunken stupor on the
concrete floor, the bearish Bretzky, a poet with an acid wit.  The guard drags in a fourth, rolled up in a rug. “This one
comes wrapped,” he smirks.  The prisoners unfurl Pelovits, a sickly young man whose
first words constitute a demand: “A piece of paper! A pen!”  It’s 1952;  Joseph Stalin  has rounded up 26 writers and
slated them for execution. Pelovits, the 27th, has written
perhaps 20 novels and many poems, not a word of them published.  What is this nobody doing in such august company?  Adapted by the author from a story in his debut collection,
“For the Relief of Unbearable Urges,” the play is a series of
dialogues among the men, with young Pelovits a stand-in for
Englander himself. Pelovitz composes a story, if only in his
head, as the inevitable looms.  Stalin’s Solution  It is Bretzky who understands what has happened, that
Stalin, unable to blot the word God out of the Yiddish language,
has come up with a different Final Solution.  “Hitler was busy trying to kill the Jewish body, but
Stalin is smarter than that,” Bretzky says. “It’s too hard to
wipe out every last Jew. There will always be another Yid
growing somewhere like a weed. Stalin, you could already see
then, had a better plan. He was going to kill the Jewish soul.
Leave a people like emptied oysters, all the pearls pulled from
inside.”  Staged with extreme subtlety if not a light hand by Barry
Edelstein, “The Twenty-Seventh Man,” has the shortcomings of
apprenticeship: Englander is not in complete control of the
drama and some of the play’s 90 minutes can feel didactic. But
few other young writers today possesses his phenomenal gift for
character, and for unexpected twists of plot.  But as performed by a consummate company -- Noah Robbins as
Pelovits, Chip Zien as Korinsky, Ron Rifkin as Zunser, Daniel
Oreskes as Bretzky and Byron Jennings as the prison chief --
“The Twenty-Seventh Man” builds inexorably to its
unforgettable conclusion.  “Did you like my story?” Pelovits asks. Zunser’s reply
will break your heart even more than the shots shattering the
dark.  Through Dec. 9 at the  Public Theater , 425 Lafayette St.
Information: +1-212-539-7555;  http://www.publictheater.org .
Rating: ****  ‘Christmas Story’  Ideal for kids and members of the  National Rifle
Association , “ A Christmas Story: The Musical ” is about a 9-
year-old’s lust for a sharp-shooting BB gun.  The show’s faithfully adapted from the 1983 movie of the
same name, itself based on a 1966 novel by the late radio
personality Jean Shepherd. Shepherd (Dan Lauria) narrates the
small-town Indiana fable.  We meet Ralphie Parker (the hyper-talented Johnny Rabe) in
the exuberant opener, “It All Comes Down to Christmas,” which 
is followed by the lad’s melodious ode to the rifle.  The talented young composing team of  Benj Pasek and Justin
Paul  (“Dogfight”) have written an appealing pop score that
gives the featherweight narrative a hint of depth.  Rabe, who’s 12, is a charming triple-threat behind tortoise
shell glasses. Several pint-size tap dancers are audience
favorites, as are two Bill Berloni-trained bloodhounds who chase
dad across the stage.  John Rando directs the show with zest while generally
playing it safe. One welcome joke about where the Schwartz
family eats Christmas dinner sets up an unfortunate number in
which Chinese waiters sing Christmas songs with steep accents, a
scene that may have seemed harmless in 1983 but is wince-
inducing today. (Philip Boroff)  Through Dec. 30 at 205 W. 46th St. Information: +1-877-250-
2929 or  http://achristmasstorythemusical.com .
Rating: ***  Signature Theater  The Signature Theatre opens its season of David Henry
Hwang’s work with a terrific revival, staged by Leigh Silverman,
of “Golden Child.” A curious young Chinese-American travels to
 Manila  to interview his grandmother about the family history
and, in particular, her parents’ transgressional conversion to
Christianity. (Gerard)  Also at the Signature, a revival of August Wilson’s lyrical
drama “The Piano Lesson.” Set in Pittsburgh in 1936, it’s about
an upright piano whose intricate carvings have pitched the
Charles family into a fierce battle over history, legend and
legacy. Staged by Ruben Santiago-Hudson, the production
showcases a stellar ensemble and wonderful blues playing by
Chuck Cooper. (Boroff)  At the Pershing Square Signature Center, 480 W. 42nd St.
Information: +1-212-244-7529;  http://www.signaturetheatre.org .
Rating: ***1/2  (Jeremy Gerard is the chief U.S. drama critic for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of  Bloomberg News . The opinions
expressed are his own.)  Muse highlights include  Greg Evans  on TV and Laurie
Muchnick on  books .  To contact the writer of this column:
Jeremy Gerard in  New York  at 
 jgerard2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 