-- State Street Corp. CFO Edward Resch to Retire Next Year
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   C o n d o n
-- 2012-11-21T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-20/state-street-chief-financial-officer-resch-to-retire-next-year.html
State Street (STT)  Corp., the third-
largest custody bank, said Edward Resch will retire next year as
chief financial officer after more than a decade in the role.  Resch, 60, will step down after a successor has been found,
Boston-based State Street said yesterday in a statement. Resch
joined State Street in September 2002 after serving as CFO at
Jersey City, New Jersey-based Pershing LLC.  “He did a solid job as CFO, but this is not a job where
you win popularity contests,” Brad Hintz, an analyst at Sanford
C. Bernstein & Co. in New York, said in an interview.  State Street’s shares have trailed those of rivals  Bank of
New York Mellon Corp . and  Northern Trust Corp. (NTRS)  over the past
year as the company struggled to boost profit amid record low
interest rates. The firm came under pressure from investor
Nelson Peltz in October 2011 to increase profitability, make a
clearer commitment to cost-cutting, put shareholder returns
ahead of acquisitions and consider selling its money-management
unit.  State Street has  risen  18 percent in the past year,
compared with a 27 percent gain by BNY Mellon and a 29 percent
increase for Chicago-based Northern Trust.  “Ed has been our CFO during one of the most challenging
times for our industry,” Chief Executive Officer Joseph Hooley
said in the statement. “We are fortunate to have benefited from
his unwavering dedication for the past 10 years.”  Large Investors  Four large investors, frustrated with the company’s
performance, have pushed State Street’s board of directors to
replace Hooley or Resch, the Financial Times reported Oct. 15
without identifying any sources.  Hooley has worked to cut costs, in part by eliminating
2,250 jobs in the past two years. In recent months, he placed
more emphasis on returning capital to shareholders through stock
repurchases and dividends. The company will be “very cautious”
considering acquisitions in the future, Hooley said in October.  State Street and its competitors have been hurt by low
interest rates since the Federal Reserve cut its benchmark
lending rate to close to zero in 2008 in an effort to spur
economic growth.  Low interest rates hurt custody banks by reducing the
return they make on their own investments and lending. They have
also forced State Street to waive some fees on money-market
funds to keep client returns above zero.  The company will conduct a “comprehensive internal and
external search” for a successor, according to yesterday’s
statement.  Resch earned $8.1 million in total compensation in 2011,
according to a regulatory filing.  State Street oversaw $17.3 trillion in custody assets as of
Sept. 30, and $2.1 trillion in investment assets.  Custody banks keep records, track performance and lend
securities for institutional investors including mutual funds,
pension funds and hedge funds. State Street also manages
investments for individuals and institutions.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Condon in Boston at 
 ccondon4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  