-- Stevens Judges RBA’s Rate-Cut Pause Prudent ‘for the Moment’
-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 2012-11-20T23:53:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-20/stevens-judges-rba-s-rate-cut-pause-prudent-for-the-moment-.html
Australia ’s central bank Governor
Glenn Stevens said it was prudent to keep the nation’s benchmark
interest rate unchanged “for the moment” as policy makers
monitor the impact of previous reductions on the economy.  At a meeting Nov. 6, the board was aware “that a
significant easing of policy had already been put in place, the
effects of which were still coming through,” Stevens said
yesterday in a  speech  in  Melbourne . “In addition, the latest
inflation data, while not a major problem, were a bit on the
high side, and the gloom internationally had lifted just a
little. So it seemed prudent to sit still for the moment.”  The Reserve Bank of Australia cut the overnight  cash rate 
target by 1.5 percentage points in five moves from November 2011
to October before pausing this month at 3.25 percent. The RBA
wants to encourage non-mining industries to take up some of the
slack in an economy transitioning from the investment stage of a
three-part resource bonanza to higher exports.  “As the ‘mining boom’ moves from its second to its third
phase over the next year or two, the world economy will continue
to present its own challenges,” Stevens said. “The world will
have to live with euro-area anxiety for some years yet as a
normal state of affairs.”  Stevens said Australia’s economy will also need to adapt to
a slower pace of growth in  China , higher national savings at
home that have subdued consumer spending and a decline in the
resource industry’s contribution to gross domestic product.  ‘Quite Live’  “Every board meeting is quite live at the present time and
it could easily be a small accumulation of data that tips the
board from a no change to a further easing view,” said Ivan Colhoun, head of Australian economics and property research at
 Australia & New Zealand Banking Group Ltd. (ANZ)   Traders are pricing in a 63 percent chance that the RBA
will reduce the key rate again next month, swaps data compiled
by Bloomberg show. That would match the 50-year low of 3 percent
at the height of the 2008-2009 global financial crisis.  The nation’s bonds fell, with 10-year yields rising five
basis points, or 0.05 percentage point, to 3.21 percent as of
10:01 a.m. in Sydney. That’s the highest since Nov. 7. The rate
slid to a record low of 2.70 percent on June 4.  The local dollar traded at $1.0387 at 10:07 a.m. in Sydney,
little changed from late yesterday in New York.  ‘Strength’ in Prudence  Responding to audience questions, Stevens said he counted
as a “strength” the fact that Australian households are taking
a more prudent approach to spending and borrowing. He said the
nation’s currency is “a bit high,” though it is likely to come
down at some point and people will probably start to complain
about its weakness. The governor downplayed the significance of
the International Monetary Fund potentially reclassifying the
Australian dollar a reserve currency.  On the international outlook excluding  Europe , the governor
said in his speech that the U.S. economy has maintained its
“slow healing” and America’s housing market may have “finally
turned.” China’s economic slowdown didn’t amount to a hard
landing, he said.  “My assessment is that the slowdown has been more material
than had been expected a year ago, but not disastrously so,”
Stevens said. “So the Chinese economy has not crashed. But
neither is it likely to return to the sorts of double-digit
percentage rates of growth in real GDP.”  Productivity Challenge  As the Australian mining boom evolves, companies will need
to increase efficiency to grow national wealth, Stevens said,
referring to the title of his speech to the Committee for
Economic Development of Australia, “Producing Prosperity.”  “The accelerated structural change we are seeing in the
economy for various reasons is likely to result in some
improvement in productivity performance,” he said. “But the
most that can be said, at this stage, is that the data are not
inconsistent with that hypothesis.”  Stevens reiterated his surprise that the nation’s currency
hasn’t declined much given the terms of trade, or ratio of
export prices to import prices, peaked last year. The so-called
Aussie has gained 5.6 percent in the past year, the strongest
Group of 10 currency during that period after New Zealand’s
dollar.  “The exchange rate may also have some role in helping the
needed re-balancing,” he said. “A lower exchange rate would,
of course, need to be accompanied by a pace of growth of
domestic unit costs below that seen for much of the past five
years, in order to maintain low inflation.”  In the speech, Stevens reiterated a line from minutes of
the last policy meeting that were released yesterday that
“further easing might be required over time.” He said
households have made progress reducing debt burdens and at some
point will be more inclined to spend.  “But a complex interaction of factors -- asset values and
expectations about job security to mention two -- will be at
work in ways that are not amenable to accurate short-term
forecasting,” he said. “Overall, our assumption is that
consumption will probably continue to grow at about trend pace,
in line with income.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Heath in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  