-- U.K. Fraud Office Has Room to Improve, Report Says
-- B y   K i t t y   D o n a l d s o n
-- 2012-11-22T10:52:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-20/u-k-fraud-office-has-room-for-improvement-report-says-1-.html
(Corrects source of report to HM Crown Prosecution Service
Inspectorate in story originally published November 20.)  The U.K.’s Serious Fraud Office has
“clear room for improvement” in its results, staff and
training, a report by HM Crown Prosecution Service Inspectorate
said.  The organization has suffered some “setbacks” including
its handling of cases involving fuel-additives maker Innospec
Inc. and property investors the Tchenguiz brothers, although it
is generally regarded as “capable,” the report said.  “Much needs to be addressed if the SFO is to become a
respected crime-fighting organization which is the envy of the
world,” Michael Fuller, chief inspector of HMCPSI, said in his
report to Attorney General Dominic Grieve, released in London
today. “The new director recognizes this and is fully committed
to driving improvement.”  SFO Director David Green brought in new staff and managers
when he replaced Richard Alderman in April. Under Alderman, the
SFO was criticized for taking on several high-profile cases,
including probes into American International Group Inc.’s
Financial Products unit and  Bernard Madoff ’s London operations,
only to close them later citing a lack of evidence. Green has
shut down probes into U.K. property tycoons Robert and  Vincent
Tchenguiz  and the failure of Iceland’s Kaupthing hf.  A judge also chided the SFO for entering into a joint plea
bargain agreement in 2010 with Innospec for paying bribes
overseas.  Libor Probe  The SFO is currently investigating attempts to manipulate
the London interbank offered rate and similar benchmarks; claims
of bribery at a European Aeronautic, Defence & Space Co. unit in
Britain, Barclays Plc and an Alstom SA unit; and the collapse of
the hedge fund Weavering Capital (U.K.) Ltd.  Today’s report makes eight recommendations for the SFO
including updating its intelligence gathering, ensuring its
workers are adequately resourced, standardizing its record-
keeping and updating its disclosure guidance. The organization
should also design a “transparent process” to pursue civil
recovery and implement intensive training programs for casework
staff, it said.  “While there are clearly problems to address, I am
encouraged that the inspection team also found that the SFO does
many things well and that the direction in which the SFO is now
headed is the right one,” Grieve said in an e-mailed statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kitty Donaldson in  London  at 
 kdonaldson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  