-- U.K. Sets Out Plans to Give Consumers Lowest Energy Prices
-- B y   S a l l y   B a k e w e l l
-- 2012-11-20T15:08:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-20/u-k-sets-out-plans-to-give-consumers-lowest-prices-on-energy.html
The U.K. set out proposals to ensure
electricity suppliers charge customers the lowest possible
prices for their gas and power, after energy companies came
under attack for putting up rates.  The measures include forcing suppliers to cut the number of
tariffs to four for each fuel to end confusion over competing
prices, the Department of Energy and Climate Change said today.
Companies would also have to automatically switch consumers to
the lowest appropriate tariff unless they object.  The plans are aimed at defusing public anger after
companies including  Centrica Plc (CNA)  and  SSE Plc (SSE)  announced price
rises for gas and power. Prime Minister  David Cameron  wants to
keep a lid on energy bills as prices increase faster than
household incomes and pledged to ensure customers get the lowest
charges.  “For too long people have been stuck on the wrong type of
energy tariff, paying more than they need to,” Energy Secretary
 Ed Davey  said. “I am determined to ensure all consumers get a
better deal on their energy bill and get the cheapest tariff
they can.”  The proposals came under fire from environmental groups
Friends of the Earth and Greenpeace who said as long as Britain
relies on volatile gas prices, bills will keep rising. “If the
Prime Minister is really serious about tackling bills, he should
stop his Chancellor’s dash for gas in the Energy Bill and focus
on clean, home-grown renewables and efficiency measures,”
Greenpeace Campaigner Louise Hutchins said.  Cheaper Tariffs  The reforms may mean the end for the cheapest tariffs, said
Corin Taylor, senior economic adviser at the Institute of
Directors. “Clumsy regulation restricting choice would simply
allow energy companies to increase their lowest tariff, ensuring
a higher minimum price for consumers,” he said.  Kate Rose, head of energy at comparison website
Confused.com, expressed concerns that consumers would be
“blinded” by the changes, making them believe the automatic
switch meant they got the cheapest tariff. While welcoming the
step, she urged consumers to still shop around.  “The cheapest deal in an uncompetitive market will still
not be a good deal,”  Caroline Flint , Shadow Energy and Climate
Change Secretary for the opposition  Labour Party , said. Davey
told the BBC Broadcasting Corp. that competition will prevent
companies which try to “exploit” the plans.  SSE, which raised fuel prices on average 9 percent in
August, and RWE Npower Plc, have both said Britain’s carbon-
cutting policies added to their rate rises. Samantha O’Connor, a
spokeswoman for SSE, said the utility has just three tariffs and
hoped the government intervention results in a package that
“enshrines fairness and simplicity” for customers.  Dead Tariffs  The proposals, building on two years of work by energy
regulator Ofgem, would end “dead tariffs”, or poor value rates
that are no longer open to new consumers. Suppliers will have to
add personalized information on consumer bills about the
cheapest tariff appropriate to their payment methods, as well as
requirements to give clearer information on switching.  The four tariffs will contain one standard variable rate
tariff, and one fixed-term, fixed-price tariff with suppliers
able to offer two remaining tariff types as they wish, according
to DECC. Suppliers are required to offer a single price for each
of the four tariff types.  The proposals end “consumers being bamboozled by complex
tariffs and deliver choice that consumers easily understand,”
Ofgem’s Chief Executive Alistair Buchanan said. The regulator
will also enforce fair treatment of consumers using licence
standards backed by fines, Buchanan said.  The government intends to include the measures in the
forthcoming Energy Bill expected this month. All customers will
be placed on the cheapest price available from suppliers for
their chosen tariff type by Summer 2014 at the latest, according
to DECC. The proposals are open for consultation until Jan. 4.  “I hope some energy companies will do the right thing and
respond quickly even before these changes go through,” Davey
told the  BBC .  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
Sally Bakewell in London at 
 Sbakewell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  