-- U.S. Hesitant on India’s Currency Swap Proposal, Subbarao Says
-- B y   A n o o p   A g r a w a l   a n d   K a r t i k   G o y a l
-- 2012-11-20T15:57:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-20/u-s-hesitant-on-india-s-currency-swap-proposal-subbarao-says.html
The U.S. has reservations over
India’s proposal for a currency-swap deal because the rupee
isn’t fully convertible,  Reserve Bank  of India Governor Duvvuri Subbarao said today.  Indian officials had requested a dollar-rupee swap facility
when Treasury Secretary  Timothy Geithner  and Federal Reserve
Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  visited the South Asian country in
October, Subbarao told a gathering of businessmen in Mumbai.  “They didn’t say yes or no but the reservation they have
against giving us a facility is that the rupee is not a fully
convertible currency,” he said.  Currency-swap transactions typically ensure adequate supply
of foreign exchange in times of liquidity crunch and stem
volatility in the local currency. Following the credit crisis in
the wake of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.’s collapse, the Fed
had agreed in October 2008 to provide $30 billion each to the
central banks of Brazil,  Mexico , South Korea and Singapore to
unfreeze money markets.  South Korea , China, Japan and other Asian nations agreed in
February 2009 to form a $120 billion pool of foreign-exchange
reserves that can be used in swap deals by countries to defend
their currencies in an expansion of efforts to battle the
fallout from the global financial crisis.  India’s rupee touched a record low 57.3275 against the
dollar in June after the nation’s current-account deficit
widened to a record $21.8 billion in the first quarter. It
weakened 4.1 percent this quarter, the worst performance among
the major currencies in the region after Japan’s yen, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  India is gradually moving toward capital-account
convertibility, Subbarao said today, a measure that would enable
free trading of the rupee. The RBI intervenes in the  currency
market  to reduce volatility and India favors more options for
reserve currencies, he said.  One-year implied volatility in the rupee, a measure of
exchange-rate swings used to price options, fell 10 basis
points, or 0.10 percentage point, to 10.55 percent. The rate is
the lowest since March 26.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anoop Agrawal in Mumbai at 
 aagrawal8@bloomberg.net ;
Kartik Goyal in  New Delhi  at 
 kgoyal@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Hari Govind at 
 hgovind@bloomberg.net ;
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  