-- Dodd-Frank Foes Can’t Show Credible Threat, U.S. Says
-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g   a n d   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 2012-11-20T23:38:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-20/u-s-asks-judge-to-dismiss-suit-challenging-dodd-frank.html
A legal challenge to the 2010 Dodd-
Frank Act should be dismissed because opponents of the law
overhauling financial regulation haven’t identified how they’re
being harmed or alleged any “credible and imminent threat” of
enforcement, the U.S. told a federal judge.  The Justice Department, in a filing today in  Washington ,
said challenges to provisions of the law that empower the
Treasury Secretary to order the liquidation of a financial
company and to the appointment of Richard Cordray to head the
Consumer Financial Protection Bureau are premature.  “Despite the roving allegations of unconstitutionality set
forth in the amended complaint, not one of the statutorily
authorized actions that plaintiffs speculate might someday cause
them harm has yet occurred,” Wendy Doty, a Justice Department
lawyer, wrote in the 52-page filing.  The lawsuit was filed in June by a small bank in  Texas  and
the Competitive Enterprise Institute, a group that advocates for
limited government, alleging that the law setting up the CFPB
violates the U.S. Constitution because Congress doesn’t
appropriate its budget, the president has limited ability to
remove its director and the courts face restrictions in
reviewing its actions. The bank also challenged Cordray’s
appointment.  States Challenge  In September,  Oklahoma , South Carolina and  Michigan  joined
the part of the lawsuit opposing the portion of the Dodd-Frank
law that allows for the liquidation of a financial company whose
collapse may threaten the stability of the banking system.  Defendants include Treasury Secretary Timothy Geithner,
Federal Reserve Chairman Ben Bernanke, Securities and Exchange
Commission Chairman Mary Schapiro and Commodity Futures Trading
Commission Chairman Gary Gensler, as well as Cordray.  “We believe that the issues raised in this case are ripe,
and that plaintiffs are entitled to adjudicate them,” Sam Kazman, CEI’s general counsel, said in an e-mailed statement.
“Our basis for saying this will be fully set out in our
response to the government’s motion.”  The case is State National Bank of Big Spring v. Geithner,
12-cv-01032, U.S. District Court, District of Columbia
(Washington).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in Washington at 
 tschoenberg@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Harris in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  