-- U.S. Said to Waver on Antitrust Case Against Google
-- B y   S a r a   F o r d e n   a n d   J e f f   B l i s s
-- 2012-11-21T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-20/u-s-said-to-waver-on-antitrust-case-against-google.html
Google Inc. (GOOG)  may skirt the most
serious antitrust allegations under investigation by the U.S. as
regulators waver on whether they can prove consumers are hurt by
the way the company ranks its search results, three people
familiar with the matter said.  Federal Trade Commission officials are unsure they have
enough evidence to sue Google successfully under antitrust laws
for giving its own services top billing and pushing down the
offerings of rivals, said the people, who asked for anonymity
because the discussions aren’t public. Regulators are also
looking at whether the ranking system’s benefits to consumers
outweigh any harm suffered by rivals including NexTag Inc. and
 Kayak Software Corp. (KYAK) , the people said.  The agency is under pressure to extract concessions from
Google after winning a battle with the  Justice Department ’s
antitrust division over which regulator would probe the world’s
most popular search engine. The complaints about skewed search
results represent a far greater threat to Google’s business than
any of the FTC’s other concerns, said Keith Hylton, a Boston
University law professor who has written several books on
antitrust topics.  “The only part of the case that goes to the heart of what
Google does is the search-biasing claim,” Hylton said. “If
that drops out of the FTC’s case, then you have something that
doesn’t seem to be all that interesting in terms of antitrust
law.”  Antitrust Concerns  FTC Chairman  Jon Leibowitz  told Google to propose a
resolution to a host of antitrust concerns in the coming days or
face a lawsuit, two people familiar with the matter said last
week.  The issues include Google’s exclusive agreements to provide
search services to online publishers and allegedly misusing
patents to try to block rivals’ smartphones from coming to
market. The FTC also is treating seriously complaints that
Google has used customer reviews from other websites without
permission, the people said.  “We continue to work cooperatively with the Federal Trade
Commission and are happy to answer any questions they may
have,” said Niki Fenwick, a spokeswoman for  Mountain View ,
California-based Google. She declined to comment specifically on
the search allegations.  Peter Kaplan , an FTC spokesman, declined to comment on the
probe.  Google rose $1.76, or 0.3 percent, to $669.97 at the close
of trading in  New York .  A final vote by the agency’s five commissioners on whether
to file a lawsuit, and what its scope should be, is expected
before the end of the month, the people said.  European Union  Separately, the European Union, now in settlement talks
with Google over antitrust concerns, is pressing the company to
make changes to its search practices.  Google’s ranking of search results should be part of any
legal action the FTC brings, said Matthew Reilly, a former top
FTC litigator who works with Fairsearch.org, a group whose
members include  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)   “With Google being able to decide who the winners or the
losers are -- and they always win -- it chills innovation and
kills the incentive to produce the best content,” he said.  Google is putting its own restaurant reviews, maps and
shopping services at the top of the results page, and the top
three results garner 88 percent of users’ clicks, according to
 Fairsearch.org .  The group began an Internet and print-ad campaign Nov. 19
featuring web entrepreneurs complaining about Google’s search
practices.  Search Algorithm  Reilly, a Washington-based partner at Simpson Thacher &
Bartlett LLP, said the commission should make Google apply its
algorithm, the complex mathematical formulas used to rank search
results, equally to its own content and that of third parties.  Fairsearch.org also is pressing the FTC to force Google to
sell off businesses that have benefited from what it claims is
search manipulation and appoint a monitor who would ensure the
company is ranking results fairly.  Google is “going to put up a big fight” before agreeing
to cede any control of its algorithm, Hylton said.  Google’s argument, made publicly by Executive Chairman  Eric Schmidt , is that its rankings help consumers who seek the best
answer to a query rather than links to other information
sources.  A  Google search  for a plane flight, for example, will
produce a top-ranked list of Google-generated options ahead of
links to online travel agencies such as  Expedia Inc. (EXPE)  and
Kayak.com.  ‘Relevant Answers’  “Our challenge is to return the most relevant answers
first,” Schmidt said at a Senate hearing last year. “This
means that not every website can come on top.”  The disadvantage is that consumers may not get information
about the lowest ticket prices, rival travel agencies argue.  Courts have split on how to weigh consumer harm under
antitrust law.  A 2001 opinion by a federal court in  Washington  in the
government’s case against Microsoft established the idea in such
lawsuits of balancing an innovation’s harm to competition
against any benefits that consumers might derive from it.  In a 2010 case, Allied Orthopedic Appliances Inc. v. Tyco
Health Care Group, the  U.S. Court of Appeals  in  San Francisco 
said such so-called balancing tests are unnecessary.  “Search is the essence of Google’s monopoly,” said Gary
Reback, an antitrust lawyer in  Menlo Park ,  California , who
represents companies that have complained about Google’s
practices. “If the FTC is just going to walk away from it, it’s
giving Google a free pass to push down rivals.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sara Forden in Washington at 
 sforden@bloomberg.net ;
Jeff Bliss in Washington at 
 jbliss@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net ;
 Steven Komarow  at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  