-- HudBay Seeks Partner for $1.55 Billion Peruvian Copper Mine
-- B y   A l e x   E m e r y
-- 2012-11-20T23:03:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-20/hudbay-seeks-partner-for-1-55-billion-peruvian-copper-mine.html
HudBay Minerals Inc. (HBM) , a Canadian
metals producer, is looking for a partner to develop its $1.55
billion Constancia mine in  Peru  to free capital for other
projects, said Cashel Meagher, the company’s vice president for
South American operations.  HudBay, which has $1.5 billion in cash, aims to line up a
second Peruvian copper project once production starts at
Constancia in the southern Andean region of Cuzco, Meagher said.
HudBay is also studying gold and copper properties in Colombia
and  Chile  respectively, he said.  “Now that this project is financed, much of the risk is
gone as it’s under construction and we have community
agreements,” Meagher said today in an interview at the  Lima 
Stock Exchange. HudBay would prefer to partner with “the type
of company that would want to take some of the product, and we
want to be the operator.”  The Toronto-based company, which is also developing the
$700 million  Lalor  and $72 million Reed projects in  Canada ,
plans to increase copper production fivefold and double gold
output by 2015, Meagher said. HudBay, which added Constancia
after it bought Norsemont Mining Inc. last year, listed its
Toronto-traded shares on the Lima Exchange last week.  Hudbay, which has invested $154 million in Constancia to
date, plans to spend $900 million next year, he said. The mine
is slated to produce 118,000 metric tons of copper a year at a
cost of 66 cents per pound during the first five years of
operations before slowing to 77,000 tons at a cost of $1.11 per
pound.  ‘Prolific’  The company is “actively” exploring the copper-rich area
around the Constancia project, which lies near  Xstrata Plc (XTA) ’s
Tintaya mine, Meagher said. Hudbay also holds an 11 percent
stake in  Panoro Minerals Ltd. (PML) , which is looking to develop the
Cotabambas copper property near Cuzco.  “We’re just scratching the surface,” he said. “We
believe the area will yield further copper mines and be as
prolific as the northern Atacama desert in Chile.”  HudBay, the 20th listing on the Lima Exchange this year,
may be included in Lima’s  General Stock Index (IGBVL)  starting in June
2013 as the share is expected to be more liquid than many
exploration companies that trade in Lima, the exchange’s General
Manager Francis Stenning said today.  HudBay fell 0.1 percent to C$9.11 at the close in Toronto.
The stock has dropped 10 percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alexander Emery in Lima at 
 aemery1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net  