-- Dracula’s Lanterns Join Romanee-Conti in Hong Kong Sales
-- B y   F r e d e r i k   B a l f o u r
-- 2012-11-20T18:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-20/lugosi-lanterns-join-romanee-conti-in-hong-kong-auctions.html
As Dracula he shunned the light,
though in real life Hungarian actor Bela Lugosi owned a pair of
18th-century Chinese lantern stands that will go on sale at
Christie’s International in  Hong Kong .  The six-day auction of wine, modern and contemporary Asian
Art, classical Chinese paintings and calligraphy, ceramics,
Chinese furniture, watches and jewelry begins on Nov. 23 and is
estimated by Christie’s to raise as much as HK$2.2 billion ($284
million).  Christie’s is joined this week by Bonhams, Seoul Auction,
 Ravenel International Art Group  and  Beijing Poly International
Auction Co. , which is holding its first major auction outside
 China . Top lots include Leica cameras, rare whiskies and snuff
bottles.  “There’s a whole lot of stuff on,” Jehan Chu, an adviser
who runs  Vermillion Art Collections , said. “We may see renewed
confidence following the results in  New York , though whether or
not it translates into an Asian bounce remains to be seen.”  Last week, Christie’s held its largest postwar and
contemporary sale in New York, earning $412.8 million and
setting records for eight artists including Franz Kline,  Jeff Koons ,  Donald Judd  and  Jean-Michel Basquiat . Coupled with their
day sales, auction houses sold more than $1 billion of such
works during the week in New York.  Glenfiddich Whisky  The series of Hong Kong auctions starts with Bonham’s
whisky and cognac sale today at the Island Shangri-La hotel. The
sales are led by a bottle of 55 year-old Glenfiddich Janet
Roberts Reserve carrying a high estimate of HK$420,000, with the
proceeds going to Operation Smile charity.  Other highlights of the four-day  Bonhams  sale include a
Leica Lexus I camera with faux lizard skin body with a high
estimate of HK$1.8 million ($232,000) for sale on Nov. 23 and
the Paul Braga Collection of snuff bottles on Nov. 24.  The Christie’s marathon begins with a three-day wine sale
starting Nov. 23, led by a case of Chateau Mouton Rothschild
1945 and a case of Cheval Blanc 1947, each carrying a presale
estimate of as much as HK$1.6 million ($130,000 to $206,400),
according to the Christie’s online catalog.  A case of Romanee-Conti Domaine de la Romanee-Conti 2005, a
coveted Burgundy estimated at as much as HK$1.4 million, goes on
sale on Nov. 24.  Zao Wou-ki  The Christie’s evening sale on Nov. 24 includes  oil
paintings  by Chinese stars Zhang Xiaogang and Zeng Fanzhi and
20th-century Chinese masters Zao Wou-Ki and Zhu Dequn.  Those results may set the tone for buyers at the modern and
contemporary Asian sales by Ravenel featuring works by Zao and
Yayoi Kusama on Sunday and the Seoul Auction on Monday. Both
will be held at the Grand Hyatt Hotel.  The pair of 18th-century Lugosi lantern stands which once
graced the Imperial palace in Beijing. The stands are carved
from zitan, a rare wood reserved for use by Chinese emperors.
They could sell for as much as HK$4 million ($516,000) on Nov.
28, part of the sale of Chinese furniture from private American
collections offered for the first time in Hong Kong.  Other Christie’s highlights include a pair of emerald,
diamond and pearl earrings carrying a high presale estimate of
HK$38 million and a necklace of pigeon blood rubies and diamonds
selling for as much as HK$44 million.  The star lot of the Nov. 28 watches sale is a rare Patek
Philippe platinum repeating tourbillion wristwatch estimated to
sell for as much as $550,000.  Christie’s previews are open to the public beginning Nov.
22 at the Hong Kong Convention and Exhibition Center.  Poly’s inaugural Hong Kong auction takes place at the Grand
Hyatt Hotel with sales of watches, jewelry and Chinese modern
and contemporary art on Nov. 24 and fine Chinese paintings and
ceramics the following day.  (Frederik Balfour is a reporter-at-large for Muse, the arts
and leisure section of  Bloomberg News . Opinions expressed are
his own.)  Muse highlights include  Scott Reyburn  on art,  Martin
Gayford  on art,  Richard Vines  on food and  Zinta Lundborg’s 
interviews.  To contact the writer on the story:
Frederik Balfour in Hong Kong at 
 fbalfour@bloomberg.net  or on Twitter @frederikbalfour.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 