-- Turkey Central Bank Narrows Rates Corridor for 3rd Month
-- B y   D a v i d   N e y l a n
-- 2012-11-20T12:04:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-20/turkey-central-bank-narrows-rates-corridor-for-3rd-month.html
Turkish Central Bank Governor Erdem Basci narrowed his rates corridor for a third month, leaving the
benchmark interest rate unchanged as he balances measures to
reduce above-target inflation against those to spur growth.  The monetary policy committee in Ankara lowered the top end
of the rates corridor by 50 basis points to 9 percent, the
central bank said on its website today, in line with the median
estimate of eight economists polled by Bloomberg. The committee
held the benchmark one-week repo rate, or the lower end of the
rates corridor, at 5.75 percent, in line with the forecasts of
10 of 11 economists polled by Bloomberg.  Basci can vary interest rates daily by lending from either
the top or bottom end of the corridor as he confronts the
region’s fastest inflation rate, a slowing economy and a
volatile currency. He’s favored the lower end in recent months,
pushing  funding costs  to record lows after growth slumped to 2.9
percent in the second quarter.  Basci said on Nov. 12 that he may lower the corridor’s
floor to deter capital inflows that could cause the lira to
appreciate excessively, hurting trade balances. His remarks
preceded a decline in the lira against the dollar for the first
week in three.  “In the light of this latest depreciation of the lira
through moral suasion, we believe a cut in the lower end has
become less relevant,” Cevdet Akcay, chief economist at Yapi &
Kredi Bankasi AS, said in an e-mailed note before the decision.
The cut to the top end of the corridor is meant to stimulate
lending “as commercial loans continue to perform quite
poorly,” he said.  Lending Slows  Total lending by Turkish banks has increased 11.4 percent
this year, compared with 25 percent a year earlier, according to
data released by the banking regulator in Ankara yesterday.  Turkey ’s  inflation  rate dropped to the lowest in 11 months
in October, slowing to 7.8 percent from 9.2 percent the previous
month. The central bank on Oct. 24 increased its forecast for
year-end inflation to 7.4 percent from 6.2 percent, citing
higher oil prices and taxes.  The central bank is also preparing to manage an increase in
short-term capital inflows after Fitch Ratings on Nov. 5 gave
Turkey its first investment-grade rating since 1994, deputy
central bank governor Turalay Kenc said in a televised interview
with CNBC-e television on Nov. 8.  Lira Concern  Moody’s Investors Service, which rates Turkey one level
below investment grade, will hold a conference in Istanbul
tomorrow. Turkey will have to manage inflows carefully after the
upgrade to guard against excessive appreciation in the lira,
Finance Minister  Mehmet Simsek  said in an interview published in
Milliyet newspaper today.  The lira has gained 5 percent this year, compared with an
18 percent decline last year, when a rapid expansion in lending
helped swell the  current-account deficit  to about 10 percent of
gross domestic product. Bond  yields  have dropped 476 basis
points, or 4.76 percentage points, and hit a record low of 6.25
percent as of 11:15 a.m. in Istanbul today.  The central bank’s decision to cut from the top end while
leaving the lower end unchanged should be taken as a sign of
caution, Tim Ash, chief emerging market economist at Standard
Bank Plc., said in e-mailed comments before the decision.  “Boring is good in my mind, after the rollercoaster ride
on the monetary policy front in Turkey over the past couple of
years,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Benjamin Harvey in Istanbul at 
 bharvey11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  