-- US Airways Attendants Approve Strike After Rejecting Contract
-- B y   M a r y   S c h l a n g e n s t e i n
-- 2012-11-20T19:10:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-20/us-airways-attendants-approve-strike-after-rejecting-contract.html
US Airways Group Inc. (LCC)  flight
attendants voted to strike, once they are legally allowed to do
so, after rejecting two contract agreements with the carrier.  Members of the  Association of Flight Attendants-CWA  voted
94 percent to authorize a walkout, the AFA said today in a
statement. The union is seeking an agreement that would unite
attendants at US Airways and America West Holdings Corp. under
one contract for the first time since their 2005 merger.  The attendants are pressing US Airways to conclude contract
negotiations that would move them to a unified contract before
pursuing a possible merger with bankrupt  AMR Corp. (AAMRQ) ’s American
Airlines.  “US Airways flight attendants are determined to do
whatever it takes to get our long overdue contract,” Roger
Holmin and Deborah Volpe, presidents for the AFA unions at pre-
merger US Airways and America West, said in the statement. “We
may not fly together, but today we’ve made clear that we will
walk out together.”  Union leaders called for the strike vote after a proposed
five-year accord was rejected 51 percent to 49 percent in
September. An earlier agreement was voted down in March.  “The National Mediation Board has not released the union
to strike and, therefore, there will be no operational or flight
disruptions during the holiday travel season,” Todd Lehmacher,
a US Airways spokesman, said in an e-mail. “The union has told
our flight attendants that the strike vote is about positioning
at the bargaining table and not about striking.”  Separate Contracts  Negotiations were recessed by the  National Mediation Board 
after the second rejection, Doug Parker, US Airways chief
executive officer, said in October. Even with today’s vote,
flight attendants cannot strike until their union moves through
a series of steps required by the Railway Labor Act, which
governs union-airline relations.  Attendants at US Airways and the former America West have
continued to work under separate contracts with differing work
rules, compensation and benefits. Parker has said US Airways
won’t add more money to the contract in future talks.  US Airways, based in Tempe,  Arizona , has signed labor
agreements with unions at American that are contingent upon a
merger of the two carriers.  US Airways has said it wants to combine with American while
that carrier is reorganizing in bankruptcy. American, based in
Fort Worth,  Texas , has said it prefers to emerge on a stand-
alone basis and then consider mergers.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mary Schlangenstein in Dallas at 
 maryc.s@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at   edufner@bloomberg.net  