-- Venezuela Currency Market Sold Fewest Bonds in Two Years
-- B y   C o r i n a   P o n s
-- 2012-11-20T20:43:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-20/venezuela-currency-market-sold-fewest-bonds-in-two-years-1-.html
Venezuela ’s central bank-
administered  currency market  traded the lowest volume of bonds
in more than two years.  The Sitme, as the market is known, sold $13.3 million of
bonds today, the lowest volume since June 2010, when the
currency market was created, the central bank said.  A decline in the supply of dollars to the central bank
currency market is fueling speculation that Venezuela may need
to devalue the bolivar to boost oil revenue and help close a
fiscal deficit.  Venezuela’s bonds due in 2027 were the most sold through
the Venezuelan central bank’s currency market today. The central
bank sold $11 million of the 9.25 percent securities today,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “A decision has been made not to increase supply to Sitme
for the remainder of 2012,”  Russell Dallen , a bond trader at
BBO Financial Services Inc. in Miami, wrote in a note to clients
yesterday. “They will be maintaining it at low volumes until
decisions about a possible devaluation are made in early 2013,”
he said.  The central bank is selling fewer dollars on the Sitme
system at a rate of 5.3 bolivars per  U.S. dollar  to limit its
losses as the Venezuelan currency is trading above 13 in the
unregulated market, said a government official Nov. 14 with
direct knowledge of the matter who spoke on condition of
anonymity because no final decision has been made.  The person declined to provide additional details other
than saying scrapping the Sitme was a possibility.  Increased spending ahead of last month’s election will push
Venezuela’s fiscal shortfall to about 7.8 percent of gross
domestic product this year, according to  Francisco Rodriguez ,
senior Andean economist at Bank of America Corp.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Corina Pons in Caracas at 
 crpons@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Charlie Devereux at 
 cdevereux3@bloomberg.net  