-- Vietnam Delays Foreign TV Rules Amid Broadcasting Concern
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-11-20T12:27:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-20/vietnam-delays-foreign-tv-rules-amid-broadcasting-concern.html
Vietnam  delayed a deadline for
implementing new regulations on foreign television channels for
a second time, amid concerns the rules could raise costs and
restrict access to information in the Communist nation.  The Ministry of Information and Communications will
postpone enforcement of the regulations for six months to May
15, Luu Vu Hai, head of the television and radio broadcasting
administration said by telephone today. The delay will allow
broadcasters more time to “prepare personnel and technical
facilities,” he said. The ministry previously extended a
deadline of May 15 this year by six months.  The legislation, known as Decision 20, requires
international broadcasters to pay state-run media companies to
provide translation services for most of their programs. The
move has been criticized by industry groups and overseas
governments for raising broadcasting costs in Vietnam, and
raising the risk of censorship of foreign content, particularly
news.  “The burdens of the translation requirement economically,
and the burdens of the censorship requirements ethically, are
challenges that the international news channels are unable to
meet,” said John Medeiros, deputy chief executive officer of
 CASBAA , a trade group for the pay-television industry in Asia
based in Hong Kong. “The regulations impose particularly heavy
burdens on news channels for translation and censorship of their
content.”  Vietnam’s prime minister in September ordered a crackdown
on blogs that grew in popularity as they attacked his leadership
and highlighted allegations of corruption.  The regulation aims to give Vietnamese citizens better
access to foreign broadcasting content, the Ministry of Foreign
Affairs said in a Nov. 8 faxed response to questions from
Bloomberg. There are 93 foreign television channels registered
in Vietnam, according to the ministry.  The U.S. Embassy in Hanoi has expressed “concern” to the
Vietnamese government over Decision 20, according to Christopher
Hodges, a spokesman.  “Decision 20 has the potential to sharply reduce the
commercial viability of foreign television channels broadcasting
in Vietnam,” Hodges said in e-mailed comments. “We have urged
the government to ensure that unhindered access to reliable and
credible sources of information is protected. We believe
protection of such access will help Vietnam’s social
development, improve its business environment, and encourage
investment.”  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Nick Heath in Hanoi at 
 nheath2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
K. Oanh Ha at 
 oha3@bloomberg.net  