-- Volvo Aims for No. 2 Rank in India Selling ‘Value’ Truck
-- B y   S i d d h a r t h   P h i l i p
-- 2012-11-20T11:11:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-20/volvo-aims-for-no-2-rank-in-india-selling-value-truck.html
Volvo AB (VOLVB)  plans to sell cheaper
trucks and add capacity in  India  as it seeks to win market share
from  Ashok Leyland Ltd. (AL)  and  Mahindra & Mahindra Ltd. (MM)   Volvo, which began assembly in India 14 years ago, together
with partner  Eicher Motors Ltd. (EIM) , aims to be among the nation’s
top two truck manufacturers, Chief Executive Officer Olof Persson said, without giving a time frame. It will invest 20
billion rupees ($364 million) to add capacity and sell products
targeting local markets and spend 18 billion rupees to expand
venture Volvo Eicher Commercial Vehicles Ltd., he said.  The “value” Volvo model will help the maker of UD and
Mack truck brands win customers in  Asia ’s third-largest economy
where the cost of freight carriers is 51 percent lower than
Volvo’s least-expensive offering. The company plans to triple
 production  to tap demand as India prepares to spend $2.3 billion
on highways to improve infrastructure ranked worse than
 Guatemala  by the  World Economic Forum .  “All the fundamentals are in place for growth in India,”
Gothenburg, Sweden-based Persson, 48, said in Bangalore. “We
want to grow and we want to grow faster than the competition.”  Volvo, along with Volvo Eicher and its bus unit, sold
48,298 units in India in the year ended March 31 making it the
nation’s fourth-largest commercial vehicle maker. Ashok Leyland
delivered 89,109 vehicles, Mahindra sold 127,029 trucks and
buses.  Tata Motors Ltd. (TATA) , which controls 58 percent of the
market, reported sales of 473,178 units, according to Society of
Indian Automobile Manufacturers data.  ‘Competitive Intensity’  Ashok Leyland’s share of the market dropped to 11 percent
in the year to March 31, from 12.4 percent a year earlier.
Volvo, along with Eicher, added 0.2 percentage points to 6
percent.  Ashok Leyland’s  shares , which have risen 13 percent this
year, declined 2.1 percent to 25.70 rupees at close in Mumbai.
Eicher rose 0.8 percent to 2,355.20 rupees, while volumes surged
almost 12-fold compared with the six-month daily average.  Tata
Motors (TTMT)  added 0.8 percent to 266.10 rupees.  “The competitive intensity is likely to increase over the
next couple of years,” said Joseph George, an analyst at IIFL
Ltd. in Mumbai, who  recommends  reducing Ashok Leyland shares.
“We’ve seen discounts rising as a result of competitive
pressures.”  Volvo, the world’s second-largest truckmaker, plans to make
the “value truck” at its plant in Bangalore. It will also
produce the vehicle in Thailand and  China , Persson said, without
disclosing the price.  Volvo’s 49-ton truck starts at 6.5 million rupees, said
Sunil Arolkar, a sales representative at the company’s Mumbai
office. Tata Motors sells similar carriers for 3.17 million
rupees, according to MG Motors, a Tata dealer in northern
Haryana state.  Price Differentiation  “For the last 14 years, Volvo has been extremely slow to
react to the Indian market,” said S.P. Singh, the senior fellow
at the Indian Foundation of Transport Research & Training, or
IFTRT, in  New Delhi . “Differentiation today is price.”  Daimler AG, the world’s biggest truckmaker, this year
opened a factory to build carriers under the BharatBenz brand
ranging from 6 tons to 49 tons. Daimler will unveil 17 models by
2014, and the factory will be able to initially produce 36,000
trucks a year, Daimler said in April.  Sales of medium and heavy trucks, classified as 7.5 tons to
above 49 tons, have declined 18 percent between April and
October as slowing economic growth and low truck rentals damped
demand for vehicles used to haul produce and goods, according to
IFTRT.  ‘Truck Density’  Sales in the category may double to 500,000 vehicles by
2020 from 270,000 last year as growth accelerates, according to
IHS Automotive.  India’s economy  will quicken to 6 percent next
year from 4.9 percent in 2012, the  International Monetary Fund 
said last month.  “The low truck density represents the large opportunity
for manufacturers,” said  Deepesh Rathore , the New Delhi-based
managing director of IHS Automotive. “India is among the
fastest growing truck markets in the world.”  Rathore expects demand to move to bigger and higher
capacity trucks as highways improve. Traffic snarls cost India’s
$1.8 trillion economy about $5.5 billion annually, according to
the Indian Institute of Management in Kolkata and Transport
Corp. of India.  Trucks take 65 hours to travel the 1,374 kilometers (854
miles) between Mumbai and New Delhi because of traffic and
stoppages at toll plazas and state borders.  India accounted for 2 percent of Volvo’s group sales last
year, according to the company’s  annual report . In comparison
 Brazil  contributed 8 percent.  “India is still a small market for trucks,” said Umesh Karne, an analyst with Brics Securities Ltd. in Mumbai.
“However it will become a big market and it’s quite possible
that Volvo will be able to get a good market share.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Siddharth Philip in Mumbai at 
 sphilip3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  