-- VTB Turns Alchemist as Bond Ties Return to Gold: Russia Credit
-- B y   L y u b o v   P r o n i n a
-- 2012-11-20T08:14:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-20/vtb-turns-alchemist-as-bond-ties-return-to-gold-russia-credit.html
VTB Group, the first Russian lender
to sell perpetual bonds and debt linked to the country’s
benchmark equity index, is selling the nation’s debut notes tied
to the price of gold.  VTB is offering 1 billion rubles ($32 million) of
securities the company will redeem in December 2013 that pay a
rate based on returns from gold up to a limit of 20 percent,
according to a Nov. 16 regulatory filing. Gold for immediate
delivery rose 11 percent this year to $1,730.44 an ounce. VTB’s
dollar bonds due in February 2018 gained the same amount this
year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The bonds from  Russia ’s second-largest bank will offer
pension funds a way to invest in gold within the limits placed
on commodity holdings by regulators, according to ZAO
Raiffeisenbank. VTB, which has sold debt in Turkish liras, Swiss
francs and Singapore dollars this year, issued its first $1
billion of perpetual bonds in July, prompting OAO Gazprombank to
follow suit last month.  “VTB is a pioneer on the Russian market,” Denis Poryvay,
an analyst at Raiffeisen in Moscow, said by phone yesterday.
“It’s similar to an exchange-traded fund on gold for Russian
investors.”  Banks including JPMorgan Chase & Co. and Barclays Plc sold
11 structured notes tied to gold in November, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Credit Suisse Group AG sold $2 million of
reverse convertibles -- high-yielding bank bonds that suffer
losses if a reference asset plummets -- that are linked to the
gold price on Nov. 5 with a coupon of 4 percent. VTB Capital’s
press service declined to comment on its planned issue.  Gold Rally  Central banks from  Europe  to  China  are pledging more steps
to boost growth, raising concern about inflation and  currency
devaluation . Gold rallied 70 percent as the Fed bought $2.3
trillion of debt in two rounds of quantitative easing from
December 2008 through June 2011.  The precious metal will probably rise to more than $2,000
in 2013 as policy makers add stimulus to aid the global
recovery, Raymond Key, London-based global head of metals
trading at Deutsche Bank AG, said in an interview in  Hong Kong 
earlier this month.  Inflation Target  Russia’s inflation rate is likely to reach 7 percent this
year, according to the  Economy Ministry . The central bank is
aiming to hold inflation at 5 percent to 6 percent next year,
half a percentage point more than previously targeted.  There is potential for growth and the securities might beat
inflation, though achieving a return of 20 percent is unlikely,
according to Alexander Losev, chief executive officer at Moscow-
based Sputnik Asset Management.  “I so far view the bond’s prospects at 50:50,” he said by
e-mail on Nov. 16.  The ruble strengthened 0.2 percent to 31.43 per dollar by
11:56 a.m. in Moscow. Non-deliverable forwards, which provide a
guide to expectations of currency movements, showed the ruble
weakening to 31.9104 per dollar in three months.  A gain in Russia’s dollar bonds due in April 2020 cut the
yield six basis points, or 0.06 percentage point, to 2.64
percent yesterday. The yield on the government’s domestic ruble
bonds due in June 2017 fell four basis points to 7.01 percent
today. The yield on Russia’s international ruble bond due in
March 2018 gained three basis points to 6.25 percent yesterday.  Yield Gap  Russia is rated BBB by Fitch, the second-lowest investment-
grade ranking. The extra yield investors demand to hold Russian
government dollar bonds rather than U.S. Treasuries rose one
basis point to 202, according to JPMorgan indexes. The
difference compares with 174 basis points for debt of  Mexico  and
158 basis points for  Brazil .  The cost of protecting Russian debt against non-payment for
five years using credit-default swaps rose one basis point to
151, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The default swaps
cost one basis point more than  Turkey , which is rated one level
lower at BBB- by Fitch. The contracts pay the buyer face value
in exchange for the underlying securities or the cash equivalent
should a government or company fail to adhere to its debt
agreements.  The VTB bond will pay three fixed coupons of 0.1 percent in
addition to the variable rate tied to gold, according to the
company’s filing. The bank will stop taking orders for the debt
on Nov. 22. VTB sold 5 billion rubles of debt linked to the
Micex in June, while it issued $1.25 billion more of its
perpetual bonds this month.  While the size of the issue is “hardly material” for VTB,
it does allow them to diversify the bank’s funding base,
according to Stepan Amosov, director of financial market
structured products at ING Groep NV in Moscow. The bond
primarily targets investors such a pension funds who want
exposure to gold and are heavily regulated, he said.  “They want the chance to buy a local Russian bond and so
this is probably the simplest and most obvious opportunity for
them,” Amosov said by phone yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lyubov Pronina in London at 
 lpronina@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  