-- Wells Fargo Must Face Suit Over Veteran Loans, Judge Says
-- B y   D a v i d   M c L a u g h l i n   a n d   D a v i d   B e a s l e y
-- 2012-11-20T22:34:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-20/wells-fargo-must-face-lawsuit-over-veterans-loans-judge-rules.html
Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC) , the biggest U.S.
home lender, must face a lawsuit that accuses the bank of
overcharging veterans under a federal loan-refinancing program,
a judge ruled.  U.S. District Judge Amy Totenberg in Atlanta denied Wells
Fargo’s bid to dismiss the complaint filed by two mortgage
brokers, saying their allegations are “plausible and
sufficient,” according to a decision filed yesterday.  The plaintiffs “have made factually specific allegations
regarding mechanics of defendant’s routine practice of creating
false documents and making false statements to the VA in order
to obtain guarantees on loans,” Totenberg wrote.  Wells Fargo and other lenders were accused in an amended
complaint last year of defrauding veterans and the U.S. out of
millions of dollars under a U.S. Department of  Veterans Affairs 
loan refinancing program. The lenders overcharged veterans and
concealed their conduct from the government to obtain guarantees
for the loans, according to the filing.  The mortgage brokers, Victor Bibby and Brian Donnelly,
filed the complaint as whistle-blowers.  Vickee Adams, spokeswoman for San Francisco-based Wells
Fargo, said the bank will “vigorously defend” itself in the
lawsuit.  Five banks that were sued in the case “recently” agreed
to settle claims, according to a statement yesterday by lawyers
for the plaintiffs.  BofA, PNC  Bank of America Corp .’s Countrywide unit agreed to pay $45
million;  PNC Financial Services Group Inc. (PNC)  will pay $38 million;
 SunTrust Banks Inc. (STI)  agreed to a $10.2 million settlement;
 Citigroup Inc. (C)  is paying $7.5 million; and First Tennessee Bank
will pay $16 million, according to the statement.
Representatives of the banks couldn’t be reached for comment or
declined to comment today.  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  previously agreed to a $45 million
settlement, according to the statement.  The case is U.S. ex rel. v. Wells Fargo Bank, 06-00547,
U.S. District Court, Northern District of Georgia (Atlanta).  To contact the reporters on this story:
David McLaughlin in New York at 
 dmclaughlin9@bloomberg.net ;
David Beasley in Atlanta at 
 dbeasley3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  