-- Wiesel Optimistic Clinton Will Help Broker Mideast Cease-Fire
-- B y   J u l i a n n a   G o l d m a n
-- 2012-11-20T18:53:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-20/wiesel-optimistic-clinton-will-help-broker-mideast-cease-fire.html
Nobel Peace Prize laureate and
Holocaust survivor Elie Wiesel said he has “no doubt”
President  Barack Obama  will staunchly back  Israel , which is
entangled in an aerial battle with Palestinians in Gaza.  “Of course he will be a solid supporter of Israel,”
Wiesel said in a telephone interview, defending Obama against
criticism that he was insufficiently supportive of Israel’s
interests during this year’s presidential campaign. “That’s
true of every president.”  Wiesel, 84, said he was optimistic that Secretary of State
 Hillary Clinton , on “one of her last missions,” would help
broker a deal to end the week-long conflict.  The Israeli military has carried out more than 1,400 air-
strikes on Gaza, while Hamas and other Palestinian militias hav
fired more than 1,200 rockets since the Nov. 14 killing of Hama
military leader Ahmed al-Jabari. The U.S., the European Union
and Israel consider Hamas to be a terrorist organization.  “I wish her from the bottom of my heart, from the depth of
my heart, I wish her success for everybody’s sake,” he said of
Clinton, who has said she will stepping down from her post soon.  While condemning the cross-border violence and saying that
“firing rockets on both sides is wrong,” Wiesel said “the
whole world now recognizes that Israel has the right to defend
herself.”  Wiesel, speaking from his  New York  office, also discussed
his personal friendship with Obama and their potential
collaboration on a book, based on conversations the two Nobel
winners have had on history and philosophy. The two men became
friends in June 2009, when Obama toured with Wiesel the former
Nazi concentration camp of Buchenwald in  Germany . Wiesel had
been an inmate there.  Book Project  The visit began a series of conversations that Wiesel said
were important to share, because of their distinctly different
lives. Months ago, Wiesel said he raised the prospect of
collaborating on such a project. There’s no timeline set, and
Wiesel said it might wait until Obama finishes his second four-
year term, which begins in January.  “These conversations are so good, why not actually give
them more exposure, so to speak,” Wiesel said. “One day we’ll
do it but not now. It’s not one of my priorities, not his.”  A person familiar with the book idea said no contract has
been made and details would need to be worked out with lawyers
and agents.  “We come from such different backgrounds really,” Wiesel
said. “He’s in politics. I have nothing to do with politics.
I’m a teacher of philosophy and literature.”  Buchenwald Visit  Wiesel was a prisoner at Auschwitz in Nazi-occupied Poland
as a teenager before he was transferred Buchenwald, near Weimar
in eastern Germany. Before his tour with Obama, he had gone back
to Buchenwald to visit only once -- for 15 minutes -- since it
was liberated during World War II.  Wiesel recalled that Obama, upon finishing his remarks
during their June 5, 2009 stop at Buchenwald, surprised him.
“He whispered in my ears, he said: ’Your words should be the
last,’” Wiesel said.  The two men, along with German Chancellor  Angela Merkel ,
stood that day beneath the watchtower clock frozen at 3:15 p.m.
-- the hour when the camp was liberated on April 11, 1945.  Wiesel said at the time the world hadn’t learned from the
horrors of the Holocaust. When he and his fellow prisoners were
freed by the U.S. Army, “somehow many of us were convinced that
at least one lesson will have been learned -- that never again
will there be war; that hatred is not an option, that racism is
stupid.”  He also pleaded that day for an end to the Israel-
Palestinian conflict, calling Obama’s vision for the region “a
sense of security for Israel, a sense of security for its
neighbors, to bring peace in that place.”  That lasting peace remains elusive.  Egyptian President Mohamed Mursi, who spoke with Obama
today, said he expected a cease-fire between Israel and
Palestinian groups in the  Gaza Strip  would be reached within
hours.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Julianna Goldman  in Washington at 
 jgoldman6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  