-- WTO Backs EU, Japan on Canada’s Green Energy Program
-- B y   J e n n i f e r   M .   F r e e d m a n
-- 2012-11-20T10:38:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-20/wto-backs-eu-japan-on-canada-s-green-energy-program.html
World Trade Organization judges
largely backed complaints by the European Union and Japan
against  Canada  over subsidies the province of Ontario gives to
renewable-energy producers that use domestic technology,
according to the Sierra Club and Public Citizen.  Under Ontario’s feed-in tariff program, created by the
province’s  Green Energy Act , above-market rates are paid to
producers of renewable energy provided it is generated with a
certain percentage of Canadian-made equipment. The act was
designed to help Ontario meet its goal of shutting all its coal-
power generators by 2014.  A provision of the program that began in October 2009
requires projects to use goods and labor from Ontario for as
much as 60 percent of supply costs, depending on the type of
renewable-energy source.  WTO judges agreed with the EU and  Japan  that provisions of
the program discriminate against foreign suppliers of equipment
and components for renewable-energy generation facilities by
affording less favorable treatment to imported equipment and
components than given to like-products originating in Ontario,
according to the Sierra Club and Public Citizen. Judges rejected
the EU and Japanese argument that the program provisions
constitute an illegal subsidy.  Punching Bag  “As countries take steps to address the climate crisis,
the last thing we need is the WTO interfering with innovative
climate programs,” Ilana Solomon, the Sierra Club’s trade
representative, said in an e-mailed  statement . “Ontario’s solar
and wind incentives program seeks to reduce dangerous carbon
pollution and create clean-energy jobs, and it should serve as a
model for other countries, not a punching bag.”  The confidential ruling was given to the involved
governments. A WTO spokesman in Geneva declined to comment.  The complaints stoked a broader debate over plans by
countries including Canada, the U.S. and  China  to reserve public
works as well as energy and environmental projects worth
billions of dollars for local companies. Japan’s Trade Policy
Bureau has said it is “seriously concerned about a
proliferation of such protectionist measures all over the
world.”  The Sierra Club and  Public Citizen  said they were
“particularly disappointed” that the U.S. weighed in on the
complaint by submitting a brief arguing that Ontario’s program
violated WTO rules.  Government Role  “Instead of attacking another country’s clean energy
program, the U.S. government should focus on how we will build
on our own solutions to tackle the climate crisis and create
clean-energy jobs,” Solomon said.  Canada argued that governments have a role in securing a
stable supply of electricity for the public benefit and securing
renewable electricity to help protect the environment, and that
Ontario’s program helps achieve these goals.  EU exports to Canada in wind-power and photovoltaic power-
generation equipment are “significant,” according to the
Brussels-based European Commission, ranging from 300 million
euros ($384 million) to 600 million euros between 2007 and 2009.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jennifer M. Freedman in Geneva at 
 jfreedman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  