-- X5 Misses Third Quarter Earnings Estimates as Finance Costs Rise
-- B y   I l y a   K h r e n n i k o v
-- 2012-11-20T08:44:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-20/x5-misses-third-quarter-earnings-estimates-as-finance-costs-rise.html
X5 Retail Group NV (FIVE) , Russia’s largest
food retailer by sales, reported third-quarter profit that
missed analyst estimates as finance costs grew.  Net income for the three months through September was $12.1
million, versus a $2.1 million loss a year earlier, Moscow-based
X5 said today in a statement. That compared to an average
estimate of $33 million, according to seven analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg.  X5, part-owned by billionaire  Mikhail Fridman ’s  Alfa Group ,
has suffered a slowdown in sales growth after years of expansion
driven by store openings and rising consumer spending in Russia.
Third-quarter sales were little changed in dollar terms year-on-
year at $3.62 billion, while the nine-month figure was also
unchanged at $11.5 billion.  The company has been without a chief executive since Andrei
Gusev quit suddenly in July. Board member Stephan DuCharme has
been at the helm on a temporary basis. The shares have fallen 24
percent this year, while main competitor  OAO Magnit (MGNT)  is up 70
percent.  The third-quarter margin for earnings before interest,
taxes, depreciation and amortization was 6.1 percent, missing
analyst estimates of 6.2 percent.  Third-quarter finance costs at X5 rose by almost 25 percent
as short-term debt and interest rates increased. The average
effective  interest rate  for January through September was 8.5
percent versus 7.7 percent a year earlier as the company
converted dollar debt into rubles, it reported.  X5 trails Krasnodar, Russia-based Magnit in terms of
profitability and market value. Magnit is valued $16.7 billion
in London compared with X5’s $4.7 billion. X5 remains Russia’s
biggest retailer by sales.  X5 sales grew 8.2 percent in ruble terms for the nine
months through September, the company said. Russia’s food retail
market is set to grow 12 percent this year, VTB Capital reported
in September.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ilya Khrennikov in Moscow at 
 ikhrennikov@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  