-- Xstrata Holders Reject Glencore Option Linked to Bonuses
-- B y   J e s s e   R i s e b o r o u g h ,   F i r a t   K a y a k i r a n   a n d   L e i g h   B a l d w i n
-- 2012-11-20T14:30:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-20/xstrata-holders-reject-glencore-option-linked-to-bonuses.html
Xstrata Plc (XTA)  shareholders rejected a
resolution to approve Glencore International Plc’s 19.5 billion-
pound ($31 billion) takeover that includes a package of
retention bonuses. Xstrata is still to announce the result of a
second vote that excludes the payments.  Xstrata shareholders polled at a meeting in Zug,
 Switzerland  today voted 67.85 percent in favor of the first
resolution, falling short of the required 75 percent threshold,
the company said in a filing. Investors in commodities trader
Glencore, which already owns 34 percent of Xstrata, voted 99.4
percent in favor of the takeover earlier today.  Glencore sweetened its all-stock offer in September to 3.05
shares for each one in Xstrata to win support from Qatar’s
sovereign wealth fund, holder of a 12 percent stake in the
world’s largest exporter of power-station coal. There’s a 90
percent chance the acquisition will be approved, according to
SBG Securities Ltd.  Xstrata pared gains in London trading after the result of
the first vote to be 0.5 percent higher at 961.9 pence at 2:19
p.m. Glencore was 0.7 percent higher at 328.9 after gaining as
much as 2.4 percent. The combined group would be the world’s
fourth-largest mining company. It would represent about 2.1
percent of the U.K.’s benchmark FTSE 100 Index, ranking it 13th
in the gauge, Liberum Capital Ltd. wrote today in a note.  The offer, increased in September from 2.8 Glencore shares,
is opposed by some Xstrata investors including Knight Vinke
Asset Management LLC. Shareholder advisory groups are also
divided. Pensions & Investment Research Consultants Ltd.
recommended opposing the deal. Institutional Shareholder
Services Inc. and  Glass Lewis  urged investors to support it,
while calling for the bonuses to be rejected.  Voted Against  Knight Vinke voted against all resolutions, David
Trenchard, vice chairman at the fund, told Xstrata’s board and
shareholders in today’s meeting in Zug.  “We, as major shareholders in Xstrata, have no confidence
in the independence and robustness of the current Xstrata
board,” Trenchard said. “We are extremely concerned with
regard to the ability of the board of the newly merged company
to represent our interests. Good governance must now take centre
stage and we intend to broaden our discussions with fellow
shareholders to ensure that this is the case.”  Qatar Holding LLC, Xstrata’s second-largest shareholder,
said last week it will vote in favor of both resolutions on
 Glencore (GLEN) ’s offer. The first resolution backed the deal along
with 144 million pounds of retention bonuses for about 70
Xstrata employees. The second supports the acquisition without
the incentives. Both need 75 percent support to be passed.  Qatar Abstains  Qatar plans to abstain from the third resolution that
focuses solely on the payments for Xstrata managers. That boosts
the likelihood of both the deal completing and the payouts being
blocked, given opposition from other shareholders, Liberum
Capital Ltd. said Nov. 15.  If the incentives are rejected in a vote that requires a
simple majority, there’s a great risk of key Xstrata managers
leaving the combined company, Macquarie Group Ltd. said in a
note to clients last week.  Investors holding as little as 16.48 percent of Xstrata can
block the transaction because U.K. takeover rules prevent Baar,
Switzerland-based Glencore from voting its 34 percent stake in
Xstrata.  Zinc, Copper  The takeover will add Xstrata’s coal, nickel, zinc and
copper operations to Glencore’s cotton-to-crude-oil commodities
trading empire. The combined entity will have interests in about
35 coal mines in Colombia, Africa and  Australia , and account for
about 10 percent of global seaborne exports of the fuel.  It would be the world’s third-biggest producer of mined
copper, the largest zinc miner, and the biggest exporter of coal
burned by power stations. The combined group also would have
about 11 percent of the 13 million-ton global zinc market and
about 40 percent of the 1.9 million tons of the metal produced
in  Europe .  Completion of the deal is still subject to approvals from
regulators including the European Commission, which has until
Nov. 22 to rule. The regulator will likely focus on the combined
company’s influence in the zinc market, SBG’s Davey said.  The two companies have said they expect the transaction to
be closed by the end of the year. Glencore shareholders today
approved changing the company’s name to Glencore Xstrata
International Plc.  Qatar Holding is advised by Lazard & Co. Glencore is
working with Citigroup Inc. and Morgan Stanley as financial
advisers. Xstrata has hired Goldman Sachs Group Inc., JPMorgan
Chase & Co., Deutsche Bank AG and Nomura Bank International Plc.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jesse Riseborough in London at 
 jriseborough@bloomberg.net ;
Firat Kayakiran in London at 
 fkayakiran@bloomberg.net ;
Leigh Baldwin in Zurich at 
 lbaldwin3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  