-- Xstrata Investors Seen Backing Glencore Takeover
-- B y   J e s s e   R i s e b o r o u g h
-- 2012-11-20T09:49:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-20/xstrata-investors-seen-backing-glencore-takeover-in-biggest-deal.html
Trading in  Xstrata Plc (XTA)  shows that
investors, who vote today on 2012’s biggest takeover, have
almost never been more confident that Glencore International
Plc’s 19.5 billion-pound ($31 billion) bid will win approval.  Xstrata shares advanced to 2.95 times higher than those of
Baar, Switzerland-based Glencore at 9:15 a.m. in London trading.
The ratio reached a record of 2.96 on Nov. 16. Investors in
commodities trader Glencore, which already owns 34 percent of
Xstrata, voted 99.4 percent in favor of the deal today at a
meeting in Zug, near Zurich.  Balloting of Xstrata holders is spread over two meetings,
commencing at 2 p.m. local time in Zug. Glencore sweetened its
all-stock offer in September to 3.05 shares for each one in
Xstrata to win support from Qatar’s sovereign wealth fund,
holder of a 12 percent stake in the world’s largest exporter of
power-station coal. There’s a 90 percent chance the acquisition
will be approved, according to SBG Securities Ltd.  “I don’t think there are enough minorities to vote it
down,”  Peter Davey , a London-based analyst at SBG, a unit of
Standard Bank Group Ltd.,  Africa ’s largest lender, said in an
interview. “The revised offer does make it more attractive for
Xstrata shareholders to take. I’ve warmed to the idea of the
combined unit.”  FTSE Ranking  Xstrata advanced 1.9 percent to 974.8 pence at 9:17 a.m. in
London trading. Glencore rose 1.3 percent to 330.85 pence. The
combined group will be the world’s fourth-largest mining
company. It will represent about 2.1 percent of the U.K.’s
benchmark FTSE 100 Index, ranking it 13th in the gauge, Liberum
Capital Ltd. wrote today in a note.  The gap between credit-default swaps on Glencore and
Xstrata narrowed to 50 basis points, the lowest since Feb. 6.
 Glencore (GLEN)  credit-default swaps fell 7 basis points to 212, the
lowest since June 14, while Xstrata’s dropped 1 basis point to
162, the lowest since Nov. 15.  Credit-default swaps pay the buyer face value if a borrower
fails to meet its obligations, less the value of the defaulted
debt. A basis point equals $1,000 annually on a contract
protecting $10 million of debt.  Qatar Holding LLC, Xstrata’s second-largest shareholder,
said last week it will vote in favor of both of two resolutions
on Glencore’s offer. The first resolution backs the deal along
with 144 million pounds of retention bonuses for about 70
Xstrata employees. The second supports the acquisition without
the incentives. Both need 75 percent support to be passed.  Qatar Abstains  Qatar plans to abstain from a third resolution that focuses
solely on the payments for Xstrata managers. That boosts the
likelihood of both the deal completing and the payouts being
blocked, given opposition from other shareholders, Liberum
Capital Ltd. said Nov. 15.  If the incentives are rejected in a vote that requires a
simple majority, there’s a great risk of key Xstrata managers
leaving the combined company, Macquarie Group Ltd. said in a
note to clients last week.  Glencore will likely seek to retain key Xstrata managers
should investors reject the current incentives proposals, people
familiar with the matter said last week. The commodities trader
would offer to retain fewer managers than the number covered by
the current package to be voted on today, the people said.  Investors holding as little as 16.48 percent of Xstrata can
block the transaction because U.K. takeover rules prevent Baar,
Switzerland-based Glencore from voting its 34 percent stake in
Xstrata.  Zinc, Copper  The offer, increased in September from 2.8 Glencore shares,
is still opposed by some Xstrata investors including Knight
Vinke Asset Management LLC. Shareholder advisory groups are also
divided. Pensions & Investment Research Consultants Ltd.
recommended opposing the deal. Institutional Shareholder
Services Inc. and  Glass Lewis  urged investors to support it,
while calling for the bonuses to be rejected.  The takeover will add Xstrata’s coal, nickel, zinc and
copper operations to Glencore’s cotton-to-crude-oil commodities
trading empire. The combined entity will have interests in about
35 coal mines in Colombia, Africa and  Australia , and account for
about 10 percent of global seaborne exports of the fuel.  It would be the world’s third-biggest producer of mined
copper, the largest zinc miner, and the biggest exporter of coal
burned by power stations. The combined group also would have
about 11 percent of the 13 million-ton global zinc market and
about 40 percent of the 1.9 million tons of the metal produced
in  Europe .  EU Approval  Completion of the deal is still subject to approvals from
regulators including the European Commission, which has until
Nov. 22 to rule. The regulator will likely focus on the combined
company’s influence in the zinc market, SBG’s Davey said.  The two companies have said they expect the transaction to
be closed by the end of the year. Glencore shareholders today
approved changing the company’s name to Glencore Xstrata
International Plc.  Qatar Holding is advised by Lazard & Co. Glencore is
working with Citigroup Inc. and Morgan Stanley as financial
advisers. Xstrata has hired Goldman Sachs Group Inc., JPMorgan
Chase & Co., Deutsche Bank AG and Nomura Bank International Plc.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jesse Riseborough in London at 
 jriseborough@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  