-- YES Network Said to Extend Yankees Rights Through 2042
-- B y   A n d y   F i x m e r   a n d   S c o t t   S o s h n i c k
-- 2012-11-20T14:47:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-20/yes-network-said-to-extend-yankees-rights-through-2042.html
YES Network obtained rights to air
 New York  Yankees games for five additional years, clearing the
way for  News Corp. (NWSA)  to buy a 49 percent stake in the regional
sports channel, said two people with knowledge of the pact.  YES will have rights to the Yankees through 2042, said the
people, who requested anonymity because the transaction hasn’t
been announced. By the end of the contract, YES will pay the
Major League Baseball team about $350 million a year for TV
rights, they said.  The extension secures three decades of Yankees games for
the channel, eliminating a key hurdle as News Corp. negotiates
to buy a minority stake in YES Network at about a $3 billion
valuation. The rights contract provides for about a 5 percent
increase each year from the current $85 million YES pays for the
games, the people said.  “This kind of deal is not for the fainthearted,” Marc Ganis, president of Chicago-based consultant Sportscorp Ltd.,
said in a phone interview. “It’s something that only a very
confident, well-capitalized management and ownership can do.”  News Corp., controlled by  Rupert Murdoch , will be able to
raise its stake in YES to 80 percent in three years, based on a
$3.8 billion valuation for the channel, the people said.  Ganis, who advised the Yankees previously, said the
agreement makes it highly unlikely that the family of  George Steinbrenner , who died in July 2010, would sell the team.
Getting rid of the Yankees would cut off the rich revenue
stream.  ESPN Challenger  Acquiring YES strengthens News Corp.’s regional sports
business by adding a channel with the Yankees, a marquee MLB
team, and the  National Basketball Association ’s  Brooklyn  Nets.
The company plans a national sports channel next year to compete
with  Walt Disney Co. (DIS) ’s ESPN and  NBC Universal (CMCSA) ’s NBC Sports, and
is seeking to extend rights to  Los Angeles  Dodgers pay-TV
baseball telecasts.  “For Fox, this is a necessary asset in their long-term
strategy to create a competitor to ESPN,” Ganis said.  The Yankees have won a record 27 World Series
championships, while the Nets are in their first season at the
$1 billion Barclays Center in Brooklyn.  News Corp., based in New York, gained 2.9 percent to $23.97
yesterday in New York. The  stock  has climbed 34 percent this
year.  YES Network generates more than $200 million in annual
earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization,
making it worth more than $3 billion, Forbes reported in April.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and Providence Equity Partners
Inc., which provided capital to start the YES Network in 2001,
are selling their stakes to News Corp., the people said.  News Corp. is vying with  Time Warner Cable Inc. (TWC)  for pay TV
rights to MLB’s Dodgers on a regional sports network in  Southern
California . The Dodgers sold at auction earlier this year for a
record $2.15 billion, fueled by the expiration of the team’s
broadcast contract with Fox Sports at a time when there’s a
premium being paid for live sports.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andy Fixmer in Los Angeles at 
 afixmer@bloomberg.net ;
Scott Soshnick in New York at 
 ssoshnick@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  