-- 3Legs Shale Explorer Plans Share Buyback After CEO Appointment
-- B y   R o x a n a   Z e g a
-- 2012-10-18T12:48:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-18/3legs-shale-explorer-plans-share-buyback-after-ceo-appointment.html
3Legs Resources (3LEG)  Plc, a Polish shale
gas explorer, plans to repurchase shares under new Chief
Executive Officer Kamlesh Parmar after its stock  slumped  70
percent in the past year.  “The equity markets are significantly undervaluing the
company’s potential and, while this continues, we will take
advantage of this to the benefit of our shareholders by seeking
authority to buy back shares,” Parmar said today in a
statement.  Parmar, who previously ran operations in Poland, handled
relations with ConocoPhillips after the Houston-based explorer
acquired a 70 percent stake in three western Baltic Basin
concessions from 3Legs earlier this year. He replaces Peter Clutterbuck at the Isle of Man-based company.  “This will likely to be a smooth transition and positive
for the company,” Laura Loppacher, an analyst at Jefferies
International Ltd., said in a note to clients.  The stock has fallen on disappointing results and concern
that  Poland ’s shale potential was over-estimated, a factor that
persuaded Exxon Mobil Corp. to return some of its licenses in
the country. 3Legs gained 1.2 percent to 41 pence as of 1:27
p.m. in  London .  3Legs also appointed John Blair, formerly of  Denver-based
Knowledge Reservoir LLC, as its new exploration manager.  Drilling has started on its fifth well in the Baltic Basin
and the company plans two or more next year.  “While the company’s focus remains firmly on its western
Baltic Basin concessions, the board wishes to retain the
flexibility to investigate new opportunities which have the
potential to add value to the company’s existing portfolio,” it
said in today’s statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Roxana Zega in London at 
 rzega@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  