-- A Simpler Way to End Too Big to Fail
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2012-10-18T22:30:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-18/a-simpler-way-to-end-too-big-to-fail.html
Does size matter? When it comes to
U.S. banks, the answer is increasingly yes.  Limiting banks’ size is a rare example of agreement among
prominent Democrats and Republicans, who complain  equally  that
U.S. banks have grown too big, too complex and too risky.  They also agree that big banks benefit unfairly from an
implicit government  guarantee  despite the authority Congress
gave regulators in the Dodd-Frank Act to dismantle troubled
banks. (Does anyone really believe  Washington  would let  JPMorgan
Chase & Co. (JPM)  fail?)  Agreement tends to end there, however. Some officials,
including Thomas Hoenig, a Federal Deposit Insurance Corp.
director, and Dallas Federal Reserve President Richard Fisher,
are pushing to  break up  the largest banks. Others, including
Treasury Secretary Timothy Geithner, advocate bigger  capital 
cushions so banks can absorb losses without a bailout.  So we read with interest about a new  idea  that has entered
the mainstream, one that wouldn’t break up the big banks, which
we’ve argued against, and instead would cap the size of their
non-deposit liabilities. Such liabilities consist of borrowings
from the  Federal Reserve (FDFD) , commercial paper and -- perhaps
riskiest of all -- overnight  repurchase agreements , or repos, in
which banks pledge their securities as collateral for overnight
loans.  Limit Borrowings  Put simply, insured banks would have to limit such
borrowings to a specific percentage of U.S. gross domestic
product. The idea, floated in a recent  speech  by Dan Tarullo,
the Fed governor most responsible for bank supervision, is worth
considering.  A cap would force banks to shrink without government
bureaucrats arbitrarily taking them apart. It would also curb
banks’ continued reliance on the overnight loans that leave them
vulnerable to runs, which is what helped bring down Bear Stearns
Cos. and Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.  Ohio Democratic Senator Sherrod Brown is  proposing  to limit
non-deposit liabilities to 2 percent of GDP. Such a level would
force the nation’s top five banks to shrink significantly --
possibly too much. A 2 percent cap would seriously crimp former
investment banks such as Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and Morgan
Stanley, which became commercial banks during the financial
crisis and continue to rely almost entirely on non-deposit
funding. A fee, instead of a cap, would be a more market-
friendly alternative: Banks could be assessed a levy based on
the size of their non-deposit liabilities.  Banks have grown too big. And non-deposit liabilities, not
retail deposits, account for most of the  growth  in bank size
 since the mid-1990s . The five largest U.S. banks now control
more than half of all U.S. banking assets -- nearly $9 trillion
worth -- up from 17 percent in 1970. Non-deposit liabilities at
almost all big banks exceed Brown’s proposed cap. JPMorgan has
more than $982 billion in noncore liabilities (about 6.3 percent
of GDP), according to data compiled by Bloomberg Industries.
Bank of America Corp. has $889 billion (5.7 percent) and
Citigroup Inc. has $816 billion (5.2 percent). Goldman Sachs and
Morgan Stanley are at roughly 5.2 percent and 3.9 percent,
respectively.  One reason banks have gotten bigger is that they are
rewarded for size. Too-big-to-fail banks can borrow more cheaply
than smaller banks, according to FDIC data, effectively handing
large firms a government subsidy.  Dodd-Frank tried to address this with tougher capital and
regulatory standards for banks with more than $50 billion in
assets. The law appears to be working: A recent  study  by
economists at the  New York  Fed found that investors are
beginning to price in a higher risk of default on senior bonds
issued by large institutions.  Special Status  Yet many economists and  lawmakers  say Dodd-Frank merely
codified too-big-to-fail, effectively granting special status to
large banks. In the first presidential debate, Republican
nominee  Mitt Romney   referred  to the Dodd-Frank Act as “the
biggest kiss” to Wall Street banks.  That brings us back to the crux of the problem, non-deposit
liabilities. As of 2008, there was about $2.8 trillion in
 outstanding  repo borrowings. In March of that year, the five
largest Wall Street investment banks were rolling over a quarter
of their balance sheets every night, according to Princeton
University economist Hyun Song Shin. Reliance on repos has since
declined, although it’s still a $1.7 trillion overnight market.  Brown’s measure has the support of Alabama Republican
Senator Richard Shelby, former Fed Chairman Paul Volcker and
former FDIC Chairman Sheila Bair. Yet determining an appropriate
cap could prove nettlesome. Why not 1 percent or 3 percent?  A fee would be better. Banks would be less likely to
overborrow if they knew they would be charged a fee for every
dollar of non-deposit liability. Such a levy would also bring
money into the federal government at a time of fiscal strain. (A
similar  fee  proposed by the  Barack Obama  administration as a way
to recoup bailout costs was estimated to bring in about $90
billion over 10 years.) As with a cap, lawmakers would have to
decide which liabilities to include and which deposits to
exclude.  Valid worries persist about the risks large firms pose to
the financial system. The incentives must shift so banks are
penalized, not rewarded, for bigness.  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View columns, editorials
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on  Pakistan’s “Malala moment” ;
Stephen L. Carter on  how U.S. senators are elected ;  Jeffrey
Goldberg  on  Obama’s vulnerabilities in the foreign-policy
debate ; William Pesek on why  world hunger poses a risk to
capitalism ; Odd Arne Westad on  China 's  self-destructive island
diplomacy .  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 