-- Abbott’s Partner Ends Trial of Kidney Failure Drug
-- B y   D r e w   A r m s t r o n g
-- 2012-10-18T20:11:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-18/abbott-s-partner-ends-trial-of-kidney-failure-drug.html
Abbott Laboratories (ABT)  and its
development partner ended a trial of one of their top drug
candidates, citing complications and death. Abbott fell as
analysts said the setback was a blow to the company’s growth
prospects.  Abbott and partner Reata Pharmaceuticals Inc. were testing
the drug, bardoxolone methyl, for use in chronic  kidney disease .
The study was in the third of three stages of clinical tests
usually required before U.S. marketing clearance.  Patients in the trial had “excess serious adverse events
and mortality in the bardoxolone methyl arm,” the  Abbott Park ,
Illinois-based company said in a regulatory filing today
announcing the end of the trial. Combined with an earnings
release that led the shares to fall yesterday, Abbott’s  market
value  has dropped about $8.6 billion in the last two days.  “This is certainly a negative for Abbott, as this
development program was, along with Hep-C, one of two potential
multi-billion dollar pipeline opportunities for Abbott,” said
 Michael Weinstein , an analyst with JPMorgan Chase & Co. The
announcement “calls into question the path forward for the
compound,” he said in a note to clients today.  Closely held Reata based in Irving,  Texas , owns rights to
the treatment in the U.S. and  Asia . Abbott paid Reata $450
million in 2010 to acquire the rest of the worldwide rights.  Falling Shares  Abbott declined 3.5 percent to $66.64 at 4 p.m.  New York 
time, after losing 4.3 percent yesterday when the company
released third-quarter earnings and provided details of its
plans to split in two.  “It doesn’t impact our 2013 financial profile
information,” Scott Davies, an Abbott spokesman, said in a
telephone interview. David Sherzer, a spokesman for Reata,
declined to comment beyond a statement the company posted on its
website that announced the end of the trial.  Richard Gonzalez, who will be chief executive officer of
the prescription drug company AbbVie that Abbott is spinning
off, said last year that bardoxolone might generate $1 billion
in sales and be on the market by 2014.  Key Asset  The trial failure likely takes down a key pipeline product
that would have helped Abbott’s soon-to-be-independent drug
company, AbbVie, grow after the companies split in two on Jan.
1. It could also have helped replace sales of Humira, Abbott’s
top drug for rheumatoid arthritis, which loses patent protection
in 2016.  “This is obviously disappointing news for Abbott as
investor excitement around Abbott’s late stage pipeline had been
growing in anticipation of the split off of the AbbVie branded
pharmaceuticals business,” said Derrick Sung, an analyst at
Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. in New York. “With the termination
of bardoxolone, Abbott’s late stage pipeline prospects are
pinned squarely onto the success of Abbott’s” hepatitis C
drugs, he said in a note to clients today.  Abbott announced yesterday that the  tax rate  for AbbVie
would double to 22 percent from what it had been paying this
year. The company will pay the higher rate to bring profits
earned abroad back to the U.S. and fund a dividend to
shareholders after the companies split.  Patients with chronic kidney disease lose their ability to
filter blood, letting waste build up in the body. About 50
million people worldwide have some form of it, according to
Abbott. People with advanced disease may need dialysis.
Bardoxolone is meant to improve the functioning of damaged
kidneys.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Drew Armstrong in New York at 
 darmstrong17@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net  