-- Madison-Hamilton Financial Fight Is Often Misunderstood
-- B y   W i l l i a m   H o g e l a n d
-- 2012-10-18T16:46:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-18/madison-hamilton-financial-fight-is-often-misunderstood.html
Americans across the political
spectrum who object to intimate links between government and
high finance have often upheld  James Madison  as their champion.  Conservatives who condemn the  Federal Reserve , trade
regulations and the  tax code  for strangling markets and
restricting freedom often cite Madison as a founding
libertarian. Liberals criticizing connections between government
and the investing class for concentrating wealth into an ever
smaller segment of society look to Madison as a defender of more
democratic approaches.  Madison, a Virginia congressman and framer of the U.S.
Constitution, went on to serve two terms as president. His clash
with Treasury Secretary  Alexander Hamilton  in the 1790s has long
been seen as an expression of the starkest ideological division
attending the nation’s birth -- a division that persists in U.S.
politics. But the fight between the two men was weirder, more
complicated and ultimately more revealing of the relationship
between finance and the American founding than is usually
understood.  A Shifting Relationship  As a congressman in the 1790s, Madison opposed Hamilton’s
comprehensive plan of national finance. Hamilton wanted to use a
national debt to yoke American wealth to the federal government,
making funds available for ambitious public projects and
aligning the interests of high financiers with the country’s
success. Madison accused Hamilton of enabling an aristocracy. He
objected to Hamilton’s plan to assume the states’ war debts
(although he ended up reluctantly voting for it) and to charter
a central bank, which Madison would condemn in the 1790s as an
unconstitutional expansion of federal power that would risk
tyranny.  Yet in the 1780s, Madison and Hamilton had an entirely
different relationship. They worked closely together in the
Congress of the Confederation. Although that body governed 13
member legislatures, not the whole country, the two young
congressmen were nationalists. At the time, aspirations for
American nationhood centered on building a large federal debt in
the form of bonds issued by the Congress to wealthy investors
throughout the states.  Madison and Hamilton both supported the Congress’s
superintendent of finance, Robert Morris. Morris was a merchant,
an aggressive speculator, a leader of the ostentatious lending
and commerce crowd, and -- until he landed in debtors’ prison --
probably the richest man in the country. He was also among the
first of his generation to envision the U.S. as a commercial
empire, one that might compete with European powers by directing
the wealth of the investor class to grand national goals.  Morris’s influence on Hamilton is well-known. But Madison’s
activities on behalf of Morris were almost as thoroughgoing.
Madison helped Morris stimulate nationalism by increasing and
funding the Congress’s debt. When other Virginia politicians
attacked Morris as self-dealing and corrupt, Madison defended
him. And Madison made every effort to persuade the Congress to
pass Morris’s novel federal tax on imports, known as the
“impost.” The tax was to be collected by federal agents and
earmarked for public creditors, thus obviating state sovereignty
and linking federal power to big money.  Defining Nationhood  Madison, Hamilton and Morris shared a belief that taxation
in support of a national debt offered a clear path to unifying
the country behind the federal government. Madison continued the
push to realize Morris’s dreams in the late 1780s, when he
helped convert a meeting intended to improve the Articles of
Confederation into what we call the Constitutional Convention --
throwing the articles out and forming a nation. During the
convention, he successfully fought to include taxation and other
government financial powers in Article I, Section 8 of the
Constitution.  In that debate, Madison clarified his desire for nationhood
in terms that Madisonians today might find unhappily
Hamiltonian: “Compliance by thirteen separate and independent
governments with periodical demands of money from Congress,” he
argued, “can never be reckoned upon with the certainty requisite
to satisfy our present creditors, or to tempt others to become
our creditors in future.”  In this light, Madison’s sudden attacks in the 1790s on
Hamilton, his old partner, can look like partisan flip-flopping;
Hamilton certainly saw it that way. Although his objection to
Hamilton’s bank wasn’t exactly a turnaround, Madison’s rationale
involved a contradiction with further resonance for politics
today. The proposed central bank, Madison now claimed, violated
the Constitution, which gives the government no explicit power
to create a bank. Skepticism about implied powers has prevailed
in conservative circles ever since.  Yet Hamilton and Madison had pored over the articles
seeking an implied right to levy the federal impost. And in
“Federalist 44,” Madison defended unenumerated government
powers: “No axiom is more clearly established in law or in
reason,” he wrote then, “than wherever the end is required, the
means are authorized; wherever a general power to do a thing is
given, every particular power for doing it is included.”  In the 1790s, Madison reversed himself not only on the
proper relationship between the government and high finance but
also on the nature of the Constitution itself. Hamilton had a
right to be startled. A bad personal and political breakup was
under way.  To ignore the background of that breakup -- the former
agreement between Hamilton and Madison about finance and
government, and their close partnership in bringing shared ideas
to life -- is to ignore the complex economic and political
realities that shaped the nation’s beginnings.  (William Hogeland is the author of “Founding Finance: How
Debt, Speculation, Foreclosures, Protests, and Crackdowns Made
Us a Nation.” The opinions expressed are his own.)  Read more Echoes columns  online .  To contact the writer of this post: William Hogeland at
 hogeland.william@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this post: Timothy Lavin
at   tlavin1@bloomberg.net . 