-- Taiwan Bonds Fall as Premier Wen Says China Economy Stabilizing
-- B y   L i l i a n   K a r u n u n g a n   a n d   J i y e u n   L e e
-- 2012-10-18T09:02:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-18/taiwan-bonds-fall-as-premier-wen-says-china-economy-stabilizing.html
Taiwan ’s government bonds declined
after Chinese Premier  Wen Jiabao  said economic growth on the
mainland, the island’s biggest trading partner, has started to
stabilize. The  Taiwan dollar  fell.  The five-year yield rose to the highest level in more than
a week after Wen said he is confident of achieving annual
targets and the economy will continue to show “positive
changes,” the official Xinhua News Agency reported yesterday.
 China ’s gross domestic product increased 7.4 percent in the
third quarter from a year earlier, matching the median estimate
in a Bloomberg survey, data showed today.  “Most people think China will not have a hard landing,”
said Eric Hsing, a fixed-income trader at First Securities Inc.
in Taipei. “In the short term,  interest rates  don’t need to be
that low.”  The yield on the 2 percent bonds due July 2017 rose one
basis point to 0.888 percent in Taipei, according to Gretai
Securities Market. That’s the highest level since Oct. 8.  Data tomorrow may show Taiwan’s export orders rose 1.9
percent last month, compared with a 1.5 percent drop in August,
according to a separate survey.  Taiwan’s dollar declined 0.1 percent to NT$29.269 against
its U.S. counterpart, data from Taipei Forex Inc. showed. The
currency reached NT$29.142 yesterday, the strongest level since
May 2. One-month implied volatility in the currency, a measure
of exchange-rate swings used to price options, fell three basis
points, or 0.03 percentage point, to 3.5 percent.  One-month non-deliverable forwards declined 0.2 percent to
NT$29.170, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The  overnight interbank lending  rate was little changed at
0.387 percent today, a weighted average compiled by the Taiwan
Interbank Money Center shows.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jiyeun Lee in Seoul at 
 jlee1029@bloomberg.net ;
Lilian Karunungan in Singapore at 
 lkarunungan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net  