-- Take the Senate Away From Voters
-- B y   S t e p h e n   L .   C a r t e r
-- 2012-10-18T22:30:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-18/take-the-senate-away-from-voters.html
The campaign for the  U.S. Senate  in
 Connecticut , where I live, has produced commercials that are so
nasty (and insulting to the intelligence) that I often catch
myself wishing that somehow both candidates might lose.  And then I sometimes wonder whether there might after all
be a bit of wisdom in the oft-lampooned idea of repealing the
17th Amendment.  The 17th Amendment, adopted in 1913,  provides for  the
direct election of the senators by the people of each state.
Before then, the legislatures of the states either chose their
senators directly or (on rare occasion) established means by
which the people could vote. The framers believed that allowing
the legislatures to play this role was essential for getting
their proposed Constitution adopted, and that a Senate so
selected might provide a bulwark against what was expected to be
a more unruly House.  Lately, the idea of a return to the original system has
gained attention (if not, precisely, traction) after being  taken
up by  the  Tea Party . As one would predict, the fire has been
storming ever since.  To support the repeal of the 17th Amendment,  wrote  Kevin
Drum in Mother Jones, was to be “opposed to electing senators.”
He traced the proposal to the John Birch Society and dismissed
it as a product of the “hard-right fringe”;  writing in  Salon,
Alex Seitz-Wald made similar points using similar language.
Other adjectives for the idea include “ racist ,” “ nutty ” and
“ elitist .”  Not Crazy  Well, let’s slow down a bit. One of the worst tendencies of
our age is to react to ideas based on who happens to support
them rather than on the merits. Even a stopped clock is right
twice a day.  Besides, not all those who are intrigued by the idea of
repeal are crazed right-wingers. For example, my Yale Law School
colleague Akhil Amar, one of the nation’s foremost
constitutional scholars, floated the idea years ago, on the
ground that bolstering the role of states “as healthy and
independent power centers” might help check “possible abuses of
power by federal officials.” (Although Amar has  recently
conceded  some uneasiness, it is on practical not political
grounds.)  Moreover, the process through which the 17th Amendment
became part of the Constitution wasn’t exactly one of our finer
moments. Vulgar history suggests that the change came about
because of corruption among senators who were selected by
corrupt legislators. This account has often been repeated by
defenders of the current system, but is at best half-true.  In the century-plus of supposed corruption leading up to
the 17th Amendment, exactly one member of the Senate and two
members of the House were convicted of crimes. The senator,
Oregon Republican John Hipple Mitchell, was found guilty in 1905
of involvement in a land fraud but died before he could be
sentenced.  Nevertheless, newspapers of the time spread the idea that
his crimes had been possible because he was a senator -- and
that the Senate was corrupt because the legislatures were
corrupt. The leading light among crusading journalists was David
Graham Phillips, whose “Treason of the Senate” series in
Cosmopolitan magazine was directed and championed by that
bastion of journalistic integrity, William Randolph Hearst.  The articles make for fascinating reading. They are chock-
full of vague accusations, but short on what nowadays we would
call -- well, facts. As the official historian of the Senate
 notes , Phillips’s “obvious reliance on innuendo and exaggeration
soon earned him the scorn of other reformers.”  The main thrust of Phillips’s attack was the claim that
senators are beholden to those who supply money for their
campaigns, an argument that had been for decades a staple of
supporters of direct elections. But if this was the evil that
direct election was supposed to cure, the cure was less than
potent.  Not Ideal  Yes, there were problems with the old system. For example,
state legislatures commonly adopted resolutions “instructing”
their appointed senators to vote a particular way. (Nine states
instructed their senators to vote for the 17th Amendment.) These
instructions were of questionable legal force but considerable
political power if the senator hoped for reappointment.  It is difficult to discern, however, why such instructions
from state legislatures are a greater evil than instructions
from the many interest groups on the left or right that can shut
off the candidate’s money supply. Indeed, it would seem to be a
more liberal practice for a senator to be beholden to fellow
elected officials than for a senator to be beholden to
corporations, unions or generous billionaires.  Tea Party supporters of repeal misconstrue the potential
benefits. They see the 17th Amendment as enhancing federal power
at the expense of state and local government. But there is no
reason to suppose, ex ante, that we can guess how the policy
choices of a Senate selected by the legislatures would change. I
would suggest, however, that there might be other benefits, some
of them important in liberal terms.  First, if the Senate were elected by the legislatures,
people would have a reason to pay attention to state legislative
elections again, and that would be a good thing. The dominance
of national media has weaned us away from following local
politics, even though most governance is local. Anything that
can get us to focus on non-national elections is good.  Second, the role of money and attack ads would change --
not vanish, but change. Political parties might try to spin the
virtues of electing a red or blue legislature, and no doubt some
of that campaigning would feature the usual insults to voter
intelligence. Still, there might be fewer efforts to destroy the
reputations and careers of actual living, breathing people -- if
only because there would be too many potential targets. (For
example, the General Assembly of Connecticut, a small state, has
187 members.)  Not Conservative  Third, a repeal might lead to more egalitarian results.
According to the  National Conference of State Legislatures ,
women hold 23.7 percent of all state legislative seats, versus
17 percent of the current U.S. Senate. About 8 percent of state
legislators are black. In the U.S. Senate? Zero. If we imagine
that the legislatures might send to the Senate their own members
-- a practice that was historically common although not always
followed -- we might even increase the diversity of the Senate.  Let me be clear. I am not saying that we should repeal the
17th Amendment. I am saying that we should be a little less, um,
conservative in our attachment to the current constitutional
arrangements and consider whether change might now and then
yield benefits.  If on the other hand you think the idea is completely silly
-- if you are quite certain that the original design was bad,
and that we voters should get to choose directly those who
govern us -- then I look forward to your support for my proposed
constitutional amendment taking the confirmation of Supreme
Court justices away from the Senate and giving it to the people.  (Stephen L. Carter is a Bloomberg View columnist and a
professor of law at  Yale University . He is the author of “The
Violence of Peace: America’s Wars in the Age of Obama,” and his
most recent novel is “The Impeachment of  Abraham Lincoln .” The
opinions expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View columns, editorials
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on a  better way to shrink big
banks  and on  Pakistan’s “Malala moment” ;  Jeffrey Goldberg  on
 Obama’s vulnerabilities in the foreign-policy debate ; William
Pesek on why  world hunger poses a risk to capitalism ; Odd Arne
Westad on  China 's  self-destructive island diplomacy .  To contact the writer of this article:
Stephen L. Carter at  stephen.carter@yale.edu  or @StepCarter on
Twitter.  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
 Michael Newman  at   mnewman43@bloomberg.net . 