-- Akzo Blighted by Added $3.3 Billion Writedown on Paints Unit
-- B y   M a a i k e   N o o r d h u i s
-- 2012-10-18T10:17:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-18/akzo-books-3-3-billion-writedown-at-decorative-paints-business.html
Akzo Nobel NV (AKZA)  wrote down the value
of its decorative paint business by 2.5 billion euros ($3.3
billion) after a prolonged attempt to turn around the business
failed to counter falling demand for Glidden and Dulux paints.  The Dutch company overestimated market growth, with a
slowdown in  Europe  overshadowing an improvement at the U.S. side
of the paint division, which was profitable in the third
quarter, Chief Financial Officer Keith Nichols said on a
conference call today. Akzo will deepen cost cuts to counter the
slowdown, he said.  “This writedown is really extreme,” said Micha Tiekink,
an analyst at Rabo Securities. “It really gives an insight into
Akzo’s view of the earnings potential for the deco business
going forward.”  Akzo has now booked almost $5 billion in writedowns,
casting a shadow over its $17 billion purchase of Imperial
Chemical Industries in 2008 that transformed the company into
the world’s largest paintmaker. The task of communicating the
charge to investors fell to Nichols after Chief Executive
Officer Ton Buechner took extended sick leave for fatigue, six
months into his role. He’s expected to return at year-end.  Akzo dropped 5 percent to 42.32 euros as of 12:15 p.m. in
Amsterdam, where the company is based. The stock has advanced 15
percent this year, lagging behind U.S. rivals such as  Sherwin
Williams Co. (SHW) , which is up 73 percent this year.  ‘Fresh Start’  Akzo, which already wrote down its paint business by 1.2
billion euros in 2009, reported a 7 percent gain in earnings
before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization to 540
million euros in the third quarter, excluding the goodwill
writedown. Analysts in a Bloomberg survey predicted 552 million
euros. Sales rose 6 percent to 4.28 billion euros, mainly driven
by currency moves and pricing.  “Akzo has now cleared all almost all of its goodwill
linked to decorative coatings,” Jaideep Pandya, a Berenberg
analyst, said in a note. “One could see this as a fresh start
for Mr Buechner or the acceptance of reality by the company with
regard to the current state of its paint markets.”  Buechner is having only limited contact with Akzo, dealing
with Antony Burgmans and another member of the supervisory
board. Managers have been asked not to contact him to aid his
recovery, Burgmans said on a call.  Young Blood  The company today announced that industrial coatings head
Leif Darner will step down by mutual consent. The 61-year-old
will be replaced by Conrad Keijzer.  “Conrad is one of his crew, he is of a younger generation
and has the potential to step in and continue the business.”
Nichols said.  Restructuring and penetration into home-improvement stores
such as  Home Depot (HD)  Inc. helped eliminate losses at the U.S.
decorative paint operations in the third quarter, though the
fourth quarter is typically a weaker one for paint sales,
Nichols said. There’s no sign the company is losing market
share, he said.  Amid delays to implementing Buechner’s strategy, Akzo is
rolling out restructuring measures initiated by predecessor Hans Wijers, which includes reducing IT systems and cutting back on
the number of raw materials, to boost earnings by 500 million
euros by 2014.  Akzo is largely done with site closures and will be
focusing on improving customer focus, among other areas, Nichols
said. During the integration of ICI, Akzo closed 29 factories
and eliminated about 3,500 jobs. Akzo’s workforce fell by 870
posts in the first half amid the ongoing overhaul.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maaike Noordhuis in Amsterdam at 
 mnoordhuis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  