-- Alcatel-Lucent to Cut 15% of French Jobs in Savings Plan
-- B y   M a r i e   M a w a d
-- 2012-10-18T16:11:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-18/alcatel-lucent-to-cut-15-of-french-jobs-in-savings-plan.html
Alcatel-Lucent SA (ALU) , the French phone-
equipment maker whose stock is trading near a 23-year low, will
cut its home-country workforce by about 15 percent as it focuses
a reorganization on a sluggish European market.  Alcatel plans to shed 5,500 positions worldwide as part of
a 750 million-euro ($984 million) savings program, primarily
affecting sales, marketing and administrative employees, said
Simon Poulter, a spokesman. More than half of the departures
will take place in the  Europe , Middle-East and Africa region,
and include about 1,400 jobs in  France .  Chief Executive Officer Ben Verwaayen, heading into his
fifth year in the post, is accelerating a turnaround bid after
thousands of earlier job cuts, restructuring and asset sales
failed to make Alcatel-Lucent profitable. The Paris-based
company outlined plans for the reorganization in July, when it
estimated 5,000 jobs would be eliminated and targeted cost
reductions in supply-chain management.  “These are difficult decisions, but are necessary for the
long-term health and sustainable profitability of the company,”
Poulter said.  Alcatel-Lucent jumped 7.9 percent to 86.3 cents at the
close of trading in Paris, for the biggest gain on France’s
benchmark  CAC 40 Index. (CAC)  The stock has  fallen  29 percent this
year, and was at the lowest price since at least 1989 on Oct. 9.  ‘Fight Back’  Some phone-industry competitors have been more aggressive
in scaling back their workforces. Nokia Siemens Networks, the
network-manufacturing venture of  Nokia Oyj (NOK1V)  and  Siemens AG (SIE) , said
a year ago that it would cut 17,000 jobs, or 23 percent of its
workforce.  In France, where Alcatel employs 9,000 people out of a
global  workforce  of 78,000, Verwaayen faces a tough stance from
President  Francois Hollande , a Socialist elected in May after
pledging to block “a parade of firings.” Alcatel Chairman
Philippe Camus was called in by government officials for a
meeting in mid-2012 to discuss the manufacturer’s plans to
eliminate positions.  “We plan to fight back against these firings,” the CFDT
union said today in a statement. “We’ve already contacted
ministry officials and ask the government to take charge.”  French phone companies  should be “patriotic” when
choosing who will supply them with  network equipment , Digital
Economy Junior Minister Fleur Pellerin told a parliamentary
commission yesterday. Banning Chinese gear providers, she said,
is one way government could support companies like Alcatel-
Lucent.  European Decline  Intensifying competition from Asian rivals Huawei and  ZTE
Corp. (000063)  has weighed on Alcatel-Lucent, which was formed in the
2006 merger of French-based Alcatel SA and American company
Lucent Technologies.  Former chiefs Pat Russo and Serge Tchuruk, who oversaw the
merger, handed Verwaayen an unprofitable company with a high
cost base. Plummeting sales of phone equipment in Europe have
added to Verwaayen’s challenges.  Alcatel, which earned an annual profit for the first time
in five years in 2011, posted a  loss  of 254 million euros in the
second quarter of 2012. Its European business suffered the
biggest decline during that period, with sales down 15.6
percent, while group sales shrank by 7.1 percent.  The company is expected to report a net loss of 148 million
euros in the third quarter, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg based on seven analyst estimates. Sales are expected
to fall 5.7 percent to 3.58 billion euros.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Marie Mawad in Paris at 
 mmawad1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  