-- Ally to Sell Mexico’s ABA Seguros to Ace for $865 Million
-- B y   S u s a n n a   P a k   a n d   D a k i n   C a m p b e l l
-- 2012-10-18T18:23:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-18/ally-to-sell-mexico-s-aba-seguros-to-ace-for-865-million.html
Ally Financial Inc. (ALLY)  agreed to sell
its Mexican insurance business to  Ace Ltd. (ACE)  for $865 million in
cash as the bailed-out company narrows its focus on auto lending
and U.S. banking.  The price for ABA Seguros is more than twice the unit’s
$390 million book value -- what it would be worth if liquidated
-- at the end of June, Ally spokeswoman Gina Proia said in an e-
mail. The purchase of Mexico’s sixth-largest property-casualty
insurer will add coverage of autos, homes and small businesses,
according to a statement today from Zurich-based Ace.  Ace Chief Executive Officer Evan Greenberg has been using
acquisitions to expand in  emerging markets  in Latin America and
Asia. He announced a deal last month to buy Fianzas Monterrey in
 Mexico  from New York Life Insurance Co. for $285 million.
Detroit-based Ally, led by Chief Executive Officer Michael Carpenter, previously divested a U.S. auto insurer.  “Taking these actions with respect to the international
operations will enable Ally to further invest in and grow its
leading U.S.-based automotive services and direct banking
franchises and be best-positioned to return additional capital
to the U.S. taxpayer,” Carpenter said in a separate statement.  Returning capital to the U.S. Treasury Department, which
owns 74 percent of Ally after bailouts of $17.2 billion, remains
a priority and must be approved by the Federal Reserve, Proia
said in an e-mail. She declined to comment on whether any of the
sale proceeds will go to the Treasury.  Adding Income  The sale of Ally’s  international  units may allow the
company to repay two-thirds of the government rescue, Carpenter
said in a May interview. The Mexican deal is the first of those
transactions, and it’s scheduled to close in the first half of
2013, according to Ace. It’s expected to add to Ace’s profit in
the first year and meet or exceed long-term targets for return
on equity by the third, Greenberg said.  Ace rose 2.2 percent to $81 at 12:05 p.m. in New York
 trading . The stock is up 16 percent this year, about the same as
the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.  Ally’s $932.5 million of 8 percent bonds maturing in
November 2031 were mostly unchanged on the day at 119.13 cents
on the dollar, according to Trace, the bond price reporting
system of the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority. The
security, which has risen from 93 cents in November, yields 6.3
percent.  Mayer Brown gave legal advice to Ace in the transaction,
according to a statement, while UBS AG acted as financial
adviser.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Susanna Pak in New York at 
 spak@bloomberg.net ;
Dakin Campbell in San Francisco at 
 dcampbell27@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at 
 dkraut2@bloomberg.net ;
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  