-- AMC-Dish Lawsuit Calendar Entry Reads ‘Poss. Settlement’
-- B y   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h   a n d   A l e x   S h e r m a n
-- 2012-10-18T19:30:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-18/amc-dish-case-calendar-has-oct-22-entry-for-poss-settlement-.html
The court calendar in  AMC Networks
Inc. (AMCX) ’s $2.4 billion lawsuit against  Dish Network Corp. (DISH)  over a
scuttled programming deal had an Oct. 22 entry for a “poss.
settlement.”  The entry in the calendar posted today indicated that the
two sides were scheduled to return to court on that date for a
“poss. settlement.” The entry was changed to “adj. for
briefing” later in the day.  Cablevision Systems Corp. (CVC) , AMC’s former owner, sued Dish in
New York state court in Manhattan in 2008 over a now-defunct HD
satellite TV service called Voom, claiming Dish breached a 15-
year contract to offer the service to about 14 million TV
subscribers. AMC rested its case Oct. 12 and Dish has been
presenting its evidence to the jurors.  Orin Snyder, a lawyer for AMC, and Charles Kerr, a lawyer
for Dish, didn’t immediately return phone calls and e-mails
seeking comment on a possible settlement. A call to the chambers
of State Supreme Court Justice Richard Lowe, who is presiding
over the trial, wasn’t immediately returned.  Bob Toevs, a spokesman for Englewood, Colorado-based Dish,
declined to comment today. Georgia Juvelis, a spokeswoman for
New York-based AMC, didn’t immediately return a call seeking
comment.  Overhead Expenses  Dish said it terminated the Voom contract because
Cablevision didn’t spend the required $100 million a year on
programming. Cablevision claimed that Voom spent $103 million in
2006. Dish said that figure included corporate overhead expenses
of at least $12 million and that the contract stipulated that
the money be spent on programming.  A trial in the case began last month. The jury was sent
home yesterday and proceedings were set to resume on Oct. 22,
with Dish Chairman Charles Ergen scheduled to testify. The trial
was expected to last another week.  Charles Dolan, the chairman of both Cablevision and AMC,
was AMC’s first witness. Cablevision, based in Bethpage,  New
York , spun off AMC Networks, formerly known as Rainbow Media, as
a separate publicly owned company last year. Dolan family
members remain the controlling shareholders in AMC.  Documents Presented  After the trial began, Dish was accused again by AMC of
withholding evidence. Dish argued that the communications at
issue were between an attorney and his client and should be
protected from disclosure. Lowe ordered that the documents be
presented to him. Dish appealed and lost.  The trial’s implications go beyond the damages AMC and
Cablevision would share if victorious. It may determine whether
Dish viewers will again see AMC shows such as “Mad Men,” “The
Walking Dead,” and “Breaking Bad.” Dish dropped AMC’s four
channels from its system in July, saying that its shows didn’t
deliver the ratings to justify their price.  AMC claims the move stemmed from the lawsuit, while Dish
has maintained it had nothing to do with the litigation.  There’s potential for AMC to return to Dish, Ergen said in
an interview earlier this month. Dish has no interest in
bringing back AMC’s other networks -- IFC, Sundance Channel and
WE tv -- because of low ratings, he said.  The case is Voom v. Echostar, 600292-2008, State Supreme
Court of New York ( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chris Dolmetsch in New York at 
 cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net ;
Alex Sherman in New York at 
 asherman6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  