-- AMD Forecast Misses Estimates; to Cut 15 Percent of Staff
-- B y   I a n   K i n g
-- 2012-10-18T22:04:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-18/amd-sales-forecast-misses-estimates-to-cut-15-percent-of-staff.html
Advanced Micro Devices Inc. , the
second-largest maker of processors for personal computers,
forecast fourth-quarter sales that will miss analysts’ estimates
and said it will cut 15 percent of its staff.  Revenue  will fall 9 percent, plus or minus 4 percent, in
the current quarter from the prior period, the company said
today in a statement. That indicates sales as low as $1.1
billion, compared with an average analyst estimate of $1.31
billion, according to  data  compiled by Bloomberg.  AMD’s outlook adds to evidence that PC makers and their
suppliers are being battered by a weak economy and a shift in
consumer spending to tablets and smartphones -- getting scant
relief from holiday sales that usually kick in this time of
year. AMD is overshadowed by larger rival  Intel Corp. , which has
80 percent of the PC-chip market and is using its resources to
push into mobile devices, an area now dominated by ARM Holdings
Plc’s technology.  “AMD is going to lose first,” said  Kevin Cassidy , an
analyst at Stifel Nicolaus & Co. “If anybody’s got a problem
with ARM, it’s AMD.”  The Sunnyvale, California-based company said the job cuts,
expected to be completed in the fourth quarter, will result in
expenses of $80 million.  The stock, the worst performer on the  Philadelphia
Semiconductor Index  this year with a decline of 51 percent, fell
5.4 percent to $2.62 at the close in New York. On Oct. 11, the
company disclosed that third-quarter sales had fallen short of
its earlier predictions. That also led to Standard & Poor’s
placing the company’s BB- credit rating on watch for a possible
downgrade.  Surprising Speed  AMD underestimated the rate at which tablets and phones
would begin to hurt the PC market, which provides the company
with 85 percent of its revenue, and the company needs to
accelerate changes that will make it less reliant on that
business, Chief Executive Officer  Rory Read  said on a conference
call with analysts. AMD is going to introduce new products aimed
at winning sales in the video-game, communications and
industrial-equipment markets.  “We underestimated the speed of change in our industry and
expected to have several years to transform AMD’s business,” he
said. “We must implement our transformation on a more
aggressive timeline.”  Beyond PCs  The company is aiming to boost the portion of sales it gets
from businesses other than PCs to 20 percent by the fourth
quarter of 2013, Read said. The job cuts, which will save the
company $190 million next year, will help AMD to be able to
break even on quarterly revenue of $1.3 billion, he said.  Intel earlier this week forecast fourth-quarter gross
margin that missed analysts’ projections and sales that may
decline from a year earlier for the first time since 2008. The
world’s largest chipmaker said it is taking market share in
cheaper PCs, traditionally an area of relative strength for AMD.  Both companies are facing incursions by tablet devices.
Adding to the threat, Microsoft Corp. will debut a version of
its Windows operating system on Oct. 26 that runs on alternative
chip technology from ARM. Qualcomm Inc. and Nvidia Corp. are
making processors that will run competing devices.  AMD said its third-quarter net loss was $157 million, or 21
cents a share, compared with net income of $97 million, or 13
cents, a year earlier. Sales fell 25 percent to $1.27 billion.
Analysts had on average predicted a loss of 22 cents on revenue
of $1.27 billion.  The total PC market will contract by 1.2 percent to 348.7
million units this year, according to  IHS iSuppli . That’s the
first annual decline since 2001, the market researcher said
earlier this month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ian King  in San Francisco at 
 ianking@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.neT  