-- Man Group Outflows Rise to $2.2 Billion Amid ‘Subdued’ Sales
-- B y   J e s s e   W e s t b r o o k
-- 2012-10-18T16:34:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-18/man-group-outflows-increase-to-2-2-billion-on-subdued-sales.html
Man Group Plc (EMG) , the world’s biggest
publicly traded hedge-fund manager, said outflows increased 57
percent in the third quarter amid an environment for sales Chief
Executive Officer  Peter Clarke  called “subdued.”  Clients pulled a net $2.2 billion from the firm, up from
$1.4 billion in the second quarter, the London-based firm said
in a statement today. Customers redeemed $5.2 billion from Man
Group’s investment funds, compared with $3 billion of sales.  “The flow environment continues to be challenging and this
was reflected in lower sales in the quarter,” Clarke said in
the statement. “Investor sentiment, and consequently the
outlook for flows, continues to be subdued.”  The stock fell 9.9 in London trading, the most in 11
months. Investors are becoming increasingly cautious about
adding money to the $2 trillion hedge-fund industry as the
European sovereign debt crisis crimps growth in the region.
Hedge funds gained about 3.6 percent in the first nine months of
the year, trailing the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index’s 15 percent
advance and the Stoxx Europe 600 Index’s 10 percent increase.  Man Group’s assets under management rose 14 percent in the
third quarter to $60 billion after its purchase of hedge fund
investment firm FRM Holdings Ltd, which added $8.3 billion. Man
Group’s funds increased by $500 million through positive
 investment performance .  Capital Shrinking  The company faces a “worsening” capital position, with
excess regulatory capital posting a bigger-than-estimated
decline to $500 million from $704 million at the end of June,
Barclays Plc analyst Daniel Garrod, who has an equal-weight
rating on Man Group, wrote in a note to clients today.  The stock slumped 9 pence to 83.40 pence. Man Group has
declined 34 percent this year, for a market value of 1.5 billion
pounds ($2.4 billion). The firm dropped out of the FTSE 100
Index of the U.K.’s biggest companies by market value in June.  Man Group has responded to the muted sales environment and
underperformance of its biggest hedge fund, AHL, by planning
cost cuts of almost $200 million. The company also shook up its
management team in June by appointing Jonathan Sorrell, a former
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. executive, finance director.  In  Europe , banks, wealthy individuals and institutional
investors are sitting on “an enormous amount of cash,” Chief
Operating Officer Emmanuel Roman said on a conference call with
analysts today. While these groups would like to invest in
riskier assets such as hedge funds that historically have higher
yields than  government bonds , they are holding off, citing
concerns about Europe’s economy, he said.  ‘Harder Question’  “When they move is a harder question,” Emmanuel said.
“It is contingent on what happens in the macro space.”  AHL, which relies on computer algorithms to spot profitable
trades in  futures markets , rose 2.5 percent in the third quarter
and is down 2 percent for the year, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. Assets in AHL declined to $16.3 billion in the
third quarter from $16.7 billion three months earlier.  Assets in GLG Partners Inc.  hedge funds  were unchanged at
$15.1 billion. The “majority” funds at GLG, which Man Group
bought for $1.6 billion in 2010, had investment gains in the
third quarter, the company said in the statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jesse Westbrook in 東京 at 
 jwestbrook1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  