-- Apple Loses Appeal Over ‘Not as Cool’ Samsung Galaxy Tab
-- B y   J e r e m y   H o d g e s
-- 2012-10-18T12:44:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-18/apple-loses-u-k-appeal-over-not-as-cool-samsung-galaxy-tablet.html
Apple Inc. (AAPL)  lost a U.K. court appeal
ruling over whether Samsung Electronics Co.’s Galaxy tablet
infringed the design of the iPad as a judge criticized divergent
rulings in the global intellectual property fight between the
two companies.  A three-judge panel in London upheld an earlier decision by
a U.K. court that said several of Samsung’s Galaxy tablets
weren’t “cool” enough to be confused with the iPad. The ruling
described as “extreme” a German judgment from July granting
Apple a Europe-wide injunction preventing Samsung from selling
one model.  The ruling is the latest in a long line of disputes in
courts across the globe as rivals including  HTC Corp. (2498) , Apple and
Samsung fight for dominance in the smartphone and tablet
computer markets. The cases in the U.S.,  Germany , the
Netherlands and Spain often lead to conflicting rulings as
judges apply diverging national laws.  “If courts around  Europe  simply say they do not agree with
each other and give inconsistent decisions, Europe will be the
poorer,” Judge Robin Jacob said in the written ruling.  Samsung said in an e-mailed statement that it continues
“to believe that Apple was not the first to design a tablet
with a rectangular shape and rounded corners.”  ‘Excessive’ Claims  “Should Apple continue to make excessive legal claims in
other countries based on such generic designs, innovation in the
industry could be harmed and consumer choice unduly limited,”
the company said.  Samsung  shares  rose about 0.7 percent in  London  intraday
trading following the ruling and were up 0.4 percent as of 1:18
p.m.  Alan Hely, a spokesman for Apple, declined to comment on
today’s ruling.  Apple must also publish notices in U.K. newspapers with
details of the U.K. ruling, Judge David Kitchin said today.  Jacob said a publicity order was necessary to avoid
consumer confusion because of the news coverage of the “not as
cool” judgment in the U.K. and the contrasting German court’s
decision.  A link to the notice must appear on Apple’s website for one
month and the company must publish it in the Financial Times and
Daily Mail newspapers.  Apple has agreed to ask the German court to “discharge”
the injunction, Jacob said.  Wide Scope  If Apple’s registered design “has a scope as wide” as the
Cupertino, California company says, “it would foreclose much of
the market for tablet computers,” Jacob said.  U.K. judges attempt to give “appropriate consideration to
the judgments of” foreign courts in related litigation, said
Will James, a lawyer at Marks & Clerk Solicitors LLP.  “It is incredibly frustrating for the legal community as a
whole, and for IP rights owners in particular -- who rely
heavily on the courts for commercial certainty -- to see
judgments that have apparently failed to attempt to apply a
consistent approach,” James, who isn’t involved in the case,
said in an e-mail.  Courts around the world have issued divergent rulings in
patent cases between the two companies. In August, Apple won a
$1.05 billion U.S. jury verdict in a patent case between the
companies, while a week later a Tokyo court ruled Samsung
products don’t infringe an Apple invention for synchronizing
music and video data with servers.  Australian and Dutch courts have also issued rulings that
contrasted with decisions in the U.S. case.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeremy Hodges in London at 
 jhodges17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  