-- Apple to Add Two China Stores as Cook Seeks Growth
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-10-19T00:38:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-18/apple-opening-third-beijing-store-as-cook-implements-growth-plan.html
(Corrects number of  Hong Kong  stores in fifth paragraph of
story that moved Oct. 18.)  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  will add two more stores
in China as it expands sales outlets for iPhones and MacBooks in
the world’s largest market for computers and smartphones.  A new store will open Oct. 20 in Beijing’s Wangfujing area,
Apple said in a posting on its Chinese-language website. The
company will also unveil a store in the southern city of
Shenzhen, the hub where iPhones and iPads are made by Foxconn
Technology Group, Apple spokeswoman Carolyn Wu said in a phone
interview, citing Apple’s retail chief  John Browett  as saying.
She didn’t announce a timeframe for that outlet.  The expansion comes after Chief Executive Officer  Tim Cook 
said in March he planned “even greater investment and growth”
in China during a visit to the nation. Given the demand for its
products, Apple “has the opportunity” to open 400-500 stores
in mainland China during the next 15 to 20 years,  Brian White ,
an analyst at Topeka Capital Markets in New York, wrote in an
Oct. 14 report after a trip to China.  The Wangfujing store will be the Cupertino, California-
based company’s third in the Chinese capital.  Including the new Shenzhen and Beijing locations, as well
as three in Shanghai and two in Hong Kong, the company’s nine
stores in  Greater China  are fewer than the 25 that former head
of retail  Ron Johnson  projected in 2010 would be in operation by
the end of this year. Johnson is now J.C. Penney Co.’s chief
executive officer.  The world’s most-valuable company may also be constructing
another store in the western city of Chengdu, White said. Wu
declined to comment on additional store openings.  The company’s flagship store in Beijing’s Sanlitun district
was pelted with eggs in January when it didn’t open as scheduled
for the first day of sales for the iPhone 4S. Demand for the
iPhone in China was “staggering,” and the company “didn’t bet
high enough,” Cook said Jan. 24.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Edmond Lococo in Beijing at 
 elococo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  