-- Aramco Draws on Export Finance as Bank Loans Wither: Arab Credit
-- B y   W a e l   M a h d i
-- 2012-10-18T08:47:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-18/aramco-draws-on-export-finance-as-bank-loans-wither-arab-credit.html
Middle Eastern and North African
companies planning $740 billion in energy projects will need to
tap foreign export credit agencies and local banks as commercial
lending to the industry slumps to a nine-year low.  Loans for facilities such as refineries and power plants may
dwindle to $13 billion this year, down from a record $44 billion
in 2010, as European banks curtail exposure to the region, said
Arab Petroleum Investments Corp., a multilateral investment
bank. Companies in 18 nations from  Morocco  to Oman have paid an
average of 190 basis points above the  London  Interbank Offered
Rate for loans this year, up from an average of 157 basis points
from 2007 through 2011, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Saudi Arabian Oil Co., known as Saudi Aramco, and Qatar
Petroleum are already turning to export credit agencies, state-
backed lenders that finance purchases of equipment and materials
from their countries. Political upheaval from the so-called Arab
Spring has made global banks more wary of the region. Bonds hold
scant appeal as an alternative to loans because many energy
companies in the Middle East and North Africa lack ratings.  “Local banks can help in bridging the financing gap for
energy projects over the coming five years, but they can’t cover
the whole gap alone,” said Ali Aissaoui, a senior consultant at
Arab Petroleum Investments, known as Apicorp. Margins could top
200 basis points, he said in a telephone interview from Khobar,
Saudi Arabia, on Oct. 15.  Iraq’s Example  States supplying at least 52 percent of global crude want
to invest $740 billion in energy projects through 2017, Apicorp
said, to boost output and meet local demand for oil and natural
gas.  Iraq  alone needs to invest $16 billion a year to fulfill
its potential for doubling crude production by 2020, the
International Energy Agency said in a study published Oct. 9.  Oil-producers, enriched by prices averaging more than $112
a barrel in London this year, can pay for much of this targeted
investment from their export earnings and internal funds.
They’ll need to borrow the rest, as will energy and utility
companies in nations with negligible oil and gas reserves. The
last time combined loans for energy projects were as low as
Apicorp projects for this year was in 2003, at $10 billion.  ACWA Power International, a privately owned Saudi utilities
company, plans to triple its generating capacity to 38,000
megawatts by 2017 and will borrow as much as 80 percent of the
needed money from regional banks and other lenders, Chief
Executive Officer Paddy Padmanathan said in  Riyadh  on Oct. 1.  Costlier Loans  Demand for funds is rising even as the cost of capital
increases. The three-month  interbank lending rate  in Saudi
Arabia, the largest Arab economy, has risen 19 basis points this
year to 0.96625 percent today, the highest since April 2009,
data compiled by Bloomberg show.  “The issue with margins on energy loans is the same with
oil prices: They are high because of the geopolitical situation
in the region,” said Fahad Alturki, senior economist at Riyadh-
based Jadwa Investment Co. Predicting margins for next year is
difficult, “as the margins and cost of borrowing will depend on
how the U.S. and  Europe  deal with their fiscal problems,” said
Alturki, formerly a vice president for research at Barclays
Saudi Arabia before he moved to Jadwa this summer.  Saudi Arabia, propelled by record oil revenues from crude
prices that have risen 6 percent this year in London, is bucking
the downturn in lending, with syndicated loans more than
doubling so far in 2012. Companies funding projects in the
world’s biggest oil exporter raised almost $12 billion in loans
this year from banks including Banque Saudi Fransi and  Samba
Financial Group (SAMBA) , according to data compiled by Bloomberg. That’s
up from about $5.3 billion at the same time in 2011.  U.S. Ex-Im Bank  Export credit has gained favor among borrowers in the six-
nation Gulf Cooperation Council as debt woes constrain European
lenders.  Saudi Electricity Co. (SECO)  may seek such funds next year to
meet $10 billion in capital expenditure, Manish Manchandya, the
head of corporate finance, told reporters in Dubai on Oct. 9.  The U.S. Export-Import Bank approved a $5 billion loan to
Sadara Chemical Co., a joint venture between Saudi Aramco and
 Dow Chemical Co. (DOW) , the bank said on Sept. 27. The credit for
construction of a petrochemical complex boosted total Ex-Im Bank
loans in the region this year to $8.9 billion.  Abu Dhabi National Energy Co. (TAQA) , the state-controlled power
and oil producer known as Taqa, signed a $1.4 billion loan
agreement in June to expand a generating plant in Morocco. As
part of the project, three Asian export credit agencies provided
their first-ever funds in that country, Taqa said on June 21.  Japanese and South Korean credit agencies also helped Qatar
Petroleum raise $7.2 billion to develop the Barzan gas field, in
the Middle East’s biggest syndicated loan last year.  Apicorp’s Aissaoi said the regional reliance on export
credit will probably intensify as borrowing costs rise.  “The total cost of financing for power projects is unlikely
to come down much further,” said Padmanathan of ACWA Power.
“If anything, they will start creeping back up to the 2000-
2010-era levels.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Wael Mahdi in Manama, Bahrain at 
 wmahdi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  