-- Argentina Strikes Back at Colombia’s Claim of Bigger Economy
-- B y   E l i a n a   R a s z e w s k i
-- 2012-10-18T15:19:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-18/argentina-strikes-back-at-colombia-s-claim-of-bigger-economy.html
Argentina ’s economy minister is
striking back at  Colombia ’s claim that it has overtaken his
country to become  South America ’s second-biggest economy.  Hernan Lorenzino, in messages posted on Twitter today, said
data from the International Monetary Fund show that Argentina,
with a smaller population, has a gross domestic product more
than $100 billion larger than Colombia’s. The gap between the
two countries’ nominal GDP is growing, and GDP per capita is
also larger, he said.  Juan Carlos Echeverry, before stepping down last month as
Colombia’s finance minister, bragged that the Andean nation’s
economy was $15 billion larger than Argentina’s as a result of
the peso’s slide on the unregulated  currency market . In the
unregulated exchange market, in which investors buy securities
locally in pesos and sell them abroad for dollars, the Argentine
peso has declined 25 percent this year to 6.3634 per dollar
today. The official rate is 4.7312 pesos per dollar.  “That affirmation isn’t only inaccurate but also
intentionally harmful,” Lorenzino wrote on Twitter today, after
Echeverry repeated his argument in a  Financial Times column 
published this week.  “This large difference between market rates and official
rates means that calculations of the dollar value of Argentine
GDP using the official  exchange rate  are biased upwards,”
Echeverry wrote in the FT on Oct. 15. “The evidence points
towards an indisputable fact: Colombia has managed to place
itself in the leading pack of the region in terms of economic
growth, size and long-term potential.”  Echeverry at IMF  Lorenzino today didn’t address Echeverry’s argument about
the competing exchange rates, saying only that it’s “an error”
to affirm Colombia’s GDP is bigger. Lorenzino's office confirmed 
that the messages posted on Twitter were written by him.  Echeverry in August said he was resigning as finance
minister to apply to become the IMF’s Western Hemisphere
director in charge of monitoring the Latin American and
Caribbean economies. Former Chilean Finance Minister Nicolas Eyzaguirre resigned from the Washington-based post in July.  If Echeverry wins the job, he’ll have to manage relations
between the IMF and Argentina that have deteriorated since the
country’s 2001 default on $95 billion in bonds.  The IMF has repeatedly criticized Argentine government
statistics it says don’t accurately reflect inflation private
economists put over 20 percent.  In turn, President  Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner  has
blamed the IMF for pushing the country into the 2001 financial
crisis and since 2006 hasn’t allowed the Washington-based lender
to perform an annual review of its finances as required by all
members. The IMF executive board is weighing whether to censure
Argentina over its refusal to make progress to improve the
accuracy of its statistics.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eliana Raszewski in  Buenos Aires  at 
 eraszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  