-- Hartford Settles Lawyer’s Suit Involving Treasury Deputy
-- B y   L a u r e l   B r u b a k e r   C a l k i n s
-- 2012-10-18T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-18/hartford-settles-lawyer-s-lawsuit-involving-treasury-deputy-1-.html
Hartford Financial Services Group
Inc. (HIG)  settled a lawsuit by a  Texas  attorney who accused the
insurer of causing him to be prosecuted on bribery charges that
were later dropped after a mistrial, a lawyer for the man said.  The lawyer’s negligence allegations against Hartford
included claims that the company’s former general counsel, Neal S. Wolin, now U.S. deputy treasury secretary, took part in a
cover-up linked to alleged extortion by two employees, attorneys
for the lawyer told jurors in opening statements last week.  “We settled today, and I can’t discuss the terms,” John
Flood, who represents Texas lawyer Todd Hoeffner, said yesterday
in a phone interview when the trial in state court in Houston
was halted before Hoeffner was to take the stand.  Wolin, who isn’t named as a defendant in the lawsuit,
testified against Hoeffner in a 2009 criminal trial that ended
with a deadlocked jury. Wolin’s testimony was to be part of the
 jury trial  that began last week.  Hoeffner was charged with making illegal payments to two
claims processors to get inflated insurance settlements for
clients suffering from silicosis. The charges followed an
internal company investigation ordered by Wolin and given to
federal prosecutors, according to court records.  2009 Trial  Jurors at the 2009 trial couldn’t reach a verdict.
Hoeffner, later faced with new charges that didn’t include
bribery, agreed to pay prosecution costs and the criminal case
was dropped.  Hoeffner sued Hartford in October 2011 on claims the
insurer lied to the government about him. The motive, he said,
was to hide the claims processors’ extortion of $3 million from
the portion of the settlements paid to him as legal fees. He
accused Hartford of negligence, economic duress, interference
with his attorney-client relationships and intentional
infliction of emotional distress.  Hartford protected the employees to keep them from telling
regulators the company lacked sufficient cash reserves to pay
asbestos-related claims at the time of the scheme, and Wolin
participated in the cover-up, Hoeffner said in court filings.  Thomas Hambrick, a spokesman for the Hartford, Connecticut-
based insurer, didn’t immediately respond to an e-mail seeking
comment yesterday on the settlement. He said in a phone
interview before the trial that there was “no evidence to
support Hoeffner’s allegations.”  Wolin, through his attorney, denied Hoeffner’s allegations
and said that when he learned of what appeared to be a bribery
scheme involving rogue workers, he ordered company investigators
to dig into the matter.  Law Enforcement  “He directed them to investigate the facts no matter where
those facts led them, and if they deemed it appropriate, to
refer the matter to law enforcement authorities for a full and
complete investigation,” James E. Rocap, Wolin’s lawyer, said
in an e-mail before the trial. “Any assertion to the contrary
is ridiculous.”  Wolin left Hartford in early 2009 to become an adviser in
President  Barack Obama ’s administration. He was named to the
second-highest ranking post at the Treasury in May 2009.  As the No. 2 official behind Treasury Secretary  Timothy Geithner , Wolin has helped lead the department’s efforts on the
Dodd-Frank Act financial overhaul.  The case is Sanchez v. Hoeffner, 2010-15489, 133rd Judicial
District Court of Texas (Houston).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laurel Brubaker Calkins in Houston at 
 laurel@calkins.us.com   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  