-- U.S. Stocks Drop on Google Earnings Miss; Spanish Bonds Advance
-- B y   I n y o u n g   H w a n g
-- 2012-10-18T21:32:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-18/asian-stocks-rise-yen-falls-on-u-s-home-data-before-china-gdp.html
U.S. stocks fell for the first time
in four days after  Google Inc. (GOOG)  reported lower-than-estimated
earnings. The yen weakened, while Spain’s bonds rose as the
nation raised more than planned at a debt sale.  The  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPX)  lost 0.2 percent to
1,457.34 at 4 p.m. in New York, as Google Inc. sank 8 percent.
Spanish 10-year yields fell 12 basis points to 5.34 percent. The
yen dropped against most of its major counterparts. Gold futures
retreated, while soybeans increased the most in five weeks. Ten-
year Treasury yields rose to 1.84 percent.  Google reported  profit  excluding some items of $9.03 a
share, according to a filing that was inadvertently filed during
regular trading, trailing the average analyst estimate of $10.65
a share. U.S. jobless claims rose more than forecast last week.
Spain sold a combined 4.61 billion euros ($6 billion) of
securities due in 2015, 2016 and 2022, the Bank of Spain said,
compared with a maximum target of 4.5 billion euros.  “Google failed to meet expectations,”  Giri Cherukuri , a
portfolio manager for Oakbrook Investments LLC, which manages $3
billion, said in a telephone interview. “Google is a big
company, and on top of the fact that they missed estimates, they
talked about advertising in the online world not doing as well
as previously thought.”  Google Earnings  Trading in Google’s stock was  halted  at about 12:50 p.m.
New York time, and resumed at 3:20 p.m. after the company
released a finalized version of its earnings document. The
results showed its tools are becoming less valuable to
advertisers while costs associated with expansion into new
businesses are chipping away at profitability.  Technology shares  slid 1.5 percent, the most among 10
groups in the  S&P 500 .  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  slid 1.9 percent while
 International Business Machines Corp. (IBM)  dropped 2.8 percent.  AOL
Inc. (AOL)  dropped 1.9 percent, online-coupon provider  Groupon Inc. (GRPN) 
slipped 3.4 percent and  Facebook Inc. (FB) , the world’s most popular
social-networking service, lost 4.6 percent.  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  fell 2.4 percent at 5:24 p.m. as it
released results after the close of regular trading. The largest
software maker reported fiscal first-quarter  profit  and sales
that fell short of analysts’ estimates as declining personal
computer sales crimped demand for Windows, its core operating
system.  The Nasdaq Composite Index lost 1 percent to 3,072.87,
while the  Dow Jones Industrial Average  fell 0.1 percent to
13,548.94.  Philip Morris International Inc. (PM) , the world’s largest
publicly traded tobacco company, dropped 4.2 percent as earnings
trailed analysts’ estimates.  Morgan Stanley (MS)  slipped 3.8 percent
after reporting a loss for the third quarter. Travelers Cos.
gained 3.6 percent as earnings more than doubled on lower claims
costs tied to natural disasters.  Economic Reports  Jobless claims  increased by 46,000 to 388,000 in the week
ended Oct. 13, Labor Department figures showed. The median
forecast of 49 economists surveyed by Bloomberg called for a
rise in claims to 365,000. The typical pattern of large
increases in unadjusted claims at the start of the quarter seems
to have shifted by a week in one state, causing the adjusted
data to become volatile, a Labor Department spokesman said.  The  index (BUX)  of U.S. leading economic indicators rose in
September by the most in seven months, boosted in part by a jump
in permits for  home construction  that’s helping underpin the
expansion. Manufacturing in the Philadelphia region expanded in
October for the first time in six months, a sign the industry
may be starting to stabilize.  ‘Step Forward’  “It’s one step forward, half a step back,” said Tom Wirth, who helps manage $1.6 billion as senior investment
officer for Chemung Canal Trust Co., in Elmira, New York. “The
economy is picking up a bit of momentum, but not a lot. Earnings
have been mixed. Plus, the market has gone up substantially and
it doesn’t go in one direction.”  The Stoxx Europe 600 rose for a fourth day, adding 0.2
percent.  Nestle SA (NESN)  declined 1.7 percent after reporting nine-
month sales growth that fell short of analysts’ estimates.  Remy
Cointreau SA (RCO)  plunged 8 percent after France’s second-largest
distiller posted first-half revenue growth that missed analysts’
projections.  Gold futures slid 0.5 percent to settle at $1,744.70 an
ounce in New York. The S&P GSCI Index of raw materials was
little changed.  Ten-year Treasury yields added two basis points. The U.S.
auction of $7 billion in 30-year inflation-indexed bonds sold at
a record-low yield as investors continue to pay a premium to
guard against the threat of rising consumer prices.  Treasury Auction  The Treasury Inflation Protected Securities sale’s bid-to-
cover ratio, which gauges demand by comparing the amount bid
with the amount offered, was 2.82, compared to an average of
2.71 over the past seven auctions. The offering drew a record
low yield of 0.479 percent, versus the average forecast of 0.483
percent in a Bloomberg News survey.  The yen slid 0.4 percent to 79.28 per dollar as speculation
that the Bank of Japan will boost stimulus measures sapped
demand for the nation’s assets as a haven.  The euro slipped less than 0.1 percent to $1.3065. Europe
is facing a dramatic situation and it would be fatal for
governments to lessen their determination to solve the region’s
financial woes, German  Chancellor Angela Merkel  said before a
two-day summit of leaders in Brussels.  Sweden’s krona strengthened against all its major peers
after the central bank governor Stefan Ingves said there are
risks in keeping  interest rates  low that “can’t be ignored.”  The MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index added 0.3 percent. India’s
 Sensex (SENSEX)  advanced 1 percent. The BUX Index in Hungary slumped 1.7
percent, extending the 0.7 percent drop yesterday after the
government backtracked on a promise to cut a special bank tax in
half and said it plans to push ahead with a transaction levy.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Inyoung Hwang in New York at 
 ihwang7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  