-- Asian Stocks Rise as Chinese GDP Growth Matches Estimates
-- B y   Y o s h i a k i   N o h a r a
-- 2012-10-18T10:41:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-18/asian-stocks-head-for-third-daily-gain-before-china-gdp-report.html
Asian  stocks  rose, with the regional
benchmark index headed for its highest close in a month, after
 China ’s economic growth matched economists’ estimates and U.S.
housing starts jumped.  China Overseas Land (688)  & Investment Ltd. rose 2.1 percent in
Hong Kong, pacing gains among mainland developers.  James Hardie
Industries SE (JHX) , a building-materials supplier that gets 67
percent of sales from the U.S., gained 1.7 percent in Sydney.
 Woodside Petroleum Ltd. (WPL) ,  Australia ’s second-biggest oil
producer, advanced 2.4 percent after boosting its output
forecast.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index gained 0.8 percent to 123.95 as
of 7:39 p.m. in Tokyo, headed for the highest close since Sept.
19. More than two stocks advanced for each that fell on the
measure, with nine of 10 industry groups on the gauge rising.
China’s Communist Party will nominate new leaders at its
congress starting Nov. 8 in a once-a-decade leadership change.  China’s economy “is already bottoming and there are signs
of stabilization coming up,” said Banny Lam, a Hong Kong-based
economist at CCB International Securities Ltd. “Investors
should be positive with what we have right now and will gain
more confidence from the 18th congress results.”  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index rebounded about 13 percent
through yesterday from this year’s low on June 4 as stimulus
measures in  Europe , the U.S.,  Japan  and China boosted market
sentiment amid a global economic slowdown and Europe’s debt
crisis. The Asian benchmark traded at 13 times  estimated
earnings  on average, compared with 13.9 for the Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index and 12.3 for the Stoxx Europe 600 Index.  More Stimulus  Japan’s Nikkei 225 Stock Average rose 2 percent, capping
the biggest three-day gain since March, after the economy
minister yesterday called for stronger stimulus from the Bank of
Japan, which convenes at the end of the month.  Australia’s S&P/ASX 200 added 0.7 percent. About 12 stocks
on the national bourse, including Australia & New Zealand
Banking Group Ltd., surged at the open without company news,
prompting inquiries by the market regulator.  New Zealand’s NZX 50 Index climbed 0.9 percent, while South
Korea’s Kospi Index gained 0.2 percent. Hong Kong’s Hang Seng
Index gained 0.5 percent, and China’s Shanghai Composite Index
climbed 1.2 percent.  Singapore ’s Straits Times Index rose 0.5
percent.  Taiwan’s Taiex Index (TWSE)  was little changed.  China’s gross domestic product expanded 7.4 percent in the
third quarter from a year earlier, the government reported
today, matching the median estimate in a Bloomberg News survey
of economists. The government also reported data for industrial
production, retail sales and fixed-asset investment.  ‘Relatively Good’  Premier Wen Jiabao said yesterday China’s economic
situation last quarter was “relatively good,” the official
Xinhua News Agency reported, signaling that the nation’s
slowdown is bottoming.  China Overseas Land added 2.1 percent to HK$20.35. Shimao
Property Holdings Ltd., which develops real estate projects in
China, rose 2 percent to HK$14.24. Hitachi Construction
Machinery Co, which gets 17 percent of its sales in China, added
3.7 percent to 1,368 yen in  Tokyo .  Futures on the S&P 500 fell 0.1 percent today. The gauge
advanced 0.4 percent yesterday on a report that September
housing starts surged to the highest in four years, exceeding
all forecasts in a Bloomberg survey of economists. Tomorrow
marks the 25th anniversary of so-called the Black Monday market
crash, the biggest single-day equity decline in history.  Housing Recovery  “I don’t see much of a downside risk for stocks because we
don’t see the U.S. situation deteriorating,” said Masahiko Ejiri, a Tokyo-based senior fund manager at Mizuho Asset
Management Co., which oversees about 3.6 trillion yen ($45
billion). “A long-awaited recovery in U.S. housing seems to be
holding up, as good numbers have come out over the last few
months.”  Exporters to the U.S. advanced. James Hardie added 1.7
percent to A$9.26. Japanese carmaker  Honda Motor Co. (7267) , which
depends on North America for 44 percent of its sales, rose 4
percent to 2,557 yen.  Woodside advanced 2.4 percent to A$35.20 after raising its
annual output forecast, citing a stronger-than-expected start at
its Pluto liquefied natural gas project.  Yaskawa Electric Corp. jumped 6.7 percent to 592 yen in
Tokyo, its biggest gain in five months. The servomotor
producer’s rating was raised to buy from reduce at BNP Paribas
S.A., which cited a bottoming out of orders. The investment bank
also lifted the company’s price target 67 percent to 700 yen.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yoshiaki Nohara in Tokyo at 
 ynohara1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net . 