-- Mass Job Cuts in Sweden Belie Government Optimism: Nordic Credit
-- B y   O l a   K i n n a n d e r   a n d   J o h a n   C a r l s t r o m
-- 2012-10-18T07:13:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-18/mass-job-cuts-in-sweden-belie-government-optimism-nordic-credit.html
TeliaSonera AB (TLSN)  yesterday became the
latest in a string of Swedish companies to announce mass job
cuts, prompting economists and unions to question the
government’s forecast that  unemployment  will fall next year.  TeliaSonera, Sweden’s biggest phone company, said it will
eliminate 2,000 jobs as growth stalls, declining to say how many
cuts will be in its home market. That follows similar
announcements from Volvo Car Corp., truckmaker  Volvo AB (VOLVB) , paper
maker  Holmen AB (HOLMB) , steel manufacturer SSAB, and guarding provider
 Securitas AB (SECUB)  as some of Sweden’s biggest companies reduce their
workforces to stay competitive in declining markets.  “The mobile market has grown for 20 years, and suddenly
you don’t see any growth anymore,” TeliaSonera Chief Executive
Officer Lars Nyberg said yesterday in an interview. “No one can
be surprised” about the job cuts, he said.  Yet the government of Prime Minister  Fredrik Reinfeldt  is
predicting a drop in joblessness. Sweden’s unemployment rate
will average 7.6 percent this year and decline to 7.5 percent in
2013, the Finance Ministry  estimates . Economists say that
forecast is too optimistic.  “Unfortunately things look pretty bleak considering that
we’re in, or on our way into, an economic recession,” said Par Magnusson, Royal Bank of  Scotland ’s chief economist in Sweden.
He predicts the jobless rate will average 8.5 percent next year.
“We will see a long period of poor demand in Sweden. The
economy will not have the kind of pace that will push down
unemployment,” he said.  Rate Cut  Rising joblessness will put pressure on the Riksbank to
lower the benchmark  repo rate , at 1.25 percent since September,
said Robert Bergqvist, a former central bank analyst who is
chief economist at investment bank SEB AB. The central bank is
likely to lower the rate at its December meeting, also because
of Sweden’s low inflation rate, Bergqvist said. The bank, which
estimates unemployment will stay at 7.6 percent in 2013,
announces its next rate decision on Oct. 25.  Riksbank Governor Stefan Ingves responded today by arguing
there are risks in keeping  interest rates  low for a long time
that “can’t be ignored,” and that policy makers need to take
heed of financial stability and debt growth.  ‘Voices Raised’  “Voices have been raised for lowering an already very low
rate further to stimulate employment,” Ingves wrote in an
opinion piece published today in  Svenska Dagbladet . “Today’s
unemployment is a problem but as Riksbank governor I can’t just
act in a short-term perspective. I also have to take into
account the long-term consequences of today’s monetary policy.”  March futures on the repo rate are at 0.99 percent,
indicating traders are anticipating a 25 basis point cut by the
first quarter. Overnight index swaps in  Sweden  yesterday showed
no probability of a cut next week, compared with 22 percent
before Ingves’s comments. The swaps now show a 10 percent
probability of a rate increase.  SEB forecasts unemployment will average 7.8 percent in
2013, while Svenska Handelsbanken AB estimates the jobless rate
will reach 8.2 percent.  Sweden’s heavy industry is hardest hit, with car
manufacturers, paper and mining companies suffering the most.
Half of Sweden’s economic output is generated by exports, about
70 percent of which are destined for European markets that
remain subdued by the debt crisis. The 17-member euro area will
contract 0.3 percent this year, the European Commission
estimates.  `Continued Decline'  Volvo, the world’s second-largest truckmaker, will close
its bus production in Sweden, firing about 390 workers and
consultants in response to weak European demand, the Gothenburg-
based company said Oct. 3.  Volvo Cars plans to shed 600 temporary workers in
production and research development, and will shut production at
its main plant in Gothenburg in the week starting Oct. 29, in
response to the “continued decline of the automotive market,
primarily in  Europe .”  SSAB (SSABB)  said last week it will cut 450 jobs at its Swedish
operations as the steelmaker accelerates a cost-savings plan.
Last month it warned that demand for strip products was much
weaker in the third quarter than it expected after European
customers grew “extremely hesitant.”  Sweden’s construction industry is also struggling as the
housing market stagnates.  Peab AB (PEABB) , the Nordic country’s third-biggest builder, gave
layoff notices last month to 75 workers, spokesman Niklas
Brantingson said. The cuts were driven by a slow housing market
in  Stockholm  and less demand for commercial properties elsewhere
in Sweden, he said.  Swedish Defense  IF Metall, a blue-collar union with 350,000 members,
forecasts unemployment will average 8 percent in 2013.  “The government is very optimistic, which seems weird
considering all the job cuts we’ve seen,” said Erica Sjolander,
a senior economist at the union.  Sweden’s Employment Minister Hillevi Engstrom defended the
government’s outlook, saying measures taken to stimulate the
economy, including a lower value-added tax for restaurant
services and more funds for research and development, will
support demand. The ruling coalition is also cutting the
corporate  tax rate  for a second time since 2009, to 22 percent
from 26.3 percent, and Reinfeldt’s coalition has promised to
lower the tax on pensions for a fourth time since coming to
power in 2006.  “We’ve offered an expansionary budget with more money for
infrastructure, innovation and research,” Engstrom said in a
phone interview. “That’s to get job growth going here in
Sweden.”  `Worried'  Yet even Engstrom said the recent spate of job-cut
announcements is cause for concern.  “I’m worried about the weakening demand in our important
export markets,” she said. “It’s hurting our big base
industries like steel and paper and cars.”  Reinfeldt told reporters yesterday that the government may
be forced to revise its unemployment forecast in light of all
the job cuts. “We always make a forecast based on the latest
updated knowledge that we have,” he said. “It now looks like
some of the downside risks are materializing and weighing on the
Swedish economy.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ola Kinnander in Stockholm at 
 okinnander@bloomberg.net ;
Johan Carlstrom in Stockholm at 
 jcarlstrom@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  