-- Astral Falls on Bets BCE Deal Will Be Rejected: Montreal Mover
-- B y   H u g o   M i l l e r   a n d   D o u g   A l e x a n d e r
-- 2012-10-18T17:26:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-18/astral-falls-on-bets-bce-deal-will-be-rejected-montreal-mover.html
Astral Media Inc. (ACM/A) , the Canadian
broadcaster that  BCE Inc. (BCE)  agreed to buy for C$3 billion ($3.1
billion), fell the most in more than two months as investors bet
that the country’s telecommunications regulator will block the
sale.  The difference between BCE’s C$50 per-share offer and
today’s stock price widened to the most in more than a month, a
signal that traders are betting the transaction is less likely
to get done, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The
current gap is second-highest among Canadian takeovers valued at
more than $1 billion.  Astral fell 2.3 percent to C$47.35 at 1:17 p.m. in Toronto,
the biggest drop since Aug. 13. Montreal-based BCE gained 0.5
percent to C$43.71.  The Canadian Radio-television Telecommunications Commission
said late yesterday it will release a decision on the deal after
the close of trading today. The release may have caught some
investors by surprise,  Sachin Shah , a  Jersey City , New Jersey-
based special situations analyst at  Tullett Prebon (TLPR) , said in a
telephone interview.  “It was a little unexpected to see the CRTC say ’hey,
we’re going to announce the result of the decision at 4
o’clock,’” he said. “We are essentially at the 11th hour in
regards to Astral Media and if you’re feeling unsure of yourself
in going into the CRTC decision, then you’re basically reducing
your position.”  BCE Pledge  BCE Chief Executive Officer George Cope has made almost C$8
billion in takeovers since 2010, including the Astral deal
announced on March 16. Cope’s latest bid is running into
opposition from rivals and consumer lobby groups which say
buying Astral will give BCE too much power. Montreal-based
Astral is a media company with brands that include HBO  Canada 
and The Movie Network, and operates 84 radio stations in 50
markets in Canada.  The Ottawa-based Public Interest Advocacy Centre has said
the deal would mean higher prices and less choice for consumers.
BCE rival  Rogers Communications Inc. (RCI/B) , last month urged the CRTC
to order Bell to sell its English-language services to dilute
its control of Canadian programming.  Quebecor Inc., BCE’s biggest rival in French-speaking
 Quebec , says the Astral deal could muscle out broadcasters like
its TVA sports channel and block them from carrying some sports
events.  Radio Stations  Cope said last month he plans to divest 10 radio stations
to appease critics. Astral-BCE’s combined share would only
account for about 24 percent of French-language viewership in
Canada, 6 percentage points below  Quebecor (QBR/B) ’s, Cope said at the
time. Its share of the English-language market would be 33.5
percent, below a regulatory threshold of 35 percent, Cope said.  “The burden of proof” that the deal is in the public’s
interest “rests squarely with Astral and BCE,” CRTC Chairman
Jean-Pierre Blais said last month at a hearing on the deal.  He
has the power to reject or approve the acquisition or prescribe
new conditions.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Hugo Miller in Toronto at 
 hugomiller@bloomberg.net ;
Doug Alexander in Toronto at 
 dalexander3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  