-- AT&T Joins Verizon in Sending Piracy Alerts to Customers
-- B y   E r i c   E n g l e m a n
-- 2012-10-18T18:25:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-18/at-t-joins-verizon-in-program-sending-piracy-alerts-to-customers.html
AT&T Inc. (T) ,  Verizon Communications
Inc. (VZ)  and  Comcast Corp. (CMCSA)  are among  Internet-service providers  that
will take a more active role in fighting online piracy under a
program due to start within the next two months.  The service providers, which also include  Time Warner Cable (TWC) 
and  Cablevision Systems Corp. (CVC) , will send as many as six
electronic alerts to customers whose accounts show signs of
being used to download or distribute illegal music, movies or
television shows over peer-to-peer networks.  Customers who receive repeated alerts may have their
Internet speed temporarily reduced or be required to review
educational materials about copyright. The measures don’t
include terminating a customer’s account, said Jill Lesser,
executive director of the  Center for Copyright Information , a
Washington-based group that’s coordinating the effort.  “If this is successful it really reduces the need to have
government involvement in these issues,” Lesser said in an
interview. “These voluntary efforts allow us to be far more
nimble and customer-focused than broad legislation.”  The voluntary system follows the demise of Hollywood-backed
online piracy legislation in Congress earlier this year.
Lawmakers shelved the anti-piracy bills in the House and Senate
in January after  Google Inc. (GOOG)  and Wikipedia led an Internet
protest that eroded political support for the measures.  SOPA Bill  The bills, the Stop Online Piracy Act in the House and the
Protect IP Act in the Senate, were backed by the  Motion Picture
Association  of America and  Recording Industry Association of
America .  The legislation would have let the  Justice Department  seek
court orders forcing Internet service providers,  search engines ,
payment processors and online ad networks to block or stop doing
business with non-U.S. sites linked to piracy. They also would
have let private copyright holders seek court orders to require
payment services and advertising companies to cut off such
websites.  Internet companies said the legislation would promote
online censorship, disrupt the Web’s architecture and harm their
ability to innovate. Their online protest, in which Google put a
black box on its home page and encouraged people to contact
members of Congress, unraveled bipartisan backing for the bills.  Review Process  Under the copyright alert system, which has been in
development for more than a year, the MPAA and RIAA will,
working with MarkMonitor Inc., look for illegal content sharing
on peer-to-peer networks and identify Internet-protocol
addresses engaged in the activity, according to Lesser. The
addresses will be turned over to the service providers, which
will link the addresses to the customer accounts in question and
begin sending the copyright alerts, she said.  Customers will be allowed to seek review if they believe
the alerts were sent in error, according to a news release on
the program. There is a $35 fee for requesting a review, which
can be waived by an independent review body, according to a fact
 sheet  on the program.  Verizon will outline its alert process to customers in the
next week or so, Richard Young, a company spokesman, said in an
e-mail, referring further questions to the Center for Copyright
Information. Comcast supports the effort and “will roll it out
in the near future,” Charlie Douglas, a Comcast spokesman, said
in an e-mail, declining to offer specifics.  Dawn Benton of AT&T, Justin Venech of Time Warner and  Jim Maiella  of Cablevision didn’t immediately respond to requests
for comment.  Abuse Possibilities  “There are possibilities of abuse if it’s not done right,
but with enough transparency and a robust appeals process
hopefully that won’t happen,” Sherwin Siy, vice president of
legal affairs for  Public Knowledge , a Washington-based policy
group that took part in the protest against the anti-piracy
bills, said in an interview.  Public Knowledge President  Gigi Sohn  is on an advisory
board of the Center for Copyright Information, which is
coordinating the alert system. The center’s members include the
MPAA, RIAA and the participating Internet service providers.  Howard Gantman, a spokesman for the motion picture
association, referred questions about the program to the center.
Cara Duckworth Weiblinger, a spokeswoman for the recording
industry group, said it had no immediate comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eric Engleman in Washington at 
 eengleman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  