-- CLP Power, China Tianrui Market Bonds as Growth Outlook Improves
-- B y   R a c h e l   E v a n s   a n d   T a n y a   A n g e r e r
-- 2012-10-18T06:33:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-18/australian-bond-risk-tumbles-to-7-month-low-default-swaps-show.html
CLP Power Hong Kong Ltd. and  China 
Tianrui Group Cement Co. are marketing dollar-denominated debt
as the world’s second-biggest economy shows signs of picking up.
Asia-Pacific bond risk fell, with the gauge for Australia
sliding to a seven-month low.  CLP Power plans to sell debt due April 2023 at about 145
basis points more than 10-year Treasuries, while China Tianrui
is marketing a sale of five-year notes at about 13.5 percent,
according to people familiar with each deal. Thailand’s  PTT Pcl (PTT) 
and  Bharat Petroleum  Corp. are also offering debt in the U.S.
currency, people with knowledge of the details said.  China’s industrial production, retail sales and fixed-asset
investment accelerated in September, government reports showed
today. Gross domestic product rose 2.2 percent in the third
quarter from the prior period, the fastest pace in a year,
underscoring a strong outlook for credit markets, according to
Dariusz Kowalczyk, a senior strategist at Credit Agricole SA in
 Hong Kong .  “China’s GDP figures are very encouraging,” Kowalczyk
said. “Corporate bond issuance from China will continue as this
shows that the growth momentum is strong.”  PTT, the Bangkok-based energy explorer that is Thailand’s
biggest company by market capitalization, is marketing a sale of
10-year bonds at about 200 basis points more than similar-
maturity government debt and 30-year notes at a spread of about
200 to 210. Bharat Petroleum plans to sell 10-year notes at
about 320 basis points more than Treasuries, according to people
familiar with the matter.  Risk Slides  The Markit iTraxx Australia index slid 3.5 basis points to
132 as of 2:05 p.m. in Sydney, according to  Credit Agricole SA. (ACA) 
The measure is on course for its lowest close since March 19,
according to data provider CMA.  The Markit iTraxx Asia index of 40 investment-grade
borrowers outside  Japan  dropped 1 basis point to 113.5 as of
11:05 a.m. in Hong Kong, Credit Agricole prices show. The gauge
is set for its lowest close since Sept. 19, according to CMA,
which is owned by McGraw-Hill Cos. and compiles prices quoted by
dealers in the privately negotiated market.  The Markit iTraxx Japan index fell 5 to 207 as of 9:38 a.m.
in  Tokyo , Deutsche Bank AG prices show. The benchmark is on
track for its lowest close since Sept. 19, according to CMA.  Credit-default swap indexes are benchmarks for protecting
bonds against default and traders use them to speculate on
 credit quality . A drop signals improving perceptions of
creditworthiness, while an increase suggests the opposite.  The swap contracts pay the buyer face value in exchange for
the underlying securities if a borrower fails to meet its debt
agreements.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rachel Evans in Hong Kong at 
 revans43@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Shelley Smith  at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  