-- Banco Santander Chile Considers Country’s First Dim Sum Bond
-- B y   S e b a s t i a n   B o y d
-- 2012-10-18T16:15:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-18/banco-santander-chile-considers-country-s-first-dim-sum-bond.html
Banco Santander Chile, the country’s
second-biggest lender by assets, is considering becoming the
first Chilean bank to raise money in the Chinese  bond market ,
Treasurer Emiliano Muratore said in an interview.  Santander Chile, which funds itself independently of its
Madrid-based parent, met investors in  Hong Kong  and Singapore
last week and is waiting for some of them to confirm they have
approval to buy its debt before deciding whether to sell,
Muratore said by telephone from Santiago. The bank would
probably issue bonds denominated in yuan, known as the Dim Sum
market, he said.  Global issuers accounted for a record share of yuan-
denominated bond sales in Hong Kong last quarter as raising
Chinese currency and swapping the proceeds into dollars became
more attractive. A shortage of  renminbi  and a surge of dollars
have driven swap rates paid to obtain the local currency to
record highs.  “That market has been pretty active lately with non-Asian
issuers,” Muratore said. “We will probably do something in the
next few weeks.”  Deutsche Bank AG, Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and  Standard
Chartered  Plc arranged the investor meetings.  Banco de Chile sold last month 400 million Hong Kong
dollars ($52 million) of bonds in a deal managed by Bank of
America Corp. That sale, as well as sales of bonds in dollars by
Chilean banks including Santander, has helped push down peso
cross-currency swaps, making it less attractive for companies to
borrow in dollars and swap back into pesos, according to
calculations by Bloomberg.  Santander Spread  The extra yield, or spread, investors demand to buy
Santander Chile’s dollar bonds due in 2022 instead of  U.S.
government debt  has fallen to 166 basis points from 233 basis
points when they were first sold last month.  Santander’s senior dollar bonds due in 2015 are the best-
performing among 50 Chilean dollar bonds tracked by Bloomberg in
the past month. The spread on the debt has fallen to 157 basis
points from a high of 363 basis points in June.  Five-year credit-default swaps tied to  Banco Santander SA (SAN) ’s
debt fell to a seven-month low of 271 basis points yesterday
after Spain kept its Moody’s Investors Service investment-grade
rating. A basis point equals $1,000 annually on a contract
protecting $10 million.  Dim Sum Yield  The average yield on Dim Sum bonds, yuan-denominated bonds
sold outside  China , fell seven basis points in the past two
weeks to 4.03 percent today, according to a Deutsche Bank AG
 index . The yield on the debt has increased from 3.76 percent on
Aug. 10, the lowest since Deutsche Bank began tracking the data
in January 2011.  Appetite for the debt stems from investors’ betting on
appreciation in the yuan, Standard Chartered wrote in a research
note last week. It rated the debt “underweight,” saying
investors were reluctant to invest in China.  The  yuan  appreciated today to a 19-year high against the
 U.S. dollar  after Premier  Wen Jiabao  said the economy has
started to stabilize. Growth in industrial output, retail sales
and fixed-asset investment accelerated in September and gross
domestic product matched forecasts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sebastian Boyd in Santiago at 
 sboyd9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  