-- Bank Cyber Attacks Enter Fifth Week as Hackers Adapt to Defenses
-- B y   C h r i s   S t r o h m   a n d   E r i c   E n g l e m a n
-- 2012-10-18T23:13:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-18/bank-cyber-attacks-enter-fifth-week-as-hackers-adapt-to-defenses.html
Capital One Financial Corp. (COF) ,  BB&T
Corp. (BBT)  and  HSBC Bank USA (HBC)  said they were hit by a new round of
cyber attacks, marking the fifth week of sustained assault on
some of the largest U.S. financial institutions.  The banks’ websites have been disrupted with so-called
denial of service attacks, some of which originated in  Iran  and
Russia, Carl Herberger, a vice president for the network
security firm Radware Inc., said in a phone interview yesterday.  “There is a target list that is essentially being
worked,” said Herberger, whose New Jersey firm is working with
banks to investigate the attacks. “They appear to have been
near-100 percent effective, at least in bringing these financial
institutions some level of duress.”  The assaults, which began last month, have differed from
other types of denial-of-service attacks by commandeering
commercial servers to overload bank websites with Internet
traffic. The attacks have temporarily disrupted or slowed online
services for customers.  There are no signs data or money have been stolen, said
Herberger and Rodney Joffe, senior vice president at Sterling,
Virginia-based security firm  Neustar Inc. (NSR)  It could take months
to determine if that occurred, they said.  A group calling itself Izz ad-Din al-Quassam Cyber Fighters
has claimed responsibility for the attacks in statements posted
to the website pastebin.com, saying they’re in response to a
video uploaded to  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s YouTube ridiculing the Prophet
Muhammad and offending some Muslims.  Panetta Warning  The attacks continued this week despite a warning from
Defense Secretary Leon Panetta that the U.S. has the ability to
determine who is responsible.  “Potential aggressors should be aware that the United
States has the capacity to locate them and hold them accountable
for actions that harm America or its interests,” Panetta said
in an Oct. 11 speech to business executives in New York.  He said the “scale and speed” of the bank attacks was
unprecedented.  Denial-of-service attacks, which are common, harness
networks of infected computers to bombard websites with traffic
in an effort to slow or crash them.  The use of commercial servers enabled the bank attackers to
pump a larger volume of traffic at the sites, Joffe said in a
phone interview yesterday.  Bank Response  The attack on HSBC, the U.S. unit of London-based  HSBC
Holdings Plc (HSBA) , prevented customers from using online banking
services while not affecting customer data, Neal McGarity, a
bank spokesman in New York, said in an e-mail yesterday.  BB&T customers yesterday couldn’t access the website at
various times during the day, Merrie Tolbert, a spokeswoman for
the Winston-Salem, North Carolina-based bank, said in a phone
interview.  The attack on McLean, Virginia-based Capital One began Oct.
16 and intermittent disruptions continued yesterday, Tatiana Stead, a spokeswoman, said in an e-mail. There was no sign of
account information being put at risk, she added.  Ally Financial Inc. (ALLY)  was also investigating “unusual
traffic,”  Gina Proia , spokeswoman for the  Detroit , Michigan-
based company, said in a phone interview yesterday.  Senator Joe Lieberman, a Connecticut independent who heads
the Senate Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs Committee,
said last month he thought Iran was behind the attacks.  Panetta said in his speech that Iran has “undertaken a
concerted effort to use cyberspace to its advantage,” although
he didn’t link the Iranian government to the bank attacks.  Iranian Connection  Herberger and Joffe said the Iranian government may be
behind the attacks. Definitive evidence is needed, they said.  “There’s no technical problem in forensically figuring out
who did what,” Herberger said. “The problem is can you go to
 China , can you go to  Russia , can you go to Iran and actually do
the inspection of the equipment to actually know what’s going
on?”  The attackers are adapting to banks’ defenses and becoming
more sophisticated in their tactics, Herberger and Joffe said.  “Companies have to be very aware of what’s going on and
they have to start thinking about a Plan B and Plan C,” Joffe
said.  Along with using commercial servers, attackers are
overloading bank websites with queries, such as requests to find
branch locations, and sending encrypted data packets that bypass
traditional defenses and intrusion-detection systems, Herberger
said.  “We see ahead of the attacks reconnaissance, probing and
scanning to evaluate the websites’ effectiveness to see if they
have certain attributes in place,” he said. “It’s classic
probing.”  Security experts have been concerned about the attacks
because U.S. financial institutions are considered to have some
of the best network defenses of any industry. Sustained attacks
could disrupt customer confidence in industries beyond banking,
they said.  “I feel like it’s more than an inconvenience and that
people have actually lost the fundamental respect for the banks’
integrity,” Herberger said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chris Strohm in Washington at 
 cstrohm1@bloomberg.net ;
Eric Engleman in Washington at 
 eengleman1@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at   jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  