-- Astral Plunges After BCE Bid Rejected by Regulators
-- B y   H u g o   M i l l e r
-- 2012-10-19T15:27:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-18/bce-bid-for-astral-rejected-by-canada-broadcast-regulator.html
  Astral Media Inc. (ACM/A)  fell the most in
more than two decades on concern that  BCE Inc. (BCE) ’s failure to win
approval for its C$3 billion ($3.1 billion) takeover leaves the
regulatory landscape for other possible bids unclear.  Jean-Pierre Blais, head of the Canadian Radio-television
Telecommunications Commission, rejected the purchase of the
Quebec specialty channel provider yesterday, calling it a bad
deal for Canadians that would have placed too much market power
in BCE’s hands.  The rejection may open doors to other bidders though it
will also make those companies wary of potential complications,
said Jeff Fan, an analyst at Scotia Capital Inc. in Toronto.  “Astral is still likely in play but the rules are now
unclear as to who can acquire it,” said Fan, who rates BCE the
equivalent of a hold.  “The regulatory uncertainty around
vertical integration would be a challenge to achieve a clean
transaction.”  The ruling is a victory for BCE’s major rivals,
particularly Montreal-based  Quebecor Inc. (QBR/B) , which would have
faced intensified competition for its Videotron cable service
and TVA television network. Quebecor probably won’t bid for
Astral because it would gain too much control over French-
language broadcasting, and other potential suitors such as
 Rogers Communications Inc. (RCI/B)  have a similar kind of asset
structure that led the CRTC in part to reject the deal.  Rogers and  Shaw Communications Inc. (SJR/B) , a Calgary-based cable-
television operator, remain the most likely bidders, said Glen Campbell, an analyst with  Bank of America  Merrill Lynch in
Toronto. The CRTC ruling may lead to Astral being sold in pieces
to meet regulatory concerns, he said.  New Stance  “As these companies consider Astral, they must now take
into account the CRTC’s tough new stance on concentration,” he
said. “Post-Astral, M&A transactions are likely to be riskier
and more complex.”  Astral fell 15 percent to C$39.60 at 10:58 a.m. in Toronto,
its biggest decline since at least 1988. Trading volume was more
than nine times the three-month average. BCE,  Canada ’s biggest
telecommunications company, fell 1.3 percent to C$42.90. Both
companies are based in  Montreal .  Rogers, Canada’s largest wireless company, also operates
cable and landline businesses, owns the CityTV and SportsNet
channels, Major League Baseball’s Toronto Blue Jays and co-owns
with BCE pro sports conglomerate Maple Leaf Sports &
Entertainment Ltd.  Welcomes Decision  Rogers said yesterday in a statement it welcomed the CRTC’s
decision, calling it “a good day for consumers.” Rogers
spokeswoman Patricia Trott said it was too soon to speculate on
whether the company would be interested in Astral.  Shaw offers cable, Internet and landline service and the
founding Shaw family holds majority voting control of  Corus
Entertainment Inc. (CJR/B) , a media company that produces kids
programming and owns 37  radio stations .  The Ottawa-based regulator said the deal raised concerns
about competition, ownership concentration in television and
radio, vertical integration and the exercise of market power.  “We could not have ensured a robust Canadian broadcasting
system without imposing extensive and intrusive safeguards,
which would have been to the detriment of the entire industry,”
Blais said.  Won’t Stand  Astral hasn’t commented beyond saying it’s reviewing the
decision and considering its alternatives.  “This is a decision that should not stand,” BCE Chief
Executive Officer George Cope said in a statement late
yesterday. “We met all the CRTC’s rules.” BCE asked the
federal cabinet to intervene in the decision.  Astral may be a fresh target for other bidders because an
appeal to cabinet stands little chance of success.  “We see this as a long shot,” said Scotia’s Fan. “It
would seem unlikely that the government would seek to reverse
his first decision,” Fan said, referring to Blais.  A joint bid by  Cogeco Cable Inc. (CCA) , another Montreal-based
cable operator, and Corus for Astral is also unlikely, says Fan.
Cogeco agreed in July to buy Atlantic Broadband for $1.36
billion to expand in the U.S. and Corus’s relationship with Shaw
poses a regulatory hurdle, he said.  “Cogeco just made its bet in the U.S. with Atlantic
Broadband,” he said. “And like Rogers, with Corus being
considered under the Shaw umbrella, it may not be able to pursue
this, as it will likely be considered another vertical
transaction by Shaw.”  Cogeco slipped 0.5 percent to C$36.65 at 10:44 a.m. in
Toronto. Shaw was trading 0.6 percent lower at C$20.54, Corus
fell 4.4 percent to C$21.98. and Rogers was little changed at
C$41.09.  The regulatory uncertainty surrounding the decision may be
affected other planned acquisitions awaiting regulatory
approval.  Industry Canada  is reviewing  Cnooc Ltd. (883) ’s $15.1
billion takeover of Calgary-based oil and gas producer  Nexen
Inc. (NXY)  under the nation’s foreign-takeover law.  Nexen slipped 0.60 percent to C$25.25 at 11:25 a.m.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrew Mayeda in Ottawa at 
 amayeda@bloomberg.net ;
Hugo Miller in Toronto at 
 hugomiller@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  