-- Beijing Builder Buys NYC Lot in First for a China Firm
-- B y   D a v i d   M .   L e v i t t
-- 2012-10-19T15:48:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-18/beijing-based-builder-buys-lot-in-first-for-a-china-firm.html
A Beijing-based developer took
control of a lot slated for more than 200 units of housing near
 New York ’s Brooklyn waterfront, a deal the company says is the
first of its kind by a Chinese firm in the U.S.  Xinyuan Real Estate Co. (XIN)  last month bought the 2-acre (0.8-
hectare) parcel at 421 Kent Ave. in the Williamsburg section for
$54.2 million, said Omer Ozden, who advised the company on the
purchase. Under Chief Executive Officer Yong Zhang, Xinyuan has
built more than 21 million square feet (2 million square meters)
of housing in second-tier Chinese cities including Hefei,
Zhengzhou and Chengdu, according to the company’s  website .  Brooklyn is luring investors including  Invesco Ltd. (IVZ)  and  Sam Zell ’s  Equity Residential (EQR)  as demand for housing soars in New
York’s most populous borough. Xinyuan’s acquisition, made as
 China ’s government limits domestic property purchases, was the
first by a Chinese company of a U.S. site planned for more than
a few units, according to data from Real Capital Analytics Inc.
going back to 2000.  “There’s no question that China wants its domestic
companies to spread their wings around the world,” said  Dan Fasulo , head of research at New York-based Real Capital, which
tracks global commercial-property transactions. “This firm is
no joke. Many Chinese real estate developers are looking
overseas almost as a training ground for their people, to bring
best practices back home.”  Trendy Location  Xinyuan, which plans to market the units as condominiums,
considered several projects in the New York area before making
the Brooklyn purchase, according to Tom Gurnee, the company’s
Beijing-based chief financial officer.  “We selected it for its attractive price, trendy location
with restaurants and nightlife, its proximity to Manhattan, and
its readiness for vertical construction in a relatively short
period of time,” he said in an e-mail.  The Kent Avenue site, two blocks south of the Williamsburg
Bridge, had been taken over by a local investor, Richard Kalikow, after he foreclosed on the previous owners earlier this
year, making the property available for less than the market
price, Ozden said in a telephone interview from Beijing.  The deal was also appealing because the prior owners had
already done about $8 million of work on a condominium project,
Ozden said. The foundation and some plumbing were completed
before the death of a development partner, Chaim Lax, halted
construction, Kalikow said in a telephone interview.  ‘Massive Opportunity’  The Chinese government in the past year has restricted
multiple purchases of its real estate by individuals, aiming to
slow price growth and avoid a collapse. The curbs have spurred
buyers to seek deals abroad, Ozden said.  “This year, there’s been approximately $9 billion-plus
invested from China into the United States real estate market,
and it’s been almost all individuals, typically individuals
buying up one, three, five homes at a time,” Ozden said, citing
 data  from the National Association of Realtors. “There’s a
massive opportunity here.”  Investors are focusing on U.S. cities that appeal to
mainland Chinese residents, such as New York,  Los Angeles ,  San
Francisco  and Miami, he said.  Xinyuan, which made two smaller investments in the U.S.
earlier this year, will continue to search for development
projects on the East and West coasts that are “offered at
favorable prices and that are attractive to potential buyers
from China,” Gurnee said.  Larger Units  The former owners’ original plan for the Brooklyn site was
to market the 216 units to Hasidic Jewish families, said Robert Knakal, co-founder of New York-based Massey Knakal Realty
Services. Southern Williamsburg has been an enclave for Hasidim
since many emigrated from  Hungary  following World War II.  Under a deed restriction limiting the number of units, the
apartments were designed to average about 2,000 square feet,
much bigger than the typical New York apartment, to appeal to
the larger families Hasidic Jews tend to have, according to
Knakal, who brokered the Xinyuan purchase.  Xinyuan plans to redesign the project “somewhat,” and add
amenities, Ozden said. The company will have its own local
management team, he said.  “There will be many large multiroom units which are
suitable for larger families, as well as those growing families
who have been priced out of  Manhattan ,” Ozden said.  In the area that includes Williamsburg, the median price of
condos that sold in the third quarter rose 9 percent from a year
earlier to $703,000, brokerage Corcoran Group said yesterday in
a report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David M. Levitt in New York at 
 dlevitt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  