-- Billionaire Mallya’s Warrant Withdrawn as Kingfisher Pays Dues
-- B y   K a r t h i k e y a n   S u n d a r a m   a n d   S h a r a n g   L i m a y e
-- 2012-10-18T05:53:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-18/billionaire-mallya-s-warrant-withdrawn-as-kingfisher-pays-dues.html
Vijay Mallya, the billionaire
chairman of  Kingfisher Airlines Ltd. (KAIR) , had a court warrant
against him withdrawn after the carrier settled dues with the
operator of Hyderabad airport.  GMR Infrastructure Ltd. (GMRI)  withdrew the lawsuit after
Kingfisher made the payments, Arun Bhagat, a GMR spokesman, said
by phone today. A court in Hyderabad in South India last week
issued warrants against Mallya and four other executives after
they failed to appear in a hearing about the carrier’s checks
not being honored. Kingfisher had issued checks totaling 105
million rupees ($2 million) to the airport operator.  Kingfisher, which suspended operations through Oct. 20 amid
a strike by employees, has struggled to pay bills and wages
after posting five straight years of losses.  India ’s aviation
regulator yesterday withheld approval for the airline’s winter
flight schedule amid the service disruptions.  Kingfisher  fell  4.4 percent to 12 rupees at 11:20 a.m. in
Mumbai. The stock has dropped 49 percent in the past year.  Prakash Mirpuri, a spokesman at Kingfisher, didn’t
immediately respond to a call and a text message seeking
comments on the lawsuit.  The Directorate General of Civil Aviation has asked the
carrier why its permit shouldn’t be canceled or suspended
following the shutdown. Kingfisher halted operations on Oct. 1,
when engineers and pilots walked out, demanding that seven
months of unpaid salaries be settled.  The airline defaulted on  loans  and interest payments on
several occasions in the year ended March 31, the company’s
auditor said in the airline’s annual report. The carrier had
total debts of 86 billion rupees as of March, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Karthikeyan Sundaram in  New Delhi  at 
 kmeenakshisu@bloomberg.net ;
Sharang Limaye in Hyderabad at 
 slimaye@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  