-- Billionaire-Backed Elementia Challenges Cemex With Plant
-- B y   B r e n d a n   C a s e   a n d   C a r l o s   M a n u e l   R o d r i g u e z
-- 2012-10-18T20:58:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-18/billionaire-backed-elementia-challenges-cemex-with-plant.html
Elementia SA, a maker of copper and
aluminum products backed by billionaires  Carlos Slim  and Antonio Del Valle, is planning to challenge Cemex SAB with a cement
plant in Hidalgo.  The plant, which will supply Elementia’s building-products
customers and the broader Mexican cement market, would bring a
new player to an industry dominated by a handful of global
giants. Hidalgo, in central  Mexico , is already home to
operations of both Cemex and  Lafarge SA. (LG)   Elementia sees an opportunity to grab a piece of a growing
market and does not plan aggressive price competition, said
Enrique Ortega, head of  investor relations . The company may use
the same distribution channel for cement as for some of its
other building products, he said.  “More than going out to compete on price, we’re going to
be in a market where there’s a very important demand,” Ortega
said. “It’s an additional option you’re giving to the market.”  For  Cemex (CEMEXCPO) , the nation’s largest producer, Mexico accounted
for 23 percent of sales in the first nine months of the year and
45 percent of earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization, a measure of  cash flow  known as Ebitda, according
to a  statement  released today.  Mexico consumed  34.4 million tons  of cement in 2011, up 1.5
percent from the year before, according to the National Cement
Chamber, a trade group in Mexico City. Production amounted to
35.4 million tons, 2.6 percent more than in 2010.  Elementia IPO  A spokesman for Cemex wasn’t immediately available for
comment. Calls to the Mexico City press offices of Lafarge and
 Holcim Ltd. (HOLN) , which has a cement plant in a neighboring state,
weren’t immediately returned.  Slim, the world’s richest man, controls 46 percent of
Elementia’s shares through Grupo Carso SAB.  Del Valle  controls
the rest through Grupo Empresarial Kaluz.  Elementia is expected to have about $1 billion of sales
this year, Del Valle said in an interview in March. The company
is exploring an initial public offering next year, Ortega said,
echoing comments made by Del Valle in June.  Elementia won’t be Slim’s first indirect participation in
the Mexican cement market. Companies affiliated with Slim or
family members also own 9 percent to 10 percent of Corporacion
Moctezuma, according to Luiz Camargo, chief financial officer
for Moctezuma.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brendan Case in Mexico City at 
 bcase4@bloomberg.net ;
Carlos Manuel Rodriguez in Mexico City at 
 carlosmr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  