-- Blackstone President Says Collusion Suit Is Fabrication
-- B y   D e v i n   B a n e r j e e   a n d   S a u m y a   V a i s h a m p a y a n
-- 2012-10-18T20:29:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-18/blackstone-reports-621-8-million-profit-as-fees-increase.html
Tony James , president of  Blackstone
Group LP (BX) , said allegations that the biggest buyout firms
colluded in bidding on takeovers are untrue and may have been
politically motivated in an election year.  “The lawsuit is a complete fabrication and a bunch of
malarkey,” James said today in response to a question from
 Bloomberg News  on a conference call discussing third-quarter
earnings. “It’s a long, long way from what’s being alleged by
these latest attorneys, and I suspect there’s some political
motivation lurking in here because we have a private-equity guy
running for president,” James said, referring to Republican
 Mitt Romney , who co-founded Bain Capital LLC and ran the Boston-
based buyout firm for 15 years.  Top executives at private-equity firms including
Blackstone, Bain,  KKR & Co. (KKR)  and  Carlyle Group LP (CG)  assured each
other in e-mails that they wouldn’t compete on deals to avoid
driving up prices and angering competitors, according to an
amended complaint unsealed last week by a federal judge in
 Boston . The correspondence was cited as evidence that the firms
rigged bids in 19 leveraged buyouts and eight other
transactions, including the biggest deals of the LBO boom.  “We would much rather work with you guys than against
you,” James wrote in an e-mail to KKR co-founder  George Roberts 
in reference to the buyout of  Freescale Semiconductor Ltd. (FSL) ,
according to the complaint. “Together we can be unstoppable but
in opposition we can cost each other a lot of money.” According
to the complaint, Roberts replied, “Agreed.”  A Requirement  The amendment to the complaint, which was first filed in
2007, was unsealed Oct. 11 after U.S. District Judge Edward Harrington granted a request by the New York Times to make it
public. Besides James, representatives for KKR and TPG Capital,
also named in the complaint, said the firms compete vigorously
for deals and there is no evidence of the alleged conspiracy.  “When it comes to big deals, it’s not only perfectly
permissible for our firms to team up, but it’s a requirement,”
James said today. “And when you’re in any competitive
situation, you want to pick the strongest partner you can.”  James spoke as New York-based Blackstone reported a third-
quarter profit. The value of the firm’s holdings gained at a
quicker pace than a year ago, and its assets exceeded $200
billion for the first time.  Economic net income, a measure of earnings excluding some
costs tied to the firm’s 2007 initial public offering, was
$621.8 million, or 55 cents a share, compared with a loss of
$380 million, or 34 cents, a year earlier, Blackstone said today
in a  statement . Analysts had expected earnings of 42 cents a
share, according to the average of 13  estimates  in a Bloomberg
survey.  Diversification Drive  Blackstone, under Chief Executive Officer  Stephen Schwarzman , is leading a push among the largest so-called
alternative-asset firms to expand their businesses beyond
traditional leveraged buyouts and bolster assets. Blackstone’s
assets rose 7.5 percent from the second quarter to a record $205
billion. The firm last week closed its seventh vehicle dedicated
to real estate investments with $13.3 billion, a record for
opportunistic property funds, or those designed to acquire
assets at a significant discount.  “Asset growth continues at a torrid pace,” Daniel Fannon,
a San Francisco-based analyst with Jefferies & Co., wrote in a
note to clients today. “Real estate continues to headline
growth.”  Blackstone  rose  4.5 percent to close at $15.71 in New York
trading, the most in more than a month. The shares have advanced
12 percent this year, compared with the 16 percent gain in the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.  Carrying Value  Blackstone said the carrying value of its private-equity
portfolio rose 7.1 percent during the quarter, with each fund
gaining. The  S&P 500 index  rose 5.8 percent during that time.
The firm’s real estate portfolio gained 4.9 percent, revenues in
its hedge-fund business more than doubled and assets in its
credit unit rose 62 percent from a year ago.  Performance fees in the third quarter swung to $603
million, compared with a loss of $457 million a year earlier, as
fund holdings appreciated at a faster pace. The firm said it has
$36 billion of unspent committed capital, or dry powder, and it
declared a dividend of 10 cents a share, to be paid on Nov. 30.  Blackstone’s economic net income, or ENI, doesn’t comply
with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. Under those
standards, known as GAAP, Blackstone had a net gain of $128.8
million, compared with a net loss of $274.6 million a year
earlier.  Blackstone Bellwether  Blackstone is seen as a bellwether for the buyout industry
given its size and reach across markets. KKR, based in New York
and run by cousins Roberts and  Henry Kravis , is scheduled to
report results next week.  Private-equity firms pool money from investors including
pension plans and endowments with a mandate to buy companies
within about five to six years, overhaul and then sell them, and
return the funds with a profit after about 10 years. The firms,
which use debt to finance the deals and amplify returns,
typically charge an annual management fee equal to 1.5 percent
to 2 percent of committed funds and keep 20 percent of profit
from investments.  Blackstone’s distributable earnings, which include fee-
related earnings and the firm’s slice of investment profits,
were $189.6 million for the quarter, or 15 cents a share,
compared with $125.7 million, or 10 cents, a year ago. Those
earnings have gained 4 percent this year to $540.2 million over
the first three quarters of 2011, Blackstone said.  Worldwide, the value of private-equity deals announced in
the third quarter fell 29 percent to $95.1 billion from a year
earlier, with leveraged buyouts rising 62 percent to $39.3
billion, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Energy Fund  “Fundraising activity was solid during the quarter,”
Steven Fu, an analyst at JMP Securities LLC, wrote in a note to
clients before the results were announced.  Blackstone last month finished gathering $2.5 billion for
its debut energy fund, Blackstone Energy Partners. The firm also
amassed as much as $960 million for its third closed-end fund to
invest in non-investment-grade corporate debt.  “Credit and more income-oriented products will continue to
lead the way in terms of new commitments,” Credit Suisse AG
analyst Howard Chen said in a report before results were
announced. “The trend toward more specialized funds focused on
particular sectors -- energy and natural resources have been a
highlight -- also continues unabated.”  Blackstone’s deals in the quarter included the acquisition
of home automation and security company Vivint Inc. for about $2
billion. The firm in July promoted Joseph Baratta, formerly the
London-based head of European private equity, to global head of
private equity, based in  New York .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Devin Banerjee in New York at 
 dbanerjee2@bloomberg.net ;
Saumya Vaishampayan in New York at 
 svaishampaya@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  