-- BlackBerry Dropped by Booz Allen for Apple, Android
-- B y   H u g o   M i l l e r
-- 2012-10-18T20:09:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-18/blackberry-dropped-by-booz-allen-for-apple-android.html
Booz Allen  Hamilton Inc., whose
25,000 staff provide consulting services to the U.S. government,
has dropped BlackBerry maker  Research In Motion Ltd. (RIM)  as a
smartphone supplier.  Booz Allen has started decommissioning the firm’s dedicated
BlackBerry server that runs those devices and plans to move
those staff onto iPhones made by  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  and handsets that
run  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s Android software in the coming months, James
Fisher, a Booz Allen spokesman, said by telephone. The company
already issues some iPhones and Android handsets, though he
declined to say how many. Staff not issued a device who now
bring their own BlackBerry to work won’t be able to access work
e-mail on the device once the switch is complete, he said.  The move is a knock to Waterloo, Ontario-based RIM because
its sterling reputation for security had helped shore up
BlackBerry loyalty in government circles even as  sales  plummet
elsewhere. Its market share has fallen as customers in the U.S.
tire of waiting for its twice-delayed BlackBerry 10 phones due
out in early 2013 to replace its current lineup.  Booz Allen, based in McLean Virginia, provides management
and technology advice to the U.S. Army, Navy,  Air Force  and
Department of  Homeland Security . Its parent company  Booz Allen
Hamilton Holding Corp. (BAH)  last year had sales of $5.86 billion, the
“vast majority” of which comes from government consulting,
Fisher said.  Government Clients  Yesterday, Booz Allen said it was buying the defense
systems and engineering support unit of Annapolis, Maryland-
based Arinc for an undisclosed sum, adding 1,000 staff.  Other smaller government agencies are also looking at
BlackBerry alternatives. The  General Services Administration 
procures more than $70 billion worth of products and services
for other federal agencies a year. Since February, those
eligible for a smartphone among its staff are entitled to ask
for iPhone and Android devices. The company employed 12,635 at
that time.  The  U.S. National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration 
said in February it plans to begin replacing the BlackBerrys it
issues with iPhones as the Apple devices can be integrated into
its current infrastructure more cheaply than paying for a
dedicated BlackBerry server.  RIM continues to work closely with its more than 1 million
government customers in  North America  alone, Crystal Roberts, a
company spokeswoman, said by telephone today.  Scott Totzke, senior vice-president for BlackBerry
security, said in April that sales to U.S. federal agencies are
rising and the BlackBerry is still a White House fixture.  RIM  fell  1.9 percent to $7.84 at the close in New York. The
shares are down 95 percent from their mid-2008 high and have
tumbled 45 percent this year. Booz Allen dropped 1.6 percent to
$12.67.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hugo Miller in Toronto at 
 hugomiller@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  