-- BP Replaces Azeri Staff as CEO Faces Demand to Raise Output
-- B y   Z u l f u g a r   A g a y e v
-- 2012-10-18T16:51:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-18/bp-holds-constructive-talks-with-socar-on-declining-azeri-field.html
BP Plc (BP/)  added engineers in  Azerbaijan 
and replaced officials as Chief Executive Officer Bob Dudley met
with the state oil company after the country’s president told
Europe’s second-biggest crude producer to stem falling output.  Ten engineers “hand-picked” from BP’s assets in the  North
Sea ,  North America ,  Angola  and  Egypt  will join the wells team in
the Azeri capital of Baku, BP’s local office said today.  It appointed Jim Cowie vice president for wells, replacing
Gary Christman, who joins the Global Wells Institute, it said in
an e-mailed statement. Craig Wiggs takes over as vice president
for midstream operations from Kemp Copeland, who will retire.  “These are planned moves,” Tamam Bayatli, a spokeswoman
for the company’s domestic office, said by telephone.  BP made “grave mistakes” leading to an unexpected drop in
output at the largest Azeri oil deposit, the country’s President
 Ilham Aliyev  said in a televised speech on Oct. 10. He demanded
“serious measures” and the replacement of those responsible.  Dudley met in London with State Oil Co of Azerbaijan CEO
Rovnaq Abdullayev to discuss plans for the Azeri-Chirag-Guneshli
project, the Baku office said yesterday in a statement. ACG
output fell 12 percent in the first half, according to data on
BP’s website. It produced 35.4 million metric tons last year.
The site makes up about 78 percent of Azeri output and BP gets
about 3 percent of its crude from the former Soviet republic.  “BP is fully committed to Azerbaijan and the effective
management of the ACG field complex, one of the world’s great
oil fields,” Dudley said in yesterday’s statement. “It was an
open and constructive meeting and the task ahead is clear.”  BP will resume output at the Deepwater Guneshli platform
this month after closing it on Sept. 25 for planned maintenance,
Bayatli said by e-mail. The site produced 116,000 barrels a day
in the first half, BP data show. The Chirag, East Azeri, West
Azeri and Central Azeri platforms continue as normal, she said.  Cowie will take over on Nov. 15 and Christman on Jan. 1.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zulfugar Agayev in Baku at 
 zagayev@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Hellmuth Tromm at 
 htromm@bloomberg.net  