-- Halliburton Says BP’s Deal With Spill Victims Is Unfair
-- B y   L a u r e l   B r u b a k e r   C a l k i n s   a n d   M a r g a r e t   C r o n i n   F i s k
-- 2012-10-18T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-18/bp-s-deal-with-spill-victims-unfair-to-halliburton-firm-says.html
Halliburton Co. (HAL)  said  BP Plc (BP/) ’s
proposed settlement with victims of the 2010 Gulf of Mexico
spill unfairly creates a “collusive alliance” against the oil
field services company in a scheduled multibillion-dollar trial.  “The settlement agreements will improperly align the
interests of BP and the settling plaintiffs in any subsequent
trial on liability in this court,” Donald Godwin, Halliburton’s
lead lawyer, said in a 138-page filing yesterday that the
company is seeking permission from a judge to submit in federal
court in  New Orleans .  BP’s deal creates an incentive for the plaintiffs who
settled to change their strategy to minimize any determination
of BP’s share of liability and argue for greater compensation
from the other defendants, including Halliburton, Godwin said.  That “will prevent a true arms length adversarial trial,”
he said.  More than 500 lawsuits by coastal property owners, tourism
and fishing interests seeking damages from BP and other
companies involved in the worst offshore spill in U.S. history
are consolidated in New Orleans for pretrial processing. More
than 4.1 million barrels of crude spilled from BP’s well after
the sinking of the Deepwater Horizon drilling rig, which was
owned by  Transocean Ltd. (RIG) , and received cementing services from a
Halliburton unit.  BP and a committee of lawyers representing the victims
reached a partial settlement in March that would commit London-
based BP to pay an estimated $7.8 billion to resolve most
economic-damages claims. That deal is awaiting approval by U.S.
District Judge  Carl Barbier , who oversees the consolidated spill
litigation.  Ellen Moskowitz , BP’s spokeswoman, and David Falkenstein, a
spokesman for the victims lawyers’ committee, didn’t immediately
respond to calls and e-mails seeking comment on Halliburton’s
position.  The case is In Re: Oil Spill by the Oil Rig Deepwater
Horizon in the Gulf of Mexico on April 20, 2010, MDL-2179, U.S.
District Court, Eastern District of Louisiana (New Orleans).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Margaret Cronin Fisk in Detroit at 
 mcfisk@bloomberg.net ;
Laurel Brubaker Calkins in Houston at 
 laurel@calkins.us.com   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  