-- Brazil Signals Key Rate to Stay on Hold for Extended Period
-- B y   M a t t h e w   M a l i n o w s k i   a n d   A n d r e   S o l i a n i
-- 2012-10-18T13:47:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-18/brazil-signals-key-rate-to-stay-on-hold-for-extended-period-1-.html
Brazil ’s central bank signaled it
will keep  interest rates  on hold for an extended period after
ending the biggest easing cycle in the Group of 20 nations.  Policy makers, in the minutes to their Oct. 9-10 meeting
published today, said that stable monetary conditions for a
“sufficiently prolonged” period is the most adequate strategy
for reviving growth without jeopardizing its inflation target.  The bank’s board, led by President Alexandre Tombini, voted
by a 5-3 margin last week to cut the benchmark Selic rate 25
basis points to a record low 7.25 percent. Even as Brazil’s
inflation quickened for the third straight month, policy makers
reduced borrowing costs for the 10th straight time amid warnings
that a worsening global economic scenario could slow a recovery
in the world’s second-largest emerging market.  “They expect the recovery to take very long to happen,”
said  Gustavo Rangel , chief Latin America economist for ING Bank
NV, in a telephone interview from  London . “It is going to be a
very slow, unremarkable process. I think they are committed to
not hiking the Selic at least through the end of next year.”  The majority of the board said the inflation outlook is
being affected by a short-term spike in food and beverage
prices, though it remains favorable in the longer term,
providing room for a “final” adjustment in rates, according to
the minutes.  Since August 2011, the central bank has lowered the
benchmark rate by 525 basis points, more than any other nation
in the Group of 20, as President  Dilma Rousseff  has cut taxes
and raised tariffs to help manufacturers and spur consumption.  Economic Outlook  Some indicators show that Brazil’s economy may be regaining
its footing. Retail sales rose for the third month in a row in
August on tax cuts and low borrowing costs, causing the stocks
of companies including online retailer  B2W Cia. Global to Varejo 
to trade higher. Brazil’s seasonally adjusted  economic activity
index , a proxy for gross domestic product, rose in August at the
fastest pace since March 2011.  Still, consumer default levels in August remained at the
highest level in almost three years. Vehicle sales in September
fell 31 percent on the month and 7.6 percent from a year
earlier, and industrial output in August missed economists’
forecasts. Earlier this month, central bank board member Luiz Awazu Pereira compared the current global scenario to  Japan ’s
“lost decade” following the collapse of its asset bubble in
1990.  Fragile Economy  The board, in today’s minutes, said that the global economy
remains fragile and the outlook for growth in  emerging markets 
has becoming challenging as a result.  That view on growth has outweighed policy makers’ concerns
over  inflation , which accelerated last month at the fastest pace
since February, to 5.28 percent. Inflation has remained above
the mid-point of the central bank’s target for the last two
years, and analysts in the latest central bank survey forecast
that it will end 2013 at 5.42 percent. Brazil targets inflation
of 4.5 percent plus or minus two percentage points.  “They are much more willing to accept inflation being more
volatile and above target than they used to,”  Tony Volpon , head
of emerging market research for the Americas at Nomura
Securities, said in a telephone interview from  New York . “Given
how complicated everything is around the world, you have to be
more flexible in the way that you manage inflation target. They
have been saying, ’We have a duel mandate. One is the inflation
target, the other is maintaining financial stability.’”  Central bank director Carlos Hamilton said last month that
inflation will probably not converge to the midpoint of the
target range until the third quarter of next year. Hamilton was
one of three board members to vote against a rate cut, arguing
that the inflation outlook didn’t allow additional action.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Matthew Malinowski in Santiago at 
 mmalinowski@bloomberg.net ;
Andre Soliani in Brasilia at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  