-- Business Airfares May Rise in 2013, American Express Says
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S t i l w e l l
-- 2012-10-18T12:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-18/business-airfares-may-rise-in-2013-american-express-says.html
Pricing for business travel by air
may increase “modestly” next year as slowing growth in  China 
and global economic uncertainty temper price gains in  emerging
markets , such as India and  Brazil ,  American Express Global
Business Travel (AXP)  said.  Business travel pricing in China, the world’s second-
biggest economy, is expected to be “flat to slightly down,”
hampered by the  European debt crisis , declining exports and
slowing construction and manufacturing sectors, according to the
American Express Co. unit, which helps manage corporate travel
accounts.  “All of these factors result in declines in business
travel,” said Herve Sedky, a senior vice president of the unit,
in a telephone interview. “That was a surprise from our
perspective. China traditionally has had much stronger growth,
growth that is a lot more similar to India.”  The International Monetary Fund last week reduced its
estimate for China’s growth this year to 7.8 percent, which
would be the weakest pace since 1999, as  Europe ’s debt crisis
crimps exports. Fares in emerging economies, such as parts of
Latin America, Asia and Eastern Europe, will see increases amid
strong business travel demand, the report said.  Long-haul economy fares in  Russia  are expected to increase
5 percent to 7 percent, while similar prices in Latin America
are expected to increase by as much as 8 percent. Long-haul
business fares in Latin America are expected to rise 4 percent
to 7 percent, while short-haul business pricing may rise 3
percent to 6 percent.  Financial Crisis  Leading growth in the Asia Pacific region,  India  is
expected to see fare increases of up to 8 percent, largely due
to volatility in the country’s air industry. In China, domestic
economy and business flight prices will also be squeezed amid
competition from high-speed rail, American Express said.  Economies hit hard by the European financial crisis will
probably see declines in fares, the report stated. Prices for
long-haul economy flights to Spain are expected to fall 5
percent to 8 percent.  Long-haul economy pricing in North America is projected to
range from minus 1 percent to a gain of 2 percent, while the
short-haul equivalent is expected to increase 2 percent to 4
percent as airlines adjust capacity in certain markets.
Business-class air fares for both short-and long-haul routes are
expected to rise 1 percent to 3 percent.  “That change in capacity has a fairly big impact on
pricing because it’s based on supply and demand and
competition,” Sedky said.  Rates for “upper-range” hotels in North America will grow
4 percent to 9 percent, while overall growth in Latin America
hotel rates are expected to increase in the mid-single digits,
mostly from Brazil and Argentina, the report said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Stilwell in  New York  at 
 vstilwell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  