-- California Seeks Muni Bankruptcy Warnings, Lockyer Says
-- B y   A l i s o n   V e k s h i n
-- 2012-10-18T03:12:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-18/california-seeks-muni-bankruptcy-warnings-lockyer-says.html
     Oct. 18 (Bloomberg) --  California , where three
municipalities have filed for bankruptcy since June, is working
on an early-warning system to prevent more by detecting signs of
financial trouble, state Treasurer Bill Lockyer said.  He compared the goal to stress testing, “where we try to
determine what are the right metrics to cause red flags, alarm,
some form of friendly discussions with experts, external
advisers about what might be done to avoid a potential crisis.”  Stockton, San Bernardino and Mammoth Lakes have sought
Chapter 9 protection, stoking investor concerns that more will
follow as municipal finances worsen and bankruptcy’s stigma
fades. Lockyer, speaking yesterday at a Bond Buyer conference in
San Francisco, said he doesn’t expect the trend to continue.  “I agree with those who have said probably not, there may
be some, not very many,” Lockyer said.  The early-detection system is a collaboration among the
treasurer’s office, the controller, the Legislature and
officials in  Los Angeles  and  San Diego , Lockyer said in an
interview. Lawmakers would have to approve the plan, he said.  Analysts at the conference said they’re taking a closer
look at the willingness of California cities to repay their debt
in light of the bankruptcies.  ‘Difficult to Assess’  “It is difficult to assess a city just based on the
numbers,” said Melanie Tung, senior municipal research analyst
at Wells Capital Management.  “Management, the willingness and ability to pay -- those
are measurements that we have looked at and are trying to
examine more closely as we look at credits now in this
environment,” she said.  Stockton, the largest U.S. city to enter bankruptcy, had
the underlying rating on its taxable pension-obligation debt cut
by  Standard & Poor’s  to the lowest non-investment grade last
month after skipping a payment.  Willingness to pay can be evaluated by whether the
municipality has and follows its fiscal policies, performs long-
term forecasting and respond to the results, and monitors its
financial condition “so that they have as quick as possible an
idea of when they’re in trouble,” Bill Statler, former director
of finance and information technology for the City of San Luis
Obispo, said in a session at the conference.  Lockyer said he didn’t believe California municipalities
are becoming less willing to repay their debt. “Just the
opposite,” he said in the interview.  Rating Companies Differ  Credit-rating companies Moody’s Investors Service and
Standard & Poor’s differ in their predictions of further
municipal bankruptcies in California.  Gabriel Petek, an S&P analyst in  San Francisco , said he
doesn’t anticipate a “tsunami” to follow the recent filings.  The communities in bankruptcy are a fraction of the 482
cities in the most-populous state, Petek said Oct. 16 in a
conference session. Among the 201 communities that S&P rates,
“we believe that those that are at most risk of encountering
this level of financial distress are already at the very low end
of the rating spectrum,” he said.  Moody’s, in a report last week, said that while it doesn’t
expect many cities to follow those already in bankruptcy, “as
long as the economic recovery remains sluggish, the risk has
increased that some California cities will make this choice.”  Willingness to Pay  The decisions by San Bernardino and Stockton to seek court
protection “provide some indication that willingness to pay
debt obligations may be eroding in the U.S. municipal market,”
Moody’s said. While the Stockton and San Bernardino fiscal
troubles are tied to declines in  tax revenue  and rising employee
costs, Mammoth Lakes sought protection because of an adverse
legal judgment.  California can offer guidance to municipalities that need
it, said  James Spiotto , a partner who leads the bankruptcy
practice at Chapman & Cutler LLP in  Chicago .  “If a municipality is in trouble, this is the first time,
more likely than not, they are facing that issue,” he said.
“The people there are struggling with first-time issues, how to
handle it.”  “Oversight and assistance can help the municipality avoid
the last resort such as Chapter 9 and address the issues earlier
and provide the background that a lot of municipal officers wish
they had,” Spiotto said.  While Lockyer said he’d like to see the state offer some
modest help, he’s opposed to the state picking up the costs.  “I agree with the credit-rating agency that said it
actually helps the state’s credit to not be on the hook for
those local liabilities,” Lockyer said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alison Vekshin in San Francisco at 
 avekshin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  