-- Campari Sells Bonds as Investors Seek Peripheral Corporate Debt
-- B y   K a t i e   L i n s e l l
-- 2012-10-18T16:17:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-18/campari-sells-bonds-as-investors-seek-peripheral-corporate-debt.html
Davide Campari-Milano SpA (CPR) , the
Milan-based distiller, sold its first bonds in three years amid
renewed investor demand for debt from Europe’s most indebted
countries.  Campari raised 400 million euros ($525 million) from the
unrated seven-year notes after investors bid for 12 times that
amount, the company said in a statement. The maker of the
eponymous red liquor priced the debt to yield 325 basis points
more than the swap rate, which compares with a spread of 63 for
Bank of America Merrill Lynch’s Consumer Non-Cyclical Index of
debt issued by firms including Pernod Ricard SA and  Diageo Plc. (DGE)   Investors are snapping up securities from the euro-region’s
periphery at the fastest rate since the euro was created,
encouraged by the  European Central Bank ’s pledge to buy
sovereign debt. German Chancellor  Angela Merkel , speaking before
today’s European Union summit, said it would be “fatal” for
leaders to ease efforts to solve the debt crisis.  “Many investors were under-allocated in peripherals for
risk reasons and buying new issues is an easy way to catch up,”
said Peter Higgins, a London-based senior portfolio manager at
BlueBay Asset Management Ltd., which manages $42 billion.
“Campari’s got a good reputation as a brand and it sounds like
the deal is going very well.”  Companies from peripheral countries have stepped up bond
sales, raising 6.8 billion euros this month compared with a
monthly average of 4.9 billion euros for 2012, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Borrowers led by  Italy ’s  Snam SpA (SRG)  and
 Telefonica SA (TEF)  in  Spain  raised 13.1 billion euros in September,
the most since at least 1999.  Rum Purchase  The proceeds from Campari’s bond sale will be used for the
acquisition of  Lascelles deMercado & Co. , the Jamaican maker of
Appleton rum, the company said in the e-mailed statement. The
offering, Campari’s first since 2009, means the bridge loan for
the takeover will be canceled, according to the statement.  “The transaction has been very successful both in Italy
and the international markets,” Chief Executive OfficerBob Kunze-Concewitz said in the statement.  Gecina SA (GFC) ’s 4.75 percent bonds due 2019 rose 1 percent to
105 cents on the euro, the biggest climber in Bank of America
Merrill Lynch’s EMU Corporates index, after the French property
company was upgraded one level to BBB by  Standard & Poor’s .
Paris’s largest publicly traded office landlord said the new
rating will allow it to save 7 million euros in 2013.  Corporate Downgrades  Twice as many European companies were downgraded than had
their ratings increased since the start of April, the highest
rate since the first quarter of 2010, S&P analyst  Paul Watters 
in London wrote in a report. The New York-based firm has a
negative outlook on 26 percent of European companies compared
with a five-year average of 23 percent.  The cost to insure Spanish and Italian government debt rose
from yesterday’s 14-month lows. Credit-default swaps on Italy
rose 18 basis points to 250.5 while contracts on Spain climbed
21 to 289.  The Markit iTraxx SovX Western Europe Index of contracts on
14 governments rose two basis points to 109 basis points.  The Markit iTraxx Crossover Index of swaps linked to the
debt of 50 companies with mostly high-yield credit ratings rose
eight basis points to 482. The Markit iTraxx Europe Index of 125
companies with investment-grade ratings climbed three to 118
basis points.  The Markit iTraxx Financial Index of swaps on the senior
debt of 25 banks and insurers added five basis points to 159 and
the subordinated index increased seven to 284.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katie Linsell in London at 
 klinsell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Armstrong  at 
 parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  