-- Canada August Employment Insurance Report (Text)
-- B y   E d i t o r :   A l e x   T a n z i
-- 2012-10-18T12:30:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-18/canada-august-employment-insurance-report-text-.html
The following is the text of
 Canada ’s employment insurance report for Aug. released
by  Statistics Canada .  Following three months of little change, 534,400 people
received regular Employment Insurance (EI) benefits in August,
up 16,400 (+3.2%) from July.  The number of beneficiaries rose notably in  Quebec , while
 Alberta , British Columbia,  New Brunswick , Saskatchewan and
Ontario also experienced increases.  Claims edge down in August  To receive EI benefits, individuals must first submit a
claim. The number of claims provides an indication of the number
of people who could become beneficiaries.  Nationally, the number of initial and renewal claims edged
down 1.3% to 229,400 in August.  Provincially, claims fell by 11.3% in Ontario, 8.7% in
Alberta, 6.3% in Prince  Edward Island , 5.6% in both British
Columbia and  Nova Scotia , and 4.0% in Manitoba. In Quebec, the
number of claims increased 5.2%. There were small percentage
declines in the other provinces.  More beneficiaries in a number of provinces  The number of people receiving regular benefits increased
in several provinces. In Quebec, following a period of declines
that began earlier in the year, the number rose 7.0% in August,
the largest percentage increase of all provinces.  There were also notable increases in the number of
beneficiaries in Alberta (+3.5%), British Columbia (+3.4%), New
Brunswick (+3.4%) and Saskatchewan (+3.3%).  The number of beneficiaries increased 1.9% in Ontario,
while it was little changed in the other provinces.  Note to readers  Employment Insurance regular benefits are available to
eligible individuals who lose their jobs and who are available
for and able to work, but can’t find a job. The change in the
number of regular beneficiaries reflects various situations,
including people becoming beneficiaries, people going back to
work, and people exhausting their regular benefits.  All data in this release are seasonally adjusted unless
otherwise specified. For more information on seasonal adjustment,
see Seasonal adjustment and identifying economic trends
( http://www.statcan.gc.ca/pub/11-010-x/2010003/part-partie3 -
eng.htm) .  EI statistics are produced from administrative data sources
provided by Service Canada and Human Resources and Skills
Development Canada. These statistics may, from time to time, be
affected by changes to the Employment Insurance Act or
administrative procedures. The number of regular beneficiaries
and the number of claims received for July and August are
preliminary.  The number of beneficiaries is a measure of all people who
received EI benefits from August 12 to 18. This period coincides
with the reference week of the Labour Force Survey (LFS).  EI statistics indicate the number of people who received EI
benefits, and should not be confused with LFS data, which
provide information on the total number of unemployed people.  There is always a certain proportion of unemployed people
who do not qualify for benefits. Some unemployed people have not
contributed to the program because they have not worked in the
past 12 months or their employment is not insured. Other
unemployed people have contributed to the program but do not
meet the eligibility criteria, such as workers who left their
job voluntarily or those who did not accumulate enough hours of
work to receive benefits. 