-- Canadian Dollar Weakens the Most Since June on Flaherty Outlook
-- B y   K a t i a   D m i t r i e v a
-- 2012-10-18T21:17:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-18/canadian-dollar-rally-stalls-after-biggest-daily-gain-since-june.html
The Canadian dollar fell the most
since June versus its U.S. counterpart, erasing all of its gain
registered yesterday, as  risk aversion  rose and Finance Minister
 Jim Flaherty  said the nation may have to revise down its
economic outlook.  The currency declined against the majority of its most-
traded peers as Flaherty echoed comments from Bank of  Canada 
Governor Mark Carney two days ago. A Federal Reserve report
showed manufacturing in the Philadelphia region expanded in
October for the first time in six months, raising the allure of
the U.S. dollar.  “There’s so much uncertainty out there with all the range-
trading in the major currencies,” Eimear Daly, a currency
market analyst at Monex Europe Ltd. in  London , said in a phone
interview. “We saw such a massive rally yesterday and investors
are getting nervous today, pulling back into the  U.S. dollar 
where we had good data out of Philadelphia.”  Canada’s currency dropped 0.8 percent to 98.52 cents per
U.S. dollar at 5 p.m. in Toronto. The loonie, as the currency is
nicknamed for the image of aquatic bird on the C$1 coin, fell
the most since June 28. One Canadian dollar buys $1.015.  Canadian bonds advanced, with the yield on the 10-year
benchmark note declining two basis points, or 0.02 percentage
point, to 1.9 percent. The price of the 2.75 percent securities
maturing in June 2022 rose 14 cents to C$107.48.  Quarterly Forecast  Asked whether a deteriorating global economy would cause
him to pare his growth forecasts, Flaherty told reporters, “so
far, we’re still on track. The economists in Canada told us to
anticipate moderate growth.”  “We may have to revise downward somewhat,” Flaherty said
without being specific, adding “so far we’re in the same
ballpark as we anticipated in the budget.”  The Canadian dollar weakened the most in about three months
on Oct. 16 after Carney suggested he may reduce his economic
outlook and delay raising policy interest rates during his
quarterly economic forecast next week.  “The selloff of the Canadian dollar suggests that the
market may be satisfied with the re-pricing of interest rate
expectations in Canada after Bank of Canada Governor  Mark
Carney ’s dovish-leaning comments on Monday,”  George Davis ,
chief technical analyst for fixed income and currency strategy
in Toronto at Royal Bank of Canada, said in a note to clients.  The Fed Bank of Philadelphia’s general economic index rose
to 5.7 from minus 1.9 in September. A reading of zero is the
dividing line between expansion and contraction. The median
forecast of 61 economists surveyed by Bloomberg was for an
increase to 1.  Consolidation Pattern  The Standard & Poor’s 500 equities index fell 0.2 percent,
snapping three days of gains. Oil, Canada’s largest commodity,
was little changed at $92.10 a barrel. The S&P GSCI Index of 24
raw materials was flat.  “The Canadian dollar is trying to find a base around these
levels,” Blake Jespersen, managing director of foreign exchange
in Toronto at  Bank of Montreal (BMO) , said in telephone interview.
“We’ve seen over the past month or so on a day where we do see
an outsize move, the next day is very quiet and it consolidates
for a few days.”  The currency is trading at a 98.57 short-term moving
average, compared with a 50-day average of 99.53 one month ago.  “It continues to bump off these lows we’ve seen over the
past few weeks here, the 97.50-97.60 level,” Jespersen said.
“Dollar Canada is trying to find a base around these levels and
we don’t expect it to go any lower in the short-term.”  The loonie has added 1.2 percent this year against nine
developed-nation currencies tracked by Bloomberg Correlation-
Weighted currency Indexes. The greenback has dropped 2.8
percent, the second biggest decliner after the yen.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katia Dmitrieva in Toronto at 
 edmitrieva1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  