-- Cardinals Wait Out Rain to Beat Giants for 2-1 Lead in NLCS
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2012-10-18T16:25:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-18/cardinals-beat-giants-3-1-to-take-2-1-lead-in-nl-playoff-series.html
Matt Carpenter took advantage of his
opportunity, coming off the bench after  Carlos Beltran ’s injury
to hit a two-run home run that lifted the  St. Louis Cardinals  to
a rain-delayed 3-1 victory over the  San Francisco Giants  in the
National League Championship Series.  Carpenter homered in his first at-bat in the bottom of the
third inning, making him 5-for-5 in his career against Giants
starting pitcher  Matt Cain . It gave the defending World Series-
champion Cardinals the lead for good in seizing a two-games-to-
one lead in the best-of-seven NLCS.  “The guy just steps in no matter where he’s hitting or
where he’s playing and gets it done,” Cardinals third baseman
David Freese said about Carpenter.  The Cardinals closed out the victory after rain caused a
delay of 3 hours, 28 minutes in the bottom of the seventh inning
at Busch Stadium. They now have a 9-2 record in Game 3 action in
the NLCS, including a 6-0 mark at home.  St. Louis hosts Game 4 of the best-of-seven Major League
Baseball series today.  The  Detroit  Tigers host the New York Yankees today after
Game 4 of their American League Championship Series was rained
out yesterday in Detroit. The Tigers hold a 3-0 series lead and
can advance to the  World Series  with another win against the
Yankees, who haven’t been swept in the postseason since the 1980
ALCS against  Kansas City .  Tigers Favored  The Tigers are the odds-on favorite to win the World Series
at the Las Vegas Hilton’s Super Book, with a successful $130
wager returning $100. The Yankees have 40-1 odds, meaning a
winning $100 bet would return $4,000. The Cardinals are now
listed at 7-4, with the Giants at 6-1.  The Giants had their five-game postseason road winning
streak snapped after being held to one run by Kyle Lohse and
four Cardinals relievers. After the rain delay, Jason Motte
retired the last seven Giants batters to close out the win.  San Francisco  had nine hits, yet left 11 men on base and
went 0-for-7 with runners in scoring position.  “It’s tough, we had some chances but those guys made some
good pitches to get them out of it and not let us score,” Cain,
who allowed three runs on six hits over 6 1/3 innings, told
reporters. “We just came up a little short and I made a bad
pitch and it cost us.”  Cain fell to 0-3 in four career starts at Busch Stadium,
one of only two NL parks in which he hasn’t won.  Lohse, whose .842 winning percentage (16-3) was the best in
baseball during the regular season, gave up one run on seven
hits in 5 2/3 innings to get the win.  The Giants scored their lone run in the top of the third
inning, when  Angel Pagan  singled, moved to third on a double by
 Marco Scutaro  and scored on a groundout by Pablo Sandoval.  Carpenter’s Homer  The Cardinals answered in the bottom of the inning as Jon Jay singled off Cain with two outs and Carpenter followed with
his homer over the right-centerfield wall. The 429-foot blast
was the second-longest postseason homer hit at Busch Stadium
since the 2006 season.  Carpenter had taken over in right field after Beltran
strained his left knee in the first inning. Tests taken after
the game showed no structural damage for Beltran.  The Giants had two runners on base with one out in the
seventh inning before Cardinals reliever Mitchell Boggs struck
out  Hunter Pence  and Brandon Belt. Pence went 0-for-4 and is 5-
for-31 in the postseason.  “I’m the goat today, I didn’t get the job done in big
opportunities,” Pence told reporters.  With a steady rain falling, the Cardinals added another run
before the delay in the seventh inning when Freese doubled with
one out and scored on a groundout by Shane Robinson.  Motte then came out of the bullpen to shut down the Giants
and record his second save of the NLCS.  “You hate to have a long delay like this, but it’s part of
the game and both teams have to deal with it,” Giants manager
Bruce Bochy said. “We couldn’t do much after the rain delay,
but they brought in a pretty good pitcher.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in  New York  at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  