-- Carrefour Gains After Selling Colombia Unit to Cencosud
-- B y   M a t t h e w   B r i s t o w   a n d   E d u a r d o   T h o m s o n
-- 2012-10-19T20:11:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-18/cencosud-of-chile-to-to-buy-carrefour-colombia-division.html
Carrefour SA (CA)  rose in Paris while
 Cencosud SA (CENCOSUD)  slumped the most in more than a year in Santiago
after the French company agreed to sell its Colombian stores to
the Chilean retailer for 2 billion euros ($2.6 billion).  Carrefour  shares  rose 5.9 percent to 18.36 euros at the
close of trading in Paris, the steepest advance since Aug. 30.
Cencosud slid 6.2 percent, the most since August 2011, after
announcing plans to sell $2.5 billion of new stock and bonds.  The acquisition allows Cencosud to tap rising consumer
spending in Latin America as economic growth fuels an expansion
of the middle class. Carrefour, the world’s second-largest
retailer, is selling its Colombian grocery stores as part of a
strategy to exit markets it doesn’t dominate.  The sale is “an incredible exit” for Carrefour from a
country where it first opened a store in 1998, said  James Grzinic , an analyst at Jefferies International. The price was
“stunning” and will make a “very useful dent” in Carrefour’s
average net debt of 8 billion euros ($10 billion), he said.  The price is higher than for recent transactions in the
food retailing industry, reflecting the potential for growth in
 Colombia , where the economy expanded faster than  Mexico ,  Brazil 
and  Argentina  in the second quarter. The retail market is
dominated by  Casino Guichard-Perrachon SA’s (CO)   Almacenes Exito SA. (EXITO)   Deal Multiple  The price to be paid by Santiago-based Cencosud includes
debt and represents a multiple of 20 times estimated earnings
before interest, tax, depreciation and amortization, according
to Grzinic. That compares with the 13.6 times that  Wal-Mart
Stores Inc. (WMT)  paid for control of Chile’s Distribucion y Servicio
D&S SA in 2009, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The median multiple for 10 takeovers of food retail
businesses since 2004 is 11.9 times, the data show.  “Qualitatively speaking, we think the transaction is
positive” for Cencosud, Alonso Aramburu, an analyst at Banco
BTG Pactual SA, said in a note to clients today. The Chilean
company was advised by JPMorgan Chase & Co.  Carrefour is cutting jobs and exiting overseas markets to
generate cash and cut debt as part of a three-year turnaround
plan formulated by Chief Executive Officer Georges Plassat.  The deal “indicates Plassat is prepared to sell non-core
assets and the strategy is on track,” said Caroline Gulliver,
an analyst at  Espirito Santo  who rates the stock buy.  Turkish Business  Carrefour is also considering a combination of its Turkish
business with Migros Ticaret AS, a rival supermarket chain owned
by private-equity firm BC Partners Ltd., three people with
knowledge of the situation said last month.  The retailer, based in Boulogne-Billancourt,  France , also
plans to exit  Singapore  by the end of the year and paid 220
million euros to leave  Greece . It has also put Poland and
Indonesia under review for possible sale.  The Colombia unit, which had net sales excluding gasoline
of 1.5 billion euros in the 12 months through June 30, will add
to Cencosud’s food, home-improvement and department-store
businesses in the country. Carrefour has 72 hypermarkets, 16
 convenience stores  and four cash-and-carry stores in Colombia.  Carrefour, which was advised by Credit Suisse, and Cencosud
didn’t disclose how much of the deal comprises debt, which
Espirito Santo’s Gulliver estimated at 200 million euros.  Cencosud, controlled by billionaire Horst Paulmann and
based in Santiago, signed a $2.5 billion credit contract with
 JPMorgan (JPM)  to finance the transaction, which is scheduled to be
completed by the end of the year.  Share Sale  The Chilean retailer said it will seek shareholder approval
to sell $1.5 billion in new shares. Cencosud also plans to sell
$1 billion of 10-year U.S. dollar bonds, Chief Executive Officer
Daniel Rodriguez and Chief Financial Officer Juan Manuel Parada
told reporters today in Santiago.  The bonds will be sold within 90 days to tap “good”
market conditions, while the share sale may take place within
120 days, they said. Cencosud sees no risk of breaching debt
covenants and expects its ratings to be maintained, they said.  The extra yield, or spread, investors demand to buy
Cencosud’s dollar bonds due in 2021 instead of U.S. Treasury
debt rose 22 basis points, or 0.22 percentage point, today to
268 after reaching a 14-month low reached yesterday.  Colombia’s consumer industry is dominated by small
neighborhood shops and markets, said Mauricio Hernandez, a
Bogota-based analyst at Corredores Asociados SA. This, combined
with a growing economy, offers retailers a high potential
return, Hernandez said.  Growing Economy  “Chilean retailers are entering Colombia in an aggressive
way,” Hernandez said by telephone. “It’s a market with a lot
of potential, with good consumption per capita, a good economic
climate and a strong outlook for growth and retail.”  Colombia’s  retail sales  rose 1.2 percent in August from the
same period a year earlier, the national statistics agency said
yesterday.  SACI Falabella (FALAB) , Chile’s largest retailer by market
value, and  Empresas La Polar SA (LAPOLAR)  also have stores in Colombia,
where Exito has a 43 percent share of the market.  “It’s an attractive market to be in, and I think it helps
provide economies of scale for the company within Colombia,
which is something that they were lacking,” said Christopher Disalvatore, a senior analyst at IM Trust SA, in a telephone
interview from Santiago.  Still, at about 1.3 times sales, Cencosud may have paid a
“high price” for the Carrefour assets, Disalvatore said. The
ratio is higher than the average Cencosud has paid for its
previous acquisitions, he said.  Paulmann Stake  The Colombian economy grew 4.9 percent in the second
quarter from a year earlier, faster than Mexico, which grew 4.1
percent, Brazil and Argentina. Colombia’s  Finance Ministry 
calculates the country overtook Argentina this year to become
 Latin America ’s biggest economy after Brazil and Mexico.  Cencosud is the third-biggest retailer in Latin America by
sales after  Wal-Mart de Mexico SAB  and Brazil’s  Cia. Brasileira
de Distribuicao Grupo Pao de Acucar , data compiled by Bloomberg
show. Besides Chile and Colombia, Cencosud also does business in
Argentina, Peru and Brazil.  German-born Paulmann, 77, sold shares in New York for the
first time this year, convincing investors of his ability to
navigate a global slowdown and deliver earnings growth from a
company cobbled together from at least 16 acquisitions in the
past decade. He’s the most-active deal maker in Latin American
retail, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Under Paulmann’s command, what began as a family-run
restaurant has turned into a $16 billion retail empire with 726
supermarkets, 81 home-improvement stores, 74 department stores
and 25 shopping malls. Paulmann personally controls a 40 percent
stake in Cencosud, with another 25 percent in the hands of
family members, according to a May 25 prospectus filed with the
U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Matthew Bristow in Bogota at 
 mbristow5@bloomberg.net ;
Eduardo Thomson in Santiago at 
 ethomson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrea Snyder at 
 asnyder5@bloomberg.net  