-- CFPB Mortgage Rule Said to Give Lenders More Protection
-- B y   C a r t e r   D o u g h e r t y   a n d   C l e a   B e n s o n
-- 2012-10-18T20:21:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-18/cfpb-mortgage-rule-said-to-give-lenders-more-protection.html
U.S. lenders may get strong
protections from lawsuits over most government-backed mortgages
under rules being weighed by the Consumer Financial Protection
Bureau, according to two people briefed on the policy.  The so-called qualified mortgage regulations would give
banks including  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC) 
safeguards against legal action arising from the underwriting
process, according to the people who spoke on condition of
anonymity because the discussions aren’t public. Protections
would cover loans issued at prime interest rates to borrowers
whose total debt-to-income ratio doesn’t exceed 43 percent.  The consumer bureau, which is crafting the rules as part of
a broader overhaul of housing-finance oversight, revealed its
plans in a meeting with other federal regulators yesterday,
according to the people. About 80 percent of loans backed by
 Fannie Mae (FNMA) ,  Freddie Mac  or government insurers such as the
 Federal Housing Administration , would qualify for a legal safe
harbor under the bureau’s plan, according to data from the
 Federal Housing Finance Agency .  “The CFPB is currently in the process of determining the
parameters of these loans, with the goal of protecting consumers
from risky mortgages that they cannot afford in a way that does
not interfere with access to affordable credit,” Jen Howard,
the agency’s spokeswoman, said in an e-mailed statement.  Bureau officials have said they will issue a final rule by
the statutory deadline of Jan. 21. The process is still fluid,
and the proposal may change, according to one of the people with
knowledge of the meeting.  Verifying Income  In reaction to lax underwriting that fueled the housing
bubble, the new regulations would require lenders to confirm a
borrower’s ability to repay by steps such as verifying income.
Within that context, lenders would gain some insulation from
lawsuits if they meet certain criteria.  Loans to borrowers whose debt exceeded 43 percent of income
or had non-prime  interest rates  would fall under a legal
standard giving borrowers or bond investors greater latitude to
sue if a lender didn’t adequately gauge ability to repay. This
standard would presume that lenders properly underwrote the loan
while allowing court challenges of that presumption.  To get any legal protection, a lender would have to meet
underwriting standards such as verifying a borrower’s income and
assets. Qualifying loans also couldn’t have features such as
interest-only payments or include fees and points totaling more
than 3 percent of the loan amount.  Lost Revenue  Once the rule goes into effect, lenders are expected to
originate most of their loans according to the new standards in
order to gain legal protection from the kind of lawsuits and
“putbacks” that have cost banks billions in the wake of the
housing market collapse. The additional legal protections will
help banks compensate for lost revenue from higher fees or
exotic loans such as interest-only mortgages.  Joe Ventrone, vice president for regulatory affairs at the
National Association of Realtors, said any partial safe harbor
would need to go “much further” to avoid harm to the mortgage
market.  “We need a QM that reaches a broad base of borrowers and
that has strong protections for lenders,” he said in an e-mail.
“Without that, we will see even further tightening of credit.”  Industry Concession  Alys Cohen, an attorney with the National Consumer Law
Center, said consumer groups favor a so-called rebuttable
presumption for all mortgages and that the safe harbor was a
concession to the industry. Much will depend on how the
rebuttable presumption is structured, she said.  “You will face the problem of any rebuttable presumption
being a de facto safe harbor because it is so onerous,” Cohen
said in an interview. “The devil really is in the details.”  In the years before the 2008 credit crisis, banks
increasingly made loans with high fees and adjustable terms that
required borrowers to refinance after a few years. Defaults
soared after falling home prices cut borrowers’ equity and
prevented refinancing.  The qualified mortgage rule will underpin a series of
regulations by the consumer bureau, which was created by the
Dodd-Frank law of 2010 in response to complaints that banks had
abused borrowers before the housing bubble burst. Other rules
planned by the agency will touch on mortgage service, loan
officer compensation, and points and fees.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Carter Dougherty in Washington at 
 cdougherty6@bloomberg.net ;
Clea Benson in Washington at 
 cbenson20@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Maura Reynolds  at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  