-- Check Point Sees Cyber Attacks Aiding Revenue: Israel Overnight
-- B y   L e o n   L a z a r o f f
-- 2012-10-18T14:48:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-18/check-point-sees-cyber-attacks-aiding-revenue-israel-overnight.html
Check Point Software Technologies
Ltd. (CHKP) , whose drop in third-quarter billings spurred the biggest
stock plunge in nine years, will seek to increase revenue as
more cyber threats loom, Chief Financial Officer Tal Payne said.  The technology company sank 13 percent to $41.15 in New
York yesterday, the most since July 2003, on concern revenue
growth will slacken after billings fell.  Check Point  led
declines on the  Bloomberg Israel-US Equity Index (ISRA25BN)  of the most-
traded Israeli companies in the U.S., as the measure lost 1.3
percent to $87.61.  Mellanox Technologies Ltd. (MLNX)  tumbled the most
in more than two years in Tel Aviv today after the company
forecast fourth-quarter sales that missed analysts estimates.
Israel’s  TA-25 Index (TA-25)  lost 1.3 percent at the close in  Tel Aviv .  Check Point’s third-quarter billings dropped 1 percent
because of falling demand in Europe, according to Nomura
Holdings Inc. and FBN Securities Inc. Payne attributes the drop
to the company’s shift to a new product and says revenue will
rise as intelligence agencies are seeing growing cyber menaces.  “With cyber attacks becoming more and more sophisticated,
this presents us with greater opportunities,” Payne said by
phone yesterday from Check Point’s Tel Aviv headquarters. “We
have been going through a transition from our old product to our
newer product that increased the number of units but reduced our
average sales price and therefore our product revenue is
muted.”  Sales for the three months ended September rose 7.8 percent
to $332 million, Check Point said in an e-mailed statement
yesterday. The company forecast fourth-quarter revenue of $355
million to $387 million, which compares with the $382 million
average estimate of 27 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  ‘Competitive Situation’  The benchmark Tel Aviv gauge has advanced 12 percent this
year, double the 6 percent advance by the Bloomberg Israel-US
Index.  Check Point faces more competition from rivals including
Santa Clara, California-based  Palo Alto Networks Inc. (PANW) ,  F5
Networks Inc (FFIV)  and Surefire as well as  Cisco Systems Inc. (CSCO)  and
Juniper Networks Inc., FBN Securities said.  “There are open questions about the competitive situation
getting more heated,”  Shebly Seyrafi , an analyst at FBN
Securities who  lowered  his 12-month target price on Check Point
to $60 from $70, said by phone from New York yesterday.  Palo Alto , which raised more money than planned in its
initial public offering in July, has advanced 56 percent since
its debut.  Check Point shares are down 22 percent this year, poised
for the biggest annual slump since 2002. The retreat sank
valuations to 13 times forward earnings, the lowest multiple
versus the average company’s ratio on the  Nasdaq Composite Index (CCMP) 
since December 2010.  Devastating Attacks  “The market has always been competitive,” Payne said.
“Cisco has always been a good player, and Juniper. We see Palo
Alto Networks as well, but there has always been a lot of
competition.”  U.S. Defense Secretary  Leon Panetta  said this week that the
Pentagon and American intelligence agencies are seeing an
increase in cyber threats that could become as devastating as
the Sept. 11, 2001, attacks if they aren’t stopped.  Attackers “are targeting the computer control systems that
operate chemical, electricity and water plants, and those that
guide transportation throughout the country,” Panetta  told the
annual awards dinner of Business Executives for National
Security in New York on Oct. 11. In recent weeks some large U.S.
financial institutions were hit by attacks that delayed or
disrupted services on customer websites, he said.  Israel, which has a population of similar size to
 Switzerland , has about 60 companies traded on the Nasdaq Stock
Market, the most of any country outside the U.S. after China.
The nation is also home to more startup companies per capita.  Mellanox’s Outlook  Mellanox, the maker of products used to transfer and store
data, plunged 24 percent to $74.85 at 5:50 p.m. in New York
yesterday. The Tel Aviv  shares  dropped 22 percent, the most
since July 2010, to 303 shekels today, or $79.46.  The Yokneam Elit, Israel-based company said after the close
yesterday that it forecast fourth-quarter sales of $145 million
to $150 million, below the $156.6 million estimate of 13
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  Given Imaging Ltd. (GIVN)  rallied 11 percent to $17 at 5:50 p.m.
after the close of trading in New York yesterday. The Tel Aviv
shares surged 21 percent, the most on record, to 69.80 shekels,
or the equivalent of $18.30, today.  The maker of pill-sized cameras for diagnosing digestive
ailments, based Yokneam, Israel, said it’s evaluating merger and
sale offers.  Internet Gold-Golden Lines Ltd. (IGLD)  jumped 23 percent to $5.08
yesterday, extending its gain since Oct. 12 to 68 percent. The
company’s  shares  in Tel Aviv today advanced 3.6 percent to 18.34
shekels, or the equivalent of $4.81.  Israel’s Communications Minister Moshe Kahlon, who
championed a plan to set up a fiber-to-the-home network, said
this week that he won’t stand in the next parliamentary
elections. Kahlon is seeking to introduce a wholesale fixed-line
market to be set up by the state-run Israel Electric Corp. to
compete with fixed-line operators.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Leon Lazaroff in  New York  
 llazaroff@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emma O’Brien at 
 Eobrien6@bloomberg.net  