-- Chelsea’s Terry Won’t Appeal Four-Match Racial-Abuse Ban
-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 2012-10-18T12:30:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-18/chelsea-s-john-terry-won-t-appeal-four-match-racial-abuse-ban.html
Chelsea captain  John Terry  said he
won’t appeal against a four-game ban and 220,000-pound
($355,000) fine for racially abusing Queens Park Rangers
defender  Anton Ferdinand  in a game last season.  The punishment was handed down by an independent panel
appointed by the Football Association, English soccer’s ruling
body, after a four-day hearing last month. He was acquitted by a
 London  court in a criminal case over the incident in July.  “After careful consideration, I have decided not to appeal
against  the F.A.  judgment,” Terry, 31, said in a statement on
his management company’s website today. “I want to take this
opportunity to apologize to everyone for the language I used.”  He added that “although I’m disappointed with the F.A.
judgment, I accept that the language I used, regardless of the
context, is not acceptable on the football field or indeed in
any walk of life.”  Chelsea said on its website that it’s taken disciplinary
action against Terry, adding that the internal sanctions “will
remain confidential.”  Separately, the F.A. today fined Terry’s Chelsea teammate
Ashley Cole 90,000 pounds after the defender referred to the
governing body in offensive language on Twitter following the
panel’s criticism of his supporting evidence for Terry.  Terry had 14 days from the Oct. 5 publication of the F.A.
panel’s written reasoning for its decision to mount an appeal.
His ban starts with a Premier League game at Tottenham in two
days. The suspension covers only domestic games so Terry will be
available to play in next week’s  Champions League  match at
 Shakhtar Donetsk . Chelsea won the elite European competition for
the first time in May.  He’ll also miss a Capital One Cup game against  Manchester
United  and Premier League matches with United and Swansea.  Ferdinand Incident  The incident with Ferdinand came to light within an hour of
Chelsea’s 1-0 defeat at local west London rival QPR last October
when footage appeared on video-sharing website YouTube showing
Terry mouthing the words “f***ing black c***.” An off-duty
policeman who watched the game on television made the complaint
to police, prompting the criminal case.  Terry admitted in court he used those words, but said he
was doing so in the form of a question, asking Ferdinand
sarcastically if he was accusing Terry of abusing him.  ‘Convincing’ Evidence  The F.A. commission said there was “clear and convincing
evidence” against Terry. It was satisfied he used the words
“by way of insult” and found his defense “improbable,
implausible and contrived.”  The panel added that “it is accepted by everyone involved
in the criminal and disciplinary proceedings that Mr. Terry is
not a racist.”  “As I stated in the criminal case, with the benefit of
hindsight my language was clearly not an appropriate reaction to
the situation for someone in my position,” Terry said today.
“My response was below the level expected by Chelsea Football
Club, and by me, and it will not happen again.”  He pledged to “continue to do my part in assisting the
club to remove all types of discriminatory behavior from
football.”  Chelsea said Terry made the correct decision by not
appealing.  “Chelsea also appreciates, and supports, John’s full
apology for the language he used. The club firmly believes such
language is not acceptable and fell below the standards expected
of John as a Chelsea player,” the club said on its website.  Wider Effects  The Terry case had wider effects on English soccer, leading
to the exit of former national team coach  Fabio Capello  and the
creation of a new code of conduct for team members.  Capello quit as manager in February after the F.A. stripped
Terry of the England captaincy. He played at the Euro 2012
tournament before ending his England career a day before the
disciplinary hearing started on Sept. 24.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tariq Panja in London at  Tpanja@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 