-- Chile Keeps Key Rate Unchanged on Sustained Economic Growth
-- B y   R a n d a l l   W o o d s
-- 2012-10-18T21:14:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-18/chile-keeps-key-rate-unchanged-on-sustained-economic-growth-1-.html
Chile’s central bank kept its
benchmark  interest rate  unchanged today for a ninth straight
month as sustained growth above 5 percent dimmed the prospects
for monetary easing.  The policy board, led by bank President Rodrigo Vergara,
held the key interest rate at 5 percent, as forecast by all 20
analysts  surveyed by Bloomberg . Policy makers last changed
borrowing costs in January with a quarter-point reduction.  Economists polled by the central bank last week forecast
the next move in rates will probably be up, though it may not
come until 2014. Chile’s economy expanded 6.2 percent in August,
more than economists’ forecasts, while the  International
Monetary Fund  estimates the Andean nation’s gross domestic
product will expand 5 percent this year, the fastest pace among
major Latin America countries after Peru and  Venezuela .  “Growth is strong, inflation is stable -- it’s resuming an
upward trend -- and externally uncertainty prevails, which all
in all is a recipe for neutrality,” Katia Diaz, Latin America
analyst at 4Cast Inc. in  New York , said by phone yesterday.
“This wait-and-see approach will prevail.”  Diaz, who has the second-best record forecasting Chile’s
interest rate decisions among economists surveyed by Bloomberg,
estimates policy makers may start raising borrowing costs in the
second half of next year.  Economic Growth  Policy makers in a statement accompanying today’s decision
removed reference seen in September to the peso’s appreciation,
saying only that the  U.S. dollar  had weakened internationally.
Chile’s peso has appreciated 9.9 percent so far this year, the
biggest gain among the seven Latin American currencies tracked
by Bloomberg.  Economists increased their growth forecast for 2012 and
2013 in the Oct. 9 central bank survey after economic growth
data exceeded estimates, unemployment fell and manufacturing
surged.  GDP in the Andean nation expanded 5.4 percent in the first
half of the year, while growth, as measured by the central
bank’s Imacec index, was 5.3 percent in July and 6.2 percent in
August, the fastest pace in half a year.  “Domestically, output indicators have  evolved around
trend rates and private consumption has strengthened,” the
central bank said in today’s statement. “The labor market
remains tight.”  Balance of Risks  Manufacturing rose 3.6 percent in August from last year,
compared with the median estimate for a 1 percent gain by
analysts polled by Bloomberg. The  unemployment rate  fell to 6.4
percent in the three months through August after economists
forecast it would remain unchanged at 6.5 percent.  Chile “is among the five economies that has shown the
fastest expansion in 2012,” Santiago-based financial services
company IM Trust said in an Oct. 5 note to investors. “Unlike
what was projected earlier this year, in 2013 the balance of
risks for the central bank should tilt toward higher inflation
rather than recessionary threats.”  Inflation quickened to 2.8 percent in September, the
highest rate in four months, on gains in the price of food and
beverages, health care and transportation. Policy makers target
3 percent inflation, plus or minus 1 percentage point over two
years.  Traders estimate inflation will continue to accelerate, and
policy makers in minutes from last month’s meeting on the
interest rate warned against “latent risks” to consumer prices
as the economy continues to expand.  Inflation Rate  Two-year breakeven inflation, which is derived from the
difference between nominal and inflation-linked yields on swaps,
rose 18 basis points, or 0.18 percentage point, to 3.08 percent
yesterday from the end of last month.  Still,  Chile  has the lowest inflation rate of any major
Latin American economy tracked by Bloomberg, and the economy is
starting to feel the effect of the global slowdown. Chile in
September posted its third consecutive monthly trade deficit and
fourth for the year, as exports fell 9.5 percent from the year
earlier.  The price of copper, which accounts for more than half of
Chile’s exports, has averaged $3.64 a pound this year compared
with $4.01 a pound in 2011. Prices will fall further in 2013,
averaging $3.40 a pound, according to the latest central bank
forecasts.  “In Chile, the economy continues to show a strong
performance and the effects of the weakened external scenario
have been tenuous,” Vergara said in a Sept. 28 presentation
posted on the bank website. “The board continues to monitor
developments in external and internal macroeconomic scenarios
and their impact on inflation.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Randall Woods in Santiago at 
 rwoods13@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net . 