-- Chile Probably Will Hold Rates as Growth Defies Global Slowdown
-- B y   R a n d a l l   W o o d s
-- 2012-10-18T03:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-18/chile-probably-will-hold-rates-as-growth-defies-global-slowdown.html
Chile ’s central bank probably will
keep its  key interest rate  unchanged for the ninth straight
month today as economic growth in the world’s top copper
producer shows little sign of easing amid a global slowdown.  The policy board, led by bank President Rodrigo Vergara,
will keep the target overnight rate at 5 percent, according to
all 19 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. The bank will announce
its decision after 6:00 p.m. in Santiago.  Economists polled monthly by the central bank last week
raised their economic growth estimates for 2012 and 2013, while
forecasting an increase in rates in a little less than two
years. Policy makers may raise borrowing costs as soon as this
year as the economy’s expansion puts pressure on consumer
prices, Alfredo Coutino,  Latin America  director of Moody’s
Analytics, said by phone yesterday.  “Inflation by the end of the year is going to be above the
central bank target of 3 percent, implying policy makers will
have to act preventively,” Coutino said from  West Chester ,
 Pennsylvania . “Chile, in addition to  Mexico , is the best
candidate in the region to move monetary conditions in the
opposite direction of the rest of the world.”  Chile has the highest borrowing costs among major rate-
setting nations in Latin America behind  Brazil , which has cut
its benchmark lending rate from 12.5 percent last year to a
record-low 7.25 percent. Mexico has kept borrowing costs at 4.5
percent for 29 straight meetings.  Rate Forecasts  Chilean policy makers will keep interest rates unchanged
for the remainder of 2012, before raising them by a quarter-
point within 23 months, according to the central bank’s Oct. 9
poll of economists. A survey of traders on the same day forecast
no change in rates for 24 months.  Two-year  interest rate  swaps, which reflect traders’ views
of average borrowing costs, rose 7 basis points, or 0.07
percentage point, to 4.95 percent yesterday from the end of last
month.  “Even with a base scenario showing the monetary policy
rate will remain unchanged for the rest of this year and a good
part of next, you can’t rule out that when rates must move,
they’ll go up, not down,” Alejandro Fernandez, an economist at
Santiago-based research company Gemines Consultores, said in a
report e-mailed to investors Oct. 16.  Inflation accelerated to 2.8 percent in September, the
highest rate in four months, on gains in the price of food and
beverages, health care services and transportation.  Economic Growth  Economists in the central bank’s survey raised their 2012
growth estimate to 5.1 percent from 5 percent.  Retail sales surged 11.3 percent in August from last year,
the fastest growth seen since February, the National Statistics
Institute said in a Sept. 28 report.  Consumer confidence  has
increased for six straight months, Santiago-based polling
company Adimark GfK said in a report posted on its website
yesterday.  Gross domestic product in the Andean nation expanded 5.4
percent in the first half of the year, while growth as measured
by the central bank’s Imacec index was 5.3 percent in July and
6.2 percent in August, the fastest pace in half a year.  Still, the Andean nation is showing some signs that the
European recession and the deceleration of growth in  China  are
impacting its economy. Chile in September posted its third
consecutive monthly  trade deficit  and fourth for the year, as
exports fell 9.5 percent from the year earlier.  Copper prices have averaged $3.64 a pound so far this year
compared with $4.01 a pound in 2011. Prices will fall further in
2013, averaging $3.40 a pound in the year, according to the
latest central bank forecasts.  Construction and real estate companies are also
experiencing “somewhat” tighter lending conditions, even as
corporate and household demand for credit has strengthened, the
central bank said in a quarterly survey of lenders published
yesterday.  “Chile’s economy has shown quite a bit of vigor, and the
effects of the weakened external scenario have been tenuous,”
central bank board member Sebastian Claro said in an Oct. 2
presentation posted on the bank’s website. “A weaker external
impulse is expected in the future because of lower growth in
emerging economies and somewhat less favorable terms of trade.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Randall Woods in Santiago at 
 rwoods13@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net . 