-- China Investment Drives Pickup in Challenge to Leaders
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-10-19T01:16:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-18/china-investment-helps-drive-pickup-in-challenge-to-new-leaders.html
The accelerating investment that
helped to drive a pickup in  China’s economy  last month shows how
Communist Party officials have failed to shift the nation’s
 growth  model, leaving a challenge for new leaders.  Fixed-asset investment rose 22.6 percent in September from
a year earlier, up from 19.1 percent growth in August, Bank of
America Corp. estimated after yesterday’s release of data for
the first three quarters of 2012. Spending on projects from the
government’s budget also accelerated in September. Industrial
 output  and retail sales picked up last month even as the economy
decelerated for the seventh straight quarter.  Faster investment approvals and increased railway spending
show officials are using similar channels to support growth
while being careful not to repeat the size of the stimulus
response to the global financial crisis in 2008. Relying more on
 investment  than consumption for expansion may exacerbate
overcapacity and increase risks of a deeper slowdown later.  “Just because you have avoided a hard landing doesn’t
change the fact that the growth model is unsustainable,” said
Alistair Thornton, an economist in Beijing at IHS  Global Insight .
“We’re still relying on the old tools and that means far too
much reliance on investment and not nearly enough reliance on
consumption. It will take a huge amount of reform over the next
few years to bring about the consumption-driven growth that
 China ’s leaders aspire to have.”  Factory Output  Fixed-asset investment excluding rural households rose 20.5
percent in the first three quarters, up from 20.2 percent in the
January-August period, data from the statistics bureau showed.
Industrial production increased 9.2 percent in September from a
year earlier, rebounding from a three-year low in August. Retail
sales, which include government purchases,  advanced  by the most
since March.  The pickup in factory-output growth was “driven by
investment demand,” Lu Ting and Larry Hu, China economists at
Bank of America in  Hong Kong , said in a research note yesterday.
Output of steel products last month rose 4.9 percent from a year
earlier, more than triple the pace in August, while cement and
crude oil output growth accelerated, the analysts wrote.  Yesterday’s data followed reports showing exports exceeded
forecasts in September and  money supply  grew at the fastest pace
in 15 months.  China’s benchmark Shanghai Composite  Index (SHCOMP)  advanced 1.2
percent yesterday, the most in a week.  Bank Pressure  China’s efforts to stimulate growth outside of investment
are running into obstacles. While the central bank cut  interest
rates  in June and July and allowed financial institutions to
offer bigger discounts on loans, the nation’s biggest banks are
resisting government pressure to lower borrowing costs as they
seek to maintain profitability in operations, officials at the
top four lenders said this month.  Coca-Cola Co., the world’s largest soft-drink maker, this
week said volume sales growth in China of 2 percent in the third
quarter trailed the 6 percent pace of the first three quarters
combined. “It is reasonable to expect that China’s ongoing
economic slowdown may have a short-term effect on our industry
and on our business,” Chief Executive Officer  Muhtar Kent  said
during a conference call.  Preventing any further slowdown is one of the chief
challenges for the ruling Communist Party as it begins a once-a-
decade leadership transition with a congress set to start Nov. 8
in Beijing, where Vice President  Xi Jinping  will probably become
head of the party. At the annual session of the legislature in
March, Xi will probably succeed  Hu Jintao  as president and Vice
Premier  Li Keqiang  may succeed Premier  Wen Jiabao .  Tweaking Policy  China’s government won’t provide big economic stimulus and
a strong rebound in growth is unlikely, Song Guoqing, an adviser
to the People’s Bank of China, said in a speech in Beijing
yesterday. Still, slowing inflation gives China’s central bank
room for “tweaking” monetary policy, said Song, an academic
member of the central bank’s monetary policy committee.  Even with the increase in investment, China may be
undergoing a shift in its expansion.  Jim O’Neill , chairman of
Goldman Sachs Asset Management, said the bigger rise in retail
sales relative to industrial production “is a rather good sign
that China is rebalancing and adjusting to a better quality and
more sustainable level of growth.”  Stimulus Wariness  China’s leadership is “highly wary about an aggressive
investment-led stimulus, which explains why they have largely
stood aside and undertaken only modest policy insurance amid the
economic slowdown,” said Ramin Toloui, global co-head of
 emerging markets  portfolio management in Singapore at Pacific
Investment Management Co., which operates the world’s largest
bond fund.  Even so, China’s investment-driven economy may persist
through 2020, said Yin Jianfeng, an economist with the  Chinese
Academy of Social Sciences , a state-funded research institute in
Beijing that advises the government.  “As long as there are reasonable returns and sufficient
savings to sustain the investments, I don’t think China should
try hard to encourage  consumer spending ,” Yin said. The nation
can maintain an annual growth rate between 7.5 percent and 8.5
percent, he said.  -- Kevin Hamlin , Zheng Lifei. With assistance from Zhou Xin in
Beijing. Editors: Scott Lanman, Nerys Avery  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Kevin Hamlin in Beijing at 
 khamlin@bloomberg.net ;
Zheng Lifei in Beijing at 
 lzheng32@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  