-- China Repo Rate at Six-Week Low as Growth Slows, Cash Returns
-- B y   K y o u n g w h a   K i m
-- 2012-10-18T02:43:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-18/china-repo-rate-at-six-week-low-as-growth-slows-cash-returns.html
China ’s money-market rate fell to
the lowest level in more than six weeks after a report showed
economic growth slowed last quarter and as cash returned to the
financial system after a weeklong holiday earlier this month.  The world’s second-largest economy grew 7.4 percent in the
third quarter from a year earlier, following the second
quarter’s 7.6 percent expansion, official data showed today.
That matched a median forecast in a Bloomberg survey of 43
analysts. The People’s Bank of China offered 10 billion yuan
($1.6 billion) of 14-day reverse repurchase contracts at a yield
of 3.45 percent, according to a trader at a primary dealer
required to bid at the auctions. It also sold 20 billion  yuan  of
seven-day agreements at 3.35 percent, the trader said.  “Growth came in line with expectations,” said Kumar
Rachapudi, a strategist at Barclays Plc in  Singapore . “The
declines in money-market rates are partly because of cash
returning to the banking system after the Golden Week.”  The  seven-day repurchase rate , a gauge of interbank funding
availability, decreased 18 basis points to 2.69 percent at 10:25
a.m. in Shanghai, according to a weighted average compiled by
the National Interbank Funding Center. It touched 2.68 percent
today, matching the lowest level since Sept. 4.  The government has paused for three months from easing
monetary policy even as data showed trade, manufacturing and
inflation cooled during the quarter. China’s economic growth has
started to stabilize, Premier Wen Jiabao said in remarks
published yesterday by the official Xinhua News agency. The
government is confident of achieving annual targets and the
economy will continue to show “positive changes,” Wen said,
according to Xinhua.  The one-year interest-rate swap, the fixed cost to receive
the seven-day repo rate, fell one basis point to 3.12 percent in
 Shanghai , according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kyoungwha Kim in Singapore at 
 kkim19@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net  