-- China Won’t Provide Big Stimulus, PBOC Adviser Song Says
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-10-18T16:07:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-18/china-won-t-provide-big-stimulus-pboc-adviser-song-says.html
China ’s government won’t provide big
economic stimulus and a strong rebound in growth is unlikely,
said Song Guoqing, an adviser to the People’s Bank of China.  Local-government investment plans probably won’t
materialize quickly because they’re reliant on the central
government and banks for funding, Song said in a speech at
 Tsinghua University  in Beijing yesterday.  “I have the desire to drive my private jet, but that
doesn’t mean I can” fly one, Song said. “The same goes for
local governments’ ambitious investment plans.” Still, slowing
inflation gives China’s central bank room for “tweaking”
monetary policy, said Song, an academic member of the central
bank’s monetary policy committee.  China’s industrial production, retail sales and fixed-asset
investment accelerated in September, reducing the urgency for
added stimulus to support the economy after a seven-quarter
slowdown, according to data released yesterday. Gross domestic
product rose 2.2 percent in the third quarter from the previous
three months, a four-quarter high.  Inflation last month was close to the slowest pace in two
years and producer prices fell the most since 2009, government
data showed on Oct. 15, giving authorities more room to ease
policy. China’s nine-month fiscal revenue gained 11 percent to
9.06 trillion  yuan  and fiscal spending rose 21 percent to 8.4
trillion yuan, the Ministry of Finance said yesterday.  “Policy makers in China still have room to act if they
need to, both on the monetary and the fiscal side,” said  Mark Williams , Asia economist at Capital Economics Ltd. in  London .
“But as things stand, it is not obvious why Chinese policy
makers would want to act forcefully now.”  China’s nominal urban per capita disposable income in the
first nine months of the year rose 13 percent from a year
earlier to 18,427 yuan, the National Bureau of Statistics said
in Beijing yesterday. In real terms, incomes rose 9.8 percent,
the bureau said.  “This is not a sign of an economy under a great deal of
strain,” Williams said in an e-mail.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Xin Zhou in Beijing at +86-10-6649-7731 or
 xzhou68@bloomberg.net   To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Xin Zhou in Beijing at 
 xzhou68@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  