-- China Home Prices Rise in Fewer Cities as Market Stabilized
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-10-18T08:00:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-18/china-september-home-prices-rise-in-fewer-than-half-the-cities.html
China ’s September new  home prices 
rose in fewer than half the cities monitored by the government
from a month earlier, indicating property curbs are stabilizing
the market.  Prices climbed in 31 cities of the 70 the government tracks
from the previous month, compared with 35 cities in August,
according to data released by the statistics bureau today.
Prices fell in 22 cities, the data showed.  “We had expected  house prices  to stabilize for the rest of
the year: no collapse, no rebound,”  Zhu Haibin , the chief China
economist at JPMorgan Chase & Co. in  Hong Kong , wrote in an e-
mailed reply to queries. “Today’s data shows our forecast is on
track. It suggests that the housing market is bottoming out.”  China’s property curbs have showed “preliminary effects,”
though the market is still “unstable,” the official Xinhua
News Agency said yesterday, citing Premier  Wen Jiabao ’s comments
in meetings he held with industry leaders, company executives
and some local government officials on Oct. 12-15. The
government should stick to the property policies, he said.  The southern cities of Guangzhou and Shaoguan led gains in
September, with a 0.4 percent increase each from August,
according to today’s data. Major cities Beijing and  Shanghai 
recorded gains of as much as 0.1 percent. Home prices were
unchanged in 17 cities.  Home prices rose in 12 cities from a year earlier, compared
with 15 cities in August.  China’s  property market  in general is “stable,” said the
statistics bureau spokesman Sheng Laiyun at a news conference in
Beijing today.  Shares Climb  A  measure  tracking property stocks on the  Shanghai
Composite Index (SHCOMP)  climbed 3.5 percent at the close, the most in
more than three months.  The housing data today “is positive, because it shows home
prices have not been rebounding greatly,” Zhang Zhiwei, Hong
Kong-based chief China economist at Nomura Holdings Inc., said
in a phone interview today. “The government has no necessity to
issue new tightening policies, dispelling market worries.
China’s property market is in a controllable status.”  In its more than two-year effort to curb the property
market, China has raised down-payment and mortgage requirements,
imposed a property tax for the first time in Shanghai and
Chongqing, increased building of low-cost social housing, and
placed home purchase restrictions in about 40 cities.  Existing Homes  Shanghai will continue to increase checks on the
implementation of home purchase restrictions, China Securities
Journal reported today, citing Liu Haisheng, director of the
city’s housing support and building administration bureau.  Existing home prices in Beijing rose 0.1 percent last month
from a month ago, and increased by 0.2 percent in Shanghai.  Private data has also showed the housing market is
stabilizing. Home prices gained 0.17 percent in September,
advancing for a fourth month,  SouFun Holdings Ltd. (SFUN) , the nation’s
biggest real-estate website owner, said this month.  “We certainly don’t want a bubble, so we want to stabilize
the real estate prices,”  Yi Gang , central bank deputy governor,
said at an International Monetary Fund event in  Tokyo  on Oct.
14. “It is a very delicate situation. We want to do this
carefully, so we don’t have a sudden dramatic thing happening.
The key word is to maintain stability.”  Housing Sales  China’s economic growth slowed for a seventh quarter,
expanding 7.4 percent in the third quarter, according to the
government today. That matched the median estimate in a
Bloomberg News survey of 43 economists and compares with a
previously reported 7.6 percent expansion in the second quarter.  China’s  housing sales  rose 3.3 percent to 3.4 trillion  yuan 
($544 billion) in the first three quarters, while investment in
homes, office buildings, malls and other real estate gained 15
percent to 5.1 trillion yuan.  Chinese developers’ credit outlook improved as a recovery
in prices eased liquidity pressures and a slowing economy
limited authorities’ incentive to further tighten policy,
 Standard & Poor’s  said in a Sept. 18 report. About 27 developers
have announced sales for the first three quarters, achieving 80
percent of their full-year target, according to an Oct. 16
report of Macquarie Capital Securities.  “Developers have more money to spend, but they are still
not out of the woods,”  James MacDonald , head of China research
for Savills Property Services (Shanghai) Co., said before
today’s data. “A lot of developers still have quite a lot of
capital tied up in terms of stock. It hasn’t been a significant
rebound in terms of demand from the land market.”  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Bonnie Cao in Shanghai at 
 bcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  