-- China Navy Conducts East China Sea Exercises Amid Japan Row
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-10-19T03:23:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-18/china-navy-announces-east-china-sea-exercises-amid-japan-tension.html
China ’s navy will conduct exercises
in the East China Sea to better coordinate missions to protect
Chinese territory, Xinhua News Agency said, a move that may
heighten tensions with Japan over disputed islands.  Today’s exercises with the fishery administration and the
marine surveillance agency will involve 11 ships and eight
aircraft, Xinhua reported yesterday, citing a statement from the
navy’s Donghai fleet.  “When carrying out missions in disputed waters, patrol
vessels of the fishery administration and marine surveillance
agency have been stalked, harassed and even intentionally
interfered with by foreign vessels, greatly challenging their
duties,” Xinhua said, citing the statement.  The exercises may further strain China’s relationship with
Japan in the aftermath of Chinese protests that flared last
month when  Japan  bought islands claimed by both sides from their
private owner. The dispute over the area, which is rich in gas,
oil and fish, has damaged trade ties worth $340 billion.  “I’m aware of the reports,” Japanese Chief Cabinet
Secretary Osamu Fujimura told reporters today in  Tokyo . “The
government does not have any details of the actual content of
the exercises, so I will refrain from commenting further. In any
case there is no change to our basic stance of continuing to pay
close attention to China’s moves.”  Emergency Response  The drill is aimed at improving emergency response in
missions to “safeguard territorial sovereignty and maritime
interests,” according to the statement. It says the navy has
conducted “several” exercises with the fishery administration
and surveillance agency in the past.  Xinhua’s announcement of the exercises came a day after the
 news agency  issued a commentary saying that Japanese opposition
leader Shinzo Abe’s visit to a shrine honoring Japan’s war dead
Oct. 17 was a provocative act that “would further poison
bilateral ties.” It said the visit comes at a “delicate
moment” and “added insult to injury.”  China protested again yesterday after two Japanese Cabinet
ministers also visited the  Yasukuni  shrine, where men convicted
of  war crimes  are among those honored. Yasukuni is viewed in
China and  Korea  as a symbol of Japan’s military atrocities
during its occupation of  Asia  in the first half of the 20th
century.  Fujimura yesterday said the government had no further
comment on the visits because the ministers went in a “private
capacity.”  Chinese Foreign Ministry spokesman Hong Lei told a briefing
in Beijing yesterday that Japan should “face the international
community in a responsible manner.”  China maintains that it’s owned the  East China Sea  islands,
called Senkaku in Japanese and Diaoyu in Chinese, for centuries.
Japan argues it took control of them in 1895, lost authority
after World War II, and had them returned by the U.S. in 1972.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Helen Sun in Shanghai at 
 hsun30@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  