-- China’s Stocks Advance as Premier Wen Sees Improvement
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-10-18T07:28:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-18/china-s-stocks-rise-as-wen-sees-improving-economy-before-data.html
China’s stocks  rose, driving the
benchmark index to a five-week high, after Premier Wen Jiabao
said the economy has started to stabilize and industrial
production and retail sales data beat estimates.  SAIC Motor Corp. (600104)  led industrial companies higher after
factory output accelerated in September. Nine out of 10 industry
groups in the CSI 300 Index rose at least 1 percent after a
report showed the economy grew 7.4 percent in the third quarter,
matching analyst estimates. Shanghai Hanbell Precise Machinery
Co. surged by 10 percent, pacing gains for makers of equipment
used in developing geothermal energy after the China Securities
Journal said the government may issue industry guidelines.  The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  climbed 1.2 percent to
2,131.69 at the close, its highest level since Sept. 10. The  CSI
300 (SHSZ300)  rose 1.5 percent to 2,336.08, while the  Hang Seng China
Enterprises Index (HSCEI)  gained 1.4 percent. The  Bloomberg China-US 55
Index (CH55BN)  added 0.4 percent in New York yesterday.  “The data shows initial signs that the economy has
stabilized, which is good,” said Wang Zheng, Shanghai-based
chief investment officer at Jingxi Investment Management Co.,
which manages about $120 million. “It still remains to be seen
if the improvement in the economy can be translated into good
corporate earnings.”  The Shanghai Composite has rebounded 6.4 percent since
reaching a three-year low on Sept. 26 on expectations regulators
will introduce measures to stabilize the market ahead of a once-
in-a-decade power transition of the Communist Party in November.
The gauge is still down 3.1 percent this year and trades at 10
times estimated earnings, compared with the 17.9 average since
Bloomberg began compiling the weekly  data  in 2006.  ‘Relatively Good’ Economy  China ’s economic situation is “relatively good,” Wen said
yesterday, the Xinhua News Agency reported. Wen said the
government is confident of achieving annual targets and the
economy will continue to show “positive changes,” Xinhua
reported, citing his comments in meetings he held with industry
leaders, company executives and some local government officials
on Oct. 12-15.  The third-quarter growth figure compares with a previously
reported 7.6 percent expansion in the second quarter. Industrial
production rose 9.2 percent in September, the report showed.
That compared with the 9 percent median forecast of 37 analysts
and an 8.9 percent gain in August. Reports also showed retail
sales and fixed-asset investment exceeded forecast last month.  SAIC, China’s largest carmaker, added 3.7 percent to 13.49
 yuan . Anhui Jianghuai Automobile Co., a unit of the biggest
light-truck exporter, rose 2.3 percent to 5.46 yuan.  Anhui Conch
Cement Co. (600585) , the biggest cement maker, gained 2.5 percent to
16.55 yuan.  ‘Green Shoots’  Today’s data in China followed reports showing exports
exceeded forecasts in September and money supply grew at the
fastest pace in 15 months. Inflation last month was close to the
slowest pace in two years and producer prices fell the most
since 2009, government data showed on Oct. 15, giving
authorities more room to ease policy.  China’s third-quarter GDP may be a trough though it may
take another couple of quarters for growth to significantly
recover, Lu Ting, China economist at Bank of America Corp.,
wrote in a note today. Since mid-Sept., the bank has seen
increasing evidence of “green shoots” from industries
including transportation, commodities, exports, property, retail
and manufacturing, he wrote.  China Vanke Co., the biggest developer, rose 3.8 percent to
8.44 yuan. Poly Real Estate Group Co., the second largest, added
6.4 percent to 11.28 yuan.  China Merchants Property Development
Co. (000024)  jumped 6.3 percent to 22.22 yuan after third-quarter profit
surged 95 percent from a year earlier.  Housing Data  China’s September new home prices rose in fewer than half
the cities monitored by the government from a month earlier,
indicating property curbs are stabilizing the market.  Prices climbed in 31 cities of the 70 the government tracks
from the previous month, compared with 35 cities in August,
according to data released by the statistics bureau today.
Prices fell in 22 cities, the data showed.  “Today’s data shows our forecast is on track,” said  Zhu
Haibin , China economist at JPMorgan Chase & Co. “It suggests
that the housing market is bottoming out.”  Shanghai Hanbell climbed the maximum 10 percent to 15.07
yuan. Dalian Refrigeration Co. jumped 10 percent to 8.45 yuan.  China may soon announce guidelines for geothermal energy
exploration and use, the China Securities Journal reported,
without saying where it got the information. The government will
likely take more concrete measures on geothermal energy
generation and subsidies in the future, it said.  A-H Gap  Yuan-denominated A shares are poised to close today at a
discount to their underlying Hong Kong-listed stock for the
first time since August last year, according to  data  from Hang
Seng Bank Ltd.  Thirty-day  volatility  in the Shanghai Composite was at 19.9
today, compared with this year’s average of 17.2. About 8.7
billion shares changed hands in the gauge, 13 percent higher
than the daily average in 2012. The  iShares FTSE China 25 Index
Fund , the biggest Chinese exchange-traded fund in the U.S., rose
1.4 percent to a five-month high.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Zhang Shidong in Shanghai at 
 szhang5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  