-- Colombia Bets on Shale as Peace Talks Open Oil Frontiers
-- B y   H e a t h e r   W a l s h
-- 2012-10-18T14:21:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-18/colombia-bets-on-shale-as-peace-talks-open-new-energy-frontiers.html
Colombia, the fastest-growing major
oil producer in Latin America in the past five years, is looking
to join the global shale boom as it expands exploration in areas
once dominated by guerrilla groups.  A unit of  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM)  and state-controlled Ecopetrol
SA were winners yesterday in the country’s first auction aimed
at drawing investment in oil and natural gas found in shale rock
formations. Colombia, which has yet to produce so-called
unconventional energy, wants to increase such reserves to 1
billion barrels in the next two decades.  “The important thing is to get under way,” Orlando
Cabrales, head of the National Hydrocarbons Agency, said in
telephone interview yesterday. “Argentina is further ahead and
Mexico is starting to move.”  Colombia is taking aim at unconventional fuels after oil
production jumped 72 percent since 2007, allowing the nation to
surpass Argentina to become the fourth-largest supplier in Latin
America after  Brazil ,  Mexico  and  Venezuela .  International investment in crude has climbed after
military strikes weakened the nation’s largest rebel movement,
which is meeting this week in Oslo with government negotiators
for talks aimed at ending an armed conflict in its fifth decade.  Lagging Reserves  Colombia is looking for new fuel sources, including methane
trapped in coal beds, as oil discoveries fail to keep pace with
output gains. Colombia’s reserves of about 2.3 billion barrels
equal almost seven years of output, lagging behind smaller
producers Ecuador and Argentina, U.S. government data show.  “Ten years is like the minimum” level necessary, Cabrales
said. “We need to increase the reserves.”  A unit of Exxon Mobil as part of a group with Ecopetrol
made the highest bids for three onshore blocks yesterday,
including two that may hold shale oil, according to Julian
Santos, a manager of public and government affairs for Exxon in
the Andean region.  “We think there is a potential for unconventional in
Colombia,” he said by telephone from Cartagena. “Fiscal terms
are attractive and the issue of security has improved.”  Earlier this year  Exxon Mobil , whose shares have gained
about 10 percent in 2012, took a share in a block that also may
hold shale oil, Santos said.  Ecopetrol has risen  about 35
percent in Colombia’s stock market since Dec. 31.  Peace Talks  The final list of companies awarded concessions will be
published by Colombia next month. The auction that also included
areas holding traditional reserves of crude and natural gas
sparked competing offers for some blocks while others, including
some unconventional areas, had no bidders.  The government will gather more data about unconventional
blocks after a lack of information probably deterred bids,
Cabrales said. The government received offers for five
unconventional areas out of offers for a total of 49 blocks that
will together draw $2.6 billion in spending on exploration,
according to the agency.  The government is auctioning the blocks as it begins talks
with the Revolutionary Armed Forces of Colombia. Rising rebel
sabotage of pipelines this year prompted  Ecopetrol (ECOPETL) , which
funnels revenue to government coffers, to cut its 2012 output
target to 780,000 barrels of oil a day from 800,000 barrels.  Pipeline Attacks  While attacks on energy infrastructure have declined from a
decade ago, assaults increased this year as rebels targeted
pipelines and transmission lines. Sabotage of infrastructure
more than tripled to 123 incidents in the first nine months of
the year from 37 a year earlier, as total terrorist acts jumped
55 percent, according to Defense Ministry figures.  Colombia expects to produce more than 1 million barrels a
day of crude at the end of December, Energy and Mines Minister
Federico Renjifo said last week. Output was 956,300 barrels a
day in September. Spending on the oil industry accounted for
almost 40 percent of record foreign direct investment in
Colombia that rose to a revised $13.4 billion last year,
according to central bank figures.  Ecuador and  Argentina  surpass Colombia in crude reserves,
with 6.5 billion barrels and 2.5 billion barrels, respectively,
according to figures from the U.S. Energy Information
Administration.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Heather Walsh in Bogota at 
 hlwalsh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net  