-- Commercial Paper Market Contracts for a Seventh Week, Fed Says
-- B y   J o h n   P a r r y
-- 2012-10-18T15:17:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-18/commercial-paper-market-contracts-for-a-seventh-week-fed-says.html
The market for corporate borrowing
through U.S.  commercial paper  fell for a seventh week, led by a
drop in issuance from domestic financial institutions to the
lowest level in at least a decade, as companies turned to the
 bond market  with rates at record lows.  The seasonally adjusted amount of U.S. commercial paper
dropped $21.2 billion to $943.6 billion outstanding in the week
ended yesterday, the seventh straight weekly decline, the
 Federal Reserve  said today on its website. That’s the longest
stretch of decreases since the period ended Oct. 19, 2011, and
the lowest level since the market touched $939.9 billion May 2,
according to Fed data compiled by Bloomberg.  Borrowers are seizing advantage of unprecedented low
 interest rates  to sell longer-term company bonds, while money-
market funds’ demand for short-term IOUs has been reduced by
concern that Europe’s debt crisis may damage  credit quality 
globally, making it more difficult for companies to repay these
obligations.  “The continued decline in commercial-paper issuance should
be juxtaposed against the increase in corporate bond issuance,
which makes clear the effort by corporate America to term out
its debts rather than be reliant upon short-term funding,”  Tony Crescenzi , a portfolio manager and strategist at Pacific
Investment Management Co. in Newport Beach, California, wrote in
an e-mail.  Commercial paper issued by U.S.-based banks  fell $4.5
billion to $244.9 billion outstanding, the least since at least
January 2001, according to the Fed.  The amount sold by non-U.S.
financial institutions  declined for the first time in four
weeks, dropping $7.4 billion to $227.4 billion outstanding.  Bond Sales  Companies have sold $3.16 trillion of bonds worldwide this
year, a pace that’s second only to the record issuance in 2009,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Yields on global
investment-grade company bonds fell to an all-time low 2.676
percent Oct. 15, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch
index data.  Corporations sell commercial paper, typically maturing in
270 days or less, to fund everyday activities such as rent and
salaries.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 John Parry  in  New York  at 
 jparry5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  