-- Congo’s $9 Billion Inga Plant May Sell S. Africa Power
-- B y   M i c h a e l   J .   K a v a n a g h
-- 2012-10-19T07:11:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-18/congo-s-9-billion-inga-plant-may-export-power-to-south-africa.html
The  Democratic Republic  of Congo may
provide 2,500 megawatts of power to  South Africa , Botswana, and
Namibia under a revised plan to build the Inga III hydropower
plant, a project official said.  The government will host a meeting next month to discuss
three bids from companies including  Sinohydro Corp. (601669)  of China and
 Posco (005490)  of Korea to build the 4,000-megawatt facility, said Vika
di Panzu, a member of Congo’s Inga III Steering Committee. The
plant will take six years to build and cost more than $9
billion, he said in an interview yesterday at the iPAD mining
and infrastructure conference in Congo’s capital, Kinshasa.  The Central African nation may finance the project with
help from multilateral donors including the  World Bank  and the
African Development Bank, and power-purchasing agreements from
metal companies, with construction beginning by 2016, di Panzu
said. Two previous plans to finance Inga III failed in the past
decade, delaying its construction, he said.  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BIL) , the world’s biggest mining company, in
February abandoned a plan to build an aluminum smelter in Congo
to be powered by the plant. The BHP deal supplanted an earlier
plan with Western Power Corridor, a venture involving five
southern African countries, to build a plant that was intended
to fill a regional energy shortfall. South Africa had power
outages in 2008 that shut most of its mines and smelters.  Congo will begin considering final feasibility studies from
three groups of companies next month, di Panzu said, including
one from China Three Gorges Corp. and Sinohydro. Two Korean
companies, Posco and Daewoo Corp. have partnered with Canada’s
 SNC-Lavalin Group Inc. (SNC)  for a second bid.  Actividades de
Construccion y Servicios SA , based in Madrid, and Spain’s
Eurofinsa Group have submitted a third bid.  Power Lines  Construction of the plant will cost $6 billion, di Panzu
said, while the  power lines  stretching from Inga to Kolwezi in 
Congo’s southeastern Katanga province and on to Witkop, South
Africa, about 3,600 kilometers (2,237 miles) away, will cost
more than $3 billion. Mining companies in Katanga will receive
1,500 megawatts of power from the deal, he said.  Congo and South Africa are also discussing a treaty for the
implementation of a plan to build the world’s largest hydropower
plant, the 40,000 megawatt Grand Inga complex, after the two
countries signed a memorandum of understanding last November.
Congo’s parliament is considering a bill to liberalize the
electricity industry in the country, di Panzu said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael J. Kavanagh in Kinshasa at 
 mkavanagh9@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin in Johannesburg at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 