-- Housing Revival Boosts Outlook for U.S.: Economy
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   D e x h e i m e r   a n d   M i c h e l l e   J a m r i s k o
-- 2012-10-18T20:49:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-18/consumer-comfort-in-u-s-climbs-to-highest-level-in-six-months.html
Consumer confidence  rose to a six-
month high and an index of U.S. leading indicators climbed as a
nascent housing recovery started to ripple through the world’s
largest economy.  The Bloomberg Consumer Comfort Index rose to minus 34.8 in
the week ended Oct. 14, the highest level since April, from
minus 38.5 the previous week. The Conference Board’s gauge of
the outlook for the next three to six months increased 0.6
percent in September after a revised 0.4 percent drop in August.  Rising property  prices  in some parts of the country are
bolstering household finances and lifting the moods of shoppers,
whose spending accounts for 70 percent of the economy. Stock-
market gains are also making Americans feel wealthier and
contributed to the increase in the leading index, along with a
jump in permits for  home construction .  “This is just an echo of yesterday’s very strong permits
numbers, which were very encouraging,” said  Lou Crandall , chief
economist at Wrightson ICAP LLC in  Jersey City ,  New Jersey , who
correctly forecast the increase in the leading index. In
addition, “the change in the tone of the housing sector seems
to be what’s driving the improvement in consumer sentiment,” he
said.  Building  permits , among the six of 10 indicators that
boosted the leading index, jumped to highest level since July
2008, Commerce Department data showed yesterday.  Housing starts 
climbed 15 percent in September to reach a four-year high.  Jobless Claims  Other reports today showed claims for  unemployment benefits 
rose more than forecast, reflecting an unwinding of adjustments
for seasonal swings at the start of a quarter, and manufacturing
in the Philadelphia region expanded.  Stocks fell, following a three-day advance in the Standard
& Poor’s 500 Index, as Google Inc. pulled down technology shares
after reporting third-quarter profit and sales that missed
estimates. The  S&P 500  dropped 0.2 percent to 1,457.34 at the
close in New York.  Elsewhere today, China’s statistics bureau reported that
industrial production, retail sales and fixed-asset investment
accelerated in September. The world’s second-largest economy
expanded 7.4 percent in the third quarter from a year earlier,
matching the median estimate in a Bloomberg survey.  Jobless  claims  in the U.S. increased by 46,000 to 388,000
in the week ended Oct. 13 from a revised 342,000 the prior
period that was the lowest since February 2008, Labor Department
figures showed. The median forecast of 49 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg called for a gain in claims to 365,000.  New Quarter  The typical pattern of large increases in unadjusted claims
at the start of the quarter seems to have shifted by a week in
one state, causing the adjusted data to become volatile, a Labor
Department spokesman said as the figures were released to the
press.  The Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia’s  general economic
index  rose to 5.7 in October from minus 1.9 in September, a sign
the industry may be starting to stabilize. A reading of zero is
the dividing line between expansion and contraction. The median
forecast of 61 economists surveyed by Bloomberg was for an
increase to 1.  The  U.S. economy  is “choppy, but modestly moving in the
right direction,” David Doft, chief financial officer of New
York-based marketing communications firm  MDC Partners Inc. (MDZ/A) , said
on an Oct. 11 conference call. “Jobs are improving a little.
Housing prices seem to be improving a little. And these are the
sort of things that I think marketers look at when they’re
trying to predict future consumer behavior.”  The consumer comfort index was boosted by all three
components -- measuring the state of the  economy , Americans’
views of their  personal finances  and the  buying climate .  Retail Sales  Growing confidence may mean Americans spend more during the
holiday season, the most important time of the year for
retailers. November and December sales can account for as much
as 40 percent of an individual retailer’s annual revenue,
according to the  National Retail Federation .  Retail sales  advanced 1.1 percent in September following a
revised 1.2 percent increase in August, the best back-to-back-
showing since late 2010, the Commerce Department said Oct. 15.  The improvement in confidence comes less than a month
before Americans head to the polls. Incumbent President  Barack Obama , a Democrat, is trying to make the case that his policies
will best boost the economy, while Republican challenger  Mitt Romney  says the president is at fault for a lack of vigor in
economic growth.  Presidential Election  Sentiment among Democrats has climbed 13.6 points since the
first week of September, and 19.7 points among Republicans. The
gauge for independents has advanced 5.2 points and remains the
lowest of the three.  “Since independents are the customary swing voters in
national elections, their continued economic disaffection may
counter any impact of improvements that have occurred most
steeply among partisans on both sides,” said  Gary Langer ,
president of New-York based Langer Research Associates, which
compiles the index for Bloomberg.  Compared with previous elections, the index is neither low
enough to signal a defeat for Obama, nor high enough for him to
secure victory. The gauge was at minus 11 in mid-October 2004
shortly before President  George W. Bush  was re-elected, and
minus 5 when  Bill Clinton  was returned to office in 1996. It was
at minus 48 in 1992 when  George H.W. Bush  failed in his bid for
a second term.  Jobless Rate  A decrease in the  jobless rate  to a three-year low of 7.8
percent in September may help explain why the comfort index has
climbed in seven of the past eight weeks.  Signs of a revival in housing have also contributed.
Builder sentiment was the strongest since June 2006, the
 National Association of Home Builders /Wells Fargo reported this
week.  Hovnanian Enterprises Inc. (HOV) , based in  Red Bank , New Jersey,
is among homebuilders seeing gains in sales this year as buyers
return to the market.  “Now that housing has started to recover and recover more
strongly, you will see economic growth because it’s going to put
people back to work,” said  Larry Sorsby , Hovnanian’s chief
financial officer, said in an interview yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Dexheimer in Washington at 
 edexheimer@bloomberg.net ;
Michelle Jamrisko in Washington at 
 mjamrisko@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  