-- Copper Bears Cede to Bulls as Economy Seen Gaining: Commodities
-- B y   N i c h o l a s   L a r k i n
-- 2012-10-19T16:22:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-18/copper-bears-cede-to-bulls-as-economy-seen-gaining-commodities.html
Copper traders who a week ago were
the most bearish in four months are now the most bullish in a
year after economic reports signaled accelerating growth from
 China  to the U.S.  Seventeen analysts surveyed by Bloomberg said they expect
prices to gain next week and four were bearish. A further three
were neutral, making the proportion of bulls the highest since
October 2011. They were the most negative since June 1 last
week. Hedge funds’  bets  on a rally are near the biggest in 14
months, U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission data show.  China had accelerating industrial production, retail sales
and fixed-asset investment last month, reports showed yesterday.
After slowing for seven quarters, its growth will gain for the
following four quarters, based on the median of estimates from
24 economists compiled by Bloomberg. New-home construction in
the U.S. rose to a four-year high in September. China consumes
about 40 percent of the world’s copper and  North America  11
percent, according to Barclays Plc.  “The market has been way too pessimistic on China,” said
Christin Tuxen, an analyst at Danske Bank A/S in Copenhagen.
“China will eventually stabilize and avoid a hard landing and
we’ve got some clear signals that it is actually happening. We
will see commodities, and metals in particular, get some support
in the coming months.”  Copper’s Climb  Copper rose 5.3 percent to $8,001.25 a metric ton on the
 London  Metal Exchange this year, averaging $7,980, the second-
highest on record. The MSCI All-Country World Index of equities
gained 12 percent and the Standard & Poor’s GSCI gauge of 24
commodities added 2.1 percent. Treasuries returned 1.4 percent,
a Bank of America Corp.  index (MXWD)  shows.  New-home construction surged 15 percent in September, the
U.S. Commerce Department reported Oct. 17. Building permits, a
proxy for future construction, jumped to the highest since July
2008. Construction generates about 40 percent of copper demand
and 439 pounds of the metal are needed for a typical family
home, the Copper Development Association estimates.  The  Federal Reserve  said Sept. 13 it will buy $40 billion of
mortgage debt a month, China approved a $158 billion subways-to-
roads construction plan, and central banks from  Europe  to  Japan 
pledged more action to boost economies. China’s growth will
quicken each quarter until it reaches 8.3 percent in the three
months through September 2013, economists predict. Third-quarter
growth was 7.4 percent, the government said yesterday.  Industrial Metals  Codelco, the world’s largest copper producer, expects a
recovery in demand for commodities because of the stimulus in
China, Chief Executive Officer  Thomas Keller  said in an Oct. 16
interview. China’s economic growth has started to stabilize,
Premier  Wen Jiabao  said in remarks published Oct. 17 by the
official Xinhua News agency.  The nation will be a “voracious” buyer of industrial
metals even if growth slows, Cengiz Y. Belentepe, the head of
industrial and precious metals trading at Barclays, said in an
interview Oct. 10. The bank expects demand to beat supply by
41,000 tons next year, the fourth consecutive annual shortage.  Chinese officials will begin a once-a-decade leadership
transition next month. The new government may change policies on
infrastructure spending and that would raise questions about
industrial-metals demand, Ray Key, global head of metals at
Deutsche Bank AG, said in an interview Oct. 8.  Monetary Fund  The  International Monetary Fund  cut its 2012 global growth
forecast to 3.3 percent last week, compared with a July
prediction of 3.5 percent, and expects the euro area to contract
0.4 percent this year. Europe accounts for 18 percent of copper
usage, Barclays estimates. Codelco cut the premium charged to
European copper buyers next year by $5 to $85 a ton, two people
with direct knowledge of the matter said.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. lowered its 12-month price
estimate 11 percent to $8,000 on Oct. 15 as weakening demand in
Europe,  Brazil  and  India , combined with growth in mine supply,
may mean a return to a glut from the second half of 2013. The
bank still expects prices to be at $9,000 in six months.  Speculators’ wagers on a rally were the highest since
August 2011 in the week ended Oct. 2, CFTC data show. They had
bet on price declines from May to August and held a net-long
position of 23,448 futures and options by Oct. 9, data show.  LME Week  The analysts were surveyed toward the end of LME week in
London, an annual event that attracts thousands of miners,
refiners and traders for talks on metals markets and supply
contracts. The 135-year-old LME will have record trading this
year after the busiest September ever, Chief Executive Officer
 Martin Abbott  said this week. Shareholders approved a $2.2
billion takeover by Hong Kong Exchanges & Clearing Ltd. in July.  In other commodities, 10 of 26 traders and analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg said gold would climb next week and nine
were bearish. Bullion rose 9.9 percent to $1,718.40 an ounce in
London since the start of January, heading for a 12th annual
gain. Holdings in gold-backed exchange-traded products reached a
record 2,583 tons on Oct. 11, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Four of eight people surveyed expect raw sugar to increase
next week and three predicted a decline. The commodity slid 13
percent to 20.28 cents a pound on ICE Futures U.S. in  New York 
this year.  Thirteen of 26 people surveyed anticipate higher corn
prices next week and 10 said the grain will retreat, while 12 of
26 said soybeans will rise and 11 expect lower prices. Corn rose
18 percent to $7.6275 a bushel this year as soybeans advanced 27
percent to $15.36 a bushel in  Chicago . Both crops surged to
records since August as the U.S. endured its worst drought in
more than 50 years.  Raw Materials  The S&P GSCI gauge of  raw materials  dropped 5.3 percent
since closing at a five-month high Sept. 14 as European leaders
worked to resolve the region’s debt crisis.  “Some bearish statistics made the market choppy,” said
 Donald Selkin , the New York-based chief market strategist at
National Securities Corp., which manages about $3 billion of
assets. Commodities are “getting some support from good U.S.
data and will also get additional support should Europe actually
work towards a resolution.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicholas Larkin in London at 
 nlarkin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  