-- Corporate Credit Swaps in U.S. Rise; Oracle Issues Two-Part Debt
-- B y   P e t e r   R a w l i n g s
-- 2012-10-18T21:39:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-18/corporate-credit-swaps-in-u-s-increase-oracle-selling-bonds.html
A gauge of U.S. corporate credit
risk rose for the first time in six days after more Americans
than expected filed for unemployment benefits.  The Markit CDX North America Investment Grade Index, a
credit-default swaps benchmark that investors use to hedge
against losses or to speculate on creditworthiness, added 1.3
basis points to a mid-price of 91 basis points at 4:58 p.m. in
New York, according to prices compiled by Bloomberg. Contracts
tied to Murphy Oil Corp. rose to the highest in more than nine
months.  U.S. initial jobless claims  increased  to 388,000 in the
week ended Oct. 13, up from a revised 342,000 in the prior
period, and more than the 365,000 median estimate of economists
surveyed by Bloomberg, Labor Department figures showed today in
 Washington . Signs that the labor market is struggling to recover
may deepen concern that companies will have difficulty meeting
their debt obligations.  “It’s a mixed picture in indicators,” Dorian Garay, a
money manager for a global, investment-grade debt fund at ING
Investment Management, said in a telephone interview. “It’s
more a technical correction in the market after a very large
rally.”  The Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia’s general economic
index rose to 5.7 this month from minus 1.9 in September, a
report today showed, exceeding the median estimate of 1 in a
Bloomberg survey. A reading of zero is the dividing line between
expansion and contraction  Oracle Offering  The credit-swaps index typically rises as investor
confidence deteriorates and falls as it improves. The contracts
pay the buyer face value if a borrower fails to meet its
obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt. A basis point
equals $1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10 million of
debt.  Oracle Corp. (ORCL) , the world’s largest supplier of database
software, issued $5 billion of bonds in a two-part offering, its
first in more than two years. The company sold $2.5 billion of
five-year debt to yield 45 basis points more than similar-
maturity Treasuries and an equal amount of 10-year securities
with 68 basis points of extra yield, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  Liquidity Stress  Bank of New York Mellon Corp. , the world’s largest
custodian, sold $1.5 billion of bonds in a three-part offering
after reporting better-than-expected earnings yesterday. The
bank issued $600 million of three-year, fixed-rate notes to
yield 33 basis points more than Treasuries, $500 million of
securities due January 2018 at a spread of 55 basis points, and
$400 million of three-year floating-rate notes at a relative
yield of 23 basis points more than the quarterly London
interbank offered rate, Bloomberg data show.  The number of speculative-grade companies that are under
liquidity stress held at an historically low level this month as
firms have prepared to absorb potential shocks by capitalizing
on record-low interest rates to refinance their debt and push
out maturities, according to Moody’s Investors Service. The
company’s Liquidity-Stress Index was 3.5 percent, below the 7.5
percent the measure has averaged since its inception in October
2002, according to Moody’s analyst John Puchalla.  The average relative yield on junk-rated debt fell 5 basis
points, led by spreads on the bonds of communications companies
which narrowed 8 basis points. High-yield, high-risk debt is
rated less than Baa3 at Moody’s and below BBB- at Standard &
Poor’s.  Contracts protecting against the default of  Murphy Oil (MUR)  rose
11.7 basis points to 144.8 basis points, the highest level on a
closing basis since January, as of 4:30 p.m. in New York,
according to data provider CMA, which is owned by McGraw-Hill
Cos. and compiles prices quoted by dealers in the privately
negotiated market. The company this week announced a plan to
spin off its U.S. refined fuels business and to issue a special
dividend to shareholders.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Rawlings in New York at 
 prawlings@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  