-- Daimler Said to Target $1.3 Billion in Cost Reductions
-- B y   D o r o t h e e   T s c h a m p a
-- 2012-10-18T11:12:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-18/daimler-said-to-target-cost-cuts-of-at-least-1-billion-euros.html
Daimler AG (DAI) , the world’s third-
largest maker of luxury cars, is planning to cut annual costs by
at least 1 billion euros ($1.31 billion) in response to the
region’s deteriorating auto market, a person familiar with the
matter said.  The spending reductions are aimed at boosting the German
automaker’s profitability, said the person, who asked not to be
identified discussing internal plans that are not yet public.
Florian Martens, a Daimler spokesman, declined to comment.  Chief Executive Officer  Dieter Zetsche  announced a “Fit
for Leadership” efficiency program on Sept. 20 without giving
details. Zetsche said he will outline details at a later date.  Zetsche, who also heads the Mercedes-Benz Cars unit, said
last month the company’s passenger cars business in 2012 will
not reach last year’s operating profit of 5.2 billion euros,
lowering an earlier forecast. He declined three weeks ago to
reiterate the unit’s goal of reaching a 10 percent margin by
2013.  “We remain convinced that there is a significant risk that
Mercedes ebit will decline next year,”  Arndt Ellinghorst , a
London-based Credit Suisse analyst, said in an e-mail. He
estimates a margin on the earnings before interest and taxes of
8.3 percent for Mercedes next year.  The shares  advanced  as much as 97 cents, or 2.5 percent, to
39.61 euros and were up 2.1 percent as of 1:04 p.m. in Frankfurt
trading. The stock has gained 16 percent this year, valuing the
company at 42.1 billion euros.  Plunging Market  Daimler is reducing spending as the European car market is
posed for its steepest decline in 19 years. Industrywide
deliveries in 2012 will drop 8 percent to 10 percent, according
to a forecast by lobby group ACEA.  Daimler yesterday reached an agreement with its works
council to cut production of the flagship S-Class model at its
biggest plant in Sindelfingen to one shift from two before the
new generation goes into production next year.  Bayerische Motoren Werke AG (BMW) , the world’s biggest maker of
luxury autos, has shifted “tens of thousands” of vehicles from
 Europe  to the U.S. and  Asia  in reaction to slowing demand on the
debt-ridden continent,  Ian Robertson , BMW’s sales chief, said
yesterday.  The gap between Mercedes and its competitors is widening.
The brand’s nine-month sales increased 5 percent to 964,926
vehicles. That compares with a 13 percent jump to 1.1 million
cars at  Volkswagen AG (VOW) ’s Audi unit, and a rise of 8.6 percent to
1.11 million vehicles at BMW.  Daimler’s cost reduction are focused on increasing profit
by about 3 billion euros, Manager Magazin reported earlier
today, citing unidentified company executives. The exact sum is
still being calculated, the German magazine said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dorothee Tschampa in Frankfurt at 
 dtschampa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  