-- Deadlock in Syrian War
-- B y   S e l c a n   H a c a o g l u
-- 2012-10-18T14:20:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-18/deadlock-in-syrian-war.html
A Syrian opposition group set out
proposals for a transition from President Bashar al-Assad’s
rule, as the United Nations envoy in the region seeks backing
for a cease-fire in the forthcoming Islamic holiday.  Lakhdar Brahimi, the UN diplomat, said during a visit to
Jordan that a truce for next week’s Eid Al Adha festival could
be extended and form the basis of a political process to end the
19-month conflict, Jordan’s state news agency Petra reported.
Syrian rebel groups have welcomed Brahimi’s proposal, which is
also supported by  Turkey  and  Iran .  The conflict in  Syria  has claimed more than 30,000 lives,
according to the opposition Syrian Observatory for  Human Rights .
Fighting continued near the Turkish border today, with gunfire
near the Syrian town of Azmarin, Turkey’s Anatolia news agency
said. Turkey’s army yesterday retaliated after a shell fired
from Syria landed in Turkish territory, NTV reported.  Brahimi’s mission is “animated by a faint flickering of
hope that the various parties may recognize they can’t expect to
‘win’ a knock-out victory,” Jeff Laurenti, an analyst at the
Century Foundation, a New York-based research group, said in e-
mailed comments.  For Brahimi’s proposal to work, he would need to provide
guarantees that Assad’s forces will not use a cease-fire to
“buy time to crush the rebels more later,” Murhaf Jouejati, a
U.S.-based professor and member of the opposition Syrian
National Council, said in Ankara today.  Democratic Transition  Jouejati was among about 45 Syrian opposition figures who
met in the Turkish capital to present proposals for Syria after
Assad. An earlier version of the Western-backed project,
entitled “The Day After: Supporting a Democratic Transition in
Syria,” was announced in Berlin in August.  Its recommendations include vetting rogue elements of the
Free Syrian Army, abolishing Syria’s intelligence service, the
Muhkhabarat, and setting up tribunals to prosecute officials
blamed for the bloodshed, in order to prevent revenge killings.  Jouejati’s group says it has begun disseminating the ideas
inside Syria with the help of activists, including students, to
get feedback.  “Particularly key here are armed groups, because those who
are taking the shots against Assad will be calling the shots
immediately after he is gone,” said  Andrew Tabler , a Middle
East analyst at the Washington Institute for Near East Studies,
in e-mailed comments. “This plan can help civilians keep the
Syrian revolution from being hijacked.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Selcan Hacaoglu in Ankara at 
 shacaoglu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  