-- Hedge Fund Manager Efrosman Pleads Guilty to Forex Fraud
-- B y   K a r e n   G u l l o   a n d   C h r i s t i e   S m y t h e
-- 2012-10-18T19:29:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-18/hedge-fund-manager-efrosman-pleads-guilty-to-forex-fraud.html
Aleksander Efrosman, the  fund
manager  who fled the U.S. after being accused of swindling
clients, admitted to running a scheme to cheat investors out of
$5 million, including $3 million he spent at a casino.  Efrosman, 50, pleaded guilty today to wire fraud before
U.S. District Judge Nicholas Garaufis in Brooklyn,  New York ,
prosecutors said in an e-mailed statement. Efrosman, who
controlled foreign-currency hedge funds Century Maxim Fund Inc.
and AJR Capital Inc., had faced mail-fraud, wire-fraud and
money-laundering charges.  A U.S. citizen, Efrosman was indicted in 2006 after fleeing
in 2005. He traveled to Mexico,  Panama  and Poland, where he
assumed the identity of Mikhail Grosman using a fraudulent
Russian passport, said U.S. Attorney Loretta Lynch in  Brooklyn 
in the statement. He was arrested in Poland in May 2011 and
extradited to the U.S. in August.  Efrosman stole from more than 100 clients who gave him
$5 million in 2004 and 2005 to invest, prosecutors said. He
gambled more than $3 million at the Foxwoods Resort Casino in
Connecticut, according to prosecutors.  Stop-Loss Claim  He told the investors he would invest their money in the
stock market and foreign currency exchange market, according to
prosecutors. He falsely said that he had a history of profitable
trading and that he would use a “stop-loss” mechanism to
ensure that no trade would lose more than 3 percent, the
government said.  Michael Schneider, an attorney for Efrosman, didn’t
immediately respond to a voice-mail message seeking comment on
the plea. The plea couldn’t immediately be confirmed through
electronic court records.  Formerly of  Staten Island , New York, Efrosman fled the U.S.
while on supervised release after leaving prison in April 2003
for a conviction in a foreign-exchange scheme, according to
prosecutors. He pleaded guilty in that case after being
extradited from  France .  Efrosman ran a third investment scheme while in Panama,
where he was joined by his wife and children, according to an
August letter from Assistant U.S. Attorney Daniel A. Spector to
U.S. Magistrate Judge Andrew L. Carter.  The case is U.S. v. Efrosman, 06-cr-95, U.S. District
Court, Eastern District of New York (Brooklyn).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Karen Gullo in  San Francisco  at 
 kgullo@bloomberg.net ;
Christie Smythe in Brooklyn, New York,
at   csmythe1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  