-- Emerging Stocks Jump to Month High on China Prospects
-- B y   S a e r o m i   S h i n   a n d   M a r i a   L e v i t o v
-- 2012-10-18T21:57:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-18/emerging-stocks-rise-to-5-week-high-on-wen-comments-u-s-.html
Emerging-market stocks rose, driving
the benchmark index to the strongest level in a month, on
prospects the slowdown in the world’s second-largest economy has
reached a bottom.  The MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index added 0.2 percent to
1,013.36 at the close of trading in New York, the highest close
since Sept. 14.  Sany Heavy Equipment International Holdings Co. (631) 
jumped after data showed Chinese industrial production
accelerated last month. The  yuan  climbed beyond 6.25 per dollar
for the first time in 19 years. Brazil’s Vale SA dropped after
third-quarter iron-ore output fell. Russia’s OAO Gazprom, the
world’s biggest natural-gas producer, declined.  Chinese Premier  Wen Jiabao  said the country’s economic
 growth  has started to stabilize, a message underlined by data
today showing the nation’s industrial output rebounded from a
three-year low and retail sales surged the most in six months.
Emerging stocks pared gains after a report showed U.S. jobless
claims exceeded analysts’ estimates. The 21 countries in the
MSCI index send about 13 percent of exports to the U.S. on
average, according to the  World Trade Organization .  “There is an improvement of the sentiment on  China ,”
Martial Godet, head of strategy at BNP Paribas CIB in London,
said by e-mail. “The long-awaited stabilization of the Chinese
economy has finally arrived, with maybe even a mild pick-up.”  China Stocks  China’s  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  rallied 1.2 percent,
rising for a third day, the longest run of gains in more than a
month. The Hang Seng China Enterprises Index of Chinese
companies listed in  Hong Kong  advanced 1.4 percent to the
highest level since May. The BSE India  Sensitive Index (SENSEX)  added 1
percent.  Brazil’s Bovespa slid 0.6 percent and Russia’s Micex Index
gained 0.1 percent. Turkey’s ISE National 100 Index retreated
0.5 percent, snapping a 10-day advance. Hungary’s BUX index fell
1.7 percent, extending yesterday’s 0.7 percent drop after the
government backtracked on a promise to cut a special bank tax in
half and said it plans to push ahead with a transaction levy.  The iShares MSCI Emerging Markets Index exchange-traded
fund, the ETF tracking developing-nation shares, slipped 0.3
percent. The Chicago Board Options Exchange Emerging Markets ETF
Volatility Index, a measure of options prices on the fund and
expectations of price swings, rose 1.4 percent.  The extra yield investors demand to own emerging-market
debt over U.S. Treasuries fell three basis points, or 0.03
percentage point, to 269, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s
EMBI Global Index.  European Summit  French President  Francois Hollande  said efforts to stem the
debt crisis may unravel if  member states  fail to deliver on
their promises, as European Union leaders started a two-day
meeting in Brussels. Hollande called on the euro area to
introduce a banking union, provide economic help to countries
that reduce budget deficits, and show investors that Greece can
stay in the single currency if it abides by its commitments.  “Investors hope to see European Union leaders agree to new
measures or at least a more unified approach to containing the
crisis in the region,”  Chris Weafer , Sberbank Investment
Research chief strategist in Moscow, said in an e-mailed report.  Vale slipped 0.5 percent. OGX Petroleo & Gas Participacoes
SA, the  oil company  controlled by billionaire  Eike Batista , fell
5.9 percent to the lowest level since July 26 after saying it
started reducing its exploratory drilling fleet. Online retailer
 B2W Cia Global do Varejo  tumbled 8.5 percent after Amazon.com
Inc. was said to be in talks to buy competitor Saraiva SA
Livreiros Editores.  Gazprom slid 0.5 percent in Moscow and OAO GMK  Norilsk
Nickel , Russia’s largest producer of the metal, fell 1.1
percent.  Top Gainers  U.S. jobless claims increased to 388,000 in the week ended
Oct. 13, Labor Department figures showed today in Washington.
The median forecast of 49 economists surveyed by Bloomberg
called for a rise in claims to 365,000.  Gauges of industrial and telecommunication shares were the
best performers among the  10 industry groups  in the  MSCI
Emerging Markets Index (MXEF) , rising by at least 0.8 percent. Health-
care and utility stocks led declines. The broader measure has
climbed 11 percent this year, trailing a 13 percent advance by
the  MSCI World Index (MXWO)  of developed countries. The developing-
markets gauge trades at 11.6 times estimated earnings, compared
with the MSCI World’s multiple of 13.4, data compiled by
Bloomberg show.  Chinese Rebound  China’s Wen said the government is confident of achieving
annual targets and the economy will continue to show “positive
changes,” Xinhua News Agency reported, citing his comments in
meetings he held with industry leaders, company executives and
some local government officials on Oct. 12-15.  China’s industrial production rose 9.2 percent in
September, rebounding from a three-year low of 8.9 percent
expansion in August, today’s statistics bureau report showed.  Retail sales  advanced  14.2 percent in September from a year
earlier, the most since March, compared with the 13.2 percent
median estimate. Fixed-asset investment excluding rural
households rose 20.5 percent in the first three quarters, higher
than the 20.2 percent median forecast in a survey.  The central bank raised its yuan fixing for a sixth day
after U.S. Republican presidential candidate  Mitt Romney 
reiterated he will label China a currency manipulator if he wins
next month.  Sany Heavy, a construction-equipment maker, surged 9.2
percent in Hong Kong, the most in more than a year. Zoomlion
Heavy Industry Science & Technology Co. climbed 6.6 percent,
while China Shipping Development Co. rallied 5.5 percent.  EMC Instytut Medyczny SA (EMC)  jumped 15 percent in Warsaw, the
most since June 2007, after private-equity fund EQT Partners AB
said it’s seeking to buy a stake in the health clinic chain.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Saeromi Shin in Seoul at 
 sshin15@bloomberg.net ;
Maria Levitov in London at 
 mlevitov@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  