-- Ten Commandments Judge Battles Bomb Victim’s Son in Alabama Race
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   N e w k i r k
-- 2012-10-18T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-18/ten-commandments-judge-battles-bomb-victim-s-son-in-alabama-race.html
Roy Moore, the Republican candidate
and leading contender for chief justice of the  Alabama  Supreme
Court, delivered a speech this week on some of his favorite
topics: God, greed, guns, lust, hypocrisy and the Constitution.  The U.S. Constitution “is a restriction of the fallen
nature of man,” Moore, 65, said. “And when you have a fallen
nature, you succumb to greed and lust, which you can see in our
government.”  Following the speech at the Birmingham Kiwanis
Club, which received 10 seconds of scattered applause, audience
members declined to speak about Moore’s candidacy.  Alabama attracted international attention nine years ago
after Moore was ousted as chief justice for defying a court
order to remove a five-ton granite monument of the Ten
Commandments from his courthouse. Despite the notoriety, Moore
is poised to win back his old job, even absent the kind of
business donations that have made Alabama Supreme Court races
the most  expensive  in the U.S. The race exemplifies the grip the
Republican Party now has on the country’s Deep South.  In Alabama and much of the region, even a disgraced
Republican is now better than none, Natalie Davis, professor of
political science at Birmingham-Southern College, said in a
phone interview.  “I don’t think we’ll see another Democrat elected
statewide for the next 30 years, unless Nick Saban runs as
one,” Davis said, referring to the coach of the reigning
national champion University of Alabama  football team .  Republican domination in Alabama is so complete that the
Democratic Party didn’t originally field candidates for any of
the five Alabama Supreme Court seats on the ballot November 6.  Assassinated Judge  Moore now will face Jefferson County Circuit Court Judge
Robert Vance Jr., 51, the son of a federal judge assassinated by
a mail bomb in 1989. The Democratic Party added him to the race
just two months ago.  Moore said he is running on his respect for the U.S.
Constitution and opposition to gay marriage, which he called
“the ultimate destruction of our country” at a rally last
week. Party officials say they support him. “Most people see
him as a godly man with strong convictions,” Republican state
party Chairman Bill Armistead said in a phone interview.  Vance said he’s campaigning on his competence and the
belief that Alabamians don’t want the kind of international
attention that Moore drew to the state in his first term. “We
really don’t need any more embarrassments like we had when he
the chief justice,” Vance said in a phone interview.  ‘Crazy Things’  The race has become one of the strangest in the U.S., said
J. Adam Skaggs, senior attorney with the Brennan Center for
Justice at  New York  University School of Law. “There have been
some crazy things happening in judicial races around the country
this year,” he said in a phone interview. “Alabama is in a
class by itself.”  Vance became the Democratic nominee in August after party
leaders forced Moore’s original challenger, Harry Lyon, off the
ballot. Lyon ran unopposed in the Democratic primary in March
after the party put up no other candidate. Lyon once suggested
that illegal immigrants should be hanged in public. He also used
his Facebook page to accuse Moore of devil worship.  Moore surprised both parties by winning the Republican
primary. “Both sides wished they’d paid more attention,” said
Jere Beasley, an Alabama trial lawyer who has won multi-million-
dollar verdicts.  By August, Democratic officials concluded Lyon was fit
neither to be a judge nor a Democrat, party chairman Mark
Kennedy said in a phone interview.  Outside Donors  Vance has raised more than $450,000 in his two months as a
candidate, including from the pro-business BizPac and an
employee political action committee of Alabama Power, a
subsidiary of Atlanta-based  Southern Co. (SO)   “The donation speaks for itself,” Alabama Power spokesman
Michael Sznajderman wrote in an e-mail, of the $5,000
contribution.  More than 80 percent of Moore’s donors are from outside
Alabama. His biggest is Michael Peroutka, a Maryland lawyer and
2004 presidential candidate for the Bible-based Constitution
Party, who donated $125,000 of the $640,000 Moore raised for
both the primary and general election. Peroutka didn’t return
calls for comment.  Trial lawyers also gave some of their money to Moore.  “Roy Moore was a very good judge for the victims we
represent,” said Beasley, a Democrat.  The Alabama Supreme Court became the nation’s top
battleground between Democratic trial lawyers and Republican
business leaders more than a decade ago, said Charlie Hall,
deputy executive director of Justice at Stake in  Washington ,
which opposes special interest money in the judicial system.  $44.1 Million  Studies by the group and the Brennan Center found Supreme
Court candidates in Alabama raised more campaign money than
those in any other state between 2000 and 2010, despite its
relatively small population of 4.8 million.  The candidates in Alabama raised $44.1 million in that
period. The closest competitors were  Pennsylvania , with $26.7
million and  Ohio , at $24.1 million. Both states were more than
twice as populous as Alabama, which also holds the U.S. record
for the most money raised for Supreme Court races in a single
year: $13 million in 2006.  Hall said the spending arose from Republican campaign
strategist Karl Rove’s discovery that civil liability was a
potent political issue for his party. Alabama was one of Rove’s
early laboratories, transforming what had been low-profile, low-
budget campaigns, he said in a phone interview. Rove “was hired
in 1994 by a group of Alabama business leaders who had seen the
success of the court reform efforts in  Texas ,” Sheena
Tahilramani, chief of staff for Washington, D.C.-based Karl Rove
& Co., wrote in an e-mail.  All the court justices are now Republican.  Poet and Kick Boxer  Moore, a writer of poetry and a Vietnam veteran, briefly
earned a living as a Texas kick boxer and Australian ranch hand
before returning to practice law in Alabama in 1985. Seven years
later, he was appointed circuit judge in Gadsden, where he put a
wooden plaque with the Ten Commandments in his courtroom,
prompting a 1995 suit by the American Civil Liberties Union. In
2000, with evangelical Christian support, he won the chief
justice seat and ultimately brought a granite version of the
monument to the Supreme Court building in Montgomery. The U.S.
District Court for the Middle District of Alabama ordered its
removal in 2002 and Moore, who didn’t comply, was ousted the
following year.  ‘Homosexual Lifestyle’  The monument was only part of the problem with Moore, said
Richard Cohen, president of the Southern Poverty Law Center in
Montgomery, which sued with the ACLU and does not take a stand
in political races. One Moore opinion said the state could use
its power to levy physical penalties, including execution, to
protect children from the “homosexual lifestyle,” he said. The
opinion included a legal citation to Leviticus in the King James
Bible.  A video of Moore being cross-examined still circulates on
the Internet. “I must acknowledge God,” he says in the video,
shortly before he is stripped of his job by an Alabama judicial
panel.  Moore spent the years since as president of The Foundation
for Moral Law in Montgomery, which advocates against abortion
rights and gay marriage. He also ran for governor but was
defeated in primaries in 2006 and 2010.  Moore said he’s been misunderstood. “I don’t think I’m a
radical,” he said, before beginning the Kiwanis speech that
included a history of the U.S. Pledge of Allegiance and remarks
by World War II General Douglas McArthur.  If elected, Moore will not bring back the Ten Commandments
monument, he said. “I won’t do it because it would confuse
people,” he said in an interview.“They would think it was about
my ego or willfulness or a monument or rock. It was never about
that. It was about the sovereignty of the Judeo-Christian God.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Margaret Newkirk in Atlanta at 
 mnewkirk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net 
Anita Sharpe at   asharpe6@bloomberg.net  