-- Ending Blind Loans to Aid Crackdown on 323% Rates: Brazil Credit
-- B y   B l a k e   S c h m i d t
-- 2012-10-18T13:13:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-18/ending-blind-loans-to-aid-crackdown-on-323-rates-brazil-credit.html
Brazilian President Dilma Rousseff
took the final step to enact legislation that may help achieve
her goal of reducing the highest credit-card rates in the
Americas, 16 months after the measure was approved by Congress.  The government published implementation rules today
for a law that paves the way for Brazil to establish consumer
credit scores for the first time. The changes open the way for
local affiliates of  Experian Plc (EXPN)  and  Equifax Inc. (EFX) , the world’s
biggest credit bureaus, to compile payment histories that
previous legislation barred them from accessing.  Brazil’s 323 percent average annual credit-card rates
compare with 17 percent in the U.S. and 34 percent in  Mexico ,
according to a  study  by consumer-defense association Proteste
published in July. The legal changes correspond with Rousseff’s
effort to get banks to cut lending rates after policy makers
lowered the benchmark to a record 7.25 percent last week to help
revive growth forecast to be the slowest since 2009.  “The big benefit is you can charge better customers less,
and worse customers more,” said Erico Ferreira, the Sao Paulo-
based head of Acrefi, Brazil’s association of credit, financing
and investment institutions. “You can offer better pricing.”  The law repeals rules that allow card issuers to only
gather data on defaults and delinquencies.  Credit Scoring  Credit scoring will help bolster Brazil’s credit card
expansion in years to come after lending grew 17 percent in the
12 months through August, compared with 19 percent the year
before, said Jose Renato Simao Borges, the former head of credit
cards at Osasco, Brazil-based  Banco Bradesco SA (BBDC4)  who is now
president of credit-card issuer Credz.  “In every country where credit scoring was allowed, credit
grew 50 percent afterwards,” Borges said in an interview.  Rousseff’s predecessor, Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva, vetoed
similar legislation in 2010, citing concerns by consumer groups
over privacy rights. Final approval by Rousseff was held up as
the government and credit bureaus debated privacy and liability
issues tied to collecting the data, according to Boa Vista
Servicos, a credit data company 15 percent owned by Equifax.  The new rules allow bureaus to track debt-to-income ratios
and payment punctuality and require that consumers provide
consent before their histories can be recorded.  Expanded Access  While Rousseff said in a nationally televised address on
Sept. 6 that she wasn’t satisfied with banks’ efforts to cut
borrowing costs, banks say the rates they charge reflect the
risk they take on. Default rates rose to 28 percent in August on
credit-card accounts at least 90 days overdue, almost four times
the  7.9 percent on consumer loans , according to data from the
central bank.  The new rules will expand access to credit for Brazilians
whose per capita income is 291 reais to 1,019 reais ($143 to
$502) a month, the classification for the nation’s emerging
middle class, Dorival Dourado, the president of Boa Vista, said
in an interview in his Sao Paulo office. Only 18 percent use
credit cards as their main form of payment, compared with 44
percent of those who earn at least 2,480 reais, according to Boa
Vista.  “The bureaus will allow companies to know more about these
people and create better conditions for lower rates,” Dourado
said.  Financial Data  The new rules will quadruple the amount of information
regulators have about the financial system, reaching 96 percent
of all individual loans, central bank President Alexandre Tombini said in March at an event in Sao Paulo to present the
revamped system. They will also help the central bank design
measures to ensure the financial system functions soundly, he
said.  Average credit-card rates in  Brazil  could be as much as 35
percent lower should banks be able to get an accurate profile of
whom they’re lending to, Dourado said. The old system caused all
customers who don’t have a record of default to be treated as
equally risky, he said.  While credit can improve the quality of life for Brazilians
emerging from poverty, many consumers aren’t prepared for the
responsibilities and risks of taking on debt, said  Larissa
Davidovich , who heads the unit for protection of highly indebted
consumers at the public defender’s office in Rio de Janeiro.  A  67 percent surge  in lending in Brazil in the last three
years as more people became eligible for credit helped push the
default rate on credit cards to a three-year high in August,
sapping consumer demand and threatening to saddle banks with
losses.  Credit Education  “The problem is the accumulation of debt by people who
don’t have the education or preparation and aren’t aware of what
they’re getting into,” Davidovich said at an event in Sao Paulo
held by the association of credit-card businesses. “We are
receiving more and more requests from people in drastic
situations, like a woman who amassed 14 credit cards.”  The extra yield investors demand to own Brazilian
government dollar bonds instead of U.S. Treasuries fell one
basis point, or 0.01 percentage point, to 134 basis points at
10:11 a.m. in Sao Paulo, according to  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)   The cost of protecting Brazilian bonds against default for
five years rose one basis point to 110 basis points, according
to prices compiled by Bloomberg. Credit-default swaps pay the
buyer face value in exchange for the underlying securities or
the cash equivalent if a borrower fails to adhere to its debt
agreements.  Default Rates  The real strengthened 0.1 percent to 2.0292 per dollar.
Yields on interest-rate futures contracts due in January 2014
fell two basis points to 7.41 percent.  Personal loan default rates have peaked and will drop amid
slowing credit growth as banks stop extending loans to the
riskiest borrowers, said Ricardo Loureira, the president of
Serasa Experian, Brazil’s largest credit data provider, which is
controlled by Dublin-based Experian said in a telephone
interview.  Positive credit histories will lead to more credit for
those with a record of paying on time and will increase the
volume of transactions, he said in a phone interview from Sao
Paulo.  “The previous model has been exhausted for the dimensions
of credit in Brazil,” Loureira said. “It’s no longer possible
to continue  managing risk  with the previous model.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Blake Schmidt in Sao Paulo at 
 bschmidt16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Tsang at 
 mtsang1@bloomberg.net  