-- England Players Needed Sleeping Pills in Poland: Soccer Roundup
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2012-10-18T06:09:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-18/england-players-needed-sleeping-pills-in-poland-soccer-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of soccer
stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable Internet links.  Sleeping Pills  Some of  England ’s players needed sleeping pills after
taking caffeine tablets before the  World Cup  qualifying match 
in  Poland , which was was postponed by 20 hours because of
heavy rain, the  Independent reported .  The players were ready to warm up for the match in Warsaw
two days ago and some of them had taken the caffeine tablets
because they thought the game would go ahead as scheduled, the
newspaper said. It was not clear which players required help to
sleep before yesterday’s rescheduled game, which finished 1-1,
the Independent added.  No Appeal  John Terry  is set to announce that he won’t appeal against
a Football Association Commission finding that he racially
abused Queens Park Rangers defender  Anton Ferdinand  during a
match last year, the  Sun reported .  The Chelsea captain will begin a four-match ban, starting
with the Premier League game at Tottenham in two days, and pay a
220,000-pound ($355,000) fine, which were the penalties imposed
by the commission three weeks ago, the newspaper added.  Goalkeeping Shortage  Arsenal is facing a goalkeeping crisis after Lukasz
Fabianksi damaged ankle ligaments during training this week, the
 Daily Mail reported .  With first-choice goalkeeper Wojciech Szczesny still three
weeks short of recovering from his ankle injury, Fabianski’s
absence means Vito Mannone will continue in goal with Damian
Martinez, 20, and James Shea, 21, as back-up, the Mail said.  Birmingham Sell-off  Birmingham may have to sell Jack Butland, 19, and Nathan
Redmond, 18, in January unless the Championship club finds a new
owner, the  Daily Mirror reported .  Everton and Southampton have been linked with England
under-21 goalkeeper Butland, while winger Redmond is on
 Manchester City ’s radar, the newspaper added.  Liverpool Tracks Locadia  Liverpool is monitoring 18-year-old Dutch striker Jurgen
Locadia, who scored an 11-minute hat trick in PSV Eindhoven’s
6-0 defeat of VVV Venlo last month, the  same newspaper reported .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  