-- Merkel Challenger Steinbrueck Says Crisis Fund Can’t Be Too Big
-- B y   B r i a n   P a r k i n
-- 2012-10-18T11:25:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-18/merkel-challenger-steinbrueck-says-crisis-fund-can-t-be-too-big.html
Chancellor Angela Merkel’s 2013
election challenger said she is involved in a “double game”
during the debt crisis, playing off bailout skeptics in her
coalition against European partners that demand  Germany  does
more to defend the euro.  Peer Steinbrueck , Merkel’s first-term finance minister who
is the main opposition Social Democratic Party’s lead candidate
in elections due next fall, told lower-house lawmakers in Berlin
today that Merkel will eventually have to agree to do more to
fight the crisis three years after it emerged in Greece.  “No rescue fund can be too big for this  Europe  of 500
million people,” Steinbrueck said in a speech to lawmakers
including Merkel before she travels to Brussels for a European
summit. “Germany’s future is Europe and we will have to invest
in this future in exactly the same way we invested in the
reunification of Germany.” It is Merkel’s “duty” to explain
this to Germans, he said.  Steinbrueck used his first direct response to Merkel since
his nomination this month to attack her crisis handling. Both he
and Merkel have said the crisis will be a key campaign theme for
the national elections.  ‘Mobbing’ Greece  The SPD challenger accused Merkel’s coalition of
“mobbing”  Greece  over the summer months, when members of her
CSU Bavarian coalition partner said that Greece should be “cut
free” from the euro. Neither Helmut Kohl, Merkel’s one-time
mentor, nor any of her predecessors “would have allowed their
European partners to be abused like that for domestic political
reasons,” Steinbrueck said.  Steinbrueck predicted that for all her current objections,
Merkel will probably have to agree to a third Greek bailout,
just as he said she overturned her prior opposition to the
European Central Bank buying sovereign bonds, the permanent
rescue fund and ECB President Mario Draghi’s bond-buying
concept.  Merkel “has become driven, someone who says no for so long
until the pressure of reality threatens to blow the lid on pan,
forcing you to say yes,” Steinbrueck said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Parkin in Berlin at 
 bparkin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  