-- Hertz Extends FTC Deadline on Dollar Thrifty Deal
-- B y   M a r k   C l o t h i e r
-- 2012-10-18T20:12:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-18/hertz-extends-ftc-deadline-on-dollar-thrifty-deal.html
Hertz Global Holdings Inc. (HTZ) , which
has tried to acquire  Dollar Thrifty Automotive Group Inc. (DTG)  for
half a decade, agreed to extend the deadline for the Federal
Trade Commission to rule on the $2.6 billion acquisition.  The deadline was extended to Nov. 16 from Oct. 31 because
the FTC hasn’t finished reviewing information provided by the
companies, Hertz said in a statement.  The $87.50-a-share offer represents an 8 percent premium to
 Dollar Thrifty ’s closing price of $81 on Aug. 24. The price is
more than twice the $41-a-share Hertz offered in April 2010.
Hertz wants to buy Dollar Thrifty to secure its place as the No.
2 player in the U.S. market.  Chief Executive Officer Mark Frissora’s pending acquisition
of Dollar Thrifty may be the last combination of major U.S. car
rental companies able to obtain regulatory approval. Hertz,
Enterprise Rent-A-Car and  Avis Budget Group Inc. (CAR)  together
control about 75 percent of the market, with Dollar Thrifty at 5
percent, according to a February report from IBISWorld. No other
competitor holds more than 1 percent, IBISWorld said.  As part of the Dollar Thrifty acquisition, Hertz agreed to
sell its Advantage brand to appease FTC concerns that Hertz
would gain too much of the leisure market. The Dollar and
Thrifty brands compete with Advantage on the budget end of the
leisure car-rental market.  Hertz began its pursuit of Tulsa, Oklahoma-based Dollar
Thrifty in April 2007 and made a formal bid in 2010 of about
$1.2 billion that  Dollar Thrifty shareholders  rejected.  Park
Ridge , New Jersey-based Hertz made another offer last year that
it later withdrew, citing market conditions.  Hertz fell 0.5 percent to $14.73 at the close in  New York .
Dollar Thrifty declined 2 percent to $85.11.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Clothier in Southfield, Michigan at 
 mclothier@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  