-- Tesco Stumbles With Wal-Mart as China Shoppers Buy Local
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-10-19T08:36:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-18/tesco-stumbles-with-wal-mart-as-china-shoppers-buy-local.html
Tesco Plc (TSCO)  this week is trying to
lure Chinese shoppers with promotions on soy sauce, cooking oil
and apples. Emily Zhang still won’t do much of her shopping
there.  The 30-year-old Shanghai resident buys most of her produce
at an informal market close to home where daily supplies are
fresh, the location convenient and friendly vendors throw in the
occasional cooking tip.  Shoppers such as Zhang are pushing Tesco to shut Chinese
outlets and open new ones more slowly two years after announcing
plans to double stores and build more 400,000-square-foot malls.
Hindered by the country’s slowest economic growth since the 2009
financial crisis and competition from local markets and regional
chains, the Cheshunt, England-based retailer’s  China  same-store
sales declined 1 percent in the second quarter.  Tesco’s China pullback reflects the hurdles global big box
retail chains face in Asia, where the realities of complex local
markets and slowing economies are damping dreams of easy
expansion. The world’s largest retailer,  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT) ,
is also adding outlets more gradually than it had planned in
China’s 3.5 trillion yuan ($560 billion) grocery industry.  Carrefour SA (CA)  is closing shops in  Singapore  after failing to
overtake domestic competitors. Same-store sales at Carrefour,
the world’s second-largest retailer, fell 6.1 percent in China
in the third quarter, excluding currency swings, and declined
3.1 percent in Asia, it said this month.  “It’s more of a marathon than a sprint,” said  Philip Clarke , Tesco’s chief executive officer, referring to China on
an October conference call. “Many retailers putting down more
space in the market; few seeing that translate into profitable
growth.”  An Indian lawmaker has written to Prime Minister  Manmohan
Singh ’s office, questioning whether Wal-Mart violated rules in
its  India  investments, according to a commerce ministry official
in New Delhi, who asked not to be identified as he isn’t
authorized to speak on the subject. The prime minister’s office
has passed the letter on to other departments for examination
and hasn’t requested a probe, the official said.  Wal-Mart is in “complete compliance,” with India’s
investment laws, it said in an e-mailed statement. “All
procedures and processes have been duly followed and details
filed with relevant Indian government authorities,” the
statement said. India’s government in September decided to allow
foreign companies to invest in multi-brand store chains, a
sector they had previously been barred from.  Local Rivals  Tesco in October posted its  first profit drop  in almost two
decades for the first half of its fiscal year, with so-called
trading profit  declining  3.8 percent in Asia, where rising
incomes drove surging demand for proteins and groceries over the
last decade.  Chains are probably curbing China expansion because “the
rate of same-store sales increases is not what they were
expecting it to be,” said Bloomberg Industries analyst Charles
Allen. “The rate of addition of capacity has probably exceeded
the growth of the market.”  Tesco, Wal-Mart and Carrefour all lag  Sun Art Retail Group
Ltd. (6808) , a venture between Taiwan’s RT-Mart and France’s Groupe
Auchan, by share of China’s hypermarket industry, according to
data from London-based researcher Euromonitor International.  ’More Nimble’  Sun Art and regional stores such as  Yonghui Superstores Co. (601933) 
and  China Resources Enterprise Ltd. (291) ’s Suguo chain built a strong
presence in smaller cities, making it harder for foreign players
to win over these so-called tier-two and three cities, said
Vivian Liu, an analyst at Sinopac Securities Asia Ltd.  Sun Art shares climbed as much as 2.1 percent in  Hong Kong 
today, the biggest gain since Sept. 7, before closing up 1.7
percent at HK$10.56. Yonghui Superstores climbed as much as 2.5
percent before closing 0.9 percent higher at 24.91  yuan , its
highest close since July 6. China Resources Enterprise added as
much as 1.6 percent.  Regional chains “know local practice better and that
allows them to be more nimble and pragmatic in areas such as
supply-chain management,” Liu said. Big cities, where foreign
companies first entered, are “quite saturated and competition
is fierce,” according to Liu.  Global retailers have been taking steps to advance in China
for more than a decade. They got a boost from the country’s 2001
entry into the  World Trade Organization , which eased
restrictions on foreign investment.  Before joining the WTO, China required overseas retailers
to form ventures with local partners. Those restrictions
gradually eased and by 2004 the retailers were permitted to have
wholly owned operations, prompting them to ramp up growth. Tesco
entered China in 2004 as part of a joint venture of the Hymall
chain of hypermarkets, which it subsequently bought.  Wal-Mart, which entered China in 1996, in 2007 invested in
closely held grocery and appliance store chain Trust-Mart.  Their expansions now face a road bump as  China’s economy 
has unexpectedly weakened. The  International Monetary Fund  in
October reduced its estimate for China’s growth this year to 7.8
percent.  Fewer Outlets  In 2010, Tesco planned to double China hypermarkets and
shopping malls to 200 in five years. Now, instead of opening
around 20 stores a year, it will open 16 hypermarkets this year.
It closed four outlets in August. It’s also building fewer
shopping malls than planned.  “Conditions remain difficult and no doubt China is still
in the red,” for Tesco, said Investec Ltd. analyst Dave McCarthy, who has a sell rating on the U.K. retailer. “Just
because China is big, this does not make it attractive and
building large stores there may not be the right answer.” The
company doesn’t disclose China earnings.  Tesco got about 1.3 billion pounds ($2.1 billion), or 2
percent, of its global revenue of 64.5 billion pounds from China
in the year ended February, according to  data  compiled by
Bloomberg.  Rival Wal-Mart has said it is opening fewer China stores
this year than originally planned, adding only half the square
footage it had forecast.  Drawing Shoppers  The U.S. retailer reported a 5 percent decline in second-
quarter traffic, a measure of visitors, to China stores and
gross profit that was little changed on a 5 percent rise in
sales on a comparable basis. The company didn’t provide specific
earnings numbers for China.  The retailer continues to open China stores and sales rose
in the fiscal second quarter, spokeswoman Christina Lee said in
a statement via e-mail. Wal-Mart China is cutting back on its
expansion to improve “site selection and store design, optimize
customer shopping experiences,” she said.  Industry’s Challenges  Research published by the China Chain Store and Franchise
Association shows the country’s retail industry facing “a
number of new challenges” that include the need to
“restructure” traditional business models and enhance
profitability, Wal-Mart said in its statement. The Bentonville,
 Arkansas , retailer wants to “achieve greater efficiencies” in
its China business after building a strong business there,
according to the e-mail.  Foreign retailers have had hiccups in other parts of Asia.
Carrefour in August said it will shut its Singapore stores
before the end of 2012 amid competition from local chains such
as NTUC FairPrice and  Dairy Farm International Holdings Ltd. (DFI) ,
two years after closing stores in  Thailand .  In  South Korea , Tesco’s second-largest market after
Britain, profit was hurt by restrictions to store opening hours
that are forcing the retailer to shut all stores for two Sundays
a month.  Future Growth  China’s gross domestic product expanded 7.4 percent in the
third quarter, slowing for the seventh straight quarter,
although industrial production, retail sales and fixed-asset
investment accelerated in September.  The foreign retailers are still predicting they will
benefit from Asia over time. Tesco will stick with China
“because there is still significant opportunity for future
growth,” Clarke told reporters on Oct. 3. The Chinese retail
industry has great potential due to stable economic growth and
government policies to boost demand, said Wal-Mart’s Lee in the
e-mail statement. Carrefour has maintained its pace of store
openings in China, adding about 20 per year for this year and
last.  Even shoppers such as Zhang, who favor “wet” markets,
still do part of their shopping at big-box retailers. Zhang says
she turns to modern supermarkets for some of her vegetable
shopping, or special items such as basil and rosemary.  In the near term, however, if China’s economic slowdown
prolongs, the chains could see bigger slowdowns, said Liu, the
analyst at SinoPac. “It will take longer to recover their
investments on new operations, profits may not reach previous
levels and expansion plans may contract further.”  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Sarah Shannon in London at 
 sshannon4@bloomberg.net ;
Alfred Cang in Shanghai at 
 acang@bloomberg.net ;
Aipeng Soo in Beijing at 
 asoo4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net ;
Stephanie Wong at 
 swong139@bloomberg.net  