-- Estonia’s Ansip Sees ‘Significant’ Lithuania Nuclear Plant Risks
-- B y   O t t   U m m e l a s
-- 2012-10-18T08:55:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-18/estonia-s-ansip-sees-significant-lithuania-nuclear-plant-risks.html
Risks to the construction of
 Lithuania ’s new nuclear plant, where Latvia and Estonia are due
to become partners, have increased “significantly” after
voters rejected the idea in a referendum last weekend, Estonian
Prime Minister  Andrus Ansip  said.  The results of Lithuania’s consultative referendum on Oct.
14, where more than 60 percent of voters rejected the reactor,
may “add arguments” for Estonia to commission a second oil
shale-fired power unit from  Alstom SA (ALO) , Ansip said in parliament
in Tallinn late yesterday. The option was reserved under the
contract signed in January, 2011.  Lithuania seeks to build a new nuclear reactor in co-
operation with its Baltic neighbors as it imports about 70
percent of electricity following the closure of the Soviet-built
Ignalina reactor in 2009 as a condition to join the European
Union. Visagino Atomine Elektrine UAB, the project developer,
said yesterday it will continue preparation works.  “We need to cover about 300 megawatt of electricity demand
from some other resources, new resources,” Ansip said. “We
have planned to participate in the new Visaginas nuclear plant
and we would like to get a stake of 300 megawatt from there and
we hope this project will still be implemented, even though
considering Lithuania’s referendum, the risks associated with
the project have significantly increased.”  Alstom is due to complete a 640 million-euro ($838
million), 300-megawatt plant in Auvere, northeastern  Estonia , by
the end of 2015, according to state-owned AS Eesti Energia.
Estonia needs to decide on the option of building a second unit
during the first half of next year, Ansip said yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ott Ummelas in Tallinn at 
 oummelas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  