-- EU Budget Freeze the Most Britain Will Tolerate, Alexander Says
-- B y   G o n z a l o   V i n a
-- 2012-10-18T12:40:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-18/eu-budget-freeze-the-most-britain-will-tolerate-alexander-says.html
U.K. Chief Secretary to the Treasury
 Danny Alexander  reiterated a call for the European Union to
freeze its budget, saying “excessive spending” risks eroding
support for the austerity being imposed in its member states.  European Commission President  Jose Barroso  should follow
national governments across the EU and find ways to reduce
spending rather than increase it, Alexander said in a speech in
 Rome  today. The commission is seeking a budget increase of more
than 100 billion euros ($130 billion) over the next seven years,
he said.  “The commission’s proposal is the wrong proposal at the
wrong time,” Alexander said, according to remarks released by
his office. “It is completely divorced from economic reality
facing ordinary people across  Europe . A real freeze is the most
we can accept.”  The comments come as Prime Minister  David Cameron  heads for
talks with EU leaders at a summit in Brussels starting today.
Cameron said this month he’s prepared to use the British veto
again unless he gets a “good deal” in negotiations over the
2014-20 budget.  The U.K. gets a refund from its contribution to the EU
budget and has long opposed increasing it given that 40 percent
goes to agriculture. The commission, the 27-nation bloc’s
executive arm, said total spending over the seven years starting
in 2014 should be a maximum 1 trillion euros.  France is the biggest beneficiary of European farm aid,
which the commission wants to shift to growth-boosting areas in
the wake of the worst recession since World War II. The U.K.’s
budget rebate, which then Prime Minister  Margaret Thatcher 
negotiated in 1984 when Britain was one of the poorer
countries in the bloc, was worth 3.5 billion euros in 2010.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gonzalo Vina in London at 
 gvina@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  