-- EU Lawyers Say ECB Oversight Requires Rethink of EBA Mediation
-- B y   J i m   B r u n s d e n
-- 2012-10-18T09:57:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-18/eu-lawyers-say-ecb-oversight-requires-rethink-of-eba-mediation.html
European Union lawyers called for a
reexamination of draft rules for the European Banking Authority
in light of plans to give the European Central Bank oversight
over euro-area lenders.  EU plans unveiled in September to hand supervision powers
to the ECB need to be reviewed to ensure the Frankfurt-based
central bank doesn’t have privileged status at the EBA,
according to the legal opinion, prepared by the legal service of
the EU’s Council of Ministers and obtained by  Bloomberg News .  “Differences in treatment between the ECB and the national
competent authorities of non-euro-zone  member states  are not
justifiable,” according to the document, dated Oct. 9. The
provisions in the draft law “should be reexamined so as to
ensure equal treatment of all  credit institutions  concerned.”  The legal service’s opinion adds to calls from nations
including  Sweden  and the U.K. to rethink how the supervisory
plans will affect the EBA. The concerns center on legal rules
that would give the EBA the power to give binding instructions
to national supervisors, while being unable to do the same for
the ECB.  Anders Borg, Sweden’s finance minister, has described the
plans as “unacceptable.”  The legal service endorsed proposals to create a
supervisory board within the ECB on condition that the final
decision-making power of the central bank’s Governing Council
remains unaffected. Non-euro nations could also participate on
the board on this basis.  The supervision laws should also “clearly” set out how
the ECB would collaborate with national regulators, according to
the document.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Brunsden in Brussels at 
 jbrunsden@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  