-- Level Global Manager Seeks to Show Partner Traded Too
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o   a n d   K a t h e r i n e   B u r t o n
-- 2012-10-18T12:46:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-18/level-global-manager-seeks-to-show-partner-traded-too.html
Level Global Investors LP co-founder
Anthony Chiasson, who faces trial Oct. 29 for insider trading of
two technology companies, asked to present jurors with an
analysis he said shows the hedge fund’s other co-founder, David Ganek, made trades in the same stocks at the same time.  While Ganek hasn’t been accused of wrongdoing, Chiasson’s
lawyers told a judge in an Oct. 3 letter that they want to
introduce evidence showing the fund manager’s trading in  Dell
Inc. (DELL)  and Nvidia Corp. occurred in the same period their client
was accused of insider trading. The two men were co-heads of
Level Global’s largest fund before the firm closed.  The government, opposing the request, said such testimony
wasn’t relevant to the case. Prosecutors, however, acknowledged
in a court filing that Chiasson had two uncharged co-
conspirators at Level Global, though their names were blacked
out. If the defense can show others may have been responsible
for the Dell and Nvidia trades, it could create reasonable doubt
for the jury.  “Chiasson shared discretion over the (only) two funds at
Level Global with two other individuals, who have been named as
co-conspirators by the government,” Assistant U.S. Attorneys
Antonia Apps, Richard Tarlowe and John Zach wrote. Chiasson
faces as long as 20 years in prison if convicted.  Wide-Ranging Probe  Manhattan U.S. Attorney  Preet Bharara , whose office has
pursued a wide-ranging probe of hedge funds that has yielded 70
convictions, alleged Chiasson and former Diamondback Capital
Management LLC portfolio manager Todd Newman were part of a
tight-knit group of fund managers and analysts who engaged in
insider trading of 13 stocks. Chiasson and Newman earned more
than $67 million in illicit profits, the U.S. said. Both men,
who were first charged in January, have pleaded not guilty.  Ganek and Chiasson were running Level Global when it closed
in February 2011 due to the federal investigation. Chiasson and
Newman were charged along with five other fund managers,
analysts and technology company employees who allegedly swapped
illegal tips about Nvidia and Dell.  Greg Morvillo and Reid Weingarten, Chiasson’s defense
lawyers, wrote U.S. District Judge Richard Sullivan in Manhattan
federal court seeking to have expert testimony by a finance
professor presented at trial. They contend that much of the
trading at the hedge fund in Nvidia and Dell stock was directed
“not by Mr. Chiasson but by others at Level Global.”  Professor Mukesh Bajaj, of the University of California at
Berkeley, “may identify which of the trades at issue with
regard to Dell Inc. and Nvdia Corp. were directed by Mr.
Ganek,” they told Sullivan, who presides over the case.  Identify Trades  Bajaj’s testimony “may identify which of the trades at
issue with regard to Dell Inc. And  Nvidia Corp. (NVDA)  (together, the
‘charged stocks’) were directed by Mr. Ganek,” the defense
lawyers wrote in their letter. “Bajaj may identify instances
where the government has alleged that Mr. Chiasson received
material non-public information and yet Level Global’s records
reflect no trading by either Messers. Chiasson or Ganek.”  Prosecutors said Bajaj should be barred from testifying
because the defense hasn’t revealed what trades were reviewed in
his analysis. He would have to determine which trades were
executed by Chiasson in order for his testimony to provide “any
meaningful comparisons in trading analysis of trades executed,”
the government said in its Oct. 12 filing, which included the
defense letter to the judge. Morvillo declined to comment.  Ganek’s lawyer, John Carroll, said if prosecutors don’t
specify at trial the trades Chiasson made that are the subject
of his prosecution, the defense must make clear to jurors “what
trades he made and what trades were done by others.”  Pointing Fingers  “What Chiasson is doing is identifying people who may have
traded in this stock,” Carroll said in an interview. “He’s not
pointing the finger at anybody else, including my client. “If
the government accuses us of that, then we’ll defend it.”  In a revised indictment filed Aug. 28, prosecutors claimed
Chiasson helped illegally boost Level Global’s profits by $67
million, including $53 million from alleged insider trading in
Dell stock during trades in August 2008.  “The government’s alleged illegal profit amounts are
profoundly inflated,” Morvillo and Weingarten said in court
papers. “Much of Level Global’s trading in these stocks was
directed not by Mr. Chiasson but by others at Level Global.”  The defense lawyers, arguing prosecutors are trying to hold
their client responsible for trading he didn’t do, pointed to
the unidentified Level Global employees noted in the
government’s court filings.  Held Liable  “Although the government contends those individuals are
unindicted co-conspirators, for whose conduct Mr. Chiasson may
be held liable,” Morvillo and Weingarten wrote, “it would be
misleading and unfair for the government to suggest inaccurately
to the jury without explication, that all of Level Global’s
profits in Dell and Nvidia are ill-gotten and attributable
solely to Mr. Chiasson’s actions.”  Carroll said the government hasn’t told him the identities
of the unindicted co-conspirators.  “There were other people at the fund who were authorized
and could trade at Level Global,” Carroll said. “There were
absolutely more than two people.”  The government also argued that Bajaj shouldn’t be
permitted to testify about parallel trading by others at Level
Global, or about who at the fund directed particular trades,
because he has no first-hand knowledge of who directed the
trades in both stocks and options.  ‘Compare Options’  The defense “also states that Dr. Bajaj may compare
options trading by David,” the government wrote of one man,
with the last name blacked out, “and Chiasson to show the lack
of correlation between their use of options.”  “This is irrelevant to the question of whether Chiasson
committed insider trading,” the prosecutors said.  Carroll said that, while others at Level Global may have
traded in the technology stocks during the relevant period,
“the government has investigated this case for two years and
put all sorts of manpower to this insider-trading probe,
including wiretaps and a search, and my client hasn’t been
contacted by the government and hasn’t been charged.”  Carroll, previously the chief of the securities and
commodities fraud unit at the  Manhattan  U.S. Attorney’s office,
is a partner at Skadden Arps Slate Meagher & Flom LLP who
specializes in white-collar crime and regulatory enforcement.  He previously defended John Milne, United Rentals Inc.’s
former chief financial officer, on federal fraud charges, and
Gary Crittenden, Citigroup Inc.’s ex-CFO, in a Securities &
Exchange Commission-related matter.  Settled Claims  Carroll also recently advised Adam Galeon, a former Credit
Suisse analyst who settled claims by the New York Stock Exchange
that he told clients about a company’s earnings forecast a day
before the information was made public.  Ganek has never received material nonpublic information,
Carroll said. Buying or selling stock based on such information
may constitute insider trading.  The lawyer added that he hasn’t spoken with prosecutors
during the two years of the investigation.  “I think that says quite a lot,” Carroll said.  Ganek, 49, and Chiasson, 39, founded Level Global in 2003,
after meeting at SAC Capital Advisors LP, Steven A. Cohen’s
hedge fund in  Stamford ,  Connecticut . A New York native, Ganek’s
father, Howard Ganek, was a partner at money management firm
Neuberger Berman and a well-known philanthropist.  Multimillion-Dollar Homes  The younger Ganek, and his wife, Danielle, an author of two
comic novels that feature New York’s upper class, own
multimillion-dollar homes. These include a beachfront property
in Southampton on New York’s Long Island they bought for $12.7
million, and a $19.1 million Park Avenue duplex in Manhattan.  Ganek sits on the board of the Guggenheim Museum and has a
large modern art collection that includes works by Diane Arbus,
Richard Prince and  Ed Ruscha .  The hedge fund manager graduated from Franklin & Marshall
College in Lancaster,  Pennsylvania  in 1985, where he received a
bachelor’s degree in government and was captain of the squash
team.  Ganek later joined New York investment bank Donaldson,
Lufkin & Jenrette, where he worked on the risk-arbitrage desk.
After an eight-month stint at NatWest Bank USA in New York, he
started hedge fund G&O Partners LP with Paul Orwicz, which they
closed after only a few years.  SAC Capital founder Cohen offered Ganek a job in 1997,
asking him to trade technology stocks. Two years later, Chiasson
joined SAC as a technology analyst, working with Ganek.  Strong Returns  Ganek produced strong returns in 2000 in his $300 million
portfolio, even as the technology bubble burst, and the two men
used that track record to help raise about $500 million and open
Level Global, according to a person familiar with the matter who
asked not to be named because the information was private.  In February 2011, the two men closed the $4 billion Level
Global hedge fund, citing the U.S. insider trading probe.  Level Global was among four firms that were raided by the
FBI in November 2010.  Chiasson and Diamondback’s Newman are charged with
conspiracy and securities fraud, which carries a term of as long
as 20 years in prison. John Nathanson, a lawyer for Newman,
didn’t return a call seeking comment.  Jon Horvath, a former analyst at SAC’s Sigma unit, pleaded
guilty Sept. 28 to conspiracy to commit securities fraud and two
counts of securities fraud.  Horvath, who was scheduled for trial with Chiasson and
Newman admitted passing inside information to his portfolio
manager at Sigma about Round Rock, Texas-based Dell in August
2008 and Santa Clara, California-based Nvidia in May 2009.  Broader Probe  To date, six of the eight people charged in Chiasson’s case
pleaded guilty and are cooperating with the government. Only
Newman and Chiasson remain, having denied any wrongdoing.  Carroll, Ganek’s lawyer, said Chiasson’s request to present
evidence at trial about others at Level Global is an effort to
“point out trading” that the government doesn’t make clear,
rather than sullying Ganek.  “The government knows how to charge people and they
haven’t shown any shyness at all about bringing cases,” Carroll
said. “My client hasn’t been charged in two years.”  The case is U.S. v. Newman, 12-00124, U.S. District Court,
Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in Manhattan federal court
at   pathurtado@bloomberg.net  and;
Katherine Burton in New York at   kburton@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net ;
Christian Baumgaertel at   cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net . 