-- Ford’s Fields Says Luxury Automakers Pull Ahead Discouts
-- B y   C r a i g   T r u d e l l
-- 2012-10-19T20:06:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-18/ford-s-fields-says-luxury-automakers-pulling-ahead-discounts.html
Luxury automakers are moving up
their annual year-end discounts earlier in 2012 in a bid to
outsell one another in the U.S., said  Mark Fields ,  Ford Motor
Co. (F) ’s president of the Americas.  “You’re seeing some of the luxury brands actually pushing
even earlier now for what used to start Dec. 1,” Fields told
reporters yesterday as the automaker celebrated the opening of a
new design studio for its Lincoln premium brand near its
Dearborn, Michigan, headquarters. “We’re seeing more activity
there.”  Bayerische Motoren Werke AG (BMW)  is shifting allocation of
thousands of its cars to the U.S. and Asia this year and
offering lease customers the chance to skip payments on their
current vehicles to buy new models as it loses ground to fellow
German automaker  Daimler AG. (DAI)  Daimler’s Mercedes-Benz brand has
delivered 5,221 more vehicles this year through September after
trailing BMW last year.  BMW and Mercedes passed  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203) ’s  Lexus  in 2011
after that brand led in the U.S. for 11 consecutive years.  Ford faces what Fields called a “daunting task” in
rebuilding Lincoln, which has fallen behind BMW, Mercedes, Lexus
and  Volkswagen AG (VOW) ’s Audi in the U.S. and globally. A successful
luxury brand “is essential for us to be a global and successful
enterprise,” he said.  Fields declined to comment on whether Ford’s board is
preparing to promote him to chief operating officer as part of a
plan to have him eventually succeed Chief Executive Officer  Alan Mulally . The promotion is expected this year, one person
familiar with the situation has said.  ‘Very Focused’  “I am very focused on just contributing as much as I can
to the profitable growth of Ford,” Fields, 51, told reporters
yesterday. “I’m just doing my job.”  Mulally, 67, is acclaimed for saving Ford without a federal
bailout or bankruptcy. He hasn’t made it clear to the board when
he plans to retire, though his departure is expected around the
end of 2013, said the person, who asked not to be named
revealing board deliberations.  Rebuilding the Lincoln brand won’t “happen overnight,”
Fields said. The brand’s 2012 U.S. sales fell 1.5 percent to
63,880 through September. Mercedes U.S. sales during the same
period rose 13 percent to 191,618 while BMW’s gained 4.9 percent
to 186,397. The figures exclude Daimler’s cargo vans and Smart
cars and BMW’s Mini brand, which aren’t  luxury vehicles .  “Our ambitions aren’t to be No. 1” in luxury sales with
Lincoln,  Jim Farley , Ford’s global marketing chief and a former
Toyota executive, told reporters yesterday. “We’d rather have
people love us than everyone like us.”  Ford fell 2.4 percent to $10.18 at the close in New York.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Craig Trudell in Dearborn, Michigan at 
 ctrudell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  