-- Fungus Confirmed as FDA Draws Meningitis Link to Pharmacy
-- B y   A l e x   W a y n e
-- 2012-10-18T22:21:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-18/fungus-confirmed-as-fda-draws-meningitis-link-to-pharmacy.html
A government laboratory drew a more
direct link to the U.S. meningitis outbreak and a Massachusetts
compounding pharmacy, identifying a fungus in shipments of
injectable steroids that originated at the company’s facilities.  Scientists confirmed contamination by the fungus
Exserohilum rostratum in one of three lots of a pain-killing
medicine mixed by New England Compounding Center, the  Food and
Drug Administration  said today in a statement. Health regulators
estimate that about 14,000 people received shots of the steroid,
called methylprednisolone acetate.  The tainted drug, typically injected into the spinal cavity
to relieve neck and back pain, has been tied to 257 infections
in 16 states, including 20 deaths, the Centers for Disease
Control and Prevention said in an  updated tally  today. The death
toll increased one from yesterday.  “NECC is earnestly focused on determining, along with
these agencies, the cause of contamination in vials of this
product -- and to rapidly and professionally carry out a recall
to remove all NECC products from circulation,” the Framingham,
Massachusetts-based pharmacy said in a statement today.  The  Justice Department  said this week it’s investigating
the company, and the House Energy and Commerce Committee is
examining the causes of the meningitis outbreak.  Meningitis is an inflammation of the lining of the brain
and spinal cord. About 97 percent of the exposed patients have
been informed of the contamination, the government said. Tests
continue on other products from the pharmacy, the FDA said.  New England Compounding Pharmacy Inc., which used the name
New England Compounding Center, suspended operations this month
and recalled 17,676 doses of the drug after reports of the
fungal meningitis infections. The steroid was shipped to 75
hospitals and clinics in 23 states.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Wayne in Washington at 
 awayne3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  