-- Germany Credit Risk Lowest in Two Years as Euro Optimism Builds
-- B y   A b i g a i l   M o s e s
-- 2012-10-18T10:01:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-18/germany-credit-risk-lowest-in-two-years-as-euro-optimism-builds.html
German debt risk fell to the lowest
in two years as the prospect of the nation picking up the bill
for bailing out indebted nations diminishes now the European
Central Bank pledges to use its balance sheet to ease turmoil.  Credit-default swaps insuring German bunds for five years
fell to 35 basis points at 11 a.m. in  London , the lowest since
October 2010 and down from a record 125 basis points a year ago.
The contracts cover a net $18 billion of  German debt , the lowest
in 13 months and down from a record $22.4 billion Aug. 3.  Investors are growing more confident European leaders
meeting in Brussels today will ensure  Greece  remains a member of
the euro area and that central bank pledges to buy bonds of
 Spain  and  Italy  will ease the debt crisis. German Chancellor
 Angela Merkel  proposed a “solidarity” fund to bolster
competitiveness in struggling countries, saying stability is
taking hold after three years of turmoil in the euro area.  “The risk of contingent liability for Germany is becoming
less,” said Alessandro Giansanti, a strategist at ING Groep NV
in Amsterdam. “Spain can issue bonds and there will be ECB
support, and for Italy the cost of financing is coming down.”  Spain’s bonds rose for a third day as the nation raised
more than planned at a debt sale. The country sold a combined
4.61 billion euros ($6.1 billion) of due in 2015, 2016 and 2022,
the Bank of Spain said, compared with a maximum target of 4.5
billion euros.  Most Traded  Credit-default swaps on  Germany  were the most traded and
had the biggest increase in volumes among 1,000 entities tracked
by the  Depository Trust & Clearing Corp.  last week as traders
pared risk bets. Investors traded 180 contracts covering a gross
daily average of $1.42 billion in the week through Oct. 12,
compared with an average of $1 billion the week before and over
the previous month.  “German CDS is often used as a European tail risk hedge,”
said Michael Hampden-Turner, a strategist at Citigroup Inc. in
London. “People are taking them off as urgency of European
structural change is perceived to have diminished.”  Germany has the third most debt protected by credit-default
swaps after  France  and Italy. Contracts on France now cover a
net $20.7 billion, down from a record $25.7 billion in August
2011, while Italian swaps protect $20.7 billion compared with a
record $29.5 billion in November 2010.  The market for sovereign  credit derivatives  is drying up
ahead of regulation from the European Commission that will ban
so-called naked swaps that are used to speculate rather than
insure underlying bonds.  Trading of the Markit iTraxx SovX Western Europe Index of
credit-default swaps on 14 governments has evaporated, with
fewer than 10 trades outstanding on the series that started last
month. There were 15 trades covering $40.2 million of the
previous series last week and eight trades on two other versions
of the benchmark.  Swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange for the
underlying securities or the cash equivalent should a borrower
fail to adhere to its debt agreements.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Abigail Moses in London at 
 Amoses5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Armstrong  at 
 Parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  