-- GIC to Stick to Long-Term Investments Amid Rising Volatility
-- B y   K l a u s   W i l l e
-- 2012-10-18T02:54:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-18/gic-to-stick-to-long-term-investments-amid-rising-volatility.html
Government of Singapore Investment
Corp.  and  Southeast Asia ’s biggest sovereign wealth funds plan
to maintain a long-term investment strategy even as the global
debt crisis drives volatility higher.  GIC, which manages more than $100 billion of the city-
state’s reserves, said in July it almost quadrupled its cash
allocation as it pared bonds and stocks, and European holdings
amid the region’s debt crisis. The fund has said its objective
is to beat global inflation over a 20-year investment horizon.  “We need to keep the narrow path of generating long-term
returns” while “managing the volatility that comes with short-
term market movements,” Lim Chow Kiat, deputy chief investment
officer of GIC, said at the SALT conference in Singapore.  The  MSCI World Index (MXWO)  lost as much as 13 percent in the
first half of the year before rebounding to a 17 percent gain
last month, punctuated by daily market swings with developments
such as  Spain ’s credit rating outlook and monthly U.S. economic
data. The market moves follow a year when  volatility  reached the
highest since the 2008-2009 global financial crisis.  “The sovereign wealth funds should not react to short-term
market volatility and stick to their investment horizon,” said
Victoria Barbary, senior researcher at the sovereign investment
lab at Milan’s  Bocconi University . “However, they must be able
to notice when there is a fundamental shift in  market sentiment 
and react accordingly in order not to damage long-term
returns.”  Khazanah’s Strategy  Khazanah Nasional Bhd.,  Malaysia ’s sovereign wealth fund
with about 70 billion ringgit ($23 billion) of assets, holds its
investments on average for more than 10 years, said Azman Mokhtar, the company’s managing director.  “Good long-term management probably starts with a defense
line, which means making sure your balance sheet and your
liabilities are all sensibly structured,” Azman said at the
same conference yesterday, adding that its investments are
mainly “equity-controlled positions in Malaysia or significant
positions outside Malaysia.”  The Kuala Lumpur-based fund in January said the value of
its holdings fell 7 percent, the first decline in three years,
dragged down by “soft” markets.  “It’s imperative for sovereign wealth funds to maintain a
long-term perspective,” Scott Kalb, chief executive officer of
KLTI Advisors and former chief investment officer of Korea
Investment Corp., said in an interview. “They have an inter-
generational mandate and have to make sure they don’t have too
many short-term obligations.”  ‘Sizeable Opportunities’  Still, swings in stock and bond markets provide investment
opportunities. Temasek Holdings Pte,  Singapore ’s state-owned
investment company with S$198 billion ($163 billion) of assets
as of March, said in June it sees “sizeable opportunities”
amid the crisis as it evaluates the potential investments. GIC
also said it may seek new assets.  “Volatility could be an interference with that long-term
perspective, but it could also be an opportunity,” GIC’s Lim
said, opening “a window for us to pick up some of the assets.”  New investments aren’t likely to sway the longer-term focus
for the sovereign funds, said Samarn Trongwaranon, senior
director at  Thailand ’s Government Pension Fund. His fund, which
puts 62 percent of its holdings in Thai fixed-income products,
typically reviews its asset allocation every two years.  Total
assets  reached 561.6 billion baht ($18 billion) as of Sept. 30,
unchanged from June 30, according to its website.  “The long term is a relative concept,” he said at the
conference yesterday. “Lately we try to balance volatilities
with tactical  asset allocation . In general, we didn’t move much
from the strategy.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Klaus Wille in Singapore at 
 kwille@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  