-- GM Agrees to Absorb 3,000 Hewlett-Packard Workers
-- B y   T i m   H i g g i n s   a n d   M a r k   C l o t h i e r
-- 2012-10-18T20:10:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-18/gm-agrees-to-absorb-3-000-hewlett-packard-workers-in-it-plan.html
General Motors Co. (GM) , seeking to
increase its internal information technology abilities, said it
agreed to absorb 3,000 Hewlett-Packard Co. workers performing
duties for the automaker and make them GM employees.  GM also has purchased Hewlett-Packard’s IT Performance
Suite, Enterprise Security Suite, Vertica and Autonomy Software,
the Detroit-based automaker said in a statement on its website.  The largest U.S. automaker has said it will hire about
10,000 people as part of its plan to bring more work in-house.
It previously announced two of four new so-called innovation
centers in Warren,  Michigan , and Austin,  Texas . The transfer of
most of the workers from Hewlett-Packard will take place over
the next six months, Chief Information Officer Randy Mott said
on a conference call with reporters.  “General Motors is undergoing one of the most profound
transformations in our corporate history and GM IT is an
important part of that transformation,” Mott said. “We’re
transforming our IT operating model to improve performance,
reduce the cost of ongoing IT operations and increase the level
of innovation that we deliver to the business.”  The agreement to transfer employees from Hewlett-Packard to
GM will be “a cost-neutral solution” for the automaker,
according to the statement.  GM does about 10 percent of IT work internally and plans to
boost that to 90 percent, Mott said. Chief Executive Officer Dan Akerson wants to update GM’s computer and accounting systems as
he reorganizes the company around global functions and brands,
two people familiar with the thinking have said.  GM gained 2 percent to $25.56 for its highest  New York 
closing price in six months.  Palo Alto , California-based Hewlett
Packard rose 0.5 percent to $14.80.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tim Higgins in  Sao Paulo  at 
 thiggins21@bloomberg.net ;
Mark Clothier in Southfield, Michigan at 
 mclothier@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  