-- Gold Declines First Time in Three Days Before EU Summit
-- B y   D e b a r a t i   R o y
-- 2012-10-18T18:18:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-18/gold-set-to-decline-for-first-day-in-three-before-chinese-data.html
Gold futures declined for the first
time in three days as Chinese data signaled improving economic
growth, easing pressure on the government to announce measures
to boost expansion.  China’s industrial production, retail sales and fixed-asset
investment accelerated in September after a seven-quarter
slowdown. European Union leaders are meeting in Brussels for two
days starting today. Gold surged 11 percent in the last quarter
after the U.S., Japan and the  European Central Bank  enacted
measures to stimulate growth, increasing demand for the precious
metal as an inflation hedge.  “Investors are not sure whether there will be more
stimulus from China after today’s strong data,”  Adam Klopfenstein , a senior market strategist at Archer Financial
Services Inc. in Chicago, said in a telephone interview. “Also,
the market is a little cautious about the outcome of the
meetings in Europe.”  Gold futures for December delivery slid 0.5 percent to
settle at $1,744.70 an ounce at 1:44 p.m. on the Comex in  New
York . Prices gained 0.9 percent in the previous two sessions.  China’s gross domestic product expanded 7.4 percent in the
third quarter from a year earlier, matching economists’
 estimates . The country’s economic growth has started to
stabilize, the official Xinhua News Agency reported yesterday,
citing Premier  Wen Jiabao .  Silver futures for December delivery fell 1.1 percent to
$32.868 an ounce.  On the  New York Mercantile Exchange , platinum futures for
January delivery slipped 1.6 percent to $1,643.70 an ounce.
Palladium futures for December delivery retreated 0.9 percent to
$647.20 an ounce.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Debarati Roy in New York at 
 droy5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  