-- Google Blames R.R. Donnelley for Premature Earnings Release
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   K u c e r a   a n d   M i l e s   W e i s s
-- 2012-10-18T21:39:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-18/google-blames-r-r-donnelly-for-early-earnings-statement-release.html
Google Inc. (GOOG)  blamed financial
printing company  R.R. Donnelley & Sons Co. (RRD)  for the premature
release of results that showed a profit shortfall, caused shares
to plunge and made Chief Executive Officer  Larry Page  the brunt
of jokes shared widely on Twitter Inc.  The company’s third-quarter results were filed with
regulators and made available to news wires with a placeholder
for a quote from Page at about 12:30 p.m. in  New York . R.R.
Donnelley had filed a draft of the document without
authorization, Google later said on its blog.  The timing raised concerns about Google’s ability to
release sensitive financial data through proper channels, said
David Larcker, a corporate-governance professor at the Stanford
Graduate School of Business. Before trading was halted, a 9
percent drop in Google shares wiped more than $22 billion from
its market capitalization in minutes.  “It is highly unusual for this thing to be cut loose ahead
of time,” Larcker said. “This is a big deal. The markets hinge
on appropriate disclosure, following the process. You worry
about some people getting the news earlier than others.”  The snafu upstaged another Google event, the release of a
Chromebook computer, hitting during a press conference in  San
Francisco  and prompting several reporters to rush out to cover
the results. Google requested the halt in  trading  of its shares
as it made final touches to the results, which showed profit and
sales that fell short of analysts’ projections.  R.R. Donnelley Investigates  Profit excluding some items was $9.03 a share, the  Mountain
View , California-based company said. Excluding sales passed to
partner sites, revenue was $11.3 billion. Analysts on average
had estimated profit of $10.65 a share on sales of $11.8
billion.  Google shares fell 8 percent to $695 at the close in New
York.  R.R. Donnelley  fell  less than 1 percent to $10.76 at the
close after earlier erasing as much as 6.5 percent immediately
after Google’s statement was released. R.R. Donnelley said it’s
investigating the matter.  “We are fully engaged in an investigation to determine how
this event took place and are pursuing our first obligation --
which is to serve our valued customer,” Chicago-based R.R.
Donnelley said in a statement.  Google’s filing included the phrase “PENDING LARRY
QUOTE,” just above a summary of results. The mishap quickly
turned into a commonly discussed and joked-about theme on
Twitter.  Microsoft’s Numbers  Google isn’t the only company to have its results released
before planned.  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) ’s earnings were released more
than an hour before schedule in January 2011, after Selerity
Inc., a New Jersey market-information company, used software it
developed to obtain Microsoft’s press release from a public area
of the software maker’s site.  Embarrassing as the incident was, it may not give Google
cause to sue Donnelley, said  Stuart Grant , a Wilmington,
Delaware-based  lawyer  who represents investors in securities
cases.  “Of course it’s possible to sue,” Grant said in an
interview. “But I’m not sure if a company has to put out
information at any specific time.”  Still, the timing left investors without the added
explanation that comes in the conference call that typically
occurs soon after a release hits newswires, said Kerry Rice, an
analyst at Needham & Co.  Lacking Context  “There’s not a lot of context around the earnings right
now, so people make the conclusion one way or the other and it
may not be right,” he said in an interview. “The uncertainty
breeds a sense of fear and people automatically sell.”  Public companies can file their documents with the
Securities and Exchange Commission directly through a website
called EdgarLink Online. They have to request access codes to
use the site, including a Central Index Key, or CIK, from the
agency. CIKs are used on the SEC’s computer systems to identify
corporations and individuals who have filed disclosure
documents.  Instead of filing themselves, some corporations use agents
to submit documents on their behalf -- in part because the
process can be complicated. The SEC requires public companies to
submit documents created with HTML software, which has more
stringent technical requirements than other formats, such as
Microsoft’s Word software or  Adobe Systems Inc. (ADBE) ’s PDF.  Documents that are tied to specific transactions, such as a
stock or bond offering, are often submitted to filing agents
without much notice. In contrast, filing agents typically
receive advance notice on documents that are more predictable,
including Form 8-Ks that are filed in tandem with earnings
releases. A Form 8-K must be submitted within four days of the
event that is being disclosed in the filing, such as an earnings
release.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Danielle Kucera in San Francisco at 
 dkucera6@bloomberg.net ;
Miles Weiss in Washington at 
 mweiss@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  