-- Google Halt Said Prudent by Thornburg, Too Long by Bahl & Gaynor
-- B y   R i t a   N a z a r e t h ,   L u   W a n g   a n d   I n y o u n g   H w a n g
-- 2012-10-18T20:34:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-18/google-halt-said-prudent-by-thornburg-too-long-by-bahl-gaynor.html
Google Inc.’s (GOOG)  decision to halt its
stock for 2 1/2 hours after the premature release of third-
quarter results was praised by fund managers who own the company
and assailed by a critic of market structure.  Shares in  Mountain View , California-based Google tumbled
after it reported profit and sales that missed analysts’
estimates, saying the release was filed without authorization by
printer R.R. Donnelly & Co. Nasdaq Stock Market’s website shows
the trading delay was requested by the company for news pending.
Google stock resumed after the search engine operator published
a complete report with no change to its financial data.  Trading  halts  usually last about 30 minutes, according to
the Nasdaq website, though there is no set period and the length
may be changed after consulting with the company. Delaying
Google longer made sense today because there was too much
confusion following the release, according to Connor Browne, who
oversees more than $2 billion as the  Santa Fe , New Mexico-
based co-manager of the Thornburg Value Fund.  “Halting it was the right thing to do,” wrote Browne,
whose fund owns Google, in an e-mail. “Nobody likes surprises.
Initially, no one knew why the release was out early and we were
speculating all kinds of potential negative reasons on our trade
desk. Turns out it was just an error.”  Robert Madden, a spokesman for Nasdaq OMX, declined to
comment.  The halt would have upset investors trying to trade the
stock but was the right action, said  Peter Jankovskis , co-chief
investment officer for Oakbrook Investments in Lisle,  Illinois ,
which manages more than $3 billion including Google. He spoke in
a telephone interview.  ‘Prudent Thing’  Stopping trading was “probably a prudent thing,”
Jankovskis, whose firm manages more than $3 billion, said in a
telephone interview. “It’s giving people the time to digest the
information that was leaked and prevent any further decline in
the stock.”  Google traded at an average  price  of $704.43 from when its
results were released at 12:30 p.m. in  New York  and the time of
the halt at about 12:51 p.m. That’s down 6.4 percent from the
average level of $752.99 prior to the news, data compiled by
Bloomberg show. The shares closed at $695 about 40 minutes after
being resumed.  More than 4.6 million  shares  changed hands in 31,520 trades
between 12:30 p.m. and the halt, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  The transactions included one for 10,000 shares at
just before 12:42 p.m. at $695.75, another for 8,400 shares at
$743.76 at 12:33 p.m., one for 8,900 shares at $688.30 at 12:39,
and another for 7,200 shares at $705.03 at 12:43 p.m.  Efficient Market  Google shares should have started trading sooner and the
delay is a hardship for managers who wanted buy after the
decline, according to  Matt McCormick , who helps oversee $7.3
billion at Cincinnati-based Bahl & Gaynor Inc. He doesn’t own
Google stock.  “How is this an efficient market?” McCormick said in a
telephone interview. “If I’m a manager and I want to own this
stock, I’m not happy, in fact I’m angry. Google is widely held.
How would this happen?”  McCormick was a critic of Nasdaq OMX Group Inc.’s handling
of Facebook Inc.’s public debut in March, saying  investors were
“hitting the ‘don’t like’ button” after a design flaw in
Nasdaq software delayed the opening.  Third-quarter profit excluding some items was $9.03 a
share, Google said in a filing. Excluding sales passed to
partner sites, revenue was $11.3 billion. Analysts on average
had estimated profit of $10.65 a share on sales of $11.8
billion.  Halting the shares was necessary to keep people from making
mistakes, according to Howard Ward, chief investment officer of
Growth Equities at  Mario Gabelli ’s Gamco Investors Inc. in Rye,
New York. His firm oversees about $36 billion in client assets.  “You are apt to regret any trading in the stock prior to
having all of the information,” Ward said in an e-mail. “It is
dangerous to assume anything regarding specific details of
releases.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lu Wang in New York at 
 lwang8@bloomberg.net ;
Rita Nazareth in New York at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net ;
Inyoung Hwang in New York at 
 ihwang7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  