-- GrainCorp Trades at 33% Premium Sparks Speculation of a Bid
-- B y   E l i s a b e t h   B e h r m a n n   a n d   L i s a   P h a m
-- 2012-10-18T21:42:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-18/graincorp-trades-at-33-premium-sparks-speculation-of-a-bid.html
Two block trades in  GrainCorp Ltd. (GNC) 
worth A$536 million ($556 million) at a premium of 33 percent to
its previous close sparked speculation of a pending takeover bid
for eastern  Australia ’s largest grain handler.  The two block trades of 22.8 million shares apiece went
through at 7:05 a.m. in Sydney at A$11.75 a share. Sydney-based
GrainCorp closed yesterday at A$8.85. Angus Trigg, director of
government and media relations for GrainCorp, didn’t immediately
return two phone messages requesting comment.  Such a trade “certainly would suggest that the company
would be in play, particularly at this sort of premium,”
 Michael McCarthy , chief market strategist at CMC Markets in
Sydney, said by phone.  GrainCorp, which had a market value of A$2 billion at
yesterday’s close, operates seven of the eight ports that ship
grain in bulk from Australia’s east coast and has a “virtual,
natural monopoly” on the eastern seaboard, according to Justin
Crosby, a policy director at the Sydney-based  NSW Farmers’
Association , which represents 10,000 members, half of them grain
growers.  GrainCorp, which traces its roots to 1916 and the Grain
Elevators Board of the New South Wales state agriculture
department, handles as much as 60 percent of eastern Australia’s
grain crop and has about 20 million metric tons of storage at
more than 280 inland grain handling sites, according to the
company.  Its revenue has surged since Australia’s 2006 decision to
strip AWB Ltd. of an export monopoly, after an inquiry found it
was among firms that made illegal payments to win contracts from
the former Iraq regime of  Saddam Hussein  under the  United
Nations ’ oil-for-food program.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Elisabeth Behrmann in Sydney at 
 ebehrmann1@bloomberg.net ;
Lisa Pham in Sydney at 
 lpham14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Hobbs at 
 ahobbs4@bloomberg.net  