-- Greek Unions Stage Strike as Samaras Attends EU Summit
-- B y   T o m   S t o u k a s
-- 2012-10-18T11:04:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-18/greek-unions-stage-strike-as-samaras-attends-eu-summit.html
Clashes broke out in central  Athens 
when Greeks opposed to more austerity measures staged their
second general strike in three weeks as Prime Minister Antonis Samaras prepared to attend his first European Union summit.  Schools, hospitals, ferries and government services are
shut while buses and trolleys are operating from 9 a.m. to 9
p.m. to allow protesters to attend rallies in the Athens city
center. A three-hour walkout by air traffic controllers
disrupted flights around the country.  Police clashed with groups of protesters and fired tear gas
in central Athens as marchers converged on parliament during the
strike called by the country’s two biggest unions.  About 25,000 people took part in three different rallies in
Athens, police spokesman Takis Papapetropoulos said in a phone
interview.  The protests against cuts in benefits, wages and pensions
that will form the bulk of an 11.5 billion-euro ($15.1 billion)
package come as  Greece ’s creditors, known collectively as the
troika, said yesterday they expect a staff-level agreement in
coming days that is necessary to help unlock a 31 billion-euro
aid tranche for the Mediterranean country. The government needs
the funds to recapitalize its banks and pay debts.  Samaras is seeking to spread pension and wage cuts over
four years rather than two to smooth the impact on an economy
that’s contracted by about 20 percent since 2008.  He faces a growing revolt from his coalition partners, the
socialist Pasok party and Democratic Left, as representatives of
the country’s lenders press for more changes to the labor market
in addition to budget cuts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Stoukas in Athens at 
 astoukas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  