-- Greg Smith, Another Wall Street Con Man
-- B y   W i l l i a m   D .   C o h a n
-- 2012-10-18T18:45:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-18/greg-smith-another-wall-street-con-man.html
What to make of Goldman Sachs Group Inc.'s  release to  Bloomberg News  of
internal self-assessments and peer reviews of  Greg Smith , who left the firm in
March through a notorious op-ed piece in the  New York  Times. While the release
of the documents does raise troubling questions for the bank itself, what they
reveal about Smith -- without question -- is that he is nothing more than a
sweet-talking con man. He conned the Times into thinking he was resigning from Goldman Sachs on
principle, when he was really nothing more than a disgruntled and ambitious
former employee who wanted a bigger bonus and a bigger title and got, and
merited, neither. He conned Grand Central Publishing, which paid him a reported $1.5 million
for his "tell-all" book about how the culture at Goldman Sachs had deteriorated
during his 12-year tenure into something he no longer recognized, when really
Goldman has always been a stinging scorpion. (Disclosure: my wife is the editor-
in-chief of Grand Central Publishing, although she had nothing to do with
editing Smith's book, and neither of us has read it.) He has conned the producers of CBS's "60 Minutes" -- which is scheduled to
air a segment about Smith and his book Sunday night (unless they come to their
senses). He conned everyone into thinking that there was an untold narrative on  Wall
Street  about how someone could be so offended by the behavior at these firms
that he would up and quit, leaving behind untold millions in potential
compensation, in the hope of making everyone understand how badly things need to
be reformed. There is indeed a place for that narrative, and Wall Street does
need serious reform. But, as we now know and have long suspected, Greg Smith has
no standing to tell that story. (Corrects year that Smith left Goldman in the first paragraph.) (William D. Cohan, a former investment banker and the author of “Money and
Power: How Goldman Sachs Came to Rule the World,” is a Bloomberg View columnist.
 Read  his columns .) For more quick commentary from Bloomberg View, go to  The Ticker .  