-- Gupta Witness Cardillo Gave ‘Extraordinary’ Aid, Prosecutor Says
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 2012-10-19T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-18/gupta-witness-cardillo-gave-extraordinary-aid-u-s-says.html
Michael Cardillo, the former Galleon
Group LLC portfolio manager who pleaded guilty to  insider
trading , provided “extraordinary” help in cases against former
 Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  director  Rajat Gupta  and former Galleon
trader  Zvi Goffer , U.S. prosecutors said.  Cardillo, who testified at Gupta’s and Goffer’s criminal
trials, was the first person to describe how the former Goldman
Sachs and  Procter & Gamble Co. (PG)  director supplied inside
information to Galleon co-founder Raj Rajaratnam, Assistant U.S.
Attorney Reed Brodsky said in a memo to the court.  The information Cardillo provided was “extraordinarily
significant” and helped advance the government’s investigation
of Gupta, Brodsky said. Cardillo testified at the trial of
Gupta, who was found guilty in June of three counts of
 securities fraud  and one count of conspiracy.  “Cardillo was the first person to bring to the
government’s attention illegal tips Raj Rajaratnam had received
from an inside source at P&G,” Brodsky said in his memo to U.S.
District Judge Jed Rakoff in  Manhattan . “It came at a time when
the government’s investigation into Gupta’s criminal involvement
had not advanced significantly.”  Cardillo started working at Galleon in 2007 managing a
portfolio for stocks focusing on the consumer sector, working
for Rajaratnam’s brother, R.K., who was also a Galleon fund
manager. He testified at Gupta’s trial that he traded on P&G
stock in 2009 after learning from R.K. Rajaratnam that  Raj
Rajaratnam  had a “guy” on the consumer-product’s company
board.  P&G Board  “He told me he was hearing from Raj’s guy on the P&G
board,” Cardillo told jurors during his testimony in May.  R.K. Rajaratnam hasn’t been accused by the government of
wrongdoing.  Even though the jury didn’t convict Gupta of the P&G
counts, Cardillo’s assistance was significant, Brodsky said.  Cardillo pleaded guilty to one count of securities fraud
and one count of conspiracy in January 2011. He faces as long as
25 years in prison when he is sentenced by Rakoff on Oct. 25.
Gupta is scheduled to be sentenced by Rakoff the day before.  While prosecutors didn’t specify a term for Cardillo,
Brodsky told the court that he provided information about more
than 15 different subjects of Raj Rajaratnam’s insider trading
schemes.  Galleon Employee  Prosecutors said he was the first Galleon employee to plead
guilty and agree to cooperate with the government in its
investigation of insider trading at Galleon and a second hedge
fund started by Goffer. Cardillo also testified at Goffer’s
trial last year.  The information he provided to prosecutors led to guilty
pleas by Arthur Cutillo, Jason Goldfarb and  David Plate ,
prosecutors said.  Cutillo, a former Ropes & Gray LLP lawyer, admitted passing
information on transactions the firm was working on and is
serving a 2 1/2-year prison term. Goldfarb, a  Brooklyn ,  New
York , lawyer who admitted passing tips he got from Cutillo, is
serving a term of three years in prison. Plate, a former trader
at Schottenfeld Group LLC who testified against Goffer, was
sentenced to three years’ probation and six months of house
arrest.  Goffer was convicted last year at trial and sentenced to 10
years in prison. Rajaratnam was tried separately and is serving
an 11-year prison term after being convicted of 14 counts of
conspiracy and securities fraud last year.  ‘Accepts Responsibility’  “Mike Cardillo fully accepts responsibility for his
conduct and looks forward to the next chapter in his life with
his wife and young children,” said Marjorie Peerce, Cardillo’s
lawyer. She said her sentencing memorandum to the court wouldn’t
be filed publicly.  At least five others tied to the Galleon case who pleaded
guilty and agreed to cooperate with the U.S. have been sentenced
to probation and spared prison.  Two cooperating witnesses who testified against Rajaratnam
were recently spared prison terms for their assistance to the
government. Rajiv Goel, Rajaratnam’s friend and Wharton
classmate, was sentenced last month to two years’ probation by
U.S. District Judge Barbara Jones. Anil Kumar, a former McKinsey
& Co. partner who was also a Wharton classmate and friend of
Rajaratnam, was sentenced in July to two years’ probation by
U.S. Circuit Judge  Denny Chin .  The case is U.S. v. Cardillo, 11-cr-907, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York ( Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in New York at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Dunn  at 
 adunn8@bloomberg.net  