-- IBM’s Security Division Rolls Out 10 Products to Revive Growth
-- B y   S a r a h   F r i e r
-- 2012-10-18T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-18/ibm-s-security-division-rolls-out-10-products-to-revive-growth.html
International Business Machines
Corp. (IBM)  is releasing its largest set of security products ever as
the company seeks new business amid slowing revenue.  IBM, which disappointed investors this week by reporting
that sales fell in the third quarter, said today it has 10 new
products that will help it gain ground in the market for
business security software, where spending will rise to $21
billion in 2013, according to Gartner Research.  “For IBM it really is a significant increase in focus on
the whole area of security,” said Brendan Hannigan, general
manager of IBM’s security systems division. “We’ve got a large
security sales force. We have a channel organization that will
help package the capabilities together.”  IBM is releasing products that will help companies control
employees’ mobile devices, mitigate threats from the Internet
and in data centers, and automate some security management. The
company is betting that a wider product portfolio will help it
win business from niche competitors.  The Armonk, New York-based company formed its security
division earlier this year, urged by clients who are adding
security officers in top management positions to combat the
growing threat of cybercrime. Companies are storing data
remotely and retrieving the information with mobile devices,
increasing the points of entry for potential theft.  IBM  declined  4.9 percent yesterday to $200.63 as investors
reacted to third-quarter revenue, which fell short of
expectations. Revenue dropped 5.4 percent to $24.7 billion, the
company said, missing the $25.4 billion average analyst
estimate.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Frier in  New York  at 
 sfrier1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Crayton Harrison at 
 tharrison5@bloomberg.net  