-- Libya Army in Heavy Fighting With Militias in Beni Walid
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   S t e p h e n
-- 2012-10-18T22:20:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-18/libya-army-in-heavy-fighting-with-militias-in-beni-walid.html
Libyan government forces engaged in
heavy fighting against militias in the town of Beni Walid
yesterday after starting an assault the day before, army
spokesman Mohammed El Gandus said.  “We started to enter Beni Walid” and have control of the
airport, El Gandus said. “There is a big battle.”  The clash follows an army blockade that started Sept. 25
after the government accused Beni Walid militants of causing the
death of a militiaman from Misrata credited with capturing
former dictator Muammar Qaddafi in Sirte during last year’s Arab
Spring revolution.  The army intends to capture the town, saying it was
controlled by militants loyal to Qaddafi, El Gandus said. He
added that the town is home to many former top officials of the
Qaddafi administration who fled there, fearing arrest and
execution if they surrendered.  “They are still supporting Qaddafi,” El Gandus said at a
press conference at Kilometer 60, a traffic junction south of
the coastal city of Misrata which forms the outer perimeter of
the army cordon around Beni Walid. “We have a lot of names. We
are going to catch them soon,” he said.  Misrata’s hospital received five dead and 44 wounded
soldiers after two days of fighting, a hospital spokesman who
declined to be identified said in an interview. Many were flown
to the city by helicopter from Beni Walid, which is 90 miles
southeast of Tripoli.  Airport, Suburbs  The army said yesterday it took control of Beni Walid, the
airport and outlying suburbs, leaving the defending force
surrounded in the town center. The statement was contradicted by
Ibrahim Warfali, a Beni Walid lawyer, who said in a telephone
interview from inside the town that the defenders remain in full
control.  “They don’t control the town,” Warfali said. “We still
have the airport. The mood is confident.”  Beni Walid was one of the last pro-Qaddafi redoubts to fall
to rebel forces in last year’s rebellion. Several army tanks and
pick-up trucks with anti-aircraft guns could be seen from
Kilometer 60 driving east in a convoy toward Beni Walid after
the first day of the assault. In Misrata, an army helicopter
that landed close to the hospital carried a dead soldier and two
wounded men, according to a volunteer at the helicopter landing
site.  The attack comes as Libya’s parliament, elected in July,
still needs to agree on a new administration. Prime Minister Ali Zidan, appointed Oct. 14 to replace his dismissed predecessor
Mahmoud Abushagur, has yet to present a cabinet, leaving
executive power in the hands of the previous government
appointed by the former transitional administration.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Stephen in Tripoli at 
 cstephen9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net  