-- Middle Class in Emerging Markets Means Growth: Cutting Research
-- B y   S i m o n   K e n n e d y
-- 2012-10-18T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-18/middle-class-in-emerging-markets-means-growth-cutting-research.html
A global consumer revolution is set
to take off amid an unprecedented expansion of the middle class.  That’s the forecast of  Karen Ward  and  Frederic Neumann ,
economists at HSBC Holdings Plc. Their analysis is based on the
estimate that almost 3 billion people, or more than 40 percent
of today’s population, will join the world’s middle class by
2050 -- defined as earning between $3,000 and $15,000 a year.  The majority will be in emerging markets, meaning such
economies could make up almost two thirds of worldwide household
spending compared with about one-third today, said Ward and
Neumann. China, India and Russia are all set to enjoy average
gains in real incomes of about 4 percent up to 2050, they said.  Demographics also benefit many  emerging markets , given that
individuals tend to consume the most between the ages of 16 and
40, they said. Although China’s median age of 35 is not far off
the 39 for the U.S. and Europe, the Philippines’ comparable age
is 23 and India’s 26.  “There are parts of the world where incomes are rising,
they’re young and they’re ready to shop,” Ward, a former  Bank
of England  economist, told an HSBC client conference in London
on Oct. 17, accompanying the speech with a written report.  Companies need to establish their brand and reputation in
such economies, especially businesses that sell the clothing,
hi-tech and recreational products that will benefit from
increasing demand, HSBC said. Ward projects that 59 percent of
gadgets will be bought in industrializing nations in 2050, up
from about a quarter today, while 56 percent of consumer
financial services will be in those economies, from 18 percent.  There will also be an impact on the global economy. As
developed nations slow,  emerging markets  will pick up the baton,
ensuring consumer demand growth reaches 3 percent a year in 2050
from 2 percent today. This will provide a buffer against the
risks of global stagnation by allowing the West to tap into the
new demand source, said Ward.  The rise of the service sector will also make emerging
markets less vulnerable to movements in global trade, the report
said. Producers of cheap, low-value-added manufactured goods,
typically other developing economies, will benefit as a result.  “We have this huge shift in the geography of final
demand,” said Ward. “It’s going to be the emerging market
consumer driving growth from here.”  * * *  Whoever has the keys to the White House at the end of
January is set to shake up U.S. monetary policy as Federal
Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke ’s second term ends in January
2014, according to Macroeconomic Advisers LLC, where former Fed
Governor  Laurence Meyer  is a senior managing director.  If President  Barack Obama  wins he’ll probably nominate Fed
Vice Chairman  Janet Yellen  as Bernanke’s successor, Meyer and
colleague Antulio Bomfim wrote in an Oct. 15 blog based on a
report sent to clients.  Should Republican  Mitt Romney  take the White House, the
candidates for the Fed chairmanship would probably be Columbia
University Business School DeanGlenn Hubbard, Harvard
University professor Greg Mankiw or  John Taylor  of  Stanford
University . All serve as campaign advisers.  Of these, all but Hubbard have previously detailed policy
positions that would probably guide their decision-making. That
let Macroeconomic Advisers list which are the most dovish, and
therefore likely to back easier monetary policy, and those which
are the most hawkish and so lean toward tighter monetary policy.  Taylor, a former Treasury official, is the most hawkish by
the authors’ analysis, and the Fed would already have raised
rates under his chairmanship. Yellen is the most dovish and the
first interest-rate increase would still be two years away, they
say.  Mankiw fell in between, with a rate rise about a year away,
Meyer and Bomfim said. They deemed Hubbard probably to be more
hawkish than Mankiw.  “Each of these potential chairs would have a significant
impact on monetary policy in the long run, and, thus, the course
of monetary policy could be significantly different depending on
whether President Obama or  Governor Romney  wins the election,”
Meyer and Bomfim said in their report. “Over the near term,
however, policy might not be too different as the new Chair
transitions into his or her new role and earns the confidence of
the Committee.”  * * *  Finance chiefs and global lenders who warned last week at
the International Monetary Fund meeting in Tokyo about the
threat of the looming U.S. fiscal cliff now have a way to
measure its potential effects.  With the U.S. facing about $600 billion in automatic tax
cuts and spending increases early next year, Dario Perkins, an
economist at Lombard Street Research, has designed an online
tool to measure what could happen in the U.S., China and the
euro area under different assumptions.  The tool allows participants to crank in different
scenarios for how much lawmakers reduce the size of the cliff,
as well as for the so-called fiscal multiplier. It measures the
effect a budget consolidation has on the economy.  If, for example, fiscal consolidation next year is the
equivalent of 5 percent of U.S. gross domestic product and the
multiplier is one, then the American economy will shrink 1.5
percent, according to London-based Perkins. China would grow 4.2
percent and the euro-area would contract 2.6 percent.  * * *  The savior of the euro area may be Asia, not  Germany , says
 David Carbon , an economist at DBS Group Holdings Ltd. in
Singapore.  Just as it has in the past four years, Asia will drive
global growth next year, Carbon said in an Oct. 16 report. With
German domestic demand unable to expand fast enough to help the
euro region through its crisis, Asia “adds” the equivalent of
Germany to the Asian economy every 3.5 years, he said. That
provides export support for Europe and rest of the world.  “Throw Germany out the window today, Asia will replace it
by 2016,” said Carbon. “And it will add another by 2020.”  * * *  The number of women-owned businesses in the U.S. is growing
at more than double the rate of all other companies, calculates
Caroline Anstey, managing director of the  World Bank  in
Washington.  Women-run companies contribute $3 trillion and 23 million
jobs to the  U.S. economy , Anstey said in an Oct. 10 blog.  That shows the advantage of supporting women entrepreneurs
in the developing world, where 30 to 40 percent of small- and
medium-sized businesses are run by women. Yet at least nine out
of 10 have no access to loans, she wrote.  “Investing in women entrepreneurs is smart economics,”
said Anstey.  * * *  The U.K., the first country to host a modern summer
Olympics while in recession, like its past counterparts failed
to get an uplift from hosting the event.  So say Citigroup Inc. economists  Michael Saunders  and Ann
O’Kelly in an Oct. 12 report.  There was a positive impact at the local level, with large
declines in unemployment in areas where events were held, they
found. Nationally, though, the economic boost from construction
came in previous years. The number of foreign visitors to the
U.K. also fell in June to August from the previous year,
according to the  Office for National Statistics .  While the U.K. was experiencing a 0.5 percent decline
during the second quarter, the average GDP growth rate for
previous hosts since 1964 was around 5 percent at the time of
the event.  For those past Olympic nations, growth peaked about two
quarters before the games and then trailed off. The U.K. is
following the pattern, the economists said.  While the cost of organization probably led growth to
accelerate in the third quarter “the economy’s underlying path
remains weak,” said Saunders and O’Kelly. That will likely
require the Bank of  England  to embrace more quantitative easing,
they said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Simon Kennedy  in London at at
 skennedy4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net . 