-- Tigers Beat Yankees 8-1 to Complete Sweep, Reach World Series
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2012-10-18T23:59:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-18/tigers-beat-yankees-8-1-to-complete-sweep-reach-world-series.html
The Detroit Tigers are headed to the
World Series after beating the New York Yankees 8-1 for a four-
game sweep in the American League Championship Series.  Jhonny Peralta hit two home runs and  Miguel Cabrera  had one
for the Tigers, who advance to Major League Baseball’s title
round for the first time since they lost to the  St. Louis
Cardinals  in five games in 2006. The Cardinals hold a 2-1 lead
over the  San Francisco Giants  in the National League
Championship Series, with Game 4 tonight in St. Louis.  “This is what we worked for all year, to get to this
point,” Cabrera said in a televised interview. “Four more wins
-- we’ll play hard and bring that ring to Detroit.”  The Yankees were held to two hits and got swept in a
playoff series for the first time since the 1980 ALCS, when they
lost three straight games to the Kansas City Royals. The last
time New York failed to win a game in a best-of-seven postseason
series was in the 1976 World Series against the Cincinnati Reds.  It’s the fifth time the Yankees have been swept in a
playoff series.  Yankees starting pitcher CC Sabathia took the defeat, his
first in his past eight postseason starts, after allowing six
runs -- five of them earned -- in 3 2/3 innings. Sabathia
surrendered 11 hits, including two-run homers to Cabrera and
Peralta in the bottom of the fourth.  Tigers pitcher Max Scherzer took a no-hitter into the top
of the sixth inning before  Eduardo Nunez  led off with a triple
and scored on a double by  Nick Swisher . Scherzer finished with
10 strikeouts in 5 2/3 innings.  Batting Slump  After scoring seven runs in Game 1 of the AL Division
Series against the Baltimore Orioles, the Yankees had four runs
or fewer in each of their past eight playoff games, the longest
such stretch in a single postseason in franchise history.  New York finishes with a team batting average of .188 in
the playoffs.  Robinson Cano ,  Curtis Granderson ,  Alex Rodriguez ,
Swisher and  Russell Martin  hit a combined .122, collecting 19
hits in 156 at-bats.  “There’s a lot of good hitters in that room and to shut
them down really surprises me,” Yankees manager  Joe Girardi 
said in a news conference. “Collectively we weren’t able to get
it done.”  Detroit never trailed in the ALCS in ending the Yankees’
season for the second straight year.  The only other postseason series in which the Yankees never
held a lead was the 1963 World Series, when they were swept in
four games by the  Los Angeles Dodgers .  Early Run  Sabathia gave up three singles in the first inning as the
Tigers took a 1-0 lead.  Delmon Young  delivered a two-out hit to
score Omar Infante, who had reached base on an infield single
that third baseman  Eric Chavez  misplayed. Chavez got a second
straight start in place of Rodriguez, baseball’s highest-paid
player.  Detroit added another run in the bottom of the third inning
after a pair of defensive miscues by  Mark Teixeira  at first base.
After a two-out error by Teixeira loaded the bases, rookie
Avisail Garcia’s infield single scored Prince Fielder.  The Tigers broke the game open in the fourth, when Cabrera
hit his first home run of the postseason. Detroit’s third
baseman during the regular season led the AL in homers, batting
average and runs batted in, becoming the league’s first Triple
Crown winner in 45 years.  Only Run  The Yankees’ lone run came when Swisher snapped his 1-for-
35 postseason slump with runners in scoring position. After
Scherzer was taken out with runners on first and third,
Rodriguez entered the game and flew out to end the inning.  Granderson struck out as a pinch-hitter in the top of the
seventh inning, dropping him to 3-for-30 in the playoffs with 16
strikeouts. In the bottom of the inning, Austin Jackson, the
outfielder the Yankees sent to the Tigers in the trade for
Granderson, hit a solo homer for a 7-1 Detroit lead.  Peralta added his second homer of the game in the eighth
inning, a line drive over the left field wall off Yankees
reliever  David Robertson . New York went hitless over the final
three innings, with ex-Yankee pitcher Phil Coke getting the
final six outs to seal the win.  The Yankees had just two four-game losing streaks during
the 162-game regular season and were the last MLB team to lose
four games in a row in 2012.  This marks the fourth time the Yankees have lost in 15 ALCS
appearances.  The Tigers will be seeking their fifth  World Series  title
and first since 1984. The World Series is scheduled to begin Oct.
24, with the first two games at the NL team’s ballpark.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  