-- Tigers Oust Yankees From MLB Playoffs, Cardinals Defeat Giants
-- B y   R o b   G l o s t e r   a n d   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2012-10-19T04:15:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-18/tigers-oust-n-y-yankees-from-mlb-playoffs-by-completing-sweep.html
The Tigers hit four home runs in an
8-1 rout to end the New York Yankees’ season and reach the World
Series. The St. Louis Cardinals are one win from joining  Detroit 
in Major League Baseball’s title round.  Jhonny Peralta hit two home runs and Miguel Cabrera added
his first homer of this postseason yesterday as the Tigers
completed a sweep of the Yankees in the best-of-seven American
League Championship Series.  New York batted .188 in the 2012 playoffs and scored in
only three of 39 innings against the Tigers. Robinson Cano,
Curtis Granderson, Alex Rodriguez, Nick Swisher and Russell Martin hit a combined .122 for the Yankees -- who had as many
errors (two) as hits yesterday.  “We didn’t swing the bats,” Yankees manager Joe Girardi
said in a news conference. “It wasn’t one guy, it wasn’t two
guys, it was a bunch of guys. And it’s hard to win when you
don’t score runs.”  Matt Holliday had a pair of run-scoring singles as the
defending World Series champion Cardinals defeated the San
Francisco Giants 8-3 to take a three-games-to-one lead in the
National League Championship Series.  Adam Wainwright allowed one run on four hits in seven
innings to earn the victory for the Cardinals, who can finish
off the Giants tonight in Game 5 in St. Louis. If the Giants win
that game, the series would move back to San Francisco on Oct.
21 and, if necessary, a decisive seventh game on Oct. 22.  Holliday RBIs  Holliday drove in runs as the Cardinals scored two runs
each in the first and fifth innings. Jon Jay added a two-run
double in the sixth and Yadier Molina added a run-scoring double
in the Cardinals’ two-run seventh. Hunter Pence hit a solo home
run in the second inning for the Giants, who got a two-run homer
from Pablo Sandoval in the ninth.  Detroit will be playing in the World Series for the first
time since 2006, when it lost the best-of-seven championship in
five games to the Cardinals.  The Tigers will be seeking their fifth World Series title
and first since 1984. The World Series is scheduled to begin Oct.
24, with the first two games at the NL team’s ballpark.  “The guys really started swinging the bats,” said Justin Verlander, who is 3-0 with a 0.74 earned run average in the
postseason and will be the Tigers’ Game 1 starter. “Hopefully
we can carry that over into the World Series.”  The Yankees had two hits and 12 strikeouts yesterday
against four Tigers pitchers. Detroit starter Max Scherzer took
a no-hitter into the sixth inning.  1976 Sweep  The last time New York failed to win a game in a best-of-
seven postseason series was in the 1976 World Series against the
Cincinnati Reds.  The Yankees hit .157 (22-for-140) against the Tigers, the
second-lowest average among 172 teams that have competed in the
league championship series since 1969, with only that year’s
Minnesota Twins (.155) posting a lower mark.  After scoring seven runs in Game 1 of the AL Division
Series against the Baltimore Orioles, the Yankees had four runs
or fewer in each of their last eight playoff games -- the
longest such stretch in a postseason in franchise history.  Rodriguez and Granderson were left out of the Yankees’
starting lineup yesterday. Rodriguez, 37, who is fifth on the
MLB career list with 647 home runs, hit .120 with no homers in
the 2012 postseason. Granderson, 31, who hit 43 homers this
season, struck out as a pinch-hitter in the seventh inning
yesterday and was 0-for-11 in the playoff series against Detroit.  ‘Surprises Me’  “There’s a lot of good hitters in that room and to shut
them down really surprises me,” Girardi said. “Collectively,
we weren’t able to get it done.”  Detroit never trailed in the ALCS in ending the Yankees’
season for the second straight year.  The only other postseason series in which the Yankees never
held a lead was the 1963 World Series, when they were swept in
four games by the Los Angeles Dodgers.  Austin Jackson added a home run for the Tigers. Delmon Young, who had two hits and drove in a run yesterday, was chosen
the ALCS Most Valuable Player. Young hit .294 with two homers
and eight runs batted in against the Yankees.  It was the first home run this postseason for Cabrera, 29,
who this year became baseball’s first Triple Crown winner since
Boston’s Carl Yastrzemski in 1967. Cabrera led the AL with 44
home runs, 139 runs batted in and a .330 batting average.  Yankees starter CC Sabathia, who hadn’t lost in his
previous eight postseason starts, allowed six runs on 11 hits in
3 2/3 innings and took the loss.  Swisher had a run-scoring double in the sixth inning for
New York’s run.  “Our pitching carried us so we didn’t need to go out there
and score five, six runs every game to win,” Young said. “With
the zeros they were putting up, one to two runs with them was a
lot because they were hot.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rob Gloster in San Francisco at 
 rgloster@bloomberg.net ;
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  