-- Liikanen Says Bank Overhaul Implementation Up to EU Commission
-- B y   J a n a   R a n d o w   a n d   S t e f a n   R i e c h e r
-- 2012-10-18T10:03:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-18/liikanen-says-bank-overhaul-implementation-up-to-eu-commission.html
European Central Bank Governing
Council member Erkki Liikanen said it’s up to the European
Commission to decide how fast it will progress in implementing
proposed reforms to the banking sector.  “The commission is efficient and they work in depth but I
can’t give timetables,” Liikanen, the Finnish central bank
governor whose working group presented plans to overhaul
European banks on Oct. 2, told reporters in  Frankfurt  today.
“It’s for the commission now. It’s for them now to work out the
details to make comments on the proposals.”  Under the non-binding suggestions, European Union banks
would be forced to push much of their trading activities into
separately capitalized units and face extra bonus rules. The EU-
mandated group also called for a toughening of Basel bank-
capital rules and for lenders to issue debt designed to be
written down in crises.  Michel Barnier, the EU’s financial services chief, said on
Oct. 2 the commission would seek public comment on the Liikanen
group’s recommendations for six weeks before deciding how to
proceed. Any steps to implement parts of the report would be
proposed “before summer” 2013, he said.  In the future, investors must stem the main burden of
future bank failures, Liikanen said.  “It’s essential to strive for good recovery and resolution
plans,” Liikanen said, adding that “we need resolution funds
which should be financed by the companies themselves.”  “Bail-in should be the rule, bail out should be the rare
exception, if ever used,” he said. “We must make sure that not
only gains but also losses fall on the risk takers.”  Liikanen said the proposed division into investment and
deposit banks “are the means to further containing systemic
risks” and regulatory reforms are crucial to reassure
confidence in European financial institutions.  Corporate lending can be done “in full” through the
deposit banks, he added.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jana Randow in Frankfurt at 
 jrandow@bloomberg.net ;
Stefan Riecher in Frankfurt at 
 sriecher@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  