-- Military Student-Loan Borrowers to Get More U.S. Advice
-- B y   L a u r a   L i t v a n
-- 2012-10-18T18:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-18/military-student-loan-borrowers-to-get-more-u-s-advice.html
The U.S. government is starting a
program designed to help military personnel with student-loan
debt learn more about options to lower their  interest rates  or
defer repayment.  A partnership announced today between the Consumer
Financial Protection Bureau and the Pentagon comes as the bureau
released a report finding many servicemembers who want to pay
off their student-loan debt get too little information about
repayment benefits offered to active-duty members of the
military and sometimes face roadblocks from loan servicers when
they seek to utilize them.  “We are concerned that our men and women in uniform are
not being given the opportunities they have earned under federal
law,”  Richard Cordray , director of the Consumer Financial
Protection Bureau, said in a statement. “For all the service
our military members give us, the least we can do is protect
them from this kind of disservice.”  The joint program will include training for Judge Advocate
Generals and personal-finance counselors on military bases.  Many servicemembers have a mix of federal and private
student loans to repay, with the average cumulative amount of
student loan debt for active-duty military personnel graduating
from college in 2008 reaching $26,000, according to the National
Center for Education Statistics.  Interest-Rate Reductions  Programs available to servicemembers include interest-rate
reductions to those in uniform who acquired their debts before
starting active duty, loan deferral or principal reduction
options for service in hostile areas and loan forgiveness in
some instances.  The consumer bureau’s study found military personnel
sometimes have trouble learning about the programs, often
because loan servicers don’t offer enough information about
their repayment options. The stakes are high, because the
servicemembers can face tens of thousands of dollars in added
debt over the life of their loans, the bureau said.  In other cases, loan servicers put in place roadblocks,
such as requirements that paperwork be resubmitted to take
advantage of interest-rate protections, even if the military
borrower is in a combat zone, the study found.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laura Litvan in Washington at 
 llitvan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  