-- Index of U.S. Leading Indicators Rose 0.6% in September
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   J a m r i s k o
-- 2012-10-18T14:14:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-18/index-of-u-s-leading-economic-indicators-rose-0-6-in-september.html
The index of U.S. leading economic
indicators rose in September by the most in seven months,
boosted in part by a jump in permits for  home construction 
that’s helping underpin the expansion.  The Conference Board’s gauge of the outlook for the next
three to six months increased 0.6 percent after a revised 0.4
percent drop in August that was bigger than initially reported,
the New York-based group said today. Economists projected the
gauge would climb 0.2 percent, according to the median estimate
in a Bloomberg survey.  A recovery in the housing market and a surge in stock
prices may also be fueling optimism among consumers, whose
spending accounts for about 70 percent of the economy. At the
same time, the so-called fiscal cliff -- $607 billion in federal
spending cuts and tax increases scheduled to take effect in
January unless Congress acts -- is a hurdle for business
investment and hiring.  “The residential housing market is in the very early
stages of a durable recovery,” Joe Lavorgna, chief U.S.
economist at Deutsche Bank Securities Inc. in  New York , said in
a research note before today’s report. “Housing is a leading
indicator of underlying domestic demand; thus, continued
improvement in the former bodes well for some acceleration over
time in the latter.”  Estimates from 52 economists in the Bloomberg survey ranged
from a decrease of 0.1 percent to an increase of 0.6 percent in
the Conference Board’s leading index. The August figure was
revised from a previously reported 0.1 percent drop, reflecting
weaker orders from  consumer goods  and capital equipment during
the month.  Stocks Lower  Stocks pared losses after the report and another showing
Philadelphia-area manufacturing expanded this month for the
first time since April. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index fell 0.1
percent to 1,458.84 at 10:12 a.m. in New York.  The Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia’s general economic
 index  rose to 5.7 in October from minus 1.9 a month earlier. A
reading of zero is the dividing line between expansion and
contraction in the area covering eastern  Pennsylvania , southern
 New Jersey  and  Delaware .  Consumer confidence  reached a six-month high last week as
more Americans said it was a good time to shop, another report
today showed. The Bloomberg Consumer Comfort Index rose to minus
34.8 in the week ended Oct. 14, the highest level since April,
from minus 38.5 the previous week. The monthly expectations
gauge improved to minus 7 in October, the best reading since
May.  Jobless Claims  More Americans than forecast filed applications for
 unemployment benefits  last week, reflecting an unwinding of
adjustments for seasonal swings at the start of a quarter, Labor
Department figures showed today. Jobless claims increased by
46,000 to 388,000 in the week ended Oct. 13 from a revised
342,000 the prior period that was the lowest since February
2008.  Six of the 10 indicators in the leading index contributed
to the increase, while three declined. The interest-rate spread
between the federal funds rate and 10-year Treasury notes, a
gauge of credit and pickups in orders for consumer and capital
goods were among other indicators adding to the September LEI
gain.  “The LEI has been signaling an economy that is fluctuating
around a slow growth trend,”  Ataman Ozyildirim , an economist at
the Conference Board, said in a statement. “The six-month
growth rate has slowed substantially, but still remains in
growth territory due to positive contributions from housing and
financial components.”  The Conference Board’s index of coincident indicators, a
gauge of current economic activity, increased 0.2 percent.  Coincident Index  The coincident index tracks payrolls, incomes, sales and
production -- measures used by the National Bureau of  Economic
Research  to determine the beginning and end of U.S. recessions.  The gauge of lagging indicators rose 0.1 percent in
September after increasing 0.3 percent the previous month.  Building permits , a proxy for future construction, jumped
to an 894,000 annual rate, also exceeding the median forecast
and the most since July 2008, Commerce Department figures showed
yesterday in  Washington .  Housing starts  in the U.S. surged 15 percent in September
to the highest level in four years, the agency also said. Starts
jumped to an 872,000 annual rate last month, the most since July
2008 and exceeding all forecasts in a Bloomberg survey of
economists.  Borrowing costs at record lows and a limited supply of new
homes are spurring an increase in orders for homebuilders.  Hovnanian Sales  Hovnanian Enterprises Inc. (HOV) , based in  Red Bank , New Jersey,
is among homebuilders seeing gains in sales this year as buyers
return to the market.  “We certainly believe the housing market’s recent overall
strength and our significant improved sales pace this year
indicates that the market for new homes has truly bounced off
the bottom,”  Larry Sorsby , the company’s chief financial
officer, said at an Oct. 4 conference. The market “is already
in a period of gradual recovery,” he said.  A rally in stock prices is also making Americans feel
wealthier. The  S&P 500  climbed 2.4 percent in September, the
biggest  monthly gain  since June.  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  renewed a pledge Oct. 1 to
sustain record stimulus even after the U.S. expansion gains
strength, while saying policy makers don’t expect the economy to
remain weak through 2015.  Fed’s Bernanke  “We expect that a highly accommodative stance of monetary
policy will remain appropriate for a considerable time after the
economy strengthens,” Bernanke said in a speech in Indianapolis
that day. Policy makers’ forecast to hold the main  interest rate 
near zero until at least mid-2015 “doesn’t mean that we expect
the economy to be weak through” that year, he said.  The  Federal Open Market Committee  said last month it will
buy $40 billion of mortgage debt a month in a third round of
quantitative easing until the labor market shows “sustained
improvement,” with Bernanke calling housing “one of the
missing pistons in the engine.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Jamrisko in Washington at 
 mjamrisko@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  