-- India May Raise Import Duty on White Sugar, Scrap Tax on Raw
-- B y   B i b h u d a t t a   P r a d h a n   a n d   S w a n s y   A f o n s o
-- 2012-10-18T09:07:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-18/india-may-raise-import-duty-on-white-sugar-scrap-tax-on-raw-1-.html
India , the world’s largest sugar
consumer, may double the import tax on refined variety to 20
percent and abolish a levy on raw sweetener to protect domestic
producers, Food Minister K.V. Thomas said.  A decision will be taken in the next 10 to 15 days and the
tax changes will require cabinet approval, Thomas told reporters
in  New Delhi  today. Raw and white sugar imports currently
attract 10 percent duty.  Production in India, the world’s second-largest sugar
maker, is set to decline for the first time in four years,
stoking a 21 percent rally in domestic prices since the end of
May after dry weather hurt crop. The rally has boosted prospects
for imports and halted exports of refined sugar. Output is
forecast to fall 10 percent to 23.5 million metric tons in the
year that started Oct. 1, Thomas said on Oct. 9.  “While not much of white sugar is expected to come in, raw
sugar imports will increase if the government scraps the duty,”
G.S.C. Rao, chief executive officer of  Simbhaoli Sugar Mills
Ltd. (SBSM) , said by phone. “The mills in Maharashtra and Karnataka
will benefit more with this move as they will have less cane
this year.”  Imported raw sugar may become 2,000 rupees ($37.70) a ton
cheaper than local supplies if the tax is withdrawn, Rao said.  Raw sugar for delivery in March fell 0.5 percent to 20.01
cents a pound on ICE Futures U.S. at 1:52 p.m. in Mumbai. The
contract for November delivery on the National Commodity &
Derivatives Exchange of India Ltd. fell 0.7 percent to 3,320
rupees per 100 kilograms.  The rally in local prices and concerns about lower cane
yields in Maharashtra and Karnataka states, the biggest and
third-largest producers, have halted exports and made imports
viable,  Narendra Murkumbi , managing director of  Shree Renuka
Sugars Ltd. (SHRS) , said on Oct. 9.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bibhudatta Pradhan in New Delhi at 
 bpradhan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  