-- India’s Rupee Drops to Three-Week Low on Global Growth Concern
-- B y   J e a n e t t e   R o d r i g u e s
-- 2012-10-18T12:36:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-18/india-s-rupee-drops-to-three-week-low-on-global-growth-concern.html
India ’s rupee fell to a three-week
low as data showing Chinese economic growth is slowing spurred
demand for the perceived safety of the dollar before European
leaders begin a summit to tackle their debt crisis.  Asia’s largest economy  expanded  7.4 percent in the third
quarter from a year earlier, the smallest gain in more than
three years, official figures showed today. Global funds cut
 holdings  of Indian shares on Oct. 16 for the first time since
Sept. 20, the latest regulator data show. Prime Minister
Manmohan Singh’s government took steps last month to cut fuel
subsidies and allow more foreign investment in some industries.  “We are seeing outflows, which is the main factor driving
the rupee,” said Vikas Babu, a trader at  Andhra Bank (ANDB)  in Mumbai.
“At times when global risk appetite is low, there is also
increased concern about whether the government can go through
with and implement its proposed reforms.”  The rupee declined 1 percent, the most since Oct. 8, to
53.4150 per dollar in Mumbai, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. One-month implied volatility, a measure of exchange-
rate swings used to price options, fell nine basis points, or
0.09 percentage point, to 10.59 percent. The Dollar Index, which
tracks the greenback against major trading partners, rose for
the first time in three days.  European leaders start a two-day meeting in Brussels today,
where Greek Prime Minister Antonis Samaras will argue for a two-
year extension to meet the country’s bailout targets.  Three-month onshore rupee forwards were at 54.29 per
dollar, compared with 53.80 yesterday, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Offshore non-deliverable contracts were
at 54.08 versus 53.63. Forwards are agreements to buy or sell
assets at a set price and date. Non-deliverable contracts are
settled in dollars.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeanette Rodrigues in Mumbai at 
 jrodrigues26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net  