-- Israel CPI Bonds Drop on Corporate Sale Bets; Shekel Declines
-- B y   S h a r o n   W r o b e l
-- 2012-10-18T11:53:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-18/israel-cpi-bonds-drop-on-corporate-sale-bets-shekel-declines.html
Israel ’s inflation-linked government
bonds dropped, pushing yields higher for a third day, as
investors sought corporate debt amid optimism local holding
companies are selling assets to pay off creditors.  The yield on the 1 percent consumer-price linked bonds due
May 2017, rose two basis points to 0.42 percent at 1:22 p.m. in
Tel Aviv. The Tel Aviv Bond 40 Index, which measures inflation-
linked and fixed-rate corporate bonds, rose less than 0.1
percent, poised for the highest close since Bloomberg began
tracking the gauge in February 2008. The yield on  Discount
Investment (DISI)  Corp’s 5 percent bonds due April 2016 fell 23 basis
points to 1.66 percent, the lowest since May.  Given Imaging Ltd. (GIVN) , an Israeli maker of a capsule-sized
camera for diagnosing digestive ailments, which is in part held
indirectly by Israeli tycoon Nochi Dankner’s  IDB Holding Corp. (IDBH) 
via Discount Investment, is exploring strategic alternatives
including a possible sale. IDB has been selling assets and
seeking investment as the company strives to avoid default.
TheMarker reported Oct. 10 that York Capital Management is
buying bonds to get control of IDB Development Corp., the parent
company of Discount Investment.  “Investors are buying into riskier corporate debt on signs
that the large holding companies are going to start to sell
assets and are getting investment to pay off commitments,” said
Oren Ossad, a trader at Excellence Nessuah Investment House
Ltd., in Ramat Gan, Israel.  The yield on the 5.5 percent Mimshal Shiklit bonds due
January 2022 was unchanged after climbing three basis points
yesterday to 4.14 percent.  The shekel depreciated 0.4 percent to 3.8130 a dollar,
trimming the advance for the month to 2.8 percent. The two-year
break-even rate, the yield difference between the inflation-
linked bond and fixed-rate government bonds of similar maturity,
fell 10 basis points to 243, implying an average annual
inflation rate of 2.43 percent.  One-year interest rate swaps , an indicator of investor
expectations for the benchmark rate in the period, was unchanged
at 2.15 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sharon Wrobel in Tel Aviv at 
 swrobel4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  