-- Italians Seek 18 Billion Euros of Debt, Dwarfing Prior Demand
-- B y   C h i a r a   V a s a r r i
-- 2012-10-18T16:46:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-18/italians-bid-for-eu10-billion-of-retail-bonds-as-demand-surges.html
The Italian Treasury received orders
for more than 18 billion euros ($23.6 billion) of bonds from
retail investors, double the two previous offers combined as it
diversifies its funding by tapping into household savings.  The Treasury took orders for 7.84 billion euros of 2016
 inflation -linked bonds in the final day of the four-day sale
today.  The Treasury earlier this year began selling the bonds to
Italians, who are among the biggest savers in Europe, as
contagion from the debt crisis triggered an exodus of foreign
investors. The third sale of the debt coincides with signs that
the European Central Bank’s pledge to defend the euro is
sparking a return of foreign funds to  Italy .  Italy’s inflation-linked bonds have returned 23 percent
this year and are on track to mark the best performance since at
least 2004. Italy’s 10-year bond gained for a sixth day, with
the yield ending at 4.764 percent, the lowest in more than a
year.  “It’s a sign that Italians have a lot of faith in Italy
and this is a great response to speculation in  Europe ,” said
Mario Spreafico, who manages 1.5 billion euros as chief
investment officer at Schroders Private Banking in Milan.  Bonus Yield  The Treasury offered the four-year bonds with a coupon of
2.55 percent and investors who hold the debt to maturity in 2016
will get a bonus of 0.4 percent. The principal will be
guaranteed even in the case of deflation and investors aren’t
charged commissions to buy the debt.  The orders dwarfed the 7.3 billion euros of bonds placed in
the first sale in March and the 1.7 billion euros taken in at
the second sale in June. The 18 billion euro take was three
times the amount the Treasury took in at its monthly auction on
Oct. 11.  The Treasury may only hold two of the retail bond sales
next year and may also change the maturity, debt agency head
Maria Cannata said in an interview on Oct. 9.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chiara Vasarri in Rome at 
 cvasarri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jerrold Colten at 
 jcolten@bloomberg.net  