-- Lithuanian Labor Party Pledges Action Amid Voting Allegations
-- B y   B r y a n   B r a d l e y
-- 2012-10-18T14:50:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-18/lithuanian-labor-party-pledges-action-amid-voting-allegations.html
Lithuania’s  Labor Party  said it
would expel any members found guilty of violating the election
law amid allegations that some bribed voters during an Oct. 14
round of parliamentary elections that the party won.  Police are looking at a video claiming to show prison
inmates being offered money in return for voting for the Labor
Party, the  Prosecutor General’s Office  in Vilnius, the capital,
said on its website yesterday. The party called for a swift
investigation of the allegations.  “Media reports that some members of the Labor Party may
have bribed voters are casting a shadow on our authority,” the
party said on its website today. “If the mentioned facts are
confirmed, the chairman of the Labor Party intends personally to
propose the expulsion of any members who have broken the law.”  The party of Viktor Uspaskich, a Russian-born entrepreneur,
won 19.8 percent of votes in the first round on Oct. 14. Labor
wants to form a ruling coalition after runoff ballots on Oct. 28
with Finance Minister Algirdas Butkevicius’s Social Democrats,
and Order & Justice, led by impeached ex-President Rolandas Paksas.  Prime Minister Andrius Kubilius’s Homeland Union-Christian
Democrat party stands third before a second round of voting with
15.1 percent support.  Systematic  “Lack of prosecution in previous elections has led us a
point where vote-buying has even started to become organized,
there are signs it’s becoming systematic,” Kubilius said in an
e-mailed statement after meeting today with the heads of the
 election commission , the police and the prosecutors office to
discuss voter fraud and how to avoid similar violations during
the runoff.  He promised action on a list of recommendations submitted
today by the general commissioner of the police aimed at
strengthening  law enforcement ’s authority to investigate
election law violations as well as levying heavier punishments
on individuals and parties.  Separately, a regional prosecutor asked election officials
to strip the legal immunity of a Labor Party candidate accused
of bribing voters, the office said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bryan Bradley in Vilnius at 
 bbradley13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  