-- JAB Boosts Holding in Master Blenders to More Than 15%
-- B y   D a v i d   W e l c h   a n d   C e l e s t e   P e r r i
-- 2012-10-19T07:38:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-18/jab-boosts-stake-in-master-blenders.html
D.E Master Blenders 1753 NV (DE)  rose to
almost a three-month high after Joh. A. Benckiser, the
investment firm run by Bart Becht, boosted its stake in the
maker of Senseo coffee to 15.05 percent.  Master Blenders gained as much as 3.1 percent to 10.05
euros, the highest intraday price since July 24. JAB “confirmed
the long-term nature of its investment in D.E Master Blenders
1753 to the company and underlined its belief in the company’s
growth strategy and its significant potential in the coffee and
tea categories,” Amsterdam-based Master Blenders said in a
statement released late yesterday after Bloomberg reported the
increased stake.  JAB has said the investment is financial, said Michiel Quarles van Ufford, a spokesman for Master Blenders. JAB’s
Donata Holdings SE unit previously  owned  12.2 percent of the
coffee company. Sara Lee Corp. spun off Master Blenders in June.
Shortly afterward, the JAB unit bought the stake and indicated
that its holding might increase, though it planned to remain a
minority investor.  “There is a possibility they will acquire the whole
business at some stage,” said  Richard Withagen ,  an  analyst at
SNS Securities in Amsterdam who  recommends  investors reduce
their Master Blenders stake. “They are interested in these
kinds of companies.”  Market Value  Master Blenders was trading up 2.2 percent at 9.99 euros as
of 9:35 a.m. in Amsterdam, bringing its market value to 5.95
billion euros ($7.8 billion) and valuing JAB’s increased stake
at about 892 million euros.  JAB bolstered its coffee holdings this year by agreeing to
buy  Peet’s Coffee & Tea Inc. (PEET)  for about $1 billion. JAB
subsidiary Coty Inc. unsuccessfully attempted a takeover this
year of door-to-door cosmetics seller  Avon Products Inc. (AVP)  for
more than $10 billion. Becht, also chairman of Coty, said then
that the perfume maker would pursue other opportunities in light
of Avon’s rejection.  “Conspiracy theory could suggest that in the medium-term
future the Benckiser family is interested to play an active role
in consolidation in the coffee market,”  Marco Gulpers , an
analyst at ING Groep NV, wrote in a note to investors today.  Master Blenders shares have gained 20 percent since their
listing in Amsterdam, and have rebounded from an August dive
after the coffee and tea maker said it would restate earnings
because of accounting irregularities in  Brazil . The company aims
to unseat  Kraft Foods Inc. (KRFT)  as the world’s No. 2 coffee maker,
and is relying on innovations like a ground-bean single-serve
machine to boost sales.  “The strategy is very good,” said Withagen, “It’s all up
to the management’s execution.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Welch in  New York  at 
 dwelch12@bloomberg.net ;
Celeste Perri in Amsterdam at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net ;
Jeffrey McCracken at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net  