-- Japanese Stock Futures Little Changed on China Growth Questions
-- B y   A d a m   H a i g h
-- 2012-10-18T23:10:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-18/japanese-stock-futures-little-changed-on-china-growth-questions.html
Japanese stock futures and
Australian equities were little changed after an adviser to the
People’s Bank of China said the government won’t provide big
economic stimulus and a strong rebound in growth is unlikely.  American Depositary Receipts  of  Komatsu Ltd. (6301) , the world’s
second-biggest construction-equipment maker that makes 80
percent of sales outside Japan, slid 0.5 percent.  BHP Billiton
Ltd. (BHP) , the world’s largest mining company, advanced 0.4 percent
in early Sydney trading as metals prices climbed.  GrainCorp Ltd. (GNC) 
may be active as a person familiar with the matter said Wilmar
International Ltd. bought a stake in eastern Australia’s largest
grain handler.  Futures on Japan’s Nikkei 225 Stock Average expiring in
December closed at 8,970 in Chicago yesterday, down from 8,980
in Osaka, Japan. They were bid in the pre-market at 8,960 in
Osaka at 8:05 a.m. local time. Australia’s S&P/ASX 200 Index was
little changed today. New Zealand’s NZX 50 Index retreated 0.3
percent in Wellington.  “We’re seeing slow signs of a bottoming in the Chinese
economy,” said Stan Shamu, a market strategist at IG Markets
Ltd., a provider of trading services in equities, bonds and
currencies in Melbourne. “No one is too sure what this means
for further stimulus.”  Futures on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index were little
changed today. The gauge fell 0.2 percent yesterday as Google
Inc. pulled down technology shares after reporting third-quarter
profit and sales that missed estimates. Google dropped 8 percent
after the earnings report was filed inadvertently during regular
trading hours.  Relative Value  The  MSCI Asia Pacific (MXAP)  Index rebounded about 14 percent
through yesterday from this year’s low on June 4 as stimulus
measures in Europe, the U.S., Japan and China boosted  market
sentiment  amid a global economic slowdown and Europe’s debt
crisis. The Asian benchmark traded at 13.1 times  estimated
earnings  on average, compared with 13.9 for the Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index and 12.3 for the Stoxx Europe 600 Index.  China’s government won’t provide big economic stimulus and
a strong rebound in growth is unlikely, said Song Guoqing, an
adviser to the People’s Bank of China. Local-government
investment plans probably won’t materialize quickly because
they’re reliant on the central government and banks for funding,
Song said in a speech at  Tsinghua University  in Beijing
yesterday.  The  Thomson Reuters/Jefferies CRB Index (CRY)  of raw materials
climbed 0.3 percent yesterday.  Chinese equities trading in the U.S. climbed in New York to
their highest valuation relative to U.S. stocks since May as
rising retail sales and expanding industrial production signal
the world’s second-largest economy is reviving.  The  Bloomberg China-US Equity Index (CH55BN)  of the most-traded
Chinese companies in the U.S. added 0.5 percent to a five-month
high of 96.21 yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Haigh in Sydney at 
 ahaigh1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  