-- JPMorgan Energy-Trading Unit Admits Errors in FERC Filing
-- B y   K a s i a   K l i m a s i n s k a
-- 2012-10-19T04:00:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-18/jpmorgan-energy-trading-unit-admits-errors-in-ferc-filing.html
JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  apologized
yesterday for what it said were inadvertent mistakes by its
energy-trading unit as it sought to continue operating a
business that reported $2.2 billion in transaction revenue last
year.  The largest  U.S. bank  could have its license to trade
electricity suspended by the  Federal Energy Regulatory
Commission  for what JPMorgan says were miscommunications with
the Washington-based agency and California’s grid operator
during an investigation of energy-market manipulation.  While the energy unit accounted for a small portion of
JPMorgan’s $97.2 billion in 2011  revenue , the case adds to
regulatory trouble for the New York-based bank. At least 10
federal agencies and a U.S. Senate panel are investigating a
multibillion-dollar trading loss at its chief investment office
in  London .  JPMorgan “regrets and apologizes,” the company said in a
filing disclosed yesterday. Suspending trading authorization
would be “unjustified reaction to unintentional, good-faith
mistakes, misunderstandings and miscommunications.”  At least one former California regulator was unpersuaded by
JPMorgan’s contention that it didn’t commit the violation that
would lead to a loss of its trading authority.  “I wish I could go and violate the law, and then, when I
get caught, I, you know, I could apologize,” said Carl Wood,
who was a member of the  California  Public Utilities Commission
when it was responsible for stabilizing California’s utility
industry after the 2000-2001 energy crisis.  Transaction Charges  “The fact is that under the regulations they are required
to do certain things, disclose certain information, if they
don’t do that, then there has to be consequences,” Wood said in
a phone interview yesterday.  The energy unit, J.P. Morgan Ventures Energy Corp.,
reported $2.2 billion paid by customers in  New England , the
Midwest and California in 2011, according to FERC filings.  The case focuses on whether JPMorgan’s energy division, a
part of the company’s commodities unit run by Blythe Masters,
met its obligations to provide documents to the California
Independent System Operator Corp., or CAISO, which operates the
state’s power grid.  JPMorgan said its energy-trading unit “believed it was
discharging its obligation” and didn’t realize that it was
required to provide documents to CAISO that it had provided to
FERC.  Grid Operator  The bank said it believed that under FERC rules it wasn’t
obligated to also file documents with the state once the federal
investigation had begun. JPMorgan eventually provided the
information to California, though said it was doing so
voluntarily.  JPMorgan said it had asserted, in seven letters over 10
months, its “voluntariness position” on whether it must
provide data to CAISO. “While CAISO briefly contended that
compliance with its discovery was not voluntary, it never
indicated the reasons why,” JPMorgan said.  JPMorgan hired “multiple experienced lawyers,” produced
more than 600,000 pages of information, submitted to 27
depositions and exchanged thousands of e-mails with FERC’s
Office of Enforcement in a separate investigation into
allegations of manipulating power markets.  While JPMorgan said it regrets the “mistakes that were
made” when it withheld information from California, it asked
FERC to terminate its action against the company in the matter.  One of the attorneys signing yesterday’s filing is William Scherman, former FERC general counsel and chief of staff now
with Skadden Arps Slate Meagher & Flom LLP in  Washington .  FERC Order  The  FERC  ordered JPMorgan on Sept. 20 to show that it
didn’t violate agency rules and said it may suspend the
company’s authority to sell power and related services at
market-based rates. Power companies can sell wholesale energy at
market-based rates, or cost-based rates, which are usually
lower. FERC grants the authority to sell electricity at market-
based rates.  In the order, FERC wrote that it “relies on the openness
and honesty of market participant in their communications with
the commission.”  “Thus, the commission has repeatedly emphasized that
companies failing to adhere to the commission’s rules and
regulations are subject to suspension or revocation of their
market-based rate authority, in addition to the disgorgement of
unjust profits and the assessment of civil penalties,” the FERC
said.  Serious Punishment  “It’s one thing to pay a fine,” Susan Court, a former
director of the FERC’s Office of Enforcement, said in a
telephone interview yesterday. “It’s another thing to lose your
ability to make money in the first instance, and that is a much
more serious punishment than a fine.”  Edison International (EIX) ’s Edison Mission power-generating unit
in 2008 agreed to pay $9 million to settle allegations that its
employees misled FERC staff investigating bidding practices in
mid-Atlantic power markets.  While the FERC has suspended trading licenses in the past
for companies that didn’t file quarterly sales reports or
updated market-power analyses, those were usually cases of
“small traders that were no longer active,” according to Rich Heidorn Jr., an energy analyst with Bloomberg Government.  ‘Jerked Around’  “The facts in issue here are kind of technical and
legal,” Heidorn said in a phone interview.  FERC is “using
this to get JPMorgan’s attention, because they felt like they
were getting jerked around by their lawyers.”  The lender is still recovering from a wrong-way bet on
 credit derivatives  that cost the bank about $6.25 billion
through the first nine months of this year, not including what
the bank said was a “modest” additional loss in the third
quarter.  JPMorgan “mounted a strong defense, but they have packaged
it in very polite terms,” Court said. “They just want to keep
their authorization to trade power.”  The disclosure issue emerged as the agency was
investigating JPMorgan’s power trading in California and the
Midwest. That probe came to light when FERC went to court
seeking internal e-mails from JPMorgan, saying the bids from the
company might have resulted in at least $73 million in improper
payments to generators.  Since January 2011, FERC has announced more than 10 probes
of alleged manipulation in electricity and natural-gas markets
and a record $245 million settlement with Constellation Energy
Group Inc.  FERC will take JPMorgan’s filing under review and has no
deadline to respond, agency spokesman Craig Cano said yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kasia Klimasinska in Washington at 
 kklimasinska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  