-- Jupiter Fund Management Rises on Mutual Fund Flows: London Mover
-- B y   P e t e r   W o o d i f i e l d
-- 2012-10-18T16:00:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-18/jupiter-fund-management-rises-on-mutual-fund-flows-london-mover.html
Jupiter Fund Management Plc (JUP) , the
investment provider run by the brother of actress Helena Bonham
Carter, rose to a 16-month high after quarterly inflows to its
mutual funds were the highest in at least four years.  Jupiter had 795 million pounds ($1.28 billion) of net
mutual-fund inflows from individual customers in the first half,
helping to mitigate the effect of 216 million pounds of net
withdrawals by institutional clients and wealthy individuals,
the London-based company said in a statement today. The gross
increase in mutual fund inflows was 1.59 billion pounds, the
highest since at least 2008.  Investors piled into Jupiter funds including Merlin Income,
as well as bond and convertibles offerings, giving
“encouragement that Jupiter is strengthening its position
outside the traditional equity products,” Stuart Duncan, an
analyst at Peel Hunt, said in a note.  Analysts including Arun Melmane at Canaccord Genuity and
David McCann at Numis Securities raised their price predictions
for the stock, which advanced 3.1 percent to 272 pence, the
highest closing price since June 2011. That extended the gain
this year to 25 percent, compared with a 21 percent rise in the
 FTSE 350 Financial Services Index. (F3OTHR)   “The stock’s current rating is a premium to the sector,”
said Duncan, who has a buy  recommendation  and a price target of
300 pence. “We consider this is deserved given the attractions
of the business model.”  Record low interest rates and quantitative easing have
reduced savings rates in the U.K., so retail customers are
looking to take more risk as they seek to boost returns.
Jupiter’s assets under management rose to a record 25 billion
pounds as of Sept. 30 from 23.4 billion pounds three months
earlier, beating analysts’ estimates.  Asset Estimates  Peel Hunt’s Duncan had estimated assets of 24 billion pounds
at Sept. 30, while Haley Tam at Citigroup Inc. expected 24.1
billion pounds. RBC Capital Markets analyst Peter Lenardos had
estimated 24.3 billion pounds.  “During the difficult flow environment in the first half
of the year, we continued to position the business for growth,”
Chief Executive Officer Edward Bonham Carter said in the
statement. The executive joined Jupiter in 1994 as a U.K. fund
manager.  “While mutual funds flows have improved, we remain
cautious looking forward given fragile  consumer confidence  and
industry flows remaining vulnerable to any increase in stock
market volatility,” the company said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Woodifield in Edinburgh at 
 pwoodifield@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Lytle at   dlytle@bloomberg.net . 