-- Knife Attack Shows India Strife Clouding Singh Investment Appeal
-- B y   A n d r e w   M a c A s k i l l   a n d   U n n i   K r i s h n a n
-- 2012-10-18T18:30:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-18/knife-attack-shows-india-strife-clouding-singh-investment-appeal.html
Nitin Kale spent 12 hours a day
machining asbestos sheets to fulfill his dream of saving enough
money to get married. Instead, the 25-year-old is in jail
charged with stabbing three managers at the factory where he
worked, a bloody clash in  India ’s growing labor wars.  As the latest of 42 meetings between union negotiators and
management of  Everest Industries Ltd. (EVI)  to end a 10-month dispute
over pay terms broke up in failure, Kale grabbed a three-inch
knife and attacked executives who moments earlier had been
seated around the negotiating table in Nashik, Maharashtra.  The confrontation is symptomatic of a breakdown in trust in
Indian industrial relations two decades in the making. While a
jump in productivity has enabled a twenty-fold surge in average
factory profits since the opening of the economy in 1991,
inflation has erased wage gains. Worker resentment spurred a 36
percent increase in strikes in the seven months to July,
hardening attitudes as Prime Minister Manmohan Singh bids to
ease employment restrictions and lure overseas investors.  “Workers don’t feel like they are getting their fair share
of the pie and are fighting back,” said Sharit Bhowmik, a
professor and chairman of the Center for Labour Studies at the
Tata Institute of Social Sciences, a university based in  Mumbai .
“There is growing militancy,” he said by phone.  As India’s economic growth averaged 6.6 percent in the 20
years since 1991, workers’ wages adjusted for inflation rose
just 0.6 percent, according to  Reserve Bank of India  data.
Annual average factory profit rose to 21 million rupees
($397,000) from one million rupees over the same period, while
executive salaries tripled. Adding to the pain,  inflation 
averaged about eight percent over the last year.  China Gap  Workers in India’s communist-run northern neighbor,  China ,
fared much better.  China’s gross domestic product grew an average 10.4 percent
a year from 1991 to 2011, while annual inflation-adjusted gains
in urban workers’ wages averaged 9.6 percent from 1991 to 2010,
according to Bloomberg News calculations from government data.
Productivity increased more than 100 percent from 1990 to 2010
based on purchasing-power parity, according to the  World Bank .  More than 460,000 workers stopped work at 132 factories
nationwide up to the end of July, compared with 84,500 who
participated in 97 walkouts in the same period of 2011,
according to the government’s Labour Bureau.  Nokia, Siemens  Strikes this year have disrupted operations at a local unit
owned by Finland’s  Nokia Oyj (NOK1V)  and Germany’s  Siemens AG (SIE) , as well
as state-owned Air India Ltd.  The disruptions risk undermining efforts to woo overseas
retailers such as  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT) , foreign airlines and
insurance and pension companies. With his legacy as architect of
India’s economic surge during a 1990s stint as finance minister
in peril, Singh last month began India’s biggest opening to
foreign investors in almost a decade.  While the announcements helped make the rupee  Asia ’s best
performing currency against the dollar in the past three months,
labor unrest underscores the challenge of luring foreign
companies. Those that eventually arrive in India risk facing an
emboldened workforce determined to stake its claim to a share of
the profits from a record period of economic expansion.  “Incidents of violence paint a negative image of the
industrial-relations situation in the country,” said Anoop
Kumar Satpathy, a fellow at the V.V. Giri National Labour
Institute near New Delhi, which advises the government on labor
policy. “It’s easy to announce reforms but tough to ensure
investor interest if such incidents continue.”  Worker Rampage  If the strike in Nashik, a city of pilgrimage for India’s
Hindus and the center of the country’s tiny wine industry,
didn’t make national headlines, an explosion of worker anger a
half-hour drive from the capital, New Delhi, did.  After a year of protests to demand higher wages, better
working conditions and the right to unionize freely, about a
thousand workers July 18 rampaged through a  Maruti Suzuki India
Ltd. (MSIL)  car factory at Manesar. Assaulting senior staff with tools
and auto parts, the men set fire to a building in an attack that
led to the death of a human-resources manager and shut down
production for a month. The immediate spark was a brawl between
an employee and supervisor, Maruti said in a statement.  While the standoff spiraled into one of India’s largest and
most violent labor protests of the last 30 years, for the
workers involved and their union backers, the eventual
settlement underscored the legitimacy of their grievances.  ‘Wage Theft’  As the factory reopened, Maruti agreed to raise salaries by
75 percent and turn 1,800 contract workers -- or about half the
payroll -- into permanent employees. The majority of contract
staff at the factory earns about 6,000 rupees a month, according
to seven workers interviewed by  Bloomberg News  in July, less
than the statutory  minimum wage  for unskilled government
positions in the capital.  About 100 people remain in custody and more than 500
workers have been dismissed for their roles in the violence,
according to a statement issued by Maruti.  “It really boils down to wage theft,” said Rakhi Sehgal,
secretary of New Trade Union Initiative, an umbrella group that
represents about 15 million workers nationwide, including some
at Maruti Suzuki. “The discontent has been brewing under the
surface for a long time.”  While strikes across India this year had various triggers,
most were fueled by an explosive mix of declining spending
power, demands for improved working conditions and union
allegations that companies underpay temporary staff.  Inflation Threat  Behind some of that angst is the inflation that erodes
workers’ purchasing power. India’s benchmark wholesale-price
index jumped 7.81 percent in September from a year before, the
most since last November. By comparison, China’s main gauge, the
consumer-price index, rose 1.9 percent last month.  Rajeev Dubey, human resources manager at Mumbai-based
 Mahindra & Mahindra Ltd. (MM) , India’s largest maker of sport-utility
vehicles and tractors, says that employers are paying the price
for neglecting their staff.  “We need to bring the issue of industrial relations onto
the radar screens of top management and the boardroom,” Dubey
said Sept. 11 at an event organized by an industry body. “Until
it gets there and is seen as a vital and integral part of
creating profit, of innovation and of productivity, we are not
going to solve this problem.”  The fatality during the Maruti protest was the second time
this year that a senior executive has been killed in a wage
dispute. The president of  Regency Ceramics Ltd. (RGC) , the country’s
largest exporter of decorative tiles, was beaten to death by
enraged workers at his home in January after a clash over
salaries spiraled out of control.  Production Crippled  The striking workers had earlier tried to storm the factory
located in the southern Indian state of Puducherry on Jan. 27 to
stop production, according to company spokesman Gopinath, who
uses only one name. The incident has crippled production, with
the factory operating at a fifth of capacity.  Labor and Employment Minister Mallikarjun Kharge said in a
speech last month to his counterparts from the provinces that a
disregard for implementing laws protecting workers lay behind
much of the recent unrest.  “Failure in this area has led to the recent flaring up of
incidents,” Kharge said. “Employers shouldn’t turn a blind eye
towards labor statutes” covering minimum wages, contract laws
and working conditions in factories, he said.  Some of those regulations grate with employers, including a
direction that companies employing more than 100 workers need
government permission to fire workers, making it difficult to
shut loss-making plants. Prime Minister Singh in a February
speech repeated his call for union help in overhauling some of
the rules to promote  job creation  in an economy growing at its
slowest pace since the 2009 global recession.  ‘Sheer Frustration’  The dispute at Everest Industries, a maker of roofing and
cement products, began last year when the company announced that
wage increases would be linked to production, not inflation,
union negotiators said.  Everest pays salaries that are the highest in the area, the
company said in a statement, and changed its pay terms because
of problems with staff discipline and low productivity. It
blamed the long standoff on union demands that workers dismissed
on “disciplinary grounds and for sabotaging company equipment
and machinery” must be taken back.  The Nashik representative of the communist-backed Centre
for  Indian Trade Unions  described Kale as a model worker, and
said he picked up the knife that cost him his job and landed him
in jail out of anger and a sense of defeat.  “No resolution was in sight,” said R.S. Pandey, vice
president of CITU’s Maharashtra unit.  “The management kept delaying and workers hadn’t been paid
since November,” said Pandey, who is on bail on charges he
instigated the violence. “It was an act done out of sheer
frustration.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrew MacAskill in  New Delhi  at 
 amacaskill@bloomberg.net ;
Unni Krishnan in New Delhi at 
 ukrishnan2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net ;
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  