-- Kolon Industries Charged With Stealing DuPont Secrets
-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g
-- 2012-10-18T19:35:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-18/kolon-industries-charged-with-stealing-dupont-trade-secrets.html
Kolon Industries Inc. (120110)  and five of
its executives were charged with stealing  trade secrets  from
 DuPont Co. (DD)  related to the manufacture of Kevlar, an anti-
ballistic fiber used in police and military gear.  Kolon, based in Gyeonggi,  South Korea , and the five
officials were indicted in federal court in Richmond, Virginia.
All were charged with one count of conspiracy to convert trade
secrets, four counts of theft of trade secrets and one count of
obstruction of justice. The indictment, which was filed Aug. 21
and unsealed today, includes a forfeiture claim seeking at least
$225 million in alleged criminal proceeds from the company.  “Today’s announcement should indicate that industrial
espionage is not a business strategy and will not be tolerated
by the  United States  Department of Justice,” U.S. Attorney Neil MacBride said at a press conference announcing the charges.  A federal jury in Richmond in September 2011 awarded DuPont
about $920 million in damages after finding that Kolon and its
U.S. unit wrongfully obtained DuPont’s proprietary information
about Kevlar by hiring some of the company’s former engineers
and marketers. Kolon sells the Heracron line of so-called para-
aramid fibers as a competitor to Kevlar.  Jury Verdict  Last month, a federal appeals court in Richmond considering
the company’s challenge to the jury verdict put on hold a
judge’s order that barred Kolon from selling para-aramid
products for 20 years.  Prosecutors also allege that Kolon stole trade secrets
related to a similar product made by  Teijin Ltd. (3401) , based in
 Osaka ,  Japan .  “Kolon sought to obtain trade secrets related to Kevlar
and Twaron by hiring and attempting to hire former and current
employees of DuPont, DuPont-Toray, and Teijin Twaron USA as
‘consultants,’ and by asking these ‘consultants’ to reveal
information that was confidential and proprietary,” according
to the indictment.  Jeff Randall, a Washington-based attorney who represents
Kolon, said his client denies doing anything illegal and will
fight the charges.  Much of the product information the government claims are
trade secrets had been made publicly available by DuPont in
patent applications and technical journals, Randall said in a
telephone interview.  ‘Consultants’ Representations’  “Kolon is entitled to reasonably rely on the consultants’
representations that they were engaged in legitimate consulting
activities and were only providing information that DuPont had
already publicly made available, and that they were not
disclosing any proprietary information,” said Randall, a
partner at Paul Hastings LLP.  The five individual defendants still work for Kolon in
South  Korea , MacBride said. None are currently in custody, he
said. The conspiracy and theft charges carry maximum 10-year
prison terms while the obstruction charge carries a maximum 20-
year penalty.  “We hope to secure their presence here in the Eastern
District of Virginia whether through voluntary surrender here or
through the extradition process with Korea if that’s
necessary,” MacBride said.  Currently, no Kolon assets in the U.S. have been seized or
frozen and the indictment can’t stop Kolon from selling its
product, MacBride said.  ‘Great Consequences’  “Any corporation that’s convicted of a felony has great
consequences as to how it can do business in the United
States,”  Lanny Breuer , head of the  Justice Department ’s
Criminal Division, said at the press conference.  DuPont, based in Wilmington,  Delaware , spent more than
$500 million to boost  Kevlar  production and meet rising demand
for armor and lightweight materials that reduce energy use.  Kevlar, together with Nomex, a heat-resistant fiber used in
firefighting gear, accounted for about $1.5 billion of DuPont’s
$38 billion in sales last year, according to the company.  The indictment is “a major step in bringing this matter to
a conclusion,” DuPont Senior Vice President and General Counsel
Thomas L. Sager said in an e-mailed statement.  “We will continue to pursue enforcement of our civil
judgment in the United States, Korea and around the world,” he
said.  DuPont sued Kolon in February 2009 alleging it stole
confidential Kevlar data. DuPont began selling the bullet-
resistant fiber in 1965 and it’s used in  body armor , military
helmets, ropes, cables and tires. Kolon began making its own
version of the para-aramid fiber in 2005.  Jurors found Kolon got access to Kevlar secrets by hiring
 Michael Mitchell , a former DuPont engineer who also had served
as a Kevlar marketing executive.  In March 2010, Mitchell, who worked at a DuPont-owned plant
in Richmond for 25 years, was sentenced to 18 months in prison
after pleading guilty to theft of trade secrets and obstruction.  The case is U.S. v. Kolon Industries, 12-cr-137, U.S.
District Court, Eastern District of Virginia (Richmond).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in  Washington  at 
 tschoenberg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 