-- N. Ireland’s First Abortion Clinic to Open Amid Protests
-- B y   C o l m   H e a t l e y
-- 2012-10-18T11:31:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-18/n-ireland-s-first-abortion-clinic-to-open-amid-protests-1-.html
The first abortion clinic on the
island of Ireland is scheduled to open today, as around 150
protesters gathered outside its doors in central Belfast.  Marie Stopes International , which has 629 centers in 40
countries, is opening the clinic in the Northern Irish capital
at 1:00 p.m. local time.  Northern Ireland and the  Republic of Ireland  have some of
 Europe ’s toughest anti-abortion laws Europe. In Northern
Ireland, the procedure can only be performed in the first nine
weeks of pregnancy and if a women’s health is at serious risk.
South of the border, abortions are illegal unless a women’s life
is a risk.  “This is definitely a step in the wrong direction,” said
Hugh O’Connor, a 45 year-old construction worker from Dungiven,
around 50 miles from Belfast. “If it wasn’t here a few more
lives might be saved. I’m sad and I’m angry about it.”  Many protesters held banners calling for the clinic to be
closed, some reciting prayers and singing ‘Ave Maria.’ Around 20
police were in attendance.  The clinic director, Dawn Purvis, a former lawmaker in
 Northern Ireland ’s power-sharing assembly, said last week Marie
Stopes will operate strictly within the U.K. region’s laws.
Elsewhere in the U.K., abortions can be carried out up to 24
weeks and with no need to show a woman would have severe
psychological or physical harm should she give birth.  Last year around 1,000 women from Northern Ireland traveled
to mainland U.K. for abortions, according to Britain’s Health
Ministry. Some 4,000 women from the Republic of Ireland traveled
to Britain for terminations.  “Northern Ireland is a very pro-life country,” Bernadette
Smyth, one of the protest organizers told reporters today. “We
will be here again. We want to keep Ireland abortion free.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Colm Heatley in Belfast at 
 cheatley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Lytle at 
 dlytle@bloomberg.net  