-- Nestle, SABMiller Spark Concern Over Weak Emerging-Market Growth
-- B y   P a u l   J a r v i s
-- 2012-10-18T11:38:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-18/nestle-sabmiller-spark-concern-over-weak-emerging-market-growth.html
Nestle SA (NESN)  and  SABMiller Plc (SAB)  reported
sales growth in emerging markets that missed estimates, sparking
concern of a slowdown in regions that consumer-goods makers are
relying on to offset slumping markets across Europe.  Nestle, the world’s biggest food company,  fell the most  in
six months in Zurich trading after saying flooding in the
 Philippines  and other business disruptions in parts of Asia,
Oceania and Africa weighed on a region that represents more than
a quarter of sales. SABMiller  also slid  after the world’s
second-largest brewer said sales were hindered by a more modest
pace of growth and weaker consumer sentiment in Latin America,
its most important region for  sales  and profitability.  Sluggishness in  emerging markets  would be a blow to
European consumer-goods makers that have expanded from  Brazil  to
China to compensate for slowing economies closer to home.
Nestle, which last year paid $1.7 billion for a 60 percent stake
in Chinese snack and candy maker Hsu Fu Chi International Ltd.,
said nine-month sales growth in the Asia, Oceania and Africa
region was 9.4 percent, decelerating from 11.6 percent in the
first half.  “There’s definitely an element of complacency about
emerging-market growth,” said Spiros Malandrakis, an analyst at
Euromonitor International in London. “I wouldn’t sound the
alarm bell saying they’re dead in the water, not by a long shot,
but it would be better to be more realistic about the
expectations we have from these markets.”  Shares Slide  Nestle shares  declined as much as 3 percent to 60.40 Swiss
francs, the steepest drop since April 23, while SABMiller fell
as much as 1.7 percent to 2,609.5 pence, the lowest price since
July 4.  Unilever, (UNA)  the maker of Dove soap and Lipton tea that
gets more than half its sales in emerging markets, declined as
much as 1.8 percent in Amsterdam, the most since Sept. 10.  “This is a sector where valuations have gone up” because
investors thought the sector was resilient,’’ said  Richard
Withagen , an analyst at SNS Securities in Amsterdam. “But the
entire sector is expensive and even these companies can get hurt
in today’s trading environment.”  A slowdown in growth in the Asia, Oceania and Africa region
was caused by a confluence of events such as typhoons in the
Philippines that closed production for a week, Nestle executives
said today. Sales also were burdened by demonstrations in
 Pakistan , elections in  Egypt  and sanctions in  Iran , they said.  Nestle said it’s still aiming for a “double-digit” sales
increase in China, where government figures today showed that
economic growth slowed for a seventh quarter.  “The underlying dynamism remains strong and we should be
able to see evidence of that in the quarters to come,” said
Nandu Nandkishore, Nestle’s head of the Asia, Oceania and Africa
zone, speaking of the region as a whole.  Forecasts Maintained  Nestle stuck to its full-year forecasts for growth of 5
percent and 6 percent in sales excluding acquisitions, disposals
and currency swings, as well as an improved margin.  SABMiller, the maker of Grolsch and Peroni beers, reported
sales in the growth markets of  Latin America , Africa and Asia
that missed analysts’ estimates.  In Latin America, the brewer’s largest region for sales and
profitability, organic lager volume  rose  4 percent in the six
months ended Sept. 30, compared with a median analyst estimate
of 5.5 percent. Sales in the region were held back by a more
“modest pace” of economic growth in the second quarter and
weaker consumer sentiment, the company said.  Analysts covering Brazil’s economy lowered their estimate
for economic growth this year for the first time in four weeks,
according to a survey of analysts released this week. Brazil and
South Korea both cut  interest rates  last week to spur growth.  End of the Rainbow  “Some people thought they’d found the end of the rainbow
in those regions, but they haven’t,” Malandrakis said.  The increasing number of western companies that are seeking
growth in developing regions to combat slower growth at home
means that markets are becoming more crowded, said Paul French,
a China-based strategist at researcher Mintel.  “In short, the emerging-market consumer pizza is still
getting larger, but the number of brands wanting a slice of it
is also growing,” he said.  Still, consumer-facing companies in  Europe  are finding that
the world’s developing regions still provide the strongest
sources of growth.  Remy Cointreau SA (RCO) , France’s second-biggest
distiller, said today that growth in Asia was “satisfactory”
in the first half, while Europe “lagged behind.”  Remy shares fell as much as 8.4 percent, the most in more
than 3 1/2 years, after slowing growth in sales of cognac caused
second-quarter revenue to miss analyst estimates. The stock was
down 6 percent at 81.97 euros as of 1:22 p.m. in Paris.  “Emerging markets are going through a lower-growth phase
currently, but this is going to improve again,” said Boris
Planer, an economist at  Planet Retail  in  Frankfurt . “Emerging
markets are going to improve in 2013 and 2014.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Paul Jarvis  in London at 
 pjarvis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  