-- Nestle Sales Miss Estimates on Developing Market Slowdown
-- B y   D e r m o t   D o h e r t y
-- 2012-10-18T12:28:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-18/nestle-confirms-full-year-outlook-after-sales-miss-estimates-1-.html
Nestle SA (NESN) , the world’s biggest food
company, reported slowing sales growth that missed analysts
estimates as demand stumbled in  emerging markets  and blamed
disruptions including floods in the  Philippines .  Nestle shares fell as much as 3 percent, the steepest
decline since April 23. Nine-month revenue gained 6.1 percent
excluding acquisitions, divestments and currency swings, the
Vevey, Switzerland-based company said today. The average
 estimate  of 12 analysts was 6.3 percent. It was the first time
since 2009 that Nestle reported organic sales that fell short of
expectations compiled by Bloomberg.  “There’s some red flags and the big surprise was the sharp
slowdown” in the Asia, Oceania and Africa business, said
 Richard Withagen , an analyst at SNS Securities in Amsterdam. “I
see this as a one-off rather than something structural, and
given the track record of the company, I’d give them the benefit
of the doubt.”  Sales growth of food companies is sputtering as consumers
from  China  to Spain monitor spending amid the economic crisis
and rising prices.  Danone (BN) , the world’s biggest yogurt maker,
yesterday reported the weakest dairy product sales growth in
more than three years, hurt by southern  Europe . Nestle said
business disruptions in Asia, Oceania and Africa weighed on a
region that represents more than a quarter of sales.  Stock Drop  The  stock  traded 2.3 percent lower at 60.85 Swiss francs as
of 2:25 p.m. in Zurich, bringing the year-to-date gain to 13
percent. Shares of  Unilever (UNA) , the maker of Magnum ice cream, lost
as much as 1.8 percent in Amsterdam trading.  “We expected a slowdown in growth, but we did not expect
things to slow so much,” Andrew Wood, an analyst at Sanford C.
Bernstein, wrote in a note to investors.  The Nespresso maker said it still anticipates growth of
between 5 percent and 6 percent this year as well as an improved
 margin . Chief Executive Officer  Paul Bulcke  said “continued
momentum” in shipments and some easing in raw-material costs
allowed the maker of Purina pet food and Perrier bottled water
to reiterate the targets. Nestle is “confident” sales growth
will be within that range in 2013, Bulcke told journalists in
China.  Typhoons, Sanctions  The typhoons in the Philippines closed production for a
week, executives said. Third-quarter sales also were burdened by
demonstrations in  Pakistan , elections in  Egypt  and sanctions in
Iran, Roddy Child-Villiers, director of investor relations, said
on a conference call. One fewer shopping day in Europe and a
delay in a Christmas confectionery campaign in  Brazil  also
reduced third-quarter sales, the company said. The one-offs cut
third-quarter sales growth by more than 1 percentage point.  Sales growth in the Asia, Oceania and  Africa  region slowed
to 9.4 percent in the first nine months of the year from an 11.6
percent pace in the first half. Third-quarter sales growth was
probably 5 percent, said Jeff Stent, an  analyst  at Exane BNP.  The quarter isn’t a “good guide” to the final three
months of the year, Child-Villiers said.  “The underlying dynamism remains strong and we should be
able to see evidence of that in the quarters to come,” said
Nandu Nandkishore, head of the Asia, Oceania and Africa zone.  Emerging Markets  Nestle got more than 40 percent of 2011 revenue from
emerging markets such as China. Half of its factories are in
such countries, as it seeks stronger growth prospects as Europe
struggles with its debt crisis.  “One quarter in emerging markets which is softer doesn’t
worry me too much given the medium-term growth potential of
China,” said  Marco Gulpers , an analyst at ING Groep NV in
Amsterdam. “The buying power is still increasing in China and
that’ll provide support for growth going forward.”  Nestle also said today it will double the number of
research and development facilities it has in China to four with
new centers in Xiamen and Dongguan.  The volume of goods sold increased 2.9 percent, lagging
behind the 3.2 percent analyst estimate. Nestle reiterated its
forecast raw-material costs will rise at a “low-to-mid single-
digit” pace this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dermot Doherty in Geneva at 
 ddoherty9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  