-- New Jersey Schedules Record $2.6 Billion Note Sale to Repay Loan
-- B y   T e r r e n c e   D o p p   a n d   M i c h e l l e   K a s k e
-- 2012-10-18T18:39:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-18/new-jersey-schedules-record-2-6-billion-note-sale-to-repay-loan.html
New Jersey plans to sell $2.6
billion in notes this month, its largest-ever short-term debt
sale, to repay a loan from  Bank of America  Merrill Lynch and
bolster cash flow, said a spokesman for the state treasurer.  The offer of tax-and-revenue anticipation notes is $450
million more than the $2.15 billion borrowed last fiscal year.
It would also be the most since New Jersey sold $2.65 billion in
two separate deals under Republican Governor  Chris Christie ’s
predecessor, one-term Democrat  Jon Corzine , in fiscal 2006.  “We’re going to do $2.6 billion this year to pay off a
$2.1 billion line of credit we’ve already drawn on with Bank of
America,”  Andy Pratt , a spokesman for Treasurer Andrew Sidamon- Eristoff, said in a telephone interview. “The rest of it will
go towards continuing cash-flow needs throughout the year.”  The state took out $1.2 billion from the Bank of America
loan in July and $900 million in August, Pratt said.  Revenue for the first three months of the fiscal year that
began July 1 missed Christie’s forecast by 4 percent, putting
collections about $175 million short of targets in the $31.7
billion budget he signed in June.  The state may face a “significant” reduction of its
surplus for fiscal 2012, and this year’s ending balance may be
lower because of additional spending or less-than-anticipated
revenue, the administration said in offering statements for last
month’s $400 million sale of school-construction and refunding
debt.  New Jersey  is scheduled to sell the notes through
competitive bid as soon as Oct. 30, data compiled by Bloomberg
show.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Terrence Dopp in Trenton at 
 tdopp@bloomberg.net ;
Michelle Kaske in  New York  at 
 mkaske@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  