-- Newsweek to Become Online-Only After 80 Years in Print
-- B y   S a r a h   F r i e r   a n d   E d m u n d   L e e
-- 2012-10-18T19:29:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-18/newsweek-to-become-online-only-after-80-years-in-print.html
Newsweek, owned by  Barry Diller ’s
 IAC/InterActiveCorp (IACI) , will become an online-only publication next
year, ending 80 years as a print magazine.  The last print edition in the U.S. will be the Dec. 31
issue, Tina Brown, editor-in-chief and founder of Newsweek Daily
Beast Co., said today on the company’s  website . The all-digital
publication, to be called Newsweek Global, will require
subscriptions and will be available on tablet computers and on
the Web, Brown said.  The company started discussing the likelihood of ceasing
print as early as June, Brown said in an interview.  “It was never a question of whether, it was a question of
when,” she said. The “incredibly archaic” costs of print and
the opportunity to expand through digital distribution motivated
the change, she said.  Newsweek , which merged with IAC’s Daily Beast website last
year, will lose more than $22 million this year, a person with
direct knowledge of the matter said in July. At the time, Diller
expressed concern to Brown and requested that the magazine’s
leadership come up with a plan to stem costs ahead of IAC’s
third-quarter  earnings  report, scheduled for next week,
according to two people familiar with the matter. The people
requested anonymity because the information is private.  Justine Sacco, a spokeswoman for IAC, declined to comment
on Diller’s discussions with Newsweek leadership.  Declining Circulation  The magazine’s circulation has dropped by 42 percent to 1.5
million from 2009, according to the publisher’s statement with
the  Audit Bureau of Circulations .  As part of the shift to all-digital publishing, the company
plans to cut staff, according to the statement. Brown declined
to say how many positions would be eliminated.  At least a third of the Newsweek and the Daily Beast’s
staff of 270 are represented by the  Newspaper Guild of New York ,
according to Guild President Bill O’Meara, who said that could
complicate plans to cut employees. The current contract expires
at the end of this year.  Newsweek expects “at least hundreds of thousands” of
current print subscribers to convert to the digital edition,
Baba Shetty, chief executive officer of Newsweek Daily Beast,
said in an interview.  Brown said more and more readers are asking for Newsweek
online.  “The readers have been wanting this and IAC, this whole
company is geared toward digital and we really wanted to embrace
our future now,” she said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Frier in  New York  at 
 sfrier1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kevin Miller at 
 kmiller@bloomberg.net  