-- NHL, Players’ Union Meet Two Days After League’s 50-50 Proposal
-- B y   N a n c y   K e r c h e v a l
-- 2012-10-18T04:00:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-18/nhl-players-union-meet-two-days-after-league-s-50-50-proposal.html
The National Hockey League and its
players’ union plan to meet today, two days after the owners
made a proposal aimed at ending a lockout in time for an 82-game
regular season to start Nov. 2.  The sides will meet in the Toronto office of the National
Hockey League Players’ Association, according to the league’s
website.  The NHL offered a 50-50 revenue split as part of a proposed
collective bargaining agreement that would end a lockout that
started Sept. 16. The plan would cost players more than $1.6
billion over six years, according to a letter from union head
Donald Fehr to players that was published by  Canada ’s TSN.  “The owners’ new proposal, while not quite as draconian as
their previous proposals, still represents enormous reductions
in player salaries and individual contracting rights,” Fehr’s
letter said. “At the 5 percent industry growth rate the owners
predict, the salary reduction over six years exceeds $1.6
billion.”  If the proposal is accepted by the union, there would be
time to complete the season with one extra game every five weeks
and the Stanley Cup playoffs in late June.  The preseason and first two weeks of the regular season
were canceled, causing a loss of about $250 million, Deputy
Commissioner Bill Daly has said.  The league’s offer also calls for entry-level contracts of
two years with a maximum length on other accords set at five
years. Unrestricted free agency would be 28 years of age or
eight accrued seasons in the NHL.  The proposed salary cap for the 2012-13 season is $59.9
million, with transition rules allowing teams to go as high as
$70.2 million for one season. The proposed salary-cap floor
would be $43.9 million.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nancy Kercheval in Washington at 
 nkercheval@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  