-- Nigeria S&P Upgrade Hindered by Wealth Fund Tension With States
-- B y   C h r i s   K a y
-- 2012-10-18T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-18/nigeria-s-p-upgrade-hindered-by-wealth-fund-tension-with-states.html
Nigeria’s chance of a rating upgrade
is being hindered by a lack of clarity over how its sovereign
wealth fund will grow amid tensions with regional governments
over revenue allocation,  Standard & Poor’s  said.  Increasing the size of the fund from its initial $1 billion
is key to building up external buffers that are needed for an
upgrade in the B+ rating of  Africa ’s biggest oil producer,
Christian Esters, a sovereign analyst at S&P, said in a phone
interview yesterday from  Frankfurt .  President  Goodluck Jonathan  signed the sovereign wealth
fund into law in May last year. Nigeria’s 36 states say they
plan to file a lawsuit challenging transfers by the federal
government, including those to the wealth fund. The constitution
requires government revenue to be shared among local, state and
federal authorities.  “I don’t think currently we have visibility about how
quickly this new sovereign wealth fund will grow,” Esters said.
“It continues to be a challenge for the federal government to
convince the states to get them on board and to convince them
what the advantages would be.”  The suit by the state governors won’t affect the $1 billion
already set aside for the wealth fund, Finance Minister Ngozi Okonjo-Iweala said Sept. 21.  Okonjo-Iweala named a management team for the Nigerian
Sovereign Wealth Investment Authority on Aug. 28, headed by Uche Orji, a former Goldman Sachs Group Inc., UBS AG and JPMorgan
Chase & Co. banker.  ‘More Independent’  Nigeria  currently saves oil revenue above a benchmark
budgeted price in an excess crude account. The governors agreed
in June to boost savings in the account to $10 billion. Its
balance last month was 1.32 trillion naira ($8.4 billion),
Minister of State for Finance Yerima Ngama said Oct. 12.  “They’re trying to set up something that is more
independent from the day-to-day vagaries of politics and more
independent from the regional states wanting to tap the fund,
which is the case for the excess crude account,” said Esters.  The sovereign wealth fund law requires it to allocate money
to infrastructure, the future generation and budget
stabilization, with each representing at least 20 percent of the
total. Savings through the fund will provide a buffer against
volatility in  oil prices , according to Okonjo-Iweala.  S&P raised its outlook on Nigeria’s credit rating, four
steps below investment grade, to positive from stable on Dec.
29, indicating a possible upgrade if the government follows
through with plans to boost the economy and savings. The ratings
company typically considers an upgrade between 12 and 24 months
after an outlook is raised or lowered, said Esters.  Oil Dependence  The nation’s  foreign-exchange reserves  have increased 28
percent this year to $42 billion. Nigerian benchmark Bonny Light
crude has risen 27 percent from a June low to $114.52 a barrel.  “One of the triggers for an upgrade is fiscal and external
buffers in the form of reserves against the dependence on oil
revenue,” said Esters. “Reserves have increased, but we still
need to see some track record in the light of high oil prices
and why haven’t they been increasing even more?”  The West African country relies on crude exports for about
95 percent of its foreign-currency earnings and about 80 percent
of government revenue.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Kay in Abuja at 
 ckay5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vernon Wessels at 
 vwessels@bloomberg.net  