-- Nigerian Cocoa Harvest Starts as Rains, Disease Threaten Yield
-- B y   V i n c e n t   N w a n m a
-- 2012-10-18T05:08:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-18/nigerian-cocoa-harvest-starts-as-rains-disease-threaten-yield.html
Cocoa farmers in Nigeria, the
world’s fourth-largest producer of the chocolate ingredient,
have started the harvest for the 2012-2013 season with yields
threatened by flooding.  Many cocoa farms are submerged in water, leading to high
humidity and destruction of crops, Sayina Riman, president of
the Cocoa Association of Nigeria, which groups farmers, traders
and processors, said by phone yesterday from the city of Calabar
in southeastern Nigeria. “Even the cherrelles that have formed
are under the flood, so they are destroyed.”  There are a growing number of cases of black pod, a fungal
disease that thrives in wet conditions, said Isaiah Ndiyo, a
farmer in Itumbuzor, in southeastern Abia state. Farmers are now
lowering initial expectations of a good harvest, he said.  Nigeria,  Africa ’s most populous country of more than 160
million, is facing its worst flooding in decades after its two
biggest rivers, the Niger and the Benue, overflowed their banks
as dams let out water following a year of heavy rains. Farms,
homes and roads have been washed away and more than 148 people
killed by floods in the past two months, according to the
country’s emergency agency.  Nigeria lags behind Ivory Coast,  Ghana  and  Indonesia  as a
cocoa producer, according to the website of the International
Cocoa Organization.  The cocoa association projected in September that Nigeria’s
cocoa output would rise by 20 percent to 300,000 metric tons
from 250,000 metric tons as new farms started producing.  “We now have a threat of lower production because of
incessant rainfall and flooding of our cocoa farms,” Riman
said.  Nigeria’s cocoa year is divided into two harvests, with the
main one beginning in October and ending in January, while the
smaller crop usually begins in March and ends in June.  Cocoa for December delivery fell 1.4 percent, to $2,385 a
ton in New York yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Vincent Nwanma in Lagos at 
 vnwanma@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dulue Mbachu at 
 dmbachu@bloomberg.net  