-- NLMK’s Russia Steel Output Tops Rivals After Adding Capacity
-- B y   Y u l i y a   F e d o r i n o v a
-- 2012-10-18T11:51:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-18/nlmk-s-russia-steel-output-tops-rivals-after-adding-capacity-1-.html
OAO Novolipetsk Steel (NLMK) , controlled by
billionaire  Vladimir Lisin , became the largest steelmaker in
 Russia  after boosting domestic production by 27 percent.  Novolipetsk, or NLMK, produced 11.2 million metric tons
globally in the first nine months, while Russian output rose to
10.5 million tons, Anton Bazulev, head of external relations,
said by phone. This beats  Evraz Plc (EVR) ’s 2 percent drop to 8.9
million tons domestically, according to company statements.  NLMK started up the first new blast furnace in post-Soviet
Russia late last year, with low-cost operations allowing it to
expand as rivals in Europe shrink. Russian producers have
benefited from owning  iron ore  and coal production at current
prices compared with competitors that don’t have their own raw
materials.  “Russian steelmakers, and NLMK in particular, have the
lowest cost of production globally for a ton of slabs, even
beating China,” Boris Krasnojenov, an analyst at Renaissance
Capital Ltd., said by telephone from Moscow.  NLMK is able to make slabs, a basic steel product that’s
rolled into plate, pipes and tubes, for $375 a metric ton. That
compares with $550 for Chinese steelmakers and about $600 for
 ArcelorMittal (MT) , the world’s biggest producer, Krasnojenov said.  The Lipetsk-based company’s new Rossiyanka furnace, already
running at full output, has allowed NLMK to raise capacity 35
percent to 12.4 million tons a year. The producer contributes
about 20 percent of Russia’s crude-steel volumes and accounts
for 12 percent to 14 percent of the world slabs market, it said.  Second-Largest  The new furnace, costing 43 billion rubles ($1.4 billion)
including infrastructure, gave NLMK the world’s second-largest
sales growth in the past year, Bloomberg Industries data show.
Sales rose 40.45 percent.  Hyundai Steel Co. (004020)  grew 49.63 percent.  European competitors have sold or idled plants to reduce a
supply glut as slower economic growth erodes demand. Luxembourg-
based ArcelorMittal suspended plants in France, Germany, Poland
and Spain last year and permanently shut furnaces in Belgium.  OAO Magnitogorsk Iron & Steel, Russian billionaire Victor
Rashnikov’s producer, will post third-quarter output tomorrow
and Cherepovets-based  OAO Severstal (SVST)  is set to report next week.  Neither is likely to top NLMK’s local crude-steel output
because of the new furnace, Societe Generale SA analyst Sergey Donskoy said.  Magnitogorsk produced 6.13 million tons of crude steel in
Russia in the first half, while Severstal’s domestic output
totaled 5.36 million tons, according to company statements.  Kirill Golubkov, a Magnitogorsk spokesman, and Severstal
spokeswoman Natalia Ivanova declined to comment on production.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yuliya Fedorinova in Moscow at 
 yfedorinova@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  