-- Nokia Predicts Another Transition Quarter as Loss Widens
-- B y   A d a m   E w i n g
-- 2012-10-18T16:08:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-18/nokia-reports-sixth-straight-loss-as-lumia-sales-wane.html
Nokia Oyj (NOK1V) , posting its sixth
straight loss since adopting  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) ’s Windows software,
projected another “transition” quarter as it revamps its
handset lineup to challenge the iPhone.  The third-quarter net loss widened to 969 million euros
($1.27 billion) from 68 million euros a year earlier, Espoo,
Finland-based Nokia said today in a statement. Analysts had
 predicted  a 657 million-euro loss, the average of estimates
compiled by Bloomberg showed. Nokia said the last three months
of the year will be “challenging” as it brings out new models.  Nokia has accumulated 4.8 billion euros in losses since
Chief Executive Officer Stephen Elop started his bet in early
2011 on handsets using Windows. To reduce costs, Elop has cut
more than 20,000 jobs and closed production and research sites
as Nokia’s latest devices have failed to stop customer
defections to  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPhone and devices running  Google
Inc. (GOOG) ’s Android software.  “The core business of devices and services is still
struggling,” said Lars Soederfjell, an analyst at Aalandsbanken
in  Stockholm . “It’s hard to say if they are out of the woods.”  Revenue dropped 19 percent to 7.24 billion euros, compared
with the 7 billion-euro average analyst estimate. Sales of the
flagship Lumia smartphone fell to 2.9 million units from the
previous quarter’s 4 million.  Loss Forecasts  Operating loss at the mobile-device unit will probably be 6
percent of sales this quarter when excluding some items, plus or
minus 4 percentage points. That signals an improvement from the
second quarter’s 9.1 percent and third quarter’s 7.4 percent.  Nokia’s shares added 1 percent to close at 2.22 euros in
Helsinki. The  stock  has tumbled 41 percent this year, trading at
1996 level. Nokia, once the smartphone market leader, has lost
almost 90 percent of its market value since Apple introduced the
iPhone in 2007.  “It’s encouraging the losses aren’t widening, but they
still need to reverse the handset plunge,” said Ilkka Rauvola,
an analyst at Danske Bank A/S in Helsinki who recommends selling
the stock.  Lumia sales fell as customers waited for the first Nokia
models running the new Windows Phone 8 software, set to go on
sale this quarter. Analysts had estimated 2.93 million Lumias
sold, the average of six estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Holiday Season  Nokia sold 6.3 million smartphones and 76.6 million basic
phones during the three months ended Sept. 30. Analysts
projected sales of 6.84 million smartphones and 74.6 million
basic phones.  Nokia, which controlled more than half of global smartphone
sales before the first iPhone and Android devices were
introduced, last year jettisoned its homemade Symbian software
in favor of Windows. Smartphones running the Microsoft program
have failed to threaten Apple and Google’s lead, having a market
share of 2.7 percent in the second quarter compared with 83
percent for the iPhone and Android devices combined, according
to Gartner Inc.  The new Lumia 920 and 820, set to hit store shelves in the
next few weeks in the U.S. and  Europe , are part of Nokia’s bid
to challenge the iPhone 5 and Android devices such as  Samsung
Electronics Co. (005930) ’s Galaxy S III in the year-end holiday-shopping
period. The Lumia 920 has functions including augmented reality,
which allows users to hold up their phone to see tips on stores
and restaurants.  The fourth quarter will “continue the transition” as
Nokia moves to the new Windows devices, Elop said on a
conference call. He said Nokia, Microsoft and their carrier
partners have increased marketing spending in preparation for
the new models.  Burning Cash  Excluding some items, the company reported an operating
profit as losses in the devices business narrowed from the
previous quarter.  Nokia’s net cash declined to 3.6 billion euros from 4.2
billion euros at the end of June. Its cash reserves have shrunk
by about half in the past five years and will drop below 3
billion euros by year-end, Standard & Poor’s estimated in
August. Nokia’s debt is at  junk status  with the three main
rating companies.  Operating profit at Nokia Siemens Networks, the network
joint venture with  Germany ’s  Siemens AG (SIE) , was 182 million euros,
compared with a year-earlier loss. Sales at the unit rose 3
percent to 3.5 billion euros.  “The third-quarter result was roughly as expected with the
exception of NSN that seemed to have performed somewhat
better,” said Louis Landeman, an analyst at Danske Bank A/S in
Stockholm.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Ewing in Stockholm at 
 aewing5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  