-- Nordic Power Market Should Consider New Design, Norway Says
-- B y   T o r s t e n   F a g e r h o l m
-- 2012-10-18T12:05:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-18/nordic-power-market-should-consider-new-design-norway-says.html
The Nordic region should consider
having smaller price zones, in a  reform  of the operating set-up
of the world’s largest power exchange,  Norway ’s energy and water
directorate NVE said.  The Nordic power market should consider changing to a nodal
pricing system, potentially with separate electricity values for
each power plant or each river system, the directorate said
today in an e-mailed report.  Today, prices fail to reflect “how much the electricity is
actually worth” where it is produced or consumed, which can
result in “inefficiency and systemic economic losses,”
according to the report. That indicates a less-than-optimal use
of existing grid and power plant resources, it said.  Implementing the proposal would have unknown ramifications
for buying and selling of power derivatives, NVE said.
Derivatives are settled against prices from daily auctions on
 Nord Pool Spot , where 370 buyers and sellers from 20 countries
match supply and demand and price electricity for the following
24 hours in Norway, Sweden,  Finland  and  Denmark , as well as
Estonia and Lithuania.  “From a general viewpoint, we don’t want nodal pricing,
since it would further complicate market functioning,” Stina
Johansen, a spokeswoman at the Nord Pool Spot AS exchange said
today by phone from Oslo. The exchange has not yet seen NVE’s
proposal, but has been highly critical of similar proposals in
the past, she said.  Nord Pool Spot was the first liberalized power market to
develop in  Europe . It is the  world’s largest  multinational
electricity exchange, and provides the settlement base for
Nordic power derivatives bought and sold on the  Nasdaq OMX Group
Inc. (NDAQ) ’s energy exchange in Oslo. The  latter  operates the world’s
largest power derivatives market.  Today , Norway is divided into five price areas,  Sweden  into
four, Denmark into two, and Finland, Estonia and Lithuania into
one area each.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Torsten Fagerholm in Helsinki at 
 tfagerholm@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  