-- Note to Turkey: Pianist’s Tweets Are Crass, Not Criminal
-- B y   M a r c   C h a m p i o n
-- 2012-10-18T16:25:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-18/note-to-turkey-pianist-s-tweets-are-crass-not-criminal.html
Fazil Say, the Turkish pianist and composer was arraigned today in a Turkish
court, accused of inciting hatred and insulting Islam on Twitter. How can this be? This is the  Turkey  that we all want the rest of the  Middle
East  to emulate in its tolerance. It's the same Turkey that, when radical
Islamists across the region started storming U.S. embassies over a video that
portrayed the  Prophet Muhammad  as a pedophile, condemned the protests and
violence, as well as the video. So maybe what  Say  said was even worse? There are about half a dozen tweets
and retweets in the indictment, here are the highlights: “What if there is raki in paradise but not in hell, while there is Chivas
Regal in hell and not in paradise? What will happen then? This is the most
important question!” Another tweet makes fun of a muezzin for taking only 22 seconds to sing the
call to prayer, asking if he has a mistress or some raki waiting for him to get
back to. Another suggests that whenever people are notably greedy or thieves or
otherwise bad, they turn out to be "exceedingly pious." So not exactly a high-end debate or in the best of taste, but did they
"incite public hatred"? That's a charge that most legal systems reserve for
people who inflame one ethnic or religious group against another, with a view to
violence. Does the Turkish justice system think that this globetrotting pianist
was trying to trigger riots against religious conservatives in Turkey? Maybe not, but Turkey's penal code does criminalize insulting religious
values, just as in the bad old days of the ultranationalists and generals,
Turkey criminalized insulting the republic's founder, Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, or
"Turkishness." Prime Minister  Recep Tayyip Erdogan  and his ruling  Justice and Development
Party  rolled back the worst impact of those laws, which for decades had been
used to restrict free speech, especially by those the regime felt to be
insufficiently Turkish -- such as members of the country's minority Armenian and
Kurdish communities. The amendments were a real achievement and shouldn't be belittled. Yet the
government didn't get rid of the "insult" clauses in the penal code. Erdogan
issued more civil cases against people who allegedly insulted him -- mainly
journalists but also a street performance group, a stand-up comedian and an
amateur British collage artist -- than any Turkish leader before him. (He
dropped all outstanding insult cases last year, shortly after a Wall Street
Journal  article  on the subject.) It remains a crime to insult an official in Turkey. TV presenter Cuneyt
Ozdemir was facing a three-year prison term, accused of tweeting criticism of a
judge, until the term was lifted in October as part of an  amnesty  (conditional
on his not repeating the offense). Ozdemir's alleged criticism was of a judge,
who upheld a lower court decision to void jail sentences against 26 men who had
gang-raped a 13-year-old girl, on grounds that she consented. Now, instead of ethnic-Armenian writer  Hrant Dink  being prosecuted under the
"insulting Turkishness" laws, a secular pianist is on trial for insulting
religious values. Is this progress? I'd like to say yes -- Dink, after all, was shot dead by a
nationalist in the streets of Istanbul in 2007. Fazil Say's trial was postponed
until February, and you have to hope the courts will drop the case, rather than
invite more ridicule and criticism in the EU's  annual progress report  on
Turkey's membership bid. Unfortunately, the case against Say is part of a pattern. Turkey's democratic
progress has stalled. If the government wants to keeps its moderate, pro-
democracy reputation intact it needs decriminalize insults, whether these are
made against officials, Turkishness or religion. They are free speech, pure and
simple. (Marc Champion is a member of Bloomberg View's editorial board.  Follow  him on
Twitter.) Read more breaking commentary from Bloomberg View columnists and editors at
the  Ticker .  