-- Obama Ban on Chinese Wind-Farm Is ‘Political Stunt,’ Sany Says
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-10-18T07:40:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-18/obama-ban-on-chinese-wind-farm-is-political-stunt-sany-says.html
Sany Group Co., the Chinese company
banned from building a wind-farm in  Oregon , said U.S. President
 Barack Obama ’s decision to block the project was motivated by
electoral concerns rather than national-security issues.  “It’s a political stunt -- complete bureaucratic
nonsense,” Wu Jialiang, deputy general manager of Sany, China’s
biggest construction-machinery maker, told reporters in Beijing
today. The wind-farm isn’t a threat to the U.S., he said.  Sany affiliate Ralls Corp. is suing Obama in a bid to
overturn the ban, the first transaction blocked by a U.S.
president on national-security grounds in 22 years. Obama barred
the investment amid a Presidential election campaign in which
challenger  Mitt Romney  has called for a harder policy against
China.  Blocking the wind-farm “may not benefit Obama’s
election,” Niu Xinchun, deputy director of the Institute of
American Studies at  China  Institutes of Contemporary
International Relations, said at the Sany briefing. “Banning
overseas investment isn’t good for employment and economic
recovery.”  Ralls was seeking to build a wind-farm using Sany-made
turbines. The U.S. Committee on Foreign Investment ruled against
the plan as it was located in sites near or within restricted
Navy airspace, the Treasury Department, which heads the agency,
said Sept. 28. The decision shouldn’t be viewed as a precedent
for any other investment from China, the department said.  Sany, which controls Ralls, is looking for other projects
where it can use turbine equipment already shipped to the U.S.,
Wu said. China should also emphasis national security in its
trade relations with the U.S., said Xiang Wenbo, president of
Sany’s listed unit Sany Heavy Industry Co.  ZTE, Huawei  A U.S. congressional committee also this month said the
government shouldn’t use equipment made by Huawei Technologies
Co. and  ZTE Corp. (763) , China’s two largest phone-equipment makers,
because of security concerns. It recommended against letting the
companies make acquisitions in the U.S.  Separately, Waltham, Massachusetts-based A123 Systems Inc.
this week scrapped an agreement with Chinese auto-parts maker
Wanxiang Group Corp. as it filed for bankruptcy and agreed to
sell some assets to Johnson Controls Inc.  Bankrupt business-jet maker Hawker Beechcraft Inc.’s talks
to sell itself in a $1.79 billion deal to Superior Aviation
Beijing Co. may also fall apart as no agreement has been reached
six weeks after the end of an exclusive negotiating period,
according to people familiar with the process.  The case is Ralls Corp. v. Committee on Foreign Investment
in the U.S., 1:12-cv-01513, U.S. District Court,  District of
Columbia  ( Washington .)  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Feifei Shen in Beijing at 
 fshen11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  