-- Obama’s War Against Openness
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2012-10-18T00:13:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-18/obama-s-whistle-blower-witch-hunt.html
As the name suggests, the U.S.
 Espionage Act  of 1917 is intended to punish those who commit
acts of treason, whether for personal gain or out of ideological
conviction. The Obama administration, however, seems to have
abandoned all caution in wielding this  extraordinary power .  A new Bloomberg News investigation shows that Attorney
General Eric Holder’s  Justice Department  has indicted six
government workers under the act for leaking information. If
that doesn’t sound like a lot, consider that until President
 Barack Obama  took office, there had been only three such cases
in U.S. history.  All the more alarming is the cavalier way the law has been
used to go after people who neither spied for other governments
nor passed on classified information for financial gain.
Previously, its harsh provisions were reserved for egregious
crimes such as those of the double agents Aldrich Ames and
Robert Hanssen. Five of the six recent cases involve leaks to
the news media, and most of those were by people who say they
believed they were blowing the whistle on waste, fraud and abuse
in government. (The sixth is Army Private First Class Bradley Manning, accused of leaking classified documents to WikiLeaks,
an organization that published them online.)  NSA Analyst  Among the more disturbing examples of the administration’s
overreach is the case of  Thomas Drake , a senior National
Security Agency employee who was prosecuted under the Espionage
Act in 2010. Drake says he contacted a reporter after his
superiors at the NSA failed to respond to his concerns about
waste of funds in program development, along with intrusions
into the lives of law-abiding American citizens. He is adamant
that he didn’t disclose classified information and, indeed, the
case against him collapsed.  Had he been convicted, he could have faced 35 years in
prison. Even so, his reputation was destroyed. His career in
public service is over, and his finances wiped out by his legal
defense. He now works at an Apple store in a Washington suburb.  Abuse of the law also imposes a heavy cost for the rest of
us. As the article makes clear, the crackdown by the
administration chills dissent, curtails the free press and, as
Drake told Bloomberg, sends a signal to would-be whistle-blowers
in government to “see nothing, say nothing, don’t speak out --
otherwise we’ll hammer you.”  These ill-advised prosecutions are a blatant violation of
Obama’s promise to “usher in a new era of open government.” To
be fair, he took a step toward rectifying things with a recent
 policy directive  to executive-branch agencies that extends
current federal whistle-blower protections to national security
and intelligence employees. It would shield those workers from
retaliation if they report waste, fraud or abuse through
official channels, broadening the  Whistleblower Protection
Enhancement Act  that passed the U.S. House last month and awaits
Senate approval.  Still, that’s not sufficient to prevent the abuses of power
described in the Bloomberg article. The president should also
ensure that government whistle-blowers won’t be subject to the
Espionage Act if they talk to the news media after their efforts
to report wrongdoing to their superiors go unheeded or are met
with retaliation.  The  government  needs to keep secrets and must be able to
rely on the loyalty of the people it entrusts with them.
Traitors deserve to face the harshest penalties. Whistle-
blowers, however, deserve protection.  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on what the presidential
candidates  aren’t saying about coal power ;  Caroline Baum  on  five
things the Republicans won’t tell you ;  Ezra Klein  on  Romney’s
biggest problem ; Jonathan Mahler on the  decline and fall of the
New York Yankees ; Fouad Ajami on  Malala and the history of
Pakistan ; Phil Zuckerman on why  secular voters may be more
powerful  than you think.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 