-- Obama’s Illinois Vital to Democratic Campaign For House
-- B y   G r e g   G i r o u x
-- 2012-10-18T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-18/obama-s-illinois-vital-to-democratic-campaign-for-house.html
Illinois is politically dead this
year when it comes to statewide races because President  Barack Obama  is certain to win his home state and there are no governor
or U.S. Senate contests.  In the race for control of the  House of Representatives ,
it’s  ground zero .  To achieve the 25-seat net gain the Democrats need to
reclaim the majority they lost in 2010 they will likely have to
win all five targeted Republican-held districts.  “Illinois is pivotal to Democrats taking a majority and
stopping” Republican policies including a plan to overhaul
Medicare, Representative Steve Israel of  New York , the chairman
of the Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee, said in an
interview.  The competitive Illinois campaigns underscore how many of
the 435 congressional races are in states that aren’t
battlegrounds in the presidential election, which is focused on
just nine states.  Illinois  is the most populous of the states
that aren’t up for grabs in the presidential race and don’t have
a Senate election this year.  California  and New York also will
influence the outcome of the House elections without having
competitive statewide contests.  Voter Turnout  A major disadvantage in such races is that the candidates
don’t have the benefit of a presidential-level ground operation
that targets voters and works to get them to the polls. House
candidates in Illinois and elsewhere have to do it on their own.  “It dramatically changes the dynamic and the operations of
our campaigns,” Israel said.  An upside to running outside the presidential battlefield:
Obama, Republican challenger  Mitt Romney  and allied super-
political action committees “are not crowding the environment,
and so our campaigns have an opportunity to get their message
out on the air without competing with presidential
advertising,” he said.  Democrats expect gains in Illinois after their party’s
state legislators redrew congressional district boundaries last
year. Democrats hold 8 of the 19 current districts and are
seeking 13 of 18 revised districts in Illinois, which lost one
seat in the post-census reapportionment after below-average
 population growth  in the past decade.  Democratic targets include a Z-shaped district based in
suburbs southwest of  Chicago  that seven-term Republican Judy Biggert and former Democratic Representative  Bill Foster  are
seeking.  New District  About one-half of residents come from Biggert’s current
district, compared to about one-fourth from the district Foster
held for a 34-month period ending in January 2011. Obama would
have won 61 percent of the vote in the reshaped district in
2008, compared with 62 percent statewide.  Biggert, 75, has emphasized her ties to the community and
her ability to work with Democrats on issues including flood
insurance, domestic violence and transportation. She said that
the past three elections thinned Congress of bipartisan-minded
members from both parties.  “It seems like we’re just moving further and further to
the right and further and further to the left, and we’ve got to
get back and have that base in between to really be able to
solve problems,” Biggert said in a telephone interview.  Foster, 57, says he wants to boost the middle class and
U.S. manufacturing employment. He touts his independence from
Democratic leaders by pointing to his votes against party-
sponsored federal budgets and a cap-and-trade system to limit
 carbon emissions .  Moderate Credentials  He’s also trying to puncture Biggert’s reputation as a
compromise-minded Republican.  “She voted for every single one of the Bush policies that
drove us into debt and wrecked our economy, every single one,
right at the time when we needed independence,” Foster said in
an interview near his campaign headquarters in downtown
Naperville.  Foster also is trying to win backing from suburban female
independent voters who may be more inclined to back Biggert, the
longest-serving Republican women to represent the state in
Congress.  Foster held a conference call Oct. 10 to tout an
endorsement from Lilly Ledbetter, the Alabama woman who inspired
a 2009 law that makes it easier for victims of salary
discrimination to receive damages in lawsuits. The next day in
Naperville, Foster held a roundtable discussion on pay equity
with five women from the area. He and Ellen Moran, a former
Obama Commerce Department official, told the women that Biggert
voted against the Ledbetter law.  Equal Pay  Biggert, a lawyer, said she voted against the measure
because of issues related to extending the statute of
limitations.  “I have forever worked on equity for women,” she said,
adding that her opposition to discrimination was shaped by a law
school professor telling her she was taking the place of a man.  The race is unusual partly because Biggert and Foster
served together before becoming opponents this year. In 2010,
amid a losing re-election campaign in a Republican-leaning
district, Foster touted how frequently he voted with Biggert. In
this race, with Biggert as his adversary in a more Democratic-
friendly district, Foster is describing the incumbent as too
beholden to Republicans.  Outside groups, including super political action
committees, have joined Biggert and Foster in airing television
ads.  Outside Groups  A National Republican Congressional Committee ad says
“mainstream  Judy Biggert ” has “the most moderate record of
anyone,” while describing Foster as “straight party-line.”
The U.S. Chamber of Commerce and American Unity PAC, a super-PAC
funded by New York hedge-fund executive  Paul Singer , also have
supplied ads aiding Biggert.  Foster’s allies include House Majority PAC, a Democratic
super-PAC that says Biggert’s vote for proposed by
Representative  Paul Ryan , Romney’s running mate, shows she has
“a Republican record that’s just too big to hide.”  Elsewhere in Illinois, Democrats also are trying to unseat
Bob Dold, a freshman representing upscale suburbs north of
Chicago. Dold has emphasized fiscal restraint and breaks with
Republican leaders to back abortion rights and environmental
protections -- much like his predecessor, Republican  Mark Kirk ,
who was elected to the Senate in 2010. Brad Schneider, a
business consultant who’s challenging Dold, is trying to tie the
incumbent to anti-tax Tea Party activists.  Best Chance  The most likely Democratic pickup is the northwest suburban
district held by  Joe Walsh , a Tea Party favorite elected in
2010. Walsh’s Democratic opponent is Tammy Duckworth, a former
Veterans Affairs official and Army helicopter pilot who was
wounded during the Iraq War.  Democrats also are seeking two other Republican-held
districts outside of Chicago.  Representative Bobby Schilling, a pizzeria owner elected in
2010, faces Democrat Cheri Bustos in a district that hugs the
 Mississippi River  as it stretches from Rockford to Peoria.
Farther downstate, in and around Springfield and Champaign,
Republican Rodney Davis, a former congressional aide, and
Democratic physician David Gill are seeking the district of
retiring Republican Timothy V. Johnson.  Republicans aren’t wholly on defense in Illinois. They’re
vying for a southern Illinois district held by retiring Democrat
Jerry Costello that includes some territory that is closer to
Tupelo,  Mississippi , than to Chicago.  Republicans say their candidates are holding their own in
the contests, even with the state’s tilt toward Obama.  “The Democrats’ road to the majority has hit a dead end in
Illinois,” NRCC spokeswoman Katie Prill said in an e-mailed
statement that also described Democratic candidates as “a pack
of degenerate partisan politicians.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Giroux in Naperville, Illinois at 
 ggiroux@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net  