-- Oil Little Changed on Jobless Claims, Keystone Pipeline
-- B y   M o m i n g   Z h o u
-- 2012-10-18T20:57:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-18/oil-falls-first-time-in-three-days-on-u-s-jobless-claims.html
Oil was little changed in New York
as U.S. jobless claims increased more than analysts expected and
 TransCanada Corp. (TRP)  shut the Keystone pipeline that tranports oil
from  Canada  to the midcontinent.  Futures slipped 2 cents after the Labor Department said
applications for  unemployment benefits  rose to 388,000 in the
week ended Oct. 13, more than the 365,000 median estimate in a
Bloomberg survey of economists. TransCanada shut the line after
finding an anomaly and cut oil flows to Cushing, Oklahoma, the
delivery point for New York futures, and Midwestern refineries.  “The jobless claims number is bad and is a big drag,”
said  John Kilduff , a partner at Again Capital LLC, a New York-
based hedge fund that focuses on energy. “The market’s been
very reactive to refinery and pipeline snags, and this sort of
elevated sensitivity played out today with this Keystone
situation.”  Crude for November delivery settled at $92.10 a barrel on
the  New York Mercantile Exchange . Futures prices have changed
less than 25 cents in each of the past five trading days, the
longest streak of moves that small in more than a decade.  Implied volatility for at-the-money options expiring in
December, a measure of expected swings in futures and a gauge of
options prices, was 27.6 percent at 4:50 p.m. in  New York , the
lowest level since May.  Futures prices have risen 3 cents in the past week and have
settled within a 27-cent range since Oct. 11.  The jobless claims increased by 46,000 last week from a
revised 342,000 in the prior period that was the lowest level
since February 2008, Labor Department figures showed today in
 Washington .  Jobs Report  “Unemployment is one of the important signals that people
are looking at and they are adjusting their models based on the
claims,” said  Chris Barber , a senior analyst at Energy Security
Analysis Inc. in Wakefield,  Massachusetts .  The  four-week  moving average, a less volatile measure, rose
to 365,500 last week from 364,750.  “The jobs data is the elephant in the room,” said  Michael Lynch , president of Strategic Energy & Economic Research in
Winchester, Massachusetts. “You really can’t ignore them and it
suggests that oil demand is not going to recover as quickly as
people hoped.”  The 590,000-barrel-a-day Keystone line will be shut for
three days, James Millar, a company spokesman in Calgary, said
in an e-mail. No leaks were found and the integrity of the
pipeline is sound, he said.  TransCanada plans to restart the line on Oct. 20.  Canadian Imports  The U.S.  imported  1.65 million barrels a day of oil into
the central U.S., whose designation is PADD 2, last week,
according to the Energy Department. Most of the foreign oil
shipped to the Midwest comes from Canada, the largest exporter
to the U.S.  “The issues with the Cushing pipeline caused some strength
in the market,” said Carl Larry, president of Oil Outlooks &
Opinions LLC in New York. “It’s a complete shutdown and is
bullish for the market.”  An influx of oil from Canada and domestic shale formations
such as the Bakken in  North Dakota  and the Eagle Ford in Texas
boosted U.S. crude stockpiles last week to the most for this
time of year since government records began in 1982, an Energy
Department report showed yesterday. U.S.  output  increased to the
highest level since May 1995.  Brent Forecast  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  cut its 2013 forecast for Brent
crude futures to $110 a barrel from an earlier projection of
$130, citing growth in non-conventional oil supplies from  North
America  in a report e-mailed today.  Brent oil for December settlement declined 80 cents, or 0.7
percent, to end the session at $112.42 a barrel on the London-
based ICE Futures Europe exchange.  U.S. crude stockpiles grew 2.86 million barrels in the
seven days ended Oct. 12 to 369.2 million, the highest level in
more than two months. Output increased for a sixth week to 6.61
million barrels a day.  “The crude oil market is well supplied,” said  Andy Lipow ,
president of Lipow Oil Associates LLC, an energy consulting firm
in Houston.  Electronic trading volume on the Nymex was 490,368
contracts as of 4:57 p.m. Volume totaled 542,260 contracts
yesterday, 2.6 percent above the three-month average. Open
interest was 1.58 million.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Moming Zhou in New York at 
 mzhou29@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  