-- Rosneft Makes TNK Bid as Oil’s Second-Biggest Deal Nears: Energy
-- B y   B r i a n   S w i n t   a n d   T o r r e y   C l a r k
-- 2012-10-18T16:04:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-18/oil-s-second-biggest-deal-nears-as-bp-rosneft-ceos-meet-energy.html
The sale of TNK-BP to Russian state
 oil company   OAO Rosneft (ROSN)  is shaping up to be the industry’s
second-biggest deal ever.  Rosneft submitted a bid today to buy BP Plc’s 50 percent of
TNK-BP for a mix of cash and shares that values the whole
venture at $50 billion to $56 billion, a person with knowledge
of the matter said. Rosneft, a vehicle for President  Vladimir Putin  to cement state control over the world’s largest oil and
gas industry, already has a preliminary accord with BP’s
billionaire partners, another person said.  A stake in Rosneft would allow BP to maintain a presence in
 Russia  while exiting the 50-50 venture that brought billions in
profits and years of conflict with its fellow investors. For
Rosneft Chief Executive Officer Igor Sechin, who met BP
counterpart Bob Dudley in  London  today, absorbing TNK-BP would
raise oil and gas production to about 4.5 million barrels a day,
matching  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM)   “This changes the landscape of Russia’s oil industry,
moving from Siberia to the Arctic, and enhances national control
at the same time,” said Stuart Joyner, an analyst at Investec
Securities Ltd. in London. “It’s the best offer  BP (BP/)  has on the
table.”  While TNK-BP had focused on bolstering output from older
fields in Siberia, BP last year offered its drilling expertise
to Rosneft in a failed partership to explore Russia’s untapped
Arctic waters. Rosneft’s offer today doesn’t include joint
projects with BP, a person familiar with the talks said.  Biggest Since Mobil  BP’s billionaire partners, represented by AAR, are seeking
$28 billion for their half of TNK-BP, a person familiar with the
discussions said. That values a Rosneft bid for the whole
company at $56 billion, making it the industry’s largest deal
since Exxon Corp. bought Mobil Corp. in 1999 and the biggest
acquisition by a Russian company.  Rosneft continues to evaluate a number of opportunities and
will update the market when appropriate, a company official said
today.  BP CEO Bob Dudley would need approval for any deal from a
board meeting tomorrow, one of the people said, asking not to be
identified because the matter is confidential.  Sheila Williams ,
a spokeswoman for London-based BP, declined to comment.  BP offered to sell its half of Russia’s third-largest oil
producer in June after relations broke down with AAR. The nine-
year partnership has paid BP $19 billion in dividends and
accounts for a quarter of BP’s global production.  AAR had initially expressed an interest in buying BP’s
shares. The group decided not to bid for BP’s half of TNK-BP,
 Stan Polovets , chief executive officer of AAR, said by e-mail.
Polovets declined to comment on any deal with Rosneft.  Credit Review  Rosneft, which had already expressed an interest in buying
BP’s shares, is now in a position to move for the whole company.
Rosneft’s acquisition of all of TNK-BP may lead to a review of
whether state support is sufficient to maintain the oil
producer’s investment-grade rating,  Fitch Ratings  said
yesterday.  “There’s an industrial logic to Rosneft taking both halves
of TNK-BP,” said  Peter Hutton , an analyst at  RBC Capital
Markets  in London. “Some sort of deal is likely.”  Putin has used Rosneft to reassert state ownership of
Russia’s post-Soviet oil industry, giving it control of most of
Yukos Oil Co.’s fields when the government used tax disputes to
bankrupt the private-sector oil producer in 2006. Combined with
TNK-BP, Rosneft would pump more than four of every 10 barrels
each day in Russia.  BP’s Future  Dudley wants to maintain a position in Russia as he revamps
BP’s global business after the 2010 Gulf of Mexico oil spill
that threatened to ruin the company. He’s already sold $33
billion of assets to help meet the cost of the disaster.  BP and Rosneft are no strangers. Dudley tried to forge an
alliance with Rosneft last year to drill untapped Arctic
reserves before it was blocked by AAR. The British oil company
holds 1.25 percent of Rosneft after buying about $1 billion of
shares in its 2006 initial public offering. BP and Rosneft are
partners in the German Ruhr Oel Refinery venture.  Rosneft rose 2.9 percent to 219.47 rubles today in Moscow,
its highest close in seven months, boosting its market value to
about $76 billion. OAO  TNK-BP Holding (TNBP) , the company’s listed
unit, fell 3.5 percent to 80.06 rubles, as the biggest decline
since BP’s June 1 announcement of a sale lowered its value to
$39 billion. BP rose 0.8 percent in London today after climbing
the most since May yesterday.  An agreement of intent has been signed between AAR and
Rosneft, Russian Deputy Prime Minister  Arkady Dvorkovich  told
reporters in Moscow yesterday. Any deal would need government
approval and no requests have been received, he said.  Dividend Outlook  Rosneft’s acquisition of TNK-BP won’t create a monopoly in
the market, Energy Minister Alexander Novak told reporters today
in Moscow. “There is enough competition in the market.”  The management has recommended a $4.1 billion interim
dividend on 2012 profit, according to documents seen by
 Bloomberg News  yesterday. The board may decide on the dividend
in the next few weeks.TNK-BP hasn’t paid dividends on any 2012
income because it has lacked a full board since December.  BP and AAR openly clashed several times during their
partnership. In 2008, Dudley was forced to resign as head of the
venture and leave Russia after months of battling between the
shareholders over strategy.  Mikhail Fridman , one of the
billionaires, quit as CEO of TNK-BP this year, saying the
relationship with BP had run its course.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brian Swint in London at 
 bswint@bloomberg.net ;
Torrey Clark in Moscow at 
 tclark8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  