-- Homeowners Paying Twice RBA Rate Boosts Bonds: Australia Credit
-- B y   T a n y a   A n g e r e r
-- 2012-10-18T13:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-18/homeowners-paying-twice-rba-rate-boosts-bonds-australia-credit.html
Bad news for Australian home owners
as mortgage lenders fail to pass on Reserve Bank interest-rate
cuts in full is good news for bond investors, as pressure mounts
for even lower benchmark borrowing costs.  Home owners are paying the most for loans relative to the
RBA’s cash rate since November 1994, with a 3.37 percentage
point gap between the 3.25 percent  benchmark  and the average
cost of a standard mortgage from  Australia & New Zealand Banking
Group Ltd. (ANZ) ,  National Australia Bank Ltd. (NAB) ,  Commonwealth Bank of
Australia (CBA)  and  Westpac Banking Corp. (WBC) , Bloomberg-compiled data
show. U.S. 30-year  mortgages  cost 3.46 percent, near the least
relative to  Federal Reserve ’s near-zero benchmark since 2008.  Concern that RBA policy actions are being blunted as the
central bank seeks to insulate the nation from a fading mining
boom is spurring traders to bet on a 2.5 percent cash rate by
May, the swap market indicates. That’s pushing yields across the
nation’s bond market to historic lows, with the rate on Bank of
America Merrill Lynch’s Broad Market index of sovereign,
government-backed and corporate debt dropping to 3.21 percent on
Oct. 3, the least since the gauge began in 1996.  “The central bank has had to reduce official rates by more
than historically to impact the end borrowing rates to the same
degree,” said Anne Anderson, head of Asia-Pacific fixed income
for UBS Global Asset Management. “This has also supported the
drive lower in bond yields.”  RBA’s Ammunition  Australia ’s record-low benchmark was the 2.89 percent
reached in January 1960, RBA figures show. The central bank has
cut by 1.5 percentage points since November.  “On monetary policy, we have ammunition,” Governor  Glenn Stevens  said at an Oct. 12 seminar in  Tokyo . “Unusually for an
advanced country, we actually have materially positive interest
rates, so if needed we have scope to move there as long as
inflation is OK, which at present it seems to be.”  Mortgage arrears in the nation haven’t declined as much as
expected this year because of the banks keeping part of the
RBA’s cuts, Moody’s Investors Service said in a statement
yesterday. Across the nation, 1.8 percent of people are 30 days
or more behind on their loan payments, according to the report.  National Australia Bank, Commonwealth Bank and ANZ Bank
passed on 20 basis points of the RBA’s 25 basis point cut this
month. Westpac cut by 18 basis points.  Standard variable home-loan rates from the four banks cost
an average 6.62 percent, according to statements from the
lenders. That compares with 5.85 percent when the RBA’s key rate
was at 3.25 percent in February 2009,  central bank data  show.  The annual  growth  of outstanding home loans has fallen to
4.8 percent as of August, the slowest pace since at least 1977,
from 14 percent in 2006, the RBA data show.  Deposits Swell  Australian banks have sought to finance a larger share of
lending from deposits since the global credit freeze, paying
higher rates for the more stable funding. Deposits make up 53
percent of liabilities from about 40 percent in 2008, with
lenders raising less money from bond markets as a consequence,
according to central bank figures.  “The strong competition for deposits has widened their
spreads relative to benchmark rates,” the RBA said in its
financial stability review published last month.  Term deposits swelled 13 percent to  A$544.3 billion  in the
year to August, the most in RBA data going back to 1984.  The extra yield investors demand to hold Australian dollar-
denominated financial bonds instead of government debt has
dropped 123 basis points this year to 185 as of Oct. 17, the
least since August 2011, Merrill Lynch index data show. It
remains 124 basis points higher than at the end of 2006.  Appetite Improves  “The appetite for Australian financial bonds has
definitely improved and spreads have narrowed,” said Jarrod Kerr, director of Australia and New Zealand rates strategy at
Credit Suisse Group AG in  Singapore . “That said, banks are
still paying a wider difference between term deposits and the
cash rate, which is being reflected in a wider spread to lending
rates.”  Stevens will probably cut  interest rates  again before year-
end, according to economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  The RBA will lower the overnight cash rate target to 3
percent or lower by Dec. 31, according to 29 of 34 economists
polled this month, unwinding all of the 1.75 percentage points
of increases Stevens made as Australia recovered from the global
financial crisis that started in 2008. Five economists expect no
change.  “To the extent that cash rate cuts have not been fully
passed through to bank lending rates, due to higher funding
costs, the RBA has adjusted its setting further with the aim of
achieving the desired level of lending rates,” said Paul Bloxham, chief economist for Australia and  New Zealand  at HSBC
Holdings Plc, in an Oct. 16 note to clients. “We see the
current RBA cash rate setting as around 75 basis points below
its neutral level.”  Yields Tumble  Ten-year yields rose 11 basis points to 3.23 percent
yesterday in Sydney, paring their decline in the past year to
125 basis points. That’s still the biggest drop among 24
developed markets tracked by Bloomberg outside of Ireland,
 Portugal  and  Greece  -- who have all accepted international
bailouts -- and  Belgium .  The interest rate on the benchmark bonds reached a record-
low 2.698 percent in June. Yields on state government securities
fell to 3.312 percent on Oct. 3 and the rate for financial bonds
dropped to 4.367 percent on Oct. 16, both historic lows,
according to Merrill Lynch indexes.  Investor appetite for Australia’s bonds has also helped
drive the local dollar’s 47 percent climb over the past four
years, the biggest surge among more than 150 currencies tracked
by Bloomberg. The so-called Aussie bought $1.0380 as of 5 p.m.
yesterday in Sydney.  Bond Risk  The Markit iTraxx Australia index of corporate bond risk
dropped 6.5 basis points to 131 yesterday in Sydney, according
to Markit Group Ltd. The average cost of contracts on the four
biggest banks fell to 127 basis points on Oct. 17, within one
basis point of a six-month low, CMA data show.  The RBA has “maximum flexibility” to reduce the key rate
if needed as the government returns Australia’s budget to
surplus, Treasurer  Wayne Swan  said last week.  The Australian government is keeping its commitment to end
four years of deficits even as BHP Billiton Ltd., the world’s
largest mining company, delayed projects estimated at $68
billion by Deutsche Bank AG on sliding resources prices.  “The burden for adjustment to stimulate demand will fall
to the RBA through interest rate cuts, especially in light of
falling commodity prices and the government’s desire to return
the budget to surplus,” said Adam Donaldson, Sydney-based head
of debt research at Commonwealth Bank. “Bond yields, along the
curve, will fall to new lows as traders bet on more interest-
rate cuts.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tanya Angerer in Singapore at 
 tangerer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Shelley Smith  at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  