-- On Crisis Anniversary, Athens Tear Gas Defies Merkel’s Stability
-- B y   J a m e s   G .   N e u g e r
-- 2012-10-18T12:35:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-18/on-crisis-anniversary-athens-tear-gas-defies-merkel-s-stability.html
On this day in 2009, German
 Chancellor Angela Merkel  was working on her second-term tax cuts
and French President Nicolas Sarkozy was preparing a speech on
territorial reform. With the euro at an uncomfortably high
$1.49, then-European Central Bank President Jean-Claude Trichet
was set to go to  China  for currency diplomacy.  Near midnight on that Sunday in Athens, a two-week-old
government announced that the year’s budget deficit would hit 30
billion euros ($39 billion), six times more than the 5 billion
euros it had expected.  “The figures are infuriating,”  George Papaconstantinou ,
the new Greek finance minister, told parliament.  It took months for the realization to sink in that the
euro’s survival, not just one country’s balance sheet, was at
stake. Since then, some 486 billion euros have been spent or
pledged to save  Greece , Ireland,  Portugal  and Spain’s banking
system, with more in the offing; leaders have set up two rescue
funds and called in the International Monetary Fund; and the
central bank has jettisoned its founding ideology to backstop
fiscally irresponsible governments.  A currency designed to unite Europe has divided it between
a richer north and economically desperate south. Unemployment in
Spain and Greece is at 25 percent, compared to a jobless rate of
under 5 percent in  Austria .  Eleven of the 16 euro-area chiefs at the dawn of the crisis
are no longer on the job -- with Merkel the most prominent
exception and Sarkozy the most prominent victim.  Global Criticism  Under the glare of world leaders and markets,  Europe ’s
stewards have been regularly accused of misdiagnosing the
crisis, exacerbating it, then doing too little, too slowly to
re-establish confidence -- criticism that provides the subtext
to today’s summit in Brussels, the 20th since Greece officially
became Europe’s problem in February 2010.  Now, three years after Greece came clean about its
finances, markets are calmed by the ECB’s pledge to do what it
takes to preserve the euro.  “We’ve done a lot in these three years,” Merkel told
German lawmakers in Berlin today before heading to the summit.
“We’ve achieved a lot more than in previous years in Europe and
the contours of a stability union are already clearly
discernible.”  Divisions remain. In  Athens , in a general strike today
against the budget cuts demanded as conditions of a bailout,
protesters hurled Molotov cocktails at police, and police fired
tear gas back.  To contact the reporter on this story:
James G. Neuger in Brussels at 
 jneuger@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  