-- Moody’s Clashes With S&P Over Ratings for Mortgage Bond Issue
-- B y   E s t e b a n   D u a r t e
-- 2012-10-18T15:27:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-18/moody-s-clashes-with-s-p-over-ratings-for-mortgage-bond-issue.html
Moody’s Investors Service said an
issue of European commercial mortgage bonds awarded a top  credit
rating  by rival  Standard & Poor’s  wouldn’t have received an
equivalent Aaa grade had it assessed the deal.  It’s the second time this month Moody’s clashed with S&P
over a commercial mortgage-back securitization deal it wasn’t
asked to rate. The New York-based company cautioned investors
Oct. 10 on risks in a deal from JPMorgan Chase & Co., the first
such issue Moody’s didn’t grade since at least August 2011.  Europe ’s first sale of bonds backed by non-performing
commercial mortgages since 2007 doesn’t deserve a top grade for
its senior notes because of the quality of the properties and
complexity of the underlying loans, Moody’s said in a report.
The securities are backed by a loan from  Royal Bank of Scotland
Group Plc (RBS)  to a company called Isobel Finance No. 1 Plc that’s
controlled by the Edinburgh-based lender and a unit of
 Blackstone Group LP. (BX)   “Even a modest decline in interest for distressed real
estate assets could impact the workout and expose investors to a
sudden and sharp deterioration in property values,” according
to London-based Moody’s analysts Lisa Macedo and Christophe de
Noaillat.  S&P rated 230 million pounds of class A bonds at its
highest investment grade level, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The 60 million-pound class B notes were rated at AA,
its third-highest grade, and the 173 million-pound most junior
class C were rated at BBB+, S&P’s third-lowest ranking.  Junior Notes  The junior notes would be ranked at least three levels
lower by Moody’s, the firm’s analysts wrote.  S&P defended its ratings. “We believe our ratings reflect
the creditworthiness of the securities in the transaction,”
 Mark Tierney , a London-based spokesman at S&P, said in an e-
mailed response to questions. He didn’t elaborate.  Moody’s was approached by RBS to provide ratings for the
deal although it wasn’t hired, de Noaillat said in an interview.  The transaction helped finance the transfer of 1.4 billion
pounds ($2.3 billion) of U.K. property loans off the bank’s
balance sheet, S&P said in an Oct. 3 statement. More than 90
percent of the underlying properties are not prime buildings,
Moody’s said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Esteban Duarte in Madrid at 
 eduarterubia@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Armstrong  at 
 parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  