-- OpenGate Looks for Purchases to Strengthen PVC Windows Business
-- B y   A n d r e w   N o e l
-- 2012-10-18T12:26:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-18/opengate-looks-for-purchases-to-strengthen-pvc-windows-business.html
OpenGate Capital LLC plans to make
acquisitions to expand the PVC windows and shutter-components
business it bought from Tessenderlo Chemie NV and will consider
spending to move deeper into the chemicals industry.  OpenGate acquired Profialis this month and the Los Angeles-
based investment firm will use it as a base to expand in the
Benelux region and other parts of  Europe , a market that has high
barriers to entry because of expenditure needs and consumer
tastes, Sebastien Kiekert Le Moult, a European partner at
OpenGate, said in a phone interview from Paris.  By acquiring Profialis, OpenGate is betting that Europe’s
construction industry will recover from a slump that’s affecting
results at companies spanning paintmaker  Akzo Nobel NV (AKZA)  to
adhesive and concrete-additive maker  BASF SE. (BAS)  The slowdown is
prompting companies to review holdings, with  Arkema SA (AKE)  and
Tessenderlo among those opting to divest PVC-related businesses.  “There’s a lot of activity in PVC and in the  chemical
industry  generally,” said Kiekert Le Moult, who previously
worked at Sun European Partners, the European arm of Sun Capital
Partners Inc. “It’s good timing for investing in this industry.
The recession can last only so long.”  Makers of polyvinyl chloride and related chemicals, used in
construction products and packaging, are consolidating to tackle
high costs of raw materials. Asian and U.S. companies, bolstered
by supplies of shale gas, have expanded production to satisfy
local demand.  Improving Production  Belgium ’s  Solvay SA (SOLB)  remains in the PVC business, even as
“anaemic demand in the European construction sector” has led
to weak capacity utilisation, Stephan Kippe, an analyst at
Commerzbank, said in a note today. Solvay’s plastics business
probably saw third-quarter earnings drop by 17 percent, he said.  The European PVC windows business is relatively insulated
as the products don’t “travel well,” Kiekert Le Moult said.  Any bolt-on target to add to Profialis would have to offer
savings with existing operations, the executive said. OpenGate’s
strategy is focused on improving production and expanding
businesses through purchases, without a specific timing for
selling-on assets.  “It’s not timing so much, but a question of finding the
right asset,” Kiekert Le Moult said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Noel in London at 
 anoel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  