-- Orient-Express Surges After Indian Hotels Takeover Offer
-- B y   P o o j a   T h a k u r   a n d   N a d j a   B r a n d t
-- 2012-10-19T04:24:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-18/orient-express-surges-after-indian-hotels-makes-buyout-offer.html
Shares of  Indian Hotels Co. (IH)  fell the
most in eight months after the country’s biggest lodging
operator offered to buy  Orient-Express Hotels Ltd. (OEH) , owner of  New
York ’s 21 Club and  Rio de Janeiro ’s Copacabana Palace.  Indian Hotels declined 4.8 percent to 66.95 rupees as of
9:41 a.m. in Mumbai trading, set for the biggest drop since Feb.
7. Orient-Express rose 23 percent to $11.05 at the close of New
York trading, the biggest increase since March 2009.  The operator of the Taj Mahal Palace in Mumbai and the
 Pierre Hotel  in New York will buy the remaining 93.1 percent
stake it doesn’t own in the Hamilton, Bermuda-based Orient-
Express, valuing the company at $1.86 billion, including net
debt, Indian Hotels said in a statement yesterday.  Indian Hotels and other entities associated with Mumbai-
based  Tata Group  proposed to buy the balance of Orient-Express
for $12.63 a share in cash. That represents a 40 percent premium
over the closing share price yesterday.  “It seems clear that the company wants to position itself
as a global hospitality chain,” Mumbai-based analysts Saurabh
Kumar and Gunjan Prithyani at JPMorgan Chase & Co. said in a
note to clients yesterday. “If the acquisition happens, Indian
Hotels will get ready access to a high end customer base.”  Indian Hotels is expanding its overseas footprint. It
bought the Ritz-Carlton in  Boston  in 2007 for $170 million from
Millennium Partners and renamed it Taj Boston. In 2005, the
company re-entered the New York market after six years with the
rights to manage the 201-room Pierre.  “This premium cash offer represents a compelling value
proposition for the company shareholders, especially in light of
the current fragile state of the global economy and the lack of
clarity about the prospects for recovery,” R.K. Krishna Kumar,
vice chairman of Indian Hotels, said in the letter to Orient-
Express filed yesterday with the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission.  Evaluating Proposal  The board of Orient-Express will evaluate the proposal, the
company said yesterday in an e-mailed statement.  “Orient-Express will definitely consider the offer,” said
Chris Agnew, an analyst at  Stamford , Connecticut-based MKM
Partners who has a buy rating on the hotelier. “Otherwise they
will have to show shareholders how they can create more value by
being independent. They are under-invested in some markets, and
with a larger company with access to capital behind them, making
investments would be a lot easier.”  Montezemolo & Partners, a family-owned Italian  fund
manager , would invest $100 million for a minority stake in
Orient-Express through its Charme II Fund as part of the
transaction, Indian Hotels said. The Indian hotel operator has
also secured debt financing from Bank of America N.A, ICICI Bank
and Standard Chartered Bank.  Efforts Restarted  Indian Hotels has held a portion of Orient-Express since
2007, when it paid $211.3 million for a stake in the company.
Five years ago, after the purchase, Orient-Express rejected an
attempt by Indian Hotels to pursue strategic discussions.  Should Orient-Express reject the latest offer, a hostile
takeover would be unlikely because of the company’s governance
structure, according to Agnew.  “It would have to be a friendly merger agreement because
Orient-Express has a dual-class share structure which would make
it impossible for Indian Hotels to get enough voting shares in a
hostile situation,” he said.  Indian Hotels, valued at $1.05 billion, operates 115
properties around the world. In April it restarted efforts to
increase its stake in Orient-Express, two people with knowledge
of the matter said at the time.  Kumar said in yesterday’s letter that his company is
“disappointed” that Orient-Express hasn’t been interested “in
exploring a transaction involving a significant equity
investment” by Indian Hotels. The company is therefore
proposing a complete takeover, he said.  Bank of America Corp.’s Merrill Lynch unit is Indian
Hotels’ financial adviser on the proposed transaction.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Pooja Thakur in Mumbai at 
 pthakur@bloomberg.net ;
Nadja Brandt in  Los Angeles  at 
 nbrandt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  