-- U.K. Stocks Climb to Seven-month High as EU Leaders Meet
-- B y   S a r a h   J o n e s
-- 2012-10-18T16:12:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-18/most-u-k-stocks-rise-before-eu-summit-kazakhmys-gains.html
The U.K.’s FTSE 100 Index climbed
for a fourth day, reaching a seven-month high, as European Union
leaders gathered in Brussels to tackle the region’s debt crisis.  Mining companies pushed the benchmark gauge higher in late
afternoon trading as shares of  Kazakhmys Plc (KAZ)  and Rio Tinto Group
rallied more than 2 percent.  Man Group Plc (EMG)  dropped the most in
almost 11 months after the hedge-fund manager reported a 57
percent increase in outflows.  SABMiller Plc (SAB)  declined 2.1 percent
after sales fell short of estimates.  The FTSE 100 Index advanced 0.1 percent to 5,917.05 at the
close in London. Two shares rose for each that declined in the
measure, which has gained 2.1 percent so far this week, boosted
by a pick-up in U.S. housing and retail data. The index has
climbed 12 percent from its 2012 low on June 1. The FTSE All-
Share Index added 0.1 percent today, while Ireland’s ISEQ Index
fell 0.3 percent.  “I worry if we are getting a little bit ahead of
ourselves,”  Karen Olney , head of thematic equity strategy at
UBS AG, said on Bloomberg Television in London. “There are a
lot of things that still need to be sorted out in Europe.
Expectations are high so maybe as earnings come down a bit and
we get a couple of bumps along the way after the summit, the
markets will sell off a bit.”  EU leaders gathered this afternoon in Brussels for the
summit as French President  Francois Hollande  warned that efforts
to stem the debt crisis may unravel if the EU fails to deliver
on its promises. He called on the euro area to press ahead with
banking union.  Chinese data today showed gross domestic product expanded
7.4 percent in the third quarter from a year earlier, matching
the median estimate in a Bloomberg News survey. GDP rose 2.2
percent from the prior period, a four-quarter high.  Miners Rise  A gauge of mining companies climbed for third day.
Kazakhmys increased 2.7 percent to 780.5 pence, Rio Tinto gained
2.4 percent to 3,260 pence and  Antofagasta Plc (ANTO)  added 1.7 percent
to 1,327 pence.  International Consolidated Airlines Group SA (IAG)  and IMI Plc
also paced gains today, jumping 3.9 percent to 163.8 pence and
3.5 percent to 943.5 pence respectively.  Mothercare Plc (MTC)  surged 11 percent to 257.25 pence after the
retailer reported a 0.3 percent increase in second quarter U.K.
like-for-likes sales. The average analyst forecast was for a 5.1
percent drop. International retail sales rose 10.8 percent.  Ferrexpo Plc (FXPO)  climbed 1.7 percent to 210.1 pence after the
mining company said its growth projects are on track.  Booker Group Plc (BOK)  jumped 6.6 percent to 100.6 pence after
reporting a 3.3 percent rise in first-half sales and saying that
the second half of the year so far was ahead of last year.  Man Group  Man Group dropped 9.9 percent to 83.4 pence, its steepest
fall since November, after the world’s biggest publicly traded
hedge-fund manager said clients pulled a net $2.2 billion from
the firm, up from $1.4 billion in the second quarter.  Customers redeemed a gross $5.2 billion from Man Group’s
investment funds, compared with $3 billion of sales, amid an
environment for sales that Chief Executive Officer  Peter Clarke 
called “subdued.”  SABMiller declined 2.1 percent to 2,599 pence after the
world’s biggest brewer reported a 4 percent increase in organic
lager volume in the six months through Sept. 30. That compared
with the median analyst estimate of a 4.4 percent gain and was
lower than the first quarter’s 5 percent increase.  Sales growth in  Latin America  and Africa also fell short of
median estimates, while volumes in Europe increased 9 percent,
outpacing the 6 percent estimate.  Food Companies  Unilever Plc (ULVR)  declined 1.1 percent to 2.320 pence after
Nestle SA, the world’s biggest food company, reported sales
growth that missed analyst estimates as demand stumbled in
emerging markets. Danone yesterday posted the weakest dairy
product sales growth in more than three years.  British Sky Broadcasting Group Plc (BSY) , the U.K’s biggest pay-
TV operator, lost 2.1 percent to 733.5 pence after Sweden’s
Modern Times Group AG reported third-quarter results that missed
analyst forecasts and warned that Denmark’s television
advertising market continued to worsen in the fourth quarter.  The Scandinavian market is an “important lead indicator
for the U.K.,” wrote Bank of America Corp. analysts, Bianca Dallal and Daniel Kerven, in a report to clients. “The MTG
warning and increased investment in response to rising
competition should be seen as a significant read-across for
BSkyB which is facing the same issues in the U.K.”  Capital Shopping Centres Group Plc (CSCG)  dropped 1.8 percent to
333.4 pence after Barclays Plc placed 35.3 million shares in the
U.K.’s largest specialist mall operator. The shares were offered
between 328 pence to 330 pence apiece, according to two people
familiar with the transaction.  Capital & Counties Properties Plc (CAPC) , part owner of London’s
Covent Garden Market, slid 3.6 percent to 223.5 pence after
 Simon Property  Group Inc. sold a stake in the company. UBS AG
placed the 38.9 million shares on behalf of Simon Property at
225 pence each, according to terms obtained by Bloomberg News.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Jones in London at 
 sjones35@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  