-- OTP Plunges as Tax Prompts Cuts From UBS to VTB: Budapest Mover
-- B y   A n d r a s   G e r g e l y
-- 2012-10-18T15:42:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-18/otp-drops-as-tax-increase-triggers-downgrades-budapest-mover.html
OTP Bank Nyrt. (OTP) , Hungary’s largest
lender, had the biggest two-day drop in nine months as UBS AG
downgraded its recommendation and  Raiffeisen Bank International
AG (RBI)  cut its price target, citing a planned increase in taxes on
banks.  The shares sank 4.6 percent to 4,035 forint by the close in
Budapest. OTP has slumped 8.1 percent in the past two days, the
biggest such drop since Jan. 5. The benchmark BUX stock  index ,
in which OTP has a 29 percent weighting, declined 1.7 percent.  Hungary won’t meet its pledge to halve the special tax on
banks next year and will double a separate levy on financial
transactions to keep the  budget deficit  within 3 percent of
gross domestic product, Economy Minister  Gyorgy Matolcsy  told
reporters yesterday. Raiffeisen cut OTP’s  price estimate  to
3,900 forint from 4,200. UBS AG reduced the stock to neutral
from buy and VTB Capital trimmed the lender to hold from buy.  “Given the recent news flow we expect further negative
reaction in the share price,” Stefan Maxian, a Vienna-based
analyst at Raiffeisen’s Centrobank unit, wrote in a report.  Budapest-based broker Concorde Ertekpapir Zrt. also cut its
recommendation to equalweight from overweight, citing the bank
taxes and OTP’s more than 30 percent rally since Concorde
upgraded the stock in November.  The decision to backtrack on the pledge to cut taxes won’t
hurt the economy as lenders already stopped lending in the
country, Prime Minister  Viktor Orban  said in an interview
yesterday in Bucharest.  Capital Withdrawal  The tax burden boost may prompt the foreign parents of
Hungarian banks to increase their capital withdrawal from the
country, raising the risk of a prolonged recession, Levente
Kovacs, secretary general of the Bank Association, said today.
Mihaly Patai, the association’s head, will resign if Parliament
approves the approved measures, he said.  Matolcsy promised that the bank levy will only be extended
by one year and will be halved in 2014, Bavarian Finance
Minister Markus Soeder told journalists in Vienna today.  “It’s important Hungary does a bit more and rebuilds
confidence because they had already promised the same a year
ago,” Soeder said.  Hungary  is a “real problem case” for Raiffeisen, Herbert
Stepic, the Vienna-based lender’s chief executive officer, said
at a conference in the Austrian capital today. “Hungary is our
most difficult market.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andras Gergely in Budapest at 
 agergely@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  