-- How to Beat Obama on Foreign Policy
-- B y   J e f f r e y   G o l d b e r g
-- 2012-10-18T13:11:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-18/how-to-beat-obama-on-foreign-policy.html
Does President  Barack Obama 
have the next, and final, debate in the bag? Politico’s
 Mike Allen   said yesterday  that the town-hall debate at
Hofstra University on Oct. 16 represented “ Governor
Romney ’s last, best chance, because the next debate is
 foreign policy , where President Obama is strong.”  It’s true that Obama is considered by many to be
strong on foreign policy and national security. And he has
some notable achievements overseas. First, of course, is
the raid that killed  Osama bin Laden . The politicization of
this issue can’t obscure the bravery it took for the
president to order the operation. If it had gone sideways,
Obama would have been looking at his own Desert One -- the
debacle that undid the presidency of  Jimmy Carter .  Obama is also waging an effective campaign against
Islamist terrorists in at least four countries (a fact you
would think might be noticed by his Republican critics,
some of whom think he is an Islamist sympathizer, or a
Muslim himself). It’s also true that Obama has fulfilled
his promise to bring U.S. troops home from  Iraq , which is
clearly what the majority of Americans were demanding.  But his record isn’t perfect, and it presents Romney
with some fairly obvious opportunities.  Some Missteps  On the  Middle East  peace process, Obama’s missteps
have alienated both the Israeli and Palestinian leaders,
which is no mean feat. American allies in the Persian Gulf
have made clear that they don’t trust Obama to stand up to
 Iran , which threatens them as much as it threatens  Israel .  The revolutions of the Arab Spring have resulted in
the empowerment of the  Muslim Brotherhood  in  Egypt , and the
rise of Salafism, a more extreme brand of political Islam,
across the Muslim world. Arab liberals, who drove the
revolutions, feel abandoned by the U.S. Pakistan, a
putative ally in the war on terrorism, continues to pursue
policies that lead directly to the deaths of American
soldiers. It is fairly clear to anyone watching  Afghanistan 
that the Taliban may one day rule the country again. And
the drone war against terrorist targets, for which Obama
gets credit, could eventually lead to devastating blowback,
especially if more civilians are killed.  On Syria, Obama’s passivity borders on the
inexplicable. He intervened in Libya, for humanitarian
reasons. But Syria is a far more serious humanitarian
emergency -- an estimated 30,000 people have been killed so
far -- and it presents an acute national-security challenge
that Libya didn’t. Playing the role of bystander, as Obama
is doing, means the U.S. is completely disengaged from the
effort to shape the next Syrian government, which could be
dominated by Salafists. This would have terrible
consequences for Israel, as well as Jordan, the best friend
the U.S. has in the Arab world. A total collapse of Syria
would be disastrous for the whole region.  Romney was handed an additional gift last week by Vice
President  Joe Biden . Over the past three years, I’ve been
impressed with Obama’s seriousness on the issue of  Iran’s
nuclear program , the urgency with which he treats the
subject, and the measures he has taken to keep the regime
from crossing the atomic threshold. But last week, in the
vice-presidential debate, Biden attempted to portray
Representative  Paul Ryan  as a hysteric on the subject, even
though Ryan’s seriousness on Iran matches the president’s.  In so doing, Biden downplayed the importance of
confronting Iran. Biden  said  that when Ryan “talks about
fissile material, they have to take this highly enriched
uranium, get it from 20 percent up. Then they have to be
able to have something to put it in. There is no weapon
that the Iranians have at this point. Both the Israelis and
we know -- we’ll know if they start the process of building
a weapon. So all this bluster I keep hearing, all this
loose talk -- what are they talking about?”  A Dramatic Deviation  Biden’s statement represents a mostly unnoticed, but
dramatic, deviation from the administration’s line on Iran.
It was also technically inaccurate.  A country must do three things to have a deliverable
nuclear weapon: Enrich uranium; design and make a warhead;
and build a delivery system. The Iranians are already
enriching uranium, and are moving their centrifuges
underground. They already have ballistic missiles. They
could design and manufacture a warhead in as little as six
months.  “Biden made it sound as if we shouldn’t worry, we have
tons of time,”  David Albright , the president of the
Institute for Science and International Security, told me.
He said weapons manufacturing can also be done more
surreptitiously than  uranium enrichment . “You only need a
very small facility,” Albright said. “It poses a greater
challenge for intelligence gathering.”  Biden said the U.S. would know if the Iranians had
begun to manufacture a warhead. But the U.S. didn’t know
its ambassador in Libya would be assassinated. It didn’t
know that the World Trade Center would be attacked.
American intelligence doesn’t know a lot of things. Such is
the nature of intelligence. Biden’s sanguine approach to
weaponization suggests either that he strayed far from
Obama administration policy, or that the White House is
more relaxed and confident about stopping Iran than it
should be.  Obama’s record in the greater Middle East had already
provided Romney with ample opportunities in the next debate
on Oct. 22. Biden just gave him another.  ( Jeffrey Goldberg  is a Bloomberg View columnist and a
national correspondent for the Atlantic. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from Bloomberg View. Subscribe to
receive a daily e-mail highlighting new View editorials,
columns and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights:  To contact the writer of this article:
Jeffrey Goldberg at  goldberg.atlantic@gmail.com   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Timothy Lavin at   tlavin1@bloomberg.net  