-- Pakistan Squanders Its Malala Moment
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2012-10-18T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-18/pakistan-squanders-malala-moment.html
Pakistan’s government is squandering
its “Malala moment”: the chance to harness public outrage over
the Taliban’s  shooting  of 14-year-old education activist Malala
Yousufzai and take the fight to the terrorists who threaten the
nation and its neighbors.  The fecklessness of the government’s current strategy
against terrorism is captured in the offer of a $1 million
bounty by Interior Minister Rehman Malik for aid in hunting down
Taliban spokesman Ehsanullah Eshan, who has defended the attack
on Malala and warned of more to come.  If Pakistan really wanted to capture Eshan -- and it should
-- a $1 million reward probably isn’t necessary. He routinely
sends e-mails and text messages and makes landline phone calls
to dozens of journalists, many of whom are under some form of
government surveillance. Dollars to doughnuts  Pakistan ’s Inter-
Services Intelligence agency, long thought to  have  ties to the
Taliban and other  terrorist groups , knows where Eshan is.  Since Pakistan’s founding, its military and intelligence
establishments have relied on militants as an asymmetric asset
in their rivalry with the larger, more powerful  India . That
reliance remains intact, despite occasional pressure from the
U.S. and its counterterrorism partners.  General Ashfaq Parvez Kayani, the leader of Pakistan’s
military, has condemned the attack on Malala and her fellow
students,  praising  her as “an icon of courage and hope.” He
could follow up those comforting words with a military operation
against the Taliban and other extremist groups such as the
Haqqani network in North Waziristan.  Support Withheld  Disappointingly, Pakistan’s governing coalition has so far
 held off  on a parliamentary resolution for such an operation.
Opposition politicians including  Imran Khan , the blow-dried ex-
cricketer, have withheld their support and shamefully hedged
their condemnations of the Taliban.  The U.S., meanwhile, is not in a position to push loudly
for action, especially given the need for Pakistan’s cooperation
in the winding down of the U.S. presence in  Afghanistan .
Pakistan’s ever-inventive  conspiracy theorists  already claim
that the U.S. was behind the shooting in an effort to make
Pakistan look bad and force its hand in Waziristan. Behind the
scenes, however, the U.S. should make forcefully clear --
especially through its military and intelligence channels --
that Pakistan’s failure to make the most of this moment will
have consequences for U.S. assistance. A month before Malala was
shot,  Hillary Clinton   quietly  issued a “national security”
waiver on conditions for $2 billion in U.S. aid. There’s little
chance Congress would let her get away with that in the attack’s
aftermath.  The U.S. should also continue to tighten the screws on
Pakistani terrorist networks and their supporters, as it did
with a new set of sanctions on individuals on Oct. 17. And it
should channel more aid to Pakistan’s civilian security forces
to help them gain independence from the military and
intelligence services, which have a long  history  of interfering
with law enforcement efforts to tackle terrorist groups.  The Malala case has attracted worldwide concern and
sympathy (including, perhaps inevitably, a  striptease  tribute
from Madonna). This may help shine a light on the efforts of
Pakistanis to live free of  terrorist violence . But real progress
requires Pakistan’s leaders to renounce the cynical use of
terrorist proxies to achieve their strategic goals.  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on a  better way to shrink big
banks ; Stephen L. Carter on  how U.S. senators are elected ;
 Jeffrey Goldberg  on  Obama’s vulnerabilities in the foreign-
policy debate ; William Pesek on why  world hunger poses a risk to
capitalism ; Odd Arne Westad on  China’s self-destructive island
diplomacy .  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 