-- Palm Oil Gains to One-Week High as China Shows Signs of Recovery
-- B y   R a n j e e t h a   P a k i a m
-- 2012-10-18T10:34:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-18/palm-oil-climbs-for-second-day-as-china-shows-signs-of-recovery.html
Palm oil advanced for a second day
to the highest level in almost one week after  China , the world’s
largest consumer of cooking oils, showed signs of recovery as
industrial production and retail sales accelerated in September.  The contract for January delivery jumped 1 percent to 2,496
ringgit ($822) a metric ton on the Malaysia Derivatives Exchange
in Kuala Lumpur, the highest price at close since Oct. 12.
Futures have plunged 21 percent this year as stockpiles
increased and a slowdown curbed demand from Europe and China.  Industrial production, retail sales and fixed-asset
investment expanded at a faster rate, reducing the urgency for
added stimulus.  Gross domestic product  grew 7.4 percent in the
third quarter from a year earlier, matching the median estimate
in a Bloomberg News survey of 43 economists. The Communist Party
begins a once-a-decade leadership transition next month.  “Everybody’s waiting for the handover of power to see
whether they’ll come up with a new stimulus package to boost the
economy,” Carey Wong, an analyst at OCBC Investment Research
Pte., said by phone from  Singapore . “That potentially could
have a spillover effect on consumption and nowadays palm oil is
used more and more in processed food.”  Soybean oil for December delivery advanced 0.9 percent to
51.51 cents a pound on the Chicago Board of Trade. Soybeans for
November delivery increased 1.3 percent to $15.2875 a bushel.  Palm oil for January delivery gained 1 percent to end at
6,950  yuan  ($1,112) a ton on the Dalian Commodity Exchange.
Soybean oil for delivery in May climbed 0.7 percent to close at
9,250 yuan a ton.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ranjeetha Pakiam in Kuala Lumpur at 
 rpakiam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  