-- Palo Alto Networks Gains as Investors Abandon Check Point
-- B y   A r i   L e v y
-- 2012-10-18T15:57:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-18/palo-alto-networks-gains-as-investors-abandon-check-point.html
Palo Alto Networks Inc. (PANW) , the newly-
public data security provider, is growing at the expense of
older and larger rival  Check Point Software Technologies Ltd. (CHKP)   Palo Alto raised the share price in a secondary offering to
$63 apiece from $61.61 earlier this week, according to a
regulatory filing yesterday. Meanwhile, Check Point shares
plunged 13 percent yesterday to a two-year low after third-
quarter billings dropped.  The companies -- and stocks -- are headed in opposite
directions as growth in cloud computing and smartphone usage
alters the types of security threats businesses face. Founded in
2005, Palo Alto has focused from on the newer applications
companies are using and it developed technology to defend
against more sophisticated threats, while Check Point, almost
two decades old, still delivers traditional firewalls.  “It’s a paradigm shift for network security,” said
Jonathan Ho, an analyst at William Blair & Co. in  Chicago , who
rates both stocks outperform. Palo Alto has “really been the
one to lead the charge,” he said.  Check Point, based in Tel Aviv, Israel, said yesterday that
competition is strong.  “I think we’ve done pretty well,” Check Point Chief
Executive Officer Gil Shwed said during the third-quarter
conference call yesterday. “We’ve been displacing Palo Alto in
some places already, which is not a good indicator for a young
emerging company.”  Slower Growth  While Check Point’s revenue is more than four times sales
at Palo Alto, growth at the older company is slower. Check Point
 sales  rose 7.8 percent to $332 million in the third quarter and
billings dropped 1 percent.  Palo Alto , based in Santa Clara,  California , said last
month that fiscal fourth-quarter revenue surged 88 percent to
$75.6 million, as the company sold to more than 9,000 customers
in over 100 countries. It’s won business by delivering products
to companies adopting new technologies around virtualization,
software-as-a-service and mobile devices.  In the three months since its trading debut, Palo Alto’s
 market value  climbed 56 percent to $4.5 billion through
yesterday, while Check Point’s has dropped 18 percent during
that stretch to $8.5 billion. Palo Alto declined 4.9 percent to
$62.30 at 10:53 a.m. in New York, while Checkpoint dipped less
than 1 percent to $40.99.  The rivalry is deep. Palo Alto co-founder and Chief
Technology Officer Nir Zuk, worked as an engineer at Check Point
from 1994 to 1999. He’s been in the security industry ever
since, starting OneSecure Inc., which was acquired by NetScreen
Technologies Inc. and then  Juniper Networks Inc. (JNPR)  He was chief
security technologist at Juniper before starting Palo Alto.  Competitors Gain  Just two of the seven companies Palo Alto lists in its
prospectus as competitors gained value this year --  Cisco
Systems Inc. (CSCO)  and International Business Machines Corp.  Fortinet
Inc. (FTNT) , one of the companies listed, plunged 19 percent yesterday
after predicting fourth-quarter results that trailed analysts’
estimates.  Robert Breza , an analyst at  RBC Capital Markets  in
Minneapolis, downgraded Check Point and Fortinet in recent weeks
to sector perform from outperform because of increased
competition and lower pricing.  Bigger competitors like Cisco and Juniper are dropping
prices to “try to hang onto their existing customer bases”
Breza said in an interview. “It’s a highly fragmented market.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ari Levy in  San Francisco  at 
 alevy5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  