-- Pandit Ouster as CEO Was 3 Years Overdue, Rosner Says: Tom Keene
-- B y   T o m   K e e n e   a n d   D o n a l   G r i f f i n
-- 2012-10-18T14:45:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-18/pandit-ouster-as-ceo-was-3-years-overdue-rosner-says-tom-keene.html
Vikram Pandit’s ouster as head of
 Citigroup Inc. (C)  is a “step in the right direction” and should
have happened earlier, banking analyst  Joshua Rosner  said.  “This move could have happened three years ago, probably
should have happened three years ago,” Rosner, an analyst with
Graham Fisher & Co., said today in an interview on Bloomberg
Television’s “Surveillance” with Tom Keene. “You had a board
that wasn’t independent and strong in the same way that the
current board seems to be.”  The Citigroup board replaced Pandit, 55, with  Michael Corbat , 52, as CEO on Oct. 16 after concluding that his
mismanagement of the New York-based lender’s operations caused
setbacks with regulators, a person with knowledge of the
discussions said. Chief Operating Officer  John Havens , 56, also
resigned. Chairman  Michael O’Neill  oversaw the change, six
months after shareholders elected him to the board’s helm.  “You now have a restructuring guy who really has shown an
interest in making sure they get back to the basics of blocking
and tackling,” Rosner said. “You’re going to continue to see
them rationalize their businesses.”  Citigroup directors selected Pandit as CEO in December 2007
as the lender faced billions of dollars in losses tied to
subprime mortgages. Pandit promoted Havens to oversee the firm’s
institutional clients group, which includes trading and
investment banking operations.  “They put all their apples into that cart and they had to
stick with it,” Rosner said of the board.  Pandit had been cutting jobs and selling off unwanted
assets at Citigroup, the third-biggest U.S. bank, before
directors pushed him out. Corbat has since told analysts and
Citigroup executives that he’s not going to change the bank’s
strategy.  “They’re going to narrow their focus,” Rosner said. “I’d
like to believe that’s where they’re going.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Donal Griffin in New York at 
 dgriffin10@bloomberg.net ;
 Tom Keene  in New York at 
 tkeene@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  