-- Peru Coffee Output May Gain 20% on Higher-Yield Crop
-- B y   M a r v i n   G .   P e r e z
-- 2012-10-18T17:52:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-18/peru-coffee-output-may-gain-20-on-higher-yield-crop-group-says.html
Coffee output in  Peru , the third-
largest producer in South America, may rise 20 percent next year
as trees enter the higher-yielding cycle of the biennial crop,
an industry group said.  “Production may increase to 4.56 million bags from 3.8
million estimated for this year,” Eduardo Montauban, the head
of Peru’s Coffee and Cocoa  Chamber , said yesterday in a
telephone interview from  Lima . In 2011, output rose to a record
5 million bags, he said.  Coffee-export income in 2012 may drop to $950 million from
the all-time high of $1.578 billion last year, Montauban said.
 Germany  is the biggest buyer, followed by the U.S.,  Belgium  and
Colombia, he said.  Peruvian farmers typically collect the bulk of the harvest
from March through September. A bag weighs 60 kilograms, or 132
pounds.  Brazil  is the world’s top producer, and Colombia is the
second-biggest South American grower, according to the London-
based  International Coffee Organization .  This week, Peru started an agricultural census, the first
since 1994, Montauban said. That may determine the size of the
coffee crop and the number of farmers.  “This could help the sector secure funds to increase
productivity and the quality of beans” amid efforts to expand
exports in Asia, Montauban said. He is an agent/broker for the
local representative of Pully, Switzerland-based  Ecom 
Agroindustrial Corp., one of the largest coffee traders.  Arabica coffee for December delivery declined 0.8 percent
to $1.615 a pound yesterday on ICE Futures U.S. in New York.
This year, the price has tumbled 29 percent, the most among the
24  raw materials  in the Standard & Poor’s GSCI Spot Index,
partly because roasters are using more of the cheaper robusta
beans.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Marvin G. Perez in New York at 
 mperez71@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  