-- Petroplus’s French Refinery Not Easily Taken Over, Minister Says
-- B y   T a r a   P a t e l
-- 2012-10-18T08:41:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-18/petroplus-s-french-refinery-not-easily-taken-over-minister-says.html
Finding a suitor for Petroplus
Holding AG’s Petit-Couronne oil refinery is complicated,
according to French Labor Minister Michel Sapin, after Netoil
Inc. said it would table a new offer with Korean partners.  “It’s not easy because someone just can’t become a
refiner,” Sapin said today on  France  Inter radio. “We can’t
just get anyone to come and refine crude.”  A court in Rouen two days ago placed the 154,000 barrel-a-
day plant into liquidation after bids by Alafandi Petroleum
Group and Netoil were rejected.  Petroplus, once Europe’s largest independent refiner, has
borne the brunt of falling margins due to overcapacity and weak
demand that led to its collapse earlier this year. Nov. 5 has
been set as the deadline for new offers for Petit-Couronne or
the refinery will be shuttered. That would leave France with
eight working oil refineries compared with 24 in 1977.  Netoil has decided to make a new offer for the refinery
before that deadline, according to a joint statement late
yesterday from the company and unions.  Representatives from Korean partners who will “finance the
modernization of the refinery” as well as a partner who has
signed a tolling contract will appear before the court, the
statement said.  Unions have said about 500 workers may lose their jobs at
the refinery and 2,000 more are at risk in the region should the
plant shut down for good.  Necessary Guarantees  APG and Netoil “didn’t respond to questions from the court
to show their financial and technical capacities,” Petroplus
Raffinage Petit-Couronne, who represent the management, and the
administrators said in an Oct. 16 statement. The court said
Netoil didn’t provide “necessary guarantees” that operations
and worker rights can be continued, Industry Minister  Arnaud
Montebourg  said in an Oct. 16 statement.  Netoil and the unions said in yesterday’s statement that
these questions will be addressed before Nov. 5.  Petroplus, once Europe’s largest independent refiner,
sought to offload its plants after filing for insolvency in
January. Three were sold to trading companies that will keep
them operating, while the U.K.’s Coryton site will be converted
into storage.  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA) , the prior owner of Petit-Couronne,
ran the site from June under a six-month tolling arrangement in
which it supplies crude and takes ownership of the products.  Unions have fought to keep it open by lobbying the state to
find a buyer.  Netoil planned to upgrade the plant and keep it operating,
Chairman Roger Tamraz said Aug. 9. While  Europe  doesn’t need
extra capacity, local suppliers would benefit, he said, citing
the proximity to Paris and Charles De Gaulle airport. French
margins also began to recover recently as excess supply was cut.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tara Patel in Paris at 
 tpatel2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  