-- Pfizer Settles First Chantix Suicide Case Set for Trial
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C r o n i n   F i s k   a n d   J e f   F e e l e y
-- 2012-10-18T17:34:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-18/pfizer-settles-first-chantix-suicide-case-set-for-trial.html
Pfizer Inc. (PFE)  reached a confidential
settlement with the widow of a Minnesota man who killed himself
after taking its anti-smoking drug Chantix, averting a trial set
to begin next week.  The widow of Mark Alan Whitely sued Pfizer after his death
in November 2007, alleging the company failed to sufficiently
warn that Chantix could increase the risk of suicide. The
Whitely lawsuit was the first of more than 2,500 Chantix cases
pending in federal court in Alabama set for trial, according to
court records.  “We can confirm that we have settled this case,” Chris Loder, a Pfizer spokesman, said in an e-mailed statement today.
“Terms are confidential.”  The settlement comes after Pfizer appealed U.S. District
Judge Inge Johnson’s order that its Chief Executive Officer  Ian Read  and two other executives testify in person at the Whitely
trial. Read and the other executives dropped the appeal
yesterday as moot, or unnecessary, because a settlement had been
reached, according to court records.  “Mr. Whitely’s family is happy with the settlement,”
Ernest Cory, a Birmingham, Alabama-based lawyer representing the
plaintiffs, said in a telephone interview.  The Whitely case and other lawsuits have been combined in a
multidistrict litigation before Johnson in Alabama for pretrial
evidence-gathering and the first trials.  Suicide Risk  The lawsuits claim that Chantix causes depression and other
psychiatric disorders, some so severe that patients attempt or
commit suicide. The plaintiffs allege that Pfizer knew of a link
between Chantix and suicide and failed to sufficiently warn
patients.  Pfizer has denied that Chantix was the cause of Whitely’s
suicide or that the company withheld information about the drug.  Pfizer has provided warnings on the package insert of
reports of suicidal thoughts since 2006, Johnson said in court
papers in July. The notice was updated in 2007 and 2008,
“culminating in a ‘black box warning’ being placed on the
package insert in July 2009,” she said.  The plaintiffs’ lawyers contend that Pfizer should have
provided such warnings earlier.  Cory said he didn’t believe the Whitely settlement was a
signal that Pfizer was pushing to settle the cases that have
been consolidated before Johnson in federal court in Florence,
 Alabama .  Settlement Offers  The accord “was a one-off as far as I can tell,” Cory
said. “I represent close to 400 families and I haven’t gotten
an offer to settle any of their claims so far.”  Cory said Johnson has set the next of four so-called
bellwether trials over the Chantix claims for January in
Alabama.  The consolidated cases are In re Chantix (Varenicline)
Products Liability Litigation MDL 2092, 09-cv-2039 U.S. District
Court, Northern District of Alabama (Florence).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Margaret Cronin Fisk in Detroit at 
 mcfisk@bloomberg.net ;
Jef Feeley in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 jfeeley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  