-- Manufacturing in Philadelphia Area Grows More Than Forecast
-- B y   S h o b h a n a   C h a n d r a
-- 2012-10-18T14:29:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-18/philadelphia-fed-manufacturing-index-rose-to-5-7-from-1-9.html
Manufacturing in the Philadelphia
region expanded in October for the first time in six months, a
sign the industry may be starting to stabilize.  The Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia’s general economic
 index  rose to 5.7 from minus 1.9 in September, a report today
showed. A reading of zero is the dividing line between expansion
and contraction. The  median  forecast of 61 economists surveyed
by Bloomberg was for an increase to 1.  The report, contrasting with data showing New York-area
factories shrank for the third straight month, indicates that a
pillar of the recovery is starting to regain its footing. Gains
in confidence and household wealth mean  consumer spending  may
help cushion manufacturing at a time when business investment
and exports are hurt by slowing global growth and uncertainty
about U.S. tax changes.  “Manufacturing has troughed in terms of the declines in
activity,”  Russell Price , senior economist at Ameriprise
Financial Inc. in  Detroit , said before the report. “As the
recession in Europe becomes less severe, it will take the
pressure off exports. There is some demand” in the U.S.  The Philadelphia Fed’s report covers eastern  Pennsylvania ,
southern  New Jersey  and  Delaware . Estimates in the Bloomberg
survey ranged from minus 2.7 to 5.8.  Jobless Claims  Other reports today showed more Americans than forecast
filed  applications  for  unemployment benefits  last week,  consumer
confidence  rose to a six-month high and the index of leading
indicators climbed more than forecast in September.  Jobless claims increased by 46,000 to 388,000 in the week
ended Oct. 13, reflecting an unwinding of adjustments for
seasonal swings at the start of a quarter, from a revised
342,000 the prior period that was the lowest since February
2008, according to Labor Department data.  The Bloomberg Consumer Comfort Index rose to minus 34.8 in
the week ended Oct. 14, the highest level since April, from
minus 38.5 the previous week. The monthly  expectations  gauge
improved to minus 7 in October, the best reading since May.  The Conference Board’s gauge of the outlook for the next
three to six months increased 0.6 percent last month after a
revised 0.4 percent drop in August that was bigger than
initially reported, the New York-based group said. Economists
projected the gauge would climb 0.2 percent, according to the
median estimate in a Bloomberg survey.  Component Breakdown  The Philadelphia Fed’s overall index isn’t composed of the
individual measures, one reason some economists consider it a
gauge of sentiment among manufacturers. Manufacturing makes up
about 12 percent of the  U.S. economy .  The breakdown of today’s Philadelphia Fed data was less
encouraging than the headline reading. The employment index
decreased to minus 10.7, the lowest reading since September
2009, from minus 7.3. The new orders measure dropped to minus
0.6, the fifth contraction in the past six months, from a
reading of 1 in September.  The shipments gauge climbed to minus 0.2 from minus 21.2.
Its inventory index rose to 2.1 from minus 21.7.  The index of prices paid rose to 19 from 8, while a gauge
of prices received increased to 5.4 from minus 0.2.  Factory managers in the region also become less optimistic
about the future. The gauge of the outlook for six months from
now dropped to 21.6 this month from 41.2 in September.  Figures from the  New York  Fed on Oct. 15 showed the so-
called Empire State index rose to minus 6.2 this month from
September’s minus 10.4 reading.  Less Optimistic  Economists monitor the New York and Philadelphia Fed
factory reports for clues about the Institute for Supply
Management national figures on manufacturing. The ISM report is
due on Nov. 1.  The automobile industry remains a source of growth. Cars
and light trucks sold at a 14.9 million annual pace in
September, the most since March 2008, according to data from
Ward’s Automotive Group. Chrysler Group LLC and  General Motors
Co. (GM)  reported gains.  Businesses restrained by weakening overseas growth include
 Alcoa Inc. (AA) , the largest U.S. aluminum producer. The New York-
based company cut its forecast for global consumption of the
metal on slowing Chinese demand.  “We do see a slight slowdown in some regions in end-
markets, and the main driver for this is  China ,” Chairman and
Chief Executive Officer  Klaus Kleinfeld  said on a conference
call with analysts this month.  Manufacturing also is stabilizing at the national level, a
report showed this week. Industrial production, or output at
factories, mines and utilities, rose 0.4 percent in September
after a 1.4 percent drop in August that was the biggest since
March 2009, according to Fed data issued Oct. 16.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shobhana Chandra in Washington at 
 schandra1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  