-- Pietersen Rejoins England Cricket Squad After Text-Message Row
-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 2012-10-18T15:47:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-18/pietersen-rejoins-england-cricket-squad-after-text-message-row.html
Kevin Pietersen , who was dropped by
England’s cricket team for sending “provocative”  text messages 
to opposition players, has been added to the squad for the
forthcoming tour of India.  The decision to reinstate the 32-year-old South Africa-born
batsman came after he met with captain  Alastair Cook , coach  Andy Flower  and other senior players this week.  “The meetings were constructive and cordial and all
outstanding issues have been resolved,” said England Cricket
Managing Director Hugh Morris. The England and Wales Cricket
Board said earlier this month Pietersen would be considered for
selection again after he made an official apology.  Pietersen was banished from the team after sending what he
said could be called “provocative” text messages to friends on
the South African squad during this summer’s Test series between
the teams. The Proteas won 2-0 to leapfrog England atop the
world cricket standings. After scoring a century in the second
Test at Headingley he acknowledged there were problems “in the
dressing-room.”  Pietersen, one of the sport’s best-known players, was
subsequently left out of the squad for the Twenty20 World Cup in
 Sri Lanka .  Pietersen apologized to former captain  Andrew Strauss , who
quit after the defeat to South Africa, and assured the ECB the
texts didn’t criticize Strauss or other England cricket
officials or players. He said he deleted the messages. Pietersen
on Oct. 3 signed a new four-month contract that included a
“reintegration period” before he could be restored to the
team.  Topped Rankings  Since making his Test debut against  Australia  in 2005,
Pietersen has been among England’s top performers, helping it
spend a year atop the rankings for the five-day format of the
game. His explosive batting in cricket’s shorter formats has
also led to lucrative contracts to play in the Indian Premier
League, cricket’s richest competition.  Pietersen is currently in  South Africa  playing in the
Champions League Twenty20 for the Delhi Daredevils, the team
that bought his services this season for $2 million.  “We are pleased to welcome a player of Kevin’s proven
international caliber back into the Test squad for such an
important Test series,” national selector Geoff Miller said.
“Kevin will join up with the squad as soon as his Champions
League commitments are complete.”  England plays the first of its four Tests against India in
Ahmedabad on Nov. 15. The teams will later meet in two Twenty20
games and five one-day internationals.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tariq Panja in London at 
 tpanja@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  