-- Poll Shows Romney Gains on Obama on Foreign Policy Issues
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   T a l e v
-- 2012-10-18T20:34:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-18/poll-shows-romney-gains-on-obama-on-foreign-policy-issues.html
Republican  Mitt Romney  significantly
closed President  Barack Obama ’s lead with voters on foreign
policy issues after the candidates’ first debate, according to a
Pew Research Center poll released today.  Obama led Romney, 47 percent to 43 percent, on the question
of who can make wiser decisions on foreign policy in the survey
of 1,201 registered voters conducted Oct. 4-7. That compares
with a 15-percentage-point advantage, 53 percent to 38 percent,
that Obama had on the query in a Sept. 12-16 poll.  The latest poll was taken after the first Obama-Romney
debate on Oct. 3. It doesn’t reflect the Oct. 16 rematch, in
which Obama took a more aggressive approach defending his
policies against Romney’s criticism.  Romney, who has pledged to name  China  as a currency
manipulator on “day one” if he becomes president, leads in the
poll over Obama, 49 percent to 40 percent, on dealing with
China’s trade policies, even as economists say the designation
would have little practical effect.  “You see his message of getting tougher on China
resonating with voters,” said associate poll director Carroll Doherty.  A separate poll of 1,006 adults, taken Oct. 12-14, showed
mixed reviews of the Obama administration’s handling of the
Sept. 11 terrorist attack in  Libya  that left four Americans
dead, including U.S. Ambassador Christopher Stevens. That poll
found 38 percent of Americans disapprove and 35 percent approve,
while 27 percent expressed no opinion.  Next Debate  Foreign policy will be the focus of the final Obama-Romney
debate on Oct. 22 debate in  Boca Raton ,  Florida . “It’ll be the
issue next Monday night, but the economy and jobs are still the
dominant issues” for voters, Doherty said.  As for which candidate can better deal with  Iran’s nuclear
program , the Oct. 4-7 poll was essentially tied, with Obama at
45 percent and Romney at 44 percent.  Voters were shifting toward a more hard-line view toward
 Iran , which may benefit Romney. By 56 percent to 35 percent,
they favored taking a firm stand over avoiding a military
conflict with Iran. In a January survey, 50 percent backed the
tougher stance compared with 41 percent who didn’t.  Obama had the advantage over Romney, 47 percent to 42
percent, on handling the political upheaval in the  Middle East 
known as the Arab Spring.  By 57 percent to 25 percent, Americans said that the Arab
Spring, which led to new governments in countries including
Libya and Egypt, wouldn’t lead to lasting improvements in the
lives of residents of the affected nations. By 36 percent to 14
percent, they said the changes in leadership would be bad for
the U.S., with 38 percent saying the upheavals would have little
effect.  The Oct. 4-7 survey of registered voters had a margin of
error of plus or minus 3.3 percentage points. The Oct. 12-14
survey had a margin of error of plus or minus 3.7 percentage
points.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Margaret Talev  in Washington at 
 mtalev@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  