-- Producer Is Latest Ghost Gone Missing From ‘Rebecca’
-- B y   P h i l i p   B o r o f f
-- 2012-10-18T02:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-18/producer-is-latest-ghost-gone-missing-from-rebecca-.html
“Rebecca” is a ghost story all
right.  First there was the missing musical, which postponed its
Broadway opening last spring, then again in September and now,
indefinitely.  Then there was the missing investor “Paul Abrams,” who
was reputed to have died of malaria -- until it was determined
that he never, in fact, existed at all.  Add to that the missing rainmaker Mark Hotton, a 46-year-
old former Oppenheimer & Co. broker who, according to a criminal
complaint filed this week in  Manhattan  federal court, pocketed
$60,000 in fees for services never rendered to the cash-strapped
producers of the $12 million show, Ben Sprecher and Louise Forlenza.  Now another significant player is MIA: Where’s Louise?  Since “ Rebecca ” became the talk of Times Square, the
cameras and digital voice recorders have been focused squarely
on Sprecher, who claims to have been duped and, as he put it to
the  New York  Times, “raped” by Hotton.  Meanwhile, his co-general partner (which is to say, the
person also on the hook for at least $7 million owed investors
if “Rebecca” fails to open by the end of the year), has been
as invisible as Rebecca, the dead wife in Daphne du Maurier’s
spooky tale.  $4.5 Million  According to the criminal complaint, it was Forlenza who
found Hotton when the producers faced a $4.5 million shortfall
in their capitalization of the show.  Reached on her mobile phone yesterday, Forlenza, in her
early sixties, said she couldn’t talk because her 95-year-old
mother had broken her hip.  “I’m the only one who can take care of her,” Forlenza
said before cutting the conversation short. “I don’t know
what’s going to happen.”  Sprecher and Forlenza didn’t lack experience dealing with
Broadway’s often arcane players and financing methods. Sprecher
was a general manager and co-owner of several commercial off-
Broadway theaters and worked closely with Broadway’s biggest
landlord, the Shubert Organization. “Rebecca” is his first
time out as lead producer of a big musical.  Accounting Firm  A certified public accountant, Forlenza has provided tax
planning services and auditing and management consulting to a
variety of corporate clients, according to a filing with the
U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. She’s a director of
 Innodata Inc., (INOD)  a publicly traded Hackensack,  New Jersey , concern
that helps companies distribute information digitally.  In the early 1980s, she served on the faculty of the
accounting department of  Iona College  in  New Rochelle , New York.  Forlenza’s first Broadway credit was in 2005 as associate
producer on “Lennon,” which despite music written by the
former Beatle, flopped after 49 performances. She had producer
credits on a 2007 revival of  Eugene O’Neill ’s “A Moon for the
Misbegotten” (71 performances) and on a 2008 revival of David Mamet’s “American Buffalo” (8 performances).  In 2009, Sprecher and Forlenza formed “Global Broadway
Productions,” according to the partnership’s  website . It aims
to develop and produce shows “that are either already ‘brands’
or have ‘branding’ potential, and have the capability for
international production in multiple languages.”  ‘Little House’  An early collaboration, “Little House on the Prairie,”
played  Minneapolis  in 2008 and other cities but never made it to
Broadway.  On Monday, Hotton was arrested for scheming to defraud
Forlenza and Sprecher, by inventing fictitious investors and
contributing to the collapse of the show. Through a variety of
frauds, victims of Hotton have lost more than $15 million,
according to a separate federal filing.  Sprecher said on Tuesday that the production has already
spent $6 million and owes a further $1 million to vendors. Its
investors are entitled to a full refund by year-end should the
partners fail to raise $12 million, according to the complaint.  Hotton appeared yesterday wearing dark blue prison scrubs
before U.S. Magistrate Judge Gabriel Gorenstein, who informed
him of the charges. He has pleaded not guilty.  The case is U.S. v. Hotton, 12-2686, U.S. District Court,
Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  Muse highlights include  Jason Harper  on cars and  Rich
Jaroslovsky  on  tech .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Philip Boroff in New York at 
 pboroff@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeffrey Burke at 
 jburke21@bloomberg.net  