-- Pussy Riot Joins Power Art List, Led by Documenta Curator
-- B y   F a r a h   N a y e r i
-- 2012-10-18T07:52:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-18/pussy-riot-joins-power-art-list-led-by-documenta-curator.html
Pussy Riot, the female Russian punk
rock band with two members still in jail, landed on ArtReview’s
 annual ranking  of the 100 most influential people in the art
world, the Power 100, published today.  The band was 57th on a list topped by Carolyn Christov-
Bakargiev, curator of Documenta 13. The contemporary art show is
held every five years in Kassel,  Germany .  Art dealer  Larry Gagosian  came in second, up from 4th last
year. The head of the  Qatar Museums Authority  -- Sheikha Al-
Mayassa bint Hamad bin Khalifa Al-Thani, daughter of the Emir of
Qatar -- soared to 11th position from 90th.  ArtReview Editor Mark Rappolt said in an interview that
Pussy Riot were “not on the list for their music. It’s much
more for the fact that they raised the issue of freedom of
speech and expression, which sometimes get ignored.”  Last week, a Russian court released one Pussy Riot
performer while upholding a two-year jail sentence against
another two.  The five-member band had played in a major Christian
Orthodox place of worship in February and urged the  Virgin Mary 
to “expel” President  Vladimir Putin . In August, a Moscow court
jailed three of the members on charges of hooliganism and of
stirring religious hatred.  This year’s Power 100 winner Christov-Bakargiev was chosen
for successfully curating the 13th edition of Documenta, which
conveyed “a very optimistic message for art: that art can have
a role in society and not just be something that hangs in a rich
man’s house,” said Rappolt.  Last year’s winner, the dissident Chinese artist Ai Weiwei,
slid to third position on the 2012 list, while German painter
 Gerhard Richter  rose from 11th to 6th.  Dealers Iwan Wirth and  David Zwirner  ranked fourth and
fifth. Tate Director Nicholas Serota came in at No. 8, followed
by Museum of Modern Art Director Glenn D. Lowry at No. 9.  Every year, Art Review gathers an international panel of
art-world professionals to pick the 100 most influential people
in their field.  Below is the complete list, with last year’s ranking in
brackets:  Muse highlights include  Scott Reyburn  on the art market,
 Jason Harper  on cars and  Rich Jaroslovsky  on technology.  To contact the writer on this story:
Farah Nayeri in  London   at
 Farahn@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 