-- Qatar Air CEO Says Hostile Lufthansa Squandered Alliance
-- B y   C h r i s   J a s p e r ,   K a r i   L u n d g r e n   a n d   O l i v i a   S t e r n s
-- 2012-10-18T15:53:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-18/qatar-air-ceo-says-hostile-lufthansa-squandered-alliance.html
Qatar Airways Ltd. Chief Executive
Officer Akbar  Al Baker  said he’d have contemplated joining
 Deutsche Lufthansa AG (LHA) ’s  Star Alliance  had the German company not
proved so hostile to the growth of Persian Gulf carriers.  The Middle East’s second-largest airline signed up to the
Oneworld group last week after receiving overtures from  British
Airways (IAG)  that contrasted with the attitude of long-standing
partner Lufthansa, Al Baker said in an interview in  London .  “My first code-share with a European carrier was with
Lufthansa, but unfortunately their strategy is to kill
competition,” he said. “It is to shun Gulf carriers, and I think
they have lost in this very lucrative alliance chess game.”  Qatar Air, the first Gulf recruit to a global alliance, is
due to become a full Oneworld member within 18 months but could
join in less than 12, said Al Baker, who spoke after addressing
the Aviation Club in London, where he was seated with  Willie Walsh , CEO of BA parent IAG. Walsh is “forward looking” and wise
to the benefits of avoiding the enmity shown by some Europeans
as Gulf carriers grab lucrative long-haul traffic, he said.  “Oneworld saw the synergies between their network and
us,” Al Baker said. “They wanted a strong airline in the Gulf
Cooperation Council that will give them immediate huge access to
the Middle East and beyond. We fitted into this requirement and
a few months ago we received an invitation and we accepted it.”  ‘Not a Threat’  Qatar Air, the second-biggest unattached airline, was won
for Oneworld one month after  Qantas Airways Ltd. (QAN)  of  Australia 
ended a 17-year tie-up with BA in favor of a deal with Dubai-
based Emirates, the top Middle Eastern carrier, and on the same
day that Walsh’s European rival  Air France-KLM Group (AF)  agreed to
start code-sharing with Gulf No. 3  Etihad Airways  of  Abu Dhabi .  Paris-based Air France-KLM,  Europe ’s largest airline, and
Lufthansa, the No. 2, have been disingenuous in expressions of
concern about Gulf carriers and claims regarding business models
propped up by subsidies, Al Baker said, adding that Lufthansa is
being hurt by “its own incapabilities,” not its Mideast rivals.  “It is only talk of threat when it is convenient to them,”
he said. “We are not a threat. As far as I’m concerned we are
filling in the gaps in the aviation industry. There was no hub
strategically located in the Gulf and it was only a matter of
time before European carriers looked at us as a partner.”  ‘Untamed’  Lufthansa CEO Christoph Franz said on March 15 that he is
“naturally very concerned” about the ascent of Gulf carriers.  “They are serving the strategic goals of the Gulf states,
namely the displacement of European air transport hubs into the
 Middle East , 40 kilometers from the Iranian border,” he said at
a press briefing. “We must stand up for our European interests
more forcefully.” A year earlier he’d said the “untamed growth”
of Gulf carriers should be “viewed with very critical eyes.”  Franz last week told staff who queried Lufthansa’s failure
to add a Mideast ally that a strategy of “If you can’t beat
them, join them” as espoused after the Etihad deal by Air
France’s vice president for alliances, Dominique Patry, is “not
the expression of a business strategy conducive to survival.”  Claudia Lange, a spokeswoman for Cologne-based Lufthansa,
said today that she couldn’t comment on Al Baker’s remarks.  Al Baker said he has no plans “at the moment” for deeper
links with British Airways and Walsh, who lost a revenue-sharing
partner on vital Asian routes when Qantas defected to Emirates
and who he once said would be welcome to invest in  Qatar Airways 
should it proceed with a share sale that has since been shelved.  ‘Kept Apart’  “We are friends,” he said. “He is the CEO of a very large
organization; I am the CEO of a smaller organization. When it
comes to official level we will always see what is in the best
interest of our airlines and at that time friendship will be
kept apart. We don’t mix friendship when it comes to business.”  Neither is Qatar looking at the 12 percent stake in IAG --
as International Consolidated Airlines Group SA is known --
controlled by Bankia group, the nationalized Spanish lender that
Walsh said Aug. 3 no longer has strategic value, Al Baker said.  The Qantas-Emirates accord was understandable given the
strength of the Dubai carrier, and the Australian company
remains a potential ally for BA and its associates, he said.  “I don’t think they have lost Qantas,” the CEO said.
“Qantas is still part of Oneworld. There will be opportunities
for Qantas to work with its alliance partners.”  New Arrivals  Qatar Air’s fleet of 111 planes will be swollen by a
further 250 it has on order worth $50 billion at list prices.
The first of 10  Airbus SAS (EAD)  A380 superjumbos is due to arrive in
January 2014 after the carrier insisted on planes modified to
fix a wing defect, Al Baker said, adding that he views that
model as a niche aircraft suitable for deployment on routes
where frequencies are limited by airport slot constraints.  Airbus is also promising to deliver the first of 80 A350
wide-bodies Qatar has on order in 2014. Al Baker, who has sought
performance enhancements to the jet, said he expects the company
to “honor” the timetable, while adding: “If it slips because
they’re doing more improvements then we will have to accept.”  Qatar Airways remains a likely customer for  Bombardier
Inc. (BBD/B) ’s C-Series single-aisle model, he said, with a need for 20
planes and the same number of options. An order is being held up
because resources are stretched as the Doha-based company
prepares for the integration of three new models into its fleet,
he said in the interview with Bloomberg Television yesterday.  Al Baker said that there’s no chance of Qatar Air seeking a
listing right now as “people don’t have the stomach to invest,”
and the world economy is unlikely to rebound sufficiently within
five years for an initial public offering to be effective.  “When we were contemplating an IPO the world fell through
the floor,” he said. “Recession, collapses, bankruptcies,
unemployment, everything happened and is continuing to happen.
So it would only be very stupid on my part to go for an IPO.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kari Lundgren in London at 
 klundgren2@bloomberg.net ;
Chris Jasper in London at 
 cjasper@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at   cthomas16@bloomberg.net  