-- Rajat Gupta’s Friends in High Places
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   W e i l
-- 2012-10-18T20:26:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-18/rajat-gupta-s-friends-in-high-places.html
Here’s some fresh fodder for
armchair ethicists to chew on: Should you help a friend who has
been convicted of a crime, when that friendship and business
interests overlap?  Earlier this week I spent a few hours at the federal
courthouse in downtown  Manhattan  reading through the  hundreds of
letters  sent on Rajat Gupta’s behalf to U.S. District Judge Jed Rakoff. Gupta is the former Goldman Sachs board member and
McKinsey & Co. managing partner who is scheduled  to be sentenced 
for  securities fraud  next week. Prosecutors have said they
believe Gupta should receive about eight to 10 years in prison.  The letters that most interested me were from people with
ties to Berkshire Hathaway, the conglomerate run by  Warren Buffett . One person  who wrote  was Microsoft founder  Bill Gates ,
who is a member of Berkshire’s board of directors.  Another was 
Ajit Jain, Berkshire’s reinsurance chief.  A third  was Manoj Singh, chief operating officer of  Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu .
Deloitte’s U.S. arm, Deloitte & Touche LLP, is Berkshire’s
independent audit firm.  Here’s the rub. Gupta was convicted of illegally tipping
his friend and business partner, hedge-fund manager  Raj Rajaratnam , about Berkshire’s $5 billion investment in Goldman
in September 2008. Rajaratnam, who got an 11-year prison
sentence, used that information to trade illegally in Goldman’s
stock. This is why it seems awkward, and perhaps even
inappropriate, for Gates, Jain and Singh to have written to the
judge seeking leniency for Gupta.  Their letters were of a personal nature. None identified
his business relationship with Berkshire. Nonetheless, it would
have been better for the three of them to have kept their views
to themselves on this occasion.  When Gupta passed along the illicit tip, he wasn’t only
misappropriating information from Goldman. He was stealing from
Berkshire, too. By sending their own personal appeals for
leniency, Gates, Jain and Singh chose a side and put themselves
at odds with those Berkshire stakeholders who disagree with them
-- and surely there are plenty who do.  My own view is this isn’t something a corporate director, a
high-ranking executive or a professional at an ostensibly
independent audit firm should have done. ( Singh  identified
himself in his letter as Deloitte’s chief operating officer.)  One final note: Gupta also was convicted of providing
Rajaratnam with inside information he learned as a board member
at Procter & Gamble, which is another Deloitte audit client.
Ironically, Deloitte’s own former vice chairman, Thomas Flanagan,  pleaded guilty  to  insider trading  in August;  the
government said  he made $420,000 of illegal trading profits
using inside information he obtained about several Deloitte
audit clients. Separately, Flanagan in 2010 settled  a complaint 
by the Securities and Exchange Commission that accused him of
violating auditor-independence rules by trading in shares of
several Deloitte audit clients -- including Berkshire.  Flanagan is scheduled to be sentenced Oct. 26, two days
after Gupta. The docket in Flanagan’s case says the character
reference letters written on his behalf have been sealed.  ( Jonathan Weil  is a Bloomberg View columnist.  Follow  him on
Twitter.)  Read more breaking commentary from Bloomberg View at  the Ticker .
 