-- Travelers Profit Doubles to $864 Million, Beats Estimates
-- B y   N o a h   B u h a y a r
-- 2012-10-18T13:55:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-18/travelers-posts-record-operating-profit-as-storm-costs-decline.html
Travelers Cos. (TRV)  led a rally of
property-casualty insurers after reporting that profit more than
doubled on lower claims costs tied to natural disasters.  Travelers advanced 3.7 percent to $74.05 at 9:45 a.m. in
New York, the biggest gain in the 30-company  Dow Jones
Industrial Average . Operating profit, which excludes some
investment results, was $2.22 a share, beating the $1.60 average
 estimate  of 24 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  The insurer beat estimates on “better-than-expected core
underwriting margins, catastrophe losses, and net investment
income,” said  Meyer Shields , an analyst at Stifel Nicolaus &
Co., in a note to investors today. “Travelers’ low catastrophe
losses likely bode well” for rivals such as Allstate Corp.,
which haven’t yet reported third-quarter results.  Travelers Chief Executive Officer Jay Fishman, 59, has
bought back shares, raised rates for coverage and changed policy
terms to improve shareholder returns as near record-low  interest
rates  pressure income from the investment portfolio. Property-
casualty insurers have benefited from fewer natural disasters
this year after record losses in 2011.  The insurer’s third-quarter net income advanced to $864
million, or $2.21 per share, from $333 million, or 79 cents, a
year earlier, the New York-based company said today in a
statement. Catastrophes cost Travelers $91 million in the
quarter before tax and net of reinsurance, compared with $606
million a year earlier when  Hurricane Irene  struck the U.S.  Allstate, the largest publicly traded U.S. home and auto
insurer, advanced 1.5 percent. Chubb Corp., which competes with
Travelers selling commercial coverage, jumped 2.5 percent. Ace
Ltd. gained 2.3 percent.  Return on Equity  Travelers’ operating return on equity climbed to 15.5
percent from 5.9 percent a year earlier. Fishman has said he’s
targeting a mid-teens return on equity over time even as more
severe weather and low interest rates make that goal less
realistic in the short term.  “We remain committed to continuing to improve
profitability through a strategy of actively, but selectively,
seeking price increases and improved terms and conditions, given
historically low interest rates and uncertain weather
patterns,” Fishman said in the statement.  The insurer said it charged higher rates in all units. At
its commercial accounts, the renewal premium change was a gain
of 9.8 percent. Policy sales were little changed as the company
retained a lower percent of clients than a year earlier in most
of its reporting segments.  Travelers’ book value per share, a measure of assets minus
liabilities, rose to $67.81 from $64.90 at the end of June. The
company repurchased $350 million of stock in the third quarter
and expects to exceed that amount in the fourth quarter, Chief
Financial Officer Jay Benet said on a conference call today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Noah Buhayar in  New York  at 
 nbuhayar@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut in New York at 
 dkraut@bloomberg.net . 