-- RBC Will Miss 2015 Profit Goal for Wealth Unit
-- B y   D o u g   A l e x a n d e r
-- 2012-10-18T21:14:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-18/rbc-will-miss-2015-profit-goal-for-wealth-unit-lewis-says-1-.html
Royal Bank of Canada  will probably
miss its 2015 target of C$2 billion ($2.04 billion) in annual
profit from it wealth-management unit because of low interest
rates, the firm’s head of that business said.  Canada’s biggest bank by assets forecast last year that
profit at the unit would triple its 2010 earnings, with gains
from internal growth, acquisitions and “normalized” interest
rates.  “Between 40 and 50 percent of that is through a normal
level of interest rates, which we’re not seeing and has arguably
been pushed out by at least one or two years,” George Lewis,
group head of wealth management, said in an interview today
after an Economic Club of Canada event in Toronto. “It’s safe
to say that that would apply to the overall goal as well.”  The Bank of  Canada  has kept its overnight interest rate at
1 percent for more than two years, and economists don’t expect
an increase in rates until at least the second half of 2013.  Royal Bank’s  profit  goal is more than double the C$811
million it earned from the business in the year ended Oct. 31,
2011 and triple the C$669 million earned in fiscal 2010,
according to financial statements. The wealth-management unit
represents about 10 percent of total profit for the Toronto-
based lender this year.  Possible Acquisitions  Royal Bank’s “primary source of growth” for its wealth-
management unit will come from within existing operations, Lewis
said, though the lender is looking for small to medium-sized
takeovers of asset managers outside Canada to accelerate growth.
The bank would be looking at  acquisitions  of less than C$1
billion, he said.  Royal Bank reported C$556 million in profit from wealth
management for the first three quarters of 2012, down 12 percent
from a year earlier.  “We continue to do well in our asset-management business
and Canadian wealth business and gain share, our U.S. business
is performing better in terms of raising productivity per
advisers,” Lewis, 52, said. “We’re taking the benefits of that
growth that we’re seeing primarily in Canada and really building
out our operations in  emerging markets  and the U.K., and that is
creating some strain in terms of our existing P&L.”  Royal Bank  rose  1.1 percent to close at C$58.75 in Toronto.
The shares gained 13 percent this year, the best performer among
Canada’s six-biggest banks.  “We have not changed our outlook for the wealth-management
business,” Katherine Gay, a bank spokeswoman, said in an e-
mail. “The only element of the plan that is behind schedule is
the assumption of improving market conditions.”  Royal Bank’s wealth-management unit has more than C$562
billion of assets under administration and more than C$324
billion under management.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Doug Alexander in Toronto at 
 dalexander3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  