-- Three UBS Unauthorized Trading Cases Found, Lawyer Says
-- B y   L i n d s a y   F o r t a d o
-- 2012-10-18T16:20:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-18/three-ubs-unauthorized-trading-cases-found-lawyer-says.html
An independent investigation into a
$2.3 billion trading loss at  UBS AG (UBSN)  found three further
incidents of unauthorized trading at the bank.  Charles Sherrard, a lawyer for Kweku Adoboli, the former
trader accused of causing the loss, said he was told last week
that accounting firm KPMG made the discoveries during an
investigation into control failures at UBS that was ordered by
British and Swiss financial regulators.  Colin Bell, the global head of operational risk control at
the Swiss bank, testified at Adoboli’s London trial today that
he was aware of the other incidents.  Prosecutors have said Adoboli, who is charged with fraud
and false accounting, was responsible for the loss and hid the
risk of his trades by booking fake hedges while he worked at the
bank’s exchange-traded funds desk in  London . Adoboli, 32, has
pleaded not guilty.  The three cases “had nothing to do with the ETF desk” or
Adoboli and “arose prior to and during the investigation,”
Sherrard said. UBS informed the U.K. Financial Services
Authority and the Swiss Finma, he said.  “I would draw a distinction here,” Bell said, adding the
other incidents may not have involved fraud. “There are many
reasons why we would call something unauthorized trading that
may be vastly different to what we’re seeing here.”  Two Dismissals  The cases didn’t involve substantial losses and in two of
the three instances, the employees were fired, he said. In the
other case, the matter was reviewed and the person still works
for the bank, Bell said.  “They caused an element of restating of profit and loss,”
he said, when asked whether there were any losses caused.  The bank and the regulators requested  KPMG  refrain from
looking into the other incidents, Sherrard said.  UBS’s proprietary trading continues, Bell said, though the
bank intends to leave the business entirely. He was responding
to questions about why UBS is still trading for its own account
when it had made statements that was no longer the case.  “To exit a business isn’t something you do from one day to
the next,” Bell said. “Our intent is to exit that business.”  Bell testified earlier in the week that the bank fixed a
loophole in its system that allowed Adoboli to conceal
unauthorized trades by giving them long-term settlement dates.  Counterparty Verification  The bank’s system for flagging extended trades with
settlement periods longer than 14 days -- and calling their
counterparties for verification -- stopped functioning and was
reinstated after Adoboli was arrested last year.  The extended dates on Adoboli’s fictitious trades “would
make them harder to detect at the time,” Bell said Oct. 16.
“We focused on putting that control back in place.”  Bell also testified about the bank’s internal investigation
of the trading loss, and his work with KPMG. Bell said he met
with at least 30 employees from KPMG, and that the accounting
company’s review was on a “totally different scale” than the
bank’s smaller probe. The outside auditor reviewed 2.4 million
documents, conducted 170 interviews and covered a period of
activity beginning in 2008, he said.  Bell was one of four members of an executive committee
handling the bank’s internal probe, dubbed Operation Bronze.
Ruwan Weerasekera, chief operating officer of securities at
UBS’s investment bank and another member of the committee,
testified last week the bank’s probe was limited to the trades
entered into its system by Adoboli, focusing on the period from
June 1, 2011, until the trader’s arrest. It didn’t look at the
actions of others on his desk or their messages with Adoboli.  The review only focused on that period because that was
when the bank lost money, Bell testified today.  “The reality is the nature of this inquiry would never
have happened if he’d turned a profit,” Sherrard said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lindsay Fortado in London at 
 lfortado@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  