-- Three-Fourths of Latino Catholics Back Obama in Pew Poll
-- B y   F r a n k   B a s s
-- 2012-10-18T14:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-18/three-fourths-of-latino-catholics-back-obama-in-pew-poll.html
Hispanic Catholics support President
 Barack Obama  over Republican challenger  Mitt Romney  by a margin
of more than 3 to 1 while about eight in 10 Latinos with no
religious ties back the president, according to a Pew Research
Center poll.  The survey of registered voters, released today, found a
split between Hispanic Catholics and Latinos who are evangelical
Protestants, with just half of the latter group backing Obama
and 39 percent for Romney. Hispanic support for Obama far
exceeds that of non-Hispanic white Catholics, who are evenly
split between the candidates, Pew said.  “Among all Latinos, you’re seeing some very strong support
for the president,” Mark Hugo Lopez, associate director of the
Pew Hispanic Center, said in a telephone interview.  Of the nation’s 51.9 million Hispanics, 23.7 million --
about 11 percent of the electorate -- are eligible to vote.
Catholics make up 57 percent of Hispanic voters, the survey
said. Registered Latino voters who are Catholic favored Obama
over Romney, 73 percent to 19 percent, according to the survey.  The Washington-based nonprofit research organization also
found that 71 percent of Hispanics who are Catholic are
Democrats, while 21 percent are Republicans. A Pew poll released
earlier this month found Hispanic registered voters favored
Obama, 69 to 21 percent.  Gay Marriage  The poll shows some changing attitudes among Hispanics on
social issues. More than half now support same-sex marriage, up
from 31 percent as recently as 2006. Fifty-four percent of
Hispanic Catholics said they approve of gay and lesbian
marriage, about the same number as non-Hispanic Catholics.
Forty-eight percent of the general public favors same-sex
marriage, while 44 percent are opposed.  More than 70 percent of religiously unaffiliated Hispanics,
who make up 15 percent of Hispanic voters, said they support gay
and lesbian marriage, about the same percentage as all people
who don’t identify with any church.  Two-thirds of Hispanic evangelical Protestants told Pew
they opposed gay marriage. Seventy-six percent of white, non-
Hispanic evangelicals are against it.  The poll of 1,765 Hispanic adults by the Pew Hispanic
Center and Pew Forum on Religion and Life was conducted from
Sept. 7 through Oct. 4. It has an error margin of plus or minus
3.2 percentage points.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Frank Bass in Washington at 
 fbass1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Mark McQuillan at 
 mmcquillan@bloomberg.net ;
Flynn McRoberts at 
 fmcroberts1@bloomberg.net  