-- Remy First-Half Sales Miss Estimates as Cognac Growth Slows
-- B y   C l e m e n t i n e   F l e t c h e r
-- 2012-10-18T16:15:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-18/remy-sales-miss-estimates-as-cognac-growth-slows-correct-.html
Remy Cointreau SA (RCO) , France’s second-
biggest distiller, fell the most in more than three years in
Paris trading after reporting revenue that missed estimates as
cognac sales growth slowed in the second quarter.  Organic revenue climbed 13 percent in the six months
through September, the Paris-based company said today, missing
the median estimate of nine analysts for an 18 percent increase.
Revenue rose 5.3 percent in the second quarter, having climbed
24 percent in the first three months of the fiscal year. Remy’s
shares plunged 8 percent, the biggest drop  since  March 2009.  “We expect the performance to be regarded as a slight
miss, particularly regarding organic cognac growth,” analysts
at Berenberg Bank in  London  including Philip Morrisey wrote
today in a note. Berenberg had estimated second-quarter organic
revenue growth of 8.2 percent.  First-half sales at Remy’s cognac unit rose 20 percent,
with growth slowing to 8 percent in the second quarter. Demand
for high-priced Remy Martin cognacs in  emerging markets  such as
 Asia  has helped boost Remy’s  share price  more than competitors
 Diageo Plc (DGE)  and Pernod Ricard SA this year. Analysts at UBS AG
and JP Morgan Cazenove had expected second-quarter cognac sales
growth of 18 percent.  Cognac growth in Asia was “principally driven by ultra-
premium qualities,” Remy said.  Remy shares closed down 7 euros at 80.24 euros in Paris.
Pernod Ricard, which sells Martell cognac,  declined  2.4 percent.  Greece Sales  Liqueur and spirits sales edged up 3.5 percent on an
organic basis in the first half, held back by slowing volumes of
the company’s Metaxa liquor, which is mostly sold in  Greece .  Diageo, the maker of Johnnie Walker Scotch whisky,
yesterday reported first-quarter sales growth in Asia that fell
short of analysts’ estimates as some airport sales were booked
in the second quarter. The distiller also saw lackluster demand
for vodka in  South Korea  and India, though there was “continued
good performance” in regions including China.  “Growth rates were satisfactory in the U.S. and Asia,
although Europe lagged behind,” Remy said today. It confirmed
an objective of “significantly improving its earnings.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Clementine Fletcher in London 
 cfletcher5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  