-- Rock ‘n’ Rolling Small Cars Dominated by Ford Focus ST
-- B y   J a s o n   H .   H a r p e r
-- 2012-10-18T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-18/rock-n-rolling-small-cars-dominated-by-ford-focus-st.html
This is the time of the small car.
The car you want to own, the one you’ll brag about. The rock ‘n’
roll small car.  Americans are being offered the best crop of compacts in
recent memory, if not all time. Hot hatchbacks, rear-wheel-drive
hellions, impish convertibles and turbo-charged tykes, all
crying out for very modest dollars.  And they’ve responded by buying: the U.S. saw a 50 percent
increase in small car sales this September.  Not long ago, purchasing a compact or subcompact meant
compromising, giving in or even giving up. For every Volkswagen
GTI with a furious little engine built for fun, we were awash
with tinny toys like the Ford Aspire, Geo Prizm, and  Hyundai (005380) 
Excel.  Now, if you’ve got $22,000 or more and buy a boring car,
it’s your own darn fault.  Hyundai was once a major source of punishingly bad small
cars. Now the South Korean brand gives us zingy hatches like the
Veloster, released last year.  Turbo Engine  The Veloster is entertaining, but the 138-horsepower 1.6-
liter engine didn’t quite get the job done. Now they’ve added a
turbo model with 201 hp and a standard six-speed manual
transmission.  The suggested retail price of the  Veloster  Turbo is
$21,950. As tested, my 2013 model-year car came in just over
$25,000. Gas mileage is 26 city, 38 highway.  Hyundai’s interiors and electronics are good, but the
handling and ride characteristics needed work. The Veloster
Turbo proves those areas are coming along nicely.  With front-wheel-drive and no limited-slip differential,
the hatchback may not be a serious canyon carver, but is very
good at bombing down boulevards. An accessible mix of amenities
and driving entertainment.  In my recent review of the Fiat 500 Abarth ($22,000;
$26,050 as tested), I was clearly taken by the piccolo Italian
chariot. A few weeks ago I had the chance to let it lope around
a racetrack and wondered how it would hold up. (Can you even
imagine taking most small cars on a track?)  Changing Gears  No racecar, it pushes wide on corners and the front end
dives under hard braking. Yet there’s something intensely
likable about the upright seating position, the way you can see
through the windows, and rowing through the gears with the long
stick shift.  Giggle-inducing good times, even on a track. I’m enamored
with this car. (MPG 28 city, 34 highway.)  BMW-owned Mini always has a troop of cadets ready to muster
for those who like their kicks in small packages. Perhaps the
simplest offering is the Cooper S Roadster, a topless version of
the two-door Coupe model.  It’s little more than a soft top, turbocharged engine (a
1.6-liter four-cylinder with 181 hp), two seats and a
sophisticated suspension. That recipe is best when zipping
around back roads like those I drove in early October; leaves
carpeting the asphalt, the top down and heat blasting.  Gas Pedal  The car pivots from its center, and is tuned to steer with
inputs to the gas pedal.  It gets 27 mpg city, 35 highway. Too bad it starts around
$30,000 (and $33,000 as tested), so it is as expensive as many
larger, more complicated cars.  When it comes to happy gifts from the small-car gods, I’m
especially thankful for two 2013 models, the $24,500  Ford Focus 
ST and $26,265 Subaru BRZ.  The Focus comes as both sedan and five-door hatchback, a
cute and likable entry. The ST model is less cute and more
fiery, with Recaro sports seats and a 2.0-liter four-cylinder
engine which makes 252 hp, 270 pound-feet of torque. It has a
specially tuned suspension meant to get it to slip and slide at
will. (Gas mileage is 23, 32.)  Subaru’s BRZ , meanwhile, is a rear-wheel-drive two seater.
Extremely light, it does without turbos to its 2.0-liter four-
cylinder engine (200 hp; 151 lb-ft of torque; 22, 30 mpg).  Developed in conjunction with Toyota, which released its
version as the Scion FR-S, nobody has made a new car like this
since the original Mazda Miata.  Dueling Banjos  A colleague and I took the cars onto a road course to race
against each other, like dueling banjos. After all, both were
created with an eye toward trouble-making on a racetrack. (The
same could be said for me and my buddy.)  I started with the BRZ. On the first big bend, I gave it a
dose of gas and turned the wheel, creating a tire-screaming
drift.  I let off the gas slightly, flicked the wheel, straightened
and made for a straightaway. Glancing into the rear-view mirror,
I found the Ford right on my tail.  Around and around we went. I couldn’t shake the Focus ST,
which was also sliding around the place like we were driving on
oil. I let him pass.  We switched cars. The Ford is front-wheel-drive, but
engineered to turn on a dime. I was soon on the Subaru’s tail. I
was whipsawing the wheel about wildly, playing with my driving
line. Under these conditions, the Ford was quicker than the
Subaru.  Exiting, I pulled off my helmet and my head steamed in the
cool air. Totally rock ‘n’ roll.  (Jason H. Harper writes about autos for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of  Bloomberg News . The opinions expressed are
his own.)  Muse highlights include  Rich Jaroslovsky  on  gadgets  and
 Greg Evans  on  television .  To contact the writer of this column:
Jason H. Harper at  Jason@JasonHharper.com  or follow on
Twitter @JasonHarperSpin.  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in  New York  at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 