-- Romney Rules Attack Shows Impact Varies on Who’s Counting
-- B y   A n d r e w   Z a j a c
-- 2012-10-18T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-18/romney-rules-attack-shows-impact-varies-on-who-s-counting.html
Mitt Romney , who says his business
experience makes him the best candidate to create American jobs,
accused President  Barack Obama  in this week’s debate of leading
an explosion of U.S. rules that stifle the economy.  “The rate of regulations quadrupled under this
president,” Romney, the Republican nominee, said during his
Oct. 16 presidential debate with Obama. “I’ve talked to small
businesses across the country. They say we feel like we’re under
attack from our own government.”  Romney’s broadside was based on a limited-government group's 
study of a self-selected collection of regulations it judged to 
be a burden on business and was challenged by Obama's campaign, 
citing declines in a broader measure of federal rulemaking. 
Without consensus on which rules to study, much less on objective 
ways to gauge their effectiveness, ideology largely drives the 
debate on costs and benefits.  “It’s hard to know what the real impacts of regulation
are,” Susan Dudley, who headed the White House’s regulatory
reviews under Republican President George W. Bush from 2007 to
2009, said in an Oct. 10 interview with Bloomberg Government.  Romney’s campaign said his statement charging Obama with
quadrupling regulations came from a study by the Washington-
based Heritage Foundation comparing Obama’s first three years in
office with the same period under Bush. Obama’s administration,
it said, issued four times as many major rules -- those with
economic impacts of more than $100 million -- over that span.  James Gattuso, a co-author of the study, said it counted
only a subset of major rules that were deemed to constrain the
private sector.  “I think that’s what people think of when they think of
regulation,” Gattuso said.  Who’s Counting?  The Obama campaign dismissed Romney’s claim, citing its own
figures showing that, when all regulations are considered,
Obama’s administration has created fewer rules than Bush.  “The study Romney relies on reflects his constant refusal
to tell the truth,” Adam Fetcher, a campaign spokesman said in
an e-mail statement.  Sparring over how to measure the growth of regulations
shows that there’s no universally accepted way to assess
government rulemaking.  “Unfortunately, each side has its own studies and we have
too little information that provides an anchor,” said  Cary
Coglianese , a law and political science professor at the
University of Pennsylvania, in Philadelphia.“It would be nice
for the country and for the debate we’re having if there were
non-partisan evidence of where we’re at with regulation.”  ‘Weed Whacker’  The government under Obama has issued 1,049 new regulations
through Oct. 16, compared with 1,146 in a similar span during
the Bush administration, according to the Office of Management
and Budget.  Romney has pledged to “take a weed whacker” to government
regulations, notably dismantling two of Obama’s signature
initiatives, the  health care  overhaul and the  Dodd-Frank 
financial regulation law.  Dudley, Bush’s former regulatory chief, said it stands to
reason that regulations can crimp economic expansion because
money spent on rule compliance would be unavailable for other
activity like hiring. Still, she said, proposals to require a
jobs-impact analysis for proposed rules have foundered because
nobody’s figured out how to reliably make such measurements.  “I don’t know how you would do that in an empirically
sound way,” Dudley said.  Employment Projections  While a case can sometimes be made that a specific rule
will cost jobs, projections of broader employment impacts can’t
be done reliably, said Coglianese, who is director of the Penn
Program on Regulation.  “‘‘You cannot say, generally, that regulation is bad for
jobs,’’ he said.  ‘‘No one disputes that poorly-designed regulation has a
negative impact on economic growth and job creation,’’ Andrea Saul, a spokeswoman for Romney, said in an e-mail, responding to
questions about the basis for arguing that regulations hinder
employment growth.  In Romney’s call for less regulation, he has also referred
to a federally-financed study that said the total cost of
regulation to the U.S. economy in 2008 was $1.75 trillion.  The 2010 study, for the Small Business Administration, has
been challenged repeatedly. A review by the nonpartisan
Congressional Research Service said, among other things, that
the report didn’t include the benefits of regulations it
studied, which generally exceeded costs.  The Romney campaign didn’t respond directly to a request
for comment on its use of the disputed figure.  Executive Order  Saul pointed out that Obama on May 10 issued an  executive
order  calling on agencies to weed out unneeded regulations
because they can also impose significant burdens and costs.  The difference is that Obama proposed to selectively weed
out rules, while Romney has advocated a regulatory freeze that
would require offsetting the cost of a new rule by eliminating
one of comparable value, said  Richard Murphy , a law professor at
Texas Tech University, in Lubbock.  ‘‘It’s a matter of a scalpel rather than a sledgehammer,”
said Murphy, who has contributed to the Obama campaign.  Romney’s critique of rulemaking is focused almost
exclusively on costs and doesn’t account for benefits or for the
consequences of weak regulation, such as the failure of the
Deepwater Horizon oil rig, Murphy said. The 2010 accident
resulted in the worst U.S. oil spill and killed 11 workers.  “The failure to regulate also has costs,” Murphy said.  Ronald Cass, dean emeritus of the Boston University School
of Law and president of Cass & Associates, a legal consultancy,
said presidents going back to Jimmy Carter have recognized the
need for weighing costs and benefits of rules.  “There are philosophical differences,” Cass said. “The
Obama administration has been very open to estimates of the
benefits of environmental regulation or financial regulation.
Romney is more skeptical of some of these benefits.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Zajac in Washington at 
 azajac@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  