-- Ross Sees Competition as Sign Insurance Awakening: Muni Credit
-- B y   M a r t i n   Z .   B r a u n   a n d   B r i a n   C h a p p a t t a
-- 2012-10-18T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-18/ross-sees-competition-as-sign-insurance-awakening-muni-credit.html
After more than two years dominating
a shrinking municipal bond-insurance market, Wilbur Ross is
looking forward to some competition.  The 74-year-old billionaire, who owns 10.2 percent of
 Assured Guaranty Ltd. (AGO) , says the arrival of Build America Mutual
Assurance Co. signals the viability of a business that was left
for dead after credit markets collapsed in 2008, devastating the
U.S. financial system and ushering in the worst recession since
the Great Depression.  Last year, 5.2 percent of the $290 billion of muni debt
sold in the U.S. was insured, all by Assured, data compiled by
Bloomberg show. The protection, which localities use to lower
borrowing costs, once covered half the bonds offered by U.S.
states and local governments.  “Being a one-horse industry was a very hard thing,” Ross
said in an interview last month at Bloomberg’s New York
headquarters. “Two sales forces out there promoting the
industry is a very good thing.”  Those sales staffs face a challenge in persuading
municipalities that were burned by bond insurance why they need
the product when they’ve grown accustomed to borrowing without
it. The job has been made tougher by the  Federal Reserve ’s
policy of keeping its benchmark interest rate near zero through
at least mid-2015. Municipalities are borrowing at the lowest
rates in a  generation  even without insurance.  Issuer’s Savings  Yields on 10-year  general-obligation bonds  rated BBB, the
second-lowest investment grade from  Standard & Poor’s , set a
record low of 3.01 percent this month, data compiled by
Bloomberg show. The bonds’  extra yield  over AAAs fell to 1.1
percentage points on Aug. 28, the smallest since 2008.  Lower-rated issuers can reduce their interest costs through
insurance, which gives their borrowing the same  credit rating  as
the insurer. The muni insurance arm of Assured is rated AA- by
S&P and Aa3 by Moody’s Investors Service, the fourth-highest 
grades from both.  Protection from Assured Guaranty Municipal Corp., which is
based in New York, saves issuers 0.10 percentage point to 0.25
percentage point in interest cost compared with uninsured bonds,
according to an August report from  William Clark , a Hartford,
Connecticut-based analyst at Keefe, Bruyette & Woods Inc. The
average premium issuers paid in 2011 was 0.65 percentage point
of total debt service, up from 0.37 point in 2006, according to
KBW.  “One of the critical components of our contract, which is
saving you financing costs, has been kind of taken away by how
the Fed has been managing monetary policy,” Assured Guaranty
Chief Executive Officer Dominic Frederico said at a conference
sponsored by KBW last month.  Insurer’s Risk  Bankruptcies in the past year by Jefferson County,  Alabama ,
and Stockton,  California , along with defaults by cities such as
Harrisburg,  Pennsylvania , underscore the risk of insuring local
bonds.  Assured guarantees a combined $1 billion of Jefferson
County, Stockton and Harrisburg bonds, with 70 percent of the
total coming from Jefferson County, according to KBW. Assured
estimates losses in the Alabama county at $50 million. The
insurer has $313 million in reserves related to its public-
finance risks and $13 billion in claims-paying resources,
according to KBW.  About $6.3 billion of the nearly $450 billion of public-
finance obligations Assured has insured is rated below
investment grade, according to KBW.  Industry Survivor  During the financial crisis, companies including  MBIA Inc. (MBI) 
and Ambac Assurance Corp. were stripped of their top credit
ratings because of losses on guarantees of subprime-mortgage-
backed debt. Municipalities that had bond insurance from the
companies saw  interest rates  on their floating-rate debt
skyrocket. Investors holding insured securities suffered as
prices fell.  Assured managed to survive, in part as it mostly avoided
the losses that felled its competitors. Assured’s stock has
returned about 12.3 percent this year, including dividends,
while the Russell 1000 Financial Services index has earned 25.6
percent.  “What happened to the insurance companies scared the
bejesus out of everybody,” said Matt Dalton, who oversees $1.2
billion of munis as chief executive officer of Belle Haven
Investments Inc. in  White Plains , New York.  First Deal  “Adding competition in this interest-rate environment with
an investor base that has lost belief in insurance for the most
part isn’t good,” he said.  Build America Mutual, or BAM, based in New York, insured
its first deal last month, a $10 million sale by Pennsylvania’s
York Suburban School District. It became the first new company
to guarantee munis since  Warren Buffett ’s Berkshire Hathaway
Assurance Corp. entered the market in 2007. Berkshire has
stopped writing policies.  BAM, which has $500 million in claims-paying resources, is
rated AA by S&P, one level above Assured.  “Within a calendar year of our opening, if we insured 3
percent of the market we could consider that successful,” BAM
Chairman Robert Cochran said on Oct. 11 at a conference in
 Chicago . “We’ll see where market demand takes us.”  S&P estimated in a July 23 report that BAM may insure $12
billion of bonds in its first year.  Shrinking Target  While BAM may take market share from Assured, its entrance
into the business could restore legitimacy to bond insurance and
help expand the industry, said Clark at KBW.  “Having 100 percent of market share of a market that keeps
shrinking is probably not the best thing in the world,” Clark
said in a telephone interview. He has a 12-month price target of
$16, compared with $14.47 at 4:15 p.m.  New York  time yesterday.  Analysts such as David Veno at S&P in New York predict that
insured bonds may eventually rebound to account for more new
issuance. There are enough smaller, infrequent borrowers to
support Assured and BAM and restore insurance to as much as 30
percent of sales, he wrote in a July 23 report.  The different underwriting strategies of Assured and Build
America “support the notion that total insured new-issue paper
may increase,” he wrote.  As a mutual insurer, issuers who buy policies, not
stockholders, will own BAM. The company will focus on general-
obligation debt and so-called essential service bonds backed by
specific revenue sources such as tolls.  Mutually Owned  BAM’s mutual structure allows its cash to grow as each new
policyholder contributes, reducing the need for external
capital.  However, as a startup, BAM may lose money initially and
have less appeal to issuers and investors because it’s not an
established player, Clark wrote in an August report when he
started covering Assured’s stock.  On the downside for Assured, Moody’s has its financial
strength rating on negative watch because it views new business
opportunities as limited.  Clark, who predicts Moody’s will lower Assured’s rating,
said a reduction won’t affect its business.  “People who are still using bond insurance now are going
to be OK with a AA- stable rating from S&P, which is only one
level below BAM’s rating and isn’t a significant disadvantage,”
he said.  In the $3.7 trillion muni market yesterday, benchmark 10-
year tax-exempts  yielded  1.66 percent, compared with about 1.82
percent for similar-maturity Treasuries, data compiled by
Bloomberg show.  Treasuries prices fell following a jump in new-home
construction. That left the interest rate on 10-year local debt
at about 91 percent of the federal yield, the lowest since
February. Investors look at the  ratio  to gauge relative value
between the two asset classes. The lower it is, the more
expensive munis are compared with Treasuries.  Following is a pending sale:  CALIFORNIA plans to sell about $550 million in general-
obligation refunding bonds as soon as Oct. 23, according to the
state treasurer’s website. The debt will be sold via auction.
(Added Oct. 15)  To contact the reporters on this story:
Martin Z. Braun in New York at 
 mbraun6@bloomberg.net ;
Brian Chappatta in New York at 
 bchappatta1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  