-- SABMiller Misses Estimates in Growth Markets as Europe Gains
-- B y   C l e m e n t i n e   F l e t c h e r
-- 2012-10-18T08:55:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-18/sabmiller-revenue-gains-as-europeans-buy-more-economy-lager.html
SABMiller Plc (SAB) , the world’s second-
biggest brewer, reported sales in the growth markets of  Latin
America  and  Africa  that missed analysts’ estimates, taking the
shine off an improved performance in  Europe .  Organic lager volume rose 4 percent in the six months
through Sept. 30, the London-based company said today in a
 statement . That compared with the median estimate of 10 analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg for a 4.4 percent increase. Growth slowed
from a 5 percent increase in the first quarter.  Gains of 4 percent in Latin America and 6 percent in Africa
were below median estimates of 5.5 percent and 8.5 percent,
respectively. In Europe, volume increased 9 percent, outpacing
the 6 percent estimate, as price cuts and demand for economy
brews fueled demand among cash-strapped consumers.  “All key growth  emerging-markets  were below
expectations,” said  Pablo Zuanic , an analyst at  Liberum Capital 
in London. “Given the Europe growth is coming from promotions
and growth in the value segment, we would say the second-quarter
miss is of significance,” he wrote in a note.  Latin America is the largest region for sales and
profitability at SABMiller, which is among brewers seeking to
expand in emerging markets as economies slow elsewhere. Sales in
the region were held back by a more “modest pace” of economic
growth in the second quarter and weaker consumer sentiment, the
company said. In the African unit, which excludes  South Africa ,
a tax increase in Tanzania restrained growth, it said.  Shares Drop  SABMiller  fell  as much as 1.5 percent to 2.613.5 pence in
 London  trading, the lowest intraday price since July 5. The
stock was down 0.6 percent at 2,640 pence as of 9:37 a.m.  Sales to retailers at MillerCoors LLC, the company’s U.S.
joint venture with Molson Coors Brewing Co., slid 1.9 percent as
cheaper beer varieties and its Miller Lite brand declined.  SABMiller, which bought Foster’s Group Ltd. last year for
about A$10.5 billion ($10.9 billion) to take control of about
half the Australian beer market, said volume slid 13 percent in
the country. The figure included the impact of the loss of two
business days and the termination of some licensed brand sales.  Excluding Foster’s, Asian volume rose 5 percent, the
company said, missing the 7 percent estimated by analysts.  South Africa  SABMiller may see “some negative sentiment on the back of
a continuing weak performance from Foster’s,” Phil Carroll, an
analyst at Shore Capital in London, wrote today, cutting his
recommendation on the stock to hold from buy.  South African lager volume rose 1 percent, meeting
estimates. The company, which competes with Diageo Plc and
Heineken NV in the country, continued to gain market share, it
said, aided by its Castle Lite brand.  Group revenue grew 8 percent in the first half, excluding
the effects of currency fluctuations and acquisitions.  “Overall, financial performance for the half year was in
line with our expectations,” SABMiller said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Clementine Fletcher in London 
 cfletcher5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at   cperri@bloomberg.net  