-- Same-Day Shopping Lures FedEx as Premium Business Wanes
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S t i l w e l l
-- 2012-10-18T20:35:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-18/same-day-shopping-lures-fedex-as-premium-business-wanes.html
United Parcel Service Inc. (UPS)  and  FedEx
Corp. (FDX)  are testing strategies for a same-day delivery market
fueled by Web retailers trying to match the instant
gratification their brick-and-mortar competitors offer shoppers.  Delivery programs under way at Internet retailers such as
 Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN)  and  Ebay Inc. (EBAY)  signal an opportunity in business-
to-consumer shipments for delivery firms where the high-value
overnight market between companies has been hurt by a slower
economy. It’s a space that larger companies have mostly ignored
since the collapse of Kozmo.com Inc., which was partially backed
by Amazon, in 2001.  Potential industrywide revenue from intra-city delivery of
small packages in the U.S. may be as much as $12 billion, triple
its size in 2007, FedEx said. While that trails the air-cargo
carrier’s  Express revenue  of $26.5 billion last year, it has the
potential to grow into  a “huge boon” for FedEx and UPS, said
Donald Broughton of Avondale Partners.  “Amazon cannot offer me the ability to try it on,” said
Broughton, who’s based in  St. Louis . “They can’t offer me the
ability to hold it in my hands, but we’re not that far away from
them being able to say, ‘Click on it for noon delivery.’”  Traditional retailers are already adapting, offering same-
day service through their websites to fend off e-commerce
rivals.  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT)  enlisted UPS for a holiday pilot
program that charges customers a flat fee to deliver popular
items such as toys, electronics and sporting goods.  Conducted in four markets, the service costs $10 for buyers
in northern  Virginia , Philadelphia and  Minneapolis  and $5 to $10
for customers in the San Jose/ San Francisco  area, Wal-Mart said.  Customer Payment  The pilot program and UPS’s investment in  Shutl , a London-
based firm that connects brick-and-mortar stores with couriers,
are helping the biggest package-delivery company evaluate same-
day demand and determine how it can best compete. Competitor
FedEx entered the market with its SameDay City service,
available in 20 municipalities from Phoenix to  Los Angeles  and
 New York .  “What we’re trying to do is understand the take-rate of
what customers are willing to pay for instant delivery,” said
Jerry Del Gaudio, Atlanta-based UPS’s vice president of
strategy.  The arrival of large retailers in a market traditionally
populated by business-to-business shippers such as health-care
customers and lawyers “completely changes the size of
opportunity,” said Manish Kapoor, the managing director for
SameDay City, a part of FedEx Office.  Winning Share  The service’s list price for standard deliveries traveling
less than 5 miles (8 kilometers) is as low as $13, down from the
$25 fee that initial market research had suggested, Kapoor said.
By mid-November all FedEx Office drivers will be trained for the
same-day program.  FedEx and UPS stand to take market share from the smaller
couriers that retailers such as Amazon often turn to for
services such as same-day and overnight delivery, said  Colin Gillis , an analyst at BGC Partners LP in New York who has used
Amazon’s same-day delivery service.  “If I’ve been given that offer for same-day, I’d still
take UPS overnight, because it’s more traceable,” said Gillis,
who has a hold rating on Seattle-based Amazon. “Those
companies, because of their scale and scope, have some
advantages over the smaller ones.”  That’s a potential bright spot for both FedEx and UPS,
which have  each trailed  a 16 percent gain in the Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index this year as they grapple with the shift toward
slower, cheaper express services by their business customers.
 Memphis , Tennessee-based FedEx has climbed 12 percent, while UPS
gained less than 1 percent.  ‘Extreme Lengths’  There are obstacles, including the possibility that same-
day delivery demand may be tempered by shoppers’ willingness to
pay for it.  “Customers will go to extreme lengths to inconvenience
themselves to save a few dollars,”  Sucharita Mulpuru , an
analyst at  Forrester Research Inc. (FORR) , said in an e-mail.
“Retailers would be engaging in a race to the bottom if they
ever gave something like this away for free.”  It’s happened before. Kozmo and rival dot-com venture
Urbanfetch, which aimed to deliver goods ordered online within
hours, both found the business unfeasible.  Urbanfetch closed its consumer arm in 2000 after failed
merger talks with Kozmo. And Kozmo, known for its orange-suited
delivery staff, shuttered its operations a year later.  Flexibility Edge  Another challenge to FedEx and UPS is the edge that
regional couriers have in flexibility. That makes them a better
choice for same-day delivery, said Josh Dinneen, vice president
of supply chain at LaserShip Inc., based in Vienna, Virginia.  The regional courier has 22 locations on the East Coast and
counts Amazon and  Barnes & Noble Inc. (BKS)  among its same-day service
clients.  UPS and FedEx “have a service platform,” Dinneen said.
“It’s very good, but it’s very rigid, they’re not nimble. We’re
designing customized solutions that fit into these big-box
retailers’ supply chains that makes it efficient for them and
gives them the flexibility to provide this type of service.”  FedEx is banking on its brand recognition and service
capabilities to help attract same-day customers who might
otherwise use a regional courier, Kapoor said.  Brand Recognition  “It matters who shows up at the door to make a delivery,”
he said. “Customers do value the convenience, peace of mind and
reliability. At the end of the day, they are willing to pay for
that.”  The U.S. Postal Service is stepping into the market with a
pilot program in San Francisco. The agency is in talks with
retailers and anticipates working with as many as 10 companies
during the  trial , which starts in mid-November.  The post office, UPS and FedEx all see indications that the
allure of instant gratification will outweigh the costs for
shoppers.  “Customers are quickly moving toward buying more online,
and most want to see what they bought right away,” FedEx’s
Kapoor said. “The demand for that is building up. The good
thing is we’re ready for it.”  In 2011, Amazon spent almost $4 billion on shipping, more
than double what it spent in 2009. The company was able to make
up more than a third of that with shipping revenue.  The company has begun acquiescing to states’ demands it
collect  sales tax  in exchange for the ability to place
warehouses closer to consumers. The shift has fed industry
speculation Amazon is planning to roll out same-day delivery
already available in 10 cities on a wider basis, heightening
competition with brick-and-mortar stores.  Amazon Offering  Amazon, which invested in the failed Kozmo and other dot-
com ventures, has dismissed such talk. It offers the service in
limited areas including  Boston , New York and  Chicago .  “We don’t really see a way to do same-day delivery on a
broad scale economically,” Chief Financial Officer Thomas Szkutak said on a July earnings call. “We’ll continue to work
on behalf of customers to try to figure out a way to serve them
even faster.”  Retailers facing fiercer rivalry with Amazon might get an
edge from Shutl, which will make its U.S. debut in New York and
San Francisco early next year, said Tom Allason, the service’s
chief executive officer.  Currently limited to cities in the U.K., Shutl lets
shoppers order delivery online, by telephone or in person 24
hours a day. Delivery is typically less than $10 or often free,
depending on the retailer, and Shutl makes a profit on every
delivery, Allason said. The company won a  $2 million  investment
in August from backers including UPS.  “The fact that Amazon is doing that is wonderful for us
because it sets the expectation among consumers and retailers,”
Allason said. “And expectations only move in one direction.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Stilwell in New York at 
 vstilwell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  