-- Sandusky Probe Review Sought by Pennsylvania Democrats
-- B y   R o m y   V a r g h e s e
-- 2012-10-18T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-18/sandusky-probe-review-sought-by-pennsylvania-democrats.html
Pennsylvania  Democratic leaders
sought a U.S. Justice Department review of the state’s handling
of child sex-abuse accusations against Jerry Sandusky, a former
Pennsylvania State University football coach.  Representatives Frank Dermody of Oakmont, the Democratic
leader in the House, and Mike Hanna of Lock Haven, a party floor
leader known as the whip, asked for the appointment of a special
counsel to examine how the Sandusky investigation was conducted
and whether he violated any federal laws, in a letter dated
yesterday and addressed to U.S. Attorney General Eric Holder.  The probe of the former coach, who was sentenced Oct. 10,
began under Tom Corbett, the state’s Republican attorney general
at the time. Now governor, Corbett was then in the middle of his
successful campaign for the state’s top job. The Democrats
questioned why it took 33 months to charge Sandusky when the
allegations dated to 1988 and spanned 15 years.  “This case is crying out for an independent eye,” Dermody
and Hanna said in the  letter . “As long as there is a cloud of
suspicion hanging over this tragedy, the people of Pennsylvania
will never be able to bring this dark chapter of our history to
a close.”  Kevin Harley, a spokesman for Corbett, called the move
“politics at its most cynical.”  “This is another attempt by House Democrats to take
political advantage of the victims of Jerry Sandusky,” Harley
said yesterday.  Responding to previous criticism, Corbett has said it takes
time to build a case. Republicans, who control the state House
of Representatives, earlier this week blocked a bid by Democrats
for a floor debate on requesting a federal review.  Sandusky, 68, was convicted in June on 45 criminal counts
tied to abusing boys and this month was sentenced to 30 to 60
years in prison. He left the Penn State football team in 1999.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Romy Varghese in Philadelphia at 
 rvarghese8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  