-- Sandusky Asks Judge to Reconsider Child Sex-Abuse Sentence
-- B y   S o p h i a   P e a r s o n   a n d   J e f   F e e l e y
-- 2012-10-18T21:50:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-18/sandusky-asks-judge-to-reconsider-sentence-for-child-sex-abuse.html
Jerry Sandusky, the former assistant
football coach at  Pennsylvania State University , asked the judge
who sentenced him to 30 to 60 years in prison for child sexual
abuse to reconsider the punishment.  Sandusky, 68, contends the prison term imposed on him Oct.
9 by Judge John Cleland in state court in Bellefonte,
Pennsylvania, is too harsh and violates his constitutional
rights. Sandusky was found guilty by a jury of abusing 10 boys
over a 15-year period. He was convicted on 45 counts.  “The defendant submits the court’s sentence was excessive
and tantamount, as the court stated at the defendant’s
sentencing, to a life sentence,” Sandusky’s lawyers said in a
court filing today.  Sandusky met the boys he abused through the Second Mile, a
charity he founded for needy children. During a two-week trial
in June, prosecutors portrayed him as a serial child molester
who used the charity to recruit his victims, befriending them
and “grooming” them with gifts, trips to Penn State football
games and money.  Sandusky played and coached under  Joe Paterno , Penn State’s
head football coach, for more than 30 years before retiring in
1999. Paterno, who died in January, and former university
President  Graham Spanier  were fired amid criticism they didn’t
do enough to stop Sandusky’s alleged abuse.  Sandusky will serve at least three decades before he’s
considered for parole, lead prosecutor Joseph McGettigan said
after the sentence was imposed.  Nils Frederiksen, a spokesman for Pennsylvania Attorney
General Linda Kelly, said in a phone interview that prosecutors
are reviewing the filing by Sandusky’s lawyers.  Sandusky’s lawyers also asked Cleland to grant the former
coach a new trial, arguing that prosecutors failed to produce
enough evidence to buttress claims that he abused the youths.  The case is Commonwealth of Pennsylvania v. Sandusky,
CP-14-2422-CR-2011, Court of Common Pleas, Centre County,
Pennsylvania (Bellefonte).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sophia Pearson in  Pennsylvania  state court in Bellefonte
at   spearson3@bloomberg.net ; Jef Feeley in
Wilmington, Delaware   jfeeley@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  