-- SBI Buys Sovereign as Yield Spread at 5-Month Low: India Credit
-- B y   V .   R a m a k r i s h n a n
-- 2012-10-18T05:29:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-18/sbi-buys-sovereign-as-yield-spread-at-5-month-low-india-credit.html
A rally in India’s corporate bonds
that pushed their yield premium over sovereign debt to a five-
month low is losing steam, according to SBI Funds Management
Pvt., prompting it to favor government debt.  The  extra yield  on AAA securities issued by companies over
sovereign notes has dropped 69 basis points from a three-year
high on July 26 to 83 basis points, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. Comparable spreads were at 147 basis points in
 China  and 28 in South Korea. Bond sales by local companies
surged to a record in 2012 as funding costs for top-rated
issuers slumped to the lowest level since January 2011.  “Government bonds offer much better value as corporate
notes have rallied quite a bit in the past two months,” Rajeev Radhakrishnan, who helps manage the equivalent of $9.8 billion
in local assets at the unit of the nation’s largest bank, said
in an Oct. 15 interview. “We have been increasing our exposure
to government bonds as the curve offers a lot of opportunity
given the positive monetary policy outlook and fiscal
consolidation efforts.”  A burst of policy changes by Prime Minister Manmohan Singh
in the past month to curb the budget deficit and counter a
slowing  economy  have increased prospects of interest rate cuts
in coming months, making sovereign notes attractive, according
to Reliance Capital Asset Management Ltd. and Quantum Asset
Management Co. Radhakrishnan predicts the central bank will buy
as much as 820 billion rupees ($15.5 billion) of bonds in the
next six months as the government sells a record amount of debt.  Repurchase Rate  Reserve Bank of  India  Governor Duvvuri Subbarao has kept
the benchmark  repurchase rate  unchanged at the last three policy
meetings to curb the fastest  inflation  among the biggest
emerging economies, and focused on measures to boost lending.
The rate at which the monetary authority lends to banks was last
cut in April, when it was lowered to 8 percent from 8.5 percent.  The central bank has reduced the  proportion  of deposits
lenders must set aside as reserves this year to an eight-year
low 4.5 percent from 6 percent at the end of 2011, and more than
tripled export-credit refinancing to help revive growth. The RBI
next reviews policy on Oct. 30.  Gross domestic product will increase 4.9 percent in 2012,
the least in a decade, the  International Monetary Fund  said Oct.
9, as it called for interest rates to be kept unchanged until
price increases cool.  Quarterly growth  slowed to an average of
5.4 percent in the first half of 2012, from 8.6 percent in the
first six months of 2011, according to the most recent
government data.  Bond Yields  The  yield  on the five-year bonds of state-owned companies
has dropped 70 basis points from this year’s peak of 9.66
percent on July 26, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The
rate on similar-maturity government notes climbed 8 basis points
to 8.12 percent in the same period, the data show.  Citigroup Inc. and SBI Funds predict the RBI will cut the
repurchase rate by at least 50 basis points by March, while BNP
Paribas SA expects a 25 basis point cut. A half percentage-point
reduction will push 10-year bond yields lower by 40 basis points
to 7.75 percent, said Radhakrishnan of SBI Funds, a unit of
government-controlled  State Bank of India. (SBIN)   The  yield  on the 10-year benchmark notes dropped 41 basis
points to 8.15 percent in 2012 as growth slumped. The debt
offers an  extra  634 basis points over similar-maturity U.S.
Treasuries, versus a 169 basis-point  premium  on Chinese bonds.  Inflation in India has averaged 7.5 percent so far in 2012,
compared with 5.3 percent in  Brazil , 2.8 percent in China and
4.6 percent in  Russia .  Growth Push  Singh and Finance Minister Palaniappan Chidambaram began
pushing pro-growth policies in mid-September, ending two years
of policy gridlock. They have slashed energy subsidies, reduced
taxes on overseas borrowing by companies and allowed foreign
investors 51 percent ownership of retail outlets and to hold
minority stakes in local airlines.  The measures came after Standard & Poor’s and Fitch Ratings
lowered their outlook for India’s investment-grade ratings.  S&P reduced India’s credit outlook to negative from stable
on April 25, saying the move reflects a one-in-three likelihood
of a ratings downgrade to junk status because of slower
investment and economic growth. Fitch cut its outlook on June
18, citing limited progress in paring the budget deficit. Both
companies rank India’s debt BBB-, the lowest investment grade.  “There is little possibility of fiscal profligacy given
the threat of a ratings downgrade,” Radhakrishnan said.  Budget Deficit  India’s budget  deficit  is the widest among major emerging
economies as slower growth hurts tax receipts and subsidies fan
spending, imperiling the government’s goal of narrowing the gap
to 5.1 percent of GDP in the fiscal year through March 2013,
from 5.8 percent the previous 12 months.  The shortfall may be about 5.2 percent to 5.3 percent this
fiscal year, Economic Affairs Secretary Arvind Mayaram said in
an Oct. 14 interview.  India’s rupee has surged 4.5 percent since Sept. 13, when
the policy revamp commenced with an increase in diesel prices.
The currency weakened 0.3 percent to 53.0550 per dollar today,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Bond risk has declined. Credit-default swaps on State Bank,
which some investors consider a proxy for the sovereign, fell
145 basis points in 2012 to 250 in New York, according to data
provider CMA. The contracts pay the buyer face value in exchange
for the underlying securities or the cash equivalent should a
borrower fail to adhere to debt agreements.  Borrowing Plan  The finance ministry said Sept. 27 it will stick to its
plan to borrow 5.69 trillion rupees this fiscal year. Rupee-
denominated debt returned 8.1 percent this year, the second-best
performance among the 10 Asian markets monitored by HSBC
Holdings Plc. Indonesian bonds returned 8.3 percent.  The RBI may buy between 750 billion rupees and 1 trillion
rupees of government bonds by March 31, said Amitabh Mohanty,
who oversees $16.8 billion of assets as the head of fixed income
at Reliance Capital Asset Management Ltd. in Mumbai. He predicts
the central bank will cut its benchmark rate and lenders’
reserve requirement 25 basis points each on Oct. 30, sending 10-
year yields toward 8 percent by early November.  “We believe enough conditions have been created by the
government for the RBI to cut rates this month,” Mumbai-based
Mohanty said in an Oct. 15 interview. “The government has been
proactive in trying to ensure the fiscal deficit slippage isn’t
huge, and there is more value in 10-year sovereign bonds.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
V. Ramakrishnan in Mumbai at 
 rvenkatarama@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net  