-- Schizophrenia, Strawberries Art for Sao Paulo Biennial
-- B y   F a b i o l a   M o u r a
-- 2012-10-18T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-18/schizophrenia-strawberries-art-for-sao-paulo-biennial.html
The  30th Sao Paulo Bienal  sprawls
from the main exhibition space at the Ciccillo Matarazzo
Pavilion in Ibirapuera Park to six other smaller sites that
include an old chapel and the Museum of Art of Sao Paulo.  Vastness is appropriate for the most populous city in the
Americas and the world’s second-oldest art fair, after the
Venice Biennale. More than two dozen galleries prepared
independent exhibition areas apart from the 111 artists featured
in the biennnial. The festival curators had in mind a structure
like a constellation.  One of the stars is Arthur Bispo do Rosario (1909-1989), a
schizophrenia patient discovered in a Brazilian mental hospital
who turned institutional objects into visual art.  The area devoted to him contains a significant collection
of his extensive, obsessive work. In Bispo do Rosario’s efforts
to recreate the world around him, he used pieces of embroidery,
miniatures and reproductions in wood wrapped with the threads of
patients’ unraveled uniforms. They compose a dreamlike universe.  For Leandro Tartaglia’s “Journey Through  Sao Paulo ,” the
viewer boards a van and dons headphones to listen to the
Argentine artist’s “moving theater piece in two acts.” Each
part takes about 20 minutes, the time that the van spends
transporting the viewer from the pavilion to the Morumbi chapel.
The journey serves as a thread connecting far-flung venues.  Micah Silver and Robert The, co-founders of the  Maryanne
Amacher Archive , used recordings and visual components to
convert the 1825 chapel into a sound installation, in the manner
of the late U.S. artist Amacher, a pioneer in this work.  Many Montages  The exhibitions include lots of compilations or montages of
words, objects and images that aim to be poetry, in line with
the biennial’s challenging theme, “The Imminence of Poetics.”  In Hans-Peter Feldmann’s “A Pound of Strawberry,”
individual photos of strawberries taken out of a box are pinned
one by one on the wall. The piece gives us an idea of
singularity in an era of mass consumption. He has done similar
assemblies with photos of women’s legs and mouths.  Eduardo Gil ’s “Dictator’s Newsreel or Bruise” turns
history’s cruelest moments into a colorful, dynamic panel.
Newspaper images of political victims were printed on 270 color
rectangles -- in a spectrum that ranges across the hues of
bruises. Each piece is attached to a motor-driven axle that
keeps it slowly spinning like a propeller.  President Picture  The work sparked debate in  Brazil  by including Joao
Goulart, the country’s former left-wing president, who was
deposed by the military in 1964, giving way to the dictatorship
that lasted 20 years.  The 2012 biennial has an educational program that was
developed by a group of teachers, social workers, journalists
and private citizens. Bloomberg LP, the parent of  Bloomberg
News , is one of its sponsors.  When I visited, about a dozen groups of kids of different
ages were interacting with and discussing the works, assisted by
teachers and guides.  The Sao Paulo Bienal runs through Dec. 9.  Muse highlights include  Jason Harper  on cars,  Rich
Jaroslovsky  on technology.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fabiola Moura in Sao Paulo at 
 fdemoura@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in  New York  at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net  