-- Schoolgirl Becomes Youngest Winner at U.K. Food Awards
-- B y   R i c h a r d   V i n e s
-- 2012-10-18T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-18/schoolgirl-becomes-youngest-winner-at-u-k-food-awards.html
Martha Payne, a nine-year-old who
gained international attention through a blog that highlighted
the poor quality of her school meals, last night became the
youngest-ever winner of an Observer Food Monthly award.  The Scottish girl became an Internet star when her local
council tried to stop her posting photographs of the food she
was served. The council backed down and she went on to document
the daily meals of children around the world and raised enough
money to feed 10,000 children in Malawi.  She describes her blog  http://neverseconds.blogspot.co.uk/ 
as being, “One primary school pupil’s daily dose of school
dinners.”  “She demonstrated there is more to food-blogging than
moaning about Michelin stars or drooling over the latest hip
burger joint,” Allan Jenkins, editor of Observer Food Monthly,
said in an e-mailed release about her best U.K. food blog award.  Payne, who has been feted by chef Jamie Oliver, returned
this week from a  trip to Malawi , where she visited schools. On
her blog, she says: “My dad says I should call myself Veritas
Ex Gustu, truth from tasting in Latin but who knows Latin? You
can call me Veg.” She attended the awards with her father,
David.  Other winners in the annual awards, presented at Victoria
House,  London , included: Restaurateur Terence Conran for
lifetime achievement; chef Raymond Blanc for outstanding
contribution; Adam Smith of the Ritz for young chef; Young Turks
collective for best newcomer; and Tayyabs for best cheap eats.  “The winners of the 2012 OFM Awards represent the spectrum
of food that this country currently has to offer, from the East
End Pakistani grill house Tayyabs to Terence Conran, the most
influential restaurateur ever in the U.K.,” judge and chef
Angela Hartnett said in the release.  Observer Food Monthly is distributed free with the Observer
newspaper.  Last night’s winners included:  (Richard Vines is the chief food critic for Muse, the arts
and leisure section of Bloomberg News. He is U.K. and Ireland
chairman of the World’s 50 Best Restaurants awards. Opinions
expressed are his own.)  Muse highlights include  Lewis Lapham  on history and  Zinta
Lundborg’s   New York  weekend.  To contact the writer on the story:
Richard Vines in London at 
 rvines@bloomberg.net  or  http://twitter.com/Richardvines .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 