-- Singapore Exchange First-Quarter Profit Falls 15 Percent
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   B u r g o s
-- 2012-10-18T12:04:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-18/singapore-exchange-first-quarter-profit-falls-15-percent.html
Singapore Exchange Ltd. (SGX) , operator of
Southeast  Asia ’s biggest stock market, said first-quarter profit
dropped 15 percent as stock and derivatives trading volumes
fell.  Net income was S$74.3 million ($61 million) in the three
months ended Sept. 30, from S$87.5 million a year ago, the
company said in a statement today. That compares with the S$75
million average of six analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg.
Operating revenue declined 10 percent to S$160.5 million.  “Securities and derivatives volumes have held up well
relative to other markets,” Chief Executive Officer  Magnus Bocker  said in the statement. “Open interest for derivatives
contracts achieved a record high in September, reflecting SGX’s
stature as a clearing house of choice in Asia. We are also
pleased to see increased capital raising activities this
quarter.”  The average value of equities traded daily slipped 15
percent to S$1.36 billion in the July-to-September quarter from
a year earlier, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. While
average daily derivatives trading volume dropped 4.8 percent to
306,811 from a year earlier, open interest climbed to a record
high of 2.3 million contracts on Sept. 26, SGX said.  Companies raised about $1.7 billion from initial public
offerings in Singapore in the three months through Sept. 30,
compared with $125 million in the same period last year. IHH
Healthcare Bhd. and Far East Hospitality Trust were among this
year’s biggest IPOs.  Lost IPOs  While SGX has been trying to woo international companies to
list on the city’s bourse, it lost IPOs such as Manchester
United Ltd., the English soccer team with a record 19 national
league championships, which listed in the U.S. Formula One’s
stock sale in the city, where it hosts the sport’s first night
race, has been put on hold.  “The numbers are basically in line with expectations,”
said Leng Seng Choon, the co-head of research at DMG & Partners
Research Pte in  Singapore . “There’s some improvement from
the mergers and acquisition activities in the recent quarter,
that did help the average daily turnover.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Burgos in Singapore at 
 jburgos4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  