-- SK Hynix Seeks New Trial in Rambus Chip Patent Case
-- B y   J o e l   R o s e n b l a t t   a n d   K a r e n   G u l l o
-- 2012-10-18T23:01:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-18/sk-hynix-seeks-new-trial-in-rambus-chip-patent-case.html
SK Hynix Inc. (000660)  is seeking a new trial
in the memory-chip technology patent-infringement case that
 Rambus Inc. (RMBS)  won in  California  six years ago.  SK Hynix today asked U.S. District Judge Ronald M. Whyte in
 San Jose , California, in a filing to consider new evidence that
it says invalidates some of Rambus’s patents at issue in the
case. SK Hynix also requested a new trial.  The  U.S. Court of Appeals  for the Federal Circuit in
 Washington  upheld Whyte’s previous denial of SK Hynix’s bid to
throw out the 2006 verdict finding that the company infringed
Rambus patents. It vacated a $397 million jury award against
Ichon, South Korea-based SK Hynix, citing Rambus’s destruction
of documents that might have been used as evidence in the case.  SK Hynix said in today’s filings that recent re-
examinations by the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office’s Board of
Patent Appeals and Interferences determined that two of Rambus’s
10 patent claims at issue in the lawsuit are invalid.  “In five 2012 decisions, the Board of Patent Appeals and
Interferences has rendered invalid Rambus patent claims asserted
against Hynix in this action and related claims that are not
patentably distinct from the claims” in the California case
before Whyte, according to a filing today. “To proceed with
this litigation under those circumstances would be to reward
Rambus for patents that, today, are invalid.”  Royalty Rates  Whyte last month ordered both companies to file proposals
on how much Rambus should be paid in royalty rates. As a
sanction for Rambus’s document destruction, the judge said he
wouldn’t allow a Rambus royalty that is “in excess of a
reasonable and non-discriminatory” amount, according to court
documents.  SK Hynix’s filings today are “intended to delay the
process of determining how much Hynix owes Rambus for patent
infringement,”  Linda Ashmore , a spokeswoman for Sunnyvale,
California-based Rambus, said in an e-mailed statement.  Rambus expects the royalty rates Whyte asked for will be
filed in November and is eager for the “decision process to
move forward to determine how much we are entitled to receive as
damages,” Ashmore said.  Rambus’s cases against SK Hynix, and another related case
against  Micron Technology Inc. (MU) , are over the companies’ use of
interfaces that are part of dynamic random access memory that
acts as the main memory in computers. DRAM is built to industry
standards and is interchangeable by product. SK Hynix and Micron
claimed Rambus destroyed records that would have proved Rambus
misled the board that sets that standard.  The case is Hynix Semiconductor Inc. v. Rambus Inc.,  00-
cv-20905, U.S. District Court, Northern District of California
(San Jose).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joel Rosenblatt in  San Francisco  at 
 jrosenblatt@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  