-- Skadden on ASML, Blakes, Squire Sanders: Business of Law
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 2012-10-18T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-18/skadden-on-asml-blakes-squire-sanders-business-of-law.html
Skadden Arps Slate Meagher & Flom
LLP is representing  ASML Holding NV (ASML) , Europe’s largest
semiconductor-equipment supplier, which agreed to buy  Cymer Inc. (CYMI) 
for 1.95 billion euros ($2.6 billion), its biggest deal ever, to
satisfy customer demand for more advanced chipmaking technology.
Sullivan & Cromwell LLP represents Cymer.  Skadden attorneys leading this matter include partners
Richard Ely and Neil Stronski, M&A; Ian John, antitrust and
competition; Neil Leff, executive compensation and benefits;
Simon Baxter, European antitrust and competition; Sally Thurston, tax; and James McDonald, corporate finance.  The S&C team is led by Los Angeles mergers and acquisitions
partners Alison Ressler and Eric Krautheimer. Other S&C partners
include Steven Holley, Juan Rodriguez, Eric Kadel, Matthew Friestedt and Ronald Creamer Jr.  Cymer investors will get 1.15 ASML ordinary shares and $20
in cash for each share of stock, the companies said yesterday.
That values Cymer at 72 percent more than the stock’s close in
New York Oct. 16.  The acquisition will help ASML, whose customers include
 Samsung Electronics Co. (005930)  and  Intel Corp. (INTC) , accelerate research in
costly next-generation techniques to make semiconductors more
powerful even as they become smaller. Veldhoven, Netherlands-
based ASML said yesterday its second-half sales will be at the
lower end of forecasts of 2.2 billion euros to 2.4 billion
euros.  The so-called extreme ultraviolet -- or EUV -- lithography
technique shrinks the size of chips while increasing their
capacity and speed for devices such as handsets and tablet
computers. ASML this year sold stakes to Samsung, Intel and
 Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Co. (TSM)  to fund the development.  Greenhill & Co. served as financial advisers to ASML.
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. advised Cymer.  For more, click here.  Exxon to Buy Celtic for $2.91 Billion, Adding Canadian Shale  Blake, Cassels & Graydon LLP is counsel to  Exxon Mobil
Corp. (XOM) , the world’s largest energy company, which agreed to buy
Celtic Exploration Ltd. for C$2.86 billion ($2.91 billion) in
cash and stock, adding production in  Canada ’s Montney and
Duvernay shale. Borden Ladner Gervais LLP advised Celtic.  The Blakes team is comprised of partners Chad Schneider,
Ben Rogers, mergers and acquisitions and energy; Robert Kopstein
and Nancy Diep, tax; and Julie Soloway, competition and foreign
investment.  Borden Ladner’s team was led by William Guinan and included
partners Ross Freeman, George Kelly, Steve Pearson, Robyn
Bourgeois and Louise Lee.  Celtic’s shareholders will receive C$24.50 a share and half
a share of a new company that will hold assets not included in
the agreement, Calgary-based Celtic said yesterday in a
statement. The cash value per-share represents a 35 percent
premium to Celtic’s closing price Oct. 16.  The purchase is the  largest  by Exxon Mobil since the
$34.8 billion takeover of XTO Energy in June 2010. It includes
545,000 net acres in the Montney shale and 104,000 acres in the
Duvernay, fields where oil and gas are extracted by horizontal
drilling and hydraulic fracturing, so-called unconventional
operations that were XTO’s specialty.  “This acquisition will add significant liquids-rich
resources to our existing North American unconventional
portfolio,” Andrew Barry, president of Exxon Mobil Canada, said
in a separate statement. “Our financial and technical strength
will enable us to maximize resource value by leveraging the
experience of Exxon Mobil subsidiary XTO Energy.”  Current production on the acreage is 72 million feet of
natural gas a day and 4,000 barrels a day of oil and natural gas
liquids.  Exxon Mobil Canada will assume C$240 million of debt in the
transaction, Sadiq H. Lalani, chief financial officer of Celtic,
said yesterday in a telephone interview.  Celtic used no financial advisers, Lalani said. FirstEnergy
Capital Corp. and RBC Capital Markets provided fairness
opinions, according to the statement.  The deal has been unanimously approved by Celtic’s board
and is subject to a C$90 million termination fee, paid by
Celtic, if it’s not completed under certain conditions.  For more, click here.  Blackstone Joint Venture to Sell Senior Housing to HCP  A  Blackstone Group LP (BX)  fund and  Emeritus Corp. (ESC)  agreed to
sell a group of senior housing properties to  HCP Inc. (HCP)  for
$1.73 billion, the largest deal for a health-care real estate
investment trust this year.  Paul, Weiss Rifkind Wharton & Garrison LLP represented HCP,
Skadden Arps Slate Meagher & Flom LLP advised Emeritus and
Simpson Thacher & Bartlett LLP was counsel to Blackstone and the
joint venture of Blackstone and Emeritus.  Paul, Weiss’s lawyers included corporate partners Robert
Schumer and Justin Hamill, real estate partner Harris Freidus
and tax partner Jeffrey Samuels. All were based in New York.  Skadden partners on this matter include Joseph Coco, M&A
and REIT; John Rayis, tax and REIT; Peter Serating, M&A; Audrey Sokoloff, real estate and REIT; and David Goldschmidt, corporate
finance and REIT.  Simpson Thacher is representing Blackstone and the joint
venture of Blackstone and Emeritus. The Simpson team includes
partners Gregory Ressa and Erik Quarfordt, real estate and John Hart, tax.  Blackstone Real Estate Partners VI bought the 133-property
portfolio out of bankruptcy in 2010, HCP said in a statement
Oct. 16. The Long Beach, California-based company, the largest
health-care REIT by market value, said the purchase will add 8
cents a share to its annual funds from operations.  Emeritus, a Seattle-based operator of assisted-living
communities, will lease the properties from HCP and continue to
operate them, according to the statement. Emeritus will pay
$105.5 million in rent in the first year of the lease, the
company said in a separate statement. Emeritus will also
purchase nine other properties from the Blackstone venture.  HCP also said it has agreed to sell 22,000,000 shares of
its common stock to Goldman, Sachs & Co. HCP intends to use the
net proceeds of the offering to finance a portion of the
purchase price for the acquisition of the 133 senior housing
communities. Skadden advised HCP on that matter. The same
attorneys were involved as on the deal for Emeritus.  Sidley Austin LLP represented Goldman on the financing. The
team includes Sharon Flanagan, Brad Fenner and Sally Wagner
Partin.  For more, click here.  Firm News  Squire Sanders to Open New Office in Sydney on Nov. 1  Squire Sanders LLP is starting a new office in Sydney on
Nov. 1, to be headed by cross-border mergers and acquisitions
specialist Campbell Davidson. He will be joining the firm as a
partner from  Allens.   In addition to Campbell, the firm’s initial Sydney-based
team will include an of counsel in intellectual property and
technology from Truman Hoyle, a DLA Piper LLP tax lawyer, who
will also be of counsel and a labor and employment senior
associate who joins from Holding Redlich.  The opening follows the announcement earlier this month of
a new office in  Seoul . The firm also opened an office in
 Singapore  this year. The firm currently has an office in Perth.  “This investment in Sydney will support all our clients
who do business not just in  Australia  but also across the Asia
Pacific region,” James J. Maiwurm, chairman and global chief
executive officer of Squire Sanders, said in a statement. “Our
strategy has been to focus on high-level recruitment and invest
in lawyers who have the right cultural and strategic fit, to
support clients who seek to invest and capitalize on business
opportunities  in the key hubs across the region -- Perth,
Beijing,  Shanghai , Hong Kong, Singapore,  Tokyo  and now Seoul and
Sydney.”  Davidson advises national and international clients on
acquisitions, disposals and joint ventures. Among his recent
transactions are on behalf of China gold and copper producer
Zijn Mining Group, on its takeover bid for ASX listed Norton
Gold Fields. He also acted for the John Laing, Abigroup, Thiess,
and Infrared consortium bid for the Sunshine Coast University
Hospital PPP project, the firm said.  Squire Sanders has more than 1,300 lawyers in 37 offices in
18 countries.  Moves  Oil and Gas Partner Joins King & Spalding in Singapore  King & Spalding LLP has recruited oil and gas lawyer
Merrick White, as a partner in its energy practice. White, who
will be based in Singapore, joins King & Spalding from Clifford
Chance LLP, where he was a partner, the firm said.  White has spent the last 16 years in Singapore and
 Indonesia  handling legal, commercial, business development and
engineering matters in the oil, gas and petrochemical
industries. He also has in-house commercial experience, having
worked as a gas marketing manager for Clyde Petroleum, Gulf
Indonesia and ConocoPhillips, and as a commercial manager and
lead process engineer at British Gas Exploration and Production,
the firm said. White was a chartered chemical engineer before
becoming a lawyer.  King & Spalding has 800 lawyers in 17 offices in the U.S.,
 Europe , the Middle East and Asia.  Jones Day Adds Two Atlanta Mergers and Acquisitions Partners  Jones Day added Frank Layson and Erik Belenky to its 140-
lawyer Atlanta office as partners in the mergers and
acquisitions practice. Both were formerly partners in Paul
Hastings LLP’s Atlanta office.  Layson represents both public and private companies in a
variety of industries. His primary area of practice is mergers,
acquisitions, joint ventures, and strategic alliances.  Belenky’s practice is focused on mergers and acquisitions,
where he represents public and private companies, special
committees and financial advisers in domestic and cross-border
acquisitions, divestitures, strategic alliances, and corporate
restructurings.  Jones Day has more than 2,400 lawyers in offices worldwide.  Seyfarth Shaw Bolsters Boston Labor and Employment Practice  Seyfarth Shaw LLP announced that labor and employment
partner Patrick Bannon has joined the firm’s Boston office. He
was previously a partner at McCarter & English LLP.  Bannon represents employers in litigation, including wage
and hour collective and class actions, non-competition and trade
secret disputes and complex discrimination claims. He also
counsels employers on labor and employment issues, including
leaves of absence, discipline and termination, managing
employees with physical and mental conditions that might be
considered disabilities, employment contracts, separation
agreements, and reductions in force, the firm said.  Seyfarth Shaw has more than 800 attorneys in 10 offices
throughout the U.S.  Thompson Hine’s Washington Office Expands IP Practice  Thompson Hine LLP announced that Clifton McCann, whose
practice is in the area of intellectual property dispute
resolution, has joined the firm’s Washington office from Venable
LLP.  McCann’s practice focuses on the development and defense of
patent rights in the chemical, biological, mechanical and
software/business method arts.  Among his successes are serving as lead trial counsel for
patentee Ecolochem, now part of General Electric Co., in
Ecolochem Inc. v. Southern California Edison Co., the firm said.  Thompson Hine’s has lawyers at seven U.S. offices.  News  Manhattan District Attorney Names Szuchman Investigations Chief  David Szuchman was named head of the investigation division
of the  Manhattan  District Attorney’s office to succeed Adam Kaufmann, who is leaving for a job in the private sector.  Szuchman, 40, will become chief of the unit on Nov. 15 to
replace Kaufmann, 47, who is leaving the office at the end of
the year, Manhattan District Attorney Cyrus R. Vance Jr. said in
a statement. Szuchman currently serves as chief of the
cybercrime and identity theft  bureau , and deputy chief of the
investigation unit, Vance’s office said.  A graduate of the University of  Vermont  and Hofstra Law
School, Szuchman started his career as an assistant district
attorney in Manhattan in 1997. He also worked for the state
attorney general’s office, investigating and prosecuting complex
fraud and antitrust cases, and as a federal prosecutor at the
U.S. Justice Department’s Child Exploitation and Obscenity
 Section , according to Vance’s office.  He was nominated by former New Jersey Governor Jon Corzine
to become that state’s consumer affairs director, a post he held
until he  returned  to the Manhattan District Attorney’s office in
2010 as chief of an expanded cybercrime and identity theft
bureau, Vance’s office said.  Under Szuchman’s leadership, the bureau “investigated and
prosecuted major cyber fraud rings, theft of intellectual
property, computer intrusions and malware attacks, and organized
money laundering operations,” Vance said.  Kaufmann, who has been with the district attorney’s office
for 18 years, has headed the investigation division for three
years and has supervised probes of sanctions violations by
international banks that have led to $1.8 billion in fines and
forfeitures. Vance’s office declined to comment on Kaufmann’s
new job.  Kaufmann joined the district attorney’s office in 1994 and
was part of the team that secured a conviction in the case of
Robert Bierenbaum, a plastic surgeon found guilty in 2000 of
murdering his wife in 1985 and dumping her body into the
Atlantic Ocean, according to Vance’s  website .  Kaufmann in 2000 joined the office of the city’s special
narcotics prosecutor, where he supervised long-term probes of
drug-smuggling organizations, before being assigned in 2003 to
handle complex financial crime investigations.  For more, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in Brooklyn, New York, at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  