-- Sky Wagers 1-Euro Fee Boost Toward ‘Normal’ Pay-TV Operator
-- B y   C o r n e l i u s   R a h n
-- 2012-10-19T07:45:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-18/sky-wagers-1-euro-fee-boost-to-become-normal-pay-tv-operator.html
Sky Deutschland AG (SKYD) , the German pay-
TV provider half owned by  Rupert Murdoch ’s  News Corp. (NWSA) , is
betting its growing customer base and expanded offerings will
help support higher subscription fees and reduced discounts.  The operator this month boosted tariffs for its premium
packages for new or renewed contracts by 1 euro ($1.31) per
month, the first increase in almost two years. Unlike European
peers such as  British Sky Broadcasting Group Plc (BSY) , also partly
owned by News Corp., Sky Deutschland hasn’t scheduled regular
price increases.  Chief Financial Officer Steven Tomsic says he wants to lift
subscribers’ average 32-euro monthly bill by 5 euros to 10 euros
to where “a normal pay-TV business should be” in Western
Europe, at a time when convincing consumers to dish out more on
TV content may become more challenging.  Germany ’s government
this week cut its 2013 growth forecast for the country, which
has so far relied on exports and domestic spending to help
insulate the economy from  Europe ’s debt crisis.  “We will have more pricing power as people get more and
more attached to the product and we will start to see that come
through in terms of rate increases as well,” Tomsic said in an
interview at Bloomberg’s Frankfurt office this week. “There is
still a lot of headroom, particularly in an economy where GDP
per capita is higher than in any other economy in Europe.”  Best Performer  Sky’s stock is the best performer in the 27-company
 Bloomberg Europe 500 Media Index (BEMEDIA)  this year, having gained 133
percent. It rose as much as 0.8 percent to 3.28 euros and was up
0.5 percent as of 9:26 a.m. in Frankfurt trading. News Corp.,
which owns 49.9 percent of Munich-based Sky, gained 0.9 percent
to $25.42 in  New York  yesterday.  Chief Executive Officer  Brian Sullivan  is counting on
higher-paying subscribers to help Sky reach its target for an
operating profit in 2013, which would be the first since News
Corp. began investing in the company almost five years ago.  Sullivan has introduced access to Sky’s programs on mobile
devices, deployed hard-disk recorders and increased the number
of high-definition channels. The number of subscribers surged 14
percent to 3.13 million in the second quarter. Average monthly
revenue per user in the period rose 4.8 percent, or 1.47 euros
from a year earlier.  Unitymedia Partnership  Tomsic wouldn’t say when the higher customer spending level
may be reached. Sky plans to increase tariffs in regular
intervals, he said, declining to discuss figures.  Sky is working to decouple the timing of contract renewals
and the expiration of discounts to avoid giving customers the
choice between dropping the package and negotiating a better
deal, the finance chief said. It’s also shifting discounts from
monthly fees to one-off expenses like recorders, he added.  Expanding Sky’s offerings is key to revenue growth, which
can be augmented by adding new channels, such as through its
partnership with  Liberty Global Inc. (LBTYA) ’s German cable provider
Unitymedia KabelBW. The pay-TV provider is in “constructive
talks” over a similar agreement with  Kabel Deutschland Holding
AG (KD8) , Tomsic said.  Sky in April signed a four-year agreement, paying 485.7
million euros annually, to expand its hold on broadcasting
rights for Germany’s Bundesliga soccer matches, edging phone
company  Deutsche Telekom AG (DTE)  out of its license for Internet-
based broadcasts. Sky said it may allow Deutsche Telekom access
to the broadcasts if an agreement would move Deutsche Telekom
customers over to Sky quickly.  Soccer Rights  “We paid a strategic price for strategic rights,” said
Tomsic, who was News Corp.’s director of corporate finance and
planning for Europe and  Asia  before taking his current role in
February last year. “We don’t want to sacrifice that position
by doing a wholesale or sub-licensing deal. That’s completely
off the table.”  Tomsic said he expects to reach an agreement with German
tax authorities this year to ensure that Sky can in principle
retain previous tax losses on its  balance sheet  in case an
investor obtains a stake of more than 50 percent. The company
had a retained deficit of 2.2 billion euros as of June 30,
according to its financial reports.  Approval by authorities would help Sky reduce taxes on
future  profits , the CFO said. The  European Court  of Justice is
also expected to rule on the issue, he said, adding that a
verdict may not come before 2014.  Tomsic declined to say whether News Corp. may be planning
to obtain a majority of the shares. Murdoch’s company has the
option of converting credit provided to Sky into stock, which
would bring the stake to as much as 54 percent, Tomsic said.  “It’s for them to make their decision,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cornelius Rahn in Frankfurt at 
 crahn2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  