-- Smallest Stock Traders Hardest Hit as Commissions Decline
-- B y   Z e k e   F a u x
-- 2012-10-18T04:00:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-18/smallest-stock-traders-hardest-hit-as-commissions-decline.html
Wall Street’s smaller stock traders
are throwing in the towel as their fees fail to recover from a
three-year slump in equity volume and a shift to computer-driven
transactions.  ThinkEquity LLC, the San Francisco-based investment bank,
said yesterday its  stock-trading  business will close. Oscar
Gruss & Son Inc. halted merger-arbitrage operations on Oct. 12.
Rodman & Renshaw LLC, which acquired brokerage Hudson Holding
Corp. last year, told regulators in a September filing that it
didn’t have enough capital and would stop trading.  Commissions are drying up for brokers who complete trades
by phone or sell research as money managers buy and sell fewer
securities and execute more transactions electronically. Average
daily volume for U.S. equities has dropped 36 percent since
2009. The average fee to trade a share of stock fell 31 percent
in the period, according to Investment Technology Group Inc.  “It’s an impossibly tough business,” Greg Wright, chief
executive officer of ThinkEquity, said yesterday in a telephone
interview. “There aren’t enough commission dollars today for
the number of market participants so there will be further
consolidation.”  Nomura Holdings Inc. (8604) , Auriga Holdings LLC, Pritchard
Capital Partners LLC, WJB Capital Group Inc., Ticonderoga
Securities LLC and Kaufman Bros. LP have also fired equity
traders or shut their doors this year.  With most stock trading handled by computers, the sales
staff who work the phones for small securities firms generally
make money by sending investment ideas to money managers. They
trust the investors to reciprocate by paying for trading
services or sending cash later.  Sales Ethics  “It doesn’t really take much talent to buy 100,000 shares
of Wal-Mart,” said Sean Gambino, who trades consumer stocks for
Schottenfeld Group LLC. “There’s a code of ethics that says,
‘I’m using their information, they’re giving it to me, I’ll
trade through them.’”  Regulations that went into effect in 2007 increased
competition among exchanges and drove brokers to boost their use
of algorithms to execute client orders. Brokers who trade
manually charge about twice as much as those who use algorithms,
or software systems that break blocks into smaller pieces,
according to Tabb Group LLC. Money managers pay about 7.3 cents
to trade $100 of stock, down from 10.6 cents three years ago,
ITG data show.  “Commissions are set by the customer and unfortunately
they’re setting them lower each quarter,” said Tommy Pritchard,
who left his eponymous investment bank in April to join Imperial
Capital Group Inc.  Trading Less  Pritchard, a firm that once employed as many as 60 people,
profited more from investment-banking fees than trading, he
said. It closed in June as the pace of stock offerings by energy
companies slowed, Pritchard said.  Investors are trading less even as stocks rise. Average
 daily volume  for U.S. equities fell to 6 billion shares in the
third quarter from 8.7 billion a year earlier and 9.3 billion in
the same period of 2009. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index has
gained about 16 percent this year.  Equities firms split $10.9 billion in fees last year from
asset managers, the least since 2006, according to data compiled
by Greenwich Associates. Asset managers consolidated more of
their trading with larger brokers to ensure they kept getting
research, advice and access to deals, the firm said in May.  Difficult Environment  “A lot of people were hoping that we’d get a better
recovery than we got and went out and invested,” said Packy Jones, chairman of JonesTrading Institutional Services LLC, a
 Westlake Village , California-based broker. “Now with the
volumes drying up, it’s been difficult for a lot of these
brokerage firms to make money.”  The decline in commissions has hit even larger firms.
Goldman Sachs Group Inc., the fifth-biggest  U.S. bank  by assets,
collected $5.91 billion of revenue from equities trading in the
first nine months of this year, down 10 percent from a year
earlier as commission and fee revenue tumbled 18 percent. The
firm handles “the vast majority” of client trades
electronically today, a change from 10 years ago when most were
handled by phone, Chief Financial Officer David A. Viniar said
in February.  Interactive Brokers Group Inc., which sells computerized
trading services to individuals and hedge funds, has benefited
from the trend. It had pretax profit of $741.1 million last
year, the most since 2008, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Steve Sanders, senior vice president of business
development for the firm, said he’s gaining business as
institutional clients pay more attention to costs.  “A good deal of this industry’s business has been through
personal relationships,” Sanders said. “That’s changing. I
don’t think people can justify the higher costs anymore.”  Tom Laresca, who traded non-U.S. stocks for New York-based
Rodman & Renshaw, said sales staff there relied on relationships
with money managers that went back years or decades.  “It was much easier five years ago,” Laresca said. “It
seems like everybody’s fighting for the same dime these days.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zeke Faux in  New York  at   zfaux@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at   dscheer@bloomberg.net  