-- Softbank CEO’s Son Plans Data Push to Disrupt U.S. Market
-- B y   S c o t t   M o r i t z   a n d   T o d d   S h i e l d s
-- 2012-10-19T20:35:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-18/softbank-s-son-sees-u-s-duopoly-shakeup-after-sprint-purchase.html
Softbank Corp. (9984)  President Masayoshi
Son said his planned $20 billion investment in  Sprint Nextel
Corp. (S)  brings growth opportunities well beyond phones in a U.S.
market dominated by Verizon Wireless and AT&T Inc.  Son said he wants to repeat the success he had while
building Softbank into  Japan ’s third-largest wireless carrier by
taking market share from entrenched giants and delivering more
data to smartphones, tablets, cars and even bicycles. The
company gets more than two-thirds of its revenue from data
services, about double the average in the U.S., he said.  While Son didn’t exclude more deals, such as buying
 MetroPCS Communications Inc. (PCS) , he said his current focus is on
completing Softbank’s purchase of a 70 percent stake in  Overland
Park , Kansas-based Sprint. His goal is to become the No. 1
carrier in the world in terms of revenue, surpassing Verizon and
 China Mobile Ltd. (941)   “You say the market is overly saturated. I think that’s
totally wrong,” Son said yesterday at Bloomberg’s headquarters
in  New York  in a joint interview with Sprint Chief Executive
Officer  Dan Hesse .  “Each subscriber should have at least two subscriptions:
one for a smartphone, one for a tablet. I would say in the near
future three lines, four lines, five lines per capita is
possible,” Son said.  IPhone Traffic  Softbank has been No. 1 in annual net subscriber additions
in Japan since 2007, helped by its exclusive deal to sell  Apple
Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPhone until last year and discount packages offering
monthly base rates of 980 yen ($12.35). The carrier added more
users in August than larger competitors  NTT DoCoMo Inc. (9437)  and  KDDI
Corp. (9433) , and had 30.1 million subscribers in Japan at the end of
the month, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “When I acquired Vodafone Japan, they said, ‘Oh it’s a
saturated market. You come so late! And you have no experience.
What is your strategy? How do you fight? You’re going to lose
all your subscribers’,” Son said. “I said, ‘Well I understand
your concern but I’m not going to talk about my strategy.’”  “Actually I already had  Steve Jobs  say he would give me
the iPhone, before it was announced,” Son said. “The iPhone
was not announced; Steve and I were very deeply discussing it. I
never talked about that in public.”  “So if I didn’t have any interesting strategy, I wouldn’t
bet $20 billion” on Sprint, he said.  Softbank is adding base stations and Wi-Fi spots in Japan
as increasing sales of smartphones put pressure on its network.
The company added capacity with its 180 billion-yen ($2.3
billion) acquisition of competitor  eAccess Ltd. (9427)  this month, and
it announced plans to spend 1.55 trillion yen on equipment in
the three years ending March 2014.  Duopoly Opportunity  While Son said he considered investments in companies
outside the U.S., Sprint was the best choice because it has the
ability to challenge  Verizon Wireless  and AT&T’s dominance of
the U.S. mobile-phone industry. The Softbank investment will
give Sprint the capital to pay down debt, invest in its network
or continue to make deals in the U.S. wireless industry.  “Anything you can think of, I have thought about,” Son
said. “Don’t rule out anything.”  Softbank, based in  Tokyo , will provide $8 billion in new
capital as part of the deal to bolster Sprint, the third-largest
U.S. wireless operator. Sprint, which has said it will play a
role in industry consolidation, previously had to pass on
chances to grow because of its weak  balance sheet .  “We will no longer need to forgo investment opportunities.
We have the flexibility that we just never had before,” Hesse
said in the interview. “We are not on the sidelines. This deal
does not stop us from doing anything.”  Deutsche Telekom, T-Mobile  Deutsche Telekom AG (DTE) ,  Germany ’s biggest phone company,
announced plans this month to merge its  T-Mobile USA  division
with MetroPCS. The move, which would create a bigger competitor
to Sprint, raised speculation among some investors that Hesse
might step in to counterbid.  Softbank’s backing may provide Hesse, 59, with enough sway
to alter the competitive dynamics of the U.S. industry. Hesse,
who took over Sprint five years ago in the aftermath of the
failed Nextel merger, has had his hands tied with $23.7 billion
in debt, a subscriber base that has lost 7.7 million monthly
contract subscribers and not a single annual profit since he
started. When the deal with Softbank closes, Nextel will be
dropped from the Sprint Nextel name, Hesse said yesterday.
Sprint also has plans to shut down the Nextel network in the
first half of 2013.  Still,  Sprint shares  more than doubled this year before the
announcement of Softbank’s investment, a sharp contrast to 2011,
when investors questioned Sprint management’s credibility and a
proposed merger between  AT&T (T)  and T-Mobile USA threatened to
dwarf Sprint as a distant third player. That deal was rejected
by U.S. regulators.  “I would have never invested even $1,000 if AT&T had
successfully acquired T-Mobile, because then that’s ‘game
over’” with a stronger duopoly forming, Son said. “If it had
happened, I wouldn’t come to this market.”  Sprint slipped 2.3 percent to close at $5.65 today in New
York.  Open Market  The U.S. offers advantages not present in all markets, Son
said.  “The U.S. is very open -- the most open country, and the
most fair country for challengers,” Son said. “Whatever’s good
for the consumers, the U.S. government tends to accept that --
for the interests of the consumers, not for the interests of a
particular company.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Scott Moritz in New York at 
 smoritz6@bloomberg.net ;
Todd Shields in Washington at 
 tshields3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net  