-- Southwest Curbs Labor Spending After 13% Cost Growth
-- B y   M a r y   S c h l a n g e n s t e i n
-- 2012-10-18T20:43:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-18/southwest-airlines-profit-slips-on-fuel-costs-stagnant-traffic.html
Southwest Airlines Co. (LUV) , the discount
carrier that has never had layoffs, plans to shrink its
workforce amid spending cuts of at least $100 million after
higher fuel prices helped cost increases outstrip sales growth.  Southwest, which reduced its staff by 1,400 with buyouts in
2009, will be “trimming our total headcount complement
overall,” Chief Executive Officer Gary Kelly said today in a
message to employees. While he declined in an interview to
detail how that might be done, Kelly later said on a conference
call that the airline isn’t contemplating layoffs.  Southwest’s expenses grew by almost 13 percent through the
first nine months of this year, outpacing a 12 percent rise in
sales. Holding down costs is central to the Dallas-based
airline’s business plan because it allows Southwest to remain
profitable while offering lower fares that win customers.  “We’ll be very aggressive with our cost controls next
year,” Kelly said. “It’s a reflection of concerns about high
 fuel prices  and economic uncertainty.”  The carrier has focused more in the past few years on
building revenue than on expenses, Kelly said. Southwest
previously has said it won’t add to its fleet of 692 aircraft
until it hits certain financial targets, including a 15 percent
return on invested capital. The return was 7 percent in the 12
months through Sept. 30.  ‘Commodity Business’  The airline’s cost to fly each seat a mile, a measure of
efficiency, rose 5 percent in the third quarter and 3.7 percent
in the nine months through September. Fuel costs increased 11
percent in the first three quarters, and Southwest expects
prices to climb again before year end.  “At the end of the day, airlines are largely a commodity
business,” said Savanthi Syth, a Raymond James & Associates
Inc. analyst based in St. Petersburg,  Florida , with an
outperform rating on the shares. “In that type of environment,
service is important, but maintaining lower costs is
essential.”  The airline is evaluating ways to reduce supplier costs and
support from outside vendors and consultants, Kelly said, in
addition to “looking for opportunities to stop doing some
things that don’t have value.”  Southwest, which has never laid off  workers , isn’t
considering a hiring freeze at this point, he said. The carrier
has offered early retirement programs for employees in the past.  Southwest had 46,048 workers at the end of September, up
2.1 percent from a year earlier.  ‘Hiring Frost’  “If nothing else, there’s frost on the hiring front,”
Kelly said. “It’s very fair to say there will be much stricter
controls surrounding hiring for next year. We will hire more on
an exception basis versus business as usual.”  The airline’s stock climbed 0.34 percent to $8.98 at the
close in  New York  trading. The shares have gained 4.9 percent
this year, compared with a 16 percent increase in the Bloomberg
U.S. Airlines Index.  Southwest is “clearly seeing some weakness in the economy
and in demand,” primarily among business travelers, Kelly said.
So far in October, however, passenger revenue from each seat
flown a mile is running about 4 percent ahead of a year earlier,
he said.  Cutting spending is complicated by the ongoing work to
integrate AirTran Airways, which Southwest acquired last year,
Kelly said. He declined to discuss additional cost-reduction
plans under review.  Third-quarter profit  fell to $97 million, or 13 cents a
share excluding one-time items, on weaker travel demand and a
lower average fare, Southwest said. That compared with earnings
of $122 million, or 15 cents, a year earlier.  Replacing Aircraft  The result was a penny above the average 12-cent estimate
on that basis from 16 analysts compiled by Bloomberg. Sales were
flat at $4.31 billion.  Southwest will begin implementing a new revenue-management
system next year and will further integrate its network with
that of AirTran. The carrier reported $110 million in pretax
synergies from combining the companies through September and
expects $400 million next year.  The airline is in the midst of a program to boost the
number of seats on some planes and is replacing older aircraft
with new, more fuel-efficient versions of the  Boeing Co. (BA)  737.
Efforts to modernize the fleet will add more than $700 million
in pretax results each year once fully put in place in 2015.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mary Schlangenstein in Dallas at 
 maryc.s@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Langford at 
 jlangford2@bloomberg.net ;
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  