-- Sprint Said to Increase Clearwire Stake for Board Control
-- B y   S e r e n a   S a i t t o
-- 2012-10-18T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-18/sprint-said-to-buy-eagle-river-s-clearwire-stake-to-gain-control.html
Sprint Nextel Corp. (S) , the company
that has agreed to sell 70 percent of itself to  Softbank Corp. (9984) ,
acquired Eagle River Holdings LLC’s stake in  Clearwire Corp. (CLWR) , a
move that gives it control over the wireless company’s board,
according to people with knowledge of the matter.  The transaction could be announced in a  regulatory filing 
as soon as today, said the people, who asked not to be
identified because the deal is private. Eagle River held a 4.5
percent stake in Clearwire, data compiled by Bloomberg show.
Based on yesterday’s  closing  share price of $2.26, the stake is
worth about $69.9 million.  Sprint, which already held 48 percent of Clearwire, sought
the majority stake to give it added sway over the fate of the
company’s wireless-networking capabilities, including lucrative
airwaves needed to deliver mobile calling and data. That stands
to make Sprint more attractive to Tokyo-based Softbank, which is
paying $20.1 billion for most of the third-biggest U.S. mobile-
phone company.  “Softbank wants firm ground in the U.S.,” said Jeff Kagan, an independent telecommunications analyst. “It gives the
combined company much more spectrum, much more ability to
deliver services.”  Sprint, based in  Overland Park , Kansas, has no immediate
plans for an outright takeover of Bellevue, Washington-based
Clearwire, people with knowledge of the matter said this week.
Backing by Softbank gives Sprint more firepower to use in its
contest with  AT&T Inc. (T)  and  Verizon Wireless . Still, a full
Clearwire acquisition is seen as too expensive, the people said.  Intel, Comcast  Sprint had also approached Comcast Corp. and  Intel Corp .
recently to discuss acquiring those companies’  stakes  in
Clearwire, according to the people who have knowledge of the
Eagle River deal. It made little headway, they said.  Representatives of Sprint, Clearwire and Eagle River
declined to comment. Spokespeople for Philadelphia-based Comcast
and  Santa Clara , California-based Intel also declined to
comment.  Sprint’s overtures to Comcast and Intel were reported
earlier by the Wall Street Journal.  Softbank will pay $12.1 billion to Sprint shareholders, and
the deal includes $8 billion of new capital, the companies said
this week. The transaction will help Softbank enter the U.S., a
market that’s still growing in contrast to Japan, where handset
shipments tumbled 27 percent over the past five years.  Regulatory Review  Sprint said this week that it expects the U.S. Justice
Department’s review of the Softbank deal to be completed within
an initial 30-day review period and won’t warrant an extended
investigation.  Dallas-based AT&T said gaining control over Clearwire gives
regulators cause to pay closer heed.  “Softbank’s acquisition of Sprint and the control it gains
over Clearwire will give one of Japan’s largest wireless
companies control of significantly more U.S. wireless spectrum
than any other company,”  Brad Burns , a spokesman for AT&T, said
in a statement. “We expect that fact and others will be fully
explored in the regulatory review process.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Serena Saitto in  New York  at 
 ssaitto@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jeffrey McCracken at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net ;
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  