-- Sprint to Buy McCaw’s Stake in Clearwire Before Softbank
-- B y   S e r e n a   S a i t t o
-- 2012-10-18T20:11:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-18/sprint-to-buy-eagle-river-s-stake-in-clearwire.html
Sprint Nextel Corp. (S) , the company
that agreed to sell 70 percent of itself to  Softbank Corp. (9984) ,
plans to acquire telecom pioneer  Craig McCaw ’s stake in
 Clearwire Corp. (CLWR) , gaining a majority of the wireless carrier.  Sprint will pay Eagle River Holdings LLC, the investment
firm owned by McCaw, about $100 million for 30.9 million of
Clearwire’s Class A shares, or 4.5 percent of the total, and
2.73 million of its Class B stock, according to a  regulatory
filing  today. McCaw, who co-founded Clearwire, retired as
chairman of the company two years ago.  Sprint has control of the company’s management, including
the power to veto some spectrum sales to third parties, and
doesn’t need to consolidate Clearwire’s debt, said one person
with direct knowledge of the situation. Sprint has owned a
majority of Clearwire in the past without taking control of the
company,  Philip Cusick , an equity analyst with JPMorgan Chase &
Co., said in a report to investors. Sprint keeps the right to
appoint seven out of Clearwire’s 13 members, one of which is
independent.  “While Eagle River would lose its right to nominate a
board member in this transaction, we would not anticipate any
change to the board in the near term,” Cusick said. Sprint has
owned as much as 56 percent of Clearwire in the past without
consolidating the debt, he said.  Debt Burden  Sprint has more than $4 billion of debt coming due next
year, while Clearwire has $2.9 billion of debt coming due in
2015, Bloomberg data show.  Standard & Poor’s  said its ratings
and outlook on Clearwire’s debt are unchanged after Sprint
announced its increased ownership. Clearwire will run out of
cash by the middle of next year without external sources of
liquidity, according to a statement today from S&P.  Scott Sloat , a Sprint spokesman, declined to comment.  Susan Johnston , a spokeswoman for Clearwire, declined to comment.  Sprint, which already held 48 percent of Clearwire, sought
the majority stake to give it added sway over the fate of the
company’s wireless-networking capabilities, including lucrative
airwaves needed to deliver mobile calling and data. That stands
to make Sprint more attractive to Tokyo-based Softbank, which is
paying $20.1 billion for most of the third-biggest U.S. mobile-
phone company.  ‘Firm Ground’  “Softbank wants firm ground in the U.S.,” said Jeff Kagan, an independent telecommunications analyst. “It gives the
combined company much more spectrum, much more ability to
deliver services.”  Sprint, based in  Overland Park ,  Kansas , has no immediate
plans for an outright takeover of Bellevue, Washington-based
Clearwire, people with knowledge of the matter said this week.
Backing by Softbank gives Sprint more firepower to use in its
contest with  AT&T Inc. (T)  and  Verizon Wireless . Still, a full
Clearwire acquisition is seen as too expensive, the people said.  The price for the bundle of shares will be $2.97,
consisting of $2 per Class A share and $13.98 for Class B
interest, according to the filing.  Clearwire shares fell 10 percent to $2.03 at the close in
 New York . Sprint gained less than 1 percent to $5.78.  Sprint had also approached Comcast Corp. and  Intel Corp .
recently to discuss acquiring those companies’  stakes  in
Clearwire, according to the people who have knowledge of the
Eagle River deal. It made little headway, they said.  Softbank Deal  Sprint’s overtures to Comcast and Intel were reported
earlier by the Wall Street Journal.  Softbank will pay $12.1 billion to Sprint shareholders, and
the deal includes $8 billion of new capital, the companies said
this week. The transaction will help Softbank enter the U.S., a
market that’s still growing in contrast to Japan, where handset
shipments tumbled 27 percent over the past five years.  Sprint said this week that it expects the U.S. Justice
Department’s review of the Softbank deal to be completed within
an initial 30-day review period and won’t warrant an extended
investigation.  Dallas-based AT&T said gaining control over Clearwire gives
regulators cause to pay closer heed.  “Softbank’s acquisition of Sprint and the control it gains
over Clearwire will give one of Japan’s largest wireless
companies control of significantly more U.S. wireless spectrum
than any other company,”  Brad Burns , a spokesman for AT&T, said
in a statement. “We expect that fact and others will be fully
explored in the regulatory review process.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Serena Saitto in New York at 
 ssaitto@bloomberg.net ;
Cecile Daurat in Wilmington at 
 cdaurat@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jeffrey McCracken at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net ;
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  