-- State Funds Focus on Alternative Assets, Ex-KIC Official Says
-- B y   K l a u s   W i l l e
-- 2012-10-18T23:24:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-18/state-funds-focus-on-alternative-assets-ex-kic-official-says.html
Sovereign wealth funds are spending
more money on alternative investments after stock markets gained
and bond yields declined, said Scott Kalb, chief executive
officer of KLTI Advisors and former chief investment officer of
Korea Investment Corp.  “The large institutional investors are increasing their
allocations to alternatives right now,” Kalb said in an
interview with Bloomberg Television at the SALT conference
yesterday. “To the extent that you get the capital available
for long-term investment, you want to get out of the public
markets.”  Investors are growing wary of publicly traded securities as
interest rate cuts at central banks helped inject liquidity into
markets, bolstering bonds and stocks. The  MSCI World Index (MXWO)  is
almost double its March 2009 low, while the U.S.  benchmark 10-
year yield  is near its July record lows.  Kalb, whose three-year term at the South Korean sovereign
wealth fund, known as KIC, ended in April, said institutional
investors are focusing on  hedge funds  and private equity, with
real estate and infrastructure being the preferred asset classes.  “What continues to look attractive is real estate,” he
said. “It’s bottoming in the U.S. Infrastructure is low, there
is a lot of demand out there.”  Asia ’s state-owned investment companies such as China
Investment Corp., known as CIC, and  Government of Singapore
Investment Corp. , or GIC, are diversifying assets to offset
increased volatility. CIC’s alternative investments surged
almost 40 percent in 2011, according to the company’s annual
report, and GIC in July said investments in private equity and
infrastructure gained.  More Infrastructure  Institutional investors may double the proportion of
infrastructure investments in their portfolios within the next
five to 10 years, Joyce Shapiro, managing director at  Franklin
Templeton Investments (BEN) , said last month.  Kalb, who still serves as an adviser to KIC, also said that
sovereign wealth funds, being long-term investors, will keep
investing in emerging market assets as the prospects for those
economies remain strong.  “You are going to have a lot of growth in the emerging
world,” he said. “These are long-term funds. You are talking
about intergenerational capital and so you want to have a long-
term plan in place.”  Still, when investing in emerging economies, the portfolio
should be made up of all major asset classes, Kalb said.  “You are taking advantage of growth there in terms of
private equity, in terms of real estate, infrastructure, debt,
equity and commodities. You want to have a diversified approach
to the asset classes.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Klaus Wille in Singapore at 
 kwille@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  