-- Supervalu Says It Has Received Interest Amid Review
-- B y   L e s l i e   P a t t o n
-- 2012-10-18T14:08:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-18/supervalu-says-it-has-received-interest-amid-review.html
Supervalu Inc. (SVU) , the third-largest
U.S. grocery store chain, said it has received a “number of
indications of interest” as it conducts a review of strategic
options.  The company is in “active dialogue” with several parties,
 Eden Prairie , Minnesota-based Supervalu said today in a
statement. There can’t be any assurance the review will result
in a transaction, the company said.  Supervalu has been weighing a new direction after losing
more than $2.5 billion in its previous two fiscal years, hurt by
competition from discounters and costs to run stores. The
company today posted  sales  in its fiscal second quarter that
dropped 4.6 percent, the 14th straight quarterly decline.  “There’s a lot of work in front of them, and they’ve made
some progress,”  Joe Feldman , a New York-based analyst at Telsey
Advisory Group, said in an interview. “There’s the hope that
some sort of strategic action will be taken that might include
some type of M&A that will help to monetize or create greater
value from the business.”  A number of grocers, including  Kroger Co. (KR)  and Wal-Mart
Stores Inc., are looking to expand, and non-food retailers also
may be interested in Supervalu’s stores, he said.  Supervalu rose 3.4 percent to $2.11 at 9:57 a.m. in New
York. The  shares  slumped 75 percent this year through yesterday.  Private Equity  The company has attracted interest from billionaire Ronald Burkle and buyout firms  KKR & Co. (KKR)  and TPG Capital, people with
knowledge of the matter said earlier this month.  Burkle and the private-equity firms are looking at parts of
Supervalu rather than the whole, said the people, who asked not
to be named as the process is private. Supervalu would prefer a
deal for the entire company and has extended its offer deadline
past Oct. 15, the people said.  Cerberus Capital Management LP also has looked at some of
Supervalu’s assets, said one person.  Spartan Stores Inc. (SPTN) , a
grocery retailer based in  Grand Rapids , Michigan, has also shown
interest in some of Supervalu’s stores in the Midwest, two of
the people said.  The company also today posted a  net loss  of $111 million,
or 52 cents a share, in the fiscal second-quarter ended Sept. 8,
compared with net income of $60 million, or 28 cents, a year
earlier. Sales fell to $8.04 billion.  Supervalu said today it named Janel Haugarth, who is
heading its company optimization efforts, to also lead its
independent business organization.  Supervalu disclosed in July that it was working with
 Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and  Greenhill & Co. (GHL)  to review options.  The company has 1,099 traditional retail stores such as
Jewel-Osco and Albertsons and has 1,341 Save-A-Lot discount
locations.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Leslie Patton in Chicago at 
 lpatton5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  