-- Surging Stocks at Open Put Australia in Ranks of Muddled Markets
-- B y   A d a m   H a i g h   a n d   E l e n i   H i m a r a s
-- 2012-10-18T14:02:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-18/surging-stocks-at-open-put-australia-in-ranks-of-muddled-markets.html
Australian regulators are probing
transactions that added $10 billion to the benchmark  stock index 
for several seconds yesterday, the latest episode of unusual
trading after mishaps this year in the U.S.,  Japan , Hong Kong
and  India .  Shares of  Australia & New Zealand Banking Group Ltd. (ANZ) , AGL
Energy Ltd., Brambles Ltd. and at least eight other companies
surged at the open after bids were placed in premarket trading
at prices above the previous day’s closing level, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. ANZ jumped 6.4 percent before
immediately paring the gain to less than 1 percent. Brambles
jumped 7.5 percent and Aristocrat Leisure Ltd. leaped 7.1
percent. The trades drove the  S&P/ASX 200 (AS51)  index as much as 0.9
percent higher before it too immediately retreated.  “They had their orders into the marketplace significantly
above where it actually opened, and it’s clear that they
certainly influenced the opening price,” said Michael Aitken,
professor of finance at the University of New South Wales, in a
telephone interview. “Whoever this was, and it seems likely it
was one party given that the orders in each stock were
simultaneously entered at three distinct times, the activity has
likely affected the index.”  Australia  joins countries experiencing market disruption
this year. In the U.S.,  Knight Capital Group Inc. (KGC) , one of the
biggest market makers, bombarded American exchanges with
mistaken orders in the first minutes of trading on Aug. 1. The
company blamed the mishap on defective software. Two weeks ago,
orders for Indian stocks improperly entered by a Mumbai
brokerage sent the S&P CNF Nifty Index down 16 percent in eight
seconds before it rebounded.  Index Impact  The S&P/ASX 200 index opened at 4,567.70 at 10 a.m.
yesterday, 0.87 percent higher than the previous close,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The gain was halved
within one minute, with the gauge falling to 4,547.72, the data
show. The measure closed up 0.7 percent, the highest level since
July 2011.  The Australian Securities and Investment Commission began
informal inquiries into the share moves, Andre Khoury, a Sydney-
based spokesman for ASIC, said in a statement.  ASX Ltd. (ASX) , operator of the country’s main bourse, received
no requests to cancel any trades, Sydney-based spokesman Matthew Gibbs said by phone. “Clearly what happened was not usual and
ASX will closely examine to find an explanation,” Gibbs said by
e-mail.  ANZ, AGL  Large orders for the affected shares, as well as others in
the equity benchmark index, were made simultaneously in the
premarket period at prices well above the Oct. 17 close,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Someone bid A$27.78 for
shares of ANZ, against a close of A$25.95, while AGL was sought
at A$15.88 after closing at A$14.86.  ANZ opened 6.4 percent higher as 836,205 shares changed
hands in 349 trades, all at the ask price of A$27.63, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. The stock fell back to A$26.13
within a minute and ended the day lower at A$25.95.  AGL, which closed Oct. 17 at A$14.84, opened 4.3 percent
higher when 177,416 shares changed hands in 107 trades at the
price of A$15.84. It closed at A$14.86 yesterday.  AMP Ltd., an insurer, opened 4.5 percent higher yesterday
when 1.1 million shares were exchanged in 157 trades at A$4.85.
The stock closed 3.7 percent below this level at A$4.67.  Brambles Ltd. (BXB) , a supplier of shipping pallets, jumped 7.5
percent to A$7.69 straight after the open before falling to
A$7.38 within the first minute of trade. The shares closed at
A$7.26 in Sydney. The first trades of the day were crossed from
two off-exchange transactions for a total of 50,000 shares at
A$7.65, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Influencing Prices  “It is not unusual for parties anxious to trade to put
their bids and asks significantly above or below the last price
in order to guarantee priority,” said Aitken. “However, if you
start doing that in very large quantities, it will not only get
you priority, it will start to influence the price.”  Equity derivative contracts on indexes expired yesterday,
according to the  ASX website . The expiration of those contracts
increased the likelihood of erroneous trades being entered
accidentally, said  Angus Gluskie , managing director at White
Funds Management in Sydney, which has more than $350 million.  “Something clearly went wrong and it’s more likely to have
been a mistake,” Gluskie said “It’s got the hallmarks of some
mistake of a technical nature. It was very unusual and we’d also
like to know why it happened.”  The stocks that moved unusually yesterday were mainly those
attached to companies whose tickers begin with the letters A and
B. Australia’s market opens in phases according to the
alphabetical order of tickers,  ASX  said.  Identity Delay  “ASIC is aware of a surge in the share price of a number
of major ASX 200 stocks this morning and, in line with its
normal practice, is looking into the matter and has commenced
enquiries with the market participants involved in trading in
these stocks and related derivatives,” Khoury said. “This is
not a formal investigation.”  The identity of the bidders in the stocks won’t be known to
other exchange members for three days, ASX’s Gibbs said.  Regulators around the world are scrutinizing market
structure and electronic trading after a series of malfunctions.
In May 2010, a broker’s algorithm set in motion events now known
as the flash crash, which briefly wiped $862 billion from U.S.
stocks. The Nasdaq Stock Market in May this year was overwhelmed
by order cancellations and trade confirmations were delayed on
the first day of trading in Facebook Inc., the largest initial
public offering of 2012.  Tokyo’s stock exchange has had two computer failures that
partially halted trading this year.  Hong Kong ’s market regulator
said in August it had issued 18 compliance notices after
disruptions caused mainly by malfunctioning algorithms.  Kill Switch  Australia is trying to increase its presence as a financial
hub by opening up Asia-Pacific’s fourth-largest equity market,
allowing Chi-X Australia Pty from last year to compete as an
alternative stock venue.  Australian regulators are considering requiring all trading
algorithms to have an inbuilt “kill switch” to immediately
disable them if they malfunction, ASIC Chairman Greg Medcraft
told a conference in Sydney Oct. 10.  ASX in November last year began using a platform catering
to high-frequency traders called PureMatch, part of efforts to
counter competition from Chi-X. It described the platform as a
“high-speed, low latency order book” for the most liquid
shares and  exchange traded funds .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Adam Haigh in Sydney at 
 ahaigh1@bloomberg.net ;
Eleni Himaras in Hong Kong at 
 ehimaras@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  