-- Swaps Collateral, Egypt Sukuk Start, SEC-Bond: Compliance
-- B y   C a r l a   M a i n
-- 2012-10-18T12:51:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-18/swaps-collateral-egypt-sukuk-launch-sec-bond-probe-compliance.html
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) ,  Morgan
Stanley (MS)  and other trading firms would face higher collateral
costs under swaps-market rules proposed by the U.S. Securities
and Exchange Commission.  SEC commissioners voted 5-0 yesterday to seek public
comment on collateral requirements for swaps that remain in the
over-the-counter market instead of being settled at third-party
clearinghouses. The proposal, part of the agency’s rulemaking
under the Dodd-Frank Act, would also increase capital
requirements for dealers of swaps tied to single securities or
loans or a narrow index of swaps.  The SEC and Commodity Futures Trading Commission are
leading U.S. rulemaking to limit risk and boost transparency
after unregulated swaps contributed to the 2008 credit crisis.  Under the proposal, dealers in swaps tied to securities
would need to set aside a fixed amount of capital and a
percentage of the collateral they collect to back trades. The
measure calls for dealers to have capital equal to an additional
8 percent of their collateral for cleared and non-cleared
trades. The largest brokerages that use internal computer models
to comply with capital rules would need to double their minimum
capital to $1 billion.  For more, click here.  For the video, click here.  Compliance Policy  Hollande Says Summit’s Main Decision Is on Banking Supervisor  French President  Francois Hollande  said a two-day European
Union summit that begins today in Brussels will focus on
implementation of the  European Central Bank ’s role as chief
banking supervisor for the euro area.  “The subject of the summit isn’t fiscal union but banking
union,” Hollande told reporters today in Brussels. “The only
decision we have to take, to confirm in fact, is the putting
into place of a banking union by the end of the year, notably
the first step, which is the banking supervision.”  For more, click here.  U.S. Senators Ask Bank Regulators to Focus on Simple Leverage  Two U.S. senators joined the call for regulators to rely
less on complicated Basel capital rules and more on straight-
forward leverage ratios to reduce risk in the financial system.  Senators Sherrod Brown, an Ohio Democrat, and  David Vitter ,
a Republican of Louisiana, urged the  Federal Reserve  and two
other bank regulators to “focus on the level of pure tangible
common equity at financial institutions,” according to a letter
they sent yesterday. The  Basel Committee on Banking
Supervision ’s capital requirements, approved in 2010 and
scheduled to take effect next year, are too complicated, they
wrote.  The Basel rules have come under attack for increased
complexity and allowing banks to game the system by playing with
their risk models.  Thomas Hoenig , a Federal Deposit Insurance
Corp. board member, said last month that they should be scrapped
in favor of the leverage ratio. Unlike Basel’s main capital
requirement, the leverage ratio measures equity compared to
total assets, ignoring whether they’re deemed risky or safe by
the bank or regulators.  The senators join Bank of England officials  Andrew Haldane 
and  Robert Jenkins , and former FDIC Chairman  Sheila Bair  in
urging that the leverage ratio be the main factor in capital
calculations. While the revised Basel rules have a leverage
requirement, it’s secondary to the risk-based considerations.  Basel’s proposed 3 percent leverage ratio -- which means a
bank’s assets can be 33 times its common equity -- is too low to
ensure the financial system’s safety, the senators said, without
offering their own figure. Bair has called for an 8 percent
requirement, while Hoenig has said about 10 percent is
reasonable. That would force the four largest U.S. banks to sell
more than $300 billion of stock, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  The Fed, FDIC and the Office of the Comptroller of the
Currency are in the process of implementing the Basel rules. The
three regulators have published the U.S. version of the
framework and are soliciting comments until Oct. 22.  ECB’s Legal View on Bank Oversight Design Due Early November  The European Central Bank aims to complete its view on how
to design a euro-area bank supervisor in the first half of
November, a spokesman said yesterday.  ECB lawyers are studying how the Frankfurt-based central
bank could take on bank oversight for the 17-nation currency
area without interfering with monetary policy. The ECB is also
examining how the supervisor could include views of non-euro-
area countries that volunteer to join the banking plan.  Ultimate authority at the ECB rests with its Governing
Council, which is made up of only euro-area members. Nations
outside the currency bloc have said they might veto the banking
union plan unless it includes a way to include all participating
countries in oversight decisions.  The European Commission unveiled proposals in September.
Last week, European Union lawyers gave their input to a
compromise prepared by Cyprus in its role holding the EU’s
rotating presidency.  The EU lawyers concluded that there should be changes to
how the new bank supervisor would interact with the European
Banking Authority, a London-based agency that coordinates
disputes among regulators, according to two people familiar with
the matter.  For more, click here and click here.  Compliance Action  Egypt to Tap Global Sukuk Market After Law Enactment, IMF Loan  Egypt has received interest from foreign banks amounting to
$750 million to $1 billion for a sukuk sale after it passes the
requisite law and reaches an International Monetary Fund
agreement, an official said.  The  Finance Ministry  plans to begin the debt sale process
after receiving “clearance” from Prime Minister Hisham Qandil,
its head of debt management Samy Khallaf said in an e-mailed
statement yesterday. The ministry has submitted a first reading
of a draft law that must be approved by parliament or the
president -- who holds legislative powers as the chamber was
dissolved in June -- he said.  Egypt wants to diversify borrowing as short-term yields
remain the second highest in the Middle East after Yemen.
 Overseas investors have shunned  domestic notes since the start
of a popular uprising in January 2011 on concern the Egyptian
pound may be devalued, a step officials including President
Mohamed Mursi have said won’t happen.  Foreign reserves  dropped
58 percent since then to $15 billion in September, or enough for
about three months of imports, central bank data show.  An IMF team is due to visit Cairo by the end of the month,
when Egypt hopes it can reach a preliminary agreement for a loan
of $4.8 billion. In addition to enacting a sukuk law, executive
regulations for that legislation also need to be set, Khallaf
said.  The Finance Ministry plans to issue the debt as a sovereign
entity.  SEC Probes Bankrupt San Bernardino, California, on Bond Sales  A U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission “informal
inquiry” of San Bernardino, California’s finances requires the
bankrupt city to preserve bond documents and communications with
underwriters.  The nature of the agency’s inquiry isn’t detailed in the
Oct. 11 letter from Robert H. Conrrad, a Los Angeles-based SEC
senior enforcement counsel, to City Attorney James Penman. It
calls on city officials to preserve all records of securities
offerings and written communications with underwriters, fiscal
advisers and credit ratings companies.  “There are a lot of areas that need to be covered by the
SEC,” Penman said yesterday. “The city attorney and the city
council are pleased that they’re coming in to look at things.”  The SEC has stepped up efforts to enforce disclosure rules
that apply to states and cities that raise money from investors,
and has said it plans to recommend ways to improve regulation of
the $3.7 trillion municipal-bond market.  In San Bernardino, a city of 209,000 about 60 miles (100
kilometers) east of  Los Angeles , the county Sheriff’s Department
said a probe of possible criminal activity in City Hall had
begun several months before the city sought Chapter 9 court
protection on Aug. 1.  Judith Burns, an SEC spokeswoman in Washington, declined to
confirm the agency probe.  San Bernardino, the third California city to enter
bankruptcy this year, relied on a variety of budgetary maneuvers
to stay solvent, such as redirecting money from restricted
accounts, Andrea Travis-Miller, the interim city manager, said
in a July interview. None of those actions appeared to be
illegal, she said then.  For more, click here.  Sun Life Fined $969,000 by U.K. Regulator for Governance Failure  The Financial Services Authority fined Sun Life Assurance
Company of Canada 600,000 pounds ($969,000) for failings in the
governance of its with-profits business.  The firm’s U.K. committee “failed to adequately review”
two transactions in 2008 and 2009, and risked a lack of “proper
independent judgment” in making deals, the FSA said in an e-
mailed statement.  The transactions affected around 114,000 insurance
policies, the FSA said in the statement.  “The  Sun Life Financial Inc. (SLF)  organization has very strong
governance and risk-management standards and practices across
its family of companies,” the company said in an e-mailed
statement. “The concerns about the decision-making processes
for the transactions did not affect the policyholders.”  Regulators have increased their focus on governance since
the 2008 collapse of  Lehman Brothers .  Courts  Ex-SocGen Banker’s Severance-Pay Case Reaches U.K.’s Top Court  A former  Societe Generale SA (GLE)  banker who already won 11
million euros ($14.4 million) in a severance dispute is seeking
more from the bank as the case reached the U.K.’s top court -- a
first for the financial-services industry.  Raphael Geys, a former managing director of European fixed-
income sales at the bank, has said he is entitled to 12.5
million euros. He sued the bank in 2010 saying he was owed more
than the 8 million euros in severance offered to him under the
terms of his contract.  Another U.K. court ruled in 2010 that the bank didn’t
“appropriately” word a November 2007 letter firing Geys. The
banker has said his contract was terminated in January 2008,
while the Paris-based bank claims his employment ended in
November 2007, Geys’s lawyer David Cavender said at yesterday’s
 Supreme Court  hearing in London.  “You cannot terminate the contract of a senior employee
without telling” them that it has come to an end, he said.  The two-day hearing will be the first time a financial-
service industry compensation argument will be ruled on by
Britain’s most-senior judges, according to Ben Wilson, a court
spokesman. Bankers and traders who say they were treated
unfairly by their employers during and after the financial
crisis are increasingly turning to British courts and employment
tribunals seeking compensation.  The case is: Raphael Geys v. Societe Generale, claim no.
HC08C02683, High Court of Justice,  Chancery Division  (London).  Ex-UBS Banker Bagios Set to Change Plea in Tax Evasion Case  Christos Bagios, a former banker at  UBS AG (UBSN)  and  Credit
Suisse Group AG (CSGN)  who was arrested in January 2011 amid a U.S.
crackdown on offshore tax evasion, is scheduled to change a not
guilty plea he entered yesterday, according to court records.  Prosecutors charged Bagios last year with helping 150
American clients hide as much as $500 million from the Internal
Revenue Service when he worked at UBS, where he spent 15 years
before joining Credit Suisse in 2009.  He was charged Oct. 16 in federal court in Fort Lauderdale,
Florida, in a document known as a criminal information, which
typically precedes a guilty plea. Bagios was arraigned yesterday
on the conspiracy charge in Fort Lauderdale and pleaded not
guilty. He is scheduled to return to court in West Palm Beach,
Florida, for a change-of-plea hearing on Oct. 26.  Bagios and other Swiss bankers conspired to “assist U.S.
customers in concealing assets and income from the U.S.
government, including the IRS,” according to the charge filed
yesterday.  Bagios declined to comment after the hearing yesterday.  He is one of about two dozen foreign bankers, lawyers or
advisers charged since 2008 in the crackdown on offshore tax
evasion.  The case is U.S. v. Bagios, 12-cr-60260, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of Florida (Fort Lauderdale).  For more, click here.  Yorkville Advisors Made $10 Million on Inflated Assets, SEC Says  Yorkville Advisors LLC, a New York hedge-fund firm, reaped
at least $10 million in excess fees after overvaluing assets it
managed and exaggerating returns to hide losses, U.S. regulators
said in a complaint.  Mark Angelo, Yorkville’s founder and president, and Edward
Schinik, the firm’s chief financial officer, enticed pension
funds and other clients to invest more than $280 million since
2008 by making false claims about the safety and liquidity of
their investments, the Securities and Exchange Commission said
in a lawsuit filed yesterday in U.S. District Court in
Manhattan.  The case is the seventh to come from an SEC initiative to
identify and probe firms reporting returns that outpace
benchmarks for their stated investment strategy. Investigators
found that Yorkville also withheld adverse information from its
auditor, enabling the firm to carry some of its largest
investments at inflated values, the SEC said.  The firm disputes all of the SEC’s allegations, “as they
lack merit and are entirely without support,” Angelo said in a
statement.  “Yorkville at all times has acted appropriately and
implemented robust control procedures to ensure the proper
valuation of assets,” he said in the statement, noting that the
company employed two former SEC enforcement lawyers on its
valuation committee. “After enduring an SEC investigation that
was clearly driven by an agenda, Yorkville looks forward to
defending this matter and having the SEC subject to the
supervision of a federal district court.”  Interviews  BOE’s Tucker Says Bank Pay Must Be Tied to Performance  Bank of England Deputy Governor  Paul Tucker  spoke in London
about bank pay rules, culture and supervision.  Tucker, who spoke at the annual conference of the  British
Bankers Association , also discussed the impact of the European
crisis on competition. Peter Thal Larsen moderated.  For the video, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carla Main in  New Jersey  at 
 cmain2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this report:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  