-- Swedish Krona Surges as Ingves Warns Low Rates Pose Risks
-- B y   S t e p h e n   T r e l o a r   a n d   L u k a n y o   M n y a n d a
-- 2012-10-18T10:46:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-18/sweden-s-krona-strengthens-after-ingves-sees-risk-of-low-rates.html
Sweden’s krona strengthened against
both the euro and the dollar after Riksbank Governor Stefan Ingves warned of risks associated with keeping  interest rates 
low that “can’t be ignored.”  The krona strengthened as much as 0.9 percent against the
euro and traded at 8.5708 as of 12:26 p.m. in  Stockholm , making
it today’s best-performing major currency against the euro, the
dollar and the yen. Versus the dollar, the krona gained 0.8
percent to 6.5353. The krona has risen 2.5 percent this year,
making it the third-best performer among 10 developed-nation
currencies, Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Currency Indexes
show. Versus the euro, the krona has appreciated 4.2 percent
since the end of December.  Ingves responded to comments from economists at some of
Sweden’s biggest banks and trade unions arguing that a recent
spate of job cuts point to a higher unemployment level than the
government is predicting. That had prompted calls from industry
groups for rate cuts as  Sweden  shows signs of succumbing to
faltering demand across much of the rest of  Europe .  “Voices have been raised for lowering an already very low
rate further to stimulate employment,” Ingves wrote in an
opinion piece published today in  Svenska Dagbladet . “Today’s
unemployment is a problem but as Riksbank governor I can’t just
act in a short-term perspective. I also have to take into
account the long-term consequences of today’s monetary policy.”  ‘Extra Firmness’  Overnight index swaps in Sweden showed no probability of a
cut next week, compared with 22 percent before Ingves’s
comments. The swaps now show a 5.8 percent probability of a rate
increase this month.  Ingves’s comments “effectively mean that we won’t get a
rate cut next week,”  Steven Barrow , head of G-10 research at
Standard Bank Plc in  London , said by phone today. “That’s
probably fairly clear now.” The krona “could see a bit of
extra firmness going forward as well,” he said.  Ingves talked down speculation the Riksbank will need to
cut rates at next week’s meeting amid signs Sweden’s labor
market is deteriorating. His six-member board meets on Oct. 24
and announces its decision the following day.  “This is quite a cooling of these expectations,” Anders Ekloef, a currency strategist at Swedbank AB, said by phone.
“The chance of a series of cuts is quite low. It has come down
with today’s comments and this is supportive in the medium-term
for the krona.”  Job Cuts   Unemployment rose  to 7.4 percent in September from 7.2
percent the previous month, the Stockholm-based statistics
office said today, in line with estimates in a Bloomberg survey.
The seasonally adjusted rate held at 7.8 percent.  “We have spoken very clearly for a long time now about
downside risks and it now looks like some of the downside risks
are materializing,” Prime Minister  Fredrik Reinfeldt  said
yesterday.  Sweden’s $500 billion economy is vulnerable to an economic
slowdown abroad since it exports about half of its output. About
70 percent of its sales abroad go to Europe where countries are
cutting spending to reduce debt.  TeliaSonera AB yesterday became the latest Swedish company
to announce job cuts. Truckmaker Volvo AB, papermaker Holmen AB,
steel manufacturer SSAB have also in recent weeks said they’ll
trim their workforce amid sluggish markets.  The Swedish central bank last month cut its repo rate by
quarter of a percentage point for a third time since December
1.25 percent, citing the strong currency and saying “weak
demand from the euro area will now damp exports.”  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Treloar at 
 streloar1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Wienberg at 
 cwienberg@bloomberg.net  