-- Swiss Stocks Are Little Changed; Nestle Retreats
-- B y   A d r i a   C i m i n o
-- 2012-10-18T16:00:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-18/swiss-stocks-drop-for-first-time-in-six-days.html
Swiss stocks  were little changed,
erasing earlier losses, as investors awaited the outcome of the
Brussels summit of European Union leaders and reports presented
a mixed picture of the  U.S. economy .  Nestle SA (NESN) , the heaviest share in the Swiss Market Index
with a 24 percent weight, tumbled the most in almost six months
after reporting revenue that missed analyst estimates.  Swatch
Group AG (UHR)  and Cie. Financiere Richemont SA retreated at least 2
percent as data showed the country’s watch exports fell in
September.  Actelion (ATLN)  Ltd. gained after reporting net income that
beat forecasts.  The  SMI (SMI)  lost 0.1 percent to 6,781.72 at the close of
trading in Zurich, after earlier declining as much as 0.7
percent. The benchmark measure has still rallied 19 percent from
this year’s low on June 4 as European Central Bank policy makers
agreed on an unlimited bond-buying plan and the  Federal Reserve 
announced a third round of quantitative easing. The broader
Swiss Performance Index fell less than 0.1 percent today.  “Expectations in general are very low and nobody expects
that any kind of final deal will be struck” on either Spanish
aid or integration of the region’s banking system at the summit,
Markus Huber, head of German sales trading at ETX Capital in
 London , wrote in a note. “However, markets seem to have priced
in at least some progress on both issues.”  Debating Points  Leaders gathered in Brussels this afternoon for the two-day
discussions. Earlier, French President  Francois Hollande  said
efforts to stem the debt crisis may unravel if  member states 
fail to deliver on their promises. He called on the euro area to
introduce a banking union, provide economic help to countries
that reduce budget deficits, and show investors that  Greece  can
stay in the single currency if it abides by its commitments.  Borrowing costs dropped at debt sales by Spain and  France 
today. Spanish 10-year bonds advanced, pushing the yield to a
six-month low, after the nation sold 4.61 billion euros of
securities due in 2015, 2016 and 2022. France sold 7.97 billion
euros of debt, with five-year notes attracting an average yield
of 0.92 percent, down from 0.98 percent on Sept. 20. The country
also auctioned two-, three- and four-year notes and inflation-
linked securities maturing in 2021.  In the U.S., data showed More Americans than forecast filed
applications for  unemployment benefits  last week. Jobless claims
increased by 46,000 to 388,000 in the week ended Oct. 13 from a
revised 342,000 the prior period, Labor Department figures
showed. The median forecast of 49 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg called for a rise to 365,000.  Leading Indicators  The index of U.S. leading economic indicators rose in
September by the most in seven months, another report showed.  The Conference Board’s gauge of the outlook for the next
three to six months increased 0.6 percent after a revised 0.4
percent drop in August that was bigger than initially reported,
the New York-based group said. Economists in a Bloomberg survey
projected the gauge would climb 0.2 percent.  China ’s industrial production, retail sales and fixed-asset
investment all accelerated in September. A separate release from
the National Bureau of Statistics showed that gross domestic
product expanded 7.4 percent in the third quarter from a year
earlier. That matched the median estimate in a Bloomberg News
survey and compared with 7.6 percent growth in the second
quarter. GDP rose 2.2 percent from the previous period, a four-
quarter high.  Nestle Falls  Nestle tumbled 1.7 percent to 61.20 francs, the sharpest
decrease since April 23. The company reported slowing sales
growth that missed  analysts’  estimates in the first nine months
of the year as demand stumbled in  emerging markets  and shipments
of prepared dishes and cooking aids declined.  Revenue excluding acquisitions, divestments and currency
swings gained 6.1 percent, the Vevey, Switzerland-based company
said. The average estimate of 12 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg
was for growth of 6.3 percent.  “Nestle delivers a weak last quarter,” Andreas von Arx,
an analyst at Helvea AG in Zurich, wrote in a note. “We would
expect consensus estimates to come down post results and would
expect share-price pressure today.”  Swatch, the world’s largest watchmaker, slipped 2.4 percent
to 386 francs.  Richemont (CFR) , the owner of the Cartier brand,
tumbled 3.5 percent to 60.10 francs. Swiss watch exports
declined 2.7 percent in September from a year earlier, according
to a report from the Federation of the Swiss Watch Industry.  Actelion rose 0.6 percent to 46.83 francs. Switzerland’s
largest biotechnology company reported third-quarter net income
of 94.6 million Swiss francs ($102.5 million), exceeding the
average 79.6 million-franc analyst estimate.  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN)  and Transocean Ltd. led gains on the
SMI, gaining 2.3 percent each to 22.60 francs and 44.30 francs,
respectively.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adria Cimino in Paris at 
 acimino1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  