-- Cameron Backs Away From Making Energy Companies Reduce Bills
-- B y   T h o m a s   P e n n y   a n d   R o b e r t   H u t t o n
-- 2012-10-18T16:38:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-18/u-k-energy-minister-hayes-to-discuss-price-rises-with-suppliers.html
U.K. Prime Minister  David Cameron 
backed away from his pledge yesterday to force gas and
electricity suppliers to charge customers the lowest possible
prices, after warnings the move might kill competition.  “We’re going to use the forthcoming legislation -- the
Energy Bill coming up this year -- so that we make sure, we
ensure, that consumers get the lowest tariffs,” Cameron told
reporters in Brussels today. Yesterday, in an off-the-cuff
remark in Parliament, he said the government would legislate so
energy companies “have to give the lowest tariff.”  Cameron’s spokeswoman, Vickie Sheriff, told reporters in
 London  the legislation may include imposing a duty on companies
to inform customers of lower tariffs. Earlier today, Energy
Minister  John Hayes  had told lawmakers the legislation would
“help energy customers get the best deal.”  The prime minister’s original announcement was an attempt
to respond to public anger after energy providers including
 Centrica Plc (CNA)  and RWE Npower Plc announced price rises to take
effect as winter approaches. Analysts at Deutsche Bank AG
published a note earlier today suggesting his plan might be a
step toward ending retail competition. The Federation of Small
Businesses said it might lead to price-fixing.  Hayes, a member of Cameron’s  Conservative Party , was
summoned to Parliament this morning to answer an urgent question
from the opposition  Labour Party  on the policy, which the prime
minister, to the surprise of aides, set out during his weekly
questions session. The energy minister said he’ll discuss it
with gas and electricity companies “as a matter of urgency.”  Switching Suppliers  Hayes’s boss, Energy Secretary  Ed Davey  from Cameron’s
Liberal Democrat coalition partners, was meanwhile speaking
elsewhere in London about encouraging customers to switch
suppliers to find the best deal.  “Was the prime minister making it up as he went along?”
 Caroline Flint , Labour’s energy spokeswoman, asked Hayes. “For
the government to spend a day pretending they have a policy they
have no intention of implementing is no way to run the
country.”  Hayes said a number of options are being considered,
including a voluntary agreement with the industry, as part of
the Energy Bill.  Asked what he expected the effect of the bill would be on
tariffs, Hayes said he expected “considerably fewer than there
are now.”  Talking to reporters at a meeting organized by the
 Confederation of British Industry , Davey sidestepped questions
calling for detail about Cameron’s proposals.  ‘In Discussion’  “We’ve been in discussion within the department and across
government about other measures we can take in the energy bill
and we’ll be detailing those in the next few weeks,” Davey
said. “I do think we need to strengthen the competition in
retail energy markets and wholesale energy markets, and I think
that is what the prime minister was talking about.”  Cameron’s office said later that one option being looked at
is for customers who are on a variable tariff and pay by direct
debit to be informed by their provider that they are going to be
automatically switched to the lowest appropriate tariff.
Customers would be able to opt out if they want to.  Davey also said officials are looking into how to improve
switching arrangements when customers want to change supplier,
building on an agreement he and Deputy Prime Minister  Nick Clegg 
reached with companies in April.  ‘Effectively Kill’  The Deutsche Bank note highlighted a statement by price-
comparison website uSwitch that Cameron’s planned move “would
effectively kill competition by removing any point in
switching.”  Should the rate at which customers switch fall, “even
where there are some price differentials between suppliers, it
may become an accepted view that competition in itself will not
regulate prices and profits,” London-based analysts Martin Brough and James Brand wrote. “The pressure for an explicit
residual price cap or regulation of profits may then rise.”  FSB Chairman  John Walker  said in a  statement on the
organization’s website  that “there is a very real risk that
forcing energy companies to put customers on the cheapest tariff
could lead to price fixing and erode what little competition
there is in the market.”  The draft Energy Bill, published earlier this year, focused
on creating incentives for generating companies to replace and
increase capacity, and didn’t contain Cameron’s proposal. Davey
said today it’ll include rules that nuclear and renewable-energy
developers say they need to fund new  power plants  in an effort
to unlock investment for more electricity generation.  The energy secretary said he will publish the bill within
the next month, allowing lawmakers to vote in Parliament before
their Christmas recess. It will include a “capacity market”
ensuring utilities are compensated for maintaining extra
supplies and “contracts for difference” that benefit nuclear
providers.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Thomas Penny in London at 
 tpenny@bloomberg.net ;
Robert Hutton in London at 
 rhutton1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  