-- U.K. Green Bank May Limit Funds for Offshore Wind Plants
-- B y   L o u i s e   D o w n i n g
-- 2012-10-18T06:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-18/u-k-green-bank-may-limit-funds-for-offshore-wind-plants.html
Britain’s Green Investment Bank
plans to channel funds for offshore wind projects into
facilities that are already operating and probably won’t fund
the more risky construction phase.  Ian Nolan, head of origination at the government-backed
institution, said the 3 billion pounds ($4.8 billion) set aside
as the bank’s initial capital isn’t sufficient to allow state
funding for construction projects. The bank expects to have full
borrowing powers only after 2015, assuming government debt is
falling as a portion of economic output.  The intention to focus on financing wind farms only after
they’re operating is a “surprise” to the industry, which hoped
the institution would back projects before they’re built when
risks are higher, said Angus McCrone, a senior analyst at
London-based researcher Bloomberg New Energy Finance.  “The expectation had been that the GIB would step in to
try to fill the perceived gap in the provision of loans for the
higher-risk construction stage of these projects,” McCrone
said. “That demand for pre-construction debt will now have to
be met entirely by utilities, commercial banks and multilateral
lenders like the European Investment Bank.”  Offshore wind capacity in the U.K., the world’s largest
market for marine wind farms, exceeded 2.5 gigawatts in
September for the first time, representing more than 60 percent
of the European Union’s offshore wind capacity, according to
RenewableUK. The government has a target to boost that to 18
gigawatts by 2020. Prime Minister David Cameron promised to set
up the Green Investment Bank to catalyse investment.  ‘Realistic’  While co-investing with others in the construction of
offshore wind farms is within the bank’s mandate, Nolan said
that it’s currently more “realistic” to mobilize institutional
investors once the wind farms are working. The capital then
would be recycled into construction, he said by e-mail.  “We would like to see this asset class established in both
the bank and institutional debt markets, as well as in both
unquoted and quoted equity markets,” Nolan said. “Given the
scale of the financing needed by the offshore wind industry, we
need to seek to attract investors from each of these different
pools of capital.”  European “State Aid” approval for the bank is expected to
be given early next year and the UKGI has been setup to make
investments in the interim. The bank will start with 3 billion
pounds that could leverage a further 15 billion pounds of
private investment. It will prioritize offshore wind, energy
efficiency and the Green Deal program to insulate homes.  Debt Funding  Where the GIB’s capital is provided as debt, it will
initially invest solely on market terms, Nolan said. Permission
to provide “aid” to projects will be subject to further
approval.  “Furthermore, there is the issue of crowding out, which of
course is what the state aid approval process is seeking to
prevent,” said Nolan.  “In any event, the GIB will want to encourage the
development of investors in the sector, and is unlikely to
succeed in that endeavour if it provides finance which undercuts
them in the market place.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Louise Downing in London at 
 ldowning4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  