-- U.K. Energy Rules to Include Measures Spurring Nuclear
-- B y   A l e x   M o r a l e s
-- 2012-10-18T12:22:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-18/u-k-energy-law-will-include-measures-spurring-nuclear-power.html
U.K. Energy Secretary  Ed Davey 
promised to give industry more clarity about power market
reforms due next month, seeking to allay the concerns of
renewable and nuclear power developers that ministers are bogged
down in analysis of the problem.  Davey also suggested he’ll set a target for cutting  carbon
emissions  in the power industry. That measure has been sought by
companies from wind turbine maker  Vestas Wind Systems A/S (VWS)  and
nuclear reactor manufacturer  Areva SA (AREVA) , as well as his
department’s adviser, the Committee on  Climate Change .  “We have listened to investors and today have set out
further measures to provide the certainty they need,” Davey
said in a speech to business leaders today in London. “A strong
case has been made by many investors in energy infrastructure
for a decarbonisation target range for the power sector. Such a
range would make clear our continued commitment to our climate
goals.”  The law, published in draft form on May 22, aims to
restructure the power market and spur 110 billion pounds ($177
billion) of investment needed for aging power stations and
upgrading the grid by 2020. Davey said lawmakers will see his
final proposals next month and vote on them by Christmas.  Cameron’s Plan  Prime Minister  David Cameron  said yesterday the government
will put into the legislation a measure forcing energy suppliers
to charge each customer at the lowest available rate. The
surprise proposal was not included in the May 22 draft, which
focused on  energy supply  rather than demand.  Cameron’s statement caused “chaos in the  energy
industry ,”  Caroline Flint , the shadow energy minister for the
opposition  Labour Party , said in Parliament today. Neil Bentley,
deputy director general of the  Confederation of British
Industry , said the pace of reform is “frustrating” and risks
falling victim to “paralysis by analysis.”  “Let’s stop arguing over the energy mix and focus on
attracting investment to create jobs and growth as quickly as
possible,” Bentley said. “There is no business case for
putting billions of pounds into these long-lived assets if
investors cannot see a long-term, stable policy framework. Right
now, the policy future looks too much like a blank canvas.”  Davey, a Liberal Democrat, has advocated quicker expansion
of renewable energy. Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne ,
a member of Cameron’s Conservative Party, has supported gas and
on Oct. 8 announced possible tax breaks for shale production.  Rules Due  Davey said he’ll lay out measures to drive down energy
demand in the legislation. The draft suggested a guarantee for
prices for low-carbon electricity through so-called contracts
for difference and would set up a “capacity market” where
producers are paid for providing back-up supplies when wind,
solar and marine power fall short.  Oil and coal-fired  power plants  with 14 percent of the
nation’s capacity are due to retire by 2015 as older plants are
retired and tighter pollution rules force others to close. The
government also is seeking to encourage new nuclear stations to
replace the current plants due to shut by 2030.  With the proposed reforms not due to enter into force until
2014, Davey said he will seek powers to provide “comfort” for
investors that want to make a decision in the next 15 months.
Those include  Electricite de France SA , which wants to decide on
a new nuclear plant at Hinkley Point, and about “half a dozen
renewables developers for wind and biomass,” he said.  ‘Strike Price’  Asked whether he would agree before year end on a “strike
price” for the power produced by the Hinkley Point station when
it’s built, Davey said the “comfort” will take the form of
“enabling contracts” that will include a strike price.  Davey said he has “taken on board” investor concerns that
they want a “robust” counterparty to guarantee the long term
power prices secured in the contracts for difference. He said
the counterparty will probably be a company owned by government.  He also said the department identified “shovel ready”
projects that ministers can clear quickly and that the
government intends to remove a “legal ambiguity” in 1986 laws
about natural gas, which could bring 160 million pounds of
investment over eight years.  Government Concern  Cameron’s government sees the energy issue as increasingly
pressing. The electricity grid regulator is warning that
supplies will tighten in the coming years, and companies such as
 Centrica Plc (CNA) ’s British Gas, RWE Npower Plc and  Iberdrola SA (IBE) ’s
Scottish Power Ltd. have boosted charges for customers in recent
weeks.  Speaking in Parliament today,  John Hayes , a junior minister
in Davey’s department, confirmed Cameron’s remarks. “We want to
use the energy bill to get people the lowest tariffs,” he said.  Cameron last night met with Cabinet ministers to discuss
the energy agenda. He’s also working on a Growth and
Infrastructure Bill that will make it easier for utilities to
change their designs in mid-project.  “The bill we are publishing today is all about helping our
country compete in the global race and building an aspiration
nation where we back those who want to get on in life,” Cameron
said in an e-mailed statement. “We are slashing unnecessary
bureaucracy, giving business the confidence to invest, unlocking
big infrastructure projects and supporting hardworking people to
realize their dreams.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Morales in  London  at 
 amorales2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  