-- U.K. Retail Sales Rise More Than Forecast on Clothing Demand
-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 2012-10-18T09:57:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-18/u-k-retail-sales-rise-more-than-forecast-on-clothing-demand-1-.html
U.K. retail sales  rose more than
economists forecast in September on increased demand for winter
clothing and school uniforms.  Sales including fuel  gained 0.6 percent from August, when
they fell 0.1 percent, the  Office for National Statistics  said
today in London. The  median forecast  of 24 economists in a
Bloomberg News survey was for a 0.4 percent gain. Clothes surged
2.1 percent, adding 0.2 percentage points to total sales.  While  cooling inflation  is easing the squeeze on Britons,
any recovery in  consumer spending  may be kept in check as the
economy struggles to recover from a recession and government
budget cuts undermine sentiment. With the  Bank of England ’s
 current stimulus round  finishing next month, policy makers said
yesterday they were split on the need for more so-called
 quantitative easing  to aid the economy.  The data suggest “consumers loosened their purse strings a
little, albeit partly due to temporary factors,” said Samuel
Tombs, an economist at Capital Economics Ltd. in  London . Still,
“renewed pressure on households’ income suggests that sales
volumes will struggle in the coming months.”  Within clothing, the statistics office said sales were
helped by the introduction of winter collections. Retailers also
reported that there was a boost “as consumers put off purchases
of school uniforms until early September.”  Unemployment  The pound erased its decline against the dollar after the
report was released. It was at $1.6161 as of 10:45 a.m. in
London, up 0.1 percent on the day.  Furniture sales rose 3.5 percent in September, while food
sales slipped 0.2 percent, the statistics office said. From a
year earlier, overall retail sales rose 2.5 percent.  In the third quarter, sales increased 1 percent from the
previous three months and were up 2.4 percent from a year
earlier. Excluding fuel, retail sales rose 0.6 percent in
September from August and gained 2.9 percent on the year.  While  Britain’s economy  is struggling to recover, the
 unemployment backdrop  has been more positive than after previous
recessions.  Jobless claims fell in September and the number of people
in work surged to its highest since records began in 1971 in the
quarter through August. The June-August jobless rate measured by
International Labor Organization methods declined to 7.9
percent, the lowest in more than a year.  Consumer confidence 
rose in September, providing “grounds for optimism,” GfK NOP
Ltd. said on Sept. 28.  Consumer Squeeze  Still, while inflation is cooling, it continues to outpace
annual earnings growth, which was at 1.7 percent in the three
months through August. That compares with inflation of 2.2
percent in September, and the squeeze on incomes may intensify
after some of Britain’s biggest power companies announced price
increases in recent weeks.  Next Plc (NXT) , the U.K.’s second-largest clothing retailer, said
last month that sales in August and early September were
“disappointing” and it remains “cautious about the economic
outlook.”  The annual retail sales deflator, a measure of changes in
shop prices, rose to 0.7 percent in September from 0.2 percent
in August, the statistics office said. Excluding auto fuel, the
deflator increased to 0.5 percent from 0.3 percent. The deflator
on food sales was 2 percent.  The Bank of  England  said in the minutes of its October
meeting, released yesterday, that policy makers have
“differences of view” on the outlook. The central bank’s
current stimulus round ends next month, leaving officials facing
a decision over whether to expand QE again.  “Some members felt that there was considerable scope for
asset purchases,” the central bank said. “Other members, while
acknowledging that asset purchases had the scope to lower long-
term yields further, questioned the magnitude of the impact that
lower long-term yields on corporate debt and equity would have
on the broader economy.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Hamilton in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  