-- U.S. October Philadelphia Business Outlook Report (Text)
-- B y   E d i t o r :   [ b n : P R S N = 3 2 1 4 6 5 0 ]   A l e x   T a n z i   [ ]
-- 2012-10-18T14:05:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-18/u-s-october-philadelphia-business-outlook-report-text-.html
The following is the text of the
Philadelphia area manufacturing activity from the  Federal
Reserve Bank of Philadelphia .  Oct-12  Firms responding to the October Business Outlook Survey reported
a modest improvement in business activity this month. The
survey’s indicators for general activity returned to positive
territory, while new orders and shipments recorded levels near
zero. But firms reported continuing declines in employment and
hours worked. Indicators for the firms’ expectations over the
next six months remained positive  Indicators Suggest Modest Improvement  The survey’s broadest measure of manufacturing conditions, the
diffusion index of current activity, increased 8 points, to 5.7,
marking the first positive reading since April. A little over 28
percent of firms reported increases in activity this month, up
from 21 percent last month. The demand for manufactured goods,
as measured by the current new orders index, decreased 2 points,
to -0.6. Shipments rebounded from last month but were roughly
flat this month. The current shipments index increased 21
points, to -0.2; inventories were near steady; and firms
reported continued declines in unfilled orders and shorter
delivery times.  Labor market conditions at the reporting firms remained weak
this month. The current employment index dipped 3 points, to -
10.7, its lowest reading since September 2009. Twice as many
firms reported decreases in employment (22 percent) as reported
increases (11 percent). Firms also indicated fewer hours worked:
The average workweek index, at -7.6, was negative for the
seventh consecutive month.  Price Indexes Increase Slightly  More firms reported paying higher prices for inputs, and the
prices received for manufactured goods rose modestly this month.
The prices paid index increased from 8 last month to 19 in
October, with 30 percent of the firms reporting input price
increases. With respect to their own manufactured goods, the
percentage reporting an increase in prices (19 percent) was
greater than the percentage reporting a decrease (14 percent).
The prices received index rose to 5.4 from -0.2.  Six-Month Indicators Positive, But Subdued  Most of the survey’s future indicators remained positive this
month but fell from September’s readings. The future general
activity index decreased from 41.2 to 21.6. Despite the drop in
the index, the percentage of firms expecting increases in
activity over the next six months (42 percent) was twice the
percentage expecting decreases (20 percent). This was also the
case for the indexes for future new orders and shipments:
Despite decreases of 28 and 22 points, respectively, roughly
twice as many firms still expect increases in new orders and
shipments than decreases over the next six months. The future
employment index also fell from September but remained positive
at 8.0. The share of firms expecting to increase employment over
the next six months (22 percent) was greater than the share
expecting to decrease employment (14 percent). The percentage of
firms expecting to decrease  capital spending  (19 percent) is
slightly higher than the percentage expecting to increase it (18
percent). The future capital expenditures index decreased 7
points, to -1.9 in October, its first negative reading since
September 2009.  For this month’s special questions, manufacturers were asked
about changes in their workforce and the changing use of
flexible workers over the past year (see Special Questions).
The share of firms that increased their total workforce over the
past year (32 percent) narrowly outnumbered those that decreased
their workforce (31 percent), and the mix of employment has
changed for many firms. For example, 65 percent of firms
indicated that they use temporary or agency workers, and 28
percent of these firms indicated that they have increased the
total share of these workers over the past year.  Summary  The October Business Outlook Survey suggests that activity among
the region’s manufacturing sector has steadied, following
several months of reported declines. However, firms reported
flat new orders and shipments and declines in employment.
Prices for firms’ manufactured goods were moderately higher this
month, while increases in input prices were more widespread. The
future activity index decreased this month but remained
positive, and firms are still generally optimistic regarding
growth over the next six months.  Special Questions (October 2012)  1. Has your total workforce decreased, increased, or stayed the
same over the last year?  Decreased          31.1%
Stayed the same    32.4%
Increased          32.4%
No response         4.1%
Total        100.0%  Notes: (1) Items may not add to 100 percent because of omission
by respondents. (2) All data are seasonally adjusted. (3)
Diffusion indexes represent the percentage of respondents
indicating an increase minus the percentage indicating a
decrease. (4) Survey data reflect information received through
October 16, 2012.  SOURCE: Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia 