-- Huawei May Surface in U.S. Review of Softbank-Sprint Deal
-- B y   S a r a   F o r d e n   a n d   T o d d   S h i e l d s
-- 2012-10-19T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-18/huawei-may-surface-in-u-s-review-of-softbank-sprint-deal.html
Softbank Corp. (9984)  buys mobile-phone
network gear from Chinese companies viewed as security threats
by U.S. lawmakers, and the relationship may become an issue as
regulators review its bid for  Sprint Nextel Corp. (S)   Softbank’s connections with Huawei Technologies Co. and  ZTE
Corp. (763) ,  China ’s two largest makers of phone-network equipment,
probably won’t kill its $20.1 billion offer for 70 percent of
Sprint, said Stewart Baker, a former U.S.  Homeland Security 
Department official. It’s likely, though, that U.S. officials
will address those links when they scrutinize the deal, he said.  The House Intelligence Committee in a report last month
urged U.S. companies to steer clear of Huawei and ZTE, citing
concerns that the Chinese government could install malicious
hardware or software in U.S. telecommunications networks.  “The flap over Huawei and ZTE means that at a minimum, the
extent to which equipment from Huawei and ZTE would be
introduced into the U.S. infrastructure will be an issue,”
Baker, a partner with Steptoe & Johnson LLP in  Washington , said.
“This deal will probably end up getting approved but with a
very detailed national security agreement.”  About 10 percent of capital expenditure by Tokyo-based
Softbank goes to Huawei and ZTE for equipment, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Softbank President  “I am aware in the U.S., the government is sensitively
looking at it, and we understand national security,” Softbank
President Masayoshi Son said in an interview yesterday. “So if
the U.S. government decides, don’t do it, we would comply.”  “It’s only one of our group subsidiary companies using
Huawei and ZTE,” Son said. “It’s never our main investment.”  Sprint Chief Executive Officer  Dan Hesse  said in an
interview that the combined company is set for an extensive
regulatory review, and because of that doesn’t expect to close
the deal until the middle of next year.  “We don’t foresee any issues at all with respect to
regulatory approval,” Hesse said. “This will be seen as a
positive -- it’s pro-consumer, it’s pro-competitive.” The deal
will build the third-largest mobile carrier as a competitor to
market leaders Verizon Wireless and  AT&T Inc. (T) , he said.  Softbank buys base band units and antenna systems from
Huawei and ZTE for its fourth-generation mobile network in
Japan. Alcatel-Lucent and Ericsson AB provide the core network.  ‘National Security’  William Plummer , a Washington-based spokesman for Huawei,
declined by e-mail to comment on the security review. ZTE isn’t
commenting, Rory Davenport, spokesman for the company in
Washington, said in an e-mail.  U.S. Commerce Secretary  Gary Locke  called Hesse in 2010 to
express “deep concern” that Huawei might win a contract to
upgrade the mobile-phone carrier’s network. After the call,
Sprint awarded the work, worth as much as $5 billion, to
companies based in  France ,  Sweden  and  South Korea .  Huawei, founded in 1988 by former Chinese army officer Ren Zhengfei, has struggled to expand in the U.S. Huawei and Bain
Capital Partners LLC dropped a bid to buy computer-equipment
maker 3Com Corp. in 2008 after U.S. officials opposed the
transaction. Last year, Huawei unwound the purchase of patents
from a computer-services company, 3Leaf Systems Inc., after U.S.
objections.  Lobbying Firms  Huawei has hired six lobbying firms and spent $820,000 on
lobbying in the first six months of this year, compared with
$200,000 during the same period in 2011, according to U.S.
Senate disclosures.  Softbank and Sprint will need to reach a national security
agreement with the U.S. government’s “Team Telecom,” which
includes the departments of Defense, Homeland Security and
Justice, Farhad Jalinous, a partner with Kaye Scholer LLP in
Washington, said.  Such an agreement would virtually guarantee approval of the
deal by the Committee on Foreign Investment in the U.S., or
CFIUS, he said.  CFIUS is an interagency committee headed by Treasury
Secretary  Timothy Geithner  that reviews the national security
implications of transactions that could lead to a non-U.S.
citizen controlling a U.S. business.  A so-called mitigation agreement would also resolve any
concerns about control of Overland Park, Kansas-based Sprint
falling to a non-U.S. owner, Jalinous said.  ‘Ample Precedent’  John Taylor , a Sprint spokesman, said there is “ample
precedent” for foreign ownership in the U.S. telecommunications
market and that “any concerns can be adequately addressed.”  In 2001, members of Congress, to no avail, urged the
Federal Communications Commission to block Deutsche Telekom AG’s
purchase of the company that became T-Mobile USA Inc. because
the Bonn-based buyer was controlled by the German government.
The FCC  approved the deal . Softbank isn’t  government-owned .
Verizon Wireless, the largest carrier in the U.S. market, is 45
percent owned by U.K-based  Vodafone Group Plc (VOD)  and 55 percent
owned by New York-based  Verizon Communications Inc. (VZ)   “The U.S. long ago decided to allow foreign ownership of a
U.S. wireless operator when Deutsche Telekom bought T-Mobile,”
 Paul Gallant , a Washington-based analyst with Guggenheim
Securities, said in a note Oct. 17.  FCC Chairman  Julius Genachowski , when asked Oct. 17 whether
foreign ownership of mobile providers is a cause for concern,
said, “The focus is on driving investment and innovation in the
U.S., benefiting our economy, benefiting American consumers.”  Foreign Ownership  The FCC, in reviewing mergers, considers foreign ownership,
according to a set of guidelines published by the agency. The
national security agreement negotiated with Team Telecom is
incorporated into the FCC licensing process, Steptoe & Johnson’s
Baker said.  Softbank is based in a country that is an ally and major
trading partner, and its investment would make Sprint a stronger
rival  Verizon Wireless  and AT&T, Jeffrey Silva, a Washington-
based analyst with Medley Global Advisors, said in an e-mail.
Obama administration regulators have said they want to preserve
competitors in the wireless marketplace.  “We do not anticipate any regulatory issues -- either
antitrust or national security -- that would prevent Softbank
from closing its planned acquisition of Sprint,” Guggenhiem
Securities’ Gallant said.  Political Concerns  Political concerns have sometimes overshadowed national
security issues, as in 2006 when Dubai Ports World, a state-
owned company in the United Arab Emirates, acquired commercial
operations at six U.S. ports when it bought a U.K.-based
company. While CFIUS approved the deal, Dubai Ports sold the
operations after U.S. lawmakers objected to the foreign
ownership.  Natalie Ernest Wyeth, a CFIUS spokeswoman, declined to
comment on the proposed purchase of Sprint by Softbank.  “Right now China is in the crosshairs, but it’s very
critical that the CFIUS process itself be narrowly focused on
national security issues,” said Nancy McLernon, president of
the Organization for International Investment, which represents
more than 160 non-American companies with a presence in the U.S.  “The concerns over the security of supply chains that were
raised in the House Intelligence report should be dealt with
through our trade policy. The foreign ownership of the company
is not the relevant factor.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sara Forden in Washington at   sforden@bloomberg.net ;
Todd Shields in Washington at   tshields3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  or
Bernard Kohn at   bkohn2@bloomberg.net . 