-- UBS Said to Widen Job Cuts to 400 at Investment Bank
-- B y   E l i s a   M a r t i n u z z i ,   A m b e r e e n   C h o u d h u r y   a n d   E l e n a   L o g u t e n k o v a
-- 2012-10-18T14:29:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-18/ubs-said-to-widen-job-cuts-to-400-at-europe-investment-bank.html
UBS AG (UBSN)  is preparing another round of
job cuts across its investment bank in  Europe  as Chief Executive
Officer  Sergio Ermotti  tries to overhaul the firm, two people
with knowledge of the matter said.  UBS is considering cuts in equities and fixed income as it
trims its merger advisory staff, bringing total reductions to
about 400, or 10 percent of the unit’s front-office employees in
the region, said the people, who asked not to be identified
because the review is private. The cuts are part of plans to
pare back headcount globally, said one of the people.  Ermotti, 52, said in a memo to staff last week he will take
“all actions necessary to tackle the current challenging market
environment and paradigm shift” in banking and will continue
“remodelling” UBS. The Zurich-based firm, which said last year
it would trim about 1,600 jobs at the unit, has already reached
the staffing goal it set for the end of 2013 as the bank shrinks
its securities business to concentrate on wealth management.  “We like the restructuring opportunity at UBS,” said Huw van Steenis, a London-based analyst at Morgan Stanley. The bank
would benefit “if it can reduce the return-on-equity drag from
the single-digit returns in the investment bank to reveal the
value of its wealth franchise, which is currently making 25
percent returns.”  Earnings Weaken  UBS spokesman Dominik von Arx in London declined to comment
on job cuts.  The bank plans about 80 to 90 job cuts in the advisory
division that includes equity and debt capital markets, people
with knowledge of the matter told Bloomberg News on Sept. 19.
The cuts are being extended to trading activities, the people
said.  Pretax  profit  at the investment bank, which employed 16,432
globally at the end of June, slumped 55 percent in the first
half from a year earlier. JPMorgan Chase & Co. analysts, led by
 Kian Abouhossein , said in a note to clients on Oct. 10 that they
expect “relatively weak” third-quarter results from UBS and a
further reorganization of the investment bank.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  posted a 16 percent decline in
equities trading revenue to $1.96 billion in the third quarter
from a year earlier, while JPMorgan’s equity-trading revenue,
excluding accounting adjustments, was little changed at $1.04
billion. Both New York-based firms, as well as  Citigroup Inc. (C) ,
reported higher trading revenue stemming from fixed income.  Cutting Jobs  UBS is scheduled to report third-quarter results Oct. 30.  Financial job cuts in western Europe have exceeded 34,400
this year as firms, including Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc,
UBS and Deutsche Bank AG, eliminated positions amid the
sovereign-debt crisis. Financial firms announced more than
61,600 cuts globally this year, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Nomura Holdings Inc. (8604) ,  Japan ’s biggest brokerage, is also
eliminating about 100 investment-banking jobs in Europe as it
unwinds a four-year international expansion, three people with
knowledge of the plans said in September. Julius Baer Group
Ltd., the Swiss private bank established in 1890, may cut more
than 1,000 jobs as it buys Merrill Lynch wealth units outside
the U.S. from Bank of America Corp.  Ermotti told Swiss newspaper Finanz und Wirtschaft in an
interview published Sept. 15 that the bank will continue to trim
jobs at the securities unit to adjust to “the new reality,”
and that the cuts would affect people in the front office as
well as in supporting functions.  To contact the reporters responsible for this story:
Elisa Martinuzzi in Milan at 
 emartinuzzi@bloomberg.net ;
Ambereen Choudhury in  London  at 
achoudhury@bloomberg;net;
Elena Logutenkova in Zurich at 
 elogutenkova@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net ;
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  