-- Hungarian Bond Yields Decline to 2 1/2 Year Low Before Auction
-- B y   A n d r a s   G e r g e l y
-- 2012-10-18T08:47:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-18/hungarian-bond-yields-decline-to-2-1-2-year-low-before-auction.html
Hungary’s bond yields fell to the
lowest in 2 1/2 years before an auction today and the forint
rebounded on bets the government will obtain a bailout deal and
as demand for higher-yielding assets increased.  The Debt Management Agency will offer 47 billion forint
($222.1 million) in debt due in 2015, 2017 and 2022 at a
biweekly sale today. Yields on the five-year securities fell 17
basis points, or 0.17 percentage point, to 6.17 percent, the
lowest since April 2010. The forint strengthened 0.5 percent to
276.86 per euro by 9:58 a.m. in Budapest, extending its advance
this year to 14 percent, the most among more than 100 currencies
tracked by Bloomberg. The currency lost 0.2 percent yesterday.  Prime Minister  Viktor Orban ’s Cabinet, which requested aid
from the  International Monetary Fund  and the European Union 11
months ago, yesterday unveiled plans to raise taxes on the
financial services industry to keep the  budget deficit  within
the EU’s prescribed limit of 3 percent of gross domestic
product. The budget steps, which were needed to prevent the
European Commission cutting off development aid to the country,
show the Cabinet sees the importance of international
assistance, according to Erste Group Bank AG.  “Hungarian bonds have performed very well in the past
month, thanks both to positive risk sentiment and the market’s
optimism that the IMF/EU deal will be reached at some point,”
Esther Law, a London-based strategist at Societe Generale SA,
wrote in an e-mail today, adding that the auction is expected to
be “strong.”  Emerging-market stocks rose, driving the benchmark index to
a five-week high, after Chinese Premier  Wen Jiabao  said the
country’s economic growth has started to stabilize and U.S.
housing starts beat estimates.  “The forint’s weakening was only temporary on Wednesday
amid strong support from the positive global  market sentiment ,”
Sandor Jobbagy, a Budapest-based analyst at Intesa Sanpaolo
SpA’s CIB unit, wrote in an e-mailed report today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andras Gergely in Budapest at 
 agergely@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  