-- Hungary 5-Year Bond Yields Fall to 2 1/2-Year Low at Auction
-- B y   A n d r a s   G e r g e l y
-- 2012-10-18T14:51:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-18/hungary-5-year-bond-yields-fall-to-2-1-2-year-low-at-auction-2-.html
Hungary sold five-year bonds at the
 lowest  cost in 2 1/2 years at an auction today as demand for
riskier assets rose and on bets the government will obtain a
bailout deal.  The Debt Management Agency raised 49 billion forint ($232
million) from bonds maturing in 2015, 2017 and 2022, 2 billion
forint more than planned. The issuance included 13 billion
forint of 2017 notes sold at an average yield of 6.03 percent,
the lowest for that maturity since April 2010. Borrowing costs
fell for the other two securities. The forint fell 0.2 percent
to 278.64 per euro by 4:24 p.m. in Budapest.  Prime Minister  Viktor Orban ’s Cabinet, which requested aid
from the  International Monetary Fund  and the European Union 11
months ago, yesterday unveiled plans to raise taxes on the
financial services industry to keep the  budget deficit  within
the EU’s prescribed limit of 3 percent of gross domestic
product. An agreement with the IMF is “very close,” Orban said
in an interview in Bucharest yesterday, declining to give a
date. He said Hungary doesn’t need money from the IMF and is
seeking a  credit line  as a precaution.  “Hungarian bonds have performed very well in the past
month, thanks both to positive risk sentiment and the market’s
optimism that the IMF/EU deal will be reached at some point,”
Esther Law, a London-based strategist at Societe Generale SA,
wrote in an e-mail today.  Rate Cut  The government sold an additional 6.8 billion forint of
2015 and 2022 bonds at a non-competitive tender after the
auction today.  Hungary’s central bank cut its benchmark rate by 25 basis
points to 6.5 percent last month, still the highest in the
European Union, after a similar reduction in August to help
stimulate the nation’s recession-hit economy.  “Demand for short-dated paper should also continuously to
be supported by the central bank’s easing stance,” Societe
Generale’s Law wrote.  The steps announced yesterday to curb the shortfall were
needed to prevent the European Commission cutting off
development aid to the country, Economy Minister  Gyorgy Matolcsy 
told reporters yesterday. The Cabinet understands the importance
of international assistance even if it comes at the cost of
hurting economic growth, according to Erste Group Bank AG.  Hungary’s measures to plug the deficit won’t be considered
sustainable by the IMF and EU, Raffaella Tenconi and Mai Doan,
London-based economists at Bank of America Corp., wrote in an e-
mailed report today.  Risk Assets Rally  “We have been bullish on Hungarian fixed income assets for
most of the year, but have turned more cautious on the IMF-EU
deal,” the economists wrote.  Emerging-market stocks rose, driving the benchmark index to
the highest in five months, as Chinese data signaled growth in
the world’s second-biggest economy picked up in September.  Developing markets have rallied as monetary easing in the
U.S. benefited higher yielding markets such as  Hungary  even as
the government in Budapest imposed more levies on banks, Tim Ash, a London-based strategist at Standard Bank Group Ltd, said
in e-mailed comments. The IMF will oppose filling budget holes
by increasing revenues instead of cutting spending, Ash said.  “Yet another round of kicking foreign banks will hardly
win Hungary friends,” Ash said. Hungary’s credit markets have
rallied “simply on the back of liquidity,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andras Gergely in Budapest at 
 agergely@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  