-- Hunger Makes a Mockery of Today’s World Economy
-- B y   W i l l i a m   P e s e k
-- 2012-10-18T21:30:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-18/hunger-makes-a-mockery-of-today-s-world-economy.html
The lobby of Tokyo’s majestic
Imperial Hotel was people-watching central last weekend.  Christine Lagarde , the managing director of the
 International Monetary Fund , whisked by with 20 television
cameras in tow. German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble 
zoomed by moments later with even greater hysteria. Next came
Australian Treasurer Wayne Swan,  Bank of Japan  Governor Masaaki Shirakawa, Indian Finance Minister Palaniappan Chidambaram and
other notables on hand for the IMF’s annual meeting.  Amid the buzz, one person was all but overlooked: Kanayo Nwanze.  It is possible you haven’t heard of the president of the
International Fund for Agricultural Development, one of the
three food agencies of the  United Nations . The fund provides
financing to combat the poverty threatening the foundations of
the financial system that Lagarde, U.S. Treasury Secretary
 Timothy Geithner  and their ilk think they control and
understand. Here’s what many don’t get: If people such as Nwanze
fail, the brand of capitalism they hold dear can’t last.  “You can’t live in an ivory tower in New York and think
the rest of the world can burn and it won’t affect you,” says
Nwanze, 66. “The world has become a global village. When you
look back at what happened during the food-price crisis in 2007
and 2008, it was a wake-up call. It resulted in food riots in 40
cities across the world. It brought down governments. When
people are hungry and angry in rural areas, it results in
political instability.”  Arab Spring  The Arab Spring movement, remember, was partly about food
inflation. Such shocks deserve urgent attention from  finance
ministers  and hedge-fund managers alike. The world has
experienced three food-price spikes in the past five years. That
is forcing aid agencies and food scientists to find ways to
avoid future shocks and shield the most vulnerable populations
from the fallout.  “The real crisis is that the era of cheap food is over,”
 Robert Zeigler , the director-general of the International Rice
Research Institute, told me in Bangkok recently. “The question
is: How do farmers keep up with demand from 7 billion people at
the same time climate change wreaks havoc with production?”  As we search for answers, those making $2 a day or less
face an increasingly bleak future. Any gains in the incomes of
billions of people will go toward basic foodstuffs -- corn,
wheat, rice, dairy products -- not education or health care.  Asia  is  home  to hundreds of millions of those surviving on
$1 or $2 a day. It is also the closest thing the world has to a
growth engine with  Europe  crashing and America barely expanding.
That’s quite a paradox: The economic foundations of the region
that investors hold in such high regard is beset by hunger.  India , for example, has 1.2 billion people and corporate
executives the world over can’t wait to gain greater access to
its growing middle class. Yet more than three-quarters of
Indians eat less than minimum targets set by the government. How
India reaches its full potential when bellies are empty is
anyone’s guess. Similar questions will face  China , Indonesia,
the Philippines,  Vietnam  and elsewhere when food prices jump the
next time around. There is no time to waste to get smarter about
using land, water, energy and technology to end world hunger.  Thinking Small  To get big things done, it is best to think small -- small
farmers and rural women, two vital groups Asian governments tend
to neglect.  Of all farm holdings worldwide, 85 percent are less than 2
hectares (4.9 acres) in size, and 500 million of these small
farmers produce 80 percent of the  food  consumed in the
developing world, or about one-third of humanity. It is
imperative to increase their productivity and living standards
so they can feed 3 billion additional mouths by 2050.  Women are the backbone of everything else. They tend to
invest in child  nutrition , education and health, whereas men are
more likely to buy physical assets -- bicycles, furniture,
tools. As Nwanze put it: “Our experience has shown across
 Africa  and across Asia that when women are successful, the
entire community is successful.” Think of the world economy as
a series of building blocks. The stronger the communities, the
healthier nations and markets are.  The financial illuminati came to Tokyo last week for
nothing. There was no progress on ending Europe’s debt
nightmare. No deals to increase economic growth. No ideas on
expanding trade, addressing  income inequality  or reining in
 climate change . China didn’t even show up, throwing a childish
tantrum over its dealings with  Japan . The event was a dismal
commentary on the state of global leadership.  Yet even worse than being weak, that leadership is
dangerously distracted. It is too focused on Europe’s bond
spreads and China’s currency to see that the unsexy issue of
food is the real issue imperiling the future. America’s
unemployment rate is important; so is Japan’s credit rating.
Neither is as vital as the price of corn in  Iowa  or the cost of
wheat in Islamabad.  (William Pesek is a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  To contact the writer of this article:
William Pesek in  Tokyo  at 
 wpesek@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  