-- Union Pacific Profit Beats Estimates as Rates Increase
-- B y   T i m   C a t t s
-- 2012-10-18T21:27:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-18/union-pacific-profit-beats-estimates-as-rates-increase.html
Union Pacific Corp. (UNP) , the biggest
U.S. railroad by sales, reported the highest quarterly profit in
its history as shipments of petroleum products almost doubled
and rates climbed.  Third-quarter net income rose 15 percent to $1.04 billion,
or $2.19 a share, from $904 million, or $1.85, a year earlier,
the Omaha, Nebraska-based company said today in a statement.
That compared with the $2.18 average  estimate  of 27 analysts in
a Bloomberg survey.  Union Pacific benefited from an 18 percent increase in
chemical volumes, including oil, and an 11 percent rise in
shipments of non-metallic minerals including sand used in
hydraulic fracturing. Automotive carloads climbed 13 percent.  “It was well ahead of our expectations,” Donald Broughton, an Avondale Partners LLC analyst in  St. Louis  who
rates the shares market outperform, said in a telephone
interview. “They’re seeing the same pressures as other rails,
but the chemical volume and the auto volume helped save the
day.”  Revenue climbed 5 percent to $5.34 billion, compared with
analysts’ average estimates of $5.38 billion, as pricing
increased 5 percent. Sales totaled $5.1 billion a year earlier.  Profit exceeded last quarter’s record $1 billion even as
shipments of coal, the company’s largest freight category,
declined 12 percent.  ‘Big Plus’  “We have some real strength in our chemical business, in
particular our crude-by-rail business,” Chief Executive Officer
Jack Koraleski said in a telephone interview after the results
were announced. “That’s been a big plus for us.”  Total volumes at Union Pacific were little changed from a
year earlier and probably will be flat or “slightly” lower in
the fourth quarter, Chief Financial Officer Rob Knight said in a
conference call with analysts and investors. Jacksonville,
Florida-based  CSX Corp. (CSX) , the first carrier to report quarterly
earnings, said this week that volume fell 1 percent.  Union Pacific climbed 1.3 percent at $125.34 at the close
in  New York . The stock has risen 18 percent this year, compared
with a 16 percent gain for the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tim Catts in New York at 
 tcatts1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net . 