-- Turkey Cuts Top End of Interest-Rate Corridor
-- B y   D a v i d   N e y l a n
-- 2012-10-18T15:07:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-18/turkey-cuts-top-end-of-interest-rate-corridor-for-second-month.html
Turkey ’s central bank cut the  top
end  of its interest-rate corridor for a second month amid
mounting calls from businesses for lower borrowing costs as the
economy slows.  The bank in Ankara reduced its overnight lending rate by
half a percentage point to 9.5 percent, according to its
website. The figure was in line with the median estimate of
seven economists surveyed by Bloomberg. The bank held its
benchmark  one-week repo rate  at 5.75 percent, in line with all
 forecasts  in the survey. Last month, the bank cut the ceiling
from 11.5 percent to 10 percent.  Central bank Governor Erdem Basci can vary rates within the
corridor on a daily basis to balance above-target inflation, a
slowing economy and moves in the currency. Economic growth eased
to 2.9 percent in the second quarter, the lowest since the
recession in 2009. That has encouraged Basci to favor the lower
end of the range in recent weeks, pushing the average  weighted
cost of bank funding  down to the lowest level this year at 5.8
percent, from almost 12 percent in January.  “They still have a dovish bias as their focus turned to
growth,” Gaelle Blanchard Senior  Emerging Markets  Strategist at
 Societe General SA (GLE) , said today in e-mailed comments from  London .
“But they will keep a cautious stance on inflation and will not
cut the benchmark repo rate before inflation moves towards the
target.”  Inflation Expectations  Annual inflation was 9.2 percent last month, compared with
a year-end target of 5 percent.  The central bank said it expected slower inflation “to
become more evident during the last quarter of the year.”  Given expectations of slower inflation, Blanchard said, the
bank “will probably continue to cut the overnight lending rate
gradually.”  Yields on  benchmark two-year lira bonds  have dropped about
2 percentage points since June, and traded at 7.36 percent at
the close of the market, close to a 21-month low. The lira was
little changed at 1.7987.  The government this month forecast that the economy will
grow 3.2 percent this year, less than its initial 4 percent
target.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Neylan in Ankara at 
 dneylan1@Bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@Bloomberg.net  