-- Vale Losing to Rio Tinto as Iron Output Drops: Corporate Brazil
-- B y   J u a n   P a b l o   S p i n e t t o
-- 2012-10-18T21:29:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-18/vale-losing-to-rio-tinto-as-iron-output-drops-corporate-brazil.html
Vale SA (VALE5) , the world’s largest iron-
ore producer, is poised to lose more of its market share after
production fell and its biggest rivals ramped up operations.  Output of iron ore, the main ingredient used to make steel,
dropped 4.6 percent from a year earlier to 83.9 million metric
tons in the third quarter, Rio de Janeiro-based Vale  said 
yesterday. It was expected to report 82.8 million tons, the
average of seven analyst estimates in a Bloomberg News survey.
 Rio Tinto  Group, the world’s second-largest producer, on Oct. 16
reported a 6 percent gain in the period, while  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP) 
said yesterday quarterly output rose 0.5 percent.  Vale this year suspended projects, announced asset sales of
about $1.2 billion and cut output of premium pellet products as
demand waned in  China  and  Europe , its two biggest markets. The
drop, coupled with production delays caused by heavy rain and
declining resources at older mines, pared Vale’s share of the
global seaborne  iron-ore  market to about 26 percent in the first
half from almost 28 percent a year earlier, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg Industries.  “There are some specific issues affecting Vale more than
the market as whole,” Leonardo Alves, an equity analyst at
Banco J Safra SA, said by telephone from Sao Paulo yesterday.
“On the production side, that’s the lower quality at Carajas
and the first-quarter rains. I don’t see a risk at this point.
The company will recover from these problems in 2013.”  Older Pits  Melbourne-based BHP boosted its market share to almost 15
percent in the first half from about 14 percent, data compiled
by Bloomberg shows. London-based Rio Tinto’s portion was little
changed at about 18 percent. Rio Tinto overtook Vale to become
the world’s second-most valuable mining company for the first
time since 2008 yesterday. Rio is worth $2.51 billion more than
Vale at today’s closing prices of their New York-listed shares,
the biggest gap since November 2008, data compiled by Bloomberg
shows.  Vale  fell  0.5 percent to 36.15 reais in  Sao Paulo  today,
the lowest close since Oct. 10. Rio  advanced  2.4 percent to
3,260 pence at the close of trading in  London  and BHP  gained  3.3
percent to A$34.56 in Sydney.  Production at Vale’s Carajas iron-ore mine, the world’s
largest, dropped 11 percent to 27.6 million tons in the third
quarter. Environmental licensing “issues” forced the company
to continue mining in older, less productive pits, Vale said.  “Current performance is definitely not consistent with the
high quality of our assets and corrective measures are
underway,” Vale said in a statement released after the close of
regular trading in  Brazil .  Vale’s press officials in Rio declined to comment. Vale’s
iron-ore production rose 4.2 percent compared with the second
quarter of this year.  BHP Output  The company forecasts total output to be little changed for
the full year at about 322 million tons, including 10 million
tons purchased from third-party producers, Vagner Loyola,
director of ferrous production planning, said Oct. 15.  “ Vale  recently admitted on an analyst tour the huge extent
to which the miner is suffering depletion across its Brazilian
ore deposits,” Melinda Moore, bulk-commodity sales executive at
Standard Bank Plc in London, said in an e-mailed response to
questions. “Vale’s grade and product quality declines are
already evident in the market.”  Rio Tinto said its quarterly iron-ore production rose to
52.6 million metric tons, topping analyst forecasts. BHP, the
world’s third-largest iron-ore producer, said output of the
steel-making raw material was little changed at 39.8 million
tons in the three months ended Sept. 30, in line with the 39.2
million tons median estimate from three analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg.  Price Recovery  While Vale’s iron-ore production declined 2.2 percent in
the first nine months of 2012 to 234.5 million metric tons, Rio
Tinto’s  grew  4.5 percent to 146.9 million tons, company filings
show. BHP expanded its steelmaking raw material output by 9.5
percent in the nine months through Sept. 30.  Rebounding iron-ore purchases may buoy demand as China
boosts infrastructure investments, said Laurence Balter, who
oversees $100 million for Fox Island, Washington-based Oracle
Investment Research, including Vale shares. China’s imports
totaled 65.01 million tons last month, the highest since January
2011, according to China’s customs bureau.  “All the experts and analysts who say the commodities boom
is over need to look at China’s volume of iron ore at the peak
of the economic cycle in 2007 and where we are today. How is it
that imports have increased by 50 percent?,” Balter said by e-
mail. The rate of growth has declined “but in this economic
climate, I will take it!” he said.  Output Suspension  Vale also reported late yesterday that its output of
pellets, a processed form of iron ore used by steelmakers, rose
2.1 percent to 14.5 million tons in the quarter. Nickel
production slumped 16 percent to 49,000 tons, copper dropped 20
percent to 68,000 tons, coal increased 91 percent to 1.73
million tons and potash fell 15 percent to 141,000 tons.  Vale  said  earlier this month that it will suspend output at
three pellet feed plants in Brazil, representing 18 percent of
total production of the material, after demand and prices fell.
Iron ore, which accounts for about 90 percent of Vale’s earnings
before items,  slumped  to $86.70 a ton on Sept. 5, the lowest
since October 2009.  “We expect Vale to post weak figures, mainly due to
declining iron-ore prices,”  Banco Santander SA (SAN)  analysts Felipe Reis and Alex Sciacio said in a Oct. 9 note to customers.  Geographic Advantage  Vale, which is scheduled to release third-quarter earnings
Oct. 24, is  expected  by analysts to say profit, excluding some
items, dropped to $2.53 billion from $4.84 billion a year
earlier, according to the average of four estimates compiled by
Bloomberg. Earnings missed analysts’ forecasts in four of the
past five quarters.  Australian producers including Rio Tinto and BHP have a
geographical advantage over Vale, Philip Hopwood, global mining
leader at Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu Ltd, said by telephone from
Rio on Oct. 16.  “The main advantage that  Australia  has over Vale is
proximity to the main customer,” Hopwood said. “I don’t think
you can get away from the fact Australia is very close to China
and Brazil is a long way away.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Juan Pablo Spinetto in  Rio de Janeiro  at 
 jspinetto@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jessica Brice at 
 jbrice1@bloomberg.net ;
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net  