-- Verizon Profitability Surges as Bills Rise on IPhone
-- B y   S c o t t   M o r i t z   a n d   C o r n e l i u s   R a h n
-- 2012-10-18T20:11:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-18/verizon-earnings-rise-as-bills-increase-on-iphone-usage.html
Verizon Communications Inc. (VZ) , the
second-largest U.S. phone company, reported an increase in
profitability at its wireless unit that topped analyst estimates
as sales of smartphones boosted customers’ bills.  The profit margin in the  Verizon Wireless  business, based
on earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization, rose to 50 percent in the third quarter from 49
percent in the previous quarter, the New York-based company said
today in a statement. The average estimate of eight analysts
compiled by Bloomberg was for 48.4 percent.  Verizon Wireless, 45 percent owned by  Vodafone Group Plc (VOD) ,
added 1.54 million net contract customers in the quarter,
beating the 901,000 estimate by analysts. Verizon and  AT&T (T)  Inc.,
the largest U.S. phone company, are taking shares from
competitor  T-Mobile USA , said Kevin Roe, an analyst with Roe
Equity Research in  New York .  “The subscriber number beat the highest estimate on the
street,” said Kevin Roe, an analyst with Roe Equity Research in
New York. “Part of that was from tablets, and I also think the
T-Mobile trend of losing significant customers continues.”  More smartphone users watching videos or streaming music
meant bigger phone bills and a 6.5 percent rise in the price for
the average monthly contract account to $145.42. The wireless
gain helped offset slumping sales to business customers.  Verizon rose 2.4 percent to $45.78 at the close in New
York.  The shares  have climbed 14 percent this year.  Data Allotment  Verizon Chief Financial Officer Fran Shammo said the
company was seeing better than expected adoption of its Share
Everything plan that gives users one data allotment to use with
as many as 10 devices.  Verizon designed the plan to capitalize on heavier data
users. The plan’s prices are higher than comparable plans at
other carriers, said Tero Kuittinen, a New York-based analyst at
 Alekstra Oy , a mobile-diagnostics company.  “We are providing a network that delivers data wherever
you are, and we think there might be a slight premium for
that,” said Shammo in an interview today.  Verizon’s third-quarter per-share earnings excluding some
items were 64 cents, compared with 56 cents a year earlier. Net
income attributable to Verizon rose 16 percent to $1.59 billion.
Third-quarter sales climbed 3.9 percent to $29 billion. Profit
and sales were in line with analysts estimates.  IPhone Boost  Verizon sold 6.8 million smartphones in the third quarter
boosting the proportion of retail contract phone connections to
53 percent from 39 percent a year earlier. The company sold 3.4
million phones running on  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s Android software and 3.1
million iPhones. More specifically, Verizon sold 651,000 iPhone
5 models in the quarter, a total curbed by supply constraints,
said Shammo.  “‘This is a stellar set of Verizon Wireless results,’’
said John Karidis, an  Oriel Securities Ltd.  analyst . ‘‘I would
expect Vodafone to do better because of that.’’  Vodafone, the second-biggest mobile-phone company, closed
up 1.2 percent in London trading.  ‘‘They really jacked up their advertising in the past few
months,’’ said Colby Synesael, an analyst at Cowen & Co. in New
York. ‘‘Verizon has been very aggressive with marketing and it
helped with sales.’’  Wireless Users  Verizon Wireless has also began to extract more money from
renewing customers. Starting April 22, it imposed a $30 upgrade
fee on all customers buying new smartphones. which has helped
slow down the upgrade rate to 6.8 percent.  Phil Cusick , an
analyst with JPMorgan Chase & Co. expected an 8 percent upgrade
rate. AT&T charges $36 for upgrades, and  Sprint Nextel Corp. (S)  has
an $18 fee plus an additional $10 monthly smartphone charge.  Total revenue for the land-line business in the third
quarter was $9.9 billion, down 2.3 percent from a year ago.  Capital spending  in the first nine months was $11.3
billion, compared with $12.5 billion in the year-earlier period.  ‘‘Some expect us to go up substantially in capital
spending, and I don’t see that happening,’’Shammo said in an
interview. ‘‘2013 will be flat with 2012,’’ .  Verizon yesterday said it’s transferring about $7.5 billion
in pension obligations, or one-fourth of the total, to
Prudential Financial Inc. in a drive to remove risk from its
balance sheet. Prudential, the second-largest U.S. life insurer,
will take on responsibility for making future annuity payments
to certain management retirees of the phone company.  Verizon follows General Motors Co. in paying Prudential to
assume the risk that market returns are inadequate or that
beneficiaries live longer than expected. Transferring
obligations can reduce swings in earnings tied to securities and
relieve companies of the need to manage large pools of money.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Scott Moritz in New York at 
 smoritz6@bloomberg.net ;
Cornelius Rahn in Frankfurt at 
 crahn2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  