-- Verizon Unit Was Insolvent by $1 Billion, Witness Says
-- B y   T o m   K o r o s e c   a n d   D a v i d   M c L a u g h l i n
-- 2012-10-19T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-18/verizon-unit-was-insolvent-by-1-billion-witness-says.html
Verizon Communications Inc. (VZ) ’s
directory business was insolvent by more than $1 billion at its
2006 spinoff, facing worse prospects than were disclosed to
investors, a witness testified in a trial over the transaction.  The yellow-pages business was sold off with more than
$9 billion in debt and $400 million in retiree obligations,
Carlyn Taylor, a senior managing director at  FTI Consulting (FCN) ,
said yesterday in federal court in  Dallas . It was worth
$8.15 billion at the time, she said.  “There was so much debt on it, it was not surviving a mild
recession,” said Taylor, who testified on behalf of creditors
of the directory business that are suing Verizon. “With the
declining trends they were already experiencing, they couldn’t
survive.”  Verizon is fighting a lawsuit brought by creditors of the
directory unit, Idearc Inc., who claim the second-largest U.S.
phone company loaded the business with debt and drove it into
bankruptcy. The bankruptcy reorganization of Idearc, now named
 SuperMedia Inc. (SPMD) , created a trust to bring lawsuits on behalf of
creditors with claims totaling $6 billion.  The creditors’ lawyers seek to show that Verizon executives
knew competition from the Internet and independent directory
publishers spelled a dim future for the unit. That assessment
was hidden from debt and equity investors, the creditors allege.  ‘Turnaround Story’  Verizon executives instead floated a “turnaround story”
that the company was undergoing a temporary earnings decline
after the sales staff was cut back in 2003, they claim.  Verizon has called the complaint baseless. Philip Anker, a
Verizon attorney, said at the trial yesterday that analysts’
negative views of the company’s growth prospects were known to
the market and disregarded by investors in Idearc’s stock. The
stock price indicated at least $4 billion of equity in the
company in the year after the transaction, he said.  Taylor said New York-based Verizon didn’t disclose that the
subsidiary was experiencing revenue drops of more than
10 percent in major markets, where customers were adopting
broadband  Internet service .  “There is no mention of double-digit declines,” Taylor
said. “That was very, very material.”  Verizon’s consultant McKinsey & Co. forecast in March 2006
that the directory unit would shrink steadily. Verizon told
ratings companies and lenders that by 2010 the business would be
growing at 1.7 percent annually, according to documents
presented by the plaintiffs at the trial.  “There is a lot of information and analysis in it that the
company is going to shrink and not grow,” Taylor said about the
McKinsey report, which she said wasn’t disclosed.  Steve Hartmann, a Verizon attorney, declined to comment on
Taylor’s testimony.  The creditors’ lawsuit is U.S. Bank National Association v.
Verizon Communications Inc., 10-01842, U.S. District Court,
Northern District Texas (Dallas).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tom Korosec in federal court in Dallas at
 tkorosec@sbcglobal.net ;  David McLaughlin  in  New York  at 
   dmclaughlin9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at   jpickering@bloomberg.net . 