-- Vertex Draws Collaboration Interest For Hepatitis C Combo
-- B y   M e g   T i r r e l l
-- 2012-10-18T21:36:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-18/vertex-seeks-partners-on-hepatitis-c-drug-for-best-combo.html
Vertex Pharmaceuticals Inc. (VRTX) , maker
of the hepatitis C drug Incivek, has received interest from
other companies to collaborate on tests of one of its
experimental medicines for the liver disease, Chief Executive
Officer Jeffrey Leiden said.  The company’s VX-135 pill is one of the last in a class of
medicines called nucleotides that may be an important part of
combination therapy to treat hepatitis C after setbacks among
other drugmakers, Leiden said in an interview yesterday at
Vertex’s headquarters in Cambridge,  Massachusetts .  “That potentially makes us a very attractive partner,”
Leiden said.  The field ignited last year as drugmakers made deals to
pursue combination treatments taken orally for a  disease  that
affects as many as 170 million people worldwide. Currently
treated with injections, hepatitis C may grow to a $15 billion
market by 2018, according to GBI Research, a business analysis
firm. Combinations of different drugs are thought to be the most
effective way to combat the disease, because they enable therapy
to strike at the various ways the virus infects the body.  “We want to use the assets we have and explore them both
with our own assets together and potentially with other
companies’ assets in collaboration to come up with the best
regimens,” Leiden said. “And we want to do it quickly.”  Likely Collaborators  Leiden didn’t specify which partners or drugs Vertex would
prefer, and said the company would be open to more than one
collaborator.  Johnson & Johnson (JNJ) , Vertex’s partner on Incivek,
and  Achillion Pharmaceuticals Inc. (ACHN) , maker of several
experimental hepatitis C therapies, may be likely collaborators,
according to  Brian Abrahams , an analyst with Wells Fargo
Securities.  J&J, based in  New Brunswick ,  New Jersey , would consider
exploring an expansion of its partnership with Vertex in
hepatitis C, Gaston Picchio, hepatitis disease area leader for
J&J’s Janssen unit, said in an interview in April. Achillion
doesn’t comment on business development, and is focused on
advancing its therapies through clinical development, said Glenn
Schulman, a spokesman, for the  New Haven , Connecticut-based
company.  Dawn Kalmar, a spokeswoman for Vertex, said the company
can’t comment on any specific potential partners or their
medicines in development.  Vertex declined 2.5 percent to $52.63 at 4 p.m. New York
time. The company has gained 58 percent this year.  VX-135 Test  Vertex plans to test VX-135 -- also known as ALS-2200 -- in
combination with Incivek and another of its experimental
medicines, VX-222. Leiden said the company may have data next
year from those studies and on combinations with other
companies’ drugs. It aims to use that information to choose the
one or two best regimens to take into the last stage of tests
needed to gain regulatory approval.  Vertex licensed the drug from Alios BioPharma Inc. The
companies reported last month that it helped fight the hepatitis
C virus in an eight-patient, week-long trial. Vertex
discontinued development of another nucleotide licensed from
Alios, ALS-2158, for lack of efficacy.  Incivek, known chemically as telaprevir, was approved in
May 2011, days after another drug from  Merck & Co. (MRK) , boceprevir
or Victrelis, cleared U.S. regulators. They were the first
therapies for hepatitis C in almost a decade to win U.S. Food
and Drug Administration approval.  Both pills are given in combination with interferon, which
-- in addition to being administered through injection -- is
associated with flu-like symptoms that make it hard to tolerate.
The new therapies aim to avoid interferon.  Revenue Potential  Vertex forecasts that Incivek will draw as much as $1.25
billion in 2012  revenue . After an initial surge in use for
patients who had been waiting for new therapies before being
treated, revenue has slowed as some patients again put off
treatment in anticipation of new options, Leiden said.  “We saw this just explosive launch,” Leiden said. “It is
very unusual in the pharmaceutical industry to have thousands of
patients waiting for drug, and that’s the situation we were
in.”  Vertex treated tens of thousands of patients in the first
few months telaprevir was on the market, Leiden said. After
that, treatment steadied to a rate of tens of thousands of
patients a year, he said. When it became clear a new generation
of medicines were on the horizon that could be taken just as
pills, some patients have started to wait again.  Treatment Options  Some patients can put off treatment because their disease
hasn’t manifested to the point that it’s causing noticeable
liver damage, which may lead to cancer or the need for a
transplant. Those with more advanced hepatitis C are still
getting treated with drugs on the market, Leiden said. People
can live with hepatitis C for many years without realizing
they’re infected.  The quest for a combination to better treat hepatitis C
without interferon was kick-started last year with  Gilead
Sciences Inc. (GILD) ’s $11 billion acquisition of Pharmasset Inc. to
gain its nucleotide, now called GS-7977 and in late-stage
clinical trials.  Bristol-Myers Squibb Co. (BMY)  followed in January
with a $2.5 billion deal to buy Inhibitex Inc. to gain its
nucleotide, INX-189.  That program was discontinued in August by New York-based
Bristol-Myers after the drug was linked to the death of a
patient and the hospitalization of others with heart and kidney
problems.  Idenix Pharmaceuticals Inc. (IDIX) , another maker of
hepatitis C therapies, had two of its nucleotides put on
clinical hold by the FDA because of concerns over similarities
to Bristol-Myers’ drug. Idenix contends there are enough
differences between the drugs to support potential use of its
therapies.  Future Drugs  Abbott Laboratories (ABT)  and others are also competing to
develop next-generation combination treatments. Researchers,
physicians and those from the financial community will meet in
 Boston  in November for the annual meeting of the  American
Association  for the Study of Liver Diseases, where data on new
therapies will be presented and discussed.  Other classes of drugs in development include protease
inhibitors, a group that includes Vertex’s Incivek, NS5A
inhibitors and non-nucleoside inhibitors.  Because of all the work being done, within three to five
years patients will likely have access to multiple new combo
regimens that are highly effective, tolerable and short in
duration, Leiden said.  “That’s a tremendous advance in a short period of time,”
he said. “We hope we’ll be a part of that. That’s what we’re
trying to do.”  Leiden became Vertex’s CEO in February, succeeding Matthew Emmens. He joined Vertex’s board in 2009, and previously worked
in  venture capital , as chief operating officer of Abbott
Laboratories, and in medicine as a cardiologist and molecular
biologist.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Meg Tirrell in  New York  at 
 mtirrell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  