-- VW Faces Profit Drop as Debt Crisis Ends German Immunity
-- B y   C h r i s   R e i t e r
-- 2012-10-18T22:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-18/vw-faces-profit-drop-as-debt-crisis-ends-german-immunity.html
Volkswagen AG (VOW)  is due to report its
biggest quarterly earnings drop since 2009, while  Daimler AG (DAI)  is
cutting costs to lift sagging profit at Mercedes-Benz, hinting
that German carmakers have lost their immunity to Europe’s
economic woes.  VW, Daimler and  Bayerische Motoren Werke AG (BMW)  are no longer
able to entirely sidestep softening European auto demand by
shifting cars to  China  and other markets, as the effects of
austerity begin to ripple beyond Italy, Spain and  Portugal .  “The European crisis has definitely reached the Germans,”
said  Stefan Bratzel , director of the Center of Automotive
Management at the University of Applied Sciences in  Bergisch
Gladbach ,  Germany . Next year, as the region’s market continues
to fall, “the problems for German manufacturers will really
start to kick in.”  Volkswagen, which will report its third-quarter earnings on
Oct. 24, is forecast to post operating profit of 2.3 billion
euros ($3 billion) for the period, based on a Bloomberg survey
of six analyst  estimates . That would represent a 21 percent
decline from the same period last year, VW’s first significant
profit drop since the 2009  global recession , when earnings fell
by more than 80 percent.  Until now, Germany’s big automakers haven’t been hurt by
the sovereign-debt crisis thanks to a robust home market and
growth in the U.S. and China. That resilience is fading as lower
confidence hits German car demand and China slows.  Feeling Pain  While the German carmakers are starting to feel some pain,
they remain in far better shape than more narrowly focused
European competitors.  PSA Peugeot Citroen (UG)  is in talks with the
French government over a funding lifeline for its financing arm.
 Fiat SpA (F)  is preparing a new plan to turn around its European
business, which is set to lose 700 million euros this year.  “Challenges in Europe are getting greater” and the
region’s woes have spilled over to China,  Ian Robertson , BMW’s
sales chief, said at a company event in Munich this week. Europe
faces “a lot of bumps on the road” before it stabilizes, and
an auto-market recovery could take years, Robertson said.  BMW, which in the second quarter suffered its first drop in
quarterly profit in almost three years on costs to introduce a
new 3-Series sedan, is expected to buck the trend when it
releases results on Nov. 6. Operating earnings will probably
rise 2.3 percent to 1.76 billion euros, according to a Bloomberg
survey of five analyst  estimates .  Better Prepared  Unlike the sudden drop after the 2009 financial crisis, the
protracted nature of today’s debt problems has given automakers
time to prepare for weaker demand and avoid packing dealers’
lots with unwanted cars. The German carmakers have recently
stepped up efforts to respond.  In September, VW reduced its internal sales forecast for
2012 by roughly 100,000 vehicles -- more than 1 percent of
annual sales -- as  Europe ’s slump reduces demand for cars like
the Polo subcompact, a person familiar with the matter said at
the time. The company, which will be burdened by charges related
to its acquisition of Porsche in the third quarter, is also
cutting back parts purchases by as much as 10 percent and
demanding lower prices for components, suppliers say.  As demand softens for Mercedes’ aging flagship, the S-Class
sedan, Daimler is eliminating a production shift in
Sindelfingen, Germany. The automaker will also cut annual costs
by at least 1 billion euros under a new savings program, dubbed
“Fit for Leadership,” a person familiar with the matter said
yesterday.  Profit Drop  Chief Executive Officer  Dieter Zetsche  announced plans for
the cost-cutting drive last month when the company said
operating profit at Mercedes will fall this year, rather than
match 2011’s earnings as the company previously forecast. The
company may announce details of the efficiency program on Oct.
25, when the Stuttgart-based manufacturer releases results.  Daimler’s operating profit is forecast to decline 13
percent to 1.83 billion euros, according to a Bloomberg survey
of six  analysts .  The moves suggest that the carmakers are gearing up for a
slow recovery.  Stuart Pearson , a London-based analyst with
Morgan Stanley, forecasts that the car market -- which has
fallen a quarter since 2007 -- may top out at about 15 percent
below its peak.  “There’s a lot of structural issues weighing on the
European market,” from high unemployment to market saturation
to overcapacity, Pearson said. “There’s no real solution in
sight.”  Closing Plants  That puts pressure on carmakers to shutter plants. Unused
capacity in the region is forecast to rise to as much as 10.6
million vehicles next year from 10.3 million in 2012, according
to LMC Automotive. The research company expects western European
sales to total 11.8 million vehicles in 2013.  “Overcapacity’s a colossal problem for the industry,”
said Arthur Maher, an LMC analyst in Oxford,  England . “There’s
a realization that this is not your typical cyclical downturn.
You may have a recovery in some sense, but it won’t be a return
to pre-crisis levels before the next decade.”  Fiat CEO  Sergio Marchionne , who will report earnings and
present a restructuring plan for Europe on Oct. 30, is leading a
charge for industrywide capacity cuts. Boosted by gains at
Chrysler Group LLC and strong sales in  Brazil , the Italian
carmaker’s third-quarter trading profit is forecast to rise 12
percent to 952 million euros, based on four analyst  estimates 
from a Bloomberg survey.  Peugeot Woes  Peugeot and  Renault SA (RNO)  won’t provide a clear gauge of their
performance, as neither French automaker reports quarterly
earnings. Still, that won’t ease pressure on Peugeot, which
doesn’t have a major presence outside Europe, unlike Renault
with its alliance with  Nissan Motor Co. (7201)   Peugeot, which has said it may close its Aulnay factory
near Paris, will have to scale back operations because the
carmaker “needs to recoup its losses and get back into shape,”
said Peter Cooke, a professor at the Center for Automotive
Management at the University of Buckingham in England.  For the Germans, a sharper focus on wealthy buyers will
keep them better positioned than their European competitors,
though they have now shown they aren’t invulnerable to the
crisis.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Reiter in Berlin at 
 creiter2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Chad Thomas  at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  