-- Wall Street CMOs Crushed as Sales at 3-Year Low: Credit Markets
-- B y   J o d y   S h e n n
-- 2012-10-18T16:29:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-18/wall-street-cmos-crushed-as-sales-at-3-year-low-credit-markets.html
The  Federal Reserve ’s effort to
support the economy by acquiring $40 billion a month of mortgage
bonds is crimping Wall Street’s business of packaging the
government-backed securities into new notes.  After falling last month to a three-year low of $19
billion, issuance of so-called agency collateralized mortgage
obligations, or CMOs, may decline 10 percent to 20 percent in
October, according to  Scott Buchta , head of fixed-income
strategy at Brean Capital LLC. Sales last month were 25 percent
below the 2012 average through August, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  “When you have a buyer with a different goal than the rest
of the market” it can crowd out other investors, said Bill Anast, who runs the agency CMO business in  New York  at Barclays
Plc, the third-largest underwriter. “In the next couple of
months CMO issuance could be slow,” he said.  The slump shows how the Fed is depressing bank results even
as it aids them. While its third round of so-called quantitative
easing, or QE3, helped JPMorgan Chase & Co. and Wells Fargo &
Co. report record quarterly earnings last week by boosting
homeowner refinancing and loan-sale profits, the lenders also
said their investment margins are being squeezed by lower yields
on securities and loans.  Double-Edged Sword  A rally in mortgage bonds being targeted by the Fed sent
relative yields on unpackaged pass-through securities that guide
home-loan rates to record lows last month of 0.56 percentage
point. That’s left dealers led by Deutsche Bank AG and Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. with less opportunity to attract investors to
CMOs, which are used to create new notes with varying risks tied
to changes in  interest rates  and  refinancing .  Higher mortgage bond trading volumes spurred by the Fed
also may fade as the central bank’s holdings in the $5.2
trillion market swell to more than 25 percent of outstanding
debt within a year. The large swings in spreads can be a double-
edged sword for dealers, said Howard Hill, a former Babson
Capital Management LLC executive who helped start
securitization-related departments at four banks.  “They hate volatile markets when the big boys show up,”
seeking to sell or buy at the same time as others, said Hill,
who is based in Litchfield County,  Connecticut . “Otherwise, it
can be a lot of fun to be a trader” when they are opportunities
to bet on the direction of the market, he said.  Default Swaps  Elsewhere in credit markets, the cost of protecting
corporate debt from default in the U.S. increased, with the
Markit CDX North America Investment Grade Index, which investors
use to hedge against losses or to speculate on creditworthiness,
climbing 0.6 basis point to a mid-price of 90.2 basis points as
of 12:08 p.m. in New York, according to prices compiled by
Bloomberg.  The measure typically rises as investor confidence
deteriorates and falls as it improves. Credit-default swaps pay
the buyer face value if a borrower fails to meet its
obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt. A basis
point, or 0.01 percentage point, equals $1,000 annually on a
contract protecting $10 million of debt.  The U.S. two-year interest-rate swap spread, a measure of
debt market stress, rose 0.8 basis point to 9.75 basis points as
of 12:10 p.m. in New York. The gauge widens when investors seek
the perceived safety of  government securities  and narrows when
they favor assets such as company debentures.  UnitedHealth Bonds  Bonds of  UnitedHealth Group Inc. (UNH)  are the most actively
traded dollar-denominated corporate securities by dealers today,
with 188 trades of $1 million or more as of 12:15 p.m. in New
York, according to Trace, the bond-price reporting system of the
Financial Industry Regulatory Authority.  The biggest U.S. health insurer raised $2.5 billion
yesterday in a four-part, dollar-denominated sale to help
finance its plan to buy 90 percent of Amil Participacoes SA.
UnitedHealth’s $625 million of 0.85 percent, three-year notes
increased 0.4 cent from the issue price to 100.4 cents on the
dollar to yield 0.72 percent, Trace data show.  The Fed’s open-ended mortgage purchases announced Sept. 13
to support housing and boost employment target bonds guaranteed
by government-supported Fannie Mae and  Freddie Mac  or federal
agency Ginnie Mae, which serve as the collateral for agency
CMOs.  Ranieri, Fink  Bankers transform the debt in a bid to make it more
attractive to different sets of investors, such as by creating
some bonds that get paid off before others or notes that receive
only principal or interest. They can also turn fixed-rate debt
into two types of floating-rate securities with payments that
move in opposite directions as short-term benchmarks fluctuate.  The $1.3 trillion agency CMO market was pioneered in the
early 1980s by  Salomon Brothers ’ Lewis Ranieri and First Boston
Corp.’s Laurence D. Fink, who now runs BlackRock Inc., the
world’s largest money manager.  Agency CMO deals, after peaking at $609 billion in 2003,
fell to $145 billion five years later as non-agency securities
sparked the worst financial crisis since the Great Depression.
Sales averaged $404 billion in 2010 and 2011 even as offerings
of home-loan debt without government backing remained limited.  Issuance, which occurs at the end of each month, reached
$219 billion in the nine months ended in September, the least
since $13.3 billion was sold in April 2009, Bloomberg data show.  Spokesmen for the two top underwriters,  Renee Calabro  at
Frankfurt-based Deutsche Bank andMichael DuVally of Goldman
Sachs in New York, declined to comment.  Potential CMO  Creation of agency CMOs is usually highest when the
 difference  between shorter- and longer-term rates is steeper and
after refinancing that pays down investor holdings.
Underwriters’ earnings vary as they seek to create new debt
worth more than the sum of its parts.  All the pieces of a potential CMO studied on Sept. 27 by
Nomura Securities International Inc. analysts would have been
worth about 0.7 cent on the dollar less than the collateral.  The gap between a Bloomberg index of yields on Fannie Mae
mortgage bonds trading closest to face value and an average of
rates on five- and 10-year Treasuries narrowed 49 basis points
last month, the most on record, to 71 basis points. The spread
then expanded to 95 as of 11:50 a.m. in New York.  While CMO activity has “finally picked back up” with
wider spreads, it’s not “at the levels previously seen over the
summer,” Christopher Helwig and Ian Carow, Deutsche Bank
analysts, wrote yesterday in a report.  Refinancing Protection  Some of the widening on generic collateral has been offset
by rising prices for securities with protection against
refinancing. So-called pay-ups on  Fannie Mae  securities with 3.5
percent coupons filled with low-balance mortgages rose yesterday
to a record of almost 2 cents on the dollar, after falling to a
month-low of 1.5 cents following the Fed announcement, according
to Credit Suisse Group AG data.  CMO underwriters also can earn money by holding securities
they plan to package into the bonds and slices that aren’t
immediately sold, though they also risk price changes. Dealers
often expect to make 0.13 cent to 0.25 cent on the dollar,
according to market participants who declined to be identified
because the figures vary.  On a $1 billion deal, that would mean as much as a $2.5
million profit.  Trading Volumes  Daily trading volumes in the agency mortgage-bond market
averaged $361 billion in the two weeks ended Oct. 3 among the 21
primary dealers that transact directly with the Fed, compared
with $289 billion a month earlier and $325 billion in the same
period of 2011, according to the central bank’s data.  The effect of the Fed’s buying has been the most dramatic
on the lowest-coupon mortgage bonds such as Fannie Mae’s 3
percent securities, the focus of its purchases because they most
influence loan rates, Barclays’s Anst said.  “That means there’s still a lot of collateral for CMO
desks to work with,” he said.  The Fed is acquiring notes in the so-called To Be Announced
market for pass-through securities, in which orders to buy can
be filled with debt that may not yet be issued and matching a
range of characteristics.  “As you get deeper into QE3 you might actually see CMO
issuance come back, as tighter TBA levels push investors into
other products,” such as CMOs or higher-coupon debt, Anst said.  So-called option-adjusted spreads on all of the slices of
CMOs fell to 30 basis points on Oct. 16, from 63 basis points at
year-end, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch’s Agency
CMO index.  Alternative Assets  Home-loan rates at record lows are fueling refinancing that
returns cash to investors. U.S. banks held $469 billion of
agency CMOs as of June 30, up from $340 billion two years
earlier, according to Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. data.  Tight spreads and lower yields on government-backed
mortgage securities mean those investors may look elsewhere,
such as the market for commercial-mortgage-backed securities,
Brean Capital’s Buchta said.  “While banks will need to reinvest principal paydowns, you
may see a growing portion of this  cash flow  go into alternative
asset classes such as CMBS, which will also impact volumes,” he
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jody Shenn in New York at 
 jshenn@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  