-- Water Funding May Help Avoid Drought Losses, Analyst Says
-- B y   A l a n   B j e r g a
-- 2012-10-18T18:53:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-18/water-funding-may-ease-drought-losses-analyst-says-correct-.html
The worst  U.S. drought  in more than
five decades shows a global need to improve water management to
prevent crop disasters, university researchers and policy
experts said.  Governments should encourage investment in irrigation,
which is more costly than the improved seeds and fertilizers
often advocated to increase  food production ,  Roberto Lenton , a
professor of water management and head of the Robert B.
Daugherty Water for Food Institute at the University of
 Nebraska , said today at the World Food Prize  Conference .  “Those farmers who were already using conservation
techniques to conserve water, they fared best in the drought,”
Lenton said during a panel discussion at the conference in  Des
Moines ,  Iowa . “One of the clear lessons is the importance of
irrigation.” Farming without tilling, which keeps more water in
the soil, drought-resistant crops, and technology that irrigates
plants with less water all preserved yields this year, he said.  Competition for increasingly scarce water in the next
decade will fuel instability in regions such as  South Asia  and
the  Middle East  that are important to American national
security, according to a U.S. intelligence report released this
year. As nations increase water-related projects to gain
influence, vulnerable dams, irrigation projects and reservoirs
could become targets for terrorists or military strikes, the
authors of the report said.  U.S. Role  Higher global tensions over water will require the U.S. to
take a leading role in managing the resource, Secretary of State
 Hillary Clinton  said in March.  Annual global water requirements by 2030 will be 40 percent
more than current sustainable supplies, according to a 2009
report by the 2030 Water Resources Group, a World Bank-sponsored
collaboration that included  Coca-Cola Co. (KO)  and  Nestle SA (NESN)  among
its members.  Water use that’s outstripping sustainable levels will make
crop failures more frequent, Peter Brabeck-Letmathe, supervisory
board chairman at Nestle, the world’s largest food company, said
yesterday in a speech at the conference. Cost increases in
drought years are aggravated by the increased strain on water
supplies in more-normal periods, as less moisture is available
to mitigate the effects of dry weather, Brabeck-Letmathe said.  Water Buffers  “In normal years, we are using the buffers of water that
are needed in difficult years,” he said.  This year’s drought in the U.S. will push the average yield
for corn, the nation’s most-valuable crop, to a 17-year low of
122 bushels an acre, according to the Department of Agriculture.
It has also prompted some farmers to rethink crop planning, as
 climate change  means less water in some areas, and more in
others.  The phenomenon will probably push U.S. corn-growing regions
north while making alternatives to the grain more important
elsewhere as water sources evolve, John Soper, the vice
president of crop genetics research and development for Pioneer,
the seed division of DuPont Co., said in an interview last
month.  The world had 868 million hungry people in the 2010-2012
period, and 20 countries have “extremely alarming” or
“alarming” hunger levels, the  United Nations ’ Food &
Agriculture Organization and the  International Food Policy
Research Institute  said last week in separate reports.  About 75 percent of African countries are at “high” or
“extreme risk” of unrest and famine stemming from food
shortages and rising prices, according to risk-advisory firm
Maplecroft.  The annual  World Food Prize  conference honors individuals
“who have advanced human development by improving the quality,
quantity or availability of food.” This year’s winner, Daniel
Hillel, an Israeli scientist who pioneered “micro-irrigation,”
was announced in June.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alan Bjerga in Washington at 
 abjerga@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  