-- Twitter Bars Neo-Nazi Group Account in Germany
-- B y   C o r n e l i u s   R a h n   a n d   R y a n   F a u g h n d e r
-- 2012-10-18T14:40:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-18/twitter-bars-neo-nazi-group-account-in-germany.html
Twitter Inc. blocked access to the
account of a banned German right-wing group for viewers from
that country, the first time the microblogging service has made
use of an option to withhold content.  The  account  of the group Besseres Hannover, which was
outlawed last month by the state of  Lower Saxony , could no
longer be accessed today by Germany-based users. The Lower
Saxony government cited the group’s “spreading national-
socialist ideology and fighting against the free and democratic
basic order” for its ban at the time.  Twitter General Counsel Alex Macgillivray, through a
message on the company’s website, pointed to a  faxed request 
dated Sept. 25 by the police directorate in the city of Hanover,
asking Twitter to “close this account immediately.” The
service, which lets users post messages of no more than 140
characters to followers, said it is using for the first time
rules introduced in January allowing it to withdraw content in
breach of local law.  Although Twitter never wants to withhold content, it’s
“good to have tools to do it narrowly and transparently,”
Macgillivray  wrote .  Ulrike Junga, a spokeswoman for Lower Saxony’s interior
ministry, which oversees the Hanover police directorate,
declined to immediately comment. Carolyn Penner, a Twitter
spokeswoman, didn’t immediately respond to a voicemail that was
left before normal business hours.  “If we receive a valid and properly scoped request from an
authorized entity, it may be necessary to reactively withhold
access to certain content in a particular country from time to
time,” according to Twitter’s  website .  The request cited by Macgillivray asked Twitter to
acknowledge receipt of the letter and to inform the authority of
the measures taken.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cornelius Rahn in Frankfurt at 
 crahn2@bloomberg.net ;
Ryan Faughnder in  New York  at 
 rfaughnder@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net ;
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  