-- Yankees to Face Tigers Under Clearing Skies as Wind Picks Up
-- B y   M i c h a e l   B u t e a u
-- 2012-10-18T17:14:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-18/yankees-to-face-tigers-under-clearing-skies-as-wind-picks-up.html
The  New York  Yankees and the  Detroit 
Tigers probably will play today’s Major League Baseball
postseason game as scheduled as rain subsides and the wind picks
up.  “The clouds are clearing in Detroit, and rain shouldn’t be
a threat,” Matt Mosteiko, a  National Weather Service 
meteorologist in White Lake,  Michigan , said in a telephone
interview. “The sun has already begun shining in the areas
south of the city.”  Winds may be gusting between 20 and 30 miles (32 to 48
kilometers) per hour until about 8 p.m., Mosteiko said. The high
temperature today is expected to reach 60 degrees Fahrenheit (16
Celsius) and drop to about 55 by 8 p.m., he said.  About 0.4 of an inch of rain fell in the Detroit area in
the past 24 hours, said  Tom Kines , a meteorologist with
Accuweather Inc. in State College,  Pennsylvania .  Game 4 of the American League Championship Series at
Comerica Park was washed out yesterday, with the Tigers one win
away from advancing to the World Series for the first time since
2006.  Detroit holds a three-games-to-none lead in the best-of-
seven series heading into today’s Game 4, which was rescheduled
for 4:07 p.m. local time.  “It’s going to be windy,” Kines said. “The wind will be
coming from the southwest, blowing in from right field.”  Cardinals-Giants  The St. Louis Cardinals defeated the San Francisco Giants
3-1 last night to take a two-games-to-one lead in the best-of-
seven National League Championship Series.  The game was delayed by rain for 3 hours, 28 minutes in the
bottom of the seventh inning at Busch Stadium in St. Louis. The
Cardinals host Game 4 tonight, when there is a 30 percent
chance of light showers, according to Weather.com.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mike Buteau in Atlanta at 
 mbuteau@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  