-- Yankees’ Season Extended at Least One Day by Detroit Rainout
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2012-10-18T17:11:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-18/yankees-season-extended-at-least-one-day-by-rainout-in-detroit.html
The  New York Yankees ’ season was
extended for at least one more day after rain in Detroit washed
out Game 4 of the American League Championship Series.  The Tigers were forced to wait an extra day for the chance
to advance to the  World Series  for the first time since 2006.
Detroit holds a three-games-to-none lead in the Major League
Baseball playoff series heading into today’s Game 4, which was
rescheduled for 4:07 p.m. at Comerica Park.  The Yankees haven’t been swept in the postseason since the
1980 ALCS against the  Kansas City Royals . The 27-time World
Series champions are seeking to join the 2004 Boston  Red Sox  as
the second team in major-league history to rally from a 3-0
deficit and win a best-of-seven playoff series.  “We have an opportunity to try to change this story, and
the ones we have written for ourselves,” Yankees General
Manager  Brian Cashman  said yesterday. “I know our guys are
hungry to try to do that, because no one wants to deal with the
negatives. But it is all performance driven.”  The Yankees have a .200 team batting average this
postseason and have been held scoreless by the Tigers in 28 of
30 innings so far in the series.  On the verge of postseason elimination, the Yankees will
again have  Alex Rodriguez  -- the sport’s highest-paid player
with a 10-year, $275 million contract -- on the bench.  Today’s lineup is the same that was released yesterday,
when Yankees manager  Joe Girardi  opted to sit Rodriguez against
Tigers right-handed starting pitcher Max Scherzer. Rodriguez, a
three-time AL Most Valuable Player, is hitless in 18 at-bats
against right-handers this postseason.  ‘Not Happy’  “I’m not happy about it,” Rodriguez told reporters
yesterday. “You come to the ballpark thinking you can help a
team win and when you see your name is out of the lineup, you’re
obviously disappointed and just shift to being a cheerleader.”  Cashman said yesterday there’s no truth to an  ESPN report 
that Yankees President Randy Levine and Miami Marlins owner
Jeffrey Loria talked about Rodriguez playing in Miami.  “I’ve had no discussions whatsoever with the  Florida
Marlins ,” Cashman said at a news conference. “Certainly would
never have any trade discussions under the circumstances.”  Cashman said Rodriguez, 37, hasn’t been phased out of the
team’s long-term plans. Rodriguez is under contract with the
Yankees through the 2017 season.  “Opportunities will exist to continue to get back off that
mat and get back in the ring and battle,” he said. “And Alex
is going to wait for that opportunity. Right now it looks like
in theory we’ll do that against left-handed pitching. That
doesn’t mean that he’s done, that he’s finished. He is still a
big threat, but for whatever reason right now we are adjusting
to what we are seeing.”  Inclement Weather  Yesterday’s game was delayed for about 90 minutes because
of the threat of rain before being postponed by MLB based on a
forecast of inclement weather throughout the night.  The forecast in  Detroit  calls for clearing skies and highs
around 60 degrees Fahrenheit (16 Celsius), according to the
 National Weather Service .  CC Sabathia is scheduled to pitch for the Yankees and
hasn’t lost in his past eight postseason starts.  “Certainly guys have been a part of this and found a way
to just go out and win one game,” Girardi said yesterday. “Go
out and win one game and let’s just see what happens.”  Detroit had been scheduled to host Game 5 today, if
necessary. With Game 4 being moved to today, Game 5 would be
played tomorrow. That had been scheduled to be an off-day in the
series, with the sixth and seventh games, if necessary, set for
 New York  on Oct. 20 and 21.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  