-- Euro Weakens as Rajoy Says Spain Not Under Aid Pressure
-- B y   J o s e p h   C i o l l i
-- 2012-10-19T21:09:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-18/yen-trades-near-two-month-low-on-u-s-economic-outlook.html
The euro declined for a second day
against the dollar after Spanish Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy 
said his nation doesn’t feel under any pressure to ask for a
bailout, fueling concern the debt crisis will be prolonged.  The 17-nation currency dropped for the first time in seven
days versus the yen on speculation this week’s European Union
summit in Brussels will fail to provide clarity on potential
financial aid for  Spain . The pound gained against the euro after
the U.K.  budget deficit  narrowed.  Canada ’s dollar weakened to an
eight-week low against its U.S. counterpart after September
consumer prices data trailed forecasts.  “Up until recently, we had been getting some indications
from  Europe  of a more conciliatory tone from officials with
regards to Spain,” Carl Forcheski, a director on the corporate
currency sales desk at Societe Generale SA in  New York , said in
a telephone interview. “But concerns still remain. The worries
of October are still out there.”  The euro fell 0.3 percent to $1.3024 at 5 p.m. in New York
time after dropping 0.4 percent yesterday. The shared currency
depreciated 0.3 percent to 103.28 yen. The yen was little
changed at 79.32 per dollar.  Rand, Kiwi  South Africa ’s rand rose versus most of its 16 of its major
counterparts and is headed for a second week of gains as
striking workers at Gold Fields Ltd., South Africa’s second-
largest producer of the metal, returned to work and other gold-
mining companies improved a pay offer to workers.  The currency depreciated 0.1 percent to 8.6614 per dollar
after earlier gaining 0.6 percent.  China ’s  yuan  advanced for an 11th week, the longest winning
streak since 2008, as factory output and spending data fueled
optimism the economic slowdown is coming to an end. The currency
touched a 19-year high yesterday after reports showed growth in
industrial production, retail sales and fixed-asset investment
accelerated in September.  The Chinese currency was little changed today at 6.2535 and
increased 0.2 percent this week. The yuan has advanced 2.3
percent since reaching this year’s low on July 25.  “We’ve had optimism surrounding China this week,” Jane Foley, a senior currency strategist at Rabobank International in
 London  said in a Bloomberg Radio interview with  Tom Keene  and
Ken Prewitt. “The market is now beginning to think that maybe
China has avoided that hard landing and maybe things will
improve from here.”  Euro Goals  European leaders committed to their goal of establishing a
euro-area bank supervisor by year-end at the summit. The EU will
seek to agree on a framework that makes the  European Central
Bank  the main supervisor by Jan. 1, according to conclusions
released today. The new system will be phased in over the next
year and may cover all 6,000 euro-area banks by Jan. 1, 2014.  Rajoy said the EU summit in Brussels, which entered a
second day today, made “significant progress” and showed that
the EU would fulfill its commitments. He also said his
government would take a decision on asking for any bailout based
on Spain’s interest.  “There is some disappointment over the latest EU summit,”
said  Neil Jones , head of European hedge-fund sales at Mizuho
Corporate Bank Ltd. in London. “That’s why the euro is a bit
lower. We need some fresh good news to get things going further.
It’s not apparent today.”  Weekly Advance  The euro still gained on the week versus the dollar and yen
on bets the sovereign-debt crisis is easing.  The common currency appreciated 3.3 percent in the past
three months, according to Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted
Indexes tracking 10-developed market currencies. The yen dropped
4.2 percent and the dollar declined 3.2 percent.  “When the markets are really pushing up the temperature
and yields are moving higher, that’s the point when the
politicians and the ECB have to come in and do something about
it,” Rabobank’s Foley said. “Right now, all the pressure is
being relived so as a consequence we’re not going anywhere, at
least not fast.”  Italian bond yields  have declined 32 basis points, or 0.32
percentage point, to 4.77 percent in October. They fell 76 basis
points in September. Yields on  Spanish bonds  have fallen 57
basis points in September after a 92-basis-point decline in
October.  Canadian  consumer prices  rose 1.2 percent in September from
a year ago, matching the August pace,  Statistics Canada  said
today from Ottawa. The central bank’s preferred  core  rate slowed
to 1.3 percent from 1.6 percent in August, the least in more
than a year. Economists surveyed by Bloomberg forecast total
inflation of 1.3 percent and a core rate of 1.4 percent.  The loonie, as the currency is nicknamed, fell 0.8 percent
to 99.36 cents per  U.S. dollar , touching the weakest level since
Aug. 24.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joseph Ciolli in New York at 
 jciolli@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  