-- Young Chinese Look to Enter the Golden Rice Bowl
-- B y   A d a m   M i n t e r
-- 2012-10-18T21:58:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-18/young-chinese-look-to-enter-the-golden-rice-bowl.html
Everything is bigger in
 China , including, it seems, the desire to be a career
bureaucrat. On Monday, Chinese state media announced
than  2 million applicants  are expected to take the
country’s annual civil service exam in November, a jump
of 700,000 applicants over the relatively modest 1.33
million Chinese who took it in 2011.  As extraordinary as those numbers are, even more
extraordinary are the ridiculous odds against passing,
much less actually getting a job. In 2012, the central
government and its associated agencies are offering a
mere  20,839  positions --  meaning, in 2012, China’s 1
percent are those few who manage to become entry-level
central-government paper pushers.  What might drive two million Chinese citizens to
blow an autumn weekend taking “administrative aptitude
tests” in faint hope of an entry-level government job?  A slowing Chinese economy  is breeding uncertainty,
especially in cities and among the college educated.
Nonetheless, blame for China’s millions of aspiring
civil servants can’t be pinned solely on sluggish
growth. Over the course of the last decade -- a decade
that tracks China’s historic economic boom --
applicants for the civil service exam have grown
steadily and mostly irrevocably. For example, in 2001,
a mere  30,000  applicants sat; in 2003, there were
 87,000 ; and in 2007, the last year it was given before
the fall 2008 global financial crisis, 600,000 sat.  To be sure, many of those millions of aspiring
civil servants were attempting to flee the uncertainty
of the free market. But it is also very much the case
that many, if not most, had taken a careful look at how
business is done in China and decided that a job in the
civil service was the most efficient way to get a piece
of the action. After all, China’s state-owned sector
 still accounts  for more than half of China’s economic
output, and arguably that role is growing. Whether it
grows or not, though, such involvement is an open
opportunity for money-hungry officials, and many seize
it with vigor, skimming millions of dollars from
government projects, accepting bribes from those they
regulate or selling state assets that aren’t theirs --
all with little fear of repercussions.  Of course,  some do get caught . According to state
media, more than 660,000 Chinese officials  have been
punished  by Chinese anti-corruption bodies over the
last five years. But those are widely acknowledged to
be the foolish and reckless ones, most of whom serve at
the local rather than the central-government level.  For those who are careful, the “golden rice bowl,”
as central-government civil service jobs are
euphemistically known in China, is unlikely to be
broken, and they’ll continue to enjoy the rich range of
 fully legal perks  that would attract applicants even
without the opportunity for graft.  That’s good news for central-government
bureaucrats, but very bad news for those who prefer to
see China’s best minds in its private sector, not
wasting time prepping for jobs obtained through
standardized tests.  (Adam Minter is the Shanghai correspondent for the
World View blog and a contributor to the Ticker.)  Read more breaking commentary from Bloomberg View
at the  Ticker .
 