-- A Hundred Horses Are Ford’s Pride After Flipping Tainted Banks
-- B y   S e t h   L u b o v e
-- 2012-08-08T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-08/a-hundred-horses-are-ford-s-pride-after-flipping-tainted-banks.html
Gerald J. Ford has something he wants
to show off. He jumps into a golf cart and races toward one of
the 11 barns on his lush, 1,000-acre Kentucky thoroughbred farm.
He speeds past tall sycamore trees, painted lawn jockeys and
manicured fields of grass glistening from the May morning dew.  Ford stables more than 100 horses here, including
broodmares he breeds with his prized  Pleasantly Perfect , winner
of the $6 million Dubai  World Cup  in 2004, Bloomberg Markets
reports in its September issue.  “We’re going to see the babies,” says Ford, wearing a cap,
khakis and hiking boots as he walks into the foaling barn.  Inside, Pleasantly Perfect’s latest offspring -- a 120-
pound chestnut foal born the night before -- quivers next to its
mother. “I love being out here,” says Ford, whose slight drawl
reveals his roots in a small rural town in the  Texas  Panhandle.  Ford, 68, will likely sell the foal, much as he did the
banks and savings and loans that he flipped to make himself a
billionaire. These days, he spends most of his time in Dallas at
his primary operating company, Diamond A Ford Corp., which he
named after the cattle brand from his New Mexico ranch.  Four years after the worst financial crisis in decades
claimed Bear Stearns Cos. and Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.,
Ford is nowhere near done buying and consolidating healthy and
distressed banks. While the largest U.S. firms repaid their
bailouts to the $700 billion Troubled Asset Relief Program, more
than 400 smaller ones are struggling to do so because they can’t
raise new capital, according to an  April report  by  Christy Romero , TARP’s special inspector general.  Hugely Profitable  “There are 7,000 banks out there, and a big number of them
still have outstanding TARP preferred stock,” says Ford, who’s
not related to either the late U.S. president or the auto clan.
“Somewhere in there is another opportunity to recapitalize a
bank. We’ve bought banks for 37 years. Except from 2002 to 2010,
we never went three years without buying a bank.”  The buyout business has been hugely profitable for Ford. In
March, he sold Pacific Capital Bancorp, parent of Santa Barbara
Bank & Trust, to Japanese-controlled UnionBanCal Corp. for
$1.5 billion, three times his initial investment of $500
million.  In August 2010, Ford took over Pacific Capital, which was
made up of five separate banks with a combined $5.8 billion in
assets. Pacific Capital hadn’t posted a profit since the
beginning of 2008 because of soured residential construction
loans. It owed $181 million to TARP.  Walking Wounded  In following their cost-cutting playbook, Ford’s team took
out $177 million in expenses by merging the back-office
operations of the five banks, firing 181 employees and closing
five branches. It also wrote down $485 million in bad loans.  “When a bank gets in trouble, it’s just swimming against
the current,” says Carl Webb, Ford’s second in command at
Diamond A Ford. “We call them the walking wounded. That’s where
we see the opportunity going forward.”  By sticking to this formula, Ford, the son of an auto body
shop owner, has amassed about $1.3 billion, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. He has put his money into five
properties: a home in the exclusive Dallas enclave of University
Park; a beachfront getaway in Southampton,  New York ; an Upper
East Side town house in  Manhattan ; the ranch in New Mexico; and
the Kentucky horse farm.  Along with thoroughbreds, he has also bought historic
saddles, including one given in 1864 to Archduke Ferdinand
Maximilian Joseph of  Austria  by Mexico, where he briefly served
as emperor. Ford paid $230,000 for it.  Quiet Operator  During the past decade, as private-equity rock stars such
as  Henry Kravis  and  Stephen Schwarzman  made megadeals for brand
names, Ford avoided splashy buyouts. He has operated quietly,
mostly in dusty backwaters such as Levelland, Texas, and
Carrizozo, New Mexico.  Since 1975, he has snapped up almost 60 small firms, using
his own money, capital from partners and a $500 million private-
equity fund.  Ford, a hands-on dealmaker, and Webb, 62, who manages
operations, do these buyouts with the support of only 12
employees at their headquarters in Dallas. They have at times
been backed by large federal subsidies, which has stirred
protests from lawmakers.  “Carl is the stingiest son of a gun you would ever meet,”
says  Thomas Brown , whose New York-based Second Curve Capital LLC
hedge fund has invested in Ford’s banking deals. “They operate a
low-cost model.”  Low Key  Southern Methodist University President R. Gerald Turner
encountered Ford’s low-key style when he made a $20 million
donation for a new  football stadium . Turner says he had to
convince Ford, an SMU alum, to allow the school to name the
32,000-seat stadium after him.  “It took a while,” Turner says. “He’s a modest guy. I said,
‘Jerry, it has to have a name, and yours is by far the largest
gift.’”  Ford endeavors to make money -- even small amounts -- in
almost everything he does. As much as he loves his foals in
Kentucky, he auctions many of them for up to several hundred
thousand dollars apiece.  Another of Ford’s favorite escapes is his 147,000-acre
(60,000-hectare) ranch, where he raises a herd of 3,500 cattle
for market and also sells hunting trips. A  three-day excursion 
for trophy elk goes for $9,000, and a mule deer hunt costs
$3,300.  188-Foot Yacht  Ford also enjoys a 188-foot (57-meter) yacht that he co-
owned with billionaire  Ronald Perelman  before buying out his
friend’s share. “He got the greatest bargain of all time from
me,” Perelman says. When Ford isn’t yachting, he  leases  the boat
for as much as $420,000 a week.  Ford says that working in an auto body shop as a teenager
alongside his dad in Pampa, Texas, spurred him to seek a better
career. In high school, he carried around  Ayn Rand ’s libertarian
tome “ Atlas Shrugged ,” about the pursuit of individual
achievement.  “Her books talked about people being successful, and I
identified with that,” Ford says. He earned an undergraduate
economics degree at SMU and then got his law degree from the
school in 1969, because, he says, he saw that the prosperous
people wearing ties in his small town were lawyers.  “Jerry always had an ambition to do something bigger and
better than what he saw in his hometown,” SMU’s Turner says.
“Dallas is full of people like that.”  Shopping Spree  After working as a general counsel for a group of closely
held corporations, Ford decided he wanted to be his own boss and
build his own company. So, at age 31, with two partners and some
borrowed money, he paid $1.2 million for 64 percent of  First
National Bank  of Post, Texas, in 1975.  “I wanted to run something, a business,” Ford says. “After
we got it, one was good, two were better.”  Seven years later, Ford bought First National Bank in
Lubbock, Texas, and hired Webb to be president. The two men then
went on a three-decade shopping spree. They have taken a
conservative approach to buying troubled banks, scrutinizing
customer loyalty and defaults to limit their risk.  They avoid firms that have lost more than 10 to 15 percent
of deposits. Ford and Webb also shun buyouts if they expect
defaults to rise to the point that they significantly eat into
potential returns. “Banks get in trouble for one reason: They
make bad loans,” Webb says.  By the mid-1980s, Ford and Webb had built up equity of $225
million on 23 small-town banks with a combined $4 billion in
assets. They rolled them into First United Bank Group Inc. and
sold it in 1994 to Norwest Corp. for stock valued at $495
million.  S&L Crisis  The S&L crisis in the late 1980s, brought on by the
deregulation of the industry, provided Ford with the opportunity
to create one of his biggest and most controversial deals. Ford
and Perelman took full advantage of a U.S. government rescue
program that offered subsidies and tax breaks to entice
investors to take over failing thrifts.  With Perelman’s financing, they paid $315 million in 1988
for a group of five troubled S&Ls with combined assets of $11.4
billion. In exchange for their taking on the risk of the renamed
First Gibraltar Bank, the government provided them with up to
$9.5 billion in guarantees to cover bad loans and up to $1.8
billion in tax benefits that Perelman was able to use to shelter
profits in his other businesses, according to congressional
estimates at the time.  Republican and Democratic congressmen protested that
regulators were giving Ford and Perelman too generous a deal.  Plain Incompetent  “I would almost be happier if there was a criminal
conspiracy, but it appears that the government officials
involved were just plain incompetent,” Matthew Rinaldo, the late
New Jersey Republican representative,  said before Congress  in
1990.  Perelman, 69, says he and Ford were both shook up by the
criticism. “Here we thought we were doing exactly what the
government wanted investors to do, and we raised our hand as the
high bidder,” Perelman says. “All of a sudden, we found
ourselves in a real strong negative backlash.”  After Webb merged back-office operations to make First
Gibraltar profitable, Ford sold it piecemeal in 1992 to  Bank of
America Corp.  and other buyers for a gain of $900 million.  Ford and Perelman struck again in the mid-1990s, this time
scooping up S&Ls wounded by the bursting of California’s housing
bubble. They paid $1.1 billion for First Nationwide Bank and
then sold off everything except the S&L’s 45 California
branches.  Citigroup Purchase  The bank spent $250 million in 1995 to acquire thrift SFFed
Corp., which had $4.1 billion in assets, in  San Francisco . Three
years later, First Nationwide received the equivalent of $1.46
billion in stock of Golden State Bancorp Inc. of San Francisco
for the bank.  Ford and Perelman assumed management of the combined
company, which became the nation’s then-second-largest S&L. They
flipped it to  Citigroup Inc. (C)  in 2002 for $5.8 billion, giving
Ford more than 20 million Citi shares valued at about $1 billion
by the time he sold the stock.  Perelman, who got wealthy amassing stakes in Panavision
Inc. and  Revlon Inc. (REV) , says he and Ford had the perfect
relationship. “Everything was always transparent, always
straight with Jerry,” Perelman says. “He will always take
advantage of opportunities and turn them into real value.”  Ford stumbled during the credit bubble in the mid-2000s,
when a lack of reasonably priced deals scared him away from
banks and into other industries. In 2004, a real estate firm he
controlled paid $89.3 million in cash and stock for the since-
renamed  First Acceptance Corp. (FAC) , which operates a chain of 378
storefronts that sell nonstandard auto insurance.  Lousy Deal  The company has lost money on lower premiums for all but
three years in which Ford has controlled it and bled $8.2
million in the first quarter of 2012. After hitting a high of
$13.40 under Ford’s stewardship in 2006, the shares plunged
almost 91 percent as of July 3.  “It is a lousy deal,” Ford says.  Ford returned to banking deals after the subprime crisis
pushed the economy into a recession in late 2007. Since then, he
has bought two banks. In one deal, he agreed to spend almost
$515 million in May for Dallas-based PlainsCapital Corp. after
the bank canceled a public offering.  Ford is also raising $700 million for his second buyout
fund after investing his entire first one in his 2010 purchase
of  Pacific Capital Bancorp. (PCBC)   Eighth Decade  “There’s probably still a number of opportunities on the
smaller side of things, talking sub-$500 million,” says Brad Milsaps, an Atlanta-based banking analyst and managing director
with Sandler O’Neill & Partners LP.  Now approaching his eighth decade, Ford isn’t slowing down.
He has four grown children from his first marriage and two more,
ages 5 and 8, with his second wife. Two years ago, he made a
move toward succession, installing his son Jeremy Ford as the
head of  Hilltop Holdings Inc. (HTH) , a small insurance and financial
services company that he controls.  “Work is intellectual to him at this point,” Jeremy, 37,
says during a visit to the Kentucky farm with his dad and
extended family. “It’s so a part of who he is that I don’t think
he’ll ever not want to do it.”  At the horse farm, one of Ford’s five grandchildren bounds
up to tell him about petting two recently arrived miniature
donkeys, now grazing in the distance. After 37 years in the
buyout business that have provided Ford with magnificent homes
in four states and a Gulfstream jet to shuttle between them and
his businesses, he says he has no plans to retire.  “I have been paid handsomely for a job I love,” he says.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Seth Lubove in  Los Angeles  at 
 slubove@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Laura Colby in New York at 
 lcolby@bloomberg.net  