-- A123 Advances After Financing Deal With Chinese Company
-- B y   H a s a n   D u d a r
-- 2012-08-08T20:45:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-08/a123-advances-after-financing-deal-with-chinese-company.html
A123 Systems Inc. (AONE) , the maker of
 lithium batteries , rose 6.4 percent after signing a $450 million
non-binding financing agreement with Wanxiang Group Corp.,
 China ’s largest auto-components company.  A123 advanced to 50 cents at the close. The stock has
declined 69 percent this year as the costs of a recall of
batteries for plug-in hybrid luxury carmaker Fisker Automotive
Inc. prompted  unprofitable  A123 to say it needed to adjust its
fundraising.  Wanxiang would give A123 as much as $75 million in debt
financing under the proposed terms of the agreement, the
Waltham, Massachusetts-based battery maker said in a statement.
Wanxiang may also buy $200 million of senior secured convertible
notes and invest $175 million by exercising warrants. It may
help A123 secure existing customers and win over new ones, said
 David Epstein , an analyst with CRT Capital Group.  “If you’re trying to win business or get an existing
customer to expand a program, it’s going to be a lot easier,”
Epstein said in a telephone interview. “Because switching costs
are high, an existing customer is going to be a lot more
comfortable going with you and building a product around your
product if they think you’re going to be around for the long
haul.”  Under the deal’s terms, the shares issuable upon exercise
and conversion of the warrants and the convertible notes would
represent about 80 percent of the then outstanding common stock
of A123.  Providing Stability  “Today’s announcement is the first step toward solidifying
a strategic agreement that we believe would remove the
uncertainty regarding A123’s financial situation,” Chief
Executive Officer  David Vieau  said in the statement. It will
also provide access to customers in China, he said.  A123 also said today that second-quarter revenue fell 53
percent to $17 million from $36.4 million in the same period
last year. The net loss widened to $82.9 million from $55.4
million. The Wanxiang agreement will provide stability as A123
progresses toward its profitability targets, including achieving
positive adjusted earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation
and amortization on a quarterly basis during 2013, Vieau said on
a conference call today.  “I’m not so comfortable that they can predict or any one
can predict what the numbers are going to look like,” Epstein
said.  The company said in March it would need to “adjust” its
fundraising plans because of the $55 million cost of recalling
Fisker Karma battery packs that have misaligned hose clamps.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hasan Dudar in Southfield, Michigan, at 
 hdudar@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  