-- Labor Laws Cut Hiring as South Africa Unemployed Swell: Jobs
-- B y   M i k e   C o h e n   a n d   A n d r e s   R .   M a r t i n e z
-- 2012-08-08T12:17:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-08/labor-laws-chill-hiring-as-south-africa-s-unemployed-swell-jobs.html
Joe Mtwazi stood on the corner of
Rose and Strand streets in Cape Town, signaling to passing vans
that he’s available for hire. A pickup truck stopped and he
joined a scuffle of about 10 men for slots on a building crew,
emerging unsuccessful.  “I’ll do anything,” Mtwazi, 34 and a black father of two,
said in an interview on Aug. 1. He hasn’t been permanently
employed since being fired as a painter four years ago and
competes for part-time jobs, earning between 100 rand ($12) and
200 rand a day if he gets hired. “Sometimes I don’t eat because
I don’t have money,” he said.  Mtwazi may soon find it even harder to get a job as  South
Africa ’s government moves to change labor laws that companies
say already fuel a 25 percent  unemployment rate  and constrain
growth in  Africa ’s largest economy. Proposed laws pushed by the
country’s labor unions seek to give temporary workers the same
rights as permanent employees if they’ve been on the job for
more than six months, forcing up costs for retailers such as
Cape Town-based  Pick n Pay Stores Ltd ., which will be required
to raise pay and extend pension and medical benefits to those
workers.  The jobless rate hasn’t dropped below about 22 percent in
the past four years as the economy fails to create enough work
for 4.5 million South Africans who are unemployed. Another 2.3
million are so discouraged they’ve given up looking, government
data show. For black South Africans, the  unemployment rate  is 29
percent.  Deter Hiring  Laws that require employers to negotiate wages at an
industrywide level and make it difficult to fire workers because
of poor performance deter hiring, according to companies such as
Johannesburg-based  AngloGold Ashanti Ltd. (AU) , Africa’s largest gold
producer.  South Africa was ranked 139 out of 142 countries on the
competitiveness of its hiring and firing practices, just behind
France, Spain and  Sweden  and ahead of Portugal, according to the
Geneva-based  World Economic Forum ’s 2011-2012 Global
Competitiveness Report.  “There may well be a mismatch between the aspirations of
South Africa and the argument that you need to be a much more
wealthy, developed nation to enjoy the luxury to have those
things in place,”  Razia Khan , head of economic research for
Africa at Standard Chartered Plc in  London , said in a telephone
interview on Aug. 3. “It is very difficult to justify having
those kinds of policies in place.”  Bargaining Power  South Africa is ranked 138th on the  World Economic Forum ’s
scale measuring the flexibility in determining wages, just after
Sweden. The Labor Relations Act of 1995, which promotes
industrywide wage agreements, has strengthened the bargaining
power of labor unions and made it easier for them to call for
strikes.  The minimum monthly wage paid to a 19-year-old apprentice
in South Africa is $543, according to the  World Bank’s  2012
Doing Business study. In  China , where unemployment is at 4.1
percent, the minimum wage is $183, while it’s $300 in  Brazil  and
$30 in India. Brazil’s jobless rate is 5.8 percent, while in
India it’s 9.8 percent.  South African lawmakers now are debating changes to the
Labor Relations Act that will force companies to treat temporary
workers like permanent staff after employing them for six months
and make employers jointly liable for violations of labor laws
by their staff contractors. Proposed amendments to the Basic
Conditions of Employment Act will enable the labor minister to
set minimum wages for “vulnerable” workers on industrywide
bases and make it easier to unionize.  ‘Detrimental Effect’  “They would have a detrimental effect on business and I
think the country as a whole,” Steve Glendinning, human
resources director at  Mr Price Group Ltd. (MPC) , a clothing and
furniture retailer, said in a phone interview on Aug. 3 from the
eastern port city of Durban, where the company is based. “Our
country is riddled with unemployment. You don’t want to
exacerbate that situation.”  President  Jacob Zuma ’s government is already under strain
as it struggles to contain the myriad social effects of
joblessness, including poverty and crime. About 35 percent of
South Africans live on less than $51 a month, according to
government data, while the murder rate of 31.9 per 100,000 is
more than six times that of the U.S. South Africa pays social-
welfare grants to almost 16 million individuals, or about a
third of the country’s population of 50.6 million.  Labor Push  The Congress of South African Trade Unions, the country’s
largest labor grouping, which helped to sweep Zuma into power in
2009, has been the main force behind a push for more restrictive
 labor laws . The federation, representing about 2 million
workers, argues that high unemployment levels make workers
vulnerable to exploitation and more needs to be done to protect
them.  “Regardless of progress we are making in transforming our
country in various sectors, the triple challenges of poverty,
inequality and unemployment persist,” Zuma said at a June 29
policy conference of the ruling  African National Congress .
“These affect primarily the black majority. Something drastic
must be done.”  Zuma, 70, may be yielding to pressure from labor unions as
he shores up support before a party leadership contest in
December, said Zwelethu Jolobe, a political analyst at the
University of Cape Town. Zuma ousted former ANC leader Thabo Mbeki in 2007 with the help of labor unions.  Election Support  “Zuma has been reaching out to labor more and more because
he needs them,” Jolobe said in a telephone interview on Aug. 6.
“He has an election coming up. Having labor on his side is very
important because they are an organized constituency.”  Mac Maharaj , Zuma’s spokesman, said changes to laws are
debated by the government, businesses and labor groups.
Allegations that the president can influence the process were
unfounded, he said in a phone interview today.  Under apartheid, the system of white minority rule that
prevailed from 1948 to 1994, black South Africans, who make up
79 percent of the population, were used as cheap labor for the
country’s mines and factories and excluded from certain jobs
because of their race. The ANC has revised labor laws since then
to address job inequality and prevent a repetition of such
abuses.  Even state-owned companies are opposed to the new labor
restrictions. Eskom Holding Soc Ltd., which supplies about 95
percent of South Africa’s electricity, told lawmakers its
ability to hire construction workers to build new  power plants 
may be curtailed.  ‘Grossly Irresponsible’  If passed, the changes to the laws could cost the economy
320,000 jobs during the next five years, said Loane Sharp, a
labor economist at South Africa recruitment company  Adcorp
Holdings Ltd. (ADR)   “It is grossly irresponsible to introduce this kind of
legislation in difficult economic circumstances,” he said in an
Aug. 1 interview in Cape Town. “Businesses suffer because they
have reduced flexibility. Employment will suffer. The political
calculus is winning the day.”  The jobs crisis is compounded by an inequitable education
system that denies proper schooling, skills and employment
opportunities to millions of poor children, according to the
 World Bank . The quality of South Africa’s primary education
system is ranked 127th out of 142 countries by the World
Economic Forum, one position lower than  Mali .  “It’s difficult to find work without qualifications,”
said Marvin Daniels, 34, a homeless man in Cape Town who earns
210 rand working three nights a week as a cook in a coffee shop.
“I’m trying to get a permanent job to get off the streets.”  Create Jobs  The ANC-led government has pledged to create 5 million jobs
and slash the unemployment rate to 14 percent by 2020. That
requires economic expansion of 7 percent a year, more than
double the 2.7 percent growth forecast by Finance Minister
 Pravin Gordhan  for this year.  For unemployed laborers on Cape Town’s streets, waiting for
the economy to improve or the authorities to turn the situation
around is something they can’t afford.  “We are suffering,” Mtwazi said, as he joined about 30
other men on the sidewalk waiting for the next passing van.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mike Cohen in Cape Town at 
 mcohen21@bloomberg.net ;
Andres R. Martinez in Johannesburg at 
 amartinez28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  