-- Madonna Urges Freedom for Anti-Putin Punk Girls at Concert
-- B y   H e n r y   M e y e r
-- 2012-08-08T08:38:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-08/madonna-urges-freedom-for-anti-putin-punk-band-at-moscow-concert.html
Madonna appealed for the freedom of
three members of an all-female Russian punk band, on trial for a
protest against  Vladimir Putin  in the country’s main Orthodox
Christian cathedral.  “I think that these three girls -- Masha, Katya, Nadya --I
think that they have done something courageous,” the pop star
said in footage of her Moscow concert last night posted on the
Ekho Moskvy radio station’s  website . “They have paid a price
for this act. I pray for their freedom.”  The U.S. government has condemned the prosecution of the
Pussy Riot band members, who have been declared prisoners of
conscience by  Amnesty International . Music stars including Peter Gabriel and Sting have rallied to their defense. Pussy Riot
performed what they called a “punk prayer” in February inside
Moscow’s Christ the Savior cathedral, targeting Putin who
extended his 12-year rule in presidential elections in March.  Prosecutors yesterday demanded a three-year prison sentence
for Maria Alekhina, 24, Ekaterina Samutsevich, 29, and Nadezhda
Tolokonnikova, 22, who are on trial for hooliganism and inciting
religious hatred.  The three defendants, who were among five Pussy Riot band
members who staged the performance in masks and skimpy dresses,
face a maximum of seven years in prison under the Russian
criminal code.  ‘Wise Man’  Yoko Ono yesterday called for the young women’s release on
her Twitter Inc. account. “Mr. Putin, you are a wise man &
don’t need to fight with musicians and their friends. Keep space
in prison for serious criminals,”  John Lennon ’s widow said.  A letter signed by 124 members of the German parliament’s
lower house, the Bundestag, was sent yesterday to the Russian
ambassador to  Germany  expressing concern over the trial against
the three members of Pussy Riot.  “Being held in detention for months and the threat of
lengthy punishment are draconian and disproportionate,” the
lawmakers said in the letter, a copy of which was received by
Bloomberg News. “In a secular and pluralist state, peaceful
artistic acts -- even if they can be seen as provocative -- must
not lead to the accusation of serious criminal acts that lead to
lengthy prison terms.”  Among those who signed the letter are both of the chamber’s
opposition Greens parliamentary leaders, Juergen Trittin and
Renate Kuenast, and the deputy faction leader of  Chancellor
Angela Merkel ’s Christian Democratic bloc, Michael Meister.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Henry Meyer in Moscow at 
 hmeyer4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  