-- Maersk to Add Prius of the Seas With Fuel-Saving Ships
-- B y   K y u n g h e e   P a r k
-- 2012-08-08T21:25:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-08/maersk-to-add-prius-of-the-seas-with-fuel-saving-ships-freight.html
A.P. Maersk-Moeller A/S (MAERSKB) ’s planned
fleet of the world’s largest container vessels will be as
groundbreaking for their shape as their size.  The 20 ships will be the first cargo-box carriers with
rounded hulls rather than streamlined V-shaped ones, according
to  Daewoo Shipbuilding & Marine Engineering Co. (042660) , which is
developing the 18,000-container vessels. The change reflects a
shift by operators away from designing ships to go as fast as
possible to instead emphasizing fuel economy.  “These vessels will be the Prius of the seas,” said Lee Jae Won, an analyst at  Tongyang Securities Inc. (003470)  in Seoul,
referring to  Toyota Motor Corp. ’s distinctively-shaped hybrid
car. “They’re fuel efficient and environmentally friendly.”  The fatter hulls will let Copenhagen-based Maersk install a
fuel-efficient two-engine setup that’s too wide for current
ships. It will also recover cargo capacity that is lost with
tapered hulls, letting the ships carry 16 percent more boxes
than vessels only a few meters smaller. Combined with other
technologies, the ships will use about 35 percent less fuel per
box than vessels now used on Asia-Europe routes and produce
around 50 percent less  carbon emissions , according to Maersk.  “The focus now is on how to consume less fuel,” said Odin
Kwon, vice president of ship design at Seoul, South Korea-based
Daewoo. “Ships currently in operation have been built only with
speed in mind.”  Daewoo has begun the initial work for the first of the
ships, which will cost about $183 million each. Deliveries are
due to start next year and will run until the first half of
2015. Rounded hulls are common on commodity-carrying ships.  Slow-Steaming  Maersk, the world’s largest container-ship operator, is
introducing the vessels as the industry contends with tighter
emissions standards and  fuel prices  that have jumped about 40
percent in two years. The higher costs have already prompted
shipping lines to slow vessels 18 percent over the past three
years to an  average speed  of about 10.4 knots. That has cut fuel
bills and eased global overcapacity that caused industrywide
losses last year.  Reducing the speed of  container ships  by 10 percent can
pare fuel consumption by as much as 30 percent, according to
ship assessor  Det Norske Veritas . A 25 percent reduction can cut
carbon emissions by more than 350 tons a day per ship, the
Transpacific Stabilization Agreement, a shipping group,  said  in
2010.  Ultra-Long Stroke  Still, these gains are limited by current ships’ focus on
speed as they are fitted with engines that operate best when
going fast. By contrast, the Maersk vessels are designed to
operate efficiently at both high and low speeds.  Key to the change is the ships’ two propellers and their
 ultra-long stroke  engines, a type usually only found in slow-
moving commodity ships and tankers. The setup will use 4 percent
less fuel than a single engine and propeller, Maersk said in an
e-mailed response to Bloomberg News questions.  “Building vessels that are fuel efficient at different
speeds will be the trend,” said Daewoo’s Kwon. “It will
eventually dominate the market.”  The Maersk vessels, which will also feature a waste-heat
recovery system, will still be able to go as fast as 23 knots.
That compares with a top speed of 25 knots for the  Emma Maersk ,
the largest container ship afloat.  The new vessels will be 59 meters wide and 400 meters long.
That’s about 3 meters wider and 4 meters longer than the Emma,
which holds 2,500 fewer boxes. The limited size increase means
major European ports will be able to handle the ships without
having to buy new cranes and other equipment. U.S. ports aren’t
big enough for such vessels.  Toyota’s Prius, the world’s bestselling hybrid car, is
renowned for its distinctive wedge shape. The 2012 plug-in
version gets the equivalent of 58 miles per gallon in combined
city and highway driving, according to a U.S. government
 website .  Evergreen Vessels  Other shipping companies are also adding more fuel-
efficient vessels.  Evergreen Group , owner of  Asia ’s second-
biggest container line, is introducing twenty 8,452-box vessels
fitted with electronic-controlled fuel-injection engines that
support slow steaming. The ships, built by  Samsung Heavy
Industries Co. (010140) , will also gain fuel savings from a design that
minimizes the need for ballast water.  Neptune Orient Lines Ltd. (NOL)  has six similar ships, built by
 Hyundai Heavy Industries Co. (009540)  and Daewoo. STX Offshore &
Shipbuilding Co. is building six container ships that will be
the biggest after Maersk’s and which will “significantly” pare
carbon emissions, it said in  November .  Emissions Goal  Shipping lines are working to meet a goal of cutting
emissions 30 percent by 2030 under a mandate from the United
Nations’ International Maritime Organization. Those that miss
this target will face penalties that are still under discussion.  The regulations will cut carbon emissions by an estimated
330 million tons a year by 2030, the IMO said in a 2011
 statement . That will save an average of $50 billion a year in
fuel costs by 2020 and $200 billion by 2030, it said. The rules
will also stop the industry’s share of global emissions climbing
from about 3.3 percent in 2007 to as much as 18 percent in 2050
amid rising trade, it said.  Ship owners may also be able to meet the tougher standards
using technologies that can be fitted onto existing vessels.
Hyundai Heavy, Daewoo and Samsung Heavy, the world’s three
biggest shipyards, have developed devices that clean ballast
water to reduce pollution or improve navigation to save fuel.  Hyundai Heavy has also developed a gas engine that can
reduce carbon emissions by 20 percent compared with a diesel
engine. Daewoo and MAN Diesel & Turbo SE have devised an engine
system that uses liquefied natural gas.  Daewoo is also working on a technology that will spray
bubbles along the bottom of ships, easing friction and fuel
usage, Kwon said. Japanese yard Imabari Shipbuilding Co. said
last year that it found 8 percent energy savings testing a
similar system.  “It all shows that it’s going to be a fight about who can
be the most efficient and make money,” said Park Moo Hyun, an
analyst at E*Trade Securities Co. in  Seoul . “It’s no longer
just about who can go the fastest.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kyunghee Park in Singapore at 
 kpark3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  