-- Tagus Bid for Full Control Boosted by Abertis’s Disposal
-- B y   H e n r i q u e   A l m e i d a   a n d   B e n   S i l l s
-- 2012-08-08T07:57:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-08/tagus-bid-for-full-control-boosted-by-abertis-s-disposal.html
Tagus Holdings Sarl’s bid to buy full
control of  Brisa-Auto Estradas de Portugal SA  became more likely
to succeed after  Abertis (ABE)  Infraestructuras SA said it will sell
its 15 percent equity holding in the toll-road operator.  The disposal of Abertis’s entire stake in Brisa will
generate 312 million euros ($386 million) in  cash flow  and
contribute 97 million euros to second-half profit, the
Barcelona, Spain-based company said in a  regulatory filing . The
stock-tendering period for the Brisa bid ends today.  Tagus, a venture formed by Brisa’s two biggest
shareholders, offered 2.76 euros a share in July for the
Portuguese highway operator, which is based in the Lisbon suburb
of Sao Domingos de Rana. Abertis, Brisa’s third-largest investor
with 16 percent of the  voting rights , had criticized Tagus’s
initial bid in March of 2.66 euros a share as inadequate.  “As no competing offer emerged, most investors simply had
to settle for the Tagus offer price,” said  Pedro Oliveira , a
trader at Go Bulling in Lisbon. “Brisa is trading very close to
the offer price, indicating most investors are accepting the bid
as final.”  The Spanish toll-road operator’s acceptance is crucial for
Tagus to obtain the 90 percent voting control of Brisa that
would enable the owners to de-list the toll-road company under
Portuguese market rules. Tagus’s partners, family-owned holding
company Jose de Mello SGPS SA and London-based Arcus
Infrastructure Partners LLP, already own a combined 49.6 percent
in Brisa’s equity and 53.8 percent of the voting rights.  Analysts including Elodie Rall at  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) 
predict most minority investors will accept the Tagus offer. The
bid values Brisa at 1.66 billion euros. Results of the tender
are scheduled to be announced at 5 p.m. tomorrow, Paula Cordeiro, a spokeswoman for the NYSE Euronext Lisbon exchange,
said yesterday.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Henrique Almeida in Lisbon at 
 halmeida5@bloomberg.net ;
Ben Sills in Madrid at 
 bsills@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jerrold Colten at 
 jcolten@bloomberg.net  