-- Thai Billionaire Already Winning in Tussle With Heineken: Retail
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   B u r g o s ,   J o y c e   K o h   a n d   S h a r o n   C h e n
-- 2012-08-08T18:01:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-08/thai-billionaire-already-winning-in-tussle-with-heineken-retail.html
Thai billionaire Charoen Sirivadhanabhakdi has a history of making money by fighting
foreign brewers. Now he’s doing it again as his company is
poised to see big gains in a tussle with Heineken NV over  Asia
Pacific Breweries Ltd. (APB) , the maker of Tiger and other beers
popular across Southeast  Asia .  Charoen, who in 2005 forced  Carlsberg A/S (CARLA)  to pay $120
million to settle a legal dispute with a brewer he controlled,
last month set off a battle over APB. Companies managed by his
family have offered to buy stakes in the Singapore-based beer
maker and Fraser & Neave Ltd., a conglomerate that controls 40
percent of APB.  His bet on APB is already making Charoen’s clan richer.
Charoen’s moves prompted Amsterdam-based Heineken to bid S$7.5
billion ($6 billion), or S$50 a share, for all of APB. This
week, his son-in-law’s company topped that by offering Fraser &
Neave S$55 a share for 7.3 percent of APB.  “It’s a brilliant move by this Thai tycoon,” said Goh Han Peng, an analyst at DMG & Partners Securities. “I think this
latest partial offer is designed to provoke a higher offer from
Heineken.”  The bidding war has already raised the value of Charoen’s
son-in-law’s Asia Pacific stake by about $134 million as the
shares have climbed. The family’s payout will surge more if
Heineken raises its bid or  Fraser & Neave (FNH)  sells other parts of
its businesses.  Deutsche Bank analyst Gregory Lui estimates that a sale of
APB at S$50 a share could provide Fraser & Neave and its
shareholders “significant” one-time gains and special
dividends of about S$2.71 a share. Based on a roughly 24 percent
stake in Fraser & Neave, that would bring Charoen’s  Thai
Beverage (THBEV)  a cash windfall of about $742 million.  Drinking Tiger  In his fight with Copenhagen-based Carlsberg, Charoen had
initially sought as much as $2 billion in damages from the
foreign brewer. Charoen wanted the payout because Carlsberg
ended a joint venture with a beer business he controlled.  His current efforts to cash in on brands such as Tiger and
Bintang, the top-selling brew in  Indonesia , show the attraction
of  Southeast Asia ’s growing populations and expanding economies
to beer companies. They are betting on drinkers such as Peter
Koh, 33, who works in sales at a bank in Singapore and has been
drinking Tiger since he was 18.  “Even if I go overseas I will take Tiger,” Koh said. “It
tastes a bit more refreshing than the rest. I think there’s a
tinge of lemon in the beer.”  Beer Magnate  Charoen put the spotlight on Tiger when his Thai Beverage
PcL on July 18 agreed to buy 22 percent of Fraser & Neave from
Singapore-based Oversea-Chinese Banking Corp. and partners.  Thai Bev had been mulling an investment in Fraser & Neave
for more than a year before negotiations with the Singaporean
bank intensified last month, according to one person with
knowledge of the matter. Charoen and OCBC sealed the deal in
talks at Singapore’s  Intercontinental Hotel , the person said,
asking not to be identified as the information is private.  Also on July 18, Kindest Place Groups, a company controlled
by Charoen’s son-in-law Chotiphat Bijananda, agreed with OCBC
and its partners to take an almost 9 percent stake in APB.
Heineken responded two days later with its S$7.5 billion offer.
Fraser & Neave’s board last week recommended the Heineken offer
to shareholders.  Founded in 1931, APB brews over 40 beer brands, including
Tiger, which the company says is offered in 60 countries
worldwide. It also distributes Heineken in markets from
Indonesia to China and is the Dutch brewer’s main foothold in
Asia. APB’s profit rose almost 19 percent to S$218 million in
the six months through March, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Chinatown Billionaire  Charoen, 68, was  born and raised  in Bangkok’s Chinatown
district after his parents moved from Shantau in  China . His
business interests extend to other industries such as property
development insurance. Based on his 70 percent stake in Thai
conglomerate Berli Jucker Public Co. and a 66 percent holding in
Thai Beverage, he now has $5.9 billion worth of stock, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Thai Bev, which sells Chang --  Thailand ’s No. 2 beer brand
-- as well as spirits and soft drinks, got only about 3.7
percent of its  2011 revenue  of 132 billion baht ($4.2 billion)
from outside its home country, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Thai Bev in 2006 sold shares in Singapore after anti-
alcohol protesters blocked an offering in its home market. The
company says it is now is looking to expand overseas.  Vichate Tantiwanich, a senior vice president at Thai Bev,
declined to comment on negotiations over Fraser & Neave or APB.  Win-Win  Fraser & Neave, in addition to the brewing assets it holds
through APB, has real estate and soft drink assets that could
interest other buyers once the brewing operations are disposed
of. Charoen may also benefit from a breakup of Fraser & Neave
after the brewing operations are sold, said Jonathan Foster,
director of Global Special Situations at investment firm
Religare Capital Markets.  “In addition to making money, they might get to look at,
and have first option at assets they might like,” Foster said.
“This is probably a win-win for Thai Bev.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jonathan Burgos in  Singapore  at 
 jburgos4@bloomberg.net ;
Sharon Chen in Singapore at 
 schen462@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anjali Cordeiro at 
 acordeiro2@bloomberg.net  