-- AIDS Sufferers Seen Hurt in Pacific Trade Pact Limits
-- B y   B r i a n   W i n g f i e l d
-- 2012-08-08T21:38:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-08/aids-sufferers-seen-hurt-in-pacific-trade-pact-limits.html
Edward Low, an AIDS activist in
 Malaysia  who is HIV-positive, says treatments to fight the
disease in his country cost about $90 a month, down from $1,000
a decade ago before generic drugs became widely available.  Now he’s worried that a trade deal being negotiated by nine
Pacific-region nations including the U.S. may curtail access to
those cheap drugs in favor of patented pharmaceuticals, raising
costs to survive HIV/AIDS in developing nations.  “This agreement is good for the rich countries,” Low, 45,
said during an interview in Washington. “It’s not good for the
poor countries.”  Protecting the patents of drug makers including  Abbott
Laboratories (ABT) ,  Bristol-Myers Squibb Co. (BMY)  and  GlaxoSmithKline Plc (GSK) 
as part of the Trans-Pacific Partnership has drawn criticism
from groups such as Doctors Without Borders and  Public Citizen .
The proposed accord has also spurred calls from U.S. lawmakers
for greater transparency about the negotiations, while
technology companies including  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  and  Symantec
Corp. (SYMC)  are urging fewer restrictions on cross-border data flows.  While the advocacy groups claim the U.S. position in the
talks favors patented medicines, not just those for HIV/AIDS,
administration officials say affordability and innovation aren’t
mutually exclusive goals.  Twin Goals  The U.S. cited two goals in the talks: “Preserving the
intellectual property protections that spur innovation in the
pharmaceutical industry in a way that also drives access to
medicines in the developing world,”  Carol Guthrie , a
spokeswoman for the U.S. Trade Representative’s office, said in
an e-mail.  The multilateral talks, the main accord being pursued by
President  Barack Obama ’s administration, would create an
economic zone with $20.5 trillion in output, according to a
Canadian estimate. Talks that began with Australia, Brunei,
Chile, Malaysia,  New Zealand ,  Peru , Singapore, the U.S. and
Vietnam may expand after the parties invited Canada and Mexico.  A final agreement probably will encompass traditional
issues including agriculture and intellectual property, as well
investment and protections for businesses that compete against
state-owned enterprises, according to the trade office.  HIV Populations  The number of people living with HIV in the nine nations
varies from a low of 49 in Brunei, or about 0.01 percent of its
population last year, to 1.2 million, or 0.39 percent of the
 U.S. population  in 2010, according to reports submitted by the
countries to the  UNAIDS  Secretariat in Geneva.  U.S. negotiators in September proposed eliminating duties
on medicines and setting a deadline for drug companies to bring
their products to market by giving them access to nations in the
pact and creating a “pathway” for generics. The strategy is
aimed at promoting access to medicines while protecting
intellectual property for the products.  “An effective, transparent and predictable intellectual
property system is necessary for both manufacturers of
innovative medicines and manufacturers of generic medicines,”
according to a U.S. briefing document.  “We’ve gotten a lot of comments and criticism about our
proposal that we are reflecting upon very carefully,” Deputy
U.S. Trade Representative Demetrios Marantis said today at a
conference in Washington.  HIV patients take a daily  regimen  of at least three
antiretroviral medications -- such as Bristol-Myers’ Sustiva,
Glaxo’s Ziagen and Abbott’s Kaletra -- from two or more
different drug classes to manage the virus, according to the
 U.S. Department of Health  and Human Services.  Generic Costs  The price of initial treatments in developing countries has
declined about 99 percent, to less than $150 per person a year
from $10,000 in 2000 as generic medicines become more prevalent,
according to a July analysis by humanitarian organization
Doctors Without Borders.  Under a 1995 multilateral agreement, which sets minimum
intellectual-property standards, patents are protected for at
least 20 years. U.S. Trade Representative  Ron Kirk  has said the
U.S. and the partner nations will implement the agreement in a
way that supports public health.  Advocacy and development groups that have seen documents in
the negotiations said the U.S. position offers too many
protections to existing patent holders, such as letting
manufacturers extend their patents by modifying existing brand-
name products. The U.S. Trade Representative’s office hasn’t
confirmed the authenticity of those documents.  Deter Copies  Broader patent protections deter production of generics,
and treatment costs rise as patients switch regimens after
developing resistance to their original medications, according
to Burcu Kilic, legal counsel for Public Citizen’s Global Access
to Medicines program in Washington.  “We need the generic companies to enter the market” to
bring down the price for HIV/AIDS drugs, she said in a phone
interview.  Karl Uhlendorf, a spokesman for the  Pharmaceutical Research
and Manufacturers of America , the Washington-based industry
group for patent holders including Bristol-Myers,  Pfizer Inc. (PFE) ,
Abbott and  Merck & Co. (MRK) , said in an e-mail that intellectual-
property protection isn’t a barrier to patient access to
medicines.  ‘High Standards’  “The negotiations should sustain the high standards on
intellectual-property rights that are a hallmark of U.S. law,”
Senator  Claire McCaskill , a Missouri Democrat, said in an Aug. 6
letter to Obama, echoing statements by Democrats from
Massachusetts and Washington state.  Intellectual-property revenue is “one of America’s big
strengths in the world economy” and patent protections provide
incentives for future medicines, said Edward Gresser, a policy
adviser at USTR during President  Bill Clinton ’s administration.  “You really need to look illness by illness” to determine
if there’s an issue with access to medicines, he said in a phone
interview. “There’s vastly more income being provided to low-
income cases” of HIV/AIDS than 10 years ago, he said.  “Trade policy alone cannot solve the challenges relating
to access to medicines,” the agency said in its report dealing
with pharmaceuticals in the Pacific talks. Poor drug
distribution networks and infrastructure systems in  developing
countries  also limit access to HIV treatments, it said.  The next round of talks is set for Sept. 6-15 in Leesburg,
Virginia. The public, industry, health and development experts
and federal agencies can attend, as they have in the past,
according to the trade representative’s office.  Groups that work with HIV/AIDS patients say it’s important
that negotiators get the balance right between access and
innovation.  “It’s a matter of life or death,” Low said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Wingfield in Washington at 
 bwingfield3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Geimann at 
 sgeimann@bloomberg.net  