-- Air Canada Targets Renewed Growth With Low-Cost Unit
-- B y   A r i   A l t s t e d t e r
-- 2012-08-08T20:24:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-08/air-canada-loss-passes-estimates-as-labor-spat-cuts-sales.html
Air Canada (AC/B)  plans to boost revenue
with a low-cost carrier that may start as soon as 2013 and
invest in more fuel-efficient jets to shake its status as  North
America ’s least efficient airline.  A labor accord with pilots selected by an arbitrator last
week lets Air Canada start its proposed low-cost business with
as many as 50 aircraft, including single-aisle Airbus SAS A319s
and twin-aisle  Boeing Co. (BA)  767s, Chief Executive Officer Calin
Rovinescu said on an earnings call today. Routes will include
leisure destinations such as  Las Vegas ,  Mexico  and  Florida .  “This agreement is a key element in the blueprint that
will allow Air Canada to not only compete more effectively, but
also renew growth after years of stagnation,” he said.  Air Canada had the highest annual cost to fly a single seat
a mile of any North American airline for the past three years,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg Industries. Its fleet is
twice the  average age  of rival  WestJet Airlines Ltd. (WJA) , the most
recent data show, and Air Canada said today it will conduct a
review to determine which aircraft need replacing.  “There’s still periods of lots of restructuring they have
to work through and there’s going to be lots of noise around the
name but I think they have enough momentum and enough dominoes
in play they can probably extract some good cost savings in
various initiatives across the board,” said David Newman, a
Cormark Securities Inc. analyst in Toronto who raised his  rating 
to speculative buy from market perform on Aug. 1.  Earnings Miss  Air Canada reported a second-quarter adjusted loss of 5
Canadian cents a share today, wider than the 1-cent average of
analysts’ estimates, after labor disruptions and the closing of
a maintenance provider curbed bookings.  Including a currency-exchange loss and other expenses, net
loss widened to C$96 million, or 35 cents a share, from C$46
million, or 17 cents, a year earlier. The report marked  Air
Canada (AC/A) ’s sixth consecutive unprofitable quarter. Operating
expenses for each seat flown a mile increased 2.3 percent from
the same period a year ago, Air Canada said.  “The rest of the industry has been moving ahead to capture
a large portion of the ever-growing leisure or low-cost
market,”Rovinescu said on the call. “The low-cost model
contemplated in the agreement would allow us to maintain or grow
Air Canada’s presence in the low-cost market where we are no
longer able to compete against new entrants.”  Full-service carriers in North America have a troubled
history running low-cost units. In 2008 surging fuel prices and
an industrywide contraction forced  United Airlines  to shut down
its low-cost Ted airline.  Song Ends  Delta Air Lines Inc. folded its Song unit in 2006, and
reduced demand after the Sept. 11 attacks put an end to Delta
Express, United Shuttle and  US Airways ’ Metrojet.  One success story is  Australia ’s  Qantas Airways Ltd. (QAN)  which
introduced its low-cost Jetstar Airways Ltd. in 2004.  In the early part of the decade Qantas was also struggling
with high costs and competition from a low-cost carrier,  Russell Shaw , an analyst with Macquarie Group Ltd. in Sydney, said in an
e-mail. Qantas’ solution was a low-cost carrier with separate
labor contracts.  “It then successfully segmented its own network into
premium and leisure routes, such that Jetstar did not compete
directly against Qantas on any route,” he said. “Where there
was overlap, the flight times were different to cater to
different markets.”  Qantas’ control of Jetstar was key to making sure the
airlines didn’t compete, Shaw said, and this allowed Qantas to
apply best practices from its low-cost unit in its main
business, including paying Qantas employees at Jetstar rates.  Fleet Review  Low-cost WestJet Airlines Ltd. plans to increase its
competition with Air Canada by starting a regional carrier next
year that will use  Bombardier Inc. (BBD/B) ’s new Q400 turboprop jets.  Air Canada said today its narrow-body  Embraer SA (EMBR3)  175s,
which joined the fleet in 2005, may be succeeded by newer, more
fuel-efficient planes.  Cormark’s Newman said Air Canada could move as many as 60
new jets into its regional operations. Replacing the Embraer
jets with more efficient jets could save between C$30 million to
C$50 million, he said in an interview.  “It would make sense, at least from my perspective, that
they would eliminate those from their fleet, because they’re
probably not cost-efficient,”  Cameron Doerksen , an analyst with
National Bank Financial, said by phone yesterday.  Air Canada fell 7.8 percent to C$1.06 in Toronto today, its
largest drop since February. The shares have gained 7.1 percent
this year.  Pension Solvency  The carrier said the recent labor deals will save it C$1.1
billion in pension costs. Even with those savings, the company
still faces a C$3.1 billion pension solvency deficit and is in
discussions with its unions and Canada’s finance department
about the possibility of extending a moratorium on funding
payments.  Without the extension, the airline said it will face more
than C$900 million of pension payments in 2012 and 2013.  “Transformational change is not easy, especially in the
case of a legacy carrier with high fixed costs, unionized labor,
and a huge and onerous pension commitment,” Rovinescu said on
the call. Still, with principal labor agreements complete and
potential growth from the low-cost airline, “we are well
positioned to transform Air  Canada  into a more competitive,
sustainable and solidly profitable airline.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Frederic Tomesco in Montreal at 
 tomesco@bloomberg.net ;
Ari Altstedter in Toronto at 
 aaltstedter@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  