-- Akin to Battle McCaskill in Race for Missouri Senate Seat
-- B y   K a t h l e e n   H u n t e r
-- 2012-08-08T12:48:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-08/akin-to-battle-mccaskill-in-race-for-missouri-senate-seat.html
U.S. Representative Todd Akin won the
 Missouri  Republican Senate primary, setting up a Nov. 6 showdown
with incumbent Democrat  Claire McCaskill , who already has
endured an onslaught of negative ads tying her to a president
whose popularity has fallen in the state.  Akin won 36 percent of the vote yesterday to 30 percent for
St. Louis businessman John Brunner and 29 percent for former
State Treasurer Sarah Steelman with 99 percent of the precincts
reporting, according to the  Associated Press .  “The choice is clear in November,” Akin said in a
statement released by his campaign last night. “Claire
McCaskill voted for big government, big spending, and less
liberty. I will vote for less government, less spending, and
more liberty.”  Michigan, Kansas and  Washington  also held primaries, with
two House Democrats, Michigan’s Hansen Clarke and Missouri’s
Russ Carnahan, losing their seats to other incumbents in match-
ups caused by redistricting.  Akin’s victory in Missouri follows upset victories by Tea
Party-backed candidates in Senate Republican contests in Texas
and  Indiana . A six-term lawmaker, Akin, 65, had trailed Brunner
in two recent polls. He was endorsed by former Arkansas Governor
 Mike Huckabee , a leader of the evangelical wing of the
 Republican Party .  Unlike in Texas and Indiana, the Tea Party favorite in
Missouri lost. Steelman, 54, had the endorsement of the Tea
Party Express and former Alaska Governor Sarah Palin. Brunner,
60, was endorsed by business groups, including the U.S. Chamber
of Commerce.  ‘Too Conservative’  In the days leading up to the primary, McCaskill and the
Democratic Senatorial Campaign Committee unveiled an ad calling
Akin “too conservative” for Missouri, which may have given him
a boost with primary voters.  Still, polls show that McCaskill, 59, faces an uphill
battle to win a second term as Republicans link her campaign to
President  Barack Obama ’s re-election bid. Akin led McCaskill by
5 percentage points in a Mason-Dixon poll conducted July 23-25.  Just 34 percent of Missourians view Obama favorably,
according to the Mason-Dixon poll. It also showed Romney with a
9 percentage point lead over Obama in the state.  “I think she’s going to go down; I don’t think that she
has much hope,” said Ken Warren, an independent pollster and
political science professor at Saint Louis University.  McCaskill might see a slight improvement in her poll
numbers now that the field has been set, Warren said. “But she
is trailing by so much that I kind of doubt it.”  ‘Independent Voice’  McCaskill said in a statement last night that Akin has
“made it clear he would side with extreme politicians in
Washington to privatize Medicare and Social Security, end
student loans, and protect tax giveaways for corporations that
ship Missouri jobs overseas.”  “When Missourians have a chance to hear what Akin really
stands for, they’ll take a look at my record and see that I’ve
always been an independent voice standing on the side of
Missouri’s families,” she said.  McCaskill was one of the first senators to publicly support
Obama in his 2008 primary race against then-Senator  Hillary Clinton . She has been targeted by more than 9,000 negative ads
sponsored by Republican-aligned outside groups, according to
data compiled by Kantar Media’s CMAG, which tracks campaign
advertising.  Crossroads Ads  Crossroads GPS, a group that  Karl Rove , a former George W. Bush political adviser, helped create, has aired 5,398 negative
spots, more than any other group. The most frequently aired
Crossroads ad is titled “ObamaClaire,” focusing on her support
for the 2010 federal health-care law.  Among the ad’s claims is that the measure cuts half a
trillion dollars in benefits for Medicare enrollees. The law,
which scales back payments to health-care providers, doesn’t
reduce benefits for current Medicare recipients.  The U.S. Chamber of Commerce, the second-largest
contributor to the anti-McCaskill ad blitz, ran 2,819 spots.
That includes a claim the health-care law will “kill jobs” and
that McCaskill cast a deciding vote for it.  McCaskill said the voters she meets as she campaigns are
turned off by the negative ads. She said one man in rural
Missouri told her, “Don’t worry. They’re trying to tenderize
you before they pick a candidate.”  Hoekstra Win  In Michigan, former Representative Pete Hoekstra won the
Republican Senate primary and will challenge Democratic
incumbent Debbie Stabenow in November.  Hoekstra won 54 percent of the vote to 34 percent for Clark Durant with 99 percent of the precincts reporting, according to
the AP tally. Durant, 63, is co-founder of a group of Detroit
charter schools.  Hoekstra, 58, who served in the U.S. House from 1993 to
2011, has consistently trailed Stabenow, 62, in polls.  In one of his  ads , which aired during the  Super Bowl  on
Feb. 5, an Asian woman speaking awkward English dubbed Stabenow
“Debbie Spend-It-Now.” The ad drew criticism from local
minority groups.  In Missouri’s newly drawn 1st Congressional district,
Carnahan, who has served in the House since 2005, lost to six-
term Representative William Lacy Clay Jr. after redistricting
forced a primary face-off between the two St. Louis Democrats.  Clay, 56, won 63 percent of the vote to 34 percent for
Carnahan, 54, with 99 percent of the precincts reporting,
according to the AP.  Political Roots  Both men have political roots in the state. Clay’s father,
William Lacy Clay Sr., served in Congress from 1969-2001.
Carnahan is the son of former Governor Mel Carnahan and U.S.
Senator Jean Carnahan.  In another Democratic primary in  Michigan ’s newly drawn
14th Congressional district, Representative Gary Peters, 54,
beat Clarke, 55, a freshman.  Peters won 47 percent of the vote compared with 35 percent
for Clarke with 99 percent of precincts reporting, according to
the AP.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kathleen Hunter in Washington at 
 khunter9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  