-- ALL Gains on Brazilian Corn Shipments Amid U.S. Drought
-- B y   M a r i o   S e r g i o   L i m a
-- 2012-08-08T16:10:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-08/all-gains-on-brazilian-corn-shipments-amid-u-s-drought.html
ALL America Latina Logistica SA (ALLL3) , the
largest rail operator in  South America , is offering the third-
best return among global peers as a three-month drought in the
U.S. increases corn shipments from Brazil.  ALL, based in Curitiba in southern Brazil, has returned 23
percent for investors in U.S. dollar terms in the past two
months before today, behind  Russia ’s OAO TransContainer’s 29
percent and Genesee & Wyoming Inc.’s 31 percent.  The worst drought in a generation may pare output in the
U.S., the world’s biggest grower and exporter of corn, to the
lowest in six years, Goldman Sachs Group Inc. said in a report
yesterday, fueling a 58 percent surge in corn futures and a 19
percent gain in soybean prices since June 15. Demand is rising
for ALL trains as  Brazil  builds up corn exports by 67 percent
this year. Farmers in Brazil’s southeast and the western part of
the country, where most of the corn crop is grown, use trains to
ship their produce to ports.  “ALL is responsible for operating the railroad lines in
Brazil’s most important producing regions,” said Leonardo Nitta, an analyst from BB Investimentos in Sao Paulo. “They are
the obvious choice as to which company may benefit from this
situation.”  Brazil is set to reap a record 69.5 million metric tons of
corn this season, the government’s crop-forecasting agency Conab
said July. 5. Exports may surge to 15 million tons by the end of
the year from 9 million tons last year, Brasilia-based Conab
estimates.  Quarterly Results  ALL rose 2 percent to 10.16 reais at 1:10 p.m. in  Sao Paulo 
trading, bringing its year-to-date gain to 9.3 percent. That
tops the benchmark Bovespa index’s 3.6 percent increase.  The rail company will likely say  sales  rose 7.7 percent in
the second quarter from a year earlier to 1 billion reais ($493
million) when it reports quarterly results on Aug. 14, according
to the average estimate of five analysts compiled by Bloomberg.  “We’ve had very different situations in each of this
year’s semesters,” ALL Chief Financial Officer Rodrigo Campos
said in a telephone interview from Curitiba. “The first half
was hurt by dry weather that cut soybean output and freight
prices that were 20 to 22 percent lower. Now we expect a second
half with rising demand for our railroad because of production
and freight prices that will rebound to last year’s levels.”  The value of Brazil’s corn exports almost quintupled in
July from a year earlier to $423 million, the Trade Ministry
said in a press release in Aug. 1.  ‘Big Surge’  “We are seeing a big surge in corn exports now, basically
because of the U.S. situation,” Tatiana Prazeres, Brazil’s
foreign trade secretary, said in an interview in Brasilia.
“This usually happens in August, but this year it happened in
July.”  The U.S. drought, which hit hardest during a critical time
for developing corn and soybean plants, has pushed up prices as
potential yields and quality have fallen. At least 48 percent of
U.S. corn and 37 percent of soybeans were rated as poor or very
poor as of July 29, according to the U.S. Agriculture
Department.  ALL’s recent share surge gives it price-to-earnings  ratio 
of 29.6, the most expensive among global peers after  Australia ’s
QR National Ltd., according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Risky Stock  “I wouldn’t say that ALL is expensive, even if it is a
little over our target,” Felipe Vinagre, an analyst at Barclays
Plc, said in a telephone interview from Sao Paulo. “What isn’t
favorable is the return-to-risk ratio because there are lots of
risks involved, especially regulation in the short term.”  The railroad operator also stands to benefit as soybean
output surges, BB Investimentos’ Nitta said. Farmers are set to
harvest a record soybean crop of as much as 83 million tons in
the 2012-13 season, which would propel Brazil past the U.S. as
the world’s biggest producer of the oilseed, Sao Paulo-based
consulting firm Agroconsult said in a July 13 report.  ALL is ready to handle the increased shipments after it
invested 700 million reais since 2009 to expand capacity at its
railroads in Mato Grosso state, Campos said.  “We are prepared to grow an average of 10 percent in the
next five years,” he said. “Let’s just hope that the forecast
for good crop output next season becomes a reality.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mario Sergio Lima in Brasilia at 
 mlima11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jessica Brice at   jbrice1@bloomberg.net ;
James Attwood at   jattwood3@bloomberg.net  