-- Halla Climate Rebounds as Analysts Affirm Outlook: Seoul Mover
-- B y   R o s e   K i m
-- 2012-08-08T07:11:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-08/halla-climate-rebounds-as-analysts-affirm-outlook-seoul-mover.html
Halla Climate Control Corp. (018880)  advanced
in Seoul trading, rebounding from its steepest drop in almost 11
years, on speculation the company will show improved earnings in
the second half.  The  stock  rose 2.2 percent to 23,500 won at the close in
Seoul, after gaining as much as 6.1 percent. The shares slumped
13 percent yesterday on concerns that Mando Corp., controlled by
former parent Halla Group, will prevent a buyout of Halla
Climate by its majority shareholder  Visteon Corp. (VC)   Mando yesterday said it’s the preferred bidder for National
Pension Service’s 8.1 percent stake in Halla Climate, a holding
large enough to veto any revived buyout offer. While a new bid
probably won’t happen in the near future, the company should
show a strong second-half performance and the share price
decline was overdone, according to analysts at  NH Investment &
Securities Co. (016420)  and Dongbu Securities Co.  “There was no reason for the shares to fall like that, had
it not been for this Visteon issue,” said Lee Sang Hyun, an
analyst at NH Investment. “The pension fund thought Halla’s
shares were worth more than Visteon’s initial offer of 28,500
won.”  Visteon owns 70 percent of Halla Climate and offered to buy
the rest. National Pension Service, South Korea’s biggest
institutional investor, said it rejected the bid on July 23.  Under Korean rules a buyout offer requires from  Van Buren
Township , Michigan-based Visteon needs to get approval from
investors representing 95 percent of the acquisition target’s
stock.  Visteon surged yesterday in  New York , posting its biggest
gain since exiting bankruptcy in 2010, after a Deutsche Bank AG
report said Mando may try to buy the company.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rose Kim in  Seoul  at 
 rkim76@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net ; 