-- Aluminum Contracts May Be Started After Delays at LME
-- B y   A g n i e s z k a   T r o s z k i e w i c z
-- 2012-08-08T09:07:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-08/aluminum-contracts-may-be-started-after-delays-at-lme-correct-.html
(Corrects to weeks in third paragraph of story published
yesterday.)  Exchanges may start aluminum
contracts to lure “customers frustrated” about long waits for
the metal at warehouses monitored by the London Metal Exchange,
according to Australia & New Zealand Banking Group Ltd.  Exchanges in  Asia  and  North America  are considering their
own contracts, Nick Trevethan, an analyst at ANZ in  Singapore ,
said in a report today, citing unidentified people. “A
physically-deliverable aluminum contract would be welcomed,
especially in North America,” he said.  The LME has a minimum delivery rule of 3,000 metric tons of
day for warehouses storing more than 900,000 tons at a single
location. With Detroit warehouses holding orders to remove
747,975 tons of metals, it would take 50 weeks to withdraw it
all. The wait at Vlissingen,  Netherlands , would be 55 weeks.
The two locations account for 52 percent of LME-monitored
aluminum  stockpiles . Detroit and Vlissingen are the top two
biggest LME aluminum repositories.  The fee added to the metal for immediate delivery on the
LME climbed to 10.75 cents a pound in July, the highest on
record, according to Platts, a unit of New York-based McGraw-
Hill Cos. The premium in  Europe  rose to $200 to $210 a metric
ton (9.07 cents to 9.5 cents a pound), excluding duty, the
highest since at least 2003, according to Platts.  The bourse said last week it’s getting the LME steering
committee prepared for a six-month review of the so-called load
out rates. The exchange in April increased the minimum amount of
metal warehouse companies are required to deliver to ease
backlogs. Aluminum was started there in 1978 and is it’s most
traded contract.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Agnieszka Troszkiewicz in London at 
 atroszkiewic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  