-- AMR Bid for Concessions Falters as Pilots Reject Contract
-- B y   M a r y   S c h l a n g e n s t e i n
-- 2012-08-09T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-08/amr-pilots-reject-contract-paring-givebacks-as-mechanics-accept.html
American Airlines pilots’ rejection
of a final cost-cutting contract opened the way to let parent
 AMR Corp. (AAMRQ)  seek deeper concessions in  bankruptcy court  as it
fends off potential suitor  US Airways Group Inc. (LCC)   While mechanics and aircraft stock clerks represented by
the Transport Workers Union ratified new accords yesterday, the
 Allied Pilots Association  turned down a proposed agreement that
had been sweetened with promises of an equity stake in a
restructured AMR and the elimination of 400 planned furloughs.  Givebacks by pilots, the TWU and flight attendants, who are
still casting ballots, are a pillar of AMR’s strategy to exit
Chapter 11 as a stand-alone carrier. The pilot dispute now goes
back to U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Sean Lane in  New York , who has
said he will rule by Aug. 15 on AMR’s bid to void its current
labor deals and impose new terms.  “It potentially lengthens the bankruptcy process,” Fred Lowrance, an Avondale Partners LLC analyst in Nashville,
 Tennessee , said in an interview. “It’s a strong statement from
the pilots union that they are 100 percent behind a merger.”  US Airways  rose 4.6 percent yesterday, the most since June
13, to $10.40 in New York.  Fort Worth , Texas-based AMR’s 6.25
percent convertible notes due October 2014 fell 1.5 cents to 63
cents on the dollar, according to Trace, the bond-price
reporting system of the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority.  Demands Reduced  AMR had pared demands in its latest proposals to unions
because reaching consensual accords would reap savings faster
than making its case in court. It coupled the amended offers
with a pledge to revert to earlier, broader cutbacks if labor
groups didn’t accept. The pilot contract still failed, with 61
percent of the vote against the accord.  “We are disappointed with the outcome,”  Bruce Hicks , an
American spokesman, said yesterday. “We must now await a ruling
by Judge Lane that will allow the company to implement the
changes necessary to move forward in our restructuring.”  US Airways declined to comment on the pilot vote, said Todd Lehmacher, a spokesman for the Tempe, Arizona-based airline.
Chief Executive Officer Doug Parker has been working to win
support from AMR bondholders and labor groups, and has reached
contract agreements with pilots, attendants and the TWU.  Even if Lane agrees to let AMR CEO  Tom Horton  dictate new
terms on the more than 8,000 pilots at American, the airline
would still need to strike a long-term deal with APA. Pilots are
considered a bellwether work group in airline labor negotiations
because they are the highest-paid union employees.  ‘Hard Time’  Many APA members “had a hard time” voting for the
contract because they perceived it as a show of support for
Horton, even though an accord would have produced “the shortest
route to a US Airways merger,” Tom Hoban, a union spokesman,
said in an interview.  Mechanics accepted their contract with 50.3 percent of the
vote, and aircraft stock clerks voted 79 percent for their
accord, according to the TWU. American has about 11,000
mechanics and 1,200 clerks who restock planes.  “Nobody is happy with a concessionary agreement, and our
members are still waiting to see a business plan that instills
confidence,” TWU International President  Jim Little  said in a
statement. “But this result is a lot better than what our
members would have faced with a court-imposed solution.”  Flight attendants will finish voting Aug. 19 on American’s
last offer, while five other TWU groups including baggage
handlers and other airport ground workers approved contracts on
May 15.  Labor Discord  The pilot rejection builds on American’s history of union-
management discord, which includes a failure to reach a contract
agreement in more than five years of negotiations that preceded
AMR’s Nov. 29 bankruptcy filing.  “It all comes down to just the absolute toxic nature of
the relationship with management,” said  Robert Mann , a former
American executive who is now president of consultant R.W. Mann
& Co. in  Port Washington , New York. “It has a lot to say about
the ultimate success of a stand-alone plan with that degree of
discord with the front line.”  Under the proposal voted down by pilots, union members
would have received a 13.5 percent equity stake in AMR after its
restructuring and not faced any furloughs, instead of the 400
once planned by the third-largest U.S. airline.  “It’s a combination of things, and a lot of it has to do
with the anger and frustration that’s really been pent up since
the 2003 near-bankruptcy contract,” APA’s Hoban said. American
won $1.6 billion in concessions from union employees that year
to avoid a Chapter 11 filing only to end up in court in 2011.  ‘Not Willing’  “You’ve got a group that’s simply not willing to give any
more in that regard,” Hoban said.  The agreement ratified by the TWU’s mechanics reduced
concessions made by that work group to $156 million from $210
million, while givebacks for aircraft clerks fell by $4.5
million to $13.6 million.  Mechanics will get a 3 percent pay increase when the six-
year contract is signed. Clerks will receive a 3.5 percent
boost.  AMR won a separate labor boost yesterday when the American
Eagle regional carrier and its pilots reached an agreement in
principle on a new contract.  Leaders of the Air Line Pilots Association unit at Eagle
will vote on whether to send the accord out for ratification
once it is put into final contract language, the union said in a
message to members. That process will take about two weeks.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mary Schlangenstein in Dallas at 
 maryc.s@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  