-- Anadarko Attempts to Reach Tronox Settlement at ‘Impasse’
-- B y   E d w a r d   K l u m p   a n d   T i f f a n y   K a r y
-- 2012-08-08T22:14:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-08/anadarko-attempts-to-reach-tronox-settlement-at-impasse-1-.html
Anadarko Petroleum Corp. (APC) , the second-
largest independent U.S. oil and natural-gas producer by market 
value, said attempts to reach a settlement in a $25 billion 
lawsuit brought against its Kerr-McGee Corp. unit by the U.S. 
and creditors of Tronox Inc. have reached an “impasse.”  Anadarko said the “reasonable range” of a potential loss
in the case is zero to $1.4 billion, according to a regulatory
filing by The Woodlands, Texas-based company today. Anadarko
sees the possibility of settling as “remote,” with litigation
the likely form of resolution, it said.  The low end of the company’s range is based on a view that
it “will more likely than not prevail” in the case, Anadarko
said. The high end comes from the amount Anadarko estimates
Kerr-McGee received at the time Tronox was spun off, or about
$985 million plus interest, according to the filing.  Anadarko also said $525 million in previous charges accrued
for a possible settlement has been reversed. The company said
the charge no longer applies because it no longer seems
“probable” the parties would reach a settlement. The company
said it’s still “confident in the merits of its position” in
the case.  The lawsuit is over environmental claims and tort claims
related to Tronox’s 2005 spinoff from Kerr-McGee, which was
later acquired by Anadarko.  Polluted Sites  In the suit, which went to trial May 15 in  Manhattan 
Bankruptcy Court, Anadarko’s Kerr-McGee unit is accused of being
part of a two-step transaction that defrauded the Environmental
Protection Agency of the money to clean 2,772 polluted sites. It
was originally brought by creditors of Tronox and was taken over
by the U.S. government, which seeks as much as $25 billion to
clean up the sites.  Anadarko has said Kerr-McGee reorganized to separate its
chemical business from its oil and gas business and maximize
 shareholder value .  Separately, Anadarko and former officers of its Kerr-McGee
unit settled a related lawsuit about the same two-step
transaction brought by shareholders of Tronox earlier this week.
The settlement, for $35 million in cash, resolves fraud claims
against the company and individuals including Luke Corbett,
Robert Wohleber and Gregory Pilcher.  ConocoPhillips (COP)  is the largest U.S. independent oil and gas
producer by market value, followed by Anadarko, based on today’s
closing prices in  New York . Independent  oil companies  don’t own
refineries or chemical businesses.  Anadarko fell 1.3 percent to $68.90 at 4:55 p.m. in New
York.  The bankruptcy case is Tronox Inc., 09-10156,  U.S.
Bankruptcy Court , Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Edward Klump in Houston at 
 eklump@bloomberg.net ;
Tiffany Kary in New York at 
 tkary@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  