-- Manchester United Seeks Double Valuation of Rival Clubs in IPO
-- B y   L e e   S p e a r s   a n d   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 2012-08-08T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-08/manchester-united-seeks-double-valuation-of-rival-clubs-in-ipo.html
The owners of  Manchester United Ltd. (MANU) ,
winner of 19 English soccer championships, are betting the club
can complete an initial public offering that will make it twice 
as valuable as any other sports franchise.  The Glazer family is seeking an enterprise value of $3.8
billion for the 134-year-old team in tomorrow’s IPO, about $1.9
billion more than the value of Spain’s Real Madrid, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg and Forbes. The $333 million U.S.
offering would also make United about 10 times as  expensive 
relative to sales as publicly traded European teams such as
 Juventus Football Club SpA (JUVE) , while leaving the Glazers with
almost all the voting control.  With 437 million pounds ($683 million) in borrowings
curbing United’s ability to add new players to support striker
 Wayne Rooney , the Glazers risk further alienating fans already
boycotting club sponsors by only allocating half the IPO’s
proceeds to cut debt. United’s expansion of its iconic brand
from Asia to North America, to the tune of 659 million total
followers, may lose momentum if the club can’t outspend European
rivals, Oxford University’s Tim Jenkinson said.  To justify the IPO price, “you’d hope it would be a bit of
a growth story,” Jenkinson, a professor of finance at the Said
Business School, said in a telephone interview from Oxford,
England. “The Glazers’ motivation is to create a vehicle
whereby they can pay down the debt over time and extract money
along the way, and by structuring it the way they do, maintain
control. None of this strikes me as being particularly positive
for the club.”  No Trophy  Manchester, England-based United and the Glazers, who
bought the club in a 2005 leveraged buyout, together are
offering 16.7 million shares, equivalent to a 10 percent stake,
for $16 to $20, data compiled by Bloomberg show. This year was
the first time United has finished a season without a major
trophy since the year the Glazers bought the team.  Even after the sale, the Glazers will maintain almost 99
percent of the voting control, because the Class B shares they
own carry 10 votes apiece, compared to 1 vote each for the Class
A shares being sold in the IPO. The Glazers are selling half of
the shares being offered, while the company is selling the rest
and will use those proceeds to pay down debt.  Philip Townsend, a spokesman for Manchester United,
declined to comment.  Manchester United chose a U.S. sale after scrapping plans
for an offering worth as much as $1 billion in Singapore. As of
yesterday, the soccer team had received enough orders for all
shares being sold in the U.S. IPO, according to people with
knowledge of the matter.  ‘Emotional Buy’  “For the average retail investor, this will ultimately be
more of an emotional buy with little underpinning in the
financials or governance,” said Gerry Cardinale, a New York-
based partner in  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) ’s private-equity group
who helped the  New York Yankees  create a television sports
network in 2001. “For many, being able to say that they own a
piece of Manchester United may be worth the price of
admission.”  The midpoint of the price range would value United’s
outstanding stock at $2.95 billion, or 5.9 times estimated sales
of 317.5 million pounds in the 12 months through June 30,
according to filings. That’s about 10 times as high as the
price-to-sales ratio of 0.6 for Copenhagen-based  Parken Sport &
Entertainment A/S (PARKEN) , the owner of F.C. Kobenhaven in the year
through March 31, data compiled by Bloomberg show. It’s more
than 12 times as high as Turin, Italy-based Juventus’s multiple
of 0.5, the data show.  Sports Franchises  Real Madrid, the Spanish soccer club founded in 1902 that
has a record nine European Cup/UEFA Champions League titles, is
the second-most valuable sports franchise at $1.88 billion,
according to Forbes. The Yankees, which have won the  World
Series  27 times, are the world’s third-most valuable sports
franchise at $1.85 billion, according to Forbes.  With about 70 million pounds of cash and 437 million pounds
of borrowings as of June 30, United’s enterprise value at the
top of the offering range is about $3.8 billion, according to
United’s filing and data compiled by Bloomberg.  The $3.3 billion market value sought at the top end of
United’s price range may be excessive because the headway the
club has made into emerging markets, including 108 million
followers in China, means there’s less of a market to tap, said
Sverrir Sverrisson, a Copenhagen-based junior equity analyst at
Saxo Bank A/S.  “Man United has a great potential, but they’ve already
captured quite a lot of the market,” Sverrisson said. “It’s a
growing market and has been, but it’s going to get a little bit
tougher for Man United to get increased followers within Asia.”  Fan Boycott  Malcolm Glazer , 84, who took United private for 790 million
pounds in 2005, financed the purchase with 374 million pounds of
bank loans and 275 million pounds of notes sold to hedge funds,
and has faced outcry from fans ever since. Fans that year burned
him in effigy outside the Old Trafford home stadium, and a group
called Manchester United Supporters’ Trust this week protested
the IPO in an open letter calling for a boycott of products made
by sponsors such as  Nike Inc. (NKE)  and  General Motors Co. (GM)   GM will pay United $559 million through 2021 for the team
to carry the Chevrolet logo on its jerseys starting in the 2014
season, according to an Aug. 3 filing.  Even with such big sponsorships, future earnings depend on
continued on-field dominance, and the debt burden has
constrained United’s ability to compete with other deep-pocketed
clubs for top talent, said Saxo Bank’s Sverrisson.  The club has been outspent by neighbor Manchester City,
owned by  Abu Dhabi ’s Sheikh Mansour bin Zayed  Al Nahyan , and
London’s Chelsea, owned by Russian oligarch  Roman Abramovich ,
who is worth $15.1 billion, data compiled by Bloomberg show.
Last season, City won the Premiership and Chelsea won Europe’s
Champion’s League.  Debt Pressures  Cristiano Ronaldo  became the most expensive soccer player
in history when he was tranferred to Real Madrid from United in
June 2009 for a record 80 million pounds. Later that month,
Malcolm Glazer sold his majority stake in Zapata Corp. to  Philip Falcone ’s Harbinger Capital Partners.  The Zapata sale came two months after Manchester United’s
parent company reported that net debt had grown to 649 million
pounds in the year ended June 30, 2008. The team was debt-free
before Glazer’s takeover, which angered fans who said his
excessive borrowing threatened the team’s ability to pay top
players.  The Glazers, who own the National Football League’s Tampa
Bay Buccaneers and First Allied Corp., the Batavia, New York-
based owner of 6.7 million square feet of U.S. shopping centers,
were worth about $2.7 billion as of March, according to Forbes.  ‘Step Behind’  “It’s really difficult in today’s environment to run a
football club like a company, if not impossible, if you want to
compete at the highest level,” Sverrisson, who covers consumer
services, said in a phone interview. “You’re not able to
increase the salaries. You’ll always be a step behind.”  Jefferies Group Inc., Credit Suisse Group AG  and JPMorgan
Chase & Co. are leading  the U.S. offering for the soccer club,
along with Deutsche Bank AG and Bank of America Corp. The club
plans to list on the  New York  Stock Exchange under the symbol
MANU.  United provided the number of followers in its prospectus,
citing a study by Kantar Media. The total is an estimate based
on the number of respondents in the study who answered,
unprompted, that United was either their favorite team or a team
they enjoyed following, the filing shows. The company is
changing its name to  Manchester United  Plc before the IPO,
according to the filing.  U.S. IPOs are scheduled to raise more than $1 billion this
week, the most since  Facebook Inc. (FB)  went public in May.  Bloomin’
Brands Inc. (BLMN) , the owner of the Outback Steakhouse restaurant
chain, raised $176 million yesterday, pricing a reduced number
of shares below the marketed range.  CKE Inc. (CK) , the global
hamburger chain with the Carl’s Jr. and Hardee’s brands, is
scheduled to raise more than $200 million tomorrow.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lee Spears in New York at 
 lspears3@bloomberg.net ;
Tariq Panja in London at 
 tpanja@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jeffrey McCracken at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net ;
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  