-- Anglo CEO Doubles Down on New Mines Amid Falling Demand
-- B y   J e r e m y   K a h n
-- 2012-08-08T21:42:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-08/anglo-ceo-doubles-down-on-new-mines-amid-falling-demand.html
Driving northeast from Santiago, the
road corkscrews toward the shark’s-grin skyline of the Andes
Mountains. In winter, Santiago’s smart set plies this route,
heading for virgin-powder days and pisco-sour nights at  La Parva 
ski resort. Most have no inkling that in a high mountain valley
just over the ridgeline, excavators the size of houses have
sculpted the mountainside into a steeply terraced pit 1,800 feet
deep, Bloomberg Markets magazine reports in its September issue.  This is Los Bronces, one of the world’s richest copper
mines.  Anglo American Plc (AAL) , the London-based company that owns
Los Bronces, spent $2.8 billion from 2007 to 2011 to double the
size of the mine. And Los Bronces is just one of four
megaprojects that Anglo Chief Executive Officer Cynthia Carroll
has initiated or pushed through construction since she took over
in 2007 -- each representing a wager in excess of $1 billion on
the continued rise of China, India and other  emerging markets .  Los Bronces is also at the center of a legal battle between
Anglo and Codelco, the Chilean state-owned mining company. The
dispute -- over whether Anglo can block Codelco from exercising
an option to buy half of Anglo’s Chilean subsidiary -- has
spooked Anglo investors and weighed on the company’s share
price, which dropped more than 15 percent from the time the
controversy erupted in October to August 8.  Chile is just one trouble spot for Anglo American, which
took in revenue of $31 billion last year from mining metals and
minerals in  more than 30 countries . Anglo also owns a 45 percent
stake in diamond giant De Beers -- and has recently agreed to
increase that stake to 85 percent.  Share Swoon  Anglo has spent or authorized spending of $21.7 billion in
the past five years to ramp up production while simultaneously
cutting billions in costs. Yet on August 8, Anglo’s shares
traded at nearly 20 percent less than when Carroll became CEO
and at 45 percent below their May 2008 peak.  Anglo angered shareholders by suspending its 2009 dividend
rather than delay capital spending on Carroll’s four
megaprojects: Los Bronces, nickel and iron mines in Brazil and
an iron mine in South Africa. While the dividend has been
restored, the stock has been hurt by the Codelco fight and by
cost overruns and delays in Brazil. Profits in Anglo’s platinum
mining division have fallen sharply. Most important, China’s
economic growth has slackened, calling into question Carroll’s
big bets and pushing down profits.  On July 27, Anglo announced that first-half earnings fell
46 percent to $3.7 billion. That day, the company’s shares fell
3.6 percent.  Merger Pressure  With Anglo’s stock in a swoon, the proposed merger of Swiss
commodities trader  Glencore International Plc (GLEN)  with mining
powerhouse  Xstrata Plc (XTA) , announced in February, had analysts
speculating that Anglo might be ripe for a takeover. In 2009,
the company rebuffed a bid from Xstrata. “It’s like a game of
chess,” says Doug Blatch, head of equity trading at Investec
Asset Management in South Africa. “It’s all about who makes the
next move.”  Blatch cautions that Anglo’s underperforming business units
and weakening demand from China make a takeover less likely than
it seemed in February. Yet, he says, Anglo’s  low valuation  could
make it a tempting target. Its market capitalization in mid-July
was less than half that of London-based rival  Rio Tinto Plc (RIO)  and
less than a third that of Melbourne-based  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP)   Anglo isn’t interested in the merger speculation, says
Carroll, 55, in her office with views of Big Ben and Whitehall
in London.  Glencore-Xstrata  “We’re not consumed with anticipation around Glencore-
Xstrata,” she says, adding that the merger will not reshape the
 mining industry  or affect Anglo’s competitiveness. “I don’t
think it makes any difference whatsoever.”  Carroll’s appointment in 2007 shattered multiple glass
ceilings at Anglo. She was the first woman, the first non-South
African and the first person from outside the company’s own
ranks to occupy Anglo’s top post. Born in Princeton, New Jersey,
Carroll moved to Anglo after almost two decades at Canadian
aluminum manufacturer Alcan Inc., where the mother of four rose
to become president of the company’s primary metals group, a
business with $10 billion in revenue and operations in 21
countries. She built and ran aluminum smelters, oversaw ingot
sales and sold smelting technology.  Carroll holds bachelor’s and master’s degrees in geology,
and she spent five years prospecting for oil and gas for
petroleum company Amoco Corp. before enrolling in  Harvard
University ’s MBA program in 1987.  Charming the Chairman  Carroll took over Anglo American from CEO Tony Trahar in
March 2007, after Trahar, then 58, decided to step down earlier
than analysts had expected. Anglo’s board conducted a hunt
outside the company, and an executive search firm proposed
Carroll, who coincidentally had charmed Mark Moody-Stuart,
Anglo’s then-chairman, during a chance meeting at the  World
Economic Forum  in Davos, Switzerland.  At Anglo, Carroll inherited a company undergoing a  back-to-
the-future transformation . Ernest Oppenheimer, the son of a
German-Jewish cigar merchant, founded Anglo in 1917 to mine gold
in  South Africa ’s East Rand, a hilly region near Johannesburg.
During apartheid, currency controls forced the company to invest
mostly within South Africa, and Anglo became a sprawling
conglomerate with divisions in a dozen fields, from brewing to
banking.  Following apartheid’s collapse in 1994, the company began
selling non-mining businesses. In 1998, it also began spinning
off its gold-mining operations and branched out of South Africa,
acquiring mines in South America and Australia. It moved its
headquarters and its primary stock listing to London in 1999 to
attract global investors.  Byzantine Heirarchy  Almost a decade later, Carroll found Anglo burdened with a
Byzantine hierarchy, she says. Within weeks, she eliminated the
layer of three business unit chairmen that stood between her and
the managers actually running Anglo. During the next two years,
she replaced 12 of the 13 senior executives who reported
directly to her.  In 2009, she began an efficiency drive that the company
says has created $3.2 billion in value by, among other things,
consolidating purchasing operations and tailoring products such
as coal mixes more closely to customers’ needs. Carroll also
eliminated 26,000 jobs across the company.  Carroll has reorganized Anglo around the mining of seven
core metals and minerals:  iron ore , metallurgical coal, thermal
coal, copper, nickel, platinum and diamonds. Her plan is to put
Anglo in a position to double production across this portfolio
by 2020.  Supercycle  Much of Carroll’s strategy is predicated on the idea that
the world is in the midst of a commodities supercycle: a rise in
demand, lasting for decades, for all kinds of commodities in
emerging markets. For the short term, that flies in the face of
economic slowdowns across the map.  China’s gross domestic product growth has decelerated to a
projected 8.2 percent for 2012, the slowest in 13 years,
according to the  World Bank . As a result, China’s demand for
steel, once increasing at twice the rate of the country’s
overall economy, is now lagging GDP growth, says Sebastien Boifort, a portfolio manager at hedge fund Passport Capital LLC.  China’s copper  imports  are down 30 percent from a December
2011 peak.  At the same time, India’s growth has fallen to less than 7
percent from 8.43 percent in 2010, while metals and mineral
demand from developed economies remains weak. Anglo competitors
Rio Tinto and  BHP Billiton  are scaling back on capital
expenditures and selling noncore assets in response. On July 27,
Anglo said its capital expenditures for 2012 would be $5.5
billion, 21 percent less than originally planned.  China Market  Carroll dismisses the idea that the slowdowns in China and
India imperil Anglo’s strategy. She says that India, once
thought to possess almost limitless iron ore, has begun
importing it. China still needs steel, metallurgical coal and
base metals to build up its infrastructure, she says.  Sharief Pansarey, an analyst at Old Mutual Investment Group
in Cape Town, which holds about 2.4 percent of Anglo’s shares,
supports Carroll’s overall strategy.  “They have great assets, so all that is really required is
for them to see the projects through and then reap the
benefits,” he says. “We feel comfortable with the upside as well
as the risks.”  Carroll’s most expensive gamble is Minas-Rio, an iron ore
project that spans the eastern Brazilian states of Minas Gerais
and Rio de Janeiro. Anglo paid companies controlled by Brazilian
billionaire  Eike Batista  a total of $5.1 billion in two
transactions in 2007 and 2008 for the mine and the right to
build an export terminal at the Atlantic port of Acu.  Minas-Rio  At the time, Anglo planned to spend an additional $2.6
billion completing the open pit mine, an ore processing plant,
the terminal and a 330-mile (525-kilometer) pipeline to carry
iron ore slurry to the coast. The project, Anglo said, will
boost Anglo’s total iron ore output at least 55 percent when the
first phase of production starts in 2015.  The project has run into a series of snags, and the
completion date has been pushed back at least three years, to
the second half of 2014. Officials from Brazil’s Public Ministry
have obtained four injunctions against Anglo, challenging
licenses for the building of power transmission lines and other
facilities the company had been granted by regulators.  Anglo says the legal actions are without merit and it is
seeking to resolve them through the courts. Carroll also met
Brazilian President  Dilma Rousseff  on July 26 to try to smooth
the path to the project’s completion.  Long Payback  Meanwhile, construction costs have jumped to a projected
$5.8 billion.  Citigroup Inc. (C)  analyst Heath Jansen estimates that Minas-
Rio won’t pay back its capital costs until at least 2028. Anglo
declined to comment on Jansen’s estimate.  “Minas-Rio is our single biggest disappointment in the
company,” Pansarey says.  Peter Davey , an analyst at Standard Bank Group Ltd. in
London, is blunter: “I think the thing that will make or break
Cynthia is Minas-Rio.”  Carroll acknowledges the project has been more difficult
than anticipated. Still, she bristles at suggestions from
critics such as Jansen that Minas-Rio is a white elephant.  “They’ll be eating their words in a few years’ time,” she
says.  Rising Reserves  While development costs have increased, she says, so too
have estimates of the mine’s reserves, to 5.8 billion tons of
ore from 1.2 billion tons. The mine will deliver ore to China at
$55 per ton, a price  competitive  with that being sold by
Brazilian miner Vale SA and Rio Tinto, she says.  “I don’t think the market understands this project,”
Carroll says. “It’s not pie in the sky.”  Investors also fret about  Anglo American Platinum Ltd. (AMS) , or
Amplats, Anglo’s platinum subsidiary. With a 40 percent global
market share, the company is the world’s largest producer of the
metal, which is used to make catalytic converters, fuel cells
and jewelry.  Amplats employs 40 percent of Anglo’s 145,000-strong
workforce and constitutes more than 25 percent of its assets.
Yet the platinum business generated only 8 percent of Anglo’s
profits in 2011, down from 28 percent in 2008. One reason is
that demand from European automakers has been slumping, driving
down prices. Platinum traded at $1,409 an ounce on August 8, 37
percent below its March 2008 peak.  Shuffling Deck Chairs  Investors are baying for radical action.  “If they are just going to reshuffle the deck chairs on the
Titanic, that is a nonstarter for me,” Davey says.  He says Anglo must close low-margin platinum mines in South
Africa. The country’s politics make that difficult. The company
 sold minority stakes  in platinum mines to local businesses and
communities to comply with post-apartheid black economic
empowerment laws.  Peter Major, head of mining at South Africa’s Cadiz
Corporate Solutions, which advises companies on acquisitions and
divestments, says Amplats may be too big to manage inside Anglo
American.  Carroll says the division isn’t for sale.  “This is not about spinning off platinum,” she says. “But
we are looking at the entire value chain.”  In late July, after the platinum subsidiary missed its
first-half earnings estimate, Amplats CEO Neville Nicolau
resigned and the company announced it would suspend its
dividend, curtail production and cut spending.  Unwelcome Blow  With Minas-Rio and Amplats weighing on Anglo, the Codelco
dispute was an unwelcome blow. The controversy stems from
Anglo’s $1.3 billion acquisition of Los Bronces, a second
Chilean mine and a smelter from  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM)  in 2002.  Exxon had bought the assets from state-owned mining company
Enami in 1978. Exxon feared the government might nationalize
foreign-owned resource companies. So to protect itself, it gave
Enami an option to buy 49 percent of Exxon’s mining company. The
option could be exercised every third January.  When Anglo bought Exxon’s mining unit, the option, with
slightly changed terms, transferred to Anglo’s Chilean
subsidiary, Anglo American Sur SA.  Enami sold the option to Codelco in 2008.  Anglo tried to buy Codelco’s option, offering the state-
owned miner $1 billion in August 2011.  “We rejected it on the basis it wasn’t enough,” says
Codelco CEO Thomas Keller, who was chief financial officer at
the time.  Codelco Option  In October 2011, Codelco announced it intended to exercise
its option in January of this year, using a $6.75 billion loan
from Japan’s Mitsui & Co. toward the purchase. Under the deal’s
terms, Codelco could repay Mitsui $4.9 billion of the loan in
shares equal to 24.5 percent of Anglo American Sur. Codelco
would thus be getting a quarter of Anglo Sur for as little as
$1.9 billion.  Carroll announced on Nov. 9 that she had completed a better
deal. In a move that she said would protect  shareholder value ,
she sold 24.5 percent of Anglo Sur to Japan’s  Mitsubishi Corp. (8058) 
for $5.4 billion. That valued the subsidiary at $22 billion,
double the price implied by Codelco’s option.  Codelco sued. Anglo countersued. Initial attempts at
negotiation failed. The dispute looked like it was headed for a
years-long journey through the Chilean courts. The court case is
now suspended while the parties make a new attempt to reach a
settlement.  Anglo’s market value declined by $7.3 billion from the time
the dispute broke out in November 2011 to August 6.  Right and Wrong  “Regardless of who’s right and who’s wrong, I think the
concern is, how did you end up in this situation in the first
place?” Citigroup’s Jansen says.  While the Chilean government has said it won’t intervene in
the dispute, Dominic O’Kane, an analyst at Liberum Capital Ltd.
in London, worries that it will damage Anglo’s standing.  “The longer the dispute drags on, the greater the political
risk,” he says.  The latest bad news for Carroll is a sudden and unexpected
drop in demand for rough diamonds. De Beers reported on July 20
that sales fell 14 percent in the first half compared with the
same period in 2011. Profit was $626 million, a 47 percent
decrease.  The timing couldn’t be worse for Anglo, which agreed in
November to buy the Oppenheimer family’s 40 percent stake in De
Beers for $5.1 billion. The purchase will bring Anglo’s
ownership to 85 percent. The nation of Botswana owns the other
15 percent. Through De Beers, Anglo will control 35 percent of
the global market for rough diamonds.  Steel-toed Boots  If diamonds are no longer  Cynthia Carroll ’s best friend,
copper and iron ore may be her nemeses. In late June, she flew
to South Africa’s Northern Cape to christen Kolomela, an iron
mine Anglo spent three years developing at a cost of $1.1
billion.  The mine is part of Anglo’s effort to increase South
African ore production to 70 million tons from 40 million tons.
As she entered the mine site, Carroll passed lines of rail cars,
each loaded with 100 tons of ore, stretching 2 miles into the
distance.  Mine workers sang a song composed for the occasion as
Carroll gamely danced on an outdoor stage in her black pantsuit,
hard hat and steel-toed work boots. She smiled at an audience
that included buyers from Chinese, Japanese, South Korean and
European steel companies.  The buyers call the tune, and Carroll has to hope that the
music doesn’t stop.  -- With assistance from Carli Cooke in Johannesburg and Matt Craze
in Santiago. Editors: Michael Serrill, Robert Dieterich  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeremy Kahn in London at 
 jkahn21@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Serrill in  New York  at 
 mserrill@bloomberg.net  