-- AngloGold Says It’s ‘Talking to People’ About M&A Opportunities
-- B y   S o r a y a   P e r m a t a s a r i
-- 2012-08-08T09:27:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-08/anglogold-says-it-s-talking-to-people-about-m-a-opportunities.html
AngloGold Ashanti Ltd. (ANG) , the third-
largest producer of the metal, is “talking to people” about
potential asset acquisitions as declines in stock prices provide
opportunities, Chief Executive Officer  Mark Cutifani  said.  Smaller mines with large growth potential are of particular
interest, Cutifani said today in an interview in Kalgoorlie,
 Australia , declining to identify targets.  “We can see some value deals in the market place but
generally on the smaller end of the market,” he said. Companies
are short of funding, especially the smaller miners, and “we’re
in quite a few conversations,” he said.  AngloGold follows South African rival Gold Fields Ltd. in
looking for deals to boost output to cope with rising costs and
benefit from prices that have increased for 11 straight years.
Mining company valuations, based on the Bloomberg World Mining
Index, have dropped 18 percent in the past 12 months on concern
slowing global economic growth will curb demand for commodities.  “We tend to look for regions that we think have got
potential to host material assets and we are prepared to look at
small assets that we think can become a regional play or have
the potential to grow,” Cutifani said. “If it’s small but has
the potential for maybe 3 to 5 million ounces, that would be the
sort of target that would interest us.”  AngloGold, based in Johannesburg, will also consider
selling assets in Mali and  Namibia , he said.  AngloGold, which mines about a third of its metal in  South
Africa , said this week  earnings , excluding one-time items,
dropped 41 percent as costs rose. Expenditure may climb to as
much as $865 an ounce in the third quarter from $801 in the
second, the company said Aug. 6. Second-quarter output was 1.073
million ounces and third-quarter production may range from 1.07
million to 1.1 million ounces, it said.  The company aims to produce more in the second half, partly
on additional output from  Brazil , Cutifani said.  Gold for immediate delivery fell 0.3 percent to $1,608.10
an ounce at 6:15 p.m. Perth time. The metal, up 2.8 percent this
year, may trade through $1,700 an ounce in the second half,
Cutifani said this week.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Soraya Permatasari in Melbourne at 
 soraya@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rebecca Keenan at 
 rkeenan5@bloomberg.net  