-- Apple Boosts Security for Resetting Passwords After Hack
-- B y   A d a m   S a t a r i a n o
-- 2012-08-09T01:19:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-08/apple-to-beef-up-security-for-phone-password-resets-after-breach.html
Apple Inc. (AAPL)  is beefing up security for
resetting user passwords after a journalist wrote about a hack
affecting his personal data, highlighting possible weaknesses in
the system protecting more than 400 million user accounts.  The company is temporarily suspending the ability to reset
AppleID passwords over the phone while it takes steps to make
the procedure more secure, said  Natalie Kerris , a spokeswoman
for Cupertino, California-based Apple. Mat Honan, a reporter for
Wired,  wrote  this week that hackers gained access to his
account, erasing pictures and other data from his iPhone, iPad
and MacBook, after resetting his password by phone.  Honan said the incident highlighted potential
vulnerabilities in AppleID, the verification needed for
purchasing music, movies and applications from iTunes, as well
as downloading software updates and accessing content on Apple’s
iCloud Web-storage service. Kerris said Apple customers will
need to use the company’s iForgot online system for resetting
their passwords while the phone process is suspended.  “This system can reset a password in one of two ways:
either have a password reset sent to an alternate e-mail address
already on record or challenge the customer to answer security
questions they had previously set up,” Kerris said. “When we
resume over-the-phone password resets, customers will be
required to provide even stronger identify verification to reset
their password.”  Multiple Accounts  In the Aug. 6 article, Honan wrote that the hackers were
able to use the last four digits of his credit-card number and
his home address to get a member of Apple’s tech-support staff
to reset his password. He said the hackers got his credit-card
information by first gaining access to his account at online
retailer  Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN)   “The very four digits that Amazon considers unimportant
enough to display in the clear on the Web are precisely the same
ones that Apple considers secure enough to perform identity
verification,” Honan said in his article.  Ty Rogers, a spokesman for Seattle-based Amazon, said the
company has investigated the reported exploit and closed it off.
He declined to elaborate.  In addition to the Apple and Amazon accounts, the hackers
also gained access to Honan’s Gmail account, which they used to
reset the password for his Twitter Inc. profile. Once they had
control of the Twitter account, the hackers posted racist and
homophobic messages on the microblogging site, Honan said.  E-Mail Links  Honan’s experience underscores a vulnerability for people
who have several accounts linked back to an e-mail address, said
Derek Halliday, lead security product manager at Lookout Inc., a
maker of security software. Once the hackers had access to his
e-mail account, they could reset passwords for other websites.  People should identify what online accounts they operate
that could, if compromised, lead to exposure of other data,
Halliday said. He recommends creating complex passwords, with at
least eight characters, using upper- and lower-case letters, as
well as numbers and special characters. He also suggests keeping
work and personal accounts separate, so that if one is hacked
the others won’t be compromised.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Satariano in  San Francisco  at 
 asatariano1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  