-- Apple Says Samsung Document Shows Application Icons Copy IPhone
-- B y   J o e l   R o s e n b l a t t   a n d   A d a m   S a t a r i a n o
-- 2012-08-08T04:48:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-08/apple-says-samsung-document-shows-icons-changed-to-match-iphone.html
Apple Inc. (AAPL)  alleged that  Samsung
Electronics Co. (005930)  changed the design of its smartphone icons to
resemble those on the iPhone, supporting its claim with an
internal Samsung document presented to a jury in  California .  At its multibillion-dollar patent trial in federal court in
 San Jose  yesterday, Apple displayed excerpts of a 2010 internal
Samsung report in which the South Korean company did a side-by-
side comparison of its icon designs next to those of the iPhone.
The report recommended that Samsung alter icons that weren’t as
user-friendly as those on Apple’s devices.  Susan Kare, a former Apple graphics designer paid $80,000
to be an expert witness, said the icons for the companies’
current competing products -- both are square with round edges
and displayed on the device in rows of four -- are “confusingly
similar.” Kare also told the jury that she mistook a Samsung
smartphone for an iPhone while visiting the office of Apple’s
lawyers.  “I would usually think of myself as someone who is pretty
granular in looking at graphics and I mistook one for the
other,” Kare said. “In addition to my formal analysis, I had
the experience of being confused.”  Apple and Samsung are the world’s largest makers of the
high-end handheld devices that blend the functionality of a
phone and a computer. The trial is the first before a U.S. jury
in a battle being waged on four continents for dominance in a
smartphone market valued by Bloomberg Industries at $219.1
billion. Each company is trying to convince jurors that its
rival infringed patents covering designs and technology.  2010 Report  One slide from Samsung’s March 2010 “Relative Evaluation
Report” shown to Kare compares applications on the iPhone with
those on a Samsung GT-i9000 smartphone. The report concludes
that the iPhone interface has “instant recognizability due to
highly intuitive icon usage,” whereas the Samsung interface has
“difficult differentiation due to icons that are duplicative or
are intuitively deficient.”  The “Directions for Improvement” in the report are:
“Change replicate icons and select and use highly intuitive
icons,” and shorten long application names, according to the
document.  Apple is using Kare’s testimony to advance its claims that
Samsung phones infringe the software design of the iPhone. The
company started making that argument last week with witness
 Scott Forstall , the company’s senior vice president in charge of
iPhone and iPad software, and continued this week with testimony
from another paid expert witness, industrial designer Peter
Bressler.  $2.5 Billion  Apple seeks $2.5 billion for its claims that Samsung
infringed patents. Samsung, based in Suwon,  South Korea ,
countersued and will present claims that Apple is infringing two
patents covering mobile-technology standards and three utility
patents. Apple, based in Cupertino, California, also wants to
make permanent a preliminary ban it won on U.S. sales of a
Samsung tablet, and extend the ban to Samsung smartphones.  Yesterday, when Kare was shown at least 10 Samsung phones
in court, she said the application screens on all of them are
“substantially similar overall” to that described in Apple’s
patent.  “The similarities I saw were the regular grid, the rows of
four icons, the colorful mix of icons that are square with
rounded corners,” she said.  In addition to patent infringement, Apple contends that
Samsung’s copying of the look of the iPhone and iPad has diluted
the values of its iconic brands. To prove infringement of the
trademarked look, Apple must prove that consumers are confused
as to which company makes the phone or tablet computer.  Kare is at least the second Apple witness to testify about
customer confusion. Bressler told the jury Aug. 6 about data in
a report showing that the most common reason some Best Buy Co.
customers return Samsung’s Galaxy Tab 10.1 tablet computer is
because they thought they had bought the iPad 2.  Cross-Examination  During cross-examination, Samsung’s attorney, Charles K. Verhoeven, highlighted differences between the companies’
devices. He showed Kare a Samsung phone and asked her to walk
him through the steps required to arrive at the application
screen she was asked to analyze. When he turned the device on,
“Samsung” illuminated. After it was electronically unlocked,
Verhoeven demonstrated, through Kare, that a customer had to
navigate the phone’s home screen to get to the application
screen.  “Wouldn’t you agree that by the time the consumer turns on
the phone, and goes through the steps we looked at, seeing the
Samsung sign prominently for several seconds,” Verhoeven asked,
“that the consumer knows it’s a Samsung phone?”  “I’m not an expert in consumer behavior, and that kind of
user experience,” Kare replied. “I’m really focused on graphic
user interface, so I’m not sure I’m qualified to answer that.”  Kare, now at Susan Kare User Interface Graphics in  San
Francisco , has done images for  Facebook Inc. (FB)  and  Microsoft
Corp. (MSFT) , according to her website.  The trial is scheduled to resume Aug. 10.  The case is Apple Inc. v. Samsung Electronics Co. Ltd., 11-
cv-01846, U.S. District Court, Northern District of California
(San Jose).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joel Rosenblatt in San Francisco at 
 jrosenblatt@bloomberg.net ;
Adam Satariano in San Francisco at 
 asatariano1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  