-- Apple, Brocade, Rodovid Bank: Intellectual Property
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 2012-08-08T19:36:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-08/apple-brocade-rodovid-bank-intellectual-property.html
The former Apple Inc. graphics
designer who created the smiling computer icon for the original
Macintosh testified that the application screen on  Samsung
Electronics Co. (005930)  phones is “substantially similar” to the
iPhone design patented by Apple.  Susan Kare, who began her career at Apple in 1982 as a
screen graphics and digital font designer, was called yesterday
as witness by the company in its multibillion-dollar patent
trial against Samsung in federal court in  San Jose ,  California .  Kare told the jury the phones are so similar that she
picked one up while visiting the office of Apple’s lawyers and
mistook a Samsung phone for an iPhone.  Apple and Samsung are the world’s largest makers of the
high-end handheld devices that blend the functionality of a
phone and a computer. The trial is the first before a U.S. jury
in a battle being waged on four continents for dominance in a
smartphone market valued by Bloomberg Industries at $219.1
billion. Each company is trying to persuade jurors at the trial
that its rival infringed patents covering designs and
technology.  Apple is using Kare’s testimony to advance its claims that
Samsung phones infringe the software design of the iPhone. The
company started making that argument last week with witness
 Scott Forstall , the company’s senior vice president in charge of
iPhone and iPad software, and continued yesterday with testimony
from Peter Bressler, a paid expert witness and industrial
designer.  Kare, in a June court filing, said Apple asked her to
testify about “visual appearances of design” depicted in an
Apple patent to support the claims, or elements, of the
company’s intellectual property.  Yesterday, when Kare was shown at least 10 Samsung phones
in court, she said the application screens on all of them are
“substantially similar overall” to that described in Apple’s
patent.  In addition to patent infringement, Apple contends that
Samsung’s copying of the look of the iPhone and iPad has diluted
the values of its iconic brands. To prove infringement of the
trademarked look, Apple must prove that consumers are confused
as to which company makes the phone or tablet computer.  Kare is at least the second Apple witness to testify about
customer confusion. Yesterday, Bressler told the jury about data
in a report showing that the most common reason some Best Buy
Co. customers return Samsung’s Galaxy Tab 10.1 tablet computer
is because they thought they had bought the iPad 2.  During cross-examination, Samsung’s attorney, Charles K.
Verhoeven, showed Kare a Samsung phone and asked her to walk him
through the steps required to arrive at the application screen
she was asked to analyze. When he turned it on, “Samsung”
illuminated. After it was electronically unlocked, Verhoeven
demonstrated, through Kare, that a customer had to navigate the
phone’s home screen to get to the application screen.  The case is  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  v. Samsung Electronics Co. Ltd., 11-
cv-01846, U.S. District Court, Northern District of California
(San Jose).  Brocade Says It Wins $112 Million Verdict Against A10 Networks  Brocade Communications Systems Inc. (BRCD)  said in a  statement  it
won a $112 million verdict in a patent- and copyright-
infringement trial in federal court in San Jose, California,
against A10 Networks Inc.  Brocade sued A10 in 2010, claiming patent infringement,
trade secret misappropriation, breach of contract, among other
claims. The claims covered all of A10’s AX Series load balancing
server products, according to the San Jose-based Brocade’s
statement.  A10 said in a statement it will seek to have the verdict
set aside.  “A10 Networks is and always has been committed to
innovation and providing the application networking market with
cutting edge technologies that deliver the industry’s best
performance, flexibility and value to customers,” Lee Chen, the
company’s chief executive officer, said in the statement.  “We
will take the appropriate legal actions, and continue to stand
by our position that we do not infringe any of Brocade’s
 intellectual property .”  Brocade General Counsel Tyler Wall said in his company’s
statement that while patent litigation “is a last resort,” in
this particular case “the jury plainly felt it was warranted.”  The case is Brocade Communications Systems Inc. v. A10
Networks Inc., 10-cv-03428, U.S. District Court, Northern
District of California (San Jose).  For more patent news, click here.  Trademark  Rodovid Bank’s Challenge to ‘Medoff’ Vodka Trademark Continues  Rodovid Bank, a commercial bank based in Kiev, has
challenged the ownership of the Medoff trademark for vodka,
saying it was used as collateral in a transaction involving the
bank, the Kiev Post  reported .  The Domani Group, under the control of British financier
 Neil Smith , acquired the mark, in May 2011 from the Soyuz-Victan
Group Ltd., which has asked the Kiev Economic Court to cancel
the hold the bank has, the newspaper  reported .  In December 2011 the court said the bank didn’t have any
collateral rights, and that ruling was upheld in March by that
same court, according to the Post.  Smith said in a statement that the court on June 21 “for
unclear reasons” again permitted the bank’s hold on the mark,
and a future hearing will be held in the dispute, the Post
reported.  For more trademark news, click here.  Copyright  Yuengling Accused of Infringing ‘Oktoberfest’ Beer Label Design  Yuengling Beer Co., a  Pennsylvania  brewery established in
1829, was sued for copyright infringement by a New Jersey
graphic artist.  According to the complaint filed July 30 in federal court
in Harrisburg, Pennsylvania, Adam J. D’Addario created a series
of possible labels for an “Oktoberfest” line of beer in
October 2010. The designs were created in response to a request
from the brewery, D’Addario said in his complaint.  He claims that he was never paid for his work, and that the
brewery discontinued its relationship with him after he
submitted his designs. Because he wasn’t paid, D’Addario said he
didn’t license or assign them to the brewery.  The artist claims that a line of beer Yuengling will
release in September uses packaging and labels “copied and
derived from” the proposals he submitted to the brewery. He
registered his designs with the U.S. Copyright Office, he said
in the complaint.  He also accuses the brewery of using his designs on its
2011 Oktoberfest releases. He says that despite his “repeated
entreaties” he hasn’t been compensated for his work, and claims
the design will be used on about $14 million worth of beer this
year. He asked the court to bar the use of his work without
payment of $80,000, in addition to awards of money damages,
attorney fees and litigation costs.  The brewery didn’t respond immediately to an e-mailed
request for comment.  The case is Adam J. D’Addario v. D.G. Yuengling & Sons
Inc., 3:12-cv-01465-UN4, U.S. District Court, Middle District of
Pennsylvania (Harrisburg).  Google, Oracle Must Reveal Payments to Bloggers, Judge Rules  Google Inc. (GOOG) ,  Oracle Corp. (ORCL)  and their attorneys must disclose
any payments made to authors, journalists and bloggers who have
reported or published comments on Oracle’s copyright
infringement case over Android software, a judge ruled.  U.S. District Judge William Alsup ordered both sides to
file a statement by Aug. 17 identifying any writers who received
money during the lawsuit, saying he is “concerned” that the
companies or their lawyers retained or paid Internet of print
authors who write about the case, according to a filing
yesterday in federal court in  San Francisco .  The disclosure is needed to make clear whether any of those
writings “are possibly influenced by financial relationships to
the parties or counsel,” Alsup said in the filing.  A jury found May 7 that Google infringed Oracle’s
copyrights when it developed Android software for mobile devices
yet deadlocked on whether it was “fair use,” denying Oracle
the ability to seek as much as $1 billion in damages from the
search engine company. On May 23 the jury found that Google
didn’t infringe two Oracle patents.  Deborah Hellinger , an Oracle spokeswoman, declined to
comment on the judge’s order. Jim Prosser, a Google spokesman,
didn’t immediately respond to an e-mail seeking comment.  The case is Oracle v. Google, 10-3561, U.S. District
Court, Northern District of California (San Francisco).  For more copyright news, click here.  Trade Secrets/Industrial Espionage  Loparex Ordered to Pay Fees, Costs in Trade Secrets Case  Loparex LLC, a maker of release liners used in graphic arts
and for labels and tape, and its former lead litigation counsel,
were hit with an attorney fee order of $475,000 in an
unsuccessful  trade secrets  case.  The suit, which was originally filed in  Illinois  state
court, then moved to federal court in that state, ultimately
ended up in federal court in Indianapolis. Loparex, based in
Willowbrook, Illinois, sued one of its former employees and  MPI
Release LLC   of Winchester,  Massachusetts , for trade secret
misappropriation.  According to court papers, the Illinois federal court told
Loparex it failed to list with sufficient specificity the trade
secrets it claimed were stolen. Loparex than dismissed the case,
and refiled it in  Indiana . The Indiana court told Loparex its
description of the purloined trade secrets was too general.  The court granted the defendants’ request to dismiss the
case. In its July 27 order, the court noted that the case, which
should have been a “straightforward trade secrets case,”
instead resulted in “an abnormally high number of discovery
disputes, not to mention multiple motions for sanctions.”  Counsel for both sides were warned, according to the fee
order, that while they were entitled to advocate zealously for
their clients, “zealous advocacy does not equate with a total-
war mentality toward litigation.” That admonition “fell on
deaf ears,” the court said.  The court also criticized Loparex’s lead counsel for
failing to “rein his client in or otherwise moderate the
client’s litigation position.” Loparex never adequately pleaded
the existence of the trade secrets that it claimed were stolen,
according to the court order.  In addition to attorney fees, the court awarded the
defendants litigation costs of $29,000 and denied Loparex’s
claims of court costs, saying that when “a litigant has engaged
in bad-faith litigation, costs can be denied.”  The fee order makes specific mention of Loparex’s former
lead counsel, Charles W. Pautsch of  Chicago ’s Arnstein & Lehr
LLP. Pautsch withdrew from the case May 11, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Pautsch said in an e-mail that it would
be inappropriate for him to comment “because the matter is
still in litigation.”  The case is Loparex LLC v. MPI Release LLC, 1:09-cv-01411-
JMS-TAB, U.S. District Court, Southern District of Indiana
(Indianapolis).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in Oakland, California, at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 