-- Markit Plans Index Linked to New Commercial-Mortgage Securities
-- B y   S a r a h   M u l h o l l a n d
-- 2012-08-08T14:57:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-08/markit-plans-index-linked-to-new-commercial-mortgage-securities.html
Markit Group Ltd., the data provider
partially owned by  Wall Street ’s largest banks, is planning the
first derivatives  index  tied to newly issued commercial-mortgage
bonds in five years as sales of the securities rise.  The so-called Markit CMBX.6, the sixth series of the index
last updated in May 2008, is planned for January, according to
Alex Paidas, a spokesman for Markit in New York. The benchmark,
which allows investors to buy or sell derivatives to hedge
against losses on commercial-mortgage debt or to speculate on
the likelihood borrowers will meet obligations, may be linked to
as many as 25 bonds sold during the past year, Royal Bank of
 Scotland  analysts said in a report yesterday.  Wall Street is creating the latest version as issuance of
bonds tied to everything from mobile home parks to skyscrapers
climbs. Lenders accumulate commercial property loans for several
months before packaging them into securities. Price swings in
the interim can eat into profit margins on new deals.  The new index “may serve as a more efficient hedging
vehicle” for underwriters, Royal Bank of Scotland analysts led
by  Richard Hill  said in the report. “CMBX.6 may be a catalyst
for future growth.”  The existing CMBX indexes are linked to deals issued during
the property boom when values peaked in 2007 and underwriting
standards slipped. The delinquency rate on underlying securities
in those indexes has climbed to more than 10 percent, Bloomberg
data show. A new gauge will be more correlated with recent deals
with tighter underwriting, according to the Royal Bank of
Scotland analysts.  “Over the past year, there have been more than 20 sizable
CMBS primary-market issuances, which has created demand for an
appropriate synthetic hedging and investment tool that is better
representative of that new issuance,” Ned Lipes, director in
Markit’s structured finance business, said in an email.  Credit Suisse Group AG forecasts as much as $45 billion in
commercial-mortgage securities this year, compared with about
$28 billion in 2011, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. A
record $232 billion was issued in 2007.  Prices on a CMBX index linked to some of the riskiest debt
sold during the market’s peak rose to 64.7 yesterday from a 2012
low of 57.3 on May 17, according to Markit. Values on the gauge
rise as investor confidence increases.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Mulholland in  New York  at 
 smulholland3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  