-- Arsenal Plans $14 Million Move for Korean Midfielder Ki: Roundup
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2012-08-08T06:08:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-08/arsenal-plans-14-million-move-for-korean-midfielder-ki-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of soccer
stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable Internet links.  Arsenal Targets Korean  Arsenal is planning a move to sign Celtic’s Ki Sung Yeung
after the South Korean midfielder impressed the club’s scouts
the during the Asian team’s run to the Olympic Games semifinals,
the  Daily Mail reported .  The 23-year-old Ki, who scored  South Korea ’s decisive spot
kick in its penalty shootout victory over Great Britain in the
Olympic quarterfinals, would be available for about 9 million
pounds ($14 million), the Mail added.  Modric Talks  Tottenham Hotspur chairman  Daniel Levy  will have talks with
Real Madrid today about the future of midfielder Luka Modric,
the Sun reported.  The Croatian playmaker wants to join the Spanish champion,
which is refusing to match Levy’s asking price of 32 million
pounds and won’t go above its final offer of 24 million pounds,
the newspaper added.  Suarez’s Salary  Liverpool striker  Luis Suarez  trebled his wages by signing
a new four-year contract that brings him in line with the club’s
top earners including captain  Steven Gerrard , the  Daily Mirror
reported .  The Uruguayan forward lifted his salary to 120,000 pounds a
week by committing his future to Anfield amid interest from
Paris Saint-Germain and Juventus, the Mirror added.  Moses Close  European champion Chelsea is closing in on signing Wigan
striker Victor Moses for 9 million pounds and the deal may be
completed before the Blues face  Manchester City  in the Community
Shield season curtain-raiser on Aug. 12, the  Sun reported .  Wigan manager  Roberto Martinez  has told Moses he will have
to stay at the club unless Chelsea meets owner Dave Whelan’s
asking price of 10 million pounds, the  Mail said .  Marseille Makeweight  Chelsea is also considering using Gael Kakuta as a
makeweight in its bid to sign Marseille right-back Cesar
Azpilicueta, the  same paper reported .  Marseille, which values the Spanish defender at about 15
million pounds, is keen to explore the possibility of taking
Kakuta back to  France  as part of the trade, the Mail added.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  