-- Asia’s Corporate Bonds Seen as Safest in World: Credit Markets
-- B y   T a n y a   A n g e r e r   a n d   Z e k e   F a u x
-- 2012-08-08T16:05:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-08/asia-s-corporate-bonds-seen-as-safest-in-world-credit-markets.html
For the first time in more than a
year companies in  Asia  are seen as more creditworthy than their
global peers, a sign of confidence that economic growth in  China 
will bolster the region as the rest of the world falters.  The Markit iTraxx Asia index of credit-default swaps fell
below the average of four corporate bond risk gauges from around
the world this week, according to data provider CMA. The Asian
benchmark of contracts on 40 borrowers outside  Japan  tumbled 58
basis points this year to 149 basis points, the biggest decline
among Markit Group Ltd. indexes for the U.S.,  Europe , Australia
and Japan.  China, the world’s biggest economy after the U.S., is
stepping up efforts to support growth as Europe’s debt crisis
dents demand for exports. While the median estimate of
economists surveyed by Bloomberg is for China’s gross domestic
product to expand 8.2 percent in 2012, that would still outstrip
the 2.2 percent worldwide. Asia’s growth is forecast at 6.82
percent.  “China’s GDP growth is still the envy of most other
countries and is more than sufficient to underwrite regional
fundamentals,” said Mark Reade, an analyst at Credit Agricole
SA in  Hong Kong . “Many Asian corporates offer superior  credit
quality  compared with companies in other parts of the world that
have narrower CDS levels.”  Cnooc, Hyundai  The Markit iTraxx Asia index was as much as 74 basis points
higher than the average of the other four indexes in October,
according to CMA, which is owned by McGraw-Hill Cos. and
compiles prices quoted by dealers in the privately negotiated
market.  The measure for Asia is comprised of swaps on 36 banks and
non-financial companies ranging from  Cnooc Ltd. (883) , China’s largest
offshore energy explorer, to South  Korea ’s  Hyundai Motor Co. (005380) , as
well as those on sovereign debt of China,  Malaysia , Korea and
 Thailand .  Elsewhere in credit markets, bonds of Boston-based Iron
Mountain Inc. are the most actively traded dollar-denominated
corporate securities by dealers today, with 114 trades of $1
million or more as of 12:01 p.m. in  New York , according to
Trace, the bond-price reporting system of the Financial Industry
Regulatory Authority.  Rate Swaps  The $1 billion of 5.75 percent bonds due August 2024 sold
at par yesterday by the world’s largest document storage company
fell to 99.875 cents on the dollar as of 11:52 a.m. in New York,
Trace data show.  The U.S. two-year interest-rate swap spread, a measure of
bond market stress, increased 0.17 basis point to 19.65 basis
points as of 12:02 p.m. in New York. The gauge widens when
investors seek the perceived safety of  government securities  and
narrows when they favor assets such as corporate bonds.  The Markit CDX North America Investment Grade Index, which
investors use to hedge against losses or to speculate on
creditworthiness, decreased 0.24 basis point to a mid-price of
103 basis points as of 12:02 p.m. in New York, according to
Markit Group Ltd.  The measure typically falls as investor confidence improves
and rises as it deteriorates. Credit-default swaps pay the buyer
face value if a borrower fails to meet its obligations, less the
value of the defaulted debt. A basis point equals $1,000
annually on a contract protecting $10 million of debt.  ‘Primary Risk’  The last time the Markit iTraxx Asia index traded below the
average of four global corporate bond risk gauges was June 2011.
The other bond risk benchmarks are the Markit iTraxx Australia
index, Markit iTraxx Japan index, Markit iTraxx Europe gauge and
Markit CDX North America Investment Grade index.  “In spite of the recent worsening of the European crisis,
Asia credit has remained very resilient in the past month,”
Morgan Stanley analysts  Viktor Hjort , Kelvin Pang and Nishant Sood wrote in an Aug. 3 report.  China has been the engine of growth in Asia, with the
central bank showing its willingness to ease monetary policy to
keep the economy expanding. The People’s Bank of China said this
month that it will keep pursuing a “prudent” monetary policy
and the nation’s economy will maintain stable growth even amid
the risk the global recovery will falter.  “At present, the primary risk for the global economy is
still the  European debt crisis ,” the central bank said in an
Aug. 2 statement. The possibility of Europe “triggering a
double dip in the global economy can’t be ruled out,” it said.  Spreads on high-grade Asian debt dropped to 223 basis
points on Aug. 6, from 280 basis points on June 1, according to
the Bank of America Merrill Lynch High Grade Asia  Emerging
Markets  Corporate Plus Index. That’s still higher than the 190-
point spread on U.S. investment-grade debt and 196 points on the
Global Broad Market Corporate Index, the data show.  Diversification Demand  Dollar-denominated debt offerings in the Asia-Pacific
region were $10.1 billion in July, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. That’s up from $5.96 billion in June and marks the
biggest month since $12.5 billion was sold in May, the data
show. Sales this year of $81 billion compare with $54.6 billion
in the same period of 2011.  “People need these names for diversification, they need
these names for yield, these issuers are meeting with a warmer
reception than ever before,” Ed Marrinan, co-head of market
strategy for the Americas at Royal Bank of Scotland Plc in
 Stamford ,  Connecticut , said in a telephone interview.
“Investors are anxious to get yield and they’re scouring the
global financial markets to achieve that objective.”  Pimco’s Kiesel  When Shui On Land Ltd. sold $400 million of 9.75 percent
bonds due in February 2015 on July 30, the Chinese property
developer’s offering received about $2.5 billion of bids from
more than 150 investors, according to a person familiar with the
deal. China Petrochemical Corp., known as Sinopec Group, was
able to pay a spread of 145 basis points over U.S. Treasuries
when it issued $500 million of 10-year securities on Aug. 6,
Bloomberg data show. That’s down from a 210-point premium on an
offering of similar notes in May.  Pacific Investment Management Co., or Pimco, recommends the
bonds of gambling companies with exposure to Macau, such as Las
Vegas Sands Corp. and Wynn Resorts Ltd.,  Mark Kiesel , global
head of corporate bond portfolios at the manager of the world’s
biggest bond fund, wrote Aug. 6 in a report.  “Macau may benefit secularly from a rising middle class
and growing mass market of gamblers,” he wrote.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tanya Angerer in Singapore at 
 tangerer@bloomberg.net ;
Zeke Faux in New York at 
 zfaux@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Shelley Smith  at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net ;
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  