-- Asian Stocks Rise on Central Banking Easing Bets
-- B y   E l e n i   H i m a r a s   a n d   N o r i e   K u b o y a m a
-- 2012-08-08T10:38:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-08/asian-stocks-rise-on-central-banking-easing-speculation.html
Asian  stocks  rose a third day, with
the regional benchmark index extending a three-month high, on
speculation central banks from the U.S. to  China  will take steps
to boost growth and after companies including Chimei Innolux
Corp. beat estimates.  Kawasaki Kisen Kaisha Ltd. paced gains among Japanese
 shipping lines , rising 3.6 percent, before a report tomorrow
expected to show inflation slowing in China, making room for
policy easing in the world’s biggest commodities market.  Sumco (3436) 
Corp. and other chip-related companies advanced after Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. boosted its outlook for the U.S. semiconductor
industry. Chimei Innolux gained 7 percent in Taiwan after the
display maker reported a smaller-than-expected loss.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index gained 0.4 percent to 120.09 as
of 7:36 p.m. in  Tokyo , paring gains of as much as 0.9 percent
amid speculation Japanese stocks have risen too far, too fast.
More than three stocks rose for every two that fell on the
measure, which has gained about 10 percent from this year’s low
on June 4 as Europe eased the terms of Spain’s banking bailout
and global central banks cut  interest rates .  “There’s expectations that global easing policies may help
stem the economic slowdown,” said  Hiroichi Nishi , an equities
manager in Tokyo at SMBC Nikko Securities Inc. “Investors are
becoming less likely to avoid risky assets because of strong
expectations Europe will overcome the crisis.”  MSCI Valuations  Asia’s  regional benchmark  traded at 12.3 times estimated
earnings, compared with 13.6 times for the Standard & Poor’s 500
Index and 11.6 times for the Stoxx Europe 600 Index, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Stock rose across Asia after Federal  Reserve Bank  of Boston
President  Eric Rosengren  said the central bank should pursue an
“open-ended” easing program of “substantial magnitude.” The
 Bank of Korea  is set to consider cutting repurchase rates for a
second straight month tomorrow and the  Bank of Japan  is
scheduled to start a two-day policy meeting today.  Japan’s Nikkei 225 Stock Average closed 0.9 percent higher,
trimming a 1.8 percent gain. The gauge had risen as much as 5.1
percent in the past three days, putting it on course for this
year’s biggest weekly advance.  South Korea’s Kospi Index (KOSPI)  rose
0.9 percent today.  Australia ’s S&P/ASX 200 Index increased 0.5 percent after
home-loan approvals rose in June by the most this year as buyers
responded to lower interest rates. The  Reserve Bank of Australia 
has cut its key rate 1.25 percentage points since November.  China Inflation  Hong Kong’s Hang Seng Index slipped less than one percent,
while the Shanghai Composite Index gained 0.2 percent.  “Short term, we won’t be surprised to see a pull-back,”
said  Norman Chan , Hong Kong-based head of investment at Calibre
Asset Management Ltd., a unit of National Australia Bank Ltd.
“Medium to long term, we think there is continued upside,
especially if the European situation continues to improve.”  Data tomorrow is expected to show China’s consumer price
index climbed at a slower pace for a fourth month to 1.7 percent
in July from 2.2 percent a month earlier, according to economist
estimates. It would be the lowest inflation since January 2010.
A commentary today in China’s Financial News said moderating
price gains leaves gives “bigger” room for stimulus.  Separate reports may show retail sales slipped and
industrial production in the world’s second-largest economy grew
less 10 percent for a fourth month, a level not seen since the
2009 financial crisis.  Earnings Season  Of the 350 companies that have reported  earnings  on the
 MSCI Asia Pacific Index (MXAP)  since July 1 for which Bloomberg has
compiled analysts’ projections, fewer than half have beat
expectations.  Semiconductor-related firms rose after Goldman Sachs
recommended investors buy U.S. companies in the sector, citing
low inventories and reasonable price-to-earnings ratios. Asian
chip companies face stiffer competition, the investment bank
said in a note yesterday.  Sumco, a Japanese maker of silicon wafers that has lost
about 40 percent of its value since March, gained 1.5 percent to
594 yen. Macronix International Co., a manufacturer of
integrated circuits, increased 6.9 percent to NT$7.55 in Taiwan.  Samsung Electronics Co., the world’s biggest producer of
computer memory, climbed 2 percent to 1.32 million won. SK Hynix
Inc., the second largest, rose 3.4 percent to 22,750 won.  Sharp Corp. (6753)  increased 2.7 percent to 188 yen after the
Nikkei newspaper reported that Hon Hai Precision Industry Co.
remains committed to a partnership with the Japanese maker of
displays, which last week widened its loss forecast. The shares
are trading near the lowest since at least 1974 after sliding
about 70 percent this year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eleni Himaras in  Hong Kong  at 
 ehimaras@bloomberg.net ;
Norie Kuboyama in Tokyo at 
 nkuboyama@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  