-- Australia Home-Loan Approvals Rose in June Most This Year
-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 2012-08-08T03:41:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-08/australia-home-loan-approvals-rose-in-june-most-this-year.html
Australian  home-loan approvals  rose
in June by the most this year as buyers responded to the central
bank’s 1.25 percentage points of  interest-rate cuts  since the
start of November.  The number of loans granted to build or buy houses and
apartments gained 1.3 percent from May, when they fell a revised
0.9 percent, the statistics bureau said in Sydney today. The
median estimate in a Bloomberg News survey of 17 economists was
for a 2 percent increase in approvals.  “Whilst home loans fell slightly short of expectations,
there are signs of a pickup in housing activity,” said Celeste Tay, a Singapore-based economist at 4cast Ltd. The 75 basis
points of cuts in the middle of the year that “took  mortgage
rates  below average in May, for the first time this easing cycle,
likely helped,” she said.  Today’s data, a stronger-than-forecast increase in retail
sales and an unexpected gain in  house prices  add to the case for
 Reserve Bank  of  Australia  Governor  Glenn Stevens  to extend a
rate pause next month. The RBA cut the benchmark four times from
November to June as weakness in Europe and  China  threatened the
global outlook, before leaving borrowing costs unchanged at 3.5
percent at its past two meetings.  Today’s data showed the total value of loans rose 2.4
percent to A$20.7 billion ($21.8 billion) in June.  Loans to Investors  The value of lending to owner-occupiers gained 1.2 percent,
the report showed. The value of loans to investors who plan to
rent or resell homes advanced 4.9 percent.  First-home buyers accounted for 18.3 percent of dwellings
that were financed in June, up from 17.8 percent in May and
higher than 16.4 percent a year earlier, the report showed today.  Recent reports have shown stronger  consumer spending  in
Australia, fueled by A$2 billion in government carbon rebates
and benefit checks paid out since May, as well as the rate cuts.
Retail sales in June matched the biggest advance since April
2011.  Australian  house prices  unexpectedly rose in the three
months through June, ending five straight quarters of declines,
a government report showed Aug. 1. House and apartment prices in
major cities climbed 0.6 percent in July from the prior month,
when they rose 1 percent, according to the RP Data-Rismark home
value index released on the same day.  Rate-Cut Bets  Traders are pricing in a 45 percent chance the central bank
will lower borrowing costs by a quarter percentage point to 3.25
percent next month, swaps data compiled by Bloomberg show. The
local dollar traded at $1.0552 at 12:07 p.m. in Sydney, from
$1.0554 yesterday in  New York , when it touched a more-than-four-
month high of $1.0604.  Powering growth is Australia’s biggest resource boom since
a gold rush in the 1850s. The latest bonanza -- for  iron ore ,
coal and natural gas -- is bringing investment projects the
government estimates to be worth A$500 billion.  The nation’s  jobless rate , at 5.2 percent in June, is lower
than 8.3 percent in the U.S. and 11.2 percent in the euro area.
The  unemployment rate  probably rose to 5.3 percent in July,
according to the median estimate in a Bloomberg survey of 25
economists before a government report tomorrow.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  