-- BofA’s Law Firm Says Lenders May Need More Loan Reserves
-- B y   H u g h   S o n
-- 2012-08-08T14:05:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-08/bactesttest.html
Bank of America Corp. ’s law firm
defending the company against  MBIA Inc. (MBI)  in a dispute over
defective mortgages said that a court ruling in a separate case
means lenders should reevaluate their reserves for bad loans.  Lenders could be forced to repurchase shoddy mortgages even
if banks’ misrepresentations weren’t responsible for defaults,
 O’Melveny & Myers LLP  said in a client  note  on its website. The
law firm cited a June 19 ruling in which the judge sided with
bond insurer  Syncora Holdings Ltd. (SYCRF)  against a mortgage company.  “In light of a recent federal court ruling, banks may wish
to reevaluate litigation risk from plaintiff insurers claiming
injury” in bonds they backed, Robert Stern, an O’Melveny
partner, said in the note dated July 27. Firms “facing such
lawsuits may wish to reevaluate their exposure and possibly
adjust reserves set aside to cover such risks.”  The Syncora ruling contrasts with Bank of America’s
argument that bond insurers and other firms should only win
refunds if they prove that loan defects led to defaults. While
Chief Executive Officer  Brian T. Moynihan  committed more than
$40 billion to clean up mortgages at the second-biggest U.S.
lender, he has yet to resolve disagreements with MBIA, whose
claims make it one of the bank’s biggest remaining adversaries.  “What’s shocking about the O’Melveny note is that they
represent Bank of America in the MBIA litigation; it’s not like
they are confused about the type of claims or the nature of the
contract,” said Manal Mehta, founder of San Francisco-based
hedge fund Sunesis Capital, which owns MBIA stock. “They’ve
come out very explicitly and said, ‘Hey guys, loss-causation is
a game changer for your reserves.'”  Reserve Decisions  The note “was not a commentary on any institution’s
reserve decisions,” said Majory Appel, a spokeswoman for
O’Melveny & Myers. Lawrence Grayson, a spokesman for  Charlotte ,
North Carolina-based Bank of America, declined to comment on the
 law firm ’s note.  Stern has represented a subprime lender and U.S.-owned
mortgage firm in disputes over loans, according to the law
firm’s  website . Appel declined to say whether Stern was involved
in the MBIA case.  Bank of America had outstanding claims from the so-called
monoline insurers on  $3.1 billion  of mortgages as of June 30,
“substantially all” of which the lender has refused to
repurchase after its assessment of whether valid defects exist,
the firm said this month in a filing.  Outstanding Demands  The bank’s interpretation is that it only has to buy back a
loan if an underwriting error or misrepresentation “was the
cause of the loss,” Moynihan’s firm said in the filing.
Otherwise the company would be paying for defaults tied to the
economic slump, a risk that should be handled by the insurer,
the bank has said.  The lender has probably set aside $1 billion to $2 billion
for MBIA costs in litigation reserves, Charles Peabody, an
analyst at Portales Partners LLC in  New York , said in an
interview. That amount should be adequate, he said.  “No company says ‘We’ve reserved for a case,’ because that
weakens their bargaining position, it gives the plaintiff an
idea what the minimum expectation is,” said Peabody, who rates
the company “ outperform .”  Rising demands from other firms, including U.S.-owned
 Fannie Mae  and private investors, pushed the lender’s total
outstanding demands for mortgage buybacks more than 40 percent
higher to $22.7 billion in the second quarter. That figure is
the total unpaid principal balance of loans, and actual losses
have been a fraction of the demands.  Fannie Mae  Bank of America expected the claims and set aside funds a
year earlier, Chief Financial Officer Bruce R. Thompson said
last month during a conference call. The company had $15.9
billion in repurchase reserves as of June 30 and an unspecified
amount for litigation. Costs for all of the bank’s litigation
may exceed reserves by as much as $4.1 billion, the firm said.  The lender’s calculations are based on assumptions,
including about the prior behavior of counterparties, that may
shift as Fannie Mae pushes for more refunds. Bank of America’s
costs could also rise if courts disagree with its arguments, the
lender has said. Costs tied to private investors and insurers
could be as much as $5 billion beyond its existing reserve, the
lender has said.  Countrywide Losses  Bond insurer lawsuits are part of the fallout from Bank of
America’s 2008 takeover of Countrywide Financial Corp., whose
lax standards and subprime loans were blamed by lawmakers and
regulators for helping to fuel the housing bubble. The insurers
say they should be reimbursed for claims they paid on
securitized pools of home equity lines of credit because of
Countrywide’s flawed underwriting.  Bank of America has had settlement discussions with MBIA,
FGIC Corp. and Ambac Financial Group Inc., according to two
people with direct knowledge of the talks.  Negotiations (BAC)  with
MBIA are the furthest apart because bank managers think that
Armonk, New York-based MBIA’s demands are too high and the
dispute is the most complicated, the people said. Attempts to
reach FGIC and Ambac for comment weren’t immediately successful.  The bank has already reached settlements  with Assured
Guaranty Ltd.  and Syncora. The deal with Assured was valued last
year at $1.6 billion, and the Syncora agreement announced last
month cost Bank of America about $400 million.  Estimated Recoveries  The lender appealed New York State Supreme Court Justice
Eileen Bransten’s Jan. 3 ruling that MBIA need only show
Countrywide made misrepresentations about the loans, instead of
also establishing they caused the losses the bond insurer is
seeking to recover. Bransten also rejected the insurer’s request
to decide the case in its favor without a trial, which MBIA is
appealing.  Kevin Brown , a spokesman for MBIA, declined to
comment on the litigation.  MBIA is depending on funds from Bank of America. The firm
has booked $3.2 billion in estimated recoveries on its balance
sheet for all mortgage-bond repurchase claims as of the end of
the first quarter. The company also said it is entitled to be
made whole on $4.8 billion in losses on transactions. The
insurer is scheduled to report  second-quarter results  today.  The O’Melveny note focuses on a June 19 ruling in  Manhattan 
that lowered hurdles for insurers who say they were misled into
covering securities by mortgage originators. The court agreed
with Syncora in several arguments against EMC Mortgage Corp., a
former unit of Bear Stearns Cos., which was bought by  JPMorgan
Chase & Co. (JPM)  in 2008. The ruling also that states insurers can
force banks to buy back loans where borrowers are making
payments.  “There are many dozens, if not hundreds, of lawsuits
against mortgage originators, seeking hundreds of billions of
dollars due to alleged misrepresentations about the quality of
mortgages sold into securitizations,” Stern said in his note.
Other plaintiffs “will undoubtedly argue that the Syncora
decision should apply equally in those cases.”  The case is MBIA Insurance v. Countrywide Home Loans,
602825-08, New York State Supreme Court (New York County).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hugh Son in New York at   hson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at   dscheer@bloomberg.net  