-- BCE Beats Profit Estimates as Smartphone Subscribers Gain
-- B y   H u g o   M i l l e r
-- 2012-08-08T20:30:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-08/bce-beats-profit-estimates-as-smartphone-subscribers-gain-2-.html
BCE Inc. (BCE) ,  Canada ’s second-largest
wireless carrier, topped second-quarter profit estimates and
increased its annual forecast after adding more smartphone
subscribers on lucrative long-term contracts.  Profit, excluding some items, was C$1.02 ($1.02), the
Montreal-based company said today in a statement. Analysts
predicted 81 cents, the  average  of estimates compiled by
Bloomberg. The target for annual earnings was lifted to a range
of C$3.15 to C$3.20 a share, from C$3.13 to C$3.18.  Chief Executive Officer George Cope is making acquisitions
to push the company into new markets while luring customers to
Bell Mobility, the mobile-devices business. Cope purchased
broadcaster CTV last year and is buying  Astral Media Inc. (ACM/A)  and
part of the Toronto Maple Leafs hockey team and the Toronto
Raptors basketball franchise, aiming to get smartphone users to
spend more on BCE’s sports and entertainment programs.  Net income rose 31 percent to C$773 million, or C$1 a
share, from C$590 million, or 76 Canadian cents, a year earlier,
helped by a 21 percent gain in wireless operating profit.  “While Bell still remains behind its peers, it made up
substantial ground this quarter,” said  Maher Yaghi , a
Desjardins Securities analyst in  Montreal  who has a buy rating
on the stock.  BCE  shares , which yesterday rose to their highest level
since Jan. 3, 2001, climbed 2.4 percent to C$44.30 at the close
in Toronto.  Wireless Revenue  The company lifted wireless data revenue by 31 percent at
Bell Mobility, the mobile-devices business. Bell added 102,067
phone subscribers on contract last quarter, compared with 95,000
estimated by Yaghi. The unit generated C$55.37 in average
monthly revenue from both contract and prepaid users. Yaghi
estimated C$53.84.  “We continue to see the migration to the smartphone
driving growth” in data revenue, Cope said on a conference call
today with analysts.  Revenue was little changed from a year earlier at C$4.92
billion, missing the C$4.96 billion average estimate. Revenue
growth is expected to be at the lower end of a range of 3
percent to 5 percent, BCE said.  BCE today said it will raise its annual dividend to C$2.27
a share from C$2.17.  Bell and rivals  Rogers Communications Inc. (RCI/B)  and  Telus Corp. (T) 
together control more than 90 percent of Canada’s wireless
market. Telus added 112,000 contract subscribers last quarter,
while Rogers gained 87,000.  BCE agreed to spend C$1.1 billion with other investors in
June to buy data-center operator Q9 Networks Inc.  Astral Deal  Montreal-based rival  Quebecor Inc. (QBR/B)  has complained that
BCE’s ownership of Astral will give it too much dominance of the
local television market, and Canada’s Competition Bureau
yesterday said it will review those concerns. The company is
“very confident” it will complete its acquisition of Astral
Media and the deal is expected to close in the fourth quarter,
Cope said.  BCE will divest a number of  radio stations  to meet
regulations on market concentration, he said.  “We find it ironic that one of our competitors, which has
a large market channel in  Quebec , is somehow concerned they’re
going to have competition,” he said, with reference to
Quebecor.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hugo Miller in Toronto at 
 hugomiller@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  