-- Belarus Recalls Ambassador to Sweden After Teddy Bear Drop
-- B y   A l i a k s a n d r   K u d r y t s k i
-- 2012-08-08T10:45:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-08/belarus-recalls-ambassador-to-sweden-after-teddy-bear-drop-2-.html
Belarus is recalling its ambassador
to  Sweden  and pulling out its entire embassy staff, intensifying
a dispute that began with a reported mass drop of free-speech
promoting teddy bears over the eastern European nation.  The steps were in retaliation for last week’s ouster of two
senior Belarusian diplomats by the Scandinavian country, the
Minsk-based Foreign Ministry said in a  statement  on its website
today. Belarus last week expelled the Swedish ambassador.  While not severing diplomatic ties, Belarus said it asked
Sweden to withdraw its embassy employees before their
credentials are revoked on Aug. 30. President Aleksandr Lukashenko last month fired the border-guard and air-force
chiefs after Swedish pilots flew an airplane into Belarus on
July 4 and dropped teddy bears with signs calling for free
speech. The pilots returned to  Lithuania  and posted video
footage of their exploits on the Internet.  “Lukashenko is now throwing all Swedish diplomats out of
Belarus,” Swedish Foreign Minister Carl Bildt said on Twitter
Inc. “His fear of human rights reaching new heights.”  Tomas Mazetti, one of the pilots who also works at Swedish
public relations agency Studio Total, said that the action to
drop 800 fluffy toys over towns and villages was meant to
promote support for the political opposition. He refuted
reports, including from Swedish weekly trade publication Resume,
that the action had been a hoax and had not actually occurred.  EU Clarification  The European Union, of which Sweden is a member, is
“urgently seeking clarification,” the office of EU foreign
policy chief  Catherine Ashton  said in an e-mailed statement in
Brussels. Ashton also last week expressed “grave concern” over
the expulsion of the Swedish ambassador.  “The European Union reiterates its full commitment to the
Vienna Convention and to the exercise of constructive relations
with its partners in line with diplomatic norms,” Ashton’s
office said. The EU and its member states “are committed to the
modernisation of Belarus and to the spread of European values,
in particular democracy, human rights and the rule of law.”  KGB Summons  The Belarusian KGB  on Aug. 7  summoned the pilots to Belarus
to stand for official questioning on charge of trespassing,
according to a statement on its website. The secret service also
said it arrested Belarusian citizens Anton Suryapin and Sergey
Basharimov on charges of conspiring with the Swedes.  “We will come to Belarus, not to aid the regime, but only
to help the innocently imprisoned Anton and Sergey, whose
detention is a clear violation of all principles of justice in a
democratic society,” Mazetti said in an e-mailed. The Swedish
organizers may come to Belarus if they are offered immunity from
criminal charges, he said.  The KGB said it officially considers the Swedish pilots as
suspects in the criminal case which may carry a penalty of as
long as seven years. The KGB will make the final decision about
the status of the arrested Belarusians after questioning the
Swedes, the secret service said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aliaksandr Kudrytski in Minsk, Belarus at 
 akudrytski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  