-- Bernanke’s Nightmare Audit Pushed for Romney’s Platform
-- B y   J u l i e   H i r s c h f e l d   D a v i s
-- 2012-08-08T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-08/bernanke-s-nightmare-audit-pushed-for-romney-s-platform.html
Federal Reserve  Chairman  Ben Bernanke  calls it his “nightmare scenario.” One of  Mitt Romney ’s top economic advisers called it “trouble.”  Yet as they look to their national convention starting in
Tampa on Aug. 27, Republicans are considering including a plank
in their party platform calling for a full audit of the central
bank.  Prodded by the failed primary bid of longtime Fed critic
Ron Paul -- and the grassroots enthusiasm the Texas
congressman’s cause inspired among bail-out weary Tea Party
activists and small government advocates -- Republicans are
entertaining a prospect that has long made them and some of
their financial supporters cringe.  Paul, in an interview, warned that if Romney’s backers
resist the effort, it could result in a politically distracting
and messy fight in front of the national media. “It’s good
economics and it’s good legislation, but it’s also good
politics, because 80 percent of the American people agree with
it,” Paul said. If Republican leaders “exclude it, I would
think some of my supporters would be annoyed and feel strongly
enough to take it to the floor under the rules.”  Romney Position Unclear  Romney’s position on the issue is murky. While he says he
backs a Fed audit, he has not formally endorsed Paul’s
legislation -- which mandates a Government Accountability Office
audit of the Fed that includes deliberations on changes to the
benchmark interest  rate  -- nor the effort to include it in the
party’s messaging document to be hammered out before its formal
adoption at the  Republican National Convention .  “My own view is that we should audit the Fed and that the
actions of the Fed should be open for the review of Congress and
the understanding of the American people,” the presumed
Republican nominee told reporters Aug. 3.  Romney spokeswoman Andrea Saul declined repeated requests
to divulge Romney’s stance on a Fed audit that would include
monetary policy.  On July 25, on a 327-98 vote -- with just one Republican
dissenting -- the U.S. House passed the legislation. While it’s
not likely to become law, supporters of Paul and his son Senator
Rand Paul, a Kentucky Republican who will speak at the convention,
say they're ready to instigate a potentially divisive floor fight
if they are snubbed by Republican leaders crafting the platform.  Floor Fight  “I can’t imagine, politically speaking, that the Romney
campaign, which is pushing the direction of the platform, would
want to risk any type of debate or contention on the floor of
the convention on this,” said Christopher Stearns, a 25-year-
old delegate from Portsmouth,  Virginia , who is leading the Paul
forces’ platform efforts. “I would be more than happy to lead a
debate on the floor to make sure this is brought up.”  It’s unclear how successful the effort will be, and party
officials are reluctant to discuss the matter publicly.  “I have absolutely no idea what’s going on with the
platform,” former New Hampshire Governor John Sununu, a Romney
surrogate who heads the convention’s powerful Rules Committee,
said in a brief interview, declining to discuss the matter
further.  Virginia Governor  Bob McDonnell , a vice presidential
prospect for Romney who is heading the Platform Committee, told
The  Washington  Times last week that the Fed audit was part of
ongoing discussions, adding that Paul and his son have “a lot
of great ideas.”  Platform Committee  The Platform Committee is scheduled to meet in Tampa August
19-21 to come up with a proposal to present to the convention
the following week.  Former Republican National Committee Chairman  Haley Barbour 
said while there’s nothing wrong with auditing the Fed’s
transactions and accounts -- as is currently done -- it would be
“objectionable” for the party to go on record in support of
giving Congress access to statements and deliberations in the
bank’s meetings.  “I don’t want Congress controlling the  money supply  or
usurping the authority of the Fed -- I can’t think of a group
that I would less rather have do that, just because they’re
politicians and this is not about politics,” Barbour said in an
interview. “I do not think any group would put purity on issues
like this in front of victory.”  The very fact that the prospect of including a Fed audit
plank in the platform is on the table illustrates the degree to
which Romney’s allies are trying to harness -- rather than
openly defy -- grassroots support for Paul at the convention.  Most Popular  On the platform  committee  Web site the  Republican Party 
launched last month, proposals to audit the Federal Reserve are
among the most popular. Paul supporters say they’ve gotten
little resistance as they pitch the idea to fellow delegates
around the country. Several state Republican parties, including
those in  Idaho ,  Iowa ,  Nevada , Texas and  Wisconsin , have platforms
calling for an audit or elimination of the Fed.  Romney has chosen his words on the issue carefully,
stopping short of siding with Paul even as he cozies up to the
retiring congressman and his supporters.  When the House passed the measure last month, Romney posted
on the social media site Twitter: “ Ron Paul ’s ‘Audit The Fed’
bill is a reminder of his tireless efforts to promote sound
money and a more transparent Federal Reserve.”  Romney’s rhetoric on the issue has shifted considerably
from two years ago, when the former Massachusetts governor noted
that the Fed is already subject to audit by an independent firm
-- and rejected any move that could lead to Congress dictating
to the central bank.  Romney Rhetoric  “Well, the Federal Reserve is audited, I presume, by
independent auditors,” Romney told a questioner who stopped him
on the street in Manchester, New Hampshire, in August 2010 and
asked his position on Paul’s legislation, according to a video
clip of the exchange circulating on the Internet. “The question
is really, should the Congress oversee the Federal Reserve, and
it does to a certain extent, but I do not want to have the
Congress calling the shots for the Federal Reserve.”  That’s the “nightmare scenario” Bernanke sketched out for
Congress at a July 18 hearing, when he said he was concerned
about the prospect that a lawmaker who disagreed with a Fed
chairman’s decision to raise interest rates could call for an
audit in order to second-guess the decision.  “I think that would have a chilling effect, and would
prevent the Fed from operating on the apolitical, independent
basis that is so important, in which experience shows is likely
to lead to a low-inflation healthy currency kind of economy,”
Bernanke told the House Financial Services Committee.  Hubbard Opposition  Glenn Hubbard , the dean of the  Columbia Business School  who
is one of Romney’s lead economic advisers, expressed similar
concerns in a July 2009 opinion piece published in the Wall
Street Journal, in which he called Paul’s measure a “bad
bill,” and said of Congress’s efforts to wield more oversight
of the Fed: “This is trouble.”  “The Fed must above all maintain its political
independence in conducting monetary policy,” Hubbard wrote in
his article, co-authored by Harvard University finance professor
 Hal Scott , a former American Stock Exchange governor, and
Brookings Institution Chairman John L. Thornton, a former
Goldman Sachs executive.  Some of Romney’s biggest financial backers share the view.
Sander Gerber of Hudson Bay Capital, who attended a June 28
fundraiser for Romney at New York’s  Pierre Hotel  as well as one
in Jerusalem July 30, and has given more than $30,000 over the
past year to his campaign and the Republican Party, said some of
the central bank’s operations should not be open to audit.  Apolitical FED  “I believe the Fed’s effectiveness hinges on its ability
to be apolitical,” Gerber said in an e-mail, adding that he had
not studied the issue thoroughly. At the same time, he added, it
must “represent the interests of the people. Some things should
be audited, other things not.”  Other Romney allies say they expect the platform committee
to finesse the issue in a way that satisfies Paul and avoids a
public feud without ceding the power to dictate the party’s
message to a candidate who didn’t earn enough delegates to
contend for the nomination.  “They will find a way that accommodates some of his
concerns and recognizes that he worked hard and ran a good
campaign that struck a chord with people,” said Steve Duprey, a
 New Hampshire  Republican National Committeeman. “But if you
lose, you don’t get to write the platform -- that’s the way this
works.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julie Hirschfeld Davis in Washington at   or
 Jdavis159@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net  