-- Bharti Falls After Profit Misses Estimates as Costs Climb
-- B y   K e t a k i   G o k h a l e
-- 2012-08-08T11:17:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-08/bharti-profit-falls-missing-estimates-after-costs-climb.html
Bharti Airtel Ltd. (BHARTI) , India’s largest
mobile-phone operator, fell the most in more than two years in
Mumbai trading after reporting profit that  missed  analyst
estimates because of higher network costs and competition.  Bharti fell 6.6 percent to 274.35 rupees at the close in
Mumbai, the most since May 2010. The stock was the  biggest loser 
on the benchmark Sensitive Index, which was unchanged.  Bharti joined  Vodafone Group Plc (VOD)  in  cutting prices  for
third-generation data services by at least 70 percent in India.
A price war sparked by the entry of operators including  Telenor
ASA (TEL)  and  NTT DoCoMo Inc. (9437)  drove voice call rates in the country to
as low as a penny a minute. Bharti, which stepped up spending to
expand its network that includes the African assets it acquired
from  Kuwait ’s  Mobile Telecommunications Co. (ZAIN) , now plans to list
its wireless towers unit to help reduce debt.  “They have significant debt -- that too in a deteriorating
operating environment,” said Naveen Kulkarni, an analyst at MF
Global Sify Securities India Pvt. in Mumbai. “It’s better off
having a leaner balance sheet, so this listing is necessary.”  Net income  fell 37 percent to 7.62 billion rupees ($138
million) in the three months ended June 30, from 12.2 billion
rupees a year earlier, New Delhi-based Bharti said in a
statement today. That lagged behind the 12.2 billion-rupee
median of 33 analysts’  estimates  compiled by Bloomberg.  ‘Hyper-Competition’  Revenue rose 14 percent to 193.5 billion rupees, missing
the 194.8 billion-rupee median of 34 estimates. Earnings before
interest, tax, depreciation and amortization, or Ebitda, rose to
58.5 billion rupees from 57.1 billion rupees a year earlier.  “Telecom revenues in India have been depressed due to
hyper-competition and recent regulatory and tax developments,”
billionaire Chairman  Sunil Mittal  said in the statement.  First-quarter Editda  margin  fell to 30.2 percent from 33.6
percent a year earlier, Bharti said in its quarterly report.  Operating expenditure, including network operation costs,
selling, general and administrative costs, employee costs, and
cost of goods sold, rose 21 percent to 91.8 billion rupees from
75.7 billion rupees a year earlier.  The company, which spent 156 billion rupees at auctions of
airwaves in 2010 to introduce faster wireless services, started
amortizing the spectrum costs and interest on borrowings to make
that payment last year. The mobile-phone carrier controlled by
Mittal is also expanding into  Kenya  and other African countries
to offset slowing growth at home.  Towers Unit  Bharti’s  debt  exceeded cash and cash equivalents by 683
billion rupees as of June 30, up from 600 billion rupees a year
earlier, the company said.  The board of Bharti Infratel Ltd., a subsidiary of Bharti
that holds the mobile-phone operator’s telecommunications
towers, appointed a committee to consider an initial public
offering of the unit, according to an exchange filing today. The
offer and its timing will be “subject to market conditions,”
Bharti said.  “They’ve been looking at an IPO for quite some time now,
so we’ll see what happens,” Kulkarni said. “The IPO market for
telcos is very, very tough.”  Average revenue per user , a key metric of performance in
the telecommunications industry, fell 3 percent in India to 185
rupees a month, from 190 rupees a year earlier. The average
revenue per user for Bharti’s Africa operations declined 10
percent to $6.50 a month.  20 Countries  Bharti had 194 million subscribers in India and  South Asia 
at the end of June, and a total of 250 million mobile
subscribers across the 20 countries it operates, the company
said.  Bharti started the roll-out of third-generation wireless
services in India last year that will allow it to boost its
revenues if data use and smartphones catch on among mobile phone
users. The company paid the government 123 billion rupees for 3G
wireless permits in 13 of India’s 22 telecommunication zones in
May 2010, and another 33 billion rupees for licenses to offer
broadband wireless service in four regions.  Japan ’s DoCoMo and  Norway ’s Telenor set off a tariff war
when they entered India with cut-rate plans to win a larger
share of a market that is estimated by researcher  Gartner Inc. 
to exceed 872 million active users in 2015.  India  had  696
million active subscribers  in June, according to the nation’s
regulator.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ketaki Gokhale in Mumbai at 
 kgokhale@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at   mtighe4@bloomberg.net  