-- Birla May Purchase Outsourcing Rivals: Corporate India
-- B y   A b h i s h e k   S h a n k e r   a n d   G e o r g e   S m i t h   A l e x a n d e r
-- 2012-08-09T10:46:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-08/birla-may-purchase-outsourcing-rivals-corporate-india.html
Indian billionaire Kumar Mangalam Birla is considering acquiring business process outsourcing
companies to help double revenue at his unit that aids customers
manage payroll, claims and computers.  Aditya Birla Nuvo Ltd. (ABNL) , Birla’s company that runs the
group’s financial, telecommunications, information technology
and chemical divisions, may also sell a stake in the unit Aditya
Birla Minacs Worldwide Ltd., according to Rakesh Jain, Nuvo’s
managing director. Sales at Minacs rose 23 percent to 20.8
billion rupees ($377 million) in the year ended March.  Birla, who runs businesses including the world’s biggest
maker of viscose staple fiber and India’s second-largest
aluminum producer, is aiming to boost Minacs’ revenue to more
than $1 billion even as it finds it difficult to add new
clients, Jain said without elaborating. A twofold jump in sales
will catapult the company to India’s No. 2 provider of
outsourced services after  Tata Consultancy Services Ltd. (TCS) ,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “We know that this is not a global-sized business,” Jain
said in an interview at his office in Mumbai. “We will evaluate
how to grow the business,” including mergers and acquisitions,
and may seek an investor for the unit, he said.  Shares of Nuvo were little changed at 772.5 rupees in
Mumbai today. The benchmark Sensitive Index declined 0.2
percent.  Bain Capital Partners LLC, a private-equity firm, agreed to
pay $1 billion to buy a 30 percent stake in outsourcing company
Genpact Ltd. from General Atlantic LLC and Oak Hill Capital
Partners LP this month.  Deal Value  Bain paid 17.3 times Genpact’s earnings, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Similar sized companies trade at an
average of 17.6 times earnings.  India ’s Essar Group is in talks to sell a stake in its
outsourcing unit Aegis Ltd., Chief Executive Officer Prashant Ruia said in June, without elaborating. BPO companies will have
to ensure they can offer better value to clients from any
transaction they do, according to Sanjoy Sen, senior director at
Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu India Pvt.  “The so-called gold rush period in this industry is over
and now only innovations can grow the business,” Sen said in a
phone interview from  London  yesterday. “Making an acquisition
will be a big boon if it helps the buyer in moving up the value
chain of the outsourcing business.”  Birla paid C$120 million ($120.3 million) to acquire call-
center operator Minacs Worldwide Inc. in June 2006, a month
after its founder Elaine Minacs died.  Revenue Target  Birla is purchasing companies to help his group boost
combined revenue by 63 percent to $65 billion in three years.
Birla in July agreed to buy Terrace Bay Pulp Inc., a paper pulp
mill in  Canada , for $300 million and to secure raw material
supplies. Nuvo in April agreed to buy a controlling stake in an
entity to be created by splitting store operator Pantaloon
Retail India Ltd. to widen the reach of its apparel brands.  Nuvo expects to complete acquiring the retail chain in the
next three months, Sushil Agarwal, chief financial officer at
Nuvo said in an interview. The company may spend an additional 1
billion rupees to buy shares of the retailer in an open offer,
apart from the 8 billion rupees it has invested, he said.  The purchases will help Nuvo spur growth as the debt crisis
in  Europe  and a weaker recovery in the U.S. prompt companies to
reduce spending on  information technology .  “New business acquisition is under pressure,” at the
group’s information technology division, Agarwal said in a
conference call with analysts on Aug. 6. The company “will
focus on operational efficiencies to improve margin.”  ‘Business Philosophy’  Revenue at the unit grew 27 percent to 6 billion rupees in
the three months ended June 30. Profit more than doubled to 190
million rupees helped by the depreciation of the rupee, Agarwal
said on the call. Nuvo posted a 5.5 percent gain in net income
in the quarter ended June 30 to 2.7 billion rupees, it said in a
statement on Aug. 6.  Tata Consultancy, India’s biggest software exporter,
reported revenue of 15.2 billion rupees ($275 million) at its
BPO division in the three months ended March 31, while Genpact
had sales of $330 million in the period.  “Our philosophy has been that you have to be a leader in
the business, whether global leader or in India,” Nuvo’s Jain
said. Minacs is “not an asset that the company is looking to
exit immediately.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Abhishek Shanker in Mumbai at 
 ashanker1@bloomberg.net ;
George Smith Alexander in Mumbai at 
 galexander11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Rebecca Keenan at 
 rkeenan5@bloomberg.net ;
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  