-- BNP Fund Freeze Shrinks Holdings Five Years After Crisis
-- B y   M a t t h e w   L e i s i n g   a n d   M a r y   C h i l d s
-- 2012-08-09T19:56:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-08/bnp-fund-freeze-shrinks-holdings-five-years-after-crisis-ignited.html
When a Brookfield Investment
Management Inc. analyst saw bonds of Accuride Corp., the wheel
manufacturer in Evansville, Indiana, at 94 cents on the dollar
in December, he decided it was time to buy. The problem was the
price wasn’t real. The debt was only available at 104 cents.  “When it actually came time to shake them loose from
somebody’s hands, that’s where the disconnect came in,” said
Richard Cryan, co-manager of high-yield corporate debt at the
New York-based firm, which oversees $150 billion of assets.
Unable to find a seller at the lower price, they gave up.  Five years after  BNP Paribas SA (BNP)  marked the start of the
worst financial crisis since the Great Depression by halting
withdrawals from three investment funds that owned subprime
mortgage securities, repercussions are lingering in the credit
markets. What investors see still isn’t what they can get.  The reasons now aren’t bonds backed by mortgages made to
people who couldn’t afford them or too much corporate borrowing
or Wall Street’s slicing up of securities into varying degrees
of risk. Bond buyers’ confidence is being sapped by the
unintended consequences of regulations meant to make banks safer
by requiring them to hold more capital and fewer risky assets.  Rules from U.S. Congress to the Basel Committee on Banking
Supervision have caused bond dealers to cut their inventories of
corporate securities to levels last seen a decade ago. With Wall
Street diminishing as a middleman, investors such as Brookfield
are struggling to trade in the $4.8 trillion bond market that’s
the financial lifeblood of corporate America.  Hoarding Bonds  Holdings of company debt at the 21 primary dealers that
trade with the  Federal Reserve  shrank 84 percent to $37.5
billion last month from $235 billion in 2007, according to the
central bank.  “It’s definitely a challenge to put money to work in this
market,” Cryan said in a telephone interview from New York.  Investors used to easy trading of securities are hoarding
bonds, knowing that if they sell, purchasing new debt may be
prohibitively expensive, and acknowledging that if they need to
raise cash, ready buyers could evaporate. For bond buyers, the
changes are akin to the difference between buying a pair of
shoes from inventory in a store and ordering from a showroom,
then waiting for delivery, said  Ashish Shah , the head of global
credit investments at AllianceBernstein LP in New York, which
oversees $230 billion in fixed-income assets.  While record-low central bank rates have reduced borrowing
costs and prompted companies to increase bond sales, the active
secondary market in U.S. corporate debt is shrinking.  Added Costs  New issues of $829 billion this year are up 14 percent from
the same period of 2007, according to  data  compiled by
Bloomberg. Trading of the securities among the dealers has
dwindled to an average of about $95 billion a day this year from
more than $235 billion in all of 2007, Fed data show.  Money managers are shifting to “a longer time horizon”
because any security may become difficult to unload, said Jason Brady, a managing director at Santa Fe, New Mexico-based
Thornburg Investment Management Inc., which oversees $80
billion.  Taking that risk may mean added costs for corporate
borrowers, even though yields on their bonds have declined to
3.94 percent as of Aug. 7 from 6.77 percent five years earlier,
according to Bank of America Merrill index data. The premium
they pay over benchmark Treasuries has widened to 268 basis
points, or 2.68 percentage points, from 202 in August 2007.  As bond dealers step back, more than 75 money managers from
 BlackRock Inc. (BLK)  to Fidelity Investments to  Western Asset
Management Co. (WMC)  are planning cheaper and more efficient trading
through electronic systems.  MarketAxess Trading  MarketAxess Holdings Inc. (MKTX) , the owner of an all-electronic
bond and derivative trading system, said it hosted 13.2 percent
of U.S. investment-grade debt trading in July, up from 11.2
percent in the same period of 2011. The firm introduced a
feature last month that Wall Street has resisted for years: the
ability for investors to buy and sell bonds among themselves.  “Clients now are finding the cost to rent the dealers’
balance sheet has gone up,” Richard McVey, chief executive
officer of MarketAxess, formed by Wall Street banks in April
2000, said in an interview at the company’s New York
headquarters. Dealers on the platform still clear the trades.  The trading networks pose another threat to Wall Street
profits.  JPMorgan (JPM)  Chase & Co., Bank of America Corp.,  Citigroup
Inc. (C) ,  Goldman Sachs (GS)  Group Inc. and Morgan Stanley took in $11.8
billion in the second quarter from fixed-income trading,
excluding accounting adjustments, or 15 percent of their overall
revenue. That’s down from $13.1 billion in the same period a
year earlier.  ‘Fake Price’  Banks get trading revenue from the difference between the
prices they quote to clients to buy and sell debt, or the bid-
offer spread. When they reach trade agreements over the phone,
there’s less competition than on an electronic system in which
banks have to vie for business in auctions.  “The buyside feels the dealers hide behind what they
essentially consider fishing,” or putting out a fake price to
attract clients, said Will Rhode, director of fixed-income in
New York at Tabb Group, a financial-markets research and
advisory firm. “It gets very frustrating.”  Moving to electronic bond-trading systems may reduce costs
by as much as five times, according to research by Terrence Hendershott, an associate professor at the University of
California at Berkeley’s Haas School of Business, and Ananth Madhavan, the global head of trading research at BlackRock.  ‘Holy Grail’  A study of comparable trades from January 2010 to April
2011 executed on MarketAxess’s electronic system versus others
reported to the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority’s Trace
bond-price reporting system showed a cost of 6.09 basis points
on MarketAxess and 30.43 basis points in over-the-counter
transactions reported on Trace, Hendershott and Madhavan wrote
in a Jan. 13  paper .  Banks still have the advantage, Tabb Group’s Rhode said.
“The sell side still has the momentum because it’s
traditionally been very hard for the buyside to create all-to-
all markets,” he said. “That’s the Holy Grail for them.”  Electronic efforts have had a mixed history. One reason is
that bonds usually trade over-the-counter, not through
exchanges. Another is that while each company has one stock, it
can have thousands of debt securities, all with different
characteristics. Fairfield, Connecticut-based  General Electric
Co. (GE) , the largest corporate issuer, has more than 1,300  bonds 
outstanding.  BondBook LLC, a venture by securities firms including
Merrill Lynch & Co. and Goldman Sachs, shut down in October 2001
after eight months of operation. BrokerTec Global LLC agreed to
a takeover by London-based ICAP Plc in August 2002.  Success Impediment  Andy Nybo , director of derivatives at Tabb Group, listed
some of the failed computer-trading efforts in an April report,
including BondBook, Bond Connect, BondGlobe, BondHub and
BondLink. “And that’s only the Bs,” he said. “Remember
Intervest, Visible Markets or XBond?”  Successful electronic trading systems may not increase the
ease of buying and selling bonds, Thornburg’s Brady said.  “Having a really good thing that matches buyers and
sellers is not going to make half of them want to buy and half
want to sell at any one time,” Brady said. Excluding dealers
and their ability to hold debt in inventory is an impediment to
success, he said.  Boston Meeting  Executives at Fidelity, the second-largest mutual fund
company, and State Street Corp., both of Boston, met in May with
representatives of  Deutsche Bank AG (DB) ,  Barclays Plc (BARC) , JPMorgan and
Goldman Sachs, urging the dealers to develop an electronic-
trading system for bonds, according to people who attended the
event and asked not to be named because they weren’t authorized
to speak publicly. The group will meet periodically in the next
12 to 18 months, the people said.  The world’s largest asset manager, New York-based
BlackRock, which oversees $3.56 trillion, said in April it plans
to allow its customers to buy and sell bonds.  Goldman Sachs, the fifth-biggest U.S. bank by assets, has
its own initiative, GSessions, which debuted in June. The New
York firm started with two five-minute trading sessions a day,
one for an investment-grade bond and another for junk debt,
which is rated below Baa3 by Moody’s Investors Service and BBB-
at  Standard & Poor’s .  Bond Pool  Morgan Stanley is retooling an electronic bond-brokering
system. The Morgan Stanley Bond Pool network picks a group of
securities and matches buyers and sellers who express interest
through the system, offering lower transaction costs than what
investors typically get in privately negotiated trades, the bank
said in marketing documents dated last month and obtained by
Bloomberg News. Created last year, the system was revamped in
May, and the bank introduced the new version to clients within
the past month, a person familiar with the matter said.  Western Asset  Management and  Janus Capital Group Inc. (JNS)  have
held discussions with  Bonds.com (BDCG)  Group Inc. to use the electronic
trading service, people familiar with the matter said this
month. New York-based Bonds.com appointed former Jefferies Group
Inc. fixed-income co-head Thomas Thees as CEO in June. The fund
managers, which oversee a combined $599 billion, haven’t made a
decision to use the system.  Other electronic trading systems for fixed income include
Tradeweb Markets LLC and  Bloomberg Tradebook  from Bloomberg LP,
the parent company of Bloomberg News.  ‘Sea Change’  “You’re talking about a sea change here,” said Mike Buchanan, the head of global credit at Pasadena, California-
based Western Asset, which oversees $446 billion. “While it may
take a while, it’s going to happen.”  The changes so far are a result of the regulatory response
to the credit crisis. The 27-country Basel committee in 2010
raised the minimum capital requirement for the largest banks to
almost 9 percent of risk-weighted assets from 4 percent. In the
U.S., the Dodd-Frank Act’s Volcker Rule will limit the risks
that deposit-taking banks can accept, reducing dealers’
willingness to keep bonds on their balance sheets.  Rule makers are “causing a shift in market structures with
institutional investors seeking alternative ways to access
liquidity,” said  David Parker , head of high-yield sales at
Vega-Chi Ltd., the operator of a trading system in Europe for
convertible and speculative-grade bonds that plans to offer a
service in the U.S. in September. “They want the banking
business model to revolve around lending and not holding large
trading positions and trading.”  Bear Stearns  The credit crunch ignited five years ago when defaults on
mortgages provided to the least creditworthy home buyers surged
to record levels, causing the value of bonds containing the debt
to plummet. When two Bear Stearns Cos.  hedge funds  imploded that
June from subprime mortgage bonds and collateralized debt
obligations, investors fled to all but the safest debt, making
it even harder to value less-traded securities.  On Aug. 9, 2007, Paris-based BNP Paribas halted withdrawals
from three investment funds that had declined 20 percent in less
than two weeks because it couldn’t “fairly” value their
holdings. That triggered a panic that eventually led to $2
trillion in writedowns and losses at the world’s largest banks,
Bloomberg data show.  Lehman Failure  By the following March, Bear Stearns had imploded and was
sold to JPMorgan in a Fed-backed deal. The crisis reached a
crescendo in September 2008. Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, the
largest U.S. mortgage-finance companies, were placed into
government conservatorship. American International Group Inc.
agreed to a U.S. takeover to avert collapse. Merrill Lynch was
forced to find a buyer in Bank of America.  Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc., which had become the biggest
underwriter of mortgage-backed securities as the U.S. real
estate market peaked, filed for the largest bankruptcy in
history that same month, and credit markets froze. Goldman Sachs
and Morgan Stanley were forced to transform into bank holding
companies.  The bond market has returned 47.6 percent in the past five
years, according to the Bank of America Merrill Lynch U.S.
Corporate & High Yield master index. The  total return  on the S&P
500 stock index has been 5.9 percent in the same period.  Even though the crisis is over and there’s no lack of money
for those who need it, the credit market is still going through
fundamental changes as Wall Street’s traditional role evolves.  For Melissa Weiler, a money manager who helps oversee $10
billion at Crescent Capital Group LP, the message came through
recently when it took her team took two months to unwind a
retailer’s bonds from their portfolio. Before the crisis, that
would have been done in less than a week, she said.  “If you decide to exit a name because the credit is
deteriorating -- guess what? -- you’d really like to sell at the
quoted level of 95 but you might have to be willing to accept a
price of 90 or less given the lack of liquidity on a given
day,” Weiler said in a telephone interview from the alternative
credit-asset manager’s office in Santa Monica, California.
“Timely execution has increasingly become a challenge.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Matthew Leising in New York at 
 mleising@bloomberg.net ;
Mary Childs in New York at 
 Mchilds5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  