-- Bob Dylan Among Artists Linked to $300 Million Sesac Bond Issue
-- B y   S a r a h   M u l h o l l a n d
-- 2012-08-08T16:27:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-08/bob-dylan-among-artists-linked-to-300-million-sesac-bond-issue.html
Sesac Inc., a performance-rights
company, plans to sell $300 million of bonds linked to licensing
agreements, copyrights and royalty payments for artists from  Bob Dylan  to  Neil Diamond .  The offering, being arranged by  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) ,
will be rated BBB- by  Standard & Poor’s , the rating company said
in a July 31 report. The Nashville, Tennessee-based company will
use the proceeds to refinance debt and pay a dividend to the
owner, as well as cover transaction costs, according to S&P.  Companies have issued about $132 billion in asset-backed
securities tied to consumer and business borrowing in 2012, with
auto debt accounting for $63 billion of deals. Investors seeking
out higher yields with the  Federal Reserve  keeping its target
rate for overnight loans between banks at zero to 0.25 into a
fourth year are being drawn to unusual deals such as the Sesac
offering, according to Chandrajit Bhattacharya, a debt
strategist at Credit Suisse Group AG.  “The hunt for yield is driving investors toward these
assets,” New York-based Bhattacharya said in a telephone
interview. “They are still one of the more yield-y asset
classes in ABS.”  Dylan, who signed a recording contract in 1961, accounts
for 7 percent of Sesac’s royalty expenses, S&P said in the
report for investors.  Royalty payments connected to performances rights for
copyrighted music have shown to be “relatively insulated from
economic downturns,” according to S&P.  Still, the company
doesn’t have an exclusive right to license public performances
for its affiliates, and the seasonal changes in royalty receipts
may lead to volatile income for the bond payments, the New York-
based rating company said in its assessment of the deal.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Mulholland in  New York  at 
 smulholland3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  