-- Boeing Dreamliner Engine Probe by Finds Fractured Shaft
-- B y   T i m   C a t t s ,   S u s a n n a   R a y   a n d   A l a n   L e v i n
-- 2012-08-09T05:23:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-08/boeing-dreamliner-engine-probe-by-finds-fractured-shaft.html
Damage to a spinning shaft inside a
 General Electric Co. (GE)  jet engine was uncovered by U.S.
investigators probing a malfunction that spewed hot shards of
metal during a test run of a  Boeing Co. (BA)  787 Dreamliner.  The  National Transportation Safety Board  said it’s looking
for the cause of the fracture in an engine component called the
fan mid-shaft. Tokyo-based  IHI Corp. (7013) , the supplier, is assisting
in the inquiry along with specialists from GE and Boeing,  Rick Kennedy , a GE spokesman, said yesterday in an e-mail.  First-flight preparations were under way on a 787 due for
delivery to Air India when the incident occurred July 28 near
Boeing’s Charleston, South Carolina, factory. The debris ignited
a brush fire and shut Charleston International Airport for an
hour, and the NTSB began an investigation three days later.  “That’s an extremely rare problem,” said  Hans Weber , a
physicist and aviation-industry veteran who helped develop
better part-testing techniques in the 1990s.  “There will be a lot of pressure on GE to come up with a
solid explanation very quickly of what the problem is, what they
have to do to make sure it doesn’t happen again, and why this is
a unique event and the other engines wouldn’t be affected,”
said Weber, who now runs San Diego-based aviation consultant
Tecop International Inc.  GE has about 80 GEnx engines in service on 787s and
Boeing’s 747-8 jumbo jets, and those planes have remained in
operation, Kennedy said.  JAL 787s  Japan Airlines Co., the only operator of GE-powered 787s,
is flying its four aircraft as normal, Sze Hunn Yap, a
spokeswoman, said by phone. The carrier hasn’t received any
directives from Boeing to check the engines and it isn’t
performing any special maintenance, she said.  The engine in the Charleston case was taken off the plane,
partially dismantled and sent to GE’s facilities in  Ohio  to be
examined by an engine specialist and a metallurgist. Crash-proof
recorders monitoring engine performance and pilot communications
were taken to an NTSB lab in Washington.  Air India  is still making plans to pick up its first
Dreamliner after winning government approval for the delivery
late last week, Boeing India President Dinesh Keskar said
yesterday. The three 787s waiting for the carrier at the
Charleston airport will be handed over in intervals of seven to
10 days so the senior pilots in charge get the required rest
time between flights, he said. The fourth plane was the one
involved in the incident.  “We are in continuous discussion with Air India to deal
with the schedule for the delivery,” Keskar said in a telephone
interview from  Seattle .  IHI Engineers  Doug Alder, a Boeing spokesman, said the company is working
with the NTSB and declined to comment further about the inquiry.
IHI has sent engineers to assist, Genki Yamamoto, a spokesman,
said by phone from  Tokyo .  “If it was a manufacturing error, it can be remedied, but
if it’s a design problem, that’s a little more integral to the
engine,” said William Storey, president of consultant Teal
Group in Fairfax, Virginia. “That’s the crux of what the issues
are moving forward. These engines are complex and to get to an
actual cause will probably take a while.”  Ethiopian Airlines Enterprise plans to pick up its first
Dreamliner, which will have GEnx engines, from Boeing’s delivery
center north of Seattle on  Aug. 14 . Only JAL and  All Nippon
Airways Co. (9202)  have received 787s so far.  ANA fitted its 787s with  Rolls-Royce Holdings Plc (RYCEY)  engines,
the only alternative to the GE ones. The twin-engine aircraft
entered service in late 2011. It is the first airliner built
with composites, helping it cut fuel use and fly farther than
other jets its size.  The GEnx engine is more efficient and releases less carbon
than earlier models. It reduces weight by replacing metal with
carbon composite materials, according to Fairfield, Connecticut-
based GE’s  website .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tim Catts in  New York  at 
 tcatts1@bloomberg.net ;
Susanna Ray in Seattle at 
 sray7@bloomberg.net ;
Alan Levin in Washington at 
 alevin24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net ;
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  