-- Boston-Power Wins First Car-Battery Deal With Beijing Automotive
-- B y   A n d r e w   H e r n d o n
-- 2012-08-08T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-08/boston-power-wins-first-car-battery-deal-with-beijing-automotive.html
Boston-Power Inc., a closely held
maker of  lithium-ion batteries , will provide systems to a unit
of Beijing Automotive Industry Co. for an electric car that will
be available in  China  this year.  Boston-Power expects its batteries to be in “hundreds of
electric vehicles starting in 2012 and thousands of EVs by
2014,” according to an e-mailed statement from the company.  The deal with Beijing Electric Vehicle is Boston-Power’s
first with a Chinese carmaker, and the company expects the
automotive industry to be its most important market, according
to Christina Lampe-Onnerud, its international chairman.  “Most of Boston-Power’s revenue will be in the automotive
segment,” she said in a telephone interview. Westborough,
Massachusetts-based Boston-Power’s batteries also can be used in
 laptop computers  and for utility energy storage. Lampe-Onnerud
expects the bulk of sales to be for vehicles.  The company expects to complete a manufacturing plant near
Shanghai this year that will produce battery cells with as much
as 400 megawatt-hours of storage capacity annually. It initially
will supply Beijing Electric Vehicle from a 120 megawatt-hour a
year production line in  Taiwan , Lampe-Onnerud said.  There is “significant policy support” for electric
vehicles in China, where adoption of the technology has been
slow, Shu Sun, an energy smart technologies analyst for Bloomberg
New Energy Finance, said by e-mail. Sales of battery-powered and
plug-in hybrid electric vehicles in China totaled 8,795 in 2011.
“This is still very low compared to the government target of
500,000 cumulative sales by 2015,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Herndon in  San Francisco  at 
 aherndon2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  