-- Brazil Central Bank Work Stoppage Tests Rousseff Budget Rigor
-- B y   R a y m o n d   C o l i t t
-- 2012-08-08T14:29:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-08/brazil-central-bank-work-stoppage-tests-rousseff-budget-rigor.html
Brazilian central bank employees
staged their first work stoppage in five years today in pursuit
of higher wages, intensifying a wave of civil servant strikes
that are testing President  Dilma Rousseff ’s fiscal discipline.  The one-day strike among the unionized staff at the bank’s
headquarters in Brasilia and at regional branches began at 8
a.m. local time and could compromise some services, said Sergio Belsito, president of the employees union at the bank.  “The idea is to maintain operations that are most
important to the market,” Belsito said by telephone from
Brasilia. “But there may be delays at the currency and other
operations desks.”  The central bank said it informed the union of the staff
needed to operate essential services, including its
international monetary reserve management and the bank’s
Sisbacen information system, according to a spokesman who asked
not to be identified due to internal policies.  The monetary authority is scheduled to announce today
capital flows, banks’ currency positions and the commodity price
index for July.  Work stoppages by civil servants began in July when staff
at public universities, state-run power company  Centrais
Eletricas Brasileiras SA (ELET6)  and several regulatory agencies walked
off the job. They have since spread to include 14 federal
agencies and 350,000 workers, according to the union of civil
servants in Brasilia.  Wage Demands  The central bank union is demanding an average pay increase
of 23 percent to compensate for inflation since June 2008,
Belsito said. The union may call a longer strike later this
month, he added.  The strikes have raised concern about whether the Rousseff
administration will be able to contain demands for wage
increases of as much as 30 percent, which could fuel inflation
and add to already rising  government spending  this year, said
Felipe Salto, a public finance economist at consulting firm
Tendencias Consultoria Integrada in  Sao Paulo .  “New salary increases and hiring would not be seen well in
terms of the quality of public spending and macroeconomic
stability,” Salto said by telephone. “The expectation that
spending will continue to grow next year will affect
inflation.”  The government is analyzing wage demands by unions and
would conclude the negotiations by the end of the month, said a
spokesman for the Planning and Budget Ministry who declined to
be identified citing internal policies.  Economists forecast inflation of 5 percent this year, above
the central bank target of 4.5 percent, according to the bank’s
latest survey.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Raymond Colitt in Brasilia at 
 rcolitt@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Sanders at 
 psanders@bloomberg.net . 