-- Brown Redevelopment Fund Seizure Pushes City Tax Increase
-- B y   A l i s o n   V e k s h i n
-- 2012-08-08T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-08/brown-redevelopment-fund-seizure-pushes-city-tax-increase.html
Last month, the City Council of
 Culver City , California, gathered steps from where “The Wizard
of Oz,” “Gone With the Wind” and other Hollywood classics
were filmed, to declare a state of fiscal emergency and ask
voters to raise the sales tax by half a cent for 10 years.  Culver City, whose famed Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer studios now
bear the name of Sony Pictures, is struggling to make up $7.5
million a year in lost revenue. The money flowed through a city
agency responsible for rebuilding decayed neighborhoods until
Governor  Jerry Brown  killed redevelopment programs statewide and
snatched their tax funds to cut California’s deficit. The higher
sales levy would generate $8 million a year.  “Unfortunately, the economy is still slumping and the
state was once again successful in pushing its budget issues
onto the backs of local government and we have a very
significant and real problem,” Jeff Muir, Culver City’s chief
financial officer, told the council at a July 16 meeting.  Three California cities -- Stockton, Mammoth Lakes and San
Bernardino -- have filed for  bankruptcy protection  in the past
six weeks as the recession and the foreclosure crisis depleted
property-tax revenue and forced cuts in staff and services.  Stockton and San Bernardino officials said the state raid
on redevelopment funds helped push them into  bankruptcy court .
At least six cities, including Culver City, have put measures on
the November ballot to raise sales taxes to make up the loss of
redevelopment money.  Proposition 13  The California Legislature authorized cities to create
redevelopment agencies in 1945 and their use expanded
significantly in the 1970s after voters approved Proposition 13,
according to the state  Legislative Analyst’s Office . The
proposition capped real-estate levies at 1 percent of the most
recent sale price, restricting local authority over property
taxes.  However, California still allowed municipalities to
designate redevelopment zones to erase urban blight with
government assistance for new projects. Rising property values
in those areas brought higher taxes. While most cities funneled
that money back into the redevelopment areas, some put it toward
expenses that other cities cover with general operating funds.  Brown, a 74-year-old Democrat, was faced with an estimated
$26.6 billion budget deficit last year when he signed
legislation abolishing about 400 redevelopment agencies
statewide. The law took effect in February.  ‘Slush Fund’  “Redevelopment was, in large part, a wasteful slush fund
that subsidized things like golf courses and mermaid bars
instead of funding essential services,” Brown spokesman  Gil Duran  said in an Aug. 2 e-mailed statement. “Therefore, it
seems illogical to blame local financial woes on the termination
of a wasteful program.”  Projects ranged from rehabilitating buildings in downtown
 San Diego  to refurbishing a golf course in Palm Desert. The city
of Parlier used redevelopment money to buy a daycare center,
state Controller John Chiang said in a 2011 report.  In Culver City, the $7.5 million in lost funds went to
support its redevelopment agency or its goals, Muir said. About
$3.3 million paid for 24 employees in housing and redevelopment
positions, while another $1.2 million helped pay for police,
code enforcement and graffiti removal, Muir said.  “While there were instances of questionable costs or
investments in certain jurisdictions highlighted during the
‘campaign’ to eliminate redevelopment, we feel strongly that
Culver City was an example of how redevelopment was meant to
work,” he said in an e-mail response to questions.  Parking, Restaurants  Some redevelopment funds went for public parking and
downtown infrastructure improvements that “have resulted in it
becoming a very popular restaurant and entertainment destination
in the region,” Muir said.  “While the city acknowledged the need to wean the general
fund from the RDA support it received, it was anticipated the
city would be able to ease into this over a number of years, and
it was not anticipated that all of the support would go away,”
Muir said at the council meeting.  The elimination of redevelopment wasn’t the only reason to
pursue a sales-tax increase, Muir said. The city’s decision was
also driven by the impact of the recession, he said. Losing the
redevelopment funds caused city leaders to consider the proposal
sooner, he said.  “Cities are already struggling with labor costs,
retirement obligations, retiree medical costs,” David Skinner,
managing principal at the law firm Meyers Nave LLP in Oakland,
said in a telephone interview. “It just makes it all the more
difficult for cities to do what people expect them to do.”  Wine Country  In Fairfield, near  Napa Valley ’s wine-growing region, the
city council on July 26 agreed to ask voters to add a 1 cent
sales tax to tackle a $7.75 million deficit following the loss
of $35 million annually in redevelopment funds.  “They ended redevelopment to secure funds to deal with
their budget mess,”  David White , Fairfield’s director of
finance and deputy city manager, said in a telephone interview.
“The impact for us has been an organization that’s gone through
four to five years of budget cuts and the prospect of future
cuts that threaten the life and character of this community.”  Fairfield’s tax would generate $12 million to $13 million
“to support local needs that cannot be taken away by the
state,” according to the July 26 meeting agenda.  Sales-tax increases are also being sought in  Sacramento ,
the state capital; La Mirada, near  Los Angeles ; Healdsburg, in
the Sonoma County wine region, and Paso Robles, in the Central
Coast wine country.  Millions Lost  “We lost $8.5 million over four years to the recession in
sales tax,” La Mirada City Manager  Tom Robinson  said in a
telephone interview. “We lost $58 million overnight to the
redevelopment kill.”  That included a $30 million loan from the city’s general
fund to the redevelopment agency, he said.  The impact of Brown’s decision was felt in San Bernardino,
which on Aug. 1 became the third  California  city since June to
file for bankruptcy.  “In my opinion, that was the straw that broke the camel’s
back,” City Attorney James Penman told the San Bernardino City
Council on July 10, referring to the loss of redevelopment
funds. “When that was cut off just recently in the last few
months, that was pretty much it.”  Brown’s office disputed Penman’s assertion.  “It’s understandable that some will seek to blame others,
but  City Hall  will have to answer for failing to live within its
means,” Duran said in an e-mailed statement at the time.  Stockton, which filed for Chapter 9 protection in June,
also attributes its bankruptcy in part on the elimination of its
redevelopment agency.  “I don’t think that’s pushing them toward bankruptcy,”
California Treasurer Bill Lockyer said in a July 24 interview.
“It’s the downturn in the economy principally and there were
some local agencies that could shift some money around to meet
emergencies from redevelopment and that stopped.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alison Vekshin in  San Francisco  at 
 avekshin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
William Glasgall at 
 wglasgall@bloomberg.net  