-- BSkyB Wins U.K. Appeal of Regulator’s Order on Sports Channels
-- B y   E r i k   L a r s o n
-- 2012-08-08T16:17:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-08/bskyb-wins-u-k-appeal-of-regulator-s-order-on-sports-channels.html
British Sky Broadcasting Plc (BSY) , the
U.K.’s biggest pay-television provider, won an appeal against a
regulator’s decision forcing it to make its sports channels
available to competitors at set wholesale prices.  The  Competition Appeal Tribunal  made the ruling today in
 London  following a challenge of the 2010 pricing order by U.K.
media regulator Ofcom. Lawyers for BSkyB had argued Ofcom’s
decision was a “dramatic intervention” that treated FA Premier
League soccer matches like a “public good.”  The judgment was confidential and only provided to the
parties in the case. In a public summary of its ruling, the
tribunal said it concluded “that Ofcom’s core competition
concern is unfounded.”  BSkyB, controlled by  Rupert Murdoch ’s  News Corp. (NWSA) , agreed to
pay 1.62 billion pounds ($2.53 billion) in 2009 to show most
live Premier League soccer matches between 2010 and 2013. BSkyB,
based in Isleworth,  England , has bet its business model on
showing exclusive sporting events and films, and Ofcom’s order
forced access to its popular Sky Sports 1 and 2 channels.  BSkyB had argued Ofcom should be barred from setting prices
for the soccer matches below the market rate, and that
competition rules cited by the regulator don’t apply to the
sports channels. Ofcom said BSkyB hurts consumers by charging
competitors too much to broadcast the games.  After a three-year investigation, Ofcom said BSkyB was
using its “market power” to limit distribution to rivals.
While BSkyB appealed over claims Ofcom went too far, its
competitors --  BT Group Plc (BT/A) , the biggest U.K. phone company, and
cable-TV provider  Virgin Media Inc. (VMED)  -- intervened in the case to
say the regulator didn’t go far enough.  BSkyB in April 2010 reached a temporary deal with Virgin
and BT, under which they agreed to put the difference between
Ofcom’s mandated price and BSkyB’s higher price into an escrow
account pending the result of the appeal.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Larson in London at 
 elarson4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  