-- Busson Talking Tie-Ups Shows Fall of Hedge-Fund Middlemen
-- B y   J e s s e   W e s t b r o o k   a n d   S a i j e l   K i s h a n
-- 2012-08-09T18:25:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-08/busson-talking-tie-ups-shows-decline-of-hedge-fund-middlemen.html
On a Thursday night in May, Arpad Busson danced atop a white sofa, a cigarette in his hand, as the
Pet Shop Boys performed their 1980s hit “West End Girls” at
his annual hedge-fund charity gala in  London .  The party at Kensington Palace Gardens, where guests
including celebrities Eva Herzigova were entertained by female
trapezists, wasn’t quite as exclusive as in  prior years  when
attendees included  Prince William  and his wife Catherine, the
Duchess of Cambridge, and former U.S. President  Bill Clinton .
Organizers dropped the black-tie requirement at Busson’s
Absolute Return for Kids dinner, which raised about 15 million
pounds ($23 million), little more than half the record 27
million pounds five years ago.  Busson, one of the biggest names in an industry that
funnels billions of dollars to hedge funds, is finding raising
cash has gotten a lot harder, and not just for charity.
Underperformance in the past four years has investors doubting
the value of so-called funds-of-funds as middlemen, spurring a
wave of consolidation and forcing firms to redefine their
business. Busson’s EIM SA has lost about two-thirds of its
assets since 2008, and he said it may not remain a stand-alone
company.  “It’s more interesting for us to do something today than
it was 10 years ago,” Busson, who is known as Arki, said in a
July 30 interview at the Woodstock,  New York , home of  Uma Thurman , with whom he had a baby last month. “There are certain
areas where we don’t have a great presence, for instance in the
U.S. That would be a reason to do something with a U.S. firm,”
he said, referring to a possible merger.  Seeking Partners  Busson, sitting in the kitchen of the 19th century
farmhouse, a black convertible vintage Ford Thunderbird parked
outside, said he’s held talks for at least a year about forming
a “strategic partnership” with rivals, banks or insurers. He
said he’s had discussions with several asset managers that each
oversee about $100 billion, including one with an existing
funds-of-funds business. Nyon, Switzerland-based EIM, which
Busson, 49, started two decades ago to invest the money of
wealthy Europeans in hedge funds, hasn’t hired any lawyers or
bankers to work on a merger, he said.  “I don’t mind having a partner, but there’s no way I’m
getting out, I’m still young,” Busson, wearing a white shirt,
Diesel blue jeans and black Prada sneakers, said in the
interview, his remarks interrupted by the barking of Thurman’s
dogs. He said if he strikes a deal, he would prefer to do one
with a similar-sized firm because otherwise his role might be
diminished.  No Debt  Busson, the sole owner of EIM, declined to comment on
whether his firm is profitable. He said EIM has no debt and a
“healthy” balance sheet. Busson said he spends 80 percent of
his working hours on the firm and the remainder on his charity.  Busson, who said at a May 2010 Bloomberg hedge-fund
conference that he was looking at three targets for an
acquisition, is still in discussions with one of them, a
European company with $500 million in assets, he said in the
interview. Talks with the other two fell apart, he said. Busson
said 30 percent of an estimated 107 funds-of-funds that manage
at least $1 billion may disappear in five years or be
consolidated into other companies.  Funds-of-funds, which are paid by clients to pick, screen
and monitor managers, usually charge fees of 1 percent of assets
and 10 percent of profits, on top of the 2 percent management
fee and 20 percent performance fee charged by the underlying
hedge funds.  Boom Years  They rose to prominence in the 1990s and the years leading
up to the 2008 financial crisis, when hedge funds still
outperformed traditional investments in stocks and bonds, and
wealthy individuals, pension funds and other institutional
clients were willing to pay extra fees for help in choosing and
gaining access to the world’s top money managers.  Hedge funds returned an annual average of 13 percent from
1993 through 2007, according to Hedge Fund Research Inc.,
compared with an 8.9 percent return for the  Vanguard Balanced
Index Fund (VBINX) , which tracks a balanced mix of stocks and bonds.
Since 2008, hedge funds have underperformed, returning an
average 0.9 percent annually compared with 3.8 percent for the
Vanguard Balanced Index Fund. The industry oversees $2.1
trillion.  Funds-of-funds returned an annual average of 9 percent
between 1993 and 2007, and have lost an average of 2.5 percent
annually since then.  ‘Slow-Dying Industry’  By 2004, 71 percent of the money invested in hedge funds
came from funds-of-funds. Their share was about 40 percent at
the end of last year, according to a 2012 investor survey by
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. The world’s largest funds-of-funds four
years ago, Union Bancaire Privee and UBS AG with $57 billion and
$55 billion respectively, have lost more than half of their
assets.  “What we’re seeing now is the natural progression of a
slow-dying industry, with only those that can reinvent
themselves surviving,” said Matt Simon, senior research analyst
in New York at Tabb Group, a financial-markets research and
advisory firm.  Investors pulled a net $12.1 billion from funds-of-funds in
the first half of this year, the most since 2009, according to
Chicago-based Hedge Fund Research. About 23 percent of investors
are looking to cut their allocations to funds-of-funds this
year, almost double the amount of those that plan to increase,
according to a Barclays Plc investor survey.  Suffering Redemptions  Assets managed by funds-of-funds have grown about 10
percent in the past 2 1/2 years to $627 billion. They are still
down 22 percent from their 2007 peak of $799 billion, HFR
estimates.  EIM has suffered redemptions by sovereign-wealth funds,
according to people with knowledge of the matter. Busson said
his firm, which charges clients half the industry’s standard
performance fee, manages almost $5 billion, down from a peak of
$14 billion in 2008. He said assets fell because of client
withdrawals, underperformance by credit hedge funds, and as
currency swings eroded the value of investments.  Busson said “several” investors, including banks and
pension plans, have signed contracts to become EIM clients
within the next three months. The firm appointed Robert Phillips
from Geneva-based UBP global head of research for equity long-
short hedge funds in June.  Pressure On  The industry will continue to get business from clients who
are investing in hedge funds for the first time, as well as from
those who lack the resources and experience to monitor managers
themselves, according to Daniel Celeghin, a partner at Casey
Quirk & Associates LLC, a Darien, Connecticut-based firm that
advises asset managers. Clients will also continue to use funds-
of-funds to get into startup hedge funds and managers focusing
on niche strategies, he said.  Some firms that remain in business are increasingly
providing advice to clients on investing and constructing
portfolios, competing with pension-fund consultants who charge
lower fees, according to Anurag Bhardwaj, who runs strategic
consulting at Barclays’s prime services group in New York.  “Funds-of-funds are basically having to do more for less
money,” he said. “The pressure on them now is to show they
have a role to play for institutional clients, who are not sure
if funds-of-hedge funds add enough value to justify an
additional layer of fees.”  Blackstone, KKR  Funds-of-funds that mainly have pension plans and other
institutional investors as clients will probably win assets this
year, according to the Goldman Sachs report. Firms that have
added assets are those that didn’t invest with U.S. fraudster
Bernard L. Madoff, have longstanding relationships with pension
plans and other institutional investors, and are offering a
broad range of alternative investments.  Blackstone Group LP, the world’s largest private-equity
firm by total assets, has seen its hedge-fund investments grow
to $43 billion from $24 billion in 2008, making it the  biggest 
player in the business. KKR & Co., the New York-based private-
equity firm, is following Blackstone in hedge-fund investing
after agreeing on June 18 to buy Prisma Capital Partners LP,
which has $7.8 billion in assets.  Other buyers in the consolidation of the funds-of-funds
industry include Man Group Plc, which agreed in May to buy FRM
Holdings Ltd., adding $8 billion in assets. Gottex Fund
Management Holdings Ltd. in Lausanne,  Switzerland , said in May
it would buy Penjing Asset Management in  Hong Kong  to add about
$434 million invested in hedge funds.  Macpherson, Thurman  Busson, who was born in Paris and lives in London, speaks
five languages including Italian, Portuguese and German. He
maintains a higher public profile than the average fund-of-funds
executive, having two children with fashion model  Elle Macpherson , 48. He began dating Thurman, 42, after meeting her
at a dinner in  Rome  in 2007.  Busson, who  owns  the iconic photograph of Marxist
revolutionary Che Guevara taken by Alberto Korda, and Thurman
are worth an estimated 180 million pounds, according to an
 article  published in April by London’s Sunday Times. Davidson
Goldin, a spokesman for Busson at Goldin Solutions, declined in
an e-mail to comment on the estimate of Busson’s wealth and
referred questions about Thurman’s wealth to the actress.
Attempts to reach Gabrielle Kachman, a spokeswoman for Thurman,
were unsuccessful.  Most of EIM’s business is managing separate accounts for
clients. Its investments returned an average annual 12 percent
from 1996 to 2007, according to a person with knowledge of the
matter. Busson said performance has been “positive” after
2008, declining to be specific.  Underperforming Funds  At least three of EIM’s funds have underperformed rivals,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. EIM’s AAA Alternative -
Low Vol fund produced an average annual gain of 0.11 percent
from its January 2002 inception until February of this year,
compared with an average of 3.5 percent for the  HFRI Fund of
Funds Composite Index . The fund, which managed $250 million at
its peak, was liquidated in March as clients pulled money,
Busson said.  The firm’s Albion fund produced returns of 0.64 percent a
year since it was started in November 2002 through June, also
trailing the industry. Albion oversaw a peak of about $60
million, Busson said. EIM’s AAA Long-Short fund has returned
1.22 percent a year since inception in June 2004, the data
shows.  Glenn Dubin  “Randomly selecting these three minor accounts from
hundreds of more significant EIM accounts” is “misleading,”
Goldin said in the e-mail.  Goldin declined to provide returns for the other EIM
accounts. The returns for the AAA Alternative - Low Vol, Albion
and AAA Long-Short funds are compiled by Bloomberg.  Busson got his introduction to finance in the 1980s after
meeting  Glenn Dubin , an EF Hutton broker who went on to co-found
hedge fund Highbridge Capital Management LLC, at a dinner party.
Busson began raising money from wealthy European investors for
U.S. hedge-fund managers, including  Paul Tudor Jones , founder of
Tudor Investment Corp., then for Louis Moore Bacon, who runs
Moore Capital Management LLC, and  Julian Robertson , who started
Tiger Management LLC.  In 1992, Busson started EIM, or European Investment
Management, with $100 million of client money. His success at
matchmaking stemmed in part from his ability to tap a group of
wealthy friends, some from his prestigious Swiss boarding
school,  Le Rosey .  Hiring Royalty  Busson hired people with royal and business connections.
 Philipp von Habsburg-Lothringen  worked at EIM’s London office.
Aleco Keusseoglou, who attended the same boarding school as
Busson and oversaw his family’s shipping company, runs EIM’s
Monaco office.  Prince Philippos , the son of King Constantine of
Greece and Anne-Marie of  Denmark , is based in EIM’s New York
offices, where Stavros Niarchos, one of the heirs of Greece’s
Niarchos shipping dynasty, had previously worked.  EIM rode a boom in hedge funds that saw assets grow 48-fold
from 1990 through 2007. Then came the 2008 bankruptcy of Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc. and the unraveling of Madoff’s  Ponzi
scheme , which dented the reputation of the funds-of-funds
industry because many had failed to protect clients from the
fraud. A net $41 billion left the funds-of-funds industry that
year and $118 billion in 2009, according to Hedge Fund Research.  Gilston Project  EIM posted its first annual losses in 2008, with accounts
declining 8 percent to 19 percent, said the person with
knowledge of the returns, asking not to be identified because
the information is private. The firm had invested $230 million
of client money, or 2 percent of EIM’s assets at the time, in
Madoff’s Ponzi scheme.  EIM’s losses and reputational damage tied to Madoff could
have been worse. EIM executives in 2008 were planning a so-
called feeder fund that would invest exclusively in Madoff,
according to two people with direct knowledge of the matter.  Known by EIM employees as the Gilston project, the fund had
sought to bypass fees charged by third-party funds through which
EIM at that time invested in Madoff, they said. The plans
weren’t completed before the fraud came to light in December
2008, the people said.  Busson said investing in Madoff was the biggest mistake he
has made in his career and declined to comment further on the
fraudster.  Other firms that invested in Madoff’s Ponzi scheme include
Man Group, UBP and Banco Santander SA. UBP has shrunk to about
$12.2 billion as of the end July, a decline of 79 percent from
before the fraud was discovered. Madoff -- who pleaded guilty to
operating a Ponzi scheme that the firm’s trustee says cost
investors about $17 billion, the largest in U.S. history -- is
serving a 150-year jail sentence.  Berger Escape  Busson had previously invested with another manager who
turned out to be a fraudster -- Michael Berger, who ran
Manhattan Investment Fund Ltd. Berger pleaded guilty in 2000 to
allegations that he lied about his fund’s losses from betting
against Internet stocks. Questions about the legitimacy of
Berger’s profits came to EIM’s attention in 1998. A managing
director at Bear Stearns Cos., Berger’s prime broker, learned
from an EIM executive at a cocktail party that Berger had told
clients he made returns of 20 percent, according to a 2007 court
opinion by a New York federal judge tied to Manhattan
Investment’s bankruptcy.  Manhattan Investment  The profits contradicted the understanding of the Bear
Stearns managing director, who “believed” Manhattan Investment
was losing money, according to a court order issued by the
judge. The managing director discussed Manhattan Investment the
day after the party with Busson. Busson told him “months
later” that EIM was pulling its clients’ money from Manhattan
Investment, because Berger refused a request to turn over
financial information, the court order shows.  Busson said in the interview that he didn’t know Berger was
a fraud when he withdrew EIM’s money.  EIM, along with other firms, also invested in Amaranth
Advisors LLC, the hedge fund that shut down in 2006 after losing
more than $6 billion; the Bear Stearns hedge funds that imploded
in 2007 after making bad wagers on U.S. mortgages; Drake
Management LLC, which in 2008 started liquidating its biggest
fund; and Artradis Fund Management Pte in  Singapore , which
shuttered last year, according to Bloomberg Markets magazine and
a person with knowledge of the matter.  Busson declined to comment on the hedge-fund managers he
invests with.  Making Changes  Since the Madoff disaster, EIM and other funds-of-funds
have made changes. Busson said that his firm requires
independent valuations of hedge-fund assets and that managers
provide data of their trades to an independent firm that
aggregates the information for investors. EIM also has a
managed-account platform so clients have more transparency about
their investments, he said.  Still, many of the larger hedge-fund investors, especially
institutions, have increasingly bypassed funds-of-funds to put
their money with hedge funds directly. Massachusetts’ state
pension fund, which has about 10 percent of its $50 billion in
assets in hedge funds, last year started reducing its use of
funds-of-funds, spokesman Jon Carlisle said in an e-mail.  “Funds-of-funds have basically been providing access and
that hasn’t kept up with changes in the industry,” said Jaime Castan, who in May stepped down as co-head of hedge funds at LGT
Capital Partners AG, a Pfaeffikon, Switzerland-based firm with
more than $5 billion invested in hedge funds.  Ray Dalio  Some of the bigger hedge funds shun funds-of-funds in favor
of direct investments from pensions and endowments. Bridgewater
Associates LP,  Ray Dalio ’s $120 billion firm, prefers such
institutional clients because they typically commit larger
amounts for longer periods, according to an investor who was
turned away by the firm and who asked not to be named. Suzanne
Hallberg, a spokeswoman for Westport, Connecticut-based
Bridgewater, declined to comment.  EIM employs more than 100 people, a third of whom are
directly involved in managing the firm’s almost $5 billion
across 10 global offices. Blackstone has about 130 investment
professionals in its hedge-fund business, which oversees almost
nine times as much money. Changes in regulation may allow EIM to
scale back, as the firm will no longer need to have offices in
countries where some clients are based, Busson said.  No Regrets  Busson said if he were to combine EIM with another firm, he
would be happy to work with a partner who had complementary
skills at running a business. Busson said he prefers to deal
with clients and evaluate hedge funds rather than run the
administrative side of the business.  “If this business was supposed to be run as a business to
be sold, there were profit margins that I would have been
focusing on, but my priority has always been serving clients,”
Busson said. “I don’t regret anything, but I do think it could
be better managed.”  Whatever Busson decides to do with EIM, he said he would
continue to hold his annual charity dinners for ARK, which has
raised more than 170 million pounds for causes from funding U.K.
charter schools to vaccinating children in  Africa  since it was
started about a decade ago, according to its  website . Bloomberg
LP, the parent of Bloomberg News, sponsored the ARK dinner in
May.  “It’s been tough for everyone,” Busson said in the
interview. “Unless you are  Apple (AAPL)  or  Samsung (005930) , there are few
businesses today that are as profitable as before and not having
difficulties.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jesse Westbrook in London at 
 jwestbrook1@bloomberg.net ;
Saijel Kishan in New York at 
 skishan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net ;
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  