-- Caesars’ 15% Shows Loveman’s Difficult World: Corporate Finance
-- B y   K r i s t a   G i o v a c c o   a n d   S a r i k a   G a n g a r
-- 2012-08-08T15:00:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-08/caesars-15-shows-loveman-s-difficult-world-corporate-finance.html
Caesars Entertainment Corp. (CZR)  bonds
with an average yield of almost 15 percent are indicating the
largest U.S. casino owner will have to restructure its $19.9
billion of borrowings by 2016.  While other U.S.-based gaming-company debt yields an
average 9.18 percent, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch
index data, Las Vegas-based Caesar’s bonds with maturities of
more than three years have spreads to peers that show investors
are concerned it won’t be able to service its longer-term
borrowings.  Caesars has reported five straight quarters of net losses
as gaming demand shrinks in Las Vegas and Atlantic City. The
firm, taken private by affiliates of  Leon Black ’s Apollo Global
Management LLC and  David Bonderman ’s TPG Capital for $30.7
billion in 2008, has more than $9 billion of debt due by 2016.  “Given their leverage and interest coverage, we can’t rule
out the possibility it will at some point do a debt exchange or
need to restructure,” Peggy Holloway, senior credit officer at
Moody’s Investors Service said in a telephone interview.  The company will burn through $461 million of cash this
year and $566 million next year, bringing total estimated
liquidity to $1.55 billion on Dec. 31 and $980.6 million at the
end of 2013, analysts led by Susan Berliner at JPMorgan Chase &
Co. wrote in an Aug. 6 report.  ‘Well Before’  “We retired more than $5 billion of debt and pushed out
maturities until 2015” since the leveraged buyout, Gary Thompson, a spokesman for Caesars said in a telephone interview.  “We continuously monitor our  capital structure  and will
address those 2015 maturities well before they come due.”  Investors are demanding a 21.03 percent yield on Caesars’
$470.5 million of 10.75 percent bonds due February 2016,
compared with an 8.18 percent yield on notes maturing that month
from Boyd Gaming Corp, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
The company’s $125.2 million of 5.375 percent securities due
December 2013 yield 7.55 percent, compared with a 6.58 percent
yield on Boyd’s April 2014 debt.  Moody’s rates Caesars Caa1, a level reserved for borrowers
in “poor standing” and subject to “very high credit risk.”
 Standard & Poor’s  grades its unsecured bonds CCC, one level
below the Moody’s ranking, while giving the overall company a
rating of B-, one step higher. Boyd is rated B2 by Moody’s and B
at S&P.  Caesars has been  losing money  since the credit crisis and a
glut of rooms led to the biggest  Las Vegas  gambling slump on
record. Second-quarter revenue declined almost 1 percent at
Caesars resorts in Las Vegas and 8.6 percent in Atlantic City,
the company said in an Aug. 6 statement.  Widening Loss  The company reported a net loss of $241.7 million or $1.93
a share, for the quarter, compared with a loss of $155.5
million, or $1.24, a year earlier.  “The world since April or May has gotten more difficult,”
Gary Loveman, Caesars’ chairman and chief executive officer,
said on an Aug. 6 conference call to discuss second-quarter
results with analysts and investors. “There’s trepidation on
the part of consumers to spend at the rate they have
historically.”  Declines in  consumer confidence  and slow payroll expansion
have dampened discretionary spending for items such as gaming,
Moody’s analysts led by Holloway wrote in a June 26 report.  ‘Distressed Levels’  “Current earnings barely cover the company’s interest
expense,” Holloway said. “What distinguishes Caesars from its
peers is that it doesn’t have exposure in  Asia , which is a
faster-growing market, and its absolute debt burden is higher,”
she said.  Caesars bonds lost 1.9 percent in July, the most among U.S.
casino companies other than Indian gaming issuers, according to
Bank of America Merrill Lynch index data. Eight of the 10
highest-yielding bonds in the company’s High-Yield Gaming index
are Caesars.  Yields on Caesars bonds due in February 2016 are 14.8
percentage points more than those on MGM Resorts International’s
$237.9 million of 6.875 percent bonds due April 2016, which
traded at 6.26 percent on July 13, according to Trace. Caesars’
December 2013 notes trade at a 5.8 percentage point spread to
the 1.75 percent yield on MGM’s November 2013 securities.  Caesars’ closest maturity is its $5 billion commercial
mortgage backed securities in 2013. The company has the option
to extend the maturities twice, for one year each, in exchange
for 50 basis-point fees, Eric Hession, senior vice president of
finance and treasurer, said on the company’s earnings call.  Harrah’s Entertainment  “The issue is that this LBO is already four years old and
is not doing that well for the sponsors,” Chris Snow, an
analyst at CreditSights Inc. in  New York , said in a telephone
interview. “The rest of the industry is better capitalized than
these guys. If trends continue to go against them, it could
become obvious that they can’t compete in their existing
markets.”  The company, formerly known as Harrah’s Entertainment, was
founded as a Reno, Nevada, bingo parlor in 1937. It grew by
acquisition after 1995, culminating in the $9.3 billion purchase
of Caesars Entertainment Inc. in June 2005. Apollo and TPG then
bought Harrah’s, receiving as much as $22.3 billion in financing
to fund the biggest private-equity buyout of a casino operator.  Harrah’s changed its name to Caesars after it raised $16.3
million in February selling 1.81 million shares at $9 each, the
company said in a statement at the time. The stock  fell  11 cents
a share to $8.04 at 10:54 a.m. in New York, after reaching an
all-time low of $7.98.  ‘Increased Competition’  “The IPO didn’t bring a material amount of cash into the
company,” Snow said. “What it did was create liquidity for
initial investors and give optionality to get a debt-for-equity
swap, but otherwise it’s pretty neutral to the story.”  A debt-for-equity swap is a possibility “in the event
equity markets for casino stocks improve,” Loveman told
investors on the call. A share price of “$8 and change is not a
compelling price to receive for issued equity.”  Caesars is trying to reduce its debt burden by growing its
earnings and is partnering with local investors to develop new
properties as well as sell some assets to increase liquidity.,
Kim Noland, an analyst at debt research firm Gimme Credit LLC
wrote in a June 20 report. The casino company announced the sale
of Harrah’s St. Louis to Penn National Gaming Inc. in May for
$610 million.  “There are headwinds from the consumer, increased
competition mostly in  Atlantic City , and they have a pretty
sizable debt load with upcoming maturities in 2015,” JPMorgan’s
Berliner said in a telephone interview. Those borrowings will
have to be refinanced or extended, she said.  “We want some deleveraging from the debt side, so I think
debt-for-equity makes sense,” Berliner said. “The question is
how much could they get done, and how many people would be
willing to do it.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Krista Giovacco in New York at 
 kgiovacco1@bloomberg.net ;
Sarika Gangar in New York at 
 sgangar@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Faris Khan at 
 fkhan33@bloomberg.net . 