-- California Lawmakers Won’t Amend Municipal Bankruptcy Law
-- B y   J a m e s   N a s h
-- 2012-08-08T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-08/california-lawmakers-won-t-amend-municipal-bankruptcy-law.html
California  lawmakers won’t consider
changes to a law that failed to avert three municipal
bankruptcies in the past six weeks, an aide to the Senate
president said.  A labor-backed bill intended to strengthen protections for
creditors, including public-employee unions, has been set aside
by Senate President Pro Tem Darrell Steinberg, according to Mark
Hedlund, a spokesman for the Sacramento Democrat.  Stockton, Mammoth Lakes and San Bernardino all sought court
protection since the end of June. Under current state law, most
distressed municipalities must attempt to renegotiate financial
and contractual obligations with investors and public-employee
unions through mediation before filing for bankruptcy. The new
bill would have broadened the mediator’s powers and loosened
deadlines on negotiations.  “I don’t think we need another debate on municipal
bankruptcy here,” Steinberg told reporters Aug. 6 in
 Sacramento , according to a transcript provided by Hedlund.  The bill, opposed by the League of California Cities, was
written by the author of the existing law, state Assemblyman Bob Wieckowski, a Fremont Democrat.  California has afforded local governments “significant
fiscal independence” including the ability to seek  bankruptcy
protection , the state’s nonpartisan Legislative Analyst’s Office
said today in a  report . The report didn’t weigh in on the
proposed changes.  “Generally, local governments in California are provided
broad discretion over when to initiate a Chapter 9 case, as well
as how to use the tools of Chapter 9 to adjust their
obligations,” the analyst said. “Chapter 9 also does not
interfere with a local government’s authority over its own
affairs or alter its primary functions or governance
structure.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Nash in  Los Angeles  at 
 jnash24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
William Glasgall at 
 wglasgall@bloomberg.net  