-- Cambridge Joins Harvard in Opening Stem-Cell Institute
-- B y   M a k i k o   K i t a m u r a
-- 2012-08-08T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-08/cambridge-joins-harvard-in-opening-stem-cell-institute.html
The University of Cambridge will
receive 8 million pounds ($12.5 million) to create a new stem-
cell research center, joining those established at the
 University of Oxford  and  Harvard University .  The institute, which will unite 30 research teams, will be
funded by the U.K. Medical Research Council and  Wellcome Trust ,
the council said in a statement today. It will eventually be
housed in an 8,000 square-meter facility to be constructed at
the Cambridge Biomedical Research Campus. Cambridge,  England , is
home to the largest cluster of biotechnology companies in
 Europe , according to the statement.  Stem cells  can reproduce themselves and can develop into
any of the 200 or so cell types in the body. They are being
explored as possible treatments for conditions such as liver
disease, diabetes, blindness, spinal cord injury and
neurodegenerative disorders such as  Parkinson’s disease .  “Our aim is to close the knowledge gap and drive stem-cell
research forward towards clinical applications,” Austin Smith,
director of the new Wellcome Trust-MRC Cambridge Stem Cell
Institute, said in the statement. “The world-class facilities
will attract the best international talent from the fields of
stem-cell biology and regenerative medicine to pursue this
goal.”  Similar research organizations include the Oxford Stem Cell
Institute, which links 42 research groups and is funded by the
Oxford Martin School. The Harvard Stem Cell Institute in
Cambridge,  Massachusetts , established in 2004, is a
collaboration of 225 faculty members and 1,000 scientists, post-
doctoral fellows and students.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Makiko Kitamura in London at 
 mkitamura1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  