-- Cameron Says China Venture Will at Least Double in Size
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-08-08T18:09:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-08/cameron-says-china-venture-will-at-least-double-in-size.html
James Cameron , director of “Avatar”
and “Titanic,” said his venture with the Chinese government
will probably at least double in size as demand for 3-D movies
expands in the world’s second-biggest  economy .  “We’ve got to double or triple in size just to be able to
manage the potential of this market in the next couple of
years,” he said in an interview yesterday in Beijing.  The Oscar-winning director, who spent 10 years developing a
3-D camera system, formed a venture with two state-owned
companies in China that he said will help him forge similar
agreements in  Russia ,  France  and other countries. The 3-D
version of  “Titanic”  made more money in  China  than in all
other markets combined excluding North America, Cameron said.  “We will absolutely show this template in Russia, France
and wherever and say, ’Look what we’re doing in China and how
China perceives 3-D,’” Cameron said. “Wake up people.”  Cameron Pace Group , which he founded with cinematographer
 Vince Pace , formed CPG China with state-owned Tianjin North Film
Group and Tianjin High-tech Holding Group. The company, which
will provide camera systems, 3-D production solutions and other
services, will be based in the northern port city of Tianjin.  The 3-D version of “Titanic,” released in April, exceeded
earnings expectations in China by “a factor of 3” while it
“underperformed” in  North America , Cameron said. “We feel
that the government, the filmmakers and everybody are all
leaning forward to create this giant upgrade from 2-D to 3-D.
That’s exactly where we want to be.”  He and Pace declined to give financial details about their
Chinese venture, which has 75 to 80 employees.  Box office sales in China may exceed $5 billion by 2015 and
pass U.S. box office revenue of $11 billion by 2020, Cameron
Pace Group said in a statement, without saying where the
information comes from.  China’s box-office receipts grew more than 30 percent to
surpass $2 billion last year, making it the world’s second-
biggest film market, the company said.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Regina Tan in Beijing at 
 rtan87@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Gregory Turk at 
 gturk2@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  