-- Canadian Pension Said to Shop $1.5 Billion in Fund Stakes
-- B y   S a b r i n a   W i l l m e r
-- 2012-08-08T15:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-08/canadian-pension-said-to-shop-1-5-billion-in-fund-stakes.html
The Public Sector Pension Investment
Board, one of  Canada ’s largest pension-plan managers, is
returning to the secondary market to shop about $1.5 billion in
private-equity fund stakes, said two people with knowledge of
the matter.  The portfolio for sale is made up of concentrated positions
in large buyout funds managed by private investment firms
including  Apollo Global Management LLC (APO)  and Apax Partners LLP,
according to the people, who asked not to be identified because
the information isn’t public.  Cogent Partners, an advisory firm based in  New York , is
managing the sale. Mark Boutet, a spokesman for Montreal-based
PSP Investments, declined to comment.  PSP Investments, with C$64.5 billion ($64.7 billion) in
assets under management as of March 31, is increasingly focusing
on making co-investments alongside private-equity firms or
investing directly in deals, while being more selective about
new fund commitments. The pension manager brought a similar-size
portfolio to market in 2010, ultimately selling stakes in a
number of mega-buyout funds for more than C$800 million,
according to its fiscal 2011 annual report.  Direct and co-investments accounted for 34 percent of
assets in the private-equity portfolio as of March 31, compared
with 32 percent at the end of the previous fiscal year, the
plan’s 2012 annual report shows.  North American pension plans are accessing the secondary
market, where investors sell their stakes in private-equity
funds, to rebalance their holdings.  California Public Employees’
Retirement System  and State of Wisconsin Investment Board are
both seeking to sell fund stakes to reduce the number of
managers they use and concentrate bets with the best performers,
people familiar with those pension plans said earlier this year.  PSP invests on behalf of the Public Service, the Canadian
Forces, the  Royal Canadian Mounted Police  and the Reserve Force.
Private equity accounted for 10 percent of the portfolio as of
March 31.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sabrina Willmer in New York at 
 swillmer2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  