-- Canaccord Financial Cuts Dividend by 50% as It Swings to Loss
-- B y   K a t i a   D m i t r i e v a
-- 2012-08-08T22:42:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-08/canaccord-financial-cuts-dividend-by-50-as-it-swings-to-loss.html
Canaccord Financial Inc. (CF) ,  Canada ’s
largest non-bank-owned brokerage firm, cut its dividend by 50
percent to 5 cents a share after reporting a loss in the first
quarter that missed analysts’ estimates.  The Vancouver-based firm also announced job cuts of about
60 positions in addition to a previously announced 16 as market
activity, including mergers and public offerings, cooled.  The company reported a loss of C$20.6 million compared with
income of C$13.2 million in the same period a year ago. Its loss
per share was 24 cents compared with earnings of 16 cents last
year. Its adjusted loss was 20 cents compared with an average
estimate of a 4-cent loss of four analysts  surveyed  by
Bloomberg. Revenue rose 1.7 percent to C$162.5 million.  “Our operating environment continues to be characterized
by adverse market conditions -- particularly in the small-to-
mid-market resource space -- a traditional strength for our
company,” Chief Executive Officer  Paul Reynolds  said in a
statement. “The results were apparent in several revenue lines
during our fiscal first quarter.”   Sumit Malhotra, banking analyst at Macquarie Capital
Markets in Toronto,  forecast that a dividend cut was “likely
on the table” in an Aug. 1 note as Canadian independent
brokerage firms slow “significantly” from a trading and
underwriting perspective.  The company, which relies on trading and fees from mergers
and stock sales for more than half of its revenue, faces a
slowdown in Canadian equity financings, which have dropped to
the lowest level in two years. It had previously announced 16
job cuts in  Montreal .  “We’re actively engaged in additional cost-reduction
initiatives aimed at enhancing the efficiency of our operations
during this period of market instability,” Reynolds said in the
company’s statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katia Dmitrieva in  New York  at 
 edmitrieva1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  