-- Canada Natural Gas Declines on Forecasts for U.S. Stockpiles
-- B y   C h r i s t i n e   B u u r m a
-- 2012-08-08T19:38:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-08/canada-natural-gas-declines-on-forecasts-for-u-s-stockpiles.html
Canadian natural gas dropped on
speculation that milder U.S. weather will add to a glut of the
fuel in storage.  September gas in Alberta  slid 0.8 percent as Commodity
Weather Group LLC in Bethesda, Maryland, predicted mostly normal
temperatures in the central and eastern U.S. from Aug. 8 to Aug.
12. The high in Houston on Aug. 12 may be 94 degrees Fahrenheit
(34 Celsius), 1 higher than the usual reading, said  AccuWeather
Inc.  in  State College , Pennsylvania.  The stockpile report “should be sufficient to refocus
participants’ attention on the supply overhang, as weather-
related demand continues to diminish,” said  Mike Fitzpatrick ,
the editor of the Energy OverView newsletter in New York.
“Short and intermediate weather forecasts show lingering summer
cooling demand, but nowhere near what was experienced earlier in
the summer.”  Alberta  gas for September delivery fell 1.75 cents to
C$2.215 per gigajoule ($2.11 per million British thermal units)
as of 3:15 p.m. New York time on NGX, a Canadian Internet
market. Gas traded on the exchange is shipped to users in Canada
and the U.S. and priced on  TransCanada Corp. (TRP) ’s Alberta system.  Natural gas for September delivery on the  New York
Mercantile Exchange  declined 3.1 cents, or 1.1 percent, to
settle at $2.933 per million Btu. The futures are down 1.9
percent this year.  Cooling demand in the U.S. may match the normal level on
Aug. 12, according to Weather Derivatives in Belton,  Missouri .
Electricity producers account for about 36 percent of U.S. gas
consumption, Energy Department data show.  Gas Volumes  Volume on TransCanada’s  Alberta system , which collects the
output of most of the nation’s gas wells, was 15.9 billion cubic
feet at 2 p.m. New York time.  Gas was flowing at a daily rate of 1.83 billion cubic feet
at Empress, Alberta, where the fuel is transferred to
TransCanada’s main Line.  At McNeil, Saskatchewan, where gas is transferred to the
Northern Border Pipeline for shipment to the Chicago area, the
daily flow rate was 2 billion cubic feet.  Available capacity on TransCanada’s British Columbia system
at Kingsgate was 31 million cubic feet. The system was forecast
to carry 1.99 billion cubic feet today, compared with the
estimated capacity of 2.02 billion.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christine Buurma in  New York  at 
 cbuurma1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  