-- Carlyle Posts Loss of $58.9 Million as Buyout Values Fall
-- B y   J a s o n   K e l l y
-- 2012-08-08T13:45:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-08/carlyle-posts-loss-of-58-9-million-as-buyout-values-fall.html
Carlyle Group LP (CG) , the Washington-
based investment firm that went public in May, posted a loss in
the second quarter as the value of its private-equity holdings
declined.  The shortfall, excluding some costs related to its initial
public offering, was $58.9 million compared with a profit of
$236.8 million a year earlier, Carlyle said today in a
statement. Carlyle had a loss of 19 cents a share after taxes,
missing the average estimate for a 4 cent loss by nine analysts
in a Bloomberg survey.  Carlyle, the world’s second-biggest private-equity manager,
is expanding beyond buyouts in a volatile global economy that
has quelled deal-making and managers’ ability to reap profits by
selling companies. Private-equity rivals  Blackstone Group LP (BX)  and
 Apollo Global Management LLC (APO)  also reported lower second-quarter
profit as market swings hurt the value of their holdings and
hampered their ability to sell or take their companies public.  “Realization activity was relatively muted, driven by
uncertain capital market conditions,”  Roger Freeman , a Barclays
Plc analyst, wrote in a July 24 note to clients about the so-
called alternative asset managers. “Fundraising continues to be
strong across the group, driven by credit, infrastructure and
natural-resources funds.”  Shares Fall  Carlyle fell 1.7 percent to $24.05 at 9:40 a.m. in  New
York . The founders took the firm public on May 2 at $22 per
share, raising $671 million and gaining a listing on the Nasdaq
Stock Market.  Carlyle had distributable earnings, a measure of
profitability, of $116.7 million, or 32 cents a share in the
second quarter, compared with $89.3 million a year earlier. The
firm said it would pay a quarterly distribution of 11 cents a
share to public investors.  Carlyle, like other private-equity firms, reports profit
that doesn’t comply with generally accepted accounting
principles. On a GAAP basis, the firm had a second-quarter net
loss of $10.3 million, or 26 cents per share.  The value of Carlyle’s corporate private-equity funds
dropped 2 percent during the second quarter, according to the
statement. The value of all of Carlyle’s so-called carry funds
also fell 2 percent.  Carlyle, which oversees 94 funds and 63 funds-of-funds, has
been among the most active buyers. In the past month, Carlyle
announced deals to buy a unit from  United Technologies Corp. (UTX)  as
well as Service King Collision Repair Centers, a chain of auto
body shops.  ‘Uncertain Times’  The firm invested $1.4 billion during the second quarter
and agreed to invest at least $1.6 billion in new deals since
the beginning of July,  William Conway , Carlyle’s co-chief
executive officer, said in the statement.  “We have made some of our best investments during
uncertain times,” Conway said.  Carlyle had realized proceeds in the second quarter of $3
billion, according to the statement. Carlyle raised $3.9 billion
in new funds during the period and its total assets under
management were $156.2 billion, down from $159.2 billion at the
end of March.  Founded in 1987 by Conway,  Daniel D’Aniello  and  David
Rubenstein , Carlyle has expanded beyond corporate buyouts in
recent years. Its Carlyle Global Market Strategies business,
managed by Mitch Petrick, invests in debt and public equities  Private-equity firms pool investor money to buy companies,
using mostly debt, with the intention of selling them or taking
them public later for a profit. They typically charge an annual
management fee of 1.5 percent to 2 percent of committed funds
and keep 15 to 20 percent of profit from investments.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jason Kelly in New York at 
 jkelly14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  