-- Cathay Pacific Stock Drops on Unexpected First-Half Loss
-- B y   J a s m i n e   W a n g
-- 2012-08-08T11:15:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-08/cathay-pacific-reports-surprise-loss-on-cargo-slump-affiliates.html
Cathay Pacific Airways Ltd. (293) , the
biggest international air-cargo carrier,  fell  the most in about
three months in Hong Kong after posting an unexpected loss on a
freight slump, higher fuel costs and waning premium travel.  The  airline  swung to a first-half loss of HK$935 million
($121 million) as it carried 10 percent less cargo and suffered
from wider losses at a freight venture with affiliate  Air China
Ltd. (753)  Volumes have fallen because of slower global trade and
competition from fast-growing Middle Eastern airlines.  “Cargo is really bad,” said  Jim Wong , a Hong Kong-based
transport analyst at Nomura Holdings Inc. Earnings “may recover
in the second half as cost pressures will be eased by lower fuel
prices and cargo may pick up for the traditional peak season.”  The Hong Kong carrier, which forecast “disappointing”
first-half  earnings  in May, slid 4.3 percent to close at
HK$12.36. Part-owner Air China dropped 4.3 percent. Cathay,
which also holds a stake in Beijing-based Air China, has  dropped 
7.2 percent this year, compared with an 8.85 percent gain for
the city’s benchmark index.  The airline won’t pay an  interim dividend  after an 18 Hong
Kong cents payout a year earlier. In May, it stopped hiring
ground staff, offered cabin crew voluntary unpaid leave and
pared capacity growth to help pare costs.  Cargo Slump  Cathay’s first-half cargo  revenue  fell 7.6 percent to
HK$11.9 billion. It filled 64.3 percent of freight space, down
4.1 percentage points from a year earlier, even after cutting
capacity.  The carrier made a loss of HK$300 million from its stake in
Air China Cargo, Finance Director Martin Murray said at a Hong
Kong press briefing. It also had a smaller gain from its Air
China stake, according to the statement. The company’s total
earnings from all of its affiliates slumped to a HK$167 million
loss from a HK$861 million profit.  “The combination of very, very high fuel prices and
generally weak revenues is a big challenge for every airline in
the world,” Chief Executive Officer John Slosar told reporters.
Cargo is always “very volatile” and will eventually rebound,
he said.  Scrapped Plane  The company also booked a HK$247 million loss from
scrapping a freighter as it phases out older  Boeing Co. (BA)  747-400
aircraft for more-fuel efficient models. Cathay is selling four
747-400 passenger planes converted into freighters to Air China
Cargo. Two more have been parked.  Cathay saw “poor” demand on North American and European
routes because of the economic slowdown. Airlines shifting
planes from these routes also created more competition in
stronger markets, such as  India , it said.  Emirates and other Middle East carriers are also winning a
larger share of the cargo market as they add more planes and
take advantage of hubs well placed for trade between  Asia ,
 Europe  and  Africa . Airlines in the region boosted freight
traffic 15 percent in the first half, compared with a 2.6
percent drop in the overall market and a 7 percent decline for
Asian carriers, according to the  International Air Transport
Association .  Cathay’s total first-half sales rose 4.4 percent to HK$48.9
billion. It was expected to make a profit of HK$490 million
based on the average of four  analyst estimates  compiled by
Bloomberg. Net income was HK$2.8 billion a year earlier.  Premium-class seat sales were hit by economic concerns,
which deterred businesses from buying tickets, Cathay said.
Corporate-travel demand from Hong Kong declined, hitting revenue
on flights to cities including  Singapore  and  New York , it said.  Hong Kong Airlines said today that it will halt an all-
business-class service to  London  next month.  Fuel Costs  Cathay’s fuel costs, excluding hedging, rose 6.5 percent
from a year earlier because of increased consumption and higher
 prices . Realized fuel-hedging gains fell 59 percent from a year.  The carrier has hedged 37 percent of its fuel requirements
for the second half after taking advantage of a dip in prices in
June, said Murray. It has also covered 27 percent of 2013’s fuel
needs. He didn’t say at what price the carrier has hedged.  Maintenance expenses rose 24 percent from a year earlier in
the first half to HK$4.6 billion. The carrier was hit by a spike
in shop visits for engines on its 747-400s, Slosar said.  Higher Yields  Passenger yields, a measure of average fares, rose 1.2
percent including fuel surcharges. Yields, excluding surcharges,
dropped less than 10 percent, Slosar said. The cheaper fares
helped Cathay and unit Hong Kong Dragon Airlines Ltd. boost
traveler numbers 8.6 percent to 14.3 million. The airline filled
80.1 percent of seats, an increase of 0.8 percentage points.  Singapore Airlines Ltd. (SIA) , which has taken similar cost-
cutting steps, posted a loss in the three months ended March
followed by a better-than-expected increase in profit in the
quarter to June.  Cathay also today agreed to order 26 Airbus SAS A350-1000s.
The deal, which was provisionally announced last month,
comprises 10 new aircraft orders and the conversion of 16
previous orders for smaller A350-900s.  The carrier had a fleet of 181 planes at the end of June,
including a venture with DHL. It has firm orders for another 92.
A total of 10 new planes will arrive in the second half.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jasmine Wang in  Hong Kong  at 
 Jwang513@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  