-- McDonald’s July Sales Trail Analysts’ Estimates
-- B y   L e s l i e   P a t t o n
-- 2012-08-08T20:10:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-08/mcdonald-s-july-sales-lag-estimates-as-u-s-demand-drops.html
McDonald’s Corp. (MCD) , the world’s largest
restaurant chain, said sales at stores open at least 13 months
were unchanged worldwide in July as competitors wooed away some
customers and the weak U.S. economy weighed on consumers.  Analysts projected an increase of 2.3 percent, the average
of 14 estimates compiled by researcher Consensus Metrix. Sales
at domestic locations fell 0.1 percent,  Oak Brook , Illinois-
based McDonald’s said today in a statement. Analysts estimated a
gain of 2.2 percent for the U.S.  McDonald’s has tried to lure customers with a menu of items
priced at $1 to $2 in the U.S. as rivals including  Yum! Brands
Inc. (YUM) ’s Taco Bell and  Wendy’s Co. (WEN)  increase promotions and add
menu items. McDonald’s U.S. sales decline was the weakest
performance since January 2010, worsened by Americans pulling
back spending amid flagging  consumer confidence .  “A lot of their competitors have stepped up their game,”
Sara Senatore, a New York-based analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein
& Co., said in an interview.  McDonald’s fell 1.7 percent to $87.53 at the close in  New
York . The  shares  have slumped 13 percent this year.  Sales and promotions failed to make up for the effects of
the “sluggish” economy in the U.S., the company said in the
statement.  Consumer Confidence  Other restaurant operators, such as  Starbucks Corp. (SBUX)  and
 Chipotle Mexican Grill Inc. (CMG)  have reported that U.S. sales growth
has started to slow. Confidence among American consumers fell in
July to the lowest level this year as the labor market and
economy showed few signs of improving.  Eateries are also facing higher costs for raw ingredients
such as beef and dairy. Food prices may rise as much as 4
percent in 2013, the Department of Agriculture forecast last
month.  McDonald’s said sales declined 0.6 percent in  Europe  and
fell 1.5 percent in its Asia-Pacific, Middle East and Africa
region. Analysts projected growth of 2.4 percent and 1.4
percent, respectively, according to a survey by Consensus
Metrix, which is owned by Wayne, New Jersey-based Kaul Advisory
Group.  Same-store sales rose in Latin American and Canada,
bringing the global results “essentially to flat,” Lisa
McComb, a company spokeswoman, said in an interview. The company
doesn’t provide same-store sales figures for those regions.  In Japan, same-store sales slipped 4.1 percent in July.
Comparable-store sales are considered a key indicator of a
retailer’s growth because they include only older locations.  European Declines  In Europe, McDonald’s has advertised value items to draw
customers amid government austerity measures there. The Big Mac
seller has said it will increase its media spending in France,
where it has more than 1,200 stores and has recently promoted
less-expensive sandwiches.  Restaurants in Germany and some Southern European markets
had weaker results in July amid an “increasingly difficult”
economic environment, McDonald’s said in the statement.  The company also is sponsoring the  Olympic Games  in London
this year and has said it will continue its sponsorship through
2020.  McDonald’s has about 33,700 stores globally, of which about
19 percent are company owned and operated.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Leslie Patton in Chicago at 
 lpatton5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  