-- Cerberus Is Said to Seek Up to $1.2 Billion for New Fund
-- B y   S a b r i n a   W i l l m e r
-- 2012-08-08T15:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-08/cerberus-is-said-to-seek-up-to-1-2-billion-for-new-fund.html
Cerberus Capital Management LP, the
private-equity firm led by  Stephen Feinberg , is seeking $1
billion to $1.2 billion for its next distressed real estate
fund, according to two people with knowledge of the matter.  Cerberus Institutional Real Estate Partners (Series 3) held
a first close on more than $200 million on July 23, said the
people, who asked not to be identified because the fund isn’t
public. The fund will target U.S. mortgage-backed securities and
European nonperforming loans.  John Dillard, a spokesman at  Weber Shandwick  in New York,
declined to comment on behalf of Cerberus.  Greenhill & Co. (GHL) ,
based in New York, is acting as placement agent.  Private-equity firms are positioning themselves to take
advantage of  Europe ’s debt crisis. They expect sales from banks
that need to offload loans, repay government bailouts and meet
new regulatory requirements.  Apollo Global Management LLC (APO)  is
seeking capital to purchase European nonperforming loans in the
residential, commercial, consumer and corporate areas from
stressed and distressed financial institutions.  Cerberus, which is based in New York, gathered about $900
million for its prior fund in December 2008, the people said.
That fund was generating a 16 percent net internal rate of
return as of March 31.  Main Fund  The firm also has been seeking commitments for its main
private-equity fund, which targets $3.75 billion. Cerberus
Institutional Partners V LP has raised about $1.3 billion for
European nonperforming loans and structured investments, U.S.
distressed mortgage-backed securities and U.S. private equity
coming from divestitures of assets from large corporations, one
of the people said.  Trading in mortgage securities drove most of the
performance of the prior flagship fund, which closed at $7.5
billion in 2006.  Cerberus, with more than $20 billion in assets under
management, focuses on four strategies: distressed securities
and assets, control and non-control private equity, commercial
mid-market lending and real estate-related investments.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sabrina Willmer in  New York  at 
 swillmer2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  