-- Chadbourne, Cozen O’Connor, Proskauer: Business of Law
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 2012-08-08T11:56:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-08/chadbourne-cozen-o-connor-proskauer-business-of-law.html
Bank of America Corp. ’s law firm
defending the company against  MBIA Inc. (MBI)  in a dispute over
defective mortgages said that a court ruling in a separate case
means lenders should reevaluate their reserves for bad loans.  Lenders could be forced to repurchase shoddy mortgages even
if banks’ misrepresentations weren’t responsible for defaults,
 O’Melveny & Myers LLP  said in a client  note  on its website. The
law firm cited a June 19 ruling in which the judge sided with
bond insurer  Syncora Holdings Ltd. (SYCRF)  against a mortgage company.  “In light of a recent federal court ruling, banks may wish
to reevaluate litigation risk from plaintiff insurers claiming
injury” in bonds they backed, Robert Stern, an O’Melveny
partner, said in the note dated July 27. Firms “facing such
lawsuits may wish to reevaluate their exposure and possibly
adjust reserves set aside to cover such risks.”  The Syncora ruling contrasts with Bank of America’s
argument that bond insurers and other firms should only win
refunds if they prove that loan defects led to defaults. While
Chief Executive Officer  Brian T. Moynihan  committed more than
$40 billion to clean up mortgages at the second-biggest U.S.
lender, he has yet to resolve disagreements with MBIA, whose
claims make it one of the bank’s biggest remaining adversaries.  “What’s shocking about the O’Melveny note is that they
represent Bank of America in the MBIA litigation; it’s not like
they are confused about the type of claims or the nature of the
contract,” said Manal Mehta, founder of San Francisco-based
hedge fund Sunesis Capital, which owns MBIA stock. “They’ve
come out very explicitly and said, ‘Hey guys, loss-causation is
a game changer for your reserves.”  The note “was not a commentary on any institution’s
reserve decisions,” said Majory Appel, a spokeswoman for
O’Melveny & Myers. Lawrence Grayson, a spokesman for Charlotte,
North Carolina-based Bank of America, declined to comment on the
law firm’s note.  Stern has represented a subprime lender and U.S.-owned
mortgage firm in disputes over loans, according to the law
firm’s  website . Appel declined to say whether Stern was involved
in the MBIA case.  Bank of America had outstanding claims from the so-called
monoline insurers on  $3.1 billion  of mortgages as of June 30,
“substantially all” of which the lender has refused to
repurchase after its assessment of whether valid defects exist,
the firm said this month in a filing.  The bank’s interpretation is that it only has to buy back a
loan if an underwriting error or misrepresentation “was the
cause of the loss,” Moynihan’s firm said in the filing.
Otherwise the company would be paying for defaults tied to the
economic slump, a risk that should be handled by the insurer,
the bank has said.  The case is MBIA Insurance v. Countrywide Home Loans,
602825-08,  New York  State Supreme Court (New York County).  For more, click here.  Chadbourne & Park Working on ResCap Examiner Investigation  Arthur J. Gonzalez, who was appointed on July 3 as examiner
for Residential Capital LLC, said in a court filing Aug. 6 that
his investigation will cost $29 million to $36 million. Gonzalez
said it’s “realistic” to expect that his report will be filed
in early February.  As examiner, Gonzalez will use law firm Chadbourne & Park
LLP along with Mesirow Financial Consulting LLC as financial
advisers.  The Chadbourne team working on the case includes bankruptcy
partners Howard Seife, David LeMay and Ted Zink and litigation
partner Thomas McCormack.  Gonzalez retired as a bankruptcy judge in New York on March
1. His investigation will cover ResCap and its parent, non-
bankrupt Ally Financial Inc.  U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Martin Glenn formally called for an
examiner in June and later directed Gonzalez to investigate Ally
and Cerberus Capital Management LP, ResCap’s proposed sale and
reorganization plan, the role of ResCap’s board, alternatives to
ResCap’s proposals, claims against officers and directors,
claims ResCap proposes to release, and the value of the
releases. ResCap is Ally’s mortgage-servicing subsidiary.  ResCap filed for Chapter 11 reorganization on May 14,
intending to sell the servicing business to  Fortress Investment
Group LLC (FIG)  while Ally bought leftover mortgages and paid $750
million for releases.  The case is In re Residential Capital LLC, 12-12020,  U.S.
Bankruptcy Court , Southern District of New York ( Manhattan ).  For more, click here.  Deals  Advent Agrees to Buy Ares’ AOT, Maker of Serta Mattresses  Advent International Corp., the Boston-based leveraged
buyout firm founded by Peter Brooke, agreed to buy a majority
stake in AOT Bedding Super Holdings, the maker of Serta and
Simmons mattresses.  Sullivan & Cromwell LLP represents Ares Management, Ontario
Teachers’ Pension Plan and AOT Bedding Super Holdings while
Advent was counseled by the law firm Weil Gotshal & Manges LLP.  The S&C team is led by  Los Angeles  corporate/mergers and
acquisitions partner Alison Ressler together with New York
partners Neal McKnight, financing;  Andrew Mason , tax; Matthew Friestedt, executive compensation and benefits and Yvonne Quinn,
antitrust.  Weil’s team was led by corporate partner Marilyn French,
Boston and included financing partner Kelly Dybala, Dallas, tax
partner Marc Silberberg, New York; benefits/executive
compensation partner Amy Rubin, New York; IP partner John Brockland, Silicon Valley; environmental partner Annemargaret
Connolly, Washington; regulatory partner John O’Loughlin,
Washington; and antitrust partner John Scribner Washington.  The transaction values the mattress company at about $3
billion including debt, said a person with knowledge of the
matter. The purchase is expected to be completed in the fourth
quarter, Advent said Aug. 5 in a statement sent by e-mail that
didn’t disclose terms.  Existing investors Ares Management LLC, based in Los
Angeles, and the  Ontario Teachers’ Pension Plan  will retain a
“significant” stake in AOT Bedding, the private equity firm
said in an e-mailed statement. Chuck Dohrenwend, a spokesman for
Advent International, declined to specify the size of its stake
or comment beyond the press release.  For more, click here.  Moves  Cozen O’Connor Announces Addition of Senior Corporate Attorney  The former chairman of Loeb & Loeb LLP’s national mergers
and acquisitions group, Andrew M. Ross, moved to Cozen O’Connor
in New York.  Ross’s practice includes domestic and international mergers
and acquisitions, debt and equity financing,  venture capital  and
bank financing, and general corporate representation, the firm
said. His practice also involves the representation of senior
executives in employment agreements and other compensation
arrangements.  In addition, Ross works with Chinese law firms, investment
banks, and Chinese professionals to assist Chinese companies
engaging in acquisitions and investment in the U.S.  “Andy’s private equity and venture capital experience adds
significant depth to our firm’s corporate practice in the New
York region,” Cozen O’Connor president and executive partner
Michael J. Heller said. “In addition, his extensive experience
with Chinese companies presents valuable opportunities for
clients seeking to structure in-bound investments and
acquisitions.”  Cozen O’Connor has 575 attorneys at 21 offices in the U.S.
and  Canada .  Proskauer Broadens Biotech Patent Litigation Capabilities  Proskauer Rose LLP has expanded its biotechnology patent
litigation practice in New York with the addition of Mary S. Consalvi as a partner in the firm’s patent law group. Consalvi
is the former president and general counsel of NetBio Systems,
Inc., a provider of rapid DNA analysis solutions located in
Waltham,  Massachusetts , the firm said.  Consalvi has more than 20 years of experience. Prior to her
tenure at NetBio, Consalvi served as vice president and chief
intellectual property counsel at biotechnology company
Transkaryotic Therapies. Before that she was a partner in
private practice at Howrey Simon Arnold & White and Lyon & Lyon,
the firm said.  Brendan O’Rourke and  Robert Cleary , Proskauer partners and
co-chairs of the firm’s litigation department said of Consalvi,
“Not only is she a top-notch litigator, but she also has a keen
understanding of patent and other business issues facing biotech
companies based on her strong corporate and industry
background.”  At NetBio, Consalvi was responsible for all aspects of the
company’s financing, business development and corporate and
legal affairs. She is also an intellectual property litigator,
focusing on patent, trademark, copyright and trade secret law.
She has counseled clients on “freedom to operate” analyses,
opinion work and issues of patent validity, infringement and
new-product introductions and represented companies with
government grants and contracts, the firm said.  Proskauer has 13 offices worldwide.  Skadden Partner Joins SNR Denton’s Capital Markets Practice  SNR Denton LLP hired Kenneth A. Wright Jr. as a partner in
its capital markets practice in New York. Wright joins from
Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom LLP, the firm said.  Wright represents issuers, underwriters, placement agents,
dealers, credit enhancers, lenders, private investors,
investment advisers and other market participants in a variety
of financial transactions, the firm said. Wright also has
represented financial institutions in asset-backed commercial
paper and medium-term note programs.  SNR Denton has more than 60 locations worldwide, through
offices, associate firms and special alliances across the U.S.,
the UK,  Europe , the  Middle East , Russia and the CIS, Asia
Pacific and  Africa .  Morrison & Foerster Adds Two New Lawyers in Denver  Morrison & Foerster LLP  has strengthened its nationwide
investment management and securities litigation and enforcement
practices, with two hires in its Denver office. Kelley A. Howes
joins from Janus Capital Group Inc., where she was general
counsel. Brian Neil Hoffman joins from the Securities and
Exchange Commission, where he was a senior attorney in the
division of enforcement in the Chicago regional office.  As Janus’s general counsel from 2007 to 2011, Howes was
responsible for the company’s global legal, regulatory,
corporate governance, internal audit, and insurance matters. She
managed regulatory examinations, enforcement matters, and
multiple class and derivative actions, acted as the company’s
corporate secretary and was a member of Janus’s executive
committee, ethics committee, disclosure committee, and internal
compliance controls committee.  Hoffman, a former Morrison & Foerster associate from 2001
to 2010, re-joins the firm’s securities litigation, enforcement,
and white-collar defense group. At the SEC he investigated and
litigated potential  insider trading , corporate reporting and
controls violations, and other securities fraud claims.  Morrison & Foerster has more than 1,000 lawyers in 15
offices in the U.S., Asia and Europe.  Litigation  Convicted Accountant Parse Seeks New Trial in Tax-Fraud Case  David Parse, an accountant convicted in what a judge called
the biggest U.S. tax-fraud prosecution in history, is seeking a
new trial on the grounds that his lawyers were inadequate.  U.S. District Judge William Pauley in June granted a new
trial for Parse’s three codefendants, after a juror disclosed
she had lied about her past including that she was an alcoholic
and a suspended attorney. Pauley let Parse’s conviction stand,
ruling that his lawyers, from the New York firm Brune & Richard
LLP, failed to reveal information they had about the juror,
Catherine Conrad, whom Pauley called a “pathological liar.”  “As the court found, a reasonably competent lawyer on
learning that Juror No. 1 might be a suspended lawyer with a
history of alcoholism would have taken some action to resolve
the issue,” Parse said in court papers filed yesterday in
Manhattan federal court. “Choosing to do nothing was not a
viable option.”  In May 2011, the jury including Conrad returned guilty
verdicts against Paul Daugerdas and Donna Guerin, former Jenkens
& Gilchrist lawyers; Denis Field, the former chief executive
officer at accounting firm BDO Seidman LLP; and Parse, who
worked for  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  unit Alex. Brown. Craig Brubaker, a
second former Alex. Brown accountant, was found not guilty.  Pauley ruled that Conrad’s presence on the jury deprived
Parse’s codefendants of a fair trial. Parse’s lawyers waived the
issue by failing to alert the court of information it had about
Conrad, he ruled.  The 10-week tax fraud trial included 9,200 pages of
testimony from 41 witnesses. Lawyers introduced 1,300 pieces of
evidence.  The case is U.S. v. Daugerdas, 09-CR-581, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  Ex-Apple Designer Says Samsung Phones Mimic IPhone Patent  The former  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  graphics designer who invented the
smiling computer icon for the original Macintosh testified that
the application screen on  Samsung Electronics Co. (005930)  phones is
“substantially similar” to the iPhone design patented by
Apple.  Susan Kare, who began her career at Apple in 1982 as a
screen graphics and digital font designer, was called yesterday
as witness by the company in its multibillion-dollar patent
trial against Samsung in federal court in  San Jose ,  California .  Kare told the jury the phones are so similar that she
picked one up while visiting the office of Apple’s lawyers and
mistook a Samsung phone for an iPhone.  Apple and Samsung are the world’s largest makers of the
high-end handheld devices that blend the functionality of a
phone and a computer. The trial is the first before a U.S. jury
in a battle being waged on four continents for dominance in a
smartphone market valued by Bloomberg Industries at $219.1
billion. Each company is trying to convince jurors at the trial
that its rival infringed patents covering designs and
technology.  Apple is using Kare’s testimony to advance its claims that
Samsung phones infringe the software design of the iPhone.  Yesterday, when Kare was shown at least 10 Samsung phones
in court, she said the application screens on all of them are
“substantially similar overall” to that described in Apple’s
patent.  “The similarities I saw were the regular grid, the rows of
four icons, the colorful mix of icons that are square with
rounded corners,” she said.  During cross-examination, Samsung’s attorney, Charles K. Verhoeven, showed Kare a Samsung phone and asked her to walk him
through the steps required to arrive at the application screen
she was asked to analyze. When he turned it on, “Samsung”
illuminated. After it was electronically unlocked, Verhoeven
demonstrated, through Kare, that a customer had to navigate the
phone’s home screen to get to the application screen.  “Wouldn’t you agree that by the time the consumer turns on
the phone, and goes through the steps we looked at, seeing the
Samsung sign prominently for several seconds,” Verhoeven asked,
“that the consumer knows it’s a Samsung phone?”  “I’m not an expert in consumer behavior, and that kind of
user experience,” Kare replied. “I’m really focused on graphic
user interface, so I’m not sure I’m qualified to answer that.”  Apple seeks $2.5 billion for its claims that Samsung
infringed patents. Samsung, based in Suwon, South Korea,
countersued and will present claims that Apple is infringing two
patents covering mobile-technology standards and three utility
patents.  The case is Apple Inc. v. Samsung Electronics Co. Ltd., 11-
cv-01846, U.S. District Court, Northern District of California
(San Jose).  For more, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in  Brooklyn , New York, at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 