-- Cheapest Gold Profit Growth Puts Regis in Play: Real M&A
-- B y   A n g u s   W h i t l e y   a n d   S o r a y a   P e r m a t a s a r i
-- 2012-08-09T08:03:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-08/cheapest-gold-profit-growth-puts-regis-in-play-real-m-a.html
No gold miner in the world is
offering acquirers faster growth at a cheaper price than
 Australia ’s  Regis Resources Ltd. (RRL)   With open-pit mines near the earth’s surface, the Perth-
based producer has an  operating margin  of 45 percent, the second
best among Asian competitors with market values higher than $1
billion, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Analysts are
estimating an almost fourfold increase in  net income  by 2014,
meaning Regis would give a buyer more long-term earnings growth
for less money than 36 other precious-metals mining peers
globally, the data show.  While Regis’s 34 percent  stock jump  this year has swelled
its market capitalization to A$2.1 billion ($2.2 billion), the
miner’s growth prospects and lower-cost operations will appeal
to acquirers, according to Bank of America Corp. Regis plans to
start production at a second pit this quarter that will help
quadruple gold output in two years, progress that may elicit a
takeover bid from its biggest shareholder  Newmont Mining Corp. (NEM) 
or Toronto-based  Barrick Gold Corp. (ABX) , said RBS Morgans Ltd.  “Regis is very appealing as a takeover target for a big
outfit,”  James Wilson , an analyst at Brisbane-based RBS Morgans
and a geologist who has worked in Australia, Africa and  China ,
said in a telephone interview. “It fits the bill for a
reasonably long-term mine life and big production.”  Regis said today it agreed to acquire the McPhillamys Gold
Project in the state of New South Wales from a unit of Newmont
and  Alkane Resources Ltd. (ALK)  for A$150 million in shares. The
purchase will add 2.5 million ounces to Regis’s gold resource
base, increasing it to 9 million ounces, it said.  Resources Town  Regis rose  4 percent  today to A$4.72, its highest in more
than a decade, in Sydney trading. The benchmark S&P/ASX 200
Index dropped 0.1 percent.  Kim Massey, the company secretary and chief financial
officer at Regis, declined to comment on the potential for a
sale yesterday. Regis is focusing on starting production at its
second mine, he said.  Led by Managing Director  Mark Clark , the former head of
Lihir Gold Ltd. before it was acquired by Newcrest Mining Ltd.
in 2010, Regis is digging for gold about 350 kilometers (217
miles) north east of Kalgoorlie. The resources town, in the
center of  Western Australia , is famous for its nearby gold pits.  At the Moolart Well site, Regis produced 105,413 ounces of
gold in the year ended in June. Production is due to start by
the end of September at the Garden Well development, 30
kilometers to the south. This second project will help vault
annual output to more than 400,000 ounces by June 2014,
according to Regis.  Rapid Growth  “The attraction comes from its growth, its gold-only
production, and its low cost,” Stephen Gorenstein, a Melbourne-
based analyst at Bank of America, said by e-mail. “The
combination of these things is getting harder to find, which
makes it likely to be attractive to both investors and
corporates.”  Regis trades at a so-called PEG ratio, which compares a
company’s price-to-earnings ratio with projected profit growth,
of 0.1, based on estimated  income  for the year ending June 2013,
data compiled by Bloomberg show.  That means Regis offers buyers the greatest potential
earnings power at the lowest relative price among precious-
metals miners that have market values higher than $1 billion,
the data show. A PEG ratio of 1 indicates a company is fairly
valued relative to its rate of earnings growth.  While Regis trades at 28 times estimated profit for the
year that ended June, its  price-earnings ratio  drops to 7.4 for
the current fiscal year because its projected earnings growth is
so steep, according to data and analysts’ estimates compiled by
Bloomberg.  Management Success  “Some of the growth is priced in, but not all of it,”
said Steuart McIntyre, a Sydney-based analyst at  RBC Capital
Markets . “We see significant upside from here,” he said,
citing management’s record, future contributions from Garden
Well, and the possibility of a dividend payment this year.  Central to Regis’s appeal is its management, led by Clark
and Chairman Nick Giorgetta, according to WestOz Investment Co.,
Regis’s biggest institutional shareholder. Regis turned its
first annual profit since 2005 in the fiscal year that ended in
June 2011, 10 months after commissioning Moolart Well. Clark is
due to start production at Garden Well by the end of next month,
keeping with a timeline he laid out  two years ago .  “They have been able to deliver,” said Philip Rees, chief
investment officer at Perth-based WestOz, which oversees about
A$260 million of assets. “We like the management and the
assets. We’re confident in the outlook.”  Gold Production  Regis had an operating margin of 45 percent in the six
months ended in December, the most recent period for which data
is available. That means the company made more money for each
dollar of sales than every Asian peer valued at more than $1
billion except Perth-based  Medusa Mining Ltd. (MML) , data compiled by
Bloomberg show.  Barrick, the world’s largest gold miner with a market value
more than 15 times larger than Regis, produced bullion for total
cash costs of  $613 an ounce  in the three months ended June 30.
Last quarter, Moolart Well produced gold for A$611 an ounce,
including royalties, and by the time Regis produces 400,000
ounces of gold each year, its cash costs may be only A$500 an
ounce, according to Stephen Thomas, an analyst at Bell Potter
Securities Ltd.  “In this current cost environment it’s very hard to
deliver projects on time and anywhere near the original capital
cost,” Thomas said in a phone interview from Perth. “There are
other producers that produce at lower cost but there aren’t any
others at that size of production.”  Barrick, Newmont  Of the company’s 2.9 million ounces of reserves, 1.7
million are at  Garden Well , while Moolart Well holds 520,000
ounces, Regis said. The company is drilling for further deposits
at Garden Well and due to finish an assessment of its Rosemont
Gold deposit, 9 kilometers to the northwest, this quarter.  To become a target of larger miners including  Barrick (ABX)  and
Newmont, Regis needs to produce at least 200,000 ounces of gold
a year and have sufficient reserves to maintain that level of
output for a decade, said Wilson, the RBS Morgans analyst.
Garden Wells will carry Regis across that threshold and a
takeover is more likely once the project starts, he said.  “Why take them over before they’ve commissioned their
second operation?” said Wilson. “Wait for them to get it
running, then do it.”  Barrick is looking for acquisition opportunities and there
may be more on the market than there were last year, Mike Feehan, the company’s president of the Australia Pacific
operations, said this week at the Diggers & Dealers conference
in Kalgoorlie. He declined to comment on its interest in Regis.  Smaller Combination  “Newmont looks at opportunities all around the world
however it is our policy not to comment on market rumour or
speculation concerning any one company,” Brian Watt, a Perth-
based spokesman for  Greenwood Village , Colorado-based Newmont,
said in an e-mailed reply to questions. Newmont owns  16 percent 
of Regis.  A larger miner of the scale of Newmont, valued at $23
billion, may find it difficult to run Regis better than Clark
and his team, Andrew Muir, Sydney-based analyst at JPMorgan
Chase & Co., said in a phone interview. A combination with
another small miner might offer more benefits, he said.  “If you put similar-sized companies together and you get
increased exposure, diversified cash flows, possibly listings on
two exchanges -- that would make sense,” said Muir.  Gold Outlook  This week,  Silver Lake  Resources Ltd., which has a market
value of A$595 million, offered to buy Australia’s Integra
Mining Ltd. for about A$426 million. The purchase, which may
double Silver Lake’s annual output, brought the total value of
gold mining takeovers this year to $3 billion, data compiled by
Bloomberg show.  Regis has  climbed  71 percent in the past 12 months, more
than any Australia-listed precious-metal miner with a market
value exceeding $1 billion, data compiled by Bloomberg show. The
surge means there may be cheaper targets for buyers, said  John Robertson , an investment manager at EIM Capital Managers Pty, a
Melbourne-based, resources-focused  fund manager .  “Everything in the gold sector in that up-and-coming
category can be categorized as a takeover target,” Robertson
said. Regis is “fully priced, which doesn’t mean it won’t be
taken over, but it does reduce the likelihood.”  Still, bullion is currently in its 12th straight year of
gains as investors seek a haven from  Europe ’s debt crisis and
the possibility of accelerating inflation.  Gold for immediate delivery currently trades at $1,612.13
an ounce, still 16 percent below the metal’s all-time high last
September. Analysts expect it to rise to $1,781 an ounce in
2013, before falling back to $1,650 an ounce in 2014, according
to the median of estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Regis’s stock gain, in part, reflects the quality of the
company’s management and the accessibility of its deposits,
JPMorgan’s Muir said.  Bidders won’t be deterred by the price, according to Wilson
at RBS Morgans.  “There’s a whole swag of North American players who could
be interested,” he said. “There will be rousing interest.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Angus Whitley in Sydney at 
 awhitley1@bloomberg.net ;
Soraya Permatasari in  Melbourne  at 
 soraya@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Sarah Rabil at   srabil@bloomberg.net ;
Rebecca Keenan at   rkeenan5@bloomberg.net . 