-- Chile Peso Advances as Economic Growth Lures Foreign Investors
-- B y   S e b a s t i a n   B o y d
-- 2012-08-08T20:19:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-08/chile-inflation-expectations-rise-after-july-cpi-santiago-mover.html
Chile ’s peso appreciated to a six-
month high on faster-than-forecast economic growth and near
record-low unemployment, adding to speculation the central bank
may intervene to weaken the currency.  The peso rose 0.3 percent to 476.35 pesos per dollar, the
strongest closing price since Feb. 9.  The peso is the best performing of the Latin American
currencies tracked by Bloomberg and has appreciated 5.2 percent
this quarter even as the price of copper, which makes up more
than half of Chile’s exports, has fallen. The outperformance is
being driven by a $2 billion shift in favor of the peso by
international investors in the forwards market, attracted by the
Andean country’s stable 5 percent interest rate and 6.2 percent
 economic growth .  “It’s one of the most attractive stories out there in
terms of carry and growth,” said Flavia Cattan-Naslausky, a
currency strategist at RBS Securities Inc. in  Stamford ,
 Connecticut . “They’re cautious about easing and the outlook for
copper is quite good. It all fits, and unless the central bank
intervenes, it will keep going.”  Data published in the past 10 days showed Chile’s economy
is growing  faster  than forecast with near record-low
 unemployment , salaries rising more than twice as fast as prices
and an 8.9 percent annual increase in  retail sales .  International investors in the Chilean peso forwards market
cut their short peso position to $7.8 billion on Aug. 6, the
lowest in almost three months, according to central bank data
published today.  ‘Absorb Shocks’  “We have a flexible  exchange rate , which we think is
optimal for a country like Chile so it can absorb shocks that
come from abroad,” central bank President Rodrigo Vergara told
a conference in Santiago yesterday. “That doesn’t mean we don’t
consider, or it doesn’t mean that we reject the possibility of
intervening when we think the exchange rate moves away from its
fundamentals.”  The one-year breakeven inflation rate climbed five basis
points, or 0.05 percentage point, to 2.78 percent. Breakeven
inflation is a measure of traders’ bets on the average pace of
future price increases.  Annual inflation  slowed for a fifth month in July to 2.5
percent from 2.7 percent. The median forecast in a Bloomberg
survey was for a drop of 0.1 percent in the month.  Breakeven rates fell later in the session after El Mercurio
newspaper reported that gas distributor  Metrogas SA (METR)  expects to
lower bills by an average 22 percent from August. Two-year
breakeven inflation fell 1 basis point to 2.69 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sebastian Boyd in Santiago at 
 sboyd9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  