-- Chilean Peso Rallies Toward Intervention Zone: Chart of the Day
-- B y   S e b a s t i a n   B o y d   a n d   Y e   X i e
-- 2012-08-08T11:37:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-08/chilean-peso-rallies-toward-intervention-zone-chart-of-the-day.html
Chile ’s peso, the best performing
currency in the world this year, is rallying toward a level that
prompted the central bank to intervene in 2008 and 2011 in an
effort to stem its gains and aid exporters.  The CHART OF THE DAY shows how the peso has strengthened on
an inflation-adjusted basis against the currencies of its five
largest developed trading partners: the U.S.,  Japan , the U.K.,
 Canada  and the euro region. Last month, the peso reached its
strongest level by that measure since 2007, according to Bank of
America Merrill Lynch.  Chile’s central bank has left its benchmark interest rate
unchanged at 5 percent since January even as traders in the
forwards market wager inflation will slow, making Chile an
attractive place to invest money borrowed in other currencies.
The peso’s 8.7 percent advance this year against the dollar is
the biggest in the world.  “The  exchange rate  has appreciated significantly, and that
may prompt the central bank to do something,” said Marcos Buscaglia, Bank of America Merrill Lynch’s chief Latin America
economist in  New York . “We’re not saying they are definitely
going to intervene, but the risk has increased.”  Bank of America Merrill Lynch strategists Claudio Irigoyen
and Ezequiel Aguirre recommend selling the Chilean peso and
buying the Mexican peso in the forwards market.  Chile’s central bank last year bought $12 billion to stem
currency gains and augment international reserves. The bank also
intervened in the currency in April 2008 when it announced a
plan to buy $8 billion. It abandoned the program after Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc. collapsed in September of that year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sebastian Boyd in Santiago at 
 sboyd9@bloomberg.net ;
Ye Xie in New York at 
 yxie6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Brendan Walsh  at 
 bwalsh8@bloomberg.net  