-- China’s Vantone Said to Discuss San Francisco Development
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-08-08T08:46:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-08/china-s-vantone-said-to-discuss-san-francisco-development.html
China ’s  Vantone Holdings Co.  is in
talks to transform a pier in  San Francisco ’s tourist district
into space for Chinese companies seeking to do business in the
U.S., said four people with direct knowledge of the matter.  Talks between Vantone and San Francisco to develop  Pier 19 
are preliminary, said the people, who asked not to be identified
as the talks are private. Pier 19, a 206,000-square-foot (19,100
square meters) warehouse near Fisherman’s Wharf and Coit Tower,
could be used for offices, meeting rooms, galleries or a
hospitality center for Chinese business people after
renovations, one of the people said.  San Francisco’s discussions with the Beijing-based
developer follow private American investments in old piers and
warehouses along the city’s seven-mile waterfront. A $300
million  renovation  of Piers 15-17, next to the possible Vantone
site, is under way for the  Exploratorium Science Museum . The
 National Basketball Association ’s  Golden State Warriors  in May
proposed a $500 million arena at Piers 30-32.  Shares of the Chinese developer’s listed unit, Beijing
Vantone Real Estate Co.,  rose 1.2 percent  in Shanghai trading to
3.47  yuan , the highest close in three weeks. China’s benchmark
Shanghai Composite Index gained 0.2 percent.  The Port of San Francisco, the city agency that oversees
development and leasing of waterfront properties, estimates the
piers and warehouses need a total of $2 billion in seismic and
structural repairs.  Chinese Loan  Last week, San Francisco Mayor Edwin Lee said China
Development Bank Corp. is close to providing a $1.7 billion loan
for the Hunters Point and Treasure Island development sites
controlled by Miami-based  Lennar Corp. (LEN)   Renee Dunn, spokeswoman for the  Port of San Francisco ,
declined to comment on any plans for Pier 19. Shirley Xie, a
public relations official at Vantone, said she had not heard
about such discussions. Pier 19 is currently empty.  Vantone in 2009 signed the lease for a  “China Center”  at
 New York ’s One World Trade Center that will have 200,000 square
feet of space to host events, conferences and virtual offices
when completed, according to its website.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Steven Yang in Beijing at 
 kyang74@bloomberg.net ;
Dan Levy in San Francisco at 
 dlevy13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  