-- China’s Rule of Law Scrutinized as Gu’s Murder Trial Begins
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-08-09T06:05:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-08/china-s-rule-of-law-scrutinized-as-bo-s-wife-begins-murder-trial.html
China ’s trial of the wife of ousted
Politburo member Bo Xilai for murder is shining a light on flaws
in the legal system, with state media saying the case is both
irrefutable and proof that rule of law is enhancing fairness.  Gu Kailai is accused of murdering British businessman Neil
Heywood in the southwestern city of Chongqing once ruled by her
husband. Her trial, to be attended by two British diplomatic
representatives, is being held 1,059 kilometers (658 miles) away
in the eastern city of Hefei, where the aftermath of Typhoon
Haikui today lashed the city with rain and wind. Police blocked
access roads with plastic cones and kept media behind a cordon
about 50 meters from the court.  The state-run Global Times says the trial will strengthen
the Chinese people’s confidence in the legal system, showing
that nobody is above the law regardless of their status or
power. While that message is aimed at bolstering trust in the
ruling Communist Party ahead of a once-in-a-decade leadership
transition later this year, few will be convinced that politics
haven’t played a role, said Beijing-based legal analyst Randy
Peerenboom.  “The whole thing is already too compromised and dominated
by politics to persuade anybody,” said Peerenboom, who has
written books about China and the rule of law. “I don’t think
there are many people who think this is going to be handled
fully in accordance with all of the legal stipulations in
criminal procedure without political intervention.”  Death Sentence  The political context of the case and the manner in which
court proceedings are conducted in China all point to a
predetermined guilty verdict, say Peerenboom, an associate
fellow at the Oxford University  Centre for Socio-Legal Studies ,
and Donald Clarke, a law professor at George Washington
University.  “We shouldn’t be expecting any Perry Mason-like surprises
at the trial,” said Clarke, referring to the fictional defense
attorney created by author Erle Stanley Gardner. “The system
isn’t designed for the discovery of truth at the trial stage.
Any chance she had of showing her innocence should have happened
before the trial.” Clarke said he expected Gu would be given a
suspended death sentence.  The spokesman’s office of the Supreme People’s Court didn’t
respond to a voicemail and a faxed request for comment. The
Hefei Intermediate People’s Court didn’t reply to a request sent
by e-mail.  Court Security  The trial is the culmination of a drama that began in
February when the former police chief of Chongqing fled to the
U.S. Consulate in Chengdu with evidence implicating Gu in
Heywood’s murder, according to U.S. officials briefed on the
matter. The diplomatic furor sparked by the incident presaged
Bo’s ouster as Chongqing party chief in March and China’s
biggest political scandal in decades.  Outside the court a middle-aged lady with short gray hair
and wearing Bermuda shorts and a T-shirt was grabbed by security
personnel and driven away in an unmarked car after she shouted,
“I’m a normal Anhui, Hefei resident. I want to see fairness and
justice.”  Another woman who said she came to support Gu was turned
back after trying to enter the court.  About 30 security personnel stood in front of the court in
black raincoats amid heavy rain and wind. A dozen cameras were
set up behind the security cordon to film the event.  Gang of Four  For the wife of a Politburo member to be tried for
murdering a foreigner is unparalleled in Chinese history, said
Minxin Pei, a government professor at  Claremont McKenna College 
in  California . Only the prosecution of Jiang Qing, Gang of Four
leader and the last wife of former leader  Mao Zedong , has any
similarities, he said.  The trial is likely to be swift. Gu’s hearing won’t last
more than two days and could be wrapped up in half a day, said
Lv Guoyu, a Beijing-based lawyer who represented  Gome Electrical
Appliances Holding Ltd. (493)  founder  Huang Guangyu  in his appeal
against his insider trading conviction in 2010.  “Murder is a very simple crime under Chinese law,” said
Lv. “There’s not a lot of evidence to be presented in murder
cases. It’s just the facts of the death, the defendant’s
statement, witness statements, the autopsy report.”  Gu, 53, once a well-known lawyer, is accused along with
family employee Zhang Xiaojun of poisoning Heywood because of a
conflict over “economic interests,” and because she was
worried that Heywood was a threat to the “personal security”
of her son, Bo Guagua, Xinhua reported July 26.  Son’s Statement  Bo Guagua yesterday said he had submitted a witness
statement in his mother’s case,  CNN  reported, citing an emailed
comment. He said he had written a statement because he had been
cited as a motivating factor for the crimes of which his mother
is accused, CNN said.  Xinhua said prosecutors interrogated Gu and Zhang, and
“heard the opinions of the defense team.” China had initially
told U.K. authorities that Heywood died of alcohol poisoning.  Jiang Min, a Hefei-based lawyer who the U.K.’s Guardian
newspaper said was assigned by the court to represent Gu, didn’t
answer two calls to his cell phone. A woman at Beijing Zong Heng
Law Firm, who only gave her name as Peng when reached by phone,
said Shen Zhigeng, whom  Agence France-Presse  said was hired by
Gu’s family to represent her, wasn’t accepting any media
inquiries about the case.  Murder Focus  The Chinese leadership wants Gu’s trial to focus on the
alleged murder and not on corruption, Robert L. Kuhn, author of
the book “How China’s Leaders Think,” said on Bloomberg
Television.  “The significant issue from the party’s point of view is
to contain any criticism of corruption,” he said. “Corruption
leads to a great deal of further inquiry and further questions
whereas murder speaks for itself and can be contained.”  Gu’s sisters controlled a web of businesses from Beijing to
Hong Kong to the Caribbean worth at least $126 million,
regulatory and corporate filings show.  The handling of the case has triggered criticism from
international jurists. There’s no sign the authorities are
adhering to laws that give the accused the right to see their
lawyers, said Jerome Cohen, a law professor at  New York
University .  “Gu has been alone with her accusers for months,” said
Cohen. The case has shown “how limited the meaning of the rule
of law is in China,” he said.  Clarke said the choice of Hefei as the location for the
trial “has no basis in China’s Criminal Procedure Law, which
generally requires” that a case be heard either in the place
where the crime was committed or where the defendant lives.  ‘Neutral Ground’  “I think the central government picked Anhui because the
leaders consider us dependable,” said Chu Xian, 26, who works
as a traffic planner. “And Hefei is considered neutral ground
for the case,” said Chu, who was sitting in a Starbucks coffee
shop drinking a green tea latte with his girlfriend yesterday
evening.  “We talk about it over meals among friends, but I don’t
think about it too much,” Chu said of the case. “It doesn’t
affect the lives of us common folk.”  China’s judiciary isn’t independent from the ruling party,
with party officials and government bureaucrats sitting on
political-legal committees supervising the work of the police,
prosecutors and the courts.  The country’s 1979 criminal law was overhauled for the
second time in March to include new provisions for the
protection of human rights as a principle of law. Other
amendments include excluding the use of confessions obtained by
torture or violence, and removing restrictions on defense
lawyers’ access to defendants.  ‘Sordid Chapter’  China’s state-run media says Gu’s trial will bolster faith
in the country’s judicial system.  “A trial held according to law will strengthen the Chinese
people’s confidence in the country’s legal system,”  the state-
run Global Times newspaper wrote July 27. “We believe the court
can live up to the expectations of the public and deliver a fair
trial.”  China’s leaders have also tried to ring-fence the scandal,
presenting it as the solitary case of an errant senior official.  “The party just cannot wait to get this case behind it,”
said Pei. “It’s a very sordid chapter in its history.”  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Kevin Hamlin in Beijing at 
 khamlin@bloomberg.net ;
Debra Mao in  Hong Kong  at 
 dmao5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net ;
Douglas Wong at 
 dwong19@bloomberg.net  