-- China Bonds Snap Four-Day Drop on Prospects for Monetary Easing
-- B y   K y o u n g w h a   K i m
-- 2012-08-08T08:36:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-08/china-bonds-snap-four-day-drop-on-prospects-for-monetary-easing.html
China ’s five-year government bonds
rose, snapping a four-day decline, on speculation the central
bank will cut the reserve requirement for lenders or lower
 interest rates  as the world’s second-largest economy slows.  A government report tomorrow may show consumer prices
increased 1.7 percent in July from a year earlier, the least
since January 2010, according to the median estimate in a
Bloomberg News survey. The moderation in inflation in recent
months provides “bigger” room for monetary policy, according
to a front-page commentary in today’s Financial News, a
newspaper owned by the central bank.  “A reserve-requirement cut is long overdue,” said Suan Teck Kin, an economist at United Overseas Bank Ltd. in  Singapore .
“That may come after the release of data as policy makers are
still assessing the situation.”  The yield on the 3.14 percent bonds due February 2017 fell
three basis points, or 0.03 percentage point, to 2.81 percent in
 Shanghai , according to the National Interbank Funding Center.  China’s economy  expanded 7.6 percent in the second quarter
from a year earlier, the least since March 2009. Another
government report tomorrow may show retail sales rose last month
at the slowest pace since February 2011, according to a separate
Bloomberg survey.  Bond Auction  The economic slowdown isn’t temporary and constitutes a
trend, Li Zuojun, vice director of resources and environment at
the State Council’s development research center, wrote in the
Shanghai Securities News today. Annual growth may ease to about
7 to 8 percent from 2016 to 2020 and to 5 to 6 percent from 2020
to 2030, according to the article.  China sold at least 30 billion  yuan  ($4.7 billion) of
seven-year bonds at a yield of 3.1561 percent today, said a
trader at a  finance company  that participates in the auctions.
That compares with the median estimate in a Bloomberg survey of
3.14 percent.  The People’s Bank of China also gauged demand for a sale of
seven-day reverse-repurchase agreements tomorrow, according to a
trader at a primary dealer required to bid at the auctions.  The  seven-day repurchase rate , which measures interbank
funding availability, increased one basis point to 3.26 percent
in Shanghai, a weighted average compiled by the Interbank
Funding Center shows. The one-year interest-rate swap, the fixed
cost to receive the seven-day repo, rose three basis points to
2.81 percent, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Kyoungwha Kim in Singapore at 
 kkim19@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net . 