-- China Compassion for Liu Prevails After Olympic Hurdler Tumbles
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-08-08T06:42:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-08/china-compassion-for-liu-prevails-after-olympic-hurdler-tumbles.html
Praise and compassion in  China  for
hurdler Liu Xiang overwhelmed criticism after one of the faces
of the Beijing Games four years ago suffered his second straight
disaster on the Olympic track.  Liu, 29, crashed at the first barrier in the 110-meter
hurdles heats at the London games yesterday before being helped
off by fellow competitors. At Beijing’s Bird’s Nest stadium in
2008, he pulled up with an Achilles injury during the warmup for
his opening heat and withdrew.  “Yes, Liu Xiang failed,” the Beijing Morning Post said
today in a commentary. At the same time, it can’t be forgotten
that Liu also “corrected” the idea that Asians can’t excel at
track and field. “It’s him that lifted the Chinese men’s 110
meter hurdles to new heights,” according to the article.  Liu, who won the gold medal at the 2004 Olympics in  Athens ,
hopped alongside the track on one leg after crashing out of
yesterday’s race. He stopped to kiss the last hurdle before
being helped into a wheelchair.  While there is some resentment in China at another failure,
“there’s more salutation, understanding and compassion,” the
Beijing News said in an editorial about Liu.  “What Liu Xiang did reflected the true Olympic spirit,”
Feng Shuyong, head coach of China’s track and field team, told
the official Xinhua News Agency. “To win is not so important,
participation is what matters.”  Achilles Again  Liu probably ruptured his Achilles while taking off from
the starting blocks, Xinhua cited Feng as saying. Intensive
training in the games lead up may have caused a recurrence of
the injury he suffered four years ago, Feng added.  The reaction to Liu’s injury contrasted with the criticism
prompted by Chinese badminton players Yu Yang and Wang Xiaoli,
who were thrown out of the London Olympics for deliberately
playing poorly. Yu and Wang were ordered to issue public
apologies and Xinhua cited the Chinese delegation as saying
their attempt to manipulate future match ups by losing
“violated” the Olympic spirit.  Aries Merritt of the U.S. qualified quickest for today’s
110-meter hurdles semifinals in a time of 13.07 seconds, the
fastest opening 110-meter hurdles heat in Olympics history. The
final is also scheduled for today.  Jamaica’s  Usain Bolt , who returned to the track yesterday
in the 200-meter heats after defending his 100-meter title three
days ago, commiserated with Liu, who finished second at the 2011
World Championships and trailed only Merritt in the  top times 
this year.  “It must be hard for that to happen for the second time in
a row,” Bolt, 25, said to reporters about Liu after winning his
heat. “He’s a true champion. It’s so sad for him.”  Taped Up  Liu’s face was one of the most widely seen in the buildup
to the Beijing games, where concerns over his fitness dominated
the news. He had surgery in the U.S. and returned to the sport
in 2010 after changing his technique out of the blocks. He was
hampered by back and foot injuries in the past month, and had
his right Achilles taped up yesterday before starting the race.  “It’s a shame it happened to Liu,” said Merritt. “I
don’t think anything was wrong before the race. He looked OK.
You make a mistake, you’re out of the game.”  To be sure, some Chinese have been speculating on a more
sinister explanation for the latest injury. Possible reasons for
his tumble posted on Twitter-like microblogging services in
China have ranged from the hurdler’s fear of failure to
commercial manipulation and conspiracy.  Those theories are unjustified, according to a commentary
in the Tianjin Daily.  “Does Liu Xiang really need this gold medal to prove his
greatness? Why would he need to fake an injury?” the Tianjin
Daily’s commentary said. “The most important thing in life is
not triumph, but the fight. From that point, Liu Xiang is
successful, and he remains a man the Chinese are proud of and a
legend that foreigners respect.”  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Zhang Dingmin in Beijing at 
 dzhang14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  