-- Citigroup Sells $158 Million of Mortgages to Fund Venture
-- B y   D o n a l   G r i f f i n   a n d   J o h n   G i t t e l s o h n
-- 2012-08-08T21:47:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-08/citigroup-sells-158-million-of-mortgages-to-fund-venture.html
Citigroup Inc. (C) , the third-biggest
 U.S. bank  by assets, sold $158 million of mortgages to a joint
venture of two investment funds as the lender disposes of
unwanted home loans.  The partnership of  Oaktree Capital Group LLC (OAK)  and Carrington
Holding Co. bought the loans under a program to offer delinquent
borrowers an opportunity to rent their homes as an alternative
to foreclosure and eviction, the three companies said in a
statement.  Mark Rodgers , a spokesman for New York-based
Citigroup, declined to comment on the purchase price.  Citigroup Chief Executive Officer  Vikram Pandit  is reducing
the bank’s U.S. mortgage portfolio as part of his strategy to
offload unwanted assets from the Citi Holdings division, which
had  $100 billion  of home loans in North America at the end of
June. The bank sold $500 million of delinquent mortgages in the
second quarter, the bank said last month.  “CitiMortgage remains committed to finding solutions that
can ease the burdens of distressed homeowners,” Sanjiv Das,
head of the bank’s mortgage unit, said in the statement. “The
Home Rental Program offers eligible borrowers an option to
remain in their homes while avoiding the disruption of
foreclosure.”  The portfolio, sold in June, has about 500 loans with an
average balance of about $316,000, according to  Rick Sharga ,
vice president at Carrington, based in Santa Ana, California.
Borrowers will first be offered loan modifications, including
possible principal reductions, before they surrender title to
the homes and qualify to rent back the properties, he said.  ‘Ideal’ Program  “This is ideal for a family who’s unable to make their
mortgage payments but wants to stay in the same home,” Sharga
said in a telephone interview.  Candidates must be behind on payments for more than 120
days to enter the program, the companies said. Bank of America
Corp., the second-largest U.S. bank by assets, started a program
in March allowing delinquent borrowers to rent their homes.  Oaktree Capital is the world’s largest distressed-debt
investor. The Los Angeles-based firm, founded by  Howard Marks ,
had $78.7 billion of assets under management at the end of June,
according to the statement. Carrington is run by hedge fund
manager Bruce Rose.  The rental program will be tested in six markets that have
been hit by the housing crisis, including Arizona, California,
Florida, Georgia, Nevada and Texas, according to the statement.  Oaktree agreed in January to finance Carrington’s purchase
of as much as $450 million in foreclosed homes to manage as
rentals, a separate pool of money from the Citigroup portfolio,
Sharga said. Carrington currently manages about 4,200 rental
homes, which it either owns or oversees for clients such as
mortgage financier  Fannie Mae .  “Offering alternatives for borrowers looking to stay in
their homes and simultaneously relieving their distress is core
to the operating principles of our firm and will help
substantially in the overall housing market recovery,” Rose
said in the statement.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Donal Griffin in  New York  at 
 dgriffin10@bloomberg.net ;
John Gittelsohn in  Los Angeles  at 
 johngitt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  