-- Citigroup to Move Tokyo Retail Bank Headquarters to Shinjuku
-- B y   T a k a h i k o   H y u g a
-- 2012-08-08T04:52:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-08/citigroup-to-move-tokyo-retail-bank-headquarters-to-shinjuku-1-.html
Citigroup Inc. (C)  will move its  Japan 
retail banking unit’s headquarters to  Tokyo ’s Shinjuku district
from Shinagawa in 2014 to increase floor space and cut costs,
according to an internal memo obtained by Bloomberg News.  Staff at the retail banking and credit card businesses will
start moving around July 2014 to  Shinjuku Eastside Square , which
was completed this year, from the 20-year-old Sea Fort Square,
according to the memo. Mika Nemoto, a Tokyo-based spokeswoman,
confirmed the contents of the document.  Citigroup joins Morgan Stanley in relocating to new
buildings in Tokyo’s business centers. Rents in Japan’s capital
have fallen to 16,763 yen ($213) per tsubo (35.5 square feet) in
June from 17,292 yen a year earlier, according to Miki Shoji
Co., a Tokyo-based office brokerage firm.  “The much larger floor size of Shinjuku Eastside Square
will allow more groups to sit on the same floor, enhancing
teamwork, efficiency,” Citigroup Japan Holdings Corp. Chief
Executive Officer Peter Eliot said in the memo addressed to
employees in Japan.  Tokyo’s Shinjuku ward is home to the city’s government seat
and the world’s busiest train station. An average of 3.64
million passengers pass through Shinjuku Station daily,
according to  Guinness World Records .  Morgan Stanley (MS)  is planning to move its Japan operations to
the city’s Otemachi business district from Ebisu by early 2014
because rents are “attractive,” according to a memo obtained
by Bloomberg News in April.  Citibank Japan Ltd.  had 3.5 trillion yen of deposits as of
March 31, according to its website. It has 1,800 employees and
38 branches.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Takahiko Hyuga in Tokyo at 
 thyuga@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  