-- Cnooc Bid for Nexen Presses Harper Amid Investor Concern
-- B y   A n d r e w   M a y e d a   a n d   T h e o p h i l o s   A r g i t i s
-- 2012-08-08T20:13:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-08/cnooc-bid-for-nexen-presses-harper-amid-investor-concern.html
Prime Minister  Stephen Harper  and his
cabinet are wrestling with how to handle the proposed takeover
of Calgary-based  Nexen Inc. (NXY)  by  China ’s  Cnooc Ltd. (883)  as some
investors anticipate  Canada  will block the bid.  Cnooc’s $15.1 billion agreement to buy Nexen will be part
of the discussions when Harper meets his ministers in Ottawa
today, according to a person with knowledge of the matter who
spoke on condition he not be identified because the talks aren’t
public.  The state-owned company’s bid, which the U.S. is also
studying, tests Harper’s ability to balance the need to bolster
economic relations with China while ensuring the Asian country
doesn’t gain too much influence over the  oil sands , the world’s
third-largest pool of oil reserves. Options for Harper include
capping investments by Chinese enterprises or placing strict
conditions on their operations in Canada as allowed under the
country’s foreign investment law.  Jack Mintz , a member of Finance Minister  Jim Flaherty ’s
council of economic advisers, favors the first option.  “You could see with the amount of capital that’s available
from China and some of the other Asian countries that they could
be back looking at mining companies, they could be back looking
at oil and gas companies, and even bigger ones than Nexen,”
Mintz said yesterday in a telephone interview.  “What’s our policy going to be in the longer run?” said
Mintz, who is also director of the University of Calgary’s
School of Public Policy and a board member of  Imperial Oil Ltd. (IMO) ,
the Canadian unit of Irving, Texas-based  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM)   Below Offer  Concerns that the deal may not get government approval have
kept Nexen’s  stock  below Cnooc’s $27.50 per-share takeover bid.
The shares reached as high as $26.21 in New York trading the day
after the July 23 bid was announced, and fell 0.2 percent to
$25.72 at the close today.  Based on the closing price, the shares were trading at a
6.9 percent discount to the offer, the biggest of any Canadian
takeover target valued at $1 billion or more, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Nexen’s oil and gas assets include production platforms in
the  North Sea , the U.S. portion of the  Gulf of Mexico  and in
Nigeria, as well as oil-sands reserves at Long Lake, Alberta,
where it already produces crude in a joint venture with Cnooc.
Those assets produced 207,000 barrels a day in the second
quarter, which would boost the Beijing-based company’s output by
about 20 percent. The acquisition would augment Cnooc’s position
in the oil sands after last year’s $2.4 billion purchase of Opti
Canada Inc.  Regulatory Risk  The Nexen takeover needs approval from regulators in
Canada, and the U.S., where the Committee on Foreign Investment
in the United States examines whether foreign purchases of U.S.
assets raise security risks. Senator  Charles Schumer  of New York
has already asked  Timothy Geithner , chairman of CFIUS, to block
the deal until China gives U.S. companies more access to its
market.  Sam La Bell, a research analyst at Veritas Investment
Research Corp. in Toronto, said the U.S. poses a greater
regulatory risk for the bid.  “There is an increasing sense that there could be delays
in closing the deal due to regulatory issues,” La Bell said
yesterday by phone, citing concerns raised by Schumer.  The Canadian government may have fewer requests for
reciprocity, La Bell said.  ‘One-Way Investment’  “We’re happy having the one-way investment coming into
Canada,” he said. “We’d like to make investments in China but
it would never be on the same scale as the U.S.”  Under the  Investment Canada Act , the federal government
reviews acquisitions worth more than C$330 million ($332
million) in assets to determine if they represent a “net
benefit” to the nation. Under the law, the government can force
companies to make written commitments before it agrees to the
deal.  Harper said yesterday the government will thoroughly
analyze Cnooc’s proposal once it submits the bid for review
under the foreign-takeover legislation.  “There is a process in place through the Investment Canada
Act to review this transaction and determine if it is a net
benefit to Canada,” Carl Vallee, Harper’s press secretary, said
in an e-mail. “This transaction will be scrutinized very
closely.” He declined to comment on cabinet discussions.  Potash Precedent  Harper’s government rejected a $40 billion hostile bid by
Melbourne-based  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP)  for  Potash Corp. of
Saskatchewan Inc.  in 2010, in what was only the second rejection
of a foreign takeover in Canada in 25 years.  Harper said Jan. 26 in a speech in Davos, Switzerland, that
diversifying Canada’s energy exports to Asia had become a
“national priority” in a bid to reduce the country’s reliance
on the U.S., and he traveled to China in February with a
delegation of business executives. Canada sent 98.5 percent of
the crude oil it exported last year to the U.S., according to
National Energy Board data.  In February, Canada and China concluded negotiations on an
 agreement  that would protect foreign investors from
discrimination by either country’s government.  Canadian officials, including Trade Minister Ed Fast, also
have pressed China to ease restrictions in sectors such as
financial services and mining.  ‘Same Access’  “This lack of openness is an obvious source of frustration
for Canadian investors, particularly given the recent dramatic
increase in Chinese investment in Canada,”  John Manley , a
former foreign minister who heads the Canadian Council of Chief
Executives, an industry group of the country’s top CEOs, said in
a Nov. 21 speech in Beijing. “Canadian investors ought to be
afforded the same access to China that Chinese investors are
afforded.”  China’s Ministry of Commerce has yet to receive notice of
any reciprocity requests from its Canadian counterpart and will
not take action unless Canada raises the issue, a Chinese
ministerial official said today by telephone. The official, who
answered the commerce ministry spokesman’s office line, declined
to be named, citing internal policies.  Peter Hunt, a Calgary-based Cnooc spokesman, declined to
comment on the reciprocity issue in an e-mailed response to
questions yesterday. Davis Sheremata, a Nexen spokesman,
declined to comment on the matter when reached by phone.  Direct Investment  Canadian direct investment in China was C$4.5 billion in
2011, less than 1 percent of Canada’s total, according to
 Statistics Canada . Chinese investment in Canada totaled C$10.9
billion last year, about 1.8 percent of the total.  The Canadian government should push for an investment
treaty that would require China to automatically approve foreign
takeovers by Canadian companies of equivalent size to the Nexen
acquisition,  Roger Martin , dean of the University of Toronto’s
Rotman School of Management,  argued  in an article published in
the Globe and Mail on July 26.  “If the answer is no, we should turn down the Nexen
acquisition on the principle of the absence of reciprocity,” he
said in the article.  The rejection of the Potash Corp. takeover has increased
uncertainty among investors about what kind of foreign
acquisitions Canada will accept, said  John McCallum , a Liberal
lawmaker.  The government could use the foreign-investment treaty it
plans to sign with China as a way to implement “some form of
reciprocity,” McCallum, a former defense minister and former
chief economist at Royal Bank of Canada, said by phone.  ‘Five Words’  “I met  Hu Jintao  once, and he said five words to me, ‘We
like your oil sands,’” McCallum said last week of the Chinese
president. “The fact they’re asking us to accept a $15 billion
investment sort of gives us the right to say, ’OK, we just want
the same treatment.’”  Enforcing reciprocity with China would be tricky, said
 Lawrence Herman , a lawyer at Cassels Brock & Blackwell LLP in
Toronto who specializes in international trade.  “Are we talking about reciprocity in general terms, or are
we talking about equivalent treatment in the same sector under
the same or equivalent circumstances involving the same or
similar kinds of investors?” Herman said in a telephone
interview.  Inserting a reciprocity clause into any trade treaty with
China may also violate international trade laws, since Canada
would enjoy access to the Chinese market that other countries do
not, Herman said.  “If the government of Canada is concerned about
reciprocity or the lack thereof in any kind of foreign
acquisition, it should state the policy openly before the
investment is made so that the world knows that there is a
requirement for some kind of balanced treatment for Canadian
investors,” Herman said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrew Mayeda in Ottawa at 
 amayeda@bloomberg.net ;
Theophilos Argitis in Ottawa at 
 targitis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jacqueline Thorpe at 
 jthorpe23@bloomberg.net ;
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  