-- Commodity Rally Boosts ADRs as CTC Advances: Russia Overnight
-- B y   H a l i a   P a v l i v a
-- 2012-08-08T21:40:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-08/commodity-rally-boosts-adrs-as-ctc-advances-russia-overnight.html
Russian stocks  traded in New York
gained as commodities climbed to a three-month high while CTC
Media Inc. rallied after JPMorgan Chase & Co. recommended
investors buy the stock.  The  Bloomberg Russia-US Equity Index (RUS14BN)  of the most-traded
Russian companies in New York increased for a fourth day, adding
0.2 percent to 94.29. CTC Media, the owner of the country’s
fifth most-watched television channel, posted the longest string
of gains in two weeks after JPMorgan boosted its recommendation
on the shares to overweight from underweight. Futures expiring
in September on the dollar-denominated RTS index lost 0.1
percent to 143,810.  The Standard & Poor’s GSCI Spot Index of 24 raw materials
climbed to the highest level since May 3 on prospects policy
makers around the world will take further steps to boost their
economies after German industrial production declined and as
 China  may report today that inflation slowed.  Russia , the
world’s largest producer of nickel and palladium, received last
year about half of its 2011 budget revenue from sales of oil and
natural gas.  “When people believe oil and commodities are to gain
further, they buy Russian equities,” Andrei Bogdanov, who helps
manage $8 billion in Russian equities and bonds at OAO
Gazprombank, said in a telephone interview from Moscow
yesterday. “The markets are already expecting new stimulus
measures, although it’s still a question in what form and when
those measures will be approved.”  The  Market Vectors Russia ETF (RSX) , the biggest U.S.-traded
exchange-traded fund that holds Russian shares, dropped 0.1
percent to $27.83. The RTS Volatility Index, which measures
expected swings in the index futures, rose 2 percent to 29.51.  ‘Undervalued Growth Story’  JPMorgan raised its recommendation on  CTC Media (CTCM)  shares
yesterday, following the company’s decision to target a
different television audience next year in a bid to attract more
advertisers.  “CTC Media appears to be an undervalued growth story
exposed to the Russian consumer,” Alexei Gogolev, an analyst at
JPMorgan in Moscow, wrote in an e-mailed report yesterday.  CTC TV will tailor its content to viewers ages 10 to 45
compared with the current 6 to 54 starting in January 2013,
Chief Executive Officer Boris Podolsky told analysts in a
conference call on Aug. 7. Peretz, another TV channel the
company owns, will target viewers ages 24 to 45, compared with
the current 25 to 59, he said.  “Potential improvement in the audience share coupled with
the ruble strengthening is expected to lead to consensus
upgrades and recovery of the sentiment making the stock an
interesting small cap idea,” Gogolev wrote.  Currency Forwards  Investors cut bets yesterday the ruble will weaken, with
non-deliverable forwards showing the currency at 32.0289 per
dollar in three months, compared with expectations of 32.0850
per dollar the previous day.  Urals crude , Russia’s major export blend of oil, added 0.2
percent to $112.19 per barrel yesterday, the highest since May
3. Brent for September settlement climbed 0.1 percent to $112.14
a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures Europe exchange.  The Standard & Poor’s GSCI Spot Index gained 0.2 percent to
658.72.  Oil for September delivery fell 0.3 percent to $93.35 a
barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange . Prices have fallen
5.5 percent this year.  Uzbekistan  American depositary receipts  OAO Mobile TeleSystems (MBT) ,
Russia’s biggest mobile phone company, advanced 1 percent to
$19.14. The stock gained 0.2 percent to 243.15 rubles, or $7.71,
in Moscow. One ADR equals two shares.  The company, known as MTS, said its conflict with
authorities in Uzbekistan has intensified as antitrust divisions
said its unit needs to pay more than $80 million. MTS said it
will challenge the decision.  “MTS views these proceedings as an unwarranted attack on
MTS’s legitimate investments, which is being orchestrated by
certain influential entities in Uzbekistan,” Joshua Tulgan, the
director of investment relations at MTS, said in a statement
yesterday.  Uzbekistan accounted for 2.5 percent of MTS’s operating
income in 2011, with Russia dominating 91 percent of earnings,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Halia Pavliva in  New York  at 
 hpavliva@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tal Barak Harif at 
 tbarak@bloomberg.net  