-- Companies in Asia Halt Note Sales Ahead of Earnings Results
-- B y   T a n y a   A n g e r e r
-- 2012-08-08T07:23:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-08/companies-in-asia-halt-note-sales-ahead-of-earnings-results.html
Companies in Asia eschewed dollar-
denominated debt sales ahead of earnings results announcements.
Bond risk fell in the region outside of Australia.  No companies from the Asia-Pacific region have offered
notes since Aug. 6, when  Westpac Banking Corp. (WBC) , the Australian
lender that ranks among the 20 most-active debt issuers globally
this year, sold $1.25 billion of securities, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. China Petrochemical Corp., known as
Sinopec Group, and  Sound Global Ltd. (SGL)  priced $650 million of
bonds the same day.  “Dollar issuance has stopped because many companies are
waiting to announce their results,” said Annisa Lee, a Hong
Kong-based credit analyst at Nomura Holdings Inc. “China’s
property companies and state-owned enterprises are expected to
come out with dollar or Dim Sum deals soon.”  Rio Tinto Plc (RIO) , the world’s second-biggest shipper of iron
ore, said today that first-half profit dropped 22 percent after
prices for iron ore, copper and aluminum fell and costs gained.
 PCCW Ltd. (8) , the Hong Kong-based phone company controlled by
billionaire  Richard Li , will release its results Aug. 10. Asian
stocks rose for a third day as speculation mounted central banks
will take steps to spur growth and better-than-forecast U.S.
corporate earnings boosted the outlook for the economy.  Dim Sum bonds are yuan-denominated securities sold in  Hong
Kong .  Australia & New Zealand Banking Group Ltd. (ANZ)  began marketing
a sale of about 1 billion yuan of the notes today at a yield of
around 2.9 percent, according to a person familiar with the
matter, who declined to be identified because the details are
private.  Growth, Jobs  The Markit iTraxx Asia index of 40 investment-grade
borrowers outside Japan decreased 2 basis points to 148.5 as of
1:50 p.m. in Singapore, Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc prices
show. The gauge is set for the lowest close since March 21,
according to CMA. A drop signals improving perceptions of
creditworthiness, while an increase suggests the opposite.  More than 70 percent of the S&P 500 companies which
reported second-quarter results beat estimates, data compiled by
Bloomberg show. Optimism also rose as Federal Reserve Bank of
Boston President  Eric Rosengren  told CNBC yesterday the central
bank should pursue an “open-ended” easing program of
“substantial magnitude” to boost growth and hiring amid the
global slowdown.  In Europe, Luxembourg Prime Minister  Jean-Claude Juncker 
said a Greek exit from the euro area would be “manageable.”  The Markit iTraxx Japan index fell 9 basis points to 196
basis points as of 2:36 p.m. in Tokyo, Citigroup Inc. prices
show. A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  The Markit iTraxx Australia index rose 1 basis point to
158.5 basis points as of 10:10 a.m. in Sydney, Westpac prices
show. The gauge changed direction yesterday after falling 12.4
basis points over the two previous trading days to 155.9, its
lowest since May 3, according to data provider CMA.  Credit-default swap indexes are benchmarks for insuring
bonds against default and traders use them to speculate on
 credit quality . The swap contracts pay the buyer face value in
exchange for the underlying securities if a borrower fails to
meet its debt agreements.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tanya Angerer in Singapore at 
 tangerer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shelley Smith at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  