-- Computer Sciences Gains After Topping Analysts’ Estimates
-- B y   S a r a h   F r i e r
-- 2012-08-08T20:13:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-08/computer-sciences-gains-after-topping-analysts-estimates-1-.html
Computer Sciences Corp. (CSC) , a technology
contractor for government and corporate customers, rose the most
in six months after topping estimates with its quarterly results
and annual forecast.  CSC  gained  16 percent to $29.53 at the close in New York,
the biggest increase since Feb. 8 -- the day after a new chief
executive officer was appointed to turn the company around. The
shares have advanced 25 percent this year as the company
recovers from a U.K. health-contract dispute and regulatory
probes into its accounting.  CEO Mike Lawrie, in his first few months in the role, is
cutting about $1 billion in expenses over the next 18 months as
he focuses more on profitability than revenue growth. He’s also
trying to centralize the  Falls Church , Virginia-based company’s
operations around types of business, rather than geographies.  “We are beginning to see some early signs of improving
financial performance,” Lawrie said on a conference call. “We
have now begun the initial implementation phases of a much
simpler and clearer operating model.”  The company predicted that earnings for the full year will
be $2.10 to $2.30 a share. Analysts estimated $1.98 on average,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  CSC also is moving toward a tentative agreement with the
U.K’s  National Health Service , after writing off almost $1.5
billion of a disputed contract, Lawrie said on the call. Once an
accord is reached, it will need government approval, he said.  Meanwhile, CSC has completed an independent audit
investigation into its accounting practices, he said. It found
no additional material accounting errors. CSC said it will
continue to cooperate with a separate Securities and Exchange
Commission investigation into the matter.  First-quarter net income fell to $40 million, or 26 cents a
share, from $183 million, or $1.17, a year earlier, CSC said
today. Analysts had estimated 22 cents on average, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. Sales dropped 1.9 percent to $3.96
billion, in line with projections.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Frier in  New York  at 
 sfrier1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at   nturner7@bloomberg.net  