-- Congo Rebels Strengthen Hand as Summit Fails to End Conflict
-- B y   F r a n z   W i l d   a n d   F r e d   O j a m b o
-- 2012-08-09T06:48:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-08/congolese-rebels-strengthen-hand-as-summit-fails-to-end-conflict.html
The  Democratic Republic  of Congo and
Rwanda failed to resolve a border-region dispute at a meeting
yesterday, strengthening the position held by rebels whose
insurgency has displaced hundreds of thousands of civilians.  After Congo accused Rwanda of supporting an ethnic Tutsi-
led rebellion in the east of the country, President  Joseph Kabila  and his Rwandan counterpart  Paul Kagame  held a three-day
summit with five other African leaders in Kampala, the capital
of  Uganda , which borders both countries.  They considered sanctions against the rebels, at least one
of whom is wanted for alleged  war crimes  by the  International
Criminal Court , and a neutral peacekeeping force as ways to
restore stability to the region. Another meeting is planned in
four weeks, Ugandan President  Yoweri Museveni  told reporters
yesterday in Kampala.  “They’ve kicked the can down the road again,” said Jason Stearns, who researches armed groups for the Nairobi-based Rift
Valley Institute and has written a book on Congo’s war called
Dancing in the Glory of Monsters. “There is a significant risk
that the initiative will not lead to any change on the ground
and that would allow for the rebels to make advances on the
ground to strengthen their negotiating position,” he said in an
interview yesterday.  Fighting resumed in Congo’s two eastern Kivu provinces in
April when M23, a group of former rebels headed by General Bosco Ntaganda, abandoned the army. Ntaganda is wanted by The Hague-
based ICC for allegedly recruiting child soldiers.  Minerals Trade  The insurrection poses a risk to the minerals trade in
eastern Congo, Barclays Plc said in a report today. Congo’s
largest tin-ore mine is located in North Kivu, and the province
has deposits of gold, coltan, a mineral used in laptops and
mobile phones, and tungsten.  “The DRC’s tin-mining sector in the Kivus is located in
the heart of the M23 insurgency; thus, there are clear risks to
the regional trade flows in minerals,” Barclays analysts said.  The U.S.,  Germany  and the U.K. suspended some aid to  Rwanda 
after United Nations researchers said Kagame’s administration is
backing rebel groups in violation of an arms embargo. Rwanda’s
economy doubled in size in the decade after Kagame came to power
in 2000. Foreign direct investment into the country jumped 57
percent to $626 million last year from 2010, according to the
Rwanda Development Board.  ‘International Condemnation’  Pressure on Rwanda is “starting to move in the right
direction, but it’s still not enough,” Guillaume Lacaille, who
has worked on Congo as a diplomat, a political adviser to the UN
and a researcher, since 2005. “Kagame’s partners are becoming
more and more frustrated with him so there is some pressure on
him now. If it goes on he could face much more international
condemnation,” he said in an Aug. 7 interview from  New York .  Rwanda denies it’s backing the rebels. Foreign Minister
Louise Mushikiwabo said in a submission to the  Security Council 
last month that the UN report is “made of fabricated lies.”
Rwanda has previously argued that Congo’s state is too weak to
protect it from ethnic Hutu fighters Rwanda says were involved
in the 1994 genocide that hide in the Kivu forests. At least
800,000 ethnic Tutsis and moderate Hutus were killed in the
genocide.  Kagame and Kabila are “on talking terms” and want the
crisis resolved, Uganda’s acting foreign minister, Henry Oryem Okello, told reporters after the summit ended yesterday.  Millions Displaced  The clashes have displaced about half a million people in
the region, according to the UN Refugee Agency. Rwanda invaded
Congo in 1996 and helped Kabila’s father topple former dictator
Mobutu Sese Seko in 1997. The UN has since repeatedly accused
Rwanda of supporting Congolese ethnic Tutsi rebels.  The rebellion is “a serious threat to regional security
and stability,” U.S. Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  said on
Aug. 7 in  Pretoria ,  South Africa . “It is imperative that we
move quickly to act on whatever decisions come out of the summit
in Kampala. There has been a steady trail of rampaging violence,
rape, killing and terrible human rights abuses over the last
several years by renegade criminal bands.”  The Congolese rebellion began after the government
discussed moving Tutsi army leaders out of the Kivus, a move
which threatened a parallel administration that helped Rwanda
maintain influence in the area, Stearns and Lacaille said.  “Rwanda is after maintaining a sphere of influence in
eastern Congo to protect is various interests,” Stearns said.
“What exactly those interests are, is hard to tell,” though
they range from security issues to economic interests, he said.  Rwanda relies on tea and coffee to generate most of its
foreign-exchange earnings.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Franz Wild in Johannesburg at 
 fwild@bloomberg.net ;
Fred Ojambo in  Kampala  at 
 fojambo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net ;
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  