-- Convicted Accountant Parse Seeks New Trial for Tax Fraud
-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s   a n d   D a v i d   G l o v i n
-- 2012-08-08T00:23:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-08/convicted-accountant-parse-seeks-new-trial-for-tax-fraud.html
David Parse, an accountant convicted
in what a judge called the biggest U.S. tax-fraud prosecution in
history, is seeking a new trial on the grounds that his lawyers
were inadequate.  U.S. District Judge William Pauley in June granted a new
trial for Parse’s three codefendants, after a juror disclosed
she had lied about her past including that she was an alcoholic
and a suspended attorney. Pauley let Parse’s conviction stand,
ruling that his lawyers, from the  New York  firm Brune & Richard
LLP, failed to reveal information they had about the juror,
Catherine Conrad, whom Pauley called a “pathological liar.”  “As the court found, a reasonably competent lawyer on
learning that Juror No. 1 might be a suspended lawyer with a
history of alcoholism would have taken some action to resolve
the issue,” Parse said in court papers filed today in  Manhattan 
federal court. “Choosing to do nothing was not a viable
option.”  In May 2011, the jury including Conrad returned guilty
verdicts against Paul Daugerdas and Donna Guerin, former Jenkens
& Gilchrist lawyers; Denis Field, the former chief executive
officer at accounting firm BDO Seidman LLP; and Parse, who
worked for  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  unit Alex. Brown. Craig Brubaker, a
second former Alex. Brown accountant, was found not guilty.  Pauley ruled that Conrad’s presence on the jury deprived
Parse’s codefendants of a fair trial. Parse’s lawyers waived the
issue by failing to alert the court of information it had about
Conrad, he ruled.  The 10-week tax fraud trial included 9,200 pages of
testimony from 41 witnesses. Lawyers introduced 1,300 pieces of
evidence.  The case is U.S. v. Daugerdas, 09-CR-581, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Bob Van Voris in New York at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net ;
David Glovin in New York at 
 dglovin@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  