-- Credit Swaps in U.S. Little Changed as Fisher Questions Stimulus
-- B y   B r o o k e   S u t h e r l a n d
-- 2012-08-08T20:48:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-08/credit-swaps-in-u-s-little-changed-as-fisher-questions-stimulus.html
A gauge of U.S. corporate debt risk
was little changed after Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas
President  Richard Fisher  said global central banks may not have
the capacity for more stimulus.  The Markit CDX North America Investment Grade Index, a
credit-default swaps benchmark used to hedge against losses on
corporate debt or to speculate on creditworthiness, decreased
0.3 basis point to a mid-price of 103 basis points at 3:15 p.m.
in New York, according to prices compiled by Bloomberg.
Contracts tied to  Dean Foods Co. (DF)  were poised to fall by the most
on record after its WhiteWave unit filed for a public offering.  Investors have speculated that central banks will unleash
new stimulus to shore up a weakening global economy that may
weigh on companies’ balance sheets and hamper their ability to
repay debt. Fisher, who doesn’t have a vote on the policy-
setting  Federal Open Market Committee  this year, said today in
an interview on “Bloomberg Surveillance” with  Tom Keene  and
Sara Eisen that the private sector must take the next steps to
boost growth to avoid “overburdening the central banks.”  Fisher’s opposition to more stimulus is “consistent” with
comments he has made before and has already been digested by
credit investors, Zane Brown, a fixed-income strategist at Lord
Abbett & Co. in  Jersey City ,  New Jersey , said in a telephone
interview. The economy is “certainly not as strong as any of us
would like it to be, certainly not as strong as the Fed would
like it to be, but it doesn’t guarantee that the Fed is going to
pursue” large-scale debt purchases, he said.  Quantitative Easing  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said last month the central
bank was ready to deliver more stimulus, including possible
quantitative easing, if economic conditions fail to improve.
European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  is seeking to buy
sovereign bonds and slow rising borrowing costs in Spain and
 Italy , a plan that Bundesbank President Jens Weidmann has
opposed, even as the German government gives it backing.  The policy impasses and the “wait-and-see approach with
Spain and Italy” will create further “volatility going
forward” in financial markets and the euro-area economy, Adrian Helfert, a Boulder, Colorado-based senior vice president at
Smith Breeden Associates who helps oversee $6.4 billion, said in
a telephone interview.  Data today showed German exports dropped more than
economists had estimated in June, slipping 1.5 percent, as the
 Bank of England  cut its forecast for economic growth to about 2
percent in two years, down from a projection of 2.5 percent in
May.  Record Spreads  Relative yields on U.S. corporate bonds from the most
creditworthy to the riskiest borrowers dropped to the lowest
level in a year yesterday, according to the Bank of America
Merrill Lynch U.S. Corporate & High Yield Master index.  The extra yield investors demand to hold company debt
rather than U.S. Treasuries dropped 2 basis points to 268 basis
points, or 2.68 percentage points, the lowest since the measure
reached 261 basis points on Aug. 3, 2011, index data show.  “Despite all of the negative news that we’re getting in
 Europe , riskier product in the form of lower quality bonds, both
lower quality tiers of investment grade and below investment-
grade bonds, are actually holding up quite well in the  United
States ,” Brown said. “Investors are looking at the U.S.
differently than they are looking at Europe.”  The default premium on the Markit CDX North America High
Yield Index, a measure of U.S. speculative-grade corporate debt
risk, dropped 6 basis points to a mid-price of 547.5 basis
points at 3:36 p.m. in  New York , Bloomberg prices show.  Dean Foods CDS  In  London , the  Markit iTraxx Europe Index  of 125 companies
with investment-grade ratings increased 0.8 to 148.9.  The cost to guard against losses on the debt of Dean Foods
dropped 81.3 basis points, the biggest plunge in figures dating
back to November 2007, to a mid-price of 486.3 basis points at
3:38 p.m. in New York, Bloomberg prices show.  Dean, the largest U.S. dairy processor, plans to use
proceeds from WhiteWave’s planned $300 million IPO to pay down
some of its $3.6 billion in debt outstanding as of June 30,
according to a filing from the Dallas-based company after the
close of equity trading yesterday. The $300 million price is a
placeholder used to calculate registration fees and may change.  The credit-default swaps gauge typically falls as investor
confidence improves and rises as it deteriorates. Credit swaps
pay the buyer face value if a borrower fails to meet its
obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt. A basis point
equals $1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10 million of
debt.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brooke Sutherland in New York at 
 bsutherland7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  