-- Credit Agricole Gets Bids for Emporiki From Greece’s Banks
-- B y   E l i s a   M a r t i n u z z i ,   F a b i o   B e n e d e t t i   a n d   M a r i a   P e t r a k i s
-- 2012-08-09T09:12:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-08/credit-agricole-s-emporiki-gets-bids-from-greece-s-biggest-banks.html
Credit Agricole (ACA)  SA received bids from
Greece’s biggest lenders for its unprofitable Emporiki Bank
unit, moving the French company closer to an exit from Greece.  National Bank of Greece SA  and Eurobank Ergasias SA
submitted offers for Emporiki, they said in statements
yesterday. They join Alpha Bank SA, Greece’s No. 3 lender, in
their pursuit of Athens-based Emporiki, six years after  Credit
Agricole (ACA)  took control of the company. The banks didn’t disclose
financial terms.  Emporiki’s 23 billion euros ($28.4 billion) of Greek loans
make Credit Agricole the foreign bank with most at risk should
Greece abandon the euro. A sale of Emporiki would make it easier
for Credit Agricole to reduce future losses in  Greece , while the
purchase may ease the buyer’s capital needs if the French parent
injects fresh funds.  “Any buyer is going to want to pay a very limited amount
on a bank newly recapitalized but still with lots of risks,”
said Benoit Petrarque, a Paris-based analyst at Kepler Capital
Markets SA with a “reduce” rating on Credit Agricole.  Recapitalization Required  Emporiki’s quarterly losses probably wiped out most of 600
million euros of capital it had from its parent at the end of
March, Petrarque said. A recapitalization of between 2 billion
euros and 2.5 billion euros would be needed to lift Emporiki’s
core capital ratio to 10 percent, Petrarque said.  Credit Agricole,  France ’s third-largest bank by market
value, is slated to publish second-quarter earnings on Aug. 28.
 Charlotte  de Chavagnac, a Credit Agricole spokeswoman, declined
to comment on Emporiki’s capital needs.  Credit Agricole received “binding offers from several
Greek banks interested in acquiring the entire capital of
Emporiki,” the company, based near Paris, said in a statement
today, without identifying the bidders. Credit Agricole “is
currently assessing these offers and no strategic decision has
yet been taken.”  Credit Agricole rose 1 percent to 4.01 euros by 11:03 a.m.
in Paris trading, giving the company a market value of 10
billion euros. The stock has fallen 42 percent in the past 12
months, trailing the 6.2 percent decline in the 38-member
Bloomberg  Europe  Banks and Financial Services Index.  Capital Plans  Credit Agricole , owned by a group of regional lenders,
injected 2 billion euros of capital into Emporiki in January to
replenish funds depleted by losses. Credit Agricole’s capital
exposure to Emporiki shrank to about 600 million euros at the
end of March, while its funding to the Greek division fell to
4.6 billion euros from 5.5 billion euros at the end of 2011,
partly as deposits rose in the first quarter.  Greece is overhauling its banks after lenders sustained
losses on their holdings of Greek  government bonds  in the
country’s debt swap, the biggest sovereign restructuring in
history. The country obtained a 130 billion-euro bailout in
March from the European Union and  International Monetary Fund 
which earmarked 50 billion euros for recapitalizing the banks.  The Hellenic Financial Stability Fund is helping to oversee
Emporiki’s sale as preparations continue to put capital into the
country’s banks. Completing the recapitalization of Greek
lenders by September is “unrealistic,” Eurobank Ergasias
Deputy Chief Executive Officer Michalis Colakides said July 23.  Funding Gap  Emporiki’s loans, which are equivalent to almost 10 percent
of Greece’s gross domestic product, exceed deposits, requiring
Credit Agricole to provide funding to the unit. Buyers will seek
to limit their exposure to that funding gap, analysts said.  Credit Agricole ’s accumulated losses from Emporiki
represent on average more than 15 million euros for every one of
the unit’s 337 branches. The loss since 2008 is about 4,000
euros per client.  A quest for growth drove Credit Agricole and its French
rivals BNP Paribas SA and Societe Generale SA to markets outside
their home turf, especially in southern Europe, eastern Europe
and  Belgium , over the last decade. French banks held $534
billion in private and public debt in Greece, Ireland,  Italy ,
 Portugal  and  Spain  at the end of March, the most by foreign
lenders, Bank for International Settlements data show.  Credit Agricole, under the leadership of former Chief
Executive Officer Georges Pauget and former Chairman Rene Carron, invested 2.2 billion euros in 2006 to buy a majority
stake in Emporiki, the least profitable of Greece’s top banks at
the time. Since then, Emporiki has been unprofitable every year
except 2007, with cumulated net losses for Credit Agricole of
5.3 billion euros.  The offers for Emporiki come after  Piraeus Bank SA (TPEIR) ,
Greece’s fourth-biggest lender, agreed on July 27 to acquire
Agricultural  Bank of Greece (TELL)  SA for 95 million euros, in a
transaction that may move Eurobank and Alpha down the list of
Greece’s largest banks. With assets of 74 billion euros, Piraeus
now says it is the country’s No. 2 by assets, behind National
Bank of Greece.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elisa Martinuzzi in Milan at 
 emartinuzzi@bloomberg.net ;
Fabio Benedetti-Valentini in Paris at 
 fabiobv@bloomberg.net ;
Maria Petrakis in Athens at 
 mpetrakis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Foxwell at 
 sfoxwell@bloomberg.net . 