-- Cruzeiro’s Bonds Rally on Tender Offer Bets: Sao Paulo Mover
-- B y   G a b r i e l l e   C o p p o l a   a n d   B o r i s   K o r b y
-- 2012-08-08T14:09:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-08/cruzeiro-s-bonds-rally-on-tender-offer-bets-sao-paulo-mover.html
Bonds sold by Banco Cruzeiro do Sul
SA, the Brazilian lender seized by regulators in June, rallied
after the bank asked holders of its dollar-denominated bonds to
identify themselves, spurring speculation it’s preparing an
offer to buy back the securities at a discount.  Cruzeiro’s dollar bonds due in 2013 jumped 1 cent to 55
cents on the dollar at 11:05 a.m. in  Sao Paulo , according to
Trace, the bond price-reporting system of the Financial Industry
Regulatory Authority. The yield declined 185 basis points, or
1.85 percentage point, to 89.5 percent.  The Sao Paulo-based bank asked investors to come forward
and disclose holdings for purposes of “future communications,”
according to a statement distributed by Bondholder Communication
Group, a London-based debt information agent hired by Cruzeiro.
The request signals that Cruzeiro may be looking to renegotiate
its foreign debt obligations, said Marco Aurelio de Sa, the head
of trading at Credit Agricole Securities in Miami.  “This is a typical course of action for a company that’s
going to restructure its debt,” de Sa said in a telephone
interview. “Investors who thought there could be a total loss,
now they know there is room for negotiation.”  Cruzeiro do Sul’s bonds have plunged since the central bank
on June 4 ordered the nation’s deposit insurance fund, known as
the FGC, to seize the lender for a period of 180 days because of
“serious violations” of regulations.  Losses at the bank may amount to 2.5 billion reais ($1.23
billion) as an audit found irregularities in the bank’s loan
portfolio, O Estado de S. Paulo reported July 14, citing an
audit.  Cruzeiro sent the communication because the FGC is trying
to get a better sense of who the foreign investor base is,
according to a Cruzeiro press official who asked not to be
identified because he’s not authorized to speak publicly.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gabrielle Coppola in Sao Paulo at 
 gcoppola@bloomberg.net 
Boris Korby in  New York  at 
 bkorby1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  