-- Dean Foods Jumps After Plan for WhiteWave Unit IPO: Dallas Mover
-- B y   S h r u t i   S i n g h   a n d   S a p n a   M a h e s h w a r i
-- 2012-08-08T14:01:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-08/dean-foods-jumps-after-plan-for-whitewave-unit-ipo-dallas-mover.html
Dean Foods Co. (DF)  jumped the most since
it began trading 16 years ago after its WhiteWave unit, the
maker of Silk almond milk, filed to raise $300 million in a U.S.
initial public offering.  Dean rose 35 percent to $16.73 at 9:57 a.m. in  New York 
after earlier gaining as much as 38 percent, the most intraday
since April 1996. WhiteWave applied to list on the New York
Stock Exchange under the symbol WWAV, in said in a regulatory
filing yesterday after the market closed. WhiteWave didn’t say
how many shares it’s offering or at what price. The $300 million
amount is a placeholder used to calculate registration fees and
may change.  The proceeds will be used to pay down debt at Dallas-based
Dean, according to the filing. Dean said yesterday in a
statement that it will own at least 80 percent of WhiteWave’s
common stock following the IPO and distribute those shares to
its investors at least 180 days after the offering.  Selling 20 percent of WhiteWave allows Dean, the largest
U.S. dairy processor, to raise money without taking on more risk
and at a time when the  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPX)  is at a
three-month high,  Vicki Bryan , a New York-based analyst for
Gimme Credit LLC, said yesterday.  “We are surprised by the timing of the proposed
transaction as the standalone fresh dairy business will face
higher milk price-related headwinds over the next several
quarters,” Amit Sharma, a New York-based analyst for BMO
Capital Markets, said in a report yesterday.  Drought Threat  Dean’s profits have been squeezed in the last two years as
a slowing economy, declining milk volumes and lower  consumer
spending  hurt its Fresh Dairy Direct unit, the company’s biggest
by sales. The current drought in the U.S. threatens to increase
feed and raw milk costs, which also may hurt earnings.  Dean has been asked about the future of WhiteWave during
the past two years. In a November 2010 report, analysts at
Sanford C. Bernstein said that a sale of WhiteWave could cut
Dean’s debt almost in half.  WhiteWave got more than 80 percent of its 2011 sales from
 North America  through plant-based foods and beverages, coffee
creamers and premium dairy such as Horizon Organic milk. The
company, which also has sales in  Europe , stands to benefit as
the growth of natural and organic products outpaces the overall
food and beverage industry, according to the filing.  Unlike the dairy unit, WhiteWave has offered the company
growth through innovation with new products such as coconut milk
and flavored coffee creamer. That’s allowed Dean to diversify
and offset the volatility of the commodity dairy market, Bryan
said.  New CEO  WhiteWave, to be led by Dean Foods Chief Executive Officer
Gregg Engles, saw net sales rise 12 percent last year to $1.92
billion, according to the filing. Net income rose 29 percent to
$90.8 million. After the IPO, Gregg Tanner, president of Fresh
Fairy Direct and chief supply chain officer at Dean, will be CEO
of Dean.  Appaloosa Management LP, founded by the billionaire
investor  David Tepper , holds 4.4 million Dean shares, or 2.4
percent of the company, according to  data  compiled by Bloomberg.
That’s down from the 13.4 million shares the firm said it owned
in a filing on Jan. 7, 2011. That day Dean’s shares closed at
$9.89.  JPMorgan Chase & Co., Credit Suisse Group AG and Bank of
America Corp. are managing the offering, according to the
filing.  Dean also said yesterday that second-quarter profit
excluding closing and reorganization costs was 36 cents a share.
That beat the 31-cent average of 12 analysts’ estimates compiled
by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Shruti Singh in Chicago at 
 ssingh28@bloomberg.net ;
Sapna Maheshwari in New York at 
 sapnam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  