-- Deer Infestation Calls for a Radical Free-Market Solution
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2012-08-08T22:45:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-08/deer-infestation-calls-for-a-radical-free-market-solution.html
Looking over the American landscape,
it’s hard to think of a more  insidious threat  to forests, farms
and wildlife, not to mention human health and  safety,  than deer.  Yet when it comes to reducing this costly infestation, too
many elected officials sit on their hands or deflect effective
control measures. There were about 1.09 million  deer-vehicle
collisions  from June 2010 to June 2011,  State Farm Insurance 
reports, with average property damage of more than $3,000 an
accident. Add to that a billion or so dollars for agricultural
damage. Deer carry ticks that spread Lyme disease. And their
voracious chomping has resulted in “ghost forests” --
particularly in the Northeast.  If a forest is healthy, it will support about 15 deer per
square mile, and many  scientists  say that a degraded patch can’t
be restored unless the population is about five per square mile.
Compare that target with the actual deer densities: Some areas
of the U.S. have 40 to 50 of them in a square mile, with much
higher estimates in some Eastern suburbs. In  New Jersey , one-
third of the remaining species of native plants are endangered,
largely because of deer. Many warblers, thrushes and dozens of
other ground-nesting birds lose the protection of native plants,
and some species of native pollinators -- butterflies, moths,
beetles -- vanish.  For conservationists and landowners, the main defense is to
put up fences and other barriers, which make American exurbs
look like minimum-security prisons.  Hunters’ Role  Right now, they have few alternatives. The  hunters  who are
supposed to control the deer want to keep the numbers up so they
have a better chance of shooting a buck. They support changes
such as the New Jersey measure to allow bow hunting closer to
houses, but they generally oppose efforts to reduce the deer
population.  Some affluent communities have turned to professional
sharpshooters. These services help and are usually well-
regarded, but they are expensive and work best in small areas.
The operations wouldn’t be cost-efficient in restoring forests
of 40 square miles or more.  The same is true for mass contraception, which has long been
billed as the magic bullet to deer overpopulation. Even if the
drugs were perfected and approved, the task of vaccinating
hundreds of thousands of deer would be time-consuming and
expensive. And even if money grew on trees, herds couldn’t be
reduced fast enough to solve the problem.  What would make a difference? A few modest incentives, for
starters. Expand requirements that hunters kill a doe for every
buck they take. In some places, landowners receive a lower
property tax assessment if they use forestry practices that
protect natural resources. The culling of female deer should be
a priority for such benefits. Farmers have so-called depredation
permits, which allow them to kill deer year-round on their land;
give property owners who qualify for the forestland assessments
the same out-of-season rights. If hunting is not possible,
fences protecting fragile forests should count toward the lower
property taxes.  Local officials help educate residents who jump at the
gunshots they hear on the first day of hunting season. But the
physically fragmented suburbs are not as biologically important
as large forested areas, where deer-culling programs have the
most impact.  The most promising reform could be legalizing the sale of
venison and hides to small manufacturing enterprises. If the
state allowed a commercial market for deer products, more deer
would be killed. Farm markets can sell local beef, so why
shouldn’t they be able to market local venison?  Creating Markets  Opponents of the idea say that if deer had a dollar value,
poaching would increase. But those who get licenses for
commercial harvesting wouldn’t want to risk losing those permits
by flouting rules for getting the dead deer to certified
butchers.  Since New Jersey permitted the hunting and commercial sale
of some turtles, their population has plummeted. It seems
arbitrary that government would allow a market for snapping
turtles, which are more likely to become scarce, but for not
deer, a mass menace.  The answer goes back to politics. Legislators kowtow to
hunting groups, who oppose the commercialization of deer because
they don’t want the competition to interfere with their
recreation. Except for some wildlife groups and relatively
powerless citizens who care about forests, no one is pushing
this solution. Can we at least start the conversation?  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on questions raised by  New
York ’s  charges against Standard Chartered Bank ;  Caroline Baum  on
 Milton Friedman’s relevance  today;  Michael Kinsley  on  front
lawns and other preposterous ideas ;  Ezra Klein  on  Washington ’s
captivation by a  flawed tax idea ; Laurence Kotlikoff and  Scott
Burns  on the new  $11 trillion rise in U.S. debt ; Caleb Scharf on
how black holes influenced  the evolution of life .  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 