-- Diabetes May Be Reversed by Long-Used Vaccine for TB
-- B y   S h a n n o n   P e t t y p i e c e
-- 2012-08-09T12:13:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-08/diabetes-may-be-reversed-by-long-used-vaccine-for-tb.html
A tuberculosis vaccine in use for 90
years may help reverse  Type 1 diabetes  and eliminate the life-
long need for insulin injections, say Harvard University
researchers raising money to conduct large, human studies.  Patients with Type 1 diabetes must inject insulin daily to
control their blood sugar because their bodies don’t produce the
hormone, the result of an errant immune system that destroys
insulin-producing cells in the pancreas. The vaccine, called
 bacillus Calmette-Guérin , or BCG, stimulated production of a
protein that killed the insulin-attacking cells, according to
the findings of an early-stage study published yesterday in the
journal PLOS One.  Insulin injections help control Type 1 diabetes for the 3
million Americans with the disease, though there is no cure for
the condition usually diagnosed in childhood. Results of the
trial showed that two of the three patients given BCG had signs
of renewed insulin production. The researchers now plan a larger
study that could yield results in three to five years.  “We think this can be taken all the way to the market and
that is what we are trying to do.” said  Denise Faustman ,
director of Harvard-affiliated Massachusetts General Hospital’s
immunobiology laboratory, who led the study.  The vaccine, a weakened form of the tuberculosis bacteria,
stimulates production of TNF, a cell-signaling protein that
plays a role in cell death. With more TNF, the body can attack
those harmful immune cells while leaving the rest of the body’s
defenses intact. The vaccine is approved by the  U.S. Food and
Drug Administration  for tuberculosis though it isn’t generally
recommended for use in the U.S. The vaccine also is approved to
fight bladder cancer.  Study Results  In the study, researchers administered two doses of the BCG
vaccine to three patients who had been diagnosed with Type 1
diabetes. The patients were followed for 20 weeks and two of the
three were found to have an increase in the death of the
insulin-harming cells and a rise in elevation in C-peptide
levels, suggesting the production of insulin.  “These patients have been told their pancreases were
dead,” Faustman said. “We can take those people, give them a
very low dose twice and see their pancreases kick in and start
to make small amounts of insulin.”  To Market  Faustman and her colleagues at Massachusetts General in
 Boston  are working to get the vaccine to market. After their
early findings in studies with mice, she said they tried to
interest every major  drugmaker  in developing the vaccine as a
possible cure for diabetes. All told her there wasn’t enough
money to be made in a cure that used an inexpensive, generically
available vaccine, Faustman said.  So now, she is trying to raise money to pay for the
expensive larger human trials. Her lab so far has received $11
million of the $25 million needed to pay for the next stage of
testing. All of the money is coming from private donors, the
largest of which is the  Iacocca Family Foundation .  “It’s a cheap man’s approach in how to get in the
clinic,” she said.  The vaccine’s ability to raise levels of cell-killing TNF
also is being studied as a way to treat multiple sclerosis. In a
study in  Italy , researchers found the vaccine may prevent
progressions of brain lesions in patients with advanced stages
of MS, Faustman said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shannon Pettypiece in  New York  at 
 spettypiece@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net  