-- Dish Tumbles After Profit Trails Analysts’ Estimates
-- B y   A l e x   S h e r m a n
-- 2012-08-08T20:53:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-08/dish-profit-trails-estimates-as-subscriber-costs-rise.html
Dish Network Corp. (DISH) , the second-
largest U.S. satellite-television provider, fell after reporting
second-quarter profit that missed analysts’ estimates.  Quarterly profit was 50 cents a share, the Englewood,
Colorado-based company said today in a  statement . The average of
estimates compiled by Bloomberg was 66 cents.  Dish preannounced a net subscriber loss for the quarter of
10,000 on July 19. While that was smaller than some analysts’
estimates, Dish needs to persuade its customers to spend more on
its products,  Craig Moffett , an analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein
& Co. in  New York , said in an interview. Dish’s average monthly
revenue per user was little changed at $78.11, less than the
$78.91 average of nine estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  “It appears that the subscriber improvement came at a
cost,”  Vijay Jayant , an analyst at ISI Group in New York, said
in a note to clients.  The  shares  slid 0.2 percent to $30.60 at the close in New
York, after dropping as much as 6.6 percent, the most intraday
since Nov. 15. Dish has gained 7.4 percent this year.  AMC Termination  Subscriber-related expenses rose 5.6 percent to
$1.83 billion, primarily because of higher programming costs.
Dish will see a “small” decrease in programming expense this
quarter after ending its contract with  AMC Networks Inc. (AMCX) ,
Chairman  Charlie Ergen  said on a conference call. Dish stopped
carrying all AMC networks July 1, the third quarter’s first day.  “We could pay for every customer who would watch ‘Mad Men’
-- we could pay for entire iTunes bills and that would be
cheaper than burdening our customers if you don’t watch those
channels with that cost,” Ergen said. “Long term, we’re going
to be several dollars less than our competitors because we don’t
carry those channels.”  Subscriber acquisition costs jumped 18 percent to
$404 million. Dish spent $806 to acquire a new subscriber, up
from $795 a year earlier. The rise reflected increased marketing
expense related to Dish’s advertising campaign around the
Hopper, a multi-room digital video recorder.  Net income  fell 33 percent to $225.7 million from
$334.8 million, or 75 cents a share, a year earlier. Sales
declined less than 1 percent to $3.57 billion, missing the
$3.63 billion average analyst estimate.  “Investors in  DirecTV (DTV)  have fretted that rising programming
costs have doomed the U.S. business,” Moffett wrote in a note
to clients. “Investors in  Dish Network  have, until now, posited
a turnaround. It’s getting harder and harder to plausibly argue
that this is a turnaround.”  Wireless Spectrum  Dish is also waiting for the Federal Communications
Commission to approve use of its wireless spectrum for
transmitting mobile video. The company is expanding into
wireless after losing customers in six of the last nine quarters
as competition from DirecTV and cable providers pressures
revenue and climbing programming costs boost expenses.  The company “expects a favorable resolution in the next
few months,” Chief Executive Officer Joseph Clayton said on the
call.  Dish disclosed it has invested $396 million in the “debt
securities of a single issuer.” Dish declined to identify the
company.  “There has been much speculation that this investment was
in Clearwire debt,”  Jennifer Fritzsche , an analyst at  Wells
Fargo & Co ., wrote in a note to clients. Mike DiGioia, a
 Clearwire Corp. (CLWR)  spokesman, declined to comment.  Dish’s “most logical” entrance into the wireless business
will be to form a partnership with a company “where there is
synergy,” Ergen said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Sherman in New York at 
 asherman6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  