-- DSM Buys Animal-Nutrition Supplier Tortuga for $576 Million
-- B y   A n d r e w   N o e l
-- 2012-08-08T07:24:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-08/dsm-buys-animal-nutrition-supplier-tortuga-for-576-million-1-.html
Royal DSM NV (DSM) , the world’s largest
vitamin maker, agreed to acquire Tortuga of  Brazil  for 465
million euros ($576 million) to bolster its animal-nutrition
business with dietary supplements for beef cattle.  The price may increase to 490 million euros depending on
Tortuga’s earnings performance this year, Heerlen, the
Netherlands-based DSM said today. Sao Paulo-based Tortuga is
forecast to report 60 million euros in earnings before interest,
taxes, depreciation and amortization this year, implying a
multiple of 7.75 times. That’s in line with typical multiples
for that market, according to Kepler  Capital Markets .  DSM said the transaction will give it a stronger foothold
in the “highly attractive” animal-nutrition market in Latin
America. It also extends the company’s move into higher-margin
products. Adding Tortuga’s range of vitamin and mineral
supplements will enable DSM’s nutrition cluster to pass the 4
billion-euro mark in sales and the company still has an
acquisitions warchest of more than 1 billion euros, Chief
Executive Officer Feike Sijbesma said today.  “If we can continue we will as this is a very attractive
field,” Sijbesma told journalists on a call.  DSM shares rose 0.6 percent to 39.38 euros at 9:06 a.m. in
Amsterdam.  Milestone  Tortuga is an “important milestone for DSM,”
strengthening its position in the cattle supplement market
that’s worth more than 4 billion euros and growing by about 3
percent a year, said Leendert Staal, head of DSM Nutritional
Products. It is DSM’s second-biggest purchase in five years and
will make the company one of the top producers of chelates,
organic trace minerals that are given to ruminates.  DSM yesterday announced plans to cut 1,000 jobs across its
European operations making plastics and other products that are
suffering from higher raw-material prices and subdued demand, as
well as competition from new entrants in  Asia . Second-quarter
Ebitda fell 14 percent.  By contrast, the animal-feed industry has attracted food
companies including Cargill Inc., which bought additives maker
Provimi from Permira Advisers LLP for $2.2 billion a year ago.
DSM had also pursued that asset.  Archer Daniels Midland Co. (ADM) 
bought liquid animal-feed supplement maker Loomix from
Cattleman’s Choice. Terms of that deal weren’t disclosed.  The Tortuga purchase will be immediately earnings
accretive, DSM said in a statement. There is potential for
“strong” sales synergies as Tortuga’s chelates business has so
far been largely restricted to  Latin America  and cattle feed
will complement DSM’s poultry and swine products, Stefan Tanda,
who oversees DSM’s nutrition cluster, said on the call. There
are also back-office savings to be made by merging Tortuga with
DSM, Tanda said, declining to be specific.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Noel at 
 anoel@bloomberg.net  