-- Dutch Socialists Lead in Polls Ahead of Rutte’s Liberal Party
-- B y   F r e d   P a l s
-- 2012-08-08T15:00:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-08/dutch-socialists-lead-in-polls-ahead-of-rutte-s-liberal-party.html
The Dutch Socialist Party, headed by
former school teacher Emile Roemer, is leading in a poll by
seven seats ahead of caretaker Prime Minister  Mark Rutte ’s
 Liberal Party , before early elections set for Sept. 12.  Roemer’s Socialists would get 37 seats, up from 35 seats
last week and more than double the 15 seats it has now, market
research company TNS-NIPO said in a survey published on its
website today. Rutte’s Liberal VVD would get 30 seats, down from
31, while its coalition partner, the Christian Democratic
Alliance, would get 16 seats, five less than it has now. The
poll surveyed 1,557 people Aug. 3-7 and has a margin of error of
2.2 percentage points.  The Socialists want the Netherlands to meet its euro budget
deficit limit of 3 percent of gross domestic product by 2015 --
not 2013 as targeted by the present government -- and it prefers
a broader mandate for the  European Central Bank . More  government
spending  is needed to help the economy while drastic budget cuts
will harm the economy, according to the party’s program.  Elections were called after Rutte submitted his Cabinet’s
resignation on April 23 as Geert Wilders’s Freedom Party
withdrew support for spending cuts and tax increases. After
that, investors demanded as much as 79 basis points of extra
yield to lend to the Netherlands for 10 years rather than to
 Germany , the highest premium in three years. The Dutch economy
may contract by 0.75 percent this year, according to the
government planning agency CPB.  German Ruling  The Dutch elections take place the same day as the German
Federal Constitutional Court rules on the 500 billion-euro ($617
billion) European Stability Mechanism.  European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi ’s proposal to
consider ECB purchases of government debt in tandem with
 Europe ’s rescue fund in return for strict conditions has failed
to calm bond markets. Spain and Italy, the countries at the
heart of the debt crisis that emanated from  Greece , haven’t
asked for aid.  Wilders, campaigning on an anti-Europe platform, would get
18 seats from the 20 that remain after four of his members quit
the party while staying on in parliament since the 2010 vote.
The  Labor Party  stands at 17 seats, down 13 seats from 2010,
according to TNS-NIPO.  Roemer’s party is two seats ahead of Rutte’s VVD at 34
seats, according to another poll published Aug. 5 by Maurice de
Hond. A survey by polling company Ipsos Synovate gives the VVD
the top spot with 35 seats, six more than the Socialists. That
poll was published July 27.  It has taken an average of almost three months to set up a
coalition in the Netherlands since World War II while the
formation of the Rutte cabinet in 2010 took four months.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fred Pals in Amsterdam at 
 fpals@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  