-- Earnings Miss Sinks ADRs as Renren Tumbles: China Overnight
-- B y   L e o n   L a z a r o f f
-- 2012-08-08T22:21:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-08/earnings-miss-sinks-adrs-as-renren-tumbles-china-overnight.html
Chinese stocks traded in New York
fell from a one-month high after a competitor of  Spreadtrum
Communications Inc. (SPRD)  reported revenue that missed estimates and
 Renren Inc. (RENN)  posted a larger-than-forecast second-quarter loss.  The  Bloomberg China-US Equity Index (CH55BN)  of the most-traded
Chinese shares in the U.S. dropped for the first time in four
days, losing 0.7 percent to 90.88 at the close. Spreadtrum sank
the most in seven weeks while Renren, a Chinese social-network
operator, retreated 3.2 percent.  China Southern Airlines Co. (ZNH)  and
 China Eastern Airlines Corp. (CEA)  declined after canceling flights as
a storm lashed the region with rain and wind.  Renren reported yesterday a second-quarter loss of 6 cents
per share, exceeding the mean 4-cent loss estimated by eight
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg, as the slowest economic growth
in three years prompted retailers to cut back on advertising.
 RDA Miceoelectronics Inc. (RDA) , which competes with Spreadtrum, said
sales missed estimates by $1.1 million. Fourteen companies on
the Bloomberg China-US index that have reported earnings since
the middle of July have trailed analysts’ sales estimates by 9.4
percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “The earnings trends in China are more negative than what
we’ve been seeing for stocks in the U.S. and elsewhere,”  Alec Young , a global equity strategist at S&P Capital IQ, said in a
telephone interview from New York. “China has been weak in
recent months, and investors know that. The question now is will
the macro data start to improve.”  The  iShares FTSE China 25 Index Fund , the biggest Chinese
exchange-traded fund in the U.S., rose for a fourth day, adding
0.2 percent to $35.25. The  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPX)  rose 0.1
percent to 1,402.22.  Outlook Misses Estimates  Shanghai-based Spreadtrum, which counts  HTC Corp. (2498)  as a
customer, fell the most since June 21, losing 6.1 percent to
$19.11 as rival RDA Miceoelectronics Inc. reported second-
quarter sales that missed analysts’ estimates. Spreadtrum is
scheduled to report second-quarter earnings today after the
close of markets.  “A lot of the chip guys are feeling the heat in terms of
making their numbers,” said  Jay Srivatsa , the managing director
of equity research at Chardan Capital Markets LLC. “RDA made it
clear that the 3G business in China remains in transition. That
indicates to investors that Spreadtrum’s second-quarter and
third-quarter numbers could be light.”  Renren fell for a second day, dropping to $3.98 as the
website operator yesterday reported a second-quarter  loss  of 6
cents per share, exceeding the mean 4-cent loss estimated by
eight analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. The slowest economic
growth in three years prompted retailers to cut back on
advertising, said Echo He, an analyst at Maxim Group LLC.  The Beijing-based company said it expects third-quarter
revenue of $49 million to $51 million, below the $51.1 million
average estimate of seven analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  ‘Cutting Back’  “The slowing economy is hurting Internet sites that offer
newer services such as social networking and video,” Maxim’s He
said in a New York phone interview. “Chinese advertisers are
cutting back in general.”  Renren competes with  Tencent Holdings Ltd. (700) , China’s biggest
Internet company by sales, to attract social-network users in a
market where  Facebook Inc. (FB) ’s site is restricted.  Youku, operator of China’s most-popular video website,
dropped from its highest since July 13, retreating 3 percent to
$18.32.  Airlines Decline  Guangzhou-based China Southern Airlines, the nation’s
biggest carrier by passengers, dropped 3.3 percent to $23.67, a
one-month low after Typhoon Haikui struck eastern China
grounding flights at Shanghai’s two airports. Shanghai-based
 China Eastern , the country’s second-largest carrier, fell 2
percent to $16.89.  The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  gained 0.2 percent yesterday
to 2,160.99 while the  Hang Seng China Enterprises Index (HSCEI)  of
Chinese companies traded in Hong Kong added 0.2 percent to
9,867.76, the highest since May 15.  Suntech Power Holdings Co. (STP) , the Chinese solar-panel
producer that said July 30 it may have been defrauded by an
affiliate, gained the most in seven months, surging 16 percent
to $1.07 as Caijing reported the solar company’s loans from the
 China Development Bank  won’t be affected by a potential fraud at
its affiliate.  “This looks like an encouraging commitment by the CDB, and
certainly warrants a pop in the stock considering how far it had
fallen over the last two weeks,”  Pavel Molchanov , an analyst at
Raymond James & Associates, said in a phone interview from
Houston. “But this matter has never been an existential threat
to the company. The more fundamental problem for Suntech is the
fact that its balance sheet is in dire shape.”  Suntech said its net debt at the end of the first quarter
was $1.6 billion. The company’s market capitalization at the end
of trading was $193 million. Suntech shares had fallen 31
percent since the company made the potential fraud public on
July 30, through Aug. 7.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Leon Lazaroff in New York at 
 llazaroff@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tal Barak Harif at 
 tbarak@bloomberg.net  